BRAIN HARASSED BY A PEN
THAT RUNS DRY, LOSES ITS
... Q^/
Hence Parker Created 102% More Ink Capacity and Visible Ink Supply
‘From Harvard to Southern California
Wanted by More Students Than All Other Standard Brands Combined
Every time that you w’rite, your Train of Thought flashes along rails more delicate than gossamer. And every petty annoyance—every distraction—caused by a pen that skips and runs dry in study periods, classes, or exams, obstructs the track and derails the train.
That’s why thousands of students are replacing their present pens with this revolutionary new Parker Vacumatic with visible ink supply and 102 % more of it.
By holding this miracle writer to the light, they can sec the ink level —see days ahead if it’s running low. It is lami
nated—built up ring upon ring of shimmering Pearl and Jet—smart, velvet-like, wholly exclusive.
It contains no rubber sac found in sac-type pens—no squirt-gun pis
ton pump like other sacless pens— nothing to render it useless later on. That’s why it is guaranteed mechanically perfect. Go to any good store selling pens and try it yourself. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis.
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT Junior, $5;	Pencils, $2.50,
Over-Size, $10	WgU $3.50, and $5
, *Authority—Ross Federal Ser sice survey for “Sales Management” magazine.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
K&E SLIDE RULES
MADE IN U. S. A.
PARTNERS
Log Log Trig Slide Rule 4090-3 S L with K&E Improved Indicator.
... of thousands of engineers throughout the world.
True" and dependable always.
KEUFFEL & ESSER CO. America’s foremost manufacturer of Drawing Ma-* terials, Surveying Instruments and Measuring Tapes New York Hoboken, n.j, Chicago st. louis san Francisco Montreal
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
Chemical deductions of the chemists at Union University, Albany, N. Y.:
“One girl is made of enough glycerine to furnish the bursting charge for one naval shell, enough lime to whitewash a chicken coop, sufficient gluten to make five pounds of glue, enough sulphur to rid an ordinary dog of fleas, and enough chlorine to sanitize three good-sized swimming pools.
—o—
Ohio State co-eds will not be given credit for canoeing on the Olentangy River.
—o—
’Tis sweet to love, But what to do
If the sweet maid decides To marry you?
—Purdue Exponent
—0---
Dr. Ralph Winn asserts that the student who relaxes and rests during lectures retains the greatest amount of information. We suggest that couches replace the old “hard wood seats.”
—o—
Co-eds at the University of North Carolina will no longer be permitted to visit the fraternity houses unless the fraternities vote to admit them.
—o—
According to President Angell of Yale, an historical novel is like a bustle—it is a fictitious tale based on a stern reality.
—o—
We’re in the same boat. Seen on the bulletin board at Carnegie Tech:
“Cheerleader wanted; must be neat, honest and intelligent.”
One week later:
“Cheerleader wanted; no qualifications necessary.”
—o—
She used to sit upon his lap
Just as happy as she could be, But now it makes her seasick, for
He has water on the knee.
—The Technique, Atlanta
—o—
“Services are held at the beginning of each year to acquaint those new at the university with the history and tradition of the school—a ceremony designated to bring the new student into the atmosphere of university life.”—Daily Kansan.
Such an instruction would not be bad for some of our boys who cannot tell one when the University was founded, nor what part Father Sorin or Father Badin played in the organization. When the history of an institution is as long and colorful as that of Notre Dame, it should be the students’ privilege to share in a knowledge of it.
October II, 1935
You can’t have fun like this with shirts that shrink
• Undergraduates in 35 leading univer-sities again acclaim ARROW shirts their popular favorite. Reason enough — Arrow’s exclusive patterns, expert tailoring and careful styling. All Arrow Shirts are Sanforized Shrunk

FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU
ELLSWORTH’S IS HEADQUARTERS for
Arrow Shirts
and ALL THAT’S NEW IN THE ARROW LINE
Arrow Shirts for Fall Arrow Handkerchiefs Arrow Underwear Arrow Hand-made Ties
men’s SHOP	-	-	MAIN FLOOR REAR
Ellsunirth’s
Three
J
R. I. P.
JOHN F. CUSHING, '06
Devoted Alumnus Faithful Trustee
True Son of Notre Dame
Four	'	The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
October II, 1935
No. 3
MET CLUB'S DEFICIT TO BAR REORGANIZATION
JOHN F. CUSHING, ’06, DONOR OF ENGINEERING BUILDING, KILLED IN CRASH
By Louis Da Pra
“Finis is all but written on the weird campus sideshow known to the trade as the “Met Club Ghost” as developments of the past week point obviously to the fact that the famed Metropolitan club of Notre Dame, largest on the campus in point of membership, has practically given up the ghost and is rapidly descending into historical limbo.
Outlawed as a going concern last May by the Prefect of Discipline, the orphaned ghost clutched desperately at the last straw offered it by the University in its ultimatum, “pay up and get going.”	.
Veterans of the New York’s organization wrangle, such as Edward Hammer, William Cusack, and William Shea have contacted Robert Cavanaugh, S.A.C. member in charge of campus clubs, to reach some understanding for a reorganization of the club.
Cavanaugh has repeatedly stated that nothing can be done to reorganize the club until the somewhat embarrassing question of the dance deficit has been settled. The S.A.C., before replying to the interested members of the Met club, is awaiting a reply from Andrew “Banjo” Maffei, president of the club during the turbulent times of last year, on the status of the deficit, which in the maze of conflicting reports is here and not here at the same time. Notwithstanding these reports, as far as the S.A.C. is concerned, the deficit still remains, and there will be no Met club as long as the debt stands. _ .
(Continued on Page 22)
JERSEY CLUB . . .
Last Wednesday night, October 9, the Jersey club inaugurated its 193536 social program, with a freshman smoker held in Carroll Rec.
The entire club membership and over 35 freshmen heard President Julius Rocca extend greetings of salutation and make a plea for cooperation to carry out the activities which the club scheduled last June. Each freshman was introduced by the president, who also introduced the officers.
John Busichio, one-time president of the Italian club, presided as toastmaster of the smoker. He introduced the Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., chaplain of the organization, who made a few succinct remarks. Thomas Murphy, president of the Students’ Activities Council, also addressed the group.
James Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, spoke commendably concerning the new financial relationship drawn up between the campus and alumni group, which assures the campus club sufficient funds to carry on their scheduled program without fear of a deficit.
Musical entertainment was supplied by the nimble fingers of Tom “Keyboard” Bott, and by a song due of Tom Hines and John McNeil. Smokes and refreshments were served.
Was a Notre Dame Trustee
By Harold A. Williams
Meeting death in the same manner as Knute K. Rockne did in March, 1931, John F. Cushing, trustee of the University of Notre Dame and donor of the Cushing Engineering building, was killed along with the eleven other occupants of a west-east plane which plunged to the earth 15 miles west of Cheyenne, Wyo., on October 7.
The twin-motored transcontinental plane smashed into a knoll of the rolling plains of Crow Valley from an elevation of 11,000 feet at about 2:15 a.m., Monday. It was torn and twisted but it did not catch fire. The bodies of the passengers were mutilated but not beyond recognition. Officials have not yet fully determined the cause of the accident. Mr. Cushing was returning to his home in Evanston,- Ill., after completing a business engagement in San Diego, Calif., at the time of the accident.
Aside from his duties as President of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock company, Mr. Cushing found time to serve as a member of the University’s board of lay trustees for six years. On the 25th anniversary of his graduation from Notre Dame, he donated $300,000 for the construction of an engineering building and additional funds for engineering work. The building was completed in 1932 and named in honor of the donor.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.o.C. president of the University, said the death of Mr. Cushing “deprives the Univer-
(Continued on Page 22)
THE JOHN F. CUSHING HALL OF ENGINEERING
October II, 1935
Five
BEN POLLACK AND HIS ORCHESTRA TO PLAY FOR THE SOPHOMORE COTILLION
LUNN LECTURES TWICE TO STUDENT AUDIENCES
Price is $3.00 Per Couple
The Sophomores will unfold the 1935 version of their Cotillion next Friday night in the Palais Royale, with dancing to the music of Ben Pollack, it was announced by Chairman Charles Callahan this week.
Pollack, who has entertained at such places as the Drake Hotel in Chicago, the Netherland-Plaza in Cin-cinnatti, and the Schroder in Milwaukee, will bring his regular cast of entertainers for the affair.
Tickets for the Cotillion will go on sale starting Monday, Oct. 14, and continue through Tuesday and Wednesday. They will be distributed in the basement of the dining hall from 12:30 to 5:00 p. m. on the days mentioned. Price for the Cotillion will be $3.00 per couple.
Tickets for the Football dance to be held the Saturday following the Cotillion will be on sale at the same time and place, the price for these, while not definitely announced yet, will be about $1.00.
Chairman Callahan also announced that patrons for the affair will include Mr. and Mrs. Ebner Layden, Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Philip Riley, Mr. and Mrs. Francis Moran, Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, and Mr. Frank O’Malley.
In addition to the committee members announced last week, other Sophomores who will assist in the affair are: Tom Hutchinson, Kyle Donnell, Rigo DeBrienza, Frank Costello, John Tobin, and Bob O’Toole.
A special Cotillion section will be reserved at the Notre Dame-Pittsburg football game on the day after the dance. Tickets for this section may be secured during the week at the Athletic Office by presenting a Cotillion ticket and the regular student athletic book.
Permissions for the night of the Cotillion have been set for 2:00 a.m., with the dance to end at 1 o’clock. Students may have automobiles for the week-end provided they are registered with the prefect of discipline.
CHAIR OF POLISH CULTURE
Possibility that a department of Polish culture will be added to the University curriculum for the academic year of 1936-1937, was reported on the campus this week when it was learned that the Rev. Stanislaus Li-sewski, C.S.C., has returned to Krakow, Poland, for another year of study.	•
S. A. C. CLUB CHAIRMAN
Robert Cavanaugh Pulled Belmont out of a hat.
Carmi Anthony Belmont, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters • from Fall River, Massachusetts, was elected the new leader of the Presidents’ Council at their meeting, Tuesday evening, October 8, in the Library.
Belmont, who is the president of the Le Cercle Francais, succeeds Edward J. Van Huisseling of Elmhurst, Illinois, formerly Managing Editor of The Scholastic, to the presidency of the council.
The election was managed by Robert Cavanaugh, S.A.C. member in charge of campus clubs, who for the second time invoked the novel election machinery instituted last year by his immediate predecessor, Philip Purcell.
This system designed to eradicate electioneering, adopted the “grab bag” method of balloting with the candidates being chosen by lot, each member’s name being placed in a hat from which three were drawn.
Belmont’s opponents were John Maloney, president of the Buffalo club, and Fredrick Cox, who heads the Academy of Science.
The president of the Le Cercle Fracais was assured of victory on the first ballot, carrying the Council by a decisive margin.
Cavanaugh read the S.A.C. charter, which will soon be issued to all the clubs. The 1935 charter calls for several variations from the previous ones.
Deficits will be handled by levying of assessments on all members who haVe personally subscribed themselves to be members of campus club.
It was also provided that should one-half , of any club membership petition the S.A.C., the parent organization- would handle the petitioner’s election.
By John Hurley
Before small but appreciative audiences Arnold Lunn, noted English author and critic, spoke Wednesday and Thursday evenings in Washington hall on “The Joy of Controversy” and “Science and the Supernatural.”
In his Wednesday evening lecture Mr. Lunn, a famous convert to the Catholic faith and one of the most powerful intellectual influences in modern England, spoke of the joy that was to be had from defending the Faith.
“One-hundred years ago,” Mr. Lunn said, “English Catholics were hardly accepted as English citizens.” “This attitude has been changed,,” he continued, “because great Catholic controversialists have, through the means of debate, given the English some idea of our Faith.” Mr. Lunn stated that if a group of men, well-grounded in the Catholic religion, traveled through the country meeting agnostics in debate it would accomplish much toward giving those outside the Church a true conception of the Catholic truths.
“In England it is doubly difficult to convince men of the truth of the Church,” Mr. Lunn said, “because the average Englishman receives the words of such unbelievers as H. G. Wells as gospel truth. However,” he continued, “it is now fashionable to be pro-Catholic, and perhaps in 50 years it will be fashionable to be Catholic.”
Mr. Lunn said his own agnostic beliefs were first shaken by G. K. Chesterton in his book, Heretics. Only a little later he became a Catholic because “if one believes in the infallibility of Jesus Christ he must believe in the Catholic faith.”
In concluding Mr. Lunn said that the League of Nations would fail because it was founded on the belief that “suffering is a greater evil than sin” instead of on Catholic philosophy. He also stressed the point that all Catholic laymen should always be ready to defend the Church.
Mr. Lunn’s Thursday evening lecture on “Science and the Supernatural” was based on his recent book of the same title. His theme was evolution and whether it can be justified by the world around us. His answer was an emphatitc, “No.”
Among Mr. Lunn’s books are Things That Have Puzzled Me, John Wesley, Is Christianity True? Noiv I See, and A Saint in the Slave Trade.
The Scholastic
Six
WELFARE GROUP ISSUES CALL FOR STUDENT AID
SCHOLASTIC TO SPONSOR SERIES OF BROADCASTS FROM CAMPUS STUDIO
The Notre Dame conference of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul which began its third year of campus social work on September 26 had its birth here on the campus in January of 1933 when through a notice in the
Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C. Active in welfare work.
Religious Bulletin, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., invited all interested in such work to meet the Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C.
The response to the first call in 1933 was very representative, and without delay the club commenced its work on the campus by having its members canvas the halls for discarded clothing and magazines. These things were later distributed to persons confined in the various institutions in this vicinity and also among the several units of the St. Vincent de Paul Society in South Bend parishes.
In 1933-34 the organization inaugurated a new policy by having its members attend meetings in the South Bend parishes conferences in order to have them become versed in St. Vincent de Paul procedure. This was supplemented by having the members visit the various homes on the organization’s list in company with experienced workers of the parish units. The campus group, at this time, also became interested in aiding the Rev. George O’Connor, C.S.C., with his negro mission work in South Bend.
The Society offers a fine practical training for those interested in social work, especially in the field of charity and relief. During the last school year the organization was an active force in attempting to care for the needy of South Bend. The campus chapter cared for several families, giving temporary relief while a plan for permanent rehabilitation was being worked out.
In addition to actual charity work the society has been interested in many cases involving delinquent boys, (Continued on Page 9)
STUDENT TRIP . . .
Despite disconcerting rumors during the early part of the week, official announcement Wednesday evening, from the S.A.C. revealed definitely that the student trip will be to the Ohio State game at Columbus, Nov. 2.
Thomas Murphy, S.A.C. president in charge of the arrangements, has announced that game and railroad tickets will go on sale October 21 or 22. The price of these two tickets combined, which is special to students, is §8.80.
As yet more definite details of the trip have not been settled. A special train will undoubtedly leave to transport the five hundred oi' more that are expected to attend the game. The past success of student trips to contests less promising than this season’s Ohio State game gives indications of a record turnout.
Beside the large following of student fans which will make the trip, the University band, under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta, will swell the crowd of Notre Dame supporters.
CAMPUS CLUBS
Robert Cavanaugh, chairman of the campus club committee of the S.A.C., has announced that new charters will be issued next week. “The list of all new members of each of the clubs must be submitted by Oct. 30, together with a statement of the financial condition of each,” said Chairman Cavanaugh.
Owing to a deficit in the treasury of the Metropolitan Club of New York, the election, last May, of Carl Letsen to the presidency of that club was void. When the debt is paid the members of the Metropolitan club may apply for a new charter and a subsequent election.
Since the Philadelphia club held no election last year, James Nolen, last year’s president, will probably continue in that capacity. The Cleveland club, the Cincinnati club and the Iowa club have launched ambitious programs for the ensuing year.
Last Monday night, the New Jersey club, headed by Julius Rocca, welcomed its new members with a smoker.
The officers of the various campus clubs have taken the initiative of providing worthwhile entertainment for their members. It is hoped that the freshmen will participate in these extra-curricular activities.
By Gregory Byrnes
A fifteen minute digest of news from the columns of The Scholastic will become a part of the regular broadcasts over the university radio station starting next Friday afternoon, Oct. 18, it was announced this
Joseph Mansfield “This is Mansfield speaking.”
week by Station Manager Joe Mansfield.
The period will be given over to a review of campus news and sport stories from the current issue of the campus weekly. It is planned to enlarge the program to include interviews ■with those prominent in the news of the week if the feature proves popular.
The first week of the new season for the radio group proved to be one of intense activity. In their initial seven day period the local station handled five afternoon and two evening programs. The daytime programs are heard daily, except Saturday and Sunday, at 3:15. The evening broadcasts is scheduled for 7:30 on Tuesday and Thursday nights.
The first appearance of “The Man Who Knows” was heard Monday, Oct. 7. Arem Jarrett, in his encyclopaedic capacity, answered several questions of a lightly eauactional nature. Tuesday afternoon featured a talk prepared by the National Parks Division of the United States Department of Interior.
Professor Henry B. Froning was the first to appear on the evening broadcasts, his Tuesday night discussion being, “The Nature of the Science of Chemistry.” Prof. Froning is head of the Department of Chemistry. Arthur Davidson, pianist, and Francis Schaeffer, tenor soloist, entertained Wednesday afternoon, and the initial week of broadcasting from the campus was climaxed on Thursday evening when Professor George F. Hennion spoke on “The Nature of Chemical Research.”
Another weekly feature was inaugurated on Thursday afternoon when Jack Robinson, last year’s AII-Amer-
(Continued on Page 11)
■October II, 1935
Seven.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS INDUCT NEW OFFICERS
John V. Coyne, grand knight-elect, and his staff of assisting officers were officially installed as officers of the Notre Dame' council of Knights of Columbus at the second regular meeting of the year held Monday night Oct. 7, in the Walsh hall club-rooms.
District Deputy Ernest Ribordy presided at the installation proceedings and in a short speech after the ceremony expressed the hope that Notre Dame council would continue its record making achievements of last year.
The featured spot on the program for the evening was filled by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., who spoke briefly on “Development of the Personality.” Father Moore outlined the importance of a fully developed, well rounded personality, by emphasizing the prime importance of 'individual achievement in world history.
“It is true,” Father Moore said, “that men have accomplished wonders when they worked together for a common good, inspired by a common ideal, but we must never lose sight of the fact that any social achievement is simply the sum total of the achievement reached by the individuals in society.”
Francis Schaeffer, accompanied by Tom Bott, contributed musical selections to the evening’s entertainment.
Tentative plans were advanced for a Communion Breakfast to be held on Oct. 27, further details will be made known at the next regular meeting. Plans are going forward to issue the first copy of the Santa Maria for the current school year. Editor Robert L. Grogan announced that he hoped to have an issue ready for distribution on Oct. 19.
Announcement was made of a membership committee to be headed by Ray Martin which will begin active work this week to secure applicants for members in the council. Anyone interested in joining the organization may communicate with either Martin, or Grand Knight Coyne at the offices of the council in the basement of Walsh hall.
PATRICIANS ISSUE MEMBERSHIP CALL
At the opening meeting of the Patricians last week, a program was formulated by the remaining members of last year to begin a new year of extra-curricular activity in the classics, particularly the Roman classics.
The society, under the presidency of Cliff Brown, selected a membership committee of three to receive and consider the applications of new members who wish to join for this school year.
Eight
Janies Byron Burke the second football manager. . . Although he runs the stadium personnel, (all those ushers!) he was seen viewing the Kansas game from a seat on the steps. . . Red-cheeked Byron is a good advertisement for Lemore, Calif, oranges . . . . Took a correspondence course from muscle building Atlas and still
gets the lessons. . . Hence the nickname “Punch” . . . Unfortunately developed an extra chin instead of a chest.
Froshed in Brownson with the he-men in 1932-33 and was the only inmate who didn’t figure in the famous ‘skeleton episode’ of that year. . . . A 101 Sorinite who travels with roomie Wirry just for the ride. . .
Was Valedictorian of Junior High school graduating class . . . Might sojourn in China after receiving his degree in Commerce . . . Furnishes Father Farley with newspapers.’ . . “Spots” Manning with everything. . . Believe it or not he reads Byron. . .
The membership committee is composed of Andrew Hellmuth, senior in Arts and Letters; Matthew Bruccoli, and Leo Cormier, both juniors. All students interested in the study of the classics have been notified by the bulletins in the various halls to send their applications to one of the membership committeemen. The period for the reception of applications by the committee has been extended to Sunday, Oct. 13.
FITZGERALD SPEAKS ON COVENTRY PATMORE
“As the poet becomes more conscious of the substance of a thing, he becomes, whether he knows it or not, closer to God.” Desmond Fitzgerald thus made use of metaphysics to explain the workings of poetry in the opening sentences of his lecture Tuesday night in Washington Hall.
Before touching his subject, “The Unknown Eros,” by Coventry Patmore, Mr. Fitzgerald clarified the poetic processes of reaching true reality. As he explained, we’ know a thing directly, by using the senses; we recognize the accidents, as contrasted with the substance.
“There is an enormous reality ly- " ing behind every object,” said Mr. Fitzgerald, “but the awareness of this reality is difficult to obtain. The poet, seeing the visible universe, seeks to see it through the eyes of God, Who sees the essence of things.” Good poetry operates by analogy; it raises the reader to the heights of genius and beauty, which were attained by the poet.
Sound is used to effect beauty in poetry. True beauty lies in the fact that the sounds have certain meanings. Some sounds suggest some sights. Images reflects reality, and are ternal. The poet loves things because he is conscious of their beauty; he wants to envelop them, unite with them.
“Coventry Patmore turns constantly to human things, but always you can hear the echo of great things. He is always striving for the intangible, impalpable reality which is God Himself, Who is supreme Reality.” Human things contain for him His Creator; he enables us to get into his position to see the imprint of the Creator’s hand.
‘The Unknown Eros’ deserves much more attention than it has received,” said Mr. Fitzgerald. “It is little read in England, and the reason for this possibly may be found in the banalities and domesticities of an earlier work, ‘The Angel of the Dark House. These slight defections prejudiced the people against Patmore’s succeeding poetry. ‘The Unknown Eros was an alien in the era; it was out of tune with the times. The injection of religion into poetry was resented.”
“Patmore excels in pathos; his poems never fail to grip the heart, no matter how often they are read,” the speaker continued. “Poets like Patmore and Crashaw may be neglected, but by following the genius of their calling, by going from tangibility to intangibility, they are indicating the line through which future poetry must work.”
The Scholastic
CAMPUS OPINION
Editorial note: This is the third in a series of snap-shot intervietvs tuith students about campus topics. The writer this week chose three juniors and two seniors at random and asked: “What type of lecturer would you prefer to hear in Washington Hall this zointer?”
Harry Rich This is rich.
Harry Rich, Howard Hall: “Instead of the usual lectures, how about the Globe Players who were here last year, or even some famous comedians?”
Matthew J. Bruccoli, Corby hall: “I would like to hear more interpretative readings such as that given by Mr. Thompson last year. Selections from Dickens, drama and poetry on the order of the Browning monologues would be excellent.”
Harry A. Baldwin, Alumni hall: “I’d like to have more lectures on music and art. It’s something we don’t get much of in the College of Commerce. Such lectures would certainly be refreshing and instructive.” ' William McNally, Alumni hall: “I would be in favor of lecturers of the Miller Mallett type—men who can speak from a colorful lore of personal experience. The usual academic lecturers are fine and instructive but much color could be added by the Mallett type who speak from adventurous and interesting experience.”
Bob Lemire, Walsh hall: “I’m sure everyone would like to hear some travel lectures this coming year. This type of lecture seems to have been neglected in the past and therefore needs a revival.”
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL (Continued from Page 7)
problems of family budgets, and various other types of social service.
It was announced from the local offices this week that all students who have any interest in cooperating with the society, or of actually joining the campus chapter, may obtain all necessary information at the St. Vincent de Paul office, 10 Lyons Hall.
FACULTY MEMBER TELLS OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
Professor James A. Corbett, Arch-iviste-P aleo graphs, of the Ecole des Chartes in Paris, and one of this year’s new faculty members, is directing research work- in the archives of the University Library. Mr. Corbett graduated from Georgetown University in 1929. A short time after he had received his degree he went abroad where he studied the French language for two years before entering the Ecole des Chartes, an institution of learning for students of research work in medieval history.
When he had finished the three and a half year course at the Ecole, Mr. Corbett joined an archaeological expedition from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. During the past summer he directed workers near Stamboul, Turkey. The expedition was excavating the Imperial Palace of the Byzantine Emperors.
Here at Notre Dame, he is teaching “The History of Western Europe” to Freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters. In addition to this work, Mr. Corbett, whose home is New Haven, Connecticut, is directing the library research of ten students who are working under the FERA in compiling a history of the University. The book will probably be edited and published about 1942, the centennial of the foundation of Notre Dame. Work on the history was started by the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., professor of history at the University last year.
The work will be entitled, A History of Notre Dame.
WASHINGTON HALL
Saturday, Oct. 12—Movie, “Laddie.”	.
Saturday, Oct. 19 — Movie, “Informer.”
Saturday, Oct. 26—Movie, “What Every Woman Knows.”
McMEEL APPOINTED UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN
Dr. James E. McMeel was appointed this week to the post of medical supervisor and physician of the University to succeed Dr. Francis Powers whose death recently ended 25 years of service to the school.
Dr. McMeel, who joined the University staff as assistant to Dr. Powers, was educated at Rush Medical college and started general practice in South Bend in 1917. He enlisted in the World War forces and was with the American troops in France for fourteen months.
From Files Of
The Scholastic
Oct. 17, 1874—“Both temperance societies are now reorganized and doing splendid work.”
Nov. 7, 1874—“Who left their baggage in the parlor? In the South East corner there was a valise left by some unknown party. The contents would lead us to suspect that he had been robbing an orchard.”
Nov. 23, 1867—“On Wednesday, Nov. 6 the Notre Dame Cornet Band made an excursion and visited the neighboring sovereignity of Michigan, making the flourishing city of Niles their culminating point. Three immense vehicles scarcely sufficed for the conveyance of their increased numbers and their guests whom politeness had prompted to invite as participants in the excursion.”
Oct. 4, 1879—“The Prefect of Discipline delivered an address on table etiquette and general politeness on last Sunday in the Junior study hall.”
Oct. 11, 1879—“The members of the Senior Law Class are positively bewitching behind their incipient mustaches and embryo sidebums.”
Aug. 23, 1879—“St. Mary’s Academy. The old pupils will be delighted to find that Notre Dame is again visible from St. Mary’s.”
Oct. 24, 1874—“The dancing class commenced the other evening. Quite a number are taking lessons in trip-• ping “on the light fantastic.”
Oct. 17, 1874—“We saw two public benefactors repairing the walk between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s yesterday.”
He will continue in his. capacity of physician for the athletic department where he has been in charge of administering medical attention to all members of the various athletic teams.	.
Dr. Paul E. Haley, also of South Bend, will act as Dr. McMeel’s assistant. Dr. Haley is a graduate of the University of Illinois, and has been connected with the staffs of both St. Joseph and Epworth hospitals. He served for a short time as assistant coroner for St. Joseph County.
October II, 1935
Nine
PEG-TOP TROUSERS, CUT-AWAYS, HOBNAILS
HAD THEIR DAY IN N.D. SARTORIAL PARADE
LIBRARY EXHIBITS MEMENTOS OF SAINT
By John A. Gillespie.
' At the more fashionable Eastern schools (we won’t mention any names) an education is vastly more expensive than at Notre Dame. The existence of fraternities, the fuller social life, and the more formal and extensive wardrobes required effect this high cost of living. Since we have no fraternities—unless you consider the cafeteria cliques—and only
Back in the Derby Era, this Sorin group was “tops.”
a moderate social schedule, the chance for comparison narrows down to clothes; and therein lies a story.
There are the “Sunday - is - just -another day” boys, who scorn at the Finchley affectation of a Sunday-go-to-meeting suit. Cords and a sweatshirt are good enough. They leave their best clothes home in reserve for the giddy whirl at Christmas vacation. Besides, a fellow has to relax. They shrink from neckties and dote on weird combinations. One enterprising, in fact, daring, youth was seen sporting rose-colored cords and a green sweater; women fainted and strong men shuddered. A favorite trick is attendance at chapel while wearing slippers and a topcoat draped over pajamas. They strive for virility and comfort at any, cost. When they hear the phrase “men of Notre Dame” they swell with pride and secretly apply the words to their coterie.
Then there are the Finchleys, who ape Esquire to the last pleat. “Anything goes as long as its different” is their motto. A few of the eccentricities adopted by the dandies are porkpie hats, bat-wing ties, (apologies to Joe Prendergast) and an Oliver mezzanine complex. Their biggest disgrace involved a member’s being caught with coat and pants to match; even the vest blended. He was formally ostracized and his name was placed on the black list at every
respectable haberdasher’s in town. Some say that the cords and sweatshirt group is trying to win him over.
The third set is not sufficiently unusual to warrant special notice. They own from two to four suits apiece and don them discreetly on Saturday night forays, Sundays, and holidays. Only an occasional birthday cravat relieves the monotony of their ridicu
lously sane apparel. They are the middle class, like the bat who was rejected by the birds and the rats because he combined the characteristics of both without being of either family. The Finchleys will not mix with them, and the sweatshirt men hate them with a heat exceeded only by their hate for the Finchleys. The situation forms one of those vicious circles.
There is serious talk among the campus pacifists of compelling all men to wear uniforms. Perhaps the time is not so far away when we will be numbered and photographed. Any remedy would be better than a caste struggle.
At one time, Notre Dame dress rivaled Eton. . . . Tintypes at the turn of the century show the majority wore full, peg-top trousers and carefully pressed jackets. Classes called for a cut-away; a man wasn’t selfrespecting unless he had one. Suits were pressed every other day.
The World War fostered a sartorial revolution in the Indiana prairies. Hobnail shoes, those delicate six-pound booties, shook the already shaken Sorin corridors. Students had to take off their shoes before entering Washington Hall; you know why. Corduroys came in about this time, although rose, green, and blue varieties did not appear until later. There are no available records to cast light on the advent of adhesive tape to
A feast of peculiar significance to the Notre Dame campus was celebrated by the Church on October 8, the day ordained for the honoring of St. Birgitta of Sweden, whose life of austerity ended in July, 1373, in a small house in Campo di Fiori, Rome.
During her life-time, as the result of divine revelation, St. Birgitta had transformed her home into a convent for nuns of the Augustine rite, herself taking the veil of the Order. On her death the room in which she died was consecrated a chapel and became a shrine wealthy in relics of the saint.
In the latter part of the 19th century the house and its properties came into the possession of the Holy Cross congregation and several of the relics in the chapel were transported to Notre Dame by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. Among these pieces was a canvas, supposed by many to be a portrait of the saint, which had been an altar piece in the chapel. After renovation in tins country the picture is now a prized possession of the University collection and hangs on the west wall of the north gallery in the library.
Another invaluable relic, a hand-wrought cloister grill, was also brought to Notre Dame and is at present in the chapel of relics in Sacred Heart church.
During her life St. Birgitta was famed for the austerity of the discipline which she imposed upon herself. She and her family of eight children lived in simple piety. Her husband, the Prince of Mercia, deserted a worldly life to take up the Cistercian Rule in a monastery at Alvastra. One of their children was the illustrious St. Catherine of Sweden.
bolster a ripped cuff or a weak seat.
No comemntary on clothes would be thorough without tracing the development of athletic uniforms. Baseballers wore skull - caps, neck-line collars, and tennis shoes — not quite the model followed by Jake Klein’s boys. As for the footballers — well, neither the hoop-skirt, the bustle, nor the Louis XIV knee-breeches had anything on the oldsters when they charged down the field. An openwork head - harness that permitted, even invited, cowlicks to protrude like toes through a pair of Notre Dame laundry-sewed socks was a feature. A vest-like jacket brought back visions of Robin Hood and his merry crew.
They say that clothes reflect the trend of the period. We refuse to comment on the significance of popular dress. As it is, we will probably be given a good ‘going over’ when this article takes ink. Remember boys, it’s all in good, clean fun.
Ten
The Scholastic
CALENDAR
THE WEEK
Friday, October 11
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial rooms; editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, October 12
Football, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin, Madison, Wis., broadcast WSBT 1:45 p.m. Movie, Washington Hall, “Laddie,” 6:30 and 8:15 p.m. “B” Team vs. Ouchita at Little Rock, Ark.
Sunday, October 13
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m. Officers meeting, Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall club rooms, 11:00 a.m. Interhall football at 9:15 and 2:30.
Monday, October 14
University radio broadcast over WSBT, 3:15 p.m., speech by faculty member.
Tuesday, October 15
Lecture by Desmond Fitzgerald, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., Broadcast by member of faculty from campus radio station, over WSBT, 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday, October 16
Meeting of campus radio organization group, Engineering Building, 7:45 p.m.
Thursday, October 17
Campus radio broadcast, 7:30 p.m.; Lecture, Christopher Hollis, Washington Hall, “St. Thomas More.”
RADIO STATION
(Continued from Page 7)
ican center, was the commentator on a fifteen minute program of informal football chatter. It is expected that this feature will prove one of the most popular of the season.
Station Manager Joe Mansfield announced that applicants desiring to enter the broadcasting field may still receive trials. The talent most needed, according to Mansfield, is in the field of light music and continuity writers. Those interested either in the writing or acting of short skits are invited to attend the regular Wednesday meetings of the group in the Engineering building.
LECTURE
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., addressed the 21st annual convention of the National Conference of Catholic Charities at Peoria, Illinois last week. The topic of Father Bolger’s address was “A More Rational Dis-ttribution of Income.”
The sartorial elegance of many of our Commerce men has of late caused the arching of multitudinous campus eyebrows and the stroking of an incalculable yardage of professorial beard. Stylishly bi-swinged and pleated cheviot and tweed jackets, properly slacked trousers, and heavily soled suede shoes are much in evidence in and about that so-called den of capitalism known as the Commerce building.
These manifestations of. a trend away from the old tradition which called for a student body decked out in a rigid uniform of sweat shirts, cords, and brogans is natural in a certain element of our student body. When, however, all the debit and credit boys, including silent Lou Alaman, the renegade, start parading the campus a la Esquire, it’s time to get our special operatives on the scent. All information from authoritative souorces to date indicate that Dean McCarthy is the original conniver in this revolt against one of Notre Dame’s most ancient of unwritten codes. Thank goodness the ranks of the old guard are still quite ably filled by such conservatives as Bob Sullivan, Art Huber, and Don Draper. Maybe that’s because they never had to attend one of the Dean’s classes.
This is the merry month of October, when, in spite of the almost overwhelming obstacles presented by the most capricious Indiana weather, your zaniest of zanies gather in the Walsh sunken gardens, otherwise known as the Badin bog, to commit mayhem, manslaughter, and malicious mutilation in the innocent name of touch football. There Maury Quinn, Bob Cavanaugh, Joe Nigro, and others of that madcap crew employ everything but shillellahs and sawed off shot guns in their efforts at clearing the path of opponents who are guilty of nothing more than a desire of touching the ball carrier. It’s no game for mincing milksops. The latest in suits of‘armor is being featured at the Livingston campus shop. Touchball players please take note!
O
Individuals sporting canes about this reservation should not be mistaken for incapacitated devotees of football’s step brother. They’re only law seniors exercising their traditional. perogative of carrying walking sticks. Few of them can expect any other source of support after they graduate.
With the approach of the interhall' football season, the rectors of Sorin,
Walsh, and Howard can be expected to develop a severe case of cold shoulder toward each other. Less and less will they be on speaking terms as the season progresses. The rectors of all other halls, however, might just as well concede the championship of the University to Sorin right now. With All American Jack Robinson and Paul Schrenker in her lineup, Sorin will be the class of the league. It’s too bad the Stackmen won’t be seniors this year. What a polishing they’d get from the Farleymen! Yea bo, Sorin, let’s go!
Three weeks since school began and they still continue to dig up the local landscape. Can it be that Congress has published an edict that provides for the ploughing under of every third university? On your toes, you authorities. The brain trusters may be putting one over on you.
e
Several curious friends have been after us for a translation of that bit of Latin verse left behind on the wall of 109 Dillon by Shane Leslie. Well, you asked for it; so here goes:
“Here I, the eternal one, bide for a brief span;
Behold, Godborn, I am entombed a man.”
Tut, tut, Mr. Leslie.
However, erudite or skilled in writing Latin verse Mr. Leslie may have been, he wasn’t much of an ornithologist. Last year he wrote to the editor of the Scholastic a letter in which he went into raptures over having seen on the island in St. Mary’s Lake what he thought was a fine specimen of the great American bald eagle. Finally, though, someone better-informed must have put Shane right, because, shortly after, The Scholastic received this second note from, Leslie:
“You must cancel my letter about the white headed eagle which I am afraid was only a fish-hawk, and the geese on the lake are not swans after all.”
•
Then there’s the hearty in the Morrissey sub who claims that he was entertaining 300 guests at a little get-together last summer. Unfortunately a heavy rain began to fall just as the little affair was about to end; so everybody went upstairs and to bed.
O yes, and he’s the fellow who escorts only those girls who have swimming pools of their own. That, of course saves him the trouble of having to fill his own tank.
October II, 1935
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Joe Nigro, thinks we should answer to the call “The Unfunny Fellows,” —suh, we shall draw blades at dawn ten paces behind the Infirmary (another mint julep, Ambrose). . . . Whenever Nick Casillo receives a letter from his girl friend he immediately dashes into the cafeteria to read it—perhaps he likes to be in closer proximity to something that savors more of home cooking. . . Marty Burns and. Chick Maloney, taken as representative Notre Dame men(?) posed for a Studebaker ad in front of the neighboring female institution . . . George Feeley and Larry O’Donnell dissolved their corporation and are reading their omi mail now. . .
If anyone has a good idea for a Journalism thesis see William 'Billy’ Farrell. . . Jack Sheean received a warning stating most emphatically and with illustrations that he should not go to class without his hair. . . Zarantonella worked behind a bar all summer and Bill the Barber worked in front of one. . . Apropos, Bill’s prolific information which is given gratis is authentic (so says Bill). . .
Headline in South Bend News-Times :
THOUSANDS DIE IN BATTLE
Notre Dame Trims Tech . . .
There’s a story going ’round that a Badinite swapped his $5 electric clock with the rector for a wind-up one only to discover the latter selling for $1.24 in Hooks. . . Joe O’Boyle another forgotten vice-president is the only Soph who hasn’t received the query, “What orchestra would you like for the Cotillion?” he’d also like to meet the class president some time.
Dick ‘Newsy’ Thompson says there are only a few who can dance with him (that’s not saying much for the ‘Astaire’ in Thompson). . . . Pete Gay’s and James Collins’ big war* games in the dining hall ran into some Sicilian opposition and were forced to retreat under a screen of napkins. . . Did MacFarlane ever get that $75 for that car he needed for that date?. . . Contributions are now being accepted for a pair of shoes for Bill Dillon so that his slippers may receive a well deserved vacation. . . John J. Ryan (the third) has been stuck with the endearing name of Jane Joan Ryan (the one and only) by his dining hall admirers. . . Jack DeGarmo and Art Kearns aren’t saying it with flowers this year since the University refused them the corsage concession.	'
Earl Propp has a blond, robustious uncle attending class. Said uncle (Brooks by name) is twice as old as Earl and famous in “Tower of Babel” circles (babbles a lot himself). . . Jim “Barrymore or Darrow” Comeau can’t make up his mind whether to become a lawyer or an actor (no difference Jim, they both get paid for acting). . Bob Burke (brought up on blue grass) received a library card the other day reading “The Breathless Moment will be held for you until Oct. 5. (what a relief after that breath is given the air.)
Zdanowitz, the Samaritan, is willing to give away (for $12) a tuxedo. He’s in 228 Howard (as yet this ad has not been paid for) . . . Jack Hooper never will learn, we saw him with a blonde in the Oliver. . . “Cowboy” Gehres, defies the weather (or the cinders) in rodeo boots. ... Beware for we have our eyes on you and you and you and you, and, yes you too hiding behind the DOME (how’d ya get up there?). . .The Funny Fellows
Then there was the Senior (an exception) who thought the quadrangle was the debating quartet.
Add to the Hall of Conceited Men the engineer who wouldn’t take an eraser to a calculus exam.
Then there was the girl who when told her ticket was right on the fifty yard line said that she would prefer to have it in the stands.
“Here, you take it. I got a class.”
SAD SONATA
He made a run around the end, Was tackled from the rear, The right guard sat upon his neck, The fullback on his ear.
The center sat upon his back, Two ends upon his chest, The quarter and the halfback then Sat down on him to rest.
The left guard sat upon his head, Two tackles on his face,
The coroner was then called in To sit upon his case
—Record.

“It’s in the bag,” said the slang crazed Senior after he counted his laundry.
Worst pun of the week: Walsh Hall’s Jack DeGarmo, speaking of Easter vacation chortled “Is every bunny happy?” (with apologies to Maestro Ted Lewis).
Add definition-Hometown: a terrestrial heaven created by freshmen, glorified by sophomores, defended by Juniors and tolerated by Seniors.
Old Irish Ballad: “The Fagan Love Song.”
The laziest guy in the world handed in an exam paper in which he wrote the following: “Please see Pete’s paper for my answers.”
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 ■ Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C................Faculty	Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN .......................... Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST .................. Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Week
William V. Ellis________________________________Art Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley_________________________________:_News Editor
Robert L. Grogan________________________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown_______________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan_______________________________Paul Biagioni
Irwin L. Goldman________________________Harry A. Baldwin
Robert F. Ervin Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams_________________________John Hurley
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley__James	M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett____L____________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride__:_____________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, ’26
__________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
OCTOBER 11, 1935
JOHN F. CUSHING, 1882-1935
The Scholastic extends its heartfelt sympathies to Mi's. Cushing and her children on the loss of a devoted husband and an exemplary father. The University of Notre Dame will miss this sterling graduate, generous trustee and true friend.
•
RING UP THE CURTAIN
While the football season is in full swing, there is a lamentable absence of student activity in most of the other fields of campus endeavor. We refer particularly to the University Theater which rarely begins to function till late in December or early in the second semester. The fall is annually barren of any theatrical activity whatever. The productions of the University Theater are usually staged from February to May when the Glee Club, the Symphony Orchestra, the Monogram Club, and the Band also display their wares. It seems to us then, that a more balanced entertainment schedule should in-
$clude a fall production by the University Theater.
When we say “University Theater” we must be pardonably inexact as to Just what type of entertainment falls under this group’s repertoire. Last year, the Linnets, campus musical comedy society was merged with the University dramatic group under the title “University Theater.” The move was "a most unfortunate one and the results were disheartening’to the sponsors of the plan. The campus suffered a distinct loss when the Linnets went
out of existence, for in its short span that society staged several top-notch musicals, and had begun to build up a reputation comparable to Princeton University’s Triangle Show and other collegiate groups. Save for a vaudeville presentation written by a member of the faculty, the newly-formed University Theater did nothing last year to foster the splendid work begun by the Linnets. While we do not wish to criticize destnictively, we feel it necessary to point out also that the dramatic presentations in Washington Hall were not up to the standards of previous years. “Turn To The Right” an old-time melodrama was revived and was the only vehicle performed all year, even the traditional Commencement play being omitted for one reason or another.
With the campus radio station this year desperately in need of new talent and new ideas, with the lack of any sustained, worthwhile theatrical presentations downtown, with the student body in general, and ourselves in particular, rather “fed up” on the Hollywood Hogwash presented in South Bend cinema houses, the time is ripe for a revival of campus theatrical activity, either dramatic or musical. The nightly crowd on Hook’s corner would decline visibly if the University Theater were to revive the interest in the stage which existed here less than two years ago. In particular do we plead for the revival of the Linnets or at least of the type of production that organization was famous for. As an activity, the Linnets ranked at the top — beneficial to both the University at large and the student performers in particular. Ask any of the fifty or sixty who worked in the last production ... or better still, ask any of the upperclassmen who had the good fortune to witness the show’ from out front.—
J. S. M.
DUST OFF YOUR TYPEWRITER
Last week The Scholastic printed an article concerning the plans of the campus radio station which is under the direction of Joseph Mansfield. These plans can only materialize if the students will display the true spirit of Notre Dame and support this studio. It does not mean that spirit which entails yelling for a touchdown, a basket or a homer. It is much more than all that. It is a spirit of cooperation, of assistance and of neighborliness. If you yell for the teams and support other campus activities why not also support the radio station?
Compared to other radio stations ours may seem small, but it neverthless has a big future w-hich can only be realized through your contributions, primarily the writing of plays, skits, humorous anecdotes, continuities and the like. Our campus studio is potentially the national voice of Notre Dame. Not only wall it afford the University untold advantages but the student artists wall benefit from personal efforts in this direction.
We refer here particularly to you who write. Studio officials have numerous announcers, singers and imitators and while their efforts are appreciated the real need at the present is script, script and more of the same. When you sit down at your portable don’t suddenly become pessimistic and feel that your ‘stuff’ is no good. Write it and hand it in. You can’t prove your ability to write in a short while. It takes time and practise.
Speak with the men who are in charge of the studio. They will advise and assist you to the best of their ability. Their job, which is really your job, is to successfully conduct this campus station in the same manner as other Notre Dame projects have been put across.—I. L. G.
October II. I 9 3.5
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME OPPOSES BADGERS TOMORROW
FIGHTING WISCONSIN ELEVEN WILL TRY TO HALT LAYDENMEN'S VICTORY MARCH
LAYDEN, PETERS ABSENT FROM IRISH PRACTICES
Irish After 4th Win in Series
By Jim McMullen
The Badgers of Wisconsin, and the learned Dr. Spears, test our Irish tomorrow. The boys have gone to Mad-
Elmer F. Layden
“He'll badger them plenty.”
ison for what they consider an everyday quiz. Coach Layden and Scout Chet Grant fear that the Dr. will spring an exam — a final — that may prove too tough for the confident eleven.
Wisconsin has been riddled with losses through graduation and injur-(Continued on Page 20)
HISTORY . . .
1900—Notre	Dame	0 ;	Wisconsin	54.
1904—Notre	Dame	0;	Wisconsin	58.
1905—Notre	Dame	0 ;	Wisconsin	21.
1917—Notre	Dame	0;	Wisconsin	0.
1924—Notre	Dame	38;	Wisconsin	3.
1928—Notre	Dame	6;	Wisconsin	22.
1929—Notre	Dame	19;	Wisconsin	0.
1934—Notre	Dame	19 ;	Wisconsin	0.
Notre Dame won 3, lost 4, and tied 1.
Wisconsin has the distinction of winning the majority of contests in their eight year series with Notre Dame—a distinction that very few teams have. Playing without cleated shoes, in a sea of mud, the Irish could not get started in their inaugural battle against the Badgers during the season of 1900. The visitors, with a veteran team of four years experience, piled up 54 points—a large amount of their yardage through Gold and Blue penalties.
With six of the starting eleven disabled, and outweighed 12 pounds to a man, Notre Dame suffered one of her most disastrous defeats, in 1904, by being humbled 58-0. An insertion from thf Milwaukee Sentinel reads like this, “Handicapped and beaten at every point, the only source of action left to the Fighting Irish was to live up to their reputation and they fought to the last ditch.”
Renewing hostilities in 1917, . Rockne pulled an upset by holding the powerful Badgers to a 0-0 score. Wis-
(Continued on Page 21)
From the manner in which the Notre Dame varsity has been put through their paces during the past week it would seem that they were to play for the national championship rather than preparing for a Wiscon-
Dick Pfefferle “One good shoulder but first team” sin team that has been defeated in its first two starts. But Elmer Layden knows his football. The Carnegie Tech game brought out several points in both the Irish defense and offense that needed polishing, and the forth coming game with Wisconsin can not be taken easily.	■
Blocking and tackling again played a large part in the afternoon’s work of the varsity squad. In the Tech game poor blocking prevented a much larger score from being run up, and Layden and his aids are seeing to it that this is remedied. The line in particular came in for some tiresome (Continued on Page 23)
WISCONSIN
BADGERS ALL
TOFSON
Fourteen
The Scholastic
VICTORIOUS "B" TEAM FACES 2ND CONTEST
WISCONSIN EDITOR CONCEDES GAME TO IRISH; REVIEWS BADGER TEAM
Little Rock, Arkansas will be the next scene of battle for the “B” team of Notre Dame tomorrow. There they will face the little known college of Ouchita. By virtue of their top-heavy victory over Niagara last Sunday the reserves will be favored to take the Arkansans in stride.
However an air of mystery surrounds Ouchita teams and the Irish may find themselves in for a busy afternoon. Last week Ouchita dropped a close game to Texarkana College 6-0. Otherwise the Arkansans are unknown quantities.
A traveling squad of 25 players directed by Coach Bill Cerney left this afternoon for Little Rock and will arrive in time for the game Saturday afternoon. They will return Sunday morning.
Coach Cerney will probably present the same line-up that faced Niagara at the opening whistle last week. The squad has been working hard all week long and expect to be in excellent condition for the contest. Injuries took their toll of the reserves at the Niagara game and Foster, guard on the reserves team, may not be able to play tomorrow afternoon.
DAN HANLEY
Announcement was made recently by the Athletic Department of De Paul University of the appointment of Dan Hanley as backfield coach of the football team. Hanley’s knowledge of the Notre Dame system, which is used at De Paul, will make his presence an invaluable aid to the Chicago team.
Dan will be chiefly remembered at Notre Dame for his brilliant play against Army last year. He played under Rockne in Rock’s last season of coaching and was the only member of the 1934 team to have been tutored by Notre Dame’s famous coach. His record last fall won for him a berth on the College All-Star team this summer.
COACH CLARENCE SPEARS Wisconsin
On The Enemy's Trail
TO DATE:
Wisconsin has been beaten by South Dakota State and Marquette.
Pitt defeated Waynesburg and Washington and Jefferson.
Navy defeated William and Mary and Mercer.
Ohio State defeated Kentucky.
Northwestern defeated DePaul and was beaten by Purdue.
Army defeated William and Mary.
Southern California defeated Montana and College of Pacific.
THIS WEEK:
Pitt plays West Virginia U.
Navy plays Virginia.
Ohio State plays Drake.
Northwestern does not play.
Army plays Gettysburg.
Southern California plays Illinois.
Squad Is Heavy But Slow
By R. A. Kaase
(Sports Editor the Wisconsin Daily Cardinal)
MADISON, Wis., Oct. 10.—(Special)—A return to fundamentals will be stressed this week as Dr. C. W. Spears, Wisconsin football mentor, drives his charges through intensive practise sessions in preparation for the invasion of Camp Randall by Notre Dame on Saturday, Oct. 19. The game will be the ninth between the two schools, with Wisconsin holding the margin. Though the score now stands four to the Badgers and three to Notre Dame, with one scoreless tie, the series will probably be tied after next Saturday.
Defeated for the first time in a seasoner’s opener by South Dakota 13 to 6 and decisively humbled by their intra-state rival, Marquette, last Saturday by a 33 to 0 count, the Wisconsin team will enter the Notre Dame game in a distinct under-dog role, with hopes chiefly of holding the score down.
The dismal showing in the first two games has prescribed the return to fundamentals. The Wisconsin line, averaging close to 200 pounds when all of the veterans are available, is slow but fairly strong. The backs have power, but are also slow. But they have failed to block and therefore have been unable to show any consistent drive. Spears’ work this week will have to emphasize that every man must carry out his assignment.
Wisconsin has been distinctly hampered by injuries. The first blow struck when Captain Ray Davis was injured and puf out for the season on the first kick-off in the South Dakota state game. Christianson, gigantic tackle, has been forced to favor an injured leg although he has played in both games.
(Continued on Pafre 20)
MORE IRISH FOES
McDowell
zinser
October II, 1935
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
By Cy Stroker
Henry Pojman has what is probably the most difficult job on the football team this year, filling the vacancy left by All-American Jack Robinson. It is to his credit to say that he is doing that job well. In both the
PLAYED HIGH School football with frank kopzack and ; ANDY PlLNEV =
ILLINOIS
fOoTRE DAME
-OKE'
AXOST- TZM-KATlVE MAN ON THE I 5QUAD ~ HENRY 1 HAS TO FILL. TH£ Position vacatep BY , all-American JACK ROBINSON*

/u6Ire Dame
Kansas and Carnegie Tech game Hank handled his assignments as well as any man on the line. This was true of the offensive as well as the defensive.
Henry is a product of Chicago’s West side where he was born some twenty-two years ago. He attended Bryant grammar school and Harrison Tech high. At the latter he was center on the football team and a member of the swimming team.
At Notre Dame he first played on the varsity in the 1933 Navy game. This was the only game of that year in which he participated. Were it not for the few minutes that gave him some experience against the slip
pery Salts that day Hank would have another year to play with the Irish. Last year he played in every game except the Texas upset and has won for himself a berth on the first squad this year.
kWoN
all-state ' HONORS g
FOR ulljnoisT; IN HIGH SCHOOL
His BROTHER
Joe was < A TRACK if Star, for, . ■J GRlNCLL 0A)
Pojman is in his first year of law school, rooms with Frank Kopzack on the top floor of Walsh and likes to read. He learned the fine points of the game from Tom Yarr and Kitty Gorman, whose number he wears.
The feat he remembers best was the running back of two punts for touchdowns while playing for Harrison Tech high. One was for fifty and the other for eighty yards. Likes to tell about his brother who defeated Metcalfe in the sprints ... intends to coach freshman football and then practice law in Chicago.' His greatest determination is to make the fans forget about Robbie.	•
FALL TENNIS TOURNEY ADVANCES FAVORITES
Pounding and slashing the ball, the seventy-two entrants in the annual fall tennis tournament have for the past week been striving to eliminate one another. Due to inclement weather which rendered tennis almost impossible, many of the scheduled matches were postponed but a majority managed to play last weekend under the sunny skies.
The six players seeded by Coach Pedro deLandero earlier in the tourney are Joe Waldron, captain-elect; Bill Fallon; Joe Prendergast; Joe McNulty, and George Cannon; all monogram winners of last year; and Ed Kilrain who won the spring meet of last season. All of these men are still in the running this fall but find themselves threatened by some less known players who have shown championship mettle in early matches. Among these newcomers are Bill Gibson who won his second round match brilliantly 6-0, 6-0, and Russ Longan, a sophomore, who has slammed his way into the fourth round with a great change of pace.
While their older brothers are fighting it out, the Freshmen are getting together in their own portion of a tourney which is to get started at once. Contestants are warned to play their first two matches by Sunday in order to avoid defaulting their matches. Thirty-five have entered the yearlings’ tournament.
Latest results on Fall tennis tournament, third round scores (as yet incomplete) :
Jim Waldron beat Jack Robinson.
Feeley beat Farrell.
McNulty beat Cassidy.
Vevaet beat Hoene.
Donnell beat Clifford.
Gibson beat Mulcahy.
Joe Waldron beat Jim Waldron.
Bott beat Selna.
Crosier beat DeGarmo. -Prendergast beat Bott.
Cannon beat Hartnett.
CROWE NAMED HEAD COACH
Clem Crowe, Notre Dame grad, has been appointed head football coach at Xavier College in Cincinnati. Clem was an end on the Irish team in 1925 and for the last several years has been assistant coach at Xavier.
Crowe is a member of the locally famous “Lafayette Crowes” who have been represented at Notre Dame by at least one member of the family since “way back when.”
Before assuming his post as head football coach, Crowe served Xavier as head basketball coach and assistant coach of football. He has been at the institution since 1932.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
SO THEY SAY
CARTIER FIELD—THE OLD AND NEW, A GIFT
OF THE LATE WARREN A. CARTIER, C.E., 1887
“The play’s the thing,” wrote Mr. Bill Shakespeare, the first, of Stratford-on-Avon, many, many years ago. “This play’s the thing,” Master Bill Shakespeare, the second, the barging bard of South Bend, was skipping across Carnegie Tech’s goal line with the touchdown that sent the Ramblers off on the high road to a 14 to 3 victory over the Skibos in the thirteenth game of their series.
Forty thousand chilled spectators applauded Bill Shakespeare’s sparkling run of 23 yards—Notre Dame partisans with a fine frenzy of relief from a situation fast becoming alarming; Tech’s adherents because it was a beautiful bit of individual persistence, albeit there was alert and sure blocking as a background.”—Chester L. Smith, Sports Editor, Pittsburgh Press.
Mark down Notre Dame’s second victory of the 1935 football season—a 14 to 3 decision over doughty Carnegie Tech today at Pitt Stadium, but reserve any marginal scribblings on the caliber of this Irish eleven until such future opponents as Wisconsin, Pitt, Ohio State, Northwestern, Navy, Southern California, and Army have been encountered.
On the day’s work, Notre Dame is still to be reckoned as one of the x’s, or unknown quantities, of the season, despite the margin in today’s game and last Saturday’s 28 to 7 opening victory over Kansas. Ostensibly equipped with a maximum of power against a Carnegie offense which was practically nil, the Irish found themselves on the short end of a 3 to 0 count at the end of the first half. They had been unable to progress beyond the Tech 13 yard line during those first two periods, due not only to the inspired deportment of a team which always reaches the heights against Notre Dame, but in great measure to their indifferent tackling and blocking.
The second half was another story, (Continued on Page 23)
By Mike Crowe
As present day students sit in the new Cartier field watching the Lay-denmen march, perhaps they don’t even have a faint idea of the last stadium, the glorious history of old Cartiei' field.
Notre Dame men who have trod ever since the introduction of football at the University have immortalized the very turf on which they made and broke records.
Back in 1886 when the University was still in its teens, modern-day box office receipts were never dreamed of. Notre Dame teams played on an open field. That system was, of course, unsatisfactory. The student body, living then in Sorin and Brownson, had to shoulder the financial side. Generous sums from different faculty members, however, were all that saved the Athletic Association from complete ruin.
The University authorities decided to continue with the project of attempting to build an enclosed field in that same year. Admission was charged for admittance to the contests. A letter was sent to Warren A. Cartier, C.E., 1887, asking him if he could lend any assistance toward purchasing some land and putting a fence around it. Mr. Cartier resided in Ludington, Michigan at that time, was a member of the firm of Rath and Cartier, and also the Cartier Lumber Company. He was, to quote from the files of the Scholastic of 1900, “respected for his abilities and for his genial character.” At that time, Mr. Cartier was the mayor of Ludington. His 1'esponse overwhelmed University officials. Mr. Cartier promise to buy the required lumber himself, build the necessary fence, and also construct a grandstand.
A ten acre plot (at that time) to the east of Brownson campus was immediately purchased.
After careful consideration, a proposed plan was abolished because the University officials foresaw rapid ad
vancement. The new plan called for an enclosed field with entrances located at the north and southwest sides, and two entrances on the west side of the field. A 220 yard straightaway was to run almost diagonally across
the field. North of the track was to be situated one of the two football fields. South of the runway was to be a quarter mile track, banked at the- turns so as to provide thrills for the playful, daring bicyclists of that day. Inside this enclosure was to be located another football field and baseball diamond. The grandstand adjacent to this field was enormous, holding 500 people.
Special attention was given to development of the quarter-mile track. There were seven layers of material on the track: (1) three inches of coarse cinders, (2) a spreading of earth, (3) three inches of medium sized cinders, (4) a second spreading of earth, (5) tw’o-thirds of an inch of fine cinders and loam mixed, (6) the same, (7) the same only with the cinders still finer.
The University, recognizing the generosity of Mr. Warren Cartier,
(Continued on ■ Page 21)
Cartier Field—Not So Many Years Ago.
October II. 1935
Seventeen
TARTANS SUCCUMB TO IRISH ATHLETES ONLY AFTER WAGING BITTER STRUGGLE
AMMONIA, LINIMENT, MAKE FOOTBALL DEBUT
By Jim Waldron
Making faces and generally cavorting about, the old Pittsburgh bugaboo kept the Irish of Notre Dame on the short end of a 3-0 score at half time in the Carnegie Tech game last Sat-
John Lautar
“The baby-face assassin.”
urday, when the “shades of Knute Rockne” and the football poetry of Bill “the Bard” Shakespeare combined to smother the Tartans, 14-3.
Between the halves honor was paid to Notre Dame’s immortal coach, and the sputtering, choking Irish grid machine was inspired by his memory to click like the Rockne teams of old.
There was no question of Notre Dame’s superiority, but the Irish offense bogged down every time it came into scoring position. With Mike Layden punching holes in the enemy defense, the Notre Dame backs registered eight first downs in the first half and once had the ball on the 6-yard line without a score being chalked up. Shakespeare passed over the goal line twice to Mike Layden who couldn’t hold the spinning ball. A dislocated thumb so numbed Mike’s hand on the plays that he couldn’t get a firm hold on the ball.
After repeated goal-line stands, Carnegie had its golden opportunity late in the second quarter. Shakespeare’s pass intended for Layden was intercepted by Eugene Rosenthal, Tartan halfback, on the Notre Dame 41. Four plays moved the ball up to the Irish 18-yard stripe with one minute left to play in the first half. The Tech quarterback, Coleman Kopcsak, called on himself to attempt a field goal. With Patt holding the ball, he coolly kicked a perfect placement from the 37-yard stripe to put the Skibos into the leadl
A changed team came out on the field for Notre Dame in the second half, it had the fire, dash and color which have become synonymous with Irish teams. With confidence and cool precision, the forward wall tore Carnegie to pieces as a fleet array of backs ran and passed the Tartans dizzy. Starting on their own 46-(Continued on Page 19)
Eighteen
CROSS COUNTRY
By Cy Stroker
Within two weeks Coach Nicholson has made the same statement in regard to his cross country team, and inasmuch as it is an optimistic statement it is worth repeating here, for Nick does not often make optimistic statements. “We shall probably win,” says he, “about half of the meets this season.” Which means that the Notre Dame thinlies stand a good chance of winning all of the meets except the Central Intercollegiate meet. One of the contestants in this meet is Indiana, which is considered the strongest cross country team in the country this season.
Another meet has been added to the Notre Dame schedule, the addition being Illinois whom the Irish will meet on Nov. 16. The completed schedule includes Pittsburgh on Oct. 19, Michigan State Oct. 26, Illinois Nov. 9, Wisconsin Nov. 16, and the Intercollegiate Conference meet at East Lansing on Nov. 25. Notre Dame did not face either Illinois or Wisconsin last year so that few predictions can be made on the outcome of the two contests.
The material for Notre Dame’s team is exceptionally good this fall. Nick is not handicapped by the injuries that caused him so much trouble last year. Leo MacFarlane, and John Francis, both of whom were unable to compete last year are in excellent form. Hackett and Gormerly are newcomers to the scene but both of them show promise.
The experienced men on whom their coach most depends are McKenna, McGrath, Gott, and Kenyon. Arch Gott besides being among the top in the cross country list is a member of the sports staff of the Scholastic.
As a whole, the team this year is a much improved one. Most noticeable among the qualities it possesses is the fine spirit the candidates show, a determination to better the records of the two preceding teams. Competition in the Middle West is the toughest in the intercollegiate track world and even the predicted victories would make a notable showing for the Irish.
By Al Bride
The interhall football season was inaugurated last Sunday with the usual characteristic grunts and groans. While the do-or-die players from the various halls were fighting it but on the gridiron their hall mates were cheering the men and commenting freely on the choice of plays, decisions, and the officials, all of which added more color than has been evidenced in recent years.
In Group I there were several close
Joseph O’Keefe Weiss “Even though his hair is curly.”
contests with the pre-season favorites barely nosing out victories. A light, fighting Corby team threw a scare into the heavy, experienced Howard eleven by holding them to a tie until the last minute of play when Howard’s left end streaked into the end zone to snare a pass that gave the seniors a 12-6 victory. The boys from down by the lake scored first in the second quarter when Ed Boyle swept 'around his own right end and streaked down the side lines for a touchdown. Howard came back in the third quarter when Zarantonello smashed over for the counter that evened the score.
The new gold coast was defeated by the old gold coast when Walsh downed Alumni 14-0. Weiss carried the ball over once and Vickers increased the score when he took a pass to add six more points. The Alumni offense couldn’t click against the strong forward wall that the Walsh delegation put on the field.
In the other battle in Group I Lyons eked out a one point victory over the second year men in Badin, 7-6.
Group II produced a variety of results: A top heavy score, a close contest, and a forfeit. The heavy aggregation from St. Ed’s had a field day at the expense of Dillon and at the end of the game the score totaled 44-0. St. Ed’s showed a fine running game by scoring all of their points from outside their opponent’s 15-yard line.
Off Campus pulled the upset of the day by downing the Brownson group 6-0. Several times it seemed that the (Continued on Page 21)
The Scholastic
By Joe Prendergast
STATISTICS
Notre Dame, 19 first downs; Carnegie Tech, 4. The Carnegie Tech team’ from the above statistics seemed to be clay in the hands of the Layden-men but this was far from true. Statistics often lie and this was never more exemplified than in the clash last Saturday in Pittsburgh. The Irish clearly outmaneuvered and out-powered their opponents in the first half but when Kopcsak nailed that three point score up on the score board with his field goal, memories of that 1933 engagement with the Navy in Baltimore loomed gigantically in mind.
On that particular Novembei' afternoon in 1933, the Irish registered 21 first downs to the Middies 4 but, Ripleying a bit, Navy won 7 to 0.
Shakespeare’s dashing proceedings relieved the tension considerably and little Bob Wilke put the lid on that victory box with his tally. Two important and encouraging facts arise as the aftermaths of the tilt. The first is that Wally Fromhart gave indications of developing into a surefire kicker for that point after touchdown and secondly that the Irish pass defense has strengthened considerably. The Tartans threw ten passes - and completed two.
Notre Dame is developing slowly, the line is playing better ball on each successive Saturday and the backs are reaching the standard they are capable of attaining. Wisconsin is next and although they haven’t shown too great football this autumn they would relish pinning a defeat on Notre Dame’s clean record. Upsets are the order of the day and the Badgers are out to do the ordering.
BEARSKIN (HEHEH)
The lad is back, that connoisseur of football who writes so adeptly his own version of Who’s Who on the Notre Dame squad. He’s a third-guesser, one degree lower than the downtown coaches association and he is dickering in cheap journalism with his sour stuff but for all that he is jokingly entertaining producing many comical petty grips.
FOUR WINS FOR DAY
Captain-elect Win Day in winning his fourth Notre. Dame golfing title has accomplished a feat which will not be duplicated for many years to (Continued on Page 20)
6,000 PEOPLE SEE THE NOTRE DAME "B" TEAM COME FROM BEHIND TO CONQUER NIAGARA
FENCING . . .
Prof. Pedro de Landero “Coffee and swords at dawn.”
Gradually taking its earned place along with other Notre Dame sports, the fencing team will step into the first practise early next week in preparation for another great season. Last year the swingers of the foil and sabre startled the middle-western fencing enthusiasts by overwhelming every one of the seven opponents whom they faced. Upon entering their third year of intercollegiate competition the Blue and Gold aggregation is bolstered by the return of three regulars, Co-Captains-elect Kehoe and Carlos de Landero as well as Telmo de Landero. Other possible candidates who were reserves on last year’s team are Bob Seco, Jack McAuliffe, and Dick Snooks. Completing the nucleus of the squad are Mercado, Morrow, Doody, and Pierre de Lavergne, winner of the tourney held last spring among the freshmen.
Coach Pedro A. de Landero, a noted fencer himself, will again be assisted in his duties by Delmar G. Rooss of South Bend. Mr. de Landero stated that notices will be posted in a few days and wishes to urge students to try out for the squad. Although no schedule has been drawn up as yet the fencing mentor suggested the possibility of meeting the same seven teams as in last season. Says Mr. de Landero: “No set-ups for us. We take on nothing but first-rate competition.”
By Gene Vaslett
The “B” team of Notre Dame remembering a defeat of last season handed them by Niagara College travelled to Niagara, N. Y. Sunday and avenged the setback of last year by trouncing the Purple 25-12. An attendance of 6,000 people, the largest to attend a Niagara football contest, attested to the fact that Notre Dame teams, reserves as well as varsity, still lure the football minded citizens through the turnstiles.
The game was hard fought and the first quarter found the “B” team on the short end of a 6-0 score. However the reserves led by Saffa, McCormick and Horan came back in the second period and tallied 12 points before the half ended.
McKenna was responsible for the third Irish score early in the third quarter when he broke loose for a 40 yard run that ended behind the Niagara goal line. The last tally of the game occurred when Horan, a Sophomore, fell on a Niagara fumble in the end zone.
The Niagara team presented a varied attack during the game depending on passes as well as running attacks to gain yardage while the Irish reserves relied mainly on running plays and used very few passes.
The reserve line held up well under the charges of the more experienced men of Niagara and their blocking was reported efficient. Sweeney, Emmanuel, Chanowicz, Clifford and Foster were outstanding for the Irish in the forward positions.
Notre Dame	(25)	Niagara (12)
Sweeney 			LE..		:	Kossa
Chanowicz —		.LT..		Kinnane
Marshall 			LG..		Laurenzi
McCarty			G._.		McMahon
Foster		......	,RG_		Petit
Emmanuel ...		RT_		Scrufari
Clifford		RW		J. Crotty
McKenna 			QB..		Leonard
McGrath		T.TT.		Godfrey
McCormick ..	nw..		Dunn
Borowski			FB..		Keegan
CARNEGIE TECH
(Continued from Page 18)
yard line, Shakespeare, Carideo, Layden and company rhythmically advanced the ball toward the Tech goalline. Three first downs placed the ball on the Tartan 24. From here Shakespeare, shaking off three successive tacklers, dove across the goalline with the whole Tech team trying to hold him back.
After being checked three times inside the Tech 10-yard line, the Irish were caught flat-footed by a great quick kick by Kopcsak, but began a tremendous 96-yard drive which produced their second touchdown registered by Bob Wilke.
Nineteen
October II, 1935
WISCONSIN EDITOR (Continued from Page 15)
Jensen, a tackle last year, was shifted to guard to strengthen that post but was kept out of the Marquette game through injuries.
Lanphear, used at guard and quarter, played only a few minutes against Marquette. Loveshin, a regular end in 1933; Barrett, a 206 pound fullback; Ed Berry, hard driving back; and John Wilson, 150 pound flash, fastest man on the squad, complete
the list of injured men. None of them can be driven hard in practice and may not be in condition for the Notre Dame tilt.
On the brighter side is the retuin of Mortell. Mortell, a former student at Notre Dame, cleared up eligibility difficulties and got into the Marquette game a few minutes. He is an excellent punter, fair passer and runner, but weak defensively. He may provide the speed which has been lacking in the Wisconsin play.
Eddie Jankowski, fullback shifted to half, took to that post admirably and did the best running as. well as defensive play for Wisconsin in both of its games to date. With some blocking he could be a star. In the line, John Golemgeske has been a bulwark of strength at left tackle.
Mahnke at center and Nellen, who has been used both at guard and tackle, have been strong defensively. Null is a fixture at left end but the other wing has be'en filled by inexperienced sophomores.
Practise was secret even to newspapermen last week at Camp Randall with prospects that it will also be closed this week. It requires no great prophet though to foresee that Wisconsin’s lineup next Saturday will be changed from that which received the call this week.
Speed and blocking are the two things which must be stressed. Blocking will pave the way for the Wisconsin aerial attack which gave some promise against South Dakota State. Marquette sifted through so fast and • without hindrance that the passer was smothc-ed in every attempt.
The shift of Jankowski to half brought Cole to the full back post. The stocky junior* tore off several nice gains, including one 31 yard jaunt and played well defensively. Speed . has been the undoing of the Badgers in both of their defeats. • Miller intercepted a pass and outspeeded the entire Wisconsin team while Marquette backs simply ran away behind (Continued on Page 21)
ON DOWN THE LINE
DID YOU KNOW:
JOHN J. PHELAN, son of Brig.-Gen. John J. Phelan, chairman of the New York athletic commission, is making a serious bid as a i/ackle on the Army team and may become the regular at this post — FRANK FRISCH’S nephew, JOHN LUCY, from Horace Mann School of New York, is a Colgate freshman guard, GEORGE SISLER’S son, George Jr., is a freshman, too. He confines himself to baseball and basketball — Yale’s best center is assisting the freshman coaching staff. He is BOB BECKWITH. At Yale a man must have two quality marks, two 75’s in a two year period. Beckwith got only one 75 per cent rating and as a result a thoroughly eligible student with every mark passing, is lost to the squad through a technicality— HUGHEY DEVORE, great Notre Dame end of two years ago, is at Fordham and is temporarily living in New York with FRANK LEAHY, Fordham line coach and ex-N.D. back-field star — BILL SHULER, West Point captain, is the son of a Southern California radio minister whose sermons are a combination of all the elements of rabble rousers and reason reachers this country has produced. They call him “Fighting Bob Shuler” —No Yale game since 1931, when ALBIE BOOTH took his curtain calls, has sold out the bowl. Princeton may be a sell-out this year provided there are no miscues before it—JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, Jr., son of the financier, is an aspirant for an end job at Harvard.
9
BRAIN TEASERS:
FRANNY LANE, the Harvard backfield candidate, made his letter as a freshman, the only one in modern times. Solution: Franny ran the 200 - meter race against Cambridge two years ago, before his sophomore year started. MYLES LANE, the famous Dartmouth star, is his elder brother..
FROM WILDCATS TO KITTENS:
Northwestern is fortunate in having a genial, pleasant LYNN WALDORF as its coach this year. Only a fellow with a sense of humor could walk into a‘ coaching job with the schedule confronting Waldorf. For their main course the Wildcats will play Purdue, Ohio State, and Minnesota in order. Add a little seasoning of Notre Dame and Illinois and then have Iowa for dessert, if they can still eat. The whole hodge-podge equals the Northwestern “kitten.”
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 19)
come. A great form player, Day plays a steady conservative game relying more on form than power to cop his matches.
In 1932 he scored 308; in 1933 his card showed 302; in 1934, 306 and this fall he set a new course record for 72 holes by his smashing 296 score. We would like to add our word of commendation for this outstanding-performance. •
SCORECASTS
Our record to date shows 36 wins, 9 losses and one tie. Jack Robinson our experter last week came out on the right side in 19 of his 25 choices. Robbie by the way is picking the games over the local radio station every Thursday afternoon at 3:15 p.m. This week we take a whirl at 25 more contests—Take ’em away GOO-FUS.
NOTRE DAME 21; WISCONSIN 0
Holy Cross 28 ; Harvard 0.
Pennsylvania 7; Yale 0.
Carnegie ■ Tech 6; New York University 0.
Columbia 14; Rutgers 0.
Fordham 13: Purdue 7.
Ohio State 30 ; Drake 0.
Pittsburgh 19; West Virginia 0.
Syracuse 35; Cornell 12.
Army 26; Gettysburg 0.
Navy 14; Virginia 0.
Villanova 20 ; Bucknell' 7.
Alabama 13 ; Mississippi 0.
Auburn 7; Tennessee 6.
Duke 21; Clemson 0.
Rice 6; Creighton 0.
Texas 14; Oklahoma 6.
Tulane 10; Florida 0.
Kentucky 12; Georgia State 0.
Colgate 21; Iowa 7.
Indiana 13 ; Michigan 0.
Michigan State 13; Kansas 0.
Minnesota 10; Nebraska 6.
St. Mary’s 19; College of Pacific 0.
Illinois 7 ; Southern California 0.
Stanford 13; U. C. L. A. 0.
BADGER GAME
(Continued from Page 14)
ies. Nine leading squad members of the Badgers of ’34 have failed to answer the call this year. Dr. Spears was forced to fill gaping holes at the guard, quarterback and end positions, with men almost totally lacking- in varsity experience.
The Irish -won’t face total strangers however. Eddie Jankowski has stuck around to operate from full; Lynn Jordan and Mortell are still at the halves, and the line is bolstered by such familiar names as Davis, Nellen, Jensen, and Mahnke. Mortell, an Irish freshman of three years ago, has found rough sledding in competition this fall because of a too noticeable weakness on defense.
The same lineup that faced Carnegie, with the exception of Mike Layden, will march against the Badgers. Mike sustained a rather .painful injury to his thumb that may keep him out till the Pittsburgh game.
The Scholastic
Twenty
WISCONSIN EDITOR
(Continued from Page 20) blocking that left scarcely a Wisconsin man standing.
Should the necessary speed be found in Wilson, Misiak, Popp, Ron-done, and other sophomore backs, Wisconsin will still need intensive drill on pass defense. Marquette completed eight of the 16 passes and several others fell incomplete only because of the receiver’s ineptness, not because of expert covering of the defense.
Th e two successive defeats may finally have stung the slothful Badgers into a fighting, savage mood. On paper they rate far inferior to Notre Dame. One week of driving, lashing drill may set them up in the role of giant killers, but prospects are that Notre Dame second and third stringers will have an opportunity to earn their letters.
CARTIER FIELD (Continued from Page 17)
had a beautifully mounted and embossed testimonial sent to him. It was etched in blue and gold on white parchment. The Art department of St. Mary’s Academy did the decorating and subsequent painting. The scroll read as follows:
Warren A Cartier, C. E. ’87.
Greeting from the University of Notre Dame.
“Grateful for the generosity which prompted you to bestow on your Alma Mater an enclosed field to be used in perpetuity for the athletic games and contests of the students, the University of Notre Dame offers you this assurance of thankfulness. The gift will be known forever as the Cartier Athletic Field, and your name will be inscribed in the list of eminent benefactors of Notre Dame. By your generous gift you have earned the gratefulness of the University, and of the students, present and future, to whom you have set a wholesome and conspicious example by your loyalty to your Alma Mater and your solicitude for her welfare.”
This spirited example of generosity has never been forgotten. This thought has always made our teams fight hard. It was this spirit, too, which enabled the team to remain undefeated on their home field for twenty-three years. This period was from 1905 to 1928.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 14)
consin threatened the Irish goal line six times, but lacked the necessary punch . to push the pigskin across. Late in the game, Phelan, Notre Danie captain and quarterback, tried a 41 yard placement, missing the bar only by inches.
. It was not until the reign of the Four Horsemen that the Cardinal “jinx” was shattered, with a 38-3 de
NOTRE DAME 19; WISCONSIN 0—
cision. The first, second, and third Irish teams ran rough-shod through Wisconsin territory, completely outplaying them at every angle. The attack was so destructive that it did not stop until the Baadger’s goal line had been crossed five times.
In 1929 Notre Dame encountered Wisconsin, and sent them rocking on their heels by a stinging 19-0 contest. It was the season of ’29, when Sa-voldi, Schwartz, Elder and Brill carved a niche in football’s hall of fame by crashing their way through a powerful Cardinal wall to register three touchdowns and one conversion, while holding the opposition scoreless.
The Irish won last year’s contest in the Stadium, 19 to 0.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page IS)
town students had a score in their grasp, but each time a penalty set them back and the boys from the dorm held. Finally Moulder pushed the ball over for the only tally of the game although Brownson made several bids.
In the other game in Group II Freshman took the game by forfeit.
The schedule for Sunday follows:
Group n
Oct. 13. 9:15 a.m.—Brownson vs. Dillon. Cartier N: St. Ed’s vs. Off-Campus. Cartier S : Carroll vs. Morrissey. Cartier Oval.
Group I
2:30 p.m.—Corby vs. Lyons. Cartier N: Badin vs. Howard. Cartier S: Sorin vs. Alumni. Cartier Oval.
1934
October II, 1935
Twenty-one
MET CLUB (Continued from Page 5)
Three plans present themselves for the solution of the club’s tangled financial affairs. Cavanaugh will propound the S.A.C. plan to whomsoever on the Met club roster is prepared to listen. This plan will call for the Met’s alumni club assuming part the debt and then, from this division, levy a small assessment upon all those who have personally signed themselves as members of the organization.
Edward Hammer, advocate of the Borough plan winch was not accepted by the Mafei regime last year, is the sponsor of the plan which will leave the destiny of the Met club in the hands of the responsible men of the S.A.C. Hammer stated that the club previous to its merry-go-round fiasco was an institution for the good of students from the Metropolitan sector.
The third plan fostered by William Shea, who was elected vice president in last May’s invalid election and considered in inside circles as the nominal leader of the Met club, calls for the assumption of the debt by someone within the organization, and for the reorganization of the club pending payment of the deficit.
The situation appears ludicrous in view of the fact that every one is willing to reorganize the club, but no one appears willing to assume the debt. Discussion concerning the deficit in even the most-informed circles is met with vague and vapory answers.
The crux of it all is that no one is willing to take the initiative in reorganizing the club for fear of having to personally assume a staggering debt and to wallow through another season such as last. Shea advocated the presentation of revenue-producing dances in South Bend to raise funds to alleviate the debt, but expressed doubt as to whether the club could obtain the necessary sanction.
From all quarters have come the hope that the University will permit the club to reorganize previous to a disposition of the debt, but from the S.A.C. stand that procedure is thought to be rather distant. According to the best sources this plan is the logical and feasible thing to do, since whatever is done or not done, one thing will certainly remain—and that thing is the debt.
The S.A.C. expressed the hope that the club would sweep the barnacles off its ship of state and make a complete right-about-face and get going. Otherwise all indications point to the fact that the “Met Club Ghost” is about all washed up and ready to close shop forever unless, observers say, the insistant wrangling comes to an end and some one assumes the ini-tative and does something.
CUSHING DEATH
(Continued from Page 5)
sity of one of its most loyal alumni and most devoted sons.
“As a member of the board of trustees Ins advice was invaluable in shaping the financial policies of the University. As a donor of the college of engineering building he stood in the foremost rank of the benefactors of Notre Dame.
“Three of his sons followed in their father’s footsteps as graduates of the University, a fourth is a student now, and the relationship of the family with the University has always been very close. Oui- bereavement, then, is quite personal as well as official.
“Mr. Cushing was an outstanding citizen and in his quiet way helped more than the general public will ever know to shape governmental policies. Yet he was never too busy to extend a word of cheer or encouragement to individuals in need. May God rest his soul.”
John F. Cushing was born at Arapahoe, Neb., in 1882, the son of a blacksmith. Soon after his birth, the family left Nebraska for the northwest Pacific coast, but at the age of 14 Mr. Cushing went back to his birthplace to attend public school. On the completion of his schooling in 1900, he served as a blacksmith’s apprentice. After two years of this work he entered Nebraska State University where he worked his way through for two years.
He continued the remaining two years of his schooling at the University of Notre Dame where he was graduated in 1906 with a degree in civil engineering. In the fall of the same year he married Miss Harriet M. Webber.
Mr. Cushing began his career with the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock com-
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222^2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
Have the prescription of your glasses filed with us. It will serve as an emergency.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
pany as a timekeeper on Oct. 15, 1907. By dint of hard work and sheer ability he became a field engineer within a year. This was followed with one promotion after another until he became president of the firm in 1926.
Mr. Cushing is survived by five sons and two daughters. Three of his sons, Francis J., ex ’29, Paul Joseph, ’31, and Jerome James, ’35, also attended Notre Dame. A fourth son, Gregory, is enrolled as a freshman.
PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL IN CHICAGO
See the Bears and the Cardinals play Football as the experts play it.
SCHEDULE OF GAMES
Chicago Bears vs.
Brooklyn ...... Oct. 20
Green Bay ..... Oct. 27
New York ..... Nov. 17
Detroit ....... Nov. 24
Cardinals..........Dec.	1
Chicago Cardinals vs.
Bears..............Oct.	6
Green Bay ..... Oct. 13
Detroit ....... Nov. 3
Philadelphia .... Nov. 10
Green Bay..........Nov.	28
Go via South Shore Line!
Fast South Shore Line trains take you direct to Randolph Street_thence you transfer to either elevated or surface lines direct to Wrigley Field.
from SOUTH BEND
ROUND AA TRIP *
For more information, phone 3-3111 or write C. W. Veach, City Pass. Agt., 301 North Michigan Street, South Bend.
joumore: ।	we 1 I v
Twent y-two
The Scholastic
FOOTBALL PRACTICE (Continued from Page 14)
hours of charging and blocking. The backs, too, had their fill of blocking and if they demonstrate such blocking Saturday as they showed at the end of the' week the Badgers will be eagerly waiting for the final whistle. Elmer is still pounding away at fundamentals.
The varsity had several scrimmages against Wisconsin plays. In these scrimmages several second and third string players gave evidence that they are still fighting for a starting position, and Saturday’s line-up might produce a change or two.
Mike Layden will be out of the game up at Madison and there is a merry scramble among the right half backs. Vic Wojcihovski seems to have the edge, but is closely followed by the second year Chicago boy “Red” Gleason and Tony Mazziotti. Competition is equally strong for the other backfield berths. At left half Shakespeare, Andy Pilney and Bob Wilke are well bunched. Based on results of the last two games nothing short of an explosion will blast Fred Carideo from the full back position, but Elser, Miller and Larry Danbom are striving hard to set that explosion off. At quarterback Wally Fromhart is being pushed hard by Frankie Gaul, Moriarty, and Zip Puplis.
FOR RECREATION, SWIM AT THE
Natatorium
1044 West Washington Ave.
For Ladies and Gentlemen
One of the finest Swimming Pools in the country.
Week days, 12 to 9 p. m.
Sundays, 2 to 6 p. m.
Admission Fee includes suit, towel, locker, sunlamps and plunge.
One Low, One High Springboard.
Private Parties can be arranged.
Phone 3-8611
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 17)
manifesting the verve which has made Notre Dame the Republic’s No. 1 team more than once. The opening few minutes of the third quarter saw Notre Dame brush aside the Tartan defense with a splendid 54 yard march, climaxed by a 23 yard dash for a touchdown by William Shakespeare, the noted English scholar.— Charles Bartlett of the Chicago Tribune.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Your Family Wants the Campus News, too/
Have
THE SCHOLASTIC sent home each week.
• No trouble
• Inexpensive • And the folks are tickled.
*
See the Publications Office Main Building, about subscriptions.
better-dressed
stadia
You’ll see plenty of smart wingtips this Fall, but none with more smartness and dash than the Douglas style shown here. Toes on many styles are a bit more pointed than last Spring. Rich browns suggest the Autumn scene. Whatever style suits your foot and figure, you’ll find it at the Douglas South Bend store right now.
And remember that Douglas sticks to the All-Leather Standard! Put your foot down on flimsy substitutes; put it in real leather. The style you buy in Douglas today will still be there when wear and Winter have given your shoe “the works”. Come in and see and select.
ALL-LEATHER CONSTRUCTION
Douglas Men’s Shoes
$3.50, $4.50, $5.50
Lady Douglas Shoes
$3.50, $4.85
W. L. Douglas Store
in South Bend
210 South Michigan Street (Open Saturday evenings)
October 11, 1935
Twenty-three
Leaf totacco
-soW ta
United States
Treasury Building
i
Duringthe year ending June 30, 1900, the Government
From 1900 up to 1934 the leaf tobacco used for cigarettes increased from
13,084,037 lbs. to
326,093,357 lbs.;
an increase of 2392%
It takes mild ripe tobacco to make a good cigarette.
$3,969,191
For the year ending June 30, 1934, the same taxes were $350,299,442 an increase of 8725%
—a lot of money.
Cigarettes give a lot of pleasure to a lot of people.
' ^More cigarettes are smoked today because more people know about them—they are better advertised.
But the main reason for the increase is that they are made better—made of better tobaccos; then again the tobaccos are blended—a blend of Domestic and Turkish tobaccos.
Chesterfield is made of mild, ripe tobaccos.
■ Everything that science knows about is used in making it a milder and better-tasting cigarette.
We believe you will enjoy them.
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.