

^he SNotre Q^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
It doesn’t take much to get attention when you’re a National Championship team, but after you drop a game or two, then, the descendancy from the ladder of fame seems to be the only alternative.
THE STAFF
But here’s where the exception to the rule enters in — here at Notre Dame. For in defeat, the Fighting Irish of ’44 were as great if not greater than the National Champions of ’43.
They left a great role to live up to, those gridders of ’43 when they took
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
ED ITORI AL STAFF
Bill Waddington leave of the scene — and consequently left a huge question mark hovering over the campus all the winter and spring. From maturity and experience to youth abounding with greenness— that was the fate of the Irish this season. The first re-
GENE DIAMOND ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON BOB O'TOOLE -
Navy Associate Editor - Managing Editor -	- Sports Editor
Circulation Manager
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L BEATTY JOHN POWER -
BLAIR NATTKEMPER HARRY WALTERS GEORGE KRAUSER ART WAGNER -
-	-	- Observations
-	- The Green Banner
■ Man About the Campus
- The College Parade
Splinters from the Press Box
-	- Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR CHARLEY LAPP
BOB COCHRAN
JIM FOY
GREG HALPIN
ENRIQUE LULLI
RON BYERSMITH MICHAEL MORANG JOE BRESLAW BOB CLEARY NEIL BROSCHA
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD	DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at secipal rate of postage, Section 11033, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
placement was the young Ed McKeever as head coach and with him three new additions to his staff of assistants. But this was only the beginning, for in the spring, only four monogram men had returned to the sod of Cartier Field, until the return of Capt. Pat Filley, after a discharge from the Marine Corps, gave us the fifth.
There was no griping no alibi-ing. These five men formed the nucleus around which a whole new attack was to be projected. Patiently and laboriously the coaches administered the fundamentals of the Notre Dame system while a throng of spirited and eager youngsters looked — wondering what was coming next. Then it all began, and you know the rest; we didn’t have the National Championship team that everyone thought we would — we played ten games on our schedule, not only the first five, and we did not deviate from the course that led us to the toughest schedule possible — Notre Dame is used to a tough one; this year was no different.
So, proudly each Saturday afternoon, the green-shirted kidoes from Notre Dame were scrapping; they never gave an inch but what they had to. Yes, even in defeat they were great — a greatness that can hardly be appreciated by all America but only by the boys who eat, sleep and talk with the Fighting Irish of ’44. For us, that question mark was answered with exclamation points. For it is when doubt is high that a team proves its true worth and to us here, they were worth every bit of a million!—Bill Waddington
Two
Four
The 1944 Notre Dame Coaching Staff
edward c. McKeever
Notre Dame’s acting head football coach is a native of Texas. Ed spent his freshman year at Notre Dame, then transferred to Texas Tech, where he starred as a halfback on the 1932-33-34 teams. During these years Tech won 30 of 35 games played. After* graduation, Ed became backfield coach at Tech under Pete Cawthon, present Brooklyn Tigers’ professional team mentor. In
Acting Head Coach McKeever
1939, McKeever joined Frank Leahy at Boston College as Leahy’s backfield coach and first assistant. When Leahy came to Notre Dame in 1941 as head coach, McKeever came with him. During Coach Leahy’s illness in 1942, McKeever ran the team for three games. When Leahy left Notre Dame in May, 1944, to accept a commission as lieutenant in the United States Navy, Ed was named his successor for the duration. Popular and competent, McKeever gives every promise of continuing the traditional success of Notre Dame on the gridiron.
HUGH J. DEVORE
A native of New Jersey, where he starred in football at St. Benedict’s Prep School in Newark, Hughie Devore entered Notre Dame in 1930. After playing on the freshman team, Devore gained a starting berth at end as a sophomore on the 1931 team, and was a regular for the next three years. Named team co-captain and All-American in 1933, Devore gained a reputation as one of the most vicious blockers in
college football. Devore was assistant freshman coach at Notre Dame in 1934, then accepted a line coaching job under Jimmy Crowley at Fordham, where he remained during 1935-36-37. In 1938 he became head coach at Providence College in Rhode Island, staying there for four* years, before moving on to Holy Cross, where he was assistant to head coach Auk Scanlan. In the spring of 1943, Hughie joined the Notre Dame staff as a line coach.
CLEM F. CROWE
Clem Crowe is the first of the six famous Crowe boys of Lafayette. Indiana, who won monograms at Notre Dame during the years 1923-39. Captain and end on the 1925 football team, Clem was a member of the varsity squad for three years, winning monograms each season. He also won three monograms in basketball, and was honored as an All Western selection in his senior year. Following his graduation in 1926, Crowe was appointed head football coach and director of athletics at St. Vincent’s College in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. He had a successful career there, and remained until 1932, when he accepted a position at Xavier University in Cincinnati, as basketball and football coach. His record there was one of the best among the small colleges of the nation. This past spring he was given a leave of absence from Xavier to return to Notre Dame as head basketball coach, succeeding for the duration, Lt. Edward
The coaching staff (left to right): Adam Walsh, Hugh Devore. Jake Kline. Ed McKeever, Clem Crowe, Wally Ziemba.
W. Krause, of the United States Marine Corps. Clem also acts as a line coach on the football staff.
C. I. (JAKE) KLINE
A native of Pennsylvania, Jake Kline entered Notre Dame in pre-World War I days, and played on the 1915-16-17 baseball teams, captaining the latter. His feat of hitting three home runs in one game in 1917 to beat Michigan is still talked about whenever Notre Dame fans gather for talkfests. Kline passed up several big league offers to enlist in the Army in 1917, and spent 1918 and 1919 overseas. After several years managing minor league clubs, Jake returned to Notre Dame in 1931, where he became assistant freshman football coach. In 1934 he was named head baseball coach, a position he has held ever since. In addition, he has also been an assistant football coach since that time. Kline holds a full professorship in the department of mathematics.
WALTER J. ZIEMBA
Wally Ziemba was born in Hammond, Indiana, where he was educated in the public school system, and attended Hammond High School. At Hammond High he gained a state-wide reputation as a fine football prospect, and showed his versatility by playing end one year, fullback his second year and tackle in his junior and senior years. He entered Notre Dame in the Fall of 1939, and played tackle on the frosh team of that year. The following
Five
Fall he gained a varsity tackle berth. In 1941, Coach Leahy shifted Ziemba to center, where he was an immediate success. In 1942, in spite of knee injuries, Ziemba’s performance at the pivot post was good enough to win All-American honors. Ziemba joined the Marine Corps after graduation, but was given an honorable discharge because of physical disabilities in July, 1943. He became a member of the Irish staff last Fall.
ADAM WALSH
•fa Captain of the undefeated 1924 national championship Notre Dame team, and an All-American selection as center that year, Adam Walsh returns to Notre Dame after 20 years’ successful coaching at four other schools. Following his
Assistant Coach Miller
graduation in 1925, Walsh became athletic director and head football coach at Santa Clara on the Pacific Coast. He remained there until 1929, when he became head line coach at Yale University. In 1930 he moved on to Harvard for a year as line coach there. The following year he became head football coach at Bowdoin in Maine, and turned out successful teams there during the next nine years. This spring he was given a leave of absence to join the Notre Dame coaching staff. Adam won seven monograms at Notre Dame, three each in football and track, one in basketball.
CREIGHTON E. MILLER
Coming from Wilmington, Delaware. Creighton Miller did his prep school footballing at Alexis I. DuPont High school where he won a total of 13 letters—four in football, and three each in basketball, baseball and track. His father, M. Harry Miller captained the 1909 team, and his four uncles, Don, Gerald, Walter, and Ray all played for the Irish. Don was one of the Four Horsemen of 1924. Tom, Creight’s older brother, played for the
Six
Irish during the seasons of ’40-’42. Last year, Creighton played a left half position for the Irish from which he was named an almost unanimous All-American, also being awarded the AlLAmerica captain’s trophy by Christy Walsh. After receiving a degree here this June, Creighton returned to the University as the backfield coach this year. Creighton’s last football appearance was the 1944 All-Star game in which he made the first All-Star touchdown on a pass from Glenn Dobbs.
FRANK W. LEAHY
•fa Now on leave of absence from the University, serving as a lieutenant in the Navy, Frank Leahy is the man who produced last year’s National Championship team. His five year coaching record has produced 44 victories, five defeats and three ties. A product of the Rockne school of Irish footballers, Leahy was a tackle on the National Champion 1929 eleven. He started his coaching under the late Tommy Mills at Georgetown, then moved to Fordham where he developed the Seven Blocks of Granite as line tutor under Head Mentor Jimmy Crowley. Succeeding Gil Dobie at Boston College, Leahy led the Eagles to the Cotton and Sugar Bowls in successive years. His 1940 eleven on the Heights of Chestnut Hill claimed the National Championship on the basis of an undefeated ten game schedule and a post season victory over likewise, undefeated Tennessee. Answering the call of his first love, Notre Dame, Leahy once more returned to the shadow of the Dome and with him he brought backfield coach McKeever. The Irish rang up the first undefeated season since Rockne in 1941, the first year of his reign. A 7-2-2 record in 1942 and the National Championship Irish of 1943 com-' plete his part of the story.
Line Coach Adam Walsh demonstrates a correct block.
After his departure for the Navy, he was succeeded by his backfield assistant, Ed McKeever, an earnest worker and well-liked by all the boys under him. Leahy’s observance of the team in sum-
Lieut. Frank Leahy
mer drills, after he completed his indoctrination course at Princeton caused him to say to McKeever, “You’ve come a long way with them, Ed.” It was a real tribute to the man who was taking over in his stead. And predicting that the Irish would lose three, Army, Navy and Great Lakes, Leahy missed only one call—a call that was predicted wrongly because of the spirit that Ed McKeever instilled in a youthful squad that would never give way.
1st row left to right: White, May, Scott, Welch, Rovai, Toczylowski, Miezkowski, Agnone, Manzo, Rademaker (Mgr.). 2nd row left to right: Rauscher (Mgr.), Terlep, Angsman, Kelly, Maggioli, Adams, Capt. Filley, Sullivan, Yacobi, Nemeth, Ladyko. 3rd row left to right: McKeever (Coach), Devore (Coach), Szyroki, Parry, Ducato, Renaud, Dance-wicz, McDermett, Ruggerio, Gasparella, Ray, Mastrangelo, Ziemba (Coach), Crowe (Coach). 4th row left to right: Fallon, Miller, Dacey, Cadieux, Ratterman, Clasby, Hun-toon, Izzo, Eiler, Fastuca, Burke. Sth row left to right: Bogdiewicz, Ganey, Stewart, Lassard, Lebreau, Debevec, Carr, Lanigan, Ricciardi, Hull. 6th row left to right: Bresnehan, Debueno, Nichols, Waybright, Favret, Nalls, Glaab, Dailer, Heberer. 7th row left to right: Martz, Skoglund, Krall, Schuster, Brill Kronback, Harmon, Hartup, Walsh (Coach). 8th row left to right: O'Connor, Guthrie, Limont, Westenkirchner, Lechner, Endress, Lahay, Rebman, Franklin, Raymond. 9th row left to right: Molloy, Bush, Beaullieu, Jansen, Davlin, Janson, Yakemonis, Lee. 10th row left to right: Bernhardt, D'Alonzo, Berezney, Clarey, Schriber, Slattery, Snyder, Fitzgerald, Iliff.
Notre Dame 58; Pittsburgh 0
Operating in the same “T” formation that carried the Blue and Gold banner to the top of the 1943 pigskin throne, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, with Coach Ed McKeever in the driver’s seat, hit on all cylinders as they completely demolished the Pitt Panthers before . 60,000 spectators at Pitt Stadium in the Steel City. The Irish opening eleven was supposed to have quite a struggle on its hands in the form of the experienced Panther squad, but it took only one half to deflate the buoyant hopes of the Pittsburgh eleven.
The heavy Red and White forward wall received a thorough going over from the hard-charging Irish linemen and the fast flying Notre Dame backs. The well diversified Irish attack kept the courageous Pitt eleven on the defense most of the game and frequent fumbles brought on by the pile-driving tackles of the green-clad defenders hurt the Pitt cause no end.
Notre Dame quarterbacks, Frank “Boley” Dance-wicz and Big Joe Gasparella, threw pigskin lightning at the Panther defense, pitching five passes that were good for six-pointers. Bob Kelly, the sensational right half from last year’s champs, crossed the double stripe four times and added two extra points to count for 26 points in the 35 minutes he played, and established himself as one of the nation’s leading backs. George Sullivan and John “Tree” Adams played two terrific games at the tackles, the “Massachusetts Marvel” proving a bulwark on defense and Big John opening up gaping holes in the left side of the Red and White line for the Irish backs.
Captain Pat Filley, Fred Rovai, and Johnny Mas-trangelo plugged up the guard posts in every capable fashion, and Bill O’Connor and Bob Skoglund performed well as flankmen. In the backfield, besides Dancewicz, Kelly, and Gasparella, “Chick” Maggioli and Elmer Angsman, at left half and fullback, respectively, turned in some fancy runs to show future promise.
The 1944 season was only ten minutes old when Bob Kelly took a 14 yard pass from Dancewicz and scampered 22 yards for the initial Irish tally. For the remainder of the period the score stood at 6-0, but in the second quarter Kelly crossed the Panther goal two more times. The first score was a result of a 13 yard Dancewicz to Kelly aerial and the second came when the Chi Flyer carried over from the 5 to climax an 81 yard march. Kelly’s conversion brought the halftime lead to 19-0 and the rest of the contest proved to be a Pitt nightmare.
In the third canto Kelly broke over right tackle and raced 85 yards to touchdown territory. Then Dancewicz hit O’Connor in the end zone from the Pitt 8 and Gasparella and George Terlep hooked up in a 65 yard touchdown pass. The fourth TD of the period came when Gasparella quarterback-sneaked over from the Panther one. The final two markers were chalked up on Steve Nemeth’s one yard plunge and Gasparella’s 22 yard pass to Mark Limont.—George Krauser
Harry Keck, Sports Editor, Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph:
“Lightning struck the Pitt football team and stunned more than 50,000 spectators at the Stadium yesterday as the Notre Dame football team staged a track meet at the expense of the Panthers to roll up a 58-0 margin in a game which was expected to be ckse.”
Wilfred Smith, Chicago Tribune:
“Sure, and it was a great day today for the Kellys. And it was a great day for all the other followers of the Irish in this crowd of 55,000 as the Notre Dame lads, led by Chicago’s Bob Kelly, who scored the first four touchdowns, smothered a hapless Pittsburgh team, 58 to 0, in the opening game of a campaign to defend the national college football championship.”
Eight
Notre Dome 26; Tulane 0
Opening the 1944 edition of its home season, October 7 th. Notre Dame’s youthful grid machine ground out a 26-0 victory over Tulane University to gain recognition as the nation’s number one team for the 12th consecutive week. A lovely autumn day attracted 45,000 fans to the campus Stadium who watched the Irish roll up a total of 438 yards on the ground and in the air.
Apparently the local gridders refused to be daunted by the rival propaganda, which probably accounts for the decided lack of timidity on the part of the Fighting Irish, who didn’t let “one of the strongest backfields in the nation” get inside the 25 yard line. The highly touted Green Wave line made hardly a splash against the Notre Dame forward wall.
Joe Renfroe kicked off and recovered the ball himself on the Notre Dame 48 yard line after it had careened crazily off Johnny Ray’s chest. In four plays, Tulane moved the pigskin to the 27, but were forced to punt. Bob Kelly returned to his own nine. Two dashes by Kelly and a 32 yard jaunt by Elmer Angsman moved the Irish into enemy territory, only to be halted on the 22. Renfroe kicked once more to Kelly on the Irish 31. Dancewicz, Kelly, Angsman and Maggioli began cracking alternately at the “Green Wave’s” line.
A pass, Dancewicz to Kelly, on the initial play of the second quarter rang up the first six counters for Notre Dame. Bob was in the clear on the goal line and “Boley’s” pass was perfect. Kelly’s attempted conversion was wide.
Gasparelli flinging to Bill O’Connor, who lateralled to Kelly, moved the ball down to the 14. Big Joe tossed another aerial to O’Connor on the four. Angsman bucked over and Kelly converted, giving Notre Dame a 13-0 margin as the half ended.
Shortly after the start of the second half, Kelly punted out on Tulane’s seven. The Green Wave advanced to the 36, then, Renfroe quick-kicked to the Notre Dame 11. Bucks by Maggioli and Angsman brought a first-down on the 25. Dancewicz passed to Maggioli on the 50, who scooted 20 more yards before being knocked out of bounds. Boley whipped another to Kelly who was downed on the 10. Set back to the 25 on a penalty, Dancewicz hit Maggioli on the three. On
the next play, Maggioli sliced over for the score. Kelly converted to give his mates a 20-0 lead.
A Tulane fumble recovered by Ken Schuster gave the Irish possession on their own 46. George Terlep and Steve Nemeth split up the yardage to Tulane’s 21 where the Wave held. Dancewicz’s fourth-down pass was intercepted by “Dub” Jones on the 10, who raced back to the 36. Chalking up two first downs on power plays, the Wave was stopped short on the Irish 25. Taking possession, the Blue and Gold began blasting away at the Tulane defense. Maggioli swept around right end for 20 yards. Two plunges by Kelly netted another first down and a screen pass, Dancewicz to O’Connor, made still another on the Wave’s 23. Maggioli circled right end for the fourth Irish tally. Kelly’s try was blocked
Tulane was unable to gain following the kickoff, so, booted out on the Notre Dame 28. Passes to Maggioli and Kelly netted two first downs, and an end sweep by Kelly moved the ball to the 18. Angsman smashed into the end zone, but the play was called back for holding. Another pass this time with
—now the board read 26-0—Jack McGrane
Angsman going through for precious yardage in Tulane encounter
Nine
Notre Dame 64; Dartmouth 0
Two historically famous events—the Boston Tea Party and the Boston Massacre—were reenacted in Fenway Park. October 14, as Notre Dame’s vaunted and unchecked gridiron gang steamrollered Dartmouth’s willing but hapless Indians, 64-0. The “T” party—1944 Notre Dame version—was staged with such effectiveness that despite numerous substitutions and the inclement weather, the Ivy League entry’s efforts seemed inept and futile.
An over-capacity gallery of 40,000—pro-N.D. to the core—came to see the famed Midwesterners shake down the thunder from the sky and joyfully remained until the end of the rout even though the young lads in green also shook down some intermittent drizzles, a fog, and, at last, a torrent of rain. The slaughter is clearly reflected in the statistics, the winners racking up 19 downs to six for Earl Brown’s hopefuls: netting 429 big yards from scrimmage by rushing compared to a negative 18 and 128 through the air as against 111. So marked was their superiority that only once did the Fighting Irish punt ,a mighty 57 yard effort by All-American candidate Bob Kelly in the first period.
Notre Dame was stymied in its first march and Dartmouth took over on its own six. However, that was the end of the Big Green’s real resistance, for it was only a minute later that Frank “Boley” Dancewicz crossed the double stripe from the one to cap a 35 yard drive. Kelly’s kick from placement was wide and the Redmen held for the rest of the period. Then the deluge came.
With the pigskin on the Indian 38 the smashing Irish backs needed only five tries to stretch their total to 12. This time it was Kelly who went over from the
five but again missed the placement. Joe Gasparella, Dancewicz’s alternate, added another on a 21 yard quarterback sneak the very next time the winners had the ball. Terlep’s attempted conversion missed fire. Fullback Elmer Angsman was next. His tally came from the nine on a line plunge after Dartmouth had been halted and had punted to mid-field. Again the try for point missed. Shortly after, Angsman’s sub, John Corbisiero, accounted for No. 5 as he bowled over from eight yards out. For the fifth time the try for P.A.T. was muffed, making the half-time score 30-0.
Little Nunzio Marino, making his initial appearance for the Blue and Gold, took over the spotlight in the third period and sprinted 55 yards the first time he handled the ball. Terlep’s placement made the score 37 to 0. Here the tempo slowed a bit as a pass interception by Fritts temporarily halted Notre Dame. The Red staved off further trouble until Terlep, Corbisiero, and the diminutive Marino smashed and dashed to the three. On the second play of the final period, Terlep found the end zone and complemented his touchdown with the conversion point. Pete Berezney recovered a Dartmouth bobble on the ensuing kickoff and two plays later Terlep notched touchdown No. 8 by hurrying around end for 33 yards. His conversion made the N.D. margin 51 points.
In the final minutes Notre Dame thwarted an Indian threat on the N.D. 35 and Steve Nemeth took command getting eight yards through the line and then navigating 57 on an end sweep. Just before the final gun, the Irish were handed another scoring chance as the Red-men fumbled on their own 20. Clasby carried the leather over and ended the wild scoring.—John Feeney
Ten
Notre Dome 28; Wisconsin 14
Before an electrified home crowd of 40,000, the Fighting Irish chalked up their fourth straight victory by stunning the Wisconsin Badgers with two quick touchdowns and then coasting to a 28-13 triumph.
On Notre Dame’s second play from scrimmage, Bob Kelly, flashy right halfback, scooted through a hole at right tackle and raced 51 yards to cross the doublestripe after a minute and 15 seconds of playing time had elapsed. Before the crowd could recover from this bit of “the amazing,” Bill O’Connor recovered Jug Girard’s fumble on the Wisconsin 10 and set the stage for Kelly’s second plunge across. After the Irish had set up this 12-0 lead in the first period their superiority was never in doubt.
Although Harry Stuhldreher fielded a hard, trying eleven, the crushing form and blending speed of the “T” formation was too much. Besides, the rippling offensive displayed by the backfield, the line play was spectacular. George Sullivan starting his first game at end teamed up with Art Mergenthal to form an impregnable left wing. The stout forward wall was the big factor in holding the feared Badger back, Earl Girard, to 20 yards in 15 attempts.
The Dairymen from Wisconsin became the first team to cross the Notre Dame goal line. This game showed the weakness in the reserve department for the Irish—a factor that was to count heavily later.
The opening of the game saw Kelly returning Eliott’s kickoff to the Notre Dame 35. Then “Boley” Dancewicz sneaked to the 49 for the
A new Notre Dame team started the second quarter but it failed to add any new luster to the scoreboard. After an exchange of punts, Thompson and Girard combined to carry the ball to the Irish four but on the next play, Girard was downed on the 11—thus the first real scoring threat against Notre Dame was stopped as the gun went off to end the first half.
The next two points were annexed by the Fighting Irish when Thompson took the second half kickoff on his own two yard line and ran back over the goal for a safety—an apparent mistake on his part or just a hope that the judges would be with him in calling it a touch-back, but no soap. It was then 14-0. Two plays later, Elmer Angsman broke through that fatal right tackle spot and sprinted 35 yards to pay dirt. Mergenthal’s block of Elliott’s punt and an Irish recovery gave the latter the ball on the visitors’ 31. Gasparella heaved one to Chick Maggioli on the 10 and he went across unscathed. Another Irish touchdown was called back because of an off-side penalty aften Angsman thrilled the audience with his dazzling 75 yard run. Two plays later the officials apologized as they discovered that it was Wisconsin who was off-side on the touchdown run—but it was too late then.
A pass, Girard to Mead, marked the first tally to be scored against Notre Dame in four games. Now 28-7. In the last stanza, the Red and White pushed the ball across once more as Holmes went over from the six.
—Jim Carey
initial first down. On the next play, Kelly made his sparkling 51 yard run. On the third play after the returned kick-off, Girard, attempting to pass, was trapped on his own 10 where he fumbled and O’Connor recovered. After two successive plunges failed, Kelly went over center for six points.
Coach Ed McKeever plays every position, and for 60 minutes, then adds a good wind sprint at the half.
Courtesy. South Bend Tribune
Eleven
Notre Dome 13; Illinois 7
The quick thinking of Bob Kelly and Chick Maggioli brought the Irish their fifth straight win of the 1944 season. They defeated Illinois 13-7 before 65,114 people in Illinois Memorial Stadium, October 28.
Illinois put Notre Dame in the hole on the third play that they had the ball. Quarterback Don Greenwood handed the oval to Claude Young who outran the entire Irish team to the goal line 74 yards away. Greenwood booted the extra point to make the score 7-0. This was the first time during the season that N.D. was behind.
The Irish drove back to a score late in the first period. The score came after a fumble recovery by Fred Rovai on the Illini 16-yard’ line. Kelly did the honors, going over from the two to make the score 7-6. Frank Dancewicz’s pass for the extra point was no good.
The winning counter came in the fourth period. Dancewicz flipped a pass to Kelly who quickly later-aled to Maggioli. Maggioli then ran along the east sideline to paydirt and victory. The play covered 71 yards. Maggioli kicked the extra to assure their 13-7 win.
Illinois had two touchdowns called back because of penalties. The first was a 48-yard jaunt by Young, which was nullified by an Illini offside. The second was scored by Greenwood, but was called back because of holding.
Statistically Notre Dame was beaten, but bad. Illinois had a decided lead in first downs and rushing, while the Irish took all passing honors. The Illini got 14 first downs to Notre Dame’s eight. They also out-
rushed the Irish 343 yards to 132 yards. Notre Dame completed four out of ten passes, while Illinois completed one out of ten. Notre Dame gained 102 yards on passes to Illinois’ 34.
At the beginning of the game the Irish could not gauge the speed of the Illinois backfield. This was shown by Young’s 74-yard run. Twice Paul Patterson’s speed got him into the clear. Both times he was brought down from the rear by John Adams. The first time Adams made the tackle despite being clipped by an Illinois man.
The game was a little rough in spots. Young’s head happened to be in the way and was either used as a seat or a stepping stone. He was unable to play in the second half of the game. In turn Mike Davlin of N.D. was clipped in such a way that his kneebone was chipped. He was lost for the season.
Coach McKeever used a 6-3-2 defense to check the running power of the Illinois backfield. On defense he would send in Joe Westenkircher for Captain Pat Filley, Mike Davlin for Bill O’Connor, Marty Wendell for Maggioli, and John Corbisiero for Elmer Angsman. The field announcer got so tired of calling names that he finally just called their numbers.
Chick Maggioli went out in a blaze of glory. The Illinois game was his last game for Notre Dame before the Marine Corps transferred him to further duties. Several other Naval trainees also were moved on.
—Pete Brown
Twelve
Leo Fischer, Chi. Herald-American:
“When they start compiling record books for the 1944 football season, historians will show that the score of today’s game in Memorial Stadium was Notre Dame, 13; Illinois 7. It’s too bad that some means can’t be devised for those who write the records to indicate on that bare line of type the drama, the tragedy, the emotional peaks and the heroics which two fine groups of young men and some 65,114 spectators experienced on this beautiful Indian Summer afternoon.”
Chick Maggioli blocking for Bob Kelly in Tulane game. This same combine turned defeat into victory at Champaign.
Navy 32; Notre Dame 13
Baltimore and the U. S. Naval Academy played host to the Irish, Saturday, November 4, and a fatal day it was for an unbeaten Notre Dame eleven. Facing our young linemen were seasoned and muscular giants who stopped any running play sent their way, and for its own offensive strength, Navy had many backs who seemed to be able to romp any place they had a mind to go.
Before 63,000 astonished people in Baltimore’s largest athletic plant, the 1944 edition of Annapolis football power ran through and around an outclassed Irish line to the tune of 32 to 13. This was the greatest number of points that any Navy team in 18 attempts, ever scored against any Notre Dame team. The Navy pounced early to score twelve points in the first quarter and kept the scoring kettle boiling by notching three more touchdowns before the afternoon was over.
Only in the second touchdown drive did such a modern weapon as the forward pass intrude. The other four came by the straight football route, behind blocking that was primitive in its savagery. That truthfully measures the difference in the ability of the two lines, and explains how Navy dashed the hopes of any National Championship, residing in South Bend this year.
Hardly had the game got under way when Navy lived up to its pregame reputation as a fumbling team, when Bill Barron, one of the many Navy backs, fumbled a Kelly punt on his own 38, and Elmer Angsman recovered it after some pursuit on the Navy twenty yard stripe. Notre Dame went that twenty yards to score a touchdown with the ball under Angsman’s arms. The referee saw Notre Dame’s backfield in motion, so the play was promptly nullified and the penalty assessed and the ball was soon lost on downs. For the rest of
the half, it was all Navy. Taking the ball on Notre Dame’s 32 after an exchange of kicks, Bill Barron, on a reverse,, ate up 27 of the remaining yards and then the strongest Navy back of the day, Clyde Scott, behind wicked blocking, bulldozed his way over the Irish line and scored the first Navy touchdown with Bob Kelly hanging on. Not much later Scott went over for his second score and that was that for the half. The second half opened with Navy marching down the field in twelve or fifteen yard spurts to score another touchdown and Fred Earley, formerly a Notre Dame extra point specialist, kicked the point.
It was at this point that Boley Dancewicz started throwing strikes. He completed four rifle like passes to bring the ball to the Navy five, where Bob Kelly plowed through a thicket of enemy arms for the first Irish score. Navy came back to score again, making the scoreboard read 25-7. But the Irish, still not beaten, came back on the strength of the right arm of Frank Dancewicz. Marching 78 yards on passes and remarkable catches by O’Connor and Guthrie, the ball was taken to the Navy three where Kelly went over for his second score.
The Navy line told the whole story of that sad day. This wall of flesh would tear such holes in the immature Notre Dame line that the Navy backs could run five yards into the secondary before a finger would touch them. Kelly, despite his poor yardage, stood cut as the best back on the field, and it wasn’t often that the Navy would attempt to puncture Sullivan’s side of the line. Yet this youthful team was never beaten, no matter how badly it was hurt, and one sportswriter said. “. . . They sent a boy out on a man’s errand, and the boy came back with abrasions, contusions and just plain lumps.”—Hank Slamin
Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune:
“There comes a time in the life of every football team when fight and daring aren’t enough. That occasion arrived for Notre Dame today and the Irish went down in defeat, 32-13, before one of the strongest squads that has come out of the United States Naval Academy in many years.”
The den of activity before practice — getting equipment from “Mac's" room.
Thirteen
Army 59; Notre Dame 0
“Scoring touchdowns in most ways known to man the explosive Army football team beat Notre Dame, 59-0, in Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon, thus setting a new record for points run up against the Irish and atoning for a series of gridiron indignities which had been uninterrupted except by ties, since 1931.”
The Irish invade Gotham and fill the Yankee Stadium with "Subway Alumni."
Stan Woodward,
New York Herald Tribune:
Army had planned year after year, till they had run the count to thirteen and then let loose with a ground and aerial attack never before paralleled in football history. It might be common to see a score of 59-0 in these days of football, but for a Notre Dame team to lose by that margin—well, that just “ain’t” in the everyday books—but that’s what they did—gave the Irish their worst defeat in 56 seasons of football.
After five successful attempts, the kids who reside within the shadows of the Golden Dome got their first taste of defeat against Navy and now they had to mess around with Army on the following week. No matter what paper figures said, this was still the game of the year in everyone’s book. But the Cadets in the highlands of the Hudson were more than an even match for any college team composed of 17-, 18-, and 19-year-olds. Their impressive record of one-sided wins over North Carolina, Brown, Pittsburgh, Coast Guard Academy, Duke, and Villanova was highly indicative of their offensive strength.
Ed McKeever was making no excuses on the local scene for the poor showing of the team against the Middies but concentrated on an attack that might hamper the Grey and Gold. Coach Earl Blaik was taking no chances in losing this one. He knew that Notre Dame was inexperienced and that a crew of seasoned veterans could run circles around them, but then, that undefined factor called “the Spirit of Notre Dame” might pop up
at any time and spoil a pleasant afternoon, and so Col. Blaik definitely decided not to speculate with any of his maneuvers—everyone was to be a potential pay-off play—and it turned out that nine of them were.
After 76.000 gridiron fans crowded subways, taxis and sidewalks in making good their path to Yankee Stadium, then reclining in the seats provided and some not provided, the opening kickoff took place. After receiving the opening kickoff on their own 13, the Irish fell a yard short of first down and kicked to the Army on the Irish 45. A sustained drive carried to the five, but there in four plays the Cadets were seemingly halted. However, a penalty to the Irish one gave Doug Kenna the initial opportunity to crash over on the fourth down for the first of a flood of touchdowns.
Before the period had ended, the Irish goal had been crossed two additional times and a 20-0 margin prevailed. From here on, Army showed no mercy and Notre Dame felt the full blows of three great Cadet teams. Only once did the Irish offense move and that advance was halted with Notre Dame on the Army 15 as the first half ended. Six interceptions were, throughout the sequence of events, converted into scores. Punt runbacks were a constant menace as the soldiers struck again and again.
All America knows how the rest of the story goes. The Irish injury list grew in such proportions as to almost equal the number of available men on the squad. The whole heart of the Fighting Irish was in that one. Even in defeat they fought back. It was one time in which Goliath was not stopped by David. The heroic efforts of a gallant team of youthful, zestful kids were shattered by the nation’s leading eleven.
But the Blue and Gold don’t mind letting the Army win once in a while; after all they’ve come out on top only six times in 31 contests to date.
—Bill Waddington
Notre Dame 21; Northwestern 0
After two gloomy Saturdays in foreign climes, the “Fighting Irish” resumed their winning ways. November 18, with a decisive 21-0 victory against the clawless Wildcats of Northwestern. From beginning to end they convinced the “show-me” crowd of 48,000 that they had more than enough power, speed, and deception for the down-trodden battlers from Evanston, and likewise proved they were on the comeback trail after the painful episodes in Baltimore and New York.
Among other highlights, the game also unveiled a fast, tricky, 155 pound flyer, one Jim Brennan, who scampered for two dazzling touchdown runs in the opening minutes, from which Northwestern never recovered. However, it wasn’t until the final period that Notre Dame could set off a third touchdown charge for security purposes.
Injured Captain Pat Filley won the toss and Notre Dame received, beginning operations on the Blue and Gold 35. Without pause the ball was lugged to the N.U. 41 and the stage was set for touchdown number 1, as Jim Brennan took the ball, hammered through his right side, weaved out and then in, and outraced the secondary over the goal. Nemeth added the point. Shortly after Notre Dame kicked off, Johnny Yungwirth fumbled on his 45, alert tackle George Sullivan recovered and the Irish offense took over. Quickly Gasparella, Marino and Brennan slashed to the 29 whereupon Brennan grabbed the pigskin again and duplicated his trick of a few minutes earlier. Nemeth boosted the score to 14-0.
Toward the end of the first period, Northwestern threatened for its first—and last—time of the afternoon, after intercepting a pass from Dancewicz on the Irish 30. Funderburg and Connors drove to the 16, but Johnny Yungwirth was nailed by Waybright on the 29. At this point, pass interference put the ball on the 9 and Funderburg bolted to the 2. But here the Irish forward
wall stopped the Wildcats cold for three downs and Notre Dame took over. After this challenge, Northwestern was checkmated for the remainder of the half—and of the game.
Late in the second, and throughout the entire third quarter, Irish backs were on the move but the attacks bogged down when prospects seemed ripe for a third score. In the fourth period, however, the Irish applied the final touches by a series of plain, hard, smashes into the Wildcat’s innards. The climax came as Marty Wendell churned over from the 7, aided by key blocks by Frank Szymanski and Steve Nemeth. Nemeth notched the last of three perfect place kicks.
Meanwhile, the statistics told the same story as the Irish piled up 335 yards on the ground and added 47 by air as against the Wildcats — over the turf and' — in the stratosphere.—Tom McNally
Teamwork:
As Nemeth and Szymanski clear the way, Wendell barges through a gaping hole, churning and slashing from the seven-yard line to a touchdown.	.
—Courtesy, South Bend Tribune
Fifteen
Notre Dame 21; Georgia Tech 0
Thirty thousand fans turned out in Grant Field, Atlanta, to witness the return of the Fighting Irish to Dixie. Three years had elapsed since the Irish had last played in the Sunny South. This time they were the underdogs. A Georgia Tech eleven that had conquered Navy was seeking revenge for last year’s defeat. Most experts thought they would get it.
But something happened! The Irish rose to the occasion, and when it was all over, they had won 21-0. Two bona fide Gaels did most of the offensive work. Little Jimmy Brennan kept up his twelve-point-a-game pace, and Bob Kelly looked as good as new in scoring the other touchdown. They had more than moral support from The Arm, Frank Dancewicz.
Georgia Tech received but couldn’t go anywhere, so they punted to Dancewicz on his 39-yard line. “Boley” brought it back to the Tech 44-yard stripe. Then the march began, and it was not stopped until Jim Brennan took a lateral from Dancewicz and scooted around right end for eleven yards and a score. Steve Nemeth’s talented toe made the score 7 to 0.
The Blue and Gold threatened again in the second quarter, but found the Engineers’ line too tough inside their ten-yard line. The drive started when George Sullivan recovered Bowen’s fumble on his own 43-yard stripe. With Kelly, Brennan, and Angsman doing the footwork, and Dancewicz the throwing, the Irish got to the four where they lost the ball on downs. The Tech drive got under way then, with Ritter doing most of the passing and running. On the seventeen, four passes
failed due to the fine defensive efforts of Kelly, reliable Frank Szymanski, and newcomer Johnny Dee. The half ended soon after.
Notre Dame -came back in the third quarter with the same dash that characterized its play at the opening of the game. Dancewicz returned Tech’s kickoff to his 31. Kelly took a shovel pass from Dancewicz for a fifteen yard advance. Dancewicz connected to Skoglund for a first down on the Georgians’ 40. Dancewicz’ next shot was to Kelly, who caught the ball on the 35, shook off one tackler, and raced the rest of the distance to the goal. Steve Nemeth again split the uprights and the scoreboard read: Notre Dame—14, Georgia Tech—0.
The Irish narrowly missed a touchdown early in the fourth period when Kelly fumbled on the one-yard line, the ball rolling into the end zone for a touchback. Brennan’s fancy stepping and Dancewicz’ superb marksmanship featured the drive.
Notre Dame did not waste the next chance, however, for when Marty Wendell intercepted Ritter’s pass, they went right down for another t.d. Wendell brought the ball back to the Tech 19. They scored in six plays, with Brennan ambling around left end from the one, while Georgia waited for Kelly at center. Nemeth ran his conversion string to six, with the point that concluded the day’s scoring.
The Tech-Notre Dame series now stands at thirteen won for the Gold and Blue, and only two for the Engineers.—Jack Miles
Walter Kennedy, South Bend Tribune:
“Eighty years ago General Sherman started on his way to fame, when he marched from Atlanta to the sea during the Civil war. This afternoon young Jim Brennan, Notre Dame’s 155 pound halfback did a bit of marching himself in Atlanta, grabbed himself a bit of fame, and led an inspired underdog Irish eleven to a 21-0 victory over Georgia Tech. Thirty thousand fans, a sellout, watched in amazement as Notre Dame completely dominated the game and won just about as they pleased.”
The all-important place before game time is the locker room. The morale—building center.
Sixteen
Notre Dome 28; Great Lakes 7
Chills couldn’t beat off thrills last Saturday afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish found revenge “oh so sweet” in their 28-7 drubbing of Great Lakes. It was the aerial accuracy of Dancewicz to Kelly and Skoglund combined with a galaxy of bewildering runs that brought the fitting close to Notre Dame’s 56th football season.
As Coach Ed McKeever had said the night before at the campus pep rally, “If they don’t win tomorrow, I’ll be the most surprised man in Notre Dame Stadium.” And indeed surprised he was — not at the thought of defeat, but rather at the overwhelming margin that brought his young club their eighth and final triumph of a heavy ten-game billing.
To the 38,000 spectators who braved the wilds of northern Indiana, garbed in its most distasteful garment, snow, there was action right from the start, and the let-up terminated some 60 minutes later after the Blue and Gold, travelling incognito in Kelly green and gold, had accomplished some phenomenal feats of football in downing a rival that they had never yet beaten.
Jim Mello, who sparked the Tars drive in the first half, looked as good against his old alma mater as he did against “the Lakes” last year while playing for the 1943 National Champions. His driving ability, which netted more than appreciable gains for his mates in the opening stanza, was the key to the Sailors first touchdown as Jim Youel, quarterback, went over from the one-foot-line on the opening play of the second quarter.
With McKeever’s boys having been pushed everywhere but out of the Stadium in the first fifteen minutes of play, with eight first downs for the Sailors as to their none, the Fighting Irish picked themselves up from the terra firma and began moving. An interception of a Great Lakes forward by Jim Dailer, substitute guard, put the ball on the Tars 48, first time that the Irish had been in the enemy’s sector. The push was on and as four minutes and 45 seconds remained in the second quarter, the Irish were tying up the ball game with a 15-yard touchdown pass from Frank Dancewicz to Bob Kelly, a honey if there ever was one.
At the start of the second half, brilliant line play by the Irish had put the Sailors against the wall, and Youel, on an attempted pass was hit hard by guard John Mastrangelo, the ball bouncing free in the end zone, and then Doug Waybright, end, pouncing on it for six points. In the final stanza, Kelly tore up the turf on three gains of 18, 9, and 9 to set up the third TD which came on a pair of passes from Dancewicz to Skoglund, the scoring toss being unexpected by the defense who were all playing in close as they counted on a plunge from the three.
To end, what had turned into a humiliating defeat for the heralded Great Lakes club, hitherto beaten only by Ohio State in eleven games, Kelly grabbed one of Youel’s air-bound gains and stepped briskly within the confines of the field to set up what turned out to be Dancewicz’s plunge for the fourth and final score.
—Bill Waddington
Jim Costin, Sports
Editor, South Bend Tribune:
“It took a Notre Dame football team 26 years and four tries to do it, but when the Irish finally got around to licking the Great Lakes football team, they did a great job of it to close their 1944 season yesterday afternoon with a brilliant 28-7 victory over the previously once-beaten Sailors.”
lim Mello, so potent in the Irish-Michigan game last year, was the offensive mainstay of "the Lakes."
Seventeen
	Pitt.	Tulane	Dart.	Wis.	Ill.	Navy	Anny	North.	Tech.	Gt.La.	Total
	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats-Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.	Ats.Yds.
Kelly 					11-136	13-77	10-89	11-80	18-44	15-31	10-11			26-111	19-97	133-676
Dancewiez 				64-10	5-13	3-3	5-39	5-13	6-(-8)	12-29	6-64	8-28	15-39	69-230
Angsman 			 9-16	11-80	10-41	10-70	13-49	9-17	3-3	........	3-7			58-273
Brennan 					........							3-16			15-120	16-93	4-(-8)	38-231
Maggioli 				 7-41	10-85	4-11	5-22	8-26											34-185
Marino 					4-73	5-25			1-0	5-31	16-24	2-5			33-162
Wendell 									........											9-36	13-22	9-24	31-82
Nemeth 						......13-47	5-35	4-71	4-15	........									' 2-(-4)	28-164
Terlep 					 6-15	3-9	8-75	3-7			3-(-4)									23-110
Gasparella 				 3-2				1-21	1-1				........			15-71						21-97
Corbisiero 				 3-24	1-2	2-10	5-22										........			11-58
Fitzgerald 			 2-15			3-11															5-26
McGurk 					3-15										•	........			3-15
Clasby 						2-10			........							........			2-10
Chandler 																			1-1	1-1	........			2-2
LeBrew 																			2-2			2-2
Ruggerio 			 2-9													-						2-9
Av. yd per try
Kelly 					133-676	5.1
Dancewiez 			 69-230	3.3
Angsman 			 58-273	4.7
Brennan 			 38-231	6.1
Maggioli 			 34-185	5.4
Marino 				 33-162	4.9
Wendell 			 31-82	2.8
Nemeth 					 28-164	5.9
Terlep 				 23-110	4.8
Gasparella ....			 21-97	4.6
Corbisiero 				 11-58	5.3
Fitzgerald 				 5-26	5.2
McGurk 			 3-15	5.0
Clasby 			 2-10	5.0
Chandler 			 2-2	1.0
LeBrew 			 2-2	1.0
Ruggerio 			 2-9	4.5
PASSING RECORD
	Ats.	C.	I.	Yds.	Pct.
Dancewiez 				 153	72	10	999	.471
Gasparella 			 28	13	5	240	.464
Clasby 				 1	0	0	000	.000
Kelly 					 1	0	1	000	.000
OFFENSIVE RECORD (Yards Rushing)
Pit.	Tul.	Dar.	Wis.	Ill.	Navy Army NW	GT	Gt.L.	Total
315	301	418	281	132	52	70' 335	268	148	2321
				(Yards Passing)				
184	237	114	90	102	170	100	47	123	72	1239
In 678 offensive plays—Total	3560
Yards gained overall per play, 5.25
Looking Through the Pressbox Windows With the Sportswriters of the Land.
POINTS SCORING
	TD	PAT	PTS.
Kelly 							.13	6	84
Brennan 		.. 4	0	84
Maggioli 				. 4	1	25
Nemeth		.. 2	12	24
Terlep 				.. 3	4	22
Angsman 		.. 3	0	18
Dancewiez 				.. 2	0	12
Gasparella 				2	0	12
Clasby 		. 1	1	7
Corbisiero 				. 1	0	6
Limont 		.. 1	0	6
Marino 		. 1	0	6
O’Connor 			. 1	0	6
Skoglund 			. 1	0	6
Waybright				. 1	0	6
Wendell 			. 1	0	6
Mergenthai (safety)	0	0	2
41	24	272
Eighteen
Herbert
E. Jones
* Behind the scenes of Notre Dame's success on the gridiron are two highly efficient, but seldom publicized departments, those of the business manager of athletics and ihe director of publicity.
'A’ The publicity office is charged with the responsibility of keeping the press and radio of the nation fully informed of the daily activities of Irish teams. In addition. the office acts as a clearinghouse for al questions pertaining to Notre Dame athletes and athletics.
* To the business office falls the thankless task of assigning everyone to 50 yard line seats, as well as taking care of the thousand and one details attendant on the successful running of a busy athletic association.
J. Walter Kennedy Director of Publicity
ACTIVITY IN THE ATHLETIC OFFICE


Business Manager of Athletics
DR. JAMES E.
McMEEL Team Physician University of Notre Dame
EUGENE J. (Scrapiron)
YOUNG Head Trainer University of Notre Dame
Nineteen
DANCEWICZ, FRANK JOSEPH (BOLEY), Polish junior, who was hailed as the greatest high school football player in New England in 1940 and 1941, received his high school instruction at Lynn Classical high school in Lynn, Mass. Winning three letters in football, Frank was twice selected as all-city, twice all-state, and once all-New England. A monogram win-
FRANK J. DANCEWICZ
ner on last year's National Championship squad, Frank found it hard to penetrate the lineup with such signal callers as Angelo Bertelli and Johnny Lujack around, yet Frank did manage to see action in quite a few of the contests. A commerce student who hopes to make well as a coach or in the business line after finishing at Notre Dame. Frank is gifted with congeniality, being one of the outstanding politicians on the campus. Frank was a great field-general this season.
EDWARD M. CLASBY
CLASBY, EDWARD MICHAEL (MIKE), Irish-Polish freshman, was an all-stater deluxe while attending Natick high in Natick, Mass. As a hockey center, he won all-state recognition for two years; he was on the state's diamond nine in '43r as a shortstop and also on the grid squad as a quarterback. His nine letters gained in high school attest to his athletic prowess, three each in football, hockey, and base
Twenty
ball. In the Arts and Letters school at present, Ed hopes someday to be a doctor. After the Army game. Uncle Sam nabbed him.
ELMER J. ANGSMAN, Jr.
ANGSMAN, ELMER J„ JR. (BUD), German-Irish sophomore fullback, received his high school tutoring from former Irish grid-der Wally Fromhart at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago. Elmer won three letters in high school, two in football and one in baseball. An artist of some repute, he hopes to get into commercial advertising when his University days are complete. Philosophy and chicken are his particular favorites. A good ball-toter, Elmer had the starting job until hurt in practice before the wildcat game.
ROBERT W. SKOGLUND
SKOGLUND, ROBERT WALTER (STANISLAUS), Swedish-Irish sophomore right end, who follows his brother, Len, in grid activities at the Blue and Gold campus, did his footballing at Loyola Academy in Chicago. At the Windy City North side prep school, he captained the grid team in his senior year while adding his name to the all-sectional team. Besides making three letters in football, He grabbed off a pair in track and a single emblem in boxing. An engineer in the Naval ROTC unit on the Notre Dame campus. When he was only 11 years old he sat on Notre Dame's bench and started his yearning to come to the Golden Dome University. Following
in his Dad's profession. Bob hopes to become an engineer some day.
❖
NEMETH, STEVE J., Slavish-junior right half, attended Riley High School in South Bend. Discharged from the para-troopers in '43, Steve came to Notre Dame after winning four football letters and a similar number of monograms in baseball at Riley. Despite all the interesting experiences
STEVE J. NEMETH
he has had on the gridiron, Steve believes his biggest thrill was being with the paratroopers for two years. When he receives his degree in physical education, he hopes to enter the coaching ranks or play pro football. Steve became an extra-point specialist late in the season.
STATUTO. ARTHUR JOHN (ART), Italian junior center, received three letters in football as a center and one in baseball as a catcher while attending Saugus high
ARTHUR J. STATUTO
school in his native city, Saugus, Mass A V-12 trainee on campus, he left at the end of October of this year. Art is a carry over from last season, where he was understudy to Herb Coleman and Frank Szymanski. Art, who learned his football fundamentals from Hank Toczylowski, former Boston College great, has adopted the grid game as his favorite and plans coaching as a career.
t
&
KELLY. ROBERT JOSEPH (BOB). Irish sophomore right half, an alumnus of Leo High of Chicago, where he was a member of the 1942 city championship team. Despite a semester of football ineligibility last season while half the schedule was being played. Bob plugged away until he had practically won the starting right half spot away from Jules Rykovich when the 10 game card was concluded. With a year of experience and a monogram under his belt, he was one of the greatest assets to this year's Fighting Irish combine. He has
ROBERT J. KELLY
shown the necessary qualifications that may put him among the all-time greats in Irish grid history. Next year. Bob may have put his ability against the Irish as a middie.
O'CONNOR, WILLIAM F. (ZEKE), Irish left end, is a Navy V-12 student on the campus, after completing a successful prep career at Mt. St. Michael's high in New York City. Having recently moved to Fort Montgomery, New York, after residing
WILLIAM F. O'CONNOR
all his years in "the Met," Bill has six letters to his high school record, two in football, two in baseball, and a pair on the basketball squad. He was a member of the city football champions besides being a cage captain. Having come to Notre Dame last year before the basketball season was over, he made one trip with the
Notre Dame squad. Idolizing Knute Rockne, it was only natural that he came to the Fighting Irish campus.
JAMES H. DAILER
DAILER, JAMES H. (DUBIE), German-Irish sophomore right guard spent his prep years at Central Catholic in Wheeling, W. Virginia. He held captaincies in both sports during his senior year while reaping All-State grid honors in '43 besides all-city for both '42 and '43. The rare occasions of a lineman making a touchdown, via fumbles or interceptions, have been his greatest athletic thrills to date. On the side, he ikes to puddle with photography.
GEORGE R. TERLEP
TERLEP, GEORGE RUDOLPH (DUKE), Slovene junior left half, is a resident of Elkhart, Indiana. A versatile athlete, the diminutive back, who is a mere 5' 8" tall, garnered three monograms in baseball and three in football while attending Elkhart high. Starting off by learning the quarterbacking duties of last year's National Championship eleven, Duke was changed to a halfback spot this year so that his experience and speed could be used to advantage. As a member of the V-12, he said farewell after the Navy tilt.
McGURK, JAMES STANLEY (MAC). Irish freshman in the V-5 program claims Montclair, New Jersey, as his residence where
he copped a total of six letters, two as a fullback in football, an equal number as a first sacker on the diamond, and a pair on the hard court as a guard. Football captain in his senior year, 1943, Jim was placed on both the all-state baseball and football teams, as well as the all-Metropolitan grid team in '43. For favorite athletes he names Sammy Baugh and Bill Dickey.
JAMES S. McGURK
MARINO. NUNZIO ROBERT (NUNZ). Italian sophomore right half, smallest man on the squad, comes well-recommended from Windber, Penn. He was co-captain for both the football and basketball teams in his senior year, as well as being named to all-city and all-state grid teams. Marino got his big thrill in participating in the spring game against such names as Miller, Lujack and Coleman. A phy-ed major who hopes to be a physical instructor some day, Nunz too has developed a fondness for spaghetti. Boston can tell you all about this lad.
NUNZIO R- MARINO
BRENNAN. JAMES B„ Irish left halfback, made the fans stand up and take notice of his twin touchdown rendition in the Northwestern game and then furthered his prestige with a pair against Georgia Tech. This diminutive back, a mere 5' 7", weighing 155 pounds, hails from Milwaukee
Twenty-one
McKeever Praises Campus Spirit
The Punch Bad
Says Combination of Spirit and Loyalty Brought Success to Team.
As Coach Ed McKeever sat in his little office in Breen-Phillips Hall, behind a desk piled high with unopened mail, last Monday morning, his thoughts were on the scene at his elbow—boys rushing, singing, whistling, on their way to and from classes—boys who had been beaten down by Army, only to rise up with a splendid fighting spirit which enabled them to conquer Northwestern, and rugged opposition from Georgia Tech and Great Lakes in brilliant style.
And as the young 34-year old coach looked out in retrospect over the season just closed, casting up the fortunes of his first year as acting head coach, he confessed gratefully to a Scholastic reporter:	'
“The 1944 Notre Dame football team displayed the true spirit of ‘Whether the
Sports World Looks To Notre Dame
Nation's Leading Sports Authorities
’	Analyze the Season's Success
James Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“The Irish are still what they appeared from the start to be: largely a kid team, bolstered in two or three spots — notably at Pat Filley’s guard, John Adams’ tackle and Bob Kelly's halfback — with what might in normal times be termed solid collegiate maturity and experience. But it is becoming increasingly plain that on the standards applicable to kid teams, this is a helluva unit. It is tremendously spirited, and it is superbly coached, an attribute that is never out of sight when the young men start blocking- and tackling.”
Grantland Rice:
"The Irish are never dull, even though beaten. You might ask just why this is so. The answer is simple enough. It began under the colorful leadership of Knute Rockne, plus the influence of Notre Dame's faculty. The crowd long ago began to sense the fact that Notre Dame teams not only played fine football, but gave the game spirit and sportsmanship. From the Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules on to the Army game today, Notre Dame has given the crowd what it has wanted to see. In the last twenty years I've seen Notre Dame beaten sometimes, but I've never seen a dull Notre Dame team."
Twenty-two
odds be great or small....’ when they kept faith with their brothers of the 1943 squad in defeating a fine Great Lakes team. During the entire season the boys did the very best they knew how each and every Saturday, and I wish to thank them for their loyalty, their cooperation and their hard work. More importantly, I believe that their fellow-students feel that the boys representing them lived up to the expectations of all throughout the season. The student body displayed their own greatness by their support of the team—especially the fine sportsmanship aftei’ the loss to Army; this was indeed an incentive for the team’s success in the last three games. The associate coaches, the team and I should like to thank the student body, the authorities of Notre Dame and the Naval Unit for their splendid cooperation and kindness.”
Jack Conway, Boston Advertiser:
“The kids of Notre Dame, their chins still up and their hearts filled with courage, will invade the Yankee Stadium, New York, on Saturday to battle one of the most powerful Army teams in recent years. A crowd of 80,000 will at-ten the contest, and many of the spectators will be hoping that the luck of the Irish will enable the youngsters from South Bend to stage a football miracle and win.”
David Walsh,
Chicago Herald-American
“Notre Dame may have done everything possible with a football so far, except maybe take a seat with it on the 50-yard line and, in a very marked manner, bolt it down with mayonnaise and a rasher of Canadian bacon. Nonetheless, you can take the word of one who ought to know. Ed McKeever is not the new miracle man of college football and the ’44 Notre Dame ensemble is quite definitely not a miracle team. In fact, if you’re able to find this at all feasible, you may go on from that point to accept the following diagnosis from the same authority: The team now playing out of South Bend is by no means the equal

of the ’43 Notre Dame ensemble. By the ; way, the authority happens to be Me- , Keever.	;
“Last year,” he says, “we had older , men, mostly from 19 to 23, who had ex- ' perience, extreme talent and savvy in ; equal degrees. This year, the accent is ; on youth. But it’s youth with hustle and ‘ bustle, and an abiding faith in an ordained success.	■
“There’s been a lot said, and written, : about the spirit of Notre Dame. They . even made a movie by that name in Hol- . lywood. But here’s a team that yields i nothing to any predecessor, however ‘ famous, in that particular connection. J For here’s a team which, for the first ■ time, in my humble judgment, carries : deep down under its sweat shirt the very -soul of Notre Dame.”
Harry Grayson, NEA	: -
“Exploding in Notre Dame’s face,./ Navy clearly demonstrated that even the Fighting Irish can’t beat men with . boys. Notre Dame stood up under a se-
k I of Notre Dame
vere pounding in Baltimore, and it is- to the youngsters’ credit that they did not fold up. They were doing the best they knew how right up until the last shot was fired.”
Dave Egan, Boston Record:
“This Notre Dame eleven in all probability is the greatest teenage team ever assembled. You will travel far and look long before you will find such brilliant prospects as Bill O’Connor and Tom Guthrie. One of them is 18, the other is \ 17, and both of them spent the afternoon i making hoopla catches of forwards thrown by Frank Dancewicz. But defensively they were just children to be ; toyed with by Whitmire and Martin and ’ Bramlett and the murderous Middies.”
i Arthur Daley, New York Times:
“As for Notre Dame, the kindest thing which can be said about it is that Ed ; McKeever has come a long way with ;	(Continued on page 43)
i
Football and the Fighting Irish at Notre Dame
Tradition and Fighting Men Have Enriched the Game, and Made It the Favorite of the Campus
There is a particular way of life peculiar to each college campus that reveals the character of the school.
At Notre Dame, there is a rugged masculine tradition, built upon a solid spiritual and intellectual purpose. Living the Notre Dame way of life makes Notre Dame live in her sons. The inevitable result is a vital and binding loyalty that begets teamwork. This is especially true on the fields of friendly combat, the natural outlet for, and manifestation of school spirit. Clothe this spirit with the wholesome and healthy American youth on the campus of this particular university, and you have that elusive and priceless heritage, the Spirit of Notre Dame. And in no other instance is it better exemplified than in the great American game of football.
There is something natural about sports at Notre Dame—as natural as are sports at West Point and at Annapolis; they are a symbol and a measure of the physical excellence of youth. They typify the American way of life regarding physical development much better than would compulsory military training, as Mi’. Elmer Layden, Commissioner of Professional Football and former Notre Dame athlete, pointed out to the sports world, only last week in his postwar plan for youth training. Furthermore, there are no fraternities, no sororities, nor smug cliques which tend to destroy unity of interest, or erect social barriers on this campus. There is, rather, a common bond, born of family loyalty and inspiration—a household undivided. Indeed, it is part of the Notre Dame tradition that players sitting on the sidelines cheer loudest for- their teammates in the fray. It matters little what individual does the scoring; it is important only that Notre Dame triumph.
And why is Notre Dame invariably successful? The answer is largely due to the definition of the word itself. For, at Notre Dame, success means to do one’s best. It is a passion here to play hard—harder than the opposition—and to stop at nothing short of perfection. That is why Notre Dame and athletics have become synonymous in the sense that they spell success. And the praise heaped upon her by sports lovers throughout the world is a praise born of courage, tenacity, leadership, endurance, and an inspiration that only the strong of heart possess.
Nor is it by any mere accident that
we are called the Fighting Irish. True, in the beginning, it was a term of derision, scornfully heaped upon us in a far-off day by those who, possibly, were less truly American than they cared to admit. But we accepted the name as a challenge and, through the years, have carried it with such grace that today it has become a badge of honor, a symbol of the finest qualities in competitive sport, regardless of the blood strains in the Notre Dame personnel from that daydown to the present hour. Fortunately, by some strange fate, it has evolved into a shining example of the rich contribution made to American life by all those whose roots were lodged in an alien soil in the long dim past. And, for this very reason, there is hardly another campus so deeply American as is the home of the Fighting Irish. Indeed, there is hardly a better example of this very truth than the Norse immigrant Knute Rockne, who gave so generously of his talents and himself to the American game of football.
In this broad, inclusive, sense, the term Fighting Irish has become an adequate yardstick to measure the courageous and indomitable spirit of all American boys who tread the storied paths of Notre Dame. It is an inspiration that deepns with time and glows brightest in the hour of conflict.
H".....ItitlllllllllllltllllttlltllllllllllllMItMllilllllltlltlttllMlttll PI
1	Kelly of Notre Dame i
i "There's a stir in the land of sports- = I men	E
! And the gridiron fans stand mute, | = In their hearts there is trepidation i j And they're wishing for Leahy or = =	Knute.	j
= For they think it is something out- = |	landish	=
| And they wonder what's happened i 1	to fame	1
| When the star of the Fighting Irish i
1 Is Kelly of Notre Dame."	|
:	(Henry Gillen of the =
=	Boston Post) =
Twenty-three
where he won a trio of letters in football while playing for Marquette high. Besides football, Jim won four monograms in track and three in hockey, holding captaincies in all sports while at Marquette high. A V-12 trainee, Jim considers as his biggest thrill, being on Notre Dame's 1944 football team.
JAMES B. BRENNAN
GUTHRIE, THOMAS FRANCIS, Jr. (TOM) —Irish freshman left end, played football, basketball, and baseball at Seton Hall Prep in New Jersey. This Newark product garnered a total of 10 letters in prep school, three in football, four in basketball, and three on the diamond, having held captaincies on the grid squad and baseball nine. Coming to Notre Dame as a three-time all-stater, his last two years in football, once as a court artist, and as
THOMAS F. GUTHRIE, Jr.
a baseballer too, Tom added much to the '44 version of the Fighting Irish by way of height and poundage. Punting 88 yards in a prep game stands out as his greatest athletic thrill while crawling under a freight car when it started to move is the closest call he's ever had.
BENIGNI, GEORGE HENRY, Italian-Polish end, is a South Side Chicago product from Mt. Carmel high school where he was tutored in the football trade by Wally Fromhart, former N. D. backfield great. Stretching 6' 2%" and carrying 190 pounds
Twenty-four
GEORGE H. BENIGNI
on his frame, George is a Navy V-12 trainee. Having won three letters in football and four in basketball while at Mt. Carmel, George also held a football captaincy in his senior year, and also played on the 1943-44 city cage championship team. A good reserve end that saw regular duty toward the end of the season, he was an asset to the team. He hopes some day to be a pilot.
FRED J. ROVAI
ROVAI, FRED JOSEPH, Italian sophomore right guard, is attending Notre Dame for a second time after receiving a medical dicharge from the Army. His prep years spent at Hammond High in Hammond, Indiana found him copping three letters in football as a fullback. He played with Hammond high's City Champions during the '39, '40, and '41 campaigns. When he first came to Notre Dame in '42 as a freshman, he was tagged for a fullback position and got his first big athletic thrill scoring against the varsity in that capacity. At center, to begin with, he was shifted to regular right guard until hurt in the Army game.
❖
ENDRESS, FRANK THOMAS, German-Irish fullback, comes from the city of Evansville, Indiana. This six-footer who totes around 195 did his prepping at Reitz Memorial high and while there put in three good years on the gridiron, captain
ing the outfit in his senior year. Being a member of the all-city teams in '42 and '43, and an all-stater in '43, Frank showed his abilities here under the Golden Dome. Given an opportunity late in the season, he was defensively outstanding. A lover of football and Knute Rockne, Frank chose Notre Dame hoping some day to make his experience here get him a coaching job.
FRANK T. ENDRESS
WAYBRIGHT, DOUGLAS GILES (DOUG), Swedish-English sophomore end, who hails from Saugus, Mass., where he won an aggregate of six letters at Saugus high, two in each of three sports, football, track and basketball. This seventeen year old youth; fond of lobster and mathematics, finds his idol in Mike Holovak, erstwhile Boston College backfield ace. He once saved a friend from drowning and he may yet be called upon to save McKeever some day from a worse fate. He earned a starting spot late in the season.
DOUGLAS G. WAYBRIGHT
CHANDLER, WILLIAM GEORGE, Greek halfback, is a member of the V-12 program at Notre Dame. Having come from Chicago, with Amundsen high furnishing his football background, Bill hopes some day to be a coach. While at Amundsen, he gained his greatest experience playing against Lane in 1943, and also abetted his own cause in winning three football letters, one track monogram, and a pair in wrestling, having captained the grid
squad in his senior year. With steak and Creighton Miller playing favorites with him in food and athletic hero. Bill got his biggest thrill playing for Notre Dame this past season.
WILLIAM G. CHANDLER
RAY, JOHN WILLIAM (SAM), freshman center, is a product of local origin where he starred in football, baseball, and basketball at John Adams high in South Bend, captaining the grid squad in his senior year where he was named to the all-city and all-conference football teams, John hopes to follow in the steps of other football greats from his hometown like Pat Filley, George Murphy, and Dippy Evans. He earned a total of five letters in high
JOHN W. RAY
school, three in football, and one apiece in baseball and basketball. Nearly being hit by a train while in a car has been the narrowest escape of his life while steak is his favorite food. John left after the Army game for the service; before that time he was the starting center.
BEREZNEY, PETER, JR. (PETE) Austrian right tackle, a native of Jersey City, New Jersey, where he played three years of varsity ball for Dickinson high school. Named to the all-city and all-state eleven in 1942. His goal in life is to be AttorneyGeneral of the United States. The immortal George Gipp, Notre Dame's all-time-
PETER BEREZNEY, Jr.
All-American, is his favorite athlete hero and Pete is a devoted Shakespeare student. Boating, reading and dancing come next to football. A big lad, Pete was on the squad last year and his familiarity with the “T" and other Notre Dame mechanics of play have made him a valuable man on this year's squad. Law is his present course.
JOSEPH R. GASPARELLA
GASPARELLA, JOSEPH RICHARD (JOE), Italian freshman, is a 17 year old youth, scaling 6’ 3" skyward and toting 218 pounds on his football frame comes from Vandergrift, Pennsylvania. There he played both football and basketball. He captained the grid team in his senior year. Gasparella, who possesses some of the qualities that made Bertelli the flinging sensation that he was, stretches a gcod way into the sky. He hopes some day to be a coach or a journalist. After being understudy to Dancewicz, Joe was shifted to fullback for added team strength.
WESTENKIRCHNER, JOSEPH, German guard, got his first good opportunity at Illinois and produced from then on. A good man to pull out and lead the play, Joe put every bit of his 6 foot, 190 pound frame against the opposition. A product of Toledo and Waite high school, Joe garnered four letters in football while playing
at Waite. He also copped one in each of basketball, baseball and track. An allstate player in '43, Joe helped his own cause when he blocked a punt and recovered it in the end zone for a touchdown, a game which ended up 6-0. A V-12 trainee, he hopes some day to be a football coach.
JOSEPH WESTENKIRCHNER
FILLEY, PATRICK JOSEPH (PUNCHY), Irish senior left guard is the first captain to be re-elected in 25 years. In March, he went to Parris Island for further training but in the early spring he was given a medical discharge due to knee injuries. Since that time, he has had both knees operated on and is seemingly fit and ready for another grid season. A South Bend product from Central high school, Pat won a trio of letters in both football and wrestling. In the mat sport, he not only captained the squad but also won conference titles in the 155 and 165 pound classes. Injured in the Army game, Pat was lost for the remainder of the season.
PATRICK J. FILLEY
SULLIVAN, GEORGE ALBERT, Irish sophomore left tackle, had the misfortune of having an All-American in front of him last year, Jim White. When given the opportunity to substitute for Jim, he showed up well and won his monogram as a member of the '43 National Collegiate Champions. Being in the V-12 program on campus, George was one of the main
Twenty-five
stays of this year's Irish eleven. The prepping that he received at Walpole high school while residing in East Walpole, Mass., netted him 10 letters, three in football, two in basketball as a guard, three as a weightman in track, and a pair as an outfielder in the diamond sport. He was captain of the football, basketball, and track squads besides being the state shot-put champ in '42 and '43. Playing one of the prominent roles on Coach
GEORGE A. SULLIVAN
Handy's track team during the past season in the weight events, George was able io win his second ND monogram as a freshman, that being his greatest athletic thrill. He hopes to be an optometrist.
DAVLIN, MICHAEL FRANCIS (MIKE), Irish freshman right end, won two monograms at Creighton Prep in Omaha where he was named all-City and all-State end as a 15 year old during the '43 season. He concentrates his activity on the grid
MICHAEL F. DAVLIN
sport. Being one of the youths on the squad, only 16, Mike finds his biggest thrill has been in coming to Notre Dame. Although once hit by an automobile, he didn't let that frighten him and has come right along to try to jar the opposition as much as the car jarred him. An injury in the Illinois game kept him out for the remainder of the season.	.
MARTIN P. WENDELL
WENDELL, MARTIN PETER, German fullback, is another lad of Chicago origin. While at St. George high, Marty copped three monograms in football, captaining the team in his senior year, a team that won all-city honors in defeating Phillips high and the heralded Buddy Young, now of Illinois fame. Named an all-stater in '43, Marty justified that honor with the bang-up game he played in the Kelly Bowl for the city championship. His familiar "58" was a great defensive strength this year, and as a backer-upper, he was plenty good. Although little seen on offense, once given the ball, he plowed—but good.
ACHILLE F. MAGGIOLI
MAGGIOLI, ACHILLE FRED (CHICK), Italian junior left halfback, from Mishawaka, Ind., where he collected six letters, three in football, a pair in track, and a loner in basketball. It was while at Mishr awaka that he first gained recognition when he was selected on the '38 and '39 all-city squad and on the '38 all-conference eleven. Once in a high school game, he gained 200 yards. Maggioli signifies a love of spaghetti. Chick was a member of the Marine V-12 program on. campus and departed at the end of October when the Marine program abandoned its Notre Dame abode. Chick's winning touchdown against Illinois was an unforgettable.
MARTZ, GEORGE AMES, German—English freshman left guard, is from East St. Louis, Ill. He comes to Notre Dame football as a fullback letter winner, two more as a receiver in baseball, and a loner as a guard on the hardcourt. George also was honored by being placed on the allstate baseball team in '44. He was a catcher for Jake Kline's summery baseball team but as no monograms were awarded
GEORGE A. MARTZ
for the informal session, he will have to wait until the regular program next spring. He filled in for Pat Filley when the latter was incapacitated.
GLAAB. JOHN P. (FLOWER), German-French sophomore right tackle, fulfilled his prep career at Woodrow Wilson high school in Long Beach, California. While winning three letters in the grid sport, he also was a member of the City Champs, Foothill Champs, and the Long BeachCompton League Champs. He was honored by being named to both the all-city and all-league teams in '43. Besides liking history and steak, he would like to gain
JOHN P. GLAAB
some of the grid qualities possessed by George Sullivan, one of his teammates this year. One of the close calls in his life came as he was shocked with 440 volts of electricity.
Twenty-six
SZYMANSKI. FRANCIS STANLEY (FRANK). Polish junior center, won all-city and all-state honors in 1940 as captain of Northeastern high school of Detroit, Michigan. Although he won his freshman numerals at center, Frank was shifted to the tackle spot as a reserve during 1942 and
FRANCIS S. SZYMANSKI
saw little action. He developed into a fine pivot prospect and shared the spot with Herb Coleman on last year's National Champions. Working for ■ a doctorate in Mathematics, Frank has the reputation of being one of the outstanding student mathematicians on the campus. His favorite pastime is technically explaining theoretical physics to bewildered teammates. It was on the advice of Alex Wojciehowicz, his favorite athletic hero, that Frank matriculated at Notre Dame. An honor student, debating is his favorite avocation. Frank recently received a medical discharge from the Navy Air Corps and promptly took over the pivot duties from the Army tussle on—and what a man!
JOHN J. FALLON
FALLON. JOHN JAMES (JACKY SUGAR). Irish freshman guard, earning three letters in football at Marquette high school in Alton, Illinois, is another of the youngsters on this year's grid squad. Captaining the Marquette eleven in '43 (who were the Catholic League Champs in both '41 and '43), he had the opportunity of playing on
an undefeated, untied team last fall. He was also named to the Catholic League All-Stars in '41 and '43. On the side, John does some wrestling and competed in the A.A.U. meet which was also his biggest thrill. Weight-lifting is one of his favorite hobbies. He worked his way through Mexico last summer while travelling through the Republic to the south. He was induced to come to Notre Dame because the spirit of the student body had such national fame.
KELLY. JOSEPH A. (JOE). Irish-German junior left tackle, has made his debut on the gridiron after successfully becoming
JOSEPH A. KELLY
an accomplished shot-putter and discus thrower for Coach Doc Handy's trackmen during the past season. His 6 foot, 7 inch frame which totes around 225 pounds, hails from Akron North High where he copped a half dozen letters,, two in football, two in basketball, and two in track. In '42 he was named to Ohio's all-state
cage quintet as a center and also was on the all-city track championship squad. Joe, an aeronautical engineer, has a liking for milk and his athletic prowess shows that he certainly has gained a lot of calcium from it.
KENNETH R. SCHUSTER
SCHUSTER. KENNETH, ROBERT . (SHOES). Polish-Lithuanian freshman left tackle, won two letters in football at St.
Rita high school in Chicago. While attending the South side school, he was named to the all-city team for two years and to Illinois' all-state eleven during his senior year in '43. Although fond of roast beef and sweet potatoes, he gets an intellectual enjoyment out of studies in science. He got his biggest sports thrill out of beating St. Leo in the Sisters of Mercy Charity game and further showed his stamina by playing all but four minutes of Rita's eight game schedule last season. Last summer he had his toe smashed while working in a freight elevator. Kenny, too, fulfills a life ambition in coming to Notre Dame where he could don the colors of the Fighting Irish.
MERGENTHAL, ARTHUR LOUIS, a lot of man to have to tackle, comes from the banks of the Ohio, calling Bellevue, Ken-
ARTHUR L. MERGENTHAL
tucky his home. Art did one year at Xavier University in Cincinnati before joining the Marine Corps. It was during this year that he received a medical discharge from the service and came to Notre Dame. At Xavier high. Art garnered a total of six letters, four in football and two in track, holding captaincies in both sports. A
JOHN B. MASTRANGELO
(Continued on page 34)
Twenty-seven
The Shillelagh ...
That’s the 1944 season, folks!
Ed McKeever and his staff started pretty much from scratch. No college team they met, beat or tied them. That’s good enough for me.
And besides, the boys played their best game, Saturday, against Great Lakes and did what no other Notre Dame team had ever done — beat Great Lakes in football.
Eight and two is a very good season. The boys played all the way to win them them all.
Frank Szymanski is an All-American, if I ever saw oue. If he had played all the games, he could not have missed. Hope to see him around for another season.
Jim Brennan helped the cause in the three last games. He knows how to run and he thinks when he’s running. Good boy. Good halfback.
Twelve for fourteen for Steve Nemeth must be some kind of a percentage record.
Art Mergenthal certainly put on a game against Great Lakes. Nice going, Art! The boy from Kentucky is a very good tackle.
Sully was smacking them all'season. From Tulane to Great Lakes he looked
good enough for my club.
Mastrangelo got better every game. Nice going Saturday, Johnny!
Waybright got himself to touchdown by playing heads up. When a boy plays like Doug, he’s bound to get some good breaks. Doug was smart enough to take advantage of them.
Boley Danciewicz. Well, just look at the record. He was in there pitching, and punting, and running, and tackling, and blocking, and thinking, all season.
Don't think I'm not a severe critic because I am!
When they come any better we’d like to see them. Hats off to the kid from Lynn! We’re all proud of him.
How about a word for the forgotten men — the subs who weie out there every day except Saturday! We saw a lot of boys working their heads off without expecting any clippings in the Sunday editions. They’re a really important part of the team, and I don’t mean perhaps. I mean they are. It may be true that there’s nothing that succeeds like success, but for my money a kid who gets out there every day, hot or cold, rain or shine, and still conies up a little short is a real boy, and a real sport. A boy who gives all he’s got is a hundred per cent guy. He’ll succeed some other way.
And then there are the managers and the band, and the cheering section (Score: Civilians and V-12, one — Midshipmen, nothing, in a fairly close contest in the Snow League), and the pep rallies. Good stuff. That’s Notre Dame.
All-Catholic Team
End ___________.Thomas Smith, Holy Cross
Tackle ____Donald Carter, St. Marys, Cal. Guard _____Patrick Filley, Notre Dame Center ____Martin Silovich, Marquette Guard______James Reilly, Holy Cross
Tackle George Sullivan, Notre Dame
End William Kuzman, Villanova Q.Back Frank Dancewicz, Notre Dame H.Back ________Ray Sullivan, Holy Cross H.Back ________Robert Kelly, Notre Dame
F.Back __________Robert David, Villanova
Highlights of the All-Time Record
★ In 56 seasons of football since 1887, Notre teams have won 345 games, lost 75, and tied 27.
Under the late Knute Rockne (1918-30) Notre won 105, lost 12, tied 5.
Under Heartly (Hunk) Anderson (1931-33) Dame won 16, lost 9, tied 2.
Dame
Dame
Notre
Under Elmer F. Layden (1934-40) Notre Dame won 47, lost 13, tied 3.
Under Frank W. Leahy (1941-43) Notre Dame won 24, lost 3, tied 3.
Under Edward C. McKeever (1944) Notre Dame won 8, lost 2.
Biggest score for Notre Dame: 1905—Notre Dame, 142;
American Medical, 0.
Biggest score under Rockne: 1926—Notre Dame, 77;
Beloit, 0.
Biggest scores under Anderson: 1932—Notre Dame, 73; Haskell, 0; 1931—Notre Dame, 63; Drake, 0.
Biggest scores under Layden: 1940—Notre Dame, 61; Carnegie Tech, 0; 1938—Notre Dame, 52, Kansas, 0.
Biggest scores under Leahy: 1943—Notre Dame, 55; Georgia Tech, 13; 1943—Notre Dame, 50; Wisconsin, 0.
Biggest scores under McKeever: 1944—Notre Dame, 64; Dartmouth, 0; 1944—Notre Dame, 58; Pittsburgh, 0.
Worst defeat, all-time: 1944—Army, 59; N. D., 0.
Worst defeat under Rockne: 1925—Army, 27; N. D., 0.
Worst defeats under Anderson: 1933—Purdue, 19;
Notre Dame, 0; Southern Calif., 19; Notre Dame, 0.
Worst defeat under Layden: 1936—Pittsburgh, 26; N. D., 0.
Twenty-eight
TWO IN THE CELLAR
The Green Banner
... By John Power
TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT
We have had a lot of arguments, and few admissions of defeat, in our day. But things are getting perilously different now. And it is doubtful if we shall continue long in our procedure of tellingbig lies in the loudest voice, thereby winning the day. Anyway, it is rumored that McAllister is about to install a reference library in his equipment room. Thus, the last outpost of original thinking is getting to the point where we shall have little elbow room (in an intellectual way), on the local scene. From now on, there will be more good stories spoiled than you can shake a stick at— all because the facts will be there.
CHANGE OF PACE
Now that Bill the Barber (storied proprietor of the local Clip Joint) has put Roosevelt securely in the White House (a very easy assignment, he assured us), for four more years, we have the darndest time drubbing up conversation that has any noticeable punch in it. What’s even worse, the old warrior Bill is getting so genial and so mellow that, more than likely, he will agree with us even when we least expect him to do so. Disgusting, isn’t it! .
A PSALM OF LIFE
There once.was a watchmannamed Doran
sailors will try to find a new way to St. Mary’s via water. How silly! And suppose they do—how disappointing!
“Hi, folks! No special reason for my being here other than the fact that this is December 8, 1944, and the editors thought this would be the last chance to use my picture. I’m one of the unsung student managers. Cheerio!”
Sonny: “Mother, Poppo wouldn’t murder anybody, would he?”
Mother: “Why certainly not. child. What makes you ask that?”
Sonny: “Well, I just heard him down in the cellar saying, ‘Let’s kill the other two, George’.” .
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
Freshman : “I don’t care what you Seniors say. I’m going to eat one of those mystery balls.”	’
INDIANA WINTER
New Yorkers and Californians are said to be the most self-satisfied classes of Americans. They should be — they can’t get any farther away from Indiana and still stay in the country.
SUMMER SQUASH	.
“How did you puncture that tire?”
“I ran over a milk bottle.”
“What’s the matter, didn’t you see it?”
“No, the kid had it under his coat.”
ADDLED ANNA
And then there was the secretary who didn’t mail the circular letter because she couldn’t find any round envelopes.
COLD LOGIC
First Dodo: “We must be coming into a town.”
Second Ditto: “What makes you think so?”
First Dodo: “We’re hitting more people.”
Who nodded while guarding old Sorin, , So that men coming late,
Had, quite often, to wait
While Doran was snorin’ in Sorin.
SURPRISE!!
Old Professor: “I can’t believe it— Notre Dame being thumped by both Army and Navy in one year!”
Freshman: “Don’t you know there’s a war on?”
THE BOUNDING MAIN
The ROTC Unit is running into difficulty, now that winter is creeping up in its quiet, white way. For with the lake taking on a thick coat of ice, what’s Chief Muson going to do about boat drills? But then, he’ll think of something; he always does. Otherwise, the cruise will degenerate into a fishing party. Or, what’s worse, the Walsh Hall
“Oh heavens, Mercer, you take it. There's a run in my stocking!"
Twenty-nine
MEET THE MEN BEHIND THE LINE
BY AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief, the "Scholastic"
There is no questioning of the efficient machine Notre Dame fielded this season, hut it is seldom that the supply lines, the planners, the workers behind the team ever get recognition. Theirs is the oil that makes the machine work. The success of this team means that there were planners carrying out details, and running the show.
Beginning with Mr. Herb Jones and his business department, through Walter Kennedy’s publicity department, all the way down to the program salesmen, all had their particular job to fulfill, and each did as well in his capacity as the team out on the field.
A football machine is a giant enterprise, needing radio technicians, announcers, teletype expeits, photographers, newsreel men, scouts, student managers, coaches, ushers, "pop and dogs” salesmen, program sellers, and field caretakers; this machine needs stenographers, secretaries, publicity men. And too, it needs players. But that’s another story.
Mike Moore is an old Notre Dame standby at the time clock. He has been with the team many seasons, and no “Michigan incident” has occurred with him around. He deserves a lot of the credit for always keeping the thousands of spectators informed correctly of just how much time is left.
The student managers with their
traveling field phones and their accurate play by play gains and losses on the in 1930, there arose a need for a body of score board deserve a round of applause. These student managers perform all sorts of duties which crop up in the excitement of the game. Many times they are the team’s right hand men.
To demonstrate how unique the various departments and organizations which play their part before, during and after each game, the Scholastic tracked down Mr. W. H. Duley, major of the Usher Squad, and asked him for the military “dope” on his organization.
With the building of the stadium back men to handle the terrific crowds who came in search of the 50-yard line. The human traffic problem became so acute that the present corps of« ushers was formed. It resembled in many ways the military order of the army. To this day, the titles of officers are used, from major all the way down to the lowly private.
As was mentioned before, Mr. W. H. Duley is the major, followed by the captain-adjutant Mr. M. P. (Mike) Brady. The corps is supervised by. eight captains, staffed by first lieutenants, second lieutenants, staff sergeants, etc. The “army” consists of 775 men, spread strategically over 17 gates, 36 ramps, the box sections, and some 20 men patrolling the grounds immediately outside the stadium, seeing that all is well, guarding the team doors,
and helping out with the radio equipment that has to be moved from trucks to the roof of the press-box.
Contrary to popular opinion, these men are all citizens of South Bend, and not members of the University. Anyone living in South Bend is eligible to join the staff, providing that there is a vacancy, and also that he has good character references.
Files are set up sometime in July with the prospective members’ names. About three weeks before the beginning of the season, an organization meeting is called ■ wherein all rules are discussed carefully. New men get a chance to acquaint themselves thoroughly with their fellow workers, and also with the rules. Most stringent of these is that no man may drink while on duty at the stadium, and further, that even a slight trace of liquor on the breath will be sufficient cause for immediate dismissal from the corps. A regulation that is rather interesting to note is the fact that no women are allowed either on the field, nor in the press-box.
After this meeting the men are ready to take their first real step toward being true ushers. They give a dollar deposit and receive their caps. These are returnable during the last game of the season, with the deposit going back to the men.
If a man is to be absent or late for (Continued on page 42)
FIRST ROW (Kneeling)—Left to Right: I. R. Dillon, Clarence Gran, Paul Hertel, Herbert Brown, Leonard Claudon, fjerry Megan, Edward Beiser and J. W. (Bill) Conboy. SECOND ROW (Standing)—Left to Right: W. H. (Bill) Duley, Manager of Stadium Personnel, M. P. (Mike) Brady, Assistant Manager, Harley Wiseman. Paul Bill, John Mackin, Earl Raabe, Urban Kroger and Ted Doutel.
Thirty
I "The MEN'S Corner" g g Home of Nationally | $ Accepted Merchandised

KUPPENHEIMER SUITS - COATS
BOTANY "500 SUITS
STETSON HATS LEE HATS
FLORSHEIM SHOES
FREEMAN SHOES
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
BOTANY TIES
INTERWOVEN HOSE
HICKOK BELTS and SUSPENDERS
Rv.si sl^iis
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Excerpts from the Experts...
Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“Everybody here saw Kelly today as Notre Dame’s newest football team utterly crushed the University of Pittsburgh Panthers by a score of 58-0 in the opening game of the Fighting Irish season. Kelly is apple-cheeked Robert Joseph Kelly, 19-year-old Irish sophomore right halfback from Chicago. The “everybody” who saw him included 55,COO customers in the stands and a squad of Pitt footballers whose collapse was started and speeded and all but sealed by Robert himself as he scored Notre Dame’s first 26 points in less than 32 minutes of action.”
United Press:
“Notre Dame opened its drive for a second consecutive national football championship today by crushing an inept Pittsburgh Panther team, 58-0, before 50,000 disappointed fans at Pitt Stadium. The Irish could do no wrong as they scored through the air and along the ground with equal ease, turning virtually every Panther mistake into a touchdown.”
Associated Press:
“Notre Dame’s Irish, striking with unexpected speed and power, tcday served notice they’ll again be very much in the running for the mythical national collegiate title they won last year as they smothered the University of Pittsburgh’s Panthers under a barrage of aerials and a varied running attack, 58-0.”
Dan Desmond,
Chicago Herald-American:
“Notre Dame struck straight and mercilessly today at Pittsburgh’s most embarrassing weakness, protection against passes, and pulled out with a 58 to 0 victory that startled the 50,000 spectators. The Irish attack, once it got into motion, was devastating and versatile. On the ground and in the air, they piled up the amazing total of 622 net yards gained.”
Chester Smith, Sports Editor, Pittsburgh Press:
“Robert Joseph Kelly, pink-cheeked, piano-legged sophomore from Flossmoor, Ill., whose cherubic smile belies the blitz he packs in his feet, turned up with Notre Dame’s football team at the Stadium yesterday and put on as eye-filling a one-man show as Pittsburgh has ever seen. It wasn’t so much that Kelly was the indispensable man, for the young
and hungry eleven that is carrying on in the place of the 1943 collegiate champions scored 32 points without him — but the fact remains that ‘Bobbing Bob’ accounted for the first 26 in the 58-0 thrashing that was dealt out to Pitt before an awed crowd of 50,000 fans.”
Charles Bartlett, Chicago Tribune:
“Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, about whose youthful talents their friends have been curious, today passed another test in their 1944 examination to prove they are worthy successors to the.national championship eleven of last season. And they passed it with flying colors, as may be attested by the jury of 45,000 who watched them trounce a more seasoned Tulane team, 26 to 0.”
Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun:
“Notre Dame, knifing passes and power in the proper proportions, rolled back Tulane’s Green Wave as expected here today, 26 to 0. The Irish, with a sureness born of tradition, generated their head of football steam slowly and then opened the throttle wide on four occasions to find the route to the goal line as 45,000 looked on in the first intersectional game ever played between teams of the two schools.”
Leo Fischer,
Chicago Her aid-American:
“Notre Dame’s 1944 home football debut today was a complete success before some 45,000 satisfied customers. The Irish put on a spectacuar show as they passed and ran a scrappy Tulane aggregation into submission, 26 to 0, for their second impressive win of the current campaign.”
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“That Bobby Sox brigade which puts on Notre Dame football uniforms each Saturday afternoon and pretends to be grown up men, threw practically everything in its first reader as a strong Tulane university eleven yesterday afternoon and trounced the New Orleans outfit, 26-0, to the great delight of a crowd of 45,000 in the opening game of the home season on the stadium turf.”
Associated Press:
“Jim Brennan, 155 pounds of backfield dynamite, gave 48,000 fans cause to forget the loss of Bob Kelly, Notre Dame’s ace halfback, as he exploded twice in ' the first seven minutes of play to lead the Ramblers to a 21-0 victory over Northwestern today.”
(Continued on page 34)
Thirty-one
HOW THEY STAND
Bill Stern All-Americans
PITTSBURGH
1909—N.D., 6; Pitt, 0
1911—N.D., 0; Pitt, 0
1912—N.D., 3; Pitt, 0
1930—N.D., 35; Pitt, 19
1931—N.D., 25; Pitt, 12
1932—N.D., 0; Pitt, 12
1933—N.D., 0; Pitt, 14
1934—N.D., 0; Pitt, 19
1935—N.D., 9; Pitt, 6
1936—N.D., 0; Pitt, 26
1937—N.D., 6; Pitt, 21
1943—N.D., 41; Pitt. 0
1944—N.D. 58; Pitt. 0
Totals—183	129
N.D. Won 7, Lost 5, Tied 1
TULANE 1944—N.D., 26; Tul., 0 Totals— 26	0
N.D. 'Won 1
DARTMOUTH 1944—N.D., 64; Dart.. 0
Totals— 64	0
N.D. Won 1
1919—N.D., 12; Army, 9
1920—N.D., 27; Army, 17
1921—N.D., 28; Army, 0
1922—N.D., 0; Army, 0
1923—N.D., 13; Army, 0
1924—N.D., 13; Army, 7
1925—N.D., 0; Army, 27
1926—N.D., 7; Army, 0
1927—N.D., 0; Army, 18
1928—N.D., 12; Army, 6
1929—N.D., 7; Army, 0
1930—N.D., 7; Army, 6
1931—N.D., 0; Army, 12
1932—N.D., 21; Army, 0
1933—N.D., 13; Army, 12
1934—N.D., 12; Army, 6
1935—N.D., 6; Armv, 6
1936—N.D., 20; Army, 6
1937—N.D., 7: Armv, 0
1938—N.D., 19; Army, 7
1939—N.D., 14; Army, 0
1940—N.D., 7; Army, 0
1941—N.D., 0; Army, 0
1942—N.D., 13; Army, 0
1943—N.D., 26; Army, 0
1944—N.D.. 0; Army, 59
Tota’s—350	263
N.D. Won 22. Lost 6. Tied 3
FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM
End..____________Paul Walker, Yale__________Henry Walker, Virginia
Tackle__________.William Willis, Ohio State_Walter Stickel, Pennsylvania
Guard___________.Wm. Hachton, California____James McCurdy, Washington
Guard____________John Tavener, Indiana______Roger Harding, California
Tackle___________.Ellis Jones, Tulsa John Fathauer, Iowa State
Center...........Don Whitmire, Navy_________.Thomas Kane, Tulane
End...___________Philip Tinsley, Ga. Tech.__Hubert Brectol, Texas Back_____________Claude Young, Illinois...R. Hoernschmeyer, Indiana
Back____________Earl Girard, Wisconsin______ROBERT KELLY, Notre Dame
Back_____________L. Horvath, Ohio State_____Harold Hamberg, Navy
Back.............F. Blanchard, Army_________Trank Broyles, Georgia Tech
United Press Honor Teams
WISCONSIN 1900—N.D., 0; Wis., 54 1904—N.D., 0; Wis., 58 1905—N.D., 0; Wis., 21 1917—N.D., 0; Wis., 0 1924—N.D., 38; Wis., 3 1928—N.D., 6; Wis., 22 1929—N.D., 19; Wis., 0 1934—N.D., 19; Wis., 0 1935—N.D., 28; Wis., 0 1936—N.D., 27; Wis., 0 1942—N.D., 7; Wis., 7 1943—N.D.. 50; Wis., 0 1944—N-D., 28; Wis., 13
Tota’s—220	178
N.D. Won 7, Lost 4, Tied 2
NORTHWESTERN
ILLINOIS
1898—N.D., 5; Illinois, 0
1937—N.D., 0; Illinois, 0
1938—N.D., 14; Illinois, 6 1940—N.D., 26; Illinois, 0 1941—N.D., 49; Illinois, 14 1942—N.D., 21; Illinois, 14 1943—N.D., 47; Illinois, 0
1944—N.D.. 13; Illinois, 7
Totals—175	41
N.D. Won 7, Tied 1
1889—N.D., 9; Northw., 0 1898—N.D., 12; Northw., 0 1901—N.D., 0; Northw., 2 1903—N.D., 0; Northw., 0 1920—N.D., 33; Northw., 7 1924—N.D., 13; Northw., 6 1925—N.D., 13; Northw., 10 1926—N.D., 6; Northw., 0 1929—N.D., 26; Northw., 6 1930—N.D., 14; Northw., 0 1931—N.D., 0; Northw., 0 1932—N.D.,21; Northw., 0 1933—N.D., 7; Northw., 0 1934—N.D., 20; Northw., 7 1935—N.D., 7; Northw., 14 1936—N.D., 26; Northw., 6 1937—N.D., 7; Northw., 0 1938—N.D., 9; Northw., 7 1939—N.D., 7; Northw., 0 1940—N.D., 0; Northw., 20 1941—N.D., 7; Northw., 6 1942—N.D., 27; Northw., 20 1943—N.D., 25; Northw., 6
1944—N.D.. 21; Northw., 0
Totals—310	117
N.D. Won 19. Lost 3. Tied 2
FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM
End................ George	Poole, Army.._______.Phillip Tinsley, Georgia Tech.
Tackle...........-William Willis, Ohio State__Coulter, Army
Guard................Benjamin Chase, Navy_____PAT FILLEY, Notre Dame
Center.............John Tavener, Indiana_____.....J. Martin, Navy
Guard_____________Joseph Stanowicz, Army______Bill Hackett, Ohio State
Tackle____________Donald Whitmire, Navy_______John Ferraro, South. Calif.
End...............Jack Dugger, Ohio State____.Paul Walker, Yale
Back...............Leslie Horvath, Ohio State__Claude Young, Illinois
Back..............Robert Jenkins, Navy________..BOB KELLY, Notre Dame
Back..............Glenn Davis, Army.___________McWilliams, Mississippi State
Back______________Felix Blanchard, Army.......Boris Dimancheff, Purdue
I.N.S. All-American Selections
FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM
End______________Jack Dugger, Ohio State_____Paul Walker, Yale
Tackle___________Don Whitmire, Navy__________George Poole, Army
Guard____________Joe Stanowicz, Army_________Milan Lazetich, Michagan
Center__________...John Tavener, Indiana__...Bill Willis, Ohio State Guard________Ben Chase, Navy...___________-Bill Hackett, Ohio State
Tackle___________John	Ferraro. U. S. C. _____John Green, Army
End______________Phil	Tinsley, Georgia Tech__Tex Warrington, Auburn
Back...___________Les	Horvath, Ohio State.....Claude Young, Illinois
Back_____________..Glen Davis, Army__________Bob Jenkins, Navy
Back_____________.Boris	Dimancheff, Purdue...Bob Fennimore, Okla. A.&M.
Back_____________Felix	Blanchard, Army.______BOB KELLY, Notre Dame
U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY 1927—N.D., 19; Naw, 6 1928—N.D., 7; Navy, 0 1929—N.D., 14; Navy, 7 1930—N.D., 26; Navy-, 2 1931—N.D., 20; Navy,- 0 1932—N.D., 12; Navy’, 0 1933—N.D., 0; Navy, 7 1934—N.D., 6; Navy, 10 1935—N.D., 14; Navy, 0 1936—N.D., 0; Navy, 3 1937—N.D., 9; Navy, 7 1938—N.D., 15; Navy’, 0 1939—N.D., 14; Navy', 7 1940—N.D., 13; Navy, 7 1941—N.D., 20; Navy, 13 1942—N.D., 9; Navy, 0 1943—N.D., 33; Navy, 6 1944—N.D., 13; Navy, 32
Totals—244	107
N.D. Won 14, Lost 4
GEORGIA TECH
1922—N.D., 13; G. Tech, 3
1923—N.D., 25; G. Tech, 7
1924—N.D., 34; G. Tech, 3
1925—N.D., 13; G. Tech, 0
1926—N.D., 12; G. Tech, 0
1927—N.D., 26; G. Tech, 7
1928—N.D., 0; G. Tech, 13
1929—N.D., 26; G. Tech, 6
1938—N.D., 14; G. Tech, 6
1939—N.D., 17; G. Tech, 14
1940—N.D., 26; G. Tech, 20
1941—N.D., 20; G. Tech, 0
1942—N.D., 6; G. Tech, 13
1943—N.D., 55; G. Tech, 13
1944—N.D., 21; G. Tech., 0
Totals—208	105
N.D. Won 13. Lost 2
Notre Dame All-Time Football Record
U. S. MILITARY ACAD. 1913—N.D., 35; Anny, 13 1914—N.D., 7; Anny, 20 1915—N.D., 7; Army, 0 1916—N.D., 10; Army, 30 1917—N.D., 7; Army, 2
GREAT LAKES
1918—N.D., 7; G. Lakes, 7 1942—N.D., 13; G. Lakes, 13 1943—N.D., 14; G. Lakes, 19 1944—N.D.. 28; G. Lakes, 7
Totals— 62	46
N.D. Won 1, Lost 1, Tied 2
Year	Won	Lost	Tied	Year	Won	Lost	Tied	Year	Won	Lost	Tied
1887	0	1	0	1909	7	0	1	1929*	9	0	0
1888	1	2	0	1910	4	1	1	1930*	10	0	0
1889	1	0	0	1911	6	0	2	1931	6	2	1
1892	1	0	1	1912	7	0	0	1932	7	2	0
1893	4	0	0	1913	7	0	0	1933	3	5	1
1894	3	2	1	1914	5	2	0	1934	6	3	0
1895	3	1	0	1915	7	1	0	1935	7	1	1
1896	4	3	0	1916	8	1	0	1936**	6	2	1
1897	4	1	1	1917	6	1	1	1937**	6	2	1
1898	4	2	0	1918	3	1	2	1938**	8	1	0
1899	6	3	1	1919**	9	0	0	1939	7	2	0
1900	6	3	1	1920**	9	0	0	1940	7	2	0
1901	8	1	1	1921**	10	1	0	1941	8	0	1
1902	5	2	1	1922	8	1	1	1942	7	2	2
1903	8	0	1	1923	9	1	0	1943*	9	1	0
1904	5	3	1	1924*	10	0	0	1944	9	2	0
1905	5	4	0	1925	7	2	1				—
1906	6	1	0	1926	9	1	0	Totals 345		75	27
1907	6	0	1	1927	7	1	1	*National Champions			
1908	8	1	0	1928	5	4	0	Western Champions			
Thirty-two
Band Thrills Crowds at Home Games
Last Saturday afternoon the Notre Dame Band completed another series of presentations designed to embellish the home appearances of the “Fighting Irish” football squad. Because of transportation difficulties the band was unable to accompany the team as in former years, nevertheless they succeeded
Director H. Lee Hope
in maintaining their policy of presenting a different set of new and original formations at each of the games at which they appeared during the season. To replace the usual band trip the University entertained the men of last semester’s band with an excellent turkey dinner at the Hotel La Salle in South Bend shortly before the end of the semester. The band that represented the University during the season was in reality two bands. This was due to the necessity of reorganizing the band after the change of semesters that occurred at mid-season.
For the opening home game of the season the band presented as excellent review which featured the formations: tulane, champ, a huge clock in which the hands moved to introduce appropriate musical selections, and finallj7 an outline of the golden dome. At the Wisconsin game the band presented formations including: A tricky marching maneuver in mid-field called a “double fake double to the rear march,” a large outline of a badger for Wisconsin, U.S.M.C. in tribute to the Marines who were shortly to be withdrawn from the V-12 unit at the University, and a cannon out of which a human bullet was shot to /smash a Swastika after which the band
formed N.D. and played the “Victory March.”
The Northwestern game was the first home game of the new semester and a newly reorganized Notre Dame Band came through with a very creditable performance of formations including: wild-cats for Northwestern, a large dollar sign for the Sixth War Loan Drive, and ROCK for Notre Dame. The band climaxed its season of football formations with a sparkling review for the Great Lakes game which featured the playing of “Jingle Bells” as the band came on the field followed by a marching three-step to the tune of “Skaters Waltz,” lakes was formed for the visitors, and merry-xmas was accompanied by “Deck the Halls with Boughs of Holly” and “I Heard Bells on Christmas Day.” The show was completed by the formation of a huge Christmas tree adorned with ornaments almost five feet in diameter and two Santa • Clauses twirling batons to the tune of “I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas.”
It is quite obvious that few realize the complexity of the many details contingent to a single appearance of the Notre Dame Band. These shows are planned weeks in advance and for each minute of public performance many hours of intricate and skilled preparations are necessary. To list even a few of the formalities and processes con
At half-time, the band goes on maneuvers
nected with these shows would require far too much space. Possibly a small idea of these problems can be gathered from a consideration of the number of men and the amount of equipment involved. Also those who know how hard it is to please a drill master when one is marching in straight lines with full use of his faculties should consider the difficulties involved in marching through complex formations while concentrating upon the music and the instrument for which each man is responsible. In addition the paper work of those in charge of band affairs is quite beyond the realm of imagination for the vast majority of people.
In spite of repeated inconsistencies and war-time - difficulties, the Notre Dame Band has succeeded in giving this University one of the best college units in the nation. Again space prevents the recognition due to all of the men who have sacrificed their time and energies to contribute their talents to the University’s band. It is with a considerable sense of pride that they can point to their membership and participation in the activities of the Notre Dame Band. Although the football season has been completed, the band will ocntinue to maintain the musical standards of the completed, the band will continue to season in which it is to play a very active part.
Thirty-three
MEET THE TEAM
(Continued from page 27) connoisseur of outdoor life, particularly fishing and hunting, he also like potatoe pancakes. Despite all the thrills to be gained on the gridiron. Art still claims catching his first bass on a flyrod to be his greatest. And just to be happy in life is the ambition of this tackle, par excellence.
MASTRANGELO, JOHN BATTISTA (CUT), Italian sophomore right guard is from Vandergrift, Pa. At Vandergrift high, John won four football monograms while alternating between tackle and fullback. When not indulging in grid activity, he likes to take time out for tennis and professes an ear for music. He is one of the rarities who liked math in the academic line.
JOHN W. ADAMS
ADAMS, JOHN WILLIAM (TREE), Eng-ish-German senior right tackle is the tallest man on the Notre Dame line, towering 6 feet 7 inches and weighing 218 pounds. John comes from the farm territory of Charleston, Ark., where his parents, six brothers and three sisters are his most enthusiastic rooters. He played football and basketball for Subiaco academy of Subiaco, Ark., and garnered three letters in the former and two in the latter sport. The academy eleven was state non-con-ference co-champion in 1939 and John was named on the all-state team in that year and also in 1940. Relief man for Lou Rym-kus in '42 and for Ziggie Czarobski last year, he is one of the few monogram men returning from the 1943 National Championship outfit but his play in the spring and summer drills netted him the Frank Hering award as the most-improved lineman. Fried chicken, southern style, tops his food list and his biggest athletic thrill came when he blocked four punts in one game.
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS (Continued from page 31)
Wilfrid Smith, Chicago Tribune:
“Nine Notre Danie backs scored ten touchdowns this afterncon in Fenway Park to overwhelm Dartmouth’s helpless Indians, 64-0, the highest Irish football score since the Haskell Indians were licked 12 years ago, 73 to 0. Forty thousand—a crowd that occupied all seats and overflowed into the corners of the field—watched Notre Dame’s parade of power and passes against an opponent unable to gain on the ground and which only twice got inside of Notre Dame’s 20 yard line.”
Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“Notre Dame, rolling on unbeaten, untied and not scored upon, was a football facsimile of a hurricane here today as it roared through its first Boston appearance of all time with a 64-0 victory over Dartmouth College’s overmatched and overpowered young squad before a capacity audience of 40,000 in Fenway Park. This crushing triumph, added to earlier victories over Pittsburgh and Tulane, leaves the new young Fighting Irish force with a record of 148 points scored and none given up in three games. Today’s devastating splurge represents the largest score achieved by any Notre Dame team since 1932, when Haskell Institute was beaten, 73-0.”
Dave Egan, Boston Advertiser:
“The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, rampaging along the road that leads toward another national championship, paid their first visit to Boston yesterday afternoon and the Dartmouths wish they had not. Rolling up the highest score that any Notre Dame eleven had achieved since anno Domini 1932, when they outpointed the Haskell Indians by the margin of 73-0, the kids in the Kelly green anvilled and cudgelled Dartmouth to a humiliating 64-0 defeat at Fenway Park, yesterday afterncon, before an awed audience that filled each nook and corner of the park.”
Jim Costin, Sports Editor,
South Bend Tribune:
“The 1944 Notre Dame football team, about which so many of us were feeling so sad because it was made up of practically nothing but boys of no previous college experience, exploded all over the Pitt stadium before 55,000 astonished fans this afternoon to hand the Panthers a 58 to 0 lacing.”
Ed Costello, Boston Herald:
Forty thousand football fans jammed their way into Fenway Park yesterday afternoon with one thought in mind.
(Continued on page 37)

5
Notre
$
Dame
Jackets
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
a
121 W. Colfax Ave.
£
2£222££2£22£2£2S2£22££2S3
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler

A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
A Christmas Suggestion for a Notre Dame Gift
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS
$5.00
THE SET
Notre Dame—100 Years" and "Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell"
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame. Indiana
Thirty-four
Bob Brown is Fons'
Cheerleader de Luxe
BY MORGAN ("Boake") CARTIER
Amid the thundering excitement of gridiron warfare echoing from the stadium Saturday, there has never been a doubt of fans being “aware” of the presence of a certain cheerleader de luxe. His “bobby-sox” fans literally tear down the stadium with their husky yells from the end zone, as he goes through his weekly routine. The amount of applause he draws, along with his extreme popularity act as his reference. His cartwheels, jumps, handstands, and physical antics are the hit of every game.
His name has been of great interest to the “bobby-soxer.” Cheerleader Bob Brown, better known as “Peabody” or “Ensign,” is a senior V-12 electrical engineering student in his more serious moments. Versatile “Peabody” holds down the first battalion Commander’s job as well as being vice-president of the local student chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Now that Seaman Brown has passed his 21st birthday ( a feat he accomplished this past week) he just dares anyone to ask for his ID card. Pea-
body considers the biggest triumph in his career the “Brown Incident” of the recent Northwestern game which endeared him to the St. Mary’s girls, and put him on “People-to-dislike” list of the V-7 sailors stationed on campus.
Brown has great plans for the future, however, after his discharge from the navy. He plans on retiring after graduation to a sheep ranch in Colorado, where he will concentrate on developing a more intelligent breed of sheep by feeding them his old test papers and his EE lab reports.
Cris Hits It On The Nose
As the football season came to a colorful close last week, so did the Scholastic Student Poll. This week, congratulations are extende’d to Cris Rehkopf, civilian freshman from Memphis, Tenn., who predicted that we would beat Great Lakes by a score of 27 to 7. This was the first time this season that anyone had picked the exact score of a Notre Dame game. Although Cris is now taking a pre-med course, it is believed his knack of forecasting the score would make him an excellent profit if put to use early enough. Congratulations, Cris!
—Chuck Sartore
The Oliver Hotel
I
e

$
§
W
$
Place your out-of-town orders now — save wiring expense and last minute rush.
Cut Flowers
Potted Plants

7^
I
I I i i %
i i
i i i s i
WILLIAMS THE FLORIST 1
West of the Oliver Hotel
Phone 3-5149
I 3
&
3
The FIGHTING IRISH
Thirty-five
The Foolball Irish Off the Gridiron
It’s a long, busy day for football men at Notre Dame. The daily routine is crowded with a variety of activities, leaving less than two hours for daily practice. In each hall, bells ring early. After Mass and Morning Prayers, there is the morning trek to the dining hall for a good substantial breakfast — on game days, a huge steak and baked potato with trimmings, mountains of toast and milk. From there it’s to classes. Then comes the noon meal, which Trainer “Scrap” Young says must be very light — tea and toast, nothing more. After that, it’s more classes, and then to practice. After the drills on the turf of Cartier Field, the boys trod hungrily to the dining hall where they satisfy their appetites with the victuals necessary to keep a group of earnest gridders in top shape. In their humble opinion (they will tell you) no man has ever had enough steak — it isn’t possible to provide that much. And the same is true of roast beef. Here, we see the boys at their evening meal — the entire squad sitting side by side, table after table, and very busy.
Then at night, there is the get-together for a few minutes each evening, talking things over in general, — some football, some studies, and just plain talking. In this informal shot, a group of the players have gathered in historic Sorin Hall for a few minutes of cramming for tomorrow’s quiz. Football or no football, everyone had better be sharp. Here we see the
EVENING MEAL IN THE DINING HALL — LIKE A FILLING STATION
learned “Dr.” Szymanski drawing a delicate distinction in a disputed point with Capt. Pat Filley, as the others look on in admiration.
Adams, Szymanski, Dancewicz, Kelly. Filley, and Toczylowski.
The Best I've Seen
"On 13 dates, which provided 14 games, a great many fine football players came into view, operat'ng for a total of 16 different teams. . . Were I to want a composite team of that entire group, judging only on what the young men did on the days I I saw them, I think I would wind up with Bob Jenkins of Navy, Glenn Davis and Doc Blanchard of Army and Les Horvath of Ohio State as a backfield. . . Up front wou'd be Poole of Army and Dugger of Ohio State at ends, Sullivan of Notre Dame and Whitmire of Navy at tackes, Hackett of Ohio State and Serpico of Illinois at guards and Szymanski of Notre Dame at center."
IIM KEARNS, Chicago “Sun"
Thirty-six
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS (Continued from page 34) They had heard and read for years that when it comes to football Notre Dame teams are good. They wanted the Fighting Irish of South Bend, Ind., to prove it. And prove it they did, sending 40,000 football fans away from Thomas A. Yawkey’s baseball house satisfied after watching the football activity of Notre Dame against Dartmouth college for two hours and 36 minutes.”
Joe Trimble, New York Daily News:
“The mighty host of Notre Dame paid their first visit to staid old Boston this afternoon and left the Beaneaters agape as they ground a hapless eleven from Dartmouth into the Fenway Park sod by a 64-0 score. Lured by the magic name of Notre Dame, a capacity crowd of 40,000 came out and marveled at the brilliance of the Irish eleven as it whirled through 10 touchdowns.”
Howell Stevens, Boston Post:
“Immortal Notre Dame, king-pin of the American football firmament for the last quarter of a century, added fresh lustre to its gridiron fame in its Boston bow at Fenway Park yesterday, the dazzling-, green-shirted dervishes, directed by Texas Ed McKeever, blitzing a game but thoroughly outclassed Dartmouth team, 64 to 0, as a capacity crowd of more than 40,000 spectators watched in awe.”
ternoon. Jimmy Brennan, who stands all of 5 feet, 7 inches in height and weighs 155 pounds in his heavier moments, scampered across the goal line on long runs twice within the first ten minutes of action against Northwestern this afternoon, and sparked his team to a 21-0 victory before some 48,000 well-chilled customers in the Notre Dame stadium.”
SEE HERE!
The Navy Store is now equipped with a stock of:
NAVY STORE
Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun:
“Eighteen-year-old Jimmy Brennan of Milwaukee, a freshman left halfback, whose program weight is 155 pounds, today escorted Notre Dame back into the path of victory, if not football glory, with two darting first quarter touchdown runs that sparked the Irish to a 21-0 verdict over hapless Northwestern.”
Slate grey Regu'ation NAVY SHIRTS TIES SOCKS HANDKERCHIEFS
Zero Deck, Dining Holl
Irving Vaughan, Chicago Tribune:
“Notre Dame’s football power plant, although minus Bob Kelly, its No. 1 dynamo, had no trouble turning on enough juice today to hang a defeat on Northwestern’s hapless but willing Wildcats, before a stadium crowd of 48,COO. The Irish bounced back from their decisive trimmings at the hands of Navy and Army to register a 21-0 success that unveiled another squirming, fancy stepping ball carrier in the person of Jim Brennan, 155 pound freshman from Milwaukee ”
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“Two quick touchdowns in the first six and a half minutes of play, and another in the fourth quarter to climax a 50-yard drive, gave Notre Dame’s youthful football team a 21-0 victory over Northwestern’s just-as-youthful squad yesterday afternoon in the Notre Dame stadium before 48,000.”
Leo Fischer,
Chicago Her aid-American:
“It took the smallest man on Notre Dame’s big football squad to put the Irish back on the Victory road this af-
ELLSWORTH'S 112+h CHRISTMAS
Gifts for everyone on your Christmas list!
For the "Girls"
Perfumes ..........2.00	to 22.50
Jewelry............1,00	to 45.00
Lingerie ............... 2.50 up
Handbags  ..............—. 5.00
Hosiery ...........   -. 1.01
From Our Men's Shop
Shirts .... Ties ... Sweaters Billfold
2.24 up ___ 1.00 ___ 3.50 ___ 2.00
Thirty-seven

Capt. Pat Filley: “Being able to play again for Notre Dame.”
Bob Kelly: “Playing football for Notre Dame.”
George Sullivan: “Being acting captain when Pat Filley was out of the line-up.”
Frank Szymanski: “Playing 57 minutes without dropping in the Army game.”
Nunzio Marino: “Starting the Notre Dame-Army game and making a touchdown in the Dartmouth game.”
Pete Berezney: “Making a bona fide tackle which knocked out a Dartmouth Indian.”
John “Tree” Adams: “Beating Tulane.”
Ken Schuster: “Playing in the Army game.”
Fred Rovai: “Recovering a fumble in the Illinois game.”
Art Mergenthal: “Starting the Wisconsin game.”
Elmer Angsman: “Running 75 yards for a TD against Wisconsin and then having the play called back for offside.”
Jim Brennan: “Making first touchdown in Northwestern game.”
Frank Dancewicz: “Watching Brennan make first touchdown in Northwestern game.”
Joe Gasparella: “Beating former teammates at Pitt.”
George Martz: “Beating Georgia Tech, 21-0.”
Tom Guthrie: “Playing in the Army game at New York.”
—John Mastrangelo: “Starting in the Pitt game.”
Steve Nemeth: “Going 60 yards for a TD in the Dartmouth game.”
Chick Maggioli: “Making the winning touchdown against Illinois.”
Doug Waybright: “Starting against, and beating Georgia Tech.”
Marty Wendell: “Playing in the Illinois game.”
Mark Limont: “Scoring a touchdown in the Pitt game.”
Steve Toczylowski: “Playing before hometown crowd at Boston.”
■Joe Westenkirchner: “Starting against Northwestern.”
Frank Ruggerio: “Beating Georgia Tech, 21-0.”
Ed Fay: “Playing with Notre Dame in the Pitt game.”
John Glaab: “ Getting in and being able to play foi' Notre Dame.”
Ray Franklin: “Being able to go out for the team.”
Joe Yonto: “Being able to nlay for
ND.”	*
Dan Huntoon.: “Being able to be a member of an ND. team.”
Thirty-eight
Mike Ganey: “Watching Kelly • to Maggioli lateral that won the Illinois game.”
Art Archer: “Beating Georgia Tech, 21-0.”
Rich Bernhardt: “Being on a Notre Dame team.”
Carl Eilers: “Dressing for the Northwestern game and having a chance to play for Notre Dame.”
Peter Ricciardi: “Dressing next to George Martz all year.”
Chuck Yakemonis: “Being with the fellows on the ND team.”
Vince Scott: “Playing a couple of times on the offense with the varsity in scrimmage.”
Bob Hull: “Get.ing to scrimmage against the first two teams.”
Bob White: “Coming to Notre Dame.”
John Durata: “Playing with the boys here.”
George Rebman: “Being on the squad.”
Dick Janson: “Being on a great Notre Dame football squad.”
Charles May: “Playing on the offense once.”
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CANDY
TOBACCO
PIPES
STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
THE HUDDLE
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
SOUTH shoRE
Managers-Behind the Scenes Burden-Bearers
—Are a Main Cog in Athletic Machine
By JACK MILES
'	"Scholastic" Sports Writer
his destination, he engages a truck to carry the equipment to the stadium. The day of the game, he lays the uniforms out, then settles back and waits for the team. Finally, he is responsible for getting the equipment back to Notre Dame. The tall, blond Hoosier is majoring in Accounting.
Great stars have sported the Gold and Blue and brought glory to Notre Dame. But behind these teams is an indispensable organization, the Managers’ Staff.
This organization, started by the late Knute Rockne, operates on a system
that is copied by many colleges. As a freshman, you are one of the many freshman managers who perform various functions at the whim of the head
His roommate, Ted Rademaker, is the associate manager in charge of equipment. He works with equipment head McAllister, and is responsible to him. Ted is also a junior, hailing from Peru, Ind. His schedule on trips differs great
ly from that of the head manager. He leaves with the equipment the day before the team entrains. Upon reaching
More Always Welcome
The other associate is another junior. He is Ernie Rauscher, who is probably best remembered as one of the 127-pound finalists in last Spring’s Bengal Bouts. He assists the other managers in their work, does personnel work, and types many of the official communiques. Bloomfield, N. J., claims him as a native son. Ernie is a student in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in English.
manager. The sophomore managers are a smaller, more select group who have much the same duties as the freshman, but usually not as rigorous. The junior managers generally are about three in number, and have much of the “whitecollar” work. From their midst comes . the senior manager. He is the business; the money man; the boss. Because of the business-training managers receive, they are often in demand by large firms and corporations.
lohn Grail in Charge
The war has altered this system somewhat. Tall, bespectacled Johnny Graif, a junior, handles the head manager’s job. Johnny, who calls Mankato, Minn., home, does most of the typing (practice notices, letters to other coaches, etc.). Some people think that when the Irish go on a trip, they just arrive automatically. This matter, however, becomes quite a headache to Mr. Graif. He is responsible for getting the players excused from classes, holding the train tickets, checking on hotel reservations, securing transportation to and from the stadium, and doling out spending money to the team. The scholarly-looking Graif considers his experience a boon in his studies. He is majoring in Business Administration.
CONGRATULATIONS to the Notre Dame Eleven of '44
BRENNAN, Left Halfback O'CONNOR, End SULLIVAN, Left Tackle CAPT. FILLEY, Guard SZYMANSKI, Center ROVAI, Guard MERGENTHAL, Right Tackle SKOGLUND, End DANCEWICZ, Quarterback MAGGIOLI, Left Halfback KELLY, Right Halfback ANGSMAN, Fullback GASPARELLA, Fullback WESTENKIRCHNER, Right Guard MARTZ, Left Guard RAY, Center ADAMS, Left Tackle WENDELL, Fullback NEMETH, Left Halfback GUTHRIE, End
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
I l5'/z-l l7’/z N. Main Street
Thirty-nine
NOTRE DAME, OUR MOTHER Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue, Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
VICTORY MARCH
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue
And cheer with voices true:
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
Chorus:
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky. Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Chorus:
And when the Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through, They’ll sweep the foemens ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
★ ★ ★
DOWN THE LINE
On down the line! beside the glory of her name,
On down the line! beneath the colors of an ancient fame, On down the line! another day for her proclaim;
Old Gold and Blue — you’re going through! Go down the line for Notre Dame!
★ ★ ★
HIKE SONG
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it’s the hike, hike of victory, The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high, Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
Have a Coca-Cola = Put ’er there, old timer
.. .or greeting new pals in Ketchikan In Alaska, just as here in the States, to say Have a “Coke” is to say Pal, we're right glad you’re here, just as it does in your own home. In many lands around the globe, the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola has become a symbol of a friendly way of living.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
Forty
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued on page 29)
Second Ditto: “What makes you think so?”
First Dodo: “We’re hitting more people.”
IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE
While reading the Carnegie Tech Tartan, we were surprised to discover’ that the editor-in-chief and the managingeditor are husband and wife.
HURRAH FOR OUR SIDE
“They hit the line, they run the ends—
They flip ’em long and short—
Our Hoosier lads build up the grads
Who go for gridiron sport.
Hcernschemeyer is back with Bo’s I.U., Bob Kelly sparks the Gold and Blue;
They’re backfield rich at Old Purdue— Let others weep and wail!
“The single wing possesses sting
For Indiana’s men—
And Irish ‘T’ is bringing glee
To Notre Dame again—
Purdue has four who seem to play
A lot of backfield every way,
I guess this IS the Hoosier’s day
Along the gridiron trail.”
(J. V. A., in the Indianapolis Nezus).
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
❖	PHOTOGRAPHY	❖
❖	For the pictures appearing in this ❖
issue, the SCHOLASTIC is grateful ❖
* to Don Ferstel, and to staff photographer Charles Renaud.
❖	The Editors ❖
❖ ❖
♦J*	♦*«
THE SHILLELAGH (Continued from page 32)
Don’t forget good old “Scrap” Young. There’s plenty of work turned out in the dressing room that some people never see and a lot of people forget. Don’t forget!
Bob Skoglund arid Marty Wendell played good ball all the time they were in the game.
To all of Notre Dame’s ten opponents I believe we ought to say “We’re glad to have met you — Yes, that means Army and Navy, too, — hope to keep on seeing you!”
Jim Dailer was stepping along like a pretty good halfback after his important interception in the Great Lakes game. That might be considered as the turning point of the contest.
Well, we’re signing off. Notre Dame is proud of all the boys, all the coaches, all the time. See you all later!
F/bstAjd FOR THE TANKS
South Bend Lathe

SOUTH BEND 22, INDIANA LATHE BUILDERS FOR 37 YEARS
Hurtling at top speed over rough terrain, fighting dust and dirt as well as enemy shell fire, even the toughest of tanks may occasionally call for mechanical first aid.
Dangerously close to the battle lines, gallant crews of skilled technicians follow with their mobile machine shops ready to make emergency repairs on any ailing tank and speed it back into action. And there are not many jobs they can't do in the field, for their equipment is carefully selected to provide the utmost versatility and precision.
An essential tool in the mobile shop is the lathe. We are proud that one of our wartime assignments is to supply South Bend Precision Lathes for these indispensable units in America’s motorized army.
Works
Forty-one
JOT THIS
DOWN
MR. SANTA!
When you are in a "Help! Help!" spot telephone, ask "in person," write to . . .
Joan Navarre
Wyman's Personal Shopper
MEET THE MEN BEHIND THE LINE (Continued from page 30) any game, it is necessary that he telephone Mr. Duley, otherwise he is subject to dismissal.
Mr. Duley is glad to announce that since the beginning of the war, more than 350 ushers have been called to the colors, but that on their return, their old positions, together with their rank, will be waiting for them.
To augment this staff of ushers, police officers are stationed all over the stadium.
These ushers, especially those with titles, think a great deal of their work, and do everything possible to maintain themselves in their positions. The supervisory officers deserve a great deal of credit; all hold regular or executive positions in firms downtown, but they never hesitate to come to help plan, and to iron out details and make necessary lay-outs for the coming game.
Together with the banners, the college “kids,” both fancied and real, the heavy football blankets, and all that makes the football atmosphere, the pattern includes all these groups and organizations behind the scenes. The wonderful spectacles of the past season will live and re-live in the minds of all true Notre Dame fans.
ATTENDANCE FIGURES
Pittsburgh ..............  60,000
Tulane ..................  45,000
Dartmouth ................ 40,000
Wisconsin .................40,000
Illinois ................. 65,000
Navy ....................  65,000
Army ......................76,000
Northwestern ............  48,000
Georgia Tech ..............30,000
Great Lakes................38,000
STOP NOW
at the
BOOKSTORE
for the
Christmas Gifts
you want to mail!
507,000
1943 Attendance .......504,000
N. D. Jewelry
N. D. Pillows
Confide your gift troubles to her and in a trice they will be answered more than satisfactorily ... in fact with pleasure and success!
South Bend 24, Ind.
amination of the eyes.
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Souvenirs
Christmas Cards
BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
Forty-two
EXCERPTS FROM EXPERTS (Continued from page 23) comparatively little—just as his predecessor, Frank, Leahy, predicted he would. The South Bend contingent has all of the old Notre Dame fire and spirit. It also has a better-than-fair passing attack, while Kelly is liable to go all the way for a touchdown every time he gets his hands on the ball.”
Arch Ward, Sports
Editor, Chicago Tribune:
“The 11th of November has come and gone and Notre Dame has not sought an armistice in its gridiron warfare with the Army. . . . Notre Dame is not the only organization that has learned that 1944 is Uncle Sam’s year on the land, on the sea, and in the air. . . . There are many in New York today who are criticizing Lt. Col. Earl Blaik, West Point coach, for piling up a 59 to 0 score on the Irish in Yankee stadium yesterday afternoon. . . . They point out that Notre Dame last year and on many other occasions could have rolled up a count equally as decisive, but somehow always managed to slow its attack after acquiring a comfortable lead. . . . None of these complaints originates with Notre Dame men. . . . For one thing, Army had waited 13 years to win a football game from the Irish. . . . The Cadets had been on top only five times in 30 years prior to yesterday’s engagement. . . . Nobody
can honestly say that Army hadn’t demonstrated its ability to take it. . . . The same goes for Notre Dame. . . . That’s why the Army-Notre Dame series has been football’s greatest attraction these many years. . . .
“Coach Ed McKeever and his players swallowed hard as they left the field and then hurried back to South Bend to regroup their forces for a fresh start in
Mr. Arch Ward
1945. . . . With the exception of Navy, we can think of no college team in the land that could have done much better than did Notre Dame. ... The Irish were up against an Army team that probably will be recognized as the greatest ever put together. . . . Victory over Navy is all it will take to prove it. . . . Notre Dame now gets back into competition
with teams somewhere in its class, Northwestern, Georgia Tech, and Great Lakes. ... It will be interesting to see how the squad rebounds from the most disastrous two weeks in gridiron conflict in the university’s history. ... If it wins two of the three games ... no easy assignment . . . McKeever’s eleven will have a record of seven victories and three defeats, which is good enough for any school playing the kind of schedule arranged for Notre Dame. . . . The events of the last three weeks, which include that narrow victory over Illinois, prove one point definitely . . . Notre Dame does not have all the great football talent in the land, as many have charged. ... It has a squad made up substantially of 17- and 18-year-old boys who perhaps plays a bit harder than do similar groups at other universities because that’s the spirit of Notre Dame.”
BLOCK BROS
CORNER MICHIGAN uo WASHINGTON
GIFTS
for those at home— beautifully boxed and wrapped.
Well Done Fighting Irish!
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY.
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4.5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.
M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-406 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-XS74
Forty-three