

YOU'VE SAID IT ALU 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
.­

-' ---­
4
~ r' ~ ; , _ -::. _ ~ ' 
4 
--:. ---,._;-_,_ 
-. 

april 14, 1971 notre dame, ind.
scholastic 
volume 112, no. 18 

course evaluation booklet/spring 1971 
4 preface 5 sample 6 american studies 8 art 11 economics 15 english 26 general program 29 government 35 history 38 modern and classical languages 41 music 43 non-violence 44 philosophy 48 psychology 52 sociology 55 theology 
course evaluation editor: stephen dixon 
editors-in-chief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz art director: rick fitzgerald associate editors: tom macken, greg stidham assistant editors: jim fanto, joan jeanette deegan, mike mccabe sports editor: don kennedy business: howie sutton/ circulation: cliff zmick faculty adviser: frank o'malley staff. john banks-brooks, greg chinchar, bob garvey, phil 
glotzbach, tom gora, mike mooney, joe runde, patrick smith, bill wilka business and circulation: joe leahy, ran hein, jack deschauer, marty zone art and photography: mary kay hoida, jim hunt, michael lonier, pam seifert 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScHoLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished weekly during the school year except during vacation and e."3Dlipation periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at AVE MARIA PRESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FooTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
Preface 
It is, perhaps, presumptuous to think that students are· sufficiently qualified to evaluate the contents of courses or the ability and performance of teachers. Considering also the· man­ner in which evaluators are chose~ arid the way in which these hastily selected evaluators hastily put together their evaluations, it is still more presumptuous to think that the analysis will be justified. But without some written student reaction to courses and professors, there is sure to be little or no faculty or adminis­tration response to what is obviously or very subtlely inadequate in the formal education offered at Notre Dame. We at the Sc:a:oLASTIC have a vision of education as more _than the sopo­rific transferal of knowledge from a superior authority to passive . recipients. \Ve also believe that Notre Dame must be more than a glorified trade school or an indifferent transitional stage. It is our hope that this booklet will be instrumental in stimulating the vitality and freedom that we believe education should ·be. Of course, the most obvious purpose of the Teacher-Course Evalua­tion hooklet is to provide students with enough information· to enable them. to choose weHwhat courses and/or teachers will be most beneficial to their peculiar academic orientation. But, it is with the higher purpose of stimulating Lh.oughtful, valuable, and critical· response to education at Notre Dame that the ScHC>­LASTIC once again offers the Teacher-Course Evaluation booklet to tl1e faculty, administration, and· students or' Notre Dame. · 
A communication problem betv,een student government, the Observer, and the SCHOLASTIC and our poor bookkeeping methods have necessitated even more haste than the haste with which we have assembled past issues of this booklet. Because of the short space of time between verification of printing and class registra­tion, the evaluations of some courses in each department will, simply, not be included. We apologize. . 
Special gratitude is extended to Steve Brion, Carolyn Gatz, Ed Sanna, George, Gene, Dee, and the Indiana BelI Telephone Com­pany without .whose aid, encouragement~ and pa_tience the fifth edition of the ScHOLAST1c's Teacher-Course Evaluation booklet would not have beeri possible. . · ·. 
St.eve Dixon 

. Course Evaluation Staff 
American Studies/Bob Fulton, chairman 
Chris Bale, Gregory Caputo, Rick Smith; Mary Catherine Stevens, 
Paul Waddy 
Art/Kevin Booher_ and Ken Juranek, chairmen Sal Graziano, Roland ·Rodriguez, Chuck Broyard, . Kevin 
O'Connell 
Economics/Joe Hotz, chairman Steve Azzare1li, Warren Casey; Joe Cassini, Ned Cavanaugh, Pat Deurr, Tom Duffy, Tom Fisch~r, Peter Ianini, ·Mike Kelle­her, Mal MacDonald~ Jim S~aman,_Georg~ Stell; Chris ·W~lfe 
English/Brian O'Neill, chairman Steve Ahem, Rob Bartel«:!tti, Sue Brander, Steven Brion, ·Bruce, Broilet, Michael Cervas, Tim Corrigan, Joan Deegan, Dennis. Devlin, John-Dwyer, Jim Fanto, Rick Fitzgerald, Carolyn Gati:, Tom Gora, John Hessler, Rory .Holscher,_ Rick_ Hom~n~ Tim Jacob, Russell Kempiners, Al Koenig, Ted. Marciniak, 13ob Mastro, James Moran, Kristin Purkrabek,· _Bob Smid~~,-Dan Sherry, John Yurko 
General Program/Dan Moore, chairman Bob Baxter, Carol Bontempo, Ray Carlson, John: _Moe,, Gil Nadeau, Dennis O'Conn~r, ·Gary R3:isl, John· R4:>mpf; Terry; 
Salzman 
Government/Bob Meyers and Bob .McGill, chairmen. Dave Bach, Pete Barnett, Ted. Cornell, Ed Grimmer; 13ob Hall, Steve Hoffman, Floyd· Kezele, Dave Lan, ·.Becky '._Ma;~k, Pete Masak, Jim Metzger,· Dave · Pais, Bill. Russell, . Dave · Toolan, Mark Winings, Chris Wolfe · · 
. . 

History/Mike ·.Pavlin; chairman Don Kennedy, Chris Wa'lfe 
. . . 

Modem and Classical Languages/Gleason Adams, chairman · ·. · · ' 
.Mary ·Addis, Andre Gosciejew, Toni: Knoles, Chris Kuharich, . Mike McCabe, Jim Martin, Steve Nassbaum, Stuart Schippe.:. reit, George White; Kevin Wifvat 
Ji,fusic/Dee Bacon, chairwoman 
David · Aderente, Bev Be~r, Jan. Bickel, . Pinky Bingham, Paul Cahill, Kathy Larkin ._Hickey, Da~d-Tokarz_. 
. Philosophj,jBoh Garvey, chairma~.: Pete Ballard,. Bryson· Cloon~ Phil ·Glotzbach, Kevin Hoyt, Ted Ludwi~ak, Bob McCarthy, Chuck Ry~n, Walter Secada, with spe­cial. thanks ~o Phil Glotzbach and Walter Secada. · 
Psychology/Bob Paver, chaimian . Rick Brinker, Pat Carroll, Chris Cu.nningham, Marianne Dineen, Mike Graham, Marilyn_ Mohrma;., ·Vince Papa, Bill Rakowski,. Ann Siebenaller, Mike Zakaras, Pat Zawadski 
Sociology/John Brady; chairman : J~h.n_ Amerena, Lew ~abinski, Tini. Connor, Dave Lawson, Fred Meyer, Pat· O'Neill, Ed Scanlan; Tom Vasoli, Dave Zabor, ·Mark Zimmerman 
Theology/Mary Ellen Stoltz, chairwoman Tim Berges, Steve ]?neon,· John Dwyer, Phil Glotzbach, Pat Hayes,' John H. Heinrich, _'!im Kendall, Claire Liebendorfer, John Marquardt, Al Malaragno, Bill ,_Mitchell, Mark O'Connell, ·Tom Rozynek, Mike Saharsky; Walter Secada, James Thunder, 
¥ -~ ' ----~-­
David Tokarz . _. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

the following five-part outline wa.s the key used by notre . dame evaluators in reviewing courses offered in the fall semester. · 
content 
-general description of the course 

. -major emphasis of the course_. · -_· prequisites for the course, if any · -·composition of students in course (e.g., junior and 
senior AL) 


presentatio•n 
-quality and style of lectures 

-qU:ality and style of discussion, if there.is any 
·-relation of lectures and discussions to readings and to test material ( The purpose of. this section is to evaluate the teacher's ability to present his material.) 

readings 
-quality of: worthless or worthwhile? 
. ' ' 

-· quantity of: number of texts, time· given to read re­quired texts · · · · 
-approximate cost of te.xts 


organization 

-assign1nents: papers, projects,· etc. -examinations: number, degree of difficulty . -basis of final grade -average final grade 

comments 

-writer's or intervi~wed students' evaluation: of the course, outside of any consideration of grades, papers, and exams. Is this course, as presented by· the teacher, a significant educational experience? 
-·.. would the writer or the students interviewed take this course again, if they had to do it over? If so,· would· they recommend the course only for majors, or for non-majors, too? · 
-·. included jn most cases are some specific suggestions -. · for improvement of the· course, if it needs improve­
. ment. · 
APRIL· 15, 1971 



American Studies 
American Studies is a recently created department which 

began its functioning under the directorship of Professor Ronald 
Weber in the 1970 fall semester. In its first year of existence, 
the department absorbed the Communication Arts department. 
Structurally, the program of American Studies allows the student to focus on the entire range of the American experience, past and present, and have him view that experience as a cul­tural whole rather than a series of unrelated fragments. To do this, the student combines work in several departments, such as the History, Government and English departments, with integrat­ing seminars given by the American Studies department, to formulate all the knowledge gained into a whole. With this concept in mind, a major in American Studies requires 21 credit hours in upper-division courses in American History, American government, and American literature, with 9 hours in one field and 6 hours in the other two. Another 3 hours will be taken in any other department offering American-centered courses such as Art or Philosophy. Six credit hours will be taken in American Studies seminars, one in the first semester of the junior year, the second, the first semester of the senior year. For those wishing to 
Jrunes Baxter American Studies 457 
" 

Television 
.A..merican Studies 459 Filmmaking 
AMERICAN STUDIES 457 CONTENT: As proposed for Fall, 1971, Television will be a semester-long study of broadcasting-from its early stages at the tum of the century to the present daily developments. Current events is a must in this course and the student will have to be willing to keep abreast of the daily broadcasting news. Although there are no specified prerequisites, the stu­dents in the course (this year mostly senior C-A majors) all seem to have a basic understanding of the power of broadcast­ing and the operation of it. PRESENTATION: The course, as Jim Baxter conducts it, is ideal for the sincere broadcasting student. Baxter's lectures are really nonlectures which involve all the students in a give-and­take. Baxter is at his best during discussions which are frequent and lively. His off-beat sense of humor can liven up such things as a dull list of FCC ruling dates he requires the student to learn. ORGANIZATION: Grading is based on class participation, exam results, and' a project. Baxter's exams are "objective" and relatively easy. He is available at any time for help on the project and he grades it very carefully. Class participation is a heavy factor in his grades and has been known to cause a significant change in a student's expected final mark. Baxter gives few A's, many B's and C's, and a few D's. Failing his course is not common, and nearly impossible if the student just shows up for class. READINGS: Baxter doesn't require many texts. This year he used Responsibility in Mass Communication by Rivers and Schramm ( approximately $8.00) ; and Television Production Handbook by Zettl ($9.95). Both are considered the best in their field by critics of such books. Baxter's lectures don't just repeat what the student has read. Rather he expands on the readings and enlarges the significance of each. COMMENTS: Baxter is a new teacher this year so that he 
emphasize communication, the program is slightly altered to allow for six hours in advanced design and in writing for pub­lication. The student in this program is also expected to pedorm significant work on the campus media. Whether in the first or second program described, the student is urged to take courses in other civilizations to gain a necessary perspective on the American experience. 
The program is extremely flexible, the requirements are simply guidelines, and deviation is not unheard of as long as it can be qualified. The student can create special concentrations for him­self within the broad scope of American Studies. 
Presently, the number of students being accepted into the American Studies program is restricted to the number of students allowed into the seminars. There are hopes to remedy this situa­tion by increasing the number of sections, but for now there are only two junior sections and one senior section. Since American Studies is selective regarding admissions into the department, it is recommended that the student take two lower-division courses within the American field (preferably survey courses) before applying for· the major. 
should be over·any first-year jitters by next semester. This year the course suffered from a lack of cooperation on the part of WNDU Television in providing the class with suitable times to use their studio; and a certain amount of in-fighting within the C-A department prohibited the class from using a studio set up in the old gym at Holy Cross Hall. The strictly lecture format of next season's course should eliminate the problems but at a heavy cost to the student who wishes to learn something of the technical aspect _of broadcasting. 
Baxter's style and personality make the course an easy one to take. Very seldom will the student find himself looking at the clock and chances are that if he is, Baxter, too, is aware of the dullness of the class and will just dismiss it. 
Most students this year found the course enjoyable and in­formative in a way that many other university courses are not. 
AMERICAN STUDIES 459 CONTENTS : This course is designed for those wishing to spend time in practical and theoretical work in the art of the film. The student directs and shoots his own films to be shown to and criticized by his peers in class. In addition, students are responsible for writing critiques of outside movies as they are assigned during the semester. This semester most of the students are juniors and seniors in Arts and Letters. A course in Screen Arts is helpful, and sometimes mentioned as a desired pre­requisite, but not necessary. PRESENTATION: The class itself is not conducted as a lab or workshop. There is no formal classroom instruction on the way to handle equipment, splice film, arrange lighting, etc. Technical problems in students' productions are often brought up in class, however, and discussed and explained at such times. Mr. Baxter's philosophy is that the best way to learn filmmaking is to "go out and start the film rolling through the camera." The core of the class work consists of students presenting their own films, each presentation followed by a period of constructive criticism. Class work also includes discussions of the outside movies assigned to be seen. · MATERIALS: The course entails ·some expense. Students are expected to have access to their own cameras, either Super 8 or 16mm. The .department supplies projectors and splicing equipment. Most students work in Super 8, and the cost of buying and processing a roll of film comes to approximately $5. (3 min. 20 sec./50 ft. of film) The paperback, Guide to Film-
making, by E. Pincus, is suggested as a technical reference for the beginning director. 
ORGANIZATION: Mr. Baxter requires each student to make and present 3 films to the class. This represents 50 per cent of the final grade. This semester 13 critiques are due and the grades received on these make up the other 50 per cent. 
COMMENTS: Mr. Baxter seems to prefer that student interest and incentive produce substance in classroom discussions, and allows class meetings to be very loosely structured and relaxed, sometimes to the point of nonchalance. This semester class discussions on student films have tended to be too uncritical to be very helpful. However, Mr. Baxter writes critiques for each student's films and these, besides being critically instruc­tive, reveal that Mr. Baxter is very knowledgable in his field and very serious about the films being produced. His standard is that the three films show progress in virtuosity and thought. 
Edward A. Fischer American Studies 343 Visual Communications 
American Studies 450 Writing for Publication 

AMERICAN STUDIES 343 CONTENT: Professor Fischer's Visual Communications is a course on communicating effectively through the visual medium. During the semester, it touches upon some fundamental art appreciation, some basic drawing, and some practical applications of visual effects in advertising and publishing. Primarily, how­ever, the course emphasizes an understanding of the characteris­tics of good visual design in an attempt to heighten the student's sensitivity to it. To achieve this purpose, the course includes discussions on the nature of lines, shapes, colors, and values, how the eye perceives them, and thus how to use them most effective­ly in invoking a desired viewer response. PRESENTATION AND ORGANIZATION: There are no prerequi­sites for the course. There are no required readings and no exams per se -the course is comprised of Professor Fischer's lectures and individual projects. The lectures are, for the most part, live­ly and interesting. Mr. Fischer has a talent for making an other­wise complex issue seem relatively simple, which can be a refresh­ing change. He has total command of his subject, but also the finesse to make this highly structured class come alive with virtually every meeting. Mr. Fischer's mien, both in the class­room and out, reflects the professional that he is, and his enthu­siasm for and ability to present his material is an unquestionable asset. The average final grade, which is probably a "B," is based on: the average of the project grades; the regularity with which the student meets his project deadlines; and the student's class­room attendance. Because there are no required readings, Pro­fessor Fischer emphasizes presence at and participation in classroom activities. CoMl\lENT: It is this writer's opinion that for anyone who would like to better understand the nature of visual appeal, this course will prove a valuable educational experience. While most students taking Visual Communications will be juniors and seniors in American Studies, where the course is required, it is not re­stricted to them and would profit anyone who has the interest and energy to sign up. 
AMERICAN STUDIES 450 CoNTENT: The main thrust of this course, obviously, is writing material for publication. There is, however, an exclusive emphasis on magazine writing. Students prepare assignments for campus publications: Insight, the Alumnus, and the Courier. There are no departmental prerequisites for the course, though it is a definite disadvantage if you haven't had some pre­vious writing experiencf:!. It is difficult to learn writing in a classroom, and unless you've done some writing it will take some time to get the hang of various techniques. The CA department suggests the class for students who wish to write professionally. 
APRIL 15, 1971 

Most students in the course are junior and senior Communication Arts majors. 
PRESENTATION: The class meets only for the first two and a half weeks of the semester, During this time, Professor Fischer lectures on general writing tips, and even reads a few of his own articles as examples. Students are then given their first assign­ments and meet with Fischer individually at regular intervals to discuss their progress and any problems with the article. Pro­fessor Fischer is always available -in fact, he seems eager ­to help students iron out the rough spots and to suggest different approaches. 
READINGS AND ORGANIZATION: Though there are no readings and no texts, Professor Fischer suggests that each student spend a minimum of 8 hours a week working on the assignments. Depending on the subject matter of your article, and your famil­iarity with it, you can spend considerably more or considerably less time doing the assignments. During the semester, most stu­dents will complete two long magazine articles. All work will be completed by April 22; and the class will again meet at the reg­ular class session in several postmortem sessions. A literary agent will meet with the class during one session -at the faculty club -to discuss ways of having your work published in national magazines. 
COMMENT: It is difficult to evaluate effectively a course like this, particularly because writing courses are relatively free form. You'll get out of the class only what you put into it. At times, Professor Fischer's opening lectures seemed weak, but there· s only so much one can say about keeping sentences short and avoiding cliches. In Professor Fischer's class, the best way to learn to write is by doing assignments and solving the problems encountered along the way. This course is ideal for students who enjoy writing but don't have the self-discipline to do it if it isn't for a grade. Anyone who has had Professor Fischer for Visual Communications knows that his lack of toleration for missed deadlines can quickly shore up any lack of discipline you might feel. 
John W. Nieaney American Studies 451 The Frontier in American Development 
American Studies 453 The American Cinema 
AMERICAN STUDIES 451 CONTENT: The Frontier in American Development will look at the American Western Movement, to attempt to understand how it reflected and formed the American values of rugged in­dividualism and the Protestant ethic. Its major emphasis will be to analyze the interaction between individual values and the frontier environment to discover what the frontier experience con­.tributed to the American culture and what kind of people we are as seen in the frontier movement. For· further insights, Prof. Meaney will compare the American experience to frontier move­ments that occurred in other countries -such as those in South America, and the Russian Eastern Movement. There will be no prerequisites for the course, but a good knowledge of American history and culture is recommended. ORGANIZATION: The course will be taught in seminar form; enrollment will be limited to twenty students. No definite read­ing list has been drawn up as yet, but the readings will include The Great Plains, Walter Prescott Webb; Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, R. H. Tawney; and Frontier and Section, Frederick Jackson Turner. Besides the readings Prof. Meaney also has a collection of video tapes of Walter Prescott Webb discussing his thesis on the Western Movement with prominent American and European historians who had studied the phenomenon. The tapes were made while Prof. Meaney was studying under \V. P. Webb at the University of Texas. COMMENTS: The course is for one who desires to understand the relationship between civilization and environment, for the frontier is its genesis; what comes after is simply growing pains. 

AMERICAN STUDIES 4-53 CONTENT: The American Cinema will be an attempt to analyze the cinema as evidence of the American rationale; the film tells us something about ourselves and exhibits our values. The course will basically be a history of the· American cinema, treating each film in its chronological order. Every type of film from G. W. Griffith's massive productions ( cast of millions), to the modem-day low-budget films ( casts of acting directors, three walk-ons and a dog paid in biscuits) will be examined. The main emphasis of the course will be to assess the value of the Hollywood system of production. PRESENTATION: Prof. Meaney formerly taught the Screen Arts course. The American Cinema was created to get away from the massive confusion intrinsic to courses with an enrollment of 200 students. Enrollment in American Cinema will be limited to forty students. There will not be as many films as there were in Screen Arts; screenings will be every other class period instead of every class period. With this class plan, Prof. Meaney will be able to allow discussion and have more evaluative lectures on the films. COMMENT: Students in Screen Arts felt that Prof. Meaney was a well-prepared lecturer but had an extreme amount of diffi­culty relating to the class. He had trouble keeping the attention of the class, but it was admitted that it was due as much to the technical problems of amplification as it was due to him. It is felt that with a much smaller class, Prof. Meaney, due to his knowledge of the subject and preparedness, will be able to teach a much more interesting class. There are no prerequisites for the course and most material will come from the lectures. The course is definitely for one wishing to understand one of the most graphic records of American culture and life. It has interpreted us and informed us, and in a large sense formed us. After all, who hasn't wanted at some time to be a John ·Wayne or a Marilyn Monroe? 
Thomas Stritch American Studies 480 Understanding the Arts 
American Studies 481 The Prophet of Technopolis 
AMERICAN STUDIES 480 CONTENT: Understanding the Arts is basically a course for art illiterates; for those who do not understand the most graphic language of feelings and emotion. The course is structured to deal with each art or expression from massive architecture to graceful ballet. The student is asked to discover the techniques each artist uses to express himself and what is appealing in each. In other words, he is asked to find which each art pursues, which each uses to express its inner being. ORGANIZATION: The course is principally lecture, discussion and viewing of art. Most of the class time is taken up in the viewing of art forms on slides and movies, and on visits to art gal­leries. The emphasis is to experience, not be told. There are 
Art 
three major texts used: Problems of Art and Feeling and Form, 
Suzanne Langer; and The Meaning of Art, Herbert Read. 
There are .two tests, a midterm and a final and six short papers. 
COMMENTS: Professor Stritch has taken great strides to 

erase the jock image of the course, doing as one student called 
"straightening up the ship." Professor Strich has made the 
course an extremely interesting and relevant orie. The course is 
a good choice for those wishing to fulfill their fine arts re­
quirement. 
AMERICAN STUDIES 481 CONTENTS: The Prophets of Technopolis will be the senior seminar required for all American Studies majors. The main emphasis of the course will be to consider the question, "Can we have a society based on technics ( computers, etc.) and still have a humane society which will address itself to the individual?" , The student will be requested to find if a rela­tionsh_ip can be wrought between man and machine, and if not, where will be the breaking point? Most of the contemporary critics, both pro and con, will be examined including McLuhan, Mumford, Brzenenski, Ferkis, Erikson and Hall. Inquiries will also be made into what the arts reveal in these considerations. ORGANIZATION: The course will be strictly discussion, and Prof. Strich hopes that it will evolve to the point where it will teach itself with himself as a participant. The reading load will be heavy but interesting, numerous papers will be required. COMMENTS: Prof. Strich has built himself a reputation of being an extremely open teacher who never hesitates to ask for comment or question. He is open to criticism and accepts it. This course should prove to be profitable. 
Ronald Weber American Studies 381 The American Character 
CONTENT: The American Character is the required seminar for all American Studies juniors. The course traces the devel­opment of American literature, the various themes that have evolved starting with the 17th century. There are no pre­requisites. 
ORGANIZATION: A book a week will be studied, with a paper due the class before the book is studied. There is, therefore, one three-to five-page paper required each week, plus one fairly large final paper on a book of the student's choice-in the fall semester of 1970 the choice was between Wolfe's Electric Kool­Aid Acid Test and The Autobiography of Malcom X. 
READINGS: Readings include Crevecouer's Letters and Papers from an American Farmer, Franklin's Autobiography, DeToc­queville's Democracy in America, Thoreau's Walden, Twain's Huckleberry Finn, Cooper's The Pioneers, Bellamy's Looking Backward, Lewis' Main Street, and Fitzgerald's Great Gatsby. 
COMMENTS: Professor Weber has a very pleasant lecture style, and most of his classes are very interesting. He admits to being somewhat afraid of discussion in this course, since he feels that until the student has some foundation in the ma­terial, a discussion would not be very beneficial. 
Frederick Beckman 
of a corporation's visual identity and their influences on the
Art 315 
overall corporate image..The course consists of lectures andAdvertising Layout projects directed mainly toward the non-art major who would CONTENT: The course is a study of corporate image dy­like to. probe the "creative side" of marketing. The enrollment 
namics, and includes an in-depth probe of the many facets is limited to 35 students per section. 
Frederick BeckmaJ1 Art 217 Industrial Design 
CONTENT: Industrial Design is broken down into two major 
areas: Automotive Design and Product Design. The student just 
starting out is given the option of working in either area or bot.Ii. 
Arrangements can be made by consulting with instructor. The 
automotive aspect consists of learning basic car design techniques 
by referring to professional drawings by Detroit designers. It is 
then up to the student to apply them to his own style. While 
there are no set deadlines for individual projects, the course 
demands a good amount of time in working up to a final presen­
tation of each student's car design(s), complete with a scale 
model of his proposal ( s) . 
Product Design consists of 5 problems in developing or im­
proving commercial products. Each of these is presented in 
a critique session every 2 weeks. Emphasis is on inventiveness 
and practicality of solutions. Of these, one is carried out to 
completion with construction of 3-D model and detailed draw­
ings. While artistic ability and previous drafting experience are 
not absolute prerequisites, they can come in quite handy. 
ORGANIZATION: There are no regular lectures, but the in­
structor and a graduate assistant are always available, even out­
side of class for advice. Both can be invaluable, depending on 
the student's initiative in seeking out necessary information. 
There are no texts, papers, or examinations. A good portion of 
materials needed is made available to students through com­
mercially-funded programs and the work facilities are better than 
average. Grade is dependent on feasibility, imaginative handling 
of solutions and the quality of presentation. About 40% of the 
class are art majors; others are often architecture and engineer­
ing majors. 
COMMENT: It is difficult to assess the value of the course, 
because it is just as good as the student wants it to be. For the 
serious student, it is a good introduction to this field. 
Douglas Kinsey Art 491 Etching-Woodcut 
CONTENTS The major emphasis of the course is on etching, and woodcut is treated briefly. Basic techniques must be learned, but Mr. Kinsey is not only concerned with "tech­nique." A good background in drawing is absolutely necessary. Students range from sophomores through grads and most are art majors. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Kinsey demonstrates the various tech­niques during the first few days of class. After that, most in­struction is on a one to one basis. 
ORGANIZATION: The minimum requirement is two editions per credit hour. An edition is made up of at least five consistent prints. Two editions are due by midterm, and a portfolio of all editions is due at the end of the semester. Mr. Kinsey suggest three hours work per credit hour per week so work outside class time is necessary. 
COMMENTS Mr. Kinsey is genuinely interested in his students and their work. His influence can be far reaching without turning students into "miniature Kinseys." Most students would take the course over, but recommend it only for art majors. Some feel that professionalism could be stressed in quality rather than quantity of prints. Variable credit. · 
Robert Leader Art 151 Art Traditions 
CONTENT: The course involves the exploration of art from the Prehistoric to the Gothic Age. Equal emphasis is placed on each era covered. There are no prerequisites except an interest in learning about art. Students range from freshmen through grads, and thought most are AL majors, the course is taken by many from the other colleges. 
PRESENTATION: The course is a series of slide-lectures, with many of the slides coming from Dr. Leader's own travels. His personal experiences highlight the course, and the lectures go into the myths and traditions of a period. 
APRIL 15, 1971­
READINGS: The readings are invaluable to a deeper under­standing of the lectures. There are 3 textbooks, ranging from $2 to $5 each. Readings in Art History Vol. I; Art, Style and History; and The History of Western Art. 
ORGANIZATION: There are weekly quizzes, a midsemester and 
final exam. The quizzes are taken from the readings and are 
often very specific. Pre-test review sessions are announced. An 
extra credit paper may also be written. Final grade is based on 
the quizzes and exams. 
CoM:I\IENT: Dr. Leader offers a unique educational experi­
ence. Students with no previous background in art history learn 
a great deal, and generally enjoy the course. One complaint 
might be made about the details often asked on quizzes. Though 
the course has been restructured recently to a more professional 
rather than general study of art history, it can still be recom­
mended to students of all majors. 
Konstantin Milonadis 
Art 445 
Metal Sculpture 
CoNTENT: This is a course for students interested in metal 
sculpture techniques. Once the basic techniques of welding and 
brazing are mastered, the emphasis is placed on the student's 
individual artistic learnings. 
There are no prerequisites, however it is a checkmark course, 
and limited facilities allow room for only 15 to 20 students. 
The enrollment is comprised mainly of art majors, but there is 
a good number of non-majors. 
PRESENTATION: There is one short lecture at the beginning 
of the semester, for those who are not acquainted with the 
techniques of oxy-acetylene welding and brazing. After that, 
the student is free to "do his thing." Mr. Milonadis is usually 
available on Tuesdays and Thursdays and can be found in 
his office on these nights. He will give helpful criticism and 
tips on how to overcome any difficulties one may encounter. 
READINGS: There are no required readings, but if one is 
interested in pursuing a particular idea, he is encouraged to 
read up on it. Basic materials cost about $10.00, and it is easy to 
spend more. One can buy junk metal very cheaply in South 
Bend or take advantage of the free scrap pile outside of the 
sculpture studio. 
ORGANIZATION: This course requires a good deal of time, and students must work on their own. However -ao matter how good one may think he is, he cannot knock out one "masterpiece" after another. One must not place himself in the predicament of not having much to show at the end of the semester. The final grade is based on a review at the end of the semester where the student displays the "fruits of his semester's labors." Average final grade falls somewhere around a B if one has enough work. The idea is really Quantity and Quality. 
COMMENTS The general feeling is that students taking the course would take it again. The realm of metal sculpture is an exciting one with many different directions. Mr. Milonadis is one who knows his field and encourages students to do what most interests them. Overall, this course is highly recom­mended for those willing to put in the time and effort. 
Richard Stevens Art Advanced Photography 
CONTENT: This photography course develops individual's objectives set in beginning photography while experiments in color-key and creating new visual images are encouraged. The student's initiative and background in photography form the framework from which he works and develops. ·New ideas, visual images, and techniques are presented, discussed, and tried. Individual experimentation and development are stressed. A student entering this course should have taken beginning pho­tography or, in the absence of this course, a portfolio of photo­graphs is to be submitted before admittance. A flexible camera is a necessity. The class is composed of students from all colleges in the university. 
PRESENTATION: The class meetings are dynamic experiences. The bulk of class meetings is devoted to group critiques which become an integral part of development. Individual directions 

and bents arc respected and· discussed as photographs are pre­
sented. Other class meetings are devoted to presentations of the 
history of photography, past. and present, demonstrations of tech­
niques in photography, and use of new materials. Mr. Stevens 
makes himself available to class members one class day a week 
for individual consultation. Presentations are valuable, well­
planned, and pertinent. Studio modelling sessions are provided. 
READING: There are no required readings for this course. 
ORGANIZATION: Students are required to present photographs 

weekly for critiques. There are no assignments as such but class 
members set projects and goals for themselves, such as, photo 
essays, working through experiments in color-key, high contrast, 
solarization, and other techniques. An adequate portfolio based 
on the individual's efforts is the end product of the course. The 
grade for the course is based on the quality and quantity of this 
portfolio. 
COMMENT: This course has "built-in" interest and motivation. 

Mr. Stevens challenges individuals to go beyond themselves in 
search of exciting visual images. The immature and dosed-minded 
person will have a difficult time. The course is recommended 
for fine arts majors but any student with a serious and creative 
attitude toward photography will grow and develop in it. 
Don Vogl 
Art 494 
Litho-Silk Screen 
CONTENT: Attention art students! If you feel the need to get away from the day-to-day grind of -drawing, design, or paint­ing, this is the course for you. A new and different kind of expression is available upder the experienced direction of Mr. Vogl. A talented artist in his own right, Mr. Vogl extends him­self and his knowledge to all his students. Mr. Charles Murray, a graduate assistant, is rapidly becoming· an expert in photo silk-screening and adds invaluable experience to the class as well as what you might call humor. Old sheets are a must for an A from Murray! 
ORGANIZATION: The class itself is well organized. It is split into those doing Litho and those doing Silk-Screen. There are no prerequisites, although most of the students are juniors or seniors. Be prepared to spend lots of time and money for this class if you expect to get anything out of it. All equipment (screens, stones, inks, paper etc.) can be bought in class. Mr. _Vogl asks for 20 prints per credit hour for silk-screening and 20 for litho. Don't let that scare you off, it really is not that much. 
COMMENT: If you are interested in trying something you have probably done little of before, this is the class for you. Continual­ly surprising, challenging and· rewarding, this course forces you to combine technical ability with artistic creativity. In short this is an area of art that all students should be exposed to. You won't regret it. 
Donald Yates Art 461 Modem Art 19th Century 
CONTENTS: The cour:e covers the precursors of contempo­rary modern art and touches on the important architecture of the 19th Century. The main art movements emphasized are Neo­classicism, Romanticism, Realism, Impressionism, and the Post­Impressionist artists. Various artists representing these -isms are David, Ingres, Delacroix, Goya, Manet~ Degas, Seurat, Cezanne and Van Gogh. The architectural works of Paxton Labrouse, Morris, Gaudi, Jenny, Sullivan, and Wright are discussed. Stu­dents ranging from sophomores to graduate students compose the makeup of the course. 
PRESENTATION: The course is presented with a slide show/ 

lecture format. The lectures Mr. Yates presents as the slides 
are shown are lucid, entertaining, and thought-provoking. Ample 
time is made for any quesion that is raised for clarification. As 
each art movement is considered and shown, Mr. Yates explains 
the characteristics and the "heavies" of each movement while 
the general relationshp of the movements is pointed out. For 
example, Realism relates to Romanticism in what manner? The 
lectures are concomitant to the reading assignments. 
READINGS: Mainstreams-of Modern Art, John Canaday 

(New York: Holt Rinehart Winston, 1959), $12.95. The book 
is absolutely too wordy. But, I guess if The New York Times can 
trust the verbosity of John Canaday as their head art critic, so 
can Mr. Yates. Anyway, it looks impressive on one's library 
shelf, $12.95 impressive. 
ORGANIZATION: One large paper 15-20 pages depending if 

one is an undergrad or grad student; the latter requires the longer 
paper. A midterm and final are created to tie together the course 
material taken up until that time. The final is not conclusive· 
for the entire course. The exams are not just a thrill a minute 
by any means; they demand thorough study, for each exam con­
sists of definitions, slide identifications, and essays. Mr. Yates 
is an excellent marker, by this I mean he is extremely fair. The 
final grade is constituted 50% paper, 25% for each exam. 
COMMENT: The course is imperative if one is to understand 

fully the art of the 20th Century. The architecture of today is 
firmly rooted in the experiments and progress of the 19th Cen­
tury architects. 19th Century Art is not out of vogue, it is rather 
the contrary: Van Goth is the most reproduced artist in the 
United States. Art majors are not the only students that would 
benefit from this fine course since it offers others a chance to 
see the implications that art has for other major studies. For 
example, the Romanticism in Literature of Byron could be com­
pared with the Romanticism of Delacroix for English majors; the 
psychology of Van Goth's expressive art for Psychology majors; 
or the social implications of Daumier's art for Sociology majors. 
Finally, I hope, for "the sake of the student that will take this course, that a few minor changes are made. The Canaday book must go. Next, I'm sure that it would be profitable if Mr. Yates spent a few initi~l classes describing the formalities and major techniques of Art per se. This would enable the student to evaluate the works of art within a clear, structured format. 
Staff Art 210 Introduction to Studio 
CONTENT: This course serves as an introduction to the studio arts. While the emphasis bends somewhat with the student's desires and abilities, during the course of-the semester the stu­dent will.do some drawing, painting and sculpture. These three areas usually divide the semester into three parts, but the time spent in any one area may depend on the student's interest and creativity. 
Open to all majors, there are no prerequisites for this course except a desire to learn about the techniques of artists, and an attempt to communicate something through them. Class .time is six hours a week. Granted that inspiration or creativity might not come .during this studio time, it does, however, serve as the backbone of work hours while the instructor advises the student and draws forth his strong points. 
A course such as this provides the would-be artist with a chance to really get into the arts. It fosters an appreciation of art and the life and ideas that produce it. The student becomes more aware of the things he sees, and has an opportunity to ex­press himself through the various styles and conventions found in the arts. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


Econoniics 
Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., and Peter_ Walsh Economics 483 Economics of Developing Areas 
CONTENT: In this course the student studies the probems 
encountered by developing nations and the proposed solutions 
to these problems. After a general historical background review, 
the course deals with a number of specific topics, such as devel­opment theory, population, industrial expansion, agrarian reform, trade and foreign aid. The countries concerned are nations in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The course is composed of seniors, and an increasing number are non-econ majors. At · least one semester of principles is a prerequisite. The course 
is taught only during the fall. 
PRESENTATION: Again the course will be team taught by 
Fr. Bartell and Prof. Walshe. They work very well together. 
Both are always well prepared, superbly organized, and excel­
lent lecturers. Both normally come to class. Lecture time is 
divided according ·to areas of competency and interest. Fr. 
Bartell is a Latin American specialist; Walshe specializes in 
African affairs. Both take time to answer questions. However, 
the lectures cover an enormous amount of material and little 
time exists for discussion. The time devoted to discussion is 
lively, since both teachers welcome disagreement and provide 
clear explanation~ of problems which arise. 
READINGS : There is no specific text. Most readings from 
the enormous reading list are on reserve in the library. Because 
of the large class, the books are in short supply relative to the 
heavy demand. However, few students attempt to do all the 
readings. The readings serve to complement lecture material 
which is clearly presented in class. 
0RGANIZA'_rlON: A term paper (3000-4000 words) is re­
quired. Both teachers are helpful in suggesting topics and pro­
viding sources. In addition, there are two tests, a midterm 
and a noncomprehensive final. Tests are essay-type and are 
designed so that the student can show a basic understanding 
of course material. They are fair, never trivial, and the student . 
has a wide range of choice. A thorough grasp of the class notes 
can get any student a B, but. Prof. Walshe looks for. evidence 
of outside readings in answers to his questions. Attendance is 
not required but the student is foolish to stay away from this 
class. 
Co111l\lENT: No econ major should forego the opportunity 
to take this course. rt· is far and away among the best taught 
at Notre Dame. Both Bartell and Walshe are friendly and inter­
ested in the student. Despite heavy schedules, both are acces­
sible outside class. The· class is never dull and students are 
exposed to views of two very intelligent and highly competent 
economists. 
John Croteau Economics 421 Money, Credit and Banking 
CONTENTS: This course deals with the financial structure 
of the American economy. Emphasis is placed upon the banking 
system, and on the role of credit in the economy. Principles 
of Economics (224) is a prerequisite, and the class consists of 
juniors and seniors, mainly economics majors. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures are satisfactory; the topics are 
closely related to those contained in the book. Dr. Croteau 
often gazes out the window, letting his mind and the lecture 
wander. Discussion is encouraged, but rare. 
READINGS: .The text is The Economics of Money and Bank­
ing, by Chandler ($12). · It is interesting, informative, and 
useful, providing the material for tests. 
ORGANIZATION: There are about five short tests and a final, 
based on the text and lectures. The questions are straight­
forward, and the answers are evaluated fairly. Few of the 
students seem worried about their grades. 
COMMENTS: Generally, the response to this course is not enthusiastic; the attendance is irregular. However, interested students, relying heavily on the readings, may find the course -worthwhile. 
Gregory Curme Economics 393 Statistical Inference I 
CONTENT: Statistical Inference is a course which acquaints 
the student with the basic concepts of statistics in a most inter­
e!.ting and painless fashion. Beginning with discreet probability, 
which Professor Curme illustrates through the use of gambling 
games, the course introduces the major expected value theorems, 
the Central Limit theorem, Tchbysheff's Theorem, testing hy­
potheses, simple linear regression and Chi-Square. Professor 
Curme's aim is to introduce these concepts which are "basic 
in idea and simple but effective in application" in an easygoing 
and highly understandable manner. The course is required for 
economics majors but also attracts engineering students, educa­
tion, sociology, and science ( especially biology) majors. 
PRESENTATION: To say that Professor Curme has a com­
plete and thorough grasp of his subject matter would be an 
understatement. His presentation of the material is relaxed, 
clear and geared to the students' pace. Questions and comments 
are encouraged and welcomed. A basic stats course could be an 
extremely dull way to spend three hours a week, but not with 
Professor Curme. The man is knowledgable, friendly, interested 
in his students, and often quite amusing. You'll find no sur­
prises on the tests in Statistical Inference. The tests are taken 
directly from the material covered in class, are announced well 
ahead of time, and the student knows exactly what to expect. 
Professor Curme or his T.A. are always available outside of 
class, and in addition, a review class is offered preceding each 
test. Attendance here is worthwhile and can make up for many 
hours spent in pursuits other than statistical. 
READINGS: The readings in this class are optional. The students are told at the outset that they can buy the text and use it in conjunction with class presentation, or simply follow what's happening in class. If you have $11.00 you have no other use for, or if you are collecting statistics te.,ctbooks as a hobby, buy the text, otherwise you can get along fine without it. · Just for the record, the text is Elements of Statistical In­ference by Huntsberger. 
ORGANIZATION: The work load in this course consists of two in class exams and a final, plus problem sets handed out periodically, usually at the end of each of the "sections" of the course. As mentioned earlier, the exams are straightforward, the student knows what to expect. The final grade is loosely based on the averages of the exams; if the problem sets are handed in regularly, the edge in any close grade is given to the student. The final grade is determined by Professor Cunne in consultation with his T.A., it is therefore not a strictly numerical matter as attitude, interest and overall performance are also weighed. The average final grade is, according to a "reliable source" B+. 
Co111111ENTS: Statistical Inference with Professor Curme offers an excellent opportunity to gain some basic knowledge of sta­tistics in a none-too-rigorous or demanding fashion. It is as enjoyable a way to fill an odious requirement (for economics or sociology) that this writer could imagine. The presentation is clear and direct, the tests and grading system are eminently fair, and in most cases quite pleasing. Professor Curme teaches be­cause he enjoys it, and this fact is more than obvious. At­tendance is not mandatory, nor is it recorded, but a class missed is an opportunity lost to come into contact with a truly inter­esting and enjoyable man. Note: From September to December don't be surprised if the first few minutes of any class are devoted to an open forum on the coming week's football games, coUege or pro, or a discussion of the merits or faults of various teams or players. Professor Curme makes Jimmy the Greek look like a rank amateur. 
APRIL 15, 1971 

William Davisson Economics 301 Intermediate Micro Theory 
CONTENT: This course is required of all Economics majors. 

Principles of Econ. 224 1s a prerequisite. The class is made up 
of juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters. As 
the title indicates emphasis of the course is on the study of the 
Micro side .of Economics. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures are of great importance to the 

course. The majority of them are of interest and no one falls 
asleep. The lectures follow no set syllabus but are always 
directly related to the readings. Tests are based· on what is 
covered in class and in the readings. The lectures are very 
detailed but Professor Davisson goes slow enough so there is no 
misunderstanding. There is not too much discussion in class 
but questions are always welcomed and answered. 
READINGS: There are only two books required for the course, 

Price System and Resource Allocation-$8.50-and Introduction 
to Microeconomic Theory-$3.95. They are easy to read and 
quite self-explanatory. They both are worthwhile to the course.· 
Students are given plenty of time to get the assigned readings 
done. But it is important that one keep up. 
ORGANIZATION: There are a number of take-home assign­ments which count about 20 per cent of grade. Also there are some ·computer simulations. These don't have much effect on grades but if not done it will hurt. Exams are given three or four times a semester, no final. The exams are rather long and one never has time to finish them. Professor Davisson designs his tests so that students won't finish. Grades are based on exams, take-home assignments, and class participation (when there is any). 
COMMENTS: Though class attendance is not mandatory it hurts if you don't show up. Prof. Davisson is a qualified teacher and knows what he talks about. It is a worthwhile course even if it is required. When a person comes out of his class even if he put in a minimum of effort· he knows he has learned something. 
Dennis Dugan Economics 302 Intermediate Macro Theory 
CONTENT: Intermediate Macro Theory deals with the measurement, the analysis, and the control of aggregate eco­nomic activity. Such areas as National Income, GNP, taxation and policy-making are emphasized. A requirement of · all Eco­nomics majors, the class is composed of both juniors· and seniors. Principles of Economics 223 is the only_ prerequisite. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Dugan attempts to present fairly technical subject matter in an applicable and informal manner. He does not lecture right from the book, but prefers to· cover the material at his own speed and using his own , techniques. This makes the course much more interesting, though at times he gets bogged down in certain areas, concentrating too long on too little and only covering part of what he had planned. On the whole, Dugan's presentation seems more favorably received than the more rigid approach. 
READINGS: The text, Macroeconomics by Dernburg & Mc­Dougall (cost $10), provides a good supplement to the class lectures, though it often complicates seemingly_ easy material. Professor Dugan also supplies a detailed outside reading list which is extremely useful to the understanding of the subject. There are no quizzes on any of these readings and it is no real hassle to get -the readings done. 
ORGANIZATION: The final grade is based on two tests and a final exam, all essay-type exams, including only material cov­ered since the previous test. Each exam is a good reflection of the student's knowledge of the subject matter rather than a test of memorized facts. Professor Dugan also likes to. give two or three take-home assignments which are corrected but not graded. A student should be able to get a B without too much trouble, and an A is not too far out of reach. 
CoMMENTS: Professor Dugan earnestly attempts to make dry material both interesting and relevant. He ties in current economic issues wherever possible and is successful due to his acute knowledge of both theoretical and practical economics. His tendency to creep through the material, however, keeps _this course from reaching its potential. · · 
William Leahy 
Economics 456 
vVage Determination 
CONTENT: This is a one-semester course offered every fall 

which draws mostly seniors and grads in economics. A pre­
requisite for the course is microeconomic theory. Much of 
Wage Determination concentrate· on theoretical tools such as 
marginal costs analysis, production functions, and labor mar­
kets. Later, Dr. Leahy examines management and union rela­
tionships in the context of-their economic positions..A good 
deal of time is spent in discussion of the collective bargaining 
process and, again, modular analysis plays an important part. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Leahy enjoys a seminar atmosphere, 

and hence, a large amount of discussion. · His lectures are both 
informative and well prepared; they relate extremely well to 
the basic text of the course. 
READINGS: The fall of 1970 course :readings consisted of a basic text, Theory of Wages and Employment by Carter, and a supplementary paperback of essays edited by Richard Lester. The textbook is quite cumbersome bu·t Dr. Leahy's lectures clarify the more obscure points. The Lester book is interesting but no reading was actually required from it. 
ORGANIZATION: A substantial term paper is required at the end of the semester but there are no· tests in the course. Hence, classroom participation is a big factor in earning a final grade. The grades are fairly distributed, with most in the A-B range. 
CoMMENTS : The most impressive characteristic of this professor is his devotion to his career and his students; Dr. Leahy is always willing to help and will go out of his way to do so. His easy-going personality and his dislike of the stuffy dassroom atmosphere makes his classes interesting and a pleasure to attend. His personal activity and experience in the field of labor-management arbitration yields much practical. informa­tion that enh~nces the course's value, too. The course is not recommended for non-econ majors, . as familiarity of micro theory is needed to make any sense of the material presented. For the econ major this course would be a most worthwhile elective. 
Basil O'Leary Economics 202 Intermediate Macroeconomic:, _Theory_ 
CONTENT:· This course is a requirement for all Economics majors, an_d is composed of all juniors and seniors. Initial emphasis in the course is given to study of the components of the macroeconomic:· ·model; while latt;i-. topics .are . employment, inflation, and policy decisions. The soplioniore Principles Course is the only" prerequisite. · 
PRESENTATION: . Mr. O'Leary is a terribly intelligent man who has probl_ems conveying his knowledge. At times his ex­planations of material have been too technical and mathe­matical, thus baffling the student. An explanation in terms of its real world significance would be more helpful. He speaks without benefit of notes or outline and therefore lectures tend to be choppy. A written outline might help find those lost ideas. Readings and lectures are directly related, and questions are welcome and necessary. Mr. O'Leary's presentation has improved greatly in the course of the semester, but, in general, it is still less than stimulating. 
READINGS: There is a normal text and a book of selected readings. The selected readings perhaps are interesting to their authors, but not to many students. The text itself presents facts well, but does poorly in tying them together. Both books are too mathematical in their-presentations. 
ORGANIZATION: Assignments are clear and are given day to day. The work load is demanding. The number of examina­tions to be taken was never announced, but one week's notice is given before each test. The exams themselves are excellent; fair but difficult. A thorough knowledge of what Mr. O'Leary demands is absolutely necessary. His grading system is unique and fair; your final grade is either the grade on your final exam or your average,-on the other tests, whichever is the highest. Since this is Mr. O'Leary's first semester his average final grad~ is not known. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
COMMENTS: This is not a course for non-Economics majors. A thorough understanding of . the book is called for, since the lectures don't always provide a clear picture. Mr. O'Leary's lectures. could be improved by a more fluid presentation of the material combined with a layman's explanation. A greater attempt to relate class material to current economic conditions might give the interest which the course lacks. This was done in tests and was highly successful. While classes leave something to be_ desired, tests are challenging and genuine learning expe­riences. Though having his faults, Mr. O'Leary creates a re­laxed class atmosphere and will always go out of his way to help a student. However, those who are looking for exciting classes are not urged to take this course. 
Roger Skurski Economics . 4 73 Comparative Economic Systems-
Economics 477 Soviet Economic System 
ECONOMICS 473 
CONTENT: This course provides a study of major capitalist, socialist, and com°'unist economic systems as they compare and contrast with each other. The major emphasis of the course is on central planning of Russia and East Europe, French in­dicative planning, and Yugoslav market socialism. It also deals with Marxism, socialism, and some aspect of development. Principles of Economics is a suggested prerequisite. The class usually has several grad students but is primarily composed of junior and senior econ majors. Comparative is taught only during the fall. 
PRESENTATION: Prof. Skurski's class is very informal.-. He prefers class discussion to lecturing. Basis of the discussion is found in the readings. Skurski is a good discussion leader and encourages the student to express his opinion and then to defend it. He is willing to discuss current economic topics in conjunction with regular course material. Skurski is always well prepared and when he chooses to lecture the lectures are thorough and complement the readings very well. He is espe­cially knowledgable in the field of Soviet and Eastern European econorrucs. 
READINGS : The reading list in this course is very extensive. Many students have difficulty keeping up with the reading or simply do not do it. There are three basic texts (Bornstein, Shonfield, ·and Campbell) which can be obtained second-hand. The balance of the readings are worthwhile, although one may find those dealing with Eastern Europe rather boring. A stu­dent must do a considerable amount of reading to score well on tests. 
ORGANIZATION: There are no papers. Prof. Skurski offers two midsemester tests ( ea.ch worth one•. quarter the grade) and a final worth one third the grade. The rest of the grade is based on class participation. This year and in the future both midsemester exams are optional. The final is required. If one opts not to take a midterm the weight of that test is thrown on the final. Most students took one midterm this year. The tests are very fair and rather general as opposed to specific knowledge. Both class notes and the extensive readings . are essential to success. Most students do well in the course. The average grade this year was between B and B--. . 
COMMENT: Econ majors interested in other economic sys­tems will find this course very interesting. Since the course is not highly technical, it also appeals to nonmajors, especially those in history and government. Prof. Skurski is personally interested in the student, and very open to suggestions about his course. He does not believe in compelling the student to work and does not require attendance. He is also readily ac­cessible outside the class and is very helpful in providing 

.sources for research topics for other courses. Unfortunately, many students neither prepare for class. nor p~rticipate in the discussions. They thus find the class unmterestmg. The cours.e would be improved if such students prepared for class and" if Prof. Skurski lectured more regularly. On the whole, the course is . very worthwhile and highly recommended, especially to econ. majors. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
ECONOMICS 477 
CONTENT: This is a one-semester course offered regularly in the fall. It covers the development of the Soviet economic system from the latter half of the 19th century to the present period. The major emphasis is placed on the structural changes which have taken place and the reasons for these changes. The theories of Soviet economics are also discussed. A year of basic economics is a prerequisite for the course, but the student . without this is not at too great a disadvantage. The class is composed mostly of senior economics majors with a few juniors and graduate students. 
PRESENTATIOX: The classes consist for the most part of lectures which are always well prepared. Dr. Skurski's classes are informal and he welcomes questions and discussion at any time. Because of the nature of the material there were only one or two discussions before the latter part of the course. When talking about the present economic system in Russia, Dr. Skurski is willing to cover any particular sector in which the class is interested. The material covered is fairly interesting, but at times it can become somewhat dull. Dr. Skurski realizes this and does not dwell on any one subject for an excessive amount of time. Any problems encountered in the reading material may be brought up in class for clarification. 

READINGS: There are two texts for this course: The Soviet Economy by Alec Nove '($3.50), which analyzes the economy from a mostly historic point of view and The Soviet Economy by Bornstein and Fusfeld ($5.95), which is a collection of articles on major topics. In addition, there are a fairly large number of books and articles on reserve which are also required. The reading selections range from very good to very dull, but the great majority' are generally readable without too :rduch trouble. There is usually enough time to do the readings if one. doesn't let them pile up too much. The readings cover some topics which are not fully covered in the lectures and it is necessary to have a knowledge of these for the tests. The amount of information drawn from the readings depends on what the student wants to get out of them. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be no papers in this course. Dr. Skurski will be using a new testing syste~ this coming semester. Everyone will be required to take the final exam­ination which is usually comprehensive in scope. In addition, there will be two examinations during the semester. It will be left up to the student to decide whether he wants to take both, one or none of these exams. The examinations consist of two or three essays with a choice in the selection of at least one of the questions. Test material covers major points ~ade both in lecture and in the readings. The final grade will depend on the number of tests the student takes. The average grade last fall was B to B--. 
COMMENTS : This course is highly recommended to anyone who has an interest in the Soviet Union. It would take this course over again. Economics as well as Government majors will find this to be a very worthwhile course. The classes number generally between 15 and 20 students. The . Soviet economy is Dr. Skurski's main field of interest and he Is very interested in tryina to help his students understand the ma­terial. Dr. Skurski"' has a large amount of material in this field, especially concerning past statistics on most areas of Russian life and he is more than willing to pass them on to the student if he would like them. He is always available to help the student outside of class with any type of problem. He is also very 9pen to any suggestions to improve the cou.rse. Bot~ the course and the teacher will prove to be a rewarding expenence to the interested student. 
Thomas Swartz ·Economics 301 Intermediate Micro Theory 
Economics 341 Fiscal Policy 
ECONOMICS 301 
CONTENT: The course will focus on the allocation of re­sources within the economy through the functioning of the price system. Some of the topics that will be covered are: supply and demand, utility theory, production theory, and wel­
fare economics. The course is a senior economics majors. 
Principles of Economics is a An elementary understanding of With few exceptions, the students nomics majors. 
requirement for junior and 
prerequisite for the course. simple calculus is helpful. are junior and senior eco­
PRESENTATION: The nature of this course dictates a lecture 

oriented presentation. Some discussion on outside readings will 
be encouraged. 
Because Professor Swartz has not taught this course in , 

recent semesters, little can be said about the quality of his 
presentation. However, judging from his other courses, the 
lectures will be well prepared and informative and any dis­
cussions will be open and helpful. 
READINGS: Only one text will be required. It probably will 

be Richard Leftwich's The Price System and Resource Alloca­
tion. Some outside readings will be put on reserve in the library. 
They will concern current application of theory with some stress 
on Professor Swartz's n\ajor area of interest, public finance. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be a midterm, final, and a short 

research project which will count for 20 per cent of the grade.· 
One op~ion for the research project will focus on computer 
applications to micro theory. Other possible options will be 
discussed in the fall. 
CoM:MENTS: As taught by Professor Swartz, this course will undoubtedly require substantial work. However, his in­terest in the subject and in the student will make the course a \'aluable experience. This interest inay well manifest itself in a night at the Swartz home for beer and good talk, perhaps re­sulting in an introduction to his five lovely daughters. 
This section of micro theory is recommended for economics majors. It would be less worthwhile for those who take only one or two economics courses. 
ECONOMICS 341. CoNTENT: The course concerns itself with fiscal policy and the traditional economic goals such as expenditures, taxation, and federal_ fiscal policy. From here institutional reforms, e.g., tax reform, are discussed and these serve to introduce the new emerging social goals to which the economists ~st address themselves. These new goals include urban blight, poverty, dis­crimination, and pollution and their relation to fiscal policy. Juniors and seniors take this course. The only prerequisite 
is one Principles of Economics course. This is vital to the un­derstanding of the economic terminology used in this course. PRESENTATION: The format of the class is a lecture presen­tation of material followed by a few days of seminar. Thm.igh there are no texts required for the course, you will come to be on a first-name basis with those working in the reserve book room as a heavy, yet reasonable and most worthwhile, amount of reading must be done. :Both lectures and seminars are excel­lent greatly due to Professor Swartz's enthusiasm with the 
subject and student interest. ORGANIZATION: Course requirements are: one 13-page paper, a midterm and final which both call on one to apply his or her economic knowledge to a certain issue, and class discussion. Each counts for 25 per cent .of the grade and Professor Swartz is a demanding.but fair grader. COMMENTS: Fiscal Policy is a highly recommended course for those who like to discuss intelligently and who want to ap­preciate the relevance and e.xcitement of economics. Professor Swartz is demanding and wants to keep the class small so you must be willing to work. Those who have had the course would highly recommend it and Professor Swartz to others. 
Stephen Worland Economics 225 Economics for Social Science 
Economics 405 History of Economics Ideas 
ECONOMICS 225 CoNTENT:This is a one-semester course offered, ·for the first time at Notre Dame, to sophomores. It is a condensed survey of Micro, Macro~ and. International Economics which is in­
tended to acquaint the Arts and Letters student with the analytical techniques and problem areas of economics: ·The course is not an in-depth study of economics but a general analysis of its various aspects. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Worland renders a very ener­getic delivery of the subject matter. Although he has well prepared and organized lectures which he intends to follow during class, questions are welcomed and answered more than adequately. He also possesses the interesting capability of illustrating abstract economic theory with practical application and real-life situations. 
ORGANIZATION: There is one basic introductory text which is complemented by at least one paperback of a more radical nature. The course is divided into three sections: ( 1) Micro­Economics, ( 2) Macro-Economics, and (3) International Eco­nomics. There are two hourly exams and a final. These exams are comprehensive and based mostly on Worland's lectures, which are elaborations of the material in the text. The tests are of a conceptual nature and although they do not require specific memorization, they do demand that the student have a firm grasp of the subject matter. There is no marking curve. 
COMMENTS: The c.:ourse was instituted by the Economics Department for the purpose of giving some background infor­mation in economics to students who are· interested in other related disciplines. It would be beneficial to sociology, history, philosophy, and, of course, economics students. 
The course is a difficult one, however. It will require a conscientious, serious ·effort on the part of the student. One must be consistent in his attendance of classes and faithful in reading the material. Falling behind could be fatal. The course is an interesting and worthwhile one, but A's are rare. 
ECONOMICS 405 CoNTENT: This course covers the history of economic ideas from Aristotle to John Stuart Mill (its sequel in the spring con­tinues from Mill up to the present). The first semester is basi­cally a description of the economic analysis of Aristotle and Aquinas. From here the course proceeds to ·modem economic analysis in the physiocrats, the mercantilists, Smith, Say, Ricardo, and Senior. It is recommended that the student have taken Economics 223 or 224 as a prerequisite, but a general knowledge of the principles of economics is enough to get by on, especially in this first part of the two-semester course. The class is gen­erally small (under 20) and primarily composed of upperclass AL · students. PRESENTATION: Dr. Worland is the type of lecturer who can convey some of his own great enthusiasm to the student. Few teachers of economics have his ability to describe a point from the Summa or Politics or Wealth of Nations as if he were participating imaginatively in a great historical event of some sort. Occasionally the enthusiasm can lead to · a mystifyingly rapid exposition of a complex text, but Dr. Worland is amen­able to questions and clarifies the matter at hand if need be. Discussion centers on a reading assignment once a week and can be useful for understanding a central idea or ideas which the teacher regards as particularly important. READINGS : The readings are not very extensive and gener­ally consist of a short excerpt from the Politics or Summa, or lengthier excerpts from the Wealth of Nations or from Gray's survey of economic thinkers. They ·are valuable and must be read before the class, since some familiarity with them is assumed. They are either mimeographed and handed out, or are on reserve in the library. ORGAN1ZATION: Thre are two one-hour tests during the semester (although an optional paper may be submitted in place of taking one of these) and a final examination. The average grad~ is B--. COMMENTS: On the grounds of both teaching and content this course is quite worthwhile. It inevitably suffers from the limitations of a survey (lack of depth in any one areaY, and shares equally in its advantages (provides a good overview of the subject). The dealings with Aristotle and Aquinas are a rare opportunity to · discover the moral dimension of economic activity and the proper place of economics among the sciences. The course is especially recommended for nonmajors with some basic knowledge of economics, who may find it useful as a background . to the . student of law, history, government, or other related · field. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
.. 



English 
Richard Bizot English 309 Modern Themes in Victorian Literature 
English 322 The Novel 
English 493 Yeats ­
ENGLISH 309 CONTENT: This course is dedicated to the proposition that the Victorians had a lot to say about socialism, capitalism, individual liberties, women's liberation, capital punishment and penal institutions, the environment, welfare, exploitation of var­ious kinds, war patriotism, relevance in education, religious belief, situation ethics, and the formation of life styles. Mr. Bizot is editing an anthology which will include read­ings by various Victorian authors on the basis of their relevance to these current topics. The course is in part, there­fore, an effort to enlist the aid of students in determining the value of certain readings for this theme. Since the selections are made on the basis of their rele­vance to the topic of "Modern Themes," the course will not be representative of the Victorian period in the traditional sense. That is, an author will be given more or less attention on the basis of his usefulness to this particular study, rather than his overall significance to the period. ORGANIZATION: As a 300-level course, the maximum en­rollme~t is 40 students. However, the actual size of the class will determine whether it is conducted as a seminar .or lecture course. Similarly, the assignments expected of each student will be somewhat negotiable, and subject to the student's personal interest in a single theme, rather than designed to effect com­prehensive study of the variety of possible themes. The course has never been taught before, hence the ex­perimental nature of its. proceedings, and the impossibility of estimating its effectiveness. READINGS: Non-Fiction: Carlyle, Mill, Arnold, Huxley, Ruskin and Morris, and less attention to Pater,. Wilde and Shaw. Poetry: · Tennyson, Clough, Arnold, Hardy and Yeats, and less attention to Hood, the Brownings, Patmore, Rosetti, Morris, Swinburne, Hopkins, Davidson, Lear, Wilde, Houseman and Kipling. Fiction: Lewis Carroll. A detailed list of readings is available in G-18, library basement. 
ENGLISH 322 CONTENTS: How to read a novel, and why. Not a literary history course; not a major author course. Readings have been selected with an eye toward variety and, where pos­sible, brevity. . ORGANIZATION: Enrollment usually runs close to the maxi­mum, 40. Composition of the course represents a variety of majors, not all within the College of Arts and Letters, English majors constituting, usually, less than one quarter. PRESENTATION: Though the course is primarily a lecture course, Mr. Bizot feels unsuccessful unless some discussion results each period. As is usual in courses of such diverse com­position, those who have something to say, or are merely am­bitious, speak, and the rest are silent-indicating either profundity or inattention. The lectures, when given, are clear and easy to follow. Bizot is always available outside of class. READINGS: Darkness at Noon, Koestler; Sons and Lovers, Lawrence; Go Tell It on the Mountain, Baldwin; Heart of Darkness, Conrad; The Great Gatsby, Fitzgerald; Invisible Man, Ellison; Trout Fishing in America, Brautigan; The Sound and the Fury, Faulkner; The Natural, Malamud; The Horse's Mouth, • Cary; Malone Dies, Beckett; A Separate Peace, Knowles; The Fre.e-Lance Pallbearers, Reed; The Slaughter-House Five, Von­negut; The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, Spark; with possible 
exceptions. 

APRIL 15, 1971 

ENGLISH ·493 CONTENT: An intensive study of W. ' B. Yeats' lyrical poems, together with many of his critical writings and some of his plays, supplemented by readings from Yeats' auto­biographical and theoretical writings, and letters. Bizot formerly taught a graduate reading in Yeats, and the present under­graduate course is intended for intensive, critical study of the author rather than a casual reading of late Victorian poetry. PRESENTATION: The class will have a maximum enrollment of 20, and be conducted as a seminar. Hopefully, after the first few weeks, the class will be rescheduled to meet for an extended class one night per week. READINGS: · Required readings are The Collected Poems, Essays and Introductions, Autobiography, A Vision. Recom­mended texts are The Last Romantics, G. Hough; A Reatier's Guide to W. B. Yeats, Unterecker; Mythologies, Yeats. ORGANIZATION: A possibility for the writing assignment is a study journai, rather than a research paper. 
Joseph X. Brennan English 477 American Poetry to 1900 
English 311 The Existential Novel 
CONTENT: American Poetry to 1900 is intended to present a thorough consideration of the major American poets be­ginning with Anne Bradstreet and finishing with Stephen Crane. Obviously, such a range of authors is quite a difficult task to undertake or accomplish. Class composition is primarily upperclassmen and functions most effectively as such since the presentation and boundaries of the course are much the result of student capacity. Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson become the course's highlights, while the remainder of Joseph Brennan's energies focus on Anne Bradstreet, Edward Taylor, William Cullen Bryant, as well as the works of Emerson, Melville, and Poe. Unfortunately the semester is tapped before the en­ergies of Mr. Brennan. Consequently, an author or two must necessarily be hastily examined or deleted. , 
READINGS: American Poetry, (a hardback anthology), edit. Allen, Rideout & Robinson, Harper & Row ($10.95); Final Harvest: Emily Dickinson's Poems, Little, Brown & Co. ($1.95); Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass (There are several paperback editions available). 
ORGANIZATION: This course is not a survey. The lectures are scholarly and seldom if ever delete a morsel of the poem's flesh or the poet's soul. The class is conducted in somewhat of a lecture fashion which possesses the mysterious air of formality with a closeness between teacher-student. Such is probably the basis for Mr. Brennan's dislike for large classes, large classrooms, and large spatial separations between the group of seated students and his standing self. 
PRESENTATION: Lectures are not dictated, they are e.x­pounded. Class discussion is vital-for the student, to Mr. Brennan. There is an evident obligation to know that he has come across, and an equal and opposite one to acknowledge that he has. Thus, the reason for discussion. All questioning, at any time, is well received and without fail responded to equally as well. 
Brennan is a very available man. Usually he plans one scheduled meeting per student during the semester and be he present in his library basement office, one is always wel­comed to discuss classwork or poets that time will not allow treatment of in class. Such discussions are no less com­plete than class presentations. 
The style of the presentation and examination is for the most part the same in all Brennan courses. The student is called upon to do a good deal of reading-this is not a cum­bersome load designed to innundate the students' capacities, nor is it an easy or comforting body of materials. The poetry has its prosodic qualities which make the reading expe­rience a pleasurable one-certainly a calmer sea than that of the existential writers-but thrives no less than the prose in its concentrated straits. The experience of a J. X. Brennan course is intrinsically a rather cerebral and demanding one. 
Class requirements for American Poetry to 1900, include 
two significant essay examinations, a mid-term and a final. 
Each cover their related half semester of study quite effective­
ly and are given in class. Time limit is flexible but sufficient. 
Three papers are proposed. The student may choose to write 
3 of an approximate length of 5 pages, 2 papers comprising 
a total in the area of 15-20 pages, or a longer paper of 
aproximately 20 pages. The third alternative usually becomes 
the endeavor of the more industrious student and is expected 
to be a sensitive and responsive study, a search for individual 
perspective and appreciation. One does not submit a once­
over-easy paper unless he desires no more than a one-over­
easy grade. Mr. Brennan is not a wielder of the scarlet ballpoint 
dagger. Papers are returned somewhat promptly and are usually 
inhabited with considerable marginal commentary. The good 
and the not so good things always share space in his criticisms, 
so the student knows, on what grounds his grade is based. 
Tests and papers are graded with the same energy that 
classes are presented, the student is expected to return the 
serve. Absences are few though there is no stringent policy 
regarding attendance. There is no grade curve and average 
class grade is an absurd inquiry. Papers and examinations 
are part of the learning process. There may be all A's, there 
may be all C's, -but the grades, like the students, are usually 
pretty well mixed. 
ENGI:ISH 311 
CONTENT: The Existential Novel, is intended to explore the influence of existential theological and philosophical -ideas with fiction, to see the impact of idea on form. The material is admittedly complex in nature, and the course will necessarily be gauged according to student response; it is hoped that it will be responded to by the more energetic student. Again, there is no prerequisite for the course but some background in existential readings as well as familiarity with the teleological and ontological arguments would be excellent preparation. 
READINGS: The text books though still tentative are fairly certain to be the basis for course content: 
Bellow, Herzog; Sartre, Nausea; Dostoyevsky, Notes fr-om the Underground; Camus, The Plague or The Stranger; Hesse, Steppenwolf; Faulkner, As I Lay Dying; Kafka, The Trial; Ellison, The Invisible Man; also selections from Mailer, Sam­uel Beckett, Unamuno. 
PRESENTATION: Presentation will be much the same as Poetry to 1900 in lecture-discussion fashion while comparative studies will be somewhat more heavily stressed. The student will be called upon to compare his present reading with what he has previously studied. Examinations will be given as in the Poetry to 1900 course, midterm and final. An alternative will exist with regard to the papers. The more energetic student will be encouraged to do a paper of approximately 10 pages or a specific work ("an introductory paper''), as well as 2 shorter papers of a 4-5 page length in comparative studies of a book. The choice . may be made to submit 5 of the shorter "compa,.c1tive studies" papers, in ei~her case totaling somewhere around 20 pages. This course will -be taught for the first time in the fall semester. ­
COMMENT: A J. X. Brennan course is sure to be a significant educational experience. I would however not recommend Amer­ican Poetry to 1900, The Existential Novel, or ( offered in the spring term) The Naturalistic· Novel to every student. These courses are energetic studies which delve deeply into the subject matter and beyond to the physical and spiritual limits of author, work, movement, society. Prof. Brennan is a teacher with much to off er, and only a student who would use him up should take his courses. This includes for the most part English majors and serious students in any major field. Certainly, were I to reschedule my undergraduate English pro­gram, I would take any course offered by J. X. Brennan. 
Eugene Brzenk English 313 Introduction to English Literature 
CONTENT: Professor Brzenk seeks to give the student a 
general background-in English literature from Chaucer to 
Pope. The course is divided fairly evenly into 3 parts: drama, 
lyric poetry, and the narrative. Brzenk treats each genre sep­
arately and in chronological order. There are no prerequisites 
for the course, and the class consists mainly of Arts and Let­
ters· sophomores, though all four years are usually represented. 
PRESENTATION: Because of the widely varying backgrounds 
in English literature that students bring to the course, as 
well as the size of the class and the amount of material to 
be covered, Professor Brzenk favors lecturing over class discus­
sion. The lectures are informal and require a minimum of note­
taking. Professor Brzenk is always open to questions, and a 
student who makes an intelligent comment can often start a 
good class discussion. While some students thought that at 
times, Professor Brzenk would slip into a monotone, most re­
garded _the lectures as interesting and informative, as well as 
integrated with readings and test material. 
READING: Though Brzenk has somewhat increased the 
amount of readings for the course in recent years, the load 
remains relatively moderate: 6 or ·7 plays, and a comparable 
amount in the other two genres. He allows more than sufficient 
time for reading assignments. The basic textbook for the 
course is The Norton Anthology of English Literature (Vol. I), 
and one or two plays by Shakespeare in the Pelican edition 
are also required. Total cost is $8-11, depending on whether 
the student buys a hardcover or paperbound Norton Anthology. 
ORGANIZATION: Professor Brzenk gives two or three 1­hour tests and a final. The tests are predominantly essay, requir­ing a thorough knowledge of the material covered. Two or three papers of 3-5-pages are assigned, one on each genre. An implacable foe of "canned knowledge," Prof. Brzenk in­sists that the student avoid secondary references and analyze the literature himself. Each paper covers material taken in class as well as outside reading the student is expected to do on his own. The papers and tests together make up the final grade. Brzenk tends to be a fairly strict grader, but original though( and clear expression almost always insure a higher mark. The average final grade last semester was 2.9. 
CoMMENT: Most students have found ·Professor Brzenk knowledgeable, courteous, and helpful. He has a high regard for the teaching vocation, and is concerned both that his students receive a solid background in English literature, and that they learn to express themselves clearly and cogently. Cri­ticisms have generally focused on a desire for more class participation, but he is aware of the problem and does his best within the limits of a tight schedule and the amount of I_Ilaterial to be covered. In short, despite the handicaps of a large class and the course's status as an Arts and Letters requirement, Brzenk makes the course a worthwhile experi­ence for the motivated student. 
Patrick Callahan English 567 Poetry of the Romantic Period 
CoNTENT: A survey of British Romanticism with primary stress upon the work of Blake, Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Keats. Byron and Shelley will not be neglected, but will re­ceive lesser attention. 
Attention will be given to the context of Romantic poetry, social, historical, and biographical, through outside reading, class reports, and a few lectures. -The courses should demand one class report of fifteen minutes, a midterm paper of six to eight pages, a research paper of fifteen pages or more, and a final. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures of the course are very interest­ing and should prompt a few interesting discussions. The tests are rather detailed and comprehensive. Mr. Callahan is not the most dynamic speaker, but his material is intelligent, and those who would take this course will be pleased. This course is not recommended for non-English majors, unless there is tremendous interest in the subject that borders on being devoted. 
READINGS: Basic Text for the course will be the the 

Noyes anthology from the Oxford Press. There will also be 
readings from Carl Kroeber, Background to British Romantic 
Literature. A great deal of 'the emphasis in the final grade 
will be assigned to the class report. 
COMMENT: Mr. Callahan has a rather uncommon manner 

of making his class devoid of sterilized academics and placing 
an enjoyable emphasis on that which is stimulating and val­
uable. The course is highly specialized, but if any student 
possesses enough interest in this era of British poetry, it 
will be a valuable esthetic endeavor. The work is heavy, but 
once again the interest factor should overcome. The general 
consensus of the final grade was fair, with the average of 
about a B. 
Carvel Collins English 486 Seminar: William Faulkner 
CONTENT: This is a one-semester course dealing with the 

novels of William Faulkner. It is an upper-division course within 
the English Department, and it is open only to English majors 
who have taken at least one college, course in twentieth-century 
literature in the English language. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Collins possesses a knowledge of the 

works of Faulkner that seems inexhaustible. He knew Faulkner 
personallf, and was one of the first critics to recognize the 
author's true genius. Nevertheless, the course is a seminar, and 
the students are expected to provide most of the discussion. Dr. 
Collins is always available with his knowledge on all aspects, but 
he is very tolerant of conflicting opinions presented intelligently. 
READINGS : The seminar will examine the following works by William Faulkner: The Unvanquished, Soldier's Pay, The Sound And The Fury, As I Lay Dying, Sanctuary, Light in August. 
ORGANIZATION: Last semester this course required one critical 

paper and no exams. Grades have been based approximately 
seventy-five percent on the student's contribution to the seminar 
discussions and twenty-five percent on the term paper. 
CoMMENT: Professor Collins is an unexcelled authority on 

William Faulkner. He knew the man, and he knows his works. 
Nevertheless, despite his overwhelming knowledge of Faulkner 
and his works, Professor Collins is always available to his students 
for assistance. This is an excellent course for students of 
twentieth-century literature and of William Faulkner. This 
semester, the course will be limited to a maximum number of 
twenty students. The line at preregistration will probably be 
long. I suggest that you get there early. 
Donald Costello English 594 Modern Drama I 
In the past, Modern Drama has been offered as a one semester course. Because of its depth and richness and because of Mr. Costello's sensitive and perceptive style, the course has always been popular and has achieved the status of a "classic" course in the English Department. This year the course will be expanded in content and analysis to include two semesters. Modern ·Drama II, a chronological extension of Modern Drama I, will be offered in the Spring Semester, but each course may be taken separately. 
CoNTENT: Modem Drama I is a study of the art of mod­ern drama, from the early realists-Henry Arthur Jones, Arthur Wing Pinerofi Henrik Ibsen, through the philosopher theore­ticians of the 1920's and 30's-Luigi Pirandello and Brecht. Drama will be examined, structurally and thematically, as thea­tre as well as literature in order to gain an understanding of where drama has been and where it is going. Although gen­eral trends are emphasized, the course does not neglect to examine the personal development of each playwright or the organic unity of each individual play (studied as a work .· of art) . As a fi"'.e hundred level course, Modern Drama I is open to graduate English students and undergraduate English majors. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
PRESENTATION: Modern Drama I is primarily a lecture course, although room is ·left for discussions. Because 'Of the immense scope of the course, Mr. Costello's lectures examine an expansive area of material. Yet the lectures are clear, well­ordered, and succinct. They manifest a sensitive reading of the plays and pi:esent a thorough analysis of the form and content of each play. Finally they expand this close reading and discuss general developments of modern drama. Ques­tions and perceptive discussions are encouraged and blended into the lectures. Mr. Costello's style is relaxed but intellectually stimulating, directly focusing· the students' attention on the rich material of the plays. 
READINGS: Lots of plays. Forty-six, to be exact. By British playwrights: Jones, Pinerofi, Shaw, Wilde, Yeats, Synge, O'Casey. By American playwrights: O'Neill, Rice, Anderson, Kaufman, Saroyan, Howard, Odets, Behrman, Hellman. By continental playwrights: Ibsen Chekhov, Strindberg, Pirandello, Brecht. The reading load is extensive, and Mr. Costello demands close textual readings of each play. Yet the plays represent the classic achievements of modern drama and are all worthwhile. Although the reading is heavy, the plays are enjoyable. Help­ful hints: reread the plays whenever possible and read the plays while listening to their recordings in the library when they are available. 
ORGANIZATION: One paper, a structural analysis of a single play, is required. There are three essay e.-..:aminations. They are difficult and demand perceptive readings of the plays, but ultimately they are elevating experiences. Although the quality of the students in the course is usually quite high, final grades reflect the extensive reading load and the analytical de­mands of the course and are subsequently below the average Arts and Letters grades. 
COMMENT: Modern Drama I could easily degenerate into a dry, ineffectual survey of modern plays and playwrights. It doesn't. Mr. Costello's warm and sensitive (though always an­alytical) treatment of the material captivates the interest of his students. The only real weakness of the course in the past has been its brevity-so much material in so little time ob­viously limits both the teacher and the student. In its new two-semester format, Modem Drama should overcome this weakness. More emphasis can be placed on individual play­wrights· without neglecting the general trends of modern 
' drama. The course is difficult and demanding, but finally very worthwhile, because of the resonant material it covers. Because of the richness of Mr. Costello who has spent his life exploring with his students, in literature and drama, the ques­tion posed by William Butler Yeats in "A Prayer for My Daughter": 
How but in custom and in ceremony 
Are innocence and beauty born? 
Walter R. Davis Eng-lish 340 
. '-' 

Literature of 16th-century England 
CONTENT: This course will not attempt a survey, but will treat several important works by the major authors of the 16th century, with the end of making them come alive for the stu­dent who will bring a measure of his own life to the study. Works and authors will include Thomas More's Utopia, the lyrics of Thomas Wyatt, Philip Sidney's Astrophel and Stella and his Defense of Poetry, one or two books of Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queen, Christopher Marlowe's Tamburlane, Dr. Faustus, and Edward II, Thomas Nashe's The Unfortunate Traveller. Although the course will include drama and prose ( fiction and non-fiction), the age's main productions were the genre of poetry. Therefore, there will be some preliminary work in the art of reading poetry. The course will move by its discussion. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Davis is an excellent lecturer. With the passage of time, even his Teutonic pipe tobacco begins to smell sweeter. His delivery is soft, but enthusiastic; his• words seem casual, but extremely well chosen. Mr. Davis is a teacher: I mean he actually teaches. Many students who had not planned on it will be surprised to find themselves learning. Lectures are 
· to the point, coherent, interesting. All questions, including the ones outrageously foolish, are treated with sincere, often painful, graciousness. Discussion is encouraged. READINGS: Worthwhile readings. You may find yourself 
17 

slightly pressed for time, but most will find time to read for enjoyment. All can be had in paperback. Five Courtier Poets of the English Renaissance (ed. Bender), English Renaissance Poetry (ed. Williams), Utopia (More), Defence of Poetry (Sid­ney, ed. McCardle), Books I and II of The Faerie Queen.e (Spenser, ed. Kellogg and Steele), Elizabethan Fiction (ed. Ash­ley and Mosely), The Plays of Christopher Marlowe (ed. Kirsch­baum), The Elizabethan Age (ed. Stevenson). 
ORGANIZATION: There will be one or two short papers, a term paper, and some brief exercises, in addition to midterm and final exams. He is a just man,. in the Biblical sense. Fair, but stern. Come prepared for some healthy work. You will be re­warded for your pains. 
COll[l\IENT: Walter Davis is an outstanding scholar, and a warm, personable man. This course will, indeed, be a "significant educational experience." It would do well to have some interest in the matter being covered, beginners in the 16th century would do even better to start their studies under the direction of Mr. Davis. One final observation I must get off my chest -his voice is amazingly like that of Rod Serling. 
J. P. Dougherty English 385 Major American Writers I 
CONTENT:· Offered for the first time by Mr. Dougherty, this is a course in four important authors from the "Amer­ican Renaissance", the two decades preceding the Civil War­Ralph Waldo Emerson, Herman Melville, Henry David Thoreau and Walt Whitman. The· central theme of this course should be the testing of the American doctrine of liberty in moral, cultural and literary contexts. While Mr. Dougherty promises no "glorious correlations between 1850 and 1971,'' many decisions reached during the "American Renaissance" are still pertinent. 
PRESENTATION: Because of the early morning hour, Mr. Dougherty sees this as primarily a lecture course. But he is always warmly responsive to questions. 
READINGS: Ralph Waldo Emerson, Selections (Riverside); Herman Melville, Moby Dick (Bobbs-Merrill), Billy Bu-dd, Sailor, and Other Stories (Penguin); Henry· David Thoreau, Walden· and Other Writings {Modern Library); Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass (Viking), Selected Poems (Dell). Price of books is $8.45. 
ORGANIZATION: Students will write a take-home exam on each author, and a comparativ~ or integrative final essay. No final exam. 
COMMENT: Professor Dougherty's style is often oblique, but while a point may be far-reaching, you sense that there's a genu­inely evocative e.xperience going on..:...-quiet surprises-:-for both Professor Dougherty and the students. One of the most engaging things about the man is that he knows when his sentences don't seem to be ending and he reacts with characteristically wry humor. Professor Dougherty _is excellent in his field. He is sensitive to student questions and responds to exams and papers with thoroughness and lasting concern. 
.Toseph Duffy English 425 Literature and the Imagination 
CoNTENT: This course is concerned with changing con­ceptions of the imagination in the literature of the Romantic and post-Romantic eras. The works selected for scrutiny are primarily from the poetry of these eras, ranging from Wil­liam Blake to Yeats and Wallace Stevens. There are no specific prerequisites, but the course is intellectually rigorous and Mr. Duffy advises -that students interested in the course come and talk with him before registering in order to determine individually whether the course would best serve both their interests and their preparation. 
PRESENTATION: Although originally conceived as a seminar and purveyed as such when offered last year, the course quickly a.dopted a relatively loose lecture format, with which both Mr. Duffy -and the class admitted to being more com­fortable. And, of course, it is no ordinary lecture class. If Mr. Duffy is the leader-and there is no doubt that he is, 
-one feels nevertheless that the class is the concerned inquiry of colleagues. Mr. Duffy's lectures are meticulously crafted and -lively in their articulation. They are in every sense ·ad­mirable, singly and as a whole. Discussion, especially intelligent discussion, is of course welcomed. 
READINGS: The readings are chosen with some mind to the readiness with -which they submit to consideration_ in terms of imagination and its theories. The readings are always intelligent and to the point; often they are beautiful. They include the poetry of Blake, Wordsworth, Keats, Yeats and Stevens, and Death in Venice and Dr. Faustus by Thomas Mann. The cost of these texts is aproximately $25. In addition, while the course is not primarily one in literary theory, -Mr. Duffy plans to encourage-strongly-supplementary readings among the germane works of Heidegger, Cassirer, Langer, Frye, Foucault, Barthes, and Levi-Strauss. · 
ORGANIZATION: The length of the readings is not excessive, but it is expected that considerable time will be given to a concerned and imaginative readmg and re-reading _of them. 
-Beyond this, there will probably be two paper-projects of medium length (10 pages) of either an imaginative or a critical nature. There will probably not be a final exam. Mr. Duffy expects and demands -work of a high order-and usually gets it, and consequently the grades are, at last, relatively high. 
Co111111ENT: Most students who have had this course con­sider it one of the two or three best courses they had at Notre Dame. Because of the intensive level at which the material is engaged, the course is probably most valuable to majors, but nonmajors with a genuine. interest are not neces­sarily discouraged. 
John D. Garvick English 355 English and Continental Literature of the 18th _Century 
English 427 
T. S. Eliot and the Tradition 
EN.GLISH 355 
CONTENTS : This is a new course, extending over the fall semester only. To paraphrase Mr._ Garvick, the class is structured as a general inquiry into literary and social process which served• as the seed for·. modern culture in the West. Among those spirited from death's other kingdom will be La Rothe­foucauld, Moliere, Racine, Swift, Pope, Voltaire, Johnson, Hume, the mysterious Kit, Smart, Blake, Rousseau, Monk, Lewis, Goethe, Hegel. On stormy October days, music may even be provided by Bach, Mozart, Bethoveen. Be prepared for a forced march by Frederick the Great, or even Napoleon. The list is intimidating, but you need not be. All may not be covered, but all will be present in the room. Such is Mr. Garvick. Emphasis is on an overview from well-chosen, highly­seasoned samples. A good course for those who can remember little from 1700 to 1800 and who have made the mistake to think that it was all musk and snuff. A challenge. It would be well if you were interested-even excited-in the prospect. 
READINGS: Included are Rochefoucauld's Maxims, Gulli­ver's Travels, Candide and Part I Faust. There will be more, of course. The-full list can be found by April 30, hanging about G181, memorial Library. Be prepared for one mid-term and one final, both in class. In addition, -one paper is due on 
a. subject of -the student's choosing. Almost forgot-most texts will be paperback and iriexpensive. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
ENGLISH 427 
CONTENTS: Old Possum meets the undergraduates. One of the first courses of its kind-Mr. Garvick again takes to the . front with this new one-semester course. "Not farewell/ but fare forward". If I were returning next fall, I'd take this course myself. The course will be centered on the criticism and poetry of the awesome Eliot, but by no means will be limited i:r:i its focusing on time past, and time present. The many generations that made the man will have their say as well. Dante, Donne, Sam Johnson, Baudelaire, Camus, Beckett, Henry Miller: those who came before, and those who have followed after, all will contribute to the further understanding of T. S. Eliot and the tradition. Chamber music with Bartok will add to the effect. A lecture-discussion course not to be treated lightly. A baptism by fire for initiates and veterans alike. Come prepared. And come eager. · 
READINGS: Paperbacks by Eliot: Selected Poems, Four Quar­tet, The Sacred Wood, Christianity and Culture, Murder in the Cathedral, The Cocktail Party. Recommended works: The Long Week-end, by Graves; Works, by Ta~e. 
Expect a final examination and two papers, one small and one larger. Class discussion will spurred by student leader­ship with selected members on specific topics. 
PRESENTATION: Keep this hushed: Mr. Garvick was known in his time to dally in the theater. .Lectures will be, at a minimum, relevant; on especially sunny or stormy days, they will follow you out of the classroom. He is an excellent lecturer with a lesson well worth he words. A man with an intense, personal interest in what, and who, he teaches. Scholarly, knowledgeable, and given wise, Mr. Garvick, of ·necessity, is slightly mad. Join_ him. 
COMMENTS: As far as grades go, ask Mr. Garvick yourself. Let us say for now that he is eminently reasonable. And fiercely just. In summation, Mr. Garvick is no acedemic child of innocence. He has his faults. But damned if even they aren't exciting. This man could teach Vachel Lindsey-and I would still take him. Befote you leave this place, I would strongly urge joining with John Garvick in a learning experience. 
Donald Gutierrez English 49lA Twentieth Century British Literature 

CONTENT: This course combines a survey of 20th-century British literature with readings of selected representative works in the area. The period covered ranges roughly from the 90's to the late 20's, a time of great innovation in artistic technique reflecting new conceptions of man and reality., This "experimen­tation" ("I throw away my experiments," Picasso once said) will serve as a major perspective to evaluate more traditional literature before and after it. There will be one midterm, a final exam, and one to t'\XO papers of moderate (9-12 pages) length. Each person in the class will choose an important poet, dramatist, or novelist on whom to base an informal class report and a formal critical paper. This project is designed to allow the individual latitude to pursue his own interests within the period; it would involve reading one substantial work by the author ( 2 full-length plays or a novel or a book or collection of poems), and having some familiarity with some of the critical work on that author. Required course titles are subject to minor change. 
READINGS: Course required readings: ( all titles are in paper­back), H. G. Wells: The War of the Worlds and The Time Machine; Conrad: Nostromo, The Shadow Line, The Secret Sharer or Heart of Darkness; Lawrence:· Women in Love, The Fox, The Captain's Doll; Joyce: (either or both Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Dubliners in Viking Portable Joyce); Saunders, Rosenthal, edito_rs: Chief Modern Poets of England and America, volume One/ O'Casey: Three Plays (Juno ·and the Paycock, Shadow of a Gunman, The Plough and the Stars); Shaw: Four Plays (Signet pub.), Heartbreak House (?), St. Joan; Synge: Playboy of the Western World. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
Maben D. Herring English 325 Afro-American Literature I 
CONTENT: This course is currently being offered as a 1­semester course but will be expanded to 2 semesters in the coming academic year. During the fall semester, the course will study the development of Black Literature in America in both verse and prose from the early eighteenth century to the 1940's. The period of major consideration will be the Harlem Renais­sance of the 1920's and 1930's. Although Mrs. Herring has not finalized the bibliography, some of the books which have been chosen are Up From Slav.ery by Booker T. Washington; The Souls of Black Folks and the Quest of the Siluer Fleece by 
W. E. B. Dubois; The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man by James Weldon Johnson; and Black Voices by Abraham Chapman. Mrs. Herring believes that Black Literature displays a continuity in its development which may be fruitfully analyzed. From this perspective, the course will .:ttempt to define the Black Aes­thetic of contemporary criticism and to link this aesthetic with the evolution of the Black movement from its eighteenth-century origins. 
John Huber English 434 Medieval Ideas of Love 
CONTENT: Beginning with background readings in classical theories of love which were ava:ilable to medieval writers ( Plato, Aristole, and Ovid) , the course shall consider next some of the great medieval writings on the subject, both religious and worldly. Finally we see some of these ideas at work in the literature of the Age of Chaucer, especially in English lyrics and narrative poetry. Acquaintance with Middle English on the level of Chaucer will be helpful, but not necessary. Read­ings will be in modern English translations wherever good translations are available. The opportunity to do work in French or Latin will be offered. 
PRESENTATION: Though his classes are "formally" structured, Mr. Huber·is not at all afraid to deviate from that structure-­to add or delete material, depending ~n the particular class situation. One student commented that he "places heavy re­sponsibility on the student, but is ready if someone tries to shirk that responsibility." 
READINGS: Plato, Timaeus; Ovid, The Art of Love; Boeth­ius, The Consolation of Philosophy; Andreas Capellanus, The Art of Courtly Love; Anonymous, The Cloud of Unknowning; 
R. T. Davies (ed.), Medieval English Lyrics; Brian Stone, Medieval English Verse; G. de Lorris and J. de Meung, The Romance of the Roses; Hellman and O'Gorman (eds.), Fab­liaux; Chaucer, works; John Gower, Confessio Amantis (trans. 
T. Tiller); Innocent III, On the Misery of the Human Condi­tions; De Rougemont, Love in the Western World. 
ORGANIZATION: Students' work will consist of a mixture of take-home quizzes ( short, 300-word essays, one per week, the student choosing five out of ten for his grade), a short and a long paper, class reports, a final exam and a mid­term if necessary. Class will proceed mostly through discussion, with lectures used to give broad backgrounds. 
Cor.n.1ENT: Mr. Huber has also given this course as a fresh­man seminar. Students in that class felt he .was capable of generating great excitement in the classroom, but was inconsistent (and, therefore, human). He believes in giving a great deal of responsibility to the student: consequently, he encourages per­sonal and varying interpretations of the work studied, welcomes and is always open to extra-classroom contact, is content to mere­ly indicate (but not explain) errors on papers, and has an excel­lent rapport with his students. He prepares his classes excellent­ly and offers what one student calls a "comprehensive study of medieval literature." The correlations of divine and human love is especially exciting. It was felt that the rather formal structure "complements and best emphasizes the readings 3:nd their im­portance." There is no busy-work, but requirements are strict. The man obviously likes students, and his chosen field of literary study; the combination _is contagious. 
William Krier English 426 Language and Reality m Fiction English 489 11odem American Writers 
ENGLISH 426 
CONTENT: "People make sense of the world by making fictions. Everyone makes fictions. We . articulate fictions to understand things." This brief statement from Mr. Krier is the basis for the problem posed in the title of this new course. How a world view is put into a fiction is the author's problem and the main concern of the course. In order to focus more directly upon reality and fiction, and their relation as made evident through the medium of language, the class will direct its atten­tion in two areas: 1) to look at people (characters) who have made fictions and tried to make them real; 2) . to read novels about novelists. In the first-area the class will encounter charac­ters who try to live their fictions ( e.g., Don Quixote, Jay Gatz, Captain Ahab). The second area brings in novels that are con­sciously aware that fictions are made of language. These novels all share one frustration: language becomes problematic for those who cannot get past it to make fiction with it. 
READINGS: (tentative), Alice in Wonderland, Don Quixote~ Mob:;• Dick, TriS:ram Shandy, The Great Gatsby, The Universal Baseball Association, Trout Fishing in America, The Counter­feiters, Wuthering Heights, Th.e Scarlet Letter, Huckleberry Finn, Absalom, Absalom, Slaughter-House Five, Ficciones, The Sot-Weed Factor (Reading Don Quixote before the first class day is a prerequisite). 
ENGLISH 489 
CONTENT: Mr. Krier's approach to his course in Modem American Writers is from the personal level. He rarely brings the opinions of the critics to class, but rather holds his own up to the class for their analysis. Mr. Krier believes that, while one book by an author may say one thing and another by the same person quite another thing, there are certain basic viewpoints that can be made evident by a close study of that author. Therefore, the emphasis· in this course lies upon the author. However, the means by which we see the author must come through his literature. Mr. Krier . organizes the course so that more than one book by• each author will be read. The importance of this course is that tt places the world view of various American writers in · juxtaposition with views on the same issues held by the members of the class. 
READINGS: Several novels and short stories by Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, Updike and Vonnegut. 
ORGANIZATION: For both courses, there will be three papers due throughout the course of the semester. The first two papers will be about outside books so that the student will write about key issues brought up in class while at the same time ex­panding his scope. The third paper will also be the final examination, and it will probably combine summary remarks with a personal tying together of major issues. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Krier's method of teaching may be called 'transitional.' That is, during the course of a lecture he will discuss point X and then point Y: However, there is almost always a transition between the two points, and he looks to the class to discover it. In other words, Mr. Krier carefully prepares each class, and expects the same from the students. Since his approach to the subject matter is per­sonal, i.e., from his own study and analysis, he expects dis­cussions and differences of opinion to arise. He encourages such participation from the members of the class. His lectures are well-prepared, yet geared to student involvement. There­fore, the responsibility for success lies on both the shoulders of Mr.-Krier and the members of the class. One can be assured that Mr. Krier will carry his share with great care. 
COMMENT: While Mr. Krier's approach to literature is personal, and more concerned with the viewpoint one particular writer exercises than the art of his .literature, he never indulges in any personal philosophizing. First of all, he looks only to the particular fiction being discussed at the time, and not to personal philosophies or outside critics. Secondly, he is especially open to discussions and differences because he realizes the fallibility· of personal opinion. Some of the most important discussions in Mr. Krier's course have arisen over questions of content vs. form. It is interesting to note that often both Mr. Krier and the students learn something new through such discussion. The best thing about Mr. Krier is that he meets you on your level. The catch is that he has expectations about where that level should be. It's not a catch-22; rather, it is an expectation of a responsibility we should all feel toward our educations. 

Leslie H. -Martin English 351 . Survey of English Literature 1660-1745 
English 452 Manners Comedy: The Eighteenth Century and After 
ENGLISH 351 
CONTENT: Readings in British Literature from the Restora­tion to the death of Swift. Materials studied include verse, satire, lyric poetry, the drama, essays, and press fiction. Authors: Dryden, Butler, Addison, Steele, Etherege, Wycherley, Congreve, Farquhar, Gay, Pope, Swift, Defoe, Fielding, and related minor figures. 
READINGS: Tillotson, Fussell, Warmgrow: The Literature of the Eigte.enth Century, and a few paperbacks -including either Tom Jones or Joseph Andrews, Moll Flanders or Robinson Crusoe and Gulliver's Travels. 
ENGLISH 452 
CONTENT: The title of the course is self-explanatory . .The development of Manners Comedy will be traced from the Eigh­teenth Century to the Twentieth in both drama and the novel. The course is open to English majors and others with depart­mental approval. 
READINGS: The bibliography of this course is extensive. About ten plays and ten novels will be read in conjunction with a few selected poems. The dramatists will include Etherege, Wycherley, Congreve, Farquhar, Gay, Goldsmith, Sheridan, Wilde, Shaw, and Conrad. The novelists will include Fielding, Austen, Trollope, Thackeray, James, Wharton, Twain, and Fitzgerald. The Maxims of La Rochefoucauld and poems by Pope, Swift, and Byron will also be studied. All readings are available at the bookstore in paperback. 
. ORGANIZATION: In the past, Professor Martin's courses have always been flexibly organized. A midterm and a final of the take-home variety and a few short critical essays comprise ·the written work. They are corrected intelligently, carefully, and very slowly. Although Mr. Martin is a "hard" marker, I have never heard any of his students complain of an unjust grade. The final grade is a nonmathematical con.sideration of class par­ticipation and written work. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Martin's lecturing style is a pleasant blend of wit and astute critical analysis. With an intellectually lively class, student response becomes an integral part of his lec­tures as it influences the direction of his thought. He encour­ages the class to react articulately through his own precise language. Participation is welcomed but discussions are never allowed to stray into ~ubjects unrelated to the literary material. 
CoMMENT: Mr: Martin's courses in Manners Comedy and the Restoration offer the English major and the serious student of literature excellent opportunities for acquiring a strong founda­tion in· either area. With his admiration and developed sensibil­ity for Restoration Comedy,· his presentation of the drama and poetry of this era is.a particularly informative and engaging edu­cational experience. One discovers the seriousness as well as the humor in the literature.of the comic artist. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
John Matthias English 307 Writing Poetry 
English 399 Modern British Poetry · 

English 590 The Bloomsbury Group 
ENGLISH 307 CONTENT: A course developed by Mr. Matthias to acquaint students interested in poetry with the procedures and disciplines involved in writing it. Poetry is a form of self-expression, but it is also a craft which must be learned through study and endless practice. Mr. Matthias will emphasize the craft aspect. Consid­erable reading will· be required, including Pound, A.B.C. of Reading; Richard's Practical Criticism; Scully, Modern Poetics; Martz, The Distinctive Voice; Allen, The New American Poetry; Matthias, 23 British Poets. Writing will consist of ten finished poems at the end of the semester, and a written critique of each manuscript submitted to the class. Those wishing to enroll should submit a manuscript of five poems to Mr. Matthias as soon as possible. PRESENTATION: This is the third time Mr. Matthias has taught this course, and by now he has it down to an effective rhythm of writing, criticism and discussion. Mr. Matthias is him­self a very talented poet and a deft critic, and under his dir!!C­tion the class will focus closely upon the work of each student enrolled. Every aspect and implication of the poetry is scruti­nized, and every possible weakness questioned. 
ENGLISH 399 CONTENT: A delineation of the trends in twentieth-century British poetry, beginning with the work of the classical modernists (David Jones, T. S. Elliot, Ezra Pound, among others), and moving through various anti-modernist reactions and extensions of modernism, to the· complexities of the current literary scene. The reading is substantial, varied, and often very compelling. Written work consists of one long critical essay, and a take-home essay final. PRESENTATION: The course is anchored by Mr. Matthias's lectures, but student responses, questions and contributions are always welcome. The lectures range from very good to super­lative: Mr. Matthias' understanding of the vast range of modern poetry is outstanding. He knows personally many of the figures he talks about, and it is more than likely that one or two of his poet-friends will visit the class, to talk informally about their work. READINGS: John Matthias, 23 Modern British Poets; Sanders & Rosenthal, Chief Modern Poets of England; Robin Skelton, Poetry of the Thirties; David Jones, In Parenthesis; T. S. Eliot, The Waste Land and Other Poems; Ezra Pound, Selected Poems; 
D. H. Lawrence, Selected Poems; W. H. Auden, The Orators. 
ENGLISH 590 CONTENT: As Mr. Matthias says, this course is "an inter­disciplinary study of work by members of one of the few really coherent 'groups' in modern literature. The readings from Bloomsbury proper will be in philosophy, (G. E. Moore), eco­nomics (J. M. Keynes), biography (Lytton Strachey), auto­biography (Leonard Woolf), art criticism and aesthetics (Roger Fry and Clive Bell), poetry (T. S. Eliot) and fiction (Virginia Woolf and E. M. Forster)." Criticism of the group, by writers as prominent as D. H. Lawrence, will also be considered. This is anything but a survey course; it is a sharply focused exploration what happens when creative persons working in several disci­plines, share common principles and goals. The course will be demanding, and very exciting if the demands are met. PRESENTATION: Of the heavy load, no papers will be re­quired. Aside from a final exam, the whole of the student's work for the course will take the form of class discussion. This means that students must be willing to discuss issues intensively, and to create a group dynamic of their own. There is much ground-breaking and investigation to be done here, and much learning to be had. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
READINGS: G. E. Moore: Principia Ethica; J. M. Keynes: Essays in Persuasion; Lytton Sstrachey: Eminent Victorians, Elizabeth and Essex; Leonard Woolf: Beginning Again, Down­hill All the Way; Roger Fry: Vision and Design; Clive Bell: Virginia Woolf: Mrs. Dalloway, To The Lighthouse, Jacob's Room, The Waves, A Room of One's Own; E. M. Forster: As­pects of The Novel, The Longest Journey, Howard's End, A Passag.e to India, Two Cheers for Democracy; D. H. Lawrence: Lady Chatterley's Lover; L. H. Myers, The Near and the Far; 
F. R. Leavis: Scrutiny; Wyndham Lewis: The Apes of God. 
Cm.tMENT: Mr. Matthias has already edited a major anthol­ogy of poetry, and his own first of poems well establish him as one of the more important American poets. He is also a dedi­cated and thorough teacher, able to communicate a first-hand knowledge of his subjects, and to impart to his students a great enthusiasm for the literature he teaches. He is a genuinely moral person, and a major storyteller. 
John J. McDonald 
English 385 
Major American Writers I 
CONTENT: This course will be one-half of a two semester series, though Mr. McDonald will not teach the second semester. Because both the course and the teacher will be new to Notre Dame, Mr. McDonald couldn't say exactly what the course would comprise, though he hopes to take as his theme the artist's view of himself through his own works. He hopes to take American authors such. as Hawthorne, Poe, Dickinson, and James, and show how they view their function in artistic creation as it is mirrored in their own works. There is no prerequisite for the course, but Mr. McDonald foresees the bulk of the class as sophomore and junior English majors. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. McDonald firmly belives in· the ad­vantages of class discussion, yet he feels that the number of students will force him to lecture most of the time. Yet, he encourages discussion as the result of questions brought up during his lectures. 
READINGS : There will be at least two novels by Hawthorne, a collection of short stories by Poe, a collection of poetry by Emily Dickinson, two novels by Henry James, and one or two_ novels by Mark Twain. There will be no regular deadlines for the texts, though the dates for their completion will be an­nounced in advance. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be no daily or weekly assignments, nor will there be quizzes. There might be a mid-semester, and there will be two or three papers, plus a final. The grade will be based on the papers, the final exam, and, if numbers permit, on classroom discussion. 
COMMENTS: Mr. McDonald is presently finishing. work for his Ph.D. at Princeton. He has taught high school in Conneticut, but this will be his first collegiate assignment. His inexperience, though, is more than made up for by his enthusiasm, and his course should prove to be a worthwhile choice. 
Paul McLane English 355 Introduction to Shakespeare 
CoNTENT: Dr. McLane plans to study the development of Shakespeare's histories, tragedies, and comedies as dramatic poetry, with special emphasis on the controversial portions of each play. There is no prerequisite for this course and -it will be open to all upperclassmen in the University. Dr. McLane will cover 15 or 16 of the plays. 
PRESENTATION: Although Dr. McLane attempts to make his lectures interesting, the student might prepare for a plodding, page-by-page study of each play. Most attempts at discussion are stultified by a general lack of stimulation from the professor and, although questions will be entertained, they will seldom lead to enlightening comments. The student who is more in search of the astute instructor than of provocative material should avoid this course. 
READING: William Shakespeare is good reading. Personal 
texts may be used or the plays may be purchased in the inexpen­
sive paperback form. 
ORGANIZATION: The course grade will be based on 2 short, 
critical papers and on 2 major examinations, a midterm and a 
final. Each grade will count equally toward the final grade and 
the class average should be in the B area. 
COMMENT: English majors who enjoy a teacher with finesse 
and insight should not take this course. At times, the lectures 
proceed like a locomotive through a ton of clay -Dr. McLane 
will get through Shakespeare, but in a manner which is less than 
stimulating. The plays are essential reading for an English major, 
but can be just as effectively understood during a personal, 
summer-reading program. If a student wants a reasonably easy 
course which will acquaint him with Shakespeare and will not 
force or even evoke great thoughts, this is his course. 
Lewis Nicholson English 313 Introduction to English Literature I 
CONTENT: A critical study of selected works by important English writers from the beginnings to the Seventeenth-century, with emphasis on literary and social contexts. Literary types treated will include epic and romance, allegory, lyric and nar­rative poetry and drama. Mr. Nicholson makes a thorough and knowledgeable examination of such topics as the comic spirit in Chaucer, the poetry of Spenser, the Elizabethan world, and Milton and puritanism. The course is designed for English majors and for the non-English major who desires to broaden his cultural understanding. There are no prerequisites for the course, but it would be well to be somewhat familiar with the writers to be covered. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Nicholson's lectures give evidence that he is thoroughly versed in his field and completely involved in his presentation. Often, however, Mr. Nicholson demands a high degree of interpretive understanding, and therefore much discus­sion is strained and insignificant. 
READINGS: The text is the Norton Anthology of English Literature., Volume I, $6.75. Readings will include the works of Chaucer, Spenser, Milton and other writers of the early English period. Ample time is spent on each writer and the student should have no problem keeping up with the readings. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be two or three tests, which can be difficult, and a final examination. There may also be a short paper. A's are very rare; B's and C's make up the average grades. 
COMMENT: Mr. Nicholson's course can be very valuable to the serious student who is willing to put extra time and effort into the comprehension of aspects which Mr. Nicholson neglects to explain. Mr. Nicholson offers minimal personal contact with the students, which is one of the course's main setbacks. It is definitely not an easy course. But the course is recommended to English majors who are seriously interested in English literature and ·are not pre-occupied with grades. 
, 
Francis Phelan, C.S.C. English 301 Writing Fiction I 
English 391 Anglo-Irish Literature· 
ENGLISH 301: CONTENT: A trial-by-error learning experience, preferably for the. English major, in what it takes to write a convincing short story. Each student submits three stories during the semester; these are mimeographed, distributed among the class and dis­cussed. Usually, three stories are taken in each two-hour period. Father Phelan lets the students do most of the talking, but his comments, though not overly frequent, are direct and always relevant. In addition to the obvious writing practice, the student also finds himself developing confidence· in his critical ability. Criticism tends to be constructive, and students are given direc­

tions for future work in addition to comments on the work being discussed. Grades are based on the student's work, his maturity of judgment in his criticism, and his class attendance. There are no assigned readings except the weekly selection of students' stories, but recommendations for further reading are given to each student on the basis of his interest, thought, and style. This course 1s for the serious writer, not for the shy or easily em­barassed. 
ENGLISH 391 CONTENT: A survey of wntmg done in English by Irish authors. The course, as a survey, will not be able to take novels, but will rather concentrate on short pieces by a number of authors. READINGS: Selections from the following authors: Yeats, Joyce, John Millington Synge, Sean O'Casey, Brendan Behan, Brian Moore, George Russell, George Moore, Frank O'Connor, Fiann O'Brien, J. P. Donleavy, Samuel Beckett, and others. PRESENTATION: The first few weeks of the course will be lectures aimed at the students' goal of enlightened reading. With a growing understanding of the works, Father Phelan believes that discussion will increase. Hopefully, the discussion method used in his writing courses will be reflected in the discussions of the various authors. There will be a midterm, final, a term paper and/or oral reports presented to the class. Father is reluctant to discuss grades and hopes that the situation of his Joyce seminar of last semester will be repeated; that is, the caliber of student taking the course makes a discussion of grades trivial. COMMENT: Father .Phelan knows his subject. He is not, as a rule, a dynamic speaker, but his interpretations and reasoning are sound. He gets deeply involved in the works, but realizes immediately if he is leaving the students to step behind. He is lively and interesting, and judging by the responses of students in his Joyce seminar, Anglo-Irish Literature should be a good course. In Father Phelan's words, "I'm very serious about the subject and it's going to be a serious course. I'm determined that this must be a good course." 
Paul Rathburn English 543 The First Stage: English Drama Before. Shakespeare 
CONTENT: Reading and discussion will be focused on the English Miracle Plays, the Morality Plays, the Interludes, and assorted Tudor comedies and tragedies up to and including Christopher Marlowe. Representative plays of Plautus, Terence, and Seneca will also be read. The course hopes to emphasize the value of these plays in and of themselves, dispelling the notion that their value lies only as a prelude to Shakespeare. The course is open to all English majors, graduate and undergraduate, and hopefully the class will consist of an equal blending of juniors, seniors, and graduate students. No previous experience with Middle English Literature is required. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Rathburn emphasizes the need for the most beneficial balancing of lecture and class discussion. The amount of time devoted to lecture vs. discussion will be de­termined by the size of the course enrollment. Both lectures and discussions will prove to be very fruitful, since Professor Rath­burn displays both an extaordinary knowledge of the subject material, and a sincere interest in students' opinions that lead to worthwhile class discussions. In the past, Rathburn has made use of audio-visual means to stimulate the learning experience. Consequently, the British Broadcasting Corporation's four-album series entitled "The First Stage: a chronicle of the development of Er.glish Drama from its beginnings to the 1580's" will be "required listening." 
READINGS: Because this is a new course, not all the texts have been selected. The following list is to be considered tentative: Everyman and Medieval Miracle Plays, A. C. Cawley, editor, Dutton; Medieval and Tudor Drama, John Gassner, editor, Bantam World Drama; English Morality Plays and Moral Inter­ludes, Schell and Schuchter, editors, Rinehart; Five Roman Comedies, Palmer Bovie, editor, Dutton; Seneca, Four Tragedies and Octavia, E. F. Watling, editor, Penguin; The Complete Plays of Christopher Marlowe, I. Rihner, editor, Odyssey. 
ORGANIZATION: Again, due to the fact that this is a new course, assignments and examinations will be determined by the size of the class enrollment, and the amount of class participation that is exhibited. Contribution to class discussion, written assign­ments, and tests will be considered in determining the final grade. There will be a mid-term exam, and most probably a final ex­amination. But much of the required work will depend on the direction in which Professor Rathburn and the students lead the course. 
Co:r,n.rnNT: The attitude of a particular teacher often largely determines the value of the course. Professor Rathburn is able to combine an intense interest in his subject material with a sincere concern for the overall progress of the individual stuc;lent, the result being a true educational experience for both the stu­dent and the teacher. Although this course has never been offered, the possibility of coming into contact with the many talents of Professor Rathburn, both professional and personal, is sufficient justification for taking the course. 
.Tames Robinson English 445 Shakespeare and the Theatre of the Absurd 
CONTENT: Mr. Robinson watched the British production of Home that was in New York for part of this winter and noticed in the contemporary play similarities of technique and impulse with Shakespearean drama. Partially from thoughts arising from these observations and partially simply from interest in con­temporary theatre of the absurd, Mr. Robinson conceived the new course for the fall. The concern will be with the juxta­positioning of works of certain modern playwrights -roughly termed "Absurdists" -with a selection of Shakespearean plays. The thesis is -obviously -that by intermingling these plays, Shakespeare and the modern playwright will shed light upon one another, and, more dynamically, that the rigidity to which Shakespeare is often subjected will break, through an approach with contemporary work about which we have set notions. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Robinson hopes that this approach to Shakespeare will necessitate erasing the traditional distinctions between comedy, tragedy and history plays. The course is yet in the tentative stage -the summer will be the time of work­ing out -but on that basis, it may be described as a 20-student class with probable emphasis upon seminar approach: presenta­tion of papers and similar formal assignments of student respon­sibility. 
ORGANIZATION AND READING: It is yet undecided if the program for the course will be an intermingling of the modern playwrights with the Shakespearean plays, or a progression from the one to the other. From Shakespeare, the following plays will be assigned: Richard III, The Merchant of Venice, All's Well That Ends Well, Measure for Measure, Troilus and Cressida, Hamlet, King Lear, Timon of Athens, Macbeth, Cariolanus, Cymbeline, The Winter's Tale, The Tempest. They are not chosen yet but the modern plays ( 12 i_n number) will come from the work of the following: Beckett, Ionesco, Genet, Grass, Pinter and Albee. Required critical reading is Kott's Shake­speare Our Contemporary and Esslin's The Theatre of th.c Absurd. 
COMMENT: Mr. Robinson is under that curious pressure that issues from simultaneously functioning in an administrative and a teaching position. The strain of time pressures, and immersion in two not identical concerns may to some degree manifest itself. Mr. Robinson has, in the all but very recent past, been largely identified with the Shakespeare course: i.e., he has until recently worked with a large 0 (50-100) student class, in what is essentially a survey course. The shift of the last two semesters -to smaller and more focused course size and content -and the fact that he has very much designed this course, ·should eliminate these weights that have occasionally tied his course to the ground. This, coupled with Mr. Robinson's plans for a serious seminar­like approach indicate that the course will meet the demands of the material -that the course will adopt the dynamism of the material -which is sufficient to indicate the quality with which one hopes it will proceed. 
Ernest Sandeen English 327 Poetry 
CONTENT: This is a course in poetry and its language. The 
course begins with considerations of point of view, tone, imagery, 
metaphor, etc., and moves on to a consideration of the st.-uctures 
of poetry. 
PRESENTATION: The course proceeds largely by discussion; 
Mr. Sandeen begins the class with pertinent remarks which 
ensure a profitable and interesting dialogue. 
READINGS: Three required texts: An [7!troduction to Poetry, 
Louis Simpson; The Modern Poetry, M. L. Rosenthal; New 
Poets, N.ew Music, John Schmittroth and John Mahoney. The 
texts are well chosen and ample time is always given for the 
reading assignments. 
ORGANIZATION: Short papers are required. They are always 
marked fairly and Mr. Sandeen's comments are more than help­
ful. While in the past papers have been primarily critical and 
analytical in nature, this semester there was also room for crea­
tive work. There will be a final examination . 
COl\tMENT: A senior English major at Notre Dame, I look 
back, before graduation, at the truly fine courses that I have had 
in the past four years. Mr. Sandeen's course is one of the very 
finest. It is, at the same time, a course for the beginning stu­
dent in poetry and a course for the intermediate and advanced 
student. The beginning student will learn the language of poetry 
-a language of similes, metaphors, etc. -and the advanced 
student will be able to deeply appreciate exactly how tradition 
and modern writers employ this language. I recommend this 
course without reservation for those fulfilling major requirements 
and those "shopping'' for a profitable and enjoyable elective. 
Robert Slabey English 381 American Literature to 1900 
English 396 Modem European Fiction 
ENGLISH 381 
CONTENTS: This course is a survey of major American writers from the time of Benjamin Franklin through the last decade of the 19th century. Lectures will be concerned with the main themes and techniques of the individual writers. There are no prerequisites for the course, and the class is usually com­posed of students of all disciplines. 
READING: Howe, The Literature of America: 19th Century; Franklin, The Autobiography and Selected Writings; Hawthorne, The Scarlet Letter; Melville, Moby Dick; Twain, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn; a consideration of one of the works of Henry James. 
Reading load is moderate and ample time is given to com­plete each assignment. 
ORGANIZATION: Two exams and a comprehensive final will be given. There will also be 5 or 6 short ( one page) papers. Final grade will be a numerical average only if it is to the stu­dent's advantage. 
ENGLISH 396 
CONTENTS: The course is a study of 12 modern European writers. Lectures and discussion will center on themes and tech­niques of modern European fiction rather than national concerns. This course is open to all students interested in Europear. fiction. 
READINGS: The reading list has not yet been solidified but will probably include the following selections: Dostoyevsky, Notes from the Underground; Mann, Death in Venice; Kafka, short story; Camus, Plague; plus other short stories and series novels by Tolstoy, Hamsun, Hesse, Chekhov, and Sartre. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be, in addition to the midterm and final, a short paper on a novel not on the reading list and a longer paper examining an idea pervading several of the as­signed works. 
PRESENTATION: Lectures are informal yet extremely well pre-
APRIL 15, 1971 
pared. Papers demand some measure of analysis of the subject while thorough knowledge of lectures notes and familiarity with reading material are prime requisites for exams. 
COMMENT: English 381 is a survey course with an ap­proximate enrollment of 70 students. Therefore, opportunity for discussion will necessarily be limited. The lecture format is used extensively with a few questions accepted from the floor. How­ever, Professor Slahey's well-organized lectures present _the ma­terial easily and effectively, minimizing the inevitable disadvan­tages of a survey course. 
English 396, with a much smaller enrollment, will provide the class with an opportunity to supplement the lectures with dis­cussion and creative student activity. 
Professor Slabey's lectures are highly organized and as a result, the quantity of class notes taken -by students usually ranges from abundant to copious, all of which are covered on the final exam. He, nevertheless, is a very skilled instructor and a polished lecturer. If the student can endure his mildly sar­castic wit and (at times) atrocious puns (i.e., "What -American literary work was not written by the.author's own hand? Uncle Tom's Cabin was written by Harriet Beecher's toe."), he is•in store for a very pleasant and worthwhile learning experience. No education is complete without a lecture given in the inimitable Slabey style. 
Adolf Soens English 345 Shakespeare English 453 Swift and the Fideistic Tradition 
ENGLISH 348 CONTENT: The Shakespeare course will present an overall view of the works of The Great Bard, The specific plays to be covered are not certain at this time. If the student has not already done so, a safe bet would be to purchase Hardin Craig's Shakespeare anthology. 
ENGLISH 453 CoNTENT: The reviewer was not able to attain a specific list of the readings for the new Swift course. However, being famil­iar with the instructor's past presentation, Gulliver's Travels will certainly be included along with A Modest Proposal. Professor Soens taught this as a graduate course this year. PRESENTATION: The courses will probably consist of lectures with any dis~ussion of the material being prompted by a student's question. There is no doubt that the lectures are very flexible, loose, and the result of little preparation. However, this should not be entirely discouraging as the instructor's knowledge of the subject matter can at times be outright devastating. If loyal to past traits, there will be no tests and two or three papers. All papers will be eight pages long. An A or B should be easy to at­tain with at least an average effort. While the Shakespeare course is valuable for anyone, a non-Engli!>h major should be discouraged from taking the Swift course. · COMMENT: Professor Soens is an-unique experience. Unfor­tunately, his high level is not constant, as one class can be inter­esting while the next very boring. Enthusiastic note taking will be reduced to zero by the midterm. His grasp in these areas (Swift, Shakespeare, and Pope) is nothing short of amazing and leads to the use in class of points and interests that other in­structors may never consider. If you like to speak up with some­one you will feel is constantly pulling your leg, these courses are for you. If shy, you will fall asleep. With the right attitude, a good . time can be had by all. · 
C. Soleta English_ 518 l\,fodern Afrkan Writers 
CONTENT: This course is designed to familiarize the student with modem African writers and their works. In.-dealing-with the literature; African folk-lore and traditions; common themes of African writing, and the current situation of the African nations are also discussed.­

There are no prerequisites for the course, and students. come from diverse backgrounds. Graduate students are mixed in with sophomore, junior, and senior undergrads, and many different majors are represented. Although some of the students are government majors with background in African studies, this (or ! 
i 

the presence of grad students) should not cause others to shy ! away. Ultimately, a lack of previous knowledge in the subject proves no handicap. · 
PRESENTATION: The course is largely -lecture but is open for 

I
discussion whenever the class desires it. They quality of dis­cussion depends on the interest of the students in the course-and can be very good.-The lectures themselves are often dry, and sometimes seen overly plot-and-character oriented. But Father Soleta is a good man and is well-versed in his subject. Coming from the course you will -have some grasp of the basic concepts represented in African literature. 
READINGS=-The readings were very good and reflected a wide variety of literary styles. They ranged in form so that poetry, fiction, and drama were all represented, and in style so that real­ism, and surrealism, as well as many other styles found their place in the syllabus. The very fact that the books come from a culture foreign to the student, lend them a mystery and excitement. And while there were a great many readings, the fact that they were mostly interesting ones helped. The work could usually be co~red adequately for class without undue exertion. All of the 
Ibooks that had to be purchased ( there were about five or six) 
I i 

were paperbacks; others were put on reserve in the library. 
ORGANIZATION: Other than _the reading, the assignments consisted of one term ·paper of about six to ten pages, a short class presentation by each student, and participation in a panel discussion to be presented to the class. Each of these projects was to deal with an author, or work, of the student's choice. 
CoMMENT: The panel discussion was an interesting op-­portunity to work with other students who had different per­spectives · and backgrounds than your own. The papers and 
presentations, along with a_ final exam, constituted the final grade. It is difficult to get an A, but Father Soleta seems to be a fair grader: 
Edward Vasta English 330 Old and Mediev.al -English Literature 
CoNTENT: A selection of readings from the literature, lyrics, 
poems, romances, dramas, of the Old and Middle English periods, 
excluding the works of Chaucer. The primary emphasis of the 
course will be on an interpretation of the literature; however, 
there will be some language study. There are no prerequisites 
for this course; it is open to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures of Professor Vasta are interest­
ing,-informative, and extremely important for the student's under­
standing of the course material. Professor Vasta lectures without 
notes, yet his approach to the literature is ordered, not scattered 
or without foresight. He frequently stimulates the student's 
enthusiasm for the literature by his insights and expansive knowl­
edge about the Old and Middle English periods. Professor Vasta 
encourages class discussion which often sparks greater interest for 
the works at hand. 
READlNG:-Selection of the reading is not final. Probably 2 books ·from last semester's class will be used:-Poems From the Old English; Burton Raffel, translator; Beowulf, Burton Raffel, translator. Audio-visual materials will be employed in the class. 
ORGANIZATION: Eight short, two-page papers, one midterm, and one final are the tentative requirements. The papers test the student's critical ability, the examinations are aimed at his comprehension of the literature. However, certain factors, such as class size, may cause the requirements to be lessened. In the past semester, Professor Vasta has permitted the student to decide on whether they would like to limit the number of papers or abolish the midterm. He intends to continue this policy. 
COMMENT: Professor Vasta's course is a valuable educational and personal experience, and a good background for the second­semester-Chaucer course. He does not insist on his own interpre­tation of the literature, and his-responses to questions are at­tempts at enabling the student to reach his own answer rather than giving them a direct factual statement. He has the knack of bringing out the best in the Old and Medieval literatures, and introouces the student to historical, religious, and literary influ-ences on the early English writer, as well as to contemporary 
discussions on 'the literature.. By frequent analogies to everyday 
situations, Vasta· demonstrates that the literature is not foreign 
or archaic,·but that it deals with timeless human problems. 
Most important of all, he is concerned with students as indi­
viduals, and he makes an attempt to know each student by name. 
His friendly nature relaxes the class, creating a sound, healthy 
environment for the learning and discussion of the literature. 
James Walton English 322 The Novel English 460 The English Novel to 1845 
CONTENT: This is a lecture course concerned with the major 
themes of a carefully selected group of representative novels. 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Walton's impeccably organized and pro­
fessionally delivered lectures make this course one of the truly 
outstanding educational experiences of one's undergraduate 
career. 
READINGS: Ten representative novels. A list is on file at the 
English office, 359 O'Shaughnessy. · 

ORGANIZATION: Three short critical papers due during the semester. Mr. Walton's lectures are so well done that the stu­dent feels a natural obligation to reciprocate with papers reflect­ing mature thought and a disciplined writing style. Papers are very promptly returned and Mr. Walton's comments are infinite­ly distinguished. 
COMMENT: It is with pleasure that I recommend either of Mr. Walton's novel courses. While it is not especially difficult to find a novel course with an enjoyable reading list, it is difficult to find an enjoyable course in the novel; the difference must be in the teacher. Mr. Walton's lectures and his personable attri­butes combine to make this one of the very finest courses in the department. 
Outside of the classroom, Mr. Walton is always available to the interested student. He is pleasant, and friendly -sincerely admired and respected by his students. I most certainly do recommend this course without reservation. Consider it a bless­ing to have James Walton at Notre Dame. 
Thomas Werge English 383 American Writers Survey English 578 Studies in Mark Twain 
ENGLISH 383 
CONTENT: American Writers Survey is a general ·lecture course dealing with selected writings of nineteenth.--and twentieth­century American authors.· The course is open to ·an Arts and Letters sophomores, juniors and seniors. The course will deal with the literature as illuminating American history of ideas, and vice versa. 
READING: The quality of readings, given that this is a survey, is very high. For those seriously interested in an introduction to American literature the course comes highly recommended for its readings alone. The syllabus is comprised of Selected Writings from Poe; Hawthorne, House of the Seven Gables; Melville, Moby Dick; Stowe, Uncle Tom's Cabin; Agee, Death in the Family; Faulkner, Light in August; Hemingway, In Our Time; Whitman, Leaves of Grass; T. S. Eliot, The Wasteland and Other Poems. 
ORGANIZATION: Assignments for the course will include at least one five-page paper, possibly two, but no more than two. A midterm and a final exam will be given. Mr. Werge's exams are comprehensive, oftentimes fairly difficult, and always just and merciful. He is known to grade them quite fairly and they pro­vide an excellent opportunity to pull loose ends together. The average grade here is a B. 
ENGLISH 578 CONTENT: Studies in Mark Twain is a new course for Mr. .Werge. It will be a seminar class emphasizing a study of the religious and philosophical questions surrounding a very complex and fascinating character. Twain's autobiography will be used to illuminate the writings. The course is open to all juniors and seniors English majors and graduate students. READINGS: Selected Shorter Writings (selections): The Innocents Abroad (selection): The Adventures of Tom Saw­yer; Huckleberry Finn; Life on the Mississippi; Pudd'nhead Wilson; The Mysterious Stranger; A Connecticut Yankee; Twain's Autobiography; and A Collection of Critical Essays. Assignments will include, at least 3 5-to-6-page papers and a final exam. PRESENTATION: The quality and style of lectures here is excellent. Mr. '\Verge combines an exact knowledge of his topics with a quick wit and a repeating series of anecdotes into highly cohesive lectures. A great deal of material is covered in each class and the lectures are fast. In the 300 course Mr. W erge has a tight schedule and sticks to it rigidly. Here, there is little dis­cussion yet a time is reserved at the end of each class for ques­tions which are well received. The single and only difficulty here is time ( 50 minutes) and space ( 30 students). The Twain course, however, is a seminar. Here Mr. Werge is as good, if not better. His way is never manipulation, but thoughtful persuasion and discussion. A few introductory lec­tures may be expected, but the majority of the time is spent ·in well-conducted discussion. COMMENT: Mr. Werge's courses come highly recommended to the serious student. Mr. Werge is at his best when dealing with nineteenth-century American literature in light of philo­sophical and theological ideas. His treatment of M oby Dick is, usually, the highlight of the semester. However, the students taking the course should understand Mr. Werge demands in­sight and thoughtful participation in return. With this under­stood, one becomes caught up in a highly provocative experience. After all, American literature, and• in particular nineteenth­century literature and its corresponding history of ideas, com­prise our roots. To attempt to come to terms· with this is as worthy, enlightening and creative an experience as any. Hope­fully, a number of serious and thoughtful people will sign up for these courses. 
.APRIV.15, 1971 

General Program 
General Program 281, 381, 481 Seminars I, III, V 
GREAT"·:sooKs SEMINAR I 
CONTENT: The Seminar, core of the General Program, con­

sists of the reading and discussion of approximately 15 "classics" 
per semester. In the past, the Seminar has been almost ex­
clusively concerned with the theological, philosophic~}, historical, 
and political concepts of Western man, each year beginning 
with ancient works and proceeding to modern. Gradually, how­
ever, an attempt has been made ·to incorporate some representa­
tion of Eastern thought. The Seminar seeks to inculcate a sense 
of intellectual heritage, while fqstering rational habits of thought 
and discussion.. Ideally, the aim of the Seminar could be com­
pared to Matthew Arnold's definition of culture: "to know the 
best that has been thought and said in the world." 
PRESENTATION: The basis of the Seminar is discussion of the 

readings. The· varying pedagogical styles of the Seminar leaders 
are the sources of differing orientations ofthe course's emphasis. 
ORGANIZATION: A student's grade depends basically on his performance in the. discussion and an oral. final with two GP faculty members. Some Seminar leaders require short papers or commentaries on the· readings and/or a midterm exam. Also, students are often assigned to lead the class discussion. 
READINGS: Last semester's readings· are listed below, hut some revision should be expected this. year: Epic of Gilgamesh; William McNeill: The Rise of the West; Homer: The Odyssey; Plato: Apology, Crito, Gorgias, and The Republic; Sophocles: Oedipus Rex, Oedipus at Colonus, and Antigone; Aristotle: Poetics; Herodotus: History; Epictetus: The M_anual; Plutai:ch: Lives of Alcibiades, Coriolanus and. Companson; Augustine: Confessions. 
Dean Crosson is a brilliant man and masterful seminar leader. He insists on focusing the discussion on the books them­selves which is necessary in this seminar, since sophomores often
' .

have the tendency to spend too much time on related contem­porary problems. Dean Crosson's vast knowledge of the issues raised in the readings sometimes catches the students ill-equipped to defend their positions. For this reason the discussion often lags and a near-lecture format ensues. It has also been sug­gested that the _Dean has been fighting a one-man war on infla­tion in grades; however, Dean Crosson's keen insights and dedication to rational thought make his seminar an exemplary introduction· to the General Program. . 
Dr. Collins, who is now teaching in the History Department at the University of Chicago, will be a new member of the G.P. faculty next year. In addition to his seminar duties he will be teaching History of Science. . · 
Dr. Walter Nicgorski shows a profound interest in the stu­dent and the development of the student's own ideas. To this end each student in the class will be given the responsibility of leading the seminar once during the term. Also, for each book, students will be required to submit a short written commentary on the day of the discussion. Dr. Nicgorski intends to write a personal letter of evaluation to each student ~t midterm. . . 
Dr. Harold Moore handles the seminar qmte well, prov1dmg a good focal point for discussion. He generally strikes a good · balance between setting a background for discussion, giving his personal opinions, and allowing the s~udent . to fully develop his own thoughts. No papers are reqmred, with the only tests being a final and possibly an ungraded midterm, giving the student an opportunity to articulate his interpretation of the readings. Discussions are centered around important concepts found in the readings, and are usually well worth the-students' participation. Dr. Moore's experience, insight;' and informal style provide a worthy complement to the readmgs. 
GREAT BOOKS SEMINAR III , 
READINGS: Bhagavad Gita; Homer: Iliad; Aeschylus: Ores­teia; Plato: Syposium; Xenophon: Recollections of. Socrates; Aristophanes: Cfouds; Livy: History of -Rome; Epictetus: Enchiridion Stoic and Epicurean Philosophers; Gibbon: Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire; ~t. Augustine: City of God; St. Anselm: Proslogium and In Behalf of Fools; Dante: Purga­torio; Burckhardt: Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy; Cellini: Autobiography; Erasmus: In Praise of Folly; Luther: Three Treatises; Calvin: On the Christian Faith. 
At the outset, Dr. Jill Whitney bases discussion on specific knowledge of the text. In reaction to a student's idea she presents her own interpretation, but often fails to .compel the student to defend his own. In order to stimulate the student's paricipation, Miss Whitney assigns a class_ member to prepare an opening question for each book, and write a summary of the discussion. These summaries will be returned to the class at the end of the semester, in order to present an overview of the course's development. 
Dr. Edward Cronin's seminar will be · characterized by his well-known love of teaching and, his equally well-known in­sistence that the best way for a student to develop accuracy of thought and expression is to write. Dr. Cronin will require four or five papers dealing with topics from the readings. These papers · will be graded carefully, and students are encouraged to discuss the papers at length with him. Although the seminars will be both lively and interesting, Dr. Cronin maintains that his best teaching is done in G-206 (his office in the library). Despite his heavy work load and tough ·gradi~g policy, nearl_r every student who has studied under Dr. Cronm has found his course a singularly rewarding experience. 
GREAT BOOKS SEMINAR V 
READINGS: Lao Tzu: The Way of Lao Tzu; Thucydides: Peloponnesian Wars; Aeschylus: Prometheus Bound; The Book of Job; Euripides: Iphegenia at Aulis; Virgil: Aeneid; Dante: Paradise; Perceval and Tristan & /salt; Pico della Mirandolce: Oration on the Dignity of Man; Thomas More: Utopia; Cer­vantes: Don Quixote; St. John ofthe Cross: Dark Night of the Soul; Montaigne: In Defense of Raymond Sebond; Pascal: Pensees; Shakespeare: Tempest,· Hobbes: Leviathan. 
Brother Edmund Hunt sees the Seminar leader's role as one which questions the students in order to elicit their ideas. He does· not lecture in his Seminar, and is always searching for an aggressive student to "shape" the discussion. He requires no papers, determining the student's grade through perf~n:na~ce in class and the oral final. Although Brother Hunt rmmmizes the Seminar leader's role, his insights and ability to keep the discussion moving have made his course a popular one. 
Dr. Mirhael Crowe combines a very thorough academic study of the readings with open and ch~lenging di~logue. Most GP seniors having taken his excellent History of Science course, feel comp;lled to attempt to bring their preparation and dis­cussion, up to his intellectual standard. Dr. _Cro~e's rigorous examination of the basis of a student's contentions 1s a valuable contribution to the development of. each student's thought. 
E. Collins 
-General Program 343 History of Science· II 
CONTENT: Generally, the content. will be the same as Dr. LaPorte's class. 
PRESENTATION: The course will consist of both lecture and discussion with the proportion between the two depending on the technical nature of the material. 
READINGS : Emphasis will be placed on primary sources. " ORGANIZATION: There is a possibility that the student will be given the choice of either a final exam or a final paper. 
· CoMMENTS: Dr. Collins, now a member of the faculty at the ~University of Chicago, is interested in the period from Copernicus to Newton, especially with regard to _the "ex~ct sciences." His most recent work was done on Cartesian physics. In his course, he hopes to make the student aware of the prob­l~ms_· concerning the interaction between science and society. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
Edward Cronin · 
General Program 441 
Novel 
CONTENT: The aim of the course is to examine the novel 
as a work of art. The novel, as art, will be studied in terms 
of technique, structure, and style. This course is not concerned 
with the history of the novel, nor will there be any effort made 
to compare. the different novels studied; 
PRESENTATION: The course will proceed through discussion 
of points brought up by Dr. Cronin. 
ORGANIZATION: Papers will be written about each novel 
studied. These papers will be carefully corrected by Dr. Cronin, 
revised by the student, and then discussed at length in p·rivate 
consultation. No tests will be given. The final will consist of a 
paper on a novel not studied in class. 
READINGS: About half the semester will be spent on Joyce's 
Ulysses. Novels by authors ·such as Proust, James, Dickens and 
Virginia Woolf will be studied in the remaining time. 
COMMENTS: Dr. Cronin is an acknowledged master of ·litera­
ture, but more importantly a master of teaching. Since ·he 
believes that a good understanding of the novels can come only 
from participation in the class, regular attendance is required. 
The papers will be subjected to his painstaking analysis, and 
the student will spend many hours in "confession" in G-206. 
While an insatiable appetite for difficult novels, long, hard 
hours writing and rewriting papers, and discouragingly low 
grades is recommended -to those taking this course, the only 
requirement is a deep and sincere admiration for Ireland, 
Richard_ Daley, dogs, and the Chicago White Sox. 
Edmund Hunt, C.S.C. ·General Program 247 
Fine Arts 1 
CONTENT: This course is the first part of a two-semester course on art and music. The course will integrate art with music. Brother Hunt plans to discuss each period of art with its corresponding period of music. This integrative feature will make the course much different than last year's. 
PRESENTATION: The course will be primarily lecture plus "thousands" of slides and some recordings. . READINGS: The textbook will probably be History of Art and Music, by Janson and Kerman. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be one or two small papers assigned in order to stimulate interest in a topi'c and to get students to use the library: A final exam will be given and· possibly a few quizzes. · 
COMMENTS: Brother Hunt's lectures are thorough and very interesting. His ·understanding of each period of art, and its relation to the total historical development of art is extensive and insightful. In the past the workload has not been oppres­sive, and Brother Hunt has· been especially helpfuf with advice and source material on the papers. Brother ·Hunt's extensive use of slides, recordings, etc.; enable the student to experience, as well as study, art. A requirement for G.P. sophomores, this course would be a rewarding and enjoyable one for nonmajors. 
Doug Kinsey 
General Program 34 7 
Fine Arts III 
CONTENT: The course deals with the practical application of studio arts, and emphasizes a sensual appreciation and creative approach, rather than an academic and historical approach. 
PRESENTATION: There are no lectures as such. Before each project Mr. Kinsey briefly e.xplains the -basic concepts which the particular project entails. In this way much of the project is left up to the individual student's creativity. Mr. Kinsey, how­ever, always readily offers suggestions and answers the student's que!tions. 
· READINGS: There is no required text. Occasionally, Mi. Kinsey will suggest articles which relate to-·a particular project. ORGANIZATION: One project is usually· assigned for each class period. 
COMMENTS: The projects are interesting and enjoyable, but perhaps for a one-credit course the work load is a bit oppressive. Besides the two-hour meeting each week, the students are re­quird to keep ·a sketchbook and prepare "special" projects outside ·of class. 

D'eirdre M. LaPorte General Program 343 History of Science II 
CONTENT: History of Science II is the second part of the 
three-semester General ·Program sequence in History of Science. 
The course traces the development of modem scientific scientists 
of the late Middle Ages, the Renaissance and the Early }.ofod­
em Period. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures deal with the major topics of 
the era, concentrating on the discoveries and theories of Coper­
nicus and Newton. The lectures tend to be overly factual, 
and are, therefore, often uninteresting. 
READINGS: The readings consist mostly of primary sources 
by the important men of the era (e.g., Copernicus, Kepler, 
Galileo, Harvey, Newton) with some secondary sources of broad 
scope also being read. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be a midterm and final exam, 
in addition to a final paper. 
COMMENTS: Dr. LaPorte knows the subject extremely well but tries to cover too much material in too much detail. Her brisk, yet thorough, presentation tends to discourage questions and induce writer's cramp. Questions are few since it is diffi-. cult to raise one's hand when it is riveted to one's notebook. More importantly, one sometimes loses sight of the development of scientific thought in the wake of minutia. Ultimately, though, the student does leave the course with an understanding of this crucial period in the development of science. 
Deirdre M. LaPorte General Program 445 Intellectual and Cultural History of Europe to 1789 
CONTENT: The development of European thought from the medieval period to the French Revolution is dealt with in this course, with emphasis being placed on the Greco-Roman, Judeo­Christian heritage. The course attempts to provide a historical _and interpretive framework by means of the history of ideas. 
PRESENTATION: There will probably be two lectures and one discussion period per week. Discussion will be encouraged in dealing with the ideas of the era. 
READINGS: Mostly primary sources with one secondary source covering the entire period. ORGANIZATIONS There will be a midterm and final exam as well as a final paper. 
Cor.rMENTS: Since Dr. LaPorte is teaching this course for the first time, nothing definitive can be said about her lectures. Judging from her History of Science course, however, her lec­tures . will be thorough if not always stimulating. She has over­estimated the interest of her History of Science students in the past but perhaps in this Cultural History course, student en­thusiasm will be greater. 
Harold Moore General Program 243 Logic and Language 
CONTENT: The course will deal with truth-functional logic, predicate logic, informal fallacies, and most importantly, the relation of the philosophy of language to philosophical problems. It is possible that computers will also be used. 
PRESENTATION: The lecture format will gradually give way to discussion as philosophical problems arise in relation to logic. ORGANIZATION: There will be both a midterm and a final exam. 
READINGS: To be decided. 
COMMENTS: Since many students have complained that logic, in itself, is boring, Dr. Moore will try to emphasize the rela­tionship between logic and philosophical problems. 
APRIL 15, 1971 

Harold Moore 
General Program 345 
Ethics 
CONTENT: This course deals with traditional ethical thought 

and its application to contemporary ethical problems. 
PRESENTATION AND ORGANIZATION: In the first half of the 

semester, the five readings listed below will be read and dis­
cussed. Then, in the second half, the class will be divided into 
three groups, each group dealing with one of the following issues: 
Medical Ethics, Ethics and Law, or Behavior-Control. Each 
group will meet once a week to discuss their particular issue 
in relation to the five readings and to prepare a tenn paper in 
which the issue will be answered. In writing the paper, every 
student will choose an area within the group's issue. (For 
example, abortion and euthanasia may be dealt with in the 
Medical Ethics group.) In addition to the final paper, there 
will be a midterm exam, based on the readings. 
READINGS: Plato: Euthyphro, Meno; Kant: Foundations of MetaphJ•sics of Morals; Camus: The Plague; Dewey: Theory of Moral Life; and one work by either J. S. Mill or David Hume. 
COMMENTS: Dr. Moore is enthusiastic about this course and hopes that the structure will allow the students to "do" ethics rather than just study it. Moore exhibits an interest in students and wants his classes to challenge a student into developing bis own belief. 
Walter Nicgorski 
General Program 443 
Politics 
CONTENTS : The course aims at "helping us to a better 

understanding of the fundamental problems of political com­
munity and the nature of the various solutions." Emphasis will 
be placed upon the "promise and problems of the democratic 
solution." The course is required for GP seniors but others 
are welcome. 
PRESENTATION: The course is primarily lecture but questions are always encouraged. At least every third meeting will be an open discussion of the preceding lectures and the readings. 
READINGS: Aristotle, The Politics; Rousseau, The First and Second Discourses and the Social Contract; Niebuhr, Children of Light and Children of Darkness; Maritain, Man and the State; Hook, Paradoxes of Freedom, and a few magazine articles. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be a midterm and a final exam. Also a critical essay on a fundamental political problem will be assigned. 
COMMENT: Most of the students enrolled in the Politics course last semester agree that Dr. Nicgorski is a remarkably concerned and competent professor. Political philosophy is his specialty and his kno~ledge of the subject is demonstrated by his extremely well-prepared lectures, his thorough treatment of the core readings and his intelligent and interesting insights into fundamental political issues. The course is highly recommended. 
Stephen Rogers General Program 241 Poetry 
General Program 341 Origins of Christianity 
GENERAL PROGRAM 241 
CONTENT: The course will be a survey of poetry, with the basic idea being that the student "read· intelligently and write as far as he is able." Different poems from those used in pre­vious semesters will be studied-possibly looking at themes run­ning through the works of certain poets. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Rogers' lectures indicate a great deal of preparation, being tightly knit and to the point. Discussion is always encouraged. 
READINGS: An anthology of poems will be read, supple­mented by handouts. ­ORGANIZATIONS: Midterm and final exams are given. Stu­
dents will also be required to do a couple of papers and some 
original poetry. 
COMMENTS: Dr. Rogers displays a thorough understanding of 
the subject. He is noted for his ability to aid the student in 
developing an awareness of, and sensitivity for, the language of 
poetry. The course provides an excellent background for those 
interested in developing their own creativity. Classes may tend 
to drag a bit, but this is more than compensated for by Dr. 
Rodgers' knowledge and concern for the individual student. 
GENERAL PROGRAM 341 
CONTENT: Dr. Rogers has never taught this course before, 
and is very enthusiastic about doing so. It is probable that Dr. 
Nutting will be helping with the class. Dr. Rogers' aim will 
be "to get the students to think imaginatively about the Scrip­
tures." He plans to follow the development of thematic ideas 
through the Scriptures, such as justice, love and redemption. 
An attempt will be made to understand how the interpretation 
of Scriptures has gone on within the Scriptures themselves; for 
instance, Jesus interprets the Old Testament, Paul interprets 
Jesus, etc. All of this should lead to the student's own in­
terpretation. 
PRESENTATION: The class will be a combination of lectures 
and discussions, with an attempt , to elicit 'an imaginative re­
sponse on the part of the student. 
READINGS: For the most part the readings will be from 
Scripture. Some imaginative interpretations will also be included 
such as Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling. 
ORGANIZATION: A midterm and final will be given. It is also probable that a couple of papers will be assigned. 
COMMENTS: This course has the distinct advantage of drawing upon the abundant resources of both Dr. Rogers and Dr. Nutting. Dr. Rogers' carefully integrated lectures will be perfectly complemented by Dr. Nutting's gems of wisdom. Both men attach primary importance to helping the student develop his own ideas. Dr. Rogers' literary orientation should prove quite effective in tracing the development of thematic concepts through the Scriptures. 
Ivo Thomas, O.P. 
General Program 341 
Origins of Christianity 
CONTENT: This course is designed to give the student a "material knowledge and a genuine understanding of the Bible." PRESENTATION: The course will be primarily lectures with 
little or no time for discussion. 
READINGS: The Bible will serve as the text for the course, with the majority of the readings taken from the Old Testament. Outside readings are often suggested to aid in understanding class material. 
ORGANIZATION: No tests will be given, but one or two major papers will be assigned. 
COMMENTS: Fr. Thomas, quite obviously a brilliant man, doesn't seem able to consistently apply this characteristic to his classes. He has a propensity for leaving the student somewhere in the dust of his discourses. Questions have been raised con­cerning his grading system, and his inaccessibility for consulta­tion. Father Thomas does not place a letter grade on the papers, but gives only a verbal comment upon returning. them. Despite some distinctive drawbacks, a student can come away from-this class with a host of insights, especially if he can breach the often wide gulf between Fr. Thomas's intellectual abilities and his own. 
Jill Whitney General Program_ 243 Logic and Language . 
CONTENT: Basic systems of symbolic logic wll be taught and these systems will then be applied to philosophical questions. 
PRESENTATION: Lectures will introduce the student to logic and discussion will apply logical skills to philosophical texts. 
READINGS: Programmed text for the first month while other readings, which have not yet been determined, will be the sa~ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
used in Dr. Moore's logic class. ORGANIZATION: Daily assignments in the beginning of the semester, probably short papers, a midterm and final exam. 
COMMENT: Miss Whitney's treatment of logic will be char­acterized by a definite orientation toward the solution of philo­sophical problems. In this way, the course can almost be con­sidered an introduction to philosophy, for logical skills will be developed as philosophical tools. 
Jill Whitney General Program 345 Ethics 
CONTENT: This course will trace the development of ethical thought in the western world. Major ethical writings will be studied in order to apply their concepts to contemporary ethical problems. 
PRESENTATION: Course will be a mixture of lectures and dis-

Government 

cussions. At the outset more discussions will be encouraged to enable the students to develop a sense of ethics. 
READINGS: Major ethical readings will be from Plato, Kant and Mill. Next year Miss Whitney will concentrate on fewer books than this year in an effort to treat the concepts in greater depth. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be two tests-a midterm and a final, and one major paper on some ethical problem. CoMMENTs: Last fall the course was dominated by lectures, with little student enthusiasm for discussion. This was pri­
. marily due to the extensive reading list, which gave the students little time to digest the issues. With fewer readings next fall, there should be more time for discussion and student involve­ment. Miss Whitney presents an interesting but decidedly Chris­tian emphasis, which in some cases tends to inhibit a systematic analysis of ethical problems. The midterm and final were chal­lenging, with Miss Whitney's extensive comments an aid both in understanding the course material and placing one's own ethical beliefs in that context. 
Paul C. Bartholomew 
Government 340 
American Government 
Government 431 American Constitutional Law 
GOVERNMENT 340 
CONTENT: American Government is a one semester course 
offered during both the fall and spring terms. This course is 
a requirement for all Government majors but don't lose heart, 
it's not that ba~ A comprehensive view of the governmental 
system is spanned. It concerns itself with the American execu­
tive, judicial and legislative branches, also American political 
parties, state and local offices and election procedures, both 
federal and state. A considerable amount of emphasis is placed 
on the various court cases dealing with the above aspects of 
government. There are no prerequisites for this course. Most 
of the class will be junior Government majors because of the 
requirement. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Bartholomew's lectures are in­formative, logical and easy to take notes from. That is, easy if you can stay awake. His delivery is dry and so is his wit. However he is known to crack a few "funny" jokes during the semester. Discussion is limited due to the large number of students, but pertinent questions are welcomed, however rarely received. The lectures complement the readings, .and it is suggested that you do the readings and study the notes prior to the tests. A large percenttge of students merely mezn­orize previous tests. 
READINGS: Professor Bartholomew's course entails a con­siderable amount of reading, and it is suggested not to fall behind. The textbook, Govern711:ent by the People, is good and has a moderate flavor to it. This book was specifically chosen by Professor Bartholomew to offset his noted conservative bias. The textbook was $7.50 but that was a couple of years ago. Your best bargain is to get one from someobdy who has al­ready had the course. It's cheaper and probably has some helpful information in it. The other required readings are "U.S. News and World Report" and a lot of court cases which can be found in the library. 
ORGANIZATION: In American Government there are four papers, usually from five to ten pages each. The papers are mostly busy work and are generally "ventures into trivia." They 
APRIL 15, 1971 

concern specific topics such as state and local government of the 
individual student's home. Each of these papers is worth 10 
points. Three tests and a final are given during. the semester. 
None of them are actually cumulative except the final. Professor 
Bartholomew's tests consist of short essays and identifications. 
Long, windy answers are out and succinctness is a major asset. 
The tests are good challenges to your ability to memorize. The 
primary factor in studying for his tests is time. As mentioned, 
you can get your htnds on tests from previous semesters. It will 
help greatly. The basis of the final grade is divided between 
the semesters' work and the final. Papers and tests make up 
75 per cent of the grade; the final is worth 25 per cent. The 
average final grade is a B--. · 
COMMENT: American Government, aside from being a re­quirement, is a good course to take for an overall perspective of our governmental system. Professor Bartholomew is a brilliant man and has much information to convey. For those of the liberal persuasion, his course may challenge your ideas and provoke some serious thinking. Though it is not noted for re­quiring any one to think, it niay help enable you to get your ideas into an organized, consistent body of thought. For you who are conservative, you have an able spokesman for your point of view and you'll probably be able to pick up some good points. He is available for consultation in his office, but the student has to take the initiative to approach him. 
One serious complaint with the course is its stress on memorization. Not much value is placed on independent think­ing. The papers in the course are strictly busy work One longer paper on a portion of federal or state government in which the student is allowed to think independently and develop his own ideas, would be more beneficial than those five page "ventures into trivia." It would be more stimulating and thought provoking than the papers that are now done for the course. 
Also, a word must be said about the textbook. Its countless instances of glossing over the glaring inadequacies of our gov­ernmental system are most annoying to the serious student of government. The only criticisms which co-author Burns sees fit to treat seriously are his own, brushing aside with barely a mention some sharp attacks on the structure. A second sug­gestion would then be that textbooks, especially such "ad­vanced high school civics" types, be abandoned and several paperbacks clealing seriously with problems in American democ­racy be used. The student would then rely on Prof. Bartholo­mew's lectures to become less mechanical and to integrate these considerations within his routine format. 
29 
GOVERNMENT 431 
CONTENT: Constitutional Law deals with the contents of the Constitution of the United States, and with the interpreta­tion and construction of these contents. It presents the ruling case law regarding the powers and organization of our govern­ment, concerning itself dually with Supreme Court decisions on points of law, and the whys and wherefores considered by the Court in reaching its decisions. Prerequisite for enrollment in Constitutional Law is the completion of the four core courses required by rl}e Government Department, thereby restricting the course to Government majors. Only five juniors and seniors undertook the course last fall, although Professor Bartholomew ex-pects a larger class next semester. 
PRESENTATION: All Government majors are doubtless fa­miliar with Professor Bartholomew's rigid lecture style in his American Government class. Each lecture is prepared meti­culously, and delivered with almost flawless coherence. How­ever, due to the minimal number of students in this course, he deviates slightly from this standard pattern, and invites, or ·demands, student participation in class. Several major cases and numerous corollary cases are studied during each class. After explaining and analyzing the law recited in these cases, Professor Bartholomew allows the student an opportunity to interrogate him regarding any matter they feel to have been glossed over or ignored. Indeed, he expects such ques­tions, and at times deliberately omits certain details in order to test the attention of the student. Small class-size facilitates student participation, and discussion greatly enhances the knowl­edge acquired from the course. Professor Bartholomew pre­fers this system of· lecture punctuated by discussion, and is eager to assist his students to gain a genuine appreciation for, and clear understanding of, a complex subject. Further, discussion and dialogue provide the student with a glimpse of Professor 
Bartholomew's own opinion on various current events-an in sight not to be found in his smaller classes. 
READINGS: Only one textbook is used in the course-Ruling American Constitutional Law ($3.95), authored by Professor Bartholomew. A casebook presenting a multiplicity of Supreme Court cases and decisions, both major and corollary, from the time of the Court's inception, the book affords the student a comprehesive view of current Constitutional Law. Cases are studied under ten inter-related headings, and the author per­iodically injects short comments of his own after certain cases, summarizing situations to date regarding the continuing im­portance of the decisions. 
ORGANIZATION: The reading load, in terms of volume, is relatively light, ._ but in terms of content, the material re­quires more thari a hasty once-over. Professor Bartholomew ex­pects the student to have assigned cases prepared and briefed in order that knowlegable discussion can proceed. Since he teaches this course with great interest and relish, Professor Bartholomew is not impressed by the student who fails to reciprocate this interest. To supplement the reading and dis­cussion, Professor Bartholomew requires two papers during the semester: a brief "mini-essay" presenting a sketch of one of the sitting Supreme Court Justices, and a comprehensive term paper which is to furnish a general survey of all the material studied, and an explication of the points of law found in the material. This latter task may seem arduous, but the student who has maintained a continued interest in the course throughout the semester will find it quite manageable. In addition, there is a midsemester and a final exam. Neither poses an unsealable barrier. Professor Bartholomew's reputation as a villain regarding exams is greatly exaggerated. Again he simply expects the student to do the work assigned, and, if the student complies, then the grades will follow. 
COMMENT: For those Government majors, especially for those with aspirations to Law School, interested in the mechan­ics of the Constitution, this course will be well worth the time. Professor Bartholomew is an acknowledged scholar in the field, and one cannot help but benefit from his tutelage. Con­stitutional Law offers an excellent opportunity to realize the legal system upon which, for better or worse, this nation is based. 

Alions J. Beitzinger 
Government 405 
Political Science of Aristotle 
Government 407 
Political Science of Plato 
CONTENT: These two courses are being offered for the 
first time next Fall, and hence no firsthand knowledge of 
the courses' content is available. Professor Beitzinger has, how­
ever, been an instructor at the University for quite some time, 
so information on the presentation and, more importantly, the 
slant of his courses, is not lacking. 
PRESENTATION: In past years, the classes instructed by 
Professor Beitzinger have revolved around a lecture format. 
These consume the vast majority of classroom time, are de­
livered from memory and by inclination, and are often overly 
dry and repetitive. Beitzinger brings into the classroom a 
wealth of knowledge relating to several major currents of 
philosophical thought, as well as heavy biases against German 
thought, historicism, the New Left and other currently popular 
movements and avenues of intellectual inquiry. These biases 
would be welcome were the classroom _more open for argumenta­
tion, but Professor Beitzinger manifests an open hostility to 
positions that challenge his, leaving the students fearful that 
strong opposition to the instructor's interpretation of events will 
adversely affect their marks. 
READINGS: Readings are satisfactory, but this says little, for it is difficult to go too wrong with either Aristotle or Plato. As in previous classes Beitzinger ·has taught, e.g. Natural Law, the point to be considered is 'What interpretation will Beitzinger expect?-and there is heavy consensus among those who have had him that a certain view-his-is thought to be omnipotent. It is probably only reasonable to expect that any instructor will transmit certain prejudices, but the si•ngular quality of Beit­zinger's analysis is that, while proclaiming academic neutrality personally, he continuously employs whatever philosopher he is discussing as justification for snide attacks on . the ignor­ance of today's youth and the emptiness of their values. 
ORGANIZATION: As far as grading goes, if one attends the majority of classes and does not irritate Beitzinger he can usually expect a 'B'. In past courses, papers have seldom been required, with the basis of a final grade resting on approx­imately three tests and reasonable classroom attendance. These tests are of essay variety and are relatively easy if one has done the readings and scanned Beitziner's notes, or vice-versa. 
CoM.MENT: In conclusion it must be said that, in this writer's ·view, .Beitzinger's class is not a 'significant educational experience'. The student who is in search of insight and under­standing would do far better to read the classics on his own or enroll in a class where philosophical inquiry is stressed. Students who are not Government majors and wish to be exposed to seminal Greek thought should definitely opt for this latter avenue, while Government majors, if at all well-read, will probably discover, as past students have remarked, nothing new. Above all, Prof. Beitzinger's courses need fresh thought and more openness. Judging from past e.xperience, the courses offered next fall will not be substantially different in approach from ones he has taught previously. Unless a group of students are up for -either a boringly earned three credits, or a titanic struggle to wring some relevance from a dry approach to leaning, this writer would suggest shopping around. 
George Brinkley Government 449 Soviet Government and· Internal Affairs 
CONTENT: The course is broken down into six sections: 
1. The historical background of Russian politics and government, and the causes and events of the Russian Revolution. 2. The political philosophy of Marx, Lenin, and Stalin. 3. Policy­making and the structure of the Soviet State and Communist Party. 4. Soviet society and culture (laws courts police educa­
. , ' ,
t1on, religion). 5. The Soviet Economy. 6. Recent develop­
ments and future trends. The course is open to nonmajors but 
an ~l~mentary course in Comparative Government is a pre­
requ1S1te. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Brinkley lectures with only an 
occasional glance at his outline. His knowledge of the subject, 
sense of humor, and ability as a lecturer make for interesting and 
lively classes. Extensive note-taking is required but the lectures 
are well ordered and easy to follow. Professor Brinkley welcomes 
questions and his answers reflect his mastery of the subject. 
READINGS : Professor Brinkley expects the student to do a lot 
of reading for the course. He assigns about 5 paperbacks and 
also wants the student to do additional outside reading. He gives 
out a long reading list which is divided into the six sections that 
the course is divided into. The student is expected to do some 
readings in each of these sections. The student must submit 
a reading list with each test and a cumulative reading list must 
be submitted at the end of the semester. Students considered 
the work load as average. 
. ORGANIZATION: There are no papers required, Professor 
Brinkley would prefer to see the student spending his time read­
ing on the subject. There are three tests and a final each
. , 
counting equally and each covering ½ of the course. These tests are essays with general questions which give the student a chance to exhibit all he knows about each area. The student should be prepared to take the tests in such a way that the result will be clear, critical, and exact, and so that the questions are well covered. He must know the material to be successful. Professor Brinkley is a fair but strict and critical grader. The average grade is a B, but the student must work for it. 
CoMl\lENT: Any comprehension of the world situation certain­ly must depend on an understanding of the Soviet philosophy and system of government. This course will give the student a good understanding of how Russian historic development influ­ences the present system, what the Marxist-Leninist view of the state entails, and how policy is made in the Soviet system. This study of Soviet government also helps the student better under­stand our American view of government. All of the students interviewed highly praised Professor Brinkley both as a teacher and as an individual. All definitely recommended the course for majors and nonmajors alike. Almost all of his students take him again for additional courses. The only recommendation was that he spend more time on discussion of contemporary problems. 
Raymond Cour, C.S.C. Government 434 Supreme Court History 
CONTENT: This course is a historical study of the rule of the Supreme Court in American constitutional development. Its major emphasis is the contribution made by our highest court to the constitutional history of the United States. An introductory course in American government or American political history is prerequisite. This course is restricted to junior and senior gov­ernment majors. 
PRESENTATION: This is a lecture course, seldom interrupted by discussion (no criteria for criticism are developed), on the topic assigned for the day. The lectures closely follow the read­ings and attempt to illustrate constitutional thought on various themes ( i.e., federal vs. state power, segregation, etc.) through an examination of pertinent decisions. It is a shortcoming of the course that Fr. Cour is not a dynamic lecturer. The tests seek to establish the student's familiarity with both specific facts and cases and more general concepts. 
READINGS: The readings are well suited to the course but reflect the general dryness of the material. The specific texts are Liberty and Justice (2 vol.) by Smith and Murphy, The Ameri­can Supreme Court by McCloskey, The Nature of the Judicial Pr<Jcess by Cardozo, American Constitutional Law: Historical Essays by Levy, and Th.e Supreme Court in the American Sys­tem of Government by Jackson. They run about $20. Though there are five books the reading load is well within reason and the casebooks simply reiterate the cases covered in lecture. 
ORGANIZATION: Assignments consist of one term paper ( 10­12 pages) and one book report. There are two quizzes and a final examination. The final grade is based upon "achievement revealed in assignments and interest and participation in the work of the course." The average final grade is B. 

COMl\lENT: Despite Fr. Cour's personableness that spark of vitality that makes the material come alive is Ia~king. Perhaps it is the early hour (9 MWF), Fr. Cour's monotone (it has been described as soporific), or the passivity of the class, but in the past the course has not been characterized by active participa­tion. Students who take this course would be well advised to have an intense interest in the Supreme Court and the law. 
Michael Francis Government 451 Latin American Politics 
Government 461 Latin American Seminar 
GOVERNMENT 451 
CONTENT: The course attempts a survey of the political condition of the LA nations. Some concern is given the "form" of each country's government, but since this very often can change from month to month, more emphasis is given to understanding the political forces, desires, and power groups existing in these countries. A knowledge of the field of com­parative government is a helpful primer as is some previous knowledge of LA, without which one can expect some amount of confusion sorting out the Vargases from the Allendes and Pinillas. The class is made up of mostly seniors and juniors, and is held to about twenty students. 
PRESENTATION: Lectures are on the whole informative and of import to the subject at hand. However, Francis is by nature a loose lecturer, which can allow for highly interesting tid-bits and insights into the LA political scene, and at times insights into the voting nature of his wife or some other un­related item. By such a manner, and an occasional guest lecturer, Francis keeps the classes above average and open to discussion of student questions. 
READINGS: As this is a survey of twenty countries, the books are mostly compilations of current events and trends in each country. In addition, however, Ranis' book on the topology of political parties in LA will be used, as well as Snow's Politics and Argentina. Others will be Von Lazar's, LA Politics: A Primer and LA Politics, by Robert Tomasek. These are not best-sellers, but they do supply the information necessary to understand fundamentals and the general thrust of the course. Francis keeps the cost of the books under $15, and supplements these with interesting and or current articles. 
ORGANIZATION: Because no great stress is placed on getting a grade in this course, a student is really causing himself grief unnecessary by worrying about one. If he must, though, it will be a result of his work on one take-home exam, one term paper, and a final exam. The exams ask that you have attended a decent number of classe~ and have kept up with the assigned readings. 
COMMENT: The class is an interesting experience, educa­tionally as well as in other ways. The last_ semester the course was taught, the readings were closely related to the thrust of the course. It is important not to get upset at the free style of the classroom, especially during the discussion. These are very suitable for digesting the battery of facts which Francis is prone to lay on the class during the opening minutes. Another enjoyable experience is Francis' humor, which is quite palatable and seems to bite only himself, and keeps the class lively. 
GOVERNMENT 461 
CONTENT: The course chooses three Latin American coun­tries each semester and tries to give students a better under­standing of each by examining selected aspects of its history, government (or, more precisely, political power structure) , economy, literature, and sociology. The countries surveyed in the first semester will probably be Argentina, Brazil, and Colom­bia; those of the second will be Cuba, Chile, and Me.icico. Though primarily designed for candidates of the Government Department's LA Area Studies Program, it is open to any student with an interest in LA. Some previous knowledge of LA is helpful, though this is as good a place as any to begin. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
Seniors and some juniors make up the class. 
PRESENTATION: Each area of the country studied utilizes a 
different instructor. Thus the description of lecture quality 
varies from "dynamite" to dreadful, depending almost solely 
on the visiting professor and somewhat on the students' ability 
to carry discussion. Throughout, though, the classroom activity 
focuses on, or revolves around, the assigned readings. Lectures 
are important in scoring well on exams and papers, if those 
things concern you. 
READlNGs: Again, the multiplicity of instructors tends to 
vary the quality of the read'ings. Work load is usually a book 
a week, -though often shorter articles are assigned and placed 
on reserve. The book assignments are interesting, informative, 
and emminently discussable; the articles are a little harder to 
predict, as some are overly technical and some are only obscurely 
related to the thrust of a particular study. Professor Francis at­
tempts to limit the cost of purchases to $15. Books for next 

year will include Why Peron Came to Power, Barager; Beyond 
All Pity, Caroline de Jesus; Argentina: A City and a Nation, 
Scobie; Patterns of Conflict in Columbia, Payne; Artemio Cruz, 
Fuentes;. Castro's Cuba, Lockwood; Is the Mexican Revolution 
Dead?, Many M exicos, Simpson. 
ORGANIZATION: If you enter this course worrying, or even 
thinking about a grade, you are missing the action. When you 

finish the course, however, your grade will be determined by 
a mid-term and a final, with possible influence from class 
attendance and contribution. Usual grade is a B. The exams 
ask you to show that, through the readings and discussions, 
you understand particular problems and possible solutions (rare 
that they are in LA). 
COMMENT: The Seminar is surely rewarding with basic 

knowledge of the situation in some important LA Nations. Oc­
casionally the student is treated to discussions between extreme­
ly knowledgeable people. However, because of the occurrence 
of some duds, some stricter minimum standard for organizing 
classes should be imposed. The idea of studying the "status 
quo" countries in one semester and the more "revolutionary" 
in the second is a major help to students. The openness of 
Professor Francis to student reactions and suggestions, and 
also the general willingness of all instructors to consider diverse 
opinions, is highly commendable. As is the course in general, 
I might add. 
Edward Goerner Government 343 Comparative Government I 
CONTENT: This course is a government requirement taught by different professors each semester. It is open only to junior and senior government majors. The governments of "Britain, France (from the 3rd Republic), Germany (from the, Weimar), and the Soviet Union are studied. The course includes constitu­tional structures and forms, social and political dynamics, govern­mental symbols, and the spiritual foundations of the countries. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures are excellent and almost always enjoyable. Dr. Goerner brings to the course a vast store of knowledge arid a dramatic flair for communicating it. Time is set aside for questions, but the class is too large for a real discus­sion to develop. The tests are based primarily on the lectures, but the readings, which are not difficult, must be done. 
· READINGS: The readjngs are designed to complement and provide a basis for the lectures. In contrast to the rest of the course, they are of only average quality. Next semester, however, they will be changed. The approximate cost should be $20. 
ORGANIZATION: The organization of the course consists of an optional paper (required to receive an A), a midterm, and a final. The tests are usually two or three essay questions dealing with broad comparisons between governments: They are not overly difficult, but demand some thought and a good grasp of the material. One is advised to shun turgid meanderings. 
COMMENT: This is an excellent course, and it is highly recom­mended that it be taken with Dr. Goerner. His personal and spiritual resources make it quite an experience. · One only hopes that the monetary situation afflicting the department will ease enough in the future to open the course to nonmajors. Anyone with a general interest in Europe or government would find it valuable. 
Stephen Kertesz Government 4 7 5 . Diplomacy in the Atomic Age 
CoNTENT: Offered in the fall of each year, Diplomacy in the 
Atomic Age is open to junior and senior government majors who 
have taken Govt. 341. Prof. Kertesz divided the course 
material into roughly two parts. The first half. is devoted to an 
examination of the history of Western diplomacy, extending from 
the Greek city-states to the problems and assumptions of cold­
war diplomacy. The second half of the course examines the 
major structures for conducting diplomacy in this century. Topics 
include the League of Nations, OECD, NATO, United Nations, 
summit diplomacy and European integration. 
PRESENTATION: Prof Kertesz opens each class by answer­
ing questions which have been submitted beforehand. This prac­
tice is followed religiously and is a distinctive feature with 
him. The lectures are drawn mainly from the text for the course, 
The Quest for Peace, which was written by Prof. Kertesz. Be­
cause they tend to duplicate the reading assignments, the 
lectures usually fail to hold the student's interest, but when 
Prof. Kertesz injects insights gained from his own experience 
they are quite worthwhile. The material presented in class will 
very likely appear on the tests. 
READINGS: Besides the text, three or four other paperbacks will be used in the course. Among these How to Negotiate with Princes, Diplomacy, and Search for Peace will be required. Total cost is about $10. The reading load is heaviest in the first half of the course, but since none of the books is either long or tedious, any student should be able .to keep up. The readings enlarge on the material presented in class, and the student is mainly responsible for them through the short book reports which are required. The readings are not very exciting but well inte­grated into the material which is presented in the lectures. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be a midterm and final test for 
the course. These tests concentrate on the material presented in 
class and in the text. In addition, four short book reports and a 
10-15-page ·term paper are required. Prof. Kertesz sets dead­
lines for turning in work but does not rigidly adhere to them. 
All the work for the course goes into the determination of the 
final grades, which are mostly A's and B's. 
COMMENT: Prof. Kertesz offers a worthwhile course for any major who is interested in international relations or the Foreign Service. The background in the institutions through which nations formally communicate is essential for an under­standing of the conduct of foreign relations. Prof. Kertesz could spend more time on the contemporary problems dealt with in the second half, of course, and integrate more of his own experience in diplomatic activity to improve the course. 
Donald Kommers Government 420 The Presidency 
CoNTENT: Deals with the historical formation of the presi­dency, the relation of the president to the other branches of government, the various roles of the president, the theories which guicle the exercise of presidential power and instances of presidential action. There are no strict prerequisites for the course, but the class is composed almost exclusively of government majors. 
PRESENTATION: There are two lectures and a discussion session each week. The leetures in the first half of the course cover the historical and modern presidency. The second half takes a case study approach to presidential decision making and the limits of presidential power. Kommers, who seems to relish the human element and the spark it gives to the drama of presidential decision making, seldom presents a dull lecture. He is often carried off the topic at hand, however, in adding color and credence to his points. "But the ramblings are usually informative and generally do add to the topic being considered. He entertains questions thoughtfully, although one is never quite sure when he is finished replying and ready for the next question. Consequently questions are lost when he goes on to_ another point. · 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
READINGS: Texts: The Chief Executive by Louis W. Koenig. 

Kommers does not cover the assigned text in class, leaving it 
for the tests. However, most of what Kommers presents in 
class can be found in the book, if only in passing. 
ORGANIZATIONS A midterm, a final, a 15 page paper and 

a private 30-minute "jawbone" session with Kommers about 
the paper are the only requirements in the course. The midterm 
(counting for 20 per cent of the final grade) and final (30 
i.er cent) are essay, usually allowing a choice among several 
questions. The major emphasis in grading (50 per cent) is 
given to the paper, which is expected to be extremely well 
done. The paper may be on any subject dealing with the 
president or the presidency. 
COMMENT: The course was offered for the first time this 

semester and reaction to it has been generally favorable. 
KoI?mers himself is a young, well-liked and well-respected 
member of the Government Department as far as the students 
are concerned. 
The chief criticism offered about the course is that Kom­

mers tends to plug the expansive view of presidential powers 
almost to the exclusion of other views. However, his knowledge 
of the subject matter and the possibility of developing any 
theme in the paper, so long as it is presented well, offsets 
this prejudice. 
.John Krornkowski Government 240 Politics 
CONTENT: This course is an attempt at a concise yet clear overview of Politics (i.e., government) and how it affects our 
•everyday life, an attempt at "relevancy." Supposedly it should also serve as an example of the type of course available for gov­ernment majors. There are no prerequisites, and is made up primarily of sophomores. 
PRESENTATION: The course is subdivided into four sections: 

Political Theory, International Relations and Co~parative Gov­
ernment, American Government, and Politics. The teaching 
assistants who taught the first three sections were good and 
according to at least one observer will all make "excellent pro­
fessors." Dr. Kromkowski's section is the driest, and in his 
attempt to be relevant, the section on politics at times falis into 
complete disarray. Each of the minor sections consists of approx­
imately 15-20 people and, therefore, discussion is abundant and 
informative. 
READINGS: The section on Political Theory involves the largest, and most difficult reading list. Besides reading works by Dante, Aeschylus, Dostoyevsky, Nietzsche, etc., the teaching as­sistant has compiled a booklet of other works which he deems apropos for the course. At times the readings for this section are so above the heads of the class members that discussion lags, but this problem is soon resolved by a more than able assistant. The readings for Int. Rel. & Comp. Gov., consist of modern-day problems such as "The Rockefeller Report" and are very good. The American Government section this term dealt specifically with Black Power and pressure politics, and the book What Country Have I was excellent. The main requirement for the Politics section was a masochistic desire to be bored. Costs of texts -$12.00. 
ORGANIZATION: There were two take-home examinations which fairly test one's knowledge of each section, and one must be adequately prepared to do well on these tests. One day is allowed for the midterm, a week for the final. One· paper is required in International Relations, and two busy work assign­ments for the Politics Section. All sections will accept extra­credit papers. 
COMMENT: Overall this course is a good one and though most were unhappy while taking the course, reflection shows that it was quite worthwhile. At times it was too diversified, but this could be cured by going through each section in three succes­sive weeks, and closer communication between Dr. Kromkowski and his teaching assistants. In parting it should be pointed out that the average final grade is in the B to B--range, but even this can be raised by effectively reflecting the teachers' opinions at the proper time. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
Walter Nicgorski Government 412 American Founding 
CONTENTS: This upper division government course focuses 
primarily on the political theories of leading American founders 
with special emphasis on the period from 1776-1790. The 
Constitutional Convention and major factors influencing will be 
delved into, as will the writings of Madison and Jefferson. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Nicgorski intends to utilitize a 
mixture of lectures and discussions depending very much upon 
the size of the class. 
READINGS: A series of documents and public statements 
from the period of 1776-1790 will be reviewed with heavy 
emphasis on the debates of the Constitutional Convention. Most 
of the Federalist Papers will be covered as well as a variety 
of anti-Federalist writings. In addition, articles and com­
mentaries on the theories and issues of the period will be 
stressed. At this time the only book that will definitely be 
required is Paul Eidelberg's The Philosophy of the American 
Constitution. 
ORGANIZATION: A series of documents and public statements 
midterm. However a major paper concentrating on depth 
more than length will also be required. Its topic will center 
around a detailed report on the political theory of one of the 
founders. 
Col\n.lENT: Professor Nicgorski is open to various ques­
tions and welcomes different viewpoints. Although the readings 
for the course are heavy, the lectures tend to clarify the ma­
terial and conflicting viewpoints. 
Gerhart Niemeyer Government 342 Political Theory 
CONTENT: This _course deals with the goals, means and justifications of various political (in the Greek .sense of the word) systems of interaction from a predominantly theoretical standpoint. The major emphasis of the course is an examina­tion of different ideas of the highest good and whether or not it can be reached through politics. There are no prerequisites for the course but a previous reading of Aristotle and Plato would be helpful. Due to the present shortage of professors in the Government department, this course will probably be open to juniors and seniors only next semester. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Niemeyer's lectures are thorough, co­herent, sometimes brilliant and usually dry. His great interest and knowledge in this field occasionally leads him to break out of the lecture context to provide valuable insights from his ex­perience. The lectures purposefully lag behind the readings and sometimes deal with works not on the reading list. Dr. Niemeyer reserves a few minutes at the end of each class for questions. But his curt manner of dismissing questions or refer­ring the questioner to a previous lecture discourages real discus­sion. On Friday the class is split in half for a discussion of the readings with the TA James Bond. These sessions, at 8 and 9 in the morning, are usually boring and contribute little to the course as a whole. 
ORGANIZATION: During this past semester, papers were not assigned until after the midterm. There are 2 term paper of 1½ pages each and a series of ½-page weekly papers on the readings. They require concise conceptualization and presentation. There are 2 exams, a-midterm and a final. They are rather difficult although grades are a little unpredictable. The final grade con­sists of 25% from each exam, 25% from the term papers and 25 % from the weekly papers and class participation in the Friday sections. The average final grade is about a B--or C. 
READINGS : The texts used this past semester consisted of Nicomachean Ethics and Politics by Aristotle; City of God by Augustine; Leviathan by Hobbes; and Social Contract by Rous­seau. The last selection is questionable for the fall semester. The readings are important to the course but are often difficult and tedious. About 80-100 pages are assigned a week. Texts cost around $12.00 not counting Cliff Notes which can be helpful. 
COMMENT: Political Theory helps one to form theoretical 
r 

background about various types of political interaction and the goals toward ,vhich they aim. The course is especially strong in dealing with politics within the Christian · context. However, the outcome is not worth the effort unless one is a philosophy or government major, and maybe not even then. Dr. Niemeyer goes out of his way to criticize Marxism and Communism from a theoretical and practical standpoint. For this reason, and the nature of the course, it seems unusual that there are no readings by Communist writers. 
John Roos Government 400 Methods· of Political _Science 
CoNTENTS The aim of this course is to investigate, discuss 

and analyze modern approaches to· political phenomena through 
quantitative, behavioral and scientific methods. The course 
will not only acquaint the student · with various methods of 
political· science, but also act as ·an inquiry into the theoretical 
assumptions behind the methods. The course is open to juni­
ors and seniors preferably, but also to any sophomores expres­
sing a strong desire to familiarize themselves with political 
phenomena. The student should not only be interested in the 
philosophy of social science, but also in_ research methods and 
techniques. Mr. Roos would like to have, though, a wide range 
of interests represented in the class. · 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Roos has a fluent lecture style and his 

courses are all well organized. He is a technician rather than 
an illustrator-more interested in a rigorous, theoretical in­
terpretation of political science than in mere description of 
political methodology. He wants his students to develop a critical 
eye in their interpretations of political theory, and his lectures 
offer analytic as well as critical insights into the course readings. 
He promotes and encourages class discussion, and his tests 
cover the necessary class material-class notes, readings outside 
as well as inside the class. Students will find him accessible 
and helpful when they need information or help. He presents 
his material well, making the learning experience enjoyable. 
READINGS: Some of the readings of the course will be Methodology Of Social• Science by Max Weber, The. Logic of Scientific Discovery by Karl Popper, Idea of Social Science by Pe.ter Winch, and various ·other readings by authors, such as Deutsch, Parsons and Rappaport. Readings will cover such topics as systems analysis~·-game theory, economic calculus models, structural-functional theory and statistical inference. The readings all relate well to the development of investigation into political phenomena. _ 
ORGANIZATION: In the course of the -year there _will be a midterm· and a final ~am and a rigorous term paper, critical rather than historical. or descriptive. The examinations will test fairly the student's comprehension of the subject matter. The final grade· will be based upon performance on the· tests, the paper, and to a lesser degree, upon class participation. 
-CoMMENT: Since this· course is being offered for the first time in the fall semester of 1971, specific comments upon the course perhaps should be withheld until the actual direc­tion and material of the course· have been better established. However, "Methods of Political Scierice" seems to be not only a very sound intellectual experience, but also an important step for a student wishing to develop his critical, analytic and interpretive capabilities in political science. Urider the able direction of Mrs ·Roos, this course is designed to encourage the student to make a_ serious· inquiry into_ the "science of politics". 
A. P. Walshe Government 445 Governrrient and Politics of Tropical -Africa 
CoNTENT: This course provides the student with a detailed introduction to the historical, social, and economic factors shaping African politics in the modern world. After a brief presentation of the geography of the continent and a survey of the internal ·and external _themes of -African history, _Professor Walshe focuses on tpe impact of colonialism on traditional_institu­tions; the rise of African nationalism, and the development of various post-colonial political systems. There are no prerequisites for the course, ~omposed largely of juniors and seniors in AL. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Walshe is an excellent instructor, offering tight,. well-organized, and comprehensive lectures. This format is maintained without a loss in course flexibility. Dr. Walshe welcomes questions and is presently considering means to increase student involvement in the class. Lecture material is not based exclusively on the readings, and a grasp of both is necessary for success in the course. The student is aware of the development of the class at all, times. 
READINGS: The reading list, is moderately heavy, although there is adequate time to· complete the assignments. Professor Walshe requires that the student purchase 3 books: ·A Short History of Africa by Roland Oliver and J. D. Fage, ($1.45), Africa and Africans by Paul Bohannan ($1.45) and The Dilem­mas of African Independence by L. Gray Cowan ($5.95).0 All are .well-written and relevant to the topic at hand. In addition, specific sections are assigned from recent articles and books placed on reserve. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be a: midterm and a final, both fair tests of the student's ability to ·present course material in a coherent framework, a paper of 10-12 pages is due near the end of the semester, and Dr. Walshe distributes selected bibliographies on various topics to assist the student in his research. The in­structor is conscientious and not overly severe in his· evaluation of tests and paper. Average final grade is a B. 
.Cor.rr.rnNT: The ·considerable expertise and personal experi­ence with Africa which Professor Walshe brings to his subject makes this course a worthwhile and challenging endeavor. His passionate concern for the plight of the developing countries, coupled with an enthusiastic classroom, results in a course highly recomm-ended for majors and nonmajors alike. Government and Politics of Tropical Africa; although complete in itself, can profitably be taken in conjunction with Professor Walshe's Politics of South Africa ( offered only in the spring semester) or as part of,the interdepartmental Africa Studies Program. 
George : Williams Government 341 International Relations 
CONTENT: This course is required for all government majors so if-is almost exclusively juniors. The course presents a syste­matic approach ,to international relations on such topic_s • as emerging nations, military power and ,the concept of deterrence, analysis -of power, Vietnam, (of course), and public~ opinion. Each topic is viewed through a form of system analysis allowing, even demanding, that the student develop an organization to his thoughts and an understanding of his opinions. 
PRESENTATIONS Because of the size of the class but more from Professor Williams' engrossing presentation the· class takes the form of a lecture. Professor Williams prefers a lively dis­cussion but · somehow awes the students with the awareness of their own roughly organized opinions. The lecture actually 
. is tightly organized, even though the lecture style may seem a little harried and Professor Williams a little hard to understand with. his North Carolina-D.C.-Yale accent. . 
There are continuous references to the .New York :Times, Congressional reports, books, articles, and -personal anecdotes. 
· All these combine to ·make Professor· Williams' show one to catch ·and to enjoy. At first the student_ niay see -little cor­relation of .the lectures with ,the readings, but gradually the·· structure of the notes makes solid connections with ·the readings. · 
. READINGS: There are about six required paperbacks each semester, .all very fine. The ·student should, not look so much for opinionated· essays to buttress his own biases but should 
THE _SCHOLASTIC 

read to understand a systematic approach for analysis of the topic. The student should concentrate on the lecture while doing the course readings. The readings on reserve are highly recommended for their exceptional worth and their aid in tying together the readings and lectures. They make fine references in answering quiz questions. There will be no lack of extensive bibliographies, all of which Professor Williams seems to have read, on each topic in the course. If you get nothing else from this introductory course save these, they are all you would need as a source for a comprehensive term paper in some other government course. 
ORGANIZATION: There are usually three quizzes, a final exam, and an optional book review. The quizzes amount to using the system . structures of the lectures to analyze the readings and some current events. No previous quiz will help you since all questions are new, dealing with different read­ings or events. One quiz late in the course is usually take­home. This is the most important · grade-wise and· it. seeks to evoke students' insight into their own analytical processes com­plete with opinions. 
COMMENT: This course is recommended to non-majors, if open, for the content and the professor. The content helps de­velop an organized mental effort for the student, any opinions are· incidental. Williams is an inexhaustible source for help during the course and in any later course. His time is the students' more than most other professors, and the offer is well taken advantage of. Most visits to his office find him with other students. Advice is to ·wait. 



History 
· George Williams Government 4:59 Sources of Foreign Policy 
CONTENT: .Current topics· such as the overused, possibly underestimated, "military-industrial comple.,c," public opinion and how it affects and is effected by foreign policy, and the war crimes issue are covered in this upper division course, offered for the first . time this fall. Professor Williams has not finalized the exact content of this course yet, but it appears that it will revolve more around public opinion as a factor in foreign policy. Military policy will certainly play a part in the course because of its preponderent influences on the determination of foreign policy. 
PRESENTATION: Since this is an upper-division course it should be very conducive to discussion. If size demands, the class will be split up, meeting once a week. If the students do not keep up with the readings (no small chore), the discussion could slip into a lecture. Most discussions will still have a good deal of comment by Professor Williams. Since International Relations is a prerequisite for this course, all students should he familiar with Williams' engaging classroom style. 
READINGS: Erich Fromm's Escape from Freedom and Telford Taylor's Nuremberg and Vietnam most probably will be among the assigned readings. Possibly Yarmolinsky's Military Establish­ment will be included, if it comes out in paperback. There will be the usual and valuable readings on reserve and the extensive bibliography on each topic. All together there will be about six paperbacks for the course. 
Leon Bernard History 321 . France 1500-1789 
CONTENT: This course covers several important ages in French ·history: the· Renaissance under· Francis I, religious wars, Louis XIV, and the Enlightenment. Professor Bernard emphasizes cultural and· social aspects rather than military and diplomatic. There are no prere_quisites. 
. PRESENTATION: Initially, Professor Bernard sounds dry and dull, but he is actually an excellent lecturer. He speaks slowly and distinctly, enabling the student to keep up in note-taking. He hits the major points in .giving an overview to the course. He has a dry wit and enjoyable sense of humor. Professor Bernard also hands out a 20-30-page bibliography which is extremely valuable. to graduate. students or for reference use in terni papers. 
READINGS:_· Last year, .students were required to read a textbook, works on Richelieu and Louis XIV, as well as some plays by· Moliere and·other works. In general, the readings were short, interesting and not difficult to keep up with. The text­book did tend to drag somewhat. 
ORGANIZATION: There are two tests and a final, part essay · and part objective. Knowing the lecture material alone will not get the student very far. There is also a term paper of ten pages on a subject chosen by the student. 
CoMl\IENTs : Professor Bernard is not a particularly high 

· grader, but he is a very fair one. He is helpful to his students, always .ready to take tin\e out to see them. He gives such fine background material that those not in History are not at a loss. His lectures are . interesting and steady reading every week will keep the student in pace with the course. 
Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. History 383 Seminar on the New Deal 
CONTENT: This course is being offered for the first time this fall by Fr..Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., the Director of Student Affairs. He hopes to be able to schedule the seminar to meet one day a week for three hours. 
This will . not be a course for those looking for an easy elective. Fr. Blantz would like a class· of between twelve and fifteen persons, History majors :and graduate students. 
READINGS: Fr. Blantz will run the course as a true seminar with the emphasis on rather heavy reading. He plans to assign at least one book a week. The seminar will cover the New Deal period with some preliminary reading. The readings will cover all aspects of the New Deal. There will be general histories, both pro-and anti-Roosevelt works, publications by the Presi­dent's cabinet members, and works of assessment. 
ORGANIZATION: At this time, Fr. Blantz is not sure of the requirements for the seminar but there will definitely be a major paper and a final exam. There may possibly be a mid­term -and class participation will be an important factor. 
COMMENTS : Fr. Blantz did his Ph.D. dissertation research in this area and, as he said over the phone when interviewed, feels as though he has read just about everything on the sub­ject. He is in a position to make the myriad sources under­standable and to choose the best of available works. This semmar should -be an excellent course for American History majors. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
Robert Burns 
History 433 
England 1714-1815 
CoNTENT: This is the third in a four-part series on British 

history, following the Tudor and Stuart ages. There are, however 
no perequisites. The course is open to all studen·ts, though His­
tory majors predominate. The emphasis is upon" political and 
social forces in 18th-century England, including Scotland and 
Ireland.· 
PRESENTATION: Professor Burns lectures from extremely well­

prepared notes, with an occasional use of the overhead projector. 
He presents a large amount of material in every class, but test 
material is not taken wholly from lectures. Professor Burns hands 
out a stupendous reading list from which the student miay read 
what he wishes. Usually test questions are based on the lectures 
and the major works on the reading list. 
READINGS: There is usually one major textbook covering the entire P!'!riod as well as a host of periodic works. It is advisable to get the textbook (hardcover) in order to clarify and supple­ment the lecture material. It is virtually impossible to read all the other book assignments, but this is not necessary to do adequately on the tests. . ORGANIZATION: In the past, Professor Burns has assigned one or two tests, a paper, and a final exam. The tests are essay, with choice of questions. The paper consists of a package of source material collected by Professor· Burns from which the stu­dent is a draw inferences, discover problems, or suggest solutions. Professor Burns dislikes sheer memory work, instead enjoys original thought drawn from sources other than his lectures. 
CoMMENT: Professor Burns seldom lectures in strict, chron­ological order.; rathe. he skips from political to socio-economic issues with an occasional exotic lecture on things like the sexual beliefs of early 17th century England. His knowledge of his field is excellent, especially concerning Irish relations. His lectures sometimes overwhelm the student but his sense of humor helps. The work load is not all that toug_h, but non-History majors may find the course uninteresting and not worth the effort. 
Anton-Hermann Chroust History 351M Ancient Greece 
CONTENT: All History majors are required to take either this course of one in Medieval History. Thus Professor Chroust's course is full of junior History majors.· There is no prerequisite, however, and all classes are represented. The course deals with the growth of Greek civilization from the beginnings until the time of Alexander the Great. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Chrousfs lectures are certainly not dull. While he does present an adequate outline for the course in his lectures, he seems content to let the reading supply the major information. His lectures are very informal, entertaining, and many times wander completely off the subject. Whatever he is spealtjng about however, is worth listening to, whether it be his personal experiences or Greek history. 
READINGS: There are three books assigned. One is a rather large textbook giving a complete history of the period, while the other two are classical studies: the histories of Herodotus and Thucydides. Though large, all are of excellent caliber and not at all difficult to get through.' 
· ORGANIZATION: For grading purposes there is only one test, the final exam, covering all the readings. U susally there is a choice of questions. The student may or may not choose to answer a question dealing with Herodotus or Thucydides, but that choice is advisable, if the student has a high grade in mjnd. There are two other essay questions, taken from a wide range of topics. The questions are fair and representative. 
COMMENT: If the student can handle the idea of having his grade . decided by only one test, he is in for a worthwhile ex­perience. Professor Chroust's personality makes the course en­joyable. High grades do not come easily, however, and not too many students receive A's. 
Jarnes Corbett History 333M · History of the Middle Ages 
CONTENT: History majors must take either this two-semester course or one in· Greco-Roman .History, so Professor Corbett's class is heavily made up of junior· History majors. Traditionally, he has taught .the period of the Middle Ages beginning in 313 
A.D. with the Edict of Milan. This past year, however, he began around 600. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Corbett has been teaching this course for many years and knows his subject. His lectures are given from prepared notes in a soft-spoken manner, sometimes becoming boring. Generally the lectures concentrate on material not Jn the readings. 
READINGS: About one-half dozen are used per semester and the cost is not excessive. Some of them, Marc Bloch's Feudal Society for exaniple, are pretty heavy going; but taken as a whole, the readings are not difficult to keep up with.· 
ORGANIZATION: There is usually a mid2term, paper, and a final exam, all counting one-third of the grade. The tests are mostly essay, but there are also objective fill-ins. The student will be asked quite specific-details such as reigns of Kings. For those who can't wait, Professor Corbett is very prompt in return­ing tests. The paper is on an original idea of the student and runs about twelve to fifteen pages. 
COMMENT: Medieval History tends to be a difficult subject to teach since there are some time periods where information ill largely lacking. Social and economic data is generally scarce, particularly in the early Middle Ages. And since the course is a requirement within the major, non-History majors may find it totally uninteresting. Professor Corbett does a fine job, however, and the grading is not harsh. 
Vincent P. DeSantis History 372-572 American Political History Since 1917 
CONTENT: The ,course covers the main trends· in American politics since World· War I, particularly the Presidency and the party system. Most students enrolled are junior and senior Arts and Letters intents and a number of graduate students also take this course. .. 
PRESENTATION: Professor DeSantis conducts his classes in straight lecture style, often quoting the works of other historians in order to present a balanced view. Questions are usually welcome during lecture presentations. The selection of 75­minute periods for this class is unfortunate, since the wealth of material presented, and the need to keep good notes, can become a strain on students and teacher alike. The subdued tone of the lecture may also be difficult for those 1n the back seats to follow. 
READINGS: The course requires no text.. Readings consist of paperbacks designed to present the background of each period in American political history. These books, which will cost the student about $15 total, are loaded with information, though some of it is not relevant to the topic of the course. 
ORGANIZATION: Grades are based on the midterm and the final. There are no papers. Tests are based chiefly on the notes, though the professor stresses literary quality of essays as well as historical content; the student's ability to weld together class­room material and his own historical knowledge is important. Professor DeSantis grades quite fairly and does not give a large number of low grades. · COMMENT: This writer was impressed with the lecturer's historical perspective and his desire for complete objectivity. The course was rather interesting, due to his long-standing interest in American political history. The course provides an excellent survey of this country's political arena; but those hunting for a history course might be advised to shop elsewhere if they couldn't c·are less about this sort of thing. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
Bernard Norling 
History 315 
Europe 1494-1603 

_History 349 Europe 1870-1920 
CONTENT: Europe 1493-1603 is part of a cycle of modern 
European history courses offered by Dr. Norling, each of which 
is generally offered once every other year. This particular course 
replaces the present Renaissance and Reformation course and will 
probably be somewhat more politically-oriented. The subject 

matter will include general events such as the Renaissance and 
Reformation, the internal histories of major European nations, 
and international relations during the period. 
Europe 1870-1920 covers the growth of nationalisffik imperial­

ism, the decline of liberalism, the background of World War I 
and the war itself, as well as internal developments in major 
nations. 
For both courses a general textbook knowledge of European 

history is useful, though not necessary. The students are primarily 
upperclass AL majors. 
READINGS: The reading load for the courses are heavy, 

although the general quality of the books is high and mitigates 
the difficulty of reading them. The number of books is about 
nine or ten, so the book costs for the course can be fairly steep. 
The reading is an essential part of the workload for the course, 
since it covers material which is not repeated in the lectures. 
ORGANIZATION: There are quizzes almost every week on the 

assigned readings, and a midterm and final based generally on 
the notes (the former, usually a multiple choice test which is 
quite difficult and the latter, a moderately easy essay exam). 
The average grade is B-. ' 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Nor!ini\ is one of the best lecturers at 

Notre Dame. A mixture of deep understanding of European 
history, a colloquial style of delivery, and an immense store of 
anecdotes make the lectures amusing as well as interesting. 
COMMENT: For those interested in a politically-oriented 

history of Europe Dr. Norling's courses are peerless. The lectures 
and the readings are both first-rate, and make this an ideal class 
to take if one has the time for the reading, or to audit, if one 
does not. 
Frederick Pike History 385 Spain and Spanish America 1469-1788 
CONTENT: This two-semester course is peopled principally by History majors, of whom about half are grad students. It deals with Spain's relation to and impact upon the new world, em­phasizing social and political aspects. 
PRESENTATION: Professor Pike gives concise and well-docu­mented lectures. He supplies a printed outline before each lecture to help the student. He tries to present an overview of his subject, leaving more specific topics to the readings. He welcomes questions, but there are few because the lectures are so clear and well-organized. 
READINGS: The assigned texts, running about ten a semester, are of excellent quality, but the student may find it difficult to keep on top of them. The two best are psually assigned for book reports to supplement the tests. 
ORGANIZATION: Professor Pike's tests are tough, requiring factual and well-written answers to essay questions. There is a mid-term and final as well as two four-page book reports. This past semester, Professor Pike assigned an essay over Christmas on a topic chosen by the individual. There is no grading em­phasis on any one assignment. 
CoMMENT: This course is a difficult elective, but excellent for History majors. The material is presented_ so well that it is worth the effort needed to stick to the readings. An A is the result of a good deal of work. 
·Marshall Smelser 
History 361 
The British New World Empire I 
History 363 American Revolution 1763-1789 I 
HISTORY 361 
CONTENT: Professor Smelser deals with Great Britain's Amer­
ican colonies from the late 1600's until the French and Indian 
War (1763). The course emphas~es social and cultural events 
such as the Great Awakening and early American artists and 
literature. The class this past year was small {fifteen students), 
of whom several were graduate students. 
PRESENTATION: Since they deal more with abstract ideas than 
political happenings ( unlike those of his Revolutionary War 
course), Professor Semelser's lectures sometimes get rather boring. 
He has a fine sense of humor, however, which helps keep the 
student listening. He tries not to lecture on material in the 
readings. ­
READINGS: The basic text is a manual written by Professor 
Smelser. There are also books of documents, and other works 
including one on Benjamin Franklin. The readings are not 
difficult and are easy to keep up with. 
ORGANIZATION: The grade is based on a mid-term, a paper, 
and a final. The paper (about 1800 words) is taken from the 
book on Franklin. The tests are both essay and objective. The 
professor is very conscientious about grading the tests and thus 
takes his time about correcting and returning them. 
COMMENT: Professor Smelser is very knowledgeable and has 
been teaching for many years. The fact that he has written a 
manual for the study -of American History is an indication of 
his competence. The course is essential for early American 
History majors and is not difficult as an elective. 
HISTORY 363 
CoNTENT: This is the first half of a two-semester course 
dealing with the background and conduct of the Revolutionary 
War and the Confederation years of the American Republic. 
Mostly junior and senior History majors take the course, though 
it is open to anyone. ProfessoE Smelser does not permit anyone 
to take the second semester (Spring '72) without taking the Fall 
'71 course. 
PRESENTATION: During his lectures, Professor Smelser makes liberal use of the overhead projector to illustrate maps, figures, and difficult French names. His lectures are interesting, rarely boring, and humorous; and he welcomes questions. He does, ho~ever, take pains to leave out of his lecture material anything covered in the reading assignments, putting the burden on the student to do the required reading. 
READINGS : Since this is a two-semester course, the expense in not heavy. There are several books of related documents as well as basic revolutionary histories. There is a concise, ground­level manual for the course, written by Professor Smelser himself. 
ORGANIZATION: In the first semester, there is usually a mid­term, a final, and a paper. The latter is drawn from a list of topics in one of the books and should be 1500-2500 words in length. For the tests, the student must know a great deal of factual material. Map details, proper names, and terms are all asked for, usually as -fill-ins or matching-type questions. Each test also includes essay questions. Professor Smeler likes to put most of the grading emphasis on the final e.xam. 
COMMENTS : The Professor wants to be on a name basis with his students and assigns seats to facilitate this. His knowledge is exceptional; he has read everything on his subject and can draw examples from very basic sources like the papers of the Continental Congress. He delights in making statistical studies of the questions most of ten missed on his tests which he then includes on the final. He is not a difficult grader, but the-amount of material is enough to make an A fairly difficult. The course is excellent for History majors and a good exercise for those interested in an objective look at this country's beginnings. 
APRIL 15; 1971 
r 


Modern and Classical Languages 
Charles E. Parnell French 457 16-17 th-Century Poetry 
CONTENT: Although the title of the course is 16.-17th cen­tury poetry, major emphasis will be on poetry of the French Renaissance -poetry before the Pleiade, poets of the Pleiade (du Bellay, Ronsard, et al.)· as ·well as poets of_ the later part of the century. By way of contrast· with the Renaissance . poetry, Dr. Parnell will also cover some poetry ·of the -17th century. Since the course will be taught· entirely · in· French and since many in the course ·will, be former Angers students,· a good command of French · is imperative. 
PRESENTATION AND READINGS: The course will 'be of a seminar nature with Dr. Parnell doing a minim~ of lecturing. His aim is to give the student a chance to discover and ex­perience poetry for himself. Readings, while·· not excessive, must be consistently. well prepared and the student must· always be ready to contribute to_ the· class -discussion. ·Texts are expected to be the Classi,ques Larousse (around 60c each at the book­store). Total book _bil~ should not exc:eed $6-$8.: · 
ORGANIZATION: Besides the requ~ed daily assignments, there will . be opportunities for outside and background readings. Usually, papers are few (and short) and the final will. be composed of essay questions based on the·.discussions and the · readings. Emphasiri, will be placed on feading and on ·_cfass discussions. · 
COMMENT: Dr: Parnell is both witty and extremely· com­petent. His classes are very loosely structured and informal. The course should be valuable for anyone with a sensitivity for, or . a curiosity about, French poetry of this area. 
Charles Roeclig _ French-235 French Literature· I 
French 496 .· 18th-Century. Literature 
FRENCH 235' 
CONTENTS: Part I .of this two-semesfer·_survey c.ourse covers French literature from its origins to :the:end of theJ8th century.. The course will be taught in French: and requires a-fair know!-. edge-of the language. The aim_of the course is-to.give the stu­dent ·a gerieral· acquaintan<:e with. the. major_ ·aspects .:of.French literatm:e. Emphasis will be on understanding: the. readings· and on.the history of French. ·literature (writers,. concerns and: the atmosphere of the· different eras) .. ·:·, · · · 
PRE~ENTATION:. ·;the~ ~~II .be_ in_trod~~tory )~cttires on. the : periods being· studied . as well. as .explications. a~. texte · by Mi. Roedig. · Discussion of ~e i-eadings'by the clas~ is "~~i;:oµrag~d::' 
. READINGS; The b".tsic text\;· ~e·A:;~oiogie. -d~ 'l~_;itt~r~iure -. francaise ($7 .50) . with. supplementary readings. from time to time: -. Average assignment will be 20 p~ges··per class,.-che>sen-:from:the
a:nth()logy. ·.· '. . . -., a• ' 
r •--fl •-• 

ORGANIZATION: The readings.will be discussed in.class:. Two· five-page written· explications de. texte will be: required; i1 ad­dition, there will be a:mid-term and a fin.al._. The: final. grade· will be. b~ed on the exams and the ex_plication~. . . 
COMMENTS: Since most French majors take. this course in Angers, ies an ideal one for those who would simply like a gen­eral knowledge of French literature, thought and customs. The student will find Mr. Roedig almost always available fo~ h_elp or consultation. In the past, the course has been small enough to permit an informal and free exchange of ideas. . · 
FRENCH 496 
CONTENTS: Major emphasis will be on the development of ideas from the precursors of the Enlightenment through _the great names of the century. There wil[be a secondary-emphasis on the theatre,. poetry and bib_liography of the. century. _The class will be composed mostly_ of Arts and .Letters juniors and seniors. Prerequisites: French 235-236 or the equivalent. 
PRESENTATION: Professo~ Roedig•will do littie or no lecturing; .the class will be ·almost totally devoted to a. discussion of the assigned. readings. However, from. time ·to time. there -will be lectures on certain subjects related to the literat~re •arid ideas of the time (e.g. politicaLevents; pre-rom_anticism). 
. READINGS':. The major text will _b~. Th~ Age of Enlightenment ($7-$9). ·supplementary texts.will be plays by Marivaux, Voltaire and .Beaumarchais in . the .Classzques Larousse; there will also be xeroxed "sheets on· the Ja'.'nguage ·of the 18th. century. Assigned 1·eadings will range from ·20 .to 50 ·pages.·: ·. . . 
-. . -' --... ­.ORGANIZATION: Major work wil(fOnsist of one bibliographical project; a· mid-term, a, term paper on _a subject to be _chosen at 
.. the beginning. of.the course"..and a detailed. final examination. Grade will be: based on the project, ·class participation and the exams. .. 
. C~il~uiNT:.;T~i; .course has .:not beeri offered fo~. the past two . or three. years. From ·µa.st-classe,s~-Mr. Roedig seems to be. at his best in· small, .. discussion· class." . : He. is knowledgeable, open .minded, and ~~sily ·a·~1:essible. to · his students.· Because of the extensive readings, I _would nof recommend tlie course for non-majors. 
Klaus -Lanzinger German· 235 · Geri:na~ • Literatur~ I 
CONTENT: The course is a general survey of German liter­ature from about 800 to 1750. Beginning with the Medieval Period, the course continues through the age of the Reforma­. tion and the _age of Baroque :;ind ends with the forerunners of the age of Englightenment. Literary themes considered· include . Parzival, Trista-ii.· and Isolde, Niebelungenlied, the. Faust legend, and Griminelshausen's Mutter Courasche. The course requires · a fairly good ability to understand, read, and speak German; a -previous. course in at least elementary German is prerequisite. Th~·. class last· sem~ster was . rather small (abou( 15 )_. Most students were juniors; about a third of the class had studie~ 
in Innsbruck. · · · · · 
: ·.PRESENTATION: Professor Lanzinger's,. lectures will. be in German and, because it is a survey ._course; wiil -probably.: ad.: . dress-. the broader literary themes.· Professor Lan.zinger. tends to take · a · coriservative-. approach. to· literature. and is ·not . always open to less conventional interpretations. ·Nonetheless; discussion can. ·sometimes be profitable and ·interesting..The lectures and 
· discussions will also serve to provid_e: historical background for · _the; readings: -­
.. ' READINGS : The text . for the course last fall . was Demetz and_· Jackson's _An Anthology of Ge_rman Literat~re 800-1750 (Prentice-Hall). Cost: about $8. Readings range between· 2-10 
· pages per assignment; most are no more than 4 pages, but all, of course are in Germ.an. Most of 'the readings are inteiest­
~ing; som~ especially so because of the· connections with modem .•literature· (cf. Goethe's Faust and Brecht's Mutter Courage, for · exa~ple). · · · 
·_:·· ORGANIZATION: Assignments will probably entail 3-5 short papers· ( 3-5 pages) . Last semester papers were not required to be written in German, but majors _-were encouraged to' do_·so: . There may be a mid-term examination, but it is likely that there will only be a final. The final exam last fall required a number-of short identifications and a long essay on· a­
. given,-comprehensive theme · ( in class) . Average final· grade was about B. . . 
. THE SCHOLASTIC . 

CoMl\rENT: This course was taught last fall by Professor Albert Wimmer~ Professor Wimmer is leaving to become director of the Innsbruck Program. Professor ·Klaus Lanzinger, the present Innsbruck director, is .returning to Notre· Dame and will be teaching German Literature I next fall. It is not ·certain what differences this change will make i~. the course. Students who have had. both professors do not think. there . will be · 
· great differences in the basic. structure of th·e cours~. These students feel,· however,· that 'there is a sharp difference in the · way Professor Lanzinger approaches literature. As . mentioned above, he. tends t·o be quite conventional in his interpretation. However, Professor Lanzinger· has a . wide literary knowledge and he is among the · leading European scholars of American literature; so he can be depended upon to. draw parallels and make important. literary distinctions concerning the two liter­atures. 
Louis •Pitschmann German 450 History of German Language 
, DESCRIPTION: Thi~ course, which will be offered for the first time in the fall, will be a general survey of the German language dealing with both historical and modern problems in the language, utilizing 2500-3000. years of . reconstructed forms and extant inscriptions and texts. The aim is to· familiarize the student with German's close relationship to other Inda-European and Germanic languages, especially English, elucidating similarities and differences. through analysis of vocabulary, phonetics and grammar. · . 
The Middle High German literary language, Martin Luther and· the 18th cen. Sprachgesellschaften will also be·considered in their role in forming the modern literary standard of the language. · 
The course will ·end with a discussion of German in the 20th century: extent .of dialect usage, spread of the .Umgangssprache,· and new developments caused by the political boundaries super­imposed on German speaking areas over the past ·few decades. · 
This will. be a lecture course with limited outside readings. The text is The German Language, Priebsch and Collinson. Besides the final exam there will be two or three ·one-hour written exams which may be dropped if class size permits oral testing. 
. · PREREQUISITE: Intermediate German 121-122, or· the equiv­alent. The course will be c_onducted in High Midwestern English with readings in Amerikanish. 
. '' . . . 
. ·CoMMENT: Mr. Pitschmann's competence in and enthusiasm for his subject strongly recommend it to anyone· interested in 9erman, historical linguistics, or simply interested in language. Actually the. sheer hardihood of the course recommends it to .all who .have a sense of. adventure; Mr. Pitschmann actually proposes _to account for the German's .proclivity for putting past pa~ticiples at the end of sentence~, ·and for fDissp~lling su.ch simple words as "mother," "father," und "bro-ther,''. and mis­pr!:mi:>uncing the entire alphabet so badly th<!LVW, by which one identifies· the Volkswagen, ·comes out "fowvey.,,. At a time ·when Americans are called upon more "than -ever to understand all foreigners, this course should. help to promote international understa;11ding. 
.J. William Hunt Greek 400 
. Greek Classics Ill Translation . 
. CONTENTS: Mr. Hunt 'hopes to develop in his students a background in the classical tradition and an understinding of some original sources in the areas of literature, history, philosophy and criticism. The course is open to majors in all fields ·of the humanities; no language is required. 
·-PRESENTATION: The class will be equally-divided between lecture. and discussion. Readings will consist of. Homer's Iliad, Aeschylus' Oresteia, Sophocles' Antigone,' Euripides' -Medea, Plato's Socratic Dialogues, Thucydides'· Peloponnesian Wars and 
· Aristotle's Poetics. 
APRIL 15; 1971 
ORGANIZAnoN: . Two term · papers and a final examination will be given. · The final grade will be based almost equally on the two papers and the exam. 
. . 
·Robert Vacca 
Greek.465 
•Periclean· Athens 
CONTENT: This one-semester course deals with the cns1s which faced 5th-century (B.C.) Athenian society. In this period, there was a complete breakdown of an old moral ideal which was being replaced with a new radical morality. The course will consider the Athens_of Pericles: the problems and issues of this period, in terms of its own playwrights, historians, philosophers, and scientists. Mr. Vacca taught the parent of this course, Greek Civilization II, last year. The present course is its child, trimmed arid polished,· and is offered with no necessary prerequisites_ It should be emphasized that no knowledge of the Greek language is required. The course is open to anyone. · 
PRESENTATION: The lectures and discussions center on the readings, and they are usually aimed at presenting background material as well as aiding the students to gain insight in the sub­ject. The balance of lecture and discussion is quite variable: Mr. Vacca tends to arrange the format as seems best at the time_ The lectures in Greek Civilization II are reported to have been of excellent quality and discussions were handled well. 
. _READINGS: Mr. Vacca plans to cover a total of approximate-: ly 15 plays by Al!Schy1us, Euripides, Sophocles, and Aristophanes, as well as the Peloponnesian War of Thucydides, two medical treatises of the Hippocratic school, and two dialogues of Plato. The texts are all primary sources and a bibliography of secondary 
-materials will be available. The reading list of Greek Civilization II, which was almost identical, was considered good with regards both to length and suitability by that course's students. The books are·all paperbacks, and the total estimated cost for texts is about $10. 
ORGANIZATION: Mr. Vacca plans to leave the matter of whether there is to be a final test or a paper to the consensus of class opinion. Exams, if there are any, will be essay, calling for an understanding of class material and an awareness of the factual situation. Mr-Vacca's students tend to get good grades, both because his courses do not become competitive affairs and because his students become interested in the course and even pursue their studies with vigor. 
Col\11\IENT: There were three students in Greek Civilization II, all of whom were enthusiastic about the course. l\fr_ Vacca hopes for a larger number of students for Periclean Athens. His students like him, and in fact very often take more than one of his courses. He is a good teacher, both because of his for­
. midable ·knowledge of the classics and because of his ability to make almost anything interesting. His teaching style is efficient, witty, and in general a pleasure to witness. The combination of teacher· and subject should make an interesting and rewarding experience for anyone curious about Athenian life and society in a period which produced a remarkable and unparalleled cluster of brilliant minds. 
Raymond Fleming 
Italian 236 
Italian I, II 
-CONTENT: This is a two-semester course offered to anyone 
. who has completed Elementary Italian or has some knowledge of the Italian language. Mr. Fleming feels that Italian literature should be studied chronologically. Therefore, the course begins v,ith the study of the poetry of the late Middle Ages, prior to Dante. The aim is to give the student a good overall view of the development of Italian literature and contact with its major · works. An exhaustive study of this national literature is not attempted-the course is basically of the survey type. The com­position of students enrolled is generally varied, including, in the past, students majoring in modern languages, students with personal interests in the Italian language and literature, and 
students who take the course to complete the foreign language 
requirement at St. Mary's.· · 
PRESENTATION: Mr. Fleming usually gives brief lectures on 
all new material, which is followed by an informal class discussion. 
Students of literature who have taken the course· have spoken 

highly of the quality of these lectures and have expressed the 
wish that the professor would spend more time in lecture than 
in class discussion. Most students taking the course have had no 

background in the material studied and have difficulties with the 
language. Thus, class discussions often tend to convert into 
question-answer periods with the questions being asked primarily 

by the profes,mr. 
READINGS: The readings assignments are short, but this is 

due generally to the language difficulty. All texts are read fo the 
original language, with some additional readings in pertinent 
literary criticism. The students agree that the choice of the selec­
tions to be read is excellent. A four-volume anthology is -used for 
both semesters: Scritori d'Italia, edited by N. Sapegno, G. 
Trombatore, and W. Binni. (In the paperback edition, the 
total cost is approximately $18.00) Students also find it helpful 
to have a· good English-Italian dictionary. 
ORGANIZATION: There are two exams (a midterm and a final) and one paper (7-12 pages in length). during the first semester, and only one exam in addition to the paper the second semester. The exams included selections to be translated as ·well essay questions relating to general literary trends and, specific texts, allowing the students to demonstrate their kno~vledge of the language of the language as well as an understanding of the material. Major emphasis is on, however, the quality of the student's participation in class, this participation accounting for 50% of the final grade. 
COMMENT: Students have agreed that the course is very worthwhile in that both a knowledge of. the literature· and· a further understanding of the Italian language may be obtained. Very high final grades are not infrequent, but this does not mean in any way that the course itself is an easy one. The course might be improved if another one were offered to those students who only need to complete a language requirement and limiting this one to those genuinely interested in the material. This would permit better class discussions and allow less time to be spent on specific language problems. 
Frederick Columbus . Modern Language 515 Descriptive Linguistics 
CONTENT: The aim of this course is to convey to the student an understanding of description linguistics, . in both its theory and use. The·course begins with a basic introduction to morphol­ogy ;md phonology and advances to numerous· descriptive prob­lems frequently involving non-Indoeuropean languages. Such . things as articulatory phonetics, inflectional categories and the­ories upon the evolution -of language are covered within the course. Last fall's course was composed of under ten students most of whom were on the graduate level. Some knowledge of foreign languages is helpful, 'although not required. 
_PRESENTATION: The presentation centers around. a careful study of the basic texts. This is done through both lectures and discussions. Mr. Columbus welcomes questions, and much of _the class is frequently spent dealing with them. He also asks many questions as· the students must remain current_ on the readings: The course is loosely structured and due to this sometimes ap-. pears to be moving somewhat slowly. · · · 
READINGS: The basic text is H. A. Gleason's An Intro·duction To Descriptive Linguistics along with this is his Workbook m Descriptive Linguistics. Language History by _Leonard Bloom­field is also used. The total cost should be around $10. · · · 
ORGANIZATION: The only test is the final and there.are no. papers. However, there are frequent assignments in .the work­book. It is the student's responsibility i:o stay current in the read­ings, as much of the course· is centered around· class discussion., The grading policy is very fair. · · 
COMMENT: ·This course is suggested for anyone wishing to develop a new insight into language. Due to the ·wide variety of languages studied it should be of particular .interest to both Ian-· guage and anthropology majors. 
J. William Hunt Modern Languages 450 . . Classical ·and Renaissance Epic: 
a 

Homer to Milton 
CONTENTS: Studies in a literary genre:-·an intensive analysis ofthe varied development in one selected literary genre aimed at an inclusive definition of its methods and purpose. There are no prerequisites for the course, which is operi' to majors in all fields of the Humanities. Some reading knowle.dge of an ·extra language is helpful but not required. · 
PRE.SENTATION: Mr. Hunt hopes to make .the class a co­operative undertaking. He indicates that the class will be mostly discussion with an occasional lecture. . Some material will be done by outside reading and reported orally by the student. 
READINGS: The five major texts will be the Iliad and the Odysse')' of Homer, the Aeneid of Virgil, the Divine Comedy of Dante and· Paradise Lost by Milton. In addition, there will be three minor texts: Gilgamesh, Beowulf and Roland. There will be no secondary ~ources although there will .be occasional handouts. · ·~, 
ORGAN!ZATION: Two term papers ~ill be required. In ad-. dition, there·wiirbe an oral project.' The only exam will be the final. The grade for the course will be based almost ·equally on the exam, the papers ·and class participation. 
CoMl\lENT: Mr. Hunt. will be coming to Notre Dame from Amherst College and is very enthusiastic about the courses which he will be giving-especially · his course· ·in' the Classical and Renaissance· Epic. ·This is the first in a series of Comparative Literature courses which Mr. Hunt int:ends to give. He wishes to emphasize that the course is not restricted to literature majors but is open to students in all areas of the Humanities-art, music, history, etc. · 
Joseph:·A·. Gatto· 
Russian 235 
Russian· Literature · I 
. CONTENi: '. By using Russian : ...literary. texts translated intci English, the couz:se ai1_11s .at_ surveying _Russian literature from its early times to the Rus~ian ·Revofu_tion of 1917~ Emphasis is placed on the major authors of the 19th· century: Gogol, Dostoevsky, ·and Tolstoy. · Prerequisite · being avid interest and some familiarity with Russian literature. Mr. Gatto quotes texts in Russian· at times, but that's a· fringe benefit. 
PRESENTATfo;: The.)ecture~ 'ar~·-~ometimes good, based on the. teacher's· own research~ Usu·a)ly, bi~graphical data con­stitutes· a major portion of the ·1ectures. At times, Mr. Gatto is aware· of .the_ tediousness of this approach and suggests going out on Jhe la'wri .for class. The cla~s is usually small so discussion becomes. conversation __and the atmosphere becomes quite in­formal. .There is a goo_d_ relation between lectures, discussions and the a,ssign.ed· tfxts. Mr. Gatto is the unifying force. 
· REA_DINGS : The texts are good, especially chosen from each era of ·Russian literary history. As the authors get better .and more famous,· the assigned readings get bigger (Cf. ·Anna Karenina: 807 pages with a clincher of an ending). About eight 
· books _constitute the reading with sufficient time alloted for each assignment. Written work is restricted to one major project. Each student must choose one of the texts and expound on it, by' intermingling· literary observation with personal reactions.. Thus each student is in charge of the class for one day. There are supposed to be two exams, but the final is usually dropped. The final grade is largely based on the project, participation in class ·(very· important) and the exam(s). The average final grade in the ·class· was a B. 
dor.11>1ENTS: Some students thought the course was a letdown. Because of its informal nature, its lack of pedagogical discipline, the -class was not a vivid educational experience. This writer would not take the • course again. He prefers a ·teacher and course that is more formally prepared and conducted. The dis­cussio_ns tended to stray froin. the topic at hand ending up on So?th Bend politics or the Korean War. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Aleksis Rubulis Russian .445 Literature m Russian I 
CONTENT: Literature in Russian is a survey of Russian-liter­ature in the Russian language. The course begins with an excerpt from the Kievan Period (1030-1240) and ends in the early 20th century.· There is material from such Russian Masters as Alexander Pushkin, A. I. Turgenev, F. M. Dostoyevsky, Leo Tolstoy, and Anton Chekhov. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Rubulis clearly and easily presents ex­cellently· organized material. He tries to keep the class interesting 
Music 
by varying lectures and ·translations. He willingly helps any student who comes to him with difficulties concerning the course or Russian in general. 
READINGS: The main aspect of the literature course is transla­tion. Other features include an introduction to the lives and major works of the poets and writers, an increase in vocabulary and a great deal of practice reading Russian. The student uses mimeographed material and buys perhaps two or three inex­pensive booklets. 
CoMMENTs: This Russian literature course offers a challenge to the Russian student. It is :beneficial if the student wants to broaden his or her background in the Russian language and literature, and if the student applies him or herself. 
Charles A. Biondo Music 185 String Techniques 
CONTENT: String Techniques is a one-semester course, nor­mally offered only in the fall semester. The course's objective is to teach basic string techniques to une.xperienced pupils. What it amounts to, is group violin lessons, required and recommended for Music Education majors only. 
PRESENTATION: Biondo is an interesting and humorous speaker. A great percentage of his class is spent relating humor­ous stories which tie in with the teaching of violin. There are no lectures or no real discussions, class time is taken up in actual­ly learning how to play the instruments. · 
ORGANIZATION: Violins are given to you along with some . mimeographed sheets of music. y OU are responsible for any dam­
. age inflicted upon the instrument. You are only required to buy one book for approximately $3, which is comprised of a survey of the instruments and their techniques. You must practice regu­larly to get anything out of the class. Tests are simple, half­written, half-played. And there are · only two, one at midterm and one for your final. Your. grade consists of your test scores, absences and your general attitude.. 
CoMMENT: Dr. Biondo isn't one to complain if you don't practice or come to class, but you tend to feel obligated to at­tend for fear of ·offending· him. Somehow miraculously you emerge actually able to play the violin and teach it to a be­ginner if it were necessary. Doc's style of teaching, which is very .relaxed and amusing, is· in-itself a worthwhile technique to witness. · · 
Carl Hager, C:S.C. Music 215 · 
. . 
Me~g_of Music 
CONTENT: This course is designed to give the average stu­cl~nt s~me introduction int~ the literature-of serious music, and to· acquaint him with some. of the. features distinctive of this music. The major emphasis is, of course, listening to and recog­nizing the various pieces of music considered in class. There are no prerequisites, and the course is primarily Arts a.pd Letters sqphomores and juniors. 
ORGANIZATION: Lectures are usually sketchy, for the basis of the class presentation is the music itself. There is no discussion, though questions are welcomed in an attempt to clarify a par­. ticular point. There are no required readings, but a highly recom­mended text is Machlis' Enjoyment of Music. There are three · tests and a final, which tend·toward the picayune, but inferior test · scores can be more than compensated for by the reports of three 
APRIL 15, 1971 
concerts which are required (at least two of which must be of 
the genre of serious music; one may be rock or "light" music). 
CoMMENT: Father Hager fully realizes that semesters should 
have courses in which the student can enjoy himself ·without 
jeopardizing his grade; nevertheless, he wants to emphasize that 
it is definitely possible to come out of his class ,.,'.ith less than an 
A or a B. One problem has been the size of the class, being 
large enough to require using Washington Hall. This has given 
rise to many students walking out after the preparatory material 
has been treated. These Hager wishes to discourage from taking 
his course; for he has no intention of making it a "snap.". It will 
be relaxing, he insists, but only to one seriously interested in 
opening some doors into the world of serious music. 
Another problem with the course is the scope -Hager at­
tempts to open too many doors by studying too many works too 
cursively. While it is true that weak test scores can be brought 
up in the final grade by concert reports which reflect the stu­
dent's serious attempt to appreciate this music, nonetheless it 
would be more beneficial to the novices to look at fewer works, 
and if not in more depth, at least for a longer period of time. 
In spite of everything, if you are seriously interested.,. the course 
can be worthwhile. 
Carl Hager, C.S.C. Music 452 Composition 
CONTENT: Composition is designed to familiarize the music major and interested competent amateurs with techniques of composition of the modem era. Acceptance as a student depends upon ability, some previous writing experience and familiarity with the groundwork of musical notation, contrapuntal technique, and musical form. The student is expected to meet minimally on a weekly basis with Fr. Hager for private consultations, but most of the work is done on personal initiative. 
PRESENTATION: The student is initially asked to work with forms with which he is most comfortable, and Fr. Hager will recommend works to steer the aspirant composer in the correct direction. · 
READINGS: None required or recommended. ORGANIZATION: Flexible to meet the demands and abilities of each student. 
CoMMENT: Father Hager is a competent and willing teacher of his art; however, unless a student is gifted, he will probably be handicapped by the lack of a text describing the various modes of composition, and the somewhat nebulous attitude towards quality which permeates the music department. What is lacking in the course is a sense of direction, which may or may not be alleviated by specific readings, references, and listening materials. 
One might wish Ior a hearing--of-the various works composed by very -closely. i:elat'ed.·---For the more-seri01is stuqent,-_the ~ubject all composition students, -say, -at semester's end, to help develop-. -matte~ is·. very informative: The student is nc:>t expected to_ mem-· initiative and:a higher -degree of_ expertise. _ orize -a lot ·of mat~riai,-but}t-is th_t;_re for -those seeking it.· · _ 
Arthur P. Lawrence~ ­Music 318-­University Chorus 
--Co;_TENT: A choral "~orkshop" for -music ~ajors ~nd: non-= majors, the course is set ~P to contribute -te> the am_ount of fine _­arts-in the area, and to-allow-students to learn-about and enjoy good music. University Chorus meets.-ori -Monday: and: Wednes­day nights, from 6: ~5 to 7: 45 -with ,occasional ·e?Ctra rehearsals for concerts: The-chorus usually gives 3 to 4 _-concerts ·yearly, and people who are· in the chorus first scmest_er -are asked _to join again second semester,-so that_ the amount of:-personnel_ may remain steady. -Music for concerts_ is selected by_ Dr. _Law-: -· rence, with the approval of the members: Prerequis~tes: student must audition to obtain entrance, and_ should be able to, read music and sing harmony. _. _ 
ORGANIZATION: No presentation of lectures~ or outside read-­ings. The only assignment is to be able toJearn the-m.usic:-'"'.ithin the rehearsal, and if this is not possible, the ·student-sp.ould b_e .. able to learn the music outside of -class time. ,No examinations. Final grade is based on attendance only. _ __ _ _ _ _ __-_ 
COMMENT: -Members. at the present 'time se_em' t0'7 desire a 

-smaller group, ·so that more can··be done·fo· a:m,or~ -,Serious man­ner. The chorus is much too large to accomplish· a great deal. A great amount of cooper3:tion is "necessary cin _the part'-of .'the members, and it is not to_be· had from ·such a Ja,rge .group: Many. of the members feel that the chorus should be made.into a·much smaller chamber group, to do more serious -works, -from· which _ more could be learried · by _"the 'student;: 3:11d~:-this music_.would possibly be more appreciated by the higher.:class .-!-udience. ~Per­haps, from this large_group~ two-smaller grou~s should_be'formed; one fo sing "pop music,'.'-and the other to do· more serious music, such as cantatas: 'This is' in tne plans for the future. --·_ --, --__ 
Many members comnieri-ted on the ~ack of interest':put forth by many of the people who· seem to~be: in -the chorus_:for_ the credit only. This factor does not° help to further.th.I: 'ainou~t ~of work which -may be accomplishe_d by the chorus_ in)i s_emester. Students realize that to 'gain an -A all :that is ·:necessary is_ good_ attendance.· This -is perhaps the fault· of -the_ profoss~r. 
For-the most part, the people involved -(both inusic '.majors, and nonmajors) found the chorus a -worthwhile'activity, and_ a learning· experience well worth the time involved..Dr.-Lawrence is well liked by all the members and no negative comnjerik.were to be heard about his=persomility'._or'_thci-way:in"which_,he· con­
ducts-the chorus: , · -. , --· · -· " · 
Eue-ene Leahy-..--__ -,-----. 
._,

Music 242-. . -· · --·are -cletermined by' a term -paper'· pe~aining to some_ sul?ject Music His,torY:,__ ---, --,:. ' _,; . -related to the band .and -the, quality of perforI!}ance with the --.-· · , ,. --~--_ · -.. , -:--___ :-.: ·-_ -: _-· · . . band. -The band rehearses three times a ·week (Monday, _Wed-: ,CONTENT:_ The firs( semestei'covers_ the,Jtj~~o~::'_oC:W:e~tern · _:-_-nesday,' Friday) at 4:30 p:m. The main function of the C<:>n--: .music from the-Gr~ek:_fo'-the R«'!nai_~~a~c~:; The secon4,_ si:~ester , . : cert band is the tour which is taken during 'the spring break._ follo~s from: the_· Ren?issaiice,-to'• th~; presenf ',' Jher~ ·:aI"e/no__ Ii c~vers: approximately _-350 miles and is directed. t~w.trd o~e prerequisites for -either-semester. -The:co_tir~e-,is_gerie~allr,.?1ade,-:-··area of the-country. _ -. -...-, . :: :_
'

up of nonmtisic majors. ', -_ •---' '" :~ : _, -, -,_ >-.:. -"';' 
PRESEN°tATION: _The !ectures tend to emphasiz~: the bc:1.sic'_art !~>Und in partic~la: musi~__and ~el~te ~!: to~ the ot~er_:ar~:·. T_~ere 1s ample opport1;1mty fpr discus_sion; which_ Mr. Lea~y enc<:>1;1rages_. The lectures follow _with the readn_1gs _and embellish ,tlie 1mpor: tant -aspects. . . -_ . 
REAnr:ii.Gs: Grout's_ History of ·Western Music, $8.50; The: 

text is rather comprehensive';-lt would be of mcire, value:~--a 
reference hook. -----' -. -..,. , ORGA;."IZATION: The grading is based on three _or.f_qtir_ tests 
during-the sem_ester, one or-two short'papers, and a.final._ The,,-­
questions' on the :tests are not.precise_ iii _that you.-a_;-~. expected torelatewnatyouknowaboutthesubjectinawaysimilar,to)1ow·, you would .be casually, talking ·to a: '.friend. : The_'av~ragf!' gr!lde 
is•B. _:_ --_ ·_ _ __ ·:·· J--. · .: _--..-·:··:.:: /'· -., -_ COMMENT: The_ course -has -a__.value fore the norimusic:major. . in that lie gets an: idea :as_·to -how, ni_usic ,arid:_th~,other.'ar~s are 
-• '. -. + • ~~ -• • -'· • ­
,__ : -, -­
-_ 
-; 

Patri~JrMahoney, c:S;C:
Mtisic~2J3'.-__·-_ -------:_-_-_ Infr9duction_~~--Op~ra·_:. _,--,_-_-_' 
, • ·coNi~NT:-_The 'cou~~~--~pe~lwi_f}i: a 'iene~al.-discussion of -op~ra:. and.cits _9rigins:>This -discuf~iori ~ontinues· throug~out _the exploratioicof l7th'_'to--the ·20th· century "operas. Among the 
composers 'presented ,·are -.Ha~d-el,·_Monteverdi, · Mozart, yerdi, -Wagner,: Strauss and-_ others._ ..:., _ : --_,_ . -. ; -: -, -PRESENTATIQN: Fr.-Maloney :has--,designed, his c_ourse as a listening experience. "_Tlius,-it_ is'·important_ to-attend the classes. ­
-The: aim· is to dev~lop :i',knowledge 'and a'.ppreciation of opera and -the-oper~tic. voice~-. -_--'· ---. ·-REAI>INGS :···The-texts, are -Opera as Drama by Joseph-Ker­man ($(45), a:discu"ssion ~£.:the ae~the_tics of opera-: The .other 
" two books·deal with" the-plots-·a!!d'-English"' translations of the librettos..: Opera, Themes -and_ Plots. (Rudolph~ Fellner, $L75, 32 works by:15-co~posers),:·and:Mozarfs Librettos (Robert Pack, $2.25,-5·c_omplete_operas.) _-, -_ -_,. -__ ---· -_-. -· -ORGANIZ~TION:··Grading.,is based on' a_few _short_ papers and pos~ibly_' a_:final.:·-_ Tile_-average grade··!s. A~. -. . __ -COMMENTS:·: :This'"is a:·_ class,,with an unusual approach as compared --~ith 'others. -It :is' concern~d -p_rimarily_-~ith experi­mental·kno~ledge; ·a listening experience· which is en_livened by Fr. Maloney's enthusias~ fo~: the_ ·s~bject.._ The': CC?Urse, is one of encounter_ with:the great;s_t operas__ ever written (technical an3!­-ysis-is --~~t.. at._:alr-'i:-equir~d),. ~ Na~rally, an initial interest m opera is-helpful/-nowever, ·_everi: those, with a negative 'attitude can":find something:·inspirationaJ .in, tlie music of th.e operatic repertoire:• ~hich -is·--p~ese11ted. ----:-· -: ­
-, : , ---.,_ . 

.Robert·O'Brien­Music).10;-210. .', -_ Ense~ble; Cori.ce1:i:·Band_.:· ,_­
. -, -_ --~ . 

-.CONTENTS : -Ensemble: is': the cou~se 'title 'for the university con~ert · band.-•: It is '.-~{i, \Vind --ensemble_ of, about· 45 -members chosen f9r:: tlieir•'ability·· on· aJ:,arid--instrument; .Th~ course is 
·open_to-all st~~eiitf 'of ~oth_lfotn(Dam!!-and-·St. Mary's.· ~he ­auditions ::·take ·:place·-_, just-_-after_ '-Thanksgiving, ·,with-rehearsals starting :sno~-tly:· after .that. f:F'or-.those" interes_ted: in__ the .co11cert band .;-there' IS a lab: band -during, the;'.Fall semester. 'It _is not 
· off~r;d' for: credit:-·The·:purpose ·or:the' lab band is to keep the -coiicert band_ ineinbers in shape·: and to look over music for the seconcl.semestei.-To join lab ·band--just stop_ in· the band office ­, in ·Washington',Hall. _, , .---_ . ­-, __-ORGANIZTION:· Members of ·the ·concert:' band receive one -academic-credit which coun't~ in th~' academic average~ Grades 
' :,CoM;liNTS: The band. offers some very good and -chilli_rig : -m~sic -fo~_ the musician. The highpoint :of the course, the:_tour, gi~es· --the_-st~dent the opportunity to tra~el, througliout · the coup.fry.:_. Th«!~e i~ free t~e ~n: th!: ~our, to_ get out _and see___the : . varjous cities. A very goo~ cityjs·us:i-zally chosen_for a day off-, 
-Thii\,ear ~it -was-'New.. _Oi-leans. __ : -·'.---::' _--. -_ ..,,.__-_--... <_:. -···~:· -~; ;·,_ .. ·. ,-,.:;:,_ ­·, /~.~ -'~: -~.:~_; . ,, I-.~:·_
Robert O'Brieh·,: ---:----_-' -__::-_ 
---, ,, --· .;-,

_Music ~_so:, ~,-~ -~~------,_:__~·--=.,_.\c-:.-,-/._: -<-:~~--'-,-:-•::-:

Brass and _Percussion:T~d~Itjqri~~;: :--//·. '. 
0
----··· ·· --• .. --:_ ­
-:,.:_, . ,, 
,' -.:: :­
--, ­

-CONTE~T: This' ~~u~e~ is p;irµ;iil;,·_i~te!]-ded)oi;,t~~: Music_ Education ·student'-with-no previo~s-:experience with ..!he·brass, instruments., ' The _: purpose is to -familiarize -'the ,student -:wi!h these, instruments·.:throu'gh :th~ -p:r:a,c,tical_ experience of actual__ 
~ SCHOLASTIC­

.. perfcnwance, ·the. study of their evolution throughou't music his-IS no·. stipulation for any previous musical experience; in fact, tory, and methods of teaching for future use· in' band ,vork. a student, with any prior e.xperience in ·the realm of_ serious 
: However; Mr.· O'Brien. has· a different· concept oL the,. course. music· will find himself quite bored ·,vitli the required·: listening ·,He•· believes the. student should-begin-,vith. a .thoroi:igh ·knowl-. ,, material.-· ,... · edge of ·at:Ieast one brass· instrument,' and ·class time should be · · 
·: ·Spent··in ·discussion of comparative, 'structure· and :method. ;He·,' .:'1>RE~ENTATION:' Dean Pedtke begins the course with f~-' _'spen~~-: cons,iderable lecture time ; deplor~ng. the"· fact·: that. the, _ . iarization ".'itn the '''language" of ,musical . notation wd some. cours·e"is not what he would like it'to be...· : · · · .-.simplified. forms; most 9£ the class periods, however, are spent · · · · · , -li_ste~ing. to the representative works of the Classical era •. There
0 
' '. 

Th~ -fe~ lectures givenih~v~· -b~en uninf~imative, with'little ~·is :yirtually: no class participation; in fact, the format of the ' or no ·o_rganization. His· constant-complaints tend to .discourage. ·course discourages. discussion, and stresses development of acute the music ·"student:· . . . listening skill. • . . . : 
. 

. . There is . no required text. A ,Ii.st of possible. refe~ences _is . R.EADIN~S: '~ean Pedtke does not require any specific books pr?~ided .. :As of. Api-1I there. have b'een · no te'sts. The basis .of for the·. course, how.ev~er, in the past, one short and generalized the.• final, gr_ade ·. is a·· notebook prepared indep~nd_ently by the· .·sµrvey~, Music In The Classical Period, has ~een recomme~ded. 
. : , student. .The _students are. generally dissatisfied with the course. 
· . ORGA·N~Z,\TION: One t,vo-page paper is required, due about . . -.Stiggesti~ns for =,irirproveme~t include· organized :lectures re­mid-semester;, there is a midterm and a final, both tests are lated to adefinite text, practical experience with the -in~truments, cumulative, an~. ~equire attentive listening during. class periods and fewer ·cancelled· classes:' The course as· it ·now ··stands cannot for the amateur listener, if not some outside listening. All the be"·recominended, but' given·,. considerable reorganization could same, grades are not considered important, and generally range become an ·enjoyable and· worthwhile educational experience. from A to B-. . 
Cm,IMENT: As mentioned before, this course is designed to· acquaint the ·novice listener. with the .. "old standards" of the
Dean··Pedtke 

Classical period. If the student has any previous e.xposure to· the ·Music 212 ,vorks ·of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, (particularly in the . ·symphonic literature) he should be discouraged from taking a
. Classical· Masters 
course . which demands so little. Dean Pedtke, however, still ·. 
CONTENT: .Emphasis . lies, primarily on the Classical com: remains a.musician par excellence, and does his best to bring his posers of· the late 18th·. and· early· 19th Centuries:· Haydn, often unruly classes to an apreciation of "the Greats" of the Beethoven, Mozart and some symphonic works _by Brahms. There musical world. . 
' -' ' 


11atirice Amen· ::Program· ori ·Non.:.violence . · .-j\sp~cts,of.Non:=,vioknce ·/\sp~cts:_of,V:iol~nc:~:;~-.. -_, · 
: ..a·.·: Th~~e·. two,· co~rse~. ,~ill. be intetdisciplin~ry .·in' riatui-e. :•,Fr. , Amen plans 'to 'invite a valiety of professors from ~ifferent'.disci­.: ·plin~s: e'~cli to giv~ _his ,·sp~cific perspective to ,the aspects· of 
: . _-vfolence '.and/or ·non~violence; · ,Each -'professor:w1Il,. d.irei:t the,:_ ; ,:':. ·:· course:duringhis staY:· A "sizable resear~}{ paperwill be ·required. ', -· ..... ; (<tpproxim~tely 30· ~ages)...::_ ,::-:",_, · --:~ :· ;, ...,::: : · /> ~.: ··_ 
. . 

·:·.NOTE·:· ..-When ·this.. ·booklet. went ·-to 
. :.~pr~ss,·.'the~p~ogr~_:on:.non:..violence h~d.: 
..;._.· · · ·, -· , · · , 
::·:·· ::,hot·· complet~q. ~it~ coi.Irse descJ:iptiqns>-·. 
' -.-."' '' , . "' ' .
!::~:) ~r<?nf ~1Atefest~1._ :~_< ~~e~ .:.-co~tse~, ;: _.: 
' ·. '. Cserninat l'fori~vi~i~~e':rr' / < ''< ' . ; ' . ·.•·· :,.·..·<\.sGJif8:~9:r~1~t~~tb1,fr: Bafill.b'Leary, Off~~ .• 
.. ,.-,,.-~·:·r. . .. ·,_.,_, 1, ..,.,-,,,-.,~.,•... •·:··.. ,_ •.·.-·.,'"' .-.· ., , -~~-Ul_~ racy.,_ .. , . 
. ·_,· .. ·.:This course offers:four,·sections,.which':break· down ro,ughly:.-' · :· . _._.,: 0 ·.·· < •",-, ·. ,.... :-... : :. /F~-~_:_Adien"· ··co1,W1Q) \;~;ill~:dea( 'wjth''·Th~mas '· Merton';: -~asil _._:. •, ,·,:. _··. -.'-c ·,,·: ._ · :· .:.• "; ,-_ . •' . 
~ ·_·Q'l-,~iry_.;.;(6~1:'.''.f,~),: :wiJ(je~cf :, _the\~~u_i-:5!!, ::•:•;tove:,;__a~q :' ~o~~ . . -;-~... i,·.-:,::, .,, .,, -., ,,/ :· 'violence";· other. :staff' ,members,:(for: the..-two, 04TT6° sections)· . . -·· ': wilL'co~~e~trateion'-th~"history~of ~ni~:violenc~·-•,. :;= ·.... ':: ;'_: '::;/~-:...,: :a•; ; :: :· . ,, ,.., .' .. ' " 
", ~ ,:·,_ ----'. ,'"-• -~. -.~ ' -._.... , --_-: :·.~--·.-,,:-~~ ,,.·,,.-~~~~~ ·-,/·--... ---..--=----1•~-',., ~-· -·.. ·:-•-:· 
---~---_="":: , -._ ..• _-;._ .-';-"..,:• ,-,,--'~ -,,,-,-':..=· --•-,_~-~------·-­>-:.;.\:·-._,,·'··-·----'•I• ~•~ __ :, ~'-' • ••~_•_t_._•:::·••• 
••• 
j ~ -~ ·.;: ·_... ,-· ,, ~ ',: , • '·, • -' • , 
~--, I• •~ • ._ ,,;,-:,, ... 0c•~,.._•,-,>~, 






Philosophy 
Timothy :Binkley 
Philosophy 279 
Aesthetics 
CONTENT: In his first year at Notre Dame, Professor Binkley 
centers his course around the question, "What is art?" There 
are no prerequisites for the course though an interest or ac­
quaintance with any of the arts may prove helpful. Students 
are mostly upperclassmen· in AL. 
PRESENTATION: The student's first impression of the course 
may be that he doesn't think Professor Binkley knows what he's 
doing. This is mere appearance. His style of lecture is not 
grand or eloquent. He's willing to interrupt his lecture for any 
question the student might have. The lectures are directly 
related to the readings. 
READINGS: In the fall semester, the readings were mainly 
from classical and medieval sources ·. . . Plato, Kant, Hume, 
Maritain, and _some more recent authors ... R. G. Collingwood 
and Suzanne Langer. The spring semester had a new reading 
list. It was felt by the students who took the course in the fall 
that the classical and medieval texts were too theoretical and 
largely worthless. The revised list is of more recent authors and 
is considered by students to be worthwhile and informative. 
They include The Dehumanization of Art by Jose Ortega y 
Gasset; The Sense of Beauty, George Santayana; The Principles 
of Art, R. G. Collingwood; Three Lectures on Aesthetic, Ber­
nard Bosanquet; The World of Art, Paul Weiss; Minimal.Art: 
A Critical Anthology, G. Battcock, ed., and Some Recent Hap­
penings, A. Kaprow. The reading load is moderate to heavy 
though not excessive. The cost of the texts is approximately $13. 
ORGANIZATION: Three short papers and a final exam. 
COMMENTS: Students taking the course during the fall found it to be rather dry at times and too theoretical. In the spring course, Professor Binkley changed all the texts except for one (Collingwood) and now employs more frequent use of audio­visual aids. Classes often meet in the Audio-Visual Auditorium in the Center for Continuing Education. These meetings are highly valuable and informative to the student. In lieu of a paper, a student may undertake a project in practically any of the arts and give a brief presentation to the class. Professor Binkley is most available outside of class and is open to any ideas the student may have. Architecture students have taken 

.the course to supplement the lack of such a course in their own department. Binkley's style of lecturing is not exactly attention­getting and the lectures could _be more concrete, specific and less formal. Oddly enough, those students who seemed to enjoy the course most are those who were caught up in their readings. 
Otto :Bird Philosophy 335 Philosophies of Love 
CONTENT: Professor Bird (and the class) will attempt to formulate a series of questions to be used as criteria for analyzing the various theories of love which will be discussed in the semester. Hopefully, a representative . sampling of works from the western intellectual tradition will be considered with the eventual purpose of arriving at the class's own theory of love. 
ORGANIZATION AND PRESENTATION: Lectures and seminar discussions (probably on different class days) to treat reading assignments. Work load: one term paper; one final. 

READINGS: Not fully determined, but will include readings from Plato: Symposium, Phaedrus; Aristotle: Ethics (Bks. 7, 8); Dante: Vita Nuova, Purgatorio (probably optional); Andres Capellanus: Art of Courtely Love; a selection from Freud; Sheler: On Sympathy; Ortega y Gasset: On Love; C. S. Lewis: Four Loves. Students will probably not be required to purchase all the above works, many selections will be distributed as hand­outs. 
COMMENT: This course is being offered for the first time next semester, but it will be similar in organization to the course Mr. Bird is teaching presently, "Humanistic Education." The latter suffers from the large amount of material which it attempts to deal with, and one feels that better results may be forthcoming from a course such as "Theories of Love" with its more limited subject matter. Mr. Bird is able to present very adequate sum­maries of the extensive research which he has undertaken for his writing. However, criticism has arisen from dissatisfaction caused by what some consider an overly analytic approach to subject matter in discussions. Mr. Bird is concerned with isolating specific questions which can be used as criteria for evaluating the works under consideration. Such a project tends to focus on small points rather than presenting unconsidered aspects of the material for student comment. Prospective class members would do well to consult those who have taken a course from Mr. Bird, or the professor himself, to perhaps facilitate their making a more realistic decision vis-a-vis "Theories of Love." 
Sheilah Brennan Philosophy 357 Three Conceptions of Mind and Nature 
CONTENT: This course is being offered for the first time in 
the fall. The course will address itself to the question: How is 
mind to be conceived in relation to nature? Is mind the diametri­
cal opposite of nature, essentially and eternally other, un­
involved in the process of nature? Or is it a force, distinct, but 
permeating the whole of nature and working within it? Or, 
finally, is it one of the factors which make up the very constitu­
tion of nature and which finds its most perfect expression in 
human consciousness and intellectual activity? These three posi­
tions will be represented by Descartes, Plato, and Whitehead. In 
discussion the class will consider the significant consequences each 
conception has for man and human values. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures provide an excellent structure 
for the course. The readings supplement the lectures and present 
the philosopher's style and techniques in one of his major works. 
R.EADINGS: The texts have not yet been selected but will prob­ably include: Phaedo and Timaeus by Plato, some paperback editions of Descartes, and some works from Whitehead possibly including Alfred North Whitehead : An Anthology. Total price of the required texts should not exceed $8.00. 
ORGANIZATION: There will be three tests and a final exam. A term paper (about 19 pages) can be substituted in place of the final exam. The final grade will be determined on the average of the three tests and the final exam or term paper. The final exam or term paper will count for 40% of the semester's work, each test counting 20%. 
CoM:MENTS: Class attendance is essential for a sound under­standing of the course. Questions and discussion are encouraged and help the student better comprehend the core of each phi­losophy. 
Cornelius Delaney Philosophy 441 American Pragmatist Philosophy 

CONTENT: The course has its two aims: a historical treat­ment of classical pragmatist thought (Dewey, James, Peirce), and an investigation into the relevance ·of such a philosophical stance vis-a-vis problems facing contemporary philosophy. Read­ings from Lewis (and possibly Quine and Sellars) will be studied as part of this second project. 
READINGS: Peirce '(selected papers); Dewey, The Quest for Certainty; James, Pragmatism Lectures, The Will to Believe; 
C. I. Lewis ( selected readings) . 

ORGANIZATION: Introductory lectures on specific philosophers will be followed by seminar-type treatment of the assigned read-ings (if the class is small enough to permit this). There will be 
two tests and one required paper (on any appropriate topic). 
COMMENT: This is the first time this course is being offered 

(or at least it_ h~s. not ~een offered within the past few years), 
so no evaluation 1s available. However, it can be stated that 
Profe~sor Delaney is a highly competent philosopher, and is 
especially well at home in such a study as this one. His course 
promises to be a rewarding one for the student who finds him­
self interested in doing . philosophy of a higher order than 
will be found in an introductory or general survey course. 
.John J. Fitzgerald Philosophy 404 Aristotle 
CoNTENT: This course, being offered for the first time in a 

number of years, is, in the words of Mr. Fitzgerald, a "study of 
selected themes in Aristotle's works to point up the basic meth­
odology and doctrinal categories with which he constructs his 
system. In particular, the course studies the formulation and 
systematic role of 'substance' and 'accident' in Aristotle's theory 
of prediction, 'demonstration and dialectical syllogistic' in his 
theory of science and 'matter' and 'form' in his theory of nature. 
The principal aim of the course is to acquaint the student with 
something of Aristotle's procedures and positions in both original­
ity and continuity with those of his predecessors and followers." 
READINGS: The list of readings includes a number of original 

works of Aristotle and a good number of works considered to 
be some of the best commentaries on Aristotle. Readings from 
Aristotle will include Categories, Posterior Analytics, Topics, and 
Physics. Commentaries used in the course are Portrait of Aristotle 
by Grene, Aristotle by Jaeger, Aristotle by Moravcsik, Aristotle by 
J. H. Randall, and Aristotle's System of the Physical World by Solmson. 
ORGANIZATION: This course will include three quizzes, each covering one of the three major topics of the course, Aristotle's theory of predication, theory of science and theory of nature. There will be one term paper which takes the place of a final examination. The development should take place throughout the course, due to the comprehensive nature implicit in its content. 
COMMENTS: Many students of Mr. Fitzgerald's past courses have noted their difficulty in following his lectures. Though tend­ing to stray from the topic in question, Mr. Fitzgerald is con­cerned with giving a broad view of the writer's historical context "continuity with those of his predecessors and followers." H~ tends to be quite receptive to students' questions and there is a potential for interesting class discussion. Strong interest in the work of Aristotle should be a part of each student in this course. One can· not neglect a careful analysis of the readings and still expect to gain anything from the course. 
Herbert Johnston Philosophy 3 71 Business Ethics 
CONTENT: Business Ethics consists of recognizing the moral dimension of current business situations. By analyzing actual cases which arise in the business world today, the student becomes aware of the ethical decisions which can and must be made in these areas. Anyone interested in the ethical procedures of busi­ness could benefit from the material presented in this course. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures are designed to explain and expand the ethical principles mentioned in the text. However, at least half of the class time is devoted to student-run discussions of actual business cases. There is a strong attempt to involve the class by requiring the students to lead the discussions. But, more enthusiasm and involvement by the students is needed to stimulate these discussions. 
READINGS: A short text and case book constitute the required material for this course. The readings for Professor Johnston's course are not strenuous. However, the class is encouraged to prepare for discussions of the ethical considerations in the short business cases. Enthusiasm is often lost when the cases involve situations to which the students cannot relate. 
APRIL 15, 1971 
ORGANIZATION: A syllabus is presented at the outset con­taining all text and case book readings. Two tests and ; final exam are given with a final grade weighted on these criteria. Students are also expected to lead the class discussion at least once. The average final grade is B or B--. 
Cm,11\IENT: Although Business Ethics possesses many con­troversial aspects, a lack of student concern hampers its pos­sible development. Only if subject matter relevant to current student concerns is injected will the course fulfill its intended purpose. 
Vaugh R. McK.im Philosophy 284 Philosophy of Social Sciences 
Philosophy 443 Analytic Philosophy 
PHILOSOPHY 284 
CONTENTS: This course is primarily an attempt to look at the methodological and conceptual issues in the social sciences, with emphasis placed on psychology and sociology. The prob­lem is to examine the viability of two alternate models of man and his relation to society: natural science and the humanistic approach. Behavioralism and functionalism are among the trends to be studied. This is primarily a course which presupposes some form of philosophic sophistication, either from other courses in philosophy or through acquaintance with the social sciences. People looking for an easy course, or who have no idea of the project, would do well to avoid it. The class is presently com­posed of a hodgepodge, but philosophy and social science majors seem to be getting the most out of it. 
ORGANIZATION: Two five-page papers ( together worth 1/3 final grade) and two exams determine the grade. Work stresses application of what was learned rather than regurgitation. Exams are fair. There i~ no comprehensive final. Average final grade is B. 
READING: Due to a unanimous dislike of the present text, Dr. McK.im is presently looking for some other softbacks. Readings are primarily articles, as opposed to books or treatises. 
PIDLOSOPHY 443 CONTENTS : This course is a historical study of the present­
. day school of Analytic Philosophy. A must for students who plan to become professional philosophers, it deals with the prob­lems of philosophy from the insight ·th"at our language plays a crucial role in these problems -from their conception to their resolution. Emphasis is on what the nature of philosophy is. Is it clarification of statements? Is it scientific or not in its claims? Mostly science, philosophy and graduate students take this course. There are no prerequisites. 
ORGANIZATION:' Two papers and two tests, each counting ¼ of the final grade, stress knowledge of the material rather than application. Tests are fair, reflecting as "simple" an approach as may be taken without prostituting the course. 
READINGS: Primarily articles from the following collections: Classics of Analytic Philosoph'J, edited by Robert R.. Ammerman; The Linguistic Turn edited by Richard Rorty; 20th Century Philosophy: The Analytic Tradition edited by Morris Weitz; Philosophical Analysis by J. 0. Urmson; The Blue and Brown Books by Ludwig Wittgenstein and A Hundred Years of Philos­ophy by John Passmore. Other .books will be on reserve. As is obvious, though not all the books will be totally read, the reading load is heavy. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. McKim's lectures are among the most lucid one could request given the nature of the courses he teaches. However, at times he goes too rapidly. A well-placed question corrects this. Other times he is bogged down and pulled off the track by questions, but this reflects his concern for getting the material across. The level of his lectures is the minimum with­out losing the integrity of the course. If he fires over students' heads, it reflects on the student rather than on his abilities as a lecturer. His exams cover both notes and readings very admir­ably. He has a tightly organized course. 
COMMENTS: One of Dr. McKim's more frequent criticisms of papers is that their treatment of a topic is "cavalier." He is 
45 
free of this charge. Intellectually honest, he spends long hours preparing' his courses. He tries to maintain the undergraduate level ,vithout loosing the course in the process. Students taking the courses, with interests in respective• fields, are rather unani­mous in praising it and the professor. However, given the nature of the topics, these courses are not for everyone, a fact which Dr. McKim makes "perfectly clear" when his courses begin. 
Ralph Mcinemy Ancient and Medieval Philosophy Philosophy 401 
CoNTENT: A history of philosophy -course, it attempts the impossible task of giving majors a cocktail-party knowledge (or at least GRE level) of Ancient and Medieval philosophers. ­Among the ancients, Plato and Aristotle will be stressed, especial­ly their views of philosophy as tending to questions of the divine. ­Augustine and Boethius are studied from the perspective of the union of faith and philosophy. Abelard and Anselm are seen mainly for their logical contributions, especially -the · problems of universals. Viewing the influx of Aristotle and the Arab in­fluence,-the course will look at the previous themes as dealt with by Bonaventure, Aquinas, Duns Scotus and Occam, and·the break between philosophy and faith. 
PRESENTATION: A witty, brilliant eclectic, Dr. Mcinerny pro-_ vides a wealth of knowledge in his lectures. He entertains questions, as at times the lectures may become esoteric and shoot over people's heads. His preparation is not the best, though his memory allows him to get away with it. 
READINGS: Texts will be Ancient Philosophy from Thales to Aristotle edited by Reginald Allen and Medieval Philosophy edited by Wippel and Walters. Majors should buy the collected dialogues of Plato and the basic works of Aristotle for their. own reference. · 
ORGANIZATION: Four-or five-page papers and two _tests, emphasizing knowledge of what has been said rather than its application, will each ,veigh 1/3 of· the -final grade~ -Dr. Mc-Inerny is a notoriously high grader. · . · 
COMMENTS: ·An extremely flexible teacher, Dr. Mcinerny is excellent to know on_ the one-to-one level. He does_ not really push the student, _so if you. lack self-motivation, don't take the ­course. :Most students who have taken him would do so again, 

· and all would profit from coming into contact with him. A_ respected historian of philosophy, with his own history text out, he could be best described as _-a scholar. Unfortunately, students too often fail to appreciate his knowledge; and; assured of a rela­tively high-gz:ade, cheat themselves when taking his course, by not doing what they could. · · 
Biswainbhar Pa.hi Philo_sophy--431 Symbolic Logic 

Philosophy ,-359 .. Indian Philosophy­
• PHILOSOPHY 431 
CONT_ENTS: ·Approaching 'the. matter more formally than a similar course .t4ught. on the 200 _-level; Dr: _Pahi "plans .to deal with the-theory of. truih-fonctions·and its-applications, developing a natural deduction ·technique· as"well as· axiomatic·development 

_of· propositional calculus,. culminating' in a:-proof. of the· Post ­Completeness· :rheorem,: evolving a semantics for• quantification theory, treating the first order predicate calculus and the ideas of models, }ogical validity and truth and ending with Godel's Com­
-pleteness Theorem for Predicate Calculus with ·equality. Stu­. dents with mathematical backgrounds may pro~~ably take this · course, though others should first take an introductory course on__the 200 level which has a more intuitive approach. _Philosophy graduate students must take this course; undergraduate-philoso­phy_ majors and science majors usually make up the· rest of the 
class. . ·. _ · · READINGS: No. texts, are required; ::or.· Pahi plans -to use solely his' notes,-which will be_-se~:contained. ··A ·good reference _ . text, ~though,' is,Symbolic,:Logfc:· ·An Introduction· hy:Richni.ond · 
-H.,Thomason.. -·. ' -•.. -•. · .·.-. ' -_ 
( 
ORGANI~ATION:, Weekly homework problems (20%. final grade), review of ·papers dealing~ ,vith _logic "(20%), mid­semester (30%) _and final (30%). The -review of papers_will
0• 
be individually·· tailored·-:deJ>ending on, the student's -interests: 
e.g., a ·student interested· in -the· mathema-tical ·aspects of logic 

-would-be referred to other logic~Lsystems·; one with philosophical interests. would_ be asked-to -read-essays by the likes of Quine, Strawson; Carnap, etc. -The amount and types of readings would be determined · in an . individual consultation with -Dr. Pahi. Final grades range. from D to· k but Dr. ·Pahi makes every effort to give the._student the b_enefit. -. 
PHILOSOPHY 35·9 -. 
CONTENTS: . Dr. -Pahi has revised the couz:se as presently offered so that only-the first half will approach Indiana_ Phil­osophy from the rel_igiousimystic'al approach of the Vedas, Upanishads, and Gita.· The -second_ half will deal with the metaphysical and epistemological issues which later Indian phil­osophy-tried to deaL ,vtih. · The·approach here is rational rather than. mystical; Stressing the· ancient Indian : systems (both orthodox and other), . his _treatment: of Buddhism, for instance, will stress its Indian roots .. The course will• be related somewhat to modern 'thought;_ though Dr: Pahi feels that one should know what o:rie:is relating. to modern -thought before: the relating can 

· be profitable. Mostly AL juniors and_ seniors take this course to -~njoyably fulfill ·a philosophy requirement:,. 
-ltEADINGS: A. Sourcebook-in ·l~dian · Philosophy edited by Sarvepalli Radhikrishnan. and Charles A.-Moore ( $3.45) and Oriental Philosophies by Jcihn M. ·Koller ($3.50). Other books for reference:-will be on reserve. ­
0RGA~IZA~10~/: -2" short· (4-5 pg.)_ papers_ (together worth 25%), 1 term (8-10:pg.)'_(20%)/a midsemester· exam (25%) and a final (30%). Final grades average B to A-. 
PRESENTATION:··orice'one-gets used to Dr: Pahi's accent, he will find his' lectures -very lucid:· From class to class his lectures overlap providing a continuity necessary to {inderstanding co~rses as esoteric as those he teaches. -He is very detailed to the point of occasionally, b~coming repetitious., Having limited· the sections in -Indian Philosophy to 25 ·students _each, he will require reports to -the class; _and _-the. ensuing .disc~ssions should bring out and correct· many mis-conceptions ·students have about Indian Phil-­osophy.-His logic notes are among ,the most cogent to be found. Exams are fair,. requiring knowledge, .yet _not '~pimpy." 
. COMMENT: Dr. Pahi; ·ever dissa.tisfied with his teaching, _here 

. is iri. a distinct: minority: :· Having been overloaded_with too large classes, he_ has_. mewed to. cut -down on, the n·umber of students. ­Those who· have· interests 'in "either of-the two fields he teaches 
-are urged to· take -his: coun~s,: and-wonder how this ever-jovial person has man.aged. to .i~tegrate both aspects. into his life. .A logician·_who:publishes more than his quota_ for survival, he still manages to have. ample c>ffic:e hours• for, personal consultation, perhaps _the most.'rewarding-:part of_ ~aking his courses. He· has revamped his courses -to~ allow· for ,'more -of. this, and all, from! the would-be logicia_n or logical ·positivisf to the aspiring mystic, should avail. themselves .of.any opportunity of "collecting" this person. 
Herman R~it:4;. C:s.C. 
Philosophy-351 · . _ Metaphysic_s of Aquinas 
---:."": r 
Co;.TENT:. Metaphysics of Aquinas is a general elective, non­

.'major .course. ·-No. prerequisites are necessary although, an intro­ductory_ philosophy course is suggested. . . ·.: After-the, need and language of metaphysics is covered ·the · course has two major emphases. First are the general principles ­of-Aquinas' metaphysics including: essence and existence~ potency and ·act; ·first principles of being and thought, principles of causality, transcendentals, unity,· truth and goodness.-Second, after the general ontology of Aquinas; ·his proofs' of, the _existence of God_ examined.. · _ _ . ·-READINGS: Readings are . from the works of · Aquinas. · Fr. Reith· combines an even balance of lecture· ,and discussion on the· readings -. while teaching in the Socratic·. method. · Two .term · papers; a mid-term exam and a fina.I·exam are evenly weighed for 
the -final grade.-. · '. · · -·· _-_ -CoMMEN'l::. _While not: being ov~rly; difficult' in· his presenta:­
THE· SCHOLASTIC tion, Fr. Reith does not offer a course for the lazy mind. Rather, his gently controlled process· of carefully encouraged discovery and understanding of philosophical principles, proves to be a re­warding experience for the student· in .the appreciation of philosophy.· 

Kenneth M. Sayre Philosophy 426 Theories of.·Knowledge 
CONTENT: Knowledge is the major mode.man has of relating to · what exists. This course . studies · the Pre-Socrates, Plato; Berkeley, and Kant from . this perspective. It thus· demands from each· philosopher his theory of knowledge: i.e., what knowledge is; what we· can know; how knowledge relates man to the world.. The course;requires of the student a close reading of ·the texts. The class is comprised of philosophy and math majors, reflecting the rigorous rationalistic approach .Dr. Sayre 
·uses. This is not a simple survey course. Rather, the meticulous attention given the problematic is designed to give a solid classical foundation in the problems of epistemology. 
PRESENTATION:· Dr. Sayre works hard at his lectures. They reflect a systematic approach to the _topic. He reads extensively from the 'text and adds running commentary. Other times ·he may give a straight lecture, especially when trying to place the topic in perspective. However, Dr. Sayre occasionally rephrases some key . concepts, , tending to succeed at overkill, leaving the student befuddled. At these times, one should recall the text being discussed and ask a question. Stressing knowledge of what the· philosopher is doing, the lectures leave little room for per-,, sonal speculative _thought. Tests reflect this attitude, being closely. related to the class notes. · 
READINGS: . Given the nati:ire of the course, and Dr. Sayre's reputation in this · field,· one must conclude that the readings are in fact worthwhile. Dr: Sayre le.ctures on the pre~Socratics. Readings include: The Meno by Plato; Plato's Theory of Knowledge by· Cornford (i.p. Theaetetus and the Sophist) ($2.25); Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous by .Berkeley (75c); Critique of Pure Reason by Immanuel Kant, translated by Norman Kemp Smith ($3.25). 
ORGANIZATION:. There are two exams (one each on Plato and Kant) and a· comprehensive final. Exams stress lecture material with little or no room for the freewheeling interpreta­tion one· is allowed in less formal courses. The average final grade is a high B. 
· CoMMENTS: This course is essentially for people whose 
· interest lies in the 'rationalistic project of explaining knowledge. It is not :mystical; :rather, it is for those who are serious in dealing· with the problem of knowledge. Given this interest, 
. students interviewed would take the. course again. By no means a trivial. course, nor one which .allows an "insightful mystic" approach to the problem, .students willing to dust off their Protestant work-ethic should find it a good solid course. 
David Solomon Philosophy 423 
· Ethics 
CONTENT: .This course aims to bring to its students a fa-. miliarity: with ,the· most -important issues of moral· philosophy~ both; classical ·and . contemporary. -. 
.. READINGS: .Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics; Kant, Groundwork' 
.. of" the. ·Metaphysic· of .Morals;'. Mill, _"Utilitarianism"; Moore, Principia·Ethica:(selectfons); R. ·M. Hare, Language of Morals; Sartre, ~'Existentialism is a·.Humanism"; othe1: selected readings. 
ORGANIZATION: Two exams and two papers (6-8 pages). 

PRESENTATION: Mr. Solomon pla."ls to lecture for most of the course in order to cover the great deal of material which will be presented. However, there is certain to be discussion of specific topics which interest the class. (And it is probable that the class will be small enough to facilitate such participation.) COMMENTS:· Professor Solo.q:ion specializes in this area of philosophy and brings to his classes both a lively interest in the · subject and an expertise from which his students stand to profit -much. His lectures are carefully prepared but not stuffy. How­ever,· it must be noted that this course is geared towards the interests of the majors. Nonmajors have sometimes failed to see the value of studying particular authors ( especially Kant, Moore, and Hare). This is not to dissuade all nonmajors from taking Ethics 423; but, it wm be most profitable· only to one who can become interested in ethical philosophy as it is done by philosophers (and not as it can be presented, in some watered­down form, suitable for a shallow introductory survey). In the 
· past, emphasis has been placed on the various possible ap­proaches to moral philosophy, rather than on specific problems of ethics (e.g., abortion or personal participation in war). But, above all, it must be emphasized that this is an excellent course, well worth the time of anyone who can discover an interest in its subject. The above qualifications are only informational, not critical. 
Charles Weiher 
Philosophy 386 
Personal ·.Knowledge· arid Symbolism 
CONTENT: The course consists of a discussion in a seminar fornt,at, of two antithetical dispositions of human knowledge: the first being the personal and tacit nature of knowing; the second, its dependence on symbols. The two positions are put forth by Michael Polanyi, Nobel Prize winning physical chemist, and Ernst Cassirer. 
Most._ of the students in the course are juniors and seniors from all colleges. 
PRESENTATION: Father Weiher goes into a lecture format when he ·or the class feels it is necessary. The discussions them­selves are excellent-they all find their starting points in the texts, but the course is of such a topical nature t.1iat the possibilities for discussion are unlimited. Father Weiher is open, knowing and sometimes brilliant. He has an impressive grasp of what's going on around us. He has much in common with Polanyi-both having been scientists turned philosophers. 
READINGS: The readings arc interesting, but Polyanyi is a complex ·writer. One should be ready to put time and hard work in on the Polyanyi book. Plenty of space is alloted to 
·finish· both texts. The approximate cost of the two books is $5.00. 
ORGANIZATION: Though not formal, it is a well organized course. Both the course and the prof lend themselves well to in­formality-possibly due to the topical nature of the subject matter. . There are three or four under 4-page essays assigned during ·the semester. All are challenging, none overly demanding. The final grade -.is based on the essay tests, class attendance and participation. . COMMENT: Father Weiher is a master at explaining that 
· :'which is difficult, separating that which is chaff, finding. that which is of-importance in the readings. His tests are not demand­ing, but they do cover the material well. Father 'Weiher empha­sizes an~ytical-rather than purely factual answers. 
I
Psychology I 
Staff Psychology 211 General Psychology 

CONTENT: In contrast with past years, the emphasis in general psychology will be on psychology as a -social science. The areas of social-personality, clinical, abnormal, and devel­opmental will be stressed whereas the areas of learning, physi­ology and other behavioristically oriented topics will receive less coverage. In all aspects the course will be aimed at the interests of the student. Relevancy will be of utmost importance. The course is open to all undergraduates. 
PRESENTATION: The class is always large. This necessitates a lecture presentation rather than a seminar atmosphere. The course is team taught and all those ·teaching have been well received in the past in terms of preparations, lectures and will­ingness to answer questions at any time. 
READINGS : The text will probably be changed to reflect the new emphasis in the course but as of yet has not been decided upon. Other readings, which are usually supplementary, are on reserve in the library. 
ORGANIZATIO='<: There will be four tests, one at the end of each teacher's lecture series. They are typically made up of 60 multiple choice questions and present no problems if one reads the material. The grades are curved and half the class receives either A's or B's. 
COMMENTS: With the new emphasis in the course, the general psychology class should be much more interesting. In the past the course has always -been considered good by most students. The new emphasis on social issues will hopefully bring about an integration of rigid behavior and "humanistic" psy­chology that should please both camps. 
D. Chris Anderson Psychology 483 Seminar in Leaming and Motivation: 
CoNTENT: In each of his previous seminars, Dr. Anderson has taken a decidedly "behavior-oriented" approach· toward phenomena traditionally relegated" to the realms of Learning and/or Motivation. His learning seminar focused primarily on the areas of classical and operant conditioning, as well· as taking into account t~e wide range of theoretical and practical implications generated by any thorough analysis of these ,funda­mental views "c>f the learning process. Motivation Seminar has typically concerned itself with such issues · and concepts as 'instinct,' 'arousal,' drive theory, conflict, frustration, motiva­tion as an associative process, motivation as incentive, and moti­vation as personal· causation, as. well as a number of secondary motivational systems. Consideration · is given to both cognitive and non-cognitive approaches · as well as to uni-_ -and multi-·. process theorists. Specific issues raised have included -such phenomena as the effects ··of· prior.. trauma, -masochism, and learned "helplessness." Extrapolations · of learning/motivation principles were often -found to be· beneficial toward offering solutions to many of the deteriorating social· conditions ·that confront man today. 
Dr. Anderson sees the present seminar ·as an. attempt. to · synthesize, compare and integrate various associative and.motiva­tional interpretations of behavior. · A · definite effort · will · be made to "merge the traditional rigor· of the learning and motivation psychologists with dimensions of experience and feel­ing suggested by the phenoinenological and humanistic psycholo­gists." Probable topics include personal responsibility, ·internal causation, and the concept of free agency. . . 
There are no prerequisites except a "willingness -to get. iri­volved." A general background in psychology and afamiliarity with experimental· method is helpful though not necessary. This 
48 . 
is tradi~ionally an 'upper division' course comprised mainly of juniors and seniors. 

PRESENTATIONS Dr. Anderson's style compels. the student to listen to him. If not immediately taken up by the dynamic mariner in wh_ich Anderson presents his usually interesting sub­ject matter, the student can yet be lured by. his use of overhead projectors and videotape recorders, his occasionally vertiginous vocabulary, his meretricious -clothing, or perhaps best by his ever-present trenchant wit. He openly invites discussion and often challenges the student to come up with viable alternative in­terpretations or explanations in cases of "experimentum crucis," guaranteeing the reward of. a· final A t:o whoever can do so. 
READINGS: At. present, Dr. Anderson is unsure of a text (if any) . Typically li·e assigns a number of readings ( usually journal articles)· which are put on reserve. Though not always vital to an ~understanding of the , class discussions, they can be of help to the student interested in coming in contact with original 'source' material. 
ORGANIZATION: Three required examinations are usually given. The format is multiple choice, ·and they are rarely easy. Viewed as a whole, Dr. ·Anderson's· grading system in his seminars is ·fairly liberal. A "tokeri" point system is set up whereby in addition to points earned on ·tests (which can be in themselves . sufficient to merit an A) points can be earned for review papers, out~ide research projects and a 
.number ·of other things. The final · grade is based solely on the individual's point total .in relation . to a -fixed schedule of pointgrade values. As such, there is no curve. Average grade:
B to A_:_. . . 
COMMENTS: One. possible· criticism. niight be that a com­bining of these two areas may · detract-from part of the rigor which separate semester-lon'g analyses permitted to each. How­ever, it may be quite possible for Dr; Anderson to get around this through what seems to .be a novel approach to learning and motivation. 
Generally· speaking, .the typical reaction to Dr. Anderson· 

-is anything but indifferent. · Many find his advocacy . of an avowedly mechanistic approach to· man distasteful and even go so _far as to call it "irresponsible.".· Others would claim he is not rigorous enough and is tending towards a cognitive and humanistic viewpoint of man _in his old age. Regardless of either claim, the issues he raises are valid and he can point to ·the data in support. ·Any· interested: student and particularly majors will have· much to gain from · this seminar. 
John-:G. Borkowski ­Psychology· 342 · Expe_rimental Psychology II 
Co.NTEN'.l" i Experimental Psychology II is a course designed and required for psychology majors. It has recently been changed from -five -credits to four credits, ·dropping the independent research. part of the course: ·The' course will_ stress the develop­ment of the skills needed to evaluate'_and. design efficient and effective ·research. However, tlie course is not one in design alone, _because certai~ classical .areas· of· experimental psychology will . · be covered. · Following an introduction _to. experimental psychol­
·Ogy the ·1anguage of science and the scientific method will be discussed. Subsequent weeks will be tak_en up with experimental _design,. a review· of statistical inference, learning research and theory, perception, and experimental:personality. As in the past, report:writing. will be taught .through much practice in the art. ~xperimental I and General Psychology are prerequisites. 
PRESENTATION: Experimental _Psychology will l:ie made "to 

liye foryou" if Dr. Borlfowski has_ anything to s_ay about it. HI! · is a dynamic lecturer and discussion leader: His lectures are · infore~ting,· _contemporary ~rid generally worth attending. 
READINGS: Experiment_al Psychology by B. J. Underwood 
THE SCHOLASTIC will probably be the text with supplemental readings and several chap~ers from Drs. Anderson and Borkowski's forthcoming book ~lso mcluded. _The book has undergone needed revisions since 1ts first appearance -two· years ago and should be of use. A Primer of Operant_ Conditioning by Reynolds may also be used. APA style manual is a must. 

O~GANIZATION: There will be four tests and probably· three ex~errments !~.:un and write up. There will also be journal articles to cnt1c1ze and rewrite. Dr. Borkowski's tests are diffi­cult and demand a thorough knowledge of the subject material. They are not entirely unreasonable, however. The course involves a definite commi~ment which can b~ exciting and rewarding, and at the same time serve as a base for long lasting friendships formed through anxiety. 
CoMlllENTS: Since Experimental II is a requirement there's no getting around it for psych majors. Therefore I advise those who _can fit it in their schedules to do so because this particular offermg should be excellent. For nonmajors the course would constitute a tremendous exposure to research in psychology but th~ effort may ~ot be worth it all. If approached with the proper attitude, Experimental II can become the foundation for any future study in psychology and for this reason alone I recom­mend the course. Add Dr. Borkowski's dynamism and the fun that rises out of doing even simple research, and you have a really great course. 
William Dawson Psychology 481 Seminar on Information Processing 
CONTENT: This course is offered for the first time. Thus, the format and content has not been completely decided. The induc­tion and processing of sensory information as well as the physiol­ogy of the senses will be touched upon. Dr. Dawson is also con­sidering discussion of mathematical models for sensory and perceptual processes and various psychophysical measurement and scaling procedures. I suggest that those interested in taking this course discuss their specific areas of interest with Dr. Dawson to ascertain if the course will include these areas. General Psychol­ogy is the only prerequisite for the course. I highly recommend this course only to upper-level psychology students, pre-med students, and any science or engineering students who have taken General Psychology. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Dawson is an extremely competent sci­entist in the fields of sensation, perception, and psychophysics. This is a seminar course; for the serious student who has kept up with the readings, discussion can be quite informative and 
_thought-provoking. I have found that Dr. Dawson is always open to questions and is concerned enough for his students to research a question if the answer isn't at his fingertips. Dr. Dawson is always well prepared for class and is capable of filling in any gaps in the discussion. In the past he has enlivened his class with various demonstrations of the equipment and phenomena discussed. ·This greatly helps in clarifying some rather compli­cated material. 
READINGS: The readings for this course have not been an­nounced. In the past in courses which Dr. Dawson has taught, the readings have been quite straightforward 'and are. usually 
-written by the major contributors to a given field. They are gen­erally well worth one's effort. -ORGANIZATION: There -will be one major paper. which ex­haustively reviews some area of the material applicable to the course. The student will also ,be responsible for presenting this paper and leading·· a discussion on it. By mimeographing each paper prior to its presentation Dr. Dawson hopes to provide each student with fairly comprehensive reviews of a number of areas. There will probably· be a midterm and a final. Dr. Dawson's tests are generally very long and cover the material completely. · One _must have a ready grasp of the material in order to finish iri the_ time allotted. -The average final grade is B. CoMMENTS: It ,is well known to all :who have taken his courses , that Dr. Dawson -bends over _backwards to help his students ·and accommodate their interests. He· is an excellent example of a scientist and scholar at_ work. He does not pretend to resolve the issues in an area of research, nor does he impose a· single viewpoint or approach. Rather he welcomes discussion _and· diversity of opinion and presents various phenomena in an 
APRIL 15, 1971 
honest and impartial manner where contending theorists offer divergent explanations of the data. I highly recommend this -course to anyone interested in further study in psychology and to all scientists and engineers. _ ­
Robert J. Farrow Psychology-356 Psychological Testing 
, CONTENT: The course begins with an examination of the concepts underlying· psychological measurements, and testing procedures, and noting their strengths and weaknesses, in rela­tion to the factors initially discussed in the class. Introductory or General Psychology, and Experimental I and II are pre­requisit:s, which closes the course to majors, so that juniors and semors compose the class. 
ORGANIZATION: Lectures, planned mainly to supplement the text, are well-structured, informal, and informative. If necessary, however, Dr. Farrow is ready to devote the lectures to clarifying the text, or handling individual or class ques­tions. The lectures are punctuated with questions and prob­lems posed to the class, and discussions which occur are given much leeway, with Dr. Farrow interrupting to correct misinformation or offer other insights. As a whole the lectures discussions, _text, and tests all contribute to provide a compre~ hensive view of both the theory and practice of psychological measurement. 
The course has been changed from one night class to 4 MW6, and the text, generally disappointing to both teacher and class, has been changed. These two improvements correct the 
-major criticisms of the course, and will allow for more flexi­bility and less frustration than there was in the fall '70 semester. Short outside readings may be given out to provide information not in the text or lectures. The course exams are a midterm and final, both of moderate difficulty but re­quiring a knowledge of concepts as well as specific facts. Other requirements are the construction of a test by pairs of students, and some written reports (number as yet unde­termined) on psychological tests, such as the Wechsler -I. Q. test for children, administered by the student outside of class, possibly in a school. A videotape system will be used to allow students to develop efficient testing practices. Some class time will be reserved for training and demonstration of other tests, like the Rorschach. The final grade is based on the two exams, the team project, and the test reports. Class participation is of great help in borderline cases. 
CoMMENTS: Dr. Farrow is a very knowledgeable man able to present a realistic picture of psychological measure­ment. He conducts the class personably and casually, and does an excellent job bridging the teacher-student gap, both through his teaching method, and his availability for discussion outside of class. Although Dr. Farrow believes that learning should be enjoyable for both student and teacher, he holds a high expectation of student involvement, so that his class is geared toward action, not merely absorption. Any­one who does not, take an active interest will be missing an im­portant aspect of psychological measurement, and the oppor­tunity to work in concert with a superior teacher and man. 
Gerald· Giantonio Psychology 355 Physi<?logical Psychology I 
CoNTENT: This is the first semester of a two-semester course and :covers basic physiology. with the major emphasis on neuro­ana_tomy and neurophysiology. All aspects of the nervous system are covered, , most notably synaptic transmission, basic nerve tracts, and the mechanics of vision, hearing, touch, tasting and smelling. This class consists of upper level psych majors and premed students (many of whom take the course pass-fail). Permission of the instructor is required for admittance. 
'PRESENTATION: Dr. Giantonio is one of the most popular lecturers in the psychology department. His lectures -are invari­ably excellent and dynamic. -At times too dynamic, however, 
49 

because the pace can become rather frantic. READINGS: Child Dev.elopment and Personality__ by Mussen, 
READINGS: The text has not been dedded upon but in · all Conger and Kagan· is :·the required text. The text .outlines likelihood· will be Foundation of Physiologic_al Psychology by each . stage -· of -development ·and d:iresents. -the more recent R.· F. Thompson. Handouts are copious. . developments· in th·e.-psychologic;tl literature. The chapters were 
.ORGANIZATION: Tests should number around three or four long ·:and inclusive and , required more · time. to read because including the final. They are comprehensive, are half essay­of the amount of material covered in. -each .. half objective, and are considered difficult by everyone_ but Dr. . ORGANIZATION: The only:' assignment-is to read the textbook. Giantonio. · · · Some. suggested out~ide· _reference material is given, but is only 
Col\U11ENTS: For any psych student considering· graduate recommended in ·order: to clarify, the student's understanding. school the course can be valuable. Premeds likew_ise-may benefit .There are 2, tests and--a comprehensive ·final with. emphasis on from the class. All others are warned that this course is not ·a material since 'th·e·.last test..The tests·consist of multiple choice~ schedule filler. As all mediocre physiologists know, "It's all or true-false-. questions,: short-~ answer essays and·: 1-long answer nothing." Dr. Giantonio is well disposed toward suggestions . essay . .The exanis cover -·both ·class_ and· text-material-and are and observations from the class, and has been known to_ ask difficult ·due to the. amount of ·material covered but fair in­for them at unexpected. times. Therefore, don't arrive half their assessment. ·The average final ·grade is_· B-'-and -is based asleep because 1) you might get the call,_ and 2) class notes on the exam, grades with· the finaLcounting for approximately are extremely important. · ·40 per cent of the· grade.· · -· 
COMl\lENT: . The general . con census .. was > that the course was one -of the best· and niost worthwhile psychology courses the class had taken: They felt. they would strongly recommend it
Susan· Horka 
to both"majors .and· interested .·non-majors. The orily criticism
Psychology 353 
· was the vast· amount· ·of ·material covered both in class -and Personality the text.· Some· Ielt-that .certain : aspects; were not covered in class. and that a: great\deal was. left to the student to under­
CONTENT: This course consists of an overview of the major stand. Most . of the students found Dr. Horka's lectures to bepersonality theorists in psychology. It emphasizes a critical . informative and helpful .and that ,a. great deal was coveredstudy of these theories and· their effects_ on the field of psychol­in each class period. Dr. Horka. was very ainenable to helpingogy as a whole. "The course consists primarily ·of junior and the students. understand the material both during . class andsenior-psychology majors, but· it is not limited to majors. 

outside -class.
PRESENTATION: The course is pred01i1inantly lecture, but questions and discussion are encouraged. _Dr.· Horka's lectures are extremely well organized, concise, and -informative.· . She covers a tremendous amount of material ·in psychological theory. Paul C. 'Jemiings Her presentation is aided by her . synthesis .and organization 
Psych_ology--451 _
of the material. · 
Advanced: Statistical MeJhods
READINGS: The readings for. the· cours·e are.from one text and a few outside texts. The lectures complement the text in 
.. ­
CONTENT: Advanced· Statistical Methods, (which has notthat-Dr. Horka frequently leaves th_e detailed description of the been· offered before), will deal w1th the many facets of correla­theories to the text and adds examples and evaluations _of the tional · anaiysi~: linear, product,-moment, multiple, :point-biserial, theories in the lectures. , . . 

and tetrachciric. :Factor analysis as_ well as basic. testing theory,ORGANIZATION: The gra4e is based on·. three tests given including_ctest .reliability: calculation. and design will also beduring the semester. The tests are a fair .but difficult. assessment taught:' Experimental -I (Basic :Statistic's) is prerequisite for theof the students' · knowledge of . concepts given -in the text and course: ._The ma1::e'up ··of· the class :should include a few graduateclass notes. _ · · students, some seniors, and_ s_ome juniors; _ ·. _ .. COMMENTS: At times the nature of the course, the-lecture 
> 
P.R_ESENTATION: -Dr. Jennings,-s!yle is typically brief and toformat and the large amount of material covered--can make it a the point. Therefore; questions are. more often necessary ratherlittle. tedious. Dr. Horka. counteracts this tedium by making the . than supplementary..-The·lectures· a~e. well :prep~red and -orga­lectures interesting arid very informative. The course . is defi­nized, and~ though -the m_aterial 'does_ not _lend itself to seminar­nitely an educational -experience, especially for· . psychology type. discussions~ questions are more than ~velcome.

majors.. It' broadens one's understanding .of the· background of '·. ·READINGS:' The·text has yet fo be chosen'but ·will be selectedthe various methodological approaches ·and of _th~ dtverse· the-· from· the more ·than a.dequ·ate ones ·in· the area. If Dr. Jenningsories in the field. I would ·recommen_d t!Jis course for. anyone" can· be -persuaded.._.to-:prepare · handouts, no text will be needed;interested lD psychology, but most .definitely . for psychology
.. . 

his."doodlings"-·are more.clear and ·pertinent .'(especially to themaJors. 
tests) . -· ~ ---· ~ ~ · .! _ -, · ORGANIZATION: .There ·will be two ·exams and a final. These test~ will·stress ,(gr~~p __of-the concepts ;a11d theory at hand rather
Susan Horka ­
:than ari ability:to gririd·otit.n.t1mbers:,_ With consistent, or improv:­Psychology' 35l; _ _ :ing performance, -~ B-shou.ld be within rea.ch;.· .. ' .. · Cor.n.rE·N;.S :-:.Dr.· Je'i111ingi·has ..com_e u~der criticism -for his
Dev_eloptnep:tal'. P.sychdlogy ­
rather dry:preseritations and se.emirig·.disregard for the simplistic . 
. CONTENT: -'The course~ examines th~-\ ·s~cc~ssiv-e, stages of Howeyer, _,vhen_'. i{ comeito sta~istics,· he's the. man to learn-from the psychological:and _physical development' ofthe child ,from . and anybody ,who ~puts-.in: sonie effort ,in the cou·rse will be re-· conception to middle childhood. Each: stage. is: reviewed,: with ~varded. with-·a_ goocJ.~·gracl.e''an'd'~a.:c'knowledge of multivariate emphasis on· the motor, cognitive~ ·social· and Pi~onality'·develop­: :analysis . .<_.::,'., ·__ :·>: ,:·/:<~" _/.i :•--~ ._ ·: ,__ . ment:. Each .stage is. approached · froni~ ·a:Jearriing :framework·. as applicable· _to the psychologicaF developm~nt and: tlie: effect· it has. on. the intellectual_ and personality ·:develcipmerit, o_L t!J:e · 
-.Petei/J.-'~aus ":_·
child. Various learning and personality theorists such, as· Piaget; Freud, Bandura and Walters· and Harlow. are-exaniiried which'· Psychology' -485.: . _ ., facilitates a broader perspective with which _.to ·view the·"child. · Seminar-m·Advanc;:ed Social-Psychology . The only prerequisite is a General or Introductory ·Psychoiogy: course and the class is composed of approximately half psychology CONTENT: Since the course is· advanced social psychology,majors. . , _ · .. 
the material is geared :to a more serious analysis of social psycho­PRESENTATION: 'Dr..,H~rka's dass lectures-~eri-~en·:·organ-:'. logical issues.· The ·professor. is presently considering focusing the ized and relevant .to -the_. text· ·:material without'· reiterating_. -entire course on the process of socialization from a social pyclio­what was· covered. in ·the~:text. ·_ Complementary, ·material:· arid< . 'lo.gica.L ·perspective, C is contrast· to< a strictly 'developmental or studies were presented; ~vhi~h ~augmen~ed ~-the-student:s}grasp, of· sociological approach.. The_ professor'. firmly belie;es that a· sem­the content of :·the. ·course';,,,Discussions. and questions·· ·are ·:,en.: · inar:can be valuable only when-'tlie Iriemoers.are committed and couraged, but the'.· c~~~e;-is:"fpi-iµiarily.::lecture: ,--.,: ;:;, ! ·-) : \ ·: ·· interested in· the material being. discussed .. Therefore;-suggestions 
" --8 • ­
. THE .SCHOLASTIC 

from the students to make the course more interesting and worth­While the reading is not heavy, it is imperative that the while · are, by all means, encouraged. . Student participation is student . keep up with both the chapters assigned and the essential. · The· student plays an active role and must share the , .. lecture notes. 'The professors use different texts; Dr. Ryan's responsibility for. whatever shape the course takes.· .When the . text is Scientific Inquiry in the Behavioral Sciences by Gerald course was last offered, students who had been 'conditioned to L. Erickson ($8.25) and Dr. Jennings' te..'Ct is Introductory Sta-play the traditional passive stu.dent role ·were -not always ·pre­-· tistics -for the Behavioral Sciences ($9.95). The average grade 
-pared to' assume responsibility for the class. , for the -course is C. · · The seminar will be limited -to 15 students~ graduates and COMMENT: This course is a significant educational ex-· 
. upperclassmen. Studen_ts from other' disciplines· _are ~velcome . · perience. Statistics is a vital part of psychology and a necessary since -the· topic _is ·of interdisciplinary , interest. No · prerequites tool-for psychological research. Both presentation and organiza­necessary. , However, Introduction to Social Psychology is tion of the ·contents of the course facilitate the understanding recommended. · of: all ·concepts involved. Because of the nature of the subject 
PRESENTATION: The format of the course is a· combination of matter, it is recommended only for majors. The only area lectures by the instructor .and prepared . presentations by the for. improvement cited by a number of students is the lab. It class members. It is definitely not a lecture course. ' Since the is .generally felt that more of a structure should be given course is essentially discussion,-the-distance between teacher and to the lab. An organized review .of new material would student is greatly reduced. Dr. Naus· is an enthusiastic and ex­aid students .in forming their questions. tremely knowledgeable instructor who is capable of integrating course material with contemporary social issues. Although he maintains· that it is equally important _that he be able to assume 
Charles W. Snyder
the role of student; -he is not always eager to do so. 
Psychology 4 73B · 
READING: Readings consist· of one text and a substantial amount of-handout readings. The text has not yet been definitely Instrume.ntation in Psychological Research selected but probably will be Socialization and Society,_edited by Clausen. The handouts -provide a broad perspective to -comple­CONTENT: The course begins with an e..'Camination of the basic ment the topic which would not be possible from reading only electronic components that are used in psychological research, one text. At times the readings were considered excessive. and then moves on to describe the techniques that are used to 
·ORGANIZATION: Each student will lead the class discussion apply electromechanical devices in research. In the final part once. A term paper will· be required either in the form of an of the course, the technique of electrophysiological measurement independent research project or an extensive review of the liter­in relation to the programming of the digital computer is dis­ature about an, issue of interest. The final grade will conist of the cussed. This is followed by a thorough examination of the pro­grade from· the term paper given by the instructor and -evalua­gramming aspects of the computer. Introductory or General tions from fellow, class members on class contributions. An 'exam Psychology, and Experimental I and II are prerequisites, which may be given..Average final grade was B. closes the course to most students except psychology majors. 
COMMENTS : The course demanded the most time and work · READINGS: There are two texts that are necessary for the of any of my courses last semester. However, the effort was well course: The Design of Electrical Circuits in the Behavioral worth the education received. ·Many students considered it Sciences by Thomas Cornsweet and Introduction tq Programming 
•among the best of their college careers. I'd recommend this and Programming Languages put out by the Digital Corporation. course to all students interested in the social behavior of man. ORGANIZATION: The format of the course is usually set up by 
Dr. Naus and this seminar-course are· welcome additions to the students. One day a week is devoted to lecture and the other the Department. They both incorporate scientific rigor with a day is devoted to a laboratory period in which the students are sincere commitment to the relevant _application of psychological able to test out some of the equipment mentioned in lecture. Lec­knowledge to contemporary problems. · tures usually follow the textual material. The lecture period is 
The greatest d_rawback in the course is that it requires also used to bring up any problems that the student might have 
_enthusiastic students. The opportunity to learn in the course is · encountered during the laboratory sessions. enormous., However, a seminar class that lacks enthusiam will PRESENTATION: Professor Snyder is a very knowledgeable not get off-the ground. man in the field of electronics. The lecture style he employs is a 
bit boring, but if the student has a specific problem he can talk to Professor Snyder personally and be answered in a precise and informative manner. The final grade in the course is based .pri­
Ellen.Ryan:, Paul Jennings 
marily upon the building of -equipment for research that the
·psychology 34.1,-341L 
· student is doing or the programming of the digital computer· to -_Experirriental·Psychofogy I and Lab' collect experimental data. 
-' .. ­
COMMENT: Professor Snyder is ·an expert in the area of e..'C­
CONTENT: Experime11tal Psychology I, offered ··in· both the perimental design. Due to the nature of the course material, fall and spring semesters, intz:oduces , aspiring psychology majors linless a student is or will be doing research in the future, the to. the basic · tools of psychological 'research. The ultimate aim course would be of very little used to him. Professor Snyder be­of the course is to ·develop in each student ap ~ppreciation for liPves that an essential part of learning is for the student to ask the 'utilization of data as·· a basis for behavioral inquiry. At-. questions. If no questions are asked, he will assume that the stu­
.tention is given to those formulas· necessary for· definin-g cer-dents are familiar with the material. I would recommend this -.tairi -concepts, planning. behavioral. inquiries, and interpreting course. only to those who have an interest in psychological results. While General Psychology is the _only prerequisite for research. -the course,: at least ~ne other psychology course is _helpful. :. Another psychology. course gives the 'student a background for ·· ·-., appreciating ,,_.the _need of_ statistics-in· the area. Also,· because. , Thomas '\.Vhitman · -·-the·course-is a:requireirienf·for anyone majoring' in psychology, 
:Psych_ol~gy·473-A· 
.-the ,studeriL should be reasonably sure thaf he (or _she) is 
definitely. a major..Experimental. Psychology· I should _not pe ·Seminar on·Behavior Modification 'the ':deciding factor in this 1_ decision..-For these ·reasons· the ''course_-is-composed chiefly:,of ·second. semester sophomores. and -· · · CONTENT:·, Behavior Modification is-a course _in the applica­
-' ' . -, . ' -~ ­
,•--juniors. •. _ _. tion of psychological research findings, particularly in the area . PRESENTATION:'· Iri · general; there .·are two ?5 minute: lee--:: of learning· theory, to. both normal and maladaptive behavior • ,--nires-plus·-·a lab:_··Lectures· are used_ 'by.. the. professors···to·-·in--· Due to the seminar nature of the course, class size will probably ,/_tioduce •,formulas, ·,_explain-,_ tliein/ and give examples :of ·~eir _be·limited to 25-30 students, with the consent of the instructor , :applic'ation -to ac~uah_b~havioral•-:problems.,: Lectures . ,usually_ -'required. Helpful prerequisites are Experimental Psychology I . .-paral~elc:: the~ ·text~ :"although,;,they:: sometiin.e's :-go beyond -;-the ·and II. The major emphasis will be on the recent developments _·,.-~ information , given in , the:,.. text. · -Labs are . used -for .. weekly ··. in· behavior-modification with special reference to their: applica­_: ·:. quizzes 'and ;for_ -_ariy' questio.ns_ ~tudents, _might-have.: '· :. tions· in: the field of education, particularly at the college level. --.READINGS:. The ·work load of -the course is about average. · • The usual composition of the class finds mainly junior.and senior 
psychology majors, along with a few pre-med. students. Although not required, a student has the opportunity to do a specific project with retardates at Logan _Center or -Children's Hospital or to work with normal children. The course material is· not extremely difficult, and can be easily assimilated by the average student. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Whitman spends a great deal of time in preparation of his lectures, being particularly sure to review recent studies in the area. His eager involvement in the subject matter and his ability to logically present material is a highlight of the course. Discussion is frequently encouraged, and the lec­tures help to supplement the outside reading. Prospective students are advised to regularly attend, since a great amount of material is presented in each class. 
READINGS: The readings are undecided at -this particular time. B. F. Skinner's Science and Human Behavior ($2.95) and 
J. Frank's Persuasion and Healing ($1.95) will probably be used. At the present, Dr. Whitman is also considering a textbook on Behavior Modification and a book concerning education and be­havior modification principles. In addition to the required texts, . it is likely that a number of outside readings will be assigned. Sufficient time is allotted for the readings, which are guite com­prehensible. ' · 
ORGANIZATION: Dr. Whitman has become increasingly flexible in terms of specific course requirements. He has proposed a de­emphasis on testing as m his present Retardation course, with. 


Sociology 
Donald Barrett Sociology 419 World Urbanism 
CONTENT: The need for understanding t_he social .intricacies of the city is the .focal concern of 'many city planners, city ad­ministrators~· arid many others· today, More than· ever before, the size and scale of ·our spreading ·cities complicates the lives of all its citizens; city dwellers. arid suburbanites alike face the effects of rapid technological change~ continued shifts-in popula­tion, and alterations in socioeconomic patterns..Professor :Bar­rett focuses . his -attention upon these problems through an examination of the many varied perspectives involved. Using the three specific urban areas of.Latin America, Africa~ and Asia, he con1!<15ts the different yet comparable problems ·of housing, transportation, immigration, etc., with selected European cities. Of course, further comparisons are made ·concerning America. While·in the past, Professor :Barrett has used an historical ap­proach for his course, he plans to deal more with the concepts 

' and problems of urban and regional p~anning. · -' · · PRESENTATION: Lectures are interesting, well~structui-ed, and well-prepared. : During the semester Professor Barrett covers a ·. large amount of material which is often flavored. with his per-. · ·sonal experiences.· The ~lasses are usu_ally informal and provide the student with opportunity for -discussion. , Professor Barrett uses_ many books, artic~es, and other ,sociological ~eports as a springboard.for his lectj.tre topics. ·This encourages -the ·student to form his own opinions and provides .a.basis. for a well-rounded understanding of the subject. · · READINGS: At present .there is only, one book, Readings in­Cities A.round the World by Professor-K Feis of Columbia which wilL be required.-In addition: to ·these Professor :Barrett will recommend additional readings in periodicals and paperbacks which·will-add-to the the student's undeistanding·and knowledge of'thesubject.·· ·.:-,:~.--·, · · . ORGANIZATION': Professor;Bariett centers' the. course around ­the· student.-Each' st:udent)s_-required to_ take on a term: project 
the substit11:tion of weekly. quizzes, eliminating the anxiety asso­ciated with major examinations. Student involvement will be stre.ssed, with the· opportunity for-oral presentations within the 
-student's field of interest. Notinf the importance. of communicat­ing psychology's principles· to the layman, he h~ suggested the writing of ·a handoook for parents-which would focus upon the application of behavior .modification's. principles .to the various problems encountered in ·a:-r.hilcl's -development. _·short papers from each student _would. comprise such a, book. In the past, his exams have been the subject of-great_debate, and such an organi­zation will help: to-ameliorate this difficulty. -The average final grade is· usually a B. -· · · · . _ _ 
COMMENTS: For students interested in the applied nature of psychology, this course is highly recommended. The·literature in the field has doubled over the past year, and has definite implica­tions in the areas of education and retardation. All of the stu­dents -interviewed indicated 'thatthey would readily re-take the course: In the past semesters, _the principles of behavior modifica­tion occupied the first several weeks of the course, and Dr. Whit­man has suggested that greater· emphasis be placed upon specific content areas, which seems !O be·a needed revision. Dr. Whit­man's efforts to update the course ·and. make it more "relevant" 
_promise to make the· course an· interesting-one· for both majors and nonmajors. Interested · students are encouraged to contact Dr. Whitman for additional i11formation: · 
which_ \\'ill~ oe ·presented orally. a.f _the end of the semester to the professor·and anyone else· interested:-·The presentation provides 
. the basis of the .student's final mark: The ·student is free to choose_ ~ny· city. which interests hhn: and will b~ expected to fully develop· a characterization of it.,vith. respect -to.whatever indices are. necess~ry~: During the semester, Barrett requires the studen~ to write a number of·reports concerning the project. These serve a twofold purpose: they keep_ the student working and give the teacher a: chaJ!Ce to criticize or direct .the student's work, 

. C0l\O.IENT: Piofesso~ Barrett;bffers the student~ great oppor­
' tunity to learn ·fo; himself. · He ci~es not believe in holding marks over the student's· head,, but tries .to base his marks. on the stu­dent's· development.througl].out the semes_ter.. He is always avail­able·_to guide and. ·direct any stu_dent in his course. . 
It should .be:~noted :ih"at Professor Barrett ex-pects an all-out effort on 'the studen\'s part to learn "and develop his understand­

. ing of_ the :co11_rse :matena(:The:,student ·who has a genuine interest -and· is' willing.:to_ work _hard-will ffo.d Professor.Barrett's course a.worth,vhile 'ventirre\ri learning. 
-' " . .,, ~ -. ·-. ~ ,-~ --,_ ­
David-· Dodge ­
Sociology 40q . . .. __ . . 
W orld'Popula.tiqn :· Pressures arid, Policies 
Sociology _¾11 ---. · ,:_-_. · · " .--, . .. ··. · 
Deviant -Behavior'··:_ ··<> '.:-·-. 
. , ': ' . . -, .. , ;;: ., -~ .::, ._-. 

·coNTENT: This course p~ovides-.a. theoretical, approach' to the socioiogical, -historical, ec_~nomi~,--~~d poli_tical facets of. the· area.. Special attention is given. to: the_;problems _of. developing nations of the-world in• ter~s o(fooa,-resources; sociaLand _eco~ nomic.organization in relation ,to:rapid popul~tion growth... Tliere are._no prerequisites.for ,the :course;.junior and senior sociology majors__ predominate in the class. since this is .a· check marked course. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

READINGS: Population Dynamics, Ralph Tomlinson· Family Planning, Sterility and Population Growth, Freedman, Campbell, 
· and Whelpton; Population Growth. and Economic Development in Low-Income Countries, Coale ,and Hoover; Determinants and Consequences <?f Population Trends, United Nations. 
SOCIOLOGY 411 · . CONTENT:. This course, provides a theoretical aproach to deviance; sorry, no movies on deviant modes of behavior. ·The sociological approach·is stressed,· and contrasted with the psycho­logical and psychiatric approaches .to deviance. · READINGS: Sociology of Deviant Behavior, M. Clinard; Crimes Without Victims, R. Schur; Bobbs-Merrill Reprints of many relevant journal articles; Deviance and Control, A. Cohen; Deviance, Policy, and Control, Lemert. COMMENTS: Dr. Dodge's interest in students as individuals is manifested out of the· classroom by his efforts to increase student participation in the Sociology Club and departmental commit­tees. ·In the classroom, Dr. Dodge encourages· independent thinking and class discussion. His exams and paper requirements are flexible and athough demanding are graded fairly. There are two or. three exams and a paper may be optional. The reading assignments, although theoretical, are usually interesting and must be read if one really desires a decent grade. Both courses are . extremely worthwhile, particularly in terms of relevance to contemporary social problems. 
Richard Kurtz Soc~ology 3.62 Medical · Sociology 
·.CONTENT: This course assumes a sociological perspective on the medical world. For example, it questions why certain med­ical techniques might prove to be ineffective on a patient of a certain cultural background, describes the dilemma of the pro­fessional versus business ethic within the hospital structure. While the course has no prerequisites, its composition is general­ly pre-med and sociology students in their junior and senior years, as well as some students interested in nursing. 
PRESENTATION: Dr. Kurtz is great~ His enthusiasm for the subject and his interest in students quite naturally leads to a well­prepared and usually interesting lecture. Questions and insights are encouraged. Kurtz has a dislike for early hours and does his best to make getting-up worthwhile. 
READINGS: The textbook last time the course was offered was The Handbook of Medical Sociology, $8. An additional required book is Bloom's The Doctor and the·Patient. The rest of the reading is on reserve. The reading is easy and not overly abundant, but necessary. 
· ORGANIZATION: No papers or projects. The grade is deter­. mined by three multiple choice exams taken from the notes and · readings·. The grading is by. "university curve" making an A 
difficult but not impossible. B's and C's are no problem. COMMENTS: Dr. Kurtz has· been travelling in places such as 
. Africa doing research during the last year. He should come back with some great. stories. He· might make some changes in the course, but,any si~ificant ones would be for the worse. The course. is a must for anyone interested in the medical world or sociology. Attendance is not required, but one feels like he's missing something is he doesn't go. 
.Richard·Lamanna . Sociology 435 · ,; Race and Minorities· 
CONTENT: This course covers race and minority relations in many countries. but concentrates on· the phenomenon in the 'United States. The history of different ethnic and racial groups such as the Eastern Europeans, Jews, Orientals and Blacks pro­.vides a background for viewing today's situations. Emphasizing , , discrimination in race relations~ .the course explains degrees of response varying from acceptance to open. conflict, and reveals the effect of prejudice on society presently. There are no pre­requisites for the course· and it is open to aU upperclassmen .in 
arts and letters. , ' ·, · , ­PRESENTATION: The worth of the lectiir~s ··in this course is 
minimal; Professor Lamanna generalizes and one can find most of his ideas in the readings. Also his style does not invite much response from the. student because he simply dictates notes. Dis­cussion comes about only when questions are asked, and it usual­ly involves only a few people. In addition, Professor Lamanna does not tolerate. any disagreement with his general propositions. The only time any of the discussion material appeared on the test occurred when one of the outside readings was analyzed. Other­wise; lectures and discussion were not included on the exam. 
READINGS: The readings -and they were plentiful -pro­vide the interesting part of the course. Vander Zanden's text is excellent, and Race and Racism by van den Berghe is very orig­inal and descriptive. With ~e text, the four books for outside reading, and the innumerable handouts, one possessed more than enough information on the subject. However, one had to read constantly to keep up with the syllabus, and the approximate cost of the books is $18. 
ORGANIZATION: One research paper of any length is required for graduate students and optional for undergraduates. Yet one has to do a research paper for an A. Three difficult exams, in­cluding the final, are given. The final grade is based on the paper and exam grades. The average grade was B-. 
CoMMENT: The course represented a good educational ex­perience in that the readings considered many different points of view and covered nearly all the problems on the subject. How­ever, the class added little insight. If I had to do it over, I would take this course only because I, as a sociology major, am inter­ested in the sociological method and race relations theories. Unless nonmajors had a real interest in learning this material without direction from the professor, I would not recommend this course to them. Also, Professor Lamanna should have sub­mitted some solution to race problems for class discussion. 
Fu-Chin Shih 
Socio.logy 380 
Sociological Analysis 
Sociology 496 · Mathematical Sociology 
SOCIOLOGY 380 CoNTENT: This is a one-semester course offered in both fall and spring. Most of those who take Analysis are sociology majors,. but it is open to all Arts & Letters students and there are no prerequisites. It deals with traditional, modern, and personal outlooks towards social questions and problems. Dr. Shih will tailor the course to cover the areas of interest to which the class is partial. Thus the students in· no small way determine the content of the course . PRESENTATION: Dr. Shih conducts the course in an inform • .! seminar-like fashion. Questions and discussion are encouraged. Dr. Shih is not the most fascinating speaker, tending to repeat and even to anesthetize. This can be partially compensated for by interested students who through discussion can question the relevance of each point. READINGS: One text, Cuzzort's Humanity and Modern Socio­logical Thought, is required. In addition, the student must read approximately 4 paperbacks, mostly on topics of his own choice. · In general, the reading load is light. ORGANIZATION: Last semester the final grade was based on a . take-home midterm, 35-page papers, and a term project (with an accompanying paper and class presentation). Attendance is not required. The average final grade was between B and C. COl',tMENT: Dr. Shih's philosophy of teaching leaves much of the responsibility with the student. Those with interest and initiative can gain much from this course. However, her light­handed techniqu·e often fails to evoke much intellectual response, especially from those who tend to coast in a course. The student himself will be responsible for his success in Sociological Analysis. 
SOCIOLOGY 496 CONTENT: The course will be an introduction to the advantages and disadvantages in applying mathematics to sociology. It will also deal with' the construction of formal theory. The course will be· open to. graduate students and interested seniors. One year of.college math will be helpful. 
APRIL 15, , 1971 
PRESENTATION: The lectures for the most part lack fluidness and. tend to be choppy. For this reason attention to the lecture is not·always easily maintained. Professor Shih does not always seem sure of her English·_which could.account· for. the· condition of the lectures.· ·The lectures are . based on the readings, as are the tests. · · 
READ_INGs: The :readings can for the most part be copsidered worthwhile. ·More than sufficient.time is allowed for. the-readings. ORGANIZATION: As of right iiow thereis oiie project planned 

·for· the course. If Professor Shih finds that some background in math is necessary, then frequent checks will be given to make sure that the reading is being done. · · . · 
COMMENT: Since this course will be offered for the· first time next semester, this evaluation· is based o~ other c9urses she has.· taught. I might also add .that the other cotirs'es that· she has taught have been required and hence there has been a lack of· real enthusiasm for the courses. Professor Shih niaintairis that the course will not be difficult and wants· to keep it in· the realm of an introduction. The textbook·for the course has not yet been determined. · 
Clagett Smith Sociology 462 Sociology of Conflict 

CONTENT: This course· is intended as· "an examination of the nature, manifestations, determinants and consequences of social conflict from a social systems perspective." There are no 
· prerequisites for the course. Most·of the students were junior or . senior sociology majors, but the course attracted non-majors from a variety of departments. . 
. PRESENTATION: Professor ·smith outlines his lectures,' poinf . by point, on the blackboard, before· the class begins and procedes methodically: He is always open to questions or disagreement, but discussion played only a minor role in the · class. A bull session ·was provided for· interested students; outside of class time; for the purpose of havitig a go at various -issues in conflicts. The lectures followed:tlie-readings faithfully-so much· so, that a student, pinched for. time, could choose either to attenl the lecture or do the reading, without his grade and/or grasp of the ·course necessarily suffering. · 
· READrNGS: Generally worthwhile, the readings were extensive, but ·not overwhelming. The introductory· text, The Nature of Human Conflict,. proved helpful, but ·expensive ($8.50). Plan to sp~nd most of your reading time in the library, since much. of 
. the ·material is found ·on reserve ,in various journals. 
0RGANIZATION: .There were·two take-home exam~ given· dur~ ing the course, with ,ample·. time ( usually a week) allowed for completion:· 11, paper was announced, but deleted after· the mid­
,I 
term amounted to an 8-12~page. paper.· The grade was. based on the two . exams. and. the ·average grade was a B. . 
'. COl'v[l\lENT~·: ·:.This_ ·course· atte~pte·d .the mammoth' task of surveying· the many _and .v~ried: the_ories of. conflict and this gen­erally,_ proved too much, in ·to~ _sh.art a time; for ·all but the ·most' serious.student of.conflict. to fully appreciate. The exams gave the· student_. an ..opportunity ·to apply the ·various· theories to modern soc1al and international situations •arid, in my opinion, provided. the ' most ·:valu~ble 'part of the learning experience. Perhaps,·if .the course: focused more specifically ·on ari area of conflict . ( say interso·cietal :or. ·international); I would tak!! the course again. For the s~rious. student of conflict, I would recom­mend this _course as a';valuable'· ba.ckground for further study. 
Andrew Weigert:_ 
Sociology 451 · ·. 
Religion. and.· Society. 
.CONTENT: . This course is composed of _Sociology and Theol­ogy majors. ·It.is. basically.a seminar-oriented course consisting of. student· presentations .followed by class discussions, Professor Weigert emphasized that this was· an experimenfal format, how­ever, and· therefore · subject to ch~nge, but._'it did seem· to work quite well in the Fall and may be:continued. · There are no pre­requisites for the course per se, but the class last Fall consisted of 11 students, six o( whom were graduate· students and the re­mainder seniors. · 
PRESENTATION: Professor. We_igert is an excellent teacher. He has extensive knowledge and a keen inter_est in this subject­a subject that he rightly considers extremely important in con­temporary society. ,Discussion, lagged at· times, but Professor Weigert never. failed· t<> make. every class a stimulating educa­tional experience.. Lectures, of . wliich there were very few, and discussions; were. based directly: on the assigned. readings, and test material ,vas..taken ··from these, sources. . 

· READINGS: Last year there.)Vere six assigned text_s-all paper­backs. and. all pertinent· to. the course.· These books were the basis of the coiirse, and severaf· classes were spent on each one. Appmximate .'cost _of these·· books was $14. : . , . 
.. ORGANIZATION:· Grades 'were based on a·' midterm. exam, quality ,ofclass. presentation ·.and dis~ussion, and a final paper. The paper was . the. m_ain, consideration . in . the final grading. 
COMMENTS: 'Religion .has'. bee_n; and' still )s, 'an i_mportant 

. element in Western society . .' I( is, a _driving force that is often overlooked or. dismissed , as unimportant. Professor Weigert attempts to .·examine· this ·phenmnenon. both theoretically and empir~cally:~. An' interest jn the.: subject is re<:ommended before taking the course, because of. the small-class, seminar-oriented format.· -There is, h~we.ver, much to'·be gatned from this course if. an interest'-is _.p_rese~t.. . h 
. 
-. :~ ~ -~ -~ 
-< ~·-,·..---, , __ 
.·.... ~; ~.-.t.~'::s " . 

.Theology•· 
Maurice Arnen,'°C~S.C. Theology: 131 :Faith and,Man 
· CONTENT: Design~d primarily for sophomores who have a 6-hour theology requirement; this course will explore the sense of the following: m·an has always felt that he can ·attain some­thing "beyond" the "human condition." Thus, ··the problem· is threefold: what is man? how did he get there?; what can man become?; and how, if at all~ is man to attain his goal? . Assuming that man can improve entails. faith. Approaching faith from this ·orientation, Fr. Amen hopes to obtain a new perspective on what the way.'of· Jesus is; ·more precisely, in what human terms may it be' _underst_ood. . 
· · PRESENTATION: To say-Fr. Amen lectures, would· be mis­leading. Given· the nature of his course, one should not expect a lecture course.· .Rather, he comments upon the readings; ex­panding themes, contrasting ideas, and personalizing the material. Rarely is note-taking necessary, as Fr. Amen speaks from an atti­
. tude based on the need for personal reflection. At times , he. rambles~ but when he gets going in spontaneous, reflection,-his depth and insights are truly worthwhile. His approach may fail in a' class of 100, and anyone really trying to get a sense of ,vhat he is speaking about should get to know. him personally. 
· Fr., Amen also plans to break up an otherwise, unwieldy, class into 15-student discussion groups. He and 2 T A's will lead. the groups, shifting from group, to group to provide variety. 
READINGS: The Bhagauad Gita (translated by Swami Prab­havananda and Christopher ·Isherwood, 95c); The Painted Bird and Steps by Jerzy Kosinski (95c)'; Stories of God by Rainier Maria. Rilke ($1.45); Beyond Theology by Alan· Watts;· The Kingdom of God is Within You by Leo Tolstoi; The Courage to· Be and Loue, Power and ]ustic.e by Paul Tillich; The Gospel according· to Mark and one no'vel each by Hermann H~sse and Elie Wiesel. . · 
ORGANIZATION: A short paper ·c3 pp.) of personal reflection · on ·each book is due after it has been dealt with. A somewhat .longer paper ( 5 pp.) contrasting two books could replace reports· 
· on two books .. A midsemester and final paper will. also·be re­quired. Fr. Amen reads every paper .himself, and bases the grade . on the. "thought,, and reflection" behind·.each· paper. Since this is such a su~jective matter, grades average around B. 
'COMMENT: Fr. Amen admits that his majo~ weakness is his 
. lecture styl~.-But,. precisely-because he. is a ,deep, ·reflective, per­son, his )ectures must be spontaneous..He often pauses, .struggles and, then proceeds. Sometimes he misfires and. fails. Thus, any student ,takin'g this -.course had better. realize that Fr. Amen's . p~ojecf·of. teaching does _not end. with the classroom.. Rather,·one is. sharing something deeper than words with .Fr., Amen.. Those · who· ha.ye ·taken this course ·have rapidly. adjusted, and · would take. the. course again. · Perhaps ·the best evaluation of the. course is that•·it-provides ·an··excuse·to get to know Fr.·Amen, Students nof usirig this excuse·.will still learn very much, but they ,vill• have cheated · themselves. . . . 
, R;, Anton,elli. · · , · 
T_he·9•·Io·gy 30.l ·.'..... •.. 
. '· . · . .· · · 
. : Hebrew·,,'Sciipture 'i ··, · · · · · .·· ·.,, · · ··: ci~~;~NT; _;Anto~~iii~wil{be j~i~i~i' the' ~h~ol;gy ..depar~~~~~.. .:in,.the,-fall;-'coinin!:(he'fe:'.aftei: a,-year of :post-doctoral study in
0 

Jerusalem:=.He:received -his -M.A.:,in Se_mitic languages at John's : f,Iopkins:·university and was ,a,w.arded his Ph.D, by the.University 
The course .is a requirement for majors. Hence, ·although Antonelli's · specific ·plans are unavailable, he: will undoubtedly concentrate upon-Genesis, Exodus, and Deuteronomy as foci.for 
· acquiring . insight,·, into and acquaintance with .the: Hebrew Scriptures. 
.Leonard Biallas, C.S_.C. ­Theology 240_ · Theology of.Revolution· 
CONTENT:' The course will ·be divided basically ino three parts.: ·The first part will consist of looking at some biblical themes of the Eschatology and the philosophy that was the essence of the· concept of' salvation. The second part· will be a view of some.20th century theologians of hope such,as Moltmann; Pannenberg,' ~nd Metz.and their attitudes toward the resurrec­tion as a sign for the present and the future. The last part of the 
. course, will consist in taking the.. themes and ideas of the first two sections , of the semester and applying them to· contemporary· . themes and situations of revolution. . . There are no prerequisites for the·course and the class con-· sisted primarily of juniors and seniors of all majors. 
PRESENTATION: Fr. Biallas attempts to offer equal weight in . · this course to both the lectures and the discussions. He wants to emphasize . the readings, discussions, and personal. thinking. Everyone· questioned agreed· that his lectures generally were good. and very helpful in organizing the course material. The discus­
, sion sessions . also were viewed as an extremely helpful dialogue between the students and the teac-her. They often covered the readings and· enabled the student to clear up any questions he had. 
READINGS: -Most · students agreed that the ·course readings were . worthwhile, but some were rather difficult. The reading list in the fall will again consist of 4 books; but Fr. Biallas is in. t4e process of changing the list.. At the present time New The-. 
·ology No. 6 and three other paperbacks will be used, one of them on: the Theology. of.Hope. All agreed that more than adequate ti~e was allo,vecl for the , readings. 
·ORGANIZATION: The grade for the course will come' froin · two 10-page ·papers and a 10-page take-home final. Topics for the . papers covei: a wide range of themes and authors, in such areas as Marxist-Christian · Dialogue, Black Revolutionaries, and social revolution. . The final is an effort by Fr. Biallas to let 
· the stuclent express what he has personally obtained from the · course. He is a···ra:ir marker and believes in rewarding ·a good cffcirt. -Average final grade was a high B. 
·_ . 'coMl\!ENT: .On the first day of class Fr. Biallas comments on ,the fact :that his ·first few lectures might seem haphazard and di~ectionless, but. asks ·the class to wait to see where he .is going. Soon· the: tremendousinsight and knowledge ,of the material that :he possesses 1;,ecomes apparent as well a_s his honest effort to com­.municate his· insight to his students. He looks on his classes as a time· when he can share with the students· an educational ex:­perience and take· a theology course and tum it into a relevant happening. He challenges his students to challenge ·the ideas that-he presents and in so doing to·form their own ideas. Most ·of. the students interviewed commented that this course was th_e · . · best, or. one of the-best theology courses that they had taken at .tlie University. They were impressed by the sincerely honest effort . '.. th~t-Fr. Biallas makes in the classroom. The·on1y improvement_ some saw -as necessary was that the lecture material should, be tightened up.somewhat, and more time spent on each _individual discussed.:· Most.agreed in the ·final ,analysis, that the course was . .,interesting ,and,-worthwhile' arid ·that t~ey would-gladly take Fr. 
. ·..·0(1,S'trasbourg. __ ·.·., ,: ~· _'.•,".·-... ,· . , .. ·:: , ,:·'-Bi~Ilas:againin-anothercourse. , 
. ' . . --~
~ 

.·APRIL, 15,~·1971­
r 
,I 
Leonard Biallas, C.S.C. Theology Church in Crisis 
CONTENT: Fr. Biallas' aim in this course is to take several men (philosophers, theologians, novelists, poets, etc.) from the 19th century, men who either accepted or rejected the Christian tradition and look at their understanding of certain basic human problems, showing how these same problems are still relevant today. Some of the men and concerns to be treated will be: Schleiermacher ( emphasis on feeling, emotions and intuition) ; Hegel (expression of love and freedom in morality); Feuerbach ( translation of theology into anthropology) ; Kierkegaard ( Chris­tian existentialism) ; Lamennais ( correction . of social abuses) ; Solovyev (Godmanhood); Tolstoy (Death of Ivan Ilych); F. D. Maurice (sociology and the kingdom of God); Newman ( devel­opment of Christian doctrines); William James (varieties of religious experience); Nietzsche (anticipation of Death of God theologians); Dostoyevsky (The Grand Inquisitor: freedom from suffering; Pius IX (from liberal to conservative); Leo XIII (welfare state, labor organizations); the Modernists (e.g., Von 
Hugel, Blonde!, Loisy Tyrrell); Vatican (infallibility, value of human reason). PRESEN'.l'ATION: Though he has a tendency at time toward 
· peripheral extemporization, Fr. Biallas has an easygoing, genu­inely enthusiastic lecture style and he is not shy about letting the air out of musty. theological ball90ns. He is very able to lead discussions but encourages the students to work out the prob­lems for themselves. In this course he will make a point of not lecturing for a whole period, but he expects that the two seventy­five-minute classes each week will be approximately half lecture and half discussion. The Tuesday class will focus on the 19th­century issue and the Thursday session will concentrate on the 20th-century counterpart. 
. READINGS : There will be four assigned paperback texts ( two of which are Teardon's 20th-Century Thought and Vidler's The Age of Reason) which can be purchased for a· total of less than $10. Though there are many men and problems to be covered, Father does not expect the readings will be overly time-consuming. Judging from another course this reviewer has had with Father · Biallas, these readings should be good complements to the classroom work. 
ORGANIZATION: Father Biallas will assign two ten-page papers on the works of any of a number of 19th-century novelists or poets. The student is given broad leeway to dig into whatever interests him in relation to the problems being investigated in the course. On the ten-page take-home final the student •win be given several quotes from a variety of readings on which to comment insi§"htfully from the framework of his experience in the course. Tlie final grade will be based on the papers, class participation and the final. Fr. Biallas expects from student performance in his present· courses that the average final grade will be a B. 
COMMENT: The professor in any course< (particularly this one, which encourages· discussion) can only take the class so far by his own efforts; then it is the students' responsibility to add their. own insights to what the person behind the lectern has to say, and share them with the class: Fr. ·Biallas believes that with sincere effort on the part of the class this can be a profitable learning experience for everyone involved with · this new course. 
Johns: Dunne, C.S.C. · Theology 229 ' Philosophy of Religion 
·. CONTENT: The "cult" which has sprung ·up around John Dunne during the past ten years makes this evaluation rather superfluous. The value of the course is most convincingly argued by observing· the movements of anyone who has shared Dunne's "insights," for Dunne has that rare ability to so stimulate his students that they discover possibilities formerly latent or hidden within themselves. To borrow from one of Dunne's favorite images, the course can probably be viewed in retrospect as a process of moving from a new moon to a full moon of personal awareness. Philosophy of Religion is systematic theology -but Dunne's unique brand. Dunne pierces the crust of dogma so as to get his hands dirty with life experience. He does so by exam­ining the life experience of great men as articulated in their autobiographies. This process of "passing over" into the lives of such men as Goethe, Rousseau, Wordsworth, Jung, Camus, Sartre, and Kierkegaard serves as the basis for his reflective examination of the religious experience of man. 
PRESENTATION: Dunne communicates a style of lecturing that matches the novelty of his systematic theology. To be in his classroom is to see a dram.a unfolding;· for Dunne acts out his every word. He speaks from and with an inner intensity that enables him to penetrate the impersonality that might be asso­ciated with a class of 100-150. 
READINGS: Father Dunne asks the student to read the follow­ing books as early in the semester as possible: Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling and Sickness unto Death; Rilke's Stories of God; and his own work, A Search for God in Time and Memory. The readings are engaging and gradually are elucidated as the course unfolds. Dunne suggests that. they be read with an understand­ing and trust that in time "the darkness will be brought to light." 
ORGANIZATION: The·course is neatly_ divided into two parts. During the first half of the course Dunne focuses upon the spir­itual development of man as reflected _in the life stories of indi­viduals since the advent of history. Dunne then shifts to an examination of the story of mankind, concentrating upon the turning·points in the spiritual development of the human race. Following the completion of each section a ta.Jee-home exam is given. Dunne invites the student to experiment with his "passing­
. over" process by. assigning a paper ·which must deal with an historical personage. The student is called upon to analyze such an individual's autobiographical writings in terms of the turning points in his spiritual development or -the unfolding of his life project._ The paper becomes an enriching exercise once the stu­dent returns to himself after "passing-over" into the life of another and allows that life to influence and stimulate latent or hidden possibilities within himself. 
COMMENT: Hurry if you ·want this course; it'll close within two hours! 
Kenneth Grabner, C.S.C. Theology· 207_ Buddhism and the West 
CONTENT: Fr. Grabner sees his course only as a beginning towards a goal of helping students achieve a personal realization of the psychological discoveries offered by Buddhism. Thus the class will be successful insofar as individual students can recog­nize ·correlations between these ii::leas ·and ·their own experience (or their. own possible . experience) . . · · 
TEXTS: Frazir, ·Buddhism; Merton, Zen and the Birds of Appetite; Tibetan Book of the .Dead; Reps, Zen Flesh, Zen Bones; Chardin, Divine Milieu; Hesse, Steppenwolf. 
PRESENTATION: The course will consist largely of lectures '(a historical treatment of the development of Buddhist thought which is necessary for understanding its message), but Fr. Grabner encourages discussion and there is usually no shortage of questions from the class. There · will be a series_ of seminar meetings to discuss specific texts. There are no tests, two papers are required (on any appropriate subject), and class participation 

· is considered· in the student's final grade. 
COMMENTS : Fr. Grabner is not known as a dynamic lecturer, though this · is more a reflection of his calm life style .than a criticism of lecture quality. The material is often confusing to students because of its very nature, and thus it sometimes defies even well-planned efforts towards making it intelligible for those who have never encountered it before. Fr. Grabner's enthusiasm for his subject is apparent to almost·everyone; less apparent (to some) is the extensive preparation. he affords his lectures. The. latter are coherent and informative if one will take the time to orient himself to the material through comple­tion of the assigned outside readings. · This course is truly re­warding only to the degree to which one is willing· to discover for himself both the· meaning of the Buddhist message, and its relation to his ·own life. If such a·. willingness is present· in. an individ~al student, he will find ·the· course both enlightening and refreshing. · 

Stanley Hauerwas Theology 133 Vision and Christian Ethics 
Theology 217 Political Ethics 
THEOLOGY 133 
COMMENT: To be offered for the first time in Fall '71, this is a course that attempts to raise the fundamental issues involved in Christian ethical reflection. The basic thesis of the course is that Christian ethics is best understood not as an ethic of command, freedom, love or some other such image, but as a way of looking at the world. It will be argued that ethics and the moral life are more appropriately worked out in terms of an aesthetic analogy than as a deductive science concerned with right and wrong, praise and guilt. 
PRESENTATION: The readings will be treated as dominant metaphors around which a particular way of understanding the Christian life is ordered. At the end of the course the class will take up the concrete problems of truth telling and marriage as a way of testing these different moral frame­works. Some of the issues raised in the course will be the ethical significance of the Bible; the relationship of dog­matics and ethics; interdependence 'of will, intention and action; the relationship between -language and vision; the nature of man; and moral authority. 
READINGS : . Readings will reflect different understandings of the nature of the Christian life such as gospel and law (Thomas), gospel and law in paradox (Luther and Reinhold Niebuhr), gospel and law as permission (Barth and Bonhoeffer), gospel as the message of the kingdom (Rauschenbush and Pannenberg), and gospel as response to and action (Richard Niebuhr, Bernard Haring and James Gustafson). 
ORGANIZATION: The final grade will be based on two tests and two or three short papers. 
CONTENTS: If the performance of Mr. Hauerwas during the 1970-1971 school year (his first at the University) is any indication, this should be an excellent course. Anyone interested in dealing with ethics in a systematic and disciplined way will benefit a good deal from his well-chosen readings and his extremely well-prepared, enjoyable lectures. Like any worth­while course, this one will demand considerable amounts of serious work from the students. 
THEOLOGY 217 
CONTENT: ·nr. Hauerwas was recruited by ND last year; he is a Texan -who studied at Yale Divinity School. He first began teaching at ND last fall: two sections of "Christian Ethics in a Democratic Society". One section of over 40 students was composed of juniors and seniors, a few theology majors, and less than half were from Arts and• Letters: In Dr. Hauerwas' course description, the course is designed to enable the student to do some "disciplined ethical reflection" on basic contemporary social issues: political obligation, violence, racism, poverty, war, '(and added for the Fall of 1971: freedom and the technological society). All of these are discussed in the American context. One or two will be dropped before or during the semester on account of the limited time. Before the issues can be handled at all, basic work _must be done. This includes some history of Christian social ethics and especially the relationship between Christianity and a democratic society. (This accounts for the first half of the course and in-depth study of Niebuhr's and Yoder's positions.) The student will discover that at the heart of. every political decision is a value, and underlying that value is a· conception: of The Good or of Man. "Some of the 
questions raised throughout the course are the relationship be­tween ethics and the social sciences, the nature of justice, the relationship between the individual and community, and the 
· nature of the church." 
PRESENTATION: Teaching ethics is difficult. There is the temptation to be too "relevant" or to be too "philosophical".. Hauerwas manages to bridge the gap. He is an educator, i.e., 
APRIL 15, 1971 
one who leads out. His lectures are thought-provoking and invigorating. He is aware of his tendency to be a fast talker, especially when reading aloud. Questions asked by him are good; they go to the heart of the matter at hand. Discussion in class is necessary, inevitable, and welcomed. Dr. Hauerwas' answers to questions directed to him answer the question; he does not ramble; he is not vague. There is little difficulty in taking notes. 
READINGS: The readings .µe many: whole and partial books. The primary works are Wolffs "The Poverty of Liberal­ism", Niebuhr's "Love and Justice", and Yoder's "Christian Witness to ·the State". Others (which may change) include: Benn and Peters The Principles of Political Thought. Winters, ed. Social Ethics, Bedau, ed. Civil Disobedience: Theory and Practice, Wogoman Guaranteed Annual Income, Arendt On Violence. 
The second half of the course is the heavier reading part. How­ever, the books were chosen to enable the student to grasp the fundamental issues involved in a lively way. Remember that the course asks for a rational inquiry into contemporary social issues based on ethical reflection. 
ORGANIZATION: One paper, midterm and final. Both exams were a good test of the student's ability to do some "disciplined ethical reflection". The final grade balanced 4 parts: the three grades and in-class work. Average final grade: B. 
CoMl\lENT: Dr. Hauerwas knows the reading is heavier­than-average, and realizes the difficulty in cutting it down. Suggestions have been made in class for improvements. He has a lot to offer this Christian university. ( See his two articles in SCHOLASTIC). Hopefully, Dr. Hauerwas will be around for a long time, but why not beat the rush? 
Theodore W. Hengesbach Theology 237 Theology of Death 
CONTENT: The purpose of this course is to bring the student into a confrontation with the problem/mystery of death and to help him intellectualize and verbalize this experience both orally and written. This course is an elective with most of the students being juniors and seniors. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures are usually given at night by guest speakers of various disciplines who discuss the problem of death within their own area. The lectures are complemented by a seminar with Mr. Hengesbach in the next class period; they are· valuable for reading and understanding the books. There are three films -"Until I Die," "Ikiru," and "Watts Made Out of Thread" -that deal with the problem of death. 
READINGS: The texts present different ways of viewing the problem of death. The readings are a valuable source in attempt­ing to achieve the purpose of the course. The eight books are all paperbacks: The Meaning of Death, Herman Feifel (ed.); On Death and Dying, Elisabeth Kuebler Ross; The Tacit Dimen­sion, Michael Polanyi; The Death of Ivan ]Zych, Leo Tolstoy;­Things Fall Apart, Chinua Achebe; The Epic of Gilgamesh 
(N. K. Sandars) ; The Theology of Death, Carl Rabner; and the New Testament. Appriximate costs of texts -$11.00. 
ORGANIZATION: There are no tests. The requirements are class attendance at both lectures and seminars, a thorough reading of the assigned texts, and a written analysis of the readings for each of the seminars. This amounts to ten, two-three-page papers. The papers are graded on how well the student comprehends the content of the readings and the quality of his reflections on them. The final grade is determined from the written work (80%) and class participation (20%). Average final grade isB-. 
This course is a valuable and significant educational experi­ence if the student is willing to work and confront the problem of death. The course could be improved by having fewer stu­dents in the seminars, but this is not the fault of the instructor. If the student wants to be challenged, he should take this course; if he wants an easy three credits to fulfill his Theology require­ment, he should forget it. 
I. 
f
the . poetry ·of Omar Kha.yam m the original Arabic, and a
Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C. 
basic course in tourist -travel in the. Islamic· world.
_Theology 223 . · 

· PRESEN;ATI~N·: ·. Prof~ssor Kritzeck utilizes the audio-~sualSex an~:11arriage • facilities avaiiable to · him . for·. approximately half of his class meetings. With _or -wi_thout: accompanying· slides, Professor Krit­CONTENT: A very general course which-really .seems to be zeck's highly articulate· style· and his deep and thorough knowl­misplaced by its location in the Theology Department; .The only edge of his subject suggest. massive quantities of material to· be actual theological reference is to. a biblical quote,. "What God absorbed ·of further · investigated. Ulti~ately; it ·is. this abund­has joined together·~ . ." The emphasis of the course is on anc_e of material pr.esented that can bring. the course down. 
"hciw to live together"; the ,student's personal response to life . Too>much, . too ,quickly~ A ·root cause of -boredom. -Professor is stressed. . . . . 
Kritzick hopes· to remedy .this 'situation ·_with a more thorough PRESENTATION: The. presentation tends. to be disorganized, supplementation· of lecture· material with.· suggested readings. very .haphazard and dull. · .That is,·. choose··. readings in. the· · areas in .which .the lectures
. · 

READI~Gs: The readings are good: The Adjusted :Amterican, have· stimulited interest, _but do· choose. Incidently, you don't I Loved a Girl, Exiled to Eden, The Power of Sexual Surrender. 
have. to.· Pe_rhaps, ·Professor· Kritieck's •style and presentation is ORGANIZATION: ·Four very easy tests (the average score was 
a-.bit too loose:· He requires. no intellectual. toughness; rather, about 97%) and a final of similar ilk. · he .awaits its own. irowth. . .. COMMENTS: An A (and B?) course. The greatest value of 
. ·READINGS: . Buy wh'atever of Professor Kritzeck's suggested
the course rested in the· reading material. It is significant to 

. readings .appeal. to ·you~ ·But. do,·read .both volumes· of An 
note, however,. that The Power of Sexual Surrender is ·based on 
A_7!-thology of Islamic· ~iterattire, :edited by the professor.
Freudian theories of female sexuality, which have..been generally 
ORGANIZ~TION: There. is'_ a_ final. ex~ and, ,possibly, one
discredited in the last decade and ·physiologically proven· wrong 
paper: Like the rest· of. professor~ Kritzeck's methodology, the
by Masters and Johnson. That little bit .of information should 
paper and the final exam are· student . initiative oriented. Even
dema.n_d considerable attention. from anyone seriously estim3:ting 
in the· final exam, th~ essay questions ancf the multiple choice
the course. 
questions are .~orded in such'. a· ,vay that they demand that the student . answer in' . terms ..of, _what. he .found meaningful to him, not in. terms of what Profes'sor Kritzeck thinks is mean­
Tjaard Hammes 

ingful or ·correct. M~st students .~ho enroll ·in Theology 404 Theology 211 are of aoove average)i.bility. Tli~ a.verage grade is B+. · · · Readings in Protestant. Theology .COMMENT: Student· initiative, on the whole, does not work. Little. work,' but ·_surprisingly,· work .well· ·done. rhat is, be­
CONTENT: The course . provides a g~~eial . historical back­cause centuries fly past you :in 30 minutes and -because you ground for the Reformation and the resulting. development of are not ·req~ired ·to· find ihteresting lireas of study in' Islamic Protestanf deriominaticms. Hommes discusses the position of the ·thought··or· history, ·th~ centuries· can· be· forgotten and the Church and traces the evolution of different points of doctrine. interest. n·ever de\l'eloped.: B1it ·where such interest is developed, The. course was composed· primarily of juniors: and seni~rs ·in it_ is enthusiastic and ~lways· riuitured by Professor Kritzeck. Arts and Letters. · · A fine teacher, ..a bit unrealistic. about student response. 
PRESENTATION: The lectures are well· prepare9-and inter­esting. Mr. Hommes loves discussion, .and is very open in en­couraging students to voice their opinions. He e1,1courages. in-. dependent thinking on the part of.the· class. . . . . _Jean LaPorte, '.C.S.C. 
READINGS: The readings 'are rather extensive. Four texts .The_ology: 208 ·_ :_ . (Protestant Christianity~· Dillenbeiger and .Welsh; The· Kingdom 
Teilhard de Charcliri · . · :

of God in America, Niebuhr; The Prote$lant_. Era, .Tillich; Reformation of the Sixteenth Century, Bainten) ar~.to b·e sup~ 
CoN~E;;;T:: Th.ii th~~l~~·~ cou;se is taught in Fiench; there­

plemented by readings on reserve in· the library.· Hommes also 
fore' .it·, is· .essential ·that. the,-student · have ·a firin background

suggests ·additional readings which he wiH supply_ from his o~ 
in the· French language:· The··student should have a relatively

collection. If all of the readings were ·done; they would perhaps 
be excessive. · -. · · · good:work1ng .knowledge ..of:the French language· for conversa­tion,· reading: comprehension, -:and writing exercises. The course
ORGANIZATION: There are two tests and afinal, as _well ·as 
itself· beg~ns with. a: brief bi9graphicaf ·s_ketch of. the life 'and

one major paper. Grades ·are deemphasized: in favor of inde­
works' of the_" noted theologian and· scientist,< Pierre Teilhard

pendent ~nd creative thinking in· conjunctio~ with· readings.· 
-d.e ·_c_fo~rdin. Jt .. then_-~!DJJhasizes: some· of 'the-basic points· of
' Co1111>rnNrs: The instructor is the key figure 'in making this. 
the T~eory of Evolution;:·mentioning briefly some of the most

cmirse. He is. very accessible· to. students iri. his· office; .and oft~n 
·miportant'contributioris_ to its ·development:and refinery. Father
invites them into_}tis home. 1:'he co_~}~e ~s·:h~ghly. ~ecomme~ded .. 
.,. . ~ " --~ " -' 

-LaPorte -:discusses, the. ChU:rch'i ·changing: ~ie,vs on. ev~lution and the. effect that' the.Church· had on.. Chardin's. research and writings: .The-, Marxist.; iriterpretatfo~--of evohition . is also de­
Jaines Kritzeck . 
veloped before· a·. final; complete 'sitdy_ of· Chardin's ·• idea~ on Theology~404;; evolution. The, stu·dent enters· into ,the basic:·course material: · -.. . ,· · ·-· 'Le· Phenomen'e. Htimain~ ·a·discussio~' o(the scie~tific fact of. the
Religio,~-9fl~l~ 
evolutiort of::eiiergy,· niatter and life, and finally a.. discussion of 
0 

.CONTENT~ :··,The'. firs{ pa.it of Professor Kntzeck's. c~~rse· is :, ·the ;intell.~ct'_and'·t_he· spirit.:....:...the. socialization: O~' th~ SJ)ecies_ and a· quickly: Iri!)_ving .._survey .•of-: the: entire."intellec_tU:al history_of . g1': :r~le·_ ff m~n m. t~e:·overall process· of e~o!ut1on_; _··. '. ._' , . · Islam:. Just: that.,_:a·-survey: :And quick.·· The _sec:orid:.'pait' '.of : · · · -~ Pirns_EN_T~:rroN: :Father LaPorte's .'P!"esentation of: the· ma:­
0 the course;.'._arid.0 whatcProfessor.Kritzeck ·cons1ders·•wiil .be· the terial·,vas·found by many students to be quite.'·enjoyable' and most:interesting;part; is' an.introi:liiction-to _contemp~rary _Islamic easy ·.fo_::, ~nderstand.: He takes certain . se~tions ,.:tJf . the ..t_exts: affairs. · An· ·introduction, ·_not a survey,. that. is a =thorough which· best ill1:1strate ·the ideas ··of Chardi:ri" and· e*pounds · upon_ · examination of the·.proper methodology· for· analyzing_ any of . th~m, _-clarifying and simplifying tht:! _most· complex· sections.· A the.more recent Arab and Islamic problems. By example.. After ·few.· ~f: t4e-students found •his lectur_es·.to be_.__bor~ng· and .· surveying the intellectual history of Islam, the courses more co~~ented. on the lack of participation in ·_discussions· by_:the· contemporary content will include such topics as the .Arab-. stu~ents:·as' a whole; most students agreed~ :that: the:'couise· Israeli conflict, the:Muslim movement in America;· and· the·effect '"'.as worthwhile. and tbat they_ had·. gained.. an insight'_'into· · · of Islam upon national _independence-and .. economic expansion . the·. a6stT3:ct: thought of ·chardin·. ' in Africa~ · _ · . . . . . . ·: CoMMENTs · The gene~l workload is i:elativ'ely light. ·Tlie· -. : J.n :spit~:of !h;eiwi_de scope _ _o~,,_~his. c?urse,_ Pr_ofessor.,l(ritzeck. · majn::text. ti~ed is Le Phenoinene Humain, supplemented by· the IS not. hes1tant-}t<>. t.ouch(,UJ>On 111terestmg· sidelights .. :Included, professor's. own mimeographed notes c.ontaining summaries of usually; are·.a ·basi~: introduction to. -the alphabet~ a look ·at Chardin's . biography;_. diffe.rent. thoughts ·on-: evolution, along 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

with extractsJiom Chaidin's other works. Father LaPorte includes his· own observations-,in the notes, and ·these are quite helpful; A list ·9£-· questions are -presented -at the, end of each section of notes: 'and· the ·-students, upon completing a -section, are to answer one of. these questions. There are no -tests in the course ,of the-semester and the final 'grade rests 11pon· the whim ·of Father. LaPorte: Emphasis -is placed primarily upon class attendence and participatfon in ,_ class · discussions. The ,vork load was found to be ·agreeable ,to most students 'because of_ the lack -of ·pressure upon· the student to get a great_ deal of work done by·some specified time. For a student interested in fulfilling a Theology requirement as well as retaining his · knowledge. of the French language, Father -LaPorte's course is_ of practical use. His knowledge of the material -is sound and . this cj.ids the' student's understanding of C_hardin and·his works. 
Robert Meagher _Theology. 209 Philosophical Theology 
CONTENT: This course involves an attempt_-to compare_ the thoughts of Augustine and Camus on the nature of human blessedness. It· does not however aim to integrate the work of · these two great North African thinkers, or to refute the· work of one with the other. Instead,-it looks to provoke what might be most accurately described as -a discussion between the two 
·authors. The students taking the_ course are generally Arts and Letters· undergraduates of all levels who are· fulfilling some theology ·requirement. Consequently, the course. does not seek to impart a thorough technical understanding of the material, but rather to give the students an accurate grasp of the tone and thrust of, both_ Camus and, Augustine. 
PRESENTATION: The_ lectures are' presented in a quiet, per­sonal style tht blends an obvious command of the material with genuine academic humility. Intimidation and dogmatism simply do not exist in a Meagher classroom·. Still, there is a respect for -­
the .writings of both Camus and Augustine which does permit either to be misrep'resented or over:simplified. Early -in the · .course · some students ·may· mistake Meagher's lecture style· for · rambling; but it should soon·_ become clear that ·what he is actually doing is probing 'both the texts and_ the class,· con­
stantly. seeking out certain precise themes. The _tests are an opportunity for students to continue that probing on their owri, and are designed to ·stimulate meditation more·:tI_ian to extracLinformation. -· , 
.READINGS:· Conf~ssions, Gity. of God, Th.e ·stranger~ The· 
·Rebel, The Exile and the Kingdom. Only portions of The Rebel,· and ·the Confessions .are i-equi_red, but reading ·them in· their entirety is encouraged. Quantitatively,' the reading assignments are light. But the. material assigned -can easily' be: the_ ~bject ­of a lifetim_e -of . study,, so that, overall, the_ reading must· 
·.be described as challenging. --. · · ' ORGANIZATION: There are:t~vo tests,-a midt~rm and a final, ,usually:,both: of _a· take-home variety.. · Anyon~ 'expecting . to .. be ·considered for. an A' must :also submit a-.paper which is 
a: serious, reflective exploration of some topic which has -grown out.of the ~lass· discussion. All course requirements are·_ 
·negotiable. and any, student with· serious suggestions for per­. ,sonal · digressions from this .general pattern will be sympathe­· '.tically: heard._ The average grade i~ probably B-. Th_is .is .one . 
, _.'of; the few_ cours_es_-in the uni~~rsity .,vhe_re g~des .are :neither . :whips_ nor bait; , _ _ · : · ·, 
· · -criticism to further refine and articulate his thoughts, encourage-
COMMENTS:. Meagher's ·personal sty-le ·is at o~ce 'the ,major.· :

' -· · · · ·ment: to speak -without ·fear of aggressive assault. "In every
.strength: and weakness ·of: this course. He is not 'a·' showman' · 
· -course I've taught so far at Notre Dame," Mr. O'Brien says,_
:-.., :or a maste~ of public rhetoric:: As __a result, the ·effectiveness of -·"I've found. that I've learned as much as the students. All I ·:· the course is inversely proportional to the size 'of the class. .can-hope:·for is that we might learn together." The course will . Twenty-five. or-.'thirty: is pi:ob_abJy t_he absolµte m~mum· ~umber_ include· both ··lectures and seminars. ' ·,Of students that Meagher 'ought to 'attempt -to:_handle. Students . , ' .•OR~A~IZATION:' There will probably be three or four papers ·will ·also discovei· that he·-is'_'not · given: to slave-driving-and . ··f ·r --· -·fi -. h _The mi"dte·rm and final will probably
--·-.. · · ·, · · ---· · k h o our or ve.pages eac • 
. _, . therefore, . s_tudents .wh_~ are_ in the co~rse . to ,p~c ·:up t .re_e.. . both be ·take-home . . -'easy, hours_ are not going to ;be: forced into learning -anything.., _ , . . , . ---:. · ._ ·_ ._ 
~:_ ~;They wiU prob~hly :end. u~ ';judging, the' course' to: oe. exactly::. ' 
.'what they took ·it for: nothmg, On· th_e other hand, _any stude?t : --who brings both his he~ri: _an_d_ his _mind to -this -course will ·. _--encounter an exciting educational experience. Meagher is no 
mere_ academic virtuoso juggling. footnotes. !fe responds to his • . 
APRIL 15, 1971 
_material and · his students with his whole life.-the toys on _ displ~y ·'at K-Mart last week are as likely to pop up in -dis­.. cussion :as are the teachings of · Plato. He seeks and encourage·s a similarly unified sensibility in his students. He is wilfu,g to offer as, much of himself as a student is willing to accept, and he will accept as much of the student as the student is willing 
-to offer.: There has been a lot of noise made lately about the need for truly liberal_ education. This course can offer an op-­p'ortunity (soon to be rescinded) to find out what the excite­ment is all about. 
L. Mitchell_ Theology 4=06 · ,Meaning· of Worship 
CONTENT: -Although this course has not yet been fully or­ganized, as Professor Mitchell will be a new faculty member, he described it ·as a look'··at · things which are occurring in churches today, an examination of the reasons that liturgies take the shape which they do. The course will investigate this general question from a threefold perspective: historical {how liturgies a1Tived at their present_ form, theological (why they have taken such forms) and phenomenological. The basic goal of the course will be to question what worship is, and furthermore, why one should bother with it at all. 
PRESENTATION: The presentation will depend to a large degree upon the number of students in the class, but will basically consist of lectures and discussions on the reading 
·material. ' 
--William O'Brien '.fheology 226 Problem .of God 
Theology 309 Senior· Seminar· 
THEOLOGY 226 _ Ce>NTENT •AND READING: The course will consider the two 
-·t~ndencies in modern culture and life suggested by the following books: Religion.and the Scientific Future (Gilkey), The Plague '.(Camus), and J.--D. (MacLeash). According to Mr. O'Brien, the course will deal with the two central problems for someone ,vho would affirm belief in God today: modem science and the presence of enormous evil. After a fairly brief historical flash­back (to consider how Augustine, Aquinas and Kant dealt with these problems), the course will meet in seminars to discuss the problem of God in terms of the following books: Answer to Job _(Jung), the Sibyl (Lagerkvist), Freedom and Slavery (Berdeyev} ,and Dynamics of Faith (Tillich). Other books may be added or ·su~stifot.ed, but they will be read in an attempt to raise and , focus the above problems of God. . PRESENTATION: William O'Brien approaches teaching with a .seriousness reflected in what his lectures say and in the way -he listens to student response. Few professors respond as directly and as compassionately to student questions and comments; the student finds himself in the position of one whose opinions, how­ever, uncertain and undeveloped, are respected. And it is a respect that is manifested . in criticism and encouragement; 

THEOLOGY "3()9 :: 
· -• , . -, , . CoJTiNTt Aligustine,-Aquinas and Calvin. In .some depth-: For·_ senior .. theology ·majors. : --. , . 
· PRESENTATI_ON: '_The semi!),ar met one _night a. weelc for two 
, 
I 
I 
or three hours last semester, but Mr. O'Brien may change the 
format. The meetings will probably move to daytime and be 
broken into twice weekly sessions of an hour and a half. Mr. 
O'Brien usually opens each seminar with brief remarks on the 
current reading and raises the questions he considers most 
crucial to an understanding of the man's life and writing.. He 
may ask the students to take turns leading the seminars next year. 
READINGS: This year, for even the serious student, the 
readings were too long. Mr. O'Brien says he will focus the 
reading selections from each man next year, opting for a careful 
consideration of a small, but representative sample of each. He 
has not decided which books will be included, and is anxious 
for suggestions from past or prospective members of the seminar. 
ORGANIZATION: Each student will be asked to ·prepare a 
two-or three-page paper each week, focusing his own thoughts 
and questions on the selection under. discussion. There will be 
no midterm and the final will probably take the shape of a fairly 
lengthy paper dealing with some question in the writing of 
all three men. 
Cm,IMENTS: The course became a requirement for theology 
majors rather suddenly last year, a development they greeted 
·with restrained hostility. Most of the majors were not planning 
on graduate study and were not interested in going into Augus­
tine, Aquinas and Calvin in any more curricular depth than 
they already had. Another group of majors, who were planning 
on grad school, wanted a course that would afford them the 
opportunity to study these men in greater depth than the Senior 
Seminar would allow. By seeking to fill everyone's needs, it 
seemed that tlie course would fill no one's. 
Things were not so bleak in the end. "It turned out to be 
my best course last semester," one major said. "The writing 
I did every week really opened up a lot to me-especially during 
the last few weeks of the semester." The discussions were not 
always lively, perhaps because the huge reading load discouraged 
many seminar members from giving the assignment much more 
than cursory treatment. But the questions raised and the in­
sights offered by Mr. O'Brien often moved the seminar into 
thoughtful consideration of questions that matter. These occa­
sions were the heart of the course, and are likely to be increased 
next year by the procedural reforms mentioned above. 
Eliot D. Rosenstock 

Theology 215 ·Jewish _Theology 
CONTENT: Possibly one of the more interesting courses offered by the Theology Department, the course is generally divided into two major segments during the semester. The first section deals with the historical basis of the Jewish religion; the second phase deals with the Jewish faith as it exists today. 
PRESENTATION: The Rabbi works at his presentation,. but he recognizes the responsibility of the student to come to class prepared. Although the Rabbi takes a healthy pride in this course, he is willing .to field any question and discuss topics of student interest; this leaves the course in a somewhat open format. 
·READINGS:: The Old Testament, The Chosen, Basic Judaism. 
ORGANiZATION: The.course grade is composed of four equally 
imp~rtant considerations·: a midterm test, a final exam (no one 
exempted), a book review .and a self-evalu_ation by the student. 
CoMl\IENTS : The course and the tests both focus on the in­
dividuaf ·stude~t's attitude towa~d life. The lectures are both 
interesting and worthwhile. The lo,~est grade . given in this 
course is a C, because the Rabbi feels that his conscience will not 
allow him to fail a student as long as the war continues. 
W. G. Storey Theology 303 · . Church Evolution I 
CONTENT: This course ·is required for all theology majors, 
but permission to take it can be obtained by talking to Dr. 
Storey.· ,The intent of the course is to give the student a general 
background into the roles and relationships between Church and 
State in the formation of Western civilization, with special em­
phasis, 'of course, on· the role of the Church. There are no 
prerequisites, and the course is predominantly composed of 
juniors and seniors in the Arts and Letters College. 
PRESENTATION:. Dr. Storey's lectures are lucid and rich with insight and inf~rma.tion. He approaches his material from the viewpoint of an ·historian, always seeking interpretations that will be borne out by the evidence. Consequently, the course will not solve any personal crisis in faith -though it has been known to cause them in some of the less . stalwart. Nevertheless, Dr. Storey's· deep '.convictions make it clear where he stands with regard to the various questions· raised by the Church; both in its internal structure and externally,-with regard to the State. 
READING: Along with the three-credit lecture, there is a two­credit seminar, which. mee·ts once aweek to discuss an assigned reading. The books are. the ideal focus for the backdrop of the lectures, and raise provocative questions which cannot be dropped at the end of the_ seminar. The texts and seminar readings will run about $20.00, and -well worth the price.. At the seminars, two or three ·students are asked to_ read the three-page papers, which are prepared by all-for the class, as a springboard for dis­cussion. There are no tests. . · 
ORGANIZATION: In class, the lectures are strictly academic ruid historical -though Dr. Storey has been known, on occa­sion, to digress on the relative merits of the Pope, the bishops, the president and/or the mayor of Chicago. · After· class: in seminars and in personal contact; the student realizes that he matters to this particular man; such ·realization goes far in ·one's educational experience. · · 
Col\lMENT: If you are interested only in Church history, how­ever, this course is not for yo_u. -Students quickly learn that tied up with such topics are liturgy, art, music, ethics and that un­definable yet ever-recognizable something called faith. His open­ness and aggressiveness are contagious; he has the ability to make one i~terested in such divergent topics ·as the Desert Fathers and · Martin Luther. In short,· a· thoroughgoing, important and worthwhile course. 

y-oung notre dame poets 
rick fitzgerald may 9/2 p.m~ · john hessler , rory holscher library. auditorium . . -ken:mannings john-stupp "this is for voyeurs. 
' 
--~ .

and others walk in." marty ·do Ian 
"~ ' ­


- ' .' ­-' ---,. ,._ -.,: '  '  -.  -,  - 
• -,-~ - -J: -_,  -- 
-~..  "  
,: :-.  :  . .,  -.  .  
'  -- 
. - -.  
;-­ ,-••  -••  ,., -•  •n  •  •  ,_,~  •, <,"  •  
....  .  .  .  '  ~...  -=  ,­ . -, _, ;.::  _.,  ''  /­. -.,  ~ --· ~­ -­~  :­~  _·,~-~­•  -_::.=-:;: :­-.-·--. ­~-;=~ ·-, .... __ ._­__ C· , : :·. \-',_.. -._---._ '... ', ~ -,  
--,·,:  :·  ----,~.-:·..:.,:­ -,­ -..  -:-----:;~:  ~ . ·--: : --'• ' -_~_-_.::_; _____ -._·,;·_·  ': __  ,  -­ 
• ...  - 
-::· .:~  ·.,_  ' ­ - 
• ' , ~  :  •.;  •  .:  '  ••  -T  • J  
-- 
--,  '  C  
;  ,­ -­ 
.  - '  .  -­ .  
'  - -­ <  
-...  " -- -~ -··  
'  - - 
-· .  -' - .  ..­;  ,;,_  .  -.., ' ~ ...  .  '  , - :·  
·­ - ,  s_,., --_••  -;-.  _­ _._.  




Juggler 
Third issue soon! 
-Poetry by John Dwyer) Carolyn Gatz and other new voices 
-Prose by Ken Mannings) Rory Holscher ·and John Hessler 

"Wally? A poet?"j.p.d. 
I----------------------,Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 
I 

II II  mailed off campus and out of town f delivered on campus. I Make check payable to: I Juggler I  
Box 583  
Notre Dame, Ind.  

Name -------------------------------------------------­Address 
1:-w--w-~,-------------------,_:__-:.__--------------------=--------_--_--_.­
Spend an unforgettable 


SEMESTER AT SEA 
on the for mer 


QUEEN ELIZABETH 
.-:.... t\... 


•--:1~~i~~:~, . ~ 
New lower rates; full credit for courses. Write today for details from \Vorld Campus Afloat, Chap­man College, Box CC16, Orange, CA 92666 


KENT STATE 


WHAT HAPPENED-AND WHY 
Pulitzer-prize winner, ing reactions from adults James Michener, recreates and students across the the tragedy at Kent. In an country, and Michener's eye-opening book conden-advice about handling the sation he reveals, step by division between American step, the events that led to lifestyles.One of 38articles the fatal shootings. It is all and features in the April here, includingthesurpris-READER'S DIGEST 

REFUGEE AID PROGRAM 
.  
,  .,,, ­.._i,..,,Jli : ,·, :. ~,  
.  .. -·  .,,  .  '"  --~  
-­ - .  .  
-~>: .,;,I i-..-f..~-­~  

We Are Trying to Help These Vietnamese Refugees 
if you would like information about our program or would like to make a contribution, write to: 
REFUGEE AID PROGRAM 332 Morrissey Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Ph. 283-3580 
t 
VleTNAM/CAMISOOIA/ LAOS 


the~war 
continues 
1971 
march,~: 
65,"771 
~ 
americans are dead 
125,82.8 
~1 
saigon government soldiers are dead







97~~~·
6u.~ 
n.l.f. and north vietnamese are dead 
17,000 
1~0 is the ap~il ~aft call 
you can help with contributions and prayers for: american friends service committee, 
407 s. dearborn, chicago, ill.la quaker action group, 20 s. 12th street, philadelphia, 
pa., 19107 /catholic peace fellowship, 5 beekman street, new york, n.y., 10038/central 
committee for conscientious objectors, 2016 walnut street, philadelphia, pa., "19103/ 
clergy and laymen concerned about vietnam, 475 riverside drive, new york, n.y., 10027 / 
student mobilization committee to end the war in vietr)am, 1029 vermont ave. nw, 
washington, d.c., 20005/south bend draft union, 526 hill street, south bend, ind./war 
resister's league, 339 lafayette street, new york, n.y., 10012 and many, many more: 
work and pray for peace. 
make of your life a prayer for peace 
,PEAie A~IN~T -nlE ICIU.IN&:APRIL 24/W~NIN&TOi-il 

I 
I 

:, : : Id; Ei." 
.. 
. == . ; ; ;=l 
: :.:• ....... 
: ~ < 
. ·!
i. ; ,i· 
.lj 
-: 

THINK HOT! 
Hot weather is on its way ... and we have a store full of apparel to tame it! 

THINK SUMMER! 
Pay next June, July and August vvith no service charge or interest added! 

--~ ~-­
~~~ ~ 
· ILB ER • 
.....___ampU$~ho
~ 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
UL L AZW-¼5i\i 


