SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Also Inside: Water Polo
Ghosts of Notre Dame
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Rememher: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:_____________________________
A d d ress:_______________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
Contents	- i

Cover art by Jake Frost
3 Ethanol
4 Stomping Ground
6 The Ghosts of Notre Dame
M P U S L I F E
7 Choosing A President
9 Fun Without Alcohol?
P O R T S
11 Making A Splash
15 Sunken Middies
E R T A h N M E N T
17 Out Of Bounds
18 Erotica Madonna
P A R T M E N T S
2 Editor’s Notes
20 On Other Campuses
21 Week In Distortion
22 Final Words
OCTOBER 29,1992	- :f / " >
kk ; V0^	' k?
;. ■ ; October 29,1992 ' "V
< ' 7 Disco QuasiSemper Victurus / k ' • ' 'Vive Quasi Oras Moriturus ' : '•• ‘
< . < ..Founded 1867;
EDITOR IN CHIEF ;
: Patricia k. Doyle \	/..-. L? '
MANAGING EDITOR
Margaret S/Kenny
EXECUTIVEEDITOR
/ David J,Holsinger	<
CAMPUSLIFE	:<-kk
. Editor: Mollie Mudd / J 7 ~ \k ■■ kk ' j kk;
/.Editors: K.L. Lawrence.:. .	;
k.k'7- Mark Mitchell •.	r-
:sp6rts.' k- k' 7.7-k */: - < - Editor: Jim Kuser •' ' 7	;
7 Assistant Amanda Clinton ..' <7 '' '' z ^entertainment; .■'’k-	"k; k7;
-?'Editor: JzBradley Keck--/'-'r	7k?
^DEPARTMENTS '.k ; ■ ; -7- J / Editor: Kate Wiltr^	' /k 7/k/
>photography;/..?j;k'7 . 777 k4’t0*7ken Osgood./7,/-k'-./ •/'•••. .
757 kk; >k- ■ 5;
/Edifo^Chris-Blanfojrd' 7 ’ :
ki'	k>7>; z^kk
SENIOR STAFF WRITERS ■ 7 ?*/k / k s-//Amanda Clinton;Pete McGillicuddy^ /Mariralk^
kHeidtOura'Toboni"'-7;
'-.'I' -kk-;z7k -;7 ■"	/k'. ■':	/
? GRAPHIC ARTS
:ManagenJake Frost / ?/ </ ; / .
Zr
/XAYoyrZ;///.-77.;/;>; / / Manager :CM^	/// :'.
^Manager:;KarmRHe^
7 7kkk7 kk; 7^ < 777
/Manager: Eileen Shelley 7'7
IpisTRX^
XManage^^^	,
WELCOME BACK
Welcome back from break! Scholastic hopes that you had a relaxing and refreshing week off. We would like to help bring you back into the swing of the semester with this week’s issue, which focuses on next week’s Presidential election. Inside, you’ll find two News stories relevant to the election. Chris Blanford examines the issue of ethanol, of interest to environmentalists as well as automoblie companies and farmers. Writer Jenny Tate probes the opinions of Notre Dame students about the upcoming election, and this week’s two Final Words come from the campus’s largest political organizations.
Lest you get swept away by all of the election hype, we wanted to let you know that we didn’t forget about Halloween. News Editor Karen Lawrence checked up on rumors of ghosts and other spooks around campus.
This week’s Sports stories take a look at two teams with a close relationship to water: theNotre Dame water polo squad (afloat and looking good) and the Navy Middies (soon to be all washed up). Along with Sports, you’ll find all of the usual departments where you always find them. This weeks entertainment section features a review of Madonna’s latest naughty concoction, reviewed by our Editor-in-Chief, Patti Doyle.
“gipper@nd.edu”?
Fans as well as foes of the Gipp may be disappointed this week. The Gipp has had to take a week off (the note on his desk said that he’s been brought in for a talking-to by Admiral Stockdale). Although he’ll surely
Scholasi ic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at Th^ Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/yearand back issues are available at $125 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
mention this in a forthcoming column, the Gipp has managed to get an E-mail address for himself. That’s right, you can now send all of your questions to the Gipp over the computer at “gipper@nd.edu”. This may prevent him from griping about not getting mail.
Also, the staff of Scholastic would like to wish its Editor-in-Chief a happy twenty-first birthday on Friday, October 30! Congratulations, Patti!	.
One final comment: we would like to remind you to exercise your most basic right as a citizen. Please vote, even if you feel that you’re choosing among three less-than-impressive candidates. Make the ejected officials responsible to you by using the power that you have over them.
Enjoy the issue.	.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer 's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.	/. ’	'
Scholastic reserves the right to refect letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit.for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received. . .	.. .
Address all correspondence to:	~ ,	/ /	: '
The Editor
Scholastic '
LaFartune Center
Notre Dame, 1^46556

■

SgilLASTIC
Ethanol:
• c - .	<
A familiar scent fuels national debate
by Chris Blanford
Some say it smells like wet, rotting leaves. To others the smell is similar to stale beer. It is ethanol, a flammable product of fermentation, and 1992 is the first year that its use as an alternative fuel will be a serious election issue. The decisions made by the winner of the Presidential race will affect the air on the Notre Dame campus, the prices for gas and the job market in the Midwest.
Both George Bush and Bill Clinton have been pushing for greater use of alternative fuels. Since a clean-air policy that favors the use of ethanol would help consume the billions of bushels of surplus com and drive grain prices higher, Bush and Clinton have been competing, each hoping to prove that he would do a better job running farm programs. '
Since he was vice president, Bush has been pushing for the use of alternative fuels. In 1987, he issued a position paper that told of a plan that would convert much of the com surplus into cash for American farmers. To further sway Midwestern voters, he announced a program at the beginning of October that would rewrite environmental rules to encourage the use of ethanol-blended fuels in some of the nation’s smog-giest cities, including Chicago. Under the proposed Environmental Protection Agency rules, fuels blended with ethanol would be eliminated Clinton proposes a compromise. He believes that properly managed programs can achieve reasonable prices anda stable food supply. In a Septem
ber 27 speech in Iowa, he said: “I’llbring the EPA and the Agriculture Department, and all the people together. We will do the research we need to hammer out the difficulties here. We’ll resolve it and we’ll use ethanol as a part of our nation’s energy security future.”
Ross Perot, however, has said and written little on farm subjects. He has vowed to eliminate the giant subsidies for giant agricultural corporations, but he doesn’t specify which subsidies or what type of operations. In addition, in his campaign book, United
resolve [any ■ ■ j economicdifficulties] and well use ethanol as a part of our -y fjy nation'senergysecurity futureGov. Bill Clinton [ • 7;
We Stand, he writes that special tax favors, such as those for ethanol fuel use, should be eliminated. These government subsidies help keep the priceof blended fuels competitive with unblended unleaded gasoline.
B ush ’ s ethanol policies have angered both environmentalists and oil companies. According to William Parton of Colorado State University’s Natural Resource Ecology Laboratory, increasing com production in the Great Plains to produce alternative fuels
would significantly increase levels of car- - > > bon dioxide in the atmosphere, and was - . -; enhancing global warming.
Growing corn by traditional methods 7 - 7 leads to soil erosion and a reduction in soil 7 -: I nutrients. This loss, he said, makes the soil ■ ; an increased source of carbon dioxide into • 7 \ the atmosphere, whereas soil rich in organic 7 -matter absorbs carbon dioxide.	-; ’
Also, producing ethanol using current - 7 techniques requires more energy than the fuels produce, Parton said. To produce 1.65	’;
gallons of ethanol, it requires the energy ; - ■ equivalent of 2.35 gallons of gasoline.
Even new techniques, such as those being ' -researched by the New Energy Company of . -.: Indiana Inc. in South Bend, only increase production of ethanol by 30 percent. Even if the procedure is scaled up to a commercial level, the energy output will still be short of the energy required to produce it.
Several experts from the Department of Agriculture said they know of no conceivable market for the amount of fuel that would result from the conversion of the surplus com. Despite this, a USDA report notes the gasoline-ethanol blends reduce the emissions of carbon monoxide and other pollutants.
Compared to gasoline, ethanol is less toxic and its biodegradable. Both of these qualities make the consequences of a large fuel spill less environmentally threatening.
All these factors must be taken into consideration when the votes are cast for President next week. The choice we make for President may also be a choice for the air we breathe next year.	□
STOMPING GROUND
THE COMMANDERS-IN-CHIEF HAVE FOUND FRIENDLY CONFINES UNDER THE DOME
FOR OVER THIRTY YEARS
by Mark Mitchell
While eighty college and university presidents publicly endorsed Governor Bill Clinton for President, Father Edward Molloy remained silent. “The university has never endorsed a candidate for President,” explained the office of information and public relations. Yet, the university is no stranger to Presidents or Presidential candidates. Since 1935, Chief Executives have been honored by Notre Dame, and candidates for the nation’s highest office have used the university as a forum from which to present their views.
Though Father John Zahm was a good friend and travelling companion of Presi-dentTheodore Roosevelt, it was not until the Presidency of Franklin Roosevelt that the university publicly courted the favor of the Commander-in-Chief with official accolades. It was during his much publicized trip to Chicago in 1935 that F.D.R. became the firstPresidentto be honored withaDoctorof Laws degree from Notre Dame. However, the President never visited the campus; rather, university president Father John O’Hara travelled to Chicago, to Roosevelt University, to present the doctoral hood, noting, “President Roosevelt has distinguished himself as a great leader in initiating legislation and executing the laws of this land; the university is honored that he wears the cloak of the oldest Catholic law school in the nation he so nobly leads.”
Though in 1935 Roosevelt’s schedule did not permit him to travel to Notre Dame in 1960, through the influence and invitation of
president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, President Dwight David Eisenhower delivered the commencement address and received his own honorary Doctor of Laws degree. Ike was the first president ever to walk the campus, and along with Milanese prelate Giovanni Cardinal Montini, the future Pope Paul VI, he presided over the distribution of degrees. In his address to the graduates assembled on the lawn of the south quadrangle, Eisenhower commented, “In the war in Europe, I learned how men became leaders through necessity. Yet I see here today how men become leaders through diligent study and effort.”
While Eisenhower was the first sitting President to visit the campus, John Kennedy had addressed the university community twice before Ike’s arrival and was no stranger to Notre Dame, as he was one of the first members of the overseeing board of the College of Liberal Arts. Kennedy’s first official visit came at the commencement exercises of 1953 when he was a Congressman. J.F.K. spoke before the graduates and also received the customary honorary degree. Three years later Kennedy was a Senator and was voted “Patriot of the Year” by the senior class. In his 1956 address to the Washington Day ceremonies, Kennedy called upon all of the students to “be brave patriots for what you righteously believe, and brave patriots, as we are all so humbly reminded ‘For God, Country and Notre Dame.’”
Kennedy received one more laud from the university. AsPresidentin 1961, J.F.K. was named the recipient of the Laetare Medal,
the highest honor bestowed by Notre Dame. Hesburgh traveled to the White House to give Kennedy the award, bestowed annually to an outstanding Catholic layman. Hesburgh noted that Kennedy had “in a most unusual way, at a most unusual age. and against unusually long odds, risen to the top ofhisprofession. [He] stands today as a kind of landmark for the place of young men in our times, as a symbol of the new energy, vision and dedicated service of youth to public welfare.” ;	.
Kennedy’s opponent in the 1960 election was a friend of Notre Dame as well. In 1959, Vice-President Richard Nixon traveled to the university to be honored as Kennedy had been three years earlier, as Patriot of the Year. The Vice President directed his remarks to the Communist menace, saying, “We must rise to the challenge of this horse race, provided we stay on our own horse and don’t try to get on his. Our system stands, for more than military might.-: It stands. for progress with freedom.”	A j
Nixon’s successor, Gerald Ford, received an enthusiastic welcome in 1975 when he arrived for a special convocation. Ford’s trip was part business, though. He spoke to the media in a formal press conference from the Center for Continuing Education and he hosted regional governors in a dinner held on the fourteenth floor of the library. Ford was granted the customary Doctor of Laws degree, but his citation was- especially, commendatory, noting, “He has. come to office in a way no other President has... and he is being called upon to lead: the nation back to harmony and out of what he him self

has called a ‘ terrible nightmare. ’”
Ford spoke to the students and faculty about the need for revamped social programs for the country to combat poverty in new and innovative ways. Such policy and principle speeches have been common fare for visiting Presidents. However, Notre Dame has also been host to several Presidential candidates whose rhetoric has not been so tamed. Eugene McCarthy gave the 1967 commencement address, and in 1968 Robert Kennedy arrived to speak before a roaring crowd of enthusiastic student supporters. Gerald Ford returned in 1976 to campaign before what he had found to be a friendly audience a year before. Even Walter Mondale used Stepan Center to present his platform, ill-fated though it was. And 1991 saw the advent of both Patrick Buchanan and Jerry Brown.
Mondale’s superior, President Jimmy Carter has spoken at Notre Dame no less than three times. In 1977 he spoke at the commencement exercises, after having campaigned here only a year before. And
only last year, Carter was thefirstrecipient of the Notre Dame Award for humanitarian efforts. It was those humanitarian efforts which Carter discussed in all three of his speeches.
ItwasRonaldReagan’s turn to be hailed as commencement speaker in 1981. The President shared the stage with fellow film star Pat O’Brien who played Knute Rockne while Reagan played George Gipp in Knute Rockne All American. The President, who chose a lighter tone for his speech, confessed that he had been on
President ^1 Gerald Ford's motorcade is greeted by onlookers as the Presidential limousine proceeds along a the former Dorr Road, en-tering the campus. Students created the welcome sign to give Ford a typically Irish flair.
President John Kennedy accepts the Laetare Medal from university president Father Theodore Hesburgh and executive vice-presldent Edmund Joyce in the Oval Office.
campus before his invitation to speak, relating, “The first time I set foot on this campus, I was a cub sports announcer who was elated to be able to see one of the greatest college football traditions in action on the field. You won, of course, or else I wouldn’t have told you that story!”
However, 1981 was not Reagan’s last visit to the university. He returned for the unveiling of the 19 cent U.S. postage stamp commemorating Rockne. The President’s second visit would have passed with relatively little press coverage had the “Great Communicator” not flubbed his own most famous movie line, saying, “Win one for the Giffer.”
And of course this political season has seen both major candidates visit the university. President George Bush was the 1992 commencement speaker and Governor Bill Clinton took the podium in Stepan Center in September of this year. Both Bush and Clinton were met with some vocal protests during their visits. And while Bush was the first Chief Executive to share the graduation stage with Father Edward Malloy, Clinton noted in his speech, “If I am elected, I will be the first president to have graduated from a Catholic university.”
Notre Dame has had a long and friendly relationship with the leaders of the land. Six Presidents have spoken at commencement exercises and seven have received honorary degrees from the university. And in this “too-close-to-call” campaign year, the university’s bases are covered because, whether Bush or Clinton, the next President of the United States has visited Notre Dame.Q

5
News
The
GHOSTS
of Notre Dame
by K. L. Lawrence
Armed with a notebook, flashlight, rosary and an escort recruitedfrom the TV lounge in her dorm, the reporter ascends the steps to the theater balcony of Washington Hall. The manager closes the door behind them and they grab seats in the last row and wait for their eyes to start playing tricks on them. Looking toward the stage, they see nothing but a pinpoint of red light on the phone box next to the stage. It is impossible to perceive any depth in the black darkness around them, so they remain focused on the red dot and the few strips of light on the walls and listen to the groanings of the old building. The reporter turns on herflashlight for a minute and looks around the stage and main floor. After ascertaining that the dark wasn't hiding anything exciting, she returns to her seat and turns off the flashlight.
“Get out!”
"Didyou hear that?" (to the disembodied voice) "Um, what didyou say?"
“Get out,” the unmistakably female voice hisses again from the right of the stage. About five seconds of debate precede a hasty exit. They fly down the steps and meet the building manager in front of his office. He laughs at their story and turns on the theater lights at their request. They look around and talk about what they heard. The escort is standing infront of the stage at the right speaker. She and the reporter hear the same “get out” whisperedfrom the speaker. The manager says he hears nothing but whooshing noise.
A mean prank or a real ghost? If Scho
lastic knew, they wouldn’t tell anyway. The manager of Washington Hall, Tom Barkes talked about the mysterious events that have plagued the building since the 1920s. The most common occurrences, he said, have been reports of instruments playing themselves in the band room. Since the band moved into its own building in 1991, he added, these have not been as common. Barkes attested to having heard an occasional “strange thud” coming from abovehis office, where the stage is located. According to legend, a steeplejack was killed in a fall from the fly loft above the stage in 1886. After recounting the story behind this noise, Barkes was quick to add that he was “sure it’s just the pipes.” Because the steeplejack is supposedly haunting the theater until somebody else falls and takes his place, students are warned to be careful when working from heights.
Although he has managed Washington Hall for the past eight years, Barkes said, “I don’t put much stock in [the ghosts stories]. If I did, I don’t think I would be able to work here.” Barkes did, however, describe one occurrence that he hasn’t been able to explain. One night, “sometime within the past 12 months,” he was alone in his office until after midnight. He had locked up the building and was getting ready to leave when he noticed a red light on his phone indicating that another line was in use in the hall. He turned the fightback on in his office and saw that, according to his phone, the stage phone was in use. Because the stage is supposed to be the center of supernatural activity in Washington Hall, Barkes answered with a simple “no way ” when asked if he went to the theater to check it out.
Although Washington Hall, is the most famous site for unexplained occurrences, Morrissey is also home to at least one ghost story. According to one campus security guard, who asked to be identified only as Elva, the ghost of Morrissey Hall is most active during winter break. Although students must leave the campus during this time, the guards are assigned rounds, which include turning every doorknob in each building to check the locks. In Morrissey, Elva said that she and other guards have comeback to the locked doors they had just checked only to find them open. “And we knew damn well those doors were locked,” she said. “It must be that ghost again.”
One student living off campus has reported a haunting in her ownapartment. An art major living at the Mar-Main Arms apartments, who asked that her narhe not be used, claims that a ghost lives there too. The specter, which goes by the . name “Mike,” has made itself known by turning the pages in her address book, moving things around and actually becoming visible at night. Once, she said, it stopped the tape she was listening to and rewound it to the beginning of a song it apparently liked. She has also dreamed about who the ghost might be, then awoke to its shadowy figure sitting on the edge of her bed. She has compared looking at the ghost to “looking through'a.piece. of cellophane.” She said that it does not have a solid form, but rather a presence that is at once visible and transparent. ' >
When asked how she manages tolive with a ghost in her apartment, she said “It doesn’t really bother me that much, but it kinda freaks me out at night. My experiences haven’t been severe enough to make me move out.”	-V. •
Although those in the know claim varying degrees of belief in the supernatural, Barkes summed up the primajy attitude toward campus ghost stories: “People don ’ t want to look for explanations; the mystery [of campus lore] is part of the fun;” His only lament is that the stories connected to Washington Hall would bring more than ghost-seekers inside. “My wish is for one.of the [communication and theater] department’s shows to get as much coverage.as this ghost has had,”	/ . □
SCHOLASTIC
-	. Gampus Life-
Choosing a
President
Students are very indecisive as to who they will vote for on Tuesday
by Jenny Tate
Presidential Elections 1992 — for most Notre Dame students it is their first opportunity to vote in a Presidential election. Unfortunately, for many students, the elections are proving to be a nightmare.
Over arid over, the phrase “choosing the lesser of three evils” has surfaced in reference to the upcoming elections. The general feeling persists that none of the three candidates are ideal for the role as President. “All three candidates are focused in their own area, but not one has all that we need,” said senior Dan Heenan. “It comes down to who has the; least number of negatives against them. That’s unfortunate.” Sophomore Rachel Choquette said, “I don’t feel like any of the, three candidates will be a big bang president.”
The election has sparked indecision and confusion rather than an optimistic outlook for our country. One primary concern of students rests in the candidates’ propensity to avoid the real issues facing our nation. “The issues have not been addressed at all,” Heenan said. Heenan remarked that the issues the press and the candidates keep
returning to, for example, family values and the draft, are “the superficial concepts that the parties are trying to gain votes on.” Heenan said that the true issues facing our nation are the decline of the American spirit, the condition of our cities, racism and the economy.
“The problem with this election is that the people who are running are more fascinated with being President than with the issues,” said junior Dan Connolly. “They are all three politicians. They all want to be President so badly,” he said.
Junior Elisa Klosterman agreed that the three candidates have been “talking a lot of fluff.” She said, “They are more into soundbytes rather than discussing the issues. My vote will be a vote against one candidate rather than a vote for another.”
Of course, every candidate has his strengths and weaknesses. George Bush, the incumbent, stands out as the best prospect to lead our country in a global environment “You have got to have a leader, first and foremost to represent the United States as a strong nation. He (Bush) represents the United S tates abroad. He commands respect around the world as a leader for peace,”
Connolly said. Connolly remarked that -. Bush’s dedication to maintaining our na- < tional security puts him at the forefront of -the candidates. “He has proven capable of < ; leading in a world that is still proven to be a - . dangerous place,” he said.	: -:
Probably the major strike against Bush K lies in the fact that many Americans are >2 clamoring for a change. “People are fed up. <-enough with the state of our country to elect ': - i a new President,” said Klosterman. “It is not < ; fair to blame Bush, but people are looking : -; for a change,” said freshman Marina ; -: Alkidas. “I will vote for Clinton simply because Bush has had his four years but has > I not run a Bush administration. It has been -; -another four years of Reaganomics,” said -1 -sophomore Bert Bader.	:
Governor Bill Clinton has been hailed by ; > many as the man to lead the nation out of its ; -; cunent economic slump. “I think he [Clinton] has the best programs to change > Z and we definitely need a change,” said '; U Choquette.	•: -
However, Clinton remains plagued by the ■ 1; issue of trust. Clinton’s admitted extra- ; \ . marital affair and his evasion of the Vietnam ' -: ■ draft continue to shroud his credibility in : < ।
OCTOBER 29,1992
7
questions. “I don’t really trust him. I think I have Democratic viewpoints, but I can’t vote for someone I don’t trust. I can’t pinpoint why I don’t trust him but I just don’t,” said Alkidas. “He changes his answers a lot,” she said.
Finally, Perot, the billionaire underdog, rests engulfed in a sea of mixed opinions. . No one can argue the charm of his nearly comic demeanor or explain his abandonment of the election and his subsequent reentry.
Most people would agree that if Perot’s intention was to stir up the race, he has : ■ surely succeeded. However, Perot’s bid for : • ., President has not exactly been wholeheart-i edly embraced by the American public.
“He’s a runaway ego with a wallet,” said Connolly. “I was for Perot until he dropped out. I don’t know if he is the best person for the office, but he can hire the best people,” said Alkidas. “Perot is the epitome of patriarchy in this country,” said Klosterman.
Many feel that Perot’s interests are too narrow, that he needs to expand on issues other than the economy and the deficit. “Perot is a businessman and a business leader but his view of the economy is solely deficit oriented,” said Heenan. Choquette said, “Perot is too focused on one issue — the economy and the deficit.”
However, some have viewed Perot’s weak standing in the polls not as a negative, but as the first step to gaining the 1996
Republican Presidential nomination. “Perot has established himself nationally, and he will probably be able to step in and take the 1996 Republican nomination,” said Bader.
Undoubtedly, the American media has played a major role in this year’s elections. Some argue that the media are pro-Clinton. “The media have done everything to make Bush vulnerable. They are contra-incumbent,” said Connolly. Others argue that the media have simply overstepped their bounds. “The media have had too big a role. The majority of people believe everything they read and everything they hear, and it puts a cloud over theelections,” said Bader.
Yet many issues that the media have brought to the forefront of the election have been downplayed by the American people. For example, the media repeatedly affirms Bush’s stance as pro-life and Clinton’s stance as pro-choice on the abortion issue. For Alkidas, the issue of abortion takes a definite backseat to other concerns facing our country. Choquette agreed that the abortion issue should not be a deciding factor in the election. “l am very pro-life, but you cannot vote on one issue. Abortion is more moral than political,” she said.
For now, the polls continue’to show Clinton leading Bush with Perot falling a distant third. Yet, due to the volatility of the American people and the addition of Perot as a strong third candidate, the Presidency still remains up for grabs.
What do Notre Dame’s students predict? “It won’t be a landslide but it will be a convincing victory for Clinton,” said Connolly. “I think the polls will slide more in .Clinton’s favor and he will be able to take it,” said Bader. '	2"	7
Regardless of the final outcome, the overriding opinion holds that-the 1992 Presidential elections will not provide us with the most capable person fot -the job. Many students are greeting their first Presidential voting opportunity with disappointment. “You would think we would have enough resources in this country to produce more effective leaders. Ijust don’t have faith in any of the candidates, which is a sad thing for my first' election,” said Klosterman.	C
“If God wanted us to vote, he would have given us candidates,” she said. □
8
SCHOLASTIC
■ ■ Campus Jiife
Fun Without
Alcohol?
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education sponsors social activites for students during National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week
. By Mollie Mudd
T s there anything else to do at Notre JI Dame on the weekends but drink? That is the question the Office of Alcohol and DrugEducation (OADE) is trying to answer this week, National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week.
Alcohol, the number one drug of choice among college students, is visibly present at almost all social activities on and off campus.
Mark Pogue, coordinator of the OADE, said, “It’s one thing to say that students should have a choice whether or not they will drink, but if all of the social options are alcohol-centered, you really don’t have much of a choice. That’s why we are encouraging and supporting events of all types, so that everyone has social options.”
Events for the Alcohol Awareness Week began on Monday, October 26, and will continue, .through Saturday, October 31. There is a drawing for prizes like a CD player, a Lou Holtz autographed football, a John MacLeod autographed basketball, Wendy’s coupons and others. Students are eligible to enter the drawing as many times as they attend or participate in the week’s activities.
On Monday, a DUI Mock trial was performed for students. Mock subpoenas were handed out to students during lunch at North and South Dining Halls by Security in order to simulate a real summons to appear in the
courtroom later that evening. Sponsored by the Prosecutor’s Office in South Bend, Notre Dame’s SADD group;..and the OADE, this event portrayed a young woman arrested for DUI as her lawyer tried to establish her level of intoxication and prove her innocence.
The mocktrial was in a sense “real,” for it included a real prosecutor, a real defense attorney and a real judge. The trial took place in the Judge Norman C. Barry Court Room of the Law School to give it a realistic setting. The audience was given front row seats to a performance that explained the initial traffic accident, where the defendant was found smelling of alcohol. The variety of field sobriety tests that were administered by the policeman, to the defendant were detailed. And the results of those tests, including three calculations of her blood alcohol content percentage through breathalizers and a blood sample, which led to her arrest Judge John Robinson presided and announced a guilty verdict upon the accused defendant.
“Notre Dame has a strict policy against drinking and driving,” Pogue reminded the audience. If a student were to be arrested and convicted, he/she would not only face the court’s punishment but he/she would have responsibilities toNotreDame as well. Du Lac suggests possible suspension or expulsion as a result of students’ actions while intoxicated and operating a motor vehicle.
On Tuesday, October 27, the University ; ■ CounselingCenterandtheOADEsponsored : “HIGH-er Education,” a one-act comedy performance staged by the Recovery Productions Theater from Minneapolis, Minne- ; sota.
The play, performed by two actors, Laura Clark and Stephen J. O’Toole, was set in an i < off-campus house during an average week- ' -end. The situations were realistic, the issues J ; true and the humor was rich and dark. <
The one-act play portrayed “Rasta” and ; -: “Turtle” struggling with intimacy problems 1; I and parental pressure, turned to using pot and 1; -cocaine to cope.	- ~ -
“Moose,” a disheartened football player, -. -drinks to drown his feelings of failure from a < -game loss while his girlfriend, “Deb,” was ;' ; trapped in a cycle of control and co-depen- ; -; dence.	: -:
Also shown was “JT,” who prowled the >' scene looking for the prettiest woman to -> boost his fragile esteem. And “Schmo,” the -; -party master, kept the party rolling through- ■ 1 -out	<7
The characters were subtly urged to “Lis- ; -; ten to your thoughts, listen to your feelings, :' 7 listen to yourself, listen, listen.”	1 <
On Wednesday, October 28, a Disoriented	' ’
Domer Dash was held in the JACC. This •; -event, sponsored by the Office of Recre- -: -ational Sports and the OADE, simulated impairment associated with alcohol misuse, ■ ■ ; like the loss of complete motor control and nngairedvisionJStu^^
and a female, attempt to complete the obstacle course with the fastest time, while impaired.
“This obstacle course is created for the students to have some socializing and mixing without alcohol,” Pogue said. Students wore disorienting glasses that narrowed their vision and blurred their peripheral
vision to create a sort of “tunnel vision,” the way an intoxicated individual sees the world. One part of the race was run while the competitors were
dizzy. Students leaned over, put the top of their heads down on the end of a bat and spun around four times before entering the course.
Pogue said, “The Disoriented Domer Dash was just to have fun.” Students participated after seeing flyers sent out by the OADE that said: “We double dog dare you!!” The top three teams were awarded Champion Notre Dame sweatshirts.
Also on Wednesday, the S.U.D.S. Task Force was on campus — not to arrest but to converse.

“Get To Know The Law The desire to drink until you are drunk, especially if you drink alone, could Sematary. The films be-
BeforeTheLawGetsTo	be the start of a serious problem.	gin at 11:30 p.m. in
Know You,” featured
representatives from the S.U.D.S. (Stop Underage Drinking and Sales) Task Force: Sgt. Gregory Deitchley of the Indiana State Excise Police and Sgt. James Moon of the South Bend Police Department
The program presented a forum for communication between the student body and the law. A question and answer session that reviewed the students’ rights and responsi
bilities as well as the S.U.D.S. Task Force’s rights and responsibilities in their jobs. “This gave S.U.D.S. the opportunity to explain their side of the coin. They are just doing their job as police officers. By enforcing alcoholic beverage laws they can eliminate some other important problems like drunk driving and the violence and vandalism sometimes associated with intoxication,” Pogue said.
Tonight, Thursday, October 29, free mocktails are being served during the dinner hours in the dining halls. This event, sponsored by University Food Services, SADD and the OADE, stresses the importance of having beverage options available at all social gatherings. “It’s one thing to say that students should have a choice of beverages,
but if water or melted ice from a cooler is the only non-alcoholic beverage, you really don’t have much of a choice,” Pogue said. “This is why we are encouraging the avail

H&WS 'C
ability of mocktails and promoting party planning assistance — so that everyone has beverage options.”
There seems to be a growing number of students who do not drink alcohol, Pogue said, as well as that “you’dbe surprised at the number of young people who are recovering alcoholics. One drink could really hurt them. Why not have alternative beverages at
your parties?” he asked.
Also on Thursday evening a discussion is being held, “Cultural Differences in Understanding Addictions.” The meeting will focus on the importance of cultural differences in working with any ethnic group. Different backgrounds and cultures can influence choices as well as opinions of others. One group, whose drug of choice is cocaine, may not understand another group’s reliance on
or choice of alcohol. This discussion should open up lines of communication as well as providing some insights to the reasons behind some particular groups drugs of choice, Pogue said. Towhat extent are the laws in America more lenient toward the whites’ drug of choice, alcohol and against something like the early Chinese-
Americans’ fascination with opium when they first came to the New World? Pogue said that questions like this one and others pertaining to various cultures’ perceptions
of certain drugs and others’ uses of them may be discussed. This forum is sponsored by the OADE and the Office of Minority Student Affairs.
The final two events were not planned by the OADE however, they are being prompted by them as alcohol-free social activities. On Friday, in anticipation of Halloween, Student Activities has planned a free all-night scary movie marathon entitled. “Fright Night.” Featured are: Halloween, Graveyard Shift, Friday the 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street and Pet
Lafortune’s Ballroom.
Halloween Night lets Carroll Hall show off its ghastly and ghoulish efforts to convert a dorm into a house of horrors. The door opens at 8 p.m., but be sure to arrive by 9:30 p.m. After that the line will be cut off. Admission is a minimal charge of $2.
Throughout this week, the OADE s provided students with social options to enjoy without the influence of alcohol. Observ
ing National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week is important, Pogue said. “Drinking is a? problem on most college campuses, including Notre Dame. We are no different than any other college. Wherever students drink to get drunk there is a problem. We are here to help solve that problem. And promoting awareness and alternatives to drinking are the ways to do that.”	. □
SCHOLASTIC
"Sports
Making a Splash
Notre Dame's water polo team prepares to sink its competition en route to national recognition.	!
By Tony Boczkowski
£ £TS T ater polo! What the heck is that?
▼ V How do you get the horses in the pool?”
These are a couple of the typical statements you might hear from many Midwesterners at the mention of the sport. Water polo, is popular on the east coast at both the high school and college levels. The greatest enthusiasm, however, can be seen on the west coast, especially in California where water polo is as big as basketball is in Indiana. In many foreign countries, such as Yugoslavia and Cuba, water polo is the national sport. This aquatic sport may not be widely recognized in the Midwest, but it is the fastest growing sport in the country. High schools and colleges are establishing programs across the country.
Water polo is played in a pool of up to 30 meters in length. There are 14 players in the pool at. a time, six field players and one goalie per team. There are four quarters in a gape. Because of the intensive nature of the sport, each quarter is only six minutes long. The overall configuration of the playing area resembles a soccer field with distance markers and goals at either end. The game is played much like basketball in that the ball is passed around the perimeter, drives are made to the goal and picks are set to open up shots. Water polo is made up of three types of players: drivers, hole men and goalies. Drivers pass around the perimeter and are primary shooters. They play a pivotal role in the game’s offense and are characterized by leverage and pure strength. Hole men make cuts to the goal either to provide distractions on defense or targets on offense. The goalie’s role needs no explanation. This position requires agil-
In 1989-90, Notre Dame placed fifth in the Midwest, losing only to Top 20 east coast teams. This year, the Irish have the talent to duplicate such successes under player/coaches Tony Boczkowski, Joshua Schaffer and Joe Dummer.
ity and strong legs to tread water throughout the game without any rest.
On the whole, water polo is a fast-paced sport requiring quick thinking, dexterity, strength, good swimming ability and most of all, endurance.	.
Noire Dame has always provided tough competition for other Midwestern teams, but has suffered the past couple of seasons from losses due to the graduation of key players. 1989-90 was the last stellar season as Notre Dame placed fifth overall in the Midwest, and lost only to Top 20 east coast teams like the University of Massachusetts, Boston Conegf^mcHkuwarcl^acMr^m^
of points. This year the team is very optimistic. There are many talented, enthusiastic freshmen who are laying the groundwork for the team’s future. This enthusiasm is reflected by being able to form a small women’s squad for the first time. These observations were proven valid two weeks ago when Notre Dame travelled to Ohio for a tournament at Findlay University. The Irish took on Findlay, Ohio University and Michigan State and went 1-2 against them.
Team council member Bill Dardis commented, “Our losses were disappointing, but it was our first tournament with a new core (continued on page 14)
OCTOBER 29; -1992
11
Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaF or tune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 29
Movie: "The Butcher's Wife," 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Video Series: The African Video Series, "New Gods" and "Exploitation," Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, 7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Privatization: Child of Failure or Success?" William P. Glade, C-103 Hesburgh Center, 4:15 p.m.
Colloquium: "The Creation of Scientific Effects: Heinrich Hertz and Electrical Waves," Jed Z Buchwald, Room 131 Decio Hall, 4:15 p.m.
Symposium: "The Future of Peace and Security Studies in a Changing World," Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies, 3:00 to 5:30 p.m.
Concert: Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Friday 30
Movie: "The Addams Family," 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Batman Returns," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.	.
Forum: "Successful Aging," Tom Merluzzi and Cindy Bergeman, Room 124, Center for Social Concerns, 12:15 p.m.
Swimming: Notre Dame Relays, Rolfs Aquatic Center, 4:00 p.m.
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Lake Superior State, JACC, 7:00 p.m.
Volleyball: Notre Dame Women vs.
Evansville, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
Saturday 31 !
Movie: "The Addams Family," 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Batman Returns," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Storytelling: "Ghouls and Ghosts, Spirits and Shadows," Snite, 10:30 am.
Swimming: Notre Dame Men and Women vs. Western Ontario, Rolf s Aquatic Center, 7:00 p.m.
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Lake Superior State, JACC, 7:00 p.m.
Volleyball: Notre Dame Women vs. Butler, JACC, 7:30 pm.
I v
/
2
Fi
7: Fi
P-P. C to
S<
A
OrWdWIiiBiihWM
LaFortimeInfomiMionDesk?7 S^
Senior; Class: 239-5136 4; JACC	.4
SniteFilmSeriesHotLine;
NotreDameMenuLine:283j-FOOD W&kendWheelsScM
;283-FkED v
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: X 1211 for news headlines x 1212 for local news x 1932fortoppopalbums x 1911 for prime time TV x 1906 for video releases
Sunday 1
’lano Recital: Faculty Piano Recital vith William Cerny,'Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, IflOpm.
Monday 2
Um: "Boudu Saved From Drowning,"
00 p.m., Snite; $2.
Um: "Night of the Living Dead," 9:00 m., Snite, $2.
erformance: National Shakespeare ompany, "Comedy of Errors," Washingin Hall, 8:00 p.m.
occer: Notre Dame vs. Miami (Ohio), lumni Field, 7:00 p.m.
Madonna's new book, Sex, premieres this week at bookstores everywhere.
X16Q0 for local weather , x:1603. for national weather ; ■ xl903formoviereviews X 1300 for local sports info, x 1301 for T^ ■ ■ x 1303 for national sports report <x 1213yfor;y^^
Tuesday 3
Film: "Looking for Mr. Goodbar," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Jaguar," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Performance: National Shakespeare Company, "Comedy of Errors," Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Video Series: The Africans Video Series, "New Conflicts" and "In Search of Stability," Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, 7:30 p.m.
Lecture: "Political Culture and the Stability of Democracy in Central America: An Empirical Evaluation," Mitchell Selgson, Hesburgh Center, 12:30 pm.
Volleyball: Notre Dame Women vs.
Michigan, JACC, 7:30 p.m. Basketball: Notre Dame Men vs.
Australians, JACC.
Wednesday 4
Lecture: Jorge Bustamante, Room 103, Hesburgh Center fro International Studies, 7:30 p.m.
MovieTheatres:
100 Center Ginema I&H: /'	259-0414	"
Scottsdale Theatre:
■ i Town & Country Theatre:
; University Park Cinema East:
University Park CinemaWest:
J Forum I & II Cinema; \ sSC f 277-1522	:
s
f continued frompage 11)
of players and we took on some tough teams.”
The above mentioned losses were to
1
'I
■
L
i
Michigan State and Findlay (10-8 and 12-9, respectively), both of which have varsity status and place highly in the Midwestern Collegiate Championships. The Ohio University game, conversely, was utter destruction in favor of the Irish as Notre Dame won 23-3.
Driver Chris O’Hara said, “It’s obvious we were a better team. All the rookies got playing time and our momentum never stopped.”
This momentum was initiated by drivers John Schultz, Ed Padinski, Bill Dardis, Donald Balhoff and Chris O’Hara. Someofthebest
performances were by rookies Walter Morrisey, Brian Wood and Eric Schultz.
Team captain Brian Coughlin sang the praises of his teammates. “Walter comes from Fenwick High School in Chicago. They have a very strong program. He’s a smart player. Brian grew up playing water polo in California. He is very aggressive and has valuable experience. Eric is one of our strongest swimmers on the team. He swam for the university last year. He can hold his own against most opponents and has a cannon for an arm.”
There were also stellar performances by many of the freshmen and tremendous improvements in ability by Pat Keaney, Tim Tonini, J.B. Boyd and Patrick Miller.
The women’s squad gave a remarkable
showing,by winning two of its three games. Ellen Sommerlad and Kristin Eggleston held a tough defense while Megan Cicarelli and Devita Hemmy were on fire on offense,
Ken Osgood
Water polo is a contact sport that requires endurance, finesse, skill and strength. Growing In popularity, it has begun to hit the Midwest,
although the east and west coast schools still boast the best teams.
each with at least one hat trick per game.
Notre Dame’s young talent is shaped and tempered by four seniors, all of whom are veteran war horses for the Irish: driver John Schultz, hole men Joshua Schaffer and Joe
Dummer and goalie Tony Boczkowski. All four came from strong high school programs and, therefore, each has almost a decade of experience on the high school and college
levels. /Schaffer and Boczkowski have been starters since the first game of the fifth-ranked 1989 team and have used this wisdom to coach this year’s squad. The veteran players have had the experiences that provide a .perspective on college sports that freshmen coming out.of high school could usually not appreciate, right away. Namely, the older players know that the college game is rough.
This year’s team has the heart and conviction to perform well in upcoming tournaments, the most pivotal being the Midwestern Regional Championships, in Ohio
on November 7. The top four teams will go on to compete at the NCAA Big Ten Championships on November 14.
Play er/c o a c h Dummer was asked to sum up his coaching philosophy which produces the intense spirit and aggressiveness of the team. To this he responded with a grin: “There are no rules in water polo, only the referees trying to keep control of what often becomes mayhem in and out of: the pool.” . You can catch the Irish water polo team in action when it hosts the Notre Dame Halloween Invitational this weekend.
Game times are posted around the campus. Come and support one of Notre Dame’s great, though unheralded, athletic traditions as it makes its move toward national recognition.	□
14	• 4' < < 4 5; ' <	: ' , 
■
Sunken
Middies
O n October 31, the Notre Dame Fighting Irish will play the United States Naval Academy Midshipmen in the 66th game of a series that began in 1927. The game will be held at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, in front of a capacity crowd of 76,000.
The two teams met last season atNotre DameStadium when the Irish coasted to an easy win by shutting out the Midshipmen with a final score of 38-0. This was Notre Dame’s 28th consecutive win over Navy, leaving the series record at 55-9-1.
The-Midshipmen and third-year head coach George Chaump have a 1-10 record for the 1991 season that they would like to forget Ghaump, who has been described as being “cautious” in his approach toward the 1992 season, believes that they have a good chance of putting 1991 behind them.
He believes that the overall experience and confidence of the team have improved in the past year.
“We’re improved and we’re stronger,” he said. “At the same time, I think the.schedule we face is tougher than in recent years.” Chaump’s'preseason hesitations have been verified as the Midshipmen have compiled a 1992 record of 0-6.
Navy will be looking to two key factors in its push toward victory over the Irish. The first key for Navy will be sophomore quarterback Jim Kubiak. This is the first season in three years that Navy has turned to an experienced throwing quarterback.
Kubiak was starting quarterback midway through his freshman season. He completed 93 of his 154 attempts for a total of 957 yards," including two touchdowns. After some extensive spring practices, Chaump believes that Kubiak “has a better grasp of quarterback play.”
The second key for Navy will be its revised defensive philosophy and new defensive coaching staff.
“Our players readily accepted the new defensive schemes. The big question is how much progress has been made in learning and mastering the techniques of this new system,” said Chaump.
The new defensive coordinator, Greg McMackin, has a strategy for the Midshipmen defense that boosted Utah to the top of the Western Athletic Conference in defense a year ago.
A hapless and hopeless Navy squad collides with seething Lou Holtz and surging Notre Dame.
By Kate Medeiros
USNA Sports Information
After going 1-10 in his rookie 1991 campaign and 0-6 so far In 1992, coaching at Navy has been nothing but nightmares for George Chaump.
The 1992squad is anchored by senior co-captains Chad Chatlos and Eric McGowan.
Chatlos, a defensive back, led the Midshipmen in tackles last season with 106. He also led Navy with five interceptions and boasted the most playing time with 897 plays for the season. With his past
experience, Chatlos will start as the “anchor” back in Navy’s new
defensive alignment.
“He’s a very, very instinctive player. It’s like he’s in the quarterback’s head,” said safeties coach Ron Harris.
McGowen, a defensive end, was a leader on the special teams last year. McGowen can play either end slot using his good instincts and excellent range.
Versatile junior tailback Jason Van Matre will be a key component
IlljgijER 29,1992

to a balanced offense. Van Matre was named the Most Valuable Player in Navy’s only win last year against Army by score of 24-3. He played both quarterback and tailback in the game against Army, showing his true overall athletic ability. He rushed for 89 yards and a touchdown on 25 carries, completed his only pass for twelve yards and caught five passes for 38 yards in that game.
Sophomore wide receiver Tom Pritchard led the Midshipmen in receiving last year with 35 catches for 569 yards, including two touchdowns. His 35 receptions is a freshman Navy record. He will be either the primary or secondary receiver in each and every Navy passing play.
Senior fullback Duke Ingraham will also be a key component of Navy’s offense. A real workhorse, Ingraham is a rugged runner and very effective in certain offensive alignments.
Sophomore tight end Kevin Hickman is one of the best tight end prospects the Midshipmen have had in the past decade. Hickman is described by coaches as “an old fashioned football player who has a knack for getting open.” Hickman is not only a tenacious runner, but his size, strength and good hands also make him a top competitor for opponents with a soft secondary,
Steve Palmer, senior center, is one of Navy’s most effective offensive linemen. Palmer, who started in ten of the eleven games in the 1991 season, is described as one of the strongest offensive linemen Navy has ever had.
Navy will be looking to a strong defense to hold back Irish quarterback Rick Mirer, his running backs, his receivers and his huge offensive line.
Chatlos will have help from senior defensive tackle Robert
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Kevin Pendergast: Pendergast, a senior from Simsbury, CT, led the Notre Dame men’s soccer team to victory when he scored a goal against BYU last Friday. The Irish downed the Cougars by a score of 4-1. Pendergast also scored a goal against Loyola on October 14 before the game was discontinued for lightning. When the match was continued last Monday, the Irish lost 3-2.
Kuberski. Kuberski, a dominant performer, is a superb defender. His size and excellent quickness enable him to make big plays.
“He’s a keen competitor and the move from outside to inside didn’t seem to bother him. We’re looking for him to continue to make that big play for us,” said defensive line coach Denny Murphy.
Sophomore defensive back Chris Hart will also be key in Navy’s defense.
“He’s extremely quick and a natural leader. He has great reaction to his reads and is quick to break to the ball,” said safeties coach Harris.
Head coach George Chaump has been successful at every level on which he has coached. In the seventeen years he has been coaching on both the collegiate and high school levels, he has a winning percentage of .683. In January of 1990, Chaump was appointed the 33rd head football coach at the United States Naval Academy.
He came to Navy after being very successful at both Marshall University and Indiana University of Pennsylvania, where he won conference championships as head coach. Chaump also has a national championship under his belt as an assistant coach at Ohio State. Chaump’s overall collegiate coaching record for 10 seasons is 63-48-2. His overall record as a head coach on both the collegiate and high school levels is 126-58-2.
Navy has some strong players and strategies, but with the Irish looking to maintain their position in the rankings,, this is an opportunity for Notre Dame to pull out all the stops and toy with an undersized, underskilled competitor. It is also a time, however, for Irish starters to get a breather, as “the big one” against an undefeated Boston College team is just one week away.	□
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Julie Vogel: Vogel, a freshman from Cincinnati, OH, led the Notre Dame women's soccer team to a win over LaSalle last Friday. The Irish downed LaSalle by a score of 4-0, Vogel. scored two of the four goals for Notre Dame. Freshman Ragen Coyne assisted Vogel on her first goal. This Irish win improves the team's record in the MCC to 4-0.
by J. Bradley Keck
How was break? Like I care anyway.
You know, sometimes I wish I didn’t have to come back.
Monday morning was a good example of why this place I call home drives me to the edge of insanity. ! had to leave my car at home after break because some repairs didn’t get finished last week. My parents loaned me one of their cars and were going to switch vehicles with me the weekend of the Boston College game. I had done this once before a couple of years ago, and I knew I had to register the second car with parking services. (The university has used me as a coffer-filling vessel many times in the past You too?)
On my way to the parking lot Monday, I planed to get my parking pass right after class. Well, after my second class and only three hours on campus, what did I find on my car but a parking ticket for $50. You think security would have something better to do, considering that not once, but twice when we dropped off Scholastic this semester at the main circle guard booth, the officer on duty was sleeping. Our parking fines and tuition at work;
Conservative?
From the Eisenhower era to the present election,, the political parties have been using Broadway show tunes to define their candidates arid platforms. Eisenhower used Irving Berlin’s “We Like Ike,” written two years before he decided to run for President And who can forget Kennedy ’s adoption of “Camelot” as the administration’s anthem. The Bush ticket also has a song. “The Best of Times” was played at the Republican convention and has also been played at many personal appearances by the candidates. The song was one of the big hits from La Cage aux Folles. What an insightful choice by the Republicans. To reflect their plat
form, they have chosen a song about how rosy the world has become sung by a bunch of fairy men (wimps) running around (pretending to be what they aren’t) in drag.
America’s Pastime
Of all the issues being tossed around this election one of the most important issues pertaining to life in America has yet to be examined. This issue is so important it could drastically alter the integrity and image of America. No party has produced a plan devising a way to rejuvenate baseball in America. First, the Seattle Mariners were purchased by a Japanese company. Then, Team U.S.A. lost the Olympic gold medal to Cuba. Third, the Toronto Blue Jays become champions of the world with no Canadians and six non-Americans on the team. Mom, apple pie, baseball and Chevrolet. We already know what has happened to the American family and Chevrolet, and now baseball is going to the birds. What is left? Apple Pie? McDonalds even makes those.
WVFI TOP TEN
1.	Soul Asylum — 3 song EP — Better than the rest of the album.
2.	Various — Afternoon Delight — Lovely from SUB POP.
3.	Daisy Chainsaw — Eleventeen — Dude, ye’ll jes splode yer head.
4.	Sugar — Helpless EP — Bob Bob Bob Bob Bob Bob...
5.	Sonic Youth — Dirty — I really like Daydream Nation.
6.	Grifters — So Happy Together — As usual, genius is frightening.
7.	Various — Kill Rock Stars.— Bands you should love.
8.	Hell No —- Skin Job — How hard do you feel?
9.	Mr. T. Experience — Milk Milk Lemonade - They love you.
10.	Shiny Beast — Shiny Beast — Genius.
-Joe Cannon
Up and Coming
Gallagher, tomorrow to next Sunday at the Star Plaza... Mickey Gilley, Sunday at the Paramount Arts Center... Ned’s Atomic Dustbin with Das EFX, Sunday at the Metro ... Gilligan’s Island the Musical, starting November 4 at the Organic Theater ... Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey Circus, November 4-15 at the Rosemont Horizon and November 17-29 at Chicago Stadium... David Copperfield, November 7 and 8 at the Chicago Theatre ... A Christmas Carol, November 13 to January 3 at the Goodman Theatre ... Benson and Hedges: Blues and Rhythm with Freddie Jackson, Meli’sa Morgan and Najee, November 12 at the Chicago Theatre ... The Nutcracker, December 11-30 at the Arie Crown Theatre. At the Movies: Rampage, by the creator of The Exorcist, William Friedkin ... The Lover, based on the Marguerite Duras novel... Malcolm X’s release date moved up to November 18. In the record stores Tuesday: Bon Jovi, Ice Cube, The The, Ned’s Atomic Dustbin, The Orb and EMF.

Embi—miwent ■ ■■
By Patricia Doyle
£ £	r°tic, Erotic, Put your hands all over
JL-/my body,” echoes the pulsating rhythm of Madonna’s new album Erotica. - This album has been released at the same -	time as her controversial new book, Sex, and
- compliments Madonna’s ever-questionable but intriguing style.
Without even listening to the album, its sleeve sets the tone. Although the cover features only a close-up of Madonna’s face, - the back of the album displays her mouth - surgically attached to someone’s toe and ; contains photographs of Madonna playing with a whip, tied up and just acting as her sensual self.
From the onset, the tone of this album is i clearly sex. The opening lines of the first song, “Erotica,” are: “Erotica, romance/My name is Dita/I’ll be your mistress tonite/Td like to put you in a trance.” This same idea permeates the rest of the songs on the album.
The album starts out with a throbbing and unceasing bass line, indicative of the sexual overtones throughout the entire album
which features songssuch as the title track ‘Erotica,” “Fever,” “Deeper and Deeper” and “Bad Girl.” Unfortunately, despite Madonna’s efforts to be the mistress/BOY TOY of pop rock, it is this overpowering bass line which may
be the biggest detriment of this album.
As an album, the fourteen tracks on Erotica seem to run together as one ongoing song of rhythmic motion with Madonna’s voice as an accompaniment Her lyrics take a backseat to the music and special effects included on this album. In Madonna’s attempt to thrill the world with her sexuality,
it seems as though she has forgotten that she is a singer.
For those who liked Madonna for her funky pop music with a dance beat, this
album shows a new side of this blonde (usually) wonder. Although elements of many of Madonna’s old songs arc evident in this album, you will not find any snappy dance tunes. If anything, the songs on Erotica are more mellow than her previous albums; they are at a similar pace with the songs on I’mBreathless from the movie Dick Tracy. The music is slower, almost sultry, and somewhat mysterious.
The song “Bye Bye Baby” features Madonna with her “little girl” voice singing a sad love song. “Deeper and Deeper” copies the rhythm of the song“Vogue,” but also features a Spanish guitar.
Both “Thief of Hearts” and “Words” actually portray Madonna’s true singing ability. Her voice finally comes through in these songs and the bass , line is subdued. The songs are slightly reminiscent of her Like A Prayer album. They are lighter and more upbeat than some of the other songs on this album. Besides sounding more like the old Madonna, they feature her typical, catchy lyrics like “What she’s done is a crime/She’s a thief of hearts,” that get stuck in your head and you end up singing all day.
My favorite song, however, is “Rain.” Although Madonna’s voice.is much quieter, this haunting ballad is the best song on the album. This love song compares rain and thunderstorms to waiting for a lost love to return as the melody drifts through your head.
As if this album wasn’t unusual.enough, Madonna also throws in her attempt at rap. In the song “Did You Do It?”-she is accompanied by Mark Goodman and Dave Murphy. Although it is a\ good effort, it doesn’t fit in with the rest of the album and really does not seem to have a point. If Madonna was a rap artist and featured other rappers as guests, things might be different, but Queen Latifah she is not.
Despite the differences in this album from her past work, it is still one hundred percent Madonna. The same bass line that nearly drowns her out also lures you to continue listening. There is a mysticism that exists because the lyrics and music intertwine and become one line that pulls you through the whole album. Although I was slightly disappointed with the album as a whole, it does feature some good songs and it is worth the time to listen to it.	□
18
SCHOLASTIC

EMMMMlHMiHr
by Ken Osgood
When I told my friends I was staying in South Bend for break, everyone knew what it meant: a week of excruciating boredom. Little did I know the absence of
my fellow dbmers would work to my advantage. I wasn’t surprised when the movie people called for my roommate to use as an extra on the set of Rudy—he had grown his hair and sidebums all seventies-like and looked perfectly grungy enough to be a Domer in the disco era. I regretted to inform
Clarissa, the “extras lady,” that he was away on break, but rejoiced to inform her of my availability. She agreed and told me to bring three changes of clothing and shoes, and to _ _	.
show up at the JACC at 6:45 a.m.	scalp for 30 seconds, covered
a short jog in
all pblyester	n
duds for me to	MmeS MMwSjhk
break into a sweat.	WH	SBB
She looked me over,	vtjB	KB |H|	__
nodded in approval, handed	BB BBS	b
me a jacket made of polyester,	nw Em gm BSt
and sent me to get my hair done.	JBBB SUf	|||a®
I was sure the hair-lady wouldn’t ^^K^^SBBr bBF vBB touch my hair, which I had taken such pains	■HJHh	KB
to part down the middle. To my surprise she would ^|PBmk	W
took a gigantic brush, pounded away at my make it the	B
_	.	1 me in hair greatest display of back
I woke:up at 6:00, excited and anxious. I' spray, and sent me on my way. It was 8:30.
dug out my Village People costume and a
I was ready for action. I detoured to the
few turtle necks, parted my. hair down the bathroom for a moment to check out my get-middle, and raced to the set. A van picked up before making my film debut. I stared
me and numerous other extras, up and took us to the back door of South Dining Hall. Men and women with walkie-talkies, leather jackets, baseball caps, clipboards and portable , phones, were scattered across the parking lot. I was directed to wardrobe where the clothes I brought were inspected. I wasdirected to change in South Dining Hall andjreturn for the head costume person’s approval; I skipped off in a hurry, changed, and re-
into the minor in disbe-
in the history of cinema!
I was placed with a few other extras and instructed to look excited. When the director yells “Roll sound!” we should be quiet. When the director yells “Background!” we
turned as instructed. “You
"	Nick Spangler
Extras on the set of Rudy
lief. Hair splattered . should pretend to make conversation and act
across my forehead, tight fitting bell-bottomed pants, a cream shirt with brown diamonds —I looked like a physics professor!
I met with the other extras, was instructed to be quiet when on the set, and was sent to the set for placement We were lined up for selection. Three director types walked by us, inspecting our hair and costumes and picked groups of three
can’t wear THAT!” a woman dressed in all or four and sent them to be placed. When I black barked. “Wear something else, wasn’t one of the first chosen, I was certain
HURRY!” I looked around me in dismay. What did I do? A costume assistant hurried over to me, threw me some blue bell-bottoms and a perfectly hideous cream and brown shirt and sent me off to change again. I ran back to the dressing room, changed and rushed back to the costume lady. It took only
I would be placed as far away from the main action as possible. To my surprise, I was placed right behind the star! Sean Asten (Rudy) would walk right behind me!! I would be seen by millions of people across the world!!! Well, not me exactly. Orrather, not all of me. Actually, just my back. But I
energetic. When the director yells “Action!” we should not ask the lead stars for their autographs.
When we were first placed it was 10 o’clock. For the next eight hours, excepting a tasty dining hall box lunch, we did the same thing over and over again. I introduced myself to the same girl, shook hands with the same guy, and grabbed the same flier every take. At the director’s exclamation, “That’s a print! ” I j umped for joy. I could tear off my polyester, bake some tater tots, and take a hot shower.
I headed for the dressing room tired and exhausted. As I changed back into my street clothes, a cloud of sadness hovered over me. I was in the movies! It was too much fun to be over. Will I get to come back? Will I be able to don a cool 70’s outfit again? I can only dream.
They say everyone gets their five minutes in the spotlight. Well, I got my first 45 seconds, and it was great.
The film Rudy will be filmed throughout the campus for the rest of the fall.	□
OCTOBER 29,19^2
:19:
Il ■MUI
Qn OthebSmimms. . - ■ ■:'. - '■ n
News of the Bizarre from the Nation’s Universities
NOT THE CHOICE OF THIS GENERATION
Coca-Cola lovers at Penn State Harrrisburg have resorted to “smuggling” Coca-Cola on campus since the administration made Pepsi the official drink. No, the administration did not suddenly decide that it liked Pepsi’s taste better; they made the switch after Pepsi donated $14 million dollars to the school. Under the new agreement, all beverages sold on campus must be Pepsi products. Student polls show that Coke is preferred over Pepsi by a 2 to 1 ratio. One distressed administrator, who confesses to drinking three liters of Coke a day, thinks there should be a “Coca-Cola anonymous” on campus to help Coke-lovers deal with the stress. For now, however, he is adjusting by importing a case each week of the “contraband” Coke into his office.
STANFORD CHEF FOLLOWS ND FOODSERVICES’ LEAD
The StanfordDailyreports that an executive chef has taken over control of one of their dining halls, promising to improve both the food and service. The chef, who is a graduate of the Culinary Institute of America and an author, is the first person hired by Stanford having formal culinary training. (Makes you wonder who they had cooking until now.) It seems he doesn’t have anything on Notre Dame’s University Food Services, however. One of the first changes he made was to add harvest-type decorations to the dining hall. We have all seen the decorative com stalks adorning our dining halls — what more could we want? It seems this guy concentrates a little too much on the decor and not enough on the food. One of the recipes he’s excited to make for the students is his internationally famous “Mustard Pickle Eggs.” Thanks, but we’ll stick with our Cajun baked scrod.
BETTER LATE THAN NEVER
The University of Miami’s new course selection has come out, but one of the offerings comes a little too late. After being, devastated by Hurricane Andrew this fall, Miami is now offering a three-credit “Crisis Intervention” class. The Miami Hurricane.
reports that the class will “provide students with an understanding of various catastrophic situations and their impacts oh families and individuals.” Don’t you think most of the students already understand the impact of the hurricane? After all, their first semester finals have already been cancelled. Maybedt’s not too.late for a tornado to hit the Midwest
‘FLIPPING OUT ABOUT THE BAND
We’re all familiar with the rigorous requirements one must meet to be the Notre Dame leprechaun: boundless energy, the ability to grow a full beard, and the strength to do all those pushups. Penn State has such tough standards, not for their Nittany Lion but for their drum major. In order to lead the Blue Band into performance, a drum major must accomplish three key things: do well in the interview, pass a three-part test of conducting skills, and perform a front flip. The front flip is apparently a tradition for the drum major, and one of the band directors admits a lot of being chosen as drum major “rides on the ability to do the front flip.” Glad to hear they put so much emphasis on the music. How about leaving the gymnastics for the cheerleaders?
STOP THIEF!
A simple demonstration about crime turned sour for a Kansas University student hired to steal a professor’s purse in a mock robbery for a safety education class. The University Daily Kansan reported how a physical education professor wanted to see how much students would remember about crimes they witnessed being committed. She paid a student to come into her classroom and take her purse. After leaving with her purse, however, the student got more than he bargained for. People outside the classroom assumed the purse-snatching was real and chased him. Before he could explain what he was doing, he was tackled, hurled through the gym doors, and kicked in the chin. After being pinned on the floor, his chaser removed a shoelace and tied his hands behind his back. The mock thief ended up being x-rayed for broken bones, but the professor who hired him thought the twist had a positive message — she was happy to know people would respond so well to a crime.
-Edited by Kate Wiltrout

SCHOLASTIC 1
S:-r; J.'WC.^: :...:<"^

Mother
Knows Best
, By Joseph Laur
I GEORGE!
One of the most important topics of the 1992 Presidential campaign has been
family values. This topic has repeatedly been brought up by George Bush and defended by Bill Clinton. Unless you’ ve lived in a cave or depended solely on The Observer for news during the past six months, Vice-PresidentDanQuayleeven wentso far as to say that many TV shows, such as Murphy Brown, mock traditional family values.
I was personally offended that the VP would insult TV because I’ve been a lifelong fan of TV. I grew up with TV. I live with TV. Dan Quayle, you are not TV. I will continue to make TV a vital part of my life, even as I get older and busier, and I strongly recommend heavy TV viewing to each and everyone. However, the VP’s comments got me thinking about how family values have been presented on TV historically, especially the role of mothers over the past 40 years. \	'
Since the 1950s is the greatest decade in American history, it should be no surprise that the greatest TV mother of all time, June Cleaver (who is also the second most profound woman ever, after Phyllis Schlafly), came from this decade. In Leave It To Beaver, June .was the quintessential 1950s mother:' she cooked, cleaned, did laundry and cared for’her loving husband and two sons. Also, June did not just preach family values, she obzed them. She taught her sons to respect others, love others and not be selfish. To top it off, June did not have an attitude, and she even baked great chocolate chip cookies.
The valueless 1960s produced no important television mothers, so it’s time to remi-
niscefebout the most memorable mother of the 1970’s, Carol Brady of The Brady Bunch. While everybody knows that Carol was a lovely lady who brought up three very lovely (except for Jan) girls, few people realize how she changed the way mothers were portrayed on TV. Carol was the ideal mother with one notable exception: she needed a maid to cook and keep the house in order. For the first time on TV, a mother needed help in raising her children, a trend that has continued since then. Carol still took time out of her busy (what did she do?) schedule to teach her children valuable lessons about life, but she was definitely no June Cleaver, even if she could make Alice bake delicious chocolate chip cookies.
The 1980s featured an abundance of memorable TV moms, ranging from Claire Huxtable of The Cosby Show to Angela Bowers of Who's The Boss? and Peggy Bundy of Married...With Children. Some argue that Claire was the most notable TV mom of the decade because she balanced a successful career as a lawyer while raising five children. Claire taught her children to be decent and honest, and they turned out nearly flawless. Angela Bowers resembled Carol Brady in that she depended on another person her housekeeper, Tony, to raise her son as she pursued her career. Through it all, Angela felt guilty about neglecting the majority of her motherly duties, but she was still concerned enough to teach her son the difference between right and wrong. Then there’s Peggy Bundy, probably the laziest housewife and worst mother of all time. Peggy doesn’t cook, clean or care about her family, and she spends most of her time either shopping or driving her husband to an early grave. Peggy doesn’t teach her children any values, and the result is a slutty daughter and a loser son. While Peggy
Bundy may be a little too unrealistic, she is a symbol of what happens when mothers neglect their children and teach them no values.
With the uncertainty that lies ahead, who knows which TV mother of the 1990s will live on in the hearts of Americans. Murphy Brown has a head start, but most of the decade still remains. For all we know, in 1994, NBC might run the sitcom The Dancing Mom, featuring Cindy Crawford as a single mother of 2.3 children who dances on tables at night to support her family. In 1995, Fox may show the drama Oh Patty! , in which the VP of Student Affairs at a private college in the Midwest acts as the mother of the school, wielding a com dog in one hand and a belt in the other. Or, in 1997, CBS may run the Diane English program, Designing Clinton, in which the newly divorced ex-wife of the ex-President leaves the law profession to work with the children whose futures have been destroyed by her ex-husband.
If I ran a network, I would be conscious of the fact that the values portrayed on TV influence those who watch it I would then make a solid effort to produce shows that are both value-filled and entertaining. To accomplish this, the first program I would develop would be The Joseph Laur Fantasy Hour, in which Elle McPherson would balance her career as an aerobics instructor with raising the twelve children she has with her husband (played by yours truly). Elle would not only be a loving wife and mother, but she would also be a world class cook. And I would be severely disappointed when I woke up from this dream.
Joseph Laur is a senior who would pay to see Elle McPherson take on Cindy Crawford in a grudge match bake-off.

Vote for Your
Future | by College Democrats
Twelve years ago, Ronald Reagan asked the American people a simple question: “Are you better off today than you were four years ago?” Just four years ago, George Bush assured us that we would be better off by the end of his first term. Well, it is time for the American people to ask again, “Are you better off now than you were four years ago?”
The 1992 election is upon us, and it is time to make the most important decision of the next four years. We are presented with many options; but the true choice is clear.
Bill Clinton and Al Gore are willing to put people first. During the last twelve years, the American people have been forgotten by the government While the rich got richer, the middle class and poor gave more to the government while receiving less in return. By creating more high-wage jobs, cutting unnecessary government spending and giving a break to the middle class while asking the rich to pay their fair share, the Democratic ticket will put America on the track to recovery. By cleaning up the environment assuring quality health care and education for all and reducing crime, Clinton and Gore will restore hope to all Americans.
So many challenges face our country in the next four years, not least among these our failing economy. We need leaders who are committed to making government work for all, not just for the richest two percent Under the Bush/Quayle administration, America has seen its worst economic performance since the Great Depression. The answer is not trickle down economics and not “tax and spend,” but a real economic plan. Bill Clinton has such a plan. By everyone paying their fair share and by reinvesting in America, we can once again be the world’s economic superpower.	'
When the Sununus, Yeutters, Blacks and Quayles of the Bush
campaign holler “tax and spend,” they are attempting to label	privileges, but basic rights. That is why they believe in establishing
Clinton politically as they used the “liberal” label against Dukakis in 1988. They imply that Clinton intends to tax everyone more, which is simply not what he says. Yes, Clinton has proposed increased taxes, a fair share on those families making more than $200,000 and individuals making more than $150,000. Clinton’s tax proposal focuses on removing inequities from the US tax system,
Clinton also plans the difficult task of taxing foreign companies operating in the US at the same rate of US companies. And, yes, Clinton proposes spending increases, but he suggests cuts in government bureaucracy, defense and an estimated $2 trillion in sayings by the year 2000 from a reformed health care system. Also, many of the spending increases are for programs which show insight and a vision for the future. His college aid program
may cost more initially, but who can estimate the future value of allowing so many new segments of population to attend college?
How can we expect to challenge Germany arid Japan when they outspend us by hundreds of billions in investment in their countries’ infrastructure? Clinton and Gore also suggest increased spending in developing new environmentally-safe technologies and high-speed rail systems. Japan and Germany both indicated at the Earth Summit that these are the most rapidly-growing fields in the modem global economy. Yet the United States, according to Senator Tim Wirth, imports over 70 percent of its environmentally-friendly technologies from Japan and Europe. Why not use the money saved from closed Cold War defense plants and military bases to invest in these new technologies?
The key difference between the vision of Clinton and Bush can be seen in this issue. When questioned about cuts in defense spending, Bush looks to unemployment caused by these cuts and decides that we shouldn’t cut these excessive military operations to save people’s jobs. When Clinton is questioned about cuts in defense spending, he replies that we should eliminate the excessive military operations, but we should reinvest the money iri new environmentally-safe technologies to save jobs and to also improve our economy and environment. Bush’s reaction shows a Cold War pessimism in apost-Cold War era, Clinton proposes an option which produces new industries and hopefully will improve the economy, employment and environment Bush would ask us to maintain a useless status quo to save jobs, while Clintori'proposes conversion and development of a new industry, which would save those jobs and promote future job growth as well.
We need to look towards the future, and that means ensuring the future of our children. We need to invest in their livelihood and ensure that a good education and adequate medical care are not
a comprehensive national health care plan for air Americans. That is why Bill Clinton and Al Gore will guarantee a quality education for all and will give every American an opportunity to go to college, regardless of his or her financial situation. The National Service Corps is another program which not only improves the overall skills of the nation ’ s workers, but also returns hope and commitment to our youngpeople.
Does Mr. Bush present any feasible solutions? The answer is no. All we will hear is more of the same rhetoric we have been listening to for the last twelve years. His answers have simply failed. Sowhen I ask, “Are you better off today than you were four years ago?” cari you honestly say yes? A vote for Clinton and Gore is a vote for your
future.

- FlNAllfllMff
Bush/Quayle
in 1992
This election year has been marked by more widespread interest in politics across this nation than ever before, particularly on this campus. On November 3, 1992, voters will cast ballots which will decide the direction of this country, and the world, during the. next four years and, more importantly, into the next century. :' .
. In this country, the President often unduly receives credit or blame, particularly in the area of our national economy. Most often, the President cannot directly control the current economic stature. Unfortunately,-in times of economic recession, voters look for a “white knight” to magically right the economy. If voters are not careful, they can be hoodwinked by the thin smile and prodigious promises of overly idealistic power seekers. President Bush came to power at the end of the economic surge of the 1980’s. The recession is not the result of Bush policies, but a global economic slow down. Although many of his proposals have been stalled by the Democratic Congress, his policies seek not a “quick-fix” for the economy, but to provide a strong foundation for the next century. By emphasizing the free market, allowing businesses to create jobs and by resisting increased government spending, Bush’s policies will create opportunity for everyone to prosper. Clintonomics wishes to empower government via higher taxes, increased regulation and a larger government. More taxes, more tinkering, more spending, more government, more, more, more. His program would not help growth; rather, it would strangle small businesses, stifle entrepreneurship and overburden taxpayers. Bush wants to empower people, while Clinton wants empower government.
While this election is being waged over the economy, foreign policy has been grossly neglected. The course chosen by the United States in the next few years will determine both our world role and the direction of the emerging New World Order. The nextPresident will have an extraordinary opportunity to shape world events and influence the course of nations. The President has been at the helm during this period of rapid, and sometimes volatile, change. He has guided us through the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact, smashed the expansionist ambitions of Saddam Hussein and restored democracy in troubled Nicaragua and Panama. His leadership experience extends over four decades, extending from business to Congress to Commander-in-Chief. The Democrats would rather we forget about foreign policy; there was less than a paragraph about it in their party platform. Bill Clinton’s foreign policy experience has entailed little more than organizing anti-war protests on foreign soil and ordering
by College Republicans
the Arkansas National Guard. His “inward-looking,” isolationist policies are reminiscent of the post-World War I era when America’s focus inward led nearly to destruction and resulted in the lost of milEons of lives needlessly lost. In times of international crisis, who do you want to answer the phone?
The issue of the environment has also been hurled into the spotlight recently. Although he is by no means an extremist, President B ush has maintained a balance between protecting the environment and protecting jobs and business. His record is solid. He has almost ensured the end of smog in our cities by passing the Clean Air Act, accelerated the elimination of CFC’s and enforced Superfund toxic waste cleanups. He has also passed measures dealing with global warming and water quality. Clinton pretends to be an environmental advocate. But Arkansas’ rivers are becoming increasingly polluted with chicken wastes and Clinton will not repair the damage because chicken farmers are financing his presidential bid. While Clinton and his running mate pontificate about the threat of automobiles, Bush has been active in safeguarding the environment.
Gov. Clinton has not been a total failure. He has managed to balance his state’s budget; however, this is only because it is required by Arkansas law. The President, on the other hand, has had to deal with a spendthrift Congress. This is why he has posed a Balanced Budget Amendment, to control Federal spending. He also desires the line item veto which would enable the President to endorse favorable legislation minus the pork-barrel riders attached by Democrats in Congress.
. There are two things you can count on in life: taxes and death. By electing Bill Clinton, you can count on plenty more of both. He proposes $ 150' billion in new taxes and the largest spending increases in history. Where will this money come from? Our pockets. Clinton stands for change, all right, because that’s all you’ll have left in your wallets when he’s done. He also stands for death to the unborn, death to family values, death to freedom from government and death to American world leadership.
Clinton looks inward while Bush looks forward. He has the experience, trust and determination to send America into the next century at the forefront of world economic and political leadership. Bush is steadfast while Clinton tries to please everyone. Do you really want to eat waffles for breakfast for the next four years?
Vote BUSH/QUAYLE in ’92!
OCTOBER 29,1992	' ZB"	> 23
pr
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich ™ For ANY Size Appetite!!!
UB
CLASSIC
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatball Sub
Only $1.69!
From $37.95!
Big Appetites:
6 Foot Party Sub
.SUBWAY*
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31N (By North Village Mall)






HELP US CELEBRATE OUR EAVORTTE EDITOR'S WDAY
LOVE, THE HOWARD CHICKS
24
SCifLASTIC

S^You’re Almost PAlRJAY
W^OUMg. ^EAR. Jb You }U^A MAlfiXl
j; TU5U6MT AftJUT £fl6l«eCTJ»<Cj9M.T
-There Arc » f£^ uioweM
^m«se clasps.
J'p LliETO we Mo«G uoHEkI A OU4ceTJ> See me -
■uouj a^out euausu, LIKE He?	"
YeaU. I UUUU 5TUDV SFEC/AV AmiGmorts <?P YH6 ALPHABET. ..
MAJoR. Id LAA6uA6eS-
AUJAVS gA> A MASTERY Of TAE FfLeMOl -r<?M6u£.
j snoaj-e havek^a
-TftA 'Pisatsjwd uoaub VETe'RW^ATc.
AuthorIsjW: Jj/OMMuTaxa:^
Scotyau, uEDit) rUr jHllude Adrjaces .
K£GW>tfRAu EMMS oK 6^?pR6jecrs tA-s^r's ma^r.. Also,	po&s itor uAvfe Ady
S&. EPUCATiM CIA55&S. XP -rUERe 5OCA CLASSES 7 fcuJgVER. > UE Suxxisfi <UAT AH ©CAMPLE0F^ Uould -&E : SEX ED loi •• Sex IS A ptXTY^
EyiLr/tiiib You save K?< Your. SF/dse,
The National Shakespeare Company
presents
ThE CoMeDy
Of ErRoRs
Mon. and Tues.
November 2 & 3 Washington Hall 8:10 pm
Tickets: Student - $7
Non-Student - $10
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk
Sponsored by:
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
\j\y
S1UDENT UNION BOARD
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 10