You’ll like the extra good taste of Winstons, too! And the way that exclusive Winston filter — snoicy-udiite and pure — really lets the rich flavor come through! So, if you aren’t already enjoying today’s most talked-about flavor-filter combination, get yourself a pack of Winstons right now — for flavory filter smoking!
LIKE A
WINSTON
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO..WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
TASTES GOOD!

CIGARETTE
SHOULD I
£' '
I
The taste folks take to
(and talk about/..WINSTON
Smoke WINSTON ...enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip! $
4
GENERAL MOTORS
•JUNE GRADUATES
A General Motors Representative
f	will be on hand to answer your questions
about job opportunities with GM
Monday and Tuesday, March 4 and 5
Our College Representatives speak for all of our many decentralized divisions throughout the country.
They are familiar with career opportunities throughout the entire organization, including staff and divisional operations,
and can answer your questions fully. We cordially invite June graduates, and those graduating this summer, to arrange an appointment through your College Placement Office on one of the above listed dates.
/J
GM Positions now Available in:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING
CHEMISTRY • PHYSICS • CERAMICS MATHEMATICS AND ACCOUNTING
G
General Motors
Salaried Personnel Placement, Personnel Staff, Detroit 2, Michigan
the best • • • For Employment!
be sure to see the Westinghouse recruiting agent when he is on the campus.
Wednesday, March 6
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 March 1, 1957 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second ciass matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor t
JIM STEINTRAGER ......News Editor
JAMES McDonald........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL .......Feature Co-Editor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS..........Assistant News JIM DULAN................................Assistant News BOB WILLIAMS ............Assistant News HARRY McKEE..............Assistant Copy
MARSH PIDGEON..............Assistant Copd
DON STUHLDREHER....CircuIation Mgr. HARRY CONLON................Business Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN................Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY________________Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK ________Assistant	Sports
News Staff : Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar-nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roger Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Dol® Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe, Jim Goethals, Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Miku Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examine. tion periods at the University of Notre Dame Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	A
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25<^
The Scholastic
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Al Morris (right) discusses a new amplifier system with Howard D. Thomas, one of his foremen.
“After training... it’s up to you”
That’s what Alfred E. Morris says about the Bell System. “And that’s the way I like it,” he adds. “Right now I’m in a job I didn’t think I’d have for ten or fifteen years.”
The job Al thought was more than a decade away is Plant Superintendent for the Hutchinson district in Kansas with Southwestern Bell. “You can sum up my work by saying I’m responsible for the installation and maintenance of all telephone equipment in a large part of central Kansas,” Al says. “In times of emergency—a tornado, for instance— I have complete charge of maintaining and restoring service.”
Here’s how Al describes the steps that led up to his present job: “I started out
in Bell’s management training program in 1951. This gave me an excellent opportunity to learn about all jobs in the company—not just the job I’d be doing. The program was well organized, and I got a lot out of it.
“My first assignment was to coordinate a dial conversion in La Crosse, Kansas, a quarter-million-dollar operation. My next assignments were in Abilene and Lawrence. Both carried increased responsibility.
“I knew I was moving along pretty fast—but I was really surprised when my present job came up. It bears out what my wTife and I thought when I joined Bell—there would be great chances for advancement.”
Al Morris graduated in 1951 from the University of Kansas with a B.S. in Industrial Management. He is typical of many young men who are finding interesting career opportunities in Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about these companies.
9
BELL.
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
> I
_________________I
March 1, 1957

The Right Clothes con give you CONFIDENCE, POISE, COMFORT
Your sense of well-being and confidence, your poise and comfort can’t help but be enhanced when you know that you are well-dressed. And, that’s our job and constant aim at the Campus Shop: to have the clothes . . . correctly fitted and properly styled for YOU!
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
PAY	PAY	PAY
i ■ i ■ i 3	3	3
JUNE	JULY	AUG
NO CARRYING CHARGE
There’s no need to do without clothes you -need now . . . get them whenever you need them and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay for it, if you like, out of your earnings this summer. Nothing to pay ’til June. Pay only one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August. Use this convenient charge account to buy all of your clothing needs if you wish. No carrying charge, of course.
DRESS RIGHT ... You can't afford not to!
a
o
On the Campus—Notre Dame
o
March 1, 1957
How does it feel to win a billion dollar bet ?
WELL you just did. Detroit was so sure you’d like their new cars they invested $1 billion in 1957 model change-overs. Detroit’s winning its bet, getting its money back. But the real winner in two ways—is you.
First of all, when you get a new car, you’ll be getting the finest car money ever bought. A car as exciting to look at as to drive. With new, lower styling, exciting new colors. Powered with surging horsepower for the super highway age.
Second, you’ll cash in on a booming economy. When Detroit produces cars everybody wants, they keep more people working. Help more people buy them. There’s more money to support more businesses. More job opportunities for you.
Backing up the dramatic newness of the 1957 cars is the sturdy dependability the world associates with American cars. We know about this dependability because we work hand-in-hand with car manufacturers
to put it there. Every make of American car uses Timken® tapered roller bearings to reduce friction—help handle the heavier loads of today’s high speed driving.
The vital role Timken bearings play in making cars and machinery for all industry better than ever helps keep us steaming ahead. And because it makes sense to join a winning team, you may be interested in the future the Timken Company can offer college graduates. For details, write for our booklet "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN
TRADE-MARK REG. Ui S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Timken® bearings keep America on the GO... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
8
The Scholastic
At the Movies
COLFAX
Wings of Eagles (A-2). John Wayne. It’s going to be here for some time and for good reasons, too.
GRANADA
Mr. Cory (A-2). Tony Curtis, Martha Hyer, Charles Bickford. Tony seems to have a habit of ruining some good plots, but this flick should be a pleasant surprise. Once again he is an eager beaver—this time as a gambler wooing a couple of society babes. The cast is good, and so is the story.
Summing up: Sangamon street has nothing on Rush.
STATE

Maverick Queen (A-2). Barbara Stanwick.
Lisbon (A-2). Ray Milland, Maureen O’Hara.
Don’t Knock the Rock (A-l) March 3. Alan Freed, Harry Smith. Alan should have stayed at the Paramount, although he probably wasn’t any better there. This one is strictly rock ’n roll, but one certainly can’t blame Hollywood for making it. Bill Haley isn’t bad. The plot definitely . . . ugh.
Summing up: This one isn’t worth breaking any furniture over.
Co-hit: Rumble on the Docks (B). The perfect proof that Alan isn’t keeping all the kids off the street.
Forever Female (B). Paul Douglas, Pat Crowley.
Co-hit: Alaska Sea (A-2). March 8.
AVON
Halliday Brand (A-2). Joseph Cotten, Betsy Blair, Ward Bond. A western with only a couple of Indians and just one sheriff. It tells about the Halliday family and its little difficulties. Ward Bond is the chief troublemaker. Joseph Cotten does well in strange surroundings, but don’t pass up Sid Caesar or a good poker game to see it.
Summing up: The fourth commandment was never like this!
Co-hit: Brass Legend The Brave One (A-l)
(A-2). Hugh O’Brien, Nancy Gates.
March 6. Michel Roy. A boy and a bull.
PALACE

Three Violent People
(A-2). Charlton Heston, Anne Baxter, Gilbert
Roland. Charlton owns a ranch in Texas and is the strong, silent type until Anne and some carpetbaggers take a shine to his prize horses. She never was a goody-goody, but when Charlton explodes with the rage of Moses she reveals a true love for him and all is forgiven. Indiana’s own Forrest Tuckei-does a fine job in his first outing since Night Freight.
Summing up: With Bruce Bennett, Bobby Blake, Don Devlin and Tom Tyron, how can a movie go wrong?
Co-hit: Strange Interlude.
RIVER PARK
Hollywood or Bztst (B). Martin and Lewis.
Streets of Larado (A-l).
High Society (B) March 3. Bing, Grace, and King Louis. If you haven’t seen it, do; if you have seen it, see it again.
WASHINGTON HALL
<1
Moby Dick. Gregory Peck, Orson Welles.
DEHUMANIZATION
Editor:
I am sorry to see that the Sad-Sack variety of art has ascended to the level of your publication.
I don’t think you can defend the pictures by Osorio by saying that they are intended to be funny. A better criterion would be: how do they actually impress, taken as a whole? Although there is an element of humor in each of the last three covers, the main tenor, that is the artistic impact, is not humor, but a certain sadism that represents human beings as close to the toad as possible.
The issue is one of fidelity to human nature. To portray man as funny, comical, or gauche is to present him as he often is; but to dehumanize him, to degrade him for perhaps no other purpose than novel shock, is. perversion.
I don’t mean to be censorious, but I do want to be critical; truth and true art thrive on criticism.
(Rev.) Joseph A. Lorusso, C.S.C. Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.
Hungarian Escapee Begins Studies Here
Gyorgy Koranyi is a transfer student in mechanical engineering. He has completed his freshman year and is particularly interested in tool designing. He is also enthusiastic about swimming, photography and chess. The unusual thing about this new Notre Dame man is that he is a Hungarian refugee student.
Some 10,000 people escaped before the might of the 19 divisions of Soviet tanks that crashed Hungary in the early days of November, 1956. Among those refugees was Koranyi. It was not until Nov. 22 that he left the University of Budapest and it was a month later that he arrived in the United States.
Last year Notre Dame decided to offer four scholarships to former Hungarian college students in cooperation with the Institute of International Education of which Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., is vice president.
The Institute and the National Catho-lis Welfare Conference were instrumental in getting Koranyi to Notre Dame. His is the first scholarship to be given under the Hungarian student refugee plan and it will last for two years.
The 22-year-old student can both read and write English and Russian although he admits he has a little difficulty speaking them.
9
March 1, 1957
Follow the lead of Ralph Pa sen, Class of '51
Advance while you’re young...
As a lead engineer in Vaught's Propulsion Group, Ralph supervises development of power, fuel, starting and cooling systems for supersonic fighters and missiles.
Rotph consults on engine accessibility problems in fighters hke this 1,000-plus-mph Crusader.
as a Chance Vought Engineer
Ralph Posch already is making his mark in the aviation world. Ralph’s only 31, but he’s advanced to lead engineer in a career field he’s liked from the start. Ralph’s progress was speeded by Chance Vought’s own growth and by keen company interest in his development. These same career aids are working today for every young engineer who’s entered missile and fighter development at Vought. Symposiums on creative engineering, for example, encourage the brand of technical free thinking Ralph has displayed. Company-paid tuition for postgraduate study allows any recent graduate to take immediate steps toward advanced degrees. For an increasing number of junior engineers, Vought offers a nine-month program of job rotation which prepares young men like Ralph for key responsibilities. And in every unit of Vought’s engineering sections the young professional
is given variety that’s both refreshing and broadening. Let our campus representative explain how Chance Vought will do its utmost to help
you find and advance in the field that best suits you. Ask your placement office to arrange your appointment, or write directly for immediate information to: Mr. C. A. Besio, Supervisor, Engineering Personnel Section
CHANCE VOUGHT AIRCRAFT, Incorporated, Dallas, Texas
c
n

Pilot comments on aircraft perfonnanco prove espe» dally interesting to power plant specialists like Ralph.
Our representative will be in sour Placement Office Monday and Tuesday, March 18 and 199 to describe firsthand Chance Vought’s program for young engineers. Reserve time for jour own interview by making your appointment today.
10
The Scholastic
by Bryan Woods
overheard at the
placement bureau
Once again Escape presents a first.
We managed to plant a number- of tape ^recorders in rooms being used foi' senior job interviews and now we bring you the transcriptions of a couple of those interviews which we found typical.
The first interview is with Herbert Q. Fluggwhistle, Electrical Engineer. The interviewer’s name has been withheld
upon request.
Inter.: Herbert, I want to thank you for giving us an opportunity to talk to you. We’re a relatively small company, 1 C'but . . .
Herbert: How much do you pay?
Inter.: Well, as I say we’re a small firm and . . .
Herbert: How much?
Inter.: You’d start at $15,000.
Herbert: Look, I’m busy, and I don’t have time to joke around. Or haggle. So don’t quote me ridiculous figures. Try again.
| O Inter.: But Mr. Fluggwhistle, I wasn’t joking. Why our president only gets $25,000.
Herbert: Is he EE?
Inter.: Well, no but . . .
Herbert: Okay, I’m in a hurry, I’ll settle for $20,000. Now how about other benefits?
Inter.: Oh, you mean sick leave and f)ur company recreation plan?
r Herbert: I mean housing and a car
for my use and retirement at forty.
Things like that.
Inter.: But Mr. Fluggwhistle . . .
Herbert: Ever hear of GE, bud?
Inter.: Now, now, let’s not be hasty, I’m sure all that you mentioned can be arranged.
O Herbert: Well, I’ll think it over and
let you know when I make up my mind.
Inter.: Oh, thank you sir. I do hope you decide to come with us.
Herbert: Maybe, but don’t hold your breath in the meantime.
The second interview is with Waldo Walters, AB English major, 94 average, student leader and well-known campus literary figure.
Inter.: Walters, eh? Don’t bother to sit down, this won’t take long. What abilities do you have?
Waldo: Sir, as you can see from my record I have had a successful career here in almost every way.
Inter.: I’m not interested in that, I’m asking what you’re good for.
Waldo: I’m afraid I don’t know quite what you mean.
Inter.: Okay, I’ll spell it out. Can you ride a bike?
Waldo: Yes sir, I guess I still can.
Inter.: Lick stamps?
Waldo: Yes sir.
Inter.: I guess we can use you. You’ll start at $30 a week. You’ll have Sundays, Christmas and New Year’s off.
Waldo: How about vacation? ’
Inter.: You haven’t started work yet and already you’re worried about vacations. What do you want, a job or a picnic?
Waldo: Sorry sir, I was out of place.
Inter.: Right. Now when is graduation?
Waldo: June 2.
Inter.: Okay, report to our New York office at 8:30 a.m. June 3.
Waldo: But sir, I’m getting married right after graduation.
Inter.: Okay, Walters, we’re not known as the company with a heart for
nothing. Take Monday off, get married, and come in Tuesday instead. On time. Alright?
Waldo: Yes sir.
Inter.: Okay that’s all. Oh, by the way, don’t worry. The company will supply the bicycle for you. Of course you’ll have to supply your own pants’ guards, but then we’re not running a charity ward, are we?
Waldo: No sir, I guess you aren’t.
FOR WHAT IT’S WORTH
With the annual approach of Mardi Gras there are the usual number of unbeatable systems of winning at all the various games circulating about. They range from the more emotional “I bet when I feel lucky” of the non-scien-tific minded to the mathematically-calculated systems employing slide rules, statistical analysis, and so on. I still ' think there is only one simple infallible way. You all know what it is.
Following Mardi Gras comes that season whose beginning is marked by a two-day slump in cigarette sales at the Caf and Huddle. If your brave resolutions get past that initial hurdle you are relatively safe until March 17, which, by the way, comes on a Sunday this year. (The rumor that the bus company is running specials from the circle to Niles that day is only wishful thinking, I’m afraid.)
Of course one freshman is giving up mixers, so he won’t have those problems, but I wonder if that’s quite in the spirit of the thing. It’d be more sacrificing if he went to them all. That’s a real penance.
11
March I, 1957

PROBLEM: To evaluate the all-round career advantages offered by the widely diversified activities at Divisions of North American Aviation, Inc.
FIRST STEP■ GET THE FACTS in man-to-man
interviews, on campus
Friday, March 15
As a graduate in Engineering, Physics, Applied Math, or allied subjects you need complete, factual information to help you make a sound decision in choosingyour career.
Get the facts in a	autonetics
man-to-man interview with our representative.
Let him tell you about our unique placement and training devised to help your potential
develop rapidly in a company where continued expansion has doubled the number of employees in 5 years. Your possibilities are wide and varied, as you will see from these brief notes on the 4 Divisions:
AUTONETICS creates automatic controls and electro-mechanical systems of a highly interesting nature. Work includes research, design, development, manufacture and testing; you will become a part of the latest advances in inertial navigation and guidance, fire and flight controls, analog and digital computers.
ROCKETDYNE
ROCKETDYNE is building power for
of his specialty in one week than in a year of “conventional” practice.
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL is pioneering in the creative use of the atom. If you are able to meet the high requirements for this work, you can help introduce a new industrial era. Atomics International is designing and building varied types of nuclear reactors, for both power and research, with the practical experience gained by 10 years in the field.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
Long range missiles, including the interconti-
nental SM-64 Navaho, present problems of the
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL
most fascinating nature. Speeds, materials and functions now being dealt with were only theoretical a few years ago. The work is vital; the opportunities for you, as a creative
engineer, are correspondingly great.
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY Make an appointment NOW to see North American Representative on campus. OR WRITE: Mr. J. Kimbark,
outer space—large, - College Relations
liquid propellant rocket engines. The Field Test Laboratory in the Santa Susana Mountains is the most complete rocket engine workshop in the free world. Here a man meets more aspects
Representative, Dept. 991-20, North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC. 4
12
The Scholastic
View
lack of leaders
1

The Scholastic’s recent observations on Notre Dame and “leadership” cannot be passed off as mere journalistic fancy, no matter whose balloons of self-delusion are bursting. Senator John F. Kennedy, in accepting the Washington Day Patriotism Award last week, spoke at length on the necessity for educated men to enter politics and become leaders in American Government and society. Senator Ken-^nedy was hardly aware of our own approach to the problem, but his talk lends weight to our contention.
In this week’s issue we present the views of Student Senate president Pat Logan on student government and leadership. His article is a reasonable and well-constructed analysis of the existing situation, and as close to the core of the problem as any Senate member has yet gotten. I sincerely hope that it will provide direction and impetus for the Senate itself to seek the maturity it potentially possesses.
Logan, too, realizes the necessity for developing leader-^ship at Notre Dame; not just campus leadership but the - general vital quality which is supposed to imbue the character of the Notre Dame graduate and make him a forceful figure in society. I think also, however, that he realizes the almost total lack of this quality on the campus and the consequent slim chances of it showing up later on among graduates.
A large part of this problem stems from the fact that the student body is not responsive to student leadership. To refer to Logan’s own office even as that of “Student Body President” is meaningless, since he commands none Off the respect that title implies. If that titfe and office had the force of its meaning, I know no one with a greater right to it than Pat Logan. But even' his own leadership quality has been subordinated because the student body refuses to consider him as their actual leader and spokesman.
It is for this reason that campus elections have become popularity contests and leadership has been replaced by the “service” concept. This has unfortunately become the
accepted tradition in the last few years, dating back to an j flection which Pat Logan didn’t win because his opponent
campaigned on the slogan:
If I have served you well,
; let me serve again.”
If the top Notre Dame graduates are only to be recognized as efficient servants, then Notre Dame is not fulfilling the true purpose of a university. The problem then is ; not just one for the Student Senate or the Scholastic to investigate, but a serious deficiency in the educational | -urogram that the University itself must analyze and attempt R ^lo rectify.—J. N.
March 1, 1957
service plaques
In our issue of February 15 we presented a series of four articles in an attempt to define the position and power of the Student Senate. To some it appeared as if we were trying to attack student government merely out of personal bias. Needless to say, we are sorry that our criticism was so wrongly misinterpreted. Our sole intent was to make known the more flagrant deficiencies of the Senate in an effort to lead the way to more effective government at Notre Dame.
Two of the articles in that issue, together with Pat Logan’s article which is published this week, place the blame for our faulty government on a threefold cause: the administration, the Senate, and the student body. We agree fully with the accusation. But now that we have defined our problem, it is necessary that we act to right the past mistakes.
As a start, I would like to voice my objection to several items which have been included in this semester’s Senate budget. Knowing full well that some will already accuse me of being “negative” in mv comments, I would nevertheless like to discuss the amount which the Senate is planning to spend for plaques this spring.
At the moment the Senate plans expenditures of $455 for service plaques—$190 for the Blue Circle and $265 for the Senate. The student body was taxed $5,100 in activityfees for this semester. So, in effect, almost one out of every $10 that the Senate will expend in this fiscal period will be for tokens of self-esteem. .
There seems to be little or no justification for this amount. The combined budget allottments of the Academic and Spiritual commissions is only $465. In other words the Senate seems to be saying that its academic and spiritual obligation to the entire student body is worth only $10 more than recognition of its own and Blue Circle members.
The Blue Circle and the Student Senate claim that they receive honor through service to the University and the students. It seems contradictory that the two organizations should find it necessary to reduce this honor to some tangible form. If they seek some permanent recognition of their services, I am sure that the students, whose money they are spending, would not object to a $50 expenditure for scrolls or certificates. But $455 is out of the question.
As I stated before, the concensus was that the Senate is not the only group at fault in regards to student government at Notre Dame. The students also must bear part of the blame for an ineffective or mismanaged government. Now is the chance for all students to take a concrete step forward toward insuring a better Senate. It would be too much to hope for every student to voice his opinion on the budget by letter or appearance at the next Senate meeting.	'
But I would like to urge every student who feels that an injustice is being done to him, to take the opportunity to attend the Senate meeting and actively protest that injustice. Then we will have taken the first positive step toward a more effective and efficient Student Senate.
—C.McK.
13

CONVAIR
ow
March 4-5
Personal Interviews
ON CAMPUS
FORT WORTH
Exceptional care is exercised to make certain that each new employee is assigned to the job for which he is best qualified, depending upon his interests and education.
£
A major project here is the B-58 long-range supersonic bomber. Convair is responsible for all systems development as well as the air-frame of this newest all-jet bomber. In addition, within the aircraft industry, Convair, Fort Worth, has a commanding lead in the field of nuclear research and the design and development of nuclear powered aircraft.
Convair has the greatest diversity of aircraft projects in the country — to offer you the unlimited career you seek.
College graduates are permitted to further their education at either TCU or SMU at company expense, provided their grades are average or better. Personal recognition and advancement, based strictly on merit, provide an incentive for rapid professional growth. In short, it is a policy of long standing at CONVAIR-FORT WORTH to emphasize the importance of the individual.
DISCUSS THESE AREAS OF WORK —
mA Mfiieers from Hr Engineering Department
The Convair engineering department is a real "engineers" engineering department — imaginative, energetic, explorative. You will discover top-notch engineering facilities, excellent working atmosphere, salary, personal job advantages, opportunities for continuing education. -
For Personal Interview Appointment Consnlt Your Placement Office
CONVAIR
FORT WORTH
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
A Division of General Dynamics Corporation
14
I;
The Scholastic
If

'h
■ r
11
J
MARDI GRAS OPENS TONIGHT
•WITH ‘LA DANSE’ IN CENTER
; Bobby Christian to Provide Music for 650 Couples; . Carnival, Festivities to Continue Through Tuesday
The 1957 Mardi Gras will open with the Mardi Gras Ball, “Vive La Danse,” •tin the LaFortune Student Center from 9 to 1 p.m. this evening. Bobby Christian and his 15-piece orchestra will provide music for the dance. Miss Jerry Hall, from Rosary College, the date of Dance Chairman Don Renier, will reign as queen of the Ball.
Also to be crowned during the dance is Miss Sue Hacker of St. Mary’s College, date of Emmett Malloy, general chairman of the Mardi Gras, who will -reign as queen of the weekend. The queen of the carnival, Miss Rhoda Comer from Aurora, Ill., will be crowned at the opening of the Carnival on Saturday night. The three queens will arrive at the Student Center in the chauffeured white 1957 Cadillac to be awarded Tues-
day night at the carnival.
Some 650 couples will attend the Ball, . largest dance ever held in the Student 0'. Center. This record will be made pos-~ sible by the opening of the new section of the Center which has an increased dance floor capacity for 150 couples.
J • Also located in the new section is the - Huddle, which will be open throughout the dance, and the new offices of the Dome and Scholastic. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Rev. James E. Norton, ' and Mr. Joseph LaFortune will partici- in the dedication of the new section -*at the dance.
j Father Norton, University vice presi-| dent in charge of student affairs, will 4 open the carnival and crown Miss Comer, |	date of Joe Reich, carnival chairman, at
I	7 p.m. Saturday evening in the Navy
3 Drill Hall. The theme of the carnival 3 this year is “Street Scene in New Orii- leans.” Workers in the 25 booths will J dressed in the attire of the Gay ’90’s to simulate a street in Old New Orleans during the Mardi Gras.
I A new feature in the carnival this I year will be the Student Government t booth. Here students will have a chance * to throw a pie at their favorite senator J or student leader. The times that differ-| ^\ent Student Government officials are to I—appear will be posted daily in the Drill
March 1, 1957
I
Hall. Another new feature will be a faro game.
Vetville will sponsor a cake contest again this year, and the architects’ booth will feature a jazz band that will provide typical Basin Street music for the Carnival. There will be one booth where some 600 prizes will be offered with a total value of §800.
Twenty girls from St. Mary’s College will give a performance entitled “Showboat” at half hour intervals throughout the carnival. Miss Dorothy Doyle is chairman of the St. Mary’s Show. Climax of the carnival will be Tuesday night, March 5, when the Cadillac and a 1957 Ford will be awarded in two separate contests. The carnival will run March 2 through March 5, opening at 7 p.m. and closing at 11:30 p.m. each night.
Mardi Gras chairman Emmett Mallov reports that “we have reached §33,000 in the sale of tickets and although all returns are not in from Monday’s collection we hope to reach §35,000 by the time the carnival ends. We have achieved our primary goal in surpassing last year’s total of §22,000.”
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph LaFortune, guests of honor at the Mardi Gras, had promised that if Notre Dame was able to beat last year’s totals they would donate the balance of the §150,000 necessary to improve the Student Center. The co-operation of St. Mary’s, the faculty, and the students, 100 of whom received free Mardi Gras Ball bids for selling ten or more books of tickets, the distribution of brochures explaining the goal, and the display of the two cars on campus enabled Notre Dame to surpass last year’s totals, Malloy stated. From the total returns of the carnival, §4,000 will go to the Notre Dame Charity Chest and the rest will go for Student Center improvement.
MARDI GRAS QUEENS
Miss Sue Hacker, Miss Rhoda Comer, Miss Jerry Hall
15
Glee Club Lays Plans For Pre-Easter Tours
The Notre Dame Glee Club has announced its schedule of pre-Easter appearances. From a membership of 80, 36 men will make the tour during March and early April.
The Glee Club will first perform at the Parcnts-Son Banquet on March 16 in the Dining Hall. The “Song of the Free,” accompanied by piano and organ, will be the main selection. This number has been one of the Club’s most successful.
The next day, March 17, the Club will begin its road performances with a concert at Mercy College in Detroit as part of Mercy’s Concert and Lecture Series.
Sunday, March 24, a Notre Dame Alumni group will hear the Club sing in Kankakee, Illinois. A joint concert with the singers of Rosary College will be given a week later, March 31, at Rosary in Chicago. On April 6, the Knights of Columbus will sponsor an appearance of the Glee Club in Toledo, 0.
The Club will be back on campus for the annual Spring Concert on April 10. This concert will be in preparation for a big spring tour to California and other areas.
A COUNTRY GIRL’
George O’Donnell, Grace Rembush, and Frank Draine rehearse.
WSND 'On Stage' Series to Open Thursday; * 'A Country Girl' Slated for Initial Production
J. P. Canny Named President Of N. D. Alumni Association
J. Patrick Canny, general attorney of the Erie Railroad, Cleveland, was recently elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association by the organization’s board of directors. He succeeds Joseph I. O’Neill, Midland, Texas, oil operator, who will serve as honorary president of the Association during the coming year.
Named as vice-presidents of the 25,000 member Notre Dame alumni organization were Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis attorney; John W. Brennan, president of The American Blower Co., Detroit; and Joseph E. Whalen, treasurer and general manager of the Hotel Fort Des Moines, Des Moines, Iowa. James E. Armstrong, South Bend, Ind., was nominated by the board to serve his thirty-second year as executive secretary of the Association.
WSND OPEN HOUSE
Notre Dame Students and their guests will have an opportunity to tour the WSND studios tomorrow from 1 to 4 p.m. The open house is being held in conjunction with WSND’s tenth anniversary observance thiss month.
A 90-minute radio adaptation of A Country Girl, by Clifford Odets, will mark the debut of “On Stage,” Radio Station WSND’s new dramatic series next Thursday night.
The production, scheduled to begin at 8 p.m., will feature a cast of experienced student actors. The series is being produced and directed by Bill Chesson. A number of top plays have been scheduled for the series, which will be presented monthly, Chesson said.
A Country Girl, which was made into a hit movie in 1954, is the story of an alcoholic actor struggling to make a comeback in his career. Frank Draine, a senior, will star in the role of Frank Elgin. Grace Rembush, a sophomore at St. Mary’s College, will play Elgin’s wife, Georgie, and George O’Donnell, a senior, will play Bernie Dodd, Elgin’s director.
Draine will be seen in the forthcoming University Theater production of Macbeth in the role of Banquo. O’Donnell, a University theater veteran, was last seen as the lead in the campus presentation of Death of a Salesman last fall. Miss Rembush recently served as assistant director for the St. Mary’s production of Carousel. Others in the cast include Phil Donahue, Ed Sullivan, Carol Cruse and Rudy Hornish. .
Tom O’Regan, WSND program director, announced that the Bethlehem Jazz version of George Gershwin’s Porgy
and Bess will be presented Sunday night from 7 to 9 p.m. on the Adventures in Sound program.
This past week Fred Corkill, station manager announced that Bill Sigler, veteran WSND disc jockey, has been named chief announcer at the student radio station. Sigler replaces Don Zeifang, -a junior, who resigned the position.
A junior in the general program, Sigler joined the WSND announcing staff as a sophomore and has been heard this year on “Penthouse Pops,” a weeknight record show.
NFCCS Convention Meets
In Chicago at Xavier College

A Tri-Regional NFCCS Convention .= was held at Xavier College in Chicago?’ on Saturday and Sunday, Feb. 16 and 17. ;
A delegation of twelve and Moderator ‘ Rev. Daniel O’Neil took part in the convention representing Notre Dame. Other f representatives were present from about^-20 schools in the Wisconsin, Illinois, In
diana, and Michigan area.
The Tri-Regional Convention consisted of workshops in educational affairs, student government, science clubs, related arts, and Mariology. The two-day period provided the students with the opportunity to discuss and study these phases of education.	'

16
The Scholastic
'Macbeth'Ticket Sale
To Open This Monday
Phone and mail orders for tickets to the University Theatre production of “Macbeth” will be accepted beginning next Monday. Box-office sales will begin on Monday, March 11, and will continue f until all tickets have been sold foi’ the five performances. The performances will be given in Washington Hall from Wednesday, March 13 until Sunday, March 17.
Members of the cast are: Michael Kennedy as Macbeth, Marrilee Young as Lady Macbeth, Barney Morris as Macduff, Reginald Bain Jr. as Malcolm, Ed Sullivan as Donalbain, Neil Ball as Dun-p can, Frank Draine as Banquo, Paul Wil-lihnganz as Lennox, Tom Brady as Ross, Rudy Hornish as Caithness, Joe Mocar-ski as Menteith, Bill Chesson as Angus,
Paul Kusbach as Siward, Larry Finneran as young Siward.
Also George Newman as Seyton, Andrew Staniszewski as the doctor, Bob
■	Sasseen as the sergeant, John Kent as
,	the porter, Connie Stalma as Lady Mac-
duff, Nancy Olsak as the gentlewoman, ^y’John Rappelli as Macduff’s son, Don Zeifang, Fred Gade and Mike Herb as
the three witches, Jim Breedlove and Tom Brennan as the messengers, Bruce Junius and George Newman as the murderers, and Bernie McElroy as the servant. Director of the production is Mr. Fred Syburg.
1	NSA Seminar to Study * International Problems
SThe Regional International Student Relations Seminar, sponsored by the
• NSA, begins today at Antioch College in Yellow Springs, O., and will continue through the weekend.
Ohio-Indiana is one of 13 regions of the NSA which offers the seminar every ’ year.
:	The purpose of the seminar is to give
-Ahe students an opportunity to devote
| two full days to an intense study and I examination of the entire international 1 sphere. Various international problems I will be discussed and a chance to try to it
| understand the world at large will be
S given.
3 The regional seminar gives students, I; interested in international affairs, an 1 ^opportunity to develop an intelligent- -. viewpoint, and enables them, if they de- sire, to take part in the national seminar which is conducted every summer for six weeks at Harvard University.
! Twenty to 25 schools will take part in
i the regional seminar, and Notre Dame , will be represented by a six-man dele-H'jQgation, including Bob Kiley and Jim
•" Steintrager, who are regional officers.
Senior Architect Creates Japanese Mood In Unusual Decoration of Walsh Hall Room
There are 2,175 student rooms on the Notre Dame campus, but the most distinctive by far is the one occupied by Donald Flock at 331 Walsh Hall. A fourth year architecture student from Naperville, Ill. Flock was not content to let his room remain a standard 8 by 12 cubicle. He has completely redecorated it in a contemporary Japanese motif complete with fish pond, canary, ivy and over-hanging vines.
Flock’s room is partitioned into three sections by multi-colored panels that serve as sliding doors. A bamboo curtain covers one wall and, according to the designer, “gives tactility to the wall and hides an old door.” A heavy vine with string-like moss clings to the walls and drapes over the top of the partitions providing a “Teahouse of the August Moon” atmosphere.
A plastic fish pond (with tropical fish, of course), surrounded by rocks, sand and ivy, fills one corner of the bizarre student room. Since the pond is covered, it is equipped with an aera-
BOOK EXCHANGE
The Book Exchange has recently announced its regular weekly hours. It will be open from 1 to 3 p.m. every Tuesday and Wednesday until May 8.
WALSH HALL TEAHOUSE
Don Flock and room
tion unit so the fish can get enough air. Perched near the pond is a canary cage whose occupant warbles with the hi-fi music which Flock has “piped-in” from the room next door.
The young architect is practical as well as imaginative. All the furniture in the rooms is contemporary, yet comfortable. He designed his legless bed which resembles a mediaeval pallet. Above the low-slung bed is a tearshaped lamp for reading. Flock can do without a desk and other standard student furniture because he does most of his work at his drawing board in the Architecture Building.	■
Flock worked for nearly two weeks and spent $120 on his room-within-a-room. “The work wasn’t as hard as the bargain-hunting,” he complains. He emphasized that none of his innovations are against University regulations. He has done nothing that would permanently alter or deface the room.
The door to Flock’s room is usually ajar and just about every day is “open house.” “During football weekends it was like Times Square,” he recalls. But he patiently and cordially answers the questions of all the visitors. “There’s only one drawback to a room like this,” Flock said' with a smile. “I have to keep it up myself. The maids won’t bend over that far to make a bed.”
March 1, 1957
17
I'
excluded the Blue Circle from the ex-<^
A CHALLENGE by Pat Logan
Recently many people on campus have been discussing the problems of student government, and there are a few misconceptions which are being promulgated by some “experts” concerning these problems. It is my desire that the following discussion, in which I shall try to be objective, will aid in clearing the air somewhat.
The logical place to begin is by explaining the purpose of student government. Its purpose is precisely the same as that of the University: to promote the mature development of Christian individuals morally, intellectually, and socially. This goal should be the underlying principle which guides men involved in student government in their thinking and acting.
Next we must examine the role of student government in university life and education. Student government operates in a delegated sphere of responsibility. The basis for its authority comes from the University, which has the ultimate responsibility for our education and welfare. The educational process is necessarily not democratic. • Students cannot and should not dictate educational or administrative policy.
A real functioning student government should concern itself with important things, and not become involved in “busy work” or political theorizing. It should primarily be interested in important concepts which effect the well-being of the student which, in turn is actually the well-being of the university. The academic and spiritual programs sponsored by student government are just as important contributions to the student life as a social program.
To be a worthwhile government, student government must represent the opinions of the students in a positive way to the administration and faculty. To achieve effective representation, the student government must know the opinions of the student body, and in turn, the student body has to support student government in their efforts.
Student government should be striving to develop a sense of leadership, maturity, and responsibility in its members as well as in the entire student body. Leadership is commonly misinterpreted. Leadership is not service! Rather, it should be motivated by service, i.e., a sense of working for the wellbeing of our fellow students and the university in honor of Our Blessed Lady.
18
A leader, in my opinion, is not someone who charges to the front on a white horse with the masses anticipating his every beck and call. A true Christian leader is a person who creates a significant impact on the thoughts and actions of those with whom he deals. His decisions and actions are not based on weakness, on fear, or on a desire to gain popularity; they are based on certain
Senate President Logan
principles and ideals which he never compromises. It is not always easy or popular to be a real leader.
In the Notre Dame community, we must constantly keep in mind the three elements which comprise that community, i.e., the Administration, faculty, and students. All three elements are concerned with one thing in common: the common good of the University as a whole. The mutual cooperation of all three groups is imperative if we are to continue to have progress and improve existing conditions.
Many students have the mistaken notion that the Student Senate is student government. Student government embodies more than just the senate. There are three branches in student government, with the Senate representing the legislative branch. The Student Court makes up the judicial branch; while the executive branch includes the Student Body President, the Senate officers, the Executive Commissioners, and the Hall Presidents’ Council. I have purposely
ecutive branch, because in my opinion, the Blue Circle is not an executive branch of student government.
At the present time, there is confusion in the student body, and even in the Student Senate as to the position of the Blue Circle. It seems to me that the Circle serves a very worthwhile function in carrying out activities effi-,^ ciently, and in this they do a great serv- ' ice for the students and the University. However, they are not an executive branch of student government and never can be because of their method of selection of members. It might clarify the Circle’s function and position if they were completely divorced from student government. In this way, they still could carry out their traditional activities, i.e., Freshman Orientation, Elections, Ushering, etc., and devote more time to study, thought, and discussion of important problems affecting the student body.
Student government is still embryonic in its development at Notre Dame, being only in its fourth year. It has a great, yet unrealized potential which it can achieve. In the following discussion, I _ would like to frankly state my three if' reasons why student government has been hampered in actualizing this potential.
First, there are some individuals in the Senate who are seriously lacking in the qualities of leadership which I explained earlier, i.e., the selfless leadership in making decisions on principle rather than for personal interests, popularity, or out of fear or weakness. An-£ other fault is that a few individuals are just “Wednesday nighters,” and are not fulfilling their full responsibilities to ' their fellow students outside of attend- i ing a Senate meeting once a week. We need more capable individuals who are " willing to sacrifice their time and ef- ■ fort for the common good of the Uni- 1 versity.	t‘
Secondly, the conservatism of the Uni-. ' versity administration holds back progress of student government at times. 1 Realizing that our basis for authority f rightly is delegated to us by the admin- f -istration, there are areas of student life £ where this same administration is very \ . reluctant to let us exercise the authority j which we have been delegated.	i
Administrative officials on various oc-^p casions have expressed a willingness to*~ give us more authority if we can prove x • ourselves capable of utilizing the au- ? thority capably. Yet how do we prove R ourselves capable unless we are given |; the opportunity?	f
Thirdly, student apathy is a serious f hindrance to student government’s be-
(Continued on page 38)	|
The Scholastic |l

‘Patriot of the Year’
SENATOR
KENNEDY
VISITS
Senator John Kennedy, the junior ;	legislator from Massachusetts was wel-
■ £ corned by the Senior Class on the occasion of its Washington Day Exercises. >	Senator Kennedy was presented -with the
University’s Patriotism Award and in a speech of acceptance, stressed the ,	advantages of a political career. The
Senator is the sixth recipient of this annual presentation.
Washington Day Award
photos by Ed Shay
March 1, 1957
19
The grand opening of the new section of the LaFortune Student Center
begins this evening with the Mardi Gras
Ball. On these two pages, Scholastic
photographer John Tumey captures the beauty of the reconditioned area.
Through the generosity of Mr. Joseph LaFortune the Scholastic and the Dome have found new homes. Also the huddle moved their counters into the
spacious accommodations.
The section also includes an extension
of the dance floor; a recreation room which includes pool and ping-pong tables; and a dark room for campus photographers.
New dance floor and lounge.
4
More room to stand!
Zhe
New
Zook
20
The Scholastic
From School to Job
by Mark Clifton
For 22 years Mark Clifton worked in every phase of Industrial Relations, to become Director of Industrial Relations for large corporations, and later to become an Industrial Engineering Consultant serving well known companies with ivorld wide interests. He has conducted over 200,000 person to person interviews on job problems, and has specialized in the individual’s relationship to his job. He has made a particular study of the young college graduate’s problems, and finds about 80 per cent of the early failures lie in the five adjustment areas outlined in this article.
To move successfully from school into industry calls for a certain shift in value, standards, perspective, orientation, aim. This is not to say that the viewpoint of either school or industry is wrong. With about equal efficiency they serve different functions in the total culture, and therefore the values of what constitutes efficiency are different.
Industry and school are seldom on entirely opposite sides of any question. Usually the shift is slight. This can be deceptive, for it is like trying to shoot a target in the water without realizing that a directional shift of light rays has taken place from one medium to the other. Such a marksman misses his target, and does not understand why.
In recent years the growth of an extensive practice by industry in signing up undergraduates for its employment rolls has compounded the illusion.
Unless the young graduate is lucky enough to have someone in industry who can point out where and how the shifts must be made, it usually takes from five to fifteen years for this reorientation to take place. This waste in ineffectively applied talent and effort is a major-industrial problem. Of more importance to the individual, it represents a waste of some of his best years of energy and enthusiasm. True, he learns much during those years, but too frequently, because he does not know what is wanted from him, he also learns dis- . couragement, cynicism, and the pattern of habitual failure.
These depleting side effects are far too common for comfort to anybody,.and it is an interesting sidelight that it is often the young man with the high intelli
gence quotient who has the greatest difficulty making the adaptations.
The undergrad who already sees a clear track into an industry job, whether it comes through family connections or through the personnel representative of a recruiting company, has the same need to make the shift as does the man who has no such certainty of immediate employment. The jobs offered by industry are real, the beginning sal-
The Author
aries generous, the fringe benefits impressive, and the security and future offered by the company “to the right man” honest. But the representatives are necessarily vague about the future, because the onus then rests upon the new employee to prove he is “the. right man.”
This faint note of alarm about conversational promises made by industry representatives in no way reflects upon the integrity of the companies involved. The alarm resides solely in the fact that because of the ease of getting a good beginning job with a reputable firm, the man may not realize these changes are as important as they ever were. Whether in times of easy or difficult employment, it still remains that industry and school are different. The onus is on the new employee to make the change. Industry cannot markedly change if it is to continue in its present form. Whether getting the first job is easy or tough, a man’s progress will depend on how he adapts to changed conditions and values.
Let’s review some of these major { shifts in point of view.
r £
(1)	The school teaches about things. L Industry does them. There is a vast dif- i ference between the two. It is the func- | tion of the school: to open up the mind F of the student to the knowledge and ' ■ forces extant in the world, to point out i the interpretations and significance of ; ; the interaction of these facts and forces, V , to enlarge the student’s vision and ap- i preciation, to give him the keys to where ' . knowledge may be found and how to abstract it from its sources, to broaden his concept of the potentials of the future. If a school does this well it has fulfilled its function, and it is almost beside the point that in the greater process the student has also learned reading, writing, and arithmetic.
Industry exists for the basic purpose , of doing something and selling what it f does at a profit. The prime question in industry is not “What do you know?” but “What can you do?” Every salary, however indirectly it may be lost in “overhead costs” must eventually come out of the selling price of the product ' or service. Every employee is expected ( to do something which will enable the > company to sell its product at a com- 1 petitive price.	" t
Because this is the most important of all the value shifts, let’s labor it a little with a sad but extremely common example. An econ grad may have learned about the process of wheat grown in Kansas, bought by a grain wholesaler, resold to a flour mill, shipped ; by rail to the New York Harbor, trans- , shipped by an ocean freighter to a	i
wholesaler in Paris, and finally to wind : up as a loaf of French Bread on a	[
baker’s shelf. He may have studied the social significance of this example of free enterprise, the effects of * climatic seasons upon stock futures I manipulations; in fact he has a very clear- concept of how wheat moves from 1 the farm to the French baker, and its part played in our total culture.	;
But the farmer hires a man, who f ; can plow the soil and reap the wheat.	*
The wholesaler hires a buyer, a trucker-,	|
a warehouseman, a stenographer, an accountant. The flour mill hires varied people, but they can all do some-	1
thing to get that wheat converted	<
into flour. The railroad and steamship company likewise hire people who can run trains and ships or do A the paper work subsidiary to the job. CH, None of them hire a young econ grad to I sit over- in. a corner s and . think _about
the social significance of wheat. He may well know all about how wheat moves from Kansas to France, and still not be able to do anything to get it there. He may wind up somewhere as a clerk-typist (if he can type!), or
The Scholastic I
22
JBworse> accept a phony title job which is really an office boy job, and start । down the road toward cynicism, blaming ; both school and industry for failure, !	when the only real failure is his inability
i	to make the important distinction be-
I tween knowing about and doing.
i This writer does not join with many j industry men in deploring the fact that J schools are slack in teaching undergrads i how to do specific jobs. Too often the ' young man who concentrates on such courses in school finds that he does have some adequate skills to sell to industry at the beginning, but because he has missed out on the broader courses of finding out about the world and what is in it, he is unable to go farther than the beginning jobs.
It takes both knowing about and doing. The doing is usually simple, easy to learn. The failure comes in trying to make knowing about substitute for the doing.
(2)	The second major adjustment is to get a clear idea of the function of industry. Most students have various courses in sociology, or discussions among themselves about industry’s place in the scheme of our culture. Here the power and influence of the gigantic cor-poration is discussed, the free versus the controlled economy is reviewed, and the merits of each considered. The student learns that for all its faults our system of part free, part controlled economy has raised the standards of living in our culture to the highest in history, that it provides millions of jobs, that it provides for old age and unemployment benefits, and on and on through a mul-titude of profound impacts upon our civilization.
It can be unrewarding to assume that these are the reasons for industry’s existence. Industry exists for one purpose only: to do something and sell what it does at a profit. All of the sociological impacts of industry are simply results coming out of its prime purpose. To confuse result with cause can make one
shoot very wide of the mark in his aim at a target.
Whether it be General Motors or the Bill Jones Cabinet Shop, in its prime function industry does not owe the young grad a job, or a high standard of living, or an opportunity, or a guarantee of future security. These may come as results of the young man’s qualifications, skill, application, and conduct, but they are not something industry owes him just because he is a member of society.
It is true that the responsibility of an industry to society is great, just as is the responsibility of an individual, and many companies take this responsibility seriously. But it is a mistake to regard a company as a parent substitute. It is better policy to keep the thinking fundamental, to remember that if a company expects to prosper it must do something better and sell it at a greater profit. In like manner the individual, too, must do something better and sell his skill at a greater profit, if he expects to prosper.
The applicant tells industry what he expects to get as reward for being their employee. Industry wants to know what he can do that is worth this price.
(3)	The third major adjustment is to monotony. Today’s educator is somewhat appalled by the wide and intricate range of knowledge that must be covered in the all too brief school years. Even to begin the coverage of fundamentals only, the educator must usually skim over a subject lightly, hoping that the student will catch a little awareness of it as they pass, and then hurry on to something new.
The student, and particularly the one who enjoys study, gets the habit of anticipating something new and different just around the corner. As soon as he has learned a few basics of a subject, he is ready to hurry on to something else.
Industry wants a job done. It hires a man to do a job, and because it must
it teaches him how to do that job. Then it leaves him alone. He finds himself doing that same job over and over, day after day, year after year perhaps. This can get monotonous. . The employee’s complaint at this monotony of repetitious routine is usually received in attitude if not in words by, “We’re not here to amuse you or entertain you. You were hired to do this job and you’re being paid to do it. What are you complaining about?”
Every job, however, fascinating it may appear from the outside, contains a large element of repetition, and therefore monotony. Adjustment in learning to grin and bear it becomes a part of the whole shift.
(4)	Another shift is to the realization of efficiency value. In school the object is to teach well, as well as possible. Usually more than ample time is given to complete an assignment, and instructors are pretty liberal about granting a few days of grace beyond the deadline. The man-hours put into the work are seldom checked.
In industry the question of “What can you do?” is very quickly followed with, “And how long does it take you to do it?” The new employee usually shows a considerable resistance to this “speedup” by “slave-drivers,” first because he has never formed the habit of being efficient, and second because he is unaware of a very simple fact.
.The fact is this:' Every salary, however’ remote from the actual production line, must eventually come out of the price of the product. Except on piece work production lines or straight commission sales, salaries are usually paid on a time basis, so much per hours, week, or month. If it takes A three times as long to do a given job as B, then A is costing three times as much to keep on the payroll as B. It takes no genius to see the axe falling. .
From the mines and orchards to the grocery shelf, it is a fair estimate that a thousand salaries have to come out of
; a 20-cent can of peaches. That can of peaches must be sold at a competitive price or the company will go out of business. The company must pay competi-i	tive salaries or go out of business	for
i	lack of employees. The answer is	effi-
i	ciency, the speed through which every-
■	body in all the companies involved	can
i do their job well.
|	(5) The fifth shift in point of view
' is the most difficult to present because I it is the source of a basic antagonism j which is often evident between school i and industry. Defensive emotions can get in the way of calm reasoning to prevent readjustments in point of view. Yet if readjustments are not made in this area, little benefit is gained from । making the others. To avoid discussing the problem does not help to solve it. To see it clearly from all sides might.
We’ll make a flat statement, and then start dodging brickbats. Not all the information contained in textbooks about industry is directly useful in industry.
Before this statement is accepted or , rejected, we have to go back and restate the prime function of education. Its function is to open up the mind to thought—theories, speculations, considerations, variant ideas. Some of the theories not now practiced in industry may become used in future years, and the educator quite properly prepares the student for their consideration. The error lies in the student’s acceptance of speculative theory as fact. This can create quite an adverse reaction in industry when he acts upon that assumption.
Although much progress has been made in the past two decades in getting industry men to prepare the basic material for some text books, this material is often rewritten and reslanted to make it suitable for such teaching courses, and in the rewriting it is quite understandable that the academic point of view becomes stressed. Many times this writing is done by men who have had little first hand experience in industry. This is a little like using a guide book to a foreign land written by an author who has never been there—reasonably accurate perhaps as a general picture, but apt to be misleading when we attempt to use it as a specific guide for getting from here to there.
Further, in today’s swift progress, information might have been entirely valid at the time of writing, but obsolete by the time the book comes off the press. It is not uncommon to find material taught in the school which has already been tested and discarded by industry.
The student sometimes assumes that because this text information is new to him, it must also be new to us. On two occasions it has been my secret delight to have had a young man patiently,
24
gravely, and perhaps a little condescendingly instruct me, quoting passages from material which I, myself, had written some years previously.
In many of the physical sciences, particularly where a graduate student has been working directly with his instructors on experimental problems, industry finds much of the information new and valuable, and the student is hired directly because he can make that new knowledge available to us. But in less obscure fields, the student is wise to reserve judgment and comment until he has tested whether the text knowledge is valid and welcome. This particularly applies to theory and interpretation. Such standards may change from company to company, and that which would be acceptable in one place may call for rejection in another. Like education, industry too is evolving and changing, and more in some places than in others. The wise young man displays his new knowledge and interpretation slowly.
But, if industry takes this attitude toward the facts and interpretations learned from text books, why does it paradoxically insist upon a college education as a minimum requirement for filling many of the key jobs?
These are the positive values we place upon higher education, these are the things we expect the grad to have learned:
We expect him to have learned how to work cooperatively with others, how to pool his effort, information and temperament to gain a group result, how to understand and follow instruction intelligently, how to suppress his personal will at some times and how to lead with it at others, how to assume responsibility for himself both as an individual and as a member of a group.
Although we may sometimes devaluate zvhat facts he has learned, we expect him to have learned how to learn, how and where to find out what he needs to know. Although we may reject his theories and interpretations, we expect him to have learned how to theorize and interpret, how to consider and weigh the merits of a new idea, and how to convert it from speculation into practice.
We want him to have acquired a considerable fund of general world knowledge both of the present and the past. More and more we realize that the young man who specializes his field too early on too limited a scope finds himself at decided and perhaps crucial disadvantage even in his own field.
Whatever his specialization, we want him to have mastered the three R’s. Whatever he undertakes, he still does have to read, write, spell and work . simple arithmetic. He will be judged by these perhaps more frequently than anything else he has learned. The young
engineer is theoretically quite right when he says that it is the idea in his report which is important, and not how he spelled the words. But on a practical basis, if his idea is to be acted upon to bring him any benefit, it must be read by management. Management may look at the report from a slightly different set of standards. If the report is illegibly written, badly organized, and contains both bad grammar and misspelling, management is very apt to consider the engineer ignorant and illiterate, and in the irritations the great idea is often shelved. Many a young genius is ignored because he has so concentrated upon his own point of view of what is important that he forgets there can be other points of view. Even the older engineers share in management’s attitude, because they too have realized that an idea is worthless unless it is packaged in such a way that it can be sold. Rough and short sighted, but true.
In the new employee’s major we expect him to have gained a comprehension of the broad fundamentals of his subject and a certain proficiency in its vocabulary. We want him to have gained some basic skills. (The Mechanical Engineer, for example, is expected to use differential calculus handily, read blueprints, and make drawings in a draftsman-like manner with speed and precision.)
We expect the graduate to have acquired the constant and unending habit of self-propelled study, to have gained some proficiency in wending his way through fallacies and side issues to the heart of a problem, and know how to isolate and correlate facts, and how to regroup facts into new concepts and patterns.
If these qualities of mind and temperament are gained by the work of higher educators, it is of little consequence that some of the text facts prove erroneous. Given these qualities, and the minimal basic skills of the field, industry will gladly train in the specific facts and techniques needed to get the job done.
These are the five most necessary adjustments, and consideration of them gives the answer to the most frequent complaint of the young grad—that he has been put into a job which any grammar school graduate could do as well.
Not all colleges train equally in the most valuable assets, nor does the training innoculate each individual equally. The degree which the grad believes should entitle him to a superior position, is merely an indication that he has been exposed to some of this training, not proof that he has got full benefit from the exposure.
We know that there is a long and arduous period of adjustment to be (Continued on page 28)

9
The Scholastic
The Coming Of the Klan
by john donahue »
; As far as the Ku Klux Klan was con-r cerned, Notre Dame represented the Catholic Church in and around South Eend, and so the Klansmen were out to • embarrass the institution. That’s why the Kluxers decided to parade their de. fiance in South Bend, May 17, 1924. ? -a Notre Dame students were itching to show their resentment and that’s how ' it all started.
The Notre Dame Administration was well aware of the threatening clash between Klansmen and students and was deeply worried about the consequences. Father Matthew Walsh, president of Notre Dame, was so worried that he issued a bulletin on the morning the d parade was to be held, asking the students to stay on campus.
The day was not the finest for a parade. It was very dark and gloomy with a constant threat of rain. As the ,	off-campus students began arriving
around 8:00 a.m., they told resident >	students disturbing stories of things
3	they had seen in South Bend that morn-
,1	ing. They told of great mobs of Klans-
g	men pouring into the town by train,
bus, and car. They spoke of hooded j figures standing at all the major inters sections on Michigan Ave., and Main •4
:	St., directing traffic and directing their
!	brethren toward Island Park, today
i	known as Veteran’s Memorial Park,
their- meeting ground. It sounded like an invasion, and the students weren’t ; going to stand around and let the Klan s take ovei- South Bend. Disregarding ? W classes and Father Walsh’s bulletin they rushed “en masse” to town.
As the students reached town they paused for a moment to regroup and organize. This done, a flying column . or wedge was formed and advanced on a white clad figure directing traffic. The robe disintegrated at the clutch of A many hands and there was no longer
any hooded figure on that corner. The columns moved from corner to corner, wherever any robe appeared, and ■within a short period of time there were no robes to be seen. Not only were the Klansmen deprived of their robes, but a large number were nursing black eyes and various other bruises.
The Klansmen, not anticipating such opposition, were surprised and took refuge. After a lull over the noon hour, a large crowd, comprised mostly of students and other anti-Klan groups, congregated before the local Klan headquarters, found on the third floor of the building on the northeast corner of Michigan and Wayne streets, where a “fiery cross” of red electric light bulbs was displayed facing the street. Despite the efforts of police, several students hurled potatoes at the windows, breaking one on the second floor and two on the third. Several of the light bulbs attached to the cross were smashed and the cross was soon removed.
About 3:30, a drizzling rain began. This, along with the fact that a report was circulated among the crowd that Klan officials were refused permission to parade, caused the crowd to disperse. As the visiting Klansmen began leaving by car and trolley, groups of students harrassed their departure by stopping their cars and pulling the trolley wires off the lines. This resulted in little more than a taunting of the Klansmen. Other than the prevention of the parade, very little resulted from the day’s activities.
Though the tension ran high, Sunday and Monday were conspicuous for their inactivity. However, at approximately 7:00 o’clock Monday evening, a disturbance began in South Bend when a report was circulated that a Klan meeting was being held.	r ’
By 9:00 o’clock, approximately 500 persons, mostly Notre Dame students, had gathered on Michigan Ave. and started to march toward the Klan building. Some of the student leaders among the group got up and pleaded, with the mob to stop and think for a few minutes, which most of them did. However the front part of the mob, about 100 strong, not hearing the pleas, continued onward. Before they reached their destination, the Klan meeting ended and the members scattered in various directions, though remaining nearby. Along with the police, they surprised the antiKlan force as they neared the intersection. In the ensuing ruckus, bottles, clubs, stones, and any other objects available flew at random and there was many a cracked skull and bleeding face. When the students who had held back saw this, they surged forward. But just at that moment', Father Hugh O’Donnell, Notre Dame Prefect of Discipline, arrived and, with the chief of police, forced the students to listen to him. He pleaded with them to gather on the lawn of the Court House where Father Walsh was waiting to speak to them. When they arrived, Father Walsh mounted the cannon and spoke to them.
Father Walsh, pointing a finger at the building in which the Klan had holed themselves up, said: “I know that if I told you boys to go back there and show the Klansmen of what stuff you are made, you would tear that building apart, leaving no stone upon a stone!” There was an instinctive surge towards the building which Father Walsh stopped with his next sentence. “But I know, too, that you have confidence enough in me, so that if I tell you to go back to the college, you will obey me, and you will leave to my judgment what is best to be done. And so I tell you: Go back to the college!” With a yell, following the words of Father ! Walsh, the students foi-med ranks and in columns of four, marched back to the campus.
From that Monday evening, May 19,	|
1924, to the end of the school year, the | campus grounds were constantly pa- j trolled by groups of two or more “depu- | tized” students armed with rifles, pis- ! tols, and clubs. With the tension as high | as it was, it is a wonder' that someone J was not accidentally shot or seriously | injured in some way. However, as the 3 days progressed, the situation gradually I cooled down until eventually it was for- ; gotten and it was just another bizarre incident in the histoiy of Notre Dame. The Klan continued to flourish for a brief period until it exhausted itself, and the incident was lost in a history that might come under the heading, the time ; the Notre Dame students fought the Ku Klux Klan.
March 1, 1957
25
Nightfall
by Frank Dasek
“Nightfall” marks Frank Dasek’s third appearance in The Scholastic this school year. His “The Street” and “The Mission” brought ah appeal for more of his unique fiction. Dasek has also published several times in the Juggler. The junior English major is now working on his first play.
Kevin leaned over the railing and shouted into the darkness of descending stairs.
“Mrs. Delaney!”
A door opened far below, light spread itself against a faded carpet, and then the shadow came before the face.
“Yes?”
“Did anyone call? The phone, I heard it ring.”
“Yes!”
Kevin gripped the railing. “Yes, what?”
“Yes, someone called. But it wasn’t for you.”
The face disappeared, the door closed and he once again found himself staring into the blackness. Six o’clock . . . muffled sounds ... a feeling of growing anguish. He walked slowly back to his room and closed the door behind him.
Smoke poured from an over-flowing ash tray, and in the corner a green-shaded lamp threw its glow against a cracked wall mirror. Kevin crossed to the window and pulled it open. Cold, damp air came in waves. He leaned into it, feeling his eyes water, and his shirt molding itself against him.
It was the hour now when things died and things came alive. Far below, in that cavern of rising brick, life was being born, and yet the sky was melted butter pouring down between the cracks. It was six o’clock. There had been no calls, no messages slipped beneath his door while he had slept, and no shouts from that blackened street below. All was stillness, all was expectation, and yet within him there was only hollow frustration.
He had a pistol, snub-nosed and heavy, lying on the bed, but where was Farrell now that things were ready? He had said . . . no, he had promised to come. And here it was after six. He listened . . . there was nothing, not even, a whis per. It was possible that he wouldn’t appear . . . and yet he had promised.
26
Kevin walked slowly to the bed and sat down. The mattress gave with his weight, and the pistol slid forward to touch his thigh. He picked it up, balancing it in his hand, spinning the blackened cylinder, and tracing his fingers across the serial number like a blind man learning words. He broke the gun and the shells .glared at him like golden eyes.
What was dream and what was reality was hard to discern, for one moment was the softness of the bed, and the next a swallowing flight down sloping stairs that ended in a pool of light and the blackness of a receiver pressed against a sweating ear. The voice was weak and far away.
“Hello! Hello, Farrell? This is you! I knew you’d call, I knew—”
“Listen, Kevin—”
“But there’s no time, my friend, no time! We must hurry, you know. Why it’s almost seven-thirty!”
“Look, I ... I can’t make it.”
“You love to joke, I know. You always did. But we have so little time now!”
“I said I can’t!”
“But you must!”
“No.”
“But I command you!”
“Kevin, I want no part of it.”
“You promised!”
“I know, but I’ve changed my mind.” “You changed . . . your mind? You can’t do that! I am your mind!”
“Goodbye, Kevin.”
“No, wait. I didn’t mean it! Listen to me Farrell, listen to me, my—”
The click was fast and short, killing the rush of static, the flight through night, the false hope that had grown within a pool of light. He replaced the receiver slowly, and everything came coldly to life.
* * *
“Twenty cents.”
Kevin looked across the reddened bar-top at the shining face, at the bull neck with its goiter. He reached into his right pocket and slowly produced a quarter, fuzz and a knotted bit of string. The nickle came behind a glass of beer, and he saw it swimming large and fat beneath the whiteness of the foam.
It was a bitter sip, and yet not as bitter as his thoughts, as the rush of resentment coming up to settle behind

«hi his eyes in redness. It was hate ... it was hate. To think a man would break 1 a promise and leave him here. His broken fingernail drew blood each time it pressed itself against the cold glass. He needed no one!
The sound of music came, and he looked into the mirror behind the bar and saw the reflection of the record machine slowly beginning to change its _ * colors.	;
Blue . . . noiv red . . . nozv green ' Nozu a thousand colors moving Like an endless, endless dream.
And it was a strange, strange	&
Song to which a bloated woman,	’
In a dress of white, slapped her	£
Broth, and thumped full, thick Finger on a checkered tablecloth. £ “Forty cents.	0
But this is only wine.”	:
Raised eyebrows. “Forty cents.”	f
It came, it went, it brought fires	>,!
strong. It was everything he had hoped;	'
it was nothing. It was all good; it was all wrong. And yet it told him one thing ... it told him in liquid whispers that he needed no one, that he had a blackened friend, and that he had him- v self. He wasn’t afraid.	1
The sewer spoke loudly in the dark-	.
ness, and he stood in a damp doorway	-
watching the rain, and the lights in .' store fronts slowly beginning to flicker out. Automobiles sped by, with their . thick wheels grinding across asphalt and throwing sprays of water against the | cracked sidewalks	,
He lit a cigarette, looked at his watch, . / and then at the solitary store on the distant corner. The awning was down, ? and the weak light was still spilling ' through the bay window. It was an old -building with its wood rotting and oozing now in the rain. He had seen it many times, had stopped before it, and had looked with fascination at boxed * spices covered with dust, at exotic labeled teas, and at figs packaged with J paper that had long grown yellow from age.	-J
It was an old, old man that had stared . back at him through that cracked win- .; dow. An emaciated, distorted figure,	’
with iron-rimmed spectacles, dirty-grey	>
hair, and a smile and nod that were • always mercenary. An old, old man waiting to die, living in filth, saving , newspapers, eating juiceless apples, and r f hoarding dirty dollar bills. Kevin dropped his cigarette as the smoke began to gag him. He looked at his ; watch. It was time now. He needed no one.
The store front moved toward him slowly, and through the slanting rain, that hazed his eyes, he watched the doorway carefully. It was strange that
The Scholastic
s	the awning was down in all this rain.
;	It was hanging heavy in middle where
:	the water had gathered, and on the sides
' the lettering had long since faded. Kevin lowered his eyes. His hands were in his pockets, and he felt the cold, knurled, heavy weight of the pistol butt. No, he wasn’t afraid.
The doorway was small and smelled , of dampness. He peered through the ; 9 glass. He saw potted plants, tables stacked with a variety of packaged health foods, and toward the back a small counter with a weak lamp glowing beside the cash register. Gripping the handle of the pistol, without removing it from his pocket, he glanced unhurriedly at the street, and then opened the door slowly.
:, A weak bell jingled above his head :	£ as he stepped in. He felt the coldness
; of the door, and then the mustiness of the small shop. On the walls were faded ,! pictures, old calendars, and paper flytraps covered black with dead insects. He walked toward the counter slowly, hearing the flooring creak as he moved.
“Hello?”
There was no answer. Kevin wet his . lips, called again, and then suddenly '	„ realized how silly his voice sounded in
the stillness. Behind the counter he noticed a pair of faded orange drapes closing off what was most likely the ' living quarters. He took a few more steps.
“Hello! Is anyone here?”
His voice had no echo. It simply | rebounded flatly against the shelves of , dirty-looking packages. He glanced at J them. The labels were all strange with ^mystic looking pictures that were as meaningless as they were colorless. He looked back toward the drapes, expecting any moment to see a familiar, distorted hand parting them. But there was nothing, and no sound except the . beat of the rain against the window.
“Hello!”
, He waited a moment longer, took a more firm grip on the pistol, and then fl ^walked slowly behind the counter and "toward the motionless drapes. He was just reaching out his hand to part them ; when his right foot struck something.
He glanced down and then suddenly stood quite still. Before him, lying face down and with both arms outstretched, was the body of the old man. Kevin . stepped back, wiped his hands across t his mouth, and watched slowly for a sign \ £of movement. There was none.
It was then, with the fear beginning to wind its way through him, that he noticed the dried blood on the man’s forehead. He bent down quickly, turned the body on its side, and looked unbelievingly at the purple-colored split ■ above the left eye. It was a long cut, Adeep, and the line of blood that had
March 1, 1957
trickled to the cheek had long since turned brown.
He remained in that position for a full minute, trying to decide just what had happened. His eyes shifted thoughtfully and then settled suddenly on the sharp corner of the row of shelves beside him. Part of the wood had been freshly chipped, and there was a trace of blood and hair against the splinters. Glancing again at the dead man’s face he noticed how bloated and red it was. Kevin nodded to himself, stood up, and felt a wave of something close to joy sweeping through him.
“An attack ... of course! He’s dead . . . and he fell!”
His voice rose and dropped, broke into the sound of laughter and then stopped quietly. Everything . . . the old man, the shop, and the rows upon rows of boxes . . . dimmed with tears. Kevin wiped them away, ran the back of his hand across his nose, and reached loosely toward the cash register. His fist came down upon the keys and the golden drawer flew open with a hollow ling.
There wasn’t much, but that really didn’t matter. It was his simply to take. He had done nothing for it, and no one would ever know what had happened here. It would be forgotten.
“Five . . . ten, eleven.” And he would be away. He needed no one, no promises, no false friends . . . only himself.
In his haste to gather- up the loose coins, his foot bumped against the body. He kicked at it violently, driving the limp legs against the counter. The heels struck the wood, and at the same time the small, brass button that lay there.
It was a wild ringing sound that seemed to come from all four walls at once. It rose, it fell, it vibrated, it pierced and it sent him lunging crazily for the door. He stumbled against a table, tearing the skin on his hand, and sending boxes and coins spilling in all directions. He clawed toward the dirty glass, the rain pounding with heaviness. His fingers, wet with perspiration and blood, were coated with grains of tea, and before his swimming eyes he saw a torn dollar bill lying thick and dirty in the dust.
With one hand he forced himself up and tripped the final few steps to the door. He pulled at the handle wildly, expecting to feel a cold blast of air. But nothing happened. The door was locked . . . held fast by some mechanism. He pulled again, fumbled thickly with the bolt, kicked at it madly, and finally fell back exhausted.
There was fear- in him now, uncon-trolable fear. It tore at him, drying his lips, his tongue, and bringing the sweat to his face. In a last desperate effoi-t he lunged at the glass with the butt of
his pistol, seeing it web as he struck at it heavily. Lines crossed crazily, he smelled his own breath, and saw the rain beating free behind the glass. “I’m afraid! I am!” He struck again . . . with each pounding heartbeat . . . with each screaming note of the alai-m.
“Help me!”
Kevin dropped the pistol as panic took complete control of him. He began to beat at the glass with his fists. A pounding, driving, wet pain in each finger and the street swimming suddenly in rain and in tears of fright that welled in his eyes.
“Please!”
A choking cry, a long line of blood smearing against glass, and then a lost, weak figure slumping miserably and slowly to the floor.
Blue . . . now red . . . now green, Now a thousand colors moving Like an endless, endless dream.
He was still tapping weakly at the door when the first of the sirens came wailing and screaming through the hollow wetness of the night.
27"
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of o lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
On March 5 and 6. Mr. Henry- Korff from the Chicago Office of Touche, Niven, Bailey 8c Smart, a national C.P.A. firm, will be on campus to interview accounting majors graduating in June 1957, who would like to work in public accounting. On the 6th, Tony Daly from the New York Office will also be on hand to conduct interviews. If you are interested, please contact the placement Bureau.
SENIORS
ADVANCE INFORMATION ON CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AT PROCTER & GAMBLE
Advance information on Marketing Management opportunities in the Procter 8c Gamble Advertising Department is now available. Write H. H. Wilson, Jr., Supervisor of Personnel, Advertising Department. Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, Ohio. Campus interviews in Placement Bureau March 14.
PEERLESS PUMP, Monday, March 4—Placement Office.
CONVAIR. Monday and Tuesday, March 4 and 5 —Placement Office.
GENERAL MOTORS, Monday and Tuesday, Marcli 4 and 5—Placement Office.
GENERAL MOTORS—ELECTRONIC DIVISION, Tuesday, March 5—Placement Office.
SPERRY, Tuesday and Wednesday, Marcli 5 and 6 —Placement Office.
WESTINGHOUSE, Wednesday, Maxell 6—Placement Office.
CONGOLEUM, Monday, Marcli II—Placement Office.
SOCONY-MOBIL, Monday, March 11—Placement Office.
WORTHINGTON, Monday, Marcli 11—Placement Office.
REPUBLIC AVIATION, Tuesday, March 12 — Placement Office.
ARMA, Wednesday, March 13—Placement Office.
GULF OIL, Wednesday, Marcli 13—Placement Office.
DAYTON POWER & LIGHT, Thursday, March 14 —Placement Office.
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, Friday, March 15—Placement Office.
VOUGHT AIRCRAFT, Monday and Tuesday, March 18 and 19—Placement Office.
COLUMBIA GAS, Tuesday, March 19—Placement Office.
28
Whittemore and Lowe will appear in O’Laughlin Auditorium, Friday, March 8 on the St. Mary’s campus. For the story on these two top ranking artists turn to page 46.
Pittsburgh Club Names McMahon as President
John McMahon, junior journalism major and member of the Scholastic staff, was elected president of the Pittsburgh Club at their meeting on Feb. 10.
Other officers elected at the same time were: Art Boyle, AB sophomore, vice-president, John MacDonald, junior premed, secretary; and Phil Kilkeary, commerce sophomore, treasurer.
Senate Sponsors Little UN; Keyes Assembly Chairman
On March 28, 1957 the Student Senate will sponsor a Little U.N. Assembly in the Main Ballroom of the Student Center. Peter Keyes will act as general chairman of the assembly consisting of delegates from the various halls and clubs on campus representing countries from all over the world. The assembly will be modeled directly on the U.N. Assembly with translators for the Latin American and French delegates. Any one interested in participating in the Assembly can contact the Delegation Chairman, Dave Valaik at 138 Alumni Hall. The Publicity Chairman is James F. O’Donoghue Jr., while Dan Bergen and John Heineman will handle the facilities and agenda.
Detroit Club Elects Officers; Ok Plans Set for Easter Dance t
Lou Bosco was elected new president if of the Detroit Club at a meeting held v last week. Other officers elected were: |-Tom Moore, vice-president; Bob Taylor, L treasurer; John Kroha, recording secretary, and John Foley, corresponding secretary.
The administration began the new / term with a dance in Detroit last Saturday and according to Bosco, “this dance r was just the beginning of our new social f program. At present we are planning f the finest Easter Dance the Detroit Club f has ever seen.”	-
From School to Job
(Continued from page 24)
made, that the young employee must • have time to become reorientated before : he can be of real value. Yes, for that i variable duration, he is placed in a job which the uneducated man can do as well. We place him where no great amounts of effort, organization and cap- _ ■ ital can be threatened when he makes inevitable mistakes. We hope he will ; use that beginning job to demonstrate that his higher education has given him a breadth and flexibility of mind and application which, presumably, the uneducated man in the same job would lack.
Let’s summarize with this illustration.
A student may have taken a number of 5 courses in the theory of dynamic form and balance, yet flounder and fall as bad- f ly as anyone else the first time he puts •: on iceskates. We confine him to a corner ; of the rink, out of the way of the stiff J competition among figure skaters, and since he obviously hasn’t yet learned i to stand up at the slightest collision ■with another skater, we pay little attention when he complains that we are not making use of his theory. We an-swer, “It isn’t that your study has no j value, man, you just can’t skate yet!” I
It is our hope that this study of dy- f namics and theory will enable him to j learn how to skate faster and better, < and take him on into accomplishments i beyond the imagination of the less 1 trained. Then we will eagerly listen to his knowledge and ideas.
But, first, he has to prove it.
3
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 112 E. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana Under Max Adler Company B. FRED CRAVEN N. D. Boys Welcome
The Scholastic
fhu&k Seem
Tom Sullivan gives his views on Detroit, DePaul, Marquette and the forthcoming NCAA tournament, as he sees it
• From the Backcourt
By TOM SULLIVAN as told to Jack Grady
Tom Sullivan, after spending two years in service, returned to Notre Dame this fall io complete his studies and assume his old position as a guard on the basketball team, the same position he held on the 1951-52 and 1952-53 teams. Sullivan has proven to be quite an asset in the backcourt, and his directing of the team has been instrumental in its recent successes. Although majoring in Business Administration, he hopes to go into coaching after his graduation in June.
■H What has been most impressive to me the past few ballgames is the way in which the high scoring has been fairly evenly distributed among John Smyth, John McCarthy, Bobby Devine and Tom Hawkins. This fact reminds me of the great ’52-’53 Notre Dame team which I was fortunate enough to play on. Jack Stephens, Dick Rosenthal, and Joe Bertrand were consistently sharing the ^scoring honors on that team which fin-^ished the campaign with a 17-4 record and received an NCAA tournament bid. This scoring balance has been instrumental in the team’s success and must
JUST ONE MORE ONCE One of 16 rebounds.
be very pleasing to Coach Jordan, since it has been forcing the opposition to play an honest defense, not being able to concentrate on one or two individuals.
When Detroit came down here they brought with them Bill Ebben, one of the best scorers in collegiate ball, and an outstanding guard in Mike Walsh, both of whom I went to school with at
IT’S THAT MAN AGAIN
Hawkins scores against DePaul.
Fenwick High. Our defense, quite naturally, was geared to stop Ebben, since the Detroit offense was built around him.
Our defense, which has been our weakest point all season, was not effective in the earlier stages of the game and, coupled with comparatively poor rebounding, got us off to a slow start. Playing man-to-man, John McCarthy did a tremendous job holding down Ebben, whose jump shot is the best we have seen this year, and the likes of which we hope not to see again. Walsh’s scoring in the early part of the game sufficed for the slack left by Ebben’s ineffectiveness. When Ebben did start to score late in the second half it was as the result of a double pick, an offensive tactic very difficult to guard against. The way Walsh had been scoring earlier,
THE AUTHOR
it was not necessary to employ the “pick.”
The turning point, I believe, was when Gene Duffy came into the game, giving the ball club the needed shot in the arm, which picked up our- defense considerably. His ball-handling was very effective in opening up the Detroit defense, enabling John Smyth and Tom Hawkins to score easily.
You might sum this game up by saying that after a few shaky minutes, the team started to rebound and played good defense for the remainder of the game. Of course a lot of credit has to be given to Bobby Devine, who of late has been scoring in high figures with consistency. As usual, McCai-thy, Smyth and Hawkins did a very good job on both boards, and Duffy’s ballhandling is certainly worthy of praise.
Much of the credit for Detroit’s success must go to Bill Ebben who, along with Charlie Tyra of Louisville, I think are two of the finest ball players we have faced this year.
We knew DePaul was coming here last Saturday night with intentions of depriving us of a bid to the NCAA tournament, which naturally aroused the Dish blood in Coach Johnny Jordan. I believe that this was one of the finest-games Notre Dame has played this season. In particular John Smyth could be singled out for a really outstanding performance. He played his usual great board game and also turned in a workmanlike job guarding Dick Heise, DePaul’s leading scorer. Most of Heise’s, scoring came after a switch, when “Smitty” wasn’t on him.	.
Actually you cannot put your finger-(Continued on page 36)
March 1, 1957
'29’

HALL, KEEGAN, FOREMAN AND LEWIS
Irish track hopes in CCC
Irish Defend Central Collegiate Track Title Against Tough Competition Here Tomorrow
by PAT DE FOE
Tomorrow afternoon in the Fieldhouse the Notre Dame home indoor track season comes to a close with the running of the 30th annual Central Collegiate Conference Meet. The Irish will be out to defend the title that they have held for the past three years. Coach Alex Wilson expects it to be mainly a battle between our own trackmen and those of Marquette and Western Michigan. However, he does not discount the threat from the other four teams entered: Drake, Detroit, Loyola, and Central Michigan. Two other possible enti-ants are Bradley and Wayne State Universities. Coach Wilson is looking forward to an exceptionally fine meet this year with the featured events being the 60-yard dash and the two-mile run. Preliminary events start at 1:30 p.m. with the finals slated for 8 p.m.
Aubrey Lewis, ND’s junior speedster, will duel with Western Michigan’s Olympic dash specialist, Ira Murchison, in the 60-yard event. Both have world record tying 6.1 performances to their credit. The two-mile run will feature Drake’s Phil Howrey, whose father, Gene, ran on the same Notre Dame team as Coach Wilson, Doug Pyle of Western Michigan and ND distance man Mike Haverty.
Included among the events this year is a freshman mile which should draw a great deal of attention. Entered are first year Irish track hopefuls Ron Gregory, Andy Crawford and Dave Cotton.
Marquette’s Warriors will be out to avenge a dual meet defeat the Irish inflicted on them two weeks ago. They will
again have the services of star quartermilers Rod Chapman and Ken Voss.
Indiana rolled up nine of twelve first places to hand the Irish their first setback this year, 68^-45%, in Bloomington. ND winners were Dick DiCamillo, who ran the mile in 4:20.9 to beat lU’s Max Fiscus and Dale VandenBerg, who set an Indiana Fieldhouse record in the 880, beating the old mark of 1:56.1 by six-tenths of a. second. ND’s mile relay team of co-captain Bill Keegan, Al Porter, Joe Foreman and Lewis were responsible for Notre Dame’s only other first.
Three Hoosiers racked up double wins to account for two-thirds of the Indiana first places. Greg Bell, Olympic broad jump champion, won his specialty easily and went on to double up -with a victory in the 60-yard dash. Willie May, sophomore hurdler, took both hurdling events over teammate Tom Campbell, with ND’s Lewis finishing third in the lows. The pole vault and high jump were both won by Hoosier Brealon Donaldson.
Besides VandenBerg’s record-breaking performance, two Indiana tracksters broke Fieldhouse marks: 440-yard man Harold Caffey set a new record of 50 seconds flat while winning this event and Jerry Lane in the shot put, with a heave of 53 feet, 10/2 inches, shattered the mark he had set the previous week.
The two-mile run was won by lU’s Tony Pentino, rounding out the Hoosiers’ nine firsts. Mike Haverty and Dick DiCamillo, both of Notre Dame, came in second and third, respectively.
Gymnastic Club Loses First Meet of Season
Last Saturday afternoon in the Drill ' Hall, the Notre Dame Gymnastic Club lost its first meeting of the season to the University of Chicago by a score of 60-36. High scorer for the Irish was Jim Brunot. The next meet will be March 9 against Western Illinois.
Brunot, a junior, took first place in the parallel bars and his older brother, Captain Bill Brunot, took second on the ; side horse. Freshman Roger Brunelli I took second on the flying rings.	:
The club has lost one man by graduation, the club captain, Ev Hatch. Hatch, i an all-around performer, was the team’s \ leading scorer last year and had been a । standout for three seasons.
Coach John Fizer has ten seasoned veterans returning plus some talented z newcomers. Jim Brunot is the club’s I new all-around performer, working the • rings, parallel bars, trampoline, tumbling 1 and free exercise. Bill Brunot performs on the parallel bars and side horse. Senior Bob Orner, vice-president of the club, holds the No. 2 spot on the parallel bars and flying rings. Paul Leitzinger, club secretary, works the hi-bar and side horse. Two juniors, Bill Anderson and Roy Williams, round out the hi-bar group. Two sophomores, Ed Lahey and Denny Ryan, add depth to the team in the trampoline, tumbling and parallel bars.
With about thirty freshmen in the club who will improve greatly with experience, the gymnasts expect a successful season despite their loss to Chicago.
30
The Scholastic

?1 Johnson and Russomano
A Neu) Experiment
by DICK SINNOTT
£ Many prep athletes have come to Notre Dame amid the flurry of press clippings and a fanfare of expectations —some live up to reputations and a few even go beyond expectations.
Last fall a pair of such prep stars arrived on campus from New Jersey. But whether or not they will add to their reputations won’t be known for another year or two. All that can be said so far is that they have adjusted well to university life and are spending their free time practicing for next year’s first taste of intercollegiate competition.
You won’t find them on the more fa
miliar confines of Cartier Field or the fieldhouse. Their performances are confined to a small room under the bas
ketball stands. There, Jim Russomano and Jerry Johnson sharpen their skills with the tools of fencing—epee, sabre and foil.
Jim Russomano is a tall, lanky boy with thick black hair and a slightly shaded complexion. He has long arms and thin hands and the way he carries himself indicates excellent coordination. His short precise answers have the same quality as the quickness of his body.
Jim prepped at Montclair Academy in Montclair, New Jersey. Besides participating in baseball and track, he won three fencing letters. With the foil, his specialty, he won many honors representing Montclair in various novice meets. He was the Metropolitan New
JOHNSON AND RUSSOMANO Future varsity fencers
York High School Champion in 195-5 and placed second in the Metropolitan Novice Meet the same year. He was the New Jersey high school champion for two consecutive years and won the State Amateur Fencing League title once. Probably his greatest honor was qualifying for final competition in last year’s Olympic trials.
Jerry Johnson is entirely different in physical stature. His bright, deep-set eyes dominate a stock halfback type build. He has a reserved manner and an excited awe that goes with the first taste of college life. Jerry is a native of Newark and attended Barringer High School. Like most boys do, he enjoyed dueling with broom sticks while in grammar school and on enrolling at Barringer he was drawn to fencing.
At this school the sport enjoys more than passing support. Dr. Cetrulo, the fencing coach, comes from a long line of great Italian masters and he annually supplies the eastern colleges with superior group of fencers. Jerry is one of Dr. Cetrulo’s finest pupils as his record verifies.
He was awarded four letters and had an undefeated string of two years during interscholastic competition. He was also the State Amateur Fencing League Champion and New Jersey High School title holder for one year. His greatest ambitions are to be Foil Inter-
TYLER’S BASKETBALL PICKS
SATURDAY:
Bradley over Detroit Columbia over Penn Syracuse over Colgate Morehead State over Cincinnati Brigham Young over Denver Notre Dame over DePaul Yale over Harvard
Michigan State over Indiana Kansas over Colorado
Michigan over Iowa Canisius over Niagara Ohio State over Northwestern Dartmouth over Princeton Seton Hall over Fordham St. Louis over Houston SMU over Arkansas Louisville over Toledo Kentucky over Tennessee Purdue over Wisconsin
LAST WEEK: 26 Right; 11 Wrong. SEASON: 104 Right; 27 Wrong.
Pct. .793
collegiate Champion and a member of the 1960 Olympic team.
In practice, both boys have the skill of experience and an air of optimistic confidence that goes with champions. Mr. Walter Langford, Notre Dame’s soft spoken fencing coach is very pleased with his new pupils.
He says that fencers with prep school experience are rare at Notre Dame. In twenty years of fencing we-have sent 142 contestants into competition but only foui- of these have had the advantage of previous training. He points out that high school experience is a great help especially in the NCAA finals. The lopsided ratio at Notre Dame is due to the lack of organized fencing at a majority of - midwestern high schools and in the ability of the Universifies of Wisconsin and Illinois to draw heavily from the existing talent.
According to Mr. Langford, neither ; Johnson nor Russomano are on scholar- I 1 ships but they do receive compensation	;
from student jobs. This fact is an ex-	!
periment on the .pari of the athletic I board in hopes that in the future years । Notre Dame will develop squads with j the ability to compete with the eastern > powers.	.	:
Whether this hope is realized, the ex- i periment will be far from a failure. To j both boys, fencing was an entirely new | experience when first attempted in high j school. They looked at it, as do many i others, as always taking a back seat i to the more popular major sports. How- | ever, being gifted with great determination and skill, they developed into fine collegiate prospects and its perfection is now part of their daily life.
31
March 1, 1957

Season Record Falls *
In Warrior Cage Win
BOB DEVINE
TIME OUT
A smiling athlete quickly peeled his sweaty uniform from his lithe body and then removed his sneaks. He winced a little as he ripped the tape from his freshly shaven ankles. He grabbed a towel and headed for the showers. As he walked the length of the locker room, he received an occasional “Nice going, Bobby.”
Irish guard, Bob Devine, made sure to thank each well-wisher. As he returned from the shower, he passed the locker being used by Captain John Smyth. One of the managers was taping a big 16 on the locker, symbolizing the hopes for the next Notre Dame victory.
“Sure looked good tonight, didn’t we, Smitty?” “Yea, but there’s no stopping now.”
There was a look of determination on the captain’s face. He was happy with the locals’ sixth straight victory at the expense of Ray Meyer’s DePaul club, but it was future ball g-ames that had him worried. Over-confidence is the thing to watch out for now. If the club ever gets the notion that they might be ready to take on the world, someone will just be waiting to ruin it all.
Fox- Devine, Saturday night’s victory ended the most productive week in the Philadelphian’s career. Wednesday night ag-ainst Detroit he hit for 28 points, which was more than he has ever scored in one ball game, including high school. Against DePaul, he hit 13 of 18 from the field which is just about as close as one can get to being perfect.
When Devine came here he was marked as “the player with a little Gola in him.” And last week, he showed every bit of it.
There were many resemblances to the former LaSalle All-American as he hit jump shots, set up plays, and slipped by the defense for lay-ins. It was no secret that the former West Catholic star was at the peak of his college career.
Right now, Devine is in much better physical shape than he was last year at the same time. This has been one of the biggest reasons for his improved play of late. Removed from his duties as outside guard, he has concentrated his efforts on scoring which is going to make the Irish even more potent in post-season play.
POP SHOTS: It was erroneously reported in this magazine last week that John Smyth was a Commerce major. Notre Dame’s cage captain is a Philosophy major in the AB school. . . . An important part of the basketball operation is Jim Marshall. “Marsh” handles one of the freshman teams in the preliminary games as well as acting'as an assistant trainer. ... We predicted a few weeks ago that UCLA would be one of the four finalists in the NCAA at Kansas City late in March. The Uclans are ineligible as is another contender, Washington. The nod will now have to go to California’s Bears. . . . The prediction that ND would be there caused a bit of a hassle but it is looking better every day.
EXTRAS: In a recent article, Ned Irish, promoter of college basketball in the Madison Square Garden, said that CCNY and Long Island U. would not be welcomed back to the Garden because of the “fixes” of a few years back. Don’t look now, but there might be another similar situation going on. Rumors have it that one of the Metropolitan area teams, that plays most of its home games in the Eighth Avenue establishment, hasn’t been playing it straight. The Big Bettors are making quite a haul. One more episode like the last one and the Garden will be closed forever to college basketball. . . . Marty Allen, next year’s head football manager, was named “Sportsman of the Week” in his home town of Grand Rapids, Mich. The previous week’s winner was Gordie Howe of the Detroit Red Wings. Old “Mart” is moving in fast company— J.G.
With last Tuesday’s 76 point output in a winning effort over Marquette the Irish became the highest scoring team in Notre Dame basketball history with a total of 1927 points. The old record, established by the 1953-54 club, was | 1,896 points for 25 games.	'
In winning 11 of their last 13 games and 16 of 23 for the season, the Irish ; have averaged 83.8 points per game to > 75 for the opponents.
Tom Hawkins, who has been called the “best Notre Dame sophomore ever” : by Coach Jordan, continues to lead the team in every offensive department with a 20.8 average and just under 400 rebounds. Captain John Smyth is second ■ with a 19.1 average and 347 rebounds. John McCarthy is third averaging 14.9	•
points per game and guard Bobby Devine is going at a 13.5 points per game clip.
However, McCarthy has averaged better than 20 points in the last nine games and Devine has dropped in better than 17 in the last eight. Combine this with Smyth’s and Hawkins’ point totals and it accounts for better than 77 points a game.
The fifth starting spot, that of playmaker, has alternated recently between
Gene Duffy and Tom Sullivan. The former has only 40 points and Sullivan just 53, but both only saw limited action earlier in the year.
Notre Dame has outscored its opponents 1927 to 1725, while in the re- -bounding department the locals have ; picked off a phenomenal 59 rebounds a : game considering their lack of a big man. The opponents have only been able to manage 45 rebounds a game.
TWO OF 1927
McCarthy helps scoring record.
32
The Scholastic
•Swim Club Churns to Triangular Win in Rock After Losing Two Meets Earlier Last Week
The Notre Dame Swim Club pulled their season’s record over .500 by swamping Western Michigan and Hillsdale Colleges in a triangular meet last Saturday in the Rockne Memorial pool. £ Following losses to Bowling Green and Miami of Ohio at the Rock earlier last
week, the double win gives them a 6-5 showing for the year. Only the Midwest Invitational at North Central College tomorrow is left on the schedule. Last
year in this affair, ND came in fifth of twelve teams, just three points out of fourth. The best local performance at last spring’s meet was a second in the 400-yard freestyle relay behind Washington of St. Louis’ record-breaking-quartet.
Led by Mike Connelly’s double win in the 220 and 440-yard freestyles, the Irish piled up 74 points to Western Michigan’s 47 and Hillsdale’s 28. ND captured six of the ten events and never trailed as they won the 400-yard medley relay and took the first two places in the 200-yard freestyle to build up a commanding lead. £ Right behind Connelly in both the 220 and 440 was Tom Londrigan to give Notre Dame control of the longer events. Connelly was timed in 2:20.8 and 5:14.7. The meet’s only other double winner was John Hubley of Western Michigan in the 200-yard butterfly and the 200-yard breaststroke, which he covered in 2:39.4. Dick Dunn added a second in the butterfly and George May was fourth in both events.
NOTRE DAME’S GARRITY AT START OF BACKSTROKE
Local tank star wins easily.
March 1, 1957
Jim Garrity and Dick Katis of the Irish controlled the 200-yard backstroke with Garrity winning easily in 2:24.2. Tom Kennedy and Paul Kerwin handled the dashes. Kennedy won the 100-yard freestyle in :54.4 with Kerwin third. Kerwin in turn finished second in the
fifty and Kennedy third. The winner of the fifty, Roy Moyer of Western Michigan, tied the pool record of :23.8. He also took second in the 100.
Paul Chestnut captured the diving contest for Notre Dame with Ed Healy third. The 400-yard freestyle relay team finished second to Hillsdale to round out the scoring.
On Monday of last week, Bowling Green dumped the tinmen 54-32 at the Rock. Five pool records were set—all by Bowling Green. Don Worsfold established two of them, :23.8 in the 50-yard freestyle and :52.8 in the 100. Ralph Eakins lowered the 200-yard backstroke standard to 2:16 and Jim Thompson the breaststroke mark to 2:36.2. Their 400-yard medley relay team set the new mark at 4:10.5.
Notre Dame showed strength in the 220 and 440-yard freestyles as they have all season long. Connelly won the 220 and was second in the 440 to Tom Londrigan, who set a Notre Dame team record of 5:14.8. Paul Chestnut added a first in the diving, but the fourteen points Bowling Green picked up in the two relays put the meet out of reach for the Irish.
The Swim Club suffered its fifth loss against Miami of Ohio on Washington’s birthday, 53-33. Miami won six of the eight individual events besides taking both relays to wrap up the contest. The Irish picked up most of their points on seconds and thirds.
John Humphries of Miami was the meet’s only double winner, copping the . 50 and 100-yard freestyles. Denny O’Brien, of the Redskins, one of the top butterfly men in the nation, clipped more than 20 seconds off the 200-yard butterfly record in lowering the mark to 2:20.3. Dick Katis took the 220 in 2:18.2 and Mike Connelly the 440 in 5:11.3 for the only Irish victories.
Fencers Win Again; Victory Streak at 14
The Irish fencing team continued on its winning ways during the past two weeks by out-dueling Chicago, Wayne, Lawrence Tech, Detroit, Michigan State and Ohio State. Two weeks ago the Irish beat Chicago, 16-11, and finished the afternoon by dumping Wayne, 18-9. This past Friday, they traveled to Detroit and swept past Lawrence Tech to the tune of 21-6 and Detroit by the score of 18-9. On Saturday, at East Lansing, the fencers smashed Ohio i State, 20-7 and slipped by Michigan State 15-12, in a tight match.	i
The epee continued to be the strong	j
weapon for the Irish with Denis Himm-	j
berle leading the attack. Himmberle	>
raised his season’s record to 25 victories	J
against four losses by virtue of captur-	|
ing 15 out of his last 17 matches. Himm-	j
berle went 5-1 against Chicago and	?
Wayne, 6-0 against Tech and Detroit and 4-1 against Ohio State and Michigan	J
State. Ron Farrow has won seven of	j|
his last eight outings, upping his sea-	j
son’s score to 12-3. Ron scored four for	|
four against Michigan State and Ohio	j
State and dropped one match of four against Lawrence and Detroit. Other outstanding performers in this division	|
are Terry Laughlin with a record of	|
13-4, John Kearns at 11-2 and Jim Jock	|
with a 9-1 mark thus far for the season. • |
In the foils competition, Pierre du-	|
Vair sets the pace. duVair took five	|
out of five matches from Detroit and	|
Tech and five out of six from the Spar-	|
tans and Buckeyes for a season’s record	|
of 20 wins against only four losses. Joe	i
Blazina has a mark of 18-5. Joe has	1
scored eleven victories in his last 14	|
matches, scoring in four of four matches	|
against Lawrence and Detroit, four of	|
five against Ohio State and Michigan	|
State and three of five against Chicago	|
and	Wayne.	|
In the sabre	division,	Dick Fagan has	s
(Continued	on	page 40)	|
33	I
YOU CAN MAKE GOOD MONEY
During Vacations... Weekends... Evenings College Students Make up to $15 in an Hour 'wmS* presto fire extinguisher in Spare Hours . . . and SO CAN YOU!
Join the ranks of other college men now turning their spare evenings, weekends and vacations into CASH. Students without previous experience report average earnings of as much as $15.00 per hour spent introducing the sensational PRESTO Fire Extinguisher to homes in their localities. An Ohio man made $75.56 the very first day! There?s no easier way to make so much money so quickly.
Here’s Why You’ll Make Good Money with PRESTO . . .
Most people who see PRESTO in action want one or more for their home. faim. business, car. boat. etc.—especially because the price is only $4.95 each! Lightweight PRESTO does job of bulky extinguish'd s which cost 4 times as much and are 8 times as heavy. The secret is a startling chemical l'/s to 6 times as effective as ordinary extinguisher chemicals on equal weight basis. Even a child can use. Just a twist of the knob and flames disappear. Guaranteed for 20 years. Over two million already sold. If you want to make really good spare time money, send for big Illustrated Sales Kit containing everything you need to start making fine profits the very first day. Everything FREE, no obligation. Mail coupon TODAY!
Merlite Industries (Presto Div.) 114 E. 32nd St., Dept. P-1207, New York 16, N. Y.
JIM FINKS
Moves to Calgary.
MERLITE INDUSTRIES. (Presto Div.), 114 E. 32nd St., Dept. P-1207. New Yoik 16. N. Y.
Please tush money-making Illustrated PRESTO Sales Kit FREE, postpaid and without obligation.
Name ..............................................................................
Address ...........................................................................
City ....................................  Zone	.......... State .................
Stram Replaces Finks As Backfield Coach
Former Purdue and Southern Methodist assistant coach, Henry Strain, moves into the Irish camp to fill the vacancy caused by Coach Jim Finks’ recent resignation. A new freshman coach will also be named.
European Holiday Tour under leadership of Dr. Charles E. Parnell, Ph.D. Associate Professor Modern Languages Notre Dame, Indiana
Leaving Montreal June 12, 1957 Returning New York
August 12, 1957 All-Inclusive Tour Price $1060 by Private Motorcoach
For complete information see
FIRST BANK & TRUST CO.
Travel Department
Notre Dame Campus:
Book Store
Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Limit for Inscriptions: March 31st
ARE ELIGIBLE
Send Today for FREE Professional
Businessman's
Wholesale Diamond Brochure. Write Jackson's Diamond Brokers, Dept. D 644 Broadway, Gary, Ind.
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only *4.
Jim Finks, quarterback coach during the past season, resigned last week to take a position with the Calgary Stam-peders of the Canadian Professional Football League as an assistant coach. He follows freshman coach Jack Landry, < who left Notre Dame earlier this month to take a similar position with the Nebraska Cornhuskers.
Finks came to Notre Dame last spring from the professional Pittsburgh Steelers whom he quarterbacked for sic seasons.
Stram, 33 years old, grew up in Gary, Indiana. Upon graduation from Lew Wallace High School there, where he (1 captained the football team in 1940, he enrolled at Purdue. He captained the freshman team in 1941 and following year played at halfback. His playing days were interrupted after his first varsity year due to military service during World War II.
After leaving the service, he returned to Purdue and resumed his gridiron activities, starting at halfback in 1946 and 1947.
Upon graduation Stram was appointed an assistant coach for the Boilermakers. He remained at this position until last yeai- when he moved to the coaching staff of Southern Methodist University, the club that handed the Irish the first defeat of the 1956 season.
34
The Scholastic
Matmen Face Wheaton After Defeating UIC
After- a difficult weekend at the Wheaton tournament, the Notre Dame wrestling team found the winning way again on Wednesday night, February 20, by defeating the University of Illinois, at Chicago, 16-14. This match • A gave the Irish their third victory in eight starts. This afternoon Notre Dame will face Wheaton of Illinois, at 3:30 in the Vet Rec Hall, to wind up the dual meet season.
Coach Tom Fallon sent five Notre Dame matmen to the Wheaton Tournament in Wheaton, Illinois, on Friday and Saturday, Feb. 15 and 16, to compete with eleven other midwestern col-■j$ leges. Captain Terry Crowley went all the way to the finals for the Irish, where he was finally defeated by Henry Nuss of Wheaton. The other four Irish contestants were eliminated in the opening round. However Chuck Henzy, Mel Larsen, and Bucky O’Connoi- lost to Meitz-ler of Illinois Normal, Young of Northern Illinois, and Dunkel of Illinois Southern, respectively. All three even-~ tually won the 157, 167, and 177 lb. " championships. The fifth Irish entry, Bob Pivonka, was defeated by a consolation round winner. Southern Illinois copped the tournament crown.
On Wednesday night at Chicago, Terry Crowley and Mel Larsen led the Irish to victory with pins over their Illinois opponents. George Jurinek of UIC bested Buddy Day in the opening 123-lb. _ class, and Sevan Killian pinned Ed R Finlay in the second round of the 130-1b. class for five more points, giving Illinois an early 8-0 advantage. But ' Bob Pivonka’s 3-2 decision over Conrad Rossetti in the 137-lb. division, J coupled with Terry Crowley’s pin of | Win Davidson at the close of his 147-I	lb. match, evened the score for the Irish.
|	In the 157-lb. battle, John Woods scored
for UIC with a 9-4 decision over Chuck ID Henzy. Then 167-lb. Mel Larsen pushed the Irish ahead, 13-11, by pinning Dave Paul in the third round. Bucky O’Connor assured an Irish tie by whipping Clem Sitar in the 177-lb. division. With the score reading Notre Dame 16, Illinois 11, Illinois heavyweight Walt Ruf needed to pin Al Ecuyer to give UIC a tie. But Ecuyer lasted the match, losing 9-8, but giving Notre Dame the victory, • 16-14.
This afternoon the Irish face a powerful Wheaton College squad, which had lost to Southern Illinois by a single point in their own Wheaton Tournament. Terry Crowley will have an opportunity for revenge against Henry Nuss, the dinner of the championship bout in the Wheaton Tourney.
Be popular...get more fun out of life
COME INTO ,
urn
and be a sought-after dance partner
Everybody knows that good dancers have the best times. How about your dancing? Does it get you invitations? If not, let one of Arthur Murray’s talented experts show you the shortcut to popularity. You’ll be amazed how easy it is to learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. And it’s such fun you’ll wish you’d started years sooner. So come in now and be sure of having the time of your life at your next party.
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
120 E. Wayne St.
CE 2-3339
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Can Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost
First Bank & Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Have a NOW of FUN! f ITA rb/e Low Cost Europe X. fraM $525 Orient $99» ' fours include Ifoge credit.
»t trips to Mexico ut^ America $699 up. iy Tours $528 up and > World $1398 up.
nr*
Chicago
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
March 1, 1957
35
Kohorst Given Citation For All-American Honors
Elmer Kohorst, Notre Dame’s first baseball All-American, received a citation from the American College Baseball Coaches Association before the Notre Dame-Detroit basketball game Feb. 20 at the Fieldhouse. Irish Athletic Director Ed Krause presented the award to * - : catcher Kohorst.
Kohorst, a senior from Albany, Minn., is co-captain of ND this spring with first baseman Jim Cusack. In 1956, when the Irish reached the second round of the NCAA tournament before being eliminated by the eventual winner, Minnesota, Kohorst batted .344 and led the team with three home runs, in runs batted in and total hits. He has had -several professional baseball offers already but has decided to finish his schooling at Notre Dame where he will obtain his degree in Physical Education this June.
Here’s a perfect place
... to build your career!
The Columbia Gas System offers you, as an engineer, the perfect place to grow. The seven states Columbia serves with natural gas—Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia and Kentucky—comprise one of the fastest growing areas in the country. And natural gas is one of the fastest growing industries in the U.S.
This growth combination means many rewarding careers ahead for young men with ideas.
Variety in your job, promotion from within, an individualized training program —tailored to fit you—and liberal employee benefits, are some of the things Columbia Gas offers.
If you are a chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical, welding, petroleum, or general engineer, our representative would like to talk to you during his visit to your campus soon.
★
-i
THE COLUMBIA GAS SYSTEM
★
120 EAST 41ST STREET • NEW YORK 17. N. Y.
From the Backcourt
(Continued from page 29) on any single turning point, except possibly when, with about five minutes gone ~ in the first half, we started to hold our own on the boards. Defense again was average, but we must keep in mind that DePaul played one of its best games all season, as they usually do against us.
Marquette showed us last Tuesday night that they have a good, sound ball club, a squad that could give us some unwanted trouble again when we meet , them here in our last regularly sched- ~ uled game of the season. Mike Moran, their 6-8 sophomore center proved to be a good ballplayer, as you can judge by the performance he turned in against us.
Tomorrow night in Chicago we will have another typical Notre Dame-DePaul battle, but this one will naturally be a little rougher for the Irish. Playing on their home court, seeking revenge for last week’s defeat, and ' probably still entertaining thoughts of upsetting our plans for the NCAA, might give DePaul a psychological advantage. However I think that if N.D. can keep rebounding and scoring the way they have been these past few games, it will more than offset this | “advantage.” Once again, the big job will be to hold Dick Heise down. f;
With regard to the NCAA, I honestly believe that, with a little more luck and a little more defense, we can go all the way in the tourney. The NCAA is what j we have been shooting for all season. | We will go in there with the attitude	|
that we are going to win it, and I don’t	I
believe that Coach Jordan would accept * a bid if he did not feel the same way. :
The Scholastic I
I
NSA Representative to Visit Campus Thursday; Talk, Movies to Demonstrate Foreign Tours
TAKE A BREAK!
8 to 9
Miss Carrie Smeltzer from Educational Travel, Inc., a branch of the National Student Association, will be on campus next Thursday, to discuss NSA’s ^schedule of tours for the spring and summer months of 1957, according to Bob Hilger, NSA representative here on campus.
Preceding Miss Smeltzer’s talk will be a movie on last summer’s Volkswagen tour. Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students interested in group tours, independent travel, or summer study abroad are invited to attend. The program will ^be held in the LaFortune Student Cen-'■^ter Amphitheater starting at 7:30 p.m. and will last about one hour.
This Sunday, at 7:30 p.m., there will be a short program in the Amphitheater on foreign travel. Two movies will be presented: The Magic Flight, a travelog on Switzerland produced by Swiss Air, and Flight to Germany by TWA. Following these films there will be a general presentation of various opportuni-£ ties open to students who wish to travel abroad. Dr. Charles Parnell, assistant professor of modern languages at Notre Dame, and Francis Tremage of the First
Bank and Trust Co. Travel Dept, will contribute to the discussion.
The NSA also announced new student tours for this summer to Japan, Hong Kong, Manila, Saigon, and South America.
These tours have recently been added to the NSA’s regular tour roster, which includes: the Tri-Nation series at $880 (England-France-Germany; France-Spain-Italy; Holland - Denmark - Italy-Switzerland-France), the Four-To-A-Cai- Volkswagen tours at $750 (72 days with a flexible route to suit each foursome), and the East-West, North-South, and Central European tours which each cost about $900 for 75 day tours.
The National Federation of Catholic College Students is also offering four tours this summer, ranging from $695 for 47 days (England, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and France) to $975 for 70 days (Ireland, England, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Spain, Portugal, and France).
All of the above tours are handled locally by Hilger in Room 2 of the Student Center basement or at 434 Howard Hall.
PIZZA HOUR
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed W’atch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
Creole Petroleum Corporation
WOULD LIKE TO SAY THANK YOU
for the interest shown in our organization during our recent visit to your campus. If you were unable to schedule an interview and are interested in
Employment Opportunities in Venezuela
plan now to see us on our return visit in the Fall or forward your qualifications by mail to 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York 20, N. Y.
i March 1, 1957 ?
i
1
37
FALSE
TRUE
True. Independent surveys prove that Jockey is not only the best known underwear in the U.S.A, but also in 75 other countries around the world. Just shows how much men value comfort and fit.
False. Many schools don’t permit fraternities, and at major state universities, there are always more independents than fraternity men. Fraternities are, however, at an all-time high in membership.
True. Schools and individual instances vary, of course, but the national average cost is estimated at nearly $6,000.
Men in the know
know true from false
It costs more than $5,000 to send the average student through college
Time of GSA Mass Moved; ° First Spring Meeting Held
The Graduate Student Association held its first meeting of the spring semester on Feb. 21 in the LaFortune Student Center. As a result of the meeting, the time of the GSA Mass has been moved up to 9 a.m. on Sunday. The , Mass will continue to be held in the Lyons Hall Chapel. It was also announced that there will be a page devoted to former graduate students in the Alumnus beginning with the spring issue.
Among the projected activities discussed were the new orientation program, a mixer, a dance, a retreat, and the Communion Breakfast. This last will ; be held following the close of the asso- —' ciation’s annual retreat on Sunday, April 7, at the Morris Inn. Members are urged to see Hugh McQueen or any of the officers and sign up early for the breakfast. The speaker will be announced at a later date.
Most college men belong to fraternities
Jockey brand is America's best known brand of men’s underwear
Men on the go
K^U underwear
BRAND •
made only by
Jim Sullivan announced the beginning of the Association’s classical film series soon. March 8 has been set as a tentative date. The confirmatory announce- -ment will be posted soon.
'A Challenge1
(Continued from page 18)
coming a vital, influential force in bettering the Notre Dame family. Fully realizing the communications problem ( we have, it is no excuse for the “experts” to sit back in their easy-chairs and criticize without any real knowledge of student government.
As a challenge to you, why not find out what student government is and what it is trying to do? Who are the people involved in it? Student government needs capable men—not a bunch of “gladhands.” You must encourage < the best men to run for office, and then choose intelligently the most capable individuals for each office.
There are bright spots on the horizon, and the problems of student government are definitely not insurmountable. The Commission System is active, especially in striving to improve the academic and spiritual attitudes of the t students. Progress is being made by many very capable senators who are sincerely interested in working for the best interests of their fellow students
. and the university. I genuinely feel that through the cooperation of everyone concerned, we can solve these problems, and ultimately benefit Notre Dame and -ourselves, in honor of Our Lady. v
The Scholastic
38
ANSCOFLEX CAMERA SET
Valued at $25.00
1 ickets can be obtained from the Photo Department with every purchase. Developing, Flash Bulbs, Films, Camera Information For convenience and efficiency it's the
Photo Dept. Notre Dame Bookstore
GRADUATING ENGINEERS...
If you, too, are a “Tow.wroiv Thinker”
... Join a creative team which has for over 25 years contributed significant firsts to aviation. Latest from our “Tomorrow Thinkers”:
AIRCRAFT— F-105 Thunderchief MISSILES—Terrapin
MAKE A DATE... to discuss your “tomorrow** with our representatives on this campus: TUESDAY, MARCH 12
For further information on Aircraft and Missiles opportunities see your Placement Officer
Farmingdale. Long Island, N. Y.
March 1, 1957
39
CHEMISTS CHEMICAL ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS
Are YOU Interested In . . .
1.	Opportunities in Research, Development, Engineering and Manufacturing that will challenge your ability.
2.	A company large enough to provide the tools and opportunities for your growth and development; yet small enough to prevent the loss of your individuality.	■
3.	Advancement in keeping with your capabilities and progress.
4.	A formal training program that covers all phases of our 5 plants, as well as our Central Engineering and Central Research and Development Departments.
5.	An outstanding Employee Benefit program.
6.	A Tuition-Assistance Policy that helps in furthering your technical education.
7.	A location in the technological, educational, cultural and entertainment heart of the country; with all the benefits of suburban living.
Then we suggest you consider . . .
CONGOLEUM-NAIRN INC.
195 BELGROVE DRIVE	KEARNY, N. J.
New Policy Announced For Tutoring Service
Jerome Slawik, chairman of the Student Tutoring service, and Paul Krapp, YCS president, have recently announced a new policy with regard to the tutoring service. This service is run by YCS in co-operation with Dr. William Burke, student advisor, and the deans of the various colleges.
The new policy provides that $1 will be collected from the student when he applies for and is assigned to a specific tutor. After this, the tutor and student can arrange the time of meeting and cost of tutoring. The usual price for tutoring is $1.40 per hour.
Also under the new policy, tutors who experience difficulty in collecting money will be able to turn their bills over to the tutoring service for collection. This policy will be in effect as of March 1.
Those interested in tutoring or in being tutored should stop by the YCS office in the LaFortune Student Center any afternoon between 4:30 and 5:30
p.m.
The oldest manufacturer of smooth surface floor and wall coverings in the United States
Campus Interviews on Monday, March 11
Why not arrange now for an appointment through your Placement Officer.
Fay’s Quality
Jewelers
Headquarters for FINE DIAMONDS
FEATURING EMERALD CUT nn DIAMOND RING ENSEMBLE
A continental styling classic . . . jeweled with lustrous fine quality diamond.
OPEN A CONVENIENT
CHARGE ACCOUNT 111 So. Michigan
Fencers Extend Streak (Continued from page 33) a total of 15 victories against nine de- L feats, winning ten out of his last 15 L matches. Dick took four out of five in I Detroit, four out of six in East Lansing t and had an even split of two and two I against Chicago and Wayne. Joe Klein . has compiled a record of 14-6. Joe had a bad day in Detroit, dropping three • out of four matches but bounced back xjUf to take three out of three from the two ;;; State teams.	gf;
On their recent road trip, Coach Langford’s charges experienced their i toughest match of the season in Michi- j gan State. The Spartans, smarting from ; defeat at the hands of Ohio State, ' jumped to a 7-1 advantage, taking the first five matches in succession. The Irish succeeded in tying the count at 9-9 with the epee matches remaining. G The Irish demonstrated both their depth : and dexterity in this division, taking six of the nine matches to come from behind to score their tenth victory of the season and 14th in succession.
Today, the Irish will journey to Indiana University for a dual meet which will form a prelude to tomorrow’s triangular meet at Champaign, Illinois, a They will face Illinois and Wisconsin. The Illinois team is not expected to give the Irish too much trouble but Wisconsin looms as the toughest club that the Irish will face this season. The Badgers carry the only other unblemished record in the Midwest. Next weekend the Irish will travel to Cleveland to face Case Tech and Fenn.	G
40
The Scholastic
THERE'S INTERESTING
WORK
TOBE DONE...
... and a bright future for ENGINEERS with
The Dayton Power & Light Co.
Dayton, Ohio
Electricals — Mechanicals — Civils
Permanent positions for Graduates * Summer Employment for Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors
REPRESENTATIVES ON CAMPUS
Thursday, March 14
Arrange with Your Placement Office for an Appointment
GULF OIL CORPORATION
Representative will be at the University of Notre Dame
March 13, 1957
to interview candidates for positions in
* RESEARCH
* DEVELOPMENT
Positions in the fields of petrochemicals, processing, product development, research on fuels and lubricants for automotive and aircraft engines, engineering research on lubrication problems, instrumentation, oil well production problems and equipment, large-scale computational equipment, and on instruments and techniques to be used in prospecting for petroleum.
B.S.; M.S.; Ph.D. candidates in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, Geological Engineering, Physics, and Geophysics.
For additional information and to apply for an interview, please see Reverend Louis J. Thornton, Director of Placement.
March 1, 1957
41
IN • Avionics	• Inertial Systems
• Computers	• Missile Guidance
• Jet Engine Fuel Controls
WITH THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF
1 Betted
Please contact your Placement Director today to arrange for interviews with General Motors recruiting representative
who will be on the campus
V-s. Tuesday. March 5
AC SPARK PLUG u	- THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
MILWAUKEE 2 WIS	FLINT 2. MICH
THE STRUBBE FAMILY On ‘Unity through Love’ Strubbes to Deliver Fifth Marriage Talk
The next talk in the Marriage Institute will be held on Ash Wednesday, March 6, in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.
The topic for the evening will be “Unity Through Love” and will be pre- ~ sented by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe of Chicago. This will be the fifth out of the six talks included in the Institute
SOCONY MOBIL OIL COMPANY, INC.
RECRUITING TEAM WILL VISIT
Placement Office
Monday, March 11
to talk with you about a career in petroleum— See your placement officer for appointment
program this year and will contain the usual question and answer session after the talk, followed by a coffee hour in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student
Center.
Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe have spoken at the Marriage Institute for a number of years. They have been married eleven years and have six children.
Mr. Strubbe is the executive vice-president of the Better Government Association of Chicago and also discussion leader and past president of the Great Book Foundation. Both Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe are members of the Cana Executive Board and the Catholic Family Unity.
Dr. Louis B. Leone of Chicago gave the fourth lecture in the series when he spoke last Tuesday, Feb. 26, in Washington Hall. Dr. Leone spoke on “The Doctor’s Point of View.”
The last lecture in the annual series will be given on March 12 by Mr. and Mrs. John Clark of Chicago. The Clarks will speak on “Success in Marriage.” ™
42
The Scholastic
■nr
FLUID POWER MECHANICAL POWER ELECTRICAL POWER POWER TO HEAT POWER TO COOL
At Worthington
YOU CHOOSE YOUR FUTURE
Don’t gamble with your future. At Worthington, the field you prefer is the one in which you start your career. Worthington offers opportunities with all phases of fluid, mechanical, and electrical power equipment as well as in the engineering, manufacturing, and marketing of heating and air conditioning products.
A15 week Rotation Period will show you Worthington in action. Then you’ll choose your future. With 11 plants and 24 district offices, a wide choice of location is also possible.
Choose carefully—and choose well—by writing to R. R. Hughes, Director of Training, Worthington Corporation, Harrison, N. J.
Worthington recruiter to visit Campus! Get in touch with the Placement Bureau for an appointment to meet the Worthington recruiter who will be here to interview seniors on March 11.
WORTHINGTON
March 1, 1957
43
Parker-Winterrowd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115’/2-117’/2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115%-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
Debate Team Chosen For National Contest
The Notre Dame debate team has been selected as the representative for the fifth section in the regional judging of the sixth national contest in public discussion. Winners of the three regional contests will compete in the national judging.
The subject for the discussion was “The Role of the United States in the Middle East.” Representing Notre Dame were Stanley Kusper, William Barrett, Tom Clusserath, Brendan Fagan, and Dennis Shaul.
FORTY COLLEGES COMPETE
More than 40 colleges and universities are participating this year in the national contest. Among the schools which will participate in the regional meet are the University of Virginia, Kansas State Teachers College, the University of Texas, Iowa State College, the University of Illinois, and Los Angeles State College.
Gerald Goudreau, a freshman, and Robert Dempsey, a sophomore, debated on Feb. 22 and 23, at the McGill University Winter Carnival Debate tournament. “Subsidization of College Athletics” was the topic. The outstanding teams of Canada and several from the eastern United States competed.
On March 8 and 9, the team of Paul Coffey, president of the debate team, and Jack Martzell, vice-president, will debate both sides of the “Direct Economic Aid” question at the Tulane University tournament in New Orleans, La. All the top debate teams of the south will participate.
Freshman Frolic Plans Finished; Chairman Names Committees
The Freshman Frolic has been planned this year for May 17 in the LaFortune Student Center. Committee chairmen have been chosen to assist General Chairman Larry Martin in designing this year’s Frolic and the committee heads are choosing their aides as planning moves into the activity stage.
Inquiries have been sent by Martin and Bob Toland, entertainment chairman, to obtain a name band. Lenny Muller, ticket chairman, is mapping plans for the sale of tickets to members of the Freshman Class on a fair basis. Tom Hirons and John Dorenbusch are in charge of hotels and the Communion breakfast. The position of decorations chairman will be filled either by John Salandino or John Kostecky. Jim Wysocki is publicity chairman.
Peerless Pump Division,
Corporation,
Indianapolis, Indiana
offers opportunities for June Mechanical Engineering graduates in all phases of centrifugal pump manufacturing, including: Machine design, problems with castings, fabrications, bearing designs,
O 3	J	0	0	3
and solution of numerous hydraulic and corrosion problems connected with the industry.
You will have close connection with the pattern shop, foundry, machine shop and test laboratories, as well as a part in developing engineering information, sales proposals, and the solution of many field problems.
If you have ambition, imagination, and a desire to affiliate with a rapidly expanding manufacturing leader — contact our representative March 4th in the placement office.
We will welcome undergrads (ME) interested in summer employment.
Students with pre-engineering background will also be considered for Engineered Line Sales.
PEERLESS PUMP DIVISION 2005 NORTHWESTERN AVE.
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
Food Machinery and Chemical
44
The Scholastic
WESTINGHOUSE
INTERVIEWS FOR ENGINEERS & SCIENTISTS
Wednesday, March 6
In this one diversified company, you can do the kind of work you prefer... in the field of your choice. There's plenty of room to move around—and up!
See your placement officer and set up an appointment now!
e
you can be sure...if its Westin^house
I	■ {
| ®
j March I, 1957	« :
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.	.
11 Special .Tours ... 53 to 63 days ... via famous ships:
He de France, United States, Liberty, Saturnia, Guilio Cesare, Flandre. $1,448 up
Also Regular Tours ... 42 days . . . $1,301 up
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express. For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service,
Duo-Pianists Perform At St. Mary's Friday
The duo-pianist team of Arthur Whittemore and Jack Lowe will present a concert in St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium next Friday evening at 8:15 p.m. as a part of the Concert and Lecture Series.
Because of the larger capacity of the' Auditorium as compared to Washington Hall, an additional 700 tickets will be put on sale next Wednesday and Thursday at the Washington Hall boxoffice, from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 9 p.m.
Tickets can also be reserved for the performance by calling CE 4-9011, extension 606 or 608. Price of admission^ for the concert will be $1 for students and faculty and $1.50 for the general public.	.
Whittemore and Lowe rank as one of the top two-piano teams in the United States. They are in constant demand as soloists with the country’s leading orchestras in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Washington, Cleveland, and Cincinnati.
As top-ranking artists in their field. the versatile young men have hit the over-a-million-mark of best-sellers in records, with classical, romantic, and contemporary discs equally popular with collectors.
Both men are graduates of the Eastman School of Music at the University of Rochester. In June of 1950, the University bestowed citations on the two pianists as two of the institution’s 13 most distinguished alumni.
Whittemore and Lowe have arranged almost 200 works for the two pianos and are constantly adding to their repertoire both rarely heard classic compositions and important contemporary works, many of which will he heard in their- concert next Friday night.
* member: Institute of V7 \\ International Education and Council ( \
on Student Travel
... or simply mail the handy coupon.
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••«••••••
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. Io Travel Sales Division I Yes! Please do send me complete information G-69 about 1957 Student Tours to Europe!
Name................................
Address........................................
City...................Zone.	•. -State.........
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES-SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
^RW TURBOW
\pPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
iw LIBRARY art BOOK SUP
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
YCS Announces Dates * For Holy Week Retreat
The YCS has announced the dates of registration for the annual Holy Week Retreat at Trappist, Ky. According to Tom Eisenhauer, YCS Retreat Chair- ; man, registration will take place from ; Monday through Thursday, at the YCS office in the LaFortune Student Center. IL
Accommodations are available for 29 students, who will leave the Circle by bus at approximately 10 p.m., Tuesday, April 16, and return Saturday after- I noon, April 20, at about 2:30 p.m.
Due to the limited number of accom- ; modations, precedence will be given on a I first-come-first-serve basis, and a deposit* of $5 toward expenses will he required. ~ i
The Scholastic I
“What’s it like to be
A MANUFACTURING ENGINEER AT IBM?”
Four years ago, Yale senior Lee Baker asked himself this question. Today, as a Product Control Engineer in IBM Manufacturing Engineering, Lee reviews his experience and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your engineering career.
“It’s tough,” Lee sympathizes, “for a college senior to feel confident about choosing a job. For four years he’s been trained to be critical and deliberate about making decisions. Now, faced with the biggest decision of all, he has only a few months in which to attend job interviews, separate the facts from the propaganda, and select a company—not to mention passing exams and graduating at the same time.”
Lee, with a B.S. in Industrial Administration, came to IBM in 1953. Starting as a Technical Engineer in Production Control, he was immediately assigned to the General Manufacturing Education program—a
Designing a paperwork system
10-month course with rotating assignments in all phases of the work —manufacturing, purchasing, production. In addition to four weeks of formal classroom study, he also spent two in the Boston Sales Office, calling on accounts with the IBM salesmen.
Lee’s career was temporarily interrupted by a two-year hitch with the Air Force in Korea. Back at IBM in 1955, he has since been promoted to Production Control Engineer. His present job is to design paperwork systems to insure a smooth flow of work through the plant where the famous IBM electronic computers are manufactured. “It takes creative engineering ability to design these systems,” says Lee, “and it takes administrative ability to ‘sell’ a system to higher management and make it stick.”
How to select an employer
To the college senior faced with a job decision, Lee has this to say: “Pick your employer by this simple test: ‘Is the company expanding fast enough to provide adequate scope for your talents and ambitions? Is it interested in your long-range management development? Will it treat
you as an individual and match your abilities with the most challenging assignments?’ ”
For his part, Lee feels IBM has met this test. Since 1953, he has seen new plants open, dozens of new products evolve, hundreds of new management positions created. Greater authority, responsibility and reward have come his way. And he knows they will continue, for IBM sales
Recognition of individual merit
have been doubling on the average every five years since 1930. He likes the “small-team” engineering system that assures ready recognition of individual merit. And he appreciates the fact that IBM hired him despite his impending service hitch.
What’s “life” like at IBM?
At IBM, Poughkeepsie, Lee lives a “full life.” He belongs to a local sports car group, drives an Austin Healy. He skis at Bromley. He is a member of the IBM Footlighters and a local drama workshop. At present, he shares an apartment with two other engineers and a “medium-fi” set, but plans to marry “the girl next door” (in hometown Hamburg, Conn.), in the very near future. In this connection, Lee advises seniors to pay special attention to company benefits. “They may seem like a yawning matter when you’re single, but they mean a lot when you assume responsibilities. IBM’s are the best I know.”
Lm lives a full life
IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what it’s like to work in Manufacturing Engineering at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists, mathematicians and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Product Development, Sales and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of Engineering Recruitment, Mr. R. A. Whitehorne, will be happy to answer your questions. Just write him at IBM, Room 9201, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
IBM
INTEBNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES COBPOBAT1ON
DATA PROCESSING
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS
TIME EQUIPMENT
MILITARY PRODUCTS
INERTIAL NAVIGATION—a missile guidance system requiring no terrestrial source of energy, no earthbound direction—involves advanced, creative thinking of the highest order for:
*	Electrical Engineers
*	Mechanical Engineers
•	Physicists
Let ARMA talk with you about YOUR future in this dynamic and challenging field.
Learn about ARMA’s pioneering role in Inertial Navigation when our representative visits your campus shortly. Ask your Placement Officer for details.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13
Or you may send inquiries to;
Mr. Charles S. Fernow
Administrator of Technical Education

Division American Bosch Arma Corp.
Roosevelt Field, Carden City, L. I., N. Y.
SONIC
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store—he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a Capri phonograph for as little as $19-95. This month’s special buy is the Capri 550. It’s a portable 4-speed hi-fi phonograph with WEBCOR automatic changer. Features are twin speakers, a quality amplifier and a smartly styled cabinet in attractive Two-Tone Forest Green. Specially priced at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N. Y.
Set April 12-14 Date for Engineers' Open House
Patrick Sweeney, a senior from Russell’s Point, O., and general chairman of the 1957 Engineering Open House recently announced that the Open House will be held on April 12, 13, and 14. The theme and title of the Open House is “Imagineering,” and it is intended t<f«® show how the modern world has come to depend upon the creative imagination of the engineer.
The Engineering Open House is the largest of the student-managed activities at Notre Dame. Last year it attracted more than 25,000 people.
It is directed at the whole student body, as well as the general public, especially the local high school students'*^ The Open House enables others to see what is being accomplished in engineering today.
This year, along with the departmental displays, there will be an auto show in the Navy Drill Hall, an airshow, and the traditional chariot race in Cartier Field. As an added attraction this year, there will be a special engineering show Saturday afternoon. April 13, in Washington Hall. This will^ be the “Fire Magic Show” presented by Doctor Llewellyn Heard of the Standard Oil Co., and will consist of an hour long demonstration of combustion and methods of scientific control.
Assisting Sweeney this year on the Open House will be Ed Kelly, auto show; John Sullivan, engineering show; Pat Haynes, air show; Bob Norris, chariot race; Dick Cunningham, busi-* ness manager; Guy Weismantel, secretary; John Bagley, programs; Hector Fuster, displays, tours and guides; and Greg Conron, Paul Anderson and Paul O’Connor, publicity.
Handling the departmental displays will be Matt Grogan—Aero; Ben Za-jeski, CE; Joe Rusch, ChE; John Kos-cits and Jack Feller, Met.; Dave Im-monen, ME; Dan Sullivan, EE; andT Felix Tardio, Arch.
Dr. Geiling to Lecture Today On Research Use of Isotopes
Dr. E.M.K. Geiling, a member of the department of pharmacology at the University of Chicago, will lecture this af-qj) ternoon at 4 p.m. in Room 107 of the Biology Building on the topic, “Radioactive Isotopes as a Research Tool in the Biological Sciences.”
Born in Orange Free State, South Africa, Dr. Geiling’s research interests include physiological chemistry, pharmacology, and the uses of radioactive iso-z • topes in pharmacology.	~
48
The Scholastic
I •)
Engineers
PHYSICISTS • MATHEMATICIANS
Graduate to a
CAREER with
LIFETIME
A FEW OF SPERRY’S ENGINEERING FIRSTS PICTURED ABOVE
1. First gyro-compass
2. First marine automatic pilot
3. First radio-controlled “guided missile’’
4. Revolutionary high-intensity searchlight
S. First Gyropilot
t. First automatic computing gunsight 7. First automatic anti-aircraft
I. First radio-controlled pilotless jet
9. First electronic automatic pilot
II. Sparrow air to air guided missile
Step from school into the satisfying kind of lifework that only an expanding, nationwide organization like Sperry can offer. You’ll be able to choose from a variety of fascinating fields. You’ll share the excitement of contributing to the long list of Sperry engineering “firsts” —a list which has been growing steadily since 1910. You’ll work side by side with noted engineers and scientists. And, with new divisions of Sperry located throughout the country, you will enjoy the unique advantage of “getting in on the ground floor” of a solid, 47-year-old organization!
Openings Available at These Locations: SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA—Sunnyvale Development Center SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH—Sperry Utah Engineering Laboratory POINT MUGU, CALIFORNIA— Test & Evaluation Center GREAT NECK, LONG ISLAND, N. Y. —Sperry Gyroscope Co. GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA—Sperry Electronic Tube Division CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA-Sperry Piedmont Co.
These are modem, air-conditioned plants with up-to-the-minute equipment and facilities. Near-by are graduate schools at which you may continue your studies under Sperry’s full tuition refund program.
Consider Sperry on every count: choice of specialization, salary, advancement, stability, company benefits, location. Then take the first step toward the career of your life by talking to the
Sperry Engineering Dept. Heads Tuesday and Wednesday March 5 and 6
Make an appointment at your placement office today
Write for free illustrated booklet “Your Engineering Horizon With Sperry' To Mr. J. W. Dwyer Employment Manager s® emSCOPf COMMW Division of Sperry Rand Corp.
Marcus Ave. & Lakeville H. Great Neck, Leng lsbn< New York
by JOE TAFT
a farewell to alms
The phenomena of the twentieth century is mass production. We are the heirs of a rapidly industrializing society. This may sound like old hat but let’s take a look under our mass produced toupees. The most immediate example, to us any way, is the presence of job interviews. Practically every bulletin board on the campus has a schedule of these potential jobs. The majority of the class of 1957 is preparing “to make their mark” by claiming a share of the gross national product.
WHAT HAS THE GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT MADE?
The financial giants of our era are making a sincere attempt to reshape our cultural and moral values. The old college spirit has been infused into the corporative manifestos. Many corporations have “----------- FIGHT”	songs to
stimulate sales and employee loyalty. One company has its initials printed on a large pennant that hangs (next to the THIMK sign) on an office wall. This corporative “college spirit” is based, I believe, on consumer values.
Advertising plays a magnetic role in corporative and consumer life. Who hasn’t turned on a radio and heard an ad disguised amid a multitude of cliches set to music? We hear “no money down” rhyming aesthetically with the “best deal in town” against the romantic background of a calypso drum. Orchestrations accompany voices that are hired to sound like God speaking from a burning bush. This authoritative voice praises the jet plane features of a carthat is designed to travel at ultra sonic speeds on any ill-kept road.
Even though our corporative culture denies romanticism through its vendor-ing code, it utilizes the “get away from it all” idea in its travel and perfume
ads. The business man still holds, I think, to this escape idea for he often takes a pride in his country retreats. The only pure romantic is the Schwepps-man, and he is presently occupied capping tonic water bottles at his island retreat.
Our literature is affected. We are witnessing the birth of a new tradition —a tradition built on industrial life. This new mythology began when Babbitt sprang forth from the head of General Electric. An example of this new tradition is “Executive Suite’s” Don Walling. He is a twentieth century hero who fights fetish characters similar to Cash McCall. Let’s face it, Captain Ahab has traded his harpoon in on a grey flannel suit. This criticism has been sung since the First World War by many gifted writers. “Exiles Return*’ tells the story of the 1920 literary giants and midgets’ cinerama holiday abroad— a deluded holiday of attempting to divorce art from life, religion and Main Street. A few of them returned to the reality of life in their expatriated land.
The funny papers have continued to hold an insurmountable coign of van-x tage in our “literary” world. The cartoonist, it seems, is the sole critic who can poke fun at our world and escape among gales of laughter. Blondie’s Dagwood Bumstead (pun on homestead) is ordered around by his wife, his precocious children and his boss— a state of mind called Mr. Dithers. Al Capp’s inked borders have mocked everyone from government officials to the man on the street.
Now even Mary Worth can have a mystical experience. The only stable character is Ma Palooka who is obviously outdated by her ultra conservatism. She reacts to her family and friends’ troubled world with the philosophical panacea, “tich tich.”
IT'S A BIRD! A PLANE! IT'S A SEANCE!
Our reshaping world has even commercialized its troubles through syndication. Deep philosophical and moral innuendos are aired publicly by Ann Landers and Norman Vincent Peale. Every so often we have a United Broth; erhood Week. Our troubles are romanti-* cized—Lillian Roth’s “I’ll Cry Tomorrow,” Diana Barrymore’s “Too Much Too Soon,” “The Man with the Golden Arm,” “Strike It Rich”—check your book store, movie theater, radio and television sets, or your French poodle’s psychologist. Oui- philosophy is heading, it seems, toward a “do good and avoid evil, ’cause everyone else’s gonna’ find out anyway” realm.
QUO VADIS?	।
One solution to our over-valued materialistic culture is, as I see it, recognizing our economic god for what he is —he is to serve us—let’s not dedicate our lives to paying our cultural and moral alms to him. It’s very easy to criticize our over-materialistic cultures but which of us would entertain the thought of embracing another system— a system that is not based on spiritual, political, and economic freedom? Economically speaking we have embraced capitalism—let’s recognize it.
Secondly, let’s not let it dominate our j other freedoms by letting it become our I sole way of life. Which of us hasn’* x been awed by a man who measures welV on the financial ruler? We must, I believe, have a more basic standard to evaluate our lives.
How about substituting for earning capacity, the cultural values based on a recognition and adjustment to reality through positive acts of service and love to God?
50
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS

New Version of
a record seller
7	5
University collar has been on the campus hit parade right from the start. And now this famous button down collar (with center button in back) is also available in a smart knit, shirt! Traditional Ivy League styling -throughout in a pullover model, offered in a choice of two placket lengths: 7" (2 buttons) 12" (3 buttons). Available in solid colors, checks, stripes and plaids. $5.00.

ARROW^
CASUAL WEAR
New knit button down
shirt by Arrow
This smart knit features the famous collar that buttons down in front and also in the center back. New type weave is just the perfect weight for these snappy spring days. Drop by soon while we still have a wide assortment in solid colors and a variety of interesting patterns. $5.00.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend