

-
alllll -lll·llllrllll 
..,....,..llllrllll~ ....:=
......,, ..
----........... ••..,,. ~-­
---··· -~-·,..­
IS HIRING! 

TWO & THREE-YEAR SCH01 ARSHIPS AVAl1 A.BLE 
REQUIREMENTS: 
. Minimum 2_65 GPA (Technical majors -Engineering, Math, Physics, Architecture, Computer Science) . Minimum 3_00 GPA (Non-technical majors -Government, 
Economics, Accounting, Etc) 
. Minimum 3_65 freshman GPA (Pre-Med) 
. Minimum 3_50 sophomore GPA (Pre:..Med) 
. Pass the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (Similar to SAT test) . Successfully complete the Air Force ROTC Physical Fitness Test . Run 1 _5 miles (<12 min_, 01 sec for men and <14 min_, 25 sec for women) 4 Be medicallly qualified . Success rate for qualified ND/St_ Mary's applicants is over 90% 

BENEFITS: 
. Up to full tuition, all books, standard fees 
. 
S1 50 per month during the academic year . No job search hassles -directly apply your ND education upon graduation . Active duty entry salary of $25, 000 with guaranteed raises to $43, 000 

at year four · . 30 days of vacation with pay each year 

. 
Outstanding opportunities for advanced degrees in Engineering, Law, Medicine upon graduation from ND ­. Pilot and navigator positions are expanding .rapidly -excellent opportunities to 


fly, regardless of scholarship major _,,1 4 Gain valuable experience in the Air Force and increase your marketability 


TO MAKE IT HAPPEN, CALL CAPTAIN RICH HARTER 631-4674 

• ~ • • ~ • ' ; '. I • • • • • , 
• • • • • ' . • ,' • • ' • l. • ·: :, • : '.--• 
4 • 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 6 FOUNDED 1867 0croBER6, 1994 
Life Past Juniper
8Most Notre Daine undergraduates choose the convenience and community that comes with crunpus living. Yet some students still make the jump off crunpus. Scholastic Magazine looks at their reasons. 


Dorm,Dorm on the Range
16This is not the first time the university has had grand construction plans. This week's cover story steps back and compares the new plans to the aborted SUMMA project of the sixties. 


Still Waiting
20Srunuel Beckett thrilled audiences with his personalstyleoftheatrewhenheintroduced Waiting for Godot in 1953. Now, over 40 years later, Notre Daine Communication and Theatre hopes to thrill the crunpus. 

FEATURES 

Expanding Ministry• Macaire Carroll ...................................................................................................................... 3 Not Bound by Age · Michelle Cox................................. : ................................. 0 ........................................................6 Digging Deep for the Kill· Steven Ponishiak ............. ~ ...............................................................-............................12 The Eagles Have Landed· T. Ryan Kennedy ........................................................................................................ 14 Demanding Democracy• John Connerton .............................................................................................................22 DEPARTMENTS 
Fromilie--Editor .............................................................2 
~ 

Campus Watch ............................................................ 10 Splinters from the Press Box ......................................11 Sports Commentary ....................................................15 
Corrring Distractions ............................-.. .....................20 On Other Campuses .................................................... 24 Cornics .........................................................................26 Week in Distortion ............................... _._......................27 
Out of Bounds .............................................................19 
Final Word ................................................................... 28 
S C H O L A. S T I C M A G A Z I N E 11 0 C T 0' B E R 6, 1 9 9 4 \ 
1 



Freshman year, I had a job calling alumni and soliciting donations for the university. Although telemarketing is not always the most fun way to make money, I got to talk to alums of all different ages. For alums from distant states, the phone calls were a chance to catch up on campus news. Some were starved for conversation about Notre Dame; others used the calls as a chance to share their opinions on everything from the football team to the direction of the theology department. The faceless voices on the other end of the line taught me a lot about Notre Dame's past and reminded me that my four years would pass quickly. 
There is one particular phone call that I will not forget. I was talking to an alum from California who graduated in the 1950s. He had not been back to campus since his graduation -and had not, obviously, seen Hesburgh Library, the entire mod quad or the JACC. The names of the many new dormitories were foreign to him. I found it inconceivable that this man and I attended the same school. What did he think about when watching panoramic campus scenes during the broadcast of football games? I wondered what it must feel like to be removed from a place known so intimately years ago. 
The announcement that two new dorms will be built on the golf course reminded me of that conversation. As a senior, I won't be around to see the finished dorms or have a chance to talk to the new residents. Although I may return in a few years and visit the buildings, the fact remains that the campus as I knew it will be gone forever. The institution and administration ofNotre Dameare always changing; new buildings lend a permanence to that change. 
The photo on the cover is of a model proposed for the university in 1967. Obviously, the SUMMA project did not progress any further than the construction of Grace and Flanner. But it shows that the planning process is by no means a smooth one. Competing visions of what the university should look like in the future, as well as logistical and economic considerations, all play a part in changing the face of campus. On pages 16 through 18, mananging editor Mark Mitchell examines both the failed SUMMA project and the new plans for Keough and O'Neill Halls. 
Also in this issue 
Ever get exasperated that your parents just don't seem to understand what college· life is all about? The opposite may\ be true for some non-traditional Notre Dame students. Michelle Cox talks to a few older undergraduates who have a lot more to deal with than the usual pressures of homework and exams -like raising kids and running businesses. Her story begins on page six. 
Don't forget to check out the preview of W aitingfor Godot, which begins next week in Washington Hall. And, as usual, enjoy our weekly features: On Other Campuses, Out of Bounds and Splinters from the Press Box. 
Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 
Cover Photo: Architect's model of the 1967 SUMMA project for Mod Quad, courtesy of Notre Dame Archives. 
Table of Contents: Graphic by Kate Adams, Graphic by Notre Dame Public Relations, Photo by Brent Tadsen. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 




e State of the 
csc 

Eleven years after its inception, the Centerfor Social Concerns examines its role on campus and plans for the future 
by Macl!ire Carroll 

At the north end of campus, shad­owed by the library, the Centerfor Social Concerns (CSC) sits amid 
clusters of late summer impatiens. The small and unpretentious building invites students, faculty and staff to share in what many peopleon campus already know to be a . 
. peaceful setting for study, prayer or reflec­tion. Moreimportantly, the CSC has been the primaryorganizationfor educational and social action opportunities at Notre Dame. For 11 years the CSC has coor­dinated Urban Plunges, Summer Service Projects, Appalachia trips and seminars to connect-students .with thek com~itie;. Last year o~ its tenth anniversary, the CSC began a comprehensive self-evaluation,examin­
ing and adjusting its mission statement, and dividingitsfunctionsintofourmaingroups, -whichwerereviewedbyindependentgroups ofNotreDameundergraduateandgraduate students, faculty, staff, alumnae and friends of Notre Dame. As outlined by the Strate­gic Planning Report (SPR), the four groups comprising the main areas of the CSC are education, communication and research, 
resources, and initiativesandpriorities. The 
volunteers evaluated what each individual 
group's functions had been in the past and 
how successful they were. In addition, 
these groups gave suggestions about the 
direction they believed wouldbe mostben­
eficial to the CSC in the future. According to the center's director, Fa­
ther Don McNeill, C.S.C., in his introduc­tory letter to the SPR, the center's "mission and plan point to the impor­tance of educational ex­periences in social con­cerns in all the academic disciplines anduniversity life on and off campus." AmongMcNeill'spro­jections and hopes for the future are plans to de­velop more socially awareorservice-oriented courses, make the exist­ing courses more known campus-wide, and incor­porate the existing courses into the actual projects both before and after the service project Anothergoal fortheCSC 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
•• ' •' • • ' • r • • '( / • > ~ ' ,,. ,/ • • ( (. ' ,,' \ 
', . ' ' ' ' ~ ,_ .--. ' '·:· . ' ' ·, ,, ' . ' : ' , ', , . , . , ' ' '",­
The center's "mission and plan point to the imporlance of educational experiences in social concerns in all the academic disciplines and university life on and off campus." -Fr. Don McNeill, C.S.C., Introduction to the Strategic Planning Reporl 
is to link students with the four different servicelearningcoordinatorsin South Bend including the Center for the Homeless, the Casa de Amistad, and the Logan Center. McNeill also expressed hope that plans with Campus Ministry to develop interna­tional seminars insuch places as Monterrey, Mexico would be completed shortly. In addition to theseprojections, McNeillstated that there would be further enhancementof CSC contacts includingNotreDamealumni. 
Statistics show how much the people of the Notre Dame community have beyn in­volved with and inspired by the Catholic teachings and Gospel values reflected QY theCenter. Approximately 1,600students­20 percent of the student body -are in­volved in over 30 social awareness and service groups both on campus and in the South Bend area. Around 10%, or 200 NotreDameseniors, goon toayearormore of service after graduation. As reported in the CSC's Strategic Planning Report, the center calculated that 32,880 people en­tered the CSC building during the 1992­1993 academic year. · 
The center has come a long way since it firstopeneditsdoors 11 yearsago. Founded in 1983 and placed in the old WNDUbuild­ing, the CSC was formed out of a growing desire at the university for combining vol­unteer activities with educational opportu­nities. The CSC was designed to be a place where members of the Notre Dame com­
munity could become more aware of the 
needs ofothers on both a local and national 
level. The hope was that students would act 
on those needs by helping others in need 
and by reflecting on and communicating 
those needs to others on campus and off. 
The spirit of the CSC is one which provides 
peopleatNotreDame the chance to live by 
Catholic social values. Eleven years after 
its founding the CSC is a model of those 
values as it has taken on the challenges of 
learning, teaching others, reflecting, acting, 
or, more simply, living by the teachings of 
the Gospel. 

One of the ways in which the center challenges people to actively experience their Catholicism is through "experiential learning," hands-on learning that allows students to immerse themselves in real life problems and face the challenge offinding .creative solutions. The urban plunge is one 
_ 
of many experiential learning programs coordinated by the CSC. On an Urban Plunge, Notre Dame students travel to pov­erty-stricken areas of their own communi­ties, living in the inner-city for a 48-hour period over the Christmas break. Junior Jeanne Boyle participated in an Urban Plunge in Spanish Harlem in New York City last year. Of her experience she said: "It completely changed my perspective on in­ner city life." Boyle considered her days in New York as "eye opening" and she grasped more fully the injusticesoflifeforthe poor and homeless as well as the immensity of the drug problem in the city. Boyle found herUrbanPlunge"bet­ter than any book or article you could ever read, and I would rec­ommenditto anyone." 
Learningand teach­ing opportunities fa­cilitated by the CSC, including experiential learning courses and trips to Appalachia,are abundant on campus and of(as well. 
Activities night on 

·"My summer service project gave me a greater understllnding ofwhat life is really about, what is imporlant: I caught up with reality.'' -Norma Hernandez, SSP '94 
firmed thel)Opularity of such groups; the service and social action groups comprised the greatest number of clubs present In addition to the over 30 service and social action clubs aided or coordinated by the CSC, the center also coordinates such ser­vice learning programs as Christmas in April, summerserviceprojects,holidayfood baskets, Senior Volunteer Send-off, prepa­ration for volunteer service after graduation and natural disaster relief. 

September 6 con-Fr. Don McNelll, Director of CSC, at home In Knott Hall. 
4 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 6, 1994 



'-1i11'!.l



~. SUBWAY Has A Sandwich F·or ANY Size Appetite!!! 
¦ 

Senior Norma Hernandez spent the past summer in Jacksonville, Florida participat­ing in a summer service project. Hernandez worked in a community for the mentally handicapped, and had only good things to say about her experience. "My summer service project gave me a greater under­standing ofwhat life is really about, what is important: I caught up with reality." Hernandez explained that her work in the community this summer also enhanced her spiritual life. "I found asenseofinnerpeace and saw what was really important in life but also for me. Through the friends I made Jesus became more tangible for me than ever before, and I felt I was truly living according to the Gospel." 
Karen Luke, Pasquerilla East's Social Concerns representative, explained that the welcoming spirit of the Center is respon­sible for so much of the CSC's success. Luke stressed that the Center has many opportunities to offer, and is always look­ing for new people bringing in their own unique gifts. "They provide things like the freshman dinner to introduce the CSC and familiarize the new students to it. People simply need to walk in the door." 
"[Ihe center is a] revolving door in which people come and go and link their service and learning with working toward a more just and humane society.'' -Fr. Don M cNeill, 
c.s.c. 

While the CSC provides many physical resources, their most important resource is the people who become involved with any of their programs. The CSC's voice and example of social awareness and action extend not only to students, but to adminis­trators, faculty, staff and an extensive net­work of Notre Dame alumni and friends. As the CSC network increases, so too does the CSC's message and spirit of continual education of others, learning from and help­ing others in need. 
Fr. McNeill says that he appreciates the image of the center as a 'revolving door' in which people come and go and link their serviceand learning with working toward a morejustand humanesociety." With this in mind, McNeill suggested that the best way for the CSC to fully realize its mission into the next century would be for all people to get involved, walk through the center's 'revolving door,' and share their thoughts, suggestions and visions with others. This is the spirit of initiative, Catholic values, and Gospel teachings on which the center was founded, and on that strong foundation the CSC can build into the next century. 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a OCTO~ER 6, 1994 
5 


IIJSIIP.-lili¦ 


Back to the Books 
After almost 20 years outside ofthe classroom, a handful ofadult undergraduates head to Notre Dame for the education they always wanted 
by Michelle Cox 

Returning to the classroom after a long summer break, many students feel as if they do not remember 
what they learned in their classes the previ­ous semester. Somereadjustmentisusually needed before students get back into the swing ofschool. Imagine trying to readjust to the classroom setting after 20 years. This istheexperienceofthenon-traditionalNotre Dame undergraduate. 
Whileolderstudentsarecommonatmany state universities and community colleges, such students a rarity at the University of Notre Dame. The classrooms here are full of bright young faces of 18-to 22-year-olds out from under their parents' wings for the first time. Sprinkled throughout this mass of inexperienced youth, however, are a few Sophomore architecture student Jan Noethe poses with her son and Brent Tadsen 
. faces that portray more life experience. fellow undergraduate, Andy Noethe, a freshman at Notre Dame. Both will graduate In 1998.
The low percentage of non-traditional students who attend Notre Dame is nothing not structured for a part-time degree pro-not go on to college immediately and still new. Notre Dame has historically been an gram, and its costs do not even compare looks like a good candidate for admission. undergraduate teaching institution with a with those at a public school," he pointed These people are admitted quickly, justas thriving residential life. No future changes out SinceNotreDamedoesnotoffernight any other qualified student Second, the for the non-traditional population are seen classes and carries a hefty price tag, it is office hears from people who did not do at this time. Colloquy 2000, the blueprint difficult for working adults to find the time especiallywellinhighschool. Thesepeople for the immediate future of Notre Dame, and money to pursue an education at Notre have acquired valuable lifeexperiencesand makes no mention of non-traditional stu­Dame. are now more mature and focused. Rooney 
·dents. Rooney went on to report that each year advises such an individual to attend another 
"The mission here varies greatly from an his office only sees an · applicant or two college for a year to get back in the groove institution like IUSB which has as one of its outside the traditional age group. ''These and then attempt to transfer into the univer­main goals to provide continuing education applications are kept in the large pool and sity. opportunities to working adults in the com­receive no special consideration," he said. · · Rooney reported that these students, like munity," said Kevin Rooney, director of Typically, the admissions office receives their younger counterparts, enter the col­undergraduate admissions. Rooney cites . two types ofphone calls from people in this lege of the Freshman Year of Studies and two main differences between ND and a group. First, there is the student who did must-meet certain academic requirements. branch school like IUSB. "Notre Dame is well in high school but for some reason did Housing arrangements are the only big dif-

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
students. The administration recognizes that donn life is probablynotthe best arrange­
Senior Emily 

ment for them, and alterna­
Malcoun and 

tive accommodations are al­
junior Chandra 

lowed. "Notre Dame wel­
Johnson take a 

comes older students," 
break during 

stressed Rooney. 
their theology 
The handful of non-tradi­

class. "Chandra tional students presently on has a depth of campus bring an exciting va­wisdom that is riety of backgrounds. exciting and 
inspiring to be

Chandra Johnson, a 40-year­
around," said 

old junior majoring in theol­
Malcoun.

ogy, gotajob rightoutofhigh school. She was married for 

11 years, has two children, aged 19 and 13, and has been divorced for about 10 years. Johnson was born and lived for 38 years in south central Los Angeles. She taught religious studies there for many years. 
Jan Noethe, who is a sophomore transfer student in the architecture program, has spent the last couple decades caring for her children. She earned an art degree as a traditional college student, but had always dreamed of being an architect. As soon as her youngest son Andy, who is currently a freshman at Notre Dame, graduated from high school, she" decided to go back to­school. Noethe also has a son, Jeff, who is a doctoral candidate in Notre Dame's psy­chology department. Andy said, "I really take the idea of the Notre Dame family to heart. It's true for me." 
Jane Phinney, who came here from Colo­rado, is a sophomore majoring in English withaconcentrationingenderstudies. After high school Phinney worked as a pilot of small planes, took a job in a steel mill, and was a translator for the Marine Corps for six years. After a marriage that did not work out, Phinney found herself a single mom andkriew she wanted togetaneducation. A technical degree in computer science still left her in need ofknowledge and opportu­nities. 
Thirty-seven-year-old Ed Salazar, an ac­counting major in his junior year, also has had a varied life experience accompanying him to Notre Dame. After high school he attended University of California at Irvine, trainedfoNfe 1984 Olympics as a cyclist, worked for a burglar alarm company, worked his way up through the ranks of the hotel industry, went back to school at Monterey Peninsula Junior College, then started his own publishing company which produces walking maps of Carmel-by-the­Sea. 
Most of these non-traditional students decided to pursue further education be­cause of a desire to improve both their personal and professional lives. Coming to Notre Dame to pursue this education, in each case, required a lot of thought and great sacrifice. All ofthese students had to move residences, often across the country, in order to attend the university. They are quick to reply, however, that they would do it all over again if given the choice. 
Along with theirvigorous academicwork load, these non-traditional students often have many more responsibilities than the average student. Salazarfinds thateach day · is a balancing act. "If! concentrate solely on just one area of my life then the others areas suffer. I have to balance my school work, mypublishing business, and myrela­tionship with my fiancee Adelle." Phinney is thankful that her two children are under­standing. "Mykidsknowit'shard. !don't always have the chance to play with them. The summers are when we really get to have fun together," she said. 
Although it is sometimes tough, these students are generally pleased with their experiences here at Notre Dame. "I have enjoyed every moment," exclaimed Johnson. Noethe is excited because, she said, "I learned more in the first week here than I did the last five years of my life." Phinney feels extremely blessed. "I love to be challenged by the students here," she stated. Salazar is pleased with his decision to attend the university because, as he ex­plained, "I am fulfilling my dreams here. I am here to learn and work for myself." 
The majority of students see graduation as the beginning of the real world, but these students view it as a continuation of their regular lives. Each is excited about thenew route he or she will take upon leaving Notre Dame. Chandra Johnson plans to go on to grad school, hopefully at Notre Dame; to earn a Ph.D. "I want to lend an element to the Catholic church as an African-Ameri­can, womanist theologian that is currently lacking in contemporary Catholic thought, through teaching and writing about percep­tions of God," she explained. Jan Noethe, upon completing the architecture program, which includes a year of study in Rome, will fulfill her lifelong dream of becoming an architect. Ed Salazar, rather than work­ing for a Big Six finn, will be able to speak the language of business and accounting and plans to continue, even more success­fully, to work for his own company. Jane Phinney is detennined to attend law school. She wants to practice family law and spe­cialize in working with women. 
While these students are thankful for the opportunities provided for them at Notre Dame, the university mustalso beapprecia­tive ofthe uniqueperspectives each ofthese individuals bring to the institution. With such valuable life experiences behind them, the wisdom they bring cannot be matched by thetypical20-year-old. AsErin Scanlon, who has class with Johnson, points out, "Chandra offers insight that can only be attained through experience. Also,herlaugh brightens each class." The advice that students offer is quite valuable. Salazar encouraged younger students to believe in themselves as well. "Never lose sight of your goals, for ifthey are realistic, they can be accomplished." 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E • 0 CT O,B ER 6, 199 4 \ 


As students leave the world ofdormitory life, they discover the freedoms and responsibilities ofoff-campus 
by Amy Newman 

An overwhelming 82 percent of the student body ofNotre Dame lives oncampus. However;thereseems to be a recent trend among the universities' students to move offcampus for at least one yearoftheirundergraduatecareer. Rutwith residence life being such a strong tradition at Notre Dame, why do students feel the need to be independent of the dorms? Off-campus residents feel that their situ­ation is beneficial for many reasons. The first ofthese is to gain freedom. People feel the need to escape the rules ofdorm life and toacheivemoreresponsibility before enter­ing the work force. Pani Kheyrandish,· a junior living in Turtle Creek Apartments, moved off campus her sophomore year. "Living at Notre Dame is like having really overprotective parents," Kheyrandish said. Meegan Costello, a senior at Turtle C~k, agreed. "A lot of students here are ·so sheltered. People need to start assuming responsibility." 
Some feel, though, that it is important to .experience the unity and spiritofdorm life, and that living in the dorms is convenient and essential for finding a place at Notre Dame. Senior Eric Wozniak, who lives in Campus View Apartments, feels that stu­dents should enjoy ~eir time on campus and take advantage·of the opportunities it has to offer. "I'm glad that I stayed on for three yean;, but by senior year, it makes sense to move off," Wozniak said. 
Off campus residents said that freedom has a deeper meaning thanjust having wild parties and no authority figures to tell them what to do. Costello said, "It's not about rules andparietals. It's the conceptof being on your own that makes people• want to move off." · 
Sr. Mary Jane Griffin, Howard Hall­rectress, agreed with Costello. She thinks that for some, it's the "senior thing to do,'' butothers do itto answer serious questions in their lives. "They are trying to attain the adult view offreedom. Being responsible 

.. for yourself economically, mentally and spiritually,'' she said. 
living 

dealifweforgettotumalightoff,butihave friends at Turtle ~kwho can't afford to leave a light on and don't want to use air conditioning-..,because it costs too much money." 
Food is another big factor in deciding the cost of living. Those who eat at the dining hall and liveoffcampµs feel they are paying more money, whereas those who eat at homesaythatitismuchcheaper. Mary Ann Stoupha, a junior who lives at Campus View, usually cooks her own meals. "On campus, you're pretty much obligated to use the full meal· plan, which no one uses completely. You're paying for alot offood that you don't eat. When I buy food at the grocery store, I buy it because I want it,and I know I'll eat it." 
Off-campus residents at Campus· View and Oak Hill said that owning a car is not required. The campus is within walking distance of both.of these apartment com­plexes, and they saidthat traffic and finding aparkirig space on campus can sometimes be a hassle. However, students who live anywhere else off campus need to have a• 

.Some move to save  car.  "If ymi don't need a car, don'tbring  
money. However, itis  one," Ring said. "It's my biggest expense  
achallengetodetermine  here."  
if they actually saved  People also move off for social reasons.  
money.  For most off­ Liz Ragen,-a senior at Campus View, be­ 
campus living · situa­ lieves that living off campus is a socially  
tions, the cost is lower  broadening · experience. "It gives you an  
than a dorm room, but  opportunity to get to know and live with  
theseresidentsmustpay  others besides the 60 people that you've  
for more than just rent.  lived with from your class in your dorm for  
For example, at Cam­ the last three years," she said.  
pus~ View utilities are  However,·some think that although one  
includedin the.monthly  meets alotniore people, itis moreriatural to  
payment, but at Turtle  be with the same group of friends on a  
Creek they are not.  regular basis. Wozniak said, "You don't  
Dave Ring, a senior  really make a lotofnew friends,justalotof  
at Campus View, said;  new acquaintances."  ..  

"For us, it's not a big . Most students view living near the off'.' 
8 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ O_C TOBER 6, l 9 9 4 

• ~ -• • •?: ~ • • " • • ' • • • • • ~ -' . ~ . . 
• • • • • • -t , •r ,. -¥ • 
campus party scene as a big advantage, but this does not mean that they wantto have the party themselves. Many go to bars on the weekends instead of having parties. Stu­dents living at Turtle Creek and Campus View enjoy having popular bars such as Coach's and The Linebacker within walk­ing distance. 
"Ifyou 're not ready for the loud party scene, don't live here," Kheyrandish said. "Our apartment looks bad enough after a weekend with one or two guests staying here. What would it look like if we had a party?" 
Beth Hoffman, a Turtle Creek manager, tries to understand the ~tudents' point of view and does not become too involved in the party scene at Turtle Creek. "I person­ally like to think that our staff tries to cater to the students and fit their needs," she stated. "When they have parties, they need to know that they're not only responsible for themselves, but for the people at their parties as well." 
environment off campus forces students to manage their time efficiently during the day. "You treat school like a job. It forces you to be more disciplined," he replied. 
Stoupha moved out of the dorm to im­prove her study habits. "I needed a change. I got nothing done in the dorms. When you live in the dorms, you can always find someone to procrastinate with you," she stated. 
Not everyone lives off campus for the freedom from dorm life. Some had no choice. The housing crunch on campus_ forces the office of Student Residences t6 tell some students to find alternative hous­ing. 
KristySchinderle,asenioratTurtleCreek, transferred here from St. Mary's College lastyear. She said that she got an apartment because she didn't think she would get on­campus housing. "The office of Student Residences encourages the transfer students to get apartments together because the chances are low that they will get to live on 
~--------------------,campus," she said. "If they call you later and tell you that you got in a dorm, it's too late. You already have the apart­ment." Sean Moran is a jun­ior who lived in Cavanaugh his freshman year. While he was abroad on the Angers, France, program last year, he discovered that Cavanaugh would change toafemale dorm. He wanted a single in 

c._____________________, 
Sorin Hall, but when he 

Hoffman added that a police seargant lives on the property, and when a party gets out oCcontrol, Turtle Creek tries try to 
· handleitthemselvesbeforecallingtheSouth Bend police. Since the apartments are about95 percent student occupied, the com­plaints she recieves about parties usually come from other students who are trying to study or who have guests such as family staying in their apartments. 
People have mixed reactions about the study afino$I)here offcampus. Some feel as ifthey can'\ get anything done in their apartments and that they need to. go on campus to work. "You just can't study here," Kheyrandish said. 
Ring, however, feels that the relaxed didn'tgetit, he decided to move to Univer­sity Park Apartments with his brother. He said, "It's bad not to have a place to go to on campus between classes. When you're off campus, it feels as ifyou don't have a true home on campus anymore." 

Ultimately, living away from campus is a choice that is up to the individual. Off­campus residents agreed that this lifestyleis not for everyone. Schittl said that no matter where one decides to live, there will be benefits and drawbacks. "If you live off campus, you're secluded from campus ac­tivities and other students," said Schittl. "If you live on campus, you're secluded from the real world. You have to choose." 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•OCTOBER 6, 1994 ~ 
9 






Gossip, Allegations and Innuendo 
Another particularly observant junior

Gerry ~aust and Daniel "Rudy" Reuttiger-number 38 and num­Campus Watcher pointed out that the Pitt ber 13, respectively, in Sports flag was flying closest to thepress box in the 
Illustrated's list of the 40 most "dubious, picture, where the visiting team's flag most 
irrelevant and annoying" individuals in often flies. 
sports in the last 40 years. Now the Gipp may have been artificially warmed up that day, but he certainly was UNITY OF THOUGHT not wearing shorts, and none of the trees An alert Campus Watcher pointed out a were green. 
teensy flaw in the latest kitschy poster the 
Notre Dame machine was trying to pass off HANGIN' OUT AT THE HAMMES 
on unsuspecting Notre Dame consumers. Ever wonder if anyone looked at your "Irish Unity" shows the student section, photos at thedeveloping center? You know, many showing off their lovely navy Shirts the ones you plan to use for blackmail from last year. In the background, one sees someday. One Gipperfan had taken photos the green trees and blue sky. Fineand good. ofthe Keenan men streakingacross campus The poster's caption reads: ''This picture duringspringsemesterfinalslastyear(worth was taken November 13, 1993 at what was at least $2000 per Keenanite per year). Yet dubbed 'The Game of the Century.' #1 when she went to pick up her photos from 
Florida .State collided with #2 Notre Dame the Scammes, Io, certain photos were mys-
at Notre Dame Stadium in South Bend on a teriously absent 
· 

beautiful autumn day." The plot thickens: another campus shutterbug got caught in a separate · scandalous photo opportunity, this timeinvolvingacer­tain 13-floorlibrary, certain men of Alumni Hall and a certain lack of clothes. Thesepho­tos (reportedlyquite closeup) came back from the very same bookstore: TheGippdecided to give the book­store a call ·on the matter. They as­sured the Gipp that . nooneoutsideofthe developing com­pany looks at the photos. Forthisrea­son, the Gippleaves 
it to his loyal Watchers to decide why the 
Keenan boys' pies were yanked and the 
Alumni guys left behind. 
KEEPING THE MONEY HAPPY 

The Gipp wanted to know why there was no student ticket lottery for the Boston College game. Luckily, a loyal fan passed on the results of her conversation with the ticket office, where she called to see ifshe could get tickets for the game. No, she was G> told. The administation doesn't want stu-; dents traipsing all over the country just to -a· seeafootballgame. It'snotsafe. But don't g think our surrogate parents in the Dome are af letting those seats go to waste. The tickets ~ weresoldtoNotreDamealumni, who can't ~ get enough tickets to their own stadium 3 (remem~hy we're expanding the sta-ig,(,)dium?). TheGippsuspectsthatouradmin-8 istrators on high were more concerned with lu the safety of the Boston College students g (i.e., revenge) that for the well-being of §
CD 

Notre Dame's own. 
"O 
:r 
0 
::, 

MACLEOD WOULD BE PROUD !I? 
0, 

In the '.'get the Gipp's attention" stunt of ~ the week, four courageous Flanner men ~ (working in shifts) braved cold, rain and Pd stupidity waiting outside the JACC since f 
9:30 Sunday morning so they can be the ~ first in line for basketball tickets. Mind you ~ that tickets didn't go on sale until Tuesday t at 8 a.m. The Gipp decided to look into this CD 
3

one late Monday night ~ 
When the Gipp arrived on the scene, G> there weren't just four fanatics but l TWELVE. "Weliketositinthefrontrow," ~ one of them said. "You get to be onTV and ~ all." Mostlikelyon thecommercialsagainst !;­drug abuse. g. 
3 
0 
GETTING TOO PERSONAL el. 

The Chi.cago Tribune played honorary i Campus Watcher this past weekend. In ::r­their Sunday sports section, they reported d how Lou Holtz's secretary arrived before ~ gametime-.on Saturday to discover that ~ 
"' 

"Walsh" was painted over "Holtz" on the g curb by the coach's parking space. Opera-::i. tions management staff quickly repainted the curb then restenciled the name "Holtz" there. As if the name-calling weren't enough. 
That's it, that's all for this week. The Gipp is now going to think ofugly, antisep­tic designs for the new dorms (it's all the rage) to sell to Facilities Engineering. 0 
10 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 

A roundup ofthe week in sports September 27 to October 4 
WOMEN'S SOCCER Like the Notre Dame football team of 1957 that stopped the Oklahoma win streak at 44, and the 1974 Notre Dame basketball team th·at stoppedUCLA'swinstreakat88,theNotre Dame women's soccer team wrote a page in the· history books last weekend. At the Collegiate America's Cup in St. Louis, Notre Dame shocked the soccer world with a 0-0 overtime . tie of defending national champion North Carolina. The tie snapped theTar Heels' 92-game winning streak, and was good enough raise the Irish record to 9­0-1, and move the squad into the number two slot in the Intercollegiate Soccer Asso­ciation of America's coaches poll. The Irish played without injured defenders Ashley Scharffand Julie Vogel, in addition to a 25-IO disadvantage in shots to give the Tar Heels their first shut out since 1989. In their other game of the tournament, the Irish destroyed the sixth-ranked Duke Blue Dev­ils 5-0, led by a two-goal, one-assist perfor­mance by Cindy Daws, her second in arow; This week,NotreDame will play host to the Loyola Ramblers and the No. 8 Wisconsin Badgers. 
MEN'S SOCCER The unranked Notre Dame men's soccer team suffered a tough week, with two straight 1-0 losses, that put itto 5-5. Thefirstofthelosses came at the hands of Wake Forest on national televi­sion, in a game that left the team shaking their heads. The Irish outshot the Demon Deacons 14-3, and limited them to just one shot in the second half. The second loss came at the hands of Wisconsin-Milwau­kee, another game in which Notre Dame held the shot advantage. Outshooting the Panthers 13-5, the Irish again refused to allow more than one shot in the second half. What made the losses even more disheart­ening wlis'the fact-that the Irish had several scoring attemp~ in the final minutes of both games. Notre Dame looks to regroup start­ingtomorrowwithafourgamehomestand. 
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
VOLLEYBALL Notre Dame's volley­
ball team came from behind to post a 3-2 
victory over the Louisville Cardinals last 
week, wrapping up the first half of their . 
season. The. 11th-ranked Irish improved their record to 15-1, and ran their home court win streak to 18 matches. All-Ameri­can Christy Peters led the Irish witha27kill prefonnance, which also helped her set the Notre Dame career record for kills with 1,471. She now owns Irish career records for kills, total attacks and digs to go with her four single-season records. Jennifer Rouse, Notre Dame's 6'5" middle blocker also shined with10 kills and four blocked shots. Notre Dame's program received a big boost this weekwith theaddition of Sue Woodstra to their coaching staff. Woodstra, who played with Irish head coach Debbie Brown on USC's 1977 AIAW national champion­. ship team, and the U.S. women's national 
team, is regarded as one of the premier 
volleyball players and coaches in the world. 
CROSS COUNTRY The Notre Dame 
women's team won the 1994 National 
Catholic Championships for the second 
consecutive year. The Irish women placed 
first with a team score of 26, with Boston 
College finishing second with 56, and 
Marquette finishing third with 58 points. 
Senior Kristi Kramer finished first for the 
Irish, second overall, with a time of18:07.1. 
Both the men's and women's cross country 
teams will be at the Notre Dame Invita-· 
tional tomorrow at4:15 and 5:00 p.m. 


Predi.ctions 

Kennedy's Kall: Kinder turns in his fourth consecutive 100-yard perfonnance, while Edwards barrels through the BC defense for two touchdowns. Ron Powlus connects with MayesandStaffordalldayforbiggains. Theever-intimidatingNotreDamedefensesacks the BC quarterback 8 times and holds Pete Mitchell to four catches. It's a great day for the Irish. Final: Notre Dame 35, Boston College 10. · Schaller's Schot: After a first quarter that is much closer than Irish fans would have liked, the Irish offense takes over. Powlus and his corps of receivers torch the Eagles' secondary for 250 yards. Marc Edwards scores three touchdowns in Zellars'absence, and Kinder breaks loose with an 80-yard run. The defense is again solid. Final: Notre Dame 38, Boston College 17. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
11 


. 

. ., '11, 
• ' • • -'.. • : --~ ' • • F .-I .' • ' ,.. • •• • • '. • -•• 
. . . ' ~ . 

-#ik•i414ta 
•

gging 




deep 
·'

il for 
e 
All-America outside hitter Christy Peters (13) and sopho­more middle blocker Jenny Briggs (7) help the Irish stuff the Louisville Cardinals last weekend. Notre Dame won In five games, Improving Its record to 15-1. · 
Notre Dame volleyball, revived under Coach Debbie Brown and off to its best start ever, is counting on its depth and positive attitude , for a shot at a championship 





_
by Steve Ponisciak

T:e recent success of Notre Dame athletics points to an untold story of Notre Dame coaches. Coach Chris 
Petrucelli took up the reins of women's soccer in 1991 and since then Notre Dame has been a perennial powerhouse, presently on the verge of a championship. Lou Holtz came to Notre Dame in 1986 and returned
i 
I Notre Dame football to its glory days with achampionship in 1988and sevenconsecu­tive top-20 finishes. Before 1991, a Notre Damevolleyballteamwithasub-.500record was notan oddity. While the team had some success after a difficult first few years fol­lowing its inception in 1980, including sea­sons of 30-plus wins in 1986 and 1987, therewasno consistency. ThencameDebbie 
. 
Brown,NotreDamevolleyballcoach. Her accomplishments inamere threeyears have been noteworthy. Most importantly, she helped turn a team which lost 75 percent of its matches in 1990 into a consistently top­25 program, and she can be attributed for the development ofthe best player in Notre Dame volleyballhistory, seniorAll-Ameri­can Christy Peters. ­
"Thegoal thatwehad when Icamein was to develop the program into a top-ten pro­gram year in ~d year out," said Brown. "Last year we finished among the top eight in the country, and this year I expect us to finish at least that high. We wantpeople to look at Notre Dame and say/That's a great volleyball program.' " Not only is Notre Dame in the hunt for a championship, itis a team that excites a crowd, intimidates an opponent and means business. 
A significant reason for the success the Irish have experienced so far has been the play of seruor captains Peters and Nicole Coates, and junior Shannon Tuttle. Peters, the team's Most Valuable Player last year, has been named MVP in four consecutive tournamei;its. Last year she was named MCC Player of the Year and a member of the NCAA Mideast Regional all-tourna­ment team, among other honors. She now leads the team in kills, hitting percentage and digs. This year she has already been named MCC player of the week twice. While amassing all these honors, Peters has managed to remain focused on one goal. "Our goal is to do better than last year. Playing well during the season is fine, but it comes down to the end." Last year, disap­

12 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
-• ' -• • • ---• • • '. • • I --: 
. ­
• • • • ' •• ~ -' ' I I 
-

_ ~ • e • , • . , ' , • ,
I • • 
. • • -,. 1 • ~ • 
\ -. . ' ,. ' ' 
• • , • l • ~ ­
pointment hung over the Irish as they won the MCC championship but lost to Penn State in the NCAA Mideast regionals. 
Peters has combined with Coates to pro­vide "a good example and a good work ethic for the girls to follow," said Brown. Thisleadershipmustbehelping, becauseas Tuttle said, the team's four freshmen "are contributing a lot and they fit in well." Two of these freshmen, Jaimie Lee and Angie Harris, are starting. Harris has been named to the all-tournament team at three of the four tournaments, and Lee to two. Tuttle herself has also been named to three all­tournament teams. Lee and Tuttle were both named to the all-tournament team at therecentGoldenDomelnvitational, which Notre Dame won by defeating Loyola Marymount, 3-0, and Rice, 3-1. 
These victories followed a period of tre­mendous frustration, since in the words of coach Brown, "We beat Michigan State 3­0 at home, then we went on theroad and lost to them, 1-3." The team rebounded, how­ever, and is now preparing for an October 11 match against Michigan. Notre Dame 
Sophomore Jen Briggs (7) sets up junior Shannon Tuttle (10)Iast 
petition. "I

Saturday in a. match against Louisville. The Irish defeated the Cardinals in fiv~ games with Tuttle leading the team In assists. don't mean 
will face Texas A&M and Texas as well, both which Notre Dame has struggled with in the past(0-4 lifetime againstA&Mand 1­3 against Texas). 
Despite these apparent obstacles, as well as several upcoming matches against pre­season top-25 teams, Coach Brown be­lieves a national championship is realistic. "I feel the national championship is a rea­sonable goal for us," said Brown. "We do have a very tough region this year, but I know we can compete." Seniors Peters and Coates have provided the leadership neces­sary to maintain thecohesion Brown sought from the beginning. Brown's primary keys are positive attitude, continued d(?velop­ment of the offense so the team does not becomepredictable, and consistency, which has been the strength of the team so far. "One thing that is very positive is we have the leprechaun_ and the cheerleaders at the games which has been motivational for the fans," noted Brown. 
However, Brown has been anything but turned on by the Notre Dame fan support, which she asserts as important in the quest for champi­onship com­
to blast people," stated Brown, "but I don't think it [the fan support] is adequate by any means. Where we are in relation to our national attendance rankings is below where I woulct'like it to be. One of the things I believe about Notre Dame is that there is a strong sense of school spirit. I think volley­ball is a sport that can attract students and excite them." She hopes the support will improve, so that the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center will be an even more forbidding arena for opposing teams to enter than it is now. Since Coach Debbie Brown's arrival, the Irish women have lost only three matches at home a record few teams in any sport can match. Brown's teams are 46-3 in the JACC. 
The talent of the Irish itself should be plenty to spike theopposition, though. Along with Peters, Coates and Tuttle, there is 1993 MCC newcomer of the year, sophomore Jenny Birkner, as well as the flashy fresh­men, who were ranked as Volleyball Monthly's second-best freshmen class in the nation. "Freshman Molly McCarthy is the ultimate team player," claimed Brown, whose team seems tohave great things over the horizon with two freshmen starting. "Our goal is to get to the Final Four," said Tuttle. . 
Setter Carey May (3) Is one of four Notre Dame freshmen named to Vo//eyba/1 Monthly's 2nd best class In the nation. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
13 


The loss ofCoach Tom Coughlin and-quarterback Glenn Foley could be a sign that 


The Eagles 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
T:sSaturday,ahumbledNotreDame will meet Boston College for the third straight year, their first meet­ing in BC' s revamped, 40,000-seat Alumni Stadiwn. The folks out east have been chattering about a sequel ever since last November, scrambling and hustling for every last ticket. For the first time in its history, Boston ·College will sell out every home game this .season due to one reason: Notre Dame. Twoyearsago,BCsold 12,000 season tickets. the BCfans, becauseadmittedly ornot,Lou Holtz and the Fighting Irish are thinking of revenge, achance to really run up the score. 
But the Boston College Eagles have a new look to them this season. They have a new coach, a new quarterback, and they havelosttheirbestrusherDarnellCampbell. Campbellran for 1,071 yardsayearagoand was the nation's third-leading scorer with 23 touchdowns. But this year the Eagles played a tough game agairist Michigan, losing by a mere eight points, and then lost another close one, 12-7, to top-20 'ranked Virginia Tech. Returning to the offensive 

starting line-up this fall are last year's start­ing tailback, senior David Green, and se­niorAnthony Comer, who averaged awhop­ping 6.7 yards-per-attempt last season on 58 carries. . ThJ-Eagles' struggles lie mainly in the quar'terb~k position with the departure of four-year starter and New York Jet Glenn 
· Foley, who finished fifth in the Heisman balloting. Foley'sreplacement,sophomore Mark Hartsell, has played below expecta­.tions and injured himself against Virginia Tech. Unless Hartsell comes out throwing fireballs againstNotreDame,look for fresh-
Free safety Brian Magee moves up for the hit on AII-Amerlc:a tight end Pete
Last year, the nwnbet 

Mitchell. .Magee and the Notre Dame defense wlll have their hands full 
rose to 22,000. This 

against Mitchell and the stlll potent Boston College offense. year, 38,000 crazed Brent Tadsen 
Boston College fans were buying the entire season ticket package just to see Notre Dame play. Boston College Sports Information Di­rector Reid Oslin ad­mitted that 100,000 tickets would not be enough. October8will have the eyes of every Screaming Eagles fan remotely associated with Boston and every Fighting Irish follower ·across the country who witnessed last year's "heartbreak :hotel," as Dick Vitale called it. This is unfortunate for 


man Scott Mutryn to step up.. 
The Boston Col­legeoffensivearsenal includes senior wide 
receiver Clarence Cannon, one of the BigEast'sbigplayre­
. ceivers, and senior All~America tight end, Pete Mitchell, .who burned the Irish last year. Without a quarterback, how­ever, or astrong de­fense, all this is for naught, or for very little. On defense, junior 
· MikeMamula,oneof the most fearsome pass rushers in col­lege football, is the number one man .at the pressure position 



Sophomore sensation Randy Kinder has rushed for 100 yards In three straight games In Lee Beeton's absence. 
for BC, but one of the only men the defense can really count on to get the job done. This will not be enough to stop the ever­improving sensation Ron Powlus and the Irish deep corps of receivers including Derrick Mayes. Mayes, perhaps the best passcatcher in the nation, is virtually unstoppable. What makes Mayes even more of a threat is the talented duo ofMike Miller and Charles Stafford. The vulnerable BC defense will get burned all day by Miller and Stafford if it blankets Mayes too much. 
Enterthealways-punishing,rumblingrushersinKinder,Zellars, Edwards, Farmer and even Mosley, and there seems to be little contest here. Enter the hammering, improving Notre Dame defense and Boston College could have a long day. Notre Dame is getting stronger week by week, offensivelyand defensively, and it has immense motivation to go all out against BC. As the days pass, it seems the BC game will bea stepping stone for Notre Dame to the upcoming Florida State game. 
Notre Dame has met Boston College a mere five times, but both have a variety of connections which make this growing rivalry exciting. At present, both are unarguably the top two Catholic football powerhouses in the nation. In 1940, Frank Leahy coached the Eagles to a best-ever number-five ranking before leading the Irish to four national championships as the second-winningest coach in football history (Knute Rockne was the first). In 1976, Dan Henning, BC's current coach, directed the New York Jets' 
"

quarterbacksf!d·receivers under the head coach, who at the time was a man named Lou Holtz. Last season, theEagles' victory over the Irish ignited a rivalry that could last for many years. This Saturday, Notre Dame wants to begin a win streak against Boston Collegethatwilllastformanymoreyears. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
15 


/ 

s•«r,1&'11•1s,_ 

Back to the Drawing Board 
Correcting errors ofthe past _and building to accomodate the future, Notre Dame creates a home on the range 
It has been, perhaps, Notre Dame's greatest contribution to American collegiate life. It started just a few hundred yards from the steps of the Main Building. When the concept was presented, it was dismissed as too radical, but it was soon embracedby colleges across the country. The concept was first drawn up by one of Notre Dame's greatest thinkers and innova­tors, but it was so unprecedented that when presented to Notre Dame'spresident,heimmediatelyrejectedit Buttheinnovator's 

~ }Jc X;t 

MORRIS 
. 

concept found a powerful ally in ail old man who had spent his life testing the unknown and striving for a better way. 
The innovator was Father John Zah_m, C.S.C., his elderly supporterwas Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., and the concept was a student residence hall with private rooms. 
Perhaps it was Father Zahm' s peculiar genius that produced this student life revolution. Orperhaps itwasjustan idea whose time had come and Father Zahm was the only one bold enough to presentit What is certain is that when Sorin Hallwas opened on New Year's Day of 1889 and students took up life in the.first college residence to offer private rooms, it was the beginning of a great conversion on American college campuses, a conversion which would soon make Sorin Hall only the first of literally thousands of residence halls built in its style across the country. 
Over 100 years later, Notre Dame has just embarked on its most substantial student life related project since the construc­tion ofSorin Hall. This project has been born both out of a need for space and a desire for change, much as the Father Zahm's project was initiated more than a century ago. 
For Father Zahm, his greatest problem was the entrenched opposition of university presidentFatherThomas Walsh, C.S.C. Father Walsh's superior, Father Sorin, solved this problem by sendingFatherWalsh toEuropefor two months. FatherZahm took this opportunity to break ground and lay the foundations of the Sorin Hallwith only two days remaining before the return ofFather Walsh. But even the forward-thinking arid ambitious Father Zahm would wince at the extent of the difficulties involved in this event. 
The project will work in th~hases. First, and most signifi­cantly, the university willbreak ground for the construction of two new residence halls, as soon as the Burke Memorial Golf Course 
"' al 
a 
~ 
"'a, 
:, 

thaws in early spring. Second, the entire student population of Grace Hali willbe moved into these new halls for the fall semester of 1996, and Grace will be renovated into an office building. Last, most ofthe administrative offices and personnel now housed in the Main Building will be moved into Grace by the summer of 1998, many ofthem to remain there after the 18 month restoration of the Main Building is COmJ?lete. 
"These are going to be outstanding places to live," said Assistant Vice-Presidentfor Residence Life William Kirk ofthe centerpiece of the.project, the construction of Keough Hall and O'Neill Hall. Kirkis the OfficeofStudent Affairs' point man on the construction oversight committee. Other mem "So much is going on now in terms of campus life, but this is clearly the biggest thing that will effect the students and the geography ofthe campus," Kirk contin­ued. 
"In planning for these· halls, we recognize that there are 25 residence halls that affect the mission ofthe university and we want to take the best of each ofthese halls and combine those aspects into 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 
16 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II OCTOBER 6, 1994 
--~ . -. . . ' -... : . -. . -­
.. . . . . --. ...·, . 
• • •...._______~~•-~ l 
these buildings," said Kirk, bers of the committee include Father Terrence Linton, C.S.C., rector of Grace Hall; Michael Smith, director of facilities engineering; and Michael B jornquist, project manager from Ellerbe Becket, Inc., the university's architecture firm. 
"After years ofdorm conversions, the fact ofthe matter is that we simplydonothaveanymoremid-sizedmaledorms. They'reeither small or very large. So what we are building here are two halls which would house about 275 men each, giving us back that medium-sized male dorm," said Father William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice-president "Another difference between these dorms and the ones which we have constructedmost recently [Siegfried and Knott in 1988] is that these two buildings will be in much more of a traditional collegiate gothic style of architecture in keeping with that part of campus. They will be similar buildings, but they will be significantly different enough that they won't look the same," continued Father Beauchamp. 
Each hall will cost close to $9 million to construct, with these costs underwritten by gifts from Donald Keough, former chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, and Joseph O'Neill ill, a 1967 graduate of the university. 
.------------~--------------, to live in a great spot" 
"It was clear to us that both of these parties were interested in 
giving major gifts to the university, and when this project came up 
they were contacted and were enthusiastic about donating to this 
project," said Father Beauchamp. 
"We have walked through several halls together and we have tried to recognize the different elements of each. For instance, Grace and Flanner are built with stacked sections while Siegfried, and Knott are based on long halls. These new donns will be more _ oriented around that 'long hall' model," said Kirk. "We want to include a variety ofroom sizes and styles with singles, doubles and 
quads," Kirk explained. 
. Since the Board of Trustees approved construction of these halls 
on the land that is currently occupied by the back-nine holes ofthe 
golf course in May ofthis year, planning has escalated to that point 
at which the board approved the external designs for the halls in the 
course of their meetings last weekend. However, serious consid­
eration of the interior space and the student-related aspects of the 
building'sha~e been discussed by the oversight committee since 
February. ~e one committee member most involved in the 
student life considerations and the logistical aspects of building 
these halls and moving the Grace community is Father Linton, 
C.S.C., the current Grace rector, and a future rector of either Keough or O'Neill. "You can have the greatest dreams for these dorms, but ultimately it comes down to dollars and cents. Still, we are trying to make these the university's best efforts yet at creating the ideal residence halls," Father Linton said. ''The architects have been very receptive to our many concerns and have included as many of our recommendations as possible in .the designs of the dorms," Father Linton continued. 
Both Kirk and Linton have emphasized that the best aspects of GracewillbeincludedinKeoughandO'Neillandtheworstaspects of Grace will be avoided. "I suppose the mostdifficult aspect of this hall [Grace] for me is that with the huge number ofpeople, I can't get to know everybody as well as I feel I should. When I was in Stanford, I knew all the students pretty personally, and these new halls will be of a size comparable to Stanford. Also, in these halls, we'll have chapels which will be able to accomodate all our residents, unlike in Grace where we don't have any large space set aside for Sunqay liturgies," said Father Linton. 
According to Kirk: "Any complaint from Grace will be resolved in these halls. Our primary goal in working on how these halls are builtis the group of students who live there eight months out of the year, and believe me, the guys from Grace are going to be the first 
Itisironic that theKeough-O 'Neill constructionproject, which will initiate the development of.yet another quad­rangle, is integrally associated with the fate ofthe first two Mod Quad donns. It was Grace and Flanner that in 1967 · were intended to be the cornerstones of a massive quad­rangle development, which was just part of the much larger university enhancement project called SUMMA. 
SUMMA was the final development project of the 1960s, a decade which saw three previous capital cam­
• 

. paigns to enhance the fac­ulty,thegraduateprograms and campus facilities. In 1967, several hundred up­perclassmenlivedoffcam­pus, not out of choice but outofnecessity as the uni­versity could riot provide housing for all 6,000 un­dergraduates in the exist­ing 19 residence halls. It was the desire of then­presidentFatherTheodore . Hesburgh, C.S.C., that all undergraduates have the opportunitytoliveoncam­pus. With a planned ex­pansion of the university student population, there 
was an immediate need for several large residence halls. 
At the time, the university was investing capital in several large projects at once. According!y, for the first time in the university's history, according to Father Beauchamp, administration officers applied for and received federal loans to finance the construction of what wasplannedtobefive towers behind theMemorialLibrary, as it was known then. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 6, 1994 
17 


University trustee J. Peter Grace and the family of Thomas space, the building is immediately accessible to the road and there Flanner donated funds necessary to underwrite the expense of the is plenty of pruking available very close," said Father Beauchamp. first two of these towers, but the remaining funding for this "Thisprocessofconvertingexistingfacilitiesandconstructingnew construction project, the largest single project ever planned for facilities is thebestsolution to two issues wehave needed to address the university, was generated by government loans, which have for some time," Father Beauchamp added. yet to be paid off, according to Father Beauchamp. While at this time there are no official plans to convert Flanner 
The towers of the SUMMA project were intended to meet all Hall, it is an obvious option open to the university. "Do I expect future university housing needs with just five buildings. How-Flanner to be gone, yes-but1mt while any ofthe current residents ever, only two years after the opening of Grace and F1~1mer in are still there," said Father Beauchamp. According to one source 1969,theBoardofTrusteesabortedthatconstructionphaseofthe close to the current project, the long-term plan for Flanner will SUMMA project as it felt that the two existing towers were move all the residents out within five years after the closing of failures as Notre Dame-style residence communities. Grace. Those moved out of Flanner will be moved into two ofthe 
"Grace and Flanner are different, and they would probably be four female dorms on Mod Quad, while the populations of those betteron anothercampus. I do not mean to belittle the experience · two female dorms will be moved to two more new halls to be built of residents of these halls -I lived in Grace for three years -next to Keough and O'Neill. In this way, the male-female ratios of but they simply do not work for Notre Dame," said Father North and South quad will be preserved. Beauchamp. "When they were built, they were the 'latest thing.' Thus, the quarter-century-old aborted SUMMA construction But it has become clear that they do not meet our goals for what project, which would have drastic~ly altered the residential life of we are trying to achieve in terms of residentiality," Father theuniversity,isfinallybeginningtoberesolvedwiththeconstruc­Beauchamp continued. tion ofKeough and O'Neill and the eventual closing of Grace and 
Yet, though they havefailed to be thekind ofhallcommunities Flanner. It is ironic to note that one of the keyfigures in all of the massive fund-raising and strategic planning ofthe 1960s was then­trustee Joseph O'Neill, Jr. 
"There are elements on campus that want to portray this thing in as negative a light as possible. They prefer to look at as the big bad administration doing it to us again,'' said Father Linton. "I prefer to look at it as a great opportunity to start with the best of what we have and move forward. We're going to have a stronger commu­nity, a better internal structure and more study space, but we will still have the strength of our sections, we will have RAs from the 
· Gracecommunityandthemembersof the hall will still be together," Father Linton continued. 
''The Colloquy calls for increased 

24-hour space in the dorms and for which Notre Dame prefers to build, Grace and Flanner increased common space. These halls have demonstrated their own unique,strengths. "Grace will meet those criteria with a healthy and Flanner maybethe strongest typeofsections wehave. amount of social space on each floor,'' The sections have their own identity and there is a great said Kirk; "Ofcourse this is going to camaraderie among the members of the section," said be difficult on the students in Grace Kirk. right now, but we are going to do our 
"We're anomalies on this campus. We're good com­· best to meet their concerns and make munities, but we're too big. Still what has been the best the transition easiest for them," con~ part of Grace and Flanner is the strength ofthe section and tinued Kirk. thatis something the we are all very seriousaboutbringing The target date for the completion into the new halls," said Father Linton. But while the of the halls is late July 1996, at which sections have been notable successes of Grace and Flan­time they will become not only the 
ner, as total communities, they have not been successful in the first new men's dorms in 25 years, but they will also be the first part eyes of the university. Said Kirk: ''There is simply not the hall of a substantial shift in residential life on campus. 
unity present in Grace and Flanner that is there in all our.other In that Keough Hall and O'Neill Hall represent the future of dorms. It is time to address this issue with a workable sol~tion, .. campus life at Notre Dame, they clearly represent, both in their and that solution is to transfer our student populationintosmaller, external .design and their internal structure, a return to Father 
more traqitional halls." 

Zahm's original concept of a university comprised of small, In acl,dfy.on to the student life concerns, there is the fact that closely-kniicommunities; itis a return to a concept which has made Grace artcf Flanner will make ideal office complexes. ''This is a Notre Dame unique among American colleges. The future, then, very cost-effective program. It makes sense to convert a tower. is a return to the essence of that innovation which Notre Dame into an office building: the layout is ideal, it provides ample pioneered so long ago. O 
S C H O LA S TI C M A G AZ I N E ¦ 0 C TO B E R 6, 1 9 9 4 
) I 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•OCTOBER 6, 1994 
19 





When Media Controls the Masses 
by John Connorton 

Ross Perot bought time on major networks for his "info-mercials;" Bill Clinton mastered the presi­dential debates with the ease of a televangelist; George Bush's advertising called into question Clinton's values and character. The 1992 battle for the presi­dency was fought on the airwaves and television screens, with Rush Limbaugh and Larry King delivering the play-by­electorate demands a more open and par­ticipatory democracy. Schmuhl, chair­man ofthe Department ofAmerican stud­ies at Notre Dame, investigates the 1992 presidential campaign, focusing on how American political institutions are influ­enced by new technologies and means of communication. 
The first section, "Looking Backward," bears witness to the presidential cam-· paignsofGeorgeBush,Ross Perot and the eventual victor, Bill Clinton. Schmuhl 
In Demanding Democracy, Notre Dame Professor Robert Schmuhl offers his account ofthe 1992 presidential campaign 
/~ I 

focuses on thecontinuouslychangingrole of the media throughout the campaign. 
As Schmuhl points out, the media was desperate to learn from · the mistakes it made in the 1988 campaign. In seeking to avoid being manipulated by spin-doct0rs the way it was in 1988, the media began to scrutinize the background ofnominees to make up for its failure to do so during the previous election. Schmuhl notes .that what emerged was a "two-track cam­paign," in which the traditional media, influenced by the popularity of aggres­
play. There's no doubt that the media 
sive tabloid journalism, focused prima­have become part of the political pro­rily on the character of the candidates, cess -but the question of how big while the public clamored for a more their part is remains. Robert Schmuhl substantive analysis of the issues and attempts to answer this question in his,,__,. pla~orms. · latest book, Demanding Democracy. The 1992 campaign was a campaign 
"In an age of instantaneous, world­of paradoxes, where traditional roles wide communication, the media affect were reversed and conventional wisdom policy formulation and implementa­was stood upon its head. The public's tion," Schmuhl wrote in the introduc­desire for reform and substantive talk tion. "Today diplomatic messages fre­became the vehicle for change, while the quently arrive via the television screen _traditional elite ofreform, the media and instead of from an ambassador or cou­pundits, got lost in appealing to the low­rier. Reports have different audiences est common denominator. and can produce varying effects both at The second part of Schmuhl's book, home and abroad. The media might try ''Looking. Forward," addresses the fu­to simplify knotty reality to make it ture_ of American politics and govern­understandable for the average citizen, ment Americans are clearly cynical but the consequences of that simplifi­about their government; Schmuhl points cation are complex and never easy -to to a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll gauge." held at the end of 1993 where only 14 
Demanding Democracy isanexami­percent of respondents believed that nation of the reshaping of political in­Washington would do the right thing all stitutions and the media as a dis­or inost of the time. In the age of the gruntled and dissatisfied American information highway and shifting de­
22 
S C H O L A S T I C 'M A G A Z I N E • 0 C T O B E R 6 , 1 9 9 4 
mographics, Schmuhl argues that the United States faces a crossroads, and the way it responds remains to be seen. Schmuhl warns against the fragmentation of American society, as individu_als re­treat to their own ethnic groups or to their 500 channel televisions. 
Although an informative and at times interesting summary of the presidential campaign, Demanding Democracy suf­fers from a lack of a new angle or a new approach. Schmuhl's book is well writ­ten, but does not offer information or interviews that were unavailable orunex­plored before. The book seems content synthesizing already existing material rather than breaking new ground. To its credit, Demanding Democracy does a good job analyzing a wide range of mate­rials, but the feeling remains that much of what the author has written has already been said. 
Schmuhl describes himself as a gener­alist rather than a specialist, one who tries "to look at public affairs and figures in much the sa_me way as a representative voter or taxpayer might." But the Ameri­can electorate already knows what it is 
Although an informative and at times interesting summary ofthe presidential campaign, 
Demanding Democracy 
suffers from a lack ofa new angle or a new approach ... The feeling remains that much of what the autlwr has written has already been said. 
thinking about the government, and those inside the Beltway likewise know what they are thinking; what remains to be seen is whether the two populations really know what theotheris thinking. Demand­ing Democracy would have been more successful _if it had investigated the reac­tions ofprincipal players (those who took part in the campaigns or hold positions in the current administration) to any dia­logue between the two spheres. 
Hundreds of articles and scores of 
books have been written about the 1992 
campaign, and Demanding Democracy 
does not offer enough new insight to make 
it of note. Plagued by an over-reliance on 
previously published materials, the bqok 
fails to distinguish itself from the rest of 
the lot. Like the American electorate 
during the 1992 campaign, the readers of 
this book will take a look and find them-. 
selves wanting more. 0 
Robert Schmuhl is Chairman of the Department ofAmerican studies at Notre Dame. His book is published by the University ofNotre Dame Press. 
THE BEST JOURNALISTS ON CAMPUS WORK FOR SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE. 
Once a week. In-depth stories. News. Campus Life. Sports. Entertainment. Humor. Photography. Graphics. 


If you want to become part of the 128-year-old tradition of Scholastic Magazine, stop by 303 laFortune. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•OCTOBER 6, 1994 




Porn Stars, Handcuffs and $1 Bargains 
News ofthe Biztlrrefrom Our Nation's Universities 


Penn State Hosts ·Porn. Queen. 
Speaking this week on campus ... Catholic school-girl turned porn queen, Linda "Lovelace" Marchiano. Oh, by the way, she's speaking at Penn State, not here of course. The Collegian, the Penn State daily newspaper, reported that Marchiano, the star of Deep Throat, wquld speak on campus about the "physical, mental and sexual abuses that lurk behind the smiles in pornogra­phy" in a seminar sponsored by the Center-for Women's Studies. Now, let's ponder whether Ms. Lovelace will be speaking at Stepan this year. 
Cheap Off-Campus 
Housing -Really! 

At this time, a lot of juniors are discussing the pros and cons ofmoving off-campus. One ofthe pluses is thatit'susuallycheaper. Well,lastspring,Macalaster College in Minnesota gave new meaning to the tenn "affordable housing," according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. The college wanted to expand its athletic facilities and decided to remove five houses from the campus. But listen to this-they sold each house for a dollar. The college had.tractor trailers come in and remove the houses one at a time-yes, they dug up the foundations and put the houses, in tact, on the tractors. If this is a new trend, then let's all push the administration to expand theJACC into Turtle Creek so we can all live free next year! 
Illinois Parties On 
\ 

TheDaily Illini of the University of Illinois reported a bust on local bars that is reminiscent of our friendly SUDS encounters, maybe with some small discrepancies. The headline: Minors Cited During Local Bar Sweeps. Here are some excerpts from the riveting report: 
"Police found four underage persons holding beer while conducting a bar check:·· Police saw a woman holding a beer while she stood inside. The woman told the police she was-holding the beer for her boyfriend while he.got another. [Sure, and if you believe that one ...] Police saw · another woman holding a beer bottle. The woman's friend leaned over and said something to her. The woman looked atthe police and placed the beer bottle on a nearby shelf [real subtle] ... Police saw a man who ha~ been holding a beer bottle go into the bathroom. The man did not have the beer bottle when he emerged from the bathroom. He told the police he went into the bathroom because he didn't get caught. [Apparently, he's not as quick on his feet as the two women so he couldn't come up with a slick story.]" 
Now, according to theDaily Illini, this was a major bust by the cops. Those police are really cracking down out there in Illinois. Four whole people were cited on a Friday night at the bars. They should take lessons from the South Bend Police! Where were the dogs? Where were the fines? Where were the paddy wagons? C'mon, that's no bust! 

"Flashy" Fundamentalist in Texas 
Students at Texas Christian University"have been getting a little too much of an education from· alocal Baptist minister, reported the Chronicle ofHigher Education. Thelocal pastorhad been flashing students on the campus frequently, until he was seen fumbling with his zipper. Campus Security chased and detained himandheconfessedtoindecentexposure. ButTexasshouldlookout-hemay not be gone for good. Three years ago, the minister was caught exposing himself to students at Southern Methodist University. Watch out Notre Dame, he may target Catholics next! D 
edited by Mary Kate Morton 
24 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 




Coming Distractions 
The Week in Sports 
Football: Notre Dame vs. Boston College, Sat., 1 :35 p.m., at Boston College. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Louisville, Sat., 7:30 p.m., 
J.A.C.C. Arena. 

Soccer: ND Men vs. University of Chicago, Fri., 7:30 p.m. All games played at Alumni Field. ND Women vs. Loyola, Fri., 5:00 p.m. ND Men vs. Wisconsin, Sun., 1 :00 p.m. ND Women vs. Wisconsin, Sun., 3:00 p.m. 
Cross Country: Notre Dame Invitational, Fri., 4:15 p.m., Notre Dame Golf Course. 

Cultural Connection 
Seminar: "America, England and Italy: The C3eography of Catholic Conversion," Patrick Allitt, Thurs., 4:15 p.m., Lounge, Hesburgh Library. 
Taste of Nations: Multicultural Fall Festival, Sat., 8:00 p.m., Stepan. . 
Fireside Chat: ''The Ideal of a Feminist Family," Janet A .. Kourany and James R. Sterba, Fri., 12:15 p.m., Notre Dame Room. · 
Acoustic Cafe: Thurs., 9:00 p.m., Huddle. Lecture: "Conscious Evolution," Barbara Marx Hubbard, 
· · Thurs., 7:00 p.m., Lafortune Ballroom. Culture on the Quad: Fri., 12:00 noon, Fieldhouse Mall. Entertainment on the Quad: Thurs. and Fri., 4:30 p.m., 
Fieldhouse Mall. 


On the Silver Screen 
LaFortune: "Monty Python's Meaning of Life," Thurs., 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, $1. Cushing: "I Love Trouble," Fri. & Sat., 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Auditorium, $2. 
Snlte: Annenberg Auditorium, $2. "Belle Epoque," Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. "Caddo," Mon., 7:00 p.m. "It Happened One Night," Mon., 9:30 p.m. "Accatone," Tues., 6:00 p.m. 
University Park West: 277-7336. "Fresh," R, 2:15, 4:40, 7:15, 9:45. "The Little Rascals," PG, 2:30, 4:45. "Milk Money," PG-13, 6:45, 9:15. ''Terminal Velocity," PG-13, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:20. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Jason's Lyric," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. "A Simple Twist of Fate," PG-13, 2:15, 4:30. "The Mask," PG-13, 2:20, 4:45. ''The River Wild," R, 2:20, 4:40, 7:1 o, 9:40. ''Time Cop," R,-2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45. "Natural Born Killers," R, 7:00, 9:30. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "Clear andPresent Danger," PG-13. "Forrest Gump," PG-13. "The Scout," PG-13, 5:00, 7:15, 9:30. 

Saint Mary~ 
Collegg 

Sesquicentennial Ball: Sat., 6:00 p.m., Century Center, South Bend. Soccer: SMC vs. University of Chicago, 
Thurs., 4:00 p.m., Soccer Field, SMC. Folk Dancing: Fri., 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse, Distinguished Alumni Recital: Sun., 
2:30 p.m., Little Theatre, SMC. 
Multicultural Awareness Week 
Volleyball: SMC College Tournament, Fri.-Sat., 3:00 p.m. & 9:00 a.m., Angela Athletic Facility. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 
25 



Grist for the Mill Rick Gre 
MR fa'IZ.Z.L 

wow,,. :i= T)OAIT 6£LUV£ 
ooo! {)O ! MISS JVN/3!

Al--1\l~Hr! :r:r woRK£D!I 
,HIS! w11A-r sHovwi{)o?!
:Cwi o.loov./--to eV1kr tlte yet;./3.~ Ht:ltJOOo .1 Tu·tt,rtMa-1-io>'l S...,perl,,ijl,,wa.y Yc-Be 5ss !.1 With tliiS ner.J c'.oY11puk:r _)CIC.I< Sri'lj vp tl,.c,1:,e ce>'ltcr-h,(J pie-Iv
¾iey insfalleJ,.. ~~ ··: .. / ~ \ 
•I••' you. !,io_~ ... 



I ~ 1~;:'!:H 
ST/LL. IYJ lJXL 
F/IJ"DIIJ~ A 1),\Tc. Fa. TIIE SYR, 
TO"DDZ 
( 
001'E.. I'VE. 
srnxr_ oor l,)tT/1 EVEXl' G~ IJJ 
1RE."D¼000t-. 

5CM£ TWICE/ 
) 

l,Jf/)_1 I J::}JO(,) A G~L IIJ ~/J GJ/Jo'D ~c;e>iSLI' G/J u)ITH 'l'OO••• 
Sffi{S SflE 
MOVEb HERE TO 
DlXL THE. MEDIA. 
1:EUEVE rr ol!_ }Jar, HE. HE.T 
HER. AT THE 


MALL! 
·~ 
ff
7 

LET ME. 6/UE  1W Ha /-1:?Mt  EOB:E:ff '"R.t.SlbEM:E.  
/JVMBi.e...  Ast F"O"R..  LORENA.  HEU..OLI$ LD"RruA  
/..CRWA L 60T t,(  111E~°?  
111~, T IH  I  06;£.  
!-OU DI.JE( '  
HE~ i,~MY "f't.E.ASO  

GU'r'5, GUY.SI 

l'(,TVAl.l'l', SijE .:Ail) I'VE. GOT A DATE/ 
SHE. HAS"->T eEEN LDR£J.JA ts FR£E. 
DAT1106 ltLL JJooo ••• { TTIAT JJl(,!lT! 
( 
1tlAT MlX./-l 5ER.IDOSLY? ATELY. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 6, 1994 


21 orBust 

by Melissa Sheldon and Mary Kate Morton 
though SUDS activity seems low so far this year, my ~ sources tell me that SUDS is still on the prowl, so watch your back. Here are a few tips: · 
1. 
Familiarize yourself with the back doors ofCJ's, Corby's and Bridget's. They will come in handy! 

2. 
Travel in large packs; if there's a raid, you can all make a run for it and your odds of getting caught are cut in half due to the confusion of 50 flailing drunk people all running in different directions. 

3. 
Learn to climb fences. This comes in especially handy at Lafayette when the cops are at the front doors and the only escape is over the back fences. 

4. 
Know who you are and where you live on your fake. I mean, ifyou're going to go to the trouble of getting an ID, at least learn the info, if only so you don't look· like an idiot getting turned away in front of half your class at CJ' s, no less! · 

5. 
When all else fails, stay in good shape. Join the track team! Ifyou have no other options, being able to outrun the cops is the surest escape! 


Okay, enough advice and on to more interesting things, like the history of SUDS. If you have been fortunate enough not to be familiar with SUDS, it's a division of the police department specifically designed to Stop Underage Drinking and Sales. This special task force takes great pride in giving fines to underage drinkers and discovering fake IDs in the local bars and liquor stores. Some of you may remember the most infamous encounter with SUDSlastSt.Patty'sDaywhenofficerssurroundedLafayette,fully equiped with billy clubs for the unruly students. But regardless of the isolated incid~nts, has the task force really been successful? Well, success is a relative term because the South Bend Police have certainly been successful in garnering "beaucoup" bucks for their treasury from the underage drinkers in the area. But has SUDS succeeded in its mission to Stop Underage Drinking and Sales? Well, you tell me. The SUDS force has existed since 1986; that's almost nine years. Is there still underage drinking? Okay, DUMB question! This is Notre Dame, after all. 
So you wantto be a SUDS officer? Just like any other special task force, South Bend Police must have training courses for the prestigious officers who join the ranks of SUDS. I can imagine some of the rigorous courses and training involved in this technical field. There's the instruction course that teaches officers how to see the little hologram on IDs by tilting the license from side to side. Then, of course, the challenge course which places the officers in a furnished apartment and gives them two minutes to locate and confiscate all the hidden cases ofMilwaukee's Best. And then my favorite is the one which teaches SUDS to imitate college kids so they can go into the ND parties undercover. This course is a little outdated,.soifyou'reatapartyandyouhearsomeonesay"groovy, man,"it'saprettysafebetthatit'saSUDSofficer. Anddon'tforget the course tha.t explains how to operate the highly intricate Breathalyzer. This innovation eliminated some of the fun for SUDS. No more creative brainstorming sessions where they try
/I

and think up new ways to figure out whether or not a Notre Dame student has been drinking. My personal favorite was always:the 

"hop on one foot, touch your nose, spin around in circles, all while singing the Notre Dame fight song." Upon completion of these courses, the SUDS officersgo outinto ­the streets to fulfill their mission. You know how it goes: 
SUDS: "Hey you, do you go to NotreDame? I'm fining you$50. 
Oh yeah, and don't drink anymore!" 
* * * One Week Later*** 
Domer 1: ''Want a beer?" 
Domer 2: ''No thanks, I've stopped drinking. That $50 
fine really turned my life around." 
Seriously, though, I'm sure that SUDS has had success in quelling some of the drunken revelry of rebellious Domers, but enough already. To use a well-known Pink Floyd lyric, "Hey, SUDS ... leave those kids alone!" 
This is, a humorous column. The views expressed do. not necessarily represent those ofScholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 6, 1994 





Grumpy Old Man 
i 
• ! 
' i 


A sorely defeated Stanford Head Coach Bill Walsh is escorted off the field by the Indiana State Police. 
Photo by Brent Tadsen 


28  SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE• OCTOBER  6,  1994  
•  •  - ,• •'  •  •,.  •  •  _. '  I  •  
'  - _, '~  •  ..,  ---­ .,  '  I  I  I  


.

. . 
, . ~ l • , V •? ~ • • ,• ' ,-; ~ 
1 

' ' I • • 
' . . ', ; . . -\ -~ . . . , -. 
, . / . . . . '. . 
Friday, October 7, 1994 
8 p.m. -12 a.m. Stepan Center 
Come join the fun! Stop by before SYRs! Kick off the weekend in a unique way and bring all your friends! 
:Mu[ticuftura£'.E?(§,cutive CounciC 
!f'E.9LTU!Rl9{{;: Sa6or Latino, o/oices of!Fait/ii Main Street, Musa Waye -.J2Lfrican musician, ana a great niglit offun, aance, fooa ana music! 
.fJLamission: $1 


FooD AND ENTERTAINMENT F13pM AROUND THE WoRLD 

• • • ' • • •. ~ ' ' ; i-' • • I • ~ • • ' ,,,. •f • •• ·, l I.. • r, \• 1/ \ : 
• • • • ' ... • ,. 4 ... \ ' • , .-.. J • ,.. • ' ,\ • ,· 
__.PRESENTS: 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
9:00 PM

STODKNTUNIONBOUD 
-Ql'flBIJ,, ll«t'flBIJt ¦Cl>~. 
(and, yes, more mo ·es) 
Thursday Night, Friday and Saturday Night, 
Od6 Od7&8 Monty Python's "THE MEANING OF LIFE" Don't Know's. "I LOVE TROUBLE" Showings: 8 & 10:30 PM Showings: 8 & 10:30 PM Where: Montgomery Theatre Where: Cushing Auditorium 
in LaFortune Cost: TWO BUCKS :f:fa:
Cost: A BUCK! Get out there, find yourself a date and 
THEY'RE ALL GONNA
. ""i,l?UL'1f .rl eL.r/SS'J(3.II see this flick. (Like you have anything 
I give it four stars! * * * * cooler to do.) LAUGH AT YOU!! 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 1,1t Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -10 p.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 2610 Prairie Ave. 273-389'0 288-3320 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer F.REE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.  

-. ' . . --' 
. ' 
. ' . . . . ... , -. 
• ~-.., • • • ' -~ J I •, I 










