Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
\DlSCe-QVASI-SemP€l2-VICTV^^ •VIVG-9VASI<RAS-MORITVRV5*
Vol. XXXVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 5, 1903. No. 13.
. The Golden Age.
THOMAS D. LYONS, ’04.
I.
J-JAVE all the chronicles been writ, And are the glorious deeds all sung?
Are clean gone dry the founts of wit:
Has Death stilled every prophet tongue?
No longer Phoebus of the sun
Grants men to write with words that burn;
The mighty elder day is done,— When will the golden age return?
n.
The art that kindled ancient Greece,
The sculptors and the bards divine, Our empty longings find surcease
To worship for the nonce its shrine.
We still have roads the Roman built (The Roman’s ashes fills the urn), The past shows true our paste and gilt; When will the golden age return?
HI.
Our vessels clog the foreign ports, Our armies fight in distant lands, ‘
The seacoasts bristle with our forts, Our merchants trade on far-off strands.
At Grecian gods we safely jeer,
But Greece might boasted progress spurn, And pray her gods with many a tear, That soon the golden age return.
l’envoi.
Plenty and peace have all mankind, But still the human heart will yearn
And something higher seek,—and find,.
If but the golden age return.
Let not the halo which surrounds the greatest names perturb thy view, but look with steadfast eye on deeds and words, by whomsoever done or spoken.—Spalding.
A Little Excursion into the Debating' Field.
BYRON V. KANALEY, ’04.
HE first debate we know of was in the garden of Paradise between the bad and good natures of Eve. This is without doubt the most momentous debate of which we
lave knowledge, for on its result hung the fate of the human race; and because of its dire outcome humanity since has earned in the sweat of its brow, and there has been gnashing of teeth by uncounted generations. A programme of that debate would read: Resolved that the apple designated should not be plucked. The speakers were:
Affirmative	Negative
1.	Gratitude	I.	Curiosity
2.	Fear	2.	Cupidity
3.	Love	3.	Egotism
Human vanity was the burden	of proof*and
it rested on the affirmative. That debate had for its audience the powers of Evil and of Good—Satan and his devils, God and His angels. The place was the cradle of man. The result of that debate will endure upon earth from the plucking of the apple to the blowing of the trumpet of'Gabriel, and thence on 'for eternity. Eve herself was judge, but often, as has happened since, the judge being human was prejudiced before the facts were fully presented, and Eve listened with a partial ear to the subtle and alluring arguments of the serpent.
This then is the origin of debating. The result of the first debate was decidedly against man and his welfare, but ever since by debate men, as a rule, have striven by using this means to persuade and convince for what is good. But whether for good or for evil, men' have
ibl	NOTRE DAME
studied what lies in debating in order to make their, efforts most fruitful and efficacious.
Human speech as conveying thought is of infinite worth and service. God Himself had its import in mind, for, as Leighton says: “There are but ten precepts of the law of God, and two of them, so far as concerns , the outward organ and vent of the sins then forbidden, are bestowed on the tongue.”
Men in all times have striven to perfect . themselves in speech. Doubtless this striving has been for the so-called selfish end of convincing, persuading, forcing, or cajoling to one’s own way of thinking.
• Every form of speech may be reduced to the rules of debating, for anything that is worthily said is more than empty words. Everything is said with a purpose of some kind or other for a direct or indirect.end. And it is to know how to state the best, the most vital thing in the best way—that is, to state a thing so as to gain the end, whether it be. yours or some one else’s for whom you are striving, in the safest, quickest, surest way — that has always given impetus to debating and provoked so much study of its rules and its promise.
Bishop Spalding in his oration on John Altgeld, late Governor of Illinois, said: “The orator must gather into unity and harmony all that other artists achieve separately; must be at once musician, painter, poet, sculptor, architect; must be able to take the human mind and heart and imagination for his instrument and play upon it all the infinite divine cadences of rhythm and reason. He must stand forth before men as a man clothed with the resonance of the thunder-crash and with the searching power of the forked lightning; .must sing to his audience and command them and subdue them to his-every mood and thought; must have power to transport them into the midst of sublime scenes, of tumultuous oceans, of white and eternally serene mountain peaks; he must know all the melodies that soothe like the lullabies of mothers;.... His words :must be as full of music as a poet’s, as clearcut as a statue, as symmetrical as the noblest monument, as rightly ordered as an army in battle array;.... He must be all alive with the. subject he discusses.... Those alone who .take infinite pains can hope to become orators. There is no seeming trifle, which may be neglected:..? He who, would excel must inure .himself to the labor of writing and rewriting what he would utter. The pen is to the mind
SCHOLASTIC.
what the plow is to the field. Plows do not sow the seed, but without the culture they give it will not thrive and yield rich harvest, however fertile the soil.... He must:abstain, train himself like an athlete, and accustom himself to all the exercises that invigorate and sharpen the intellect or harden and supple the body.”
Spalding treats at some length on the orator and his qualifications, and says many things that lack of space only, prevents us from quoting. It is an article well worth reading and studying. The book is titled “Socialism and Labor” and the specific heading is “An Orator and Lover of Justice.” Of course Bishop Spalding speaks of the ideal orator, and these are few, if indeed one has lived. Quintilian said that up to his time the perfect orator had not appeared, and yet he had studied the lives and works of Cicero and Demosthenes.
Specifically speaking, debating is the branch of speech that .aims more than any other to persuade and convince. Bishop Gregg said that there are three things to' aim at in public speaking: “First, to get into your subject, then to get your subject into yourself, and lastly, to get your subject into your hearers.” The first two qualifications may be said to be the means and the last the end for which one strives. Let us for simplicity combine the first two and name it the preparation for debate. .
Colleges usually take for. debate a question of public moment and general interest. One college suggests the subject and the other has the choice of sides. There is some jockeying for advantage right here at the start. For instance, suppose you were to propose the subject. Suppose the subject were whether the Erie canal should be enlarged to make it a ship canal? Now in debate the affirmative side has a distinct advantage inasmuch as in the common style of college debating the affirmative has the opening main speech and the closing rebuttal, thus giving the affirmative the first and last words of the debate. Suppose the college to whom the Erie canal' question is to be sent, is located where all the prejudices and arguments are againrst enlarging the.canal. The merits of both sides are about equal. Then you would word the question: “Resolved that the Erie Canal should be enlarged so as to make it a ship canal.” The challenged college, wishing to protest against its enlargement, would be compelled
b f
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	203
-	w
I*	io take the negative, thus leaving for you,
who don’t particularly care whether it is enlarged or not, the affirmative with the first j and last speech of the debate, and the merits we suppose of the arguments of both sides being about equal. If, on the contrary, the challenged college were in favor of its enlargement, then you would propose the question: “Resolved that the Erie canal should not be | enlarged so as to make it a ship canal.” Thus I	you see to get the side'it wished the other
I	college would again have .to choose the nega-
| five, for the question is stated negatively, and I to uphold the idea to enlarge the canal one J would have to negate the negative proposition, ‘ thus again leaving with you the affirmative ; side of the question as stated and the first | and last speech.
?	The question being stated and the sides
chosen, the next thing of course is to pick J	a team. This summer the leader of the Yale
[	debating team described to me the method
I there. I also examined the methods in other leading schools, and I think that, all in all, i Notre Dame has the best possible and most :	satisfactory way of choosing a debating team,
i	At Yale there are usually about one
I hundred candidates. These are divided into | squads of about twenty each. Twenty of them •	’ get together before three or perhaps five
judges. Each man is usually allowed five minutes. And each man may be called upon
i to talk on either side of the question. Out of these twenty a certain number, usually about three or four, are picked, as seems best to the judges. Each squad is gone through in like manner. Then the process is repeated until four men are left, three regulars and an alternate. Sometimes a team is arbitrarily picked by a set of judges without actual competition with all the candidate0, At its best this method is .loose, and allows a chance for a man who looks good at sight to gain a place without forcing the best from every candidate under the best conditions for hard work, thus allowing, a really weak man in the end to get a place. Of course -	this	does not probably	often	happen,	but
■	still	the chance is open;	it does	often happen
/	that	the best efforts of	all.the	men are	not
. got	from them. And this	ought	to be an	aim
of college debating—to improve every man by. putting him in set, and formal contests . allowing him time in which to show his best under favorable circumstances. The Yale method prevails at some of the other large
schools. Of course such colleges have an advantage in that they usually know some -of their men, for some have made their reputations in preparatory schools.
Our method of drawing by lot for places and time sometimes puts four good men on for the same night and one must lose, while . the next night one not so good perhaps as the one who lost the night before'may win. But in the long run our method is the fairest and best. If the Yale method, for instance, were adopted, in two or three years, or after the graduation of those who now may be considered good debaters and who have acquired their knowledge of debating here, why it would be a most difficult matter to select teams for the reason that those who are known are gone—the teams would be picked either without contests or at the first contest, and if the former were impracticable, the latter would be a poor alternative, for the first contest, or an only contest, rarely brings out the best qualities or efforts of any.- Notre Dame’s debaters are developed from year to year, and experience has proved that with proper instruction and painstaking effort, any ordinary student may be made into a good debater. Instruction and time and effort are essential just as they are on the track, the baseball field or the gridiron. '	’
In the Eastern Inter-Collegiate Debating League, composed of Yale, Harvard, and Princeton, a rule prevails that no matter that is not open to everyone shall be introduced into an inter-collegiate debate; as for instance, a personal letter. Some discussion was aroused two years ago when Harvard in a debate with Yale produced a letter that Yale maintained . had not been open to her debaters. The matter was adjusted by Harvard’s withdrawing the letter and instructing the judges not to allow the letter to have weight in their decision. ’
Debating is much like the game of chess. You figure out long beforehand what will-probably happen in the event of certain tilings and then you try to make the events, come your way; and when the play suddenly and unexpectedly shifts is where the man who is' most thoroughly ■ prepared is there “ with the goods.”	.
In outlining the very first work to be done • in preparation for a debate, let us assume that the question is: Resolved that the States should not tax personal property. The first thing to do is to examine the terms of the
204	. ROTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
question itself and see if therein there are any words liable to misinterpretation or ambiguous meaning. If there are any such select the meaning that seems more or most reasonable to you and base your speech accordingly on this meaning. To select intelligently the meaning of a term—that is, to select a meaning that will be to your advantage and still leave the question highly debatable—one must either know himself, the matter treating of the question, or converse with one familiar with it, or else read carefully enough of the material treating of the question under debate from both an affirmative and negative standpoint to gain an idea of what the authorities construe the term to mean. For instance, in the question .stated above, obviously the first thing to do would be to define the term “States;” then to define the term “personal property.” Now in defining . this term one should be careful, for there is a great difference betweeen its actual meaning o	o
as defined by law, and the meaning given to it to make it a practical debating question. For a great part of personal property as taxed is made up of franchises which the law in some states defines, when such things enter into lawsuits, to be not personal property—at least such is the case in the State of Indiana. The law of this state says they are merely representatives of personal property. So you see it would be manifestly unfair, not to say to make his position absolutely impracticable and untenable, to force a person upholding the idea of taxing personal property to base his debate on the taxing of what the law defines to be personal property, inasmuch as in some places personal property for taxing purposes is chiefly composed of franchises and such other paper representations. Of course the terms of a question are usually, but not always, pretty clearly defined before real work on the debate begins.
Another fact to b'e borne in mind is that In such a question as the one above one doesn’t have to prove that all personal property should or should not be taxed. What .. one is obliged to prove is that the good in his particular system weighs against the evil in greater proportion than in that of his . opponent’s, and that his system is expedient.
This holds true .of all questions.
One reads a great deal of the “burden of proof,” but this assumption of the “ burden of proof,” adding an unfair weight to one side or , the other, making perhaps the
question unequal at the start, is fast being • | lost in college debating, and nowadays scanty | .attention is paid in debating to this “burden . । of proof.” ‘ •	|
The terms of the question being clearly and | fairly defined, the work begins of “getting into | your subject” and “getting the subject into 1 yourself.” Oftentimes a great mass of matter | has to be looked over, and here is where the ’ trained debater has an advantage over one inexperienced. Only by a comprehensive glance of the whole, question, and the ability to hold the salient, vital points in one’s memory while thinking or writing out a speech, can the speech .be made compact, strong, symmetrical, persuasive and convincing; in short, a speech calculated to do the best work on a big subject in a short time.
The thing first to be done is to read all the matter bearing directly on the subject with memory alert to the striking things. And when one sees marked divisions of the subject ' it is well to jot these headings down for future reference in writing out one’s speech, for they make good classifications for one’s knowledge. Two or three magazine articles in such magazines as the Forum or the Review of Reviews will usually give a person a fair idea of the salient points both affirmative and j negative.	;
One can usually tell quickly the important i points by noting what lines of thought prominent writers on the subject usually -follow.
But even then individual judgment will differ as to the headings in a synopsis. For instance, in such a question as that of permanently	I
retaining the Philippines, one man might	|
divide his discussion into political, social and	I
economic treatment; another might think	I
that some one or more of these headings	|
were not of sufficient importance and might	I
combine two into one, omit it entirely, or	I
perhaps substitute something else.	g
Some debaters form their outline before an extended reading into the subject, and mentally or in writing classify under these headings things as they read along. Others form their idea of what should constitute the main • headings after reading thoroughly the subject. Each method has its advantages; each is suitable, under different conditions, and each depends on the nature of the subject and the amount of general. knowledge one has of The subject before going S thoroughly into its study. ;	g
' The outline being obtained, and your g
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
method and course of treatment decided, then the task is to fill oneself with the question, always bearing your outline in mind and jotting down important facts as you read under the proper heading in your outline. And whenever one reads an affirmative argument one should constantly ask himself: “What negative argument must precede so as to cause this affirmative argument? What should I say if I had to refute this affirmative argument I am reading?” And vice-versa when reading a negative article. Thus you see one becomes thoroughly acquainted with every phase of the question.
Now comes the more finished product— the writing of the speech. And here a remark may be well in place. A few colleges hold that it is not true debating to write the speech out at all; that the proper thing to do in fulfilling the real aims of debating, is to so fill oneself with knowledge on the subject that one can in a measure extemporize (?) on the platform.
I fail to see any difference between thinking out a speech, writing it, and committing it to memory, and the other way of thinking and thinking about a subject until one has it mentally written on the brain. There is just as much of the staid, the set, the mechanical, in the brain process as in that of writing’'. Well, after all there is a difference I forgot to mention between the two ways and this lies in the fact that, other things being equal, the former process in speeches other than rebuttal perhaps, always wins.
It wins because the time spent in repeating many times in the mind-a certain argument and then perhaps not have it clearly concisely worded, is saved by writing and learning it the first time. It wins because the time saved by writing it affords us. further opportunities to clearly understand other parts of the subject-matter which, though perhaps not to be used in one’s speech, still makes one’s knowledge of the question finished; and the finished and complete knowledge is the kind To acquire oneself and the kind to fear in an opponent. The writing process wins because it produces a more concise, -symmetrical effort, and this is far better than to allow an idea to ramble .about in the brain and trust to inspiration to couch it in the most telling words when the time^arrives. It wins because by its conciseness in speech it saves the precious minutes, and they seem mighty few in one’s time allotment in an. inter-collegiate debate.
205
But the opponents of writing say: .“Think it out till you have it in the words you .wish.” But against this the answer is again that there' is no difference between this process and writing it out except in the former a waste of time and energy. The same brain does the work in both processes. One would think, to hear the reasons for extempore (?) speaking, that when one takes pen in hand to write out an argument that the desk-leg or the particular brand of pen-holder does the brain work. ' Here a part of the quotation from Bishop Spalding given above may again be well' in place: “The pen is to the mind what the plow is to the field. Plows do not sow -the seed, but without the culture they give it will not thrive and yield rich harvest, however fertile the soil.”
The opponent of writing says that his process gives more brain work. Admittedly so, and useless brain work it is, as we have proved. Besides, one (any one of us young students) must have extraordinarily ,tough gray-matter who thinks it hasn’t been sufficiently exercised after thoroughly reading, understandingrwriting out and learning that . which-is best for one’s purpose in a debatable question of any depth and length.	•
An old campaigner'may have the confidence to read a thing and then talk it extempore, and he may have the ability, though I doubt it, especially if the thing said is to be memorable and in perfect form, to deliver ' it well both in action and in English; but for us who are young at the game, and we wish to win, the extempore thing is nigh impossible.
Of course, as we said before, one may so fill himself with a subject that he could do fairly well extempore (?), but the man who has likewise filled himself and written it out will do just a little better, to the effect, other ■ . things being equal, that the latter will win, while the former may solace himself with the . . fact that after all he didn’t demean himself by the manual labor of the pen.
Isn’t the best what wins debates as well as everything else? They talk of spontaneity. Spontaneity and temporal inspired exuberance and eloquence are all right, but neither the . judges nor the audience are there to determine whether you are right or wrong on the fact . that these thoughts and words just came to you while you were gripping your chair to .... arise and say: “ Ladies and gentlemen;”, and that probably the best thing-you said all .evening was thought out while- you were L.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
206 planting your legs before the foot-lights; or that these things were thought out and written out—thrice written, perhaps—in the calm of one’s study where that can best be done, and then carefully learned, so as to give the judges your best thought in the best way. No; the things they consider are your earnestness, your sincerity, your compact, closely-knit, well-presented arguments, and they don’t care an hurrah so long as you give them these things, whether you wrote them out, or whether you were inspired there and then by their august presence to talk thus. Especially is this writing process true for success to us young fellows whose powers of thought and expression are in the embryo. Spontaneity is unquestionably desirable, but finish, earnestness and sincerity in delivery will furnish this as well as all other necessary elements.
The advocates of extempore (?) speaking say that it gives one ability to think on one’s feet.’ If a person knows that of which he is to talk when suddenly called on his feet in debate or anywhere else he can say it, and if he does not know what he wishes to say any amount of so-called extempore speaking won’t put the ideas in his brain. The mere act of getting on one’s feet a few times with ideas in one’s head and trust to inspiration to couch them well, won’t by arty means in another case where he has.no ideas produce the ideas as well as the words to dress them. The man who always writes out important speeches, ought, other things being equal, to make a better speech when suddenly called upon than the man who doesn’t write out his speeches for the former has trained himself to concise, meat}’- expression. Presence of mind and the ability to think in a pinch depend on the individual.	. .
‘ In rebuttal the case is perhaps different. Although even then in the run of the ordinary debate, one is nearly sure long before what will be said and should prepare himself accordingly. And in rebuttal, extempore (?) work may often be the best, but good extempore (?) work is not often high in flight nor long on the wing. Here let us draw a distinction between the two kinds of extempore work— first, pure; second, so-called extemporized speaking. The pure kind is that produced by an idea striking you for the. first time and you then and there put it in words;
the second, is that which you have thought out but perhaps never expressed before in
words. Both of these are very often useful	I
in rebuttal, for audience and judges in a	|
degree expect it. In rebuttal looseness of	I
speech, a certain incoherency, hesitancy, and	I
all the .rest, that in tyros at the game goes	g
with attemped extempore work, is overlooked	|
and in a way expected. But he is better-off	I
who can put extempore spontaneity into a	|
prepared effort even in rebuttal.	|
I suppose that sometimes among debaters I exceptionally clever pure extempore work has 1 occurred, but I have never known of a case. If you afterward get the man off in a corner who is credited with a neat,, telling piece of suddenly-sprung speech to meet a supposedly unexpected crisis in the debate, and if he tells the truth, he will inform you, I think, that this particular little repartee of his had been stored up his sleeve for some time, and the occasion only was needed to “spring” it. . That’s the case with pretty much all “hits”— an old idea newly sprung. It is the same in debating as in everything else: the man best prepared, other things being equal, is the man of the moment, and if he gets the name of a ready wit, why I suppose he is entitled to it for the hard and thorough work he has done to meet this sudden (?) emergency.
By this we don’t mean that a man should be an automaton or a phonograph. All we mean is that the average man isn’t inspired to do good things without preparation, and that thorough preparation is the royal road to the judges’ votes. '
It should be borne in mind that the smallest fact may be the determining influence for the	|
verdict. After one has informed himself	|
thoroughly of the subject, about the best way	|
to get, the finish is to converse-with others	I
interested, for in the heat incidental to	i
discussion one’s mind works best for it has	fl
an immediate incentive; and what one learns	B
in warm discussion sticks. Furthermore, one ' g should go through his written speech argu-	fi
ment by argument, statement by statement,. g perhaps even in places word by word, and ask g himself: “What more might be said on this point? What might my opponent say in reply to this point? What could I say in return to his objection? May this word or that phrase be misconstrued?” Thus you see when one has done this one has a complete mastery of his-speech and of what his speech may bring forth
It is well also to have a story or two appropriate'to. different situations that may
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
come up in a debate, and one story may serve to answer one or more of several purposes. Oftentimes if one especially wishes to “spring” the story he can force the situation . around to call it out, and thus again earn the title, of “ready wit” and clever extempore man. A good story well told at the right time often influences a decision.
Now comes the end of it all, for as Daniel O’Connell said: “A good speech is a good thing, but the verdict is the thing.” The end is to get what you think into the judges and make it stick. This is done by delivery. To get that all-important verdict one must not only have a good speech but must present it in the best way. Present it in such a way that a judge will believe that you believe what you are talking, that you are honest and sincere about it, and that if what you said were not accepted you would suffer, and they would suffer, and truth would suffer. That for love of truth and love of common welfare alone you would have others believe as you do.
This delivery comes by long and patient practice, but, like swimming, once learned it is. never forgotten. There are but a few standard gestures and the rest are modifications of these. The hard, the essential thing to do is, after you have learned the gestures, to get into them your own personality, to make them living things and not book types, and to acquire little peculiarities that are your own and no one else’s. When one has done this, be he ever so awkward and out-of-joint with established rules, nevertheless he is his natural self, toned a bit perhaps by artificialities, and this combination, backed by earnestness and sincerity, makes one forget awkwardness or established — rule breaking.
Stage presence is a mooted question. Many of the greatest orators were men of whom it might be said did not have what we call a commanding stage, presence. Stage appearance is not the all in all, and even Daniel Webster, who is quoted as a paragon-of commanding mien, I think .if to-day he stood up in Cooper Union as he did in Faneuil Hall one day about sixty .years ago, and with his supreme egotism demanded to know if the Whig party were to break up where was. he to go? I am afraid that in the present day his mien would be forgotten, and there would be several in a mixed audience who would tell him.
No; the age of Webster and his brilliant colleagues, is gone, and gone too is the old, heavy, sonorous style .of speech, To-day. one
must be brief, to the point, fresh and entertaining, or else the crowd will demand its money back. The orator of now must be of the people and with the people, with them in the' vehicle of a common language. And withal, if he desires to achieve his end he must feel their pulse, and like the good physician, know whether to use physic or " eggs on toast.
The all in all out in the real debates of life, after one has got all that’s possible out of college contests, is to be honest and sincere, and if you’re not honest and sincere keep still. Then others, if persuaded and convinced will believe in you because you were honest; and the rest, will at least believe you were honorable in your madness.
A Sunless Day.
GEORGE J. MacNAMARA, ’04.
The bustle outside grew from an uncertain murmur to the roar of a heaving sea as the crowd increased around the enclosure that I had walled up to exclude all but scientific researches. The eye of the whole world was focused on my experiment. Three years of hard work had at length brought favorable results.
Such another equinoctial season had never before been known. The people, almost frenzied by the severity of the storms had at length demanded a demonstration of my power to allay the storm and turn the night into day. This night certainly, was dark. Just such a night that L had prayed for, so dark, in fact, that it seemed to stifle the murmurs of the mob gathered about my laboratory. Occasionally the lightning ripped the heavy pall. When it did, it always streaked that knob-like cloud hanging over the city with the streaks of a crumbling, skull.
One, two, three, the old town-clock pealed forth the first few strokes of twelve as I fused the rocket that was to bring fame, and honor; light and quiet; that was to enclose the neighborhood in a tight phosphorescent shell.
I was drunk with the cheers of the people; I stood- as one transfixed while I launched into. space the first-born of my scientific endeavors. Before the clamor had reached its highest pitch that fiery - tailed monster exploded, and started long before it, had reached its proper height, to spread the foundation of that much-sought artificial day.
208	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I sprang to the fence full of strange forebodings, and' in that vast multitude of	After the Theatre.
men could distinguish but my friend. Little did he know when I dragged him to the steel cell with the solitary green window, little did he realize when I clanged the heavy doors behind us and started the air pumps throbbing, the pain, the devastation and the loss that premature explosion would work. I wanted the courage to tell him how insufficient the oxygen of that narrow sphere would prove toward satisfying the burning appetite of those glowing particles that were becoming brighter and brighter with each second.
It was not long before he needed no instructor. He saw the illumined city drive forth its citizens in blinded amazement; he saw them gasp, struggle, gasp again and fall in that overpowering vacuum. He saw the trees wither and the closed buildings leap apart. He saw our own cell gradually assume a spherical shape as the pressure inside forced the sides into the void that surrounded it. Then, and then only, did he realize the picture I had foreseen when I constructed the cage whose tension would resist this awful reality, the people dazzled by the brightness and killed by the lack of air.
Brighter and brighter glowed the particles, more hopelessly wrecked and ruined became the city, and the bodies of those unable to catch a breath became a mere green dissolved mass to us, the sole survivors of the neighborhood that had found an artificial day. .
Minutes and minutes, that seemed like eternities, passed before the particles glutted with the oxygen began to devour themselves. Soon darkness again conquered the land and rode triumphantly in on the atmosphere that broke into the desolate waste with an explosion. Half an hour had scarcely passed. When I opened the door the darkness was more oppressive than before. The lightning again lit up that cracked skull as it rode towards us on the wailing wind.
(Horace, Ode xxxviii. Book I.)
The Persian pomp offends me, boy,
And woven crowns are hateful to mine eye; Find thou the myrtle, sign of peace and joy,
Nor longer seek where hidden roses lie.. -
'The myrtle plain doth please me best, . ■ -Its simple beauty is an ornament . . -.To many a Roman knight who with his guest
Was wont to pass the day in merriment.
*	- -	"	‘	. -M. J. S,
WALTER M. DALY, ’04.
The play is over and the orchestra strikes up the strains of the last march. We put on our coats and join the crowd slowly moving down the aisles. The hall is brilliantly lighted and the music and the pleasant look we see on every face, fill us with that sensation of pleasure which makes us forget worldly cares, At the end of each aisle a boy standing upon a stool is shouting: “Song-books, songbooks! All the songs sung during the performance, words and music, only twenty-five cents.” The crowd pays little attention to him, but not the least discouraged he offers a copy to each one.
In the lobby the crowd divides, some go in one direction, some in another. People gather in groups to criticise the acting or offer comments upon the costumes and scenery. The dazzling lights glare in our eyes, and for a time we are unable to distinguish the objects around us, but slowly we recognize a great number of carriages, with prancing horses, chilled by standing so long in the frosty air. The driver tries. to quiet them as he eagerly listens for the call of his number.
Down the street crowds of people are passing back arid forth. Some in a hurry are rushing onward, jostling their way through the crowd. Others with more leisure stop to examine the shop windows, or wander slowly along, dodging those coming in the opposite direction.
The street is unusually quiet. The truck and* dray wagons with their enormous loads and incessant rattle have been put away and the little newsboy’s cry of “Huxtree— five-o’clock Noos or.Junal” is no longer heard. The rumble of an approaching elevated train is heard in the distance. It grows louder and rushes over our heads with a deafening roar, and as it disappears all is quiet.
The cabs have now driven away with their occupants. The lobby is deserted and the lights have been turned out. Back and forth pass those coming from other theatres, but. they grow fewer and fewer.’ We look at the clock in the. tower of a building; it is eleventhirty, so we fall into line with the stragglers and start for a restaurant to get our midnight lunch, ‘	,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
209
Varsity Verse.
A WRATHFUL PROTEST.
pi ID you ever meet a gringo—
One who spoke a heathen lingo Understood by no sane white man In this English-speaking land; And when you scored him roundly And with words had thrashed him soundly, For a dirty insult offered, Hear him say, “No understand?”
There’s no meaner viper breathin’
Than the leather-colored heathen * Who’ll insult you to your face, and Then with smile and manner bland, And a nerve that is alarming And an innocence most charming 'Look you coolly in the eye and Answer, “I no understand.”
Oh! the damnable derision That regards your indecision, While in vain you strive your wildly Raging anger to command.
And you wonder should you floor him, Or'just haughtily ignore him, And you wish old Nick would take him And his cool “No understand.”
Yes, you. hope that good old Satan Who is cheerfully awaitin’ The arrival of that sneak to take him Gladly by the hand, Will ignore his cries for water As the Are grows hot and hotter And to all his pleas for mercy Answer, “I no understand.”
H. E. B.
.	' PARENTAL SOLICITUDE.
Some city fellers earn their gruel;	’
I’se readin’ ’bout a college chap
Who worked his way clear through his school, A’playin’ pool and shootin’ crap.
Mirandy, pack our lad’s old gun, We’ll ship it soon to help our Josh ’
To earn his way and make some fun, A’shootin’ that thar crap, by gosh! > ,	, D. C. D.
AT A BACHELOR HOTEL.
Can’t leave room ’Count of gloom; Friends drop in, , Full of vim; • All are dry, High-balls fly;
Drink all night,
Most are tight; , Sleep on floor,	-
’Bout a score;	,
Next day head -	-
'	Just like lead; ’	*	■
. - ’ Bromo-Seltzer, and a bed.
.	.	• ’ E. H,
.	AM IT GONE?
'"TELL me, has I been asleepin’, Am Thanksgiben done an’ gone?
Ain’dere any tukey creepin’ In de cawn fiel’nigh de bawn?
Hab mos’ ebery thing been eaten? Am de bones all throwed erway?
San’-man better quit he’s cheatin’ Nigga’s ob Thanksgiben Day.
Tell me, chile, what do yb’ re'ckon? Am dis nigga drawin’ nigh
Ter de time de angels’ beckon Him ter ramble in de sky?
Neber knowed it yet to happen An’ I’s gettin’ ol’ an’ gray, Dat dey’s been a nigga nappin’, Roun’ de house on tukey day.
An’ when san’-man spreads his sleepin’ On de nex’ Thanksgiben Day, Ef I sleep instead ob eatin’ Let de norf win’ friz m’ way.
’	. G. J. M.
TWICE A DAY.
It isn’t a football game or a fight, Nor a mob broke loose from jail;
The same thing happens noon and night When the prefect reads the mail.
■	'	W. D.
'	LIMERICKS.
There once was a Board-of-Trade fighter ' Whose hold on the market grew tighter, Till he got all the wheat,—
• Most remarkable feat,—
But the wheat in the end it got Leiter.
L. M. F.
MEN OF LETTERS SERIES.
Said old Dean, his face rent with scowls, One would think that my children are owls, They were up all last night, My wife’s ready to fight, .
Because our young William Dean Howls.
L. J. C.
Said a mamma to Doctor Lequayle “Eating snow has made Edward so pale.” Doc had a new diet, Wished the youngster to try it, Asked if Edward Ever eat Hail. .
M. F.
Said Ike to his farm-hand one day, “Give Old John a bundle of hay,” But a thief in the night	’
On the horse he took flight, , So how could the man give John Hay?
-	•	W. M; D.
A cop found a man in the snow
Who said he had lost all his dough ..And'when asked by the cop	.
1 Why he took such a drop '
. “ No.party support ” he Saith Low. ' W.K.G.
2 10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana, December >, 1903.
Paolishcd every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame; Indiana.
Th.e Board of Editors..
PATRICK T. MacDONOUGH, 1903.
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, ’02 BYRON V. KANALEY, ’04 LOUIS J. CAREY, ’04 MAURICE F. GRIFFIN,’04 STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04 ROBERT E. PROCTOR, ’04 JOSEPH H. BURKE, ’04
ERNEST A. DAVIS, ’04 JAMES R. RECORD, ’05
G. A. FARABAUGH, ’04 THOMAS D. LYONS, ’04 GEO. J. MacNAMARA, ’04 WALTER M. DALY, ’04 THOMAS P. IRVING, ’04 G. T. STANFORD, ’04 L. M. FETHERSTON, ’04 MICHAEL J. SHEA, ’04. JOSEPH P. O’REILLY, ’06
of brilliant history to commend it to the good will of the Catholic public. At Notre Dame we are able to share the feelings of the Oblates and their students, not only because of the friendly relations that have always existed between the two institutions, but also because our Alma Mater experienced a similar disaster in 1879. “Disaster” is hardly the word, however, for although the prospects that stretched out before the priests and Brothers of Holy Cross when the work of almost forty years was swept away in a few hours was discouraging in the extreme, and ■although the labors and privations involved in rebuilding Notre Dame are appalling to look back upon, nevertheless from that visitation date's a new era of progress in the history of the college. So may it be with Ottawa! The spirit which created it will recreate it. It will find new friends in. its hour of trial. It will fulfil—more than fulfil—
—Monday we are promised the privilege of listening to the Hon. Bourke Cockran of -New York lecture on “Catholicism and Democracy.” Mr. Cockran, who was the . recipient of the Lmtare Medal two years ago, is one of America’s foremost publicists and orators. Indeed not a few authorities assert that he is without a peer in the domain of eloquence. With this precious gift he combines many estimable qualities. He is patriotic, endowed with a remarkable intellect, the possessor of broad sympathy and sterling character. A stanch, aggressive Catholic, he fearlessly advocates what his conscience approves and champions the oppressed of every class and race. By sheer ability he has overcome the many obstacles that in particular beset a man who must build his home in a foreign land, and proved himself a most useful, capable citizen. And pleasing to relate the success and international reputation he enjoys have not spoiled him in the least. While a loyal, unselfish American, he is proud - of his faith, his kindred and his native land.
Such is the man who will lecture for the first time at Notre Dame next Monday. We / bespeak a hearty welcome and an appreciative audience. ------------------------------------
—A wave of sympathy swept over Notre -Dame on Thursday morning, when it became known that the University of Ottawa had ’ been devastated by fire. The University was founded by the Oblate Fathers of Mary Immaculate in 1848, and has fifty-five. years.
the splendid promise it held before the catastrophe of Wednesday morning.
—The scientific world is amazed at the wonderful manifestations of radium. Many interesting statements concerning this remarkable substance have appeared since its discovery in 1899, but it remained for Sir William Ramsay to make, as a result of his experiment, the startling announcement that radium spontaneously decomposes into other elements, one of which- is helium. - The transmutation, however, does not realize the alchemist’s dream of turning baser metals into gold, for helium is of less atomic weight than radium.
Radium in its present state is a bromide or chloride resembling in appearance common salt. It is an exceedingly rare and costly commodity and possesses the unique power of giving out, for an indefinitely long period and without any noticeable diminution in weight, emanations similar to light -and heat. Last night we were shown by Professor Green the spinthariscope, an instrument by which certain activities. of a minute particle of radium could be observed. The quantity of the element present was scarcely visible to the naked eye, yet the phosphorescence it produced on a sulphate of zinc screen-was plainly visible from any point in the darkened room. Under the microscope the phenomenon was even more interesting. It looked like a million stars playing football bn a-patch of the heavens. :
j	moire Damp
i s
President’s Day.
The feast of St. Andrew, the patron saint of our college president, Very Reverend Dr. Morrissey, has been for years past very specially observed here. Because of its association the students annually take advantage of the day to express their appreciation of Notre Dame’s chief representative; and occurring November 30, sufficiently late in the scholastic year for all to have familiarized themselves with the college methods, it affords an observer a good opportunity to learn the relations that exist between Father Morrissey and, those under his charge. How cordial these relations are everyone who was present at last Monday’s exercises in Washington Hall can attest.	-	■ ’
The day’s programme opened with Solemn High Mass at which Father Morrissey was celebrant; Fathers French and Corbett, deacon and sub-deacon. Father Gallagher of Holy Cross Hall preached an appropriate sermon.
At noon the faculty, guests and students enjoyed an excellent dinner in the Brownson refectory. The spacious dining-hall was decorated very tastefully with national and college colors, and deftly arranged on the tables were choice flowers in abundance. The occasion was enhanced by the admirably-rendered musical selections of the University . Orchestra under the direction of Professor Petersen. -	.
Among the guests present were the following: The Right Rev. Peter J. Muldoon, D. D., auxiliary Bishop of Chicago; Reverend M. J. Dorney, LL. D., Rev. Hugh O’Gara McShane, LL. D., Chicago; Very Rev. Frank A. O’Brien, . LL. D., Kalamazoo, Mich ; Rev F. O’Gara, Wilmington, Ill.; Rev. L. Moench, Mishawaka; Rev. Father Herman, Ohio; Reverend Fathers Vagnier and Hagerty, St. Mary’s; Rev. Fathers French, Fitte, Connor, Cavanaugh, Regan, Ill, Kirsch, Ready, Gallagher, McNamee, Louth, O’Reilly, Maguire, Corbett, Hennessy, and Very Rev. Father Goupil, late President of Holy Cross College, Paris, France, Professor, J. F. Edwards, Paul, Powers, Green, Morris, Ewing, McHugh, Notre Dame; Prof. Dixon, Chicago; Mayor E. J. Fogarty, Hon. A. L. Brick; Rev. Fathers P. Johannes, John F. DeGroote, A. Zubowicz, H. F. Paanakker, M. Biro; Patrick O’Brien, George Wyman; C..A. Carlisle, G E. Clarke, Dr. J. B. Berteling,. Dr. D; M. Calvert, C. A, McDonald, South Bend.	. - - .	. .
SCHOLASTIC.	‘ - 211
The . formal reception tendered. , by the students in Father Morrissey’s honor took place in the afternoon when all repaired to . Washington Hall. The lay. professors and the members of the Senior and Junior collegiate classes appeared in cap and gown. . After a musical number by the orchestra Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, president of the Senior class, came forward and addressing Father Morrissey said:	.	’
The beginning of Notre Dame was necessarily small and at first her influence circumscribed to a limited field of action. But the beginning was rightly made, and-looking to the future, the foundations were made broad and deep. That this faith has been justified the many years that have since passed bear witness. They have brought progress, development, the widening in great degree of the influence of Notre Dame. This influence would not have come unless the institution founded by ' Father Sorin had always striven for what is best. For according to this standard is the work of a University measured,- and according to this. test is success or failure meted.	’	' "
Notre Dame has striven for what is best along many lines, in all those things that are included in the commonplace of a university. But more than that, she has had her ideal—an ideal formed in the beginning and zealously served since—and she has succeeded in attaining that ideal: to send her sons forth to life’s battle fit and anxious to act the part of educated men.' But one may say, “Any college does this.” Yes, but Notre Dame goes 'further. She prepares her students so that she may add to the title “educated men” that which perfects and crowns it—the simple word “ Christian.” .
Notre Dame is and should be proud of her record— her growth, influence, ideals, and best of all, she has • reason to be proud of that, for which the very foundations of the buildings were laid, that for which money ' and toil, yes, and often suffering were spent,—the sending out’ into the world men who are successful, aggressive, sturdy, righteous men. Notre Dame doesn’t merely teach her. students what is in books; above that she teaches them to be. strenuous for what is -right, to conquer, to make that .right prevail. And it must be a source of satisfaction to those who guide the ,	’
affairs .of the' University, those to' whom its interests are most dear, to know and- feel that their work has . had its good fruit, that the ideal they seek so constantly and faithfully, has year. by year been more perfectly attained. ‘	‘	.
To insure that her ideals may be carried out, Notre Dame places at the head of her affairs a President—	.
a man who is the guide, upon whom shall fall the responsibility,-the worry of a position of multifarious . duties. These duties involve matters of discipline, of,	.
business, of college legislation, of purely executive ; * affairs. The duties go even beyond this—they reach	-
into the personal domain of the student, what he is,.	.
what he. ought to be, what will best make hint what he ought to be.	'	..	.	.1
s To do all-these things requires the unceasing.atten-tion of the man who guides. Such a position demands J his best endeavors, it constitutes.a life-work for him. = Such efforts by -such men put into, opportunities 'of - . .the world, outside..would .perhaps bring, fame, reward, . <
SCHOLASTIC.	-I
There’ll be no fumbling in our lines,	i
We’ll play the best we can,
And if we lose' a chance to score, We’ll take it like a man.
.	*	I
_ - And when life’s sky looks sort o’ dark, And no sun’s shining thro’,	;
We’ll think of dear old Notre Dame, Where shines the Gold and Blue.
Accept our greetings and our pledge, In dear St. Andrew’s name,
From us who’re proud to be your boys, The boys of Notre Dame!	’
Next came the presentation of “Richelieu” 1 by the students of the elocution and oratory classes. Professor Dickson and his young pupils ’gave painstaking attention to the rehearsal and merit well for the successful reproduction of Bulwer’s great play.
' Mr. William M. Wimberg took the title ’ role. Mr. Wimberg’s past work on our local stage has given much promise, and the very -creditable manner in which he portrayed the rather highly-drawn character of the great French churchman and statesman was no surprise to those acquainted with Mr. Wim- . berg’s talent and his careful preparation. In his portrayal of the aging' prelate with his spasmodic relapses into his old strength of .will, Mr. Wimberg struck the right note. His facial expression, his nervous cough, and his petulant manner of walk and gesture showed a surprising, nearness to the requirements of ' the character. Altogether, this was a very creditable exhibition on Mr. Wimberg’s part.
Mr. Charles E. Rush was well fitted for the part of Joseph, the Capuchin, and gave a sensible interpretation. Mr. Joseph J. Meyers made- an excellent Huguet. His looks and manner suited the character and his. make-up | . was above criticism.	-	I
Mr. Francis P. Kasper acted the part of
Julie de - Mortemar. Mr. Kasper has had a number of lady’s ’roles to enact on the Washington Hall stage. While under many limitations of voice and figure, Mr. Kasper deserves credit for his efforts. He .will be remembered as prima donna in the comic opera of two years ago.
Mr. Bernard S.. Fahey, was the French officer, Adrian de -Mauprat. He looked and acted the-part. The treatment was carefully I given. Mr. George E. Gormley was chosen to represent, the King’s favorite, Baradas. Mr. Gormley used skill and excellent' taste in his acting of this rather difficult part.
. Mr. Clarence J. Kennedy was well adapted-to the role, of De Beringen, the courtier. His
2i2	NOTRE DAME
high offices, money; would bring in high degree the things that men seek in the world, the possession of which marks him who holds them a successful man. Here at Notre Dame the same efforts are put forth, the same struggles are undergone, the same best of one’s life is given; but the life-work is dedicated to a higher purpose. • Instead of aiming at the end of satisfying self, to. gain so to have for one’s own, the sole aim is to help others, to send young men forth fitly equipped to gain what is best in life in the right, the true way.	-
And to a man who dedicates his life to a work of this kind, who moreover is successful, who has achieved his ideal of the University’s mission, there can be nothing so pleasing, so appreciated, nothing that touches more tenderly the inmost feelings, nothing that makes such a.man feel so fully compensated for the sacrifice, the toil, the worry, the cares, perhaps days of gloom, as to know that what he has done is appreciated, that by what he has done he has reached the hearts of those for whom he has labored.
And, Father Morrissey, the only way we know to express to you on this St. Andrew’s Day what we deeply feel, is to say simply—for the language of the heart is simple—"May everything that is best be yours.” -
That Mr. Kanaley.’s delivery was fully in keeping with the composition and sentiment of the above address goes without saying. The able manner in which he interpreted the feelings of his fellow-students elicited general applause.
After Mr. Kanaley came the manly little spokesman of the Minims, Master Henry R. Symonds of St. Edward’s Hall, who very creditably spoke the following lines:
If we ourselves had chosen it, Or had a chance to say Just when it was our wish to have Our President’s great day, We could not find a better time Nor one we liked so well
.On which our President to greet And our love for him to tell.
Thanksgiving Day has just gone by, The feathers still are here;
And the football season, too, is gone, The best of all the year; ■
The Christmas joys are still ahead; .
But wedged right rn between, St. Andrew’s Day comes right along ' . ■ To liven up the scene.	.
' We offer greetings on your Feast, And wish you many more, Each bringing greater happiness -. Than that which went before.
;	. And on this day we pledge ourselves,
:	In great St. Andrew's name, .
To prove.forever loyal sons _ ■ To you and Notre Dame. . ;	.
- And in the game of life, we;ll .play	,
1	' Straight football, thro’ and thro’,’ /	' t
\	, And centre, guard or quarterback, '
. < Our best we’ll always do.	-
I
i	'	-
i	e	.
;	^OTkji DAME SCHOLASTIC.	M
past stage experience stood him in good stead in his interpretation of the unambitious but not over-foolish courtier. The above-named young men deserve much credit for. the enjoyment this play gave a large audience.
A melodramatic burlesque, entitled “Our First Performance,” followed the last act of “Richelieu.” This caused much merriment. . William D. Jamieson, Louis E. Wagner, Aloysius J. Dwan, Henry J. McGlew, C. E. Rush, and F. P. Kaspar figured prominently in this farce. Mr. Jamieson performed very creditably, and Mr. Dwan’s recitation scored heavily. Mr. Wagner, who has appeared with much credit in many Shaksperean studentproductions filled the amusing role given him.
At the close of the stage performance Father Morrissey expressed his appreciation of the day’s exercises which he regarded as a tribute to the entire faculty. He testified to the excellent work done by the students, particularly those of the graduating class which, in the estimation of the professors, is the best in the history of the. University. Captain Salmon and his men were commended for their achievements on the gridiron, their . gentlemanly conduct and their superior classwork. In referring to the memorable game with Northwestern he complimented ' Mr. Frank McKeever for the efficient manner in which he kept the students informed by wire, of the progress of the game. Concluding, he thanked the visitors, mentioning in particular Bishop Muldoon, Very Rev. Drs. O’Brien, Dorney and O’Gara McShane, and assured all present that it would be his constant endeavor to sustain and improve the well-won " reputation which Notre Dame enjoys in the college world.	_
Right Rev. Bishop Muldoon followed with a short address in which he congratulated Father Morrissey and the students, and alluded with evident pleasure to Notre Dame’s ever-widening influence for good. Chicago looked to Notre Dame for the best and noblest products of Catholic education and he felt sure Chicago would not be disappointed.	-
AFTERNOON PROGRAMME—PART 'ONE.	'
Medley Overture—“Say See-Ko”.....T. P. Laurendeau ■ Address from the University Students—Byron V. Kanaley
Address from the Minims—Master Henry R." Symonds .	Musical Numbers
’	'	(By the University Orchestra)
“Chevalier Breton ”..........M. Tobani
"Roman Emperor ”......................  G.	Kerker
Overture—“To the Siege of Paris”......W.T.Ripley
Two Step—"Anona Intermezzo”.........Vivian Gray “Marble Hall March”.................-.Jos; Gearen
- PART two.
Bulwer’s Great Play.
“RICHELIEU.”
(Arranged in four Acts) •	.
Persons Represented.
Cardinal Richelieu............William M. Wimberg
Joseph, a Capuchin, Confidant to Richelieu—C. E. Rush Huguet, a Spy in Richelieu’s Service—Joseph J. Meyers Julie de Mortemar, Ward to Richelieu—F. P. Kasper Adrian de Mauprat, Officer in French Army—B. S. Fahey Baradas, the King’s- Favorite.George E. Gormley De Beringen, a Courtier....-..Clarence J. Kennedy
PART THIRD. '
Our -First Performance.
(A melodramatic burlesque)
The different characters were represented by:—	•
William D. Jamieson,
Louis E. Wagner,	-
Aloysius J. Dwan, Henry J. McGlew, . Charles E. Rush, Francis P. Kasper.
Athletic Notes.
. Now that the season of moleskins and shin guards is at an end, the athletically inclined are turning their attention to that popular indoor sport, basket-ball. This sport has always been held in high favor at the University, and while of late years no’ attention has been paid to forming a regular representative team, still the intense rivalry manifested by the different Hall teams has more than made up for any loss in this respect. Thus far this season no steps have been taken toward organizing a regular team, so it seems the Hall teams will again hold full sway. From present knowledge, we feel that the contests this season are going to be the best in a long time. Both Corby and Brownson Halls have splendid material for their teams'j and at present seem to be about " evenly matched. Sorin also has ‘splendid , material, but with most of their men engaged in track work and other branches of athletics it will be rather difficult for them to organize. We hope they do, however, as it would make the contest for the championship the best in years. Now is the time for the managers to get together and arrange a schedule. Don’t keep putting it off until after the Christmas t ■ holidays; as then the interest will have died ?. out. Organize at once. There is no better way . of enlivening the long winter evenings for the students than by having a series of Inter-Hall basket-ball games.	.	.
iTOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC
214
The Scholastic regrets the fact that it is unable to furnish its readers with any detailed account of the Wabash-Notre Dame game at Crawfordsville on Thanksgiving Day. Reports were sent for, but up to the time of going to press they were not received. From all accounts, however, the game was a walkover for our champions, as the score, 35 to O, seems to indicate. The Varsity men simply toyed with the ambitious Wabashites, and scored at will. The Wabash men, on the strength of an early season victory over Indiana and a closely-contested game with Purdue, were possessed with inflated ideas of their strength (that is, earlier in the season), and were loudly clamoring for a chance at the Indiana champions. So the Thanksgiving Day game was arranged. What happened to them on that day dispelled any false ideas they. might have had concerning the State Championship. Next year perhaps they may be able to—but we’ll let it drop at that. To the credit of the Wabash team be it said that they put up a game fight throughout. One sad feature of the contest was the accident which happened to our star end, Shaughnessy. "Shag” had his collar bone broken near the close of the .game. The genial end met with, a similar accident early last season which'kept him. out .the most of the season. We hope to see him around soon with that good right arm of his in perfect condition.
• * * .
In a few days Coach Holland will begin the preliminary work for the track men, and we trust a goodly squad will answer his call for candidates. No later than two years ago, Notre Dame possessed a track team that won high honors, East and West; but since that time, to our shame be it said, we have fallen away below the standard. Last year the Faculty authorized the managment to secure the services of as capable a coach as could be found, and lent all their assistance toward building up a good team. But through apathy on the part of the students it seemed as if we were again doomed to failure. Nothing daunted, however, by the existing, state of affairs,. Coach ? Holland pluckily set to work and . with a squad of seven men built up a • team which captured second place at the State Meet. This came as a pleasant surprise to .Notre Dame’s supporters, as they had been vainly endeavoring to figure out how. our lads had a. chance to score more : than five or six points. But they did, and. were only
* *
The Brownson Hall tendered a smoker last by Manager Kenefick.
beaten out of first place because of the overwhelming number of candidates pitted against them. This year we have a high standard set for us by our gallant football heroes, and if we fail to maintain it we have but ourselves to blame. There is plenty of ‘material here, and with such a capable man as Coach Holland to guide them, there is no reason why we should fail. So, let’s work together. Those who can not do anything in this line, get out and encourage the others, and with harmony prevailing and everybody exerting his best efforts, Notre Dame will once more resume her proud position in track and field. -
*
football team was Wednesday evening After speeches by
Gray, Medley and Brogan, and the reading of a football poem by Joyce, the evening was given up to dancing, singing and merrymaking. Mr. Scales entertained the members with songs, music and witticisms, for which they wish to express their thanks. This clever musician also displayed elocutionary powers of a high order, and won several rounds of applause by his faithful rendition of Granecke’s masterpiece. Needless to say a very enjoyable evening was passed. ’ *
*
While congratulations are being extended from all sides to the gentlemen of the Varsity at the close of their very successful year, we must not forget also to congratulate the young men of St. Edward’s Hall upon their creditable showing. The season just closed has been for them the most successful in the history of the hall. This is saying a great deal when we consider that our young brethren have always kept athletics up to a high standard. This season through the co-operation of Father Hennessy, the youngsters not only equalled the best records- of their predecessors, but even surpassed them, and in so doing covered themselves with . glory. Desire to emulate the deeds of their gridiron idols, Salmon, McGlew and “Happy” Lonergan, was so strong’ with the youngsters that early in the season it was found necessary to organize seven teams in order to give all the enthusiastic ones an opportunity to don moleskins. Of these seven teams the Specials were the leaders. This team was composed of the cream of the Hall, and made a record for themselves of which any Hall team might feel proud.	.
. It. is their proud boast that despite the hard schedule: played their goal line was not crossed. Seven games .were played during the season, four with Carroll Hall teams and three with,teams from the. neighboring cities, victory parching on.the banner of the Specials in every instance. .<■ Their greatest feat was
l^GTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the victory over the ex-Minims. The contest was a stubborn one, and though the Specials were outweighed and had experienced youngsters pitted against them, their team-work and clever all-around playing more than made up for this handicap and they finally won out. The young men composing this eleven were: -H. Cornell, Capt. and Left-half; W. Gasman, R. E.; T. Roberts, R. T.; T. McFadden, R. G.; E. Frossard, C.; J. Halloran, L. G.; J. Yrissari, L. T.; L. Robinson, L. E.; H. Symonds, Q. B.; E. Connolly, R. H.; J. Brennan, F. B. ’
The remaining six elevens were paired off according to age and ability and N. D. U. pins offered to .the successful teams. This resulted in several hard contests. The two teams in the first division were the Yales and Princetons, the former captained by Roberts and the latter by Connolly. A series of games was decided on, the .winners to receive N. D. U. pins and M. S. monograms. These two teams were so evenly matched that it required seven games to decide the winner, two of them resulting in a tie. The last and deciding game was the hardest fought and most exciting that has ever been played by a Minim team. Captain Connolly’s team, the Princetons, won out. The following players deserve special mention:. Brennan, Halloran, Frossard, J. Yrissari, McFadden and Gasman. The two teams of the second division were the “Tigers,” Captain Kelly, and the “Leopards” Captain Upman. These elevens were more evenly matched than the first division team, and put up several exciting contests. Ten games were . necessary to decide the winners in this case, the-Tigers finally winning the N. D. U. pins. Kelly, Weist, O’Connor, Upman and Roe deserve special praise for
their work during the series. The Owls and recently of the Reverend William H. Sidley,
the Eagles composed the third division. The Owls were led by Captain Parker and the Eagles by Captain Shannon. After several hard games the Eagles won the pins.
The Scholastic congratulates the young men of St. Edward’s Hall and hopes that in future years they may be able to fill the. shoes of their-idols of the present day. ■ ■
The majority of the Western critics have selected Captain Salmon for the position of full-back on the All-Western Eleven, an honor which he certainly merits. Some few, and they are only a few, raise the objection .that as we are not members of the “Big Nine,” it would hardly be proper to give Salmon the honor, acknowledging, at the. same time that he . stands head and shoulders above any other man in that position. That such an objection should be raised in view of the fact that the selections are for what they term, an AllWestern Eleven, seems to me to be absurd. But then, football critics have their own opinions about such matters. J
All hail! our gridiron heroes, Brave lads from N. D. U., O’er all their stalwart rivals
They’ve waved the Gold and Blue. -
Varsity Puzzle.
S almon
S T einer
Lonerg A n McDermo T t . Ny E re '
M C Glew' .	•
S H eehan
Sh A ughnessy
M. clnemy
• P at. Beacom
Cull I nan
Furl O ng	.
Do N ovan
S ilver '
J. P. O’R.
Personals.
—One of last week’s welcome guests was Rev. A. G. Herman, Doylestown, Ohio. Father Herman was a student here from ’94 to ’97.
—Friends of Laurence H. Luken, Pharmacy ’02, will be pleased to know that he has recently passed the Indiana State Board of Pharmacy examination. In a class of fifty-six which took the examination only nine were successful. Mr. Luken stood high among .the nine, a fact which helps to show the efficient work done in the Pharmacy department at Notre Dame.	,
—“It is pleasant to read,” says the Sacred Heart Review of. Boston, “that on the death
pastor of St. Raphael’s Church, Springfield, Ohio, the Protestant Ministerial Association passed a set of resolutions which said that the deceased cheerfully co-operated in all work which he believed to be for the good of the city; he was earnest in his support of the cause of- temperance and of charity, and by his spirit as a.true Christian gentleman he endeared himself to all who knew him.” Father Sidley was an alumnus of Notre Dame.
—Visitors’ registry for the. week:—Jennie Z. Cormier, Westboro, Mass.; Mr. and Mrs. Walter Hensley, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. C. Flook, and Jean C. Adams, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Irny,' and Mrs. Harriet Davenport, Paw Paw, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Dillon, South Bend; Ray W. Stowell, Kalamazoo; Henry P. Rothwell, Buffalo,'Wyoming; Harry N. Roberts, Wilmington, Ill.; Mr. Thomas Cox, Denver, Col.; Mrs. M. Dukette, Mendon, Mich.; Mrs. G. W. Burkitt, Houston, Texas; Marian E. McNulty, Hortense Purcell and Angelica McNulty, Memphis,-Tenn.; Miss Foley, Chicago; Miss Ht Lally, Michigan City.
216
NOTRE DAME SCHOLAni N
Cards of Sympathy.
A special meeting of the law students was called Thursday evening to give expression to the feelings of sorrow and sympathy aroused by the sad tidings of the death on Tuesday, the 1st inst., of Mrs. Arthur L. Hubbard, wife of Professor Hubbard, and the following preamble and resolutions were adopted:	.
Whereas, It has pleased the Almighty God to call from the sphere of earthly cares and duties the devoted wife of our beloved Professor, Mr. Arthur L. Hubbard; therefore, be it
Resolved, That we, the law students- of Notre Dame, conscious of his irreparable loss, tender to him in. his great bereavement the assurance of our profound sorrow and condolence;
• Resolved, That a copy hereof be furnished to our college paper, the Scholastic, for publication.
F.	J. Lonergan
G.	L. Nyere
J. J. O’Connor
J. J. Meyers
E. H. Schwab.—Committee.
The gentlemen named above were delegated by the law classes to attend the funeral which took place yesterday in South Bend. The death of Mrs. Hubbard, a young woman of excellent qualities of head and heart, has evoked deep sympathy at Notre Dame where her accomplished husband is held in high esteem.	•
' * * *
Whereas. God in His infinite goodness and mercy has called to his reward the sister of our hall-mate, Mr. Charles Kane of Corby Hall, be it
Resolved, That on behalf of the students we tender Mr. Charles Kane our heartfelt sympathy, and also that a copy of these resolutions be printed in the Scholastic.
C. J. Cullinan •	•
H. J. Geoghegan
A. F. Funk
F. J. Lonergan •f	o
' - J. R. Record.—Committee.
Local' Items.
—Examinations are due Dec. 17 and 18. Prepare for them at once.
—The next number of the Scholastic will be the Christmas double number which will appear December 19.
—Owing to some delay the rink on Brownson campus has not been completed, sb many of the students have cleared. away
the recent snow and have made a good | skating rink on St. Mary’s Lake.	I
—A Knights of Columbus initiation takes I place at Niles, Mich., Dec. 13. Among the : prospective Knights are some prominent Notre Dame students who are looking forward to the event with considerable anxiety.
—The great demand for ice during the past season has led the Notre-Dame ice company to make an addition to the present large ice-house near St. Joseph’s Lake. The extension will be completed in time for the ice-harvesting season.
—The annual oratorical contest will be held next Wednesday afternoon in Washington Hall. The following are the candidates : B. V. Kanaley, G. A. Farabaugh, M. F. Griffin, G. E. Gormley, Robert E. Proctor, William Wimberg and George J. MacNamara.
—When the senior Latin class entered their class-room last Monday they found that some one had faced the bust of Homer toward the wall. According to the professor it was merely a practical illustration of the line from Horace: “Quandoque dormitat Homerus.”
—The senior class attended their first show of the season in South Bend Saturday evening. The play, a two-act, musical comedy entitled “Nancy Brown,” with Marie Cahill in the title role, was well deserving of the patronage extended. The only marring feature of the evening’s entertainment was the failure of the electric light. As a consequence the seniors had to make their way to the street by the . light of a few flickering candles and sputtering gas jets. '	.
—The last of the series of the preliminary trials for the Varsity debating team was held Wednesday night. From the preliminaries the following men were chosen to compete in the semi-finals: Farabaugh, Griffin, Proctor, Daly, Kanaley, Welch, Lyons, Record and Gardiner. The first of the semi-finals will be held Monday, December 14. Six men will compete the first night and the three who lose will debate the remaining three ' the following night. The finals will be held about Feb. 1.
—Brother Cyprian tendered the stage hands a banquet at the Oliver House last Thursday. The “men behind the guns,” who assisted greatly in making the preformances on President’s day so successful, enjoyed themselves to the limit, as attested by the vote of thanks they gave Brother Cyprian for his generosity. After the- banquet they took in the sights of the city under the chaperonage ' of President Hunky, whose keen, observing eye caught everything of interest at a glance. During the course, of the afternoon Ezra Kendall called on President Hunky, and the two* spent several pleasant hours eating peanuts and cracking jokes.