/ ■ , -	' - * * " - - ’
'pn      . ....•-■-■■■■-<--->a
Botpe ■ameMcnolastic
- UX. •£*:. •	. : - . .
DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER- VICTURUS-VIVE • QUASI- CRAS- MOR1TVRVS
Vqt.' LIL/' ' ' NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 8, 1919.	.	. iNp./ig. \ 7
The Road.	The League, of Nations.
THOMAS FRANCIS HEALY, ’19.	BY THOMAS' H. BEACOM, ’20.
gEYQND the town, there is a hill And over the hill a road,	'
A long, white road a-windihg still, *
. Its dust old winds have blowed.
♦ - - ' .
It goes straight to. the end of the earth
True toward the setting sun;
And by it the nightingale sings with mirth
After the day is done. .	.	‘
And there are crooked lanes and ways
Where quaint homesteads lie;
And where with length of Summer days
The berries bend and die.
And there’s a tavern now and then
Among the sleeping trees,	-
For him .who loves to rest again .	"
From passing by the leas.	.	,
And there are hayricks in each field
And scent of mignonette;	■ <
And then, I know, in every weald
The dew hangs heavy yet.
And I will walk that road again,
Though many miles it be;	.	;
And run-before' the wind and rain
Down to a sapphire sea.-'	.
' - 1 . ' - • ■
For having trod the road enow
I’ll hunger all the more . ,
.For the lip-lap of the wavelets low
Upon a lonely shore. •	■
.And pouring dreams upon‘the lee,
Over, the waters clear, ;	.
Their song shall seem‘more kind to me
And ali. the stars;.more. dear.
Growing out of the united action taken by the great world powers in the recent conflict with Germany, there has developed a new union, which President .Wilson tells us is “irresistible?’’ It is a humane and practical* thing, he declares, which will guarantee the peace of the world by. binding in a .“union, of will” the great powers of the world who 'are disposed to preserve peace and to prevent the spoliation and exploitation of helpless races. Fourteen nations -have subscribed to the principles of the league already, and provisions are made for the admission of such other self-governing peoples as may later desire to "affiliate themselves with the nations now standing together. Foremost-in getting the plan adopted were the .United ' States, and the four allied powers, France, England, Italy, and Japan.	.
The covenant adopted by the league con- -sists of twenty-six articles, broad, comprehen-. sive, elastic, and capable of . easy" adjustment • to future conditions. Ah >- executive. council . is provided, and equipped with extensive^ powers to enable it to act as the administrative-agent bf all-the united nations. It is also spec- : -ified that the first meeting of . the associated _ governments shall be called by, the President ’ * bf the United States. Thereafter the council shall ? meet at" least once a year . at whatever । place may be designated." .The representatives . of the various nations are to be not more than thiee for each and the three; are to have, only one vote in the proceedings. They are to en-joy-diplomatic privileges, that is,'to enjoy am- ' ^bassadorial immunity and extra-territorial ' ■ benefits and privileges. Upon agreement of two-thirds bf the nations represented in the body bf delegates, a nation not signatory to the ~ . original , pact may be admitted to the league, .

3©8	Noure Same ©chdascic
provided its people are self-governing. Furthermore, effective guarantees must be given by all the states in the matter of international obligations and in the matter of conformity to the league’s plan of disarmament. The executive council is to be vested with authority to require compliance with the constitution of the world, and inasmuch as it is to be made up of the delegates from nine powers domin-
• ating the greater part of the world, it should ’ . have no difficulty in enforcing its rulings. ’ A permanent secretariat will be established under the direction of a secretary-general, who is to appoint the other members. From this outline it can easily be seen how the league proposes to function.
Just what are the ends to be gained by acceptance of these means? According to accounts that have reached us from Paris, the league is a repository for woild peace and an effectual guarantee that no nation shall,' in the future, . jeopardize the welfare of . any smaller country.
It provides that secret treaties must ’go the way of all things evil, and that hereafter public account must be kept by agents of the league to'show exactly the status of each' member in regard to production of munitions.'. In any disagreement between the nations the dispute is to be submitted to the executive council, or x to a board bf arbitration appointed in the league, and no action is to be taken until at least three months after a decision is given by the council or board. Even thenif one of the disputants accepts the award of the arbitrators or the recommendation of the council, the other member will not be allowed to make war. It is always incumbent upon the nations in the league to submit any matter incapable of settlement by diplomacy to the award of ah arbitration board, 'and it devolves upon the executive council , to fix the action to be taken against any recal-, 'citrant member, 'once a decision is given. Plans .
are also to be made by the executive council looking to the establishment of a court of world justice to “hear and determine any matter which the disputing parties recognize as suitable for submission to arbitration.” It is specified, too, that no nation can disregard others in the league, ’ but must always make public any discussion, difficulty, or disagreement, and have its case . > settled by the other powers. Failure to do this means concerted action on the part of all others against the dissenting people, and an organized effort to sever the trade, financial, and
personal relations of the belligerent nations with all other lands in the world.
To point out at this stage of the movement just what the faults of the league may be is a task wholly beyond the ordinary man. The consensus of opinion seems , to be that Russia offers the biggest problem. Is she to be admitted while Bolshevism reigns? If not, what steps are to be taken by the league of nations in establishing peace within her borders? Ger-.many, it is generally believed, will ultimately be admitted to the union. She is still a powerful force to be reckoned with, and if she is willing to sign the covenant without reservation, she would, be enabled to begin rehabilitation of her resources and the payment of her overwhelming debt to the world. Japan, in her pretests against racial discriminations, promised for a time to hold up the plans unless she gained her point, but suddenly relinquished her claims and allowed the constitution to stand as adopted, without her proposed amendment. It is not known just what motive prompted the Mikado’s -empire to withdraw its plea for race acknowledgment, but there is grave concern among some people in America lest' the judicial machinery to be established by the’ new league should remove the barriers we have set up against the yellow race, and thus ultimately gain for the Japanese what they now are* denied.
One point in the new league that needs clarifying before it will receive universal acclaim in this country is the matter of our rights under the Monroe Doctrine., Apparently we are agreeing to contribute armies and warships to settle disputes in European countries and at the same time acknowledging the rights of foreign powers to interfere in our hemisphere. There seems to be, on the surface, an indication that the United States is losing certain very important and valuable privileges guaranteed by the provisions of the doctrine which Monroe advocated. However, we must remember that our recent -entiance into the affairs of Europe has established a precedent which might be used to justify some future foreign aggression, and it would always act as a boomerang if we tried to assert it as a sacred heritage of right. It is possible that the Senate, before ratifying the plan, will insist that America be-given the tutelage of the Western hemisphere, to the exclusion of the European and Asiatic faces, while the Eastern hemisphere shall in turn be considered inviolate by th,e United States. '
-	-	-	f	-	.
\ - - ■ - - * - -
I -	- -	‘ ■	. -	,	’
Noure Same Scholastic
Before we endorse the league of nations we shall certainly want an answer to the two questions, Is the Monroe Doctrine abrogated by the new treaty? And if so, have we greater security in the new arrangement than we should have if we still insisted upon maintaining our position as unquestioned mistress ’ of the American continent?	•
Pitiless Publicity.	* *
» , ' •
‘	{A quarrel.) '
“Alec’s a cuckoo when it comes to writing, hey Zipper?”	-	'
- “I am, am I? Where do you get that stuff, guy? What did I did to you? Think I’m gonna
’ waste my time on you bush-leaguers?”
“Bush-leaguers1 How do you get that way? They yanked you out of the Buffalo brush. Now you’re running around with an old coon in your face, pretending you’re intelligent.”
/‘Aw, can that, guy; can that!”	.
“It’s true; you know it!”
“Naw, it ain’t true. Why, man, I. put you on the sporting map at Notre Dame.” .
“Yes, you did! Swell chance a guy from the Podunk Weekly Wz’ZZoo/ has to put anybody on the map. ”	-
“Willowl What do you think I was—a small town reporter? Why, guy, before I came here I rattled off stuff’for ‘Kinky’ Sonnets. I was press ■ agent for the Bohemian Life in, New ... York City, and I was city-editor .for a year oh . . the Daily Ptzetnyabski in- Buffalo.”	.
“What’s that got to do with the fact that-you’re a poor excuse for a cub here?” -.
“Hann—h?”	. •	■	. ■
“You write sports about as plain as a
Saturday night‘souse’ talks:” .	.
“Yeh? Well, I get by with it, don’t I? I know you’re game. You want a lot of cheap publicity.”	'	„
“ Like Kelly I do,—not in your stuff anyway. ”
“You’d take it though if you got it: You want somebody to write you up. about, being another Bachman as athletic director for some school,”
. ‘ “Well it wbuldn’.t do any:harm to get a little ’ stuff like that once in a while.
“Then if you want publicity, why don’t you dig down in your jeans for a few bucks and pay for it?”
“Say, Alec, what kind of cigars .do. you . smoke?”	.	,	. \	.
“Aw, I ain’t particular.”—c. a. g. '
3°9
Varsity Verse.
To Belgium,—August 2, 1914. When you stood in Gethsemane, Alone before the foe,	.	.
You woke the sleeping nations .with	,
.Your sacred, flaming, “Nol” •
Frank Masterson.
The Watch on Ryan. .
Young Patrick Ryan (you know Pat— — The boy who married. Kate)
Has not been seen for many moons.
. This story tells his fate.
A year ago, Pat was a youth,	.
So bright, and young and tall.
But now he’s bent and dark and gray, A watch has caused it all.
Pat used to own this watch himself,	.
’Till one dark night last May,
A culprit stole it while he slept, And has it ’till this day.	z „
Yet, Pat knows who the culprit is, Which makes the case seem queer.
The outlaw passes him each day Without a sign of fear.	. . .
Pat slinks-around the town as if Some sleuth were on his trail.
You’d think he’d just done twenty years, In some dark, filthy jail.	•	-
He’s always in at ten at night, ■
' And creeps up to his bed..	..
While all his pals of single life, . Are mourning him as dead.	'
Sometimes I wonder how poor Kate :
I- Can live with such a thing,	•
• (You know, she was the friv’lous Jdnd, . Before Pat bought the ring).	.
But really, she’s the cause of-all, For she controls Pat’s fate.
For. listen, here’s the inside dope—	.	,
The' watch is kept by Kate. '
*	PAUL GESSLER. ’
•	Parting.	'	• ;
To Bast went he,, to West went' I; ’ - ..
I saw his face nd more:.	1. / .
A stepping through , the leaves, a sigh—/..// / And, ghostly night crept o’er! .	.
'	LEO R. ward' . .
3io	Noure
Did You Ever?
Did you ever, long for riches, For wealth in gems untold, For mountains - made of- niches - . -
. Inlaid with precious gold? „	. .	•
Did you ever pray for pleasure ‘	'
To fill your nights and days " • ’ With an overflowing measure
Of delights with no delays?; ■
Did you ever sigh in sorrow For friends you could’ not make, ' And deplore that each to-morrow ‘ Might find them at your wake?'
- Did you ever wish for glory, For freedom nobly won, ' ' Or for grandeur told in story
■ That’s gained by sword or gun?* -
Did you ever quit your sighing For worldly, goods not given, To discover at your dying
They are only found in heaven?
.	'	’	THOMAS J. HANIFIN, ’19.
---:-----’
The Obsolete Gentleman.
‘ BY PAUL SCOFIELD, ’20.
An urgent call from a branch office some -five hundred miles away demanded my immediate presence, and as it was an unusually fair day I chose the Aero Passenger Service in preference to the murky Tube'System. Alighting from the crowded lift, which had shot me up thirty ,stories to the sky,. I thankfully inhaled the sedative breeze stirring about the landing stage. In the aerial bus which scon appeared and parked at the landing, I.was fortunate in securing a seat at some distance from the noisy engines and I composed myself for a few hours of slumber, knowing that the high altitudes would woo me as Morpheus never could.
Scarcely had we left the landing stage when the man on my right leaned towards me and asked somewhat timorously: “Do you know anything about ancient history, or, specifically speaking, anything concerning- the habits and customs of our progenitors?”	/
. This strange inquiry made me consider my companion more closely,. and/ observing the . peculiar shape of his skull, I promptly recognized him as. one of the Thinkers, a race now practically extinct. As I had for a limited period held . the chair of ancient history in one of our leading
colleges, I felt safe in assuring the scholarly looking man that I was not entirely apathetic oh the subject of our archaic forefathers. This seemed to please the little man and his eyes beamed a compliment.
“ Ah! then pferhaps you'know what a Gentleman is?” he queried.
But I had never heard the word before, -and, hoping to learn something on this subject, I frankly admitted my ignorance.
“ What a shame!” Commented my companion, with a mournful shake of his head. “ It is- a wonderful theme, and I have been very fortunate in discovering it. I have always had an interestin ancient manuscripts and derive not a little pleasure from the peculiar literary productions of the ancients. Several years ago I unearthed a rather dilapidated thesaurus and found therein the word ‘gentleman,’ with reference, to one Chesterfield. This was the beginning. of my search, which was consummated a few days ago in the archives of the Bostonians. There I found the volume of Chesterfield referred to, a remarkable document indeed, though highly incredible. It seems that the ‘gentleman’ of ,the ancients was a peculiar male type who placed the comforts of others before his own personal cares. You can readily see how improbable, even impossible, that would be* in our age where one is almost forced to carry a club for protection. This ‘gentleman’ too would indulge in sucli delightfully idiotic practices as tipping his hat to. a woman or giving her his seat on the obsolete street-car. From this 1 am inclined . to infer that it must. have been the ‘ gentleman’ who placed women in the. position they occupy today, where instead of tipping our hats to them we must hurry away in self-defense. There is no question now of our yielding a seat to them; they simply iemove us forcibly.”
‘ ‘ The description of a meal, as said ‘gentleman ’ was wont to eat it, was very amusing. Instead of eating with his fingers and reaching for whatever he wanted this anserous individual would employ antique implements, known as the knife and fork, and would wait.until food was passed to him. Fortunately for him he does not exist today; he would starve to death, I know.
“The customs also observed by the ‘gentleman’ in calling upon a woman were ludicrous. Imagine you or me making a call! Why, we wouldn’t get away alive. Yet this fellow would endanger his life by visiting the igneous creatures and treat them not only with respect but with
Moure ©dmeSchdaguic
courtesy as well.. It is no wonder that we how .have a race of- superwomen who run the world. Whenever I. walk the streets alone I shudder in terror least some woman cross my path, and either decide to rob me or make me her husband and her slave for life. I have almost decided to write a treatise on the absurdity of Chesterfield’s ‘gentleman’ and. expose the author, and his deceit. Would you advise me to do so?” , I assured him .that in view of the utter absurdity of such a fiction, even if it was only a matter of ancient history, I thought it would be. a Thinker’s bounden duty to expose such a fraud.
“I have thought as much myself,” continued the Thinker. “In fact, I have here with me a small, excellently bound volume on the subject. I will sacrifice -this remarkable—”	,
. .“Ye Gods! taken in by a bookseller,” I exclaimed to myself. I glanced first at the pest before me. and then over the side of the bus. Far below was the glistening rumpled water of the sea. With the Thinker’s noxious words grating on my ears, I rose from my seat, clambered over the side, and -cast my hapless self' ■ into space. As I hurtled downward a clamorous ringing broke rudely upon my . ears, and subconsciously I recognized it as the familiar clatter of my alarm clock, voicing its daily reveille.
---------- - •
. The Peace Conference. .
The game w.e were playing is. over,
The joys of it all put away.	’
The time, so it seems, of monarchial dreams
Is merged in the poor man’s day:	•
The heads of the five great powers
Sit in the court of Versailles Plotting the fall of empires all
By the power of poor men’s flails.-	. "
. Oh, this is the day. we have waited ’
. A thousand years, to see, ■	.	.	,
When the wrongs age-old of the class of gold
Be given to equity. ’	‘	,
’ But why are the forces of right so slow?.
_ Men starve from the Ural. Slope ...............
• To far Archangel’s ice-?ribbed range, . '
• ’ Only alive in hope. :. . i. •
- . 1 • . ' -* ! 1 ‘ , /•- • -They dibble and dabble of plan and place " And rights and wrongs galore;	-	’
But we starve while they with their courtly play • Waste time that can be no more. . :Can they not see in the-far off wastes .
* .The shadowy forming grave?	.. .
' We shall have died ere the plan be tried. . ?	.
Oh, save while there is to'save. a. l. m.
311
■ The German Naval Surrender.
' .	• - (Last ■ words-.) . .	;	•
We are squelched. But it has taken prac-. tically two-thousand words to destroy the thesis . the statement of which admittedly. “required three and a half lines” only. However, we shall be fair with our critic and acknowledge that -very few of those, two thousand words were devoted to criticism of the hypothesis. Most of them were given over to eulogizing the British fleet—which is a'“more American ” practice than praising an enemy, holds the Anglophile.' Seemingly the merits of the two objects have no relation to the distribution of encomiums: just praise your associate-in-arms (not ally, Mr. Critic) and damn your enemy, regardless?
The critic accuses the author of setting a “ trap to form the basis of another argument, ” when, ' as a matter of fact, the present argument was’ ' forced on the author, much to his distaste. The critic remarks, “It is obviously of no use to . engage in a formal debate, and put forward points for-argument, and to receive in reply-a-tumid collection of multisyllabic, impetuous assertions. ” But he forgets there was no debate. “ The perfectly innocent original article was sub-jectedtp.au attack which revealed a misunderstanding .which the author tried to dear up. in a. second article, only to be again attacked.in a way which recalled a quotation from Burton’s Anatomy oj .Melancholy,-wiitten as long ago as 1652: “Out of an itching humor which every man hath' to show himself,—desirous .of fame and honor, he will write ho matter what, and scrape it together it boots not whence. ”—g. d. hauler. -	’
..	.	.. Thoughts. .
’	. BY SENIORS.	.
A switch in time saves nine. >
Time must either creep or fly. .	.
Suspicion vis the seed of enmity. .
. ' A soldier of fortune is a poor hero. • True love seeks no reward but love. An open enemy is less 'hated than'a sneak. The graduate is the testimonial to his colleger If boys could but know and'old men .could but do. \	I"	.
The distillers-remind one of an bld maid who has lost her last hope. " \	'
3i2	Noure dame Scholastic
He who is different from yourself has peculiarities.	. .	.
Now that the war is over let us have less soldiering.
' The British seem to have fallen in love with the German fleet.
It looks as if the Dove of Peace cannot find whereon to rest its feet.
I	.	.
Democracy is the happy medium between Bolshevism and Kaiserism.	•
A prophet is usually unpopular because he foretells unpleasant things.	?
There is a void in every heart which sympathy will make more endurable.
We wonder if the Bolsheviki after eating our bread will demand cake. '
What is all this talk about freeing the Irish? . “Sure” they run the world now.	.
“Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown,” but crowns have become scarce.
What a deal of inhumanity in recent years might be labelled “made in Germany.”
Many forget that their thoughts are not of less consequence than their conduct. '
The Russians seem to be sick of both war and - peace. They just want to be Bolsheviki.
Ireland may be a small island but her griev7 ance is more grievous than that of the empires.
We seldom realize the. heinousness of our faults till we see the same faults in others.
The romanticist sooner' or later discovers that the/rain lasts longer than the rainbow.
We wonder if the’ Kaiser’s plea will be non compos mentis when he is finally arraigned in court.	.
v Just as a chain is no stronger than its weakest link, so a nation is no safer than its weakest sister.	:
When prohibition goes into effect “The Old Oaken Bucket” should become our favorite drinking song..	.
Whatever be the ultimate fate of the German fleet, the sons of the Rhine will never agaih ' polish its guns.	' ,	:
Saint Patrick drove the snakes into the sea, but it remained for the Allies to subdue the submarine serpent.	'	?
To expect standing armies, forts, and battleships to maintain peace* is as absurd as to expect the vulture to foster the dove. .	.
Distinguish sharply between courage and rashness.
Don’t attempt to explain what you do not understand. •
That joy is most precious which is purchased with tears.	.
True friendship must be based upon frankness, not flattery.
The laughter of innocence is almost as sacred as its tears.
In writing, your manner of imitation at least should be original..
Far-sightedness often seems imbecility to the narrow-minded.
■ Although peace has come, many a married man is still at strife.	'
Health is like money, in that we'value it most when we have it not. ,
Life is like a novel, but we can not look ahead to see how it will end.	.
Art is a safety valve which allows us to express our idiosyncrasies.	.
The difference between a civilized man and a savage is self-restraint.	,
The easiest thing in the world is to give advice, the hardest to take it. ’
The use of slang' indicates a lack both of self-respect and of respect for ^others.*
Some would, have the soul go “fifty-fifty” with the body in its sleep of the grave.
Humor is a gift properly employed and duly appreciated only ;by persons of refinement.
The freedom of which our country boasts is badly misinterpreted by some as freedom with-. out restraint. .	’	.
If you think the little things in life don’t count,. consult the fellow that gets sixty-nine in an examination. ’
Though the army was the closer, it was the navy that took them over and the navy that must bring them back.	.
Though the primary purpose .of language is to communicate thought, one would not /guess so much from the common, practice. -
The value of your education lies not in the amount of knowledge you have accumulated, but in the amount you can impart.
It was well that the proof-reader changed, ‘ ‘ He embarked upon his last journey along the River of Doubt” to “... . . up the River of Mystery.”
Nocre StameSchddscic
313
|otpej)an)d^
DISCE-QUAS1-SEMPER- VICTURUS-V1VE- QUASI- CPAS- MQRITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published	every Saturday during the School Term UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	at the
VOL. LII.	MARCH 8. 1919	NO. 19.
Board of Editors
Thomas F. Healy, ’19.
George D. Haller, ’19
James McDonald, ’19
Robert B. O’Hara, ’20
Thomas J. Hanifin, ’19
T. Francis Butler,’19
William C. Havey, ’20
Leo Richard Ward, ’22
Charles A. Grimes,’20
Cornelius Palmer, ’20
James -W. Hogan, ’21
Thomas H. Eeacom, ’20
Thomas J. Tobin, ’20
Paul Scofield, ’20
It is no matter of wonder now that all Frenchmen rallied in the early days of the war to their country’s cause. It could not be otherwise, if France was to survive, and the France and Her Frenchman’s love for La Belle Soldier-Priests. France wrought miracles of devotion. It was a departure surely that a- state should call upon her clergy-'men to serve, not as chaplains, but as soldiers. To that call twenty-five" thousand French priests answered. Not only France, but America, Alaska, and every land in which French missionaries were engaged in teaching and evangelizing, sent their quota of soldier-priests. Not a few found it hard to understand how the; exiled French priests could at the call of the godless government which had so ruthlessly expatriated . them hurry back and into the death trenches as common soldiers. Thousands of them.died upon the field of battle; more than two hundred fell at Verdun alone; and some four thousand have
been cited for bravery. What will be the reward of such unprecedented and whole-hearted devo-
e	Church who journeyed across the continent to be pres-
tion? Will it disarm criticism of the Church and ent, it was an- event of great significance. It brought
her ministers for all time, or.will pre-war prejudice' now be as rampant as ever? Though the conduct'and service of French-Catholics failed throughout the last century to establish their true, position and secure their rights, the fact that these men have stood by their country and fought and died as nobly and as gladly as any of her sons should surely be effective. It is a consummate refutation of all that has been so slanderously said against them; it is a thoroughgoing vindication of all that they have ever
claimed for themselves. All grant that the French priest has fought as a true Frenchman, and what-more heeds be urged in proof of his loyalty and valor? In return he ought to receive now every right of a Frenchman, he ought to enjoy the fruits of that deliverance from oppression for which he has fought. Otherwise France will have proved herself most unworthy of the triumph she has achieved and most despicably, damnably, disloyal to her patriot priests, many of whom she in her hour of peril called back from exile to help save her from annihilation.—L. r. w.
_ ---------------------------
Presentation of Laetare Medal. -
- From the Los Angeles Examiner for Friday, February 21st, we quote the following account of the Conferring of the Laetare Medal on Mr. Joseph Scott—under the headings, “Notre Dame. -Pays Honor to Angeleno—Famous Catholic University Awards Laetare Medal to Joseph Scott at Exercises in Shrine Hall — Distinguished Gathering of Clergy and Laity at Ceremony.”
Before thousands of his fellow citizens last night in Shrine Auditorium Joseph Scott, advocate, citizen and churchman, was decorated with the -Laetare Medal, the annual distinction conferred by . the University of Notre Dame upon one person in the United States for distinguished service to the Church or State.
The whole event constituted a remarkable tribute to Mr. Scott’s personality—an extraordinary testimonial of the high regard in which he is held in the community. It was a magnificent legion of Mr. Scott’s friends and admirers—three thousand strong— who united with the desire to attest their admiration the wish to show publicly by this gathering their resentment of the violent attacks that have been made against Mr. Scott and his associates by the Los Angeles Times, which, it is understood, even tried to prevent the issuance of a passport to Mr. Scott when he went to the battlefront some months'ago, representing the Knights of Columbus.
To the vast audience which greeted the guest of honor and the distinguished members, of the Catholic
the greatest honor of the Indiana educational institu- ' tion to a citizen of Los Angeles—the second time it has . come to the West,-the first time being when, the medal was conferred upon General William S. Rosecrans, .the hero of the army of the Cumberland, a resident of the city.	.
Bishop John J. Cantwell presided at the ceremony and the very P.ey. John Cavanaugh, president of the University of Notre Dame, a noted orator, churchman, and educator, delivered the speech of presentation. and ’ the honored Los Angeles lawyer in reponse reached a lofty, plane of oratory. '	.
■ W. J: Ford was the first'speaker and he introduced
Moure Same Scholastic?
314-
the chairman of the evening, Bishop Cantwell, who paid a glowing tribute to “Joe” Scott, saying all had gathered to extend their hearts to the distinguished citizen about to be so signally honored. He declared Mr. Scott never had forgotten his people, nor the blood from which he came, but above all he was an American and always for his own country first. The head of the Catholic church in Southern California spoke only a few. minutes, and then presented James A. Flaherty, of Philadelphia, Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus, who thrilled his auditors with a stirring address. He told of the work of the Knights, of the work of Joseph Scott and of the great debt both the Church and the citizens owed to the man who was to be honored.
Bishop Cantwell next presented the Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, who was greeted by a standing audience. Bishop Cantwell had referred in his speech of introduction to the “Wise Men of the East, ” but the speaker declared amid laughter that he had discovered the “Wise Men of the East” were those who had come West.
Then with Bishop Cantwell standing at his side he clasped the medal upon Mr. Scott’s breast. The great audience rose in cheers as the wrell-known lawyer stepped to the front of the platform adorned with the medal, silent, as if in deep thought, for a moment.
Then Mr. Scott turned and paid his own tribute to the womanhood of the' land, speaking in terms of great affection for his wife, as he said the day marked their greatest sorrow and possibly on this occasion her greatest happiness. The day marked the anniversary of the death of their son, Joseph Scott, Jr. Time after time as he spoke he was interrupted by cheers in what was probably his greatest speech.
Several musical selections were rendered by Charles Wakefield.Cadman, noted composer, and Joseph Conlin, the well known tenor, which were received with, great enthusiasm by the audience. Among others on the platform were Judge Paul McCormick, Father E. P. Murphy, of Portland, Ore., Father Joseph P. McQuade, of San Francisco, and Mayor Frederick T. Woodman,
The folder program for the occasion presented on the front a perfect picture of Mr. Scott, bn the first page inside a large dear cut of the medal, and on the second page the'following numbers for the evening:	’ : .
1.	Selections by Orchestra	'	- - -
2.	Vocal Solo—“The Young Warrior”—Burleigh
, Joseph. Conlin, tenor (Pupil of Maestro Lombardi, Florence' Italy);
Charles Wakefield Cadman at the piano.
3.	Introduction of Chairman by ,W. J. Ford, Grand - Knight, Los Angeles Council No. 621, Knights
'"i-	of Columbus. :	.. •	•
4.	'Address by Chairman, Rt. Rev. John J. Cantwell,'. • v ■ Bishop of Monterey and Los Angeles. 5. Address by James A. Flaherty, Supreme Knight,
• .	■ - Knights of. Columbus.	'
6.' - Presentation of Medal by Rev.- John Cavanaugh,-
The back of the program furnished these paragraphs on the .history and purpose of the Laetare Medal:	..	. -
The University of Notre Dame, Indiana, thirty-two" years-ago, resolved to select annually from among the Catholic laity some distinguished man or woman on whom it would confer what has since become famous as the Laetare Medal.
The title of this distinction was derived from Laetare Sunday, being the mid-Sunday of Lent in each year,, which is the date upon which the University makes its announcement of the person designated for the lionor. The official organ of the University says: “It is the purpose of Notre Dame in.conferring the Laetare Medal to recognize signally the Catholic laymen and laywomen whose labors have raised them above their fellows and reflected credit upon the name of Catholic.”
Among those who have received this distinction and who are more familiar to the general public of the United States may be mentioned: John Gilmary Shea, historian; Daniel Dougherty, orator; General William Rosecrans; Anna T. Sadlier, author; Dr. Thomas A. Emmett; John Creighton, philanthropist; W. Bourke Cockran; Dr. John B. Murphy; Charles J. Bonaparte, former attorney general; Katherine E. Conway, author; Edward Douglas White, Chief Justice Supreme Court of the United States; Dr. James J. Walsh, scientist' and author; and Admiral W. S. Benson, ranking officer of the United States Navy.
The reasons assigned for conferring the degree on Mr. Scott, among others, are: “Because he has done more than any other single Catholic to exorcise bigotry from the public mind; because he has looked into the face of adversity, dauntless, and meeting- it upon its own ground, entered the lists with the love of God and Church as his heart’s shield and'emerged the victor; because he is a soldiersof country and a lover of humanity; and finally because he is, in the broadest and best sense of.the word; a man.” '	.
The Committee on Arrangements was com- ' posed of: Thomas P. White, Chairman, Dis- , trict Deputy, Knights of Columbus; Charles Lenz, State ‘ Secretary, Knights of Columbus;	■
John F. Powers,' representing Alumni ‘ of* : Notre Dame University;. John P. Burke, Past '	'
Grand Knight, Knights of Columbus; Paul =
-J. McCormick; Past State Deputy, ‘Knights of" Columbus; ;W. J. Ford, Grand Knight, Los Angeles Council No.’ 621,-Knights of Columbus.-
.Obituary.	;
The> sympathy oftthe faculty, and students .	(
of the Universityds; extended to Charles Hirsch- .	'	)
buhl, of Badin Hall, inthe loss of his .mother;
- G. S. C.; President Notre- Dame University.	'
Reply;-Honorable Joseph Scott, Laetare Medalist .	■	■ ‘ , ,	. , -	r
-	: A mass was celebrated,in Badm Hall for the
7-
8.
who died at her hbme in Portland, Oregon;
Vocal Solo—“ The Star-Spangled Banner ’ ’— , _:: .. Joseph Conlin, tenor. . y . A Charles’ Wakefield :Cadman at the; piano. ?
repose of her.- soul,at. which the students of Badin received • Holy Communion. ...
^e. Norre ^ame Scholastic
X
.	.	Local News. .
—Brother Alphonsus reported, the first robin and bluebirds. on the last day of February.
—With the opening of the Lenten season many students have brought out their house slippers and dusted off their books." This intellectual revival along with the spiritual observance forebodes a poor “dinky” list.	‘
—Father - Cornelius Hagerty and Brother Aidan, officers in the Notre Dame branch of the Friends of Irish Freedom, spoke on Monday evening before the Mishawaka Council of the Knights of Columbus on Ireland’s right to selfdetermination. ,	•
—The Knights of Columbus have completed arrangements for a benefit dansant to be given at the Oliver Hotel in the afternoon of March 17th. The proceeds will go towards the K. of C. building fund, and it is expected that the fund will receive material expansion from the occasion.
—Students wishing .to submit manuscripts for the fourth annual volume of the College Anthology of Poetry and for the second collection of the Best College Short Stories are requested to send their work not later than May 1st, 1919, to- Henry T. Schnittkind, Ph. D., in care of the Stratford Company, 32 Oliver Street, Boston, Massachusetts.
—“The Widow’s Might,” featuring Julian Eltinge, was the attraction of Wednesday night in Washington.Hall. Although it was palpably a made-to-order medium for the display of Eltinge’s charms as a female impersonator and embodied numerous far-fetched situations, it at least had the saving grace of originality and humor. The criticism so generously awarded most of the screen productions presented to the students was noticeably forgotten in the general enjoyment of this picture.
—Joseph “Chief” Meyers, a former ball player with the Chicago Americans and the premier slugger of the Varsity in 1916 and 1917, has been appointed assistant director in athletics, to develop our interhall, freshman, and “prep ” material. Chief returned to Notre Dame from the Navy, and he should prove a very valuable man in teaching the tyros the fine points of the national pastime. At the Municipal Pier, in Chicago, he was in charge of the baseball and football teams, < and established for himself an enviable record as manager.
.315
—Delmar Edmondson, well known about the campus as the president of the class of;1918, associate editor of the Scholastic, and editorin-chief of last year’s Dome, has returned to Notre Dame to take up law. “Del’- has spent the last few months as a .scribe on the staff of the New York Evening Post, in which position he has acquired a great deal of valuable journalistic experience, but at the same time an antipathy for the rigors of the profession. He contemplates entering Harvard next year, after. . completing this semester and the summer session at Notre Dame.
—The premier appearance of the 1919 Glee Club at the First Presbyterian Church in South Bend last Sunday was highly successful. Two songs by the club, “The Viking” and “LandSighting,” merited appreciation that augurs _ well for the coming season. An ambitious concert tour has been planned which will, no doubt, in addition to "Other purposes afford Notre Dame some good advertising in the larger cities of the East. Joe McGinnis, the president of the organization, rendered a baritone solo, “Pal o’. . Mine,” which elicited from his auditors an . enthusiastic encore.	'
—The ’ “Friends of Irish Freedom” will hold a meeting Tuesday evening at 7:30 in Washington Hall. The Notre Dame orchestra will be there and the famous “Jazz Band.” There are? also on the program some Irish jigs, for which an out-of-town entertainer has been secured. Orator Thomas. J. Tobin will give a report of the recent Irish Convention in Philadelphia, which he attended as ' delegate from the Notre Dame Branch. There will be some 'other speeches, and several song solos. . This will, be the last meeting, which the whole University is invited to attend. Hereafter, all gatherings will be held in private council chambers, to which only regular - members will be admitted.
.—Alpha Alpha Delta, the newly organized agricultural club, held its first annual banquet Monday night, March 3rd, at the Oliver Hotel. Sixty plates, were set for the members and their guests, and printed menus served to guide the banqueters along the convivial highway. Mr. ‘ Edward DeCourcey acted as toastmaster, calling for speeches from Father Joseph Burke, Father Irving,-Father O’Hara, Brother Leo, Richard P. Devine, Professor Johns, .and' Mr. Wishardt, local representative for. the International Har
316	Moure Same Scholastic
vester Company. Joe McGinnis entertained the assembly with several original parodies, and the University Concert Trio furnished the music.
—In justice to Brother Cyprian .and his stage force we wish to explain that the criticism of the scene - shifting in the account of Mr. Rockne’s vaudeville was made without full ku owledge of the facts. We are informed that two of the best stage hands were taking part in the play and so were unable to aid in the stage work.
—At the first regular meeting of the Cub Club, composed of freshman journalists, held in the Library Wednesday, February 26, Harry Mehre, of Corby Hall, was made president; A. Clare Morgan, of Badin Hall, vice-president; George G. Kerver, oh Walsh Hall, secretary and treasurer. Mr. Morgan null speak at the next meeting on “Some of Our Great Men Who Have Been Journalists.”
—A fine address on “Ignace Paderewski” ’ was delivered before the Warsaw Club of South Bend on February 28th bj7 Casimir Witucki, student of the University. The speech was woven about the heroic services of the great musician in the interest of Polish freedom, and dealt at length with tire subject of the new nation which Paderewski is building in Poland. Mr. Witucki, who has for some time been acting as treasurer of the Warsaw Club, was recently re-elected president of the Polish Literary Society at Notre Dame.
•	—Professor Farrell, of the history department,
is conducting in his freshman and sophomore classes, some interesting psychological tests required by the United States government. The .experiments were originally devised to give some idea of the aptitude, capabilities, quickness, concentration, and alertness of the ■ college men that were being trained in the
S. A. T. C., but the armistice was signed and the students’ corps demobilized before the tests could be given. The War Department then decided to carry out the original intention-as a matter of record and information, and so . arranged for the conduct of the experiment with the various universities of, the \ country.
.... —An event of more than passing local interest was noted in the columns of. the Los-.Angeles
; Examiner under date of March1st. At a ban; quet given by the. Chamber of Commerce of that city Notre Dame’s distinguished president, ' Father Cavanaugh, shared the honors of oratory
with Myron T. Herrick, ex-governor of Ohio and former Ambassador to France. The spirit of patriotism which has animated Americans during the war was pictured as the soul of -reconstruction that must guide our activities now that peace has come. Father Cavanaugh spoke on “The War and Its Aftermath,” prefacing his . remarks with ' expressions of admiration for the beauties of California/which promptly won the interest of the Los Angeles men listening to him. 'He dwelt at some length on the great necessity for a thorough Americanization of the foreign elements, which the United States has allowed to exist in our country almost wholly independent of the ideals of Americanism. He declared that, there must be no temporizing with the . Bolshevik and anarchistic elements, and that in this new era of reconstruction which opens before this country a paramount duty is the teaching of a thorough Americanism to all people who come to accept its protection and the establishment of a morale that is:founded upon equal and exact .justice to all people, with the Golden Rule as the constant precept.—T. H. Beacom.
Personals.
Thomas Moore, former student of Walsh Hall, will resume his studies at the University as soon as he can secure a release from the Aviation Service in France. ,	.
Lieutenant “Jim” Dooley, who was an officer of the New England Club and fullback on last jrear’s Freshman football team, has sent word that he expects to answer the roll-call next September.
Charlie Bachman, now football coach at Northwestern University/ watched ’ the Gold-and-Blue men in the recent I. A.. C. handicap meet at Chicago in which the Notre Dame team took second honors.
—A card from William C. Henry (LL- B., ’15) gives the information'that he is now in Brussels, “a.beautiful city but about the .wildest on earth.” Speaking of .wild places, “Bill” can hardly have forgotten South Bend.
—Charles. W. Call, Ph. B. in Journalism, T 8,' our. former associate editor and crack, .half-miler on the varsity track team, is now stationed at,Pelham Bay with a number of Notre Dame men, who are commanded by two Notre Dame
Noure Same Scholastic	.	317
officers, Ensigns Andrews and Philbin. In the same company are Richard Leslie, Edward Madigan, Francis McGrain, John Lemmer, Alfred Slaggert, and others.
—Lieutenant “Jack” Young (B. S. in Biol, 1917), who was a member of the Notre Dame Rifle team, has returned from France and according to reports is waiting for the “-Wedding Bells” to ring. “Jack” visited the University recently.
—James Gordon Wallace, Ph. B. in Commerce ’18, has accepted a good position with the Lydon and Hanford Advertising Agency in Rochester, New York. Before taking up his duties, Mr. Wallace was attached as a second lieutenant, to a machine gun battalion at Camp Hancock.
—Leo Berner, Ph. B. in Journalism, ’17, has returned to the activities of the Fourth Estate in South Bend and was recently appointed sporting editor of the South Bend Tribune. Before leaving for Camp Taylor last summer, Mr. Berner was the state editor of that paper.
Morris Starret, a student in journalism before our entrance in the war, stopped at the University last week for a short visit. The two submarine attacks which he witnessed have added an element of interesting adventure to his naval experiences. Starret was a .hurdler while in college and promises to be with us again before the year is over.
—Clarence Wilhelmi, of Joliet, Illinois, a student of agriculture. her e in ’17 and ’18, has recently been, appointed - head of the swine department for the cijy of Cleveland Farms at. Warrensville, Ohio, at. a salary of fifteen hundred dollars. -The farm comprises twenty-two-hundred acres and is considered to be one of the banner farms of Ohio.	-
—Charles N. Girsch, ’88-J97, better known to old timers as “Red Head,” accompanied by his son Joseph, was a welcome visitor at Notre Dame last Sunday. Charlie holds the position of Secretary' and Auditor of the South Shore Country Club, Chicago. After spending a day in the old haunts of his dad, Joseph seemed to think St. Edward’s Hall about the best place in the world for a boy, and he promises to be down again about Easter.
—The photograph of 'Thom as Glynn graces the first page of a,recent issue of the Terre Haute Tribune. - “Tommy” was a Brownson halier for several years and is now with the Army
of Occupation beyond the Rhine. “He was in the thickest of the fighting in the Argonne Forest,” runs the newspaper account, “and was hiding in a shell hole when a German shell burst within a few feet of him. His companion was instantly killed. Glynn was hurled twenty feet and stunned, but writes that in an hour he was ‘as good as new.’”
—A few years ago John I. Mullen (C. E-, 1901), an old Notre Dame football captain and now “the world’s keenest expert in uranium, vanadium, carnolite and radium,” was sent, by the president of the Standard Chemical Company of Pittsburg to develop the carnolite-radium fields in’ the desert land of western Colorado. The difficulties encountered and the remarkable feats accomplished in performing his duty would furnish material worthy of the pen of Bret Harte- The radium industry of the West is today a fitting -tribute to his physical endurance, mental efficiency and inventive genius. Imbued with the spirit of Notre Dame to do and to dare, he has carried the ball across the goal line of success. -
- Athletic Notes
Basketball Games. .	■
The DePauw basketball team showed slight ' regard for Notre Dame Thursday evening at Greencastle when it. scored a 4i-to-2o victory over the Gold-and-Blue squad. The game was just a question of more or fewer points_for the • opponents as our players never got within six points of the state champions. Notre Dame kept in the scoring, however, on the long, shots of Captain Bahan, who put five long-range deliveries through the draperies. The Gold and Blue seemed unable to. break up the com- ' bination which the Tigers ’ formed and which worked so successfully in DePauw’s victory . • over Notre Dame early last month. The line-up -
and summary:	- ' ‘ ■ - •' •, •		
DePauw (41)		Notre Dame’ (20) ;	
Carlisle »	Forward	. Brandy	-.. •
Cannon •	Forward	Bader	
Miller - r	Center	’ “Bahan
Billingsley •	Guard : j ‘ 'Pearson
Smith '	Guard	Stine ’
. Field goals—Cannon, 6; Carlisle,.4; Billingsley,4; - . . Miller, 2;- Bafian, 5; Brandy, 2;. Bader, 2; Stine, 1.
Free throws—Billingsley, ..8; Curtis. . Substitutions— ' . > Curtis for Miller, Moffett for" Billingsley,-Gipson-for . Cannon, Simison for Carlisle,., Ward for . Brandy, Vohs for Bader, Smith for Pearson. Referee—Craigie."	- .
3iS
Now dame Scholastic
Notre Dame was swamped again, 45 to 15, the next day by the fast team of Wabash". The whole contest was one-sided, the first half ending 32 to 12. The "Little Giants” were in trim condition and had it all their way. The injuries which the Gold and Blue players had sustained in previous games and the playing on a small wooden court spelled a disastrous
defeat. Brandy did most
Notre Dame.
Wabash (45). Grimes Speilcer Nabor Hunt , Burns
The line-up
Forward Forward
Center Guard Guard
of the scoring for and summary: ■*-
Notre Dame (15) Pearson ’ Brandy
Bahan Smith
Stine
Substitutions—Beck for Hunt, Burnell for Grimes, Kerr for Spencer, Bartlett for Nabor. Field goals— Nabor, 5; Hunt, 5; Burns, 5; Brandy, 4; Spencer, Grimes, Smith. Foul goals—Grimes, 9 out of 10; Brandy, 3,. Burnell, 2. Referee2—Benny Evans (Indianapolis).
*..
Coach Dorais’ crippled basketball combination ended its disastrous trip downstate, Monday evening in losing to Indiana, of the Western Conference, in a listless game, 29 to 11. The Hoosiers took an early lead, scoring three free throws, and in a few minutes Captain Phillips had made the first ringer. In the first half Dean scored two baskets from the field and five points on foul throws. Pearson and Brandy made a-basket for Notre Dame and Brandy counted twice on free throws. The first ‘half ‘ ended with Indiana leading, 15 to 6.
Indiana made a number of ’points in the ten minutes of play in the’second half before Brandy succeeded in caging one from the floor. The Gold and Blue made only one basket in this half, and Brandy counted two points on fouls. The line-up and summary:	'	-
. Indiana (29)		Notre Dame (ii)
Zeller	. Forward ■	-	Brandy
Jeffries	'	-. Forward	'	Bader
Dean .	Center -	• ‘ Pearson
Phillips	Guard	. Bahan
Byrum ...	Guard .	» Stine
Field goals—Phillips, . 2; Dean, 4;		Zeller, 4; Byrum,
Pearson, Bahan,	Brandy.; . Foul	goals—Dean, 7;
Brandy, 5; Substitutions.—Smith for Bader, Buckner
for Jeffries. .Referee—Maloney = (Notre Dame).
.	. Notre’ ;Dame-Michigan Meet.
Coach Rockne’s inexperienced trackmen succumbed before the mighty combination of. MichiganUniversityin a dual meet at Ann Arbor last Saturday afternoon.. Johnson, the. star in
the annual event, scored four first places for a total of 20 points out of the 63 which the Michiganders collected, leaving 23 for Notre Dame.
Notre Dame met a strong opponent in Michigan, a team which looms up as undisputed champion in the track season of the "Big-Ten” organization. Notre Dame succeeded in taking one first place when Gilfillan threw .’the shot for a distance of 40 feet and one half inch. -In -the htfrdles Gilfillan did not exert himself, fearing that he might hurt his injured knee on the wooden floor. Johnson won first place in both hurdles, with Gilfillan a close second and Gerald Hoar third. "
When the Gold and Blue short-dash runners failed to land a place, Michigan took the lead and held it until the meet was over. Mulligan led the race in the 50-yard dash but was nosed out in .the finish. Veteran Sedgwick won the one-mile race, in good time. Walter Sweeney took second place. In the 880-yard dash Mich-
■ igan scored, eight points, taking-a first and . a second. Meredith finished third. In the 440-yard dash the victors had their way, neither Colgan nor Barry placing; the only point that Notre Dame scored here was a third by Scallan.
Cross, and Westbrook divided honors in the pole vault, while Captain Rademacher was forced to take one point. Johnson defeated • both Douglas and Hoar. in the high jump, clearing the horizontal bar at 5 feet 10 inches. After having a good lead in the relay race, Notre Dame was nosed out in the finish '
This afternoon the track team will endeavor to redeem itself when it meets the Badgers of Wisconsin University at Madison. Notre Dame defeated-Wisconsin in a dual meet in 1917 and hopes to repeat it today.	'
Information-For Discharged Soldiers and Sailors.	1
The following points of information supplied by Captain Murray will be of interest to students who have been discharged' from the army or navy: -	. .	’•
Discharged officers, who were , not given discharge -. certificates at the time of discharge may apply for.certi-
ficates to the Adjutant General of Washington, D. C.
, Upon discharge or separation' from active service • officers will prepare the following certificate and mail it.to the Bureau of War Risk Insurance, Treasury Department,-Washington, D. C.: "I certify thaVall pre-riiiums due and payable to date for any,war risk insur-
I
'Sfie Norre dame Scholastic '
. »
ance gran ted. me have been duly paid, either directly to the'Bureau of War Risk Insurance dr by deduction made by me on my pay-vouchers during, the period of my militarj7 service.” Sign with full name, and give your rank and home address.	’	’
Present law auhorizes a discharged officer or soldier to wear his uniform from the place of his discharge to his home, within three months of the date of his discharge from'.the service. Thereafter the officer or soldier may wear his uniform only upon occasions of ceremony. By a recent act of Congress discharged soldiers are permitted to keep their uniforin and wear that particular uniform, provided some distinctive mark or insignia determined by the War Department be worn with it. A discharged soldier is not permitted to wear uniforms made by civilian or other tailors, but only the particular uniform which they have been permitted to retain.
In order that Section 1406 of the Revenue Act of 1918, approved February 24, 1919, may be put into immediate effect, discharged soldiers are informed as follows:
‘‘That all persons serving in the military or naval forces of the United States during the present War who have since April 6, 1917, resigned or been discharged . under honorable conditions (or in the case of Reservists, been placed on inactive duty), or. who' at any . time hereafter (but not later than the termination of current enlistment or term of service in the case of the enlisted personnel or within one year after the termination of the present War in the case of officers, may resign or be discharged under honorable conditions (of in the case of Reservists, be placed on inactive duty) shall be paid, in addition to all other amounts due them in pursuance of law, $60.00 each.
This amount shall not be paid: (1) To any person who, though appointed or inducted into the military or naval forces on or prior to November nth, 1918, had not reported for duty at his station on or prior to such date; (2) To any person who has already received one month’s pay under the provisions of Section 9 of the Act entitled ‘‘Ah act to authorize the president-to increase temporarily the military - establishment of the United States” approved May iSth, 1917; (3) To any person who is entitled to retired pay; (4) To the heirs or legal representatives of any person entitled ' to any payment under this section who has died or may die before receiving such payment. ' ? In case of any person who subsequent to separation from.the serivce as above specified has-been appointed or inducted into the military or naval forces of the United States and has been or,is again separated from the service as above specified only one payment of $60.00 shall-be. made.	,
The amount herein provided for shall be paid by such disbursing officers as may be designated by the Secretary of' the Navy or the Secretary of War.
. All. persons separated from active military service
319
from April 6, 1917 to date of receipt of these instruc-Lions who are entitled to the $60.00 bonus in reference, and who have received their Cnal pay, will forward claim for such bonus direct to The Zone Finance Officer, Lemon Building, Washington, D. C., who is' hereby designated to settle such claims. Such applications must contain (a) the discharge certificate or order for discharge >.or release, if no certificate was issued, blit both certificate and order if both were issued, the paper bearing indorsement of final payment being required; (b) a statement of all military service since April 6, 1917, showing place and date of reporting at first military station; (c) address to which check is to be sent.
Whew settlement is made all personal papers will be returned to applicant with check. No further correspondence is necessary, except to advise of change in address of applicant. No other disbursing officers are authorized to pay claims covered by this paragraph.
Letters from Soldiers.
.	Dorf, Germany,
.	January 15, 1919.
B.ev. J. L. Carrico, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
My dear Brother:
Indirectly I have received word that you wrote to me some time ago, but either you dropped that letter into the fire-alarm" box or else a German “sub" seen one report concerning the registration this year must have sunk it on the way overseas. I have at Notre Dame, a statement that the University had ' experienced an enrollment which surpassed all records for one day’s.registration. How does the final number compare with those of previous years? ’
I shall try to indicate for you a few of the foot-prints on the long road I have travelled since becoming a soldier for Uncle Sam. We left New York July 22, 1918, landed at Liverpool on August 3, crossed over England and the English Channel, and disembarked at Le Havre, France, on the August 7. On the morning of August 10th we found ourselves quartered in a beautiful French village, Fontency, in the Department of Cher, about the center of . France. Here we spent a month at infantry drill, and then came orders for the 310th Engineers and the 310th Engineer Train to move forward and take part of the stage at the front. On Friday, the 13th of September, we drew up' in the lines on the St. Mihiel Front. At 2:00 P. M. on September ^16, we received orders to move out and draw up on the Argonne Front, about fifteen miles due west of the city of Verdun. Here started the drive of September 25, which advanced, our lines past Montfaucon. Another . on October 27, the last and slaughtering biowj caught the .enemy on the point of the chin, resulting in a decision for the Allies in form , of the armistice, on the nth of November.	.	' '
Almost immediately the Third Army of Occupation was created to take up its stand on enemy soil for-the purpose of enforcing the terms of the armistice. 'The 310th Engineer Train was honored by being made a part of that hew army, being placed in the Seventh Cdrps. During the-fighting period of the war we were of the . Fifth Corps in the First Army. The American forces
320
Noure dame ^chdasuic
are now occupying the Coblenz sector, and the 310th . Engineer Train is stationed at Dorf, Germany, about eighty miles southwest of Coblenz and near the city of Treves, or Trier.
‘ 1 have-no idea how long we shall be required to remain ‘ . over here. The 22d of this month ends our first six-months period and we shall then be permitted to wear a war-service chevron. I hope that we may get home before summer anyway, as I am anxious to get back into the harness for a new start at life. I am, however very, very well and am making a successful effort' at being cheerful and happy.
.... With my very best wishes, I am, always,
Your loving brother,
■ Private W. Elbert Carrico.
310th Engineer Train,
American E- F., Germany.
Charleston, South Carolina, October 2nd, 1918.
Mr. Frank P. Goodall,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Sir and Brother:
I am, I know, very tardy in my sending to you my K. C. dues. However, I can say in all truth that I have been so busy of late that many matters simply had to wait their chances for attention. Just now I have a little breathing spell, of which I -am trying to make the most. .
It may interest my brother Knights at Notre Dame to know that since my ordination last May, I have ’ said Mass in church on Sunday only five times. During my vacation at home I was glad to help .out the chaplains at the Great Lakes Naval Station, and there I said Mass every Sunday in the open and a second one in the main hall. After I came to South Carolina I said the Sunday Mass in church on my first Sunday here and for the second time I said Mass in church last Sunday. On all other Sundays I have been attending one or another of the many training camps in our ' state. I have been at the Navy Yard, Charleston, the great camp at Columbus, and at the Marine Barracks, ‘ “ Paris Tsland.	'
Before the present war Catholics in South Carolina numbered only about nine thousand souls and the
•" priests, I think, never numbered more than thirty, if that many. Since the war began it see’ms that a large
* part of all of the Catholic men-in-arms from all over our country are coming into South Carolina for train- ' ing. They are attended by some regimental Catholic chaplains, but there are not nearly enough. The re-
: suit is that the few diocesan priests here are doing their utmost to render to the men the needed services. My own case is simply that of nearly every priest in'the diocese—regular parish duties which used to require seven days of attention now get only five days and the . two days of the week-end are given to chaplain’s duties.
. Needless to say, the Order is nobly and admirably measuring up to the demands made upon it/'in the '. state. In nearly every camp I have visited I have been, housed and fed by.K. of C.’men and I meet Notre Dame • men or Notre Dame .friends . everywhere.- At Great Lakes I met Leo Condon, a'great K. of C. man at Notre Dame. I had the pleasure, too, of. seeing Del
Smith there, big and handsome, quite the man he promised to be when I had him in camp at Bankson Lake, Lawton, Michigan, some .years ago. If Del is not a knight yet, he soon will be. His expectations were for an early initiation.
It might interest you, too, to know that I have Major Stogsdall as a fellow resident here in Charleston. He is here in charge of all student soldiers. We enjoy an occasional chat, and of course Notre Dame is a topic every time. We hope to get the Major in charge of drilling the boys in our Catholic high school. I hope we succeed, .for I know how well he managed the military at Notre Dame'. -
God bless you and all my K. of C. brothers at.Notre Dame, and all of you kindly say an occasional prayer • for all N. D. Council men who are away from Notre Dame serving God and country..	-
-* Devotedly in Our Lady,
Thomas -J. Mackin.
American E- F., France,
.	November 28th, 1918.
Dear Father and Mother:	•
.......We left New York on Sunday,’ October 13th, and pulled out in the harbor past the Statue of Liberty; where we anchored to wait for the other ships, /which were going with us. There were seventeen in our. convoy, among them one-battleship and two destroyers. On the last two days out we were accompanied by twenty destroyers that had come to meet us, and on the last day had observation balloons.and hydroplanes—I don’t know in ,what number. There was not a great deal of excitement at any time, though we were attacked * three times by submarines, and the destroyers put one mine off the Irish coast out of condition. It jarred things a little when it exploded. Some of the men were excited for a while, especially the colored ones in the aft part of the boat. We reached Liverpool, England, about three o’clock in the afternoon and were mighty glad to get on solid soil again. We could have landed the next morning, but we ran into a big fog, and it was impossible to go in; so we had.to anchor out about two miles. In the meantime another big liner came sneaking along and rammed,, us, tearing a hole in our boat four feet square. It was above the water line, however, and it did not make much difference, though it caused considerable excitement on the ship for a minute or so.
After a few hoursan Liverpool, we.took the train to Codford, England, to an English camp where we stayed three days. We-got our clothes washed and had a good bath or two, and then left-for Southampton, where we went aboard the Charles, and across the English Channel to Havre, France. By the way, the boat we crossed the Atlantic in .was the Talthyhius. . It was a freighter, 650 feet.long and 63 feet.wide, with three decks. We had about 2,500 aboard. We reached Havre the next morning and started on the march for another English camp, not far , from the town. It was only ten miles, but all up hill. It was the worst march we.have ever had. Since then we haven’t done anything but march from one town or. camp to another, .with dur packs, which weigh only 90 pounds. I have .made all the marches so far, but. a great many have had to fall out on account of weak hearts/ .or something of the kind. Lately a
' 1
Tefe Noure dame Scholastic
321
great many have broken arches, and they fall out on all sides.
Well, we landed at this camp about noon, and were assigned twelve to a tent. There were no such things as beds; we just rolled up in our blankets on the ground. As the tents were small it whs very crowded, but it was quite cold and hence we did not mind huddling up a little. We spent two days there, and then left for Le Mans. I have seen enough, or at least all I cared to see, and it has not been all sunshine, though I am thankful that I am well and have stood it much better than a great many men stronger than I. Since, the armistice was signed we have had an easy time of it, and have been fairly well housed, though not with any comforts to speak of ... .	#
'	Your devoted son,
Bernard Mulligan. Sanitation Department, 3rd Prov. Tr. Regiment.
Aignay le Duc, France, January 26, 1919.
Professor F. X. Ackermann,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
My dear Cousin:
I can get a pass to Paris for three days, provided I can raise sufficient francs. It seems that a soldier and his francs are soon parted. I have just returned from a short trip to Dijon. I went down in a side-car, about thirty-seven miles. It is a historical city, though I did not delve very deep into the historical phase. . All the cities here are a conglomeration of medieval art, medieval inconveniences, present-day cabarets, New York cafes, and Hill Street cars manned by “motor-ettes” and “ conductorettes ” in wooden shoes.
I do not rem.ember whether or not I have given you a resume of my last six months. From New York we went to Halifax where we stayed one day. After, a few days out we stood to the boats one evening at dusk and watched an American tanker in our convoy take fourteen quick. shots at what was reported a “sub.” No torpedoes were launched, however. We landed at Havre ’ and proceeded to the training area near Chateau Villain,, in the Haute Marne Department. Our first hitch in the line was in the Vosges Mountains, in the Gurardimer sector. It certainly was beautiful there, with the lakes, mountain streams, fine roads, wonderful forests, and pretty towns down in the valleys. The activities there were chiefly confined to raids, sniping, spasmodic artillery action, and occasional air battles. We stayed forty-two days. Then we “sidedoor pullmaned” up to St. Menehold in fr,og rattlers marked “Chevaux 8—Hommes 40”. From .Menehold we tracked our way after the fleeing Boche through Camp Mahaut, the Argonne Forest, Grand Pre, Anthe, and ’ Stonne. We got a beautiful bombing at Grand Pre. A whole* troup of flying'Huns sailed over one night, opened the tail gates, and let out a flock of G. I. cans that' certainly sent the boys to the tall untrimmed foliage. You never saw more action at a Holy Roller convention. Men in hip-boots outran lads in Ruth St. Denis attire. - We returned via Verdun, kicked up skele-. tons on the old battlefields, and burrowed in the underground works. We.are now in the fourteenth training
area, cooling our heels. I guess it will be commencement time before I see the States. Probably I shall be able to take in the commencement at Notre Dame.
Remember me to all my friends.
As ever,
•	“Ted Wagner.
Company C 6th F. Sig. Bn.,
American R. F., France, A. P. O. 777.
.	Diekirch, Luxemburg,
January ,7^ 1919. Dear Father Moloney:	•	- .
You will probably be very much surprised to hear from me, and it may be that you will not even remember me, but I have often wanted to write back to tell the people at Notre Dame which of our men I have seen over here. A few days ago I came through Paris on my way from the hospital to rejoin my outfit, and there ing a little restaurant I met Father Walsh. I knew that I should meet some of you over here; so it was only an expectation fulfilled. He looks fine. He told me he had been chaplain to the 30th Infantry and that he is now attached to Headquarters in Paris, Army Post Office 702.
About seven months ago I met George Lynch, now a major. He has been training in- the army school at Langres, A. P. O. 714. I do not know whether he is si ill there of not. Cecil Curran I met some time ago; he is an observer in the air service. Other Notre Dame men I have heard of, but have not met them. Forrest Fletcher came over with an Ambulance unit and. I think he got into a. great deal of the action. There was a Fletcher here some time ago who was awarded the D. S. C. for evacuating wounded under terrific shell fire. I do not know whether it was our Fletcher or not, but anyway it sounds like him.
I went into the service early in May of 1917 and came over as a lieutenant with the 319th Infantry, 80th Division, early in May of 1918. For three months I was up in the British sector. My, first big action was before Verdun in September and across the Meuse River in the Meuse offensive. We “went over” on September 26, remained continually on the offensive, and we were still in the line when the armistice was signed. On the 1 Sth of November I was sent to a base hospital, tired out and “all in” and suffering a little from gas.
My outfit is now in the Army of Occupation, and at present there are of course no signs of our returning to the States. I am looking forward to the next reunion at Notre Dame. It will pfobably not be this June for me, but at any rate it shall be June of 1920. I have often thought that I should like to receive an occas'onal copy of the Scholastic. Can you put me on its mailing list and send the bill to me for the same? Also I should like to be remembered to all my old friends, - especially to Fathers Kirsch, Nieuwland, Maguire, Farley, Schumacher, and Brother Alphonsus, and also to>Knute Rockne.
‘	.	With’kind regards I am,
- .	Sincerely, f	'
(First Lieut.) Robert J. Fischer. Infantry Headquarters, 33rd Division, American R. F., Luxemburg. .	-
Tote Noure ^ame Schdaeuic
Ne Plus Ultra.
If you should tell most any man
You had a case cf "flu,”
Or that you just got over grippe ' He sure would pity you,
But though I’m lame and feel quite bad, My friends.all fill with glee, t
When I in plaintive tones proclaim “I’ve got a house maids knee.”
The mention of pneumonia
Will fill most men with tears,
And scarlatina seems to wake
The strangest kind of fears;
But everywhere I chance to go My friends all laugh at me, Because I moan and say to them "I’ve got a house maids knee.”
I used to wish my enemies Would get appendicitis, Or else become afflicted with
A bad case of neuritis;
But now I’ve come to understand How futile that would be
Since folks would pity them—and so I’ll wish them house maids knee.
* . •
• Fame.	-	-
I used to be a common girl
And though my friends were kind, No beauteous or stunning charms
In me they seemed to find;
But now I sit upon a throne
' With awe-struck friends about,
The change has happened just because
I’ve had my tonsils out.
- A'girl with just a winning smile
. Can’t hope to be adored,
And though her cheeks with roses bloom
Her friends will soon be bored; ' .
But that a-maiden is quite swell
. No man’will dare to. doubt, -If she can tell him—just like that—
' “I’ve had my tonsils out.”	’
. * - ■
' ' - * * ,
Accepted. j .
"You don’t need money,” she replied, "all that will be necessary will be—”
"Please don’t,” he sighed, his face firing.up like the setting sun, "I really can’t,—”
"But you can and you ought,” she chirped, "what will people think? what will your friends—”
"Stop, right there,” he demanded. "You are trying to force me, you are trumping up reasons that do not exist, you know well enough that there is no necessity in the wide, wide world—”
"All right,” she moaned, "if you insist on not brushing your teeth I suppose no one can make you and I shall not try further, but they sure look a fright.” “Oh,” he groaned, "this is so sudden.
■ ' * • ' . - * *
-	modern Beauty.	_
I had a girl whose soul was white
. As a pure flake of snow,	‘
And had her meanest thoughts been sown White lilies they would grow,	.
She loved me with a tender love Her heart swift might I win, .
But I have left her, for she had A birth mark on her chin. .
And now I have a pretty lass . With head void as a drum, She uses slang knows how to cuss Can whistle and chew gum, She never had a clever thought
But always wears a grin,	.
I’ll marry her, because, she has	.
■ No birth mark on her chin. ■ * . * *
Have you heard Joseph Holl eran in Walsh Hall? Yes, and we know Cyril Fites in Badin.
* - - - ' . - ,* * -
. Did She Object.
"We saw .Harry Grabbner at the last dance?’’
/ ’ * * _
Changed. . "
Ofi, her eyes were like the dawning in a placid .summer
■ sky, .	-. .	,
And her little cheeks were. hectic as the West is:
And her lips like two ripe berries seemed to feed his . very- soul	•
As against her little mouth he tightly pressed his.
"Dearest,” she said, with a smile breaking all over He could talk of her froni morning till the warning
her face like measles, "I have something to say to you.” ,7 But I haven’t any money,” he protested as he unfolded a clean handkerchief that was full, of holes ' and vigorously mopped his brow, “I really—	'
. of the day.	'	. .
■ He could kiss the ground she trod in days of yore, Bob, But he doesn’t give a continental penny for her now, For she has an adam’s apple like a door knob.