r h e
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79
AUGUST 13, 1943
NO. 6
9*t	9Mu&:
9 K. C.’s Ball Tomorrow Night
S Weicher, Powers, Reuter Trio Tuesday
S Clubs Elect Officers, Admit Members
S Begin Interhall Tennis
The Grotto of Notre Dame
HE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Vic turns Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
PAY DAY TO SICK BAY
Saturday night, and everybody makes a round trip to Sweeney’s, the house of a hundred rounds. There’s a crowd around every chair, an arm around every girl, and a round more coming up. Every once in a while the S.P.’s leave their poker game with the police next door and drop in to whiff the air. The more reserved stay home on Saturday night, because it just isn’t safe anymore for a young man to walk down a street by himself after dark.
Those that can find their way out of Sweeney’s through all that smoke-screen generally wind up at George’s where the beer flows freely. Georg;e really has a nice place. From any booth in the joint you can watch all the girls lined up to see the show next door. And, also, his juke box is one of the very few that play “Pistol Packin’. Momma.”
MEMORANDA
Demerit Dan is having a mighty hard time these days. Last week he sent a jumper to the laundry with his identification badge on it. At the laundry he learned that the badge had been turned into the scrap metal drive. Twenty more demerits; pretty soon he’ll have more demerits than Carter has pills.
While on the subject of the laundry, a commerce student reports: Accounts Payable: $5.00 per month; Accounts Receivable: 2 bundles @ .85 cts. each, $1.70. He suggests a course in bookkeeping for somebody.
Another patriotic suggestion is that the chef turn in all his old grease to the war drive. Sometimes, though, we think we’re a little too hard on the old boy. After all, he has enough sleepless nights as it is, trying to think up new ways to murder the potatoes.
FROM HERE AND THERE AND WHY NOT
The best incident of the week comes from sick bay. It was the morning after everyone had taken his shots. A long line of sore arms waited patiently. One of the medicos stepped out to see just how long the line was. He happened to notice one fellow who was exceptionally pale. Going up'to him, he said: “Your arm isn’t really sore, is it?” - And the mate answered: “No, sir.” “You don’t
2	-
feel sick or feel like passing out, do you?” he was asked. The mate didn’t answer instantly, but then he opened his mouth, uttered a sad “noooo,” and fainted dead away. Poor fellow; he just didn’t have the strength of his convictions.
Now that the Marines finally have uniforms, the fight still goes on. Can you imagine the nerve of a rookie saying, “Hey, swab-jockey, what did you do with the flour that came in that sack?” Amunson, commander of Company B, has their number though. Last week during a practice drill he became disgusted with the’ marching and yelled: “How about getting in step back there? What do you think you are, a bunch of Marines?” Meow!
COULD IT BE IT WAS
Strolling into the golf shop, where everybody gets. service but the golfers, you can see a strange sign. That is you can see it if you brush aside two or three dozen loiterers and half a phy-ed. class. Even the attendant whitewashing mystery balls attracts less attention than this sign. Its words are a harbinger of the coming day of new freedom and equality. It reads:
Green	Fee
V-12 ............25
Students ........10
Guests ....... 1.00
O Tempora, O	mores!
400 POUND DOG
Those Rollicking Old Thirsty Cut-ups of Walsh Hall are at it again. Their slick tailored uniforms are not enough. Now they are going to get a mascot. At least they are going to get a mascot if they can find what they want. They crave a mutt, but it must weigh a fifth of a ton, and so their troubles have started. They have written to Washington where everything is done on an amplitudinous scale but no luck. Hollywood, and even Superman can’t help them out. Hollywood offered some big wolves but no dogs. Says Cadet “Tex” Crowley, “I could get the boys a mighty big hunch of bull.” But the blue-banders . say they will never have any mascot until they find a 400 pound dog. We guess it’s just an excuse.to have a big doghouse around.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole........Managing	Editor
Dick Ames...............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer.........Admin.	Editor
Bill Carey..............Sports	Editor
John Mattmiller...........Circulation
Charles Renaud....Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey..Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week..........PVm’ TaJbot an(? (James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters...Bill Waddington v 7 f J. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
.....(D. Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
V-12 ..i................Joseph	Plante
N.R.O.T.C.:...H.	Gilligan, J. D. Usina
Marines ...............Lou	Riepenhoff
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of. Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
t Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria’ Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
AUGUST 13, 1943
NO. 6
Knights and Ladies Dance Tomorrow Night
K. C. Ball Open to Students and Trainees
.	BY DICK AMES
The Knights of Columbus are determined to prove that the age of chivalry is not dead; this they will do by providing one of the finest dances of the summer for all Notre Dame men and their fair ladies, to whom they feel that their gallantry should be particularly extended. And so tomorrow night in the Indiana Club (from which the law books have been removed) they will hold their long traditional jousts, a semi-formal swing and swayer with all the trimmings.
Martha Andrzejewski. honoree
For the last week they have been polishing up the bucklers and the chain mail in the Knights’ chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall preparing for the big event. Now they announce that nothing stands in the way except time. Bob Hallein, Grand Knight of the Chapter, and Tom Halligan, General Chairman for the dance, have both sworn by the Grail that they have planned a dance
which has never before been equalled. The word of these men may be accepted without doubt since they have displayed their firm characters before this time by achieving the coveted Order of the Cuisine, granted only to those hearty souls who have managed to eat three consecutive meals in the dining hall.
But if this isn’t proof enough, there are other Knights willing to back up the statement: Eugene Wohlhorn, chairman of the ticket committee; Felix Mcpartland, refreshments; Don Heltzel, former editor of the Scholastic and now a midshipman, house; Cyril Tlusty, music; John Davis, entertainment; Bud Teah, decorations; John DeMoss, patrons; John Thumm, publicity; Rudolph Gans, another midshipman, invitations; and John Beyerle, arrangements.
Appropriately enough the Notre Dame Cavaliers are playing for the dance, and they have decided to leave their horses outside the hall; they are going to bring their instruments in, and promise to use them in their usual fine style.
The usual boon of one o’clock permissions is in effect tomorrow for those going to the dance, and so for the adventuresome spirits who want to get that old thrill of staying up past twelve the Indiana Club is the place to go.
Tickets are §2.20 for civilians, and §1.50 for the fortunate Navy and Marine men. They may be secured at the Knights of Columbus chambers in the basement of Walsh or in the Huddle, at any time during the day; also in the Caf during the noon period, from Jerry Coleman; Cavanaugh, Ed Schmid; Dillon, Louis Lauth; Walsh; or any officer of the chapter.
Part of the profits from the dance are
to be donated to the Chaplain’s Digest, Grand Knight Hallein announced. The Digest is edited by Father Sheedy, Assistant Prefect of Religion...
Queen Vivian Novak
Patrons for the dance will be: Mr. Edward S. Kavanaugh, .Mr. and Mrs. George Koch, Mr. and Mrs. J. Arthur Haley, Dean and Mrs. Clarence Manion, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hums, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Ridden.
So get out the palfrey and fair damsel, N.D. men, even if you have to ask the queen to foot the cover charge. And that shouldn’t be too hard; the credit of the trainees is exceptionally good these days, and of course the word of a true son of the Gold and Blue is never-to be questioned. Besides if the lender really knows the average Irish reputation in money matters, she probably won’t even expect to be paid back.	-
-	'	-	’ k3-
Bob Hallein Installed
Campus News
Weicher, Powers, Reuter
Trio Coming Here Tuesday
Three solo artists of rare attainments, each well known in his own field, have formed a unique ensemble which will appear in Washington Hall on Tuesday, August 17th, at 8 o’clock.
The trio is composed of John Weicher, the concertmaster of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra; Dudley Powers, the principal cellist of the Chicago Symphony; and Rudolph Reuter, one of the country’s most noted pianists.
This group of noted artists has trav- . elled to many parts of the Central West . where the public has acclaimed their playing as having command of tone, with a beauty calculated to please the most sophisticated ear.
This . trio is the fourth of the entertainments planned for the students of -Notre Dame, to provide the trainees and students with educational and enjoyable
recreation. Henry Scott, the piano-satirist started the program, with Professor Daniel Pedtke continuing and, still later, Mr. Richard Sullivan taking part.
Last'Sunday afternoon in the Rockne Lounge Mr.. Sullivan, . author of the novels, Summer After Summer and the
The purpose of the club is to. discuss any phase of literature. At each meet-: ing a paper is read by one of the mem-; forthcoming Dark Continent, and noted bers who defends the views he has taken
short-story writer, presented an interest- :in an open debate. Meetings are held ing and ..informative talk, on thedifficul- every other. Wednesday in the auditori-ties and problems that face the author. ?’/.urn of the Law Building,
Emphasizing that only with hard work, patience and perseverance can the young writer succeed, he debunked the belief authors sit.down and, inspired, fill reams of pages. He also warned against the advertisements of the companies which offer to teach you to write or will criticize your work, “for a price.” Prof. Frank O’Malley served as chairman and led the discussion that followed the lecture.
Tuesday, August 17, 8 _p.m.: The Weicher Trio, recital; Rev. James Connerton, . C.S.C., chairman; Washington Hall.
Sunday, August 22, 4 p.m.: Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., art exhibit; Mr. Paul Byrne, chairman; University Art Galleries in the Library.
Sunday, August 29, 4 p.m.: Prof. T.. Bowyer Campbell, “The Orient”; Prof. Frank O’Malley, chairman; the Lounge, Rockne Memorial.
Sunday, Sept. 5, 4 p.m.: Prof. Frank Montana, “Mediterranean Views”; Mr. Paul Byrne, chairman; Lounge, Rockne Memorial..
Sunday, Sept. 12, 4 p.m.: Musical Program; Prof. Cecil Birder, chairman; Sacred Heart Church.
Will Puhr Elected
To Head Bookmen Club
The Bookmen organized and admitted new members at a meeting’ held Tuesday, August 10th. Will Puhr was installed as president, and J. C. R. Clark as librarian. The new members accepted after.the trials were Joe Lannigan, Dick Ames, Tex Pequigney, Gene Pechulis, and Victor Price. Old members, who are not officers of the club include:-
James O’Dea.and Dan Stevens.
. A program for the future was planned,	, neering, and allied courses to defense
. including the selection of books which the	workers and war trainees. These courses,
club intends to buy, and the5 time and \ held in the evening in the Engineering . place of the..annual banquet. Mr. T.	Building, have already trained thou-
Bowyer Campbell, professor of History	sands for better positions in industry,
m the University, and faculty moderator of the club, addressed the group.
Bob Hallein
as K. C. Grand Knight
Bob Hallein was installed as Grand Knight of council 1477, the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, at a joint meeting which was held on Monday night, August 9, in the South clubrooms in South Bend.
Two other councils held installation ceremonies the same evening, councils 553 of South Bend, and 1878 of Mishawaka. Deputy Fred J. Hums of
Mishawaka presided over the meeting, at the conclusion of which a buffet supper was held for the. new officers and their fellow Knights.
Other officers who were initiated in
the Notre Dame council were as follows: Deputy Grand Knight, J. Davis; chancellor, John DeMoss; treasurer, Eugene Wohlhorn; recorder, Francis J. Magnel-la; warden, John R. Thumm; advocate, Felix A. McFarland; inside guard, Louis Lauth; outside guard, Edward Schmid; financial secretary, Joseph E. Howard. Trustees were Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., James V. Lovelly, and Eugene P. Klier.
Council 1477 plans to hold a membership drive in the near future,5 and any student on the .campus who is over eighteen is eligible for membership.
Steps are also going to.be taken to affiliate Knights from other, councils into this council , if it can be’managed. Details will be announced later.
N. D. Designated for E. S. M. W. T. Program
\ Notre Dame is one of seventy-nine colleges and universities participating in . the Engineering, Scientific, Management . War Training Program sponsored by the government. This program offers classes in such varied fields as foremanship, en-
gineering drawing, aeronautical engi-
In South Bend most of the major indus-
. tries, such as Bendix, Studebaker, and Oliver, are cooperating with the Univer-sity in-the program.
Among the other prominent schools in the country participating in the pro-. gram are Northwestern, Yale, M.I.T., Chicago, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Mich-
igan, Ohio State, Washington, Illinois, - Purdue, and Iowa.
People-
On The Campus
BY A. J. OHMAN
Carl. picked up his. gear and boarded the Dutch Transport “Tjisdane” and, headed for San Francisco. When he . came into the harbor, it was the first time he had seen the states in two years.
- He came on direct assignment to Notre Dame and is now taking basic engineering.	.
MATTMIILER AND STAFF IN OF CIRCULATION
CHARGE
In the earlier'weeks of this
semester,
when the Scholastic had just begun to
present staff, its members
166 Dillon; Fred Cardinal, 165 Dillon; Dick Hoag, 148. Alumni; William Everson, 148 Alumni; Lee Mayer, 209 Zahm; J. C. Mahoney, 202 Zahm; John Knom, 110 Walsh; Frank Hushek, 314 St. Ed’s;
organize its
John Mattmiiler
were presented with quite a problem. There was a small nucleus of old writers, and the general outline for the editing of the paper was established by long tradition; but the distribution side of the publication had fallen apart altogether since
and Frank Fitzgibbons, 309
St. Ed’s.
"Hold Everything," USO Show, on Campus Tonight
Tonight at 2000 in the Navy Drill Hall. Notre Dame Servicemen will have the opportunity of seeing “Hold Every-

Carl Austin
Have Carl around)
you met (I’ve been A us t i n ?
last semester, and no one seemed to know
You can find him playing on the lawn in front of Alumni hall any time after three P.M.
Carl, was born in Portland, Maine, Jan. 9, 1922. At-the
quite swer
•when work
what to do about it. But the anto the problem presented itself John Mattmiiler volunteered to out a system for distribution, as-
semble a squad of carriers, and in any way he could expedite the . campus distribution of the magazine.
He did a fine job, and the staff thinks he deserves recognition for it. From the moment he took over, the responsibility has rested squarely on him, and it has not been necessary for any other member of the staff either to help out or even suggest changes in method. With the unsettled condition existing .here now, that’s something that John can feel justly proud of. The few slip ups that have been made in delivery are due entirely to the congestion of the campus and not to lack of aptitude or willingness to work on the part of either John or the carriers working under him.
Mattmiiler was born in Lewiston, Idaho, on October 4, 1921, and is majoring in. Commerce while here at Notre Dame. He. plans to go into the selling end, of advertising, and. his enthusiasm . for that sort of work accounts in part for the efficiency he has shown with the Scholastic. He graduated from Peck High School in Lewiston and while there played basketball and .baseball, and. took part in many dramatic activities. Since . that:time he has played the part of the brat in “The Little Foxes.” He received . exerience in journalistic work by editing * his school paper and as business mana-
age of seventeen he packed up his extra . shirt and joined the Navy. .	.
Austin took his boot training- at New Port, Rhode Island, and at the end of four months was. sent; to Norfolk, Virginia. After serving in Norfolk for five months he was sent to the Hospital Corps School in Philadelphia. Carl was such, a good student that the Navy detailed him to the Pharmacy and Chemistry school in Washington, D. C., for five months. ’ He did well in Arithmetic, and the Navy decided to send him to the • Property and Accounting school, also located'in Washington. .
thing,” Broadway hit comedy, vaudeville, and dancing show presented under .the auspices of the IT.S.O. Camp Shows.
With all this training to aid him ' Featuring girls, gags, and songs, the Austin was - ordered to. duty in ' Ports- show contains such acts as Chester Fred-mouth, Virginia. When his fame spread . . erichs, with his rapid-fire talk and pat-, to the Brooklyn ' Navy- Yard he was ter, comic songs, sensational falls and transferred to their receiving , ship, , . slides, and a hilarious travesty on Jit— U.S.Si Seattle: It was while working bn- .terbugs.	.
the Seattle that the U.S.S. Camden, A trumpet player of extraordinary another receiving ship in: the Navy Yard, skill who is guaranteed to make the heard of Austin and wanted, the bene- - music enthusiasts cheer is Billy Blake, fits of his knowledge; hence, he:was / featuring impressions of famous band transferred to the. Camden for.-two leaders. Finn Olsen combines a fine voice
months. .	.	- ■.- /	/
At last Carl was ready, for sea duty. The lucky . ship . was the U.S.S. Solace. : Austin sailed from New York, down the east coast, through “the Panama Canal, and on to Pearl Harbor.	. .
with clever dancing and clowning rou-. tines. He has appeared in such top-notch productions as “Higher and Higher,” and ’ “Hit the Deck” earning the name of
While doing patrol. duty with! the , Solace, Carl-' was seen in Pago Pago,
ger of the annual. . ' ’	. '	'
Those who have assisted -Mattmiiler deserve . mention with him, and their ■ : names are given, below: Erving Carr, .
Crazy Caruso.
Paul Nolan displays the juggling wizardry which has kept his name in lights . ;for two decades, and the Three Rays— three beautiful girls—give a talented acrobatic, comedy. Rounding out the production are the Harriet Haile Victory.
New Caledonia, and skipping among the New Hebrides, New' Zealand,, and Aus-: tralia. ;	. Girls, six dancers who work throughout
x.About.a year after war was declared, - the revue with several cleverly executed Austin’s commanding officer recommend- . . acts, including Hawaiian, Irish rhumba; ’ ed him for training with the V-12. and jive-tap.
5-
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
This week we are happy to report no news of misfortune to Notre Dame men. During the past week, however, we reviewed many stories of heroism about the globe, performed by the far-flung Irish.
Among the most heroic and exciting deeds was that of Captain Doug Ban-gert of the class of 1940. He received the Distinguished Flying Cross scoring several hits on a Jap battleship in the Battle of Guadalcanal. This battleship was listed as definitely sunk. Captain Bangert pilots a torpedo-bomber, and is the executive officer of his squadron.
Also doing his share in the South Pacific fighting is Major John P. Hene-bry, ’40. Major Henebry is the pilot of a Mitchell B-25 bomber—a potent instrument of destruction in his hands. He flew one of the three bombers that was credited with sinking one of Japan’s largest subs at Lae, New Guinea, last March. A damaged 5,000 ton cargo ship was also marked to his account in the Bismark Sea Battle. His most recent exploits are the bombing and strafing of six Jap landing barges on the New Guinea coast. Major Henebry found these barges huddled close together and made twenty passes over them. He saw two of them drop and a third turned over and. sinking. His comment, “I guess they had a pretty rough time of it”.
Not all of the Notre Dame men are fighting on foreign soil. Many are helping to win the Battle of Production. Among these is Victor G. Yawman, ’26, president of the Yavhnan Metal Products Company of Rochester, New York. He was one of the six men to receive a citation from the Rochester Ordinance Department for distinguished service in the war effort. Mr. Yawman’s contribution involved the saving of hundreds of thousands of pounds of vital steel in addition to releasing valuable men and machines for other work. His idea was the stamping instead of the machining
of triggers for the Army .45 caliber service revolver.
The number of Notre Dame missing in action was reduced by one with the announcement that Ray J. Eichenlaub, of the class of 1942, was reported safe in the fighting in Sicily.
Sergt. John Walsh, a Notre Dame Alumnus who was a member of the 1936 Olympic wrestling team, is acting as physical director for the army somewhere in the South Pacific.
Walsh, a native of Denver, Colorado, was formerly a coach at Father Flanagan’s Boy’s Town. Although he directs all physical instruction activities, his specialty is Jiu-Jitsu, and he’s training some of the leather necks to turn it back on the Japs.
Cash Checks for Trainees
Navy servicemen will be able to cash their pay checks the Saturday following payday at the American Trust Company Bank, at the corner of Michigan and Washington, opposite the bus stop, Lt. Commander W. S. Howell, executive officer of the V-12 contingent on the campus, announced last week. This service will be available to navy personnel from 1300 to 1430 on Saturday.
A ten cent charge will be made and all servicemen are advised to have the change ready so as not to have it taken out of their checks. Identification must be presented upon cashing the checks, and the check can be cashed only by the person for whom it is drawn.
THE SCHOLASTIC Announces the Annual All-Campus Vaudeville Show

In which the talent of the entire campus is invited to participate. The Finals will be held in Washington Hall. Sept. 21, at which time valuable prizes will be awarded to the best acts. . For further particulars, read the columns in "The Scholastic."
"Irish Pennant" to Appear in New and Larger Form
The Irish Pennant, a publication of the R.O.T.C., will soon appear in a new and larger form. This paper, founded three years ago by Lieutenant Commander Thompson Black, has built up a large interest in the unit; this accounts for the change in its makeup.
Features of the first issue in the new makeup will be a biographical sketch of Commander Black, who has left Notre Dame for the army-navy command school at Leavenworth, Kansas, and writeups of the cruises which the R.O.-T.C. took during the last vacation.
The members of the unit will finance the publication, the necessary income provided by a charge of fifteen cents per issue.
Dick Borgess Named
Head of Commerce Forum
By Joe Murnane
The Commerce Forum met recently and announced its new officers. Dick Borgess is chairman of the board; Joe O’Keefe, vice-chairman; Joe Murnane, secretary; John Yoole, program director; and Yale Davis and Frank Schafer, directors. Dean James E. McCarthy, who encouraged organization of the club, will continue to act as its faculty moderator.	~
Mr. Edmond Smith gave a short address to the members, and Joe O’Keefe reviewed the history of the Forum briefly. The procedure of meetings of the Forum is going to be changed somewhat this semester, in that a paper will be read by one of the members at every meeting. In the past it has been the practice to have a guest speaker from the faculty give a short talk.
Those interested in taking part in the Forum should contact one of the officers of the club. The next meeting has been scheduled for Wednesday night, August 18th, and tentative arrangements have been made to establish Wednesday as the regular meeting time.
6
The Huddle is Victim of
Wartime Employee Problem
The general confusion that seems to be the heritage of our age has not left the Huddle untouched. To coin a phrase, things are not the same as they used to be in that venerable spot.
The reason, of course, is the labor shortage, which seems to account for most of the present ills. Imports have been made to the Huddle from surrounding regions, and they have been good imports, men of high character and determination to please. But their training has been skimmed over too lightly, and the result is that none of them seems to know just what his job is. Three men are stationed behind the soda fountain, three behind the Coke cooler, and a couple more scattered at points where it has probably been thought they could do the most good. That is debatable.
Last week a Senior, who naturally had slept through breakfast and was pale with hunger, came into the Huddle with the earnest desire to secure a sandwich or two and a bottle of milk. He went up to the counter and asked the rosy cheeked lad who stood there if he could have a ham and cheese. The boy answered no, that he wasn't supposed -to hand out sandwiches. So the Sorin-ite asked another lad. No, he was working on the ice cream. Beginning to get hunger cramps, the traveller asked a third man, but the result was the-same, except that this fellow was the cigarette dispenser. Frantic, the starving student rushed around to everyone in the store; no one, it seems, had been assigned to handle the sandwiches that morning.
In despair he ran from the scene, and tried desperately to make the Caf before it was too late. . However, he fell in a swoon just in front of the post office, and as some Marines were coming by at the time, he was trampled to death, whispering in his agony, “What though the odds be great or small--”
His family has been notified, and have decided not to sue. Business will continue in the Huddle as usual; or perhaps even worse.
Dance for the Enlisted Men Stationed Here
Last week the members of the ship’s Company at Notre Dame, which includes the enlisted men on duty here with the Navy and Marines, were given evidence that they have not been forgotten altogether. Tuesday and Thursday, the 10th and 12th of August, they were entertained at dances held in the
Service Men’s Center in downtown South Bend.
These enlisted men are the ones who sweat it out in the storerooms, sick bays, offices, drill hall and athletic fields. They help to keep the military machine at Notre Dame running,’ and are doing their best to turn out fighting men from here who will be a credit to their respective branches of the service. And they deserve a lot of good will for the job they are doing.
Hostesses were provided for those men who went stag, and the Waves who helped in the arrangements were on hand to share in the fun. The party was given for the men, a large number of whom are just out of high school and away from home for the first time, by the people of South Bend. It is not necessary to say how much they appreciated it, or how hopeful they are that the practice will be continued in the future.
Fr. Johnson Visits Campus
The Rev. Norman Johnson, C.S.C., former assistant Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame, has been visiting here dur-
Father Johnson
ing the past week. Father Johnson, assigned to the Army Air Corps, has been stationed at Fresno, California, and is now at Denver, Colorado.
Think Before You Talk
We Americans have always been used to talking without looking over our shoulders wondering who's listening. We're very jealous of that freedom of speech, so keeping quiet about bits of information that may seem unimportant, learning to stop and think before we talk, is going to be quite a job for us.
It shouldn't be too hard when you pause and think what could happen if you didn't learn to keep information to yourself. All of us in the service—our lives and success—are depending upon your "thinking before you talk."
Bands at Service Center;
V-12, V-7 Coming
The Center continued to be the most popular place downtown this past weekend as record crowds came to enjoy the dancing, the food, and the other services which the Center is always ready to extend.
The dancers, this time, were not dependent on the juke box for their music. Saturday the V-7 Band did their usual excellent job of supplying the rhythm, and were so popular that in just one hour, more than 600 service men passed through the doors. Sunday was another record-breaking day, the music this time supplied by Jimmie McPhee, a young highschool lad with a good band. The organization- is composed of some 15 highschool students.who have been together for about four months. During the week they play for the Hi-Spot. Their services to the Center are donated, as are the services of the other bands, organizations, and individuals.
Not satisfied with the extraordinarily complete weekend, the Center managed to keep itself fairly busy during the week. On Tuesday and Thursday it gave a dance for 40 soldiers from the Chemical Warfare Show which is scheduled for South Bend this Saturday, the officers and soldiers of the Ferry Command at Bendix Field, and the Waves and Ship’s Company at Notre Dame. At the Tuesday function, the music was supplied by pretty Gerry Ellis and her 11-girl Royal Hawaiians. Thursday night the music was donated by another girl, Miss Pat Myers and her Minute Men.
Next weekend promises to be another busy one, especially since many bands have voluntarily offered their services. The V-7, the Cavaliers, the V-12, and Jimmie McPhee, along with others, have asked permission to do their bit for the service men and their “dates”. There will again be dancing Saturday afternoon from 1:30 to 5:30, with the V-7 Band playing. Sunday, Jimmie McPhee will be on the stage.
One of the interesting new features of the Center is the large colored map of the United States which has been placed in the lobby in full view-. Alongside the map are pins with varied colored heads. Service men are asked to take these pins and place one in their home town. The largest inspection shows that practically every state has been represented at the Center. Only seven states are still lacking. The east has the largest representation.
7
Notre Dame Sports
Begin Interhall Tennis; Collegiate Stars to Play
tion with it. In rapid succession they considered pitching a tent on the 9th green on the golf-course, floating a houseboat out on St; Mary’s lake, and moving into the Biology building greenhouse, but for one reason or another-
these ideas proved a little impractical. Then school officials decided that tradition would be temporarily shelved, and
BY DAN REARDON
Interhall tennis will officially get under way by the end of this week. The schedule for the entire season will be posted in each hall.
Alumni, Sorin, Cavanaugh and the Main Building each have seven players
Faught good at tennis, too
signed up. St. Ed’s and Walsh have six apiece, while the Faculty has eight, all experienced players. Unless the Zahm Hall squad increases, the Marine grcup will not be represented. All in all, sixty-four have added their names to the entry list and this number is ex-
Ghosts, Bats, and Sentries Are Woes of Stadium Life for Kennedy and Devore
BY ROLAND J. STEINLE
Rumor has it that when Walt Kennedy isn’t concocting a masterpiece of publicity concerning the University in his office in Breen-Phillips Hall, and when Hugh Devore isn’t lecturing to, a dozen or so flankmen in old Cartier Field on the fundamentals of driving al play in, these two energetic young men are fairly normal human beings. At least they are normal in that they don’t object , to a few hours of sleep. every few days.
pected to grow to one hundred when play starts.	.
Tmpressario of the loop, Tennis Coach Walter Langford, has announced that the halls will be divided into two leagues of five teams each. Dillon will have squads of equal strength in each league.
The presence of many top flight net names in the group gives promise of the best of tennis competition for the coming interhall season. Bob Faught of Dillon was number two man on the fine Notre Dame team that raced through undefeated to the Mid western Championship two springs ago. Charlie Sampson, Navy V-12 trainee from Ohio State, held the number two slot at the Columbus school, and was one half of the Big Ten Title winning doubles combine. Number two man at Indiana, Hoosier Bob Paddock from Zahm is another prominent racketeer. Dick Doermer of Dillon, and Ed Caparo of Walsh and South Bend, held fourth and fifth ratings on the Notre Dame squad last spring. Tom Hebert and Guy Pernich are two other promising prospects.	'
In Varsity competition only two matches have been scheduled, both with Western Michigan. The Irish will travel to Kalamazoo on August 28th, and the foe will make it a home and home series by coming to South Bend on September . 4th. Other outside matches are in-. definite. . Several local teams have been . contacted regarding matches, but have failed to give an immediate answer.
In the past this was arranged for.with- ’ , out a great deal of difficulty. But when
Mr. Hitler and team^called for a flying wedge, this inclination towards rest on : the part of our h eroes made -things a
-little inconvenient. Space on the campus ; became harder to find than meat in the ,
, dining hall stew. The boys put in a ; bid for the watchman’s shanty at the bus stop, but soon became discouraged. . with the O.P.A. restrictions in connec-
the two would be allowed to find shelter in the stadium. Nothing was said con-
cerning just where , they were to stay. If need be, they’d camp right out on the turf. .	-
Arriving at the stadium, they found to their surprise and delight that quarters had been arranged for them in the officials’ room. Comfortable furniture had been moved in, and the hot water had been connected in the shower room. Life wasn’t so bad after all. They assigned some. of the football men to move their personal belongings (this came under the heading of summer practice),, and they settled down, confident that all their troubles were behind them. Little did they know!
The first few nights were uneventful. True they were awakened now and then by a voice echoing through the stadium, a voice staccato in style, a bit on the nasal side, strong, yet in the distance, familiar, yet belonging to another era. A couple of fellows their age do not believe in ghosts, but spirits are another thing. Now- and then the breeze stirred, a strain of the “Victory March” or the “Irish Chant” hidden in a far corner, and once in awhile cleats scraped on the cinders beyond the door. But they had more or less expected a little of that, and soon, they learned to roll over and think nothing of it.
• Then, one evening, a very much alive _ flying mouse decided to try some new dive bombing tactics. Around the room he flew, forcing the boys to take cover. After the initial attacks, Walt and Hugh plotted a way to rid themselves of Mr.
Bat. They cornered the opposition, opened the door, and chased him out into the corridor. Hugh slipped around, opened the outside door, and sighed with relief as; the bat flew into the . night. Just as peace and . quiet had returned, 7 a heavy knock was heard at the outside door. They opened it to find an S.P. standing in the shadows, a mean looking night-stick clutched in his hand. It took. some time to convince the fellow ; that all was legal, and that they had permission to be in the stadium. Finally, the. sentry consented ..to check in the. morning, and the boys returned to their room and to the shower.
Nothing too unusual has . happened since, though every week or so they spend a few minutes debating with the
new sentry on duty. It seems that the incoming watchman is never notified of their presence, and he must discover the situation for himself. So life has grown almost routine. The boys have a just pride in their luxurious lawn, and are contemplating suggesting that a victory garden be put in just over the fifty yard line. But then they won’t be living there long enough to harvest a crop, as their families are moving to South Bend in the near future, and at that time they will take up a more permanent residence elsewhere. Regardless of where they go though, Walt and Hugh feel that they have become the latest tradition of Notre Dame, and rank with such immortals as the ghost of Washington Hall and the mice of Cardboard palace.
Indianapolis and Gary were host to two four day baseball camps in the past two weeks as Brooklyn scouts held forth in an effort to come up with some material that looms
Three N. D. Gridders Added To All-Stars; Totals Six
The names of three additional luminaries were added to the impressive allStar squad that will face the Washington Redskins on August 25th. Fullback Cor-nie Clatt, and ends Bill Huber and Ray Ebli, will give a distinctive green tinge to the evening’s proceedings.
as a possibility—the curtailed farm-club situation has engendered some twenty-five try - out periods in the northern and southern states. . . Ball State has lately been added to the A r m y Specialized Training ProgramIn all, this makes 190 schools accord-
of individuals. . .
ing to the war department... Wives are currently selling for eight dollars each in Africa. . . for information on same ask any tribal chieftain. . . . Twenty-nine of the 49 players reporting for football at Iowa are freshmen, 22 of which are 17 years old. . . Coach Elmer Bumham believes that it will be very-unwise to build a team around a single star because of the possibilities in change of military location or status. . . His team will be a coordinate one rather than one
Comie Clatt
Notre Dame now boasts the greatest representation on the team made up of the nation’s football crop. The list in, eludes Camille Picconne, Wallie Ziemba, Creighton: Miller, Cornie Clatt, Bill Huber and Ray Ebli. .	•
It was'learned late this week that Steve Juzwik, Irish ace in 1941 and . a satellite for the Washington Redskins : in the season of 1942, will be unable to . play 7for the All-Stars.. Steve fell under ; an edict forbidding Navy personnel to play football away from their station this fall. He was a probable starter.
Ads are now appearing on the. University of Michigan campus asking the help of some fair damsel to scrub-out the whites of some V-12 trainee who is complaining of dishwater hands. . . Purdue’s football squad has increased from 90 to 125. : . .= Headcoach Dr. George Hauser, at Minnesota, has more than 80 candidates reporting for practice. . . Bill Garnaas of the Gophers is the only staunch regular returning, nineteen men . having been lost to. the marines. . . Bob Dean, a military transfer from "Indiana, is the only added Big Nine man' on the Minnesota roster. . . Minnesota’s’ assistant coaches for the coming season will include Ensign Frank Patrick, former football great from Pitt, and Chief Specialist John Scafide, a brilliant guard at Tulane under Bierman a dozen years back. ... Not to be sabotaging the cause, but; records show that the . Wolverines have downed the “Fighting Irish” nine times in a ten game series, the former having amassed 156 to N.D.’s 47. . . Sad, but true. . .
If the Dodgers Sustain their present mark of striking at nothing, and hitting the out column, instead of the spheroid, it is assumed that Branch Rickey and
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Bill Waddington
Leo Durocher will take the dub, en masse, to Montreal for complete exchange,—also taking along plenty of Sloan’s Liniment for the age old muscles on the club. . . Now that Great Lakes is slated for the N.D. diamond either the 28th or 29th of the month, there are many who wonder what major league potentiality will be displayed to advantage. . . They must have something because three-fourths of theirmajor league rivals to date have become saddened participants as a game aftermath generally goes. . . New York Yankee batters use a tincture of benzoin to make their hands stick to their bats— If it would have been a tincture of , Iodine instead, then everyone could understand why there’s so much poison in those Yankee war clubs. . . Contrary . to popular opinion, Bucky Harris, who spent 19 years in the American league before coming into the National, believes That there is no difference in the style of play in the two circuits. . . When Ernie Lombardi gets credit for a stolen base, then you know that the majors must be up agin it for material. -
Notre Dame Baseball Team
Continues Victory String
- By Alex Bisbee
Last Sunday on Cartier Field, the ' Notre Dame summer baseball nine pulled -down its third victory-of the season in a practice game against the Knights of Pythias. The final score was 11 to 3. The visitors got off to an early 3 to 0 lead in the second inning, but then
. the Irish started to roll and scored in every inning after that except the fifth.
The home team hurlers were Harry Sortal, Joe Zieminski, and Bill Martin, all newcomers to Notre Dame baseball- Kraft and Faulbaher were on the mound for the opponents.
With bases loaded and two down in . the fourth, shortstop Bob Klein slammed a home run with ducks all over the pond ; . to drive in four tallies for the Irish. -From then on in, Notre -Dame led the way.	.	:
The opposing team, a member of the ..	..
Northern Indiana Semi Pro League, is : . < sponsored by the Knights of Pythias Lodge in South Bend.	. 4 :7:
Score by Innings	• i ?777
N.D. 0 0 25 0 1 2 1 x 11 .	7S7?
• K.P. 030000000	3
■ : ■ ?■- \
Joe Serviceman Has to Learn How to Swim
BY DON WILSON
Just call me Joe. I guess I’m a guy with normal intelligence—so Uncle Sam thinks or I wouldn’t be here at Notre Dame. As an Intelligent “Joe” I realize that the genus homo was created to live on land and not in the water. Only whales bear progeny under water. I am definitely a land animal. Why I got into V-12, I don’t know.
My day of fearful awakening came when ossifer — forgot to say halt and the whole kiboodle of us left a trail of bu.bbles on the surface of St. Joseph’s lake. Those of us who came up for air were promptly sent over to Rockne Memorial pool and classified as having no aptitude for the liquid element. The rest of us were dehydrated and sent on to combat tactics and such-like.
general, behave as if you had set out deliberately to drown yourself in epilepsy. I get tired just watching it.
They haven’t told us just what the names of the new strokes are but they must read something like this:
The Australian Wrench: Place the head under the water up to the shoulderblades. Bring the left arm up, over and around the neck until the fingers of the left hand touch the right cheek (still under the water). Shove the right arm sideways and to the left until the right shoulder touches the chin. Then shift arm positions suddenly, and with great splashing, propelling the body through the water by lashing upward and downward with the feet and legs. The head
is kept under water during the entire race, thereby eliminating both wind resistance and breathing. It is bully fun.
The Navajo Twist: Rotate the entire body like a bobbin on the surface of the water, with elbows and knees bent. Spit while the mouth is on the up side. Inhale when it is under. This doesn’t get you much of anywhere, but it irritates the hundred other swimmers in the pool and makes it difficult for them to swim.
The Lighthouse Churn: Just stand still in the water in the small pool and beat at the surface with your fists, snorting and spitting at the same time. This does nothing but tire you out, but, after all, what are V-12 swimming classes for?
Well, I’m really learning something in this class, though. They are teaching us some novel swimming strokes that I would swear the human body is incapable of. Back home when I was learning to do what I naively thought was swimming, people just—swam. The idea was to keep afloat and, in an orderly fashion, to get somewhere if possible. If there was nowhere you wanted to get to, you just swam quietly ’round and ’round until your lips got blue. Then you went in.
The stroke that I first taught myself was known as the breast or “sun” stroke. High out of the water by the bows. It was dignified and stately and went something like this: “One-two-three-sink. One-two-three-sink!” The legs were shot out straight behind like a frog’s except they were not so good to eat.
The more sporting of the so-called swimmers of that day took to swimming tipped over to. one side, with one ear dragging in the water. I never could do this because my rudders are set on the bias. This stroke was considered very strenuous and risky, especially if one arm was lifted clear out of the water at each stroke. But even that procedure was easy-going, pleasant, and more of a pastime than a chore. It was considered bad form to churn.
But with the advent of the crawls as practiced in the V-12 program, swimming is taking on more the nature of a battle with the elements. You have to lash at the water, tear at the waves with your teeth, snort and spit, kick your feet like a child with the tantrums, and, in
After a busy day. the lake sleeps too
10
Krause "Beaned"
Notre Dame nearly lost the services of one of its coaches recently, when Ed ‘Moose’ Krause, line coach, was “beaned”
Ed "Moose" Krause
in a golf game. The Moose was playing in a foursome on the Highland Park course in Indianapolis, and was standing on the edge of the fairway, contemplating his next move. An iron shot by Dr. William Wright, president of the club, who was in another foursome, hit Krause on the noggin, and felled the N.D. coach. After a short rest, Moose was able to continue with his game, much to the relief of Doc Wright, who is a staunch Notre Dame rooter.
Irish Trim Camp Custer
By Alex Bisbee
At their first home appearance of the season last Saturday, Coach Jake Kline’s summer varsity nine showed their mettle by whipping a gaudily-outfitted soldier team from Camp Custer, 7 to 3. Andy Phillip, Illinois basketball and baseball star, pitched the Irish to victory with four strike-outs and only two walks.
Notre Dame’s opening inning began with a bang. With the aid of a soldier error it was marked by four tallies. Len Scarpella, outfielder from Santa Clara in California, started things humming fox' the Irish with a triple to left, and scored on the next hit. After that, the home team slowed down a little, and didn’t cross the plate again until the sixth.
The game was highlighted by a freak play, where two soldiers, with the bases filled, were put out on third almost simultaneously by a quick double play.
The last Custer run came in the sixth, aided by an error, and from that point, it was Notre Dame’s game. This seemed to have irked one of the soldiers and his
actions started a stream of ribbing from one of the students. This lasted till the end of the contest, and almost drew more attention then the game itself. Both player and spectator flung jibes back and forth, the student finally winning out with the query: “Why aren’t you in uniform?”
The Irish and Camp Custer play a return engagement next Sunday at the latter’s base in Battle Creek, Michigan.
Score by Innings
N.D. 40 0 0 0 2 1 0 x 7
C.C. 100011000	3
DO YOU DIG IT?
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers;
Ball Band Aids Happy N.D.
Family with Retroactive Pay
By Dick Ames
Remember the Happy, Happy Ball-Band Family of several months ago? Those hardy individuals who left the campus at three or four in the afternoon, crammed their way into the nearest bus and plopped into the Ball-Band Factory in Mishawaka, where they worked like little beavers until twelve?
II
There were several opinions about them at the time they were working. One was that they were crazy, which was probably the most correct. Another was that they were attracted by the pretty girls whom they would work with, which had no foundation in fact at all, since there were no pretty girls. And a third was that they welcomed the opportunity to desert their books and make a little money, which is so base that it is per se out of the question.
Whatever the opinion held by anyone on the campus, it has turned out now that the boys did not have such a bad deal. Last week several of them on the campus got letters from the Family in
I NOW Under ONE Roof I
I	'	I
I	South lietutk Moit	>
|	CGswetueut Stoned	।
Ibruggner ' s
iNEWS CENTER	Q,	CIGAR STORE	8
i 27 W. Washington OQ	110 North Main St.	?
In the J. M. S. Building	j
PAY US A VISIT!
To CHICAGO--and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the: United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.

which they were informed that a pay raise had been authorized for all persons employed in the factory since May, 1942, and that it was to be retroactive from that time. The raise was three cents an hour, and so for some of the more industrious a check for $20 or S30 will be forthcoming in the near future. ’
No one laughs at the boys now. Already half of the money has been promised to room mates for the coming weekend, and by their industry the BallBanders have made themselves members of the wealthier, and so naturally more popular element at Notre Dame. There must be some good in this business of labor after all.
Annual Procession to Mark Feast of Assumption
This Sunday afternoon students will have the opportunity of participating in . an annual procession in honor of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin. This devotion, held here at Notre Dame since 1843, is part of the celebration of this feast of the Church.
The procession will form at Sacred Heart Church and move to the Grotto. A sedan chair supporting a statue of Mary will be carried in the midst of the marchers. This statue, a replica of Murrilo’s Assumption, shows Mary dressed in the traditional white with a blue mantle; the base is decorated with flowers.
This ceremony is attended by many visitors from South Bend and vicinity. The day is a Feast Day for Italians and Polish, and they celebrate it with an all day observance.
Following the procession there will be Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament in the church.
Boston Club to Hold
Meeting Tuesday Night
The Boston Club of Notre Dame held its first formative meeting of the summer semester on Tuesday evening, August 3. Elections were held and an' outline of activities made for the coming year. Bill Carey was elected president; Mike Manzo, vice-president; Frank Dance-wicz, secretary; and Gaspar Urban, treasurer. .
The object of the organization is to bring into close contact all students at Notre Dame from the state of Massachusetts. Social gatherings on campus and dances are planned. It is expected that all Massachusetts men will take an active interest in the club, the largest of its type in existence on campus at present.	i
Plans, were made for the next meeting, which will be held on Tuesday, August 17, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building at 6:45 P.M. The movies of the Boston College—Tennessee Sugar Bowl game will be shown, and Angelo Bertelli the Springfield rifle, and Notre Dame’s pride, will give a short talk. Printed notices of the meeting will be posted on all the bulletin boards.
Sailor: Yes Ma’am, that’s a man-o-war.
Lady: And what is that little Boat?
Sailor: That’s a tug. .
Lady: Oh, of course, a tug-o-war.
12
The MARINES
By Pvt. Lou Riepenhoff
August 5, initial “pay day” for Notre Dame’s Marine detachment, has come and gone, and with it most of the pay. $5.00 laundry “deduction” griper was the Leatherneck who lamentingly claimed he had sent in only thirty-two cents worth of laundry. Next time he threatens to include his mattress, window shades and back issues of Esquire.
Others didn’t mind the first pay’s de
duction too much but figure when “cuts” are made for War Bonds, life insurance, laundry and various other “necessary evils” there won’t be enough left to raise the dust in their G.I. trouser pockets.
Some suggest that the $20-a-month Leathernecks of a few years back must have taught Judo to the natives on the side (or back or stomach) for a nominal
In the
DINING ROOM
of the
LaSalle Hotel
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the Organ
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
fee, in order to survive (which may account for the present scarcity of natives as well as the increase in pay).
Issuance of uniforms last week was also cause for more proverbial marine complaints. One lad claimed that his trousers fitted him like a girdle around the seat and that there was room for a 60-mm. mortar in the waist (plus ammunition). Incidentally, he shied away from Playland Park, where the Lewis Brothers circus was showing last Sunday—says he heard priorities had reduced the circus’ canvas supplies and didn’t want to take a chance on having his trousers drafted for housing accommodations.
Another “Semi-boot” attempted to bargain with the Supply Corporal for an extra khaki cap, claiming that the one issued to him must have been meant for Paul Bunyan. The corporal would not be bargained with, however, and advised the. youth on stuffing paper in the over-sized
“She falls for any man who tvears an Arrow Tie!”
Nothing looks so well on a male chest as an Arrow Tie. Arrow ties are bias cut for perfect-knotting and winkle-resisting. The fabrics (whether khaki* black, or crimson and gold) are top quality, the kind you find in more expensive ties. Be sure to see your Arrow dealer today I SI, S1.50.
ARROW
SHIRTS > TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
* BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
headgear. To which the disappointed but resourceful Leatherneck replied, “What do you suggest, the Neiu York Times?” The corporal appreciated the remark about as much as we appreciated those fatigue uniforms, hence the witty Leatherneck’s head is still swimming in the over-sized headgear.
NROTC Softball Standings
The N.R.O.T.C. Softball League has released its first standings after two weeks of play. They find Decks 1 and
3 tied for the top spot. A rained out game between these two teams will be played Monday evening. Dan Hecht has been the mound star, pitching two shutouts and giving up a total of six hits.

Stehlin Reorganizes Cavaliers;
17 Pieces and Girl Vocalist
After numerous Sunday afternoon ' practices in Washington Hall, the Cavaliers, long a campus dance orchestra, have undergone reorganization. Now known by the name of the leader, John
SERVICE MEN
You are always
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Stehlin, of Sorin, the 17-piece outfit shows signs of genuine quality.
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Seven brass, five reeds, and a four-man rhythm section back of Stehlin’s sax solos. The work of a girl vocalist completes the make-up of the orchestra.
Senior Norm Haeser has written a number of new arrangements to bring out the work of solo artists in the organization. Among the personnel is Tom Butler, a national champion drummer in 1941.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
The Orchestra will make its appearance at the K. C. Ball tomorrow evening. It will also furnish music at the Service Men’s center over the week-ends.
Maestro John Stehlin is a transfer student. He juniors in Pre-med.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
Wranglers Accept Four;
Lawless Gives Paper
Candidates for membership to the Wranglers were the main feature of the meeting held Thursday, August 5. They each gave short talks before the assembled clubs, the purpose of which was to determine their fitness for\entry. As a result four new members were admitted: James Cunningham, Charles Pickhardt, J. C. R. Clark, and Will Puhr.
Another meeting of the club was held yesterday, at which a paper was read by Bill Lawless on our foreign policy . in the East, past, present and future. This was followed by a discussion of the topic by all members.
The E. R. C. has taken most of the Wranglers’ former members, but they stili have a group anxious to cooperate in continuing the life of the organization. The Wranglers is the oldest club of its kind on campus, and has a tradition that is worthy of being maintained even in the war years.
Mary: What wartime job are you doing, dear? .	_
Jane: Trying to land an Ensign.
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS 51.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
14
Martin, N. D. Runner,
Invited to Haegg Handicap
It was announced last week that Frank Martin, frosh-mile star at Notre Dame last season, now stationed here by the Navy V-12 program, had been invited by the National A.A.U. to compete against Gundar Haegg and Gil Dodds at the Randall’s Island Stadium, Wednesday, August 11th.
Because of the new rule laid down by Navy Secretary Knox forbidding Navy personnel from participating in athletic events outside of their own district, Frank was forced to decline the invitation.
The race was designed to push Haegg to a new world’s record for the mile. A handicap aifair, Martin and a pail' of fellow winged foots were due to start with handicaps and pace the “Flying Swede” along the route. Gil Dodds, the “Plodding Parson” from Boston alone lined up a pair of spikes besides those of Haegg’s on the starting line. It was the final American appearance of the cinder star from the Baltic.
Martin from Chaminade High School, Long Island, New York, was one of the standouts on the freshman cross country and indoor teams last year. In the spring, made eligible for varsity competition by the Big Ten ruling, he earned his monogram as a yearling in the Drake Relays.	.	;
In the National A.A.U. Junior Championships held at ’ the same Randall’s Island Stadium last May, Martin finished fourth in a mile field that included the country’s outstanding young track-sters. His ex-freshman teammate and fellow monogram winner, Bill Leonard,
Take no chances on your money being lost or stolen, change your cash into American Express Travelers Cheques. Spendable everywhere like cash, but refunded in full if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 750 for each $100. Minimum cost 400 for $ 10 to $50. For sale at Banks, Railway Express offices, at principal railroad ticket offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
finished a few strides up front in third spot. Leonard is now a private in the U.S. Army.
Glee Club Concert Postponed
The Glee Club, which was to stage the third in the present series of concerts tonight on the lawn in front of the Administration Building, has stepped aside in favor of the U.S.O. show. This concert will be held instead next Friday at 7:15 pan.	.
’ Last Friday night the band presented the second concert, and it was a definite success, as shown by the enthusiastic applause of the hundreds who gathered to hear it. Some of the selections which were most popular were: the overture to the opera “Rienzi,” “My Hero” from the Chocolate Soldier, and “Bolero.” The last was a trumpet trio with band accompaniment.
Economic Round Tabic Meets
The first dinner meeting of the Economic Round Table was held Wednesday, August 11, to which seven prospective members were invited for future consideration. A paper was read by Paul Lally on war and post-war finance.
The new members were notified of their acceptance after the meeting and will attend the next gathering as bona fide members of the club. The membership committee which has been responsible for admitting new members- was made up of Charles Pickhardt, who acted in the capacity of chairman, Paul Lally, and George Hegner.
Before the admissions there were eight men in the organization. The aim of the club is to discuss any problems which have a bearing on economic problems of today, the past or the future.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. -ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton^ MJ). •
15
-----------------------------------------At Adieu Oe. —-------------------------;---------------;-----------
;-----South Bend's Quality Store since 1913----------------—■— -------
- FOR NAVY MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
KNOX
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers’ Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT ’	BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50
RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50
NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SEE THE NEW SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill Made to Measure NAVAL UNIFORMS Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
*—----------- - - ---------------:-------------------_____------________
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers $1850