
What can you buy with twenty 
bucks these days? 
2 All "minor" sports passes 
26 hours and 40 minutes worth of fines at the reserve book room 
3.2 dinners at the dining hall 27.2% of a season's football pass 57.14 % of your "miscellaneous fee" 
OR ·. A subscription to Scholastic 
(your parents will love you) 
Please send_ years of Scholastic to: Name:.·
----'--------'------------­Address:-----,----'------~-----­
.. · City: . State:__Zip:___~~ 
. Please make,checks payable to : Scholastic Magazine·· · LaFortune Student C~nter Notre Dame,IN46556 
, Enclosed)s a·checkfot$20.00 i ·_._·.years = $_--_ 
.. 
On Your Honor Notre Dame experiments with an Honor Code By Matt O'Donnell/ Page 11 Attack! A Saint Mary's perspective on a problem plaguing both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's By Robin Spurr/ Page 17  
Sports. Kicking Off A New Era Notre Dame's women's soccer battles stronger competition in effort tosucceed at varsity level By Manuel Espino/ Page 13 Sportsweek/ Page 16  
Departments Week in Distortiori/ Page 2 MusidPage 4 On Other Campuses/ Page 3 Coming Distractions/ Page 2 Final Word/ Page 23 Hunch Back/ Page 24 Life In Hell/ Inside Back Cover  
Editorial/ Page 22 f Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed . The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those he University of Notre Dame, its administration, nuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials ibited.  
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University oat The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/ycar and back issues are available at $1.00/copyof the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of tfaculty or students.· Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Mabecome the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is proh 

September 28, 1989 

Week In Distortion/Elizabeth Vida 



ajor League 
A Notre Dame student recalls her other first experience ofcollege football 
The sun was slowly sinking as the always a contender, scared us. Orrather, they of the armchair quarterbacks on the sidelines 
Lyons Flag Football team took the scaredthehelloutofme. Ourfullbacksand ,even nodded approvingly as Lyons corn­
field Sunday evening against a wide receivers who went into the game smil-pleted what seemed like a 99-yard touch-tough Badin assemblage. I, as a part of the ing weren't the ones who were facing the down pass, although a bad spot gave us only Lyonsteam,feltasurgeofprideaslcrunched Farley offensive line. I had heard stories a five-yard gain. across the very natural looking astroturf on (Iotsa stories) about the huge Farley offen-The match-up against Badin went a wee bit Cartier field ( which, if you aren't sure, is sive line, and I didn't want three years of better: It was their first game, so they hadn't pretty far away from any-experienced the bone-crush­where on campus). Being a ing, heart-wrenching loss we freshman, novice, football suffered (although some of us player whose only knowledge were happy to just have sur­offootball was gleaned from a vived.) Before Lyons even lot of Bears and Irish games, I took the field for the 6 o'clock had been trying to absorb all game, an enormous entourage the technicalities ofthe Lyons of jogging, cheering female defense in only a few weeks. athletes passed us. Badin Hall 
For all the guys on campus isn't even this big. Then the who cannot imagine girls' in-letters "BP" on the coordinat­terhall football even resem-ing jackets became apparent bling the "real thing, " the andeverythingmadesense. As games would be a shock, as the Lyons team huddled, and they are to a lot of freshmen the coaches imparted their girls who join their hall teams, pearls of wisdom to us, we thinkingthatitmightbealong ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,=-"""----=--_ couldn'thelpbuthear"B-R-E­the lines of high school pow-Lyons Inter-hall team was the victim of several bad calls. E-N P-H-I-L-L-1-P-S" spelled derpufffootball. Thesegamesarenotforthe orthodontia to go down the drain. interhall out several times, as if their large circle of effeminate. These are not primped girls, flag football is not touch football, and real synchronized stretching athletes resembling worried about chipping a nail. We wear eye tackling, although it's not supposed to occur, Notre Dame's football team itself wasn't black-at night games, too. Real referees in often does. enough to clue us in. black and white striped shirts stand in the middle of the field and make real calls like My first play gave living proof to this 
Coach then read aloud an article which holding, pushing, and offsides. This lineper­theory. Three Farley linepeople smiled with 
stated that the top teams to watch in womens' 
son/author knows that they make these calls gleaming, sharp, white teeth as they bore interhall flag football were Farley, BP,because she got called forone ofthem ( unde­
down on the line of scrimmage across from Siegfried, and Pasquerilla West. HAI, we all servedly, of course.) me, leaving me feeling like Little Red Riding shouted-where's Lyons?? Where's South Hood alone in the forest The cadence was Quad?? Within an hour, the Lyons team,Pain is the name of the game, and it was called, the ball was briskly snapped, and my which wasn't even mentioned in the article, certainly abounding in our season opener body was quickly pummeled, landing twenty had soundly defeated Badin 21-0. Jovial in 
against Farley Hall. We lost a close game 8-yards from the ball. Fortunately for Lyons, 
spirit, we marched back to Lyons, amidst the 6, and I lost feeling in both arms. Farley, the rest ofthe game went much better. Some sweet smell of victory and Ben Gay. ¦ 
On Other Campuses 
COLLEGE BRIEFS 
A race in underwear, a sprint without, and the attack of the Banana Slugs!· 
W 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO eed, underwear and the toilet bill. The College Press 
Service has been receiving many news notes as of late 
which could be referred to as slightly "off-color." Ag­riculture students from Iowa State University won the Weed Bowl at the University ofIllinois. Participants had to identify weeds, suggest the correct chemical to kill them, and recognize herbicide failure within a certain period of time. Recently a Michigan State University radio station staged an "Undy 500" foot race in which students dressed only in their underwear competed for concert tickets to The Who. And citing the results of a Cornell University study that determined how to configure women's washrooms, New York Governor Mario Cuomo in July signed a law that will require all public buildings erected in the state after June 1, 1990 to include six toilets for every four in men's rooms. 
Life is a practicum for a Harvard law student who is suing the Law school, the university and the disciplinary board for $150 million. According to an article in the National On-Campus Report, the list of filed• charges reads like the syllabus for Litigation 101: sexual harassment, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, breach of confi­dential relationship, extortion, libel, and defamation of character. The student, accused of rape as well as assault and battery, claims disciplinary proceedings against him are unfair. 
A new fad streaking across college campuses is just that-streak­ing. Each year, the University of Notre Dame has occurences of 
· streaking students in the library around final exam time. Well, the students at Brown University are not content with waiting all semes­ter before bearing their wares. In a story from the Brown Daily Herald, four streakers-three male and one female-made an un­scheduled appearance at the outdoor showing of the movie Jaws. Pursued by a Herald reporter at the scene, they identified themselves with obviously fake names. The streakers said the nude jog was not premeditated. "We were spontaneously moved by the Green's romantic ambiance," said one man. "It was a veritable petri dish o' pokin'." Reportedly, three friends who did not participate chose not to for personal reasons. "They literally had no &*#s," said one streaker. "They were part of a horrible lawn mower accident last summer." 
They're still crying over spilled milk at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house at the University of Connecticut. The College Press Service reports that the brothers recently dropped a plan to get into the Guinness Book of world Records by concocting a 350-gallon milk shake. In what could be an ominous trend in the nation's collective 
I
subconscious, SAE members at Dartmouth apparently had come up ·1 with the same idea. Both chapters gave up when Guinness editors awarded the record to a Bridgeport radio station that managed to mix 
'I 

a 1,500 gallon milk shake. 
:I :i ~ . #_ 
!

r ---I'.__ 
! 
6 ~ 
.cy, 

From the home office in Omaha, Nebraska, the top ten intramural softball teams (preseason) at Creighton University, based on a poll in ,; 
The Creightonian: li 
1. 
Broad St. Bullies 

2. 
No Fat Chicks-Again 

3. 
Dens In Dente 


4. 
Ambulance Chasers 

5. 
Coopers Droopers 

6. 
Delta Chi I 


7. 
Dorks-A New Generation 

8. 
Knots 


9. 
Strokin' 12" Balls 


IO Les' KFC All-Stars The winners will travel to Arizona State University to battle last year's up-and-coming intramural softball stars, the Banana Slugs. Who?. 
Give the people what they want, or at least show them what they want to see. That seems to be the attitude at Daytona Beach Community College where promotion of the school has been taken to new heights-or is it lows? The college appears to have a little better sense of what actually interests students. In a story published by the College Press Service, an attempt to convince students to enroll included a series of sexually suggestive ads in the personals columns of local newspapers over the summer. _one sample: "Single woman looking for intellectual man to discuss English literature, philoso­phies of the Western Worlcl· and to take some classes of mutual interest at Daytona Beach Community College. Signed, Bright Eyes." In another ad, fictional "Sally" offered to let a man who took an air conditioning course at the school take her out to the movies. 

OCTOBER 1-7 
1 9 8 9 


CULTURAL CAFE October 1, 1989 8:00 -11:00 P.M. Theodores 
CULTURE ON THE QUAD 
October 2-6 
12:00 -1:00 P.M. 
Fieldhouse Mall 
FIRESIDE CHATS October 2-6 12:00 -1:00 P.M. 
I.S.O. Lounge 
ETHNIC ENTERTAINMENT 
October 2-6 
4:30 P.M. Fieldhouse Mall 

DAVID LIPPMAN 
October 6, 1989 7:30 -9:00 P.M. Theodores 


TASTE OF NATIONS 
October 7, 1989 
9:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. South Dining Hall 

It's time for the fourth annual Multicultural Fall Festival. Please accept 
this as an open invitation to a week long series of events which seek to 
promote the sharing of cultures and ethnic backgrounds while at the 
same time having lots of fun. 

It's a chance to have a good time while learning about ourselves and 
others. So, come to as many of the events scheduled herein as possi­ble (especially the culminating extravaganza "Taste of Nations'? and get into the spirit of community and family which is mutticuttural/sm. And 
bring a friend. 

We would like to give a special thank you to the Student Union Board for their help with co-sponsoring "Taste of Nations". It's going to be bigger and better than ever. · 
Thanking all of you in advance, 

The Multicultural Executive Committee 
Music/ Jeff Jotz 

R.E.M. Returns With Color 
Michael Stipe and company invade the Notre Dame campus, bringing powerful cuts from their latest Green album. 
. f someone walked into a party in 1984 band", however, does not always imply fun, album in that it seems like a patchwork of 
and put an R.E.M. tape in the stereo, mindless music that's fun to party to. Green their previous albums combined. If you're a 
chances are that the vast majority ofpartygoers would ask the offending person to turn that $#@!%&trash off and put the Loverboy tape back on. Suddenly, in 1987 the band hit gold with the re­lease of Document, mak­ing that difficult transition from the gods of college radio to rock 'n' roll's last hope in a worldofBonJovi and Huey Lewis. Now in 1989, R.E.M. mania is sweeping the Notre Dame campus. Tickets for this Friday's concert are al­most hotter than those for the upcoming USC game. 
Currently, the Athens, Georgia, quartet of Mi­chael Stipe, Peter Buck, Bill Berry, Michael Stipe, Peter Buck and Mike Mills of R.E.M. will perform this Friday night. 
I 

Bill Berry, and Mike Mills find themselves in contains a fine mix of "pop songs" that are fan oftherockin' Life' sRichPageant sound, a bit ofa bind. On one side of the coin, there enjoyable drinking tunes as well as a prime the mysterious Southern sounds ofFables of are the die-hard fans who have stuck with sampling of songs that really display the the Reconstruction, or if you're just one of 
R.E.M. from the outset and are now in danger diverse talent of the band. those Bohemians who thinks that Michael of being alienated from the band because of The album is produced by veteran Scott' Stipe is a genius for our times, Green is worlh iLs mainstream acceptance. On the other Litt who also engineered Document in 1987. a listen today. Oddly enough, I was that hand, R.E.M. is enjoying the fruits of its Green starts out strong with "Pop Song 89," person at the party back in 1984. Now all my labors after being touted as America's best-a poke at Vteir new-found popularity. Other friends who listened to R.E.M. in the past kept musical secret for almost eight years. tunes such as "Get Up," "Orange Crush," havemovedon,usingthewomoutadagethat 
R.E.M.'s latest effort is 1988's Green "Tum You Inside Out," and "Stand" rein-thegrouphas"sold-ouL" Well,Iimploreyou album. Having created some of mankind's force the band's pop star image that would not to follow in the same path. R.E.M. is a finest rock 'n' roll in the past, R.E.M. re-em-make Tom Verlaine proud. On the other bright star in these dark days of classic rock phasizes that they are just a "pop band." Yes, hand, "You Are the Everything" and "World and anniversary tours. While everybody else a pop band in the tradition of Marc Bolan & Leader Pretend" show the band's sensitive in rock 'n' roll is looking back,R.E.M. is one 
T. Rex, the Syndicate of Sound, Television, and poetic side as well. of the few bands that have the talent and the old Cheap Trick and the like. The tenn "pop As a final summation, Green is a good guts to look ahead. ¦ 
News 

Th 
ar Is On 
With George Bush proclaiming a "War on Drugs," how is Notre Dame responding? 


.. 
News 
regulations can have 

According to Betsy 
some hook regarding Pawlicki, Assistant government funds." Direct.or of Resi­The federal government dence Life, use of is still gathering informa­drugs such as crack, tion and statistics as it for­cocaine, and speed mulates policy. A politi­does not appear to be cal appointee from the a widespread prob­Department of Education lem at Notre Dame. spoke with Pawlicki last "We see a Jot more week as part ofan effort to cases of alcohol as gather information from the drug of choice various institutions. here," Pawlicki said. "We discussed Notre "But then, the effects Dame's policies regard­of a drug like cocaine ing alcohol and drugs," are Jess easy to detect. Pawlicki said. "They are One doesn't have the gathering information to drunkenness or the formulate a battle plan, to hangovers one has see what this war is going with alcohol." to mean in a more tangible 
Betsy Pawlicki and Patrick Doran of Student Affairs 
I 
n recent weeks, much attention has been focused on the "War on Drugs" declared by President Bush. The Bush administration has estab­lished this war as top priority and seems prepared, to devote much time, effort and money to this cause. Will Notre Dame be­come a battlefield in this war? How preva­lent is drug use at Notre Dame? 
One student in the 

know offered a different assessment of the drug situation at Notre Dame. "There's not just weed on this campus. There's a lot ofcoke and some acid, too," said the student who wished to remain anonymous. 
Another student expanded upon this assessment. "It's almost all off campus, not on campus." 
Both students did agree on the degree of the problem compared to other uni­versities. "The problem here pales in comparison to everywhere else," said the first student." 
"It's a much less severe problem at this· university. A lot of people are just experimenting here," said the second. 
Patrick Doran, also an Assistant Di­rector of Residence Life, said he agreed with Pawlicki. "My general impression is that there is some drug use, but it's not commonly brought to our attention," Doran said. "It's our hope that because way." Pawlicki said that 
sponse as stated in Du Lac. This is the govemmentrepresentative was sur­specifically covered under the section prised that Notre Dame was not stricter regarding proof of identification for
University Standards of Behavior-

Rights. Responsibilities and Policies. Du Lac reads, "Pro­viding for others, by sale or otherwise, marijuana or any dangerous drug, is considered a serious violation which shall result in suspension or dis­missal. Possession or use ofany narcotic or hallucinogenic is likewise a serious violation which shall result in suspension or dismissal." Pawlicki said that Notre Dame has never been light on the use, sale or posses­sion ofdrugs and that the Office ofResidence Life feels comfort­
abJe with the job it does in this area. those found drinking in a residence hall. As far as the effects of Bush's campaign Jeff Shoup, an Assistant Director of 
on Notre Dame, Pawlicki said that it was Residence Life who is new to the univer­
hard to predict.· "What does this mean for sity this semester, attended a state uni-it doesn't come to our attention, it's not as prevalent-but I can't promise you that." According to Pawlicki, only a few drug related disciplinary cases were handled by the Office of Residence Life last year. 
When a case of drug use is brought before the Office ofResidence Life, it is met with the established judicial re-college campuses? I've talked to col­leagues at other campuses and no one knows what's going to come down as far as a mandate," she said. "At present, there have been no guidelines set down." 
"A great deal may depend upon whether the regulations differ between public and private institutions," Doran said. "In public institutions, violations of 

News 
versity and said that the policies there re­garding underage drinking were quite dif­ferent from Notre Dame's. He cited an example. 
"If an R.A. caught.someone in the hall­way with a beer, the issue would not only be the beer in the hallway, but whether the per­son was oflegal drinking age," Shoup said. He said that at many universities, R.A. 's are provided with a list of the birthdates of those in their section so it would be known if a resident was of age or not. 
"It will be interesting to see if the govern­ment is going to consider alcohol a drug," Doran said. "The university feels that alco­hol is a drug." 
For right now, however, the university must adopt a "wait-and-see" attitude. This war is still in its early stages," Doran said. "The bill requesting funds was justsubmit­ted to Congress. Who knows how long it will be before the guidelines are set down?" 
II 


Jeffrey Shoup, new Assistant Director of Residence Life 

.-... -;· :_.·c;o-,.·:-:," ' 
Winning phot will rec.. . 
RULES: 
1. Submit any color or black and white print of any aspect of campus life 
taken since March of 1989. 
2. 
Print your name, address, and phone number on each photo. 

3. 
Bring all entries to the DOME mailbox in 315 Lafortune by October 13, 1989 at 5 p.m. 

4. 
If your phot9 is selected, you will be contacted to request your negative. 

5. 
All entries become the property of -the DOME and will not be returned. 


· For more information call Madeleine al 239-7524. 
GOOD LUCK! 



News 

0 


University Counseling Center, Drug and Alcohol Educa­tion Center and hall staffs help troubled students 
Often alcohol is not the only problem 
BY MICHELLE ROUANG 

discussed. "I originally went there be-Drugs are a serious problem in cause I was being punished. Instead of 
~;e~~c~o:: ~:~~t:~~ j;;>,~atij~!§x~t~t~:~x ,' ii 
. 

immune lo their effects. Nol Surpris-::·. Office ofSfµ'clen \' air 
ingly, alcohol is the most abus~ substance on campus. A person with an addiction to drugs or alcohol needs help, but does this private Catholic institution hear the cries? Sally Coleman, MA, CAC, from the University Counseling Center be­lieves Notre Dame does a commend­able job. There are two places students can go for assistance: the University Counseling Center and the Alcohol and Drug Education Center in LaFortune. Both of these offices work together in similar capacities. Caroline Kelly, direc­tor of Alcohol and Drug Education, be­lieves her primary role is,"... to serve as an advocate and friend for the students. I'm not there tojudge. It's an opportunity for me to talk with students about their use and the outcomes that have resulted." 
1itied:1irt~tJjf~~tli11 
, · · . · .,, , :, _.' , 
.... to f . 

talking about my 'alcohol problem' the discussion branched out into other things that were bothering me. It allowed me to release aggressions and it left me feeling pretty good," said one student having undergone the alcohol assessment. and counselling program. 
While some students are referred for as­sessments by the Office ofStudent Affairs, Kelly is encouraged by the mim ber ofself­
· 

referrals she has seen recently. "When a person takes the initiative, positive re­sults will occur," Kelly said. Occasion­ally, rectors, friends, and room­mates become concerned with a student's use ofalcohol and find it necessary to learn how to con­
-front the problem. Whatever the case, confidentiality plays a cru­cial role in any situation. "Parents are never notified and the Office ofStudent Affairs will only be no­tified in life-threatening cases," Kelly and Coleman said. "It is im­portant to feel trust in this system and the administration has never threatened that." 

Hall rectors, the members of Notre Dame administration who work and live closest to the student body, are the first helpful contact students with drug or al­cohol problems may encounter. Just as at the University Counseling Center and the Alcohol and Drug Education Center, hall rectors emphasize the importance of their confidentiality, positive attitude, and educational approach. Help for 
News 


these students is sought within the framework of the University. They are not made to feel like foreign elements in their residence halls. In fact, confidentiality is taken so seriously by hall staffs that if a rector, assistant rector, or R.A. inappropriately divulges pri­vate information about a drug or alcohol case, they will be relieved from duty. . 
One particular student that has undergone alcohol counseling views the referrals from rectors as part of the problem with the system. The instances lose importance because of the numbers sent over. They send such an influx ofpeople, it contributes to the 

reason the people working over there don't seem so interested. Because of the numbers they have difficulty distinguishing be­tween the people who do and don't have a drinking problem," said the student. "It didn't deter me from drinking. It just made me more conscious of what I drank and how much. They're totally removed from the situation. I don't know how much they really help people," continued the student. 
Punitively, the University will never take action against a student who comes in for help. "We are a service to students. We want to teach students that every choice has a consequence ... that's all part of maturity. The key is to stimulate choices about limits. Perhaps the best way I can phrase it is 'Don't say no, just say whoa!"' Ifa student neglects to say "whoa," and the matter persists, action will be taken through community service, fines, or a referral to one of the centers. 
When a referral is necessary, the procedure is totally painless and, in fact, can be a very positive experience. Assessors use ques­tionnaires and informal interviews to identify "red flags" in a student's use of alcohol or drugs. If a problem is apparent, Coleman says the procedure is, "to stay in school, get off alcohol, get some support through student meetings and attend counseling sessions." All of these steps are necessary in getting on the right road again. 
The University of Notre Dame's primary goal is to direct its students down the right road. Although some may find this med­dling, the end result is often a positive one according to the people in charge. Ill 

SPECIALS: 

VIC'S SPECIAL: 
EVERY TUESDAY GET $1.00 OFF ANY GIANT 14" OR 18" SUB. 

II ALL-AMERICAN" SPECIAL: 
GET ANY 7" SUB, SMALL DRINK, AND POTATO CHIPS ALL FOR ONLY $4.00 PLUS TAX. VALID EVERY MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, TIIURSDA Y, AND FRIDAY FROM J_O P.M. -1 A.M. 

6 IT. PARTY SUB: 
GREAT FOR "FOOTBALL" WEEKENDS! ONLY $49.95, ORDER ANY TIME BEFORE MIDNIGHT FRIDAY! 


FRb.b. Db.UV6.,zf' 
Z.7/-0//3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
(Business 31 -Roseland) 



Features 

On 
our Honor 
Notre Dame experiments with an honor code 
BY MATT O'DONNELL 

Two years ago the academic council decided to have an honor code imple­mented on an experimental basis at Notre Dame. So far, student and faculty reaction to the code has been somewhat mixed. The results of a survey of eight hundred randomly chosen students con­ducted by the honor code committee in J anu­ary of 1989 show that there is both some acceptance and some confusi,on surrounding the honor code This indication came particu­larly in response to one question asking stu­dents if they thought the honor code should continue, discontinue or if they were "uncer­tain" about it. "Two-thirds of the students either opted for continuing or were uncertain," said Father Oliver Williams of the Honor Code Committee. "ltookheartfrom that part ofthe survey and I think that its been quite success­ful to this point." "A lot of the students who replied put some time into responding," said com­mittee member Kristen Stamile. "I think that's a success. Its a success if the students become educated enough to say 'I don't like it' At least it's an educated decision." Another survey is being conducted this year which will include the opinions of both stu­dents and faculty members. However, problems ofimplementa­tion and misunderstanding do exist. "The 
September 28, 1989 
more people learn about it (the code), the more they like it, but a lot ofpeople don't take the time and really don't have the time to learn about it," said Stamile. "The ideals . behind it are wonderful. It'sjust the implem­entation that isn't always what it should be. Coming down from the administration, the time it was implemented-the middle of last 

year (1988)-that's the biggest problem with our class." 
In light ofthis a short booklet aimed at clarifying the code has been drafted and issued to students. In addition, at the sugges­tion of students on the committee the new fifteen minute video emphasizes the reasons rather than the rules of the code. "The last video proved to be ineffective," said student 
committee member Mike Shinnick. "We  
decided that we needed a new one."  
One area where these new educa­ 
tional aids could have a significant effect is in  
overcoming student resistance to the non­ 
tolerance clause, which requires a student to  
take action against "dishonesty on.the part of  
others" by reporting on incidents ofcheating.  
However, according to Stamile, there are a  
number of alternatives which students over­ 
look.  
"We do have some options in the  
handbook," said Stamile. "Something that  
we'.re recommending, I don't know if it will.  
be accepted, would be for a student to talk to  
a faculty member without mentioning any  
names.just to discuss the situation, seeing if  
any action is to be taken. Just to get some  
guidance so you don't have to make the  
decision on your own. The first part of the  
honor code is personal integrity and if that is  
upheld, there's not going to be a problem  
with non-tolerance." The recommendation  
of speaking to a faculty member about a ,  
possible violation without mentioning names has been listed in this -year's honor code  '; 1  
handbook.  i  
According to Williams, the prob­ 
lem with the idea of non-tolerance did sur­ 
face in the results of the survey. "Most of  
those who opted todiscontinue(thecode) felt  
they didn't want to turn their friends in," said  
Williams. "The students who have under­ 
stood an honor code or been at schools where  
they have honor codes felt strongly that once  
11  

Features 
our student understands the full ramifica­tions ofwhat the expectations are in the honor code, that won't be a stumbling block. Very seldom will it come to having to turn a friend in because the climate will be such that it will be very unlikely that your friend will be dis­honest. There are middle steps where you can talk to a friend before you actually hand them in. It's a problem within our code that many feel education will clear up eventu­


ally." 
Williams and other faculty mem­bers see non-tolerance as part of the entire education process and vital to preparation for professional life. "I think the non-tolerance (clause) is hard both for faculty and stu­dents," said Professor Stephen Batill, the college of engineering representative on the committee. "Ifyou see someone in trouble, who's having a problem, the homeless per­son iil the street, the alcoholic, the person who obviously is stealing something, being dishonest, its easy to say 'that's notmyprob­lem. I'm going to walk away from there. That's not my responsibility. He got himself into that position.' One of the features of the honor code is to tell the individual student that you do have some responsibility for your fellow person. And that is one of.the funda­mental things that Notre Dame is based on. And it is an imposition. Yes, a big imposi­tion. It may be one of the more difficult things that ever happens to somebody, but I think it's all part of the education." 
Another faculty member on the committee echoed this idea of education through the non-tolerance clause. "Maybe we want to try to get people to think this way so that in the future let's say you're a bond traderno Wall Street," said professor Ronald Weber, the Arts and Letters representative to the committee. "You notice the guy next to you is doing something dishonest. Do you let it go? Let's say you're a medical doctor and you know one of your fellow surgeons is incompetent. Do you let it go? Maybe there is a carryover in which it's important to in some sense be responsible for the ethical conductofothers as well as for yourself. And so maybe you can argue that this second side to the Honor code has educative value." 
Students appear to be obeying the non-tolerance clause by reporting other's dishonesty. Father Williams could not recall a student ever turning himself in for a viola­tion, which would mean that those violators who are caught are the result of either the non-tolerance clause or faculty reporting. "There have been more (reported) honesty violations in the past two and a half years than when professors were actually proctoring exams," said student chairperson Melissa Smith. "So, I think its working. You can't have a code ofhonor that doesn 'tcommityou to the code as well." 
Finally, one response to the starting ofan honor code at Notre Dame would be, "Is it really needed here?" Given the already existent emphasis on Judeo-Christian values, an honor code might seem superfluous to some. However, advocates disagree, point­ing out that cheating does happen. Commit­tee members also emphasize that the point of the honor code is educational, not putative. 
"I don't think it's extra," said Ba till. "I don't perceive it as something that's needed or not needed. I believe it has a place here. Ifyou look in the academic code in du Lac, you will see that there's only a slight difference between what's there and what has been formalized here (in the code). We're really not changing much of any­thing." 
"By making it (the code) part of the academic environment, it's inculcating stu­dents on a day-to-day basis," said Shinnick. "Its notdesigned to catch cheaters, but to get people to think about honesty and integrity on a day-to-day basis." 

Looking ahead, honor committee chairperson Melissa Smith predicted that this will be a year of change in the honor code. "We'reevaluating the code of honor we now have as to whether we should be making any changes," said Smith. "Students over the past two and a half years have come up with some good questions, some problems which can be easily resolved." Smith predicted that the honor and honesty committees will tend towards solely student membership, with faculty and administration representatives serving only as advisors rather than actual committee members. 
In 1991, when thefour-yearexpcri­ment ends, a decision will be made to keep the honor code, perhaps with modifications, or abandon it entirely. Smith predicted that this ultimate decision could be made by ei­ther a vote of the faculty senate, or perhaps a campus-wide student referendum on the 

code. 
An important factor in determining the outcome may be the level of student involvement with and acceptance of the code. "Certainly ,-the opinion ofstudents will be crucial (in the final decision)," said Wil~ Iiams. By naming a student to be head of the honor code committee and appointing more students to the various departmental honesty committees, student involvement has been increased. "If we're going to have one (an honor code) here that's good and effective, it should be entirely student run," said Weber. 
Scholastic 

------,·-----.---~·--..:::.,-,., ---~ -~ -~ . 

.. 
Sports 


Kie 
I Bl 


e 



r 


Notre Dame women's soccer battles stronger competition in effort to succeed at varsity level 
Paul Webb 
BY MANUEL ESPINO 

W 
ith only five returning starter. s, a shortage ofrecruits and over­all inexperience plaguing them, the Notre Dame women's soccer team has taken strongly to the university's "Year of the Family" declaration. They have faced troubled times on the playing field in only their second year of varsity status, yet are sticking together through a rough start. 
Describing the team itself as a "family," Head Coach Dennis Grace feels that unity is the team's major strength. "Everyone gets along; (there are) no conflicts of personal­ity," says Denise Chabot, a freshman wing halfback. "Even ifwe lose, losing brings us closer." 
Presently, family unity is just what this Irish squad needs. The team has taken a prolonged skid in 1989 following a highly successful varsity debut last season. Their record stands at 2-6 through Sunday, as opposed to last year's impressive mark of13­5-1. However, some feel that this season's win-loss record is not a fair indication of the 
·team's performance. "It [the record] doesn't 
show how hard we've played," says junior 
left forward Mimi Suba. 
"We have a lot more skill than some of the 
teams we've.lost to," says senior co-captain 
Joy Sisolak. "We have the skills to win." 
Despite having lost such key players as 

Debbie Ho and Kama Spencer to graduation 
and Kelly McCrystal to injuries, Grace feels 
the team has adjusted well. 
"We're a much better team this year than at 
any point we were last year," says Grace. "If 
September 28, 1989 13 
. I 
Sports 


we continue to play hard, as we have, the 
'W's' will come in time." He quickly 
points to the strength of this season's sched­
ule for the pronounced difference in rec­
ords. 

"We would rather lose games to teams such as Madison [Wisconsin-Madison], the number three team in the nation, than to schedule teams we know we can beat," says Grace. Despite the tough start the Irish have played competitively, holding their own against the better teams. Notre Dame has dropped a few close matches, including heartbreaking losses to Minnesota and Louisville. The Irish took the latter contest into overtime, only to drop a 1-0 decision. 
Grace sees defense as his team's primary building block. "Ifwe have a good defens~. we can build from there," he says. The defense is led by goalkeeper Michelle La­dyga and fullbacks Karen Weigert, Shan­non Jenkins, and Deb Skahan. This unit has perfonned well of late, allowing only five goals in the last three games. 
But while the defense has shown its abil­ity, the offense has yet to get on track. In a 3-0 loss to Michigan State last Friday, the Irish were unable to capitalize on their few opportunities at the goal while the Spartans converted an early first-half chance to give them the victory. 
Although the Irish offense has shown it can move the ball, the unit has been unable to con­sistently gener­ate goals. Notre Dame domi­nated the tempo ofthe Louisville contest, keeping the ball on the opponent's side of the field for most of the game, but was unable to put the ball in the net. 
Louisville's lone score in the overtime period sent the frus­

trated Irish to their second consecutive loss. 
The Irish have shown the ability to score with frequency in their two victories. The Irish won their opener against St Joseph's (Indiana) by a 3-0 tally while downing West­ern Michigan 3-1 last Wednesday. Unfortu­nately, the only other game in which they have notched a goal was a heartbreaking 2­1 loss to Wisconsin­Milwaukee. Notre Dame hopes to carry the momentum of high-scoring victories into contests against the tougher opponents. 
"Goals are gonna come eventually," says Siso­lak. 
Grace, however, feels critics give the team too much credit when it wins and not enough when it loses. He is quick to ~raw a parallel to his first-year men's soccer team of five years ago, which had the worst record 
ever ofany team in Irish soccer history. That 
squad has progressed to the point where they 
now stand as the defending Midwestern Col­
legiateConfcrencechampions with hopes of 

returning to the NCAA tournament, as they 
did for the first time in 1988. He feels the 
women are on the same track and deserve the 
benefit of a similar five-year plan. 
A lack offull-scale recruiting is another reason Grace cites for the team's current struggles. Notre Dame was unable to recruit the nation's top players due to the university's decision to delay promoting the team from club status until January of last year. By then it was too late to recruit heavily, as most of the nation's better play­ers had already committed to other universi­ties. This year's team is comprised primar­ily of recruited freshmen, sophomores, walk-ons, and a handful ofjuniors and sen­iors. 
The Irish began a ten-game home stand last Wednesday with their win over Western Michigan. This extended home stint will be a prime opportunity for the young Irish team to benefit from its experiences on friendly turf. They will have to do it in a hurry, though, as the year will soon end. The team winds down its season by participating in the Virginia Classic October 21-22, while closing out the year with a tournament at Dayton the following weekend. 

Despite a losing record thus far, Grace feels the team will be successful shortly. "I'm not into predictions or anything like that, but I predict this team will be a lot better soon," he says. 
Although this year's squad appears to have more talcnlthan last year, a rebuilding task still lies ahead. Grace looks to refine the skills in his younger players and adapt them to the style of play that has been so successful forhisrecentmen's teams. With only five returning starters on a young, inexperienced team, it is impossible to expect a season along the lines oflast year's NCAA men's team. The Lady Irish, how­ever, look to quickly tum the tables on a frustrating start. ''.Don't count us out," warns senior co-captain K. T. Sullivan. As long as they stick together, the future looks bright for Grace's "family." 
Sports 
PaulWet:b 

Notre Dame's defense has allowed only five goals in the last three games. 

Sports 

COMPILED BY BRIAN MCMAHON
p rt w ek 
The men's and women's cross country teams will host Loyola, Providence and Marquette among others at the National Catholic Invitational on Friday, Sept. 29. The men will be looking to repeat as champion while the women will attempt to improve on last year's sixth place finish. 
Men's coach Joe Piane expects continued 

leadership from senior captain MIKE i-,-,--=====~===.,.-, 
O'CONNOR and TOM O'ROURKE and a more consistent, balanced effort from the rest of his squad. 
Tim Connelly's women's team w{Il be lead by LUCY NUSRALA and TERESA LEMAN­SKI 

The Irish won the Lady Greyhound Invita­tional at Indianapolis last Thursday with a com­bined total of 327 strokes, establishing a new tournament record. Notre Dame was led to its first victory of the season by freshman KATHY PHARES, whose score of73 won the tournament. Her total was the lowest in the seven-year history of the event. 
The team travels to East Lansing this week­end for the Michigan State Invitational at Forest Acres Golf Course. 
::s~i~Jj[jJ~"J; r:n••·; 
• ~i~t,;~i~,o/
,. ~fflEWEEk 

I . 
:J3t~:tft::~ 
)itt~ffs;f~tlrf~fij 
;:M~½i~~~tiil 
· . the; season.at the 
;;t~~V:W:;!IW~~?~.;···•··,. 
···; 

The men's golf team travels to the Glen Oaks Tournament in Glen Oaks, MI on October 2 for their second of four tournaments this fall. The Irish will close out their fall schedule at the MCC Tournament October 8-10 and the 16th Annual Buckeye Fall Classic in Columbus, Ohio October 13-15. 
The Irish (see story, pg. 13) recorded their second win of the season last week, beating Western Michigan 3-1 behind K.T. SULLIVAN'S two goals. The week closed on a sour note, however, as Notre Dame lost 3-0 to Michigan State on Friday and 1-0 to Louisville on Sunday. 
The Irish will try to improve on their 2-6 record this week at home, playing Michigan on Sunday, October I and St. Joseph's College (Rensselaer,IN) on Wednesday, Oct. 4. Notre Dame defeated St. Joeseph's 4-1 meeting this year. 
Freshman ANDY ZURCHER and senior MIKE WALLA CE won their respective flights at the Navy All-Conference Tournament last week. Irish coach Bob Bayliss took four freshmen to the tournament and was pleased with their adjustment to the college game. 
Notre Dame will host the Tom Fallon Invita­

~======== 
competition. 
Notre Dame is idle until October 13 when they travel to Bloomington for the Hoosier Con­verse Classic. 
The Irish showed signs of improvement last weekend at the Tiger Volleyball Classic at LSU, beating Oklahoma and battling Houston and LSU to narrow losses. Freshman JESSICA FIEBELKORN and junior AMY WHITE were named to the All-Tournament Team for Notre Dame. 
The Irish have this weekend off before re­turning to action on Oct. 4 against phio State on the road. 
r:-::================1 
tional Friday through Sunday, September 29 to 1----"'==-======="" 
October 1, at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
. The Irish fared well last week at the Sunity Life Tennis Classic. Sophomore TRACY BAR­TON won her first collegiate title at the number one singles flight. She teamed with freshman ENIKO BENDE to. take third place in doubles 

The men's soccer team posted a 2-0-1 rec­ord last week, beating Loyola 4-0 and Michigan State 4-1 while tying Marquette 2-2. The shutout was senior goalkeeper Danny Lyons' second in a row and 15th of his career. 
The Irish have two home games this week, playing Indiana on Friday, September 29 at 7:30 
p.m. and Wisconsin on Sunday, October I at 2 p.m. 
Features 


A _Saint Mary's perspective on a problem plaguing both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
IlY ROilIN SPURR 
Sunday, September 17, a St.

0 n 
Mary's student was returning from 

the Michigan game, walking through the McCandless parking lot with two cases ofsoda when a woman approached her and offered her help. The student agreed, thinking nothing of it, and they proceeded to LeMans Hall. On the way up, the conversa­tion ·was trivial; however, the woman did mention that she was not a student at Saint Mary's and that she was here visiting friends. She said that she enjoyed popping in and out of people's lives. This comment seemed strange to the student, but she ignored it. She also expressed her gratitude for.the student's hospitality because she had felt in the past that nobody liked her. The .student wondered why people didn't like her because she seemed pretty nice to her. The woman then asked ff they could be pen pals. The student thought, "Sure, why not?" She explained ihat she had very little time to write letters but that she would try. They exchanged addresses. 
Two days later the student received a letter  locating their home address and calling them  
from this mysterious woman. The woman  at home during the summer. Since the letter,  
lives in Michigan City, has a two-year old  the student has received a number of visits  
child, and seems to travel to South Bend  from her. Most of the visits were unsuccess­ 
ful because the stu­ 
dent was not in the  
room, but her room­ 
mates relayed the  
message. She seems  
harmless but at times  
she has become  
slightly hostile in  
wanting to know  
where the student was  
located.  
The student re­ 
ported the woman to  
the security office.  
They told her that the  
most they could do  
would be to issue a  
repeatedly for unknown reasons. The student  warning for trespassing and then if she re­ 
mentioned her to some friends and discov­ turned to campus, she could be arrested (this  
ered that she had been harrassing them for  offense in the state oflndiana is considered a  
· over a year. She even went to the extent of  misdemeanor). Later that night, when the  

Features 


woman came to visit the student, the student who looked suspicious I probably wouldn't security to begin with. Bambenek stresses suggested that they go for a walk. The report them unless they were bothering me," the importance of reporting suspicious per­woman stated that she had left her baby in the Maria DeRosa, a student at Saint Mary's sons as soon as they are seen. The sooner car and wanted to go there. The student had admitted. .Sergeant Phil.l~ambenek, of Saint security hears about crimes, the better chance doubts about the woman's intentions and Mary's security, stated that more reports they have ofcatching attackers, harrassers, or 
insisted that they walk the other way, "to get have been made recently due to the current thieves. Furthermore, the chance of security some exercise." 
· · informing students She brought her to 

sooner of personsthe security office 
whom they should and said, "Here is 
look out for is then my friend that I was 
increased as well. 
telling you about." 
Security is also Security issued her concerned with stu­
a warning and she 
dents who walk 
signed a document alone around cam­
stating that she pus at night. Bam­would not return to benek advises stu­
campus. Whether dents to have an es­
or not she took the cort when going to warning seriously the library, between is questionable. 
dorms, and espe­
The student 
cially to and from the thought that her at­
parking lots. Stu­
titude about sign­dents. often refrain 
ing this document from calling security was rather noncha­for escorts because 
lant. 
either they don't The woman from want to be a burden 
Michigan City was or they are not com­described as 5 '5", fortable with their 
about 130 pounds, state of mind at the 
and dark hair about time. In either case, shoulder length. 
the student's safetyShe has reportedly is more importantbeen harrassing . Security is more than students for over a willing to escort stu­year and is un­dents across campuswanted · on Saint after dark, and stu­Mary's campus. 
dents should take ad­
Stories such as vantage of this serv­this have become ice, accordingto Ser­commonplace on geant Bambenek. 
the Saint Mary's Although the main campus. The num­areas of concern are 
ber of crimes that the main drive and 
have occured at the parking lots, eve­Saint Mary's and rywhere on campusNotre Dame lately 

is dangerous to stu­have created a scare; thus more suspicions rate of crime on campus. Contrary to the dents. In an infonnal discussion Karen Arm­have been reported than usual. In the past, beliefs ofmany students, security infonns the strong-Ingram, the front desk clerk at Le­many students have held back reporting sus­student body of every crime that is reported. Mans, complained that the times when a picious looking persons to security, for vari­Other stories that may circulate are either student is most vulnerable is when they have ous reasons. "If I saw someone on campus rumors or the crimes were never reported to been drinking or they are angry or upset. Un­

Features 

fortunately these are also the most common times for a student to avoid calling security for a ride. After shuttle hours, rides from Notre Dame to the Saint Mary's campus are also avail­able. The NC>tre Dame security pro­vides rides tcf the edge of campus where the Saint Mary's security will then meet and drive the student to her dorm. These services are provided for the safety ofSaint Mary's students and should be utilized, says Bambenek. 
In terms of dorm safety, the front desks in each of the dorms are very careful in who they allow to enter. Ac­cording to Armstrong-Ingram, very rarely has anyone been attacked inside the dorm. She recalled one time when there was a gentleman who walked right by the desk. When she,followed him and questioned I:!_is direction, he ignored her until she continued to fol­low him, at which time he exited the building. Fathers of students have oc­casionally caused suspicion but in the history of Armstrong-Ingram's job, they. have not caused any serious alarm. · 
Security provides safe rides, and desk clerks try to keep the dorms safe; however, students feel that this type of caution should not be needed in the first place. "It's scares me to know that I can't safely walk alone from my dorm to the library at such a high class school," said Katie Riley, a freshman at Saint Mary's. However, as Karen Armstrong-Ingram said, South Bend has grown immensly in the last couple decades and crime increases as popula­tion increases. South Bend citizens have easy access to both the Saint Mary's and the Notre Dame campus. BecauseSaintMary'sisaprivatecam­pus, security can issue warnings and arrests for unwanted trespassers. Bambenek says that the only way they can issue these warnings is if students will report the trespassers. In other words, security and desk clerks· do what they can to protect the students, but the students need to contribute also by reporting what or whom they see and when they see il Ill 

Show Off Your Bad Attitude With An 
I SWEAR TO GOD I 
DIDN'T DO IT T-SHIRT 
Other Slunni11g Designs: 
• SCHOOL IS HELL 
• LIFE ,IN HELL mu: Cla.mr, 
• BONGO 
• WORK IS HELL 
Send to: ­
Life in Hell P.O. Box 36E64 LA, CA 90036 
Include ad, Indicating size & style. 
ks. delivery. Free catalog 

FILMS 
"Accidental Tourist" with Kathleen Turner and William Hurt. Cushing Auditorium. 
CLASS NEWS 
Junior Class Dinner at Bruno's. 
Tickets on sale for the Junior Class Fonnal to be held October 6 at the Century Center from 9p.m. to la.m, Tickets are $20 and available until Oct 4 in the Junior Class Office. 
Ice Cream Sundae Social for Gradu­ate Students. 4: 15p.m. in the Library Lounge. Sponsored by Graduate Student Union Women's Resource Committee. 
LECTURES 
Brown Bag Lunch, 12:00p.m. in Room 101 Law School. "The Peace Movement of the 1980's--A Personal Account," by David Cortright, Visiting Faculty Fellow of the Institute for International Peace Studies and fonner executive director of SANE. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
SPORTS 
Volleyball. SMC vs. Lake Michigan College. 6:00p.m. at St Mary's. 
CLASS NEWS 
Alumni Senior Club open forlunch. 
FILMS 
"The Last Temptation of Christ" at Annenberg Auditorium, 6p.m. and 9p.m. 
"The Accused" at Cushing Audito­rium. 
SPORTS 
Men's Tennis. Notre Dame/Tom Fallon Invitational. 9:00a.m. at Eck Pavilion. 
Women's Tennis. SMC vs Taylor University. 3:00p.m. at St. Mary's. 
Men's Soccer. Notre Dame vs. Indiana. 7:30p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
LECTURES 
"Three folds of degree 9 and 10 in. " by Professor Mauro Beltrametti, University of Genova. 4:30 p.m. in room 226 CCMB, with coffee room 201 at 4:00p.m. 
CONCERTS 
R.E.M. in concert with special guest NRBQ. 8:00p.m. at the JACC arena. 


SPORTS 
Men's Tennis. Notre Dame/Tom Fallon Invitational. 9:00a.m. at Eck Pavilion. 
Women's Soccer. ND vs University of Michigan. 10:00a.m. Moose Krause Stadium. 
Women's Soccer. SMC vs University of Michigan. 1 :00p.m. at St Mary's. 
Men's Soccer. ND vs University of Wisconsin-Madison. 2:00p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
SPECIAL 
Cutural Cafe with entertainment and refreshments from around the world kicks off the Fourth Annual Multicultural Fall Festival, a week-long event 8:00p.m. to 11:00p.m. at Theodore's. 
FILMS 
"Rear Window" at Annenberg 
Auditorium, 7p.m. 
"Rules of the Game" at Annen­berg Auditorium, 9:15p.m. 
DISCUSSION 
Fireside chats as part of Multic­ultural Fall Festival. ISO Lounge 12:00-1:00 p.m. Pro­fessor Jim Bellis of the Notre Dame Departmet of Anthropol­ogy. "Reflections on Living Abroad". Free lunch included. 
FILMS 
"Italian' Americ;an / Big Shave" at Annenberg Auditorium, 7:00p.m. 
"So is This Snow/ Michael" at Annen berg Auditorium, 9:00p.m. 
DISCUSSION 
Fireside chats as part of Multicul­tural Fall Festival. ISO Lounge 12:00-1:00 p.m. Hanna Eid, Pal­estinian Notre Dame employee. "Sharing the Palestinian Experi­ence." 
NVANEWS 
IH Racquetball Deadline (Singles--Men and Women). 
Grad--Faculty Racquetball Deadline (Singles--Men and Women). 
Co-Rec Water Polo Deadline. 
DISCUSSION 
Fireside chats as partof Multicul­tural Fall Festival. ISO Lounge 12:00-1:00 p.m. Marcia Sawyer, Notre Dame Department of His­tory. "The Importance of Main­taining Family Ties in African­American Families;" 


The Land of Make-Believe 
T 
he issue of safety on and around campus has been investigated numerous times over the years, and each time Notre Dame and
i. i: Saint Mary's show themselves to be some of the least danger­ous schools in the United States. We clearly do not live in the same environment as the University of Miami or USC; however, there is still no excuse to treat our campuses like Mister Roger's Neighborhood. We commend security's practice of escorting women to and from the parking lots and similar places where a surprise attack could not only be frightening but deadly. In the same vein, women should use this service whenever they feel their safety even slightly threatened. We, in addition, suggest that all students stay away from the lakes and areas on the far edges of campus unless they go with at least one or two others, including a male. This is not mentioned to be sexist, but rather to emphasize the fact that many attackers would_just as soon wait for another victim than take on a fight. Finally, if a conflict appears likely, get away. Run, scream (yelling "Fire!" tends to get noticed a lot more than "Help!"), and don't look back until you've reached safety. A little common sense should prevent just about anyone from ending up in a life-threatening situation. Your mommy may not have been so wrong after all when she told you not to talk to strangers. Security does its best to keep suspicious figures off both campuses. However, they do, to some extent, lack power when it comes to the first report ofan unusual character. Security must be alerted of such incidents as soon as they happen so thata more harmful meeting can be avoided. There is only so much security can do after you are attacked. 
llilll 

Scholastic 
Final Word 
POW-
IA's 
An issue still unresolved 
By Matthew Langie and Victor Fehrenbach 

F act: An American Special Forces Intelligence Team · developed information from over 50separatesourcesbetween 1981 and 1984 which confirmed over 30 American POW' s being held in Laos in Communist prison camps. Fact: Two Americans saw and photographed two -American POW's in Laos in November 1981. Fact: In northern Laos, a Laotian passed within arm's length of 5 U.S. POW's, all thin, handcuffed, wearing ankle chains, and tied to each other with rope. "Those are American POW's," the guard said, "we have fifty of them in this camp." These three facts are just a small part of the many pieces of evidence proving the existence of American prisoners of war (POW's) in Southeast Asia. Throughout this month, the Arnold Air Society (a service organization affiliated with Air Force ROTC) has worked to promote an awareness of this issue in the ND/SMC community. Moreover, AAS has been involved in recognizing and honoring those American servicemen and women who were held and arc still being held against their will. We feel it is important to remember these people in our prayers and fight for their freedom.You may ask yourself"What can I do about this issue?" One thing you can do is write your congressman or senator expressing concern for your fellow Americans. Your elected representative will be sensitive to your interest and can help resolve this injustice. One man who has actively pursued this issue is Senator John McCain (R, Arizona). In a speech last year he expressed his concern with this story: 
"Duty, Honor, ountry-Let me tell you what I think about our Pledge of Allegiance, our flag, and our country. I want to tell you a story ofwhen I was a prisoner of war. I spent 51/2 years at the Hanoi Hilton. In the early years of our imprisonment, the North Vietnamese kept us in solitary confinement, or two or three to a cell. In 1971, the North Vietnamese moved us from these conditions ofisolation into large rooms with as many as 30to40 men toa room. This was, as you can imagine, a \\'.onderful change. 
One of the men who moved into my cell was Mike Christian. Mike came from a small town near Selma, Alabama. At seventeen, he enlisted in the U.S. Navy. He later earned a commission. He became a Naval flying officer, and was shot down and captured in 1967. Mike had a keen and deep appreciation for the opportunities of this country and our military. · 
The uniforms we wore in prison consisted of a blue short sleeve shirt, trousers that looked like pajama trousers, and rubber sandals that were made out of automobile tires. As part of the change in treatment, the Vietnamese allowed some prisoners to receive packages from home. In some of these packages were handkerchiefs, scarfs, and other items. Mike got himself a piece of white cloth, a piece of red cloth, and f~shioned himself a bamboo needle. Over a period of a couple of months, he sewed the American flag on the inside of his shirt. 
Every afternoon before we had a bowl of soup, we would hang Mike's shirt on the wall of our cell and say the Pledge of Allegiance. I know that saying the Pledge of Allegiance may not seem the most important or meaningful part ofour day now. I can assure that, for those men in that stark prison cell, it was indeed the most important and meaningful event of our day. 
One day, the Vietnamese searched our cell and discovered Mike's shirt with the flag sewn inside, and removed it. That evening they returned, opened the door of the cell, and called for Mike Christian to come out. They closed the door of the cell, and for the benefit of all of us, beat Mike Christian severely for the next couple of hours. 
Then they opened the door of the cell and threw him back inside. He was not in good shape. We tried to comfort and take careofhim as well as we could. After things quieted down, I went to lie down to go to sleep. As I did, I happened to look in the cornerof the room. Sitting there beneath the dim light bulb, with a piece of white cloth, a piece of red cloth, another shirt and his bamboo needle, was my friend, Mike Christian. Sitting there, with his eyes almost shut from his beating, he was making another American flag. He was not making that flag because it made Mike Christian feel better. He was making that flag because he knew how important it was for us to be able to pledge our allegiance to our flag and country. 
Duty, Honor, Country. We must never forget those thousands of Americans who, with their courage, with their sacrifice, and with their lives, made tfiose words live for all of us." 
We hope that, as responsible members of the ND/SMC community, each of you will help fight for the release of those Americans still held in Southeast Asia and will not forget who helped fight for our freedom. ¦ 
Hunchback By Greg Delate 


I, 
!I., , 
I 
I 
i I 
!,I 
I 
l 
1
~ 

t 
i 
,. 
' 
! 
l. 
YOU RE ALLOWED TO COME HERE AND 7AKE CLA5SE5 1 BUT UNDER No ClRCUmSTANCES ARE YOU TO f3E fUNN~ UNDERSTAND? 
-\;p: 
-·~ ~~­
I-A.~~ 


WITH somE HOT == .SJ-IDT CARTOON 
~ 
t 
( 
CHARACTER 
{1;H0 1S UND[R 
PRDPOJJ¾~N-.. 



24 



A ,glJf..-L\~E t-JP.TUe.E. P\OVE.IJT\J~l:o. • Pl'\llT '1 
fog_ Tue OU<..t:: LI NG S' 
11-\ITT 1-'l\C:>ITT I "i~E.o AtJO 
"TUl2rJW, I Fc.t..""t BETAA"'E-0 e,':! ,HOSE. At-llMATEo CAlffiXJH) 1,J 1..Ut\lC.H Tl-1.t. Mti.MA OUC.t:. t,hJOGE.<; 1-lU!.. BABIES OUT of OA..X:.EJL. t.J R£.A1.... L-lFE., Ouc.'c.<; JUST STA,JO ARour-JD, Q\lAC\:::..1wG. 

Oi:JE. OA':11. C..01.JL.OIJ'TTA-\::E. "T\-lE. Sf-.\OC:, AiJ'j MOQ.E, So I 
PAC~'D uP ANQ MoJED tO TuE. BE:AO:\, Wl-l~ I 'FOUIJ'O A Bl& Due.~ \J)l--n\ A SMALL­1-\EAO \.,ll.lt,JG IIJ t-1.1.j BAC.\::.'1AW. 
T\\&:l \.,'h.lQA CAME TQl/1<;;1T, 
Ar,m c; HE:. Ai.}'Q OE.SOAAI-\ 
A.l'lV 1. QQ.O\JE.. C)ou.)~ 7D 
I Fl....)At..L':, FE.LL ASLE.EP 
AtJo HAV A l-.l\61-ffMAeE 
THAT I WAS Bf-1,JG Cl-fASEc;,
Blj G1~..n-DUct=~. 
QuAck­
k:
uA . 
(I',) 

11ATEO Q\JAC.l:::1.JG WO~£. I-IE. u . 





1 LO0~E:0 ()\Jl" THE.. <,.ll.JOOw 
ANO SAw FROST'1 WAt>Vt..1oJG A\,l... O'JEP-THE !:1ARO, QU.1¥..l::1,J(, 1=0/2.L0/2.JL.'1 i=oe l-lE.12-L.OIT 
BP.BIES, Bl-Ac.t::11:.. ,(\l'JCI 12.t.l.ir::J JUST FOU..o.))E.0 ALOivG, 
PE..E.P1NG ~ISEJ2.AS1...',

' QvAo::
• Qt1At1' 
FR.oST':::1 CME."lb VE.Pf.~O ~ Q,J"'T\-1.E. ~~FAST CEQEA~:::: 1 H .. CI I-I.Ee. ~ 
I> 
-----~ ~ j 
lhlO Tl-lITTS I.JH&J I 60T-n-lf.. BRll,I...IA.J-r IDEA TO (:,0 Bu', H2.DST':, A ~B,J E!,u.JCt>-OF 
€.ABY ouo::s: ! E..UER'fTI-11..iG 
t.J ll..L TuRN QIJT GRE..ITT ! 
\j 
I 
N E:.XT: TEN MGey ouc.1::s 
.......-~---,.-~--~~,~-==--, 

~-+~-At•-........ ~~ 
~
. .... . . ----..,. . 
Program Guide 
Instant Request Line
'''''''''V~l,m 
. · 9-2.39-5400
Fall 1989 

#iiAiiiiiM a \/P&"W 64 
.. t·h'
Th}}ese are ;.· -e oices f the 






