si South Bend Tradition .. .
Fine Foods at the
OLIVER HOTEL
An invitation to Junior Prom guests and to Notre Dame men all during the Lenten season.
SHORE DINNERS
(Served with Rolls, Butter and choice of Beverage)
Broiled Whole Live Lobster.......................... 1.75
Melted Butter, Shoe-string Potatoes and Cole Slaw
Baked Whole Maine Lobster, Thermidor................ 1.75
Julienne Potatoes, Pickled Beet Salad
Ried Deep Sea Scallops______________________________ 1.00
With Bacon, Remoulade Sauce, Idaho Baked Potato
Ried New York Count Oysters......................... .85
Tartar Sauce, Long Branch Potatoes and Sliced Cucumbers
Broiled Salmon Steak, Anchovy Butter.’.............. .90
Parsley Potato and Chef's Salad
Planked Resh Lake Trout or White Fish Steak.......... 1.00
Garnished with Assorted Vegetables, Idaho Baked Potato and Marinated Tomatoes
Resh Gulf Shrimp a la Newburg in Casserole.......... .85
. Melba Toast, Shoe-string Potatoes .
Fillets of Halibut.................................... .85
Saute in Butter with Sliced Mushrooms and Julienne Potatoes
Fish Received Fresh Daily
OLIVER HOTEL
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
— RAYMOND J. KELLY	। --
the most popular professor; a leather medal is given to the person rendering the greatest service to the University; and a suitable award is made to the outstanding member of the Senior class.
Time Marches in Circles
On Feb. 2, 1918, a petition, signed by more than 400 members of the University of Wisconsin faculty, was filed with the Wisconsin State Historical Society. These faculty members had been most emphatic in their utterances and their petition had been given wide-spread publicity. In a recent issue of the Daily Cardinal a photostatic copy of this “round robin” appeared. It declared:
“We, the undersigned resident members of the faculty of the University of Wisconsin of the rank of instructor and above, protest against those utterances and actions of Sen. Robert LaFollette which have given aid and comfort to Germany and her allies in the present war; we deplore his failure loyally to support the government in the prosecution of the war. In these respects he has misrepresented us, his constituents.”
Later, after the hatreds and prejudices of war had died down, an attempt was made to remove the petition from the files of the Historical Society but the request was denied. Sen. LaFollette himself opposed the action, preferring to have the document remain as a historical record.
This paper has been brought out and published, and many editorial conclusions drawn from it because of the action of some 80 faculty members in drawing up a petition, recommending that Congress adopt a policy of aid to Britain “not necessarily short of war,” and condemning Philip and Robert LaFollette for their opposition to the entry of the United States in the present conflict.
Cooperation on the Campus
Many cooperative groups have sprung up on our American campuses in the past few years, and many of them are doing remarkably well. Some, the Tower Club at the University of Detroit for example, give the out-of-town student attending large city schools, an opportunity to enjoy good meals and lodgings at a minimum cost. A cooperative eating club is being organized at Princeton as a protest against the high cost of membership in the private eating clubs. The Northwestern student-faculty bookshop is in its second year and going strong in face of a price war. However, much
as we come to accept cooperatives as part of the campus scene, the old Parade was taken aback when it discovered that St. Mary’s had gotten the cooperative spirit. The girls from across the tracks are buying their stockings under a cooperative system. They claim that they can save ten cents on each pair of hose, which should mean that sometimes in the not too distant future they will be able to buy and carry their own cigarettes.
❖
More Rewards
Each year, Sigma Delta Chi holds its Gridiron Banquet for the faculty and BMOC’s of Indiana University. Modelled on the dinner held in Washington at which the members of the Press Club satirize and slander the nation’s bigwigs in song and story, this Hoosier feast takes the professors over the coals. The profs are allowed an inning in which one of their number gives a speech, delving into the public, private, and unprinted life of each member of Sigma Delta Chi. Usually, these affairs are tremendously successful though they leave a flood of red faces, both faculty and student, in their wake.
At the conclusion of the dinner, a brown derby (this year, one of Al Smith’s private stock) is presented to
❖
More Truth than Poetry
The Daily Princetonian recently ran a random list of little known facts that should be part of every student’s store of knowledge. The writer expressed the wish that the producers of “Information Please” would soon be seeking his services.
There is enough oil in the feathers, or whatever they are, of a duckbill platypus to fill a quart jar the size of an ordinary Grade A milk bottle.
The internal application of seven ounces of ethyl alcohol every day in the college year for three and a half years not only corrodes the liver and fattens the heart but will cost you $942.35.
After the age of 35, according to insurance statistics, your chances of being hit by a meteor are not materially -affected by your type of employment.
The duckbill platypus would like to migrate north in the summertime like a regular waterfowl. “Nothing cooking around this hole from the Fourth right through to Labor Day,” says a representative platypus. “Nobody but old lady koalas and kindred jerks around here. Not another honest-to-gosh sport left in the place. Can you blame me?”
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF-^
Top of the Week
Junior’s night out. . .
It won't be long now
From the Feb. 14 Scholastic . . . “Splinters has been informed by an unimpeachable source as to who will direct Notre Dame’s athletic destinies next year. The unfortunate thing for you, dear reader (note singular), is this. We promised not to reveal our secret until Saturday morning, March 1” . . . We can hardly wait. . . .
*
If you're a N. D. man You:
Drum on your plate with a knife and fork while waiting for nature’s latest mistake . . . use 9 bars of soap a year . . . get your hair cut on campus twice . . . once for experience and once for the thrill . . . drop beer cans down the laundry chute . . . write letters on the back of religious bulletins . . . try to get a fourth for a cab, or bridge . . . try to get a fifth for basketball, or, of Scotch .... struggle for the last row in class . . . have your grandmother get sick on Friday night . . . exhibit yourself in the caf after dinner with the “T” shirt brigade ... go to “the rock” once or twice . . . never go back unless you’re a philanthropist or a social worker .. . call engineers “punchy” and then watch them get the best jobs . . . never go to a movie in Washington Hall unless you’re broke or mean . . . wonder why chickens have so many legs . . . write home every two weeks . . . .play pool your freshman year, handball as a sophomore, golf as a junior, and play out as a senior . . . consider a good peek worth two finesses . . . bum smokes in cycles and are bummed in turn . . . never get undressed until the lights go out . . . never come from Puckerhuddle Junction, it’s “Near Philadelphia” . . . read Esquire furtively in Walgreen’s. . . take off your hat in church . . . only . . . cross off days on the calendar . . . yell when the home town gets a blow in the movies . . . are always broke . . . use that electric razor when Bob Hope is on . . . go to the library just to see the “bookies” . . . try out TTS for the Oliver All-American . . . get twenty pieces of green for ten bucks worth of books . . . then sell them and use
roomie’s . . . argue over the supposed merits of A.B. and Commerce . . . leave if a prof is five minutes late . . . average a movie a week . . . laugh condescendingly at some prof’s antediluvian humor . . . listen religiously for the swish of a letter under your door . . . then blankety-blank the mailman . . . get most of your exercise running from a taxi at 11:59 ... go to Rosie’s on Friday night . . . yell at those white sweaters at the basketball games . . . never use toothpicks in the dining hall . . . should see what was cut out of this column. . . .
More from Moreau
It was Sociology class . . . the old embroglio about environment versus heredity . . . Bunny Hayes was wringing the sock for good old heredity ... “I believe that it’s like the father, like son, If your dad’s a lawyer, chances are that the son will be one, too. It’s that way in everything.” ... At this point he was interrupted by a young seminarian, “That wouldn’t work in our case. . . .”
4*
Promenading
Rush to get locked in before you get locked out. . . Explain to her where you got that set of tails . . . Top hats with tan polo coats . . . ugh! . . . You’ll have to introduce her to that girl from “the rock” . . . Get cold feet on Saturday and go to the tea dance . . . She’s bound to say Jack Russell sounded just as good as Ray Herbeck . . . Keep her as far away from your roommate as possible . . . Await your reception from the wolves when you manage to make the Georgia Tech game . . . Cut classes Saturday morn, but she won’t get up until noon . . . Borrow an extra, fin from Father Butler . . . Live in fear of running into that girl from South Bend . . . Explain to her that everyone can’t be on the committee . . . that orchids aren’t being worn this season . . . that it always blows like that here . . . one way or another . . . that anybody you don’t know must be a senior . . . Come back to your room on Sunday night and count the number of days until Easter again. . . .
Bottom of the Week
The groundhog who thought he saw his shadow. . . .
OPINION
(To get the student’s opinion on next year’s team this reporter canvassed every hall on campus. Most students thought that Coach Frank Leahy has a?i opportunity to produce a good team because of the abundance of material and because of his ability. Here are some of the opinions received.).
In view of the fact that Notre Dame has a new coach what do you think of the team’s chances for a successful season in 19'tl? -
Lyons Hall, John Flynn: “I think that our chances for a perfect season are better than they have been in several years due to the fact that Mr. Leahy plays a more open brand of football. I am confident that he will put more life in the team.”
Morrissey Hall, Bill Costello: “Notre Dame always has a chance for a successful season. Undoubtedly, she never fails to have one of the greatest teams in the country. Mr. Leahy produces fine-spirited, able teams. Here at Notre Dame, he should produce the best in the land in as much as he has proved himself to be an able coach. He has the ‘goods’; our boys have the ‘goods.’ Together, we should be invincible.”
Howard Hall, Bill Fallon: “With the signing of Frank Leahy, I believe that Notre Dame’s chances for a victorious football season have been greatly enhanced. If Mr. Leahy can transmit the modernized concept of the Rockne system, as well as the constant stimulation of new plays to Notre Dame, he can easily find his place among the Irish immortals.”
Off-Campus, Maurie Kelly: “Next year, we should have a better and victorious team. The main thing is that there will be more spirit. We will have a strong line because Leahy is a great line coach. With the exception of one opponent we should have a successful year. That opponent is the conscription bill.”
Dillon Hall, Joe Sheedy: “I think that we are going to see a different type of | football — more open instead of con- j servative. Our chances will be better 1 because of Frank Leahy’s ideas on foot- I ball. Leahy is certain to go far in the I future because he has the support of I every student at Notre Dame.”	1
Walsh Hall, George Wurth: “In viewg of Leahy’s record at Boston College, we j should do well. He did a good job there® and with our material, plus a little luck.fi we should make a- clean sweep next® year.”—Bob Nenno	8
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
FEBRUARY 21, 1941
Number 16
Monte Carlo Motif Decoration Theme For Junior Prom at Palais Tonight
Ray Herbeck's Band Featured
The Junior Class, aboard The S. S. Monte Carlo, will weigh anchors tonight at 9:30..... Black silk top-hats and
white gloves will be de riguer.... Guests will throw dice for favors.
Monte Carlo, a small town in the principality of Monaco, has been notorious for its gaming tables since 1856. To the north of the bay on the rocky slopes of the Spilugues are grouped the various buildings of the Casino of Monte Carlo with the elaborate gardens and the numerous villas and hotels which it has called into existence. Equally unique will be the decorations for the Prom, which will do no less than transform the Palais Royale Ballroom into a gaming boat, situated in the azure waters of the Mediterranean. Arch MacLeod, chairman . of decorations and James F. Purcell-have concocted this nautical atmosphere.
In keeping with this very original idea, General Chairman James J. Fayette, of Burlington, Vt., has been commissioned “Admiral” for the Cruise. His guest, Miss Cathie Rutherford, has been appropriately named “Queen of the Fleet.” Miss Rutherford, whose home is in Chicago, Ill., will wear a white evening gown trimmed in sequins.
As “Commander,” The Monte Carlo will have Junior Class President Eugene J. Schumaker, of Milwaukee, Wis.; and Miss Mary Gertrude Leidgen will accompany as his cruising partner. Miss Leidgen, who attended Mount Mary College in Milwaukee, Wis., has chosen for her attire a white chiffon dress and tiara, sprinkled with rhinestones.
The S. S. Monte Carlo will sway with rhythms from the “Music with Romance” of Ray Herbeck and his orchestra, who will be on board in their official capacities of “First Mate and Ensigns” re-specively. From his orchestra, which was formed five years ago on the campus of
the University of Southern California, Herbeck recruits a trio, a quartet, a quintet, and a glee club. In addition, every member of the outfit is the master of an entertaining specialty. Also, as an Auxiliary Motor, the boat will be equipped, with Jose Miguel’s Cuban Rhumba Band, the favorite of Chicago’s society.
James P. O’Laughlin, chairman of patrons, has invited the following couples as patrons for the cruise:
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Schumaker; Mr. and Mrs. Leo F. Eckman; Mr. and Mrs. Walter P. McCourt; Mr. and Mrs. Elmer F. Layden; Mr. and Mrs. J. Arthur Haley; Mr. and Mrs. James E. Armstrong; Mr. Thomas M. McDonough and Mrs. E. J. Dickson.
Tomorrow afternoon, Feb. 22, from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. will find all passengers attending the “Captain’s Tea” at the
Ted MacDonald, Jim Fayette, and Gene Schumaker talk over plana for tonight’s Junior Prom.
gayly decorated Indiana Club. Music will be furnished by Jack Russell’s orchestra which has recently been playing at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. Saturday night at 8:00 p.m., promgoers will witness tactical maneuvers in the form of a basketball game between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech.
The Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., prefect of religion, has made arrangements to reserve the center aisles of Sacred Heart Church at the 10 o’clock Mass on Sunday for the promgoers. This section will be reserved until 9:50, and if necessary, a Mass will also be said in the Basement Chapel. Girls from St. Mary’s College will be allowed to attend this Mass.
The following are the chairmen of the various committees, their respective guests, and committeemen:
Decorations—Chairman Arch MacLeod and Miss Mary Louise Patriquin; James F. Purcell, John B. Carney, Raymond J. Eichenlaub, James J. McFadden, Charles A. Tobin, Thomas W. Tearney.
Music—Chairman Theodore H. MacDonald and Miss Corinne Reifers; Thomas J. Walker, Thomas J. Fitzharris,
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
John I. Kelley, Floyd F. Richards, Charles F. Nelson, John J. Rivait.
Tea Dance—Chairman Stephen G. Graliker and Miss Dorothy Huff; James F. McNulty, William M. Hickey, Harold F. Beal, Bernard A. Crimmins, Robert E. Wright.
Tickets—Chairman Walter P. McCourt and Miss Janice Zimerer; Carroll P. Pitkin, Charles W. Cavanaugh, John F. Brown, James C. Brutz, Richard J. Lajoie.
Patrons—Chairman Jas. P. O’Laughlin and Miss Virginia Burns; John W. Gilbert, Edward J. Dickson, Michael S. Kelley, Robert E. Hagan, Michael L. Hines.
Publicity—Chairman Neil J. McCarty and Miss Marianne Donahoe; Stanley V. Litizzette, Charles M. Kearney, William B. ’ Madden, Robert R. Longpre, Douglas McDonald.
Favors—Chairman Donald B. McNally and Miss Mary Helen Madden; William 0. Regan, Anthony A. Rinella, Byron V. Kanaley, Paul E. Patten, James J. Galt.
Program—Chairman Robert W. O’Hara and Miss Marie Margaret Fox; Emmett A. Moran, Anthony P. Donadio, Otto B. Molidor, William E. Scanlan, Hugh A. Mallon.—James P. O’Laughlin
Universal N. D. Night
To -be Monday, April 21
For the 18th consecutive year, Notre Dame men throughout the world will pay simultaneous tribute to Alma Mater on the night of Monday, April 21, James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, announced this week.
The successful pattern of the past will be reproduced in the 1941 program. A radio hook-up will present a nationwide program to alumni and friends. The 93 Local Alumni Clubs of Notre Dame men throughout the world will hold simultaneous meetings. A special observance, to be arranged, will mark local participation.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, prominent alumni, the new director of athletics and head football coach, Frank Leahy, and one or more of the campus musical organizations will undoubtedly be heard on the national hook-up.
The theme of this year’s night will be Notre Dame men. It will present a picture to the world, of the type of man who represents the University. The interest and drama of life at Notre Dame makes this theme rich and varied. This subject will form the central phase of the local and national programs.
Jackson Chung Opens Curio Shop in City
That the Chinese are not only lovers of wisdom but also — to quote a rather hackneyed platitude — “darned clever,” — is proved quite decisively by Benedict Jackson Chung, the 26-year-old war veteran who fought Japanese invaders and then fled his native China to study engineering in the United States. .
In order to carry on his inherited in-
Jackson Chung
stinct for practicality as admirably as he does his thirst for knowledge by his studies in mechanical engineering, Chung, just a few weeks before last Christmas, rented a small shop with window space, in South Bend, and straightway began ordering stock for his new curio shop.-
His store is at 107 W. Jefferson boulevard, opposite Kresge’s, and is actually a part of the dry cleaning shop next door. But Jackson has considerable space for the display of his curios which are varied and interesting enough to whet the curiosity of the most whimsical oddity seeker. Ranging from ancient and delicate jewelry, intricate wood and ivory carvings and beautiful laces, to porcelain pieces, novelty art objects made from cork and, of course, tea, the stock is strictly Chinese. As Jackson cautions us, it is also genuine, being imported indirectly by him from China, through a Chicago company. Chung has decided to keep his establishment open indefinitely.
But Jackson’s exquisite knack for practical business does not end there. For the lady - proprietor of the dry cleaning shop also takes care of his sales and is relieved by him between five and six o’clock every day. Jackson pays her on a percentage basis, but — and here’s the master stroke — whatever goods remain unsold are sent back to the importing company without loss. And unless the lady makes some sales she receives no commission. Thus he is protected from loss all the way round; his rent is only 20 dollars per month,
which is considered cheap by the economical Mr. Chung; and the sales of his curios provide books, spending money and incidentals. In the words of Mr. Chung: “I cannot afford loss; and, (in tones slightly reminiscent of that classic situation of the Chinese laundryman, the ticket and the shirt) if there are no sales, there is no percentage and no loss. I can only gain.” Which seems like very sound Chinese business logic on Mr. Chung’s part.—Richard Powers
Professor A. R. Troiano
Receives Hunt Award
For presenting and publishing the outstanding scientific paper of 1940 Prof. A. R. Troiano, of the University . of Notre Dame department of metallurgy, received the Robert W. Hunt award at the annual convention of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers in New York City last week.
The paper for which the award was made was entitled “The Crystallography of Austenite Decomposition” and was done in collaboration with Dr. A. B. Greninger of Harvard University. Prof. Troiano and Dr. Greninger will present another paper at this year’s meeting.
Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Notre Dame department of metallurgy, attended the annual dinner and meeting of the national honorary society of Phi Beta Kappa at the Hotel Astor in New York City on Tuesday.
Dr. Menger Believes Monopolists Overrated
Dr. Karl Menger, head of the department of mathematics, told the members of the South Bend Association of Commerce Monday afternoon in the LaSalle Hotel, that the fear of monopolistic power was a superstition that is overrated.
Dr. Menger traced the influence of mathematical economics on contemporary thinking and said that monopoly is not necessarily a good or an evil.
“If the monopolist is his own master — that is if he is without government interference — he can produce as much as he pleases; however, if the monopolist tries to sell his product, the price is still regulated,” Dr. Menger asserted.
Scrip
Manuscript for the March issue of “Scrip,” campus literary quarterly, should be sent to Editor Felix Pogliano, of 367 Alumni Hall by Monday, Feb. 24.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
SENIORS TROD ADMINISTRATION STEPS FOR FIRST TIME
Washington Day Exercises Tomorrow
•
Mounting the steps of Washington Hall in 1897, Charles M. B. Bryan led his class to the first Washington Day exercises in which the seniors took an active part, by presenting a new flag to the school as a symbol of their patriotism and devotion. Tomorrow morn-• ing at 10 o’clock the class of ’41, 600 strong, will climb the same steps that 44 classes before them have climbed, led by their president, Charles Dillon.
Since its beginning in 1845, the observance of Washington’s birthday anniversary has been carried on interruptedly and with little deviation except for the inclusion of the Seniors in the exercises in 1897.
The presentation of a new flag to the University by the seniors was suggested in 1897 by the Rev. Martin Regan, C.S.C., then prefect of discipine. This year the new flag that rises to replace the old on commencement day symbolizes again Notre Dame’s three-fold allegiance, “For God, Country, and Notre Dame.”
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., will accept the flag on behalf on the University tomorrow, the part played by Father Regan in the first presentation ceremonies.
Timothy P. Galvin, noted Indiana lawyer and supreme master of the fourth degree of the Knights of Columbus, will give the main address.
The class ode, symbolizing the dignity and sentiment attached to the 109th anniversary of the birthday of the Father of Our Country, will be read by Felix Pogliano, senior from Denver, Colo.
Mr. William Cotter, ’41, will give the latest oration of the day as 44 years ago, did Mr. Edward Brennan, ’97, the first.
WASHINGTON DAY PROGRAM
Chairman ....................................Robert Joseph Fitzpatrick
College of Arts and Letters
Processional .........................................    Saint-Saens
“March Militaire” Symphony Orchestra Washington Day Ode ..................................   Felix	Pogliano
College of Arts and .Letters Overture ................................................     Luigini
“Ballet Selection” Symphony Orchestra
Washington and Public Opinion ................. William	Edward Cotter
College of Commerce
Address in Presentation of the Flag to the University...................Charles	Edward Dillon
College of Arts and Letters
President of Senior Class
Address in Acceptance of the Flag......Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
President of the University
Address...............................Honorable	Timothy P. Galvin, ’16
Attorney-at-law, Hammond, Indiana
The Star Spangled Banner—Francis Scott Key________________Audience
(Orchestrated by George Joseph Sauter, '38)
Recessional ................................................ Sousa
“March” Symphony Orchestra
Music for the occasion will be furnished by the University Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke. All will stand and join in the singing of . the national anthem at the close of the ceremony.
Significant'is the fact that the seniors, clad in their traditional black graduation gowns, will be assembled as a group for the first of the series of like affairs leading to what will be for many the end of their Notre Dame careers, commencement in June.—Jack Sprague
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By James Meaney
Thomas J. McGee, of Brooklyn, rooms
in Sorin sub with his philosophy twin,
John MacCauley, also of New York; to
Thomas McGee
gether they make up the pair, “Essence and Existence.” Tom is “Existence.” He not only rooms, but lives with “Essence.” They have shared rooms for three years and majors for two; it was politics first brought them to
gether their freshman year. They both respect Tammany Hall and avidly defend the Democratic party against all comers.
Swimming was a major sport for Tom in high school, and he was greatly disappointed that there was no pool here. So he tried his hand at freshman football, and in track the next two years he was kept dizzy chasing the two-milers around the gym. The Rockne Memorial brought back his first love, and he can be seen almost daily cutting the water under the trained eye of Gil, the swimming coach. He made the only point for Sorin in the recent interhall meet.
Tom has been conservative in choosing his extra-curricular activities. Besides being chosen by Mr. Coyne as a Varsity debater, he can be seen rubbing his philosophical chin at any Schoolman meeting. He was recently elected to the very choosy Wranglers’ club.
Summertime finds McGee enthroned on the top of a beach tower, protecting his share of the millions of New York City’s holiday bathers. He has personally saved more than one person there. Last summer he enlisted in the United States Naval Reserve. It seems that he will continue at least for a while with the Navy, because just the other day he received orders to report for duty on the training ship U. S. S. Illinois on June 12.
McGee is as Irish as his name, and correspondingly hot-headed. There was almost a house-cleaning the time a bucket of water came splashing down from an upper floor of Walsh. A friend happened to be near enough to hold Tom down until he cooled off. And last sum
mer when a naval officer said that the famous Notre Dame - Ohio State game was “fixed,” well, that officer doesn’t realize yet how close he came to being tossed off the ship!
Tom is high up in the circles of the Catholic Action students. And besides his philosophy major, he has reached into the College of Commerce for accounting and into engineering for math, to balance up his course.
Watch for news about McGee from the Wranglers’ Manchester trip, his initial jaunt.
Holy Cross Fathers
Founded Mission in 1853
It is for a cause half-way round the world that the popular Bengal Boxing Bouts are waged. For in the eastern provinces of Bengal, India, the Holy Cross Fathers founded their mission in 1853 in the territory known as the Dacca diocese. It is one of two dioceses organized by the Holy Cross Congregation in India, the other, in Chittagong, having been established by the Canadian members of the Order.
Fifty priests and brothers have been sent from the seminaries here at Notre Dame to teach and labor among the pagan Indians. Aiding them in this work are eight sisters from the congregation at St. Mary’s. Of the 22,000 Catholics in the Dacca diocese about one-half were converts during the last 25 years. The percentage of Catholics in India — about 4,000,000 in a population of some 360,000,000 — indicates the great difficulty under which the missionaries must labor.
Hindus and Mohammedans make up most of eastern Bengal, the latter predominating in Dacca. In the city of Dacca there is a Mohammedan mosque that stands directly opposite the Catholic cathedral. Two large high schools, one with 1,000 children enrolled and the other with 500, are situated in the city and are directed by the brothers. Several other orders of nuns assist the priests and brothers, Our Lady of the Missions, the Sister Catechists, and the Society of Catholic Medical Missionaries founded by the Rev. Michael M. Mathis, C.S.C., now instructor of religion at the University. The latter conducts a health center for children. The heroic workers in the Bengal Missions must not only break down the barriers of paganism but must contend also with the most humid climate in the world. Although the temperature does not usually exceed 100 degrees the humidity makes it almost unbearable. Cholera epidemics are
frequent and malaria is at all times present, always threatening the lives of the ardent missioner.
To carry on the work of the mission properly and efficiently a number of sub-stations have been sprinkled throughout the diocese. These are administered by native catechists (usually married laymen) who teach children, conduct evening and morning prayer and instruct the pagans. There are about 150 native catechists in Dacca. Native priests are also recruited from the ranks of the Indians, trained at the theological seminaries in other parts of the country, and are sent out among theii’ people. In Dacca 12 native priests help the hard-working missionaries.
The present European war has affected even remote Bengal for the task of supplying men and money for the missions must of necessity be ignored by Europe. This means that the responsibility falls upon the shoulders of United States citizens. Up to the present there are 16,000 priests in missions and 54,000 nuns. Of these America has contributed less than 10% in priests and less than five percent in nuns. Therefore the task devolves upon the Americans to keep up the great work being done by the missions all over the world.
—Richard Powers
Architecture Department
Becomes 4-Year Course
A four-year course in the department of architecture becomes effective this semester replacing the regular five-year course. This has been announced by Mr. Francis W. Kervick, head of that department. The change in schedule was accomplished by dropping three subjects and cutting the hours of another.
The subjects dropped are: the history of Western Europe, usually taken in the sophomore year; a foreign language, ' taken in sophomore and junior years; and surveying, taken for one term in the junior year. Mathematics in the first year has been cut from six to three hours a week.
Adjustments in the schedules of all students have been made in accordance with the new plan, enabling them to get their degree at the end of four years. Thus fourth year men will graduate this i year instead of next. Fifth year men	1
who, at the time of the change, had	j
completed four and a half years have | left school and will receive their degrees 1 in June at the regular time.	|
—John A. Lynch |
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE
Prof. Frank O'Malley New Wrangler Adviser
There was talk aplenty in the Coral Room of the LaSalle Hotel on Feb. 11 as the Notre Dame Wranglers held their annual Induction - banquet. Present at the affair were the members of Alumni Hall’s champion debate team, Professor Francis J. O’Malley, new moderator of the society, and the six new members who were admitted last week.
After outlining the history of the Wranglers, which is Notre Dame’s honorary forensic society, President John O’Dea introduced the new members. The six men recently elected to member-
Prof. Francis J. O’Malley
ship are: Thomas F. Carty, Alumni hall; Thomas J. McGee, Sorin hall; Charles M. Kearney and Neil J. McCarty, both of Dillon hall; James E. Donohoe, Howard hall; and James L. O’Dea, of Breen-Phillips hall. These men were selected on the basis of their activity in the forensic projects of the University. Over 40 men applied for admission to the society.
Howard hall, four-time winner of the Inter-Hall tournament, represented by Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., rector, received the Victor F. Lemmer Debate Trophy which is now retired. A new trophy, named in honor of the retiring Wrangler moderator, the Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, was presented to Alumni hall’s rector, the Rev. Henry G. Glueckert, C.S.C. Father Glueckert accepted the trophy from Milton Williams, Wrang-ler coach of Alumni’s championship team. Alumni defeated Dillon hall in the finals, thus gaining the first leg on the new trophy. Members of the winning team include: Thomas F. Carty, Joseph P. Mulligan and Paul J. Vignos, who were awarded engraved interhall debate keys.
John O’Dea explained the origin of the (Continued on Page 22)
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
Of course, the big event of the past week was the signing of and the arrival of the new head-coach of football. The only comment we feel competent to make at this time, is this: tweeds will be seen on the side-lines next year instead of conservative blues.
* * *
After the athletic goings-on, the senior class meeting was by far the most significant operation of recent days. All the students who attended the convocation learned that “something is wrong” with the men of forty-one. And indeed something was wrong. The seniors heard also that a spirit of loyalty must be cultivated. And surely it must. But we refuse to believe that any successful adjustments can be made by using the methods proposed. You see, a senior party has been arranged as a sort of cure-all. Now if we know our parties, and our party-goers, we see nothing but disaster ahead. There can come nothing out of this party but continued disloyalty, and some broken bones.
* * *
The most startling remark offered at the senior meeting was that of the Alumni-head, who, reviewing the possibilities for the injection of the young men of the University into war, said: “But whether you come back or not, you will still be a Notre Dame man.” Now we really do not think that the fellows who do not come back will care very much what they are. A nice, quiet church-yard will be good enough for them.
* * *
There is an enlightening sign posted in the Law Building. It hangs in a section of the hall used only by faculty members and so has special importance, we think. It says (nay, shouts): “Don’t spit chewing-gum in the drinking fountain.” If it were not for the notice, signed “Janitor,” we would never have suspected professors of such activities. We hope that they refrain from sticking used chickle underneath chairs.
* * *
Not long ago we mentioned that defense preparation, in the form of barbedwire, had been erected in the main quadrangle. Lest anyone think that we presented a distorted view of the current situation we refer him to the same main quadrangle, where, during recent days, trenches have been dug, and very deep trenches at that. Now if things are so bad as present precautions seem to in
dicate, some concrete aid should be sent to those people who are defending Freedom and Truth. If Mr. W. Willkie is willing to send five to ten destroyers, the University should consent to ship one or two of the shells that are rotting in the boat-house. And how about those cannons which stand in front of the Commerce Building? A return to action would, we think, do them a world of good. At any rate, let us drop this defeatist attitude, and these negative measures; we have had an intense loathing for trenches ever since “The Big Parade.”
* * *
There is a new special Mass for seniors these Sundays. They are allowed to attend Mass in relative seclusion now. And although we are not sure, we think we know the reason why. For it has been said that a “new era” exists at the University at the present time, a new group predominates. But only in the lower classes I The senior class, ironically enough, is the last “poor class” to graduate. Now that special senior Mass has been arranged for either of two reasons, we think: either the University is ashamed of the class of forty-one, and is trying to keep them under cover like one would a poor uncle or an alcoholic aunt; or else the University feels sorry for the penurious seniors, and is putting them in a little dark nook so that they might sneak their pennies (and buttons) into the collection box without becoming embarrassed.
* * ♦
Another manifestation of the new era at the University can be found in the plan to have two (2) orchestras for the Junior Prom dancers. One of them being, of all things, a society rhumba band. Back in the old days, and they were not so long ago, any fellow who could make noise was good enough for the Prom. In fact, a short young man with hot lips, and five or six gesticulating relatives was accepted and applauded at one of the recent Junior dances. No matter what one says about the old era, one must admit that they were charitable.
♦ * *
A fellow we know is anxious to learn if, with all the changes being made in the athletic world of the University, Mike is to be given his walking papers. It occurs to us that Mike could always report to the track coach and win a job as an assistant. We have seen worse hurdlers.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Watercolors by Hanley	If Father Lang Would Only Talk
on Display in Library	------------------
An exhibition of water colors by Francis J. Hanley of the department of fine arts at the University, is currently being shown at the Wightman Art Galleries in the library and will be open to the public through the next few weeks.
Mr. H a n 1 e y’s group of watercolors vary in subject matter from the New ■ England
Francis J. Hanley coast to the West Indies, but he has given a rather generous amount of consideration to the sea in its various moods.
Many of the sketches were done at the artist’s summer studio in Matunuck, Rhode Island. Considerable use has been made of the stormy rock bound shores and the Atlantic coast in several of the paintings, particularly, “Hang Out the Evening Star.”
Sunny meadows of rustic scenes are included in “Home to the Portuguese”; and fall and winter seasons are portrayed in “Pattern of October” and “Spring Thaw, Up Country.”
A tropical note is injected into the group by two papers, a West Indian sketch entitled, “Sail for the Tortugas,” and another of the south seas, “Port Moresby.”
“Watercolor painting,” said Mr. Hanley in an interview, “is probably the most papular and characteristic easel painting currently produced. Since the camera has superseded portrait painting in popularity and since modem homes cannot accommodate large oil paintings, the use of watercolors in decoration is increasing.”
Since watercolor painting usually suggests reality rather than defining it sharply as does photography, it is a popular medium with both leftist, nonobjective painters and rightists, the .academicians.
The technique used is that of premier coup or accomplishing as much as possible with an economy of line and simplicity of form done with a swift and accurate stroke of the brush. It admits of no changes once the paint is applied.
Sargent and Homer did a great deal in popularizing watercolor painting in this country; at the turn of the century it was accepted as a new addition in galleries. Today some of the outstanding men in the field are John Whorf, Millard Sheets and John Marin.
The old natatorium—the swimming pool housed in the squat, yellow-brick building which nestles behind St. Ed’s hall—was closed years ago, and to outward appearance it became only a relic of the Notre Dame that our fathers knew. But, contrary to popular belief, the old building is not without life. True its rafters echo no longer to.the shouts of merry minims, or the gruffer laughter of the college men. But hidden away in one obscure corner is a wood shop, with chisels, knives, files—and here the Rev. Bernard Lang, C.S.C., goes about his work.
Who is Father Lang? That is only a natural query, for he is seldom seen around the campus, and few students know him. Moreover, he is not one to give information concerning himself. As he put it, “A story was written about me 15 years ago. It came out in the paper, ‘Father Lang this, and Father Lang that,’ and the whole thing was misunderstood. So no more stories.” Whereupon he seized a chisel, and went to work on the cross he was carving. His tremendous biceps bulged beneath a tattered blue T-shirt, as the powerful hands wielded the chisel as only an expert can.
To the left of the work bench, along the wall, is a great, hand carved schooner, at least six feet in length. Its cob web-streaked sails tell that it has been there long, and one gets the impression that it is, of all Father Lang’s work, his favorite piece.
“See that cat there?” Father Lang asked. “He’s four years old, and hasn’t a tooth. But he can lick any dog or cat that comes around. About a year ago he was run over, and I was going to shoot him. But by the time I found a. gun, I couldn’t find Tommy.”
At the sound of his name, the cat, a big grey one, of the alley variety, which had been lying underneath the workbench, arose testily to his feet, yawned, stretched, and rubbed a bewhiskered chin against the leg of Father Lang’s trousers.
“Yes sir, Tommy’s a good scout. Eh, Tommy?” and his red, sweat-streaked face broke into a smile. It was apparent that Father hadn’t looked too hard for that gun.
“Well,” this time in a gruff voice. “I’ve got work to do. Can’t waste the whole day.” And he nodded his great head. It was covered with short-cropped, iron grey hair, which accentuates the Germanic cast of his face.
This is Father Lang, formerly the fourth strongest man in the world, rough and tough, and non-responsive. But his gruffness doesn’t go deep. He is the one who permits the boys from “Dogtown” to swim in the old swimming pool every Sunday, who gives them shiny new pennies, who made a woodcarving of Abraham Lincoln that is truly a work of art, who succeeded in adding many degrees to his name—but one could go on almost without end— especially if Father Lang would talk.
—Dan Broderick
Dr. Arthur Haas Dies;
Was Renowned Physicist
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame since 1936 and authority on the atomic theory of matter, died early yesterday morning in Cook County hospital, Chicago, where he had been confined since Nov. 23 when he suffered a stroke while attending a scientific meeting.
A renowned physicist, Dr. Haas was born in Brueen, formerly Czechoslovakia, in 1884 and spent 22 years teaching in European universities and at the University of London.
When news of Dr. Haas’ passing reached the campus the following statement was released by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president, on behalf of the University:
“Dr. Arthur E. Haas was a scholar who brought to Notre Dame a true appreciation of European culture and learning. In the field of physics, he helped to further the prestige of the University by his excellent research and engaging lectures. His addresses before learned societies and prominent univer-‘ sity groups were widely acclaimed, and gained for him an international reputation as an outstanding physicist.
“Both faculty and students will miss his kindly presence on the campus that he had come to love so tenderly, and his adopted university will always cherish the memory of his loyalty and devotion.
“The sympathy of all at Notre Dame goes to his wife and children, with the prayerful hope that his soul may speedily enjoy the company of the Divine Teacher—Christ Himself. May he rest in peace!”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
On a Sunny Afternoon in 1846 the
N. D. Band Fell info Sf. Mary's Lake
OUR DAILY BREAD
For 95 years the instruments of Notre Dame’s first band have rested on the muddy bottom of St. Mary’s Lake. There they went on a sunny day in 1846, the year an N.D.U. cornet band was formed. It happened when the organization undertook a concert on the water. Along the banks of the lake lounged Notre Dame’s 50 students and eight instructors, watching an unwieldy raft being pushed out into the middle of the water. The small group of struggling musicians, sweating beneath the exercise of the poles, were giving a ludicrous performance. Suddenly the spectators saw the raft lurch, saw the close side rear up and the musicians, band leader and instruments tip into the lake. Down through the green water swirled silver cornets, bass horns and tuba, leaving only a short-lived trail of bursting bubbles to mark their burial.
The band fiasco was a minor tragedy compared with two later events which threatened extinction of the early college. However, a few fat years preceding the lean and the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., first president of the University, was able to develop a knack which led to his recognition as a “first class shot at marbles.”
On July 4, 1848, at commencement exercises, a premium was awarded Thomas LaFontaine, Indian son of the chief of the Miamis and in the same year the first catalogue was printed in Detroit. Students were listed from Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania.
In 1850, tall, fair-complexioned, teetotaler Schuyler Colfax, who said “there is a never-sleeping something within me that whispers, Go on! Go on!” printed the second catalogue. Printer Colfax did go on and on until one day he found himself being inaugurated as vice president of the United States. He remained a friend of Father Sorin and the University until his death, aiding the struggling school whenever he could.
Just a year before the second catalogue was published a fire broke out that threatened to burn down the school. The manual training shops and the kitchen went up in flames; the college building was barely saved. Exactly 30 years later, in 1879, came another fire, which gutted the entire University, and on those smoldering embers was built the Notre Dame we know today.
Meanwhile, 400 miles away the son
orous voice of lanky, blue-eyed Henry Clay was echoing through the chambers of the United States Congress. Loudly voicing the sentiments of “Union Forever!”—so loud was he, it was said that spectators in the gallery could hear him whisper while another senator was making a speech—the orphan-orator took time out one day in 1851 to get a post office for Notre Dame. It took only a few years for the students to dub it “Brother Stephen’s Palace.” In this same year a railroad was built between Chicago and South Bend and from this time on Notre Dame had the “Chi political bloc,” for better or for worse.
Prosperity was coming to the school in small doses now; two wings were added to main building in 1853. As an eventful year approached, Notre Dame was a far cry from the single, squat brick building of ten years before and now felt justified in requesting a tuition larger than the original $18 a quarter.
One day in the hot summer of 1854 Father Cointet, instructor of Latin and Greek, returned from his work in the surrounding missions with a pain in his stomach. A few hours later, white-faced and weak, he lay in bed with agonizing cramps gripping his legs and stomach. As the hours went by his skin became cold and dry, his eyes sunk back in his face and his voice was reduced to a hoarse whisper. In a few days the pitiable, pinched-up form was buried. The cholera had come to Notre Dame.
Before the summer ended 20 members of the community were carried to their graves. The remaining few, weak and sick, struggled to ready the school for the return of the students in September. For a while it looked as if Notre Dame would have to close down, as though the depleted ranks could not carry on. Somehow they did and had the satisfaction a few months later of seeing the disease-infested swamp between the two lakes and the St. Joseph river purchased from the owner and drained.
With the purchase of the additional land St. Mary’s Academy was moved from Bertrand, Mich., to the banks of the St. Joseph river. There Mother Angela, sister of Notre Dame’s first graduate, relative of the Ewings and Blains and Shermans of United States history and one-time belle of Washington society, wrote a grammar-school “Speller” and guided the destinies of the school for young ladies.—Don Heltzel
LITURGY
The Catholic who stops going to mass, first stops saying his prayers in any real sense.... The less conscious he is of God the less does he pray.... When he stops, he goes nowhere else._____A perfect contradiction.... The impulse to worship God is rooted in his nature.... He does violence to his nature when he ceases to do homage to God.
Introibo ad altare Dei._____I will press forward unto the very altar of God.... This is a good resolution for Lent.____ Where else shall I renew the candor and confidence of my youth?._______________Hesitation is hazardous.... Doubt is a disease.... Introibo ad altare Dei
The Altar is the hearthstone of the Liturgy.___Away from it there is neither warmth nor peace.... “Other Foundation no man can lay but that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus” (1 Corinthians 3,11).... These are pregnant thoughts for the Forty Hours Exposition which begins on Sunday. — Every visit is an act of homage, an occasion of increased grace.
The practice began in Italy (16th cen.) to offset the excesses of the carnival season.... Clement XIII extended it to the entire world (1765).... Its purpose is to make reparation for the sins of men.... Broken tabernacles everywhere are horrible examples.
Ash Wednesday’s message is, “this corruptible must put on incorruptibility*’ (1 Corinthians, 15, 53).... The prayers of the missal for the blessing of the ashes indicate the spirit in which we should receive them.... Material things take on a spiritual quality from the blessing of the Church.... Actual grace comes from their use with a right intention.
The Mass for Quinquagesima Sunday glows with the divine fire of Charity (Epistle).... It re-echoes with the cry of the blind beggar, “Lord, that I may see” (Gospel).... Not to have faith is to cease to hope and love.
(Mass Calendar on page 23)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE D AM E SC HOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distrinuror of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Welcome, Frank Leahy
Notre Danie welcomes you, Frank William Leahy.
The University’s Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, under the capable direction of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University, culminated a 12-day consideration of the nation’s leading coaches with the announcement that a member of the 1929 National Championship team had been named to direct the future gridiron activities of the University.
Elmer Layden turned in a fine record here; he is worthy of so accomplished a successor. Great recognition has not always encircled the curly brown head of Mr. Leahy. Injuries in his sophomore and senior years hampered a particularly impressive collegiate athletic career. But Leahy didn’t remain on the sidelines. He made himself useful to the late Knute Rockne as coach of the younger Irish tackles.
Many of Leahy’s former teachers and friends of the faculty are still on the campus. They are anxiously awaiting the opening of spring drills. With the coming of a new coach, and quite naturally, the variations of a new head coach’s system, the campus has placed a big question mark as to the composition of the 1941 team.
When Leahy went to Boston College as an unknown among the common folk of the football circuit—yet highly regarded by such men of the football teaching game as Bernie Bierman, Matty Bell, Jock Sutherland, Mal Elward, the late Nobel Kizer, and Harry Stuhldreher —he faced Boston with a statement in his first public appearance — “I have
come here to succeed and not to fail.” That determination was fulfilled with the greatest teams in the school’s history.
Frank appears destined to succeed at Notre Dame. He won his way to the hearts of those who met him in his brief contract-signing visit here over the past week-end. He has a fine personality, is easily approachable, and really knows his football. His soft-spoken manner, his trim and confident figure, and eagerness caught the fancy of those who met him.
In a press conference at his office in the Administration Building, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, told reporters he “was very, very happy to welcome Frank back to the University.” That expresses the sentiment of the student body.
Coach Leahy frankly stated in the press meeting that he hadn’t followed the personnel closely but, “I’m very anxious to get acquainted with the boys soon. We’ll begin spring practice about March 10—if weather permits and it will last six weeks.” His eagerness to start practice rivals that of the campus —freshmen and seniors alike are already looking forward to the first call.
—Bill Scanlan
Share the Faculty
There is no lack of opinion or prophesy, praise or dispraise about important world happenings today. Views are expressed by men of various capacities and philosophies, but the number of ideas that find their way to student ears is uncertain. There is a great possibility that an embarrassing number of stu--dents on the campus have a more avid interest in the current adventures - of
“Smilin’ Jack” than in the fate of H. R. 1776. In fact too many students have only a vague idea of what the bill means.
Such a condition and attitude is understandable. Persons feel that they can understand the problems facing a comic strip character, but the fast-moving dramatic workings of the government are far beyond their concern and abilities. To some extent they are correct; much political action is shrouded in propaganda and secondary motives, but every trend today is important.
Today’s world problems are very soon to be our problems. Our education is intended as a preparation to help us solve these problems more successfully than they have been solved in the past. Is there any way in which the University could better help us to understand our future job?
Since the collegiate mind is beset by so many and varied forces seeking to sway its opinion, how could a Catholic university crystallize its teachings for the benefit of the whole student body?
One suggestion has been offered that seems very sound, a faculty round-table discussion of definite human problems. Our faculty is endowed with men of internationally recognized ability in their fields. All too often their brilliance is confined to their immediate classes here on the campus and to lecture tours in the vicinity. Dissemination of their wisdom as far as the rest of the student body is concerned, depends on fragments gathered in casual conversation with students in these professors’ classes.
The average student has an interest in current problems, perhaps too mild to rouse his interest in an impersonal, cold pamphlet, but sufficient to draw him to Washington hall to hear several of the campus braintrusters discuss pertinent subjects.
Our professors symbolize the type of mind Notre Dame seeks to cultivate in her sons. They should be our patterns as leaders in Catholic thought on matters confronting a world which we are told is fighting for the existence of all that is right and good. What do these men think about our present course? What do they favor and condemn, and why? Students should be aware of these things. -
Of our total faculty, the average student comes in contact with only a small proportion; and too often that contact is, of necessity, mostly with humanized textbook material and far too little with the man himself.
A faculty discussion group, properly supervised and perhaps open to intelligent questioning by the students, would serve to, promote a greater mutual understanding between professor and student.—John Dinges
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	13
THE
TANGLED LINES
by Jerry Smith
•
Billy came in the front door whistling loudly and ran straight to the kitchen where his mother was singing softly as she swung the warm iron back and forth across a starched white shirt.
“Mom! Look!” Billy held out his report card. He stood close to her chair, trying hard to stand still and not jump to her assistance as she made hei' way down the short column of neatly-formed figures.
“Why, that’s fine, Billy.” She glanced down at her son. Next year he would enter high school. His knickers were a little small. . . . Billy had recovered the precious card and sat down to admire it once again.
“Now, Billy, put it on the shelf so you won’t get it all dirty before your father sees it.”
Billy placed the card upright on the shelf, then left for the front room and a window where he could watch down the street for the familiar car. Soon he returned to the kitchen to see if the card was still in place. On his fifth round trip between the window and the shelf, Billy’s mother lay down her iron, preparing to ask him to sit down and be patient. As she started to speak, Billy turned to her eagerly, expectantly. She fumbled for a moment, then recovered.
“What are you going to do this summer, Billy?”
“Oh, me and Red and Bob are going swimming every-day down at the pool, and we’re going fishing and . . .”
But at the sound of the car rolling its pleasant curruring noise into the crushed stone of the driveway brought the description of summer plans to an end as Billy scooped the card from the shelf and darted out the door. A roller skate ambushed him at the bottom of the steps, but he was on his feet, still clutching the report card when his father reached him.
“Where did’ja hit?” asked Billy’s father with a laugh.
Billy brushed the seat of his pants ruefully with one hand and held out the card with the other.
They proceeded into the house and to their favorite chair. There all of the marks received due consideration and credit with the exception of the writing mark. Billy’s father passed that one hastily; his ears still murmured the soft rat-a-tat of office typewriters.
As he set the report card down he remembered his solemn promise to formally recognize his son’s final report with a set of fishing tackle. The following day he took Billy down to the sporting goods store and turned him loose. But Billy marched straight up the aisle, picked up a rod, and said,
“This is the one I want, Dad.”
The clerk examined this strange behavior in a stage whisper to Bill’s father.
“He’s been in here every day for two weeks now. He’s even been through the new stuff down cellar.”
Just as readily, Billy selected reel, lines, leaders, hooks, flies, but his father made some changes here.
“Look, son, you can get two of these lines for the price of that one. We’ve got to have some spares for the tangles, you know.”
The changes made they packed everything into a small steel box, which Billy tucked under his arm, and started home.
“Say, son, I hear you’re getting to be quite a swimmer.”
“Sure, I can do four lengths of the pool now.”
“Maybe this summer you can come with me when I go fishing in the boat.”
“Boy!” Billy’s eyes just gleamed. “Gee, that’ll be swell.”
When they reached home Billy made the rounds of the neighborhood. At each stop two boys would open the lid of the steel box and examine its contents. When the merits of each piece had been debated thoroughly, Billy tucked the box under his arm and left for home.
Billy and his mother moved to the cottage shortly after school was out, but Billy’s father had to leave for St. Louis to help set up a new branch office for his company.
The warm, long summer days passed leisurely, but Billy kept them filled with activity. He was up early each morning to watch the ducks come Indian file up the cove, quacking calmly as though they realized the early morning still should be broken gently. They waddled
crazily across the pebbled beach and formed a nudging group about the little boy.
Then he was off to Red’s and they were off to the glen. Usually they brought back colored stones or butterflies, but sometimes it was queer bugs or snakes. The rest of the day was spent either fishing or swimming. The fishing was done from the end of the short boat dock where fish occurred only in the minds of optimistic young fishermen. Their longest excursion would be a quarter-mile walk to the store to buy frosted drinks and candy. They would often spend the entire afternoon there, talking to the proprietor, even being allowed to wait on the customers.
But all this was merely the preface to the one important day, and the day arrived unexpectedly. Bill’s father suddenly decided it was time for his vacation. His work was complete for the moment and he was free to do the things he wanted to do. The first night they all sat on the bench and just talked. Billy assumed the role of narrator; endeavoring to give a chronological account of everything he had done all summer. It was jumbled, confused, filled with little fits of laughter and bursts of exclamations, but Bill’s father listened attentively, even questioned him further: Billy tired soon and, peculiarly enough, was quite willing to leave for bed early.
The next morning Billy was up even earlier than usual. He spent the morning equipping the boat. Never did an explorer lay in his gear more carefully than did Billy.
Bill’s father slept late, coming down just in time for lunch. After lunch he took his wife aside.
“Julie, I’m going to town right away to get Jim Barrows. He’s coming up to do a little fishing and hear about the new branch. Make room for him at dinner, will you?”
“How about Billy? He’s got the boat all set to go fishing.”
“Billy? Oh, that’s right. We’d better not try to explain it to him. Tell him I had to go to town on business. He’ll leave before we return and we’ll be back from fishing before he gets hack.”
Billy’s mother told him when he came running up to see where the car had gone. He was disappointed, but listened understandingly to his mother’s explanation. He said to-morrow would be okay. Then he left for the store.
The men returned and left in the boat. Billy’s mother sat in her favorite (Continued on Page 23)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
New N. D. Coach Has Fine Record;
System Is Variation of Rockne’s
Coached Under Mills At Georgetown
June, ten years ago, one of the names to be called out as a file of graduates received diplomas was that of Frank William Leahy. When the 10th anniversary of that graduating class is celebrated this June, the same Frank William Leahy will be on campus as Notre Dame’s director of athletics and head football coach.
Soft-spoken, efficient Frank Leahy brings to Notre Dame an entire new coaching staff. On March 7, when the Irish begin spring training, Ed McKeever will coach the backfield, John Druze will tutor the ends, and Joe McArdle will be coaching the linemen.
To the men who have played under Ehner Layden and his assistants, Coach Leahy’s system will be strange, at first confusing. At times they will be told to work their positions in ways which seem to contradict the teachings of pro football’s new commissioner. What’s the answer to that problem?
Ehner Layden answered the question last Saturday afternoon. In the University parlors, photographers were clicking shutters, newsreel men were focusing their cameras on Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Frank Leahy. Back in a comer of the room, after his picture had been taken with Leahy, Elmer Layden was talking to Paul Lillis.
“Paul, you’ve got a new coach, a great coach. His record proves that.
“Paul, Frank Leahy teaches a football system based on Rockne’s system. Like Rockne, like all of us who played under Rockne, he stresses the importance of blocking and tackling. But Frank has also added many variations to the basic system of Rockne.
“It will be strange to you, Paul, and it will be strange to the other boys who have played under me—but it won’t be wrong, Paul. It will be Frank Leahy’s system. It’s just as right for Frank as mine was for me.
“Make the boys understand that, Paul. Sometimes when assignments are new and different, let the boys know that they are assignments that fit into Frank Leahy’s system. Those assignments wouldn’t, in some cases, be right for a strict Rockne system; neither would strict Rockne formations be right for the varied Leahy system.
“So get the boys to understand that their new coach is Frank Leahy, that no one else is to be followed. His directions are always right.”
To Notre Dame’s new coach and athletic director these words were a fine tribute; to those who wonder how the players should react to new coaching tactics, it is the perfect answer.
There is to be a new era at Notre Dame—the Rockne system with variations, the system perfected by a great coach, Notre Dame’s Frank Leahy.
It was through a knee injury at the beginning of the 1930 season that Leahy got his first coaching job. He was being treated at the Mayo Clinic, and was in the same room with Rockne.
Rockne, said, “I suppose you feel pretty badly, Frank, about not being able to play ball with that bad knee.”
Frank answered, “What bothers me most, Coach, is that I’ll probably not get a chance to coach anywhere when I graduate. They only pick the boys who stand out during the season.
Three big names: Elmer Layden introduces Paul Lillis to Frank Leahy
Rockne reached out toward a table near his bed, picked up a pile of letters and wires, and handed them to Leahy.
“There’s a bunch of letters asking for my recommendations for some of our boys, Frank. There are a lot of coaching jobs offered. Take your choice.”
Leahy liked one of the offers; it was from Georgetown University. And he got the job, coached under Tommy Mills, now director of the Rockne Memorial.
Leahy went to Michigan State as Jimmy Crowley’s assistant, followed Crowley to Fordham. While at Fordham, he developed the famous “Seven Blocks of Granite,” the great line which held Pitt scoreless for three years.
Then came the job at Boston College. While Leahy coached there, his teams played 20 games—they won 19 of them.
Now 32 year old Frank Leahy, born in a town named prophetically Winner, in South Dakota, comes to Notre Dame with a fine record behind him, promising to be a winner for Notre Dame.
—John Patterson
The following statement was made last Saturday by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, after the signing of Mr. Leahy’s contract.
“In the selection of Mr. Frank Leahy, of the Class of ’31, I feel that Notre
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Dame has chosen a loyal son, who by past achievement is well qualified to carry on the work of Mr. Layden and his capable staff. Everywhere Frank has been, he has exercised a fine influence on his associates—faculty, alumni and students. Modestly but efficiently he has performed his duties and, like so many others, has always been a Christian gentleman. In my judgment, therefore, he possesses the necessary qualifications to direct our program of intercollegiate athletics and coach our football team in accordance with the traditions of Notre Dame.
“Mr. Leahy leaves Boston College with regret, but with the best wishes of his friends there, and I am grateful for the sympathetic cooperation given us by that splendid institution of learning. The call to serve his alma mater Frank considers an honor and a trust. He recognizes the responsibilities of his office and is willing to do his very best in maintaining the high standards of his predecessors. I bespeak for him, therefore, the cooperation of all at Notre Dame, and her countless friends everywhere, in the vrork that confronts him.
“We welcome the return of a loyal son and wish -him Godspeed in his new position.”
At Last—Interhall Grid
Awards Are Completed
Fifty students, who by their athletic prowess brought their respective halls to victory in interhall football last December, were individually honored recently by the presentation of miniature golden footballs. The championship game between St. Edward’s and Dillon resulted in a 6-6 tie. The interhall trophy was awarded to St. Edward’s after the flip of a coin.
Members of the St. Edward’s team who received gold footballs are: Coach Joe Ragolia, Bill Hartman, “Red” Hagen, Gus Ryan, George Marcucci, Joe Shields, Hugh Mallon, Jack Clifford, Harry Erd, Bill Baum, Jesse DeLois, Jim O’Neal, Andy Cherney, John Kil-baine, Bob Burk, Jim O’Brien, Gene Jaeger, Gerry Rabbett, Bill Ohler, and Frank Platt.
Dillon recipients are: Coaches J. C. Brennan and Wally Bohrer; Larry Kelly, Maurice Landers, Walter McCort, Cy Miller, Jim Burke, Ed Haller, Tom Carroll, Jim McNulty, Don McNally, Matty Byrne, ' Ed Dunlavy, Vince Daigler, Jack Clark, Byron Hayes, Larry Hickey, John Stauber, Emmett Moran, Bill Murphy, Jack Gordon, Duke Gollan, Tom Reilly, Ken Rajans, Jim Asmuth, Jim Bellinger, Jack Maas, Bill Hickey, Bob Sibilsky, and Bob Donahue.
Splinters From the Press Box ===== JAMES NEWLAND —
Excavation and grading work on Notre Dame’s $800,000 football stadium were just starting in 1929 when Knute Rockne issued his usual fall call for football candidates. Rockne was optimistic over his team’s chances that year and when asked his opinion concerning the material at hand he characteristically sighed, “Yeah, fair, just fair.” He thought he would miss and miss sorely, Captain Freddy Miller, George Leppig, Jim Brady, Johnny Niemiec, Jack Chev-igny, and Freddy Collins of his 1928 squad. Files of THE SCHOLASTIC tell us Rockne had to depend on Joe Nash, Tim Moynihan, Johnny Law, Jack Cannon, Gus Bondi Ted Twomey, Dick Donahue, Frank Leahy, Ed Collins, Johnny O’Brien, and Tim Murphy on the line. In the backfield that year Rock had Frank Carideo, Jack Elder, George Shay, Larry “Moon” Mullins, Joe Savoldi, Bert Metzger, and Bill Cassidy.
❖
Pre-season publicity had the following to say about the tackle positions: “Notre Dame’s tackles this year will be Frank Leahy and Ted Twomey, two rugged boys, due to be poison for the opposing backs. Hard tacklers and the ability to stand up under hard punishment places them in the select position.”
❖
Came the opening of that memorable season against Indiana, and Frank Leahy helped the Irish to defeat the Fightin’ Hoosiers, 14 to 0. He also did his bit in defeating Navy in the second game of the season, 14 to 7, and the same against Wisconsin, 10 to 0. Due principally to recurring injuries, he was not used as a regular and his position as a starting left tackle was taken over by a chap named McNamara. Leahy, despite these handicaps, proved his worth under fire and by the close of the season won a starting berth against Southern California in a game played at Soldier’s Field, Chicago.
❖
The play of Leahy the following year was nothing phenomenal. Continually plagued by injuries, he saw action only intermittently. But he proved himself a fighter always, and he was there to do his part when called upon. No one, not even Rockne, could picture this second-string lineman as the future leader of Notre Dame football. But this clean-cut gentleman at 32, is an outstanding per
sonality in football today —• proving one thing, one definitely does not have to be a star player to be a great coach.'
❖
Splinters salutes outgoing assistant coaches Joe Boland, Joe Benda, and Chet Grant. These gentlemen have contributed much to the betterment of football at Notre Dame, and it is with regret that we see them leave. Boland, mentioned many times as the possible successor to Elmer Layden, produced outstanding lines during his stay here, and the All-American ends turned out by Benda definitely speaks well for his ability as a coach. The brilliant play of Chuck Sweeney and Bud Kerr are examples of his good work.
♦
Not the least important happening of last week-end was the performance of Gregory Rice at Madison Square Garden. You will recall he scooted over the boards in the two-mile race in 8:53.4, chipping two and eight-tenths seconds from his own indoor record set last March. Greg, who has now won his 14 th consecutive race, easily proved his superiority over this country’s greatest distance stars.
❖
Wherever Rice runs, his famous “going - into - the - stretch - kick” is being praised. Time after time this season the famous Notre Dame star has left Don Lash far behind, with this phenomenal sprint which was developed and perfected under the guidance of the late John P. Nicholson. Mid-west followers of Rice will have an opportunity of seeing him in action in the forthcoming* Butler Relays in Indianapolis, March 15. A feature mile run is being arranged which will pit the local star against Chuck Fenski, Gene Venski, and other mile notables. Last year at this track and field carnival, a jammed crowd of more than 10,000 fans cheered Rice for 10 minutes as he came from behind to capture first place in the three-mile special run.
❖
Rice modestly blames Don Lash’s position as an Indiana State Policeman on the latter’s inability to win any of the two-mile races held so far this year. He thinks if Lash could spend more time in early season training, such as crosscountry runs, the former Indiana University star would be winning his share of the distance events.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
= BY BILL SCANLAN
Genial Dr. John M. Cooney, veteran, of 30 years as head of the Journalism department at Notre Dame, once remarked: “When you want something done well, ask a busy man.” Whether or not he had Albert Joseph Del Zoppo in mind is problematical but Editor Bill McGowan and Sports Editor John Dinges of the Scholastic never discover the column, “Introducing,” among the tardy stories as the deadline approaches. Custodian of that column is
Mr. Del Zoppo, the number one student of Notre Dame’s numerous athletes.
Del Zoppo, introduced to the advantages of a Notre Dame education by the greatest basketbailer in the history of Irish cage play — Johnny, Moir, shares room 421 with the current sensation of Coach George Keogan’s team — Eddie Riska. Moir and Riska rank 1-2 in the all-time scoring annals tabulated by Athletic Publicist Joe Petritz and other sports prognosticators of the midwest.
Both Moir and Del Zoppo hail from Niagara Falls, N. Y., but the current Italian intellectual whiz emphatically denies ever courting a Canadian lass. Del Zoppo’s 95-plus average for four years in the Arts and Letters college also shatters the oft-told story that a layoff between high school days and one’s collegiate career would prove fatal.
At Niagara Falls Del Zoppo dabbled about in the better - than - ordinary
80’s during his high school days. However, Al battled the difficulties of unemployment during the depression a decade ago, then worked more than two years as bookkeeper and manager of a wholesale fruit house in Niagara Falls. Just six years after he was graduated from Niagara Falls high school, Al returned to school — at Notre Dame. And he’s never regretted the choice.
Del Zoppo and Moir were rivals in the Independent City basketball league
at the city known for its natural phenomena. Al’s greatest thrill was leading his team to a victory over Moir’s club. In the two previous years, Moir’s outfit won the title. At the conclusion in the 1930-31, and 1931-32 seasons, Del Zoppo was named All-League Guard, and Moir got the same honor as forward. Though he played guard, Del Zoppo admits he was the team’s leading scorer.
Coach Keogan, pleased with Del Zop-
po’s play, comments: “He has been a good player and a hard worker. He’s really a fine young man. In addition to his playing he has been an exceptional student. He has the third or fourth best average in the University.”
Quiet and likeable, Del Zoppo is one of the coolest players on the squad. He displayed his greatest self control in the Kalamazoo game early in the current season. Just as Captain Riska walked off the court following a 20-point
splurge to receive a tremendous ovation from his friends, Del Zoppo leisurely stepped to the free throw line and dropped in a score. In the doubleheader with Kalamazoo and Monmouth, Del Zoppo turned in his best scoring spree at Notre Dame. He counted 10 points. A bit later in the season Del Zoppo started against Michigan for his greatest thrill in four years of play here.
After he is graduated, Del Zoppo hopes to combine coaching basketball and teaching English literature. He has been majoring in English and minoring in philosophy. In addition to playing guard in basketball and compiling a 95-plus scholastic aveage, Del Zoppo finds time to read extensively, be secretary of the Student Council, and write for the Scholastic. In between bits of spare time he plays checkers with Jarring Joe Papa or Riska. His major worry before being a teacher is determining whether or not he will be officially called by the selective service act. He has' already received his first “draft” papers.
Bengal Fighters Adhere
to Rigid Training Scheme
Approximately 125 students entered their third week of training last Monday for the Bengal Bouts, benefit-intramural boxing tournament, which begins its 10th year as one of the University’s most successful winter events. The list of entrants is growing daily and the beginner’s classes, held Monday, Wednesday and Friday nights, are almost at capacity limit.
The new training schedule was posted at the boxing room of the Rockne Memorial and, in line with the system of progressive training, features regular contact work. Monday: pulley weights, 3 minutes; skip rope, 6 minutes; mat exercise, 12 minutes; heavy bag punching, 12 minutes; box, 2 3-minute rounds; calisthenics, 6 minutes. Tuesday: 40 minutes of roadwork around the lake. Wednesday: Same as Monday’s with the substitution of three minutes of shadow boxing in place of calisthenics. Thursday: same as Tuesday. Friday: same as Monday. Saturday: same as Tuesday.
The safety of the contestants is assured by the training regulation which prohibits any entrant from boxing without being fully protected by a helmet, rubber mouthpiece and cup.
The bouts are created as an incentive to intramural competition and for the benefit of the Holy Cross Missions in India.
Preliminaries are tentatively scheduled for March 17.—Tom Powers
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Irish Trackmen Attack Strong Indiana Squad; N.D. Shows Well at III. Relays
O'Rourke Outjumps Canham, National Collegiate Champ
Facing the toughest test of their campaign to date, the Fighting Irish track and field men invade the University of Indiana fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon to do battle in duel competition with the recently crowned Illinois Relay Champions. If we can believe Coach Bill Mahoney: “The boys are going out to win!”
The Hoosiers boast the best middle distance runners in the country with Roy Cochran and Campbell Kane heading an all-star cast.
For proof of Indiana’s power, one need look no further back than last Saturday’s Illinois Relays, when her teams came home in front in the four-mile, the two-mile, and the medley relay events. The four-mile race had the fans on the edge of then- seats right down to the finish line, as the powerful Hoosiers nosed out a victory in the last 20 yards over Notre Dame’s all-soph aggregation, of Frank Conforti, Tony Maloney, Bill Riordan and Ollie Hunter, in the record time of 17:34.8. The Irish also cracked the meet record, running the distance in 17:36.8, with Hunter mile relay team took third; Capt. Joe Olbrys also ran third in the 1,000 yard run; Jim Delaney placed second in the shot-put; Jay Gibson ran fourth in the 75 yard dash; and Ray Roy annexed second in the 300 yard dash.
In reference to the relays and the Indiana meet, Coach Maohney had this to say: “I was satisfied with the results of the team’s showing last week, especially with the performance of the four-mile relay team and Keith O’Rourke. The boys are rounding into shape slowly, but have shown definite improvement, and will continue to improve as time goes on. Indiana is going to be a tough turning in a 4:16 mile, as anchor man. The closeness of this event assures a bang-up race when the two teams meet again tomorrow.
Further indications of the Hoosier’s strength is Archie Harris, giant Negro shot-putter, who won the championship at the Relays, and who is a dangerous man in dual competition. However, Indiana hardly monopolized the meet, for the Irish, too, picked up their share of points, with Keith O’Rourke setting a
new meet record for the high-jump, defeating Dan Canham of Michigan, national collegiate champion and old titleholder, when he jumped 6' 6%". The nut to crack, but we have an even chance of winning the meet. Our main strength lies in the sprints, the hurdles, and the field events, in spite of the fact that we have some of the best middle distance runners in the country. It just so happens that we will be up against the school that has the best. It will be a dog-fight from start to finish, with the outcome of the meet a toss-up.”
This meet serves as Notre Dame’s final tune-up for the Central Collegiate Conference meet, to be held here on March 7 and 8. Every prominent school in the Mid-west will be entered with the exception of the Big Ten. In summing up this meet Coach Mahoney remarked: “Proof of the excellence of the competition in this meet, can be attested by the fact that the marks are usually about the same as the Big Ten indoor meet, held on the same days, which is renowned for its high-grade performances.”—Jim Clemens
Michigan’s swimming team has won the national intercollegiate crown 11 times since 1925—and stands a good chance to repeat this year.
Dillon Takes Four Firsts
to Win Campus Swim Title
Dillon Hall men swam their way to top honors in the interhall swimming meet, held last week in the Rockne Memorial pool, by scoring 31 points to nose out the Villagers who tallied 21 points. The Dillon tankers grabbed the lead in the 200 yard relay and took firsts in four of the eight events to hold the lead throughout the meet.
Individual results by events are:
200-yd. relay: Dillon, (Hogan, Hanni-ger, McNally, Reilly) first; Zahm, second. Time, 1:46:4.
50-yd. breast: Pollnow, Dillon, first; Walsh, Off-Campus, second. Time: 31.2.
50-yd. free style: Miller, Morrissey, first; Hogan, Dillon, second. Time: 25:4.
200-yd. free style: Russell, Off-Campus, first; McCarthy, Lyons, second. Time: 2:20:6.
50-yd. back stroke: Levernier, Dillon, first; Doerr, Lyons, second. Time: 31:6.
100-yd. free style: Miller, Morrissey, first; Hastings, St. Ed’s, second. Time: 57:4.
150-yd. Medley Relay: Dillon, first; Zahm, second. Time: 1:28:5.
Diving:’ Bartuska, Off-Campus, first; Elwood, Carroll, second.
' —Ray Donovan
The only time a Notre Dame basketball team garnered 50 points and lost was against Marquette, 58-50, in the 1939-40 campaign.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Bengal Missionaries Return to Campus
After Spending Seven Years In India
The sun-tanned priest will remain home for another month and then travel through the states raising funds. He will return to India sometime next year.
—Elmer D. Silha
After spending seven years in the wilds of India, three Bengal Missionaries returned to Notre Dame. Two of the missionaries, the Rev. John Harrington, C.S.C., and the Rev. Joseph Voorde, C.S.C., are graduates of the Class of ’29, while the Rev. James McGarvey, C.S.C., graduated from St. Norbert’s college. They stopped at the University before they returned to their home towns. Fathers Harrington and McGarvey are from Eureka, Utah, and Green Bay, Wis., respectively, while Father Voorde is from South Bend. All of them
The Bengalese Win Every Bout
left for India in 1933. The mission is located approximately 200 miles from Calcutta, India. .	.
Their chief reason for returning are to raise funds for the continuation of their w’ork abroad and to recuperate their health. The constant heat and diseases of the tropics are serious menaces to the health of the missionaries.
The return trip was a disappointment because of the lack of danger. They left Bombay, rounded Africa, came through Trinidad and on to New York. In all they spent 29 days on the water. According to Father Voorde, “We left India with the idea that we would encounter trouble on the way. We did not, and consequently we were disappointed. The only battleships we saw were in the American fleet maneuvering just off Puerto Rico. However, we did see one British destroyer In dry-dock at Capetown. We were detoured a hundred miles because of the mine-fields at Trin-idid but outside of that we encountered ho difficulty. The visit to the Taj Mahal proved to be one of the high-lights of the trip.”
Life in India, according to Father
Voorde, is rather unsettled but otherwise quiet. Speeches are constantly being made against the British Government and its various diplomatic moves. The speech-makers, however, are promptly jailed. The majority of the more prominent radical leaders are now in jail in an attempt to prevent uprisings. The return trip of the priests was to have begun on the day after Christmas; however, an evacuation order was issued and the missionaries had to postpone their trip in order that the others could leave.
The life of the missionaries is not an easy one. The high humidity and temperature produce a sticky climate. Food consists of native rice and curry, a native spice used to flavor- the rice, and little meat. American cigarettes were available until the beginning of the war. The only forms of entertainment are reading and limited hunting.
Among the various tribes taught are: the Garo, the Kuki, and the Abarinions. The missionaries speak Bengali, the language they were taught at the Washington Foreign Mission Seminary. The natives are willing to learn but their ignorance proves to be a hindrance.
The chief danger in this wild country is malaria fever, feared both by the missionaries and the natives. Elephants are also a threat to safety. Just before leaving the priests witnessed a herd of elephants raiding a rice field, killing seven natives.
During the rainy season the people go barefooted, and the poisonous snakes consequently cause a large number of deaths annually. Father Voorde relates one of these many dangers:
“One day during the rainy season I happened to be reading. My bare feet were resting upon a small stool, and I was completely at ease. I called to one of the brothers and started to set my feet upon the floor. I froze. There, coiled next to my chair was a slim black snake. Just then the brother entered and he, too, saw the snake; he called for help and they killed it. The dead snake measured four feet in length, and it was no thicker than my thumb. One of the natives later told me that it was of a poisonous nature.”
During the interview Father Voorde was engaged in a game of pinochle with various members of the family. It was the first time the entire family had been together since his ordination in 1933.
N.D. Swimmers Make Debut
Against Chicago Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 in the Rockne pool, Notre Dame swimmers will launch the first Irish venture into intercollegiate aquatic competition. Their opponent will be the University of Chicago. Although the meet is to be informal, the boys have been priming for it and will do their very best to turn in a good performance. Chicago, although next to last in Big Ten circles, has a very good squad led by an excellent 100-yard free-styler and a very good breast stroker.
Speaking of his team’s chances tomorrow Coach Gil Burdick said, “We only have about half the number of men needed to stage a meet. Several of them will have to double and even triple up on their races, our best 100 men swimming two and three hundreds.” Because of this shortage of material the number of events will probably be cut from the usual nine to possibly seven. The team is particularly short on breast and back-stroke men, a fact which should invite more contestants for those posts. The 150-yard back stroke will be cut from the program.
Accentuating the lack of team material is the absence from competition of Tom Hoyer, diver and sprintman, and Bill Cotter diver and breaststroker. Tom Miller and Lee Hastings, who staged a merry feud in the interhall 50 and 100 yard sprints will divert their energies to conquering Chicago speedmen. Bob Russell is the N. D. hope in the 220 and the 440. Others who will swim are:
Those who will probably share the Irish swimming chores with them are: George Haninger, Bob Finneran, John Doerr, “Mac” McCarthy, and Frank Pollnow.
The following events will definitely be staged: 300 yd. medley relay; 220-yd. free style; 50-yd. free style; 100-yd. free style; 200-yd. breast stroke; 440-yd. free style; 400 yd. free style relay.
—Mark G. McGrath
Jim Kloote, Northwestern tackle, tried gold prospecting in the Black Hills one summer, but $1.50 profit in two days discouraged him.
The award for longest continuous coaching service in the Big Ten goes to Tom Robinson, N. U.’s swimming coach who is serving his 32nd year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Sammy Meyer Back to Defend Bengal Title
Sammy Meyer is a sophomore who lives in Brownson hall and who comes from Blanchardville, Wis. One day last spring, Sammy was working out in the boxing room of the Rockne Memorial. He and a friend decided to spar for a couple of rounds. The ring was cleared and the other boys in the room moved over to watch. Mr. Napolitano, (everybody calls him ‘Nappy’) a Phy. Ed. teacher at the University with considerable knowledge of boxing, happened to walk in and he watched too. The fight wasn’t spectacular. In fact, most of the spectators didn’t think it was even interesting and after the two rounds were over- they went back to the pulleys and punching bags not especially impressed by the performance. But Nappy must have been, for after it was over he walked over to Meyer and asked him where he had learned to box. Meyer* said he hadn’t learned but picked it up by himself. Napolitano said he should
take a few lessons and that he should enter the Bengal Bouts.
“By the way,” Nappy asked, “how much do you weigh?” “140 pounds.” replied Meyer. “Gulp!” went Nappy. “You’ll train down to 135 and that’s Sammy Dolce’s weight. You see Sammy’s defending champion. And he’s been defending champion for three years.” “Three years?” asked Meyer. “Three years!” Napolitano repeated gravely. “Gulp!” went Meyer.
But Meyer entered the Bouts and joined the beginner’s class where he learned how to punch more effectively and how important good footwork was to good boxing. Meyer battled through three bouts for the right to meet Sammy Dolce, three times champion, in the Finals. And the crowd in the fieldhouse sounded like a bull-frog chorus when Meyer took a three-round decision and the championship.—John Poivers
Fencers Beat Marquette Meet Mich. State March I
Notre Dame’s fencers won a hotly contested match from Marquette, 15% to 11%, in Milwaukee last Saturday night. Earlier in the season, Coach Langford’s charges defeated the Hilltoppers at Notre Dame.
They’ve lost only one—so far!
Here's How Paul Malloy
Became 120 lb. Champ
Entrants in the 10th Annual Bengal Bouts who have had no previous boxing experience can calm their fears by having a little chat with little Paul Michael Malloy, 118-pound titlist.
“I didn’t take my boxing seriously until I came here. Under Nappy, I learned nearly all that I know about it.” Paul boxed occasionally with his pals at Cas-cia Hall in Tulsa, Okla., but as there was no boxing team his ring activities were at a minimum. In 1938, Paul entered the Tulsa World Golden Gloves tournament, and managed to last through the first round. Coming to Notre Dame last year, Paul and J. Adrian Padon, Jr., his closest school pal spent their afternoons in regular workouts at the Rockne Memorial. It was there that Paul came into contact with Dominic Napolitano, boxing instructor at the Memorial. When the call for Bengal entrees went out Paul decided to answer it. He climaxed his four bouts by a technical knockout over Ward Barley of South Bend in the last round.
This year, Paul will be back to defend his title. Just to warm up for the events the wiry Oklahoman decided to enter the South Bend Tribune Golden Gloves.
J. Adrian Padon. Jr., Malloy’s manager, is just as progressive in that position as Paul is a boxer. Paden speaks of his protege with less timidity: “He’s
been in six bouts and has won all of them by TKO’s. He’s got a wiry build from wrangling horses on his ranch in Oklahoma. He’s also quite a bit of a tennis player and a golfer. He was No. 2 man on the Cascia Hall golf team. That was the year I was captain.”
Golf claims allegiance to two other Malloys. Jack, Paul’s eldest brother won the Oklahoma Open, the Colorado State and the Broadmoor tourneys in 1937. Another brother, Pat, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1937 was a member of the varsity golf team.
Paul won the bantamweight crown in the novice division of the South Bend Golden Gloves in Monday night’s bout after scoring two T.K.O.’s and one decision. Both knockouts were scored within the first two minutes of round one. As a prize he received a small gold medal with the date of his victory inscribed on it.
—Tom Poivers
Campus Squash Standings
The ladder squash tourney, being held on the Rockne Memorial courts, is advancing very rapidly, with the standings in the following order at this writing:
Bob Sallows, William Hannon, John Barry, Tom Carroll, Tom Waller, Ken Palmer, Charles Wade, John Wahl. Jack
Woods, Duke Goeller, George Alfs.
Vince Lackner, Paul Patten, Bob Purcell, Dan Canale, Hank Priester, Jim McElray, Redd Wish, Bert Kelly, H. Schellenberg, Chuck Miller, Bob Millett.
The Irish took the foils 7-2, and the sabre 5-4, while Marquette had a 5% to 3% lead in the epee.
Outstanding for Notre Dame were: Humphrey, who tallied 3-0 in the sabre; Peck with a 2-0 score in the sabre, and Harris who doubled in foil and epee.
No meets are scheduled for the Irish swordsmen until March 1 when they travel to East Lansing to face Michigan State. The outlook for victory is bright, although the State fencers have been improving. Remembering last year’s loss to the Spartans, the Notre Dame fencers are seeking revenge.
Coach Langford has hopes of entering several men in the National Intercollegiate Fencing meet at Ohio State on March 29, although final decisions on this matter are as yet uncertain.
—Bill Rogers
Irish Close Home Cage
Season Against Ga. Tech
Five senior eagers,Capt. Eddie Riska, Bob Smith, Larry Ryan, Al Del Zoppo, and Sam Yezerski, will make their final appearance on the home court tomorrow night when the Irish meet a dangerous, fast-breaking Georgia Tech basketball squad to close the home season.
The Yellow jackets are not a defensive team, having held no opponent to less than 34 points this season, and their offensive record has fluctuated from a 20-point low to a 63-point maximum. Tech’s delight in shooting frequently
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
combined with their lax defense should contribute to an open brand of play. They have netted a record of seven wins and seven defeats to date.
Their squad is composed of sophomores and juniors with the exception of Charlie Burroughs, senior guard who also starred at end on the Jacket’s grid squad. Captain Carlton Lewis leads the Atlantan’s scoring with 136 points while Hoyt Blackwell, sophomore guard, is second with 101.
The Keoganites have been playing great basketball with a strong offense coming through when needed and an adequate defense. They are determined to make Tech the 11th victim in their current winning streak, which lists successive victories over Kentucky, Wabash, Butler, Penn., Syracuse, Michigan State, Marquette, North Dakota, Northwestern, and N.Y.U.
Coach Keogan will be confined to bed for several weeks and will direct practice through his able assistant, Ray Meyer.
On the 24th, the Irish invade Indianapolis to meet Butler once more. Notre Dame has already chalked up one victory over the Bulldogs this season, defeating them 45 to 35 on the local hardwood, Jan. 11. The game was tied 17-17 At the half and 26-all after nine minutes of the second half when Riska started a quick-moving rally that guaranteed an Irish victory.
Probable starting lineups for the two teams are: N.D. Forwards, Butler and Sobek; Center, Quinn; Guards, Singer and Smith; Ga. Tech, Forwards, Johnson and Blackwell; Center, Hearn; Guards, Lewis and Stevens.
Klinemen Begin Workouts;
Pitching Staff Weak
In this past week, just to show that the cruel Indiana climate couldn’t scare him, Baseball coach Jake Kline has summoned his managers, given them their annual order to drag the baseball equipment out of storage, and, in general, to make ready for a new season.
About 15 aspiring pitchers have been making a casual walk in the fieldhouse dangerous by whipping baseballs to some 10 men seeking catcher’s berths on the Irish diamond outfit. Several infielders and outfielders have also been taking light workouts ot loosen up in readiness for the day in the middle of March when the squad will work outdoors. Prospects for. the season look fairly good if the pitchers come through, since many of last year’s regulars in other positions have returned.
Prospects don’t seem to be either too good or too bad, but as long as they don’t fit the last description, Coach Kline will probably be able to maintain his usual high percentage of wins over losses. Toward that end, if anyone should happen to know of another Norv Hunthausen available on the campus and not doing anything, he could immediately become a life-long friend of Jake’s by revealing his whereabouts. The one place where the team is most likely to be weak is in its mound prospects unless some immediate aid can be found in recruits from last year’s freshman team. The two former pitching mainstays, Rex Ellis and Hunthausen, have both been lost by graduation, and the sole varsity twirler returning is “Subby” Nowicki, still rather an unknown quantity.
In the infield, three of the four regulars are returning. On first, Chuck Farrell looks ripe for another good season, and, after a year of working together, George Sobek (still holding forth with the basketball team) and Ray Pinelli (with the eye of more than one major league scout focused on him) ought to form as fine a keystone combine as this school has seen in some years. It was there that graduation inflicted its only nfield blow, and the loss of Captain Chet Sullivan will be felt keenly. Charlie Crimmins, who filled in on occasions, will have a good chance to make the job his for the season. If John McHale had chosen other than to accept the offer of the Detroit Tigers and go to their Beaumont farm, things would have been simplified greatly. Nevertheless, infield prospects are certainly very encouraging.
Out of three regular outfielders from 1940, Captain Andy Chlebeck and Bob' Hargraves are back. Hymie Crane, third man in the trio for most of the season; Ray Pinelli, and Red Oberbrunner have played their last baseball for Notre Dame and vanished down diploma road.
As things look at present, Bernie Crimmins figures to have the catching job pretty much to himself, though Charlie Vandervoort will be trying hard to work behind the plate.
Friends of Norv Hunthausen will be watching anxiously in the next few weeks to see how the former Notre Dame ace will make out in his first chance in fast company. When Manager Bucky Harris takes his Washington Senators southward in the next week or two, Norv will be with them, taking with him all the best wishes of his friends here. It will be some time before any of us will forget that one-hitter he tossed against Northwestern in opening the home season last year.lt was a no-hitter until DeCorrevont singled off the pitcher’s glove in the eighth.—Joe Palmer
Johnny Gee, Michigan baseball star of 1937, who was sold to the Pirates for a reported $15,000 was expected back at Ann Arbor to work with his college coach to cure an ailing left arm.
GOOD FOOD IS GOOD HEALTH
Twenty-seven years of continuous service and good food to Notre Dame men have built for us a tremendous public confidence . . .
Popular Prices
Stratigon's Restaurant
114 N. Michigan St.
Come in and Eat, Chat, and "Coke”
The Canary Kitchen
220 W. Washington St.
Phone 3-0925
We specialize in Steaks, Oysters, Salads, and Coffee
WELCOME “PROMITES’
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Snrewor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
"The Ghost Breakers"
Coming This Evening
That amorous, clamorous pair, Bob Hope and Paulette Goddard, return to Washington Hall this evening in “The Ghost Breakers,” to be presented in conjunction with a “March of Time.”
The cinema atmosphere becomes beautifully if prosaically English as Laurence Olivier and Greer Garson shine in Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice” tomorrow afternoon. A Disney cartoon and an RKO news are also scheduled.
—Mark G. McGrath
HOWELL'S Restaurant
Headquarters for the Junior Prom
211-13 N. Main St.
PROM GUESTS ...
Souvenir Gifts from
Notre Dame
. $1.00
and up
Pennants—various sizes and shapes.
Campus Views—suitable for framing and also on postal cards.
Miniature Footballs (real pigskin).
•
The guests on the campus for the Notre Dame Junior Prom are cordially invited to visit the Bookstore . . .
•
Notre Dame Bookstore
Illustrated Lecture on
"Flying Cadets," Monday
An illustrated lecture on the U.S. Army Flying Cadets will be delivered in the auditorium of the Engineering Building on Monday afternoon at 4 p.m. This will be an open meeting of particular interest to Juniors and Seniors.
Three short movie reels illustrating various aspects of military aviation will be presented by Captain E. R. Keller, U.S.A., member of the Flying Cadet Examining Board for this area. In addition he will discuss the advantage of this branch of service for students who may be called for selective service during the next year.
Titles of the specially prepared films are “GHQ Air Force,” “Wings of the Army,” and “Army Air College.”
Cooperating with Captain Keller, Dean D. C. Jackson of the College of Engineering, has transferred his freshmen engineering student lecture, previously scheduled for the Engineering auditorium, to the auditorium of the Law Building.
Campus: Casuals:
Professor George Collins
Leaves for Defense Work
The current defense program of the United States government has again affected the operation of the University. Professor George Collins, Ph.D., securing a temporary leave of absence, has left the campus to join several prominent nuclear physicists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where under government supervision, he is to concentrate on defense projects.
Professor Collins’ departure forces him to interrupt his work on the newly projected atom smasher now under construction in Science Hall. Professor Collins has been a member of the faculty since 1931. Prior to his connection with Notre Dame he was a teacher of physics at John Hopkins University, Baltimore, ' Maryland.—Bill Herzog
LOAFER JACKET
Wool Duvetyn, yoke back, side vents — saddle stitching, patch pockets — Apple green, cocoa and blue . . .
$12.50
Corsages a distinctive selection at the
South Bend Floral Co.
Phone 3-8227	114 S. Michigan
COAT SWEATER
Two-tone — woolen fabric with ribbed knit back and sleeves — in Apple green, cocoa and blue . . . $10.50
Individually or collectively— smart and practical to carry you into Spring . . .
Exclusive at
WYMAN'S
SHOP FOR MEN
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
22	THE
Interhall Track Prelims
Run Monday and Tuesday
Preliminaries for the annual Interhall Track and Field meet were held Monday and Tuesday evenings in the fieldhouse.
Alumni, Walsh, Howard, Carroll, Morrissey, Breen - Phillips, and Zahm halls competed in Monday’s trials.
Hillebrand, 60 yard dash man, was the lone Alumni hall representative to qualify for Thursday’s semi-finals and finals.
Walsh hall fared no better: Charles Schlayer, pole vaulter and low hurdler, was the lone “Gentleman” to reach the quarter-finals. 
Zimmer's Food Shops Excellent SANDWICHES, LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS SERVED
•
Selection of Delicacies to take out, also.
138 N. Main 736 S. Eddy Street 1605 Lincoln Way West
Soft Water Shampoos..
•	Manicure
•	Shine
•	Haircuts
•	Specialties
Doddridge Barber Shop
124 W. Washington St.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
Howard failed to place a single quarter-finalist, but Carroll came through with three standard bearers. Bill O’Brien qualified in three events and Brisbois and Elwood in one event each.
Two Morrissey men earned the right to represent their hall, Thursday evening: C. Murphy, in the high jump, broad jump, and pole vault, and Perkins in the high jump.
The two freshmen halls turned out quarter - finalists galore. Breen - Phillips had W. Murphy, Hogue, Cowley, Butler, Schfeuch, and Jones; Zahm had Ellefsen, Payne, Anderson, and McCull.
Tuesday’s trials saw Sorin, Dillon, St. Edwards, Brownson, Cavanaugh, Lyons, and Badin halls, and Off-Campus, go to the post.
Sorin hall, following Howard’s example of the evening before, failed to send a single man to the semi-finals. The Junior halls, Dillon and St. Edward’s, contributed the following three men: Pole vaulter, Dolan; sprinter, Beunger; and hurdler, Kort, the latter being the only St. Ed’s man to qualify.
Brownson, traditional meet winner, got off to a flying start by emerging from the quarter-finals with four men: Lynch, Silha, Brock, and McCafferty. Henry, Rowbottom, and Owens comprised Lyon’s “Big Three.” Murphy was Badin’s solitary semi-final candidate.
Cavanaugh, sole freshmen entry of the evening, lined up Smith, Dexter, Keelan, Clark, and Quinlan for the semifinals. Birder, Off-Campus, qualified in the pole vault, high jump, and shot put.
—Frank L. Kunkel
O'MALLEY HEADS WRANGLERS
(Continued from Page 9) society’s name to the members present at the banquet. In former times it was necessary for the candidates for University degrees to prove their ability in public disputation. The Notre Dame Wranglers, living up to their name, encourage all forensic activities at the University. They sponsor annually an Interhall Debate Tourney; and also the Notre Dame Oratorical Contest for the Catholic High Schools of the mid-west.
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION 1 Always
SKATING V '
CHECKING J Z9C
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
The society meets every Wednesday in the Law Building, at which time a paper on some current topic is presented and discussed.
Wranglers have long been prominent in the extra-curricular affairs of the University. Many members of the faculty are former members of this organization. Tuesday marked the 17th consecutive banquet of the society, whose membership is limited to 20 undergraduate students.
THIS SCHEDULE IS
EASY
TO REMEMBER
•You never have to wait long for a South Shore train to Chicago. Nineteen daily, departing as follows:
The first three morning trains leave at 6:00 A. M., 6:50 A. M. and 7:30 A. M. Thereafter, until 9:30 P. M., a South Shore train leaves every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 and 12:00 midnight.
Similar frequency of service FROM Chicago. Ask ticket agent for full details. Ticket office: 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TANGLED LINES
(Continued from Page 13) rocker on the porch, dividing her time between knitting in hei* lap and the neat curve of white sail against the blue water as the sailboats came about and snapped their sheets open to the sharp breeze.
Billy came around the corner and up onto the porch.

-/s&y
Tastes
t- r? V>e-'
lUVbv« e and swell fun to chew— that’s DOUBLEMINT GUM
Yes, chewing delicious DOUBLEMINT GUM is always swell fun ... at sports events, between classes, while you're studying. DOUBLEMINT'S real-mint flavor refreshes your taste and helps sweeten your breath. And enjoying smooth chewing daily helps brighten your teeth, too. Kind to your budget. Great to enjoy every day. So drop in
i and buy several packages of DOUBLE-I MINT GUM today.
V-60
'—' -v'<<5-"G~	?
..
*



7

“Mother, where’s Dad?”
“He went to town, don’t you remember, son?”
“But his car is out back.”
She saw the boat coming in.
“Your father* w-ent over to say hello to Mr. Shield. He’ll be right back. Go up to my room and get my darning cotton, will you, Billy?”
But Billy had caught her anxious



glance towards the dock. His father was jumping out of the boat. Billy looked at his mother. She leaned toward him, but couldn’t find the words.
Billy walked down to the dock. His father spoke:
“Billy, this is Mr. Barrows.”
Billy held out his hand limply, “H’lo.”
“Did you have a good time this afternoon, Bill?”
“All right.”
Billy leaned over into the boat; drew out the box; rubbed it carefully with his shirtsleeve to dry the spray which had settled there; tucked it under his arm. Then he walked alone back to the cottage.
Mass Calendar: Feb. 23-Mar. I
Sunday, 23—Quinquagesima. 2d prayer, St. Peter Damian, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor.
Note.: Until Easter read the Tract instead of the Alleluia Verse in the Gradual.
Monday, 2^—Saint Matthias, Apostle. Credo, Preface of the Apostles.
Tuesday, 25—Feria. Mass of the preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, for Peace. Omit Tract. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, 26—Ash Wednesday. Mass proper. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens) Preface of Lent.
Thursday, 27—St. Gabriel of the Sorrowful Virgin, Confessor. 2d prayer, of the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel of the Feria. Alternate Mass: (Purple) Proper of the Feria. 2d prayer, St. Gabriel, 3d, for Peace.
Friday, 28—Feria. Mass proper. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints, 3d, the Living and the Dead, 4th for Peace.
Saturday, March 1—Mass proper for the Saturday. Prayers as yesterday. Requiem.
Howard Hall Prefect
Leaves for Novitiate
At the close of last semester, Basil (Jerry) Gillespie, popular student prefect on the first floor of Howard Hall, left the University for the Holy Cross novitiate at Rolling Prairie, Ind. Jerry majored in education and graduated from Notre Dame in 1937. During his college years, he managed to win one of the coveted Bengal sweaters. Jerry Killigrew and Bud Concannon collaborated in a farewell party held in Howard hall before he left.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
To Hold 2-Day Symposium on Mathematical Economics
A general lecture of particular interest to commerce, law and arts students who contemplate business careers, ■will be given by Professor Harold Hotelling, of Columbia University, on Friday evening, Feb. 28, in the Engineering auditorium. This talk, “Valuation and Ratemaking Problems in Public Enterprises,” will be a highlight of a two day symposium on mathematical economics, under the auspices of the department of mathematics.
Other details of this Fifth Annual meeting, as announced by Dr. Karl Menger, follow:
Friday, Feb. 28, 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., “Functionals in the Theory of Economics,” Prof. H. T. Davis, Northwestern University; “The Theory of Technological Unemployment,”- by Prof. Oscar Lange, University of Chicago.
Friday, Feb. 28, 8:30 p.m., “Valuation and Rate-making Problems in Public Enterprises,” Prof. Harold Hotelling.
Saturday, March 1, 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., “Dynamics of Commodity Prices,” Dr. Charles F. Roos, Institute for Applied Economics, New York City; “Statistical Cost Curves and Price Policy,” Prof. Joel Dean, University of Chicago; “The Determination of Weight-Functions for Dynamic Economics,” Dr. Franz Alt, Institute for Applied Economics, New York City.
Saturday, March 1, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., "Unex-• pected Effects of Certain Taxes,” Prof Harold Hotelling, Columbia University; “On the Solvability of the Walrasian System of Equations,” Dr. Abraham Wals, Columbia University; “Geometrical and Arithmetical Determination of the Index of Prices,” Prof. Karl Menger of the University of Notre Dame.
Seeks Story on Colds, Lands In infirmary
There, are many different ways to get color for a news story. Some reporters believe in actual contact with that which they are assigned to write; others are content merely to view the situation from afar and then acquire the background elsewhere. John Joseph Fallon of the Scholastic staff is one of those who really believes in getting in contact with his subject matter. His assignment for the last issue ran as follows:
“See Dr. J. E. McMeel for comment on how to avoid colds. Also, state hours when doctors are available at infirmary.”
John came in with the story this week and of course was immediately asked to account for his tardiness. Came the explanation — John had been spending time in the infirmary because of a cold! This was a sheepish explanation. His interviewing of Dr. McMeel was done in the quiet repose of the infirmary. He did not report, however, after his work was done. John remained for a while and not just for atmosphere.
—Robert LeMense
„ AFY A DIPP
Corner”	1\1J 1 yl 7 I\ Washington
for college men!
We especially recommend these three extremely popuar Arrow White Shirts: Arrow Hitt; Arrow Gordon; Arrow Trump. See them here, where you’ll find the largest collection of new Arrows.
CO-EDiquette for College Men
O Get your laffs from what you say, not from how you look — wear Arrow Shirts and Ties!
2 Never tell a gal you’re a great guy—it’s just possible she’ll find out for herself.
MUST-#! for college men is Arrow’s oxford-cloth shirt. This handsome raiment comes in smooth colors, stripes, and glistening white. It is graced with a rolled, button-down collar ... a short, wide-spread one ... or just a nice, long-point job. $2 up—See your Arrow dealer today and get a semester’s supply.
ARROW SHIRTS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Fr. Woodward Leaves
For Fort Hancock, N. J.
The Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., commissioned recently as a United States army chaplain, first lieutenant, received an order this week to report for duty on Thursday, Feb. 27. He will be assigned for the time being to the 245th Coast Artillery, now stationed at Fort Hancock, New Jersey.
Father Woodward has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1936. He served as professor of philosophy until relieved recently in anticipation of military service.
Lyons vs. Breen-Phillips on Radio Quiz Series
Lyons Hall will meet Breen-Phillips on the air waves next Thursday night at 8:30. This show is the second in the current series, which is designed to stimulate inter-club competition at Notre Dame.
The first show in the series was'held
last night at which time the Met club did battle with.-the Chicago club. Quizmasters Bill McCarren and Tom Carty conducted the 15-minute program.
And club president who -is anxious to have his club represented on this program should communicate with Tom Carty in Alumni. To date the Engineers have been booked to meet the English majors and the Dome is to meet the Scholastic.
AU American Music
Catholic U. Cast Plays
Here in "God’s Stage"
The University players of Catholic University, Washington, D.C., will present the play “God’s Stage” in Washington Hall at 8.p.m., on Sunday, March 9. This group of young actors—future actors, writers, and teachers—is comprised of members from the District of Columbia, Maryland, West Virginia, New York, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Illinois, and Arizona.
Some members of the company have had previous success on the legitimate stage. Anthony Messuri was the original “Brother Orchid.” Isobel Molloy played the original Mary Todd role in “Storm” —the play later purchased from Catholic University by Irene Dunn for possible use in motion pictures. Other cast members have had dramatic experience.
Musical Americana — Raymond Paige and his Orchestra with 12 real favorites $3.50
Stephen Foster—10 lovely compositions including O! Susanna, Massa’s In the Cold, Cold Ground, De Camptown Races, Beautiful Dreamer§4.25
Gershwin — Rhapsody in Blue — for piano and orchestra ...'.----------------$2.50
Raymond Massey in scenes from “Abe Lincoln in Illinois” — Sherwood’s Pulitzer Prize Play of 1939$3.50
Jerome Kerns — Gems from his musical shows—the best music from Kern’s many hits — 6 records-------------------$6.50
Here’s The Biggest Pipe Hit
Dr. GRABOW
| THE	PIPE
NO BREAKING IN NO BITE
MADE BY M. LINKMAN & COMPANY Makers of JJoUyeourt Pipes
NO BITTER TASTE
DR. GRABOW'S PATENTED CLEANER
There's only one correctway to“break in” a pipe...that’s by
smoking it... Only Dr. Grabow pipes are pre-smoked with fine tobacco (Edgeworth) onLinkman'smechan-icalsmokmgmachine.
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ..............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular .......1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial...... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ..... 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor----- 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran .... 5.00
Hollyclourt .............—	3.50
Sasieni ................. 5.00
Comoy ................... 5.00
Single Victor Records
Juliet’s Waltz Song and Louise-Dupuis Le
Jour (Jeannette MacDonald singing) — 12 inch recording.___________$1.00
The Bailiff’s Daughter and Going Home (Lawrence Tibbet. singing)—12 inch recording $1.00
Sylvia and The Sleigh (Allan Jones singing — 10 inch recording---------75c
AND IN A LIGHTER VEIN . . .
Oh! Look at Me Now and You Might Have Belonged to Another — Tommy Dorsey and Orchestra------------------------50c
Dr. Livingstone, I Presume! and When
Quail Come Back to St. Quentin — Artie
Shaw and Orchestra------------’----50c
Concerto for Clarinet, -parts 1 and 2 —
Artie Shaw and his Orchestra — 12 inch recording 75c
Bluebird — 35c
Volga Boatman and Chapel in the Valley — Glenn Miller and his Orchestra.
There’ll Be Some Changes Made and Dar-danella — Vaughn Monroe and his Orchestra.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES., THURS., SAT. EVENINGS
HODinS
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Fr. Walsh Tells Forum
Stories of World War I
Speaking before the Catholic Forum Monday night in the Hotel LaSalle, Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., president-emeritus of the University of Notre Dame since 1928, and an army chaplain in the United States Army during World War I, told many interesting stories on his army life and gave a brief sketch of the life of a soldier in war time.
Father Walsh entertained a crowd of about 35 for over an hour- with his stories, experiences, and incidents. He told how many priests crossed the Atlantic during the Revolutionary War to minister to the soldiers. “In the War of 1812,” he said, “there were no chaplains. In 1846 Archbishop Hughes of New York called a meeting of bishops, the result of which was that two priests were appointed to minister to the soldiers.” These priests laid the basis for the modern system of Catholic chaplains.
Father Walsh began his service at Fort Sheridan in Alabama and did service at several other camps. He crossed the ocean on the Leviathan, the only priest among 17,000 men. At Crezancy he conferred the Notre Dame degree of bachelor of laws on Dan McGlynn in the trenches before a battle and thereby qualified him for special service. He was acting in his capacity of vice-president of Notre' Dame, a title which he had never relinquished.
After the war Father Walsh became a member of the faculty of the University of Bonne, founded by the Y.M.C.A., to take care of the college men in the army who had not received their degrees.
At present Father Walsh is a member of the history departmnt of Notre Dame.
111 Attend Night School
As a part of the national defense program to train skilled workers, 111 employees of South Bend manufacturing firms are taking advanced courses in the night school at the University. The courses have been recommended by the Association of Commerce manufacturers’ division, which is aiding in the project to assure an adequate supply of skilled workers.
The fishing enthusiasts on campus have not been thwarted by frozen lakes, St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s. Daily anglers chip holes in the ice and tempt the fish with luscious bait.
Western Electric
. . . is back oj your Rell Telephone service
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
THE
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X - RAYS 702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.
M. D.
M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose. d.d. s. Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
823-829 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST 314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-3601
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
“Gone With What Draft," the latest addition to the library of pressings by Benny Goodman and his Sextet, takes its place as one of the best performances by the outfit to date. The tune itself is unusual, the arrangement a tricky one, full of pitfalls that Benny and his boys skirt with ease, and the cutting itself a superior job from start to finish. Benny gives Charlie Christian, his guitarist, a chance to show his stuff, and Charlie doesn’t let him down, nor does Cootie Williams, whose trumpet is very much in evidence throughout. The flipover is “On the Alamo.” (Columbia)
Duke Ellington has recorded his son Mercer’s first ballad composition, “The Girl In My Dreams Tries To Look Like You” for Victor. Herb Jeffries does the vocal on this and the backup, “Flamingo.” The Duke gives both numbers his usual fine treatment.
Raymond Scott evidently took Cootie Williams’ departure for Duke Ellington very much to heart, for he waxed a Scott special, “When Cootie Left the Duke,” in lament. Scott’s trumpet does a good growl take-off of Cootie’s style, and the whole waxing is done in very solid fashion. The B side is “Petite,” a very good example of the style that Scott has evolved and which is peculiarly his own. (Columbia)
Bob Crosby has paired his famous “Big Noise from Winnetka” with Sunset at Sea” for Decca, singing the vocals in both numbers. “Big Noise” is famous enough; we needn’t say more.
Joe Reichman debuts on the Victor label with a pairing of “I Hear a Rhapsody” and “I Could Write a Book.”
“Chicken Gumboog(ie)” proves once again that the boogie-woogie style won’t die as long as it’s in the capable hands of Will Bradley and Ray McKinley. The tune itself at one time may have been known as Turkey in the Straw, but that was before it was operated on by Bradley and the boys. On the B side is “Stardust” (another one for you collectors), in which Bradley and pianist Fred Slack give stand-out performances.
Krupamaniacs ought to be happy by this time over “Apurksody,” his theme song, and “Jungle Madness,” two tunes that give Krupa every opportunity to reiterate his mastery of rhythm. (Okeh)
Ella Fitzgerald scores again with “Wishful Thinking” and “Hello Ma! I Done It Again.” (Decca)
ncto Columbia
r> m a s tc r to o rk s
Andre Kotelanetz and his orchestra An Album of Musical Comedy Favorites $3.50
Any of these Fine Albums of unforgettable music at $2.50
Peer Gynt Suite—Grieg—London Philharmonic conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham.
. Carmen Suite—Bizet—London Philharmonic conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham.
Polovtsienne Dances — Borodin — (Choral Dance No. 17) on 3 sides and on the 4th side—Mass in C Minor Qui Tollis—Moaart London Philharmonic Orchestra and Leeds Festival Choir—Sir Thomas Beecham conducting.
Capriecio Espagnol — Rimsky-Karsakov — New York Philharmonic—John Barbirolli conducting.
Gaiete Parisienne — Offenbach — London Philharmonic—Efrem Kurtz conducting.
Columbia — 50c
Gone With What Draft and On the Alamo
—Benny Goodman and his Sextette featuring Count Basie.
Stardust and Chicken Gambco(gie)—Will Bradley and his orchestra featuring Ray McKinley.
When Cootie Left the Duke and Petite — Raymond Scott and his New Orchestra.
Superman and More Than You Know — Benny Goodman and his Orchestra.
This Little Icky Went to Town and Break It To Me Gently — Will Bradley and his orchestra, featuring Ray McKinley.
Okeh — 35c
There’ll Be Some Changes Made and These Things You Left Me — Gene Krupa and his Orchestra.
Night and Day and My Silent Love — Dick Jurgens and his Orchestra — Harry Cool vocal.
May I Never Love Again and Walking by the Biver — Ginny Simms vocal; Nat Brandywine conducting the orchestra.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES.. THURS-, SAT. EVENINGS
Ronins
Chesterfields are made with one aim in view.
to give you
MILDER, COOLER and BETTER-TASTING
They hit the mark every time with smokers like yourself because people have learned they can count on Chesterfields to give them, without fail, a smoke that is MILD . . . not flat . . . not strong.
Chesterfields are a pleasing smoke at all times because their COOLER, BETTER TASTE comes from . the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. YOU CAN7 BUY A BETTER CIGARETTE
DICK SHAUGHNESSY, only National All-Gauge
Skeet Champion to win the title twice, has held
all the major skeet titles in the country.
CHESTERFIELD holds all the major
titles for smoking pleasure... they re
It's the cigarette that Satisfies.
DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT^^^ ...ITS THE SMOKERS CIGARETTE
Copyright 1941, Liccsrr & Miras Tobacco Co.