


-
. '' ' 





Stadium traditions past and present -pg. 14 

NEWS 01 
AWASTE OF WASTE 
Emily Paladino 
Does the university live up to its recycling responsibilities? 
WON'TYOU BE MY NEIGHBOR? 
Alisa Finelli 
Scholastic examines the controversy ofstudents living close to South Bend residents. 
CAMPUS LIFE 12 
(HAPPILY)TEARING UPTHE FLOOR 

Katie Galeone 
The Ballroom Dance Club has all the right moves. 
ENTERTAINMENT 22 
REAL ISSUES, HEAVENLY APPROACH 
Beth Murphy 
The St. Edward's Hall Players perform Angels in America. 
SPORTS 2s 

HOTTO TROT 
Lauren Wilcox The author goes for a ride with the Notre Dame Equestrian Club. 
HUMOR 32 

MUSINGS OF A MISGUIDED MESSIAH 
Steve Mattingly 
The author gives credit where it may or may not be due in the University ofNotre Dame Mid-Semester Awards. 
From the Editor . . ...... 2 Campus Watch . . . . . . . 21 , ND Notebook . . . . . . .. 4 Making Sense . . . . . . . . 27 , Cribs. . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Being Like Mike . . . . . . . 34 
Snapshot. . . . . . . . . . . 18 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 36 
I I NOVEMBER 2004 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 







Vol. 146, No. 6 • 11 NOV 2004 



SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors in Chief Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor Nick Abrams 
Assistant Managing Editor Jim Ryan 
General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News Emily Paladino, editor Alisa Anelli, assistant Anna O'Connor, assistant 
Campus Ufe Lauren Wilcox, editor Katie Solan.assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments Mike Healy, editor Erik Powers, assistant 
Design David Redenbaugh, assistant Nell Ryan, assistant Tekla Sauter Erin Clemens Emma Daugherty Jiyoon Sim 
Ellen Vogbrieder 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief JenniferWadkins, assistant Maggie O'Connell Drew Dodge Kate Dresser Regina Gesicki Emma Grall Brigit McFadden Doug Schlarman 

COVER PHOTO ILLUSTRATION 
PHIL HALL 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtm,s Vive Quasi Cms Morium,s 
Published biweekly a~ the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire conteflts of Scholastic Magazine Is copyright 2004 University ofNotre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this· magazine, either In whole or In part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher.The hors~s• coats were really shiny. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Schofastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame; IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters ·must include the writer's name,address and phone number.All le_tters ~ust be signed. Names will be with­held upon request irl certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate ls $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and numb~r, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on re­quest. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not neces­sarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
11 NOVEMBER 2004 



Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

Since 1842 and growing into the future. 

.ANSWER~ THE CALL:.·•V(!::/ 

Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
ND'S FOOTBALL 
RECORD 
It's a season of polar extremes: We beat two top-IO teams, and also lost to both BYU and BC. 
U2 
Uno, dos, tres, catorce? Please bring back the U2 that brought us The Joshua Tree and War. 

7-POINT GRAB N' GO 
And we were just getting accustomed to the antiquated 6-point tier ... Only Food Services could make old bagels and generic cream cheese complicated. 

ND SKATEBOARDS IN 
THE BOOKSTORE 
Can ND really appeal to the previously ignored demographic of rebellious middle schoolers? 

CELL PHONE USE ON 
THE QUADS 
There has to be a better time to call home than the walk from DeBartolo to SDH. 

SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
hile this campus certainly has no dearth of controversial topics (and similarly, no
W 
lack ofcampus publications thatlove to broach them), itis safe to say thatrecycling 
generally isn't one of the more prominent is.mes at Notre Dame. Some even may attest that environmental matters are not considered worthy of casual debate atall. And why is this? Partly because it is difficult to find a passionate anti-recycling faction -or at least a group ofpeople willing to identify themselves as such. 
"While the topic may not be as divisive as others; it still merits serious examination. 
Rather than bemoan what the Schohstic executive staffsees as the shockingly sub-par state ofcampus recycling, we decided to propose several suggestions thathopefullywill spark at least some inquiry about its flaws. 
• 
Properly inform students -especiallyin the dining halls -that almost any sem­blance offood orliquid onyour newspapermeansit cannot berecycled. Printguidelines for recycling that detail how to make sure items are not contaminated, likewashing out containers and removinglids from glasscontainers.Thetable tents thatso oftendecorate the dining hall tabletops would be a good place to print these. 

• 
Clearly demarcate blue bins as ''For Recycling Only." Signs posted at eye level above the bins themselves may aid in preventing the bins from becoming secondary trash cans. Also, these signs should clearlyindicate that throwing trash into a bin makes its contents unrecyclable. 

• Provide recycling bins for clean newspapers. 

• 
Place recyclingbins directlybesidethelargewhitecardboardtrash boxesin the park­inglots onhome football game days."Whiletimeand manpowerare obvioushindrances to theuniversityin enactingsuchaplan, thestaggeringamountofwastedbottles, cans and cardboard that could be salvaged on game days would make the effortworthwhile. 

• 
Ifoutdoor blue recycling bins are neither "aestheticallypleasing'' nor"practical" for South Bend winters, devise a contest to encourage industrial design and engineering students to create possible replacements. . 

• 
Ensure thatall residencehallhousekeepers areaware ofuniversityrecyclingpolicies, so that there is more uniform compliance across campus. 


Above all, student:s need to make the effort to actually use the recycling resources already on campus, especially the differentiated bins in.pla~es like LaFortune Student Center and Reeker's. Do your own recycling at football tailgates. And for those students who live off-campus, make the effort to set up recycling pick-up at your home. · . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
11 NOVEMBER 2004 
r 
fj.,-@j@roJiv.:.'i-iii@NEWSJ----------------------, 






Sacred Sounds 

Scholastic investigates··for whom the bells toll 

DARICSNYDER 
They resound across campus every­day so regularly so that many no longer hear them. For those who are listening, they keep the time,jl-, 
call churchgoers to worship, and even serenade the campus with the Alma Mater. 
They are the bells of 
;: 
the Basilica of the Sacred
l.l 
Heart. The set of bells -known as a carillon -resides at the top of the Basilica's 218-foot­tall tower and is one of the oldest 1n the coun­try, University Sacris­tan John Zach says. There are 23 bells in the carillon that cover a range of two and a half octaves. To span this range, the bells come in dif­ferent sizes and weights, from a few relatively light bells to a massive bass bell. This bass bell -known 
as a bourdon -weighs nearly eight tons and is named Saint Anthony, for the saint who is often represented by a bell. Zach adds that each of the 23 bells is designated by a saint's name.The bells can be heard chiming to indicate the time every 15 minutes. Two bells ring once at the quarter-hour and twice at the half-hour. On the hour, the two bells ring three times and are followed by a chiming ofthe hour. Shortly before noon, an arrangement called "The An­gelists" is rung on the bells. The Alma Mater can be heard playing at both 10 
a.m. and 9 p.m. 
This schedule is maintained by a 
computer-controlled mechanical system. 
The bells also chime for several minutes 
before and after a Mass at the Basilica. 
Tolling bells are played for 10 minutes 
for funeral masses as well as when the 
Basilica receives word of the death of a 
Holy Cross priest. With the computer­
ized system, ringing the bells at these 
times is "as easy as pushing a button," 
Zach says. 
The system can play preprogrammed 
music as well as ring sequences, and it is 
used to play special music at Easter and 
Christmas. New sequences can be pro­
grammed or performed with the system's 
keyboard. Despite the frequent use of 
the computerized system, the bells still 
can be operated manually by pulling on 
large ropes affixed to the bells in the up­
per levels ofthe Basilica. Zach says there 
are still professional carillonneurs that 
prefer to ring the bells by hand. 
The bells can be accessed only via a 
. long staircase, which could be hazard­ous if open to the public. Access to the bells therefore is limited and is strictly reserved for maintenance purposes. "They don't even keep the key here," Zach says, who has made the long trek up to the carillon. "I couldn't go up right now ifl wanted." D 


-,..,. -' --. ­
Inconveniences of Living 



Off Campus 
5. 
Toothpaste and stray hairs not 
cleaned from bathroom sink while away on break. 
4. 
Riding bike home from school in unanticipated afternoon rain 
shower. 
Legal requirement to shovel
J•snow from sidewalk in front of house. 
2. 
Diet consists wholly of instant oatmeal, ramen and the occa­sional $10 SDH meal. 
I Subwoofers, purse and pair of 
• running shoes no longer safe in back of parked car. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 

,---------------------'-----liti:~•~·Wl~N!]lE;W~l--------------------J 
EMILYPALADINO 
Bob Domer hosts a tailgate a few times each football season. He and his friends, like most tailgat­ing Irish fans, enjoy four cold drinks each. About 15 people attend Darner's gathering each game; that equals 60 


Are ,.recycling -efforts 
cans or bottles for one tailgate. Multiply that by the "x" number oftailgates on any given football Saturday and, well, you do the math. 


What happened to all of these con­tainers? They most likely were thrown out with the 10 tons ofgarbage that the Department ofAthletics estimated were removed from the tailgating areas after each home footb~ll weekend in 2002. 
Even on school days, many recyclable items end up thrown away with general waste, causing some on campus to be dis­satisfied with the university's recycling efforts. 
According to Alan Bigger, direi;:t~r of 
. · · BuildingSeivices, theiiitlversity recycles about 62 percent ofits waste. But some materials cannot be salvaged. "An aw­ful lot of the recycling is contaminated, and that's the biggest singular problem," Bigger says. "We can pick up a thousand pounds ofmixed paper, and ifsomeone's thrown a partially full can of Coke on top ofit, the whole thousand pounds has to be thrown out. Once it becomes con­taminated, it's garbage." 
Bigger says the main reason the uni­versity does not attempt to recycle waste from tailgaters is a lack ofmanpower. He believes that since so much of the recy­clable material is so often contaminated, such an effort would not be worthwhile anyway. 
In the past, when maintenance work­ers picked up contaminated recycling on campus, they simply threw it into nearby garbage bins. "We don't do that anymore because we don't want to cre­ate the impression that we're throwing out the recycling," Bigger says. Instead, all recycling picked up· from dorms and other campus buiJdings is taken to the university's recycling center at the Ma­son Services Center on the far north side of campus. Once there, it is sorted out;. 
-contaminated material is thrown away and the rest is sent to companies who perform the actual recycling. · 
Because of contamination fears, many of the approximately 10,000 daily copies of The Observer thrown into recycling 


on campus sufficien:t? 
11 NOVEMBER 2004 


bins in dining halls are not recycled. "I 
never realized there was so much paper 
waste," says sophomore Ashley Braun, co­
president of Students for Environmental 
Action (SEA). 
Because a huge percentage of the papers 
left in the dining hall to be recycled l'iave 
traces offood on them, many are thrown 
away. Newspapers tainted with food cul­
tivate bacteria that make the recycling 
process difficult or even impossible, Big­
ger says. Recycling companies that buy 
material have specific standards that place 
limits on the amount ofcontamination in 
any given batch of recyclable material'. 
Presently, on-campus recycling also 
has been difficult as a result ofimproper 
items being placed in recycling bins, 
which results in the recyclables ultimately 
becoming trash. This is a problem that 
frequently arises in the dining hall. Dave 
Prentkowski, director of Food Services, 
says that there are newspaper bins in the 
dining halls, but because many people 
throw trash in them, newspapers in the 
bins must be thrown out. However, most 
of the clean papers left on the tables are 
picked up by the staff, bagged separately 
from the trash, and sent through the 
campus recycling system, he says. 
Improper sorting is a problem that 
also frequently occurs in residence halls. "People ate not aware enough ofhow to re­cycle specific items," says Pangborn Hall housekeeper Stella Kirkman. "They try, but by not rinsing out containers and en­suring things are properly sorted, they're actually making the housekeepers' jobs harder." Housekeepers are responsible for making sure that recycling gets from the dorm bins to the trucks that pick it up 
daily to take itto the recycling center. 
Kirkman says she recycles in her own 
home, and the.effortis importantto her. 
On campus, she often moves aluminum 
cans from trash bip.s to recycling bins in 
an attempt to make sure they are recycled .. 
But, she says, some housekeepers are not 
as. environmentally conscious. "There 
are housekeepers who don't care," she 
says. "For them, it would be just a~ easy 
to. throw it all out." 
Recycling practices .can vary greatly 
from dorm to dorm, according to Kirk­
man and fellow Pangborn housekeeper 
Barb Clark. Bigger says that while some 
dorms do a better job than others, the 
overall result is a success. "We ·encour­
age general.recycling in every dorm and 
building on campus. What we don't do is assume the role of policing it," he says. 
Braun agrees that some dorms do a great job. 
"But the prob­lem is there's no real account­ability," she says. 
"There's no one to oversee that it actually gets done." 
Braun and other concerned 


students from 
SEA believe that if the university's recy­
cling program relied more on volunteers, 
as it once did, there would not be account­
ability issues. "The recycling movement 
at Notre Dame was initiated by students 
in the early '90s," Braun says. Student 
commissioners in the dorms would col­
lect the recycling, sort it, and take it to 
the recycling center. These students par­
ticipated actively in the program because 
they believed recycling was an important 
ideological issue and were committed to 
seeing the university's recycling program 
grow, Braun says. "If the program was 
more volunteer-based, I think we'd see a 
lot of improvement," she adds. 
However, because of the significant 
increase in the amount of recycling that 
is collected, the gathering of recyclables 
came under the responsibility of the 
Building Services department. "It's ironic 
that the reason it moved from volunteer 
to institutional. is probably because the 
program was successful," Bigger says. 
Even though recycling has been insti­tutionalized, students continue to make conscious efforts to improve campus re­cycling. The SEA has pushed for outdoor recycling bins, Braun says, but the ad­ministration has not accepted the addition because ofconc.etns that such containers might not be "aesthetically pleasing." ".You wouldn't think that a university of .th.e caliber of Notre Dame would be op­
posed to such a thing," Braun says. 
Outdoor containers have not worked 
well in the past, Blgger says. He cites an 
initiative ofthe university a few years ago 
to place recycling bins outside the foot­
ball stadium during home games. "We 
put 75 containers out there, all clearly 
marked," he says. "When we went back 
on Monday to pickthem up, we had to 

throw all 75 of them out because people 
had used them for trash." 
Bigger says, however, that the uni­

versity is not completely opposed to the 
idea of outdoor recycling bins and is 
concerned about finding the right kind 
ofcontainers. "The administration is nei­
ther for, .nor against, outdoor recycling," 
he says. "What [the bins] have to do is 
[ ... ] match the aesthetics of the place, 
be practical for you to put the stuff in, 
and be practical for the person who has 
to take the stuff out. And those pieces 
haven't come together very well, in all 
fairness. But it's not the case that anyone's 
saying, 'Don't recycle outdoors.' I think 
the administration would be more than 
delighted to find that," he says. He points 
out that in order to survive fierce South 
Bend winters, containers also would have 
to be weatherproof and durable. 
Even without the proposed outdoor 

recycling bins, Braun says efforts to 
improve recycling on campus are neces­
sary. "I don't think the university com­· munity is as active about recycling as they should be," she says. "It's not necessarily that people don't think recycling is good -part of the challenge is getting them to integrate it into their habits.'' . 
.. . 


·~--iii· ~·~'ii 


NOTRE DAME 

RECYCLIN' /RISH 

11 NOVEMBER2004  SCHOLASTICNEWS  7  
- - - - - - -­- - - -- - - -­ - - - --­ - -­- - 


fter living in Turtle Creek Apart­
ments for a year, senior Dan 
loch didn't anticipate his move to a house on East Washington Street in South Bend would result in any lifestyle changes. However, during the first few nights of the semester, Bloch learned the difference between living in the all-stu­dent enclave at Turtle Creek and living in a residential neighborhood composed of both families and elderly citizens. He didn't foresee a party of 25 people war­ranting police action, but Bloch's party drew three police cars, and the South Bend Police Department issued Bloch and his roommates a $250 ticket for violating noise ordinances. 
The combination is volatile: College students, most of whom are living in­dependently for the first time, take full advantage of parietals-free residences that lack the University ofNotre Dame's alcohol restrictions. Enter families, couples and elderly citizens, many of whom are long-time neighborhood resi­dents -and most of whom do not wish to live in a neighborhood full of college students. The problem may be age-old, but a clearly defined approach to deal with off-campus students living in neighbor­hoods has yet to develop. Residents, students and university and city officials have different opinions about which party ultimately bears responsibility, in addi­tion to what course ofdisciplinary action to follow when problems arise. With the university already beginning to exceed its on-campus housing capacity and as class enrollment increases every year, all four factions can agree that the issues regarding off-campus student parties show no sign of diminishing, as well as that a clearly defined solution is needed now more than ever. 

Roughly 1,500 Notre Dame students live off campus this academic year, most living in nearby Turtle Creek, College Park or Castle Point Apartments. But the majority of noteworthy off-campus student disturbances have arisen mainly where there is a high concentration ofstu­dents in residential neighborhoods, such as South Bend's Northeast Neighbor­hood, which includes East Washington Street, Notre Dame Avenue, St. Peter Street, East Colfax Street, Corby Street and others. 
Marguerite Taylor, 61, currently lives on Corby Street and has been a resident of the Northeast Neighborhood all her · life. She says residents in her neighbor­hood have long had to deal with the dis­turbances of off-campus students: noisy crowds, loud music, drunken behavior, public urination, post-party trash and even cases of property damage. 
Jim Phillips, who has lived on East Washington Street for 12 years, fears that students have a false sense ofsecurity when they have parties in the neighbor­hood, making themselves increasingly · vulnerable to attempted robberies or sexual assault. "The fact is that it's not as safe as the kids perceive it to be, walk­ing around at night inebriated," Phillips says. 
Attempts at fostering relationships among neighbors have not proved fruit­ful for students nor residents. Senior Dave McGowan lives with nine other Notre Dame students in a house on East Colfax Street. During the first week of school, before he and his housemates hosted any parties, McGowan says he went next door to speak with his neighbor and exchange phone numbers in case there were any complaints. McGowan had no such chance: The neighbor immediately slammed the door in McGowan's face. 
Senior and East Washington Street resident Mike Roaldi made a similar at­tempt with his neighbors, providing his cell phone number and encouraging them to call with concerns about raucous noise. Although Roaldi says residents were ini­tially amicable when accepting his num­ber, they nonetheless always have called the South Bend Police Department before contacting Roaldi. "Getting the police involved is bound to create resentment," Roaldi says. "Going to ResLife isn't go­ing to keep us fro1I1 throwing parties, but feeling bad for our neighbors would." 
From one resident's perspective, there is little to no incentive to engage in civil communication with student neighbors. "It's so rude and so inconsiderate [when off-campus students host loud parties late at night and ..: ] it's hard to think of a good relationship being developed," says Matthew Costello, who has lived on Notre Dame Avenue for the past eight years. Costello and his wife wish the po­lice would be tougher on students who 
8 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
11 NOVEMBER 2004 


host out-of-control parties by writing more tickets for noise violations, instead of just issuing a warning or telling the students to disperse. 
Given the aforementioned laundry list of complaints, it should cgme as no surprise that Notre Dame created a formal position in its administration that serves as a liaison between the South Bend community and the university. Jackie Rucker fulfills this role as Notre Dame's director ofcommunity relations, and she routinely deals with complaints from South Bend neighborhood residents regarding off-campus student parties. Both Rucker and Bill Kirk, the associate vice president ofNotre Dame's Office of Residence Life and Housing, say the is­sue is nothing new, and both agree that off-campus student disturbances are most prevalent at the start of the school year -thanks to football season and relative lack of academic stress -and also at the end of the year -coinciding with the presence ofwarm weather. Despite the biannual recurrance of neighborhood tensions between students and residents, the general problem was thrust into a brighter spotlight this school year. Ann Puzzello, District Four council representative for South Bend, organized two meetings in early September and a third in October as forums for neigh­borhood residents, off-campus students, the police department and city officials to voice their complaints and concerns about this topic. Residents explained at the meetings that they typically deal with disturbanc­es by reporting loud parties to 
THE MEDIATOR Common Councilwoman Ann Puzzello has tried to facilitate communication between students and the community. 
ficers can spend issuing tickets at a student party. Officers typically will give the host students a warning and opportunity to quiet down and control the party, Woods says. Ifofficers have to make repeated vis­its to a specific house, however, they most likely will issue a noise violation, alcohol citations, and may even make arrests. 
Puzzello and many community mem­bers believe that a third party-specifi­cally, the university -should step in and intervene. The Office of Residence Life and Housing currently deals with reports of off-campus parties on a case-by-case basis. IfORLH receives a complaint from a community resident, ResLife officials will have Notre Dame Security/Police contact the SBPD to see ifa police report has been filed. If one has, ResLife will ask the students ofthe reported house to meet with them to discuss the incident. 

"In my experience, those conversations are very effective," says Lori Maurer, as­sociate director ofthe Office ofResidence Life and Housing. Consequences depend on the severity of the situation as well as the students' previous disciplinary his­tory. Typically, the first meeting is con­sidered just a warning, Maurer says. 
As a community resident, Phillips thinks Notre Dame needs to punish its students more severely. He thinks the university should accept problems reported by neighborhood residents as sufficient evidence to take action against students, rather than waiting to see if a police report was filed. Because police officers do not always file reports when they respond to a complaint, Phillips says, problems go unaddressed. 
Residents also are frustrated with the university because it does not require ad­dresses for all students who live off cam ­pus. As a result, a house may be reported as problematic, but the university may not know which students live there. 
Notre Dame student government is also examining ways it can help foster commu­nication between students and neighbor­hood residents. Student Body President Adam Istvan and Vice President Karla Bell say they have developed a plan con­sisting of four components. Along with Chief Executive Assistant 
the South Bend Police 
Department. The 



Local Apartm_ent Complexes
police, however, are not always successful 
in quieting the crowds; parties usually will die down temporar­ily -after the police arrive -only to start up again later in the night. Puzzello further explains that police officers who respond to student parties often have a difficult time determining who resides at the house, which makes writing formal reports and issuing tickets problematic and time-consuming. Lt. Dave Woods of the SBPD says that protocol varies with respect to noise complaints. Week­end nights are the busiest for the police department, and the limited availability of officers reduces the amount oftime of-


Irish Hills 
Ii _ 
1 ­


! -I 

11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 9 

r+++---~0~~+cf77----:_:_2-:-:---~__;_-:-f-----lMK!M!Ile~~~f4:ail=liJ$l"QIW]-----------------------­
-·.1 

Dave Baron, Istvan and Bell attended 
... ••tahc;l!ord~tehqr11;CJittio11t1ry 

the meetings organized by Puzzello 
• De:fimt1ons ofbas1clegalternis relevant to 

with the hope ofpresenting their own 
)aridlord--tehantrdati()nShips. . : . 
. 

proposed solutions. Though Baron 
. .···co1istrZfc.tiv~.•·Evi;iion~.. k·•~r~cess..... tBr6righ.·.··•·••\ ~~e;~e~~::a:~~~::;: ;:r;i:f:a~~:~ 
·.. ,vhichaJandlord'sactfons(orfai~uretOact)interfere I were very enthusiastic to hear from .• ~vitha tenant's p9ssessfon'.ofrental p~operty to suc.h 1 student government. .·.. an e~tentthatthe property is made unfit fo~·reason-•. •1,i The plan proposed by student gov-
able occupation by the tenant. -. . 1 ernment at the Puzzello-organized iI meetings suggests several tactics that . ; : Fixturellii thireside~tial re~tdl context,. a fix-hypothetically would improve the 


•·• .: .ture is personal property mv!1edby.theten~nt; but•· •·J situation. In order to encourage off­··.•.· made apermanent part ofi:lie rema.lpropertfso j campus students to positively partici­·.. tha:remo"alwouldl:iei1I1possible9dmpratti~aLcFor . , pate in their communities, a student 
... · ' ex~mple, 'a te!lant'sinstallation of~tist8hl'.doublet j representative would be appointed to ·.. pa:ned·,viruloyvs woµld ~DJ<>unr·~o. a. fi~t}ue:•: . . · j sit on neighborhood committees and 
1 

councils. Student government also 
·. .La1Zi/,loi4: An owder: tifreal iro·p~itfj~ho( 1 ::~t=n~~ :~~:n; ::;:a:;::,a;:~~ :.:t1µ-?ughal~aseor.r~11talagreenie.nt,pri:imis.esJoie11t• I viding these students with helpful ··•·· :allorap()rtio~ ofthe proj:,erty:toa11otherper~o11.(:.i.. ! information. from the Notre Dame 
•. ·,'.tenarit''):forhisOtll,erexdusiveuse:.usuaH#or· Security/Police and South Bend 
·.·.··•. ·. asetperiod.<>fti~e :llldi11 e~change for an agreed~•.··· Police Department. Neighborhood .J1pon;lmount:pfmo11ey. • . . 
associations and city council mem­bers also would participate and give students advice on how to be respon­

. ;Quift~izjoyi1u/ni:.tt~piht) 1~pii;d}il1i~ to.:·. 

sible, law-abiding neighbors.·Student 
.. ·.. ::.._the..enjo~ent~11d ~~s·e.ofrental1~r6perty .yithout·.·.· 

government representatives have also 
proposed "SafeBus," a· service that would provide students with rides to campus from various off-campus locations. 
-2··4!~fsf~{1I~Ki1t~xrt0:J:}tJ::::.~~tdir1g..r.isi~.···· 
Some, however, feel the problem is a concern for the city and the stu­dents alone -not for the university. At some larger state universities, stu­dents who live off campus do not face consequences from their school when they receive police citations at their houses. Roaldi thinks the university should not be involved in the. issue at all. "The university doesn't know enough about what goes on here to get involved," he says. 
Notre Dame administrators, how­ever, believe they must hold students accountable for their actions both on and off campus. Kirk thinks that en­forcing consequences for loud parties is a shared responsibility: The univer­sity should take action, but students should also be subject to the city laws. "I think we can do more and the city can do more in terms ofenforcement," Kirk says. 
Maurer says that ResLife encour­ages residents to call the South Bend police when they have complaints . "[Off-campus students] are citizens of the community, and they have to abide by the laws of the community," Maurer says. She believes that prob­lems should be addressed and resolved within the community -not just by the university. 
11 NOVEMBER 2004 
Puzzello suggested that, in addition to taking stricter disciplinary action against students, the university also could help to resolve the issue by taking measures to keep students living on-campus. "I hope that Notre Dame will take interest in the problemHke Ohio State University and the University of Dayton has," she says. These schools, according to Puzzello, have been able to address off-campus problems by reducing off-campus hous­ing areas and expanding on-campus facilities. 
However, because on-campus housing at Notre. Dame is currently at overflow capacity, Maurer says, off-campus hous­ing is a necessary option. A committee is exploring the possibilities for expanding residential space on campus to provide adequate housing for students who wish to remain on campus for the entirety of their time at Notre Dame. The ultimate goal, however, is to not eliminate th.e need for off-campus housing but rather to offer more options to students. 
Some others, like Puzzello, believe better communication -rather than increased university disciplinary action -between local residents and students would help to reduce the number of complaints.· 
Mark Kramer, landlord and owner of Domus Properties, is a staunch proponent of keeping potenti~l problematic i~sues between residents and students between those two parties and no others. Kramer has rented houses to students for the last 15 years, and his company owns more than 40 houses and one condominium in the areas around Notre Dame. He en­courages his student-tenants to be friendly neighbors and to establish a relationship with community members. When students have taken this advice, Kramer says he has not had complaints from local residents. · 


"I think it's a matter of being considerate of neigh:­bors. and building relation~ ships. When you build relation­ships, that solves a lot ofproblems," Rucker says. 
Lt. Woods agrees: "You have to know where you are and how that affects what kind of parties you can have," he says. 
Though Costello has seen a significant decrease in the number ofdisruptive student parties this year, he still worries about the future of the neighborhood. Over the past eight years, he has seen the student population increase at a tremendous rate in his neighborhood, mostly due to the expansion of Domus Properties. Further, according to Costello, "[Stu­dents] have become more and more emboldened[...] They go from house to house-beer cups in hand, as ifthey own the neighborhood-as ifthis is far South Quad with no rectors." Consequently, Costello and his wife are considering moving to another neighborhood. Phillips is equally concerned. He and his family have seen several neighbors move out of the area. In most cases, the residents who move sell their houses to Domus Properties. "My neighborhood is becoming non-livable for non-students," Phillips says. He is also concerned about the property value of his house decreas­ing. The growth ofDomus Properties is an "accelerating process," he says, "be­cause it is so lucrative for Kramer and so uncomfortable for [the residents]." Kramer, however, believes that resi­dents may be overreacting in some cases, calling the police unnecessarily. Ifthere is in fact a warranted violation, Kramer calls a meeti1_1g with the members of the house to discuss the issue. Students, he says, are cooperative and responsive; further action rarely is necessary. 

Roaldi points out that frustrated resi­dents sometimes mistakenly blame the student houses as sources of noise. His house is not far from Boat Club, and any late-night noise could also be a product ofstudents returning from the bar -not from loud house parties. 
Kramer also believes that the student population in the neighborhood has been an asset to the community. Previous resi­dents ofsome Domus Properties houses were involved in drugs and other crimes, Kramer says. In contrast, college students -many ofwhom participate in commu­nity service -are a much more positive influence on the neighborhood. 
Greg Anderson agrees that students bring many benefits to the community. Anderson owns nine houses in the area and has been renting to students for 25 years. In his opinion, college students pose minimal problems in comparison to low-income families, the potential alternative residents in his homes. 
"I think we're at a better position than we have been in years," Kirk says. "We have the city interested; we have the university interested; we have stu­dent government interested; we have students who live in the neighborhood interested. Never before has all of that happened." · . 


11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 11 



DomeLights 
COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY AND MEGHAN GOWAN 

The Press Across the Road 
Source: Ave Maria Press 

Across Douglas Road and next to the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union stands Ave Maria Press. Different from the University of Notre Dame Press, Ave Maria specializes in such religious publications as parish and ministry resources. Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., established the press 20 years after founding the university, and it is still part of the ministry of the Congregation of Holy Cross today. 
I 3 9 Years that Ave Maria Press has been printing; it was founded in 1865. I 07 Best sellers published by Ave Maria Press 

Q&A 
me Football Announcer 
Mike 







~~-1 

just the neatest thing. I started doing hockey at ND in the '70s [ .. :] I guess
Collins 

[Notre Dame] liked my work because 
when the previous football announcer Mike Collins, the retired (two days before the 1982 voice behind the mic opener, the first ever prime-time game), at every Notre Dame they asked me to take over. I was really home football game, is nervous, but somehow pulled it off. the news anchor and 
.commentator at South Bend's WSBT. He What is most difficult about is now in his 23rd season ofannouncing. announcing at the games? 
I spot •both teams' offenses How did you get involved [ ... ] so sorting out the bodies with sports announcing at the would be a good way of putting it. Notre Dame home football games? What is the bestthing about announc­When my dad took me to my first ing? baseball game in the 1950s (Pittsburgh The best thing is just doing the job and Pirates vs. Brooklyn Dodgers), I knowing when I had a "good" game. If was just fascinated when I· heard I helped the fans in the stands, then it the PA voice seemingly coming makes my day. out of nowhere. I thought that was 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


'o-Hall Tip 
Bruschetta 
-4-5 slices of French bread, 
toasted · 
-4 spoonfuls of tomatoes (from · Mexican food bar) 
-olive oil -Parmesan cheese -garlic salt, basil.and Italian seasoning Combine tomatoes and a few drops of olive oil in a dining hall bowl. Season to taste with garlic salt, basil and Italian seasoning, then top with Parmesan cheese. Put mixture on top of toasted French bread, microwave, and enjoy. 
submit your own dish to scholast@nd.edu 
What is the worst thing about announcing? 
There is no worst thing. Sometimes I am exhausted [ ... ] I am there about six hours and follow each play intensely, but it is all worth it. 
What has been the most exciting or interesting game for you to an­nounce this year? 
Michigan [ ... ] But I really hate losing to Boston College. 
Any additional comments or in­sights about Notre Dame games? 
Good years or not so good, it is an honor to do what I do. It is the best six-day-a­year job in America. I do not do this for ego, and in 23 years I have never given my name, but I am so proud to be the announcer at Notre Dame Stadium. 
-Lauren Wilcox 
11 NOVEMBER 20.04 

r----------------------ffii31i.."imJm!l£\lLJ F E.J------------------------, 



(Happily) Tearing up the Floor 
Dance becomes a fun part of students' weekdays 

KATIEGALEONE 
For most college students, a night out dancing consists mainly of such maneuvers as "The Sprinkler," "The Lasso," and -on special occasions -the 
"Goin' Fishin"' bit. While these are no doubt classics intheir own right, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Ballroom Dance Club teaches moves thathave greater practicality on Tuesday nights in room 301 in Rockne Memorial. The 
level. 
Ballroom dancing is a great workout that can aid in preventing or shedding extra pounds, says Clay Berkley, the club's staff advisor. Dancing also is a stress reliever. Berkley, who also works at the OIT Help Deslc, once suggested the Ballroom Dance Club to a teary-eyed, stressed-out student. "She came the next week and didn't miss a class after that," he 
club enables says. 
participants to The Ballroom
Once you finish, you
learn nine to 10 Dance Club also of­different dances immediately think, "I want fers members the op­and spends two portunityto dance on
to do that again."
weeks on each. its competitive team, The instructors which practices on 
-Clay Berkley, Ballroom Dance Club staff advisor 
break down the Thursday nights 
steps and go at a pace that even the mostrhythmically-chal­lenged can handle. 
The club also has a place for more expe­rienced dancers. After the beginner class, which runs from 8 p.m. -9 p.m., there is an advanced class from 9:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m., with a half-hour of social dance in­between. 
Beginners are welcome to move into ad­vanced anytime theyfeel ready, says senior Jennifer Testa, the club's president. Dancers typically spend a year orless at the beginner 
from 8 p.m. -10 p.m. and competes against such other big-name schools as· the University ofMichigan and Purdue University. In March, the annual Notre Dame Invitational will be held in South Dining Hall. Berkley, who is also a pro-am competitor -which means that he competes in events in which a profes­sional and an amateur make up each pair -says the competitions are always a little daunting at first. "But once you finish," he says, "you immediately think, 'I want to 
do that again.'" 



FOOTLOOSE Ballroom dancing enthusiasts say that dancing can be a great stress-reliever for college students. 
The club is about more than just learning dance steps, though. Thedancers value the friendships they have formed through their membership in the club. 
"There's always a shortage ofguys," Testa says. "It's a great way to meet girls." Just ask Berkley, who met his wife through dancing. 
The relationships created are not just among the student participants; the interaction between the instructors and students is closer than the interaction be­tween students and most professors. When Berkley was facing some health issues, the support of the club was one of the things thathelpedhimthrough the problems and lifted his spirits. 
"These people become part ofyour life," Berkley says. 
The comment Berkley receives most often when people learn about his back­ground in dance is, "I've always wanted to do that." Students have the opportunityto pursue this interest. Lessons from a com­petitive ballroom dancer and the chance to meet new people cost $4 per night or $30 persemester. Theonly thing potential dancers need is the courage to take the first 
step. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 


of the Notre Dame student section 



KATIESOLAN. 
Think it's hard to smuggle that · bag of jumbo marshmal-:­. lows into the stadium? Try a keg ofbeer. Notre Dame students have performed such stunts as far back as alum­ni can remember. Some became traditions, while others were short-lived. Scholastic takes a look back at the hoisting, throw­ing, passing and stripping that has taken place in the student section over the years. 

Problematic Projectiles 
Marshmallow throwing in the stu­dent section began over 30 years ago. Notre Dame was on its way to the 1970 Cotton Bowl -its first bowl game in 45 years (bowls did not count toward national championships in those days) -and according to Charles Lucy ('72), students began to throw marshmallows that season in symbolic anticipation of the bowl. Since marshmallows traveled further than cotton balls, they became the students' projectile of choice during that and subsequent seasons. 
There was a hiatus in marshmallow throwing in the early '90s, but the tradi­tion was reborn around 1996. "[It] became a problem soon after it started," says Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/ 
.. Police. The marshmallows turned into m<>re than just innocent pieces of con­fection when students inserted weighted objects into them to increase their trajec~ tories. Cappy Gagnon, manager ofevent security· and coordinator of stadium personnel, says the "potentially painful items" inserted into the marshmallows in­cluded small rocks, ice cubes, pennies and 

golf tees. At least one eye injury resulted 
from these inserted items, Rakow says. 
Marshmallows aren't the only objects 
that have· been flung by students over the years. During .the 1998 home game against Army, one student in Section 31 added to the traditional marshmal­low throw a two-pound, 15-inch carp, according to Gagnon. The fish didn't last long, however, because Gagnon says "the usher confiscated the pisca­torial projectile and disposed of it." The projectiles continues to be creative thatyearwhen a squid was thrown around for two games. During the first game the . squid was thrown, it hit a student in the face, cutting her cheek near her eye. The practice was condemned soon after its debut, although the squid made one last appearance in a subsequent game. Ac­cording to Gagnon, one student was re­moved from the Baylor game for allegedly 
throwing a squid. The student denied the · 
accusation, claiming 
it was actually a 
frog. It turns out 
that both a frog and 
a squid appeared in 
that game's halftime 
marshmallow throw . 
In the '50s and '60s, many universi­ties had sections that held up differ­ently-colored cards 
that were specifically 
arranged to create According to Gagnon, a card section was organized in the freshman section for one game of the 1962 season. Each student was supposed to hold up series of four cards during the halftime show. "Duringthe first half ofthat game, some. awful officiating calls were made;" Ga­gnon says. "The cards went flying." The foot-long cards made of thick cardboard were flung toward the field at the offi­cials, and many spectators were injured in the process. "It was a disaster," Gagnon says.."That was the beginning and the end of the Notre Dame card section." 


Th~ Legendary Keg Smuggle 
The largest prohibited item ever re­portedly smuggled into the stadium is a keg, a feat that was accomplished in No­vember 1977 by six Dillon seniors. The students set up a table stacked with pro-. grams just outside the stadium and hid the keg under it, an unidentified source says. 


14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
11 NOVEMBER 2004 


The Dillon group had observed the point of the game when the outside ushers en­tered the stadium, and waited for that moment to make a move. "Each person had a responsibility," the unidentified source says. For example, one person was responsible for the cups and tg.e tap. With some people stationed at the bottom of the stadium as well as at the top, the keg was hoisted up and over the wall using rope, a feat that would have been easier then than now, since the stadium height in 1977 was only 60 feet. To make the keg easier to lift, only a quarter-keg was brought in, and "it didn't take long for the students to finish it," the source says. The keg was never detected by the ushers dur­ing the game, since students with· large coats and blankets obstructed the view. The Dillon group simply left the keg in the stands and walked awaywhen the game ended, never attempting the stunt again. "We were one and done," the source says. "We wanted to end up in the plus column." 
Up and Over 
The tradition of "passing up" in the student section dates back to at least the 1960s, according to Gagnon, who gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1966. Once during each game, one student would be lifted up and over the students' heads and passed to the top of the student section. This was possible, Gagnon says, because the stadium only had 60 rows. Once the student was passed to the top, the stu­dents would cheer, "Over the wall, over the wall!" The student would disappear, and in his or her place the group often lifted up a life-size dummy, tossing it over the stadium wall. 
Rakow says an effort was made to stop this practice after one studentsuffered a injury when dropped on her head in the quarter of each game, student Jamie Egan would climb the shoulders of a friend and begin to strip, Gagnon says. The Kahuna took off multiple layers of clothing, beginning with sweaters, then ~everal shirts and undershirts, until he was finally down to his boxers. After each piece of clothing was
TOSS UP The still-popular marshmallow toss began in 1970 before the football team's trip to the Cotton Bowl. removed, the Kahuria 
late '70s or early '80s. The tradition was fin~lly quelled in the early '90s. "It had to stop," Gagnon says, "because both boys and girls were being passed up, and the students had had too much to drink. There became an issue of boys handling the girls." 

Push-up 
Rakow believes that push-ups -a tradition borrowed from the service academies -started at Notre Dame in 1995. That year Notre Dame played the three service academies -Army, Navy and Air Force -which all have a long tradition ofdoing push-ups after scoring. "Push-ups are not a struggle for them," Rakow says. "It was particularly the Air Force Academy who made a big deal about them." At theAFA, each "doolie" (fresh­man) had to leave the stands, go down to the field, and do push-ups each time Air Force scored. Notre Damethus began its slightly altered version of throwing stu ­dents up in the stands for push-ups. 


Fourth-quarter Flourishes. 
The reign ofthe "Naked Kahuna" began during the late '60s. In the fourth and release it into the crowd. "He may have been fueled by at least a couple of beers," says his classmate, Lucy. The "Naked Klunker," student Ed Klunk, was the successor of the "Naked Kahuna" and took over fourth-quarter stripping duties after Egan's graduation. 
The one• man capable of bringing a hush over the entire stadium for over 40 years is Sgt. Tim McCarthy of the Indi­ana State Police. McCarthy began giv­ing his fourth-quarter warnings against drunk driving in 1960. The warnings didn't start out as the puns we hear now, McCarthy says. 
"There were two games left in the sea­son when I began, and I said the messages very seriously. No one was listening," McCarthy says. The next season Mc­Carthy began using pun lines to get the crowd's attention. "After that first joke, I could hear the stadium's laughter and groans from the press box," McCarthy says. He has continued with the jokes ever since. 
The stadium still settles to a hush today at the sound of "May I have your attention please ... " and erupts into a rau­cous cheer after McCarthy delivers the much anticipated pun. McCarthy still remembers the first joke he used: "The automobile replaced· the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon." 
And just as students anxiously await each new McCarthy pi.In, they look for­ward to the next Notre Dame Stadium tradition. D 

I I NOVEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 
, ) V • -_. ,' .... ' • ,T• • ~ • 
. ---. . 






HoopsterHangout 
An· inside look at the 

men's basketball lounge 

ANNAO'CONNOR 
For many, the words "locker room" conjure the image ofa cramped, dark room with a chalkboard and sweaty jerseys hanging from small lockers. But the men's basketball locker room is anything but ordinary: It includes a separate lounge area for players to watch game film, do homework, or just relax. "We usually hang out in that area before and after practice," junior forward Rick Cornette says. "I think our locker room is perfect for us; it's com­fortable and relaxing." The locker room was renovated before the 1999-2000 season, whenMattDoherty was hired as head coach. Doherty requested the overhaul as part of his agreement to come to Notre Dame. The once small locker room was significantly expanded, and the new lounge is now furnished with state-of-the-art conveniences. Three leather couches now sit in front of a big screen television housed in a large entertainment center. To the left of the television is a sophisticated sound system, and on the right side ofthe television is an archive ofold games. The archive is useful if, for instance, the team has a game against Albany coming up and needs to review the tape from 2002 to prepare. The space is immaculately clean, and a blue-and-gold plush carpet covers the floor. Flat-screen c_omputers occupy two corners of the 

room. Players sometimes use the lounge area at night as a quiet place to study and · do schoolwork. 
Although it is easy to forget you are in a locker room when you are there, you can­not forget about Notre Dame basketball. The decor on the walls reflects the past, present and future of the team. On one wall hang pictures of every All-American 
_:who has ever suited up for the Irish, and another has pictures of former Irish players who currently are playing in the NBA. A trophy case highlights recent tournament wins and holds game balls from significant victories. 
A door in the lounge leads to the actual 

16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 NOVEMBER 2004 
. . ~ . . ' -. . ,' . . . -. --. . . 
--------------------fl,X§§t~.:$jil]i$tllft;/.1;1A[Jl.]11Jli:~ijj 1..·1F E_---------------------, 

..__,......._......c:.-~.-~~c 
ERICAr· -. lYJl~ID~D -1Dffllf.i99 
locker area, where each player has his own locker with his name on it. Notre Dame 
-I 
basketball pictures adorn the walls here 
as well. 
With all of these luxuries, there is no 
excuse for the basketball team to have a 
bad season! . 
· 1,r1rm 11 
-. . ' 
·-' . ' -.
·m·o-·11·e·




~1,j~4+ 

11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 



FOOD COURT 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICU 


C 
The Travel Channel usually shows little of interest, with the obvious exception of an occasional world­class poker game. But once in a very special while, it searches America for ghosts. On the Travel Channel's Web site, paranormal detectives investigate "Loretta Lynn's Haunted Plantation," "Murderous Pirate Phantoms" and, to Gipp's surprise, "Notre Dame's Di­vine Power." The investigation begins with a sappy football montage and a Class of '04 alum recounting the last 
minutes of George Gipp's short life. Things become exciting (read: asinine)when a Washington Hall janitor accuses the Gipp er (the ghost, not your favorite writer) of haunting her place of work. "He's real bad," she states. "He'll scare you to make you want to run out of the building." 
Gipp (the writer) is perplexed because he was sure his namesake's ghost had abandoned Washington Hall -like everyony else on campus -and now preferred to haunt the Performing Arts Center. Gipp recommends that this custo­dial comrade dilute her ammonia and open a few windows the next time she spots the Gipper (the ghost) in the bal­cony running a power sweep. 

Gipp (back to the writer for good) also learned -courtesy ofthe Travel Channel -that, like the pyramids ih Egypt and Stonehenge in England, Notre Dame is strategically located to harness divine power. A C.S.C. priest explains in the segment, "There's an energy there. All you need to do is just take a dousing rod and you can 
feel it, and know it, and see it on oc­casion." Not kidding. Then, in what is sure to be Monk and Co.'s favorite part, the priest says he believes that at least two levitations have occurred on campus in recent years. Gipp believes someone has been reading too much Da Vinci Code. Not even Gipp's literary genius can fully capture the ridiculousness of this expose, so, Gipplings, you'll have to check it out for yourself ... http:llmedia.tra11el.discovery.com/convergence/hauntedtravels/ videogallerylwtlweirdtravels. html 
-> Hats off to all those responsible for the victory over Ten­nessee. Gipp had his eyes and ears roaming around Knoxville looking for scandal, but found only happy Darners and gracious losers clad in orange. Dozens of fancy boats flying Tennessee flags floated along the Tennessee River, and one miniature cruise ship proudly flew an ND flag as it hosted a gaggle of ND alumni and administrators; (Gipp thinks that in the interest of fairness, the yacht should be moved to St. Joseph's Lake for the next senior Margaritaville celebration.) ... 
-> Gipp's sources also report that Ty's troops were singing "Rocky Top" on the plane ride back to the good ol' South Bend Regional Airport. Now, Gipp has some homework for the team: Learn the words (if there are any) to "Fight On," the USC fight song. Or at least be prepared to hum it en route back from Los Angeles on Nov. 28 ... 

Finally, just to prove that Gipp is not averse to all potty humor, here's a story about an uncouth incident at the local yachting establishment. From what Gipp understands, a certain high-profile athlete was revving his competitive juices for a rous­ing upcoming game of "flip cup.'' Unbeknownst to our athlete, however, was that another nautical gentleman present that eve­ning refilled one ofthe relevant pitchers with a little something from his own personal microbrewery, evidently believing that all golden brown liquids are created equal. What this sloshed ~eafarer didn't realize was that his warm cider ended up being consumed accidentally by our very own varsity heartthrob. No word on whether or not our athlete's crushing loss in flip cup left him with a bad taste in his mouth. Please, take Gipp's advice and lay off our highly disciplined athletes. Without them, there would be no one on this campus to second-guess. Well, almost no one. . 


11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 21 




. 

-
. 
•· -. cc·,.::. ., 


Adventures in angst 
•·••·

L.A.'s Rilo Kiley debuts on its own label 
-CD REVIEW 




Something's funny in Denmark 
A preview of the Hamlet sequel you never read in high school 
SARAMALONEY 
More Adventurous, the third full-length album from the L.A.-based quartet Rilo Kiley, 
lives up to its name. The group recently switched record labels, leaving Omaha's indie haven, Saddle-Creek, to form Brute/Beaute, its own label under Warner Brothers. The change in label has not in any way hindered the amazing musical experi­ence that is Rilo Kiley. More Adventurous show­cases the band's ability to synthesize a variety of musical influences -such as folk, country, pop, blues and electronica 
-into one uniquely ear-pleasing record. Jenny Lewis is the talented lead singer and songwriter of Rilo Kiley, and her beautiful and soulful voice is one of the 


DANAERGAS 
Five hours per day and six days a week for the past nine weeks, cast and crew alike have worked to produce Lee Blessing's Fortinbras -the Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre's first big show performed in the Marie P. Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Weeks ofset con­struction, costume design (the ghosts are particularly eye-catching) and re­hearsals combine to create a formidably impressive result. Fortinbras is a modern comedic play that is set right after the end of Shake­speare's Hamlet. Remember at the end of Hamlet when practically all the charac­ters die? (Sorry to ruin Hamlet ifyou've never read it or seen it performed; but what else can you expect from a Shake­spearian tragedy?) In this play, the deceased characters from Hamlet come back as ghosts to haunt Fortinbras, the. new heir to the Danish throne. 

Students will find the play particularly relevant because it satirizes contempo­rary political practices, as King Fortin­bras attempts to restore order to society and to secure his political position. 
main reasons this album is worthy of acclaim. The first song, "It's a Hit," is a curse laden anti-Bush song. While it is one of 
the better tracks, it doesn't seem to flow with the rest of the album. The other songs focus on the typi­cal themes of love, failed relationships, angst and death. However, the sin­cerity ofthe lyrics and of Lewis' voice transforms these diched topics into something infi­
nitely more inter~sting. With an undeniably catchy tune comprised of keyboard and hard guitar riffs, the third track, "Portions for Foxes," pos­sesses the possibility to bring this record and band into the mainstream. Unfor­tunately, the adventure takes a wrong 
Fortinbras will be performed in the Philbin Studi0 Theatre, also known as the ''black box."The theater is arranged as a theater-in-the-round to allow the audience to. feel connected to the stage. Ifyou are lucky enough tosit in the first row, you will be so close to the acting that you could reach out ahd touch the actors (not that you should). Subtle fa­cial expressions and hilarious gestures make for convincing performances. The 
· intensity ofthe actors is especially grip­
ping because oftheir close proximity to 
the audience. 
turn with track four, "Ripchord," when 
animal-like noises spew from guitarist 
Blake Sennett's mouth. 
The album closes with "It Just Is," a slow, well-composed song in which Lewis declares, "Today's the day I real­ized I could be loved." Her realizations have not deceived her: Lewis and this album are worthy of being loved. More 
Adventurous is an album that will please 
first-time Rilo Kiley listeners and vet­
eran fans alike. Ifyou listen to More Ad­
venturous once and find yourself slightly 
disappointed, give it another go; these 
songs will grow on you, whether you 
want them to or not. Rilo Kiley never 
disappoints. 
Listen to Sara Maloney 
Mondays from 12:30 p.m. -2 p.m. at 
http://wvfi.nd.edu 

22 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 11 NOVEMBER 2004 


Party like it's 1980 In the year 2004, when could you ever throw on a tacky top, roll up your faded denim jeans, crimp your hair and tease your bangs without eliciting stares? Friday, Nov. 19 at 10 p.m., Legends is bringing Son ofGlam -an '80s cover band-to campus. Get free snap bracelets and hang around to dance the night away at the Totally '80s Nightclub, beginning atmidnight. There is no cover charge, -and the events are open to students ofall ages. 
Hit the field 
The women's soccer team is hosting the NCAA tournament at Alumni Field. The first round will be held on Fri, Nov. 12 and the second on Sun, Nov. 14. Presently ranked No. 2/3 in the · nation, Notre Dame will be playing against top-ranked women's soccer_ teams in the tournament; Be there to support and to cheer on some ofthe best soccer players in the nation -your fellow Domers -and to have a great time with your friends. 
Eat popcorn, hang out with your friends and watch 

a movie 
Every Thursday night at midnight, Legends brings you some ofyour favorite movies that are bound to be classic flicks. Grab a bunch ofyour friends and some free popcorn, and come chill in this relaxed environment where no one will mind your oth­erwise annoying habit ofreciting movie lines out loud. And if you're 21, Legends' drinkspecials include $2 margaritas and $4 24-ounce Coronas. OnNov. 11, Legends will show Trainspotting, and on Nov. 18, Super Troopers will be showing. 


Go out for a night out on the town 
The Saint Mary's College Department of Communication Studies, Dance & Theatre is performing Our Town, Thorn­ton Wilder's Pulitzer Prize winning classic that tells the story of the trials and tribulations of the citizens of a small New England town in the early 1900s. Our Town plays Thu, Nov. 11 through Sat, Nov. 13 in SaintMary's Little Theatre. Visit http: llwww.saintmarys.edu/-events/Calendar, or call the box office at 

(574) 284-4626 for ticket information. 

Wine and dine at LaSalle Grill 
Are you 21? Do you enjoy the taste of award-winning wines? Then call LaSalle Grill at (574) 288-1155 to reserve your spot for dinner on Tue, Nov. 16 when France's own Chateau Sainte Michelle Winery-featuring Culinary Director John Sarich -will share great recipes and suggested wine pairings. The reception begins at 6 p.m., and a multi-course dinner follows at 7 p.m.foaturing foods from the Pacific Northwest and en­hanced bysome delectable wines. Make this a special nightout, as prices probably will be high. LaSalle Grill is located at 115 
W. Colfax. Visit http://www.lasallegrill.com/newsletterlindex.htm for more information. 
See some of the hottest new fashions at Asian 
Allure 

On Sat, Nov. 20, Notre Dame students will show offtheir origi­nal fashion ideas and creations in a show sponsored bytheAsian American Association. Support your friends and classmates, get some new unique fashion ideas, and enjoy the show! Asian Al­lure will be an all-day event. Exact time and location is TBA. Check http://www.nd.edu/~aaa/ for updates. 
-Compiled by Sarah Barrett 

people you're working with you know already. The people you work with ;are your friends," Dolson says. 
Near the end of the play, Hamlet's ghost says, "They'll tell a story about this place." After production wraps up, they'll be saying the same about Fortinbras. ·. 



After a rehearsal, Director Jay Paul Skelton, professor of act­ing and directing processes, and senior Mike Dolson, who stars as Fortinbras, sat down to discuss the play's unique production at Notre Dame. "The students here are in­crediblysmart-overwhelmingly smart compared to a lot of other schools thatI've directed at," Skel­ton says. 
The cast members have formed a tight community. "Most every­one in the theatre subset of FTT knows each other, so a lot of the 

11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 23 



in 1980s New York. 

BETHMURPHY 
I hate America. I hate this country. Noth­ing but ideasandstoriesandpeople dying. The white crackerwho wrote the NationalAnthem knew what he was doing. He set the wordfree on a note so high no one could reach it. That was deliberate. 
o too is Angels in America -the Pu­
S
litzer Prize winning play by Tony 
Kushner from which the above quotation is taken -deliberate, specifi­cally when considering the social issues it tackles. And this year, St. Edward's Hall Players are tackling the difficulty of performing a play that is likely to be deemed controversial on Notre Dame's campus. 
Senior Steve Hoeplinger, a double major in theatre and political science, is the president of St. Edward's Hall Players and is directing this year's per­formance. Hoeplinger says he chose this play because of its social relevance and overall importance. "It's easily the most 

LAYING IT ON Sophomore Andre Valdivia (left) and junior Joe Garlock (right) in rehearsal for Angels in America. St Edward's Hall Players hope their production of the play will raise awareness of and discussion about homosexuality. 
important American play in the last 50 years," he says. 

Angels in America focuses on the lives of several gay men living in New York City in 1985 during the national AIDS epidemic. "I think there is an outstand­ing problem here at Notre Dame with intolerance toward homosexuality," Ho­eplinger says. "This play demonstrates that [homosexuals] are people too, ere­ated by God." 
Angels in America is actually two full-length plays, but St. Edward's Hall Play­ers are only performing "Part I: Millen­nium Approaches." In this part, two of the main chara~ters are suffering from AIDS, and as the story unfolds, we view their reactions to the disease as well as the reactions of those in their lives. 
St. Edward's Hall Players was founded seven years ago, when a group of men living in St. Ed's expressed an interest in forming a theatre company. Over the years, however, participation in the com­panyfrom St. Ed's residents has decreased significantly, so the company is now open to students from all dorms. The players. put on one major show each year, and re­cent productions have included One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in 2003 and Betty's Summer Vacation in 2002. 
Because Angels in America deals with verysensitiveandsomewhatcontroversial 
. issues, Hoeplinger had to seek approval to produce the play from Amy Geist, coor­dinator of student groups for the Office ofStudent Activities.The script contains · several vulgarities and deals with harsh realities, but i{did not have to undergo any textual changes for Hoeplingerto gain permission to be produced. "It uses strong.language because that's how 
people talk," Hoeplinger says. "It's not 
just there to shock people." 
Hoeplinger and his cast hope that their production of Angels in America will spark interest and awareness in its audience. "I think there is a huge difference between tolerance and ac­ceptance. Gay people here on campus may be tolerated, but I don't feel they are accepted," he says. Hoeplinger believes the effect of the play will be similar to that of the "Gay? Fine by me" t-shirt campaign orchestrated by the Gay-Straight Alliance, now Alli­ance ND. "I thought [the campaign] was a great idea," he says. "I mean, it certainly raised my awareness. And this play is just another way to get people talking about important issues such as homosexuality." 
Hoeplinger knows the reaction to the 
play could be mixed on campus -es­
pecially because one scene features men 
kissing. "I expect some people to get 
upset over this," he says. 
Senior Cricket Slattery is excited to 
be a part of this production. "Besides 
the fact that it has won Pulitzer, Tony 
and Emmy awards, it is simply a won­
derful example of a modern play that 
lives off of poetry," she says. "It is so 
finely orchestrated, it's almost musical, 
and it's a beauty to work with and listen 
to [Kushner's] words." 
Others involved in the play look more 
at its social and cultural relevance. "In 
some ways, it's a period piece about gay 
men and AIDS in the '80s, but I think 
it rings true today, especially on a cam­
pus like Notre Dame where it's so hard 
to be gay," says senior Ellen Kennedy, 
another cast member. 
The entire cast of Angels in America is greatly anticipating opening night. The actors and actresses are strongly dedicated to this play and all of its underlying messages. They have been rehearsing several times a week in order to nail their lines and deliveries. 
"The thing about this play," Ho­
eplinger concludes, "is that it's a play about everything: love, betrayal, sexu­. ality, power, religion, politics. It's not just about homosexuality and AIDS. It's about overcoming social boundaries." 
Angels in America will be performed in Washington Hall, Nov. 17 -19 at 7:30 p.m. The play runs just under three hours, and admission, is $5. 


11 NOVEMBER 2004 

1--~-~--=-.._,. -_··-.. -·.. -··•-::,-•··­
~

· I 4 ¥if ,~
I "wiJ 
fl Back • Forward Stop Refresh Home .il,utoFill Print Mail ,J. @ http://scholastic.nd.~du/ 

) 



>Scholastic wants you to DESIGN and MAINTAIN our website. 
I 
t 
I And you get paid. 
>INTERESTED? Contact us at scho/ast@nd.edu 



__ } 
' 
MOl"als Qve'~ M6nef 
RICHMclVER






How the Democrats lost the "values" war 
During this year's presidential : election, voter turnout rivaled ·· the highest levels in our nation's recent history. Our generation's turn­out improved from a dismal 42 percent in 2000 to about 51 percent in 2004, as 4.6 million more people under the age of 30 voted. Soft-money donations from billionaire financier George Soros substantially closed the fundraising gap between Democrats and Republicans. By most estimates, this should have been a · recipe for Democratic dominance. But at the end ofthe day, Republicans not only won the presidential election, but they also captured the popular vote, gained seven seats in the House, and unseated the now-embarrassed Senate minority leader Tom Daschle. In light of this crushing loss, Demo­crats are asking themselves: What hap­pened? Those faithful to the Democratic Party may argue that its defeat can be blamed on its weak candidate, Senator John Kerry. But with a bungled reconstruction effort in Iraq; an economy that is not producing new jobs; and a candidate devoid of any · debating skills, the· Republicans weren't firing on all cylinders either. The Democrats' strategy to mobilize new voters was, by and large, successful. But recruiting new voters wasn't the prob­·lem -itwas keeping the old ones. Some erosion of the Democratic base can be ·attributed to our nation's transition from an industrial and manufacturing-based economy to a service-based economy. Democratic union workers are less nu­merous, and their political clout is less potent than it has been in the past. But the weakening ofunions is not an entirely new phenomenon, so something else must be to blame. 
Though during the Clinton years the Democratic Party thrived on the now infamous motto, "It's the economy, stu­pid," this election was won, like so many others, on "values." Recent elections have demonstrated that it is the candidate who upholds "American values" that often takes the day. In this election, however, the definition of that term underwent a radical transformation. 
Once upon a time, upholding "Ameri­can values" meant advocating a strong middle class. It meant wanting a social net that ensured basic health coverage and a good education for all citizens. It meant supporting an administration that em­phasized job numbers over stock growth. But upholding "American values" now means having a pro-life stance, steadfast patriotism and a desire to "preserve the sanctity of marriage." 
Issues that in the past were seen as mere political wedges were, for the 2004 election, deciding factors for millions of Americans. Illustrating the Democratic Party's failure to control the moral high ground, Howard Dean said last Decem­ber, "We have got to stop having the cam­paigns.in the country based on abortion, guns, God and gays, and start talking about education, jobs and health care." This statement is, in many ways, repre­sentative ofthe type ofliberal campaign that the Democratic Party tried to run, a strategy which ultimately cost Kerry and Daschle their jobs. 
The Democratic Party lost the elec­tion because they lost the moral-issue war. The Republican Partybecame the party of moral Americans, Christians, patriots and, most im­portantly, Middle America. Democrats, in contrast, were perceived as liberals, elit­ists and radical environmentalists. These are certainly not the types with whom the average American could associate. 
To regain political power, the Demo­cratic Partymust push its bread-and-but­ter issues to the forefront ofthe American political discourse. Theyhave to convince America that politicians who talk about respecting life -but who also want to deny basic healthcare to millions and cut social programs that aid the most desperate Americans -are hypocriti­cal. The Democratic Party has to make Americans start talking about how corpo­rate tax breaks and the growing income inequality between the rich and the poor are a real crisis. Democrats must shift the debate from social morality to economic morality. Democrats failed to define the issues in this way in the 2004 election; as a result, the Democratic Party was defeated. 
Despite all of the talk about a pro-free­market America, George W. Bush did not win in 2004 because middle-class Ameri­cans believed he was the best president for their pocketbooks; rather, they believed he was the best for their consciences. Bush represents the values of much of Middle America. Nearly 20 percent of voters believed that moral values were the dominant issue in the campaign. Nearly 80 percent ofthem voted for Bush. It was this vote that won him the elec­tion. For Democrats, this means that the road to electoral success will be found in 
reconnecting with mainstream 
America and redefining what 
issues dominate the "values" 
debate. · D 


CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
They have the longest winning streak in college football. They have beaten their op­ponents more soundly than any other team. And they are not the USC Trojans. Who are these studs from the West? None other than the Boise State Broncos; the leaders of the Western Athletic Confer­
-but this again will leave out an equally qualified Boise State team. The structure of the current bowl selection !lystem is too rigid, as it allows for only two at-large bids for BCS bowl games. My bowl predictions are slightly different than those of most analysts. 

The National Championship 
ence. These warriors from 
will be No. 1 USC vs. No.
Idaho, however, are going 
2 Oklahoma in the FedEx
to be shut out of a BCS 
Orange Bowl, even though
bowl, even if they finish 
the season with a perfect record. 
The problem is not a new one. It is the ever-present argument ofwhere mid-major conference powerhouses stand in compari­son to the winners oftheACC, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-10 and SEC. Last year the TCU Homed Frogs were one such example when they headed into the bowl season with only one loss -just like Oklahoma, LSU and USC-butwere not placed in one ofthe four BCS bowls. TCU instead was placed in the lowly Fort Worth Bowl against fellow one-loss team Boise State. While it was a great game, these two teams both deserved to play in much bigger bowls. 
Given the current circumstances, one mid­major team, No. 7 Utah, will appear in the Tostito's Fiesta Bowl-a BCS bowl game 
these teams both played 
weaker schedules and showed more signs of weakness than No. 3 Auburn. Auburn will play in the Nokia Sugar Bowl against the ACC champion, No. 11 Vrrginia. The Rose Bowl will feature No. 5 Wisconsin and No. 4 California. But Cal's at-large spotshould be given to Boise State instead; that would create a great game that would finally give the mid-major team the respect it deserves. The at-large spot in the Fiesta Bowl will go to Utah who will play Big East champion, No. 13 West Vrrginia. 
However, my predictions are not perfect by any means because they leave out quality one-loss teams like Michigan, Georgia and Texas. The situation will not be right until the system itself is changed. Many people are arguing for an eight-team playoff system. 
However, this incurs the same problems of 
who is in and who is out. Another idea is 
to add one or two more BCS bowl games, 
such as the Cotton Bowl. This would allow 
automatic bids for the ACC, Big East, Big 
Ten, Big 12, Pac-IO and SEC, as well as four 
to six more at-large bids. After all, since 
more teams seem to be finishing with similar 
records, why not provide them with more 
opportunities to play in a BCS game? 
Most sports analysts and fanatics might 
question whether or not mid-major teams 
could compete with teams like USC and 
Oklahoma in a bowl game ifmore at..:large 
bids are accepted. But look back to last 
weekend. Late Saturday night, the Trojans' 
season was nearly tarnished, as Pac-IO team 
Oregon State came close to beating them. 
Meanwhile, in College Station, Texas, the 
Texas A&M Aggies nearly beat Oklahoma, 
but Jason White's five touchdown passes in 
the game saved the Sooners. These unim­

pressive conference wins for the No. 1 and · No. 2 teams in the country prove they are 
certainly beatable by such mid-major jug­
gernauts as Boise State and Utah. All these 

• mid-major teams -rieed is the opportunity they definitely deserve. . 
Football (6-3):


STATZONE 
The Irish, now ranked No. 24 in the AP
Bryan Lowery brings you ... 
Poll, defeated the then No. 9/11 Tennessee ALLTHE STATS 1 Volunteers17-13inKnoxvillelastSaturday. '-----------'-The Volunteers were sacked more times (5) by the Irish than in any other game this season. During the game, senior Justin 


Tuck became Notre Dame's all-time sack leader with 24.5. The game's turning point 
came when Tennessee's quarterback Erik Ainge was injured on the last play of the second half. Soon after replacing Ainge, third-string quarterbackRickClausen's pass was intercepted by senior linebacker Mike Goolsby, who returned it for the first touch­down of his career. This Y,ictory extended Notre Dame's;winning streak following a bye week to 15. On Sat, Nov. 13, the Irish 
I I NOVEMBER 2004 


!ilSEHGIJASTIG SPORTS ,:---------------------, 

MORGAN


IRI HEYES 
CEY 
Morgan Cey is a senior sociology !}lajor and the goalie of 

the Notre Dame hockey team. Hailing from Wilkie, Sas­katchewan, Cey played for the Flin Flan Bombers of the 
·· Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League before coming to play for the Irish. Despite missing much of his junior year due to surgery on his right knee, Cey is rapidly climbing up in the Notre Dame record book. This season, Cey was named the USCHO/ITECH Defensive Player ofthe Week after stopping a career-high 50 shots against No. 1 Boston College at home on Oct. 22. In an interview with Scholastic, Cey reflects on playing for Notre Dame and on hockey in general. 
How did itfeel to be in the net for a win over the No. 1 team in the country? It felt great, we really needed the win. And it was one of 

I 
the best moments I have had in my life. 
The team has had some trouble scoring goals this season. Does that put any added pressure on you? I can only do my job out there, so I try not to put any extra pressure on myself. It's tough when we are 
not winning, but I am optimistic that we are still going to have a 
good year. 
Which goalies, ifany, have you patterned yourself after? Are there any you admire more than others? My favorite goalie has always been 
Curtis Joseph, but I can't say if there is one goalie I have tried to pattern myself off of. I am always trying new things, though, to 
try and get better. 
You are the all-time leader in goals-against average, save percentage and shutouts at Notre Dame and are climbing in other stats as well. How does itfeel to be at the top ofthe record books at a school like Notre Dame? I am very proud of the accomplishments that I have been able to attain here at Notre Dame, especially because it is Notre Dame. And I have been very blessed to play with tremendous teammates throughout my four years here that have helped me be the best I can be. 
-John Everett 
OPPONENT: PITTSBURGH WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY, NOV. 13, 2:30 P.M. 
IThe Irish continue to build on the momentum that they gained last week, and their offense comes out running. Darius Walker and Ryan Grant will combine for over 200 yards on the ground against Pittsburgh and will help bring the Irish to their seventh win of the season. Notre Dame 27 
Pittsburgh 17 MIKEISELIN 
ASSISTANT SPOITTS EDITOR 
IThe Irish looked better prepared against the Volunteers than they did during any other game this season, and this will likely continue when Pittsburgh comes into town. I expect the Irish to embarrass the Panthers in the last home game of the year. Brady Quinn will pass for around 250 yards. Notre Dame 27 Pittsburgh I 0 CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
SPOITTS EDITOR 
KEYTOTHE GAME: Keeping It Clean In a mismatch such as this one, it is important for the more talented team to run their plays as planned. Since the Irish have the upper hand against the Panthers on both offense and defense, they should win just by following their playback. 
will host the Pittsburgh Panthers in the final home game of the year. Notre Dame leads the series against Pittsburgh 43-17-1. 

Men's Soccer (13-2-3): 
The No. 7 Irish lost in the quarterfinals of the Big East Tournament on Nov. 6 at Alumni Field to No. 18 Seton Hall. Notre Dame entered the tournament as the No. 1 seed in•the Big East, after itwon eight confer­ence games for the first time in the program's history. The Irish out-shot Seton Hall 22-16 in the game, butwere forced into an overtime shootout, which theylost 8-7. Next up for the Irish is the 2004 NCAA Tournament, which begins Nov. 19. 
Women's Soccer (19-1-1): 
The Ne. 2/3 Irish advanced to the finals of the BigEastTournament in Storrs, Conn., by defeating both St.John's College and Boston College before losing to Connecticut 2-1 on Sun, Nov. 7. This loss ended the fourth-lon­gest unbeaten streak in the program's history at 20 games. Despite the loss, the Irish are the No. 4 seed in the NCAA Tournament, giving them home field advantage throughout the quarterfinals. Notre Dame will first play Eastern Illinois (13-5-2) at Alumni Field on Nov.12. . 

11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 29 

LAURENWILCOX 
Keep your shoulders back," she yells at me. "Pick up your out­side hand. Heels down." The coach of the Notre Dame Equestrian Club yells these common corrections to riders -and today to me -during weekly practices. Although already nationally rec­ognized for its dedication to athletic programs -particularly football and basketball -the Notre Dame com­munity is taking an active interest in its Equestrian Club, a rapidly growing sport at the university. The club nearly has doubled its membership since last year, as more students have begun to demonstrate an interest in the unique sport ofhorseback riding. Does horseback riding really involve the physical exertion, coordination and mental strategies generally associated with sports, or is it merely a recreational activity? I found out first hand-by sad­dling up myself. After driving 33 miles to the club's practice stables in Bristol, Ind., I watched as five team members trotted 

FIVE HORSEWOMEN From left, team co-captain senior Molly Kopacz, club co-president sophomore Katie Baron, freshman Molly Schmiege, sophomore Kelsey Ostberg and club co-president sophomore Claire Freeman. 
their horses around an indoor ring. It all looked so simple. How hard could it be, provided you held on tight? 
"I think that the common misconcep­tion is that we're not a sport because we just sit on the horses and they do all the work," says sophomore Lauren Croall, treasurer of the club. 
When practice ended, I was invited to try my hand at riding a horse around the ring. I climbed onto the mounting block and swung my leg over the animal's back, trying to remain calm and confident; a rider had informed me that horses have a sixth sense about how comfortable people. feel about riding them. It's not so easy, however, to coolly climb atop an animal whose back measures five feet or more from the ground. 
After taking the reins, I realized just how much concentration and effort is required to maintain the correct posture and balance. I used every muscle of my body to balance and direct the horse around the ring, and my back quickly started to hurt. But resting was not an option, as I could not slouch for even a moment for fear I would lose my balance 
and fall off; I discovered riding is actu­
ally quite difficult. 
"My back gets sore ifl haven't ridden 

in a while, because you have to have good posture, and it's also working a lot of back muscles that you don't realize," says senior Molly Kopacz, co-captain · of the club's competitive team. "Also, your legs hurt because the momentum is controlled with your legs. You use all your leg muscles and your upper body 
to stop your hor,se." 
Adds sophomore Katie Baron, club 
co-president: "I think a reason people 
have the misconception that you're not 
doing anything is that ~hen you watch 
a good rider, it looks like they're not do­
ing anything. That's the whole point; to 
make it look like you're not trying." 
"There is a lot of coordination in­
volved. It's not just simply getting 
up there and going," Coach Kathryn 
Wells says. 
Members can choose to join the 
Equestrian Team :-a sub-section of 
the club -and compete against other 

30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 11 NOVEMBER 2004 

schools, or they can simply remain a part of the Equestrian Club and attend weekly practices. 
Ofthe Equestrian Club's 34 members, 24 are part of the team and compete in horse shows. In both seasons that Wells has coached at Notre Dame, the team finished with a higher ranking than the previous year. Further, the team has been ranked in the top five of the 13 teams inits region for the past three years and took third place at the regional competition last year. 
"We've progressively gotten better in the past two or three years. We have a more serious membership with more dedication and commitment," Kopacz says. 
Last year, as a freshman, Andrea Oli­verio was one of six team members to qualify for and compete in regionals held at Purdue University. Oliverio qualified for regionals in both novice flat-where 
.__Jh~ horse walks; trots and corners -and novice jumping -where the horse jumps a course of eight fences. When Oliverio placed first in novice flat, she became the first novice qualifier from Notre Dame in four years. Coach Wells and the Equestrian Club's officers eventually want to be recognized as a varsity sport. But that goal, like riding itself, will require time and hard work. The team currently competes in the Intercollegiate Horse Show Associa­tion (IHSA), which is comprised of ap­proximately 350 teams worldwide. The NCAA recently declared equestrian an emerging sport, and approximately 10 schools in the United States boast varsity 
programs. 
Although the competi­tive aspect of equestrian attracts many members, the Equestrian Club's allure is multi-faceted. "I joined the club because I wanted to keep riding during college. It was a nice way to continue riding horses -with school­work and all -and still go to competitions. We have a lot offun with a good group of girls," junior Julia Burke says. 
"When I showed at home it was always very individual, and what I really like about riding here is that I am part of a team. When I ride well or don't ride well, I have a team behind me to support me," Baron says . 
The element of unfamil­iarity with horses ridden in shows sometimes provides an added challenge when com­peting, especially within the IHSA's unique structure, as riders are randomly assigned 
to horses immediately before they com­pete. 
"In the open division, we are expected to·get on a horse we've never seen before and nail three-foot jumps," says sopho­more Claire Freeman, club co-president. "It is the ultimate test ofhorsemanship, as well as athleticism." 
Further, a rider and horse must form an effective team during competition, and the creation of team chemistry 
provides a unique chal­lenge; all communica­tion between the rider and horse is nonverbal. 
"It's so different be­cause you have no form of verbal communica­
., .. ,. tion," Oliverio says. "If L, ;. you are on a team with 
1
'· other people, you would be able to turn to them and talk to them. It plays a huge part in the IHSA, figuring out how they think and the best way to ride that horse." 
Baron adds, "Horses are a big variable, 

FAST FRIENDS Members ofthe Equestrian Team, such as club co­president Claire Freeman (above), must quickly become accustomed to an unknown horse in order to perform well in competitions. 
whereas in any other sport you are wor­rying about yourself and other team members. In this case you also have to worry about the horse and the mood the horse may be in. 
"It really puts everyone on an equal playing field, she says. "It has really helped my riding. Riding all these dif­ferent horses gives me so many different experiences." 
This year the team competed in the Tournament of Champions -a large show hosted at the University of Con­necticut. Some of the top equestrian schools participated in this invitation­only event, and the team saw its invita­tion as an honor. 
"It was a great experience as a. team. Usually when we go out, we compete against schools in our region that are not varsity and have facilities that are not on campus," Oliverio says. "Out East many teams are varsity and top team schools." 
"It's a great experience to make something that is usually individual [ ... ] into a team event and represent Notre Dame." 
-With reporting by Claire Sobczak 

11 NOVEMBER 2004 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 31 







44 Years Ago 
When The Library didn't need a liquor license At this time in the semester, most students have endured a week during which they spent more time in the library than in their dorm room. This has led many students to take good old Hes burgh for granted, but the building managed to cause quite a stir when it was in its planning stages. From the September 30, 1960 issue of Scholastic: 
"Notre Dame Memorial Library, as it will be called, will house 2,000,000 volumes and will provide study facilities for nearly 3,000 students at one time ... Designed by Ellerbe and Co., St. Paul, Minn., the new library {will be} one of the larger buildings in the state ofIndiana. It will rise 180 feet, nearly as high as the Golden Donze atop the Adnzin­istration Building . . . The most prominent architectural feature of the Notre Dame Memorial Library will be a soaring, multi-colored granite mural on the central axis of the tower. The mammoth work ofart, rising nine stories above the library's entrance, will emphasize the grandezt1; complexity and timelessness ofman's search for truth." 
In providing space for 3,000 students at one time, the university must have anticipated admitting a lot of dorks in future years. 
-Mike Healy 


32 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 11 NOVEMBER 2004 


!ffi@@to1t7.:.fjjj@HffMOR',~;------------------------, 

STEVEMATTINGLY 
Callege football writers are fond ofgiving out mid-season awards. Often these awards are as inane as the questions the local media ask Coach Willingham during his press conferences, but they can be fun to read, nonetheless. What I've never seen, however, is a list of mid-semester awards for regular college students. Why should student-athletes get all of the glory when so many noteworthy performances have been turned in by stu­dents who don't benefit from Title IX or the insane profits garnered by the bookstore's sale of everything from a $595 Lou Holtz motivational video (I'm not sure if this item is still in stock, but it was two years ago. Seriously.) to the university's soul itself ($2,500 in case you are interested) to Irishopoly? There are plenty ofnon-athletes who deserve to be cheered, jeered, or otherwise recognized. To that end, I've created the first University of Notre Dame Mid-Semester Awards. As you read this column, please ignore the fact that the semester is nearly two-thirds over and that not all of the awards are given to students. The Agent Orange really did more damage to me than I first thought. Without further ado, I award the following: 
The Depends™ Award for Urinary Excellence goes to the unknown female from College Park who somehow stag­gered into my St. Pete's Street room during a party, passed out on my bed and promptly wet herself -all while I was home over fall break. Fortunately for me, my roommates salvaged my brand-new mattress by finding the offending urinator before she could roll around too much. Ifyou're reading this, Miss Micturition, I did some research for you: Women's Super Absorbency Depends™ Underwear costs less than 79 cents per pair. And my great aunt highly recommends them. 
The AC/DC Big Balls Award goes to the guys in St. Ed's who boldly situated a "Fire Ty" sign in their turret room window, which is visible from Monk's room in Sorin. Thanks for brazenly demanding what all intelligent Notre Dame football fans know needs to happen. And if the dark forces haven't made you remove it yet, don't. A win over the Rocky Toppers doesn't erase the epic and re­cord-setting futility of the past three years, or the continuing ineptitude ofoffensive coordinator Bill Diedrick's clown car offense -I hope Athletic Director Kevin White realizes this fact. Which brings me to my next award ... 
The Wayne Fontes/Rasputin Award for Self-Preservation goes to Tyrone Willing-

ham, who likely saved his job by pulling off a road win over a marginal, injury-ridden BCS contender in a fashion very remi­niscent ofthe former Detroit Lions' coach or the evil Siberian mystic healer. Both ofthese men appeared to have over 15 lives and the uncanny ability to get a surprising win whenever it was necessary ( or to break free from their bonds after being stabbed several times and thrown in a freezing river). 
The KGB/Blackshirt Award for Unnecessary Secret Po­lice Action is an easy one. It goes to the Indiana State Excise Police, preservers ofthe peace and defenders ofpublic morality and all things decent. Ifthe university didn't invite them to patrol the tailgating lots before each football game, then 20­year-olds would not be able to experience the sheer joy ofbeing slammed into a car for merely holding a beer, then blowing a 
.015 into a breathalyzer, and still being taken downtown for a pleasant visit to the South Bend jail. Thank you, excise police, for affording young students this opportunity. Here's a tip: next week, somewhere in the Blue lot, a 20-year-old female will have a beer with her grandma. I'll provide more details later. 
The Grizzly Adams/Ambrose Burnside Award for Ex­cellence in Facial Hair is awarded collectively to male grad students. For whatever reason, you possess the ability to look incredibly pensive, intelligent and revolutionary by sporting some of the wildest beards, moustaches and goatees this side of ZZ Top. I think it's clear that grad student + beard = exis­
tentially troubled genius. This makes me sad that I let Michael Jackson talk me into having the permanent facial-hair removal surgery. 
The Dennis Rodman Award for Eccentric Genius goes to a young woman in my philosophy 
class who entered a third-story Brownson Hall classroom by climbing the rickety fire escape and having someone let her in through the 
window. Considering that the class is entitled 
"Death and Dying," I'm a bit worried about her mental stability, but that was pretty damn funny. And finally ... 
The Burt Reynolds Distinguished Young Alumnus Award goes to Brian, Class of 2 0 03, who has proven in recent trips back to his alma mater that he will go to any length to prove his love for the university-even if doing so includes tailgating in his boxers, sliding through pits ofmud in his busi­ness suit, or attempting to enter the football stadium with a Styrofoam cooler broken over his head. . 
33 SCH0LASTICHUMOR I I NOVEMBER 2004 

I ' 
... ---·--·,-­



Unemployed and Loving It 
One undergrad's guide to becoming the perfect arm candy 
ERIKPOWERS 

Ihead on their shoulders. I'll also change my major to primary 
've been getting a lot of e-mails from the Caree:r: Center . education. It won't be because I want to be a teacher, but 
lately. Around three times a day I'm reminded ofupcom­•because I'm going to be breeding like crazy and.I need 

ing interview deadlines. There are internships for · to know how and why I should clean and: feed· the
marketing, finance and accounting majors. Curious­little things. 
ly, there are significantly fewer English internships. 

• Step two: Makeover. Superficiality is going
As in·... none. I'm beginning to think that there to be pretty key, so I had better look and smell 
isn't much ofa future for me in an English-related good; Flaxen hair and · comely features won't
field. At this rate my dream of a steady job and a . come without a little bit of work, so I'll· invest 
corner house with a white picket fence has been in sonie loufahs, conditioners·and exfoliants. 
adjusted for reality. I'll be happy with sleeping : Dimples seem pretty standard for the role,
on a cot in the basement of a Detroit YMCA so I might get four or five. I'll also pick up 
in between begging for booze and forming a . an accent;•Not a new language or anything,
food stamp collection. · but something Hispanic or British orEastern
Right now it seems like business majors have . European, which makes nie not just a strong, . ·
it pretty sweet. It would be nice to sell my·soul to anindifferent corporation, work long hours at ·· ··' ·silent type/ but an.:' exotic; strong; silent, type:;:,. : .,:. I'll be plenty strong too, because I'll be using 
menial tasks, be forced into an early retirement, creatine as a condiment and spending all my
get that gold-plated watch, and ride off into the free time lifting (when I'm notinterviewing au 
sunset. But while this whole deal about working hard and thinking for myself has been great so far, pairs, perfecting mysmile; orshopping for pink I don't know if! taii keep it up for another, oh, 50 button-down shirts). years or so. I could try to be a breadwinner, but I Step three: Learn rhetoric against a pre-'nup. 
· Iflget divorced, I'mgoing to·need some serious 
probably wouldn't earn more than crusts. I need a career that's uncompetitive, conducive to... alimony to fall back on. I'd rather not teach kin­
sleeping in, and makes me feel pretty. dergarten. Arnold Schwarzenegger did it, but he I need to become a trophy husband. had a whistle and a ferret. And he still got shot a There are so many bright, career-minded women at few times. And: besides, what is the point ofa pre­
NotreDamethatwanttogethigh-payingjobs -why imp because love is supposed to la~t forever and I should I compete with them when I can just marry one, can't believe someone would want to marryme then step aside, and work all day to be gussied up for when turn_ right arourid and make plans for divorcing me 
she comes home from the office/hospital/Mars? and I'm a Catholic so you're not getting a divorce But how do I become a trophy husband? I checked without_an annulment anyway and good luck on the with the Career Center and my rector. They weren't annulment because I'm consummating this mar­
able to help me. But then again, I mumbled, so I don't riage the second we get offofthe altar. think they were able to hear me. So goodbye reading, writing and discussing. I devised a plan on my own, based entirely on my Goodbye· blue-collar, average-to-below-average­intimate knowledge of The Bachelor and baseball tro­lookingND and SMC chicks; In less _than twoyears, phies. So here goes: my successful girlfriend will be proposing to me on Step one: Transfer to Saint Mary's. I'll learn about awal,lc around the lake~, and I'll have an engagement 
being a trophy spouse from the girls who do it ring so bigI'II need a sling to hold my arm up. best. The Belles will teach me how to spot fu­I'llbe playing croquet at my estate, dining at ture cardiologists, corporate lawyers and stock­a country club, and hiring an accountant to 
brokers. I'll pick up on the right dodge taxes. And best of all, I small talktci get high-potential won't even have to say "Hello" hotties to drive me around in to a person unless he or she their sports cars, tell them how makes six figures or acciden-· smart they are and how hard tally calls the mansion. . their jobs are going to be, and. bat my eyes when I rest my 
34 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 
I I NOVEMBER 2004 





i. 
·krazyee gurl: omg.... what was that last song you 
played.... it was amazing 
WVFI Radio: hall and oates 
WVFI Radio: jk... hehe... it's "who is it" b_y ~ork 
krazyee gurl:1.ol, i love bjork 
WVFI Radio: i know, she's awesome. keep listening... this 
next one's tor _you · 
i love _y 
A besfof



caustic 
THts THURso Ofe 
Legends JO PM AY[ -12AM 
Acoustic 
Every Thu Ofe
rsdoy · 
j 
7O:oo PM-7 . tn Lo Fortune 
/ oil mu . . 2.oo AM Basement
s1c1onsI to sign up coioets, singers We/ i ! Michoe/. V7i // ~ct Mike Tof/a . come 
I · o onco l@ nco 
. nd.edu
I i I check
I for Ofh outSUB.No E brought toy er great SUB . DU ~ ou by the t events!~ 
s Udentu . . , t • n1on boor;d
I • 
I 








