

production 
underwriter 
National City~ 
Brian Bedford's one-man Shakespeare evening, The . Lunatic, the Lover, and the Poet, has taken him around the world, including New York, over 100 cities in the United States and Canada, and now to South Bend! 
Mr. Bedford's leads in Lon­don, on Broadway, and in the internationally known Stratford Shakespeare Festi­val have garnered a Tony Award for Best Actor on Broadway and a place in the American Theatre Hall of Fame. 
April 23, 2001 
7:30 pm EST Jordan Auditorium 
Mendoza College ofBusiness Administration 
University of Notre Dame 
Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office / 219-631-8128 / $10 General Admission 
p 
R L 
~ar~a~tic 2~o/~sc~o(~ic~aff !15 
COVER: No Bob Davie jokes this . year. Sadly, mostofourfodderwas taken away from us when the team went over .500 this year. ,
-I 
I 
/-­
.t Entering the Elite 
\1 
125 
\,"' by David Murray ! 
-, 
You'vewatchedthegames. You've ! greeted the players. Now you can finally hear their story. 
('~~;;Y;~kee___ ~---] 28 
"\. --• by Gerard Meskill! 
-~:.-:-:-------~ :::;:-_;::;;:-_~~ 
A former Notre Dame student earns i a spot on the 2001 New York i 
_1 Yankees squad. I 
~;.,r-=--%_-::::-.:.-~::.::.·:;:/ -::-::,-_:-· _--;._ ._ . -, 
1 
,;,-Dramatic Changes 8 -· by Sarah Childress 
Dining Hall Delectables 10 
ii· by Kristin Kramer 
:! 

Room-Pick Trauma 
12 
i: 
-" by Kristin Steckbeck 

Faces of Broadway 
i! · by Tracy Evans_ ; 32

I i[ Extreme Football 




J' 30 

I /! by GerardMeski/1 an_d Carrie __ \\. Sweeney _ . ­
~ ­
·------­

thedepartments 

From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 31 ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 34 Campus Watch 14 Calendar 35 
. -_ ,

Sticks and Stones 
"wehave a virgin here." 

Vol. 142, No. 12 • 12 APRIL 2001 The words silenced my three friends. We were sharing lunch · '-l)Yov;o 1,::' 1 over winter break in a New York City restaurant. The conversa­scholaSUC.,:.::J_ l J..J L/S_t_a_ff___________, tion had decayed to spatterings of our favorite lines from the Mike Judge 
soon-to-be-classic Office Space. As the laughter died down, I had asked the 
Editor in Chief 

one friend at the table who hadn't been contributing lines if she had seen
Michael P. Griffin 

the comedic masterpiece. She hadn't. 

Executive Editor Managing Editor Associate Editor 

Sarah Childress Matthew Barr Jessica L. Daues My response was automatic. My friends knew, of course, that my reference to virginity was merely metaphoric, but they flushed and looked 
News Matthew C. Ziegler, editor 

around the restaurant as ifa group ofgrandmas might be listening over their 
Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Katie Freddoso, assistant shoulders. Now, trust me, no heads turned and no disgusted-or interested 
Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor -glances were directed our way. However, they did proceed to chide me Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
for my ridiculous behavior. I had been way too loud, they claimed. 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor 

OK, I might have been a little too loud. Note that I'm not confessing to 
David Murray, assistant Entertainment Kathleen Corte, editor being totally obnoxious, but I could have been a little more in control. At 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant any rate, it would have saved me the reproach ofmy ashamed friends. But Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
it would have been less fun. We did laugh after the initial shock. 
Design Crissy Manary, editor 

In this tradition, I present to you Scholastic's annual humor edition.
Katie Browning, assistant Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Starting on page 15, you '11 find ridiculousness, debauchery and, ofcourse, 
Brendan Condon wicked sarcasm. Once again,"! wonder ifwe're speaking a bit too loudly Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor 
with words that are a bit too scandalous. But I beg you to take these eight 
Graphic Arts Michael M. delaRosa, editor 

pages as they were meant to be taken: with a grain of salt. Persons
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant attempting to take this issue seriously will be shot. 
Distribution Felisia Johns, manager Here is Sarcastic. Take it before I change my mind. Tumyour head; glare Advertising Jessica B. Polish, manager 
disgustedly. And, please, send any and all complaints to scholast@nd.edu. 
Kyle Zuaro, assistant Online F. Brian Scofield, manager Jamie L. Moran, assistant We're On the One Road Marketing Kristen D'Arcy, manager 
Two weekends ago, Scholastic road-tripped to Indianapolis for the Indiana Collegiate Press Association conference and was named Magazine 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at 
ofthe Year. 

Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2001. All rights reserved. No The Juggler won literary magazine ofthe year, and The Dome and The contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced 
Observer won second-and third-place awards, respectively. Congratula­
In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or 
tions to all the winners. 

material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Goodbye, Jim Pastore; you're awesome buddy. To be published in the next issue, The King is Dead, Long Live the King letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All 
This issue is the first produced by the 2001-02 Scholastic staff. It is also 
letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. 

All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in the first in a long time not produced under the leadership of Jim Pastore. certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for 
Jim's contributions over the past four years were invaluable, and his tenure 
space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per as editor in chieftransformed the magazine. Thank you, Jim, and good luck year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify 
at law school. 
volume and number, ordate. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

Michael P. Griffin 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus 
Editor in Chief 
Vive Quast Cras Moriturus 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


There's one great thing about going fishing here. 


There's no limit. 



cd review ten questions judgment calls 

No Sun forYou 
Story by Jeff Drocco 

Domers denied artificial rays Art by Mike delaRosa 
First few days of sunshine got your the green light-except Student Affairs. was rejected not only for social reasons but skin itchy and red just walking from "Had Student Affairs approved it, there also because ofpotential health issues. The 
>> 

You've heard whispers. Maybe you even know a member. But, really, what is this Molly's Club everyone's talking about? Scholasticsat down with club founder Molly McShane, a.k.a. "The All Powe1ful Con­troller ofTime, Space, and Pants," tofind out just how ridonkulous she is, and, well, how we can get into the club. 
So Scholastic knows that you're a Badin Hall sophomore, but, really, who are you? Who starts her own club and names it after herself? 
Well, I'd have to say that I'm someone who gets boredeasily and needs to do things -like start clubs -to keep myselfenter­tained. 
Howdid the idea for Moll.y's Club come to 
you? Prophetic vision? Deep, meditative thought? 
It came to me when I saw an empty table at Activities Night and a blank piece of paperanda pen; andIthoughtitwouldmake my friends laugh ifI stood there for awhile. I really had no idea that I'd be sitting here six months later wearing a club T-shirt. 
What's the 411 on the club? What do you 

guys do, exactly? 
I believe our membership is at 165 today. We're signing new people up all the time. We give out offices so that everyone will have one of those. Sometimes I give them little weekly missions, like sending me a postcard or prank-calling me. One time we 
class to class? Don't worry -it's nothing to be ashamed of. The long South Bend winter can turn even the darkest California tan into a hue resembling that of Casper the Friendly Ghost. "But wait," you say, "how did that girl in philo class keep her bronze tone?"Theanswermay be as simple as a few visits to a local tanning salon. 
A survey of 100 Notre Dame students conducted last year found that nearly 25 had been to a tanning salon within the past 12 months. Responding to substantial student interest in an on-campus salon, the Student B.usiness Board attempted to bring tanning to the students. 
The board moved to install a small two­
bed tanning shop in the basement of 
LaFortune Student Center. The resulting 
proposal, written by Andrew Fitzgerald, was submitted last March to the four ·requiredadministrative groups. Each gave 

would be a tanning salon in the basement of Lafortune right now," Fitzgerald says. But according to John Veit, a former board manager, the administration was more interested in creating a social atmosphere in the basement. 
But Fitzgerald doubts this was not the university's only motive for refusal. "The impression I got was that it didn't convey theimagethey wanted," hesays, suggesti~g that the administration thought thi .saJo.n "too vaini• a business for Darners .. Veit is also skeptical of their desire to create a social space. As he points out, "Realistically, what social establishment can you put into that small space?" 
Administrators recall a different version of the situation. David Moss, assistant vicepresident for student affairs, says the proposal ••r: move had nothing to do with the university's image, he says. 
The board continues to look for businesses that promote a more social atmosphere in the basement ofLaFortune. Meanwhile, the space lies empty, and students continue to trek off campus to acheive their healthy glows. . 


Space and Noise Productions 
label: Patsy Presents release date: October 2000 Story by Jon Alvarez 

Rising out of South Bend-a place we normally see as nothing more than an ethanol-blanketed wasteland -is an up­and-coming music scene, and local bands like Space and Noise Productions are out to prove it. Space and Noise Productions, its only release to date, hosts a plethora of sounds and styles. Playing anything from cheap keyboards to guitars and jingle bells to old horns and even toys, Space and Noise is out to do something different. Call it indie, lo-fi rock, quirky pop-or an odd combination of all these-the five tunes that grind out of their new EP are deep enough to revel in aesthetically, yet light enough to shake that' booty. Each song contains a multiplicity of time structures, volumes and rhythms that demand the listener's attention. Such tracks as "Quite Like You" and "Chloride Chlorophyll" blast an energetic rhythm of · rocking guitar riffs, punchy keyboard melodies and wrenching vocals. The band smoothly changes angles from one moment to the next. Another tune, "Pouring God into God," displays the band's raw vocal emotion, while "Magnetic" starts off with a hauntingly dark keyboard that blends itself into an infectious groove of stomping rock. 
Space and Noise Productions has a well­created musical composition that ties directly into an emotional urgency that pierces through the layering of sound in each song. Its production t.'lJm!:J/<i!Wlll!!li.-wll',ll\!!!J.!l!i.P.w might be a little dirty 


and unrefined, but this only increases the random character of the music. 
Giddiness, disdain, joy and suffering all erupt in a somehow­successful mix. Space and Noise Productions will help push the South Bend music scene out of the underground and show that there is something unique around here. D 
For more information on this band, check out its Web site atwww.spaceandnoise.com. 

judgmentcalls 



i 's1T!f~gt~E~~'.~'.i~f4}1t; 
When the tear gas clears and the couches stop smoldering, we'll still be No. 1. 
(Dj~/1i~j\M&wtftn~m1111J 
Let's hope that the $1,209 that you paid Kaplan pays off -not to mention the $175 for a test that brings nothing but pain and suffering. 




t . .}ltiiflj1i!;J 
Where else can you root for Team 69 to beat Off in the Shower? 

If you can't win the National Championship, you have to get attention somehow. 

J i 
11 
l 
1 
I 

>> 
had a meeting, and I made macaroni and cheese. 
What are some of these offices that people hold? 
Oh, we have lots of good ones. For ex­ample, there's the club historian, the club lion tamer, the club hit man and the club fashion consultant. 
Explain the metamorphosis of the term 
ridonku/ous. 
Ridonkulous is a word that I learned this past summer from a friend ofmine. You use it to explain something that is both ridicu­lous and like a donkey. People feel joyful when they say it, I think. 

What's your preferred system of gover­nance: democracy or dictatorship? 
I'm going to have to go out on a limb here and say democracy, because if you're a dictator, who knows? Everyone might start to hate you and throw things at you on the quad. I'd rather have a sense of community than a lordship over others. 
What are your plans tor the club? 

I'd like to see us recognized by the uni­versity and for the club to-continue after I'm gone, so that eventually just everywhere you go, people will be like, "Oh, you're in Molly's Club? I'm in Molly's Club, too!" 
So world domination is pretty much what you're after. 
Well ... yes. 

What are the requirements for joining the club? How do I get in? 
There are really no standards. There's only one girl I won't let in, because I saw her at Activities Night and she wouldn't sign up. Pretty much you get official recognition and your office when you give me a high five. That girl really regrets it, by the way. 
What's your take on the recent Latin-pop explosion? 
I'm all for it. I say bueno for that, and I'm going to look into a Spanish translation for "ridonkulous." We're going to start a Latin­pop dance group in Molly's Club. 
-Kristin Kramer 




125 Years Ago 
Big Brother's Watching 
The following were among the "Regula­tions of the University" published in the September 6, 1876 issue of Notre Dame 
Scholastic: 
Bad books and all works of irreligious tendency are destructive ofreligion, ofsoci­ety, and offamily; therefore all such should be destroyed in order to prevent the moral pestilence which they will inevitably dis­seminate. 
No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission of the President or Vice-President. 
Students are expected to take baths regu­larly. 
Students must show themselves obedient and respectful to the Professors and Pre­fects ofthe Institution, and must never ab­sent themselves from the place in which they ought to be, without pennissionfrom proper authority. 
All letters sent or received by students may be opened by the President or his representative. 
Hey Monk, I'm going to Meijer. Is that 
OK? 
-Cristin Penzel 
20% national average 

Label themselves politically liberal: 
21 % Notre Dame students 28% national average 

"Look at that: It's not crowded. If I had a machine gun, I'd not hurt too many people." -American studies professor 

"This class is like Temptation Island ... so much potential and so little substance." -overheard government student 
"If someone took me to Heartland [as a prospective student] I think I would run home the next day crying. Unless I was wasted. That's the only way I can stand Heartland." 
-overheard student 




1.------------------------------------------------------•-•1I 
d-omelights 
---~----~---­
Describe themselves as middle of the road: 
COMPILED. BY CRISTIN FENZEL 
44% Notre Dame students 24% national average 

Support the legalization of marijuana: 
22% Notre Dame students 34% national average 
Believe developing a meaningful philosophy of life is essential: 
66% Notre Dame students 42% national average 

Say it is essential or very important to be well-off financially: 
64% Notre Dame students 55% national average 

Each year, the American Council on Edu­cation and the Higher Education Research Institute at the University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles, conduct a nationwide survey of college freshmen. This year, they received responses from 269,413 students at 434 four-year institutions. The results are in ­here's how Notre Dame's freshmen re­sponded to some of their questions: 
Art by Mike delaRosa Source: Notre Dame Public Relations and lnfomation 




>> 


THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX 
Scholastic is looking for photographers. Call today. · 1-7569 
SCHOLa8TIC 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556-5635 

Technology takes precedence over size in new pe,forming arts center 
SARAHCHILDRESS 
When the university dreams, it 
dreams big. 
So, when administrators be­
gan to envision a performing-arts center 12 
years ago, the dream quickly spiraled into a 
multi-million-dollar complex. The plans 
became so extensive, in fact, that they had to 
be shelved for more than a decade until 
sufficient funds could be raised. Even then, 
compromises had to be made, and the origi­
nal design condensed until the final plans for 
the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for Performing 
Arts were born. 
The impetus behind the center came in 1989 
with a donation from the DeBartolo family. 
Although much ofthe $33 million gift helped 
to build DeBartolo Hall and develop the quad 
on which it was built, the rest was earmarked · for a performing-arts center. 
Not all ofthe money was available up front, 
however, and with the inflated building plans, 
the university lacked funds for the building. · 
"It turned out to be more expensive than 
anyone had anticipated," says Jeffrey Kantor, 
vice president and associate provost. 
Finally, in 1998, in response to university 
President Edward Malloy' s Colloquy for the 
Year 2000, the university decided it was the 
performing-arts center's tum to take center 
stage. The plans from 1989 were reevaluated, 
But it soon became apparent that the original 
conception-acomplex centered on a 1,200­
seat auditorium, with additional facilities for 
both musical and dramatic arts-would have 
to be scrapped. 
The main problem was the price tag. Since 
the original gifts had been committed, build­
ing costs-andthe committee's ideas-had 
greatly expanded. "So much has changed 
since then [1989]," says Bill Sexton, vice 
president of university relations. "Our plans 

8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

grew considerably, and that's why it costs more now." 
Less money means less space, and so the 
plans for the complex had to be reworked. 
The building's dimensions seem to be the 
greatest adjustment that had to be made in the plans. "It hasn't changed that much," 
says Don Crafton, the film, television and 
theatre department chair. "It just shrank. ...We had to chop offprograms [individual spaces in the building] or make it smaller. We ended up doing both." 
Money, however, wasnottheonlyreason to return to the drawing board. "Architecturally, it didn't seem to fit the campus very well," Kantor says. "We have a goal that our build­ings fit our campus architecture and campus culture. Our.buildings typically have a colle­giate, Gothic appearance, and the proposed building was far from that." 
In addition to the aesthetic concerns, the building was also significantly larger than what the university wanted to erect on cam­pus. The center's original dimensions were daunting-130,000 square feet. "It makes a 
huge difference in size," says Jim Lyphout, 
vice president for business operations, of the 
new, smaller construction. "It's at the front 
door ofthe campus." The university had little choice but to try 
again. A new architecture firm was hired, 
Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, which 
specializes in building acoustics and audiovi­
sual systems. ''We started over from scratch, working with a group ofpeople drawn out of 
the College ofArts and Letters," Kantor says. 
The two departments geared towards per­
forming arts-music andfilm, television and 
theatre -were consulted on their priorities for the new plan. "It took months to under­
stand the university's needs and FTT's," says 
Dough Marsh, director offacilities engineer­
ing. "We had workshops, exercises, studied 
student needs ... and everybody in the end said 'This is the best facility.' " 
Crafton,amemberofthecommitteecharged 

with designing the new facility, says that 
although he understands the needfor compro­
mise, neither music nor FTT came away com­pletely satisfied. "[The music department's] own space is not outfitted the way they wanted it," he says, and FTT is seriously lacking in 
storage space in the new building, among 
otherthings. Washington Hall currently houses all props, scenery and costumes, but Crafton is not sure where they will be stored in the new facility. 
Another concession was rehearsal space. 

Although the two departments' rehearsal spaces in the new building will be separate, Crafton says that an ideal theater would have a rehearsal space similar in size to the actual 
stage. "We got asmaller space than the stage. 
...There just wasn't that space in the pro­gram," he says. 
One ofFTT's greater concessions involves 

the 350-seat main-stage theater. Because the department cun:ently presents its quarterly 
main-stage performances in 570-seatWash­
ington Hall, the new theater will likely be 
too small. Crafton says he is unsure of what 
to do. ''That puts us in a dilemma," he says. "We often sell out Washington Hall, so do 
we present over two weekends instead of 
one? Do we raise ticket prices? It's some­
thing we haven't really had a chance to 
think about," 
Kantor admits that no solution for the 

main-stage productions has been presented. 
''That does present the program a chal­
lenge," he says. Despite this concession, 
Crafton feels that the department will still . be able to fit in. "FTT people are very flexible and creative," he says. The entire department will move into the 
new performing-arts center, which has sev­
--------------_---..... . . . . 

I DREAMED A DREAM The proposed Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts will create more options for the music and FTT departments. 
eral offices and teaching areas for FTT in 
addition to the separate theaters. "It's going 
to be vastly superior to what we have now," 
he says -even in space, for which FTT 

professors are often pressed, especially for 
film production. 
Originally, the music department was 
slated to leave Crowley Hall for the new, 

center as well, but due to space constraints, 
only performance-related groups -such as 
the Glee Club; orchestra, chorale and the 
collegiate jazz band-were given offices in 
the new center. 
The music department, too, had to make 
some concessions during the negotiations. 

The large concert hall was originally 1,200 
seats. This has been reduced to 900. But 
Paul Johnson, the department chair, was 
satisfied with the decision. For music en­
sembles, his qepartment requested a space 
larger than Washington Hall -one that 
could bring in bigger acts and better per­
formers, as well as a place close to a parking 
lot for off-campus visitors. 
Johnson is also satisfied with the plans for 
the new building. 'Tm not going to say 
either is better, but this is an appropriate 
size," he says ofthe current plan. He and the 
other members ofthe committee considered 
a variety of factors in reducing the size of 
the hall. "There will be certain concerts 
where people won't get in -it might sell 
out," he says, but he added that such events 
are rare. "It's always an equation that bal­
ances aco_ustics with the number of people 
you can in the hall,'' he says. 

Although the other theaters -the black box and the main stage -will be used primarily for FTT, the music department -will use the smaller rooms, such as the organ and chorale hall. Johnson says that smaller musical performances will also take advan­
tage of the main-stage theater. 
Despite the arrangements, Crafton says: "There will be a strain when we move in. We'll feel a little constrained, but I think we'll adjust." He also said: "The dean, provost and department wanted to make sure there were no cuts in quality. We wanted the best possible quality in acous­tics, lighting -everything." The commit­tee was willing to sacrifice size for a state­of-the-art complex, and state of the art is whatit got. 
The main-stage theater was designed as a 
0
57 
seats .in Washington Hall main-stage theater 

compared to 
360seats in future main-stage theater 
miniature Broad­way stage, what is 

called a "jewel box," with a horseshoe bal­cony. The stage is fully equipped with a trap door; a hydraulic lift to create an orches­tra pit, or "thrust stage"; and pro­fessionally de­signed acoustics. The complex will also house a 200­seat movie the­
ater, with a 35-mm projector to compete with the Snite Museum and DeBartolo Hall. 
Bllt Crafton seems most proud of the studio, or black box theater, funded by Regis Philbin, Notre Dame afumnus and televi­sion-show host. His $2.75 million gift pro­vided for a state-of-the-art studio theater to replace the old lab theater in Washington Hall. This 100-seattheaterwillhostproduc­tions that would draw a smaller crowd than the main-stage productions, such as stu­dent-directed plays and, perhaps, the Notre Dame opera. 
The 900-seat concert hall will accommo­

date 85 to 90 performers, with room behind 
the stage for a chorus, as well as accommo­
dations for multimedia performances and 
recording positions. The center also includes 
production spaces for film and video, as 
well as classes on costume and lighting. 
"That's the advantage of being planned with collaboration:Like Decio [Faculty Hall] and DeBartolo Hall -they just appeared," he says, ,without any serious input from faculty members or students. Crafton says that the FTT and music departments were deeply involved in the decision-making pro­cess. "The department did have a lot of . input,"hesays. "We had committees ... and traveled with architects." Johnson, too, feels the discussion was sufficient. "There are always compromises made, but they were made, in my opinion, in a fair and rational manner," he says. "These weren't compro­mises that disregarded our requests in any 
way." 
But as the DeBartolo center takes the 

leading role in performing arts at Notre 
Dame, what will become of Washington 
Hall? "Washington Hall will continue to 
have a very important role on campus," 
Kantor says. The university tentatively plans 
to use the hall for recitals, dorm productions 
and other student activities, although he 
says that there is no program for the rest of 
the building at this point. Film, television 
and theatre department productions, how­
ever, will all be performed in the new cen­
ter. 
After all the haggling, the plans are essen­

tially finalized. Groundbreaking is slated 
for June or July of this year, with the center 
opening in about two years. All involved 
appear satisfied with the results. "It's all 
done now, and everybody's happy," Sexton 
~ays. "Atleast, I think they are. We're all on 
the same page, definitely." 0 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 




Dining Hall Delectables 
Students respond to the call for recipes 
KRISTINKRAMER 
n our world of high-speed technology, the I-want-it-now mentality lws 
become common. Ever wonder why so many people complain about 
the dining hall? Probably because they're not taking the time to be creative. We 're lured into getting the same disheve,y time we visit, butwhatawaste ofa golden opportunity-the dining halls actually have almost everything you'd ever want to eat. Ofcourse, there is a catch. "You have to be willing to put the time in," senior Corey Shalanski says. "My recipes offer no i,mnediate gratification. " 
So take a walk with us in the dining hall. Even ifyou only go so far as to add 
some cheese to your mashedpotatoes or some ranch dressing to your chicken 
sandwich, your dining experience may be pleasantly improved. 0 
-Photos by Emily Cerow 
I 
The Boulder Cone 


Perhaps the Eighth Wonder of the World 
is the Boulder Cone, invented by Gina Montenaro's brother, Pete (see Banana Split). Not only does it take strong fore­arms and a monstrous appetite for ice cream, but Pete also warns that only the 
scoopers atSouth can handle this amount of ice cream. 
ice cream (chocolate almond and black cheny were highly recommended) 
1 sugar cone 
As far aswe could determine, the Boulder cone simply entails scooping together a huge ball ofice cream, bu tit's not as easy as it looks. Like so many other things in life . . . it's all in the wrist. 
-Pete Montenaro 

Bruschetta 
Sure, the Pastaria does a pretty good 
job making us feel like we're in Notre Dame's version ofLittle Italy, and that pasta stir-fry at North isn't bad, but sometimes you just need to recreate the whole meal. Bruschetta, a favorite Italian appetizer, or antipasto, is tasty and easy to make. 
French bread, thinly sliced 
Provolone cheese (optional) diced tomatoes basil (by the microwaves) Italian seasoning 
(by the microwaves) oil (salad bars) salt pepper 

Toast the French bread, with provolone cheese ifneces­sary. Meanwhile, mix the tomatoes, basil and Italian seasoning together in a bowl. When the toast is finished, immediately drizzle with oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spoon the tomato mixture on top of the bread. 
-Author's Choice 


Panini Quesadillas 
Who doesn't like Mexican food? Now that we've got panini machines, there's nothing to stop you from going south of the border. 
2 tortillas 1 piece spicy chicken, diced toppings (suggestions include 
lettuce, green onions, olives, cheese, guacamole and sour cream) 
On one tortilla, place chicken and toppings. Top with the other tortilla and heat in panini machine until brown on top and cheese is melted . 
· -Jacki Kiefer 


cut corn chopped boiled egg 2 tbsp sugar 
Corn Pudding 
If you're a com lover, this dish is probably for you. Another of Corey Shalanski's recipes, it'll re­mind you of those big Sun­day dinners at Grandma's 
back in the day, or, er, some­thing. Watch the amount of milk you add on this one ­you don't want it to be too soupy. 
1 tbsp butter 1 cup milk 1/4 tsp salt 
Mix all ingredients and microwave for 2 minutes. -Corey Shalanski 

Chicken Cordon Bleu 
1 chicken patty 1 slice ham 1 slice cheese 1 bun 
Either place the sandwich in the panini machine, or melt in the microwave for 45 seconds. 
-Megan Farrell 


Greekish Panini 
Who says you can't have a gyro every day at the dining hall? Or, at least, every ~ day they serve pork. 
pork loin, diced pita bread slice diced tomatoes chopped lettuce ranch dressing flour tortilla 
Place pork on pita with tomatoes, let­tuce and ranch dressing. Top with tortilla and toss in panini grill. 
-Corey Shalanksi 


Banana Split 

Nothing like a "little" desert to finish the meal. Gina Montenaro, who has worked at an ice-cream shop for three summers, showed us how to make this one. 
6 small scoops of ice cream 
(traditionally, 3 different flavors) , 
1 banana, split lengthwise toppings 
Put three scoops of ice cream in a row, with the second scoop of each flavor on top. For our shoot, Gina dribbled strawberry, chocolate and peanut butter sauces on top ofthe ice cream, tossed on some nuts, and placed the banana slices on each side of the ice cream. Whipped cream on each stack of ice cream, along with three cher­
ries, finished the split. 
-Gina Montenaro 
··,.::.,<:·:.,: ,; :.::,,:.<•,,:· 


The 'Shalaffle' 

One of senior Corey Shalanski' s concoctions, this J3elgian waffle pizza may sound odd at first, but trust us, "it works. Though it takes a little time, don't discount this recipe, which Shalanski 
named after himself:  
1 Belgian waffle  ·shredded cheddar cheese  
tomato sauce  Parmesan cheese  
diced tomatoes  toppings  

On waffle, spread tomato sauce, then top with tomatoes and cheeses and topping of your choice -suggestions include sliced mushrooms from stir-fry or ham and pineapple.chunks for a Hawaiian theme. Microwave for about 1 :30. -Corey Shalanski 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 


1. 

the Office of Student Residences. Some create their own lottery -or don't use one at all. Carroll, for example, has a hall-wide gathering at which the rector draws names from a hat. St. Ed's simply posts the floor plans and lets people sign up at the same time, class by class, in a free-for-all. 
After all current students have -chosen a room, freshman rooms are randomly assigned by a computer. But rectors fre­quently decide which rooms to set aside for freshmen to encour­age interaction with upperclassmen. "Last year, we tried to figure out which rooms would be the freshman rooms ahead of time," says Father John Herman, rector of O'Neill Hall. "You probably want to keep them kind ofin the mainstream. Ifthey're around a corner, they could get lost." 
But room picks haven't always been random. In the 1940s and '50s, specific dorms were set aside for each class. "There were class halls," says John Manion '56. "We were asked for a preference [before freshman year]." Upperclassmen received 




Room-Pick 




TRAUMA 
After some confusion in the lottery, room picks for 2001 proceed on schedule 

KRISTINSTECKBECK 
"I hate room picks!" exclaims freshman Katie Nokes as she checks out the Howard Hall floor plan. "Why does 
it have to be such a problem?" On a campus where about 80 percent of undergraduates choose dorm life eqch year, living arrangements can mean the differ­ence between a good and bad year. 
The whole fiasco begins with an innocent little card mailed to each student in February, asking whether they want to live on campus for the next school year. 
The Office of Student Residences enters the names of all students requesting on-campus housing into a campus-wide lottery. Rectors and hall staffs then de­
cide whether their hall will use its own system or · choose to use the assigned lottery numbers. Most 
rectors opt to use the official lottery. 
"The lottery is all hall-based," says Scott Kachmarik, 
the director of Student Residences. "The halls can 
handle the lottery however they want. But if they want 
to use our lottery, there is a random generator that will take each building by class and do a random sort to assign the 
numbers." 
The lottery is usually a simple process, but this year, a computer glitch caused a few problems. The names ofjuniors­and seniors-to-be in some halls were left in the order they were in last year, those returning frorri studying abroad or transferring from other halls were used to fill in the spaces. The result was a not-so-random list. 
"[The problem] didn't seem to hold with all the lists," Kachmarik says. "We did rerun those [that] we saw were a problem, but I think we avoided any big confusion because the problem was determined before any rooms were chosen." But 
when the numbers were re-distributed many students with high room-picks were frustrated. The decision whether to use the revised list or simply keep the original numbers rests in the hands of the rectors. 
To avoid potential confusion, not all halls use the system from 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

preference based on grade-point average, which often led to students switching residence halls each year. Sorin was known ' at the time to be the most-elite senior hall, while St. Ed's was 
infamous for housing sophomores with the lowest grades. 
The university turned to a lottery system and multi-class 

dorms in the 1970s, but freshmen had to choose their dorm from 
a letter until the '80s. "I picked my dorm in the summer before 
my freshman year, sight unseen," says Bob Heimach '81, a past 
Fisher Hall resident assistant. "They sent a one-page letter just 
listing the dorms, whether they had singles, doubles, suites, etc. 
-no other information." Freshmen had no say in their choice of a room­mate beyond a smoking preference, and they usually remained in the same dorm for all four years. 
Many individual lottery practices, such as Carroll's hat system, began in the 1970s and' 80s, when despera­tion to find on-campus housing ­which has never been in proportion example, Indiana University in Bloomington houses only 12,369 of its 27,139 undergraduates -about 35 percent. 
Although the number of off-campus students at Notre Dame remains low, it has increased over the years. Manion says that during his years at Notre Dame, no students moved off campus voluntarily until their senior year, and even those who did, they were in the minority. Those who did move offearlier were either requested to do so for disciplinary reasons or did not have an adequate GPA to earn a dorm room. By the 1970s, a few more seniors were moving off campus, but not many. According to 
"I picked my dorm in the summer before my freshman year, sight unseen." 
-Bob Heimach 'B 1 
Burt Brunner '77, less than 20 per­cent of the senior class and hardly any juniors made the switch in hous­ing. 
Several factors contribute to the consistently low number ofoff-cam­pus seniors. Rectors encourage up­perclassmen to remain on campus because they serve as a great re­source for younger students. The hall 

to the size of the student body -led to corruption in the system. "The bottom line is that it's always been diffcult to get on-campus housing," Kachmarik says. "Sometimes it has been more cut­throat in terms of getting on than others.': 
Past problems have included cheating on the lottery and tampering with housing contracts, which explains why the lists are now released only to rectors. Fortunately, there is now enough housing for all students who request a place on campus. 
Aside from the lottery, the current system presents students with several difficulties. Turning in a housing contract after the February 9 deadline or pulling students in from other dorms, for example, results in being put at the bottom ofthe class lottery list 
· in the dorm. Another risky proposition in terms of getting housing is floating for a single. "You give up all 
staff generally tries to keep about 50 

to 60 percent of their senior classes in the dorms. "We have 23 seniors who are staying this y~ar," Howard rector Annie Dougherty says. "More are staying than going off, which is a good sign. It's wonderful because seniors can bring a lot of leadership to the hall.'' 
Another reason many remain 9n campus is the unique oppor­tunities dorm life presents. "The dorms were the social centers for us: parties, friends, athletics. . . . I still think the dorm atmosphere is the best thing Notre Dame has going for it," Brunner says. 
Despite the stress of room picks, Notre Dame's tradition of dorm community makes the difficulties worthwhile for most. So take a deep breath, relax and be happy that room picks come only once a year. 
. 

rights to any type· of housing and put FREE-FOR-ALL Guys are more laid back about room picks, but that doesn't stop them from your name on the waiting list in the scrutinizing the lottery list when it is posted. hopes that a single will open up," Kachmarik says. After all other housing picks have been made, the Office of Student Residences creates another ran­dom lottery for those owthe singles l_ist ·arid places them in whatever single rooms _ .·. ar~ left availa_ble. This canme~m along, ­uncertain wait before an assignment is made. · Some students avoid the dorm-hous­ing hassle entirely by moving off cam­pus. According to _the Office of Student Residences, only about 20 percent of Notre Dame undergraduates move off campus annually, the majority of whom are upperclassmen. Residence halls gen­erally lose 50 to 60 percent of their se­nior residents and a handful of juniors .every year. This small number of students living off campus looks even smaller when com­pared to other universities. This year, for 




I. TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU 


(__}>IT\P(ls 
4'~ 



ff/a,c" 


Don't lower that standard. 
-Lou Holtz 
I'm more comfortable right now than at any time since I've been head coach. That doesn't mean we're necessarily going to have a better record. 
-Bob Davie 
Well, the Gipp's glad to see that spring has finally arrived -and with it, more disappointing quotes from Bob Davie. The Gipp doesn't get it. We haven't even played our first game and Davie's already hedging his bets. C'mon, coach, have a little faith -your team de­serves it. 
The CSC (Center for Stolen Cars) 
It turns out the dining hall isn't the only place students like to steal things from. A group of girls got a hold of the key to a Suburban owned by the Center for Social Concerns. It appears the foolish thieves made a copy of the key so that they could have access to the SUV whenever they felt like using it. But the girls didn't stop there. When the vehicle got low on gas, they forged a signature to have the tank filled up on the university's dollar. 
You'd think that this would have been enough lawbreakin' for the young hooli­gans -but it wasn't. 
Since the vehicle belongs to the CSC, the girls had no trouble driving it past the guard gate and onto campus. They were eventu­ally caught when, in a move that the Gipp can only describe as sheer stupidity, they decided to drive up to LaFortune and do some shopping. 
All told, the girls had the truck for some two weeks, including spring break. During that time, they managed to rack up around 800 miles on the odometer. Now, ifthe girls used the vehicle for spring break, the Gipp 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 

wants to know: Where did they go? There's not exactly a bunch ofspring-break hotspots within 400 miles of South Bend. Like the Gipp said: sheer stupidity. 
0-Lovin', Plaua Hatin' 

So that laid-back, go-with-the-flow im­age G. Love projects? It's about as real as Britney Spears's breasts. During his nego­tiations with the university, G. Love had a lengthy roster of demands that read like a spoiled kid's wish list. Among other things, he insisted that specific brands of bottled water and fruit juices be available in his dressing room. He wanted masseuses on hand to keep him and his band relaxed. He wrangled with the university about includ­ing a clause in his contract that would have treated him and his entire staff as university employees -giving them full worker's compensation benefits if they were injured on campus. 
Too bad for G. Love: His demands out­number his fans. But there are a couple of people out there who like the guy. One star­struck fan made her way backstage after the show to hang out with G. Love & Co. Since she couldn't get on the world-famous su­perstar, she settled for hooking up with one of his managers. While the girl was getting a very special backstage tour, an ND ad­ministrator found out what was going on and took action. Breaking up the happy couple, the administrator informed G. Love and his entourage they had about five min­utes to get off campus. 
The Gipp was not sad to see them go. 
Oipplettes 

The Gipp's got a nice selection of tidbits for your reading pleasure. A First up, the always-popular dining­V hall managers have been at it again. A student was enjoying some Cap'n Crunchberry in NDH when she made the mistake oftossing a crunch berry into the air and catching it in her mouth. The DH man­ager swooped down on her and warned her about throwing food in the dining hall. The students started to laugh and were promptly informed that this was no joking matter. Imagine if they had tried to sneak out with two pieces of fruit. 
A One of the Gipp's editors got a call 
V from the Development Office shortly 
after the last issue of Scholastic came out. 
The conversation went something like this: 
"Hi. This is someone from the Develop­

ment Office who hasn't talked to you in a 
while. Nice cover story on Notre Dame's 
tuition." 
"Thanks." 
"So who is 'Jane,' your anonymous 

source? She seems unhappy with her job, 
and I'd like to talk to her." 
"Well, she's anonymous." 
"Yeah, but who is she?" 
"I don't think you understand what 

'anonymous' means." 
"Well, I guess you' re not going to tell me. 

I'11 just talk to you never." 
A The Gipp's glad to see the library has .V taken steps to eliminate the viewing of inappropriate Web sites on library com­puters. New cards have appeared next to each computer that inform users about the laws regulating adult material. The Gipp would also like to report that library staff meetings have become much more interest­ing since his last column. Frustrated offi­cials are trying to plug the leaks and save the library's image. Maybe they should have thought about that before eliminating re­
search options for ND students. 
A Finally, the Gipp has learned that the V OIT official responsible for monitor­ing computer-cluster consultants has threat­ened to fire anyone whom she discovers leaking information to the Gipper. ,Much like the library officials, she is worried that the tips are hurting the department's image. Ironically, this same administrator finds the Observer cartoons that make fun ofthe OIT hilarious -she even has them hanging in her office. 
Well, the Gipp's outta here for this issue. Keep those tips coming and remember: there's only one real Gipp, and his e-mail address is gipper. l@nd.edu. Accept no imi­tations. D 

. PARIETALS-FIGHTING DOG HIRED UNIVERSITY UNVEILS $600 KAJILLION BILLION BUDGET 
··-----------------·---------· 

NOTRE DAME'S IMPUDENT MAGAZINE 12APR 2001 

you can dance, you can jive 

DARKNESS FALLS ON GOD QUAD 
New building funded by Satan will replace the Basilica 

MRSBUTTERWORTH 
Kiss the Basilica of the Sacred Heart good-bye. University officials an­nounced Tuesday that the aging 
structure will be knocked down to make 
room for a new $3.2 billion building funded by Lucifer, Prince of Darkness. Construction on the new facility, 
Hellonearth Hall, will begin this fall, just in 
time for the start of the academic year. Construction is scheduled to be completed in 2012, but the university stresses this is only a tentative date. Despite the ambi­cerns about the source of funding for the new facility. 
"We should not be accepting donations from Satan," says student activist Aaron Kruddy. University officials, however, con­tend that accepting money from Mephistopheles does not violate the university's principles. 

"This move reflects our long tradition of funding projects with money from ques­tionable sources, including sweatshops and the mob," Lovetoy contends. "In general, kiss my ass," he says. 
At the very least, students can expect no healthy dialogue to come from the debate. "We anticipate a series of poorly written, slightly off-topic and completely unintelli­gible letters," says BSer Editor Quite Un­manly. "We're also independent and no­body can tell us what to do." 
Lovetoy, who holds a dim view of the paper, isn't worried about the potential bad press. "Unmanly can kiss my ass, too," he says. 
But Lovetoy might be facing an uphill battle. Some of his fellow priests disagree 
tious schedule for the project, university 
with his decision to scrub the Basilica. One 
officials have expressed excitement about priest, who spoke on the condition ofdamn­
the new facility. ing his detractors to hell, vows to fight the 
"We are delighted to get rid of that old demolition. "What we' re witnessing here is 
church," says University President a new Sodom, one in which heretics will 
"Drunk" Lovetoy. "Thisnewbuilding will introduce their own concepts of God and 
look much cooler. Plus, I'll get even big­challenge the male-dominated hierarchy of 
ger offices for me and my cronies." the Church," Father Sly T. O'Looney 
Arranged in nine concentric circles, the rambles. "Ever since we stopped Inquiring 
building will provide space for a variety of into people's faith, the Church has contin­
university departments. The outer circles ued to lose power. What we need is a return 
will house the First Year of Studies, the to the Church's original 'convert or die' 
Office of Financial Aid and other depart­policy. Boy, those were the days." 
ments whose operations puzzle students. He added: "Well, at least I can continue 
"This will allow us to continue our pri­to pass judgement on others. Condemna­
mary service: giving bad advice to fresh­tion is, after all, the central message of 
men and telling them they are too dumb to Christ's Gospel. I'm ready to cast the first 
complete their proposed majors," says stone." · 
YuraDumass, head ofadvising at the First Lovetoy laughs at the suggestion that he 
Year of Studies. could face opposition from his fellow clergy 
The inner circles of Hellonearth Hall members. · will provide spac~ for key university offi:.c · . : :"I have afeelingthey'll go_1:1Iong with ~e 
cials. wh6. have aiready • ou,tgrown th~f · -·. improvements,';· he ·says, ·smirking: "Let's 
obscenely large offices in the Dome. The · ··just say. that th~. booze closet in -the new . 
Office oflnoperable Technologies will be building makes Corby Hall's bar look like 
nestled at the center circle ofHellonearth. an Igloo cooler." 
Following a year of e-mail outages and Internet-service failures, the OIT needs the new, heavily guarded offices to pro­tect its workers from angry student mobs. 
"This new office space will be a great boost for the department," says OIT head Uphis Arse. ''We've also just finished a review ofour operations, and we think we've found the problem: It turns out we're com­pletely incompetent. Hopefully, we'll be able to solve that next year." 
But not everyone's happy about the new 

building. Somestudents haveexpressedcon­
16 SCHOLASTICSARCASTIC 
HELL'S BELLS Upon the demolition of the Basilica, God Quad will be renamed "Hades Commons" in honor of Our Lady's newest benefactor. 
however, I think students should shut the hell 
up." 
Kruddy promises swift action and a strong 
response from students. "We' 11 be holding a 
rally at Stonehenge, in which we expect at 
least 30 or 40 people to walk by. With a 
student voice this united, the university will 
have to listen to us," he says. 
Lovetoy feels differently. "Kruddy can 

Sources close to the project indicate that an entire circle will be used to house the new drinking establishment that will be open to priests only. "That vow of chastity is tough," Lovetciy notes. 
In the meantime, plans for the building move forward, and students can once again expect construction in the middle of Notre Dame's campus for years to come. Some 
·will be upset, some will be happy and most won't care. Perhaps O'Looney sums it up best: "It doesn't matter, since you're all going to hell anyway.'' . 




NEW, FRIENDLIER RES LIFE!. ANNOUNCED 
Discipline goes hip 
AUNTJEMIMA
In the spirit of the recent highly success­ful IRS image-improvement campaign, Res Life has announced plans to create a fresh, neighborly new face. "We want Res Life! to be a friendly hangout-the kind of place you'd go after having your stomach pumped at St. Joseph's to share your expe­riences with others," says Lil' Jerk, assis­tant vice president of student affairs. Jerk has introduced several new fea­tures to the traditional Res Life sys­tem. Among them, an air-conditioned shuttle bus to cart recently banished parietals violators to their new off­campus dwellings. "We'rereallyproud of this one," Jerk says, beaming. "Af­ter all, we can still keep an eye on them when they're on the buses." At present, though, Res Life only ejects 10 to 1 S students a day. In order to make the shuttle economically fea­sible, Res Life! will have to double those numbers. How will Jerk accom­plish such a feat? "We're proud to introduce a new · intercourse-busting promotional pro­gram: McRezz -the Parietal-Viola­tor-Fighting Dog!" Jerk plans to plas­ter the campus with posters bearing a German Shepherd in a trench coat and the slogan: "McRezz sez: Breaking Parietals. Not only is it uncool, it's a sin!" "We really expect students to warm up to this idea," Jerk says. "Now they can feel comfortable turning in their friends, knowing that McRezz is on their side." Jerk has many other goals for Res Life! in the near future. Among them: sticking 1970s-style yellow smiley-faces with the caption-"Smile ! Res Life! is watch­ing" on campus security cameras, the place­ment of rectors iIJ. Turtle Creek and Castle Point apartment complexes, and the install­mentofconvenient emergency call boxes in less-well-lit areas of Pangborn, Stanford and South Dining halls. "du Lac infractions <!on't just happen in dorms!" Jerk assures us. Father Poor Marksman, vice president of student affairs, sees these changes as in­dicative ofa larger theme. "We want people to realize that Res Life! isn't here to punish us," he says. "It's here to punish the stu­dents." Marksman applauds Jerk' s addition of an exclamation mark to the traditional "Res Life" label as the symbol ofchange in his department. "Just as God went from being the angry, punishing God of the Old Testament to the compassionate, paternal 

figure ofthe Gospels -while still retaining infinite power -so does [Res Life!] hope to change its image while retaining the abil­ity to destroy your lives." By doing this, Jerk hopes, he will encourage an environ­ment in which people will willingly report themselves to Res Life! if they find them­selves overly intoxicated or submitting to their carnal urges. "We can help, and we want to help," he says. 
When questioned about what therapeutic avenues that Res Life! typically follows in such situations, Jerk detailed his plan for assisting students in finding apartments. "We've rented a whole block in one of the nearby complexes, so that all our ejectees can be immediately relocated," he says. "Plus, it's convenient for us to have them all lumped together so that we can continue to monitor their sexual tendencies. I guess you could call it a modem-day penal colony! 

Kind oflike Australia, except with the added detriment of being in Mishawaka." Conscious of his department's new image, however, Jerk assured us that it will be an "ex­treme, fun-tastic penal colony." 
The Res Life! campaign is the f~cal feature of a university-wide initiative to improve its-image without making actual positive changes. Dubbed "FrieND" by the campus hierarchy, its reach extends from North Dining Hall to theHai:nmes Bookstore. Harry Bow­els, manager ofNDH, detailed his plans to make_ it_ a more inviting eatery: "We're going to put over two dozen more plastic bread loaves and cans of tomato paste on shelves and counters around the food. Hopefully, these deco­rations will prevent people from notic­ing that our 'General Kai Ping Chicken' is actually just old chicken nuggets with cherry juice smeared on them." 
Even the Hammes Bookstore is join­ing in the fun, offering students help­ful new ways to pay for their text­books. It announced that it will offer layaway for books at the beginning of next semester. Operating on a bi­weekly payment plan, "students will be able to pay off and acquire their books within six months of the 

semester's start, assuming availability," its press release promises. 
Is change fa the wind at Notre Dame? Father "Drunk" Lovetoy doubts it, owing to the university's history of making superfi­cial concessions to keep students and fac­ulty satisfied. "Remember Diversity Aware­ness Week?" he asks. "Yeah, neither do I. It happened last month, though, apparently." He then added, "You're probably smelling th~ ethanol plant." . 
SCHOLASTICSARCASTIC 17 

Student Government Asks Permission to Cross Street 

Par1 
In a bold request to the administration, Student Government demanded 

Alu 
that the University recognize students' independence and rights. 

de 
News• page t 
THE








BS.E. 
The Mismanaged Newspaper Spem 


By HULK HOGAN Your mom! 
The University announced a 4.9 percent increase in general incompetence for next year. Officials touted it as the lowest in­crease in five years. 
"We continue to make every affront for students," said University Rainmaker Lott Sacash. "Now, there's just slightly more of us who don't know which way is up." 
But some students don't understand the rationale for any increase at all. They argue that the administration should be respon­sive to student needs and point to the in­crease as evidence that University officials are out of touch. 
"Quite frankly, this announcement con­firms what students have long feared to be true,"saidananonymousstudentbodypresi­dent who wished to remain anonymous. "I'mjust afraid to say that in public because I might get sent to ResLife. Is that tape recorder on?" added Look Hotton. 

In a press release that the BS-er has essentially copied, the University noted that many key projects required the increase. "Ruptured gas mains, endlessly delayed building projects, stadium toilets overflow­ing with crap -these things don't just happen," said Sacash. "It takes dedicated assministrators to achieve this consistently high level of incompetence." 
Other factors contributed to the increase as well. "By trumpeting a raise in tuition as good news, we proved we really don'tgetit at all," added Sacash .. "But, hey, that new building has a really neat fountain, doesn't it?" 
Students have their own theories about the increase. "Didn't you watch the Fiesta Bowl? That's got to account for atleast4.8 percentofthe increase right there," said one disgruntled fan. 
Regardless of the reasons, the increase has been approved and students will do what they always do: Bend over and take it. 
gusted ye finally re used to 1 dogs.It tu late-nigh! percent sc The stunned s enjoying1 snack last 
"Wow, 
more Fe< Others "I just 
Club!"ye man."Iw, way, so I matter." 
THINGS ( 
~i~ b 
-ihi~i
.......,-D 
News to Va~ 
ByTHE "Assistant' 
Respor Mary's rn creation o theVagim banned fo "Wejustc with all o Unmanly, will allow The first i leased at wererejec 
·BSer Writes Article About Self, Makes Embarassing Tae-bo 
Reporting on its recent reception ofthe Nobel Prize in Northern Indianan Collegiate Journa).ism, the BS er lived up to its 34 year-old tradition of screwing up a crucial element of the article. Quite Unmanly, Editor-in-Chief of the BSer, commended his paper on their success. "We've really come a long way with our mispellings and misquotes. Back in the day, our mistakes were easily over­looked; now they are so bad that they affect the meaning ofthe article." He added, with satisfaction, "We even left the second half of an [Associated Press] article about the Middle East out of an issue. Not bad, considering that we didn't even write it." The BSer, unwilling to break with its tradition, plans a similar action for the current article. "We're unsure how exactly to assimilate a mis­take into this one. It'll be tri-
Have you seen the basement? It's a bar­rel of laughs. 
Turtle says: She gets on pretty fast and I'm a slow guy. 
See if she's working. Then just go into the back and do it. 
I appear to be in au­thority, but in actual­ity, I'm just eating a pear. 
He's a strange cat. I mean, I'm a strange 
cat, too. But he's a strange cat. 
While no longer lust­ing after Sarcastic editors, she has now turned her sights on a Murderer. 
Anyone can hump a floor. 
It's like The New York Times going to the Enquirer. 
I wouldn't even ac­cept a ride from Bush, I don't want 

ietals Eliminated After Angry Viewpoint Letter 
Thursday

!artfelt, passionately indignant letter to BSer caused Presi­nt Lovetoy to rethink the University's policy on parietals. 
APRIL 12, 
Viewpointless • page 8 
2001 

R 
:ling Notre Dame and St. Mary's Student Fees 
. : . . . ,. ·. . .· '. HTT'P://WWW.DRPNKSATHOSPITALs:coM· 
bat's in your quarter dog? 
The Cuddle disclosed the quar­
~ MARASCHINO 
ter-dog ingredients in response to 
ble Intelligence 2001 
increasing pressure from President ts were thoroughly dis­Bush. sterday when the Cuddle "I can't get China to budge, so :vealed the ingredients I set my sights on littler tar­nake its quarter gets," said Bush. "It sig­rns out the tasty, nals a shift in strategery t treats are 65 for us." Bush aides 1uirrel. 
noted that the Uni­revelation 
versity cut the deal in ome students 
order to retain Bush he soft-boiled 
as commencement . night. 
speaker . ," said sopho­"I'm president! Tee­:ummings. hee," Bush added. felt differently. Hoping to secure the fa­
came back from Boat vor of animal-rights activists, lied Log Warner, a fresh­Bush plans to be filmed standing ould've thrown up either at the front of a squirrel-filled guess it really doesn't classroom in DeBartolo Hall 
while he is here. 


rHE INFERNAL P1rs OF HELL, ;ouLDN1T POSSIBLY BE WORSE 
[ JoY\ 1i -tliink. !'1a.-ibt. wt-skovlcl ~ t~/litt!e eye. S,ta.r-t' I/s;"j pvn c.h Iin,t.S.
s d~wi~ /Q.~h.s 
re.. I> ) 
t> "\vL"":z... 




paper Devoted Entirely ~ina Monologues Created 
OFFICE VACCUUM 
' to the Edi tor in Chief 1ding to overwhelming pressure from St. ~dergraduates, the BSer has announced the fa daily journal devoted to the discussion of 1Monologues -the controversial production om St. Mary's campus last semester. ;ouldn't do justice to such an important issue ur other current responsibilities," says Quite 
Editor-in-Chief of the BSer. "This offshoot 
the 'logues to receive the press they deserve." issue of The Vagina Chronologue will be re­SMC next week. Plans for dispersal at ND ;ted due to lack of interest. 
him leading this country! 
Is this the first time you've worn pants all weekend? 
I'd never have any dates without pity dates. 
The BSer is not my life. I don't even like working here! 
I don't care how my SYS date looks like as long as she can do that. 
I'm still waiting to get out of my uncool phase. 
The boss is very lov­able, but he has a po­tato head. 
I'm as ghetto as they come. 
As long as it gets in my mouth, I'm happy. 
You're a lawsuit wait­ing to happen. 
Thanks for helping us fill up our pages. xox 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Carpet Dient 
I yipped Saturday night. All over my roommate's carpet. That's right. I'-ci"im'th!ihtle too much to drink, so I don't remember much about the incident. But I do recall feeling sort of sick and then looking down and being like, "Whoa, there's my dinner." And there it was. 12 
chicken nuggets, a bowl of Cap'n Crunchberries, and a brownie. Ok, ok, two brownies. 
All over my roommate's car­pet. You're probably reading this 
1 


and thinking, "What relevance does this have to my life? An­other BSer staff member who 
Quite Unmanly 

can't hold her liquor-why should I care?" But just wait-the saccharine moral is coming. 
Potato-head 

So anyway, my roommate­we'll call her "Bitch"-was definitely not pleased about this whole yipping thing. In fact, she's still not speaking to me, even though you can barely see the stain, and come on, smells don't last forever. 
But you know what does last forever? Those memo­ries that we made Saturday night. When we look back on our college years, are we going to remember who yipped on whose carpet? No! We're going to remem­ber those times when we got so trashed we couldn't remember anything. I mean, where else are we going to be able to make such wonderful memories, if not here at Notre Dame? 
What Bitch fails to realize is that she will look back on this in a few years and think, "Those nights I spent cleaning up my roommate's yip were the best, funnest times of my pathetic life." Then Bitch will stop whining and thank me for giving her those wonderful memories ...and if she doesn't, she can kiss her Dave CD good-bye. [hyphen?] 
But back to my point: We need to stop nit-picking about all these little things and learn to "carpet diem," as they said in that Robert Sean Leonard movie. Because guess what, seniors? In case you haven't read any of my columns to date, let me fill you in: we don't have much time left! Better start saying those good-byes [hyphen?] now, because let's face it, after graduation, you might as well be dead. 
The views expressed in the inside column suck. Perhaps you've also noticed that this isn't really an "inside" column. It's actually "outside." Tell a soul, and I'll cut you. 
CORRECTION: There were 47 errors in yesterday's edition. The BSer regrets being in print. 

lllli if ~ 
en 
-C 
ci~OJ:o 
mcm 
o;;: en --1 --t 
s;: J;; ~ OJ iii gi~;~ill
-iwmo5 
--1-:o . 
0~ t> 
~gG>en ?< --1 fi\ 0 
mmrn:a 
-<o:><:o 
Omr-< 
comG> >o::jc 
"Tl z m-< 
:oo:o5" ~--ten 
(l::: \~ 
:i:om 
~.(}; ~ ~ 
)> =i;;: --1
FcnOI 
:o-,,zm
0 moo, o·:o . 15;;:@ ~ G) 
en I cm 
en~ 
r :c 
. m 
z. 
c~ 
I 
::E 
m 
CJ) 
-I 
0 C 
)> 
0 
)> 
r 
C 
s 
~ 
G) "ti 
00 
r -i 
cq 

HAS A BEACH VOLLYBALL COURT, JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER PLACE ON CAMPUS WHERE PEOPLE DON'T GO 
20 SCHOLASTICSARCASTIC 
•
,11:13.l:JVl:IVH:J 

i)l:J01:13H.l .l003A,OOA, 
... .LIMON)I
0.1 E>NIOE> 31:1,00A S3A73Sl:IOOA 
OIVS
~ 

:II -NOl.lV:J07 113.1.1snr 
:!:ION, -Al:l3NNON

3M SV Oll:IOM 3H.l
·~ \ 
.lN31N3ANO:J "d31:10V8 
03130011\131:1

Q 
I \ 
:10 3003 3H.l SJ.I 
~ 

0.1.0E> 
WHVZ 


,O.lOd 
<(I-::::>m ~ 
0 ..J. 
mo 


BENCH­
rl~"'

OLD COLLEGE ST.ED'S BP MORRISSEY FARLEY
WARMERS 

YOU ARE OVER· SCENIC LOCATION HIGH CEILINGS; NOISE POLLUTION NOT THE WORST GREAT PLACE TO
I ~}~
WORKEO AND HAVE OVERLOOKING ST. LOTS OF STAIRS -FIELDHOUSE DORM IN THE LIVE-SORRY <l • ~cf< ACOLD -PAY $50 MARY'S LAKE MALL CONCERTS COUNTRY ••• ABOUTTHE ~~~ 
. -$~«,~

AND LOSE ONE BEACH -YOU CAN ANYMORE EMPHYSEMA I TURN WAITING TO ALMOST HEAR THE ~'?-~ ~ 
~~~q r;,'I!

BE DIAGNOSED GEESE SQUAWKING WITH MONO 
0~ 
<:) 

I
I
i . 

Can you spot a banana from 50 yards? 
Join the Dining-Hall Team! 
We're now hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Sniper 

• 
Stormtrooper 

• 
Hired Goon 


• 
Elderly Person 


All applicants must possess excellent eyesight, quick reflexes and a ghetto booty. If you are tired of writing parking tickets for the NDSP, try us out! You'll see action on your first day. Goose-step over to the dining hall and drop off your resume, schne/1! Please include a 500-word essay on the topic: Why cereal is more precious than gold. 
._ * Pax Christi members need not apply 

Tired of Productivity? 
Then check out all the Office of Inoperable Technologies has to offer: We feature: 
• 
Nightly Server Crashes! 

• 
Weekly Internet Outages 


• 
A total lack of 24-hour support 

• 
Computer:..cluster consultants with absolutely no training (Try our "Just Reboot!" policy to fix anything from computers to relationships.) 

• 
A speedy 45-minute log-on procedure 

• 
Timely voice messages to let you know we have no idea why things aren't working and no idea when they'll be fixed! (Featuring i-Rene, our sexy virtual announcer.) 

• 
A budget reduced by 400% to pay for extravagant fountains in new buildings 


Send us an e-mail to find out more. Actually, don't. Write us a letter. 

22 SCHOLASTICSARCASTIC 





, 
.-•,.,,... 


• •-• ! L' 
.  ••._.: I-:'  . _;  -'  ~  
,  .  .  '  .~  ~  .  
.  ,.  '  '  .  ,·'  
IRISH  



EYES 

ON JENNIFER 
SHARRON 
Senior left-handed pitcher Jen Shan-on is the co­captain for the Irish women's softball team, which is cun-ently ranked No. 11. Shanon was named Big East Pitcher of the Year in each of her first three seasons with the Irish. She was recently named Big East Pitcher ofthe Week for the second time this year after tossing her first career no­hitter. Last year, she set the Notre Dame record for wihs in a season with 26. 

The most memorable experience in my career at Notre Dame: will be play­ing in the College World Series. 
The best thing about having seven teammates from California is that: it brings a piece of home to South Bend. It is great to have competed against or with some of my current teammates during our youth, and now to be sharing an amazing experience such as this is very exciting. Itis great to travel to California for tournaments because we are always guaranteed to have a lot of fans! 
I decided that I wanted to attend Notre Dame when: I was walking around cam­pus with the coaches and my parents on my recruiting trip. My dad asked me what I thought, and I said with little hesitation, "I want to come here!" I guess you just know. 
I started playing softball: when I was seven years old and my dad coached me in T-ball. The rest is history. 
I enjoy pitching more than hitting be­cause: I would rather hit someone with a pitch than be hit by a pitch. 
The softball team's goals for this year are: the College World Series and a national championship. 
My favorite class at Notre Dame was: 
photography. I enjoy taking courses that stimulate my creativity. It is somewhat therapeutic and an escape from the daily routine to go out and take pictures. This would be a hobby that I would like to continue after school. 
The aspect of Notre Dame that I appre­ciate most is: the storied tradition. It is inspiring to be a part of a university with such an amazing history and to know that ­you are leaving a legacy for the future. 
My favorite food is: Moose Tracks ice cream. 
California is the best state because of: 
the sunshine, the beaches, the warm weather and 60-to 70-degree winters. Is there any question? 
-David Murray 
Jerry's Jabber 
On Tuesday, junior forward Troy Murphy declared himself eligible for the 2001 NBA draft .... The women's lacrosse team clobbered Connecticut 19-5 on Sunday in its first conference home game. Sophomore midfielder Danielle Shearer scored five goals and had two assists. Lael O'Shaughnessy and Natalie Loftus each had three goals. The Irish are now 3-0 in Big East play .... Jon Harvey and Todd Ulrich each notched three goals as the men's 
lacrosse team cruised to a 
13-2 victory over Air Force on Monday. The Irish improved to 8-1, their only blemish, an 11-10 overtime loss at Hofstra .... The No. 16 men's tennis team rallied from a 3-1 deficit to defeat No. 19 Indiana State 4-3 on Tuesday. Junior Aaron Talarico won the final match 7-6 (8-6), 4-6, 6-4 in No. 4 singles. With the victory, the Irish improved to 15-5 .... Led by third­
ranked Michelle Dasso, the No. 8 women's tennis team defeated Illinois 4-3 last Thursday to improve to 19-4 on the year .... The women's track and field 
team amassed 170.5 
points in a blowout victory 
over Miami of Ohio and 
Western Michigan on 
Saturday. Dore 
DeBartolo won the weight throw and the shot put, while Tameisha King claimed the long jump and the 100-meter hurdles .... The men's track and field team placed second on 
Saturday in the spring opener. Western 
Michigan won the meet, 
besting the Irish 202-174. Ryan Shay won the 5,000-meter run and placed third in the 1,500­
meter run. 0 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 



' ' -, 
-1995 . .· .· 
BY BRENDAN BARKER 
FROZEN MOMENTS 
z 
0 
i'= 
<( 
::E 
cc 
~ 
~ 
~ 
0 
a.. 
en 


Led by senior Randy Colley (above), the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team comes from behind to defeat Duke and win the first NCAA tournament game in the program's history. 
NOTRE DAME: 12 DUKE UNIVERSITY: 10 


When the 1995 NCAA men's lacrosse tournament seeds were announced, the 12th-ranked 
Notre Dame team found itself pitted against a formidable 5th-ranked Duke team. With the program's 0-4 mark in the tournament prior. to the game, the Irish saw an ·. opportunity to show the lacrosse world that · 
they were an elite program~ not simply the best ofa below-average conference, the 
. , 

• I f ,, ~ 
>> 


SPORT: MEN'S LACROSSE OPPONENT: ARMY WHERE:MOOSEKRAUSE 
STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY 1:00 P.M. 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
• 
Great Midwest Lacrosse Conference. 
Notre Dame arrived in Durham, N.C. to face the Blue Devils, champions of the nation's toughest lacrosse conference, the ACC, after having been outscored in its three previous tournament losses by a combined total of 57-20. Most expected Duke to easily advance past Notre Dame to face ACC foe Maryland. "The whole lacrosse world expected a Duke-Maryland rematch," said senior midfielder Jason Pett. "We had something to say about that." 
The Irish' s chances for winning, however, did not look very promising as they trailed 7-4 at halftime. Notre Dame had struggled throughout the first half to find good scoring opportunities, and it seemed as though the Irish were on their way to yet another early exit. This outlook changed when senior Randy Colley, an attack who was Notre Dame's career leader in every major offensive category, quickly swung the momentum in the Irish's favor. Teammate Brian Gilfillan fed Colley, who caught the pass while coming around the crease. His subsequent score helped jump start the Irish comeback. Colley scored again a short while afterwards. Later in the game, after a fast­break goal by sophomore Tim Kearney, Colley picked up the ball offofa failed clear by Duke, hitting nothing but the back ofthe net from 35 feet out. This drive put Notre Dame ahead for good, 8-7. 

Duke coach Mike Pressler acknowledged Colley's talent. "We shadowed him the whole day," Pressler said, "but he is just too good to shut down." Colley affirmed Pressler' s comment, keeping the pressure on and scoring immediately at the start of the fourth quarter to add to Notre Dame's advantage. Senior WiIIie Sutton said: "If you let Randy shoot from 10 yards, he's going to put it where he wants.I just have to get him the ball." 
· Colley showed that he could do more than · shoot. He fed wide-open sophomore Tim 
-' ~ 
• °"'-..... . 
Kearney a perfect pass, which led to another goal and gave the Irish a 10-7 lead and firm command of the game. 
The Irish defense also stepped up their play, containing a high-powered Blue Devil offense that featured ACC MVP Matt Oglesby and ACC tournament MVP Ross MoscateIIi to 10 goals. 
"Their defense did a hell ofa job," Oglesby said. "Notre Dame forced us to rush and go into a one-on-one offense." Defensive midfielders Todd Bialous and Jimmy Keenan did an outstandingjob ofcontrolling the tempo and limiting scoring opportunities for Duke's own middies. They controlled the ground, scooping up every loose ball that came their way. "The balls just seemed to roll into their sticks," Oglesby said. "We thought we'd wear them down, but that didn't happen." 
Pett also had high praise for the middies. "Our defensive midfielders did an absolutely incredible job," he said. "They just wore them down." In addition, freshman goaltender Alex Cade was at the top of his game, saving 17 shots and blocking any Duke attempt to get themselves back in the game. 
The Irish won the game 12-10, and Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan caIIed it ','the biggest win in Notre Dame lacrosse history." The Irish had shown the collegiate ranks that they could compete with the best that NCAA lacrosse had to offer. 
"Maybe we put the stigma of western lacrosse to bed," Sutton mused. "AII but one of us are from the East. It doesn't matter where we play,_the brand oflacrosse is still the same. This win wiII solidify aII the work we've done." 
Although the Irish were defeated by Maryland the following Week in the Elite Eight, the win over Dulce sho\Vedthe country that Notre Dame was capable of competing with the best.Thelrish were riot leavingthe lacrosse elite any time soon. . 
-' ' ' 
•,.t ~ : 

With the exception of an  In the nine games this  Senior attack Tom Glatzel,  
overtime loss at Hofstra,  season, the Irish have  who leads the Irish in  
the men's lacrosse team  scored in double figures  scoring this season,  
has not been challenged  eight times and allowed  continues his strong play  
this year. This will not  double-digit scoring only  this'Saturday. His four  
change against Army this  once. The Irish continue this  . goals help the Irish  
weekend. Notre Dame  combination of strong  dominate Army 8-1.  
pummels Army, winning  offense and suffocating  
14-3.  defense, beating Army 12-6.  
-Gerard Meskill  -David Murray  -Michael Griffin  
Sports Editor  Assistant Sports Editor  Editor in Chief  




I 
DAVIDMURRAY j 

If you ask sophomore center ~manda Barksda_le, the 2000-2001 women's basketball team had one impor­tant goal: winning the Nationil Championship. But, she is quick to add, that !was not the only goal. "Other then winning the champiortship, we wanted to have fun," she says. "We always found~ way to stay together­wewere like sisters. We laugh a 10:t, but on the court we are serious." ! Irish opponents quickly discovdred just how serious the team was. The women b!gan their season in mid-Novem­
' 

ber at Valparaiso. The Irish, ranked sixth in the preseason poll,-stomped the Crusadbrs by 25points with surprisingly little fanfare. Five montlis later, they knocked off another 
l 

Indiana school. This ti~e, the opponent was Purdue, the margin of victory was t1o points, and the reward was the Sears National Championship trophy. 
The team's chemistry land cohesiveness played a large part in its success this sbason._ Although each player had some good games and sotne bad ones, no individual player 
-All-American, captai1 or otherwise-took individual 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 


credit for a win or blame for a loss. Each player simply knew her role, the piece of the puzzle that she represented. "There isn't one person who is more important than an­other," senior Kelley Siemon says. 
Coach Muffet McGraw agrees. "Their ability to mesh as a unit, their unselfishness and their willingness to sac­rifice personal goals for the team has been amaz­ing," she says. "I don't think I've ever enjoyed being around a group of people as much as I have this one. They truly are a group of winners." 
The domination and 
perseverance that Notre 
Dame showed through­
out the season was as­
tounding. The Irish took 
only four of their 34 
wins by fewer than 10 
points, and the two 
losses were by a combined three 
points. Notre Dame's average 
margin of victory was nearly 23 
points. 
The Irish also displayed tremen­dous resiliency after their two losses this season. They followed the Rutgers loss with a 38-point drubbing of Miami and Alcorn State by 49 points after a loss to Connecticut in the Big East championship game. 
After all the success 
Irish enjoyed this year, it is diffi­
cult to believe that they began the 
season with relatively few believ­
ers outside of the Notre Dame 
community. They trounced their 
first three opponents of the sea­
son, Valparaiso, Arizona and Wis­
consin, by a combined 82 points. 
The first time the nation saw 
the team was in the "Coaches vs. 
Cancer" challenge on ESPN, in 
which it barely survived a nail­
biter against Georgia. The Irish 
then racked up 12 niore wins in a 
row to _improve to 16-0, stretch 
their home winning streak to 31 
straight games and earn the No. 3 
26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

ranking in the country. As Notre Dame continued to tear apart its opponents, it gained increasing fan support. 
It was at this point that the team encountered its first major chal­lenge ofthe year: top-ranked Con­necticut. Prior to this matchup at the Joyce Center, the Irish were 0­11 all-time against the Huskies and 0-9 when playing top-ranked teams. 
Many wondered whether the Irish, despite their prior success, were good enough to finally leap this monumental hurdle. "We had a lot of doubters before that game," Barksdale says. "The only people supporting us were our friends, our families and the Notre Dame family." 
The two teams fought hard for the entire game, but the Irish even­tually pulled away with the vic­tory, earning the No. 1 ranking in the country in front of the program's first-ever sellout crowd. The win captured the at­tention of the nation and finally showed that Notre Dame deserved respect as a basketball power­house. "That win lifted our spirits and showed everybody that Notre Dame could compete with the best, and that we were on top," Barksdale says. 
The victory convinced the play­ers that they could play with the best in the country. McGraw con­siders the first Connecticut win the most important game of the regular season. "I think it gave us confidence, and it gave us the No. 1 ranking, which I think set us up for the run to the National Cham­pionship gi;ime," she says. 
The Irish continued to cruise after the Connecticut game, win­ning six in a row to improve to 23-0 on the season. Their record was finally blemished when they were edged by one point at Rutgers. "We weren't playing our best basketball going into the Rutgers game," senior Ruth Riley says. 
Barksdale agrees. "Between the UConn and the Rutgers games, we did not play very well, even though we still won," she says. She also acknowledges that the increasing media attention be­came somewhat of a distraction: "We would come out and practice and there would be cameras in our faces," she says. "It was hard for us to stay focused." 
The team used this slight set­back as a learning experience. "The loss at Rutgers cause us to become more focused," Riley says. "I don't think we lost confi­dence after the game." 
Notre Dame suffered its second defeat of the year in its last game of the regular season -the Big East championship game against Connecticut. 
Once again; the loss served mainly as a learning experience rather than a devastating one. "We had lost to UConn on their home floor, but w~ knew that we would meet them again in the tourna­ment, arid that there was much more to come," says freshman JenekaJoyce. Riley agrees. "That game prepared us for the tourna­ment," she says. "It gave us the experience of playing in a close game, and it taught us what we needed to do in late-game situations." 



The Irish steamrolled their way through the first four games of the NCAA tour-· nament, win­ning l.?y an aver­age of nearly 27 points per game and setting up their third matchup of the year against Connecticut. This time, the stakes were even higher, as the season would end for the loser of the national semifinal. 
The Irish started off the game on the wrong foot, trailing the Huskies by 16 points at halftime. Unfazed, they pulled together to post the biggest comeback in Fi­nal Four history, defeating Con­necticut by15 points in the end. "We started out slow and played tentatively," Riley says. "In the second half, we were more ag­gressive and stuck to the game plan we have had all year." 
Senior co-captain Niele Ivey says that team dynamics played a major role in the comeback. "We just decided to come_ together," she says. "We had 20 more min­utes no matter what the score was. Our chemistry kept us together, just like it's been helping us all year." 
The championship game against Purdue began much the same as · the semifinal had. Notre Dame once again was outplayed out of the gate and traile/f at halftime, but it rallied in the second half. However, Purdue refused to let Notre Dame take the lead, repeat­edly countering Irish baskets with scores of its own. Notre Dame continued to close the gap, how­ever, and it finally tied the game with a minute to play on a Riley bucket. The Irish stopped Purdue on its next possession and had the ball with the chance to take the last shot of the game. Despite the crowd of Boilermakers around 
A HERO'S WELCOME Braving the cold in the wee hours, droves of Notre Dame students showed up to welcome the National Champions back to campus. 
Dame's success, right down to the last few seconds ofthe season. Guard Alicia Ratay also played a large role as the best three-point shooter in the country. Siemon and Ericka Haney displayed grit and determination throughout the year. McGraw, the AP Coach of the Year, was a tremendous source ofguidance, as were her assistant coaches. 
Some people wonder whether this season marks the beginning of a Notre Dame legacy. Riley believes the Irish have established themselves permanently. "I think Notre Dame has emerged as a powerhouse," she says. "Coach McGraw has done a tremendous job building up the program here, 



DOME 

Irish pitcher Christian Parker niakes his 
debut in the Big Apple 
GERARDMESKILL 

It'shard to think ofbaseball without Yan­kee Stadium coming to mind. Some of the game's most memorable moments have unfolded between 161st Street and River Avenue in the Bronx. Many who grow up in love with America's pastime dream to one day play ball in Yankee Sta­dium and become part of its history. For all but the luckiest few, it remains nothing more than a dream. On March 29, former Notre Dame hurler . Christian Parker discovered he was among those lucky few. After that evening's con~ test with the Pittsburgh Pirates was rained out, Yankees manager Joe Torre summoned the 25-year-old pitcher to tell him that he had won the final spot in a rotation that includes five-time Cy Young Award-win­ner Roger Clemens, Mike Mussina, Andy Pettitte and Orlando Hernandez. Parker's path to Yankee Stadium began in the ballparks ofAlbuquerque, N.M., where he started playing organized baseball at age seven. "I just grew up loving sports," he says. "I played baseball and football all the way through high school." But as high school ended, so too did Parker's football career. He settled on base­ball and looked at several colleges across the country before fi­nally settling on 
"When we came to camp, we didn't know who 
Notre Dame. "I had other was going to be the fifth starter, and Parker 
places obviously emerged as having the best spring, the best that were a little 
performance, and earned a chance to be the 
bit warmer that 
fifth starter." 
were around my home," Parker 

-MIKE MUSSINA, YANKEE PITCHER I 
"I was

says. thinking about going to Stanford, Rice and some other spots, but I just liked [Notre Dame] the best I went on my visit, and they just kind ofsold me. A lot ofrecruits that get recruited to go there just fall 
28 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
might someday pitch in a Major League game. In fact, the young right-hander saw the deal as an opportunity. "I was looking at it very positively, a new start for my career 
in love with it, and that's what I did." 
Parker's stay at Notre Dame only lasted two years, and his numbers weren't overwhelm­ing. In his final year with the Irish, he posted an 8-3 record and a somewhat-bloated 4.24 ERA. Nevertheless, the Montreal Expos' scouts-who seem to have an uncanny knack for judging potential in their choices acquire Pedro Martinez, . Larry Walker, John Wetteland 
· and Vladimir Guerrero__:_I66ke(f past Parker's stats and selected him in the fourth round of the 1996 Major League draft. After his short stay with the Irish, Parker left Notre Dame to be­gin his career in the Expos' organization. 
In his three years with the Expos, he never ascended higher than the double-A af­filiate in Harrisburg, Pa. Parker's Expo career ended in December 1999, when he was traded to the Yankees as part of a three-pitcher package for Hideki Irabu. Even though Parker was leaving a strug­
gling Expos club for an organization whose 25­man staff might be the hardest to crack in baseball, he never lost hope that he and a new oppor­tunity, and I took advantage of it," he says. "Ikind of took it and ran with it." 
It was actually 
more like a sprint. Parker pitched the 2000 season with the double-A Norwich (Conn.) Navigators, posting an impressive 14-6 record and a 3.13 ERA,; His season-long consis­tency earned him an invitation to Tampa Bay to try out for the 2001 Yankees. Competing with him for the fifth spot in the rotation were · the 1985 NationalLeagueCyYoungAward­winner Doc Gooden, Sid Fernandez, Adrian Hernandez and Randy Keisler. Parker made 
START SPREADIN' THE NEWS The Yankees retain faith in their fifth starter despite a rocky start against Toronto (above). Parker pitched for the Irish In '95-96 (righ~. 


five appearances over the course ofthe spring, finishing 1-1 with a 3.60 ERA. Meanwhile, his competition pitched with what one New York sports writer called "aggressive medi­ocrity," making the decision that much easier for Torre. Just three days before Opening Day, Torre told Parker that he would make his Yankee debut on April 6 against the Toronto Blue Jays. 
As far as Torre was concerned, Parker was the only one who showed the heart necessary to join the Yankees' rotation. 
"Well, you know [Parker] was the young "The kid's 
guys ahead of him, and he may have had aspirations when he came to spring training, but he was probably the only one at that time that had aspirations that he was going to make this starting staff." 
"I'd say he was the right pick for the job," 

pitcher Andy Pettitte adds. "There were ~several guys fighting for the spot in spring · training, and he must have done something 
really special to win the spot over the guys he was competing against, so I'd say he did pretty good." 
While many might look at his situation as intimidating, Parker chose to view it as both a unique experience and an opportunity to learn. 
"[Being a member of the Yankees' rota­
tion] is a special thing," Parker says. "These guys are so proven, the best at what they do. It's nice to have the guys on the staff, not only personally, but for what they do on the field, too, because they're 
· all so good, and . . . [I have the opportunity] to learn from that and really get into what they do as professionals." 
With Parker looking on, the Yankees' season opened against the Royals. Clemens, Pettitte and Mussina combined to allow just four runs in 23 innings of work, leading the Yankees to a three-game sweep of the Royals. The three starts also set the bar for Parker, who was due next in the rotation. Parker wasn't fazed. "It defi­nitely takes the pressure off, knowing that I don't have to be perfect every time out," he says. 
The Royals left New York qui­etly, and the red-hot Toronto Blue Jays rolled into town trailing the Yankees by a mere half game in the American League East. Coming into the series with the Yan­kees, the Blue Jays had scored 11 runs in each of their last two games. Parker came after the leadoff man Shannon Stewart, who connected for a leadoff single. After that, Parker seemed to settle down, recording two straight infield outs. However, Carlos Delgado smashed Parker's first pitch, a fastball, for a mammoth two-run home run. 

a stand-up kid, and 
pitcher who pitched the hopefully we can help him get a 
most consistently in win his next start." 
spring training," Torre 

says. "He had a couple of -JOE TORRE, YANKEE MANAGERI Parker then re­corded four straight outs before running into more trouble in the third. Two 
singles, two stolen bases, a walk and a double led to two more Blue Jay runs. Parker battled out of the third, only to be bounced from the game in the next inning. A leadoff single immediately followed by a Jose Cruz Jr. home run brought Torre out of the dug­out, signaling the end of Parker's rough debut. 
Despite the poor performance, the Yan­kees had nothing but praise for the young starter. 
"He's got a bulldog attitude about him, he's a tough competitor and he doesn't back off," Torre says. "I mean, just com­ments he made after he got roughed up [Friday night]. He wasn't looking for any scapegoat. He was just telling you that he didn't do his job and that hopefully he'll be better next time. The kid's a standup kid, and hopefully we can help him get a win his next start." 
"Hopefully he'll settle in and get some experience and learn about the game at this level and see what happens," Mussina says. "It's a good opportunity for him, and we hope everything works out." 
Torre is confident that Parker will make it at the Major League level. "His first outing wasn't so good, but again, you have to just chalk it up as his first outing," he says. ''We like him a lot. Whether his time is now or a year from now, we don't know that, bu the's getting a great oppor­tunity now." 
No matter when Parker makes it, no one will ever be able to take away the memory of taking the mound at Yankee Stadium. 
"Who gets that opportunity to make their debut at Yankee Stadium at home?" he asks. "It's something I'll always re­member." D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 29 

The Faces of Broadway 
Jekyll and Hyde haunts the South Bend stage 
TRACYEVANS  
Perhaps you've witnessed it yourself. Your roommate spends her week  
running from classes to the library  
to meetings to the gym then back to the  
books, only making time to delight in the  
convenience of Grab 'n' Go. But come 4  
p.m. on Friday, she suddenly morphs into  
a social butterfly, focusing all mental  
energy on deciding which party to hit  
first.  
Could these two characters possibly be  
the same person?  
Even before the age of dorm parties  
and all-nighters, cases of split personality  
were a documented mental phenomenon  
in humans. The legendary tale ofDr. Jekyll  
and his evil alter-ego Mr. Hyde is familiar  
to many, and now the chilling tale that pits  
man against himself has emerged in musi­ 
cal form in the Broadway spotlight.  
The long-haired, obsessive Dr. Jekyll,  
played by award-winning  actor  Guy  
LeMonnier, presents an eerie and com­ 
pelling character. His experimental goal  
to  isolate and divide human nature's  
essential good and bad elements esca- 
I\  
jj·1  
11  
!i  
I  
Ii  
I  
Ii:I,, I'  
I  

!ates into a desperate search for success that forces him to use himself as a guinea pig. But when the method to his mad­ness goes awry, Jekyll is left with a murderous monster. With lab results more frightening than those of a first­year chemistry student, Dr. Jekyll and his newly concocted evil counterpart, Mr. Hyde, vie for life in London's high society and for the affection of the woman they love. 
In four years on Broadway, Jekyll and Hyde has enjoyed immense popularity. The musical was composed by Grammy­nominee Frank Wildhorn with lyrics by Academy Award-winner Leslie Bricusse. It captured nationwide atten­tion with such popular songs as "This is the Moment," "Someone Like You" and other selections heard in the background at Olympic Games and Super Bowls. 
The critics, however, have not been so kind. After the New York debut of Jekyll and Hyde, many decried the musical, scoffing at the excessive melodrama and cliches. Ben Brantley of the New York Times remarked in his 1997 review: "What it says, and the way it says it, often suggests the kinci of staid costume horror movies with English accents that are usually shown on television only af­ter midnight." 
Such strong distaste for the classic tale stood in sharp contrast to the record-break­ing sales that accompanied the original per­formances in Houston. Despite the scathing reviews, the Broadway show continued to fill theaters until this past January, closing with well-known leads such as David Hasselhoff. 
So just how did the musical survive? Even Brantley notes the popularity of the tale among the hard-core fans -referred to as "jekkies" -claiming "the large part of the appeal of the show ... may be its very familiarity." This reputation was built immediately, and soundtrack sales ex­ceeded 150,000 copies by 2000. Some jekkies have seen renditions of Jekyll and Hyde up to 400 times. 
Many students may believe that the clos­est they will come to a live version of this legend is through witnessing the bizarre living habits of their roommates. But thanks to the South Bend branch ofBroad­way Theatre League, a national touring company that brings imitations of Broad­way shows to the newly renovated Morris Performing Arts Center, Jekyll and Hyde will be appearing here in Michiana this month. 
According to Executive Director Anita Boorda, Michiana audiences will likely ap­preciate this atypical musical. "Today's au­dience is more used. to the scary and sus­penseful than the audience at the time of Rodgers and Hammerstein," Boorda says. "It's the natural evolution of the musical as an art form." 
When Mr. Hyde emerges on stage from the thick, evening fog of the London streets, with a dagger in his hand and a wild look in his eyes, will you be there to meet his gaze? 
Jekyll and Hyde will be at the Morris Performing Aris Center on April 20 at 8 p.m,, April 21 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m., and April 22 at 2 p.m. Tickets can be pur­chased at the box office or by calling (219) 245-6085. 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

: • : :' ' • • -• • •, I -. •'-' ..... , 1 • • , 
.SUBCULTURE ALERT 

Want Some Art? Come and Get It 
OOB goes artsy-fartsy 

Awarm wind greets us as my roommate, Carol, and I "polyester" and "shiny." The party, like the Crawfish Boil, is 
. enter the backyard. Carol, her fellow art students and open to anyone. "People who came to the i.e. party didn't even tag-along friends like me mingle among the art profes-know where Riley was," Sedlack says, "but the next semester, · sors and their spouses, their children and their dogs. Somebody's they're taking a drawing class." 
. kid is sadistically dangling a live crawfish over boiling water, ItmakessensethattherewouldbeapartyinRileynowandthen, remindingitthatits days are numbered. It's the design department's since the building is alive around the clock. I had been soaking up Crawfish Boil, held annually on the day before the Student the art culture until 4:30 in the morning the other day, and when Exhibition opening at the Snite, where all the M.F.A. and B .F.A. I departed, there were still animated conversations going on in the students display their thesis projects. It is hosted this year by computer lab and loud music playing in the studios. A security senior graphic design major Dave Clark. As Dave greets guests, guard who came to lock up told us that the last one out should either graphic design professor Robert Sedlack collects tickets. John lock up or say hi to the teachers in the morning. Sherman, a graphic design professor with roots in Louisiana, Graphic design majors Shane Culey and Josh Rich admitthat boils the crawfish with potatoes, whole onions and corn on the pulling all-nighters is pretty standard at Riley. "I only stay up cob, and product design professor John Caruso turns a lamb on a about three nights a week, though," Josh said. Only three. spit. The ceramics majors bum their share of midnight oil, too, no 
The majority ofthe guests are somehow involved in the art, art pun intended. In a round-the-clock endeavor, ceramics professor history and design departments, but it's not an exclusive event. Bill Kremer, with the help of his students, fires a year's worth "This event is purposefully inclusive," Sedlack says. "It's an ceramics art projects in his backyard kiln. "It's a huge kiln, a effort to continually build a community in the art program, and a wood-firekiln,"says ceramics major LukeSchloegel. ''He figured casual atmosphere where students can get to see their teachers as ifhe was going to build one he shoul~ build it really big. Twenty people." The following afternoon, when the art kids ditch their people can fit in there." It takes a number of students to keep the flip-flopsandtornT-shirtsandspiffthemselvesupfortheSnite kiln fire going at the right temperature in order to finish the exhibition, the dress shoes and formal wear won't mask the ceramic pieces, so majors are encouraged to invite their 
friendly ties between teachers and students. The  ---­ . friends to help out, too. "Everybody has to sign up  
professors, strolling through the crowded gal- to fire it," Luke says. "Twenty-four hours a  
leries, are as proud as the parents in attendance  '.  day for five days, people have to keep  
-if not more so.  1  0  putting wood on."  .  
Though the M.F.A./B .F.A. exhibit pulls in as  e  )  . Nights at the kiln are like hanging out  
big a crowd as I've ever seen in the Snite, nottoo  /,  a big bonfire. Though most of the ce­ 
many people really know what goes on inside the  ramie pieces will be sold at an upcoming  
campus art building, Riley Hall. "Not enough  sale, theceramicsfolkswillbeholdingonto  
people know we have Riley Hall," Sedlack  thememories.Lukesays, "Myprofessortold  
says, "although some people cut through the  me today that we all had a moment out  
building to get from one class to the other."  there at that kiln."  
To help introduce non-art majors to the  Another fun fact is that in the off- 
artistic campus subculture, the Arts Collec~  season, when there aren't art projects to  
. tive hosts an annual gathering called the "i.e.  fire up, the kiln also functions  as  a  
party." Before the festivities begin, each  high-capacity sauna. How convenient.  
guest gets a card with a word on it, which he  Oh well, stay tuned for next time.  
or she must dress up as. The party takes place  The last OOB ofthe year is on its way.  
in Riley and the last one, which had a circus  W aywardhess, ardor and hilarity are  
the~e, included words like "ringmaster,"  bound to ensue:  .  




by Kara Zuaro . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 


l 
i 
I 
I 
I I 
i. 
l.i 
CARRIESWEENEY 

Watching an XFL game is, sadly, not quite the intense experience that its promoters want you to believe it is. It's not even really an entertain­ing experience, as it's severely lacking in the costume and storyline departments that so distinguish the league's founding corpo­ration, the WWF. After a lot of pleading and promises to vacuumlater,mythreenot-very-intenseroom­mates agreed to watch a game between the Chicago Enforcers and the Orlando Rage with me last Sunday night. As we flipped on UPN ----: a very intense station -I was certain that this would be a powerful experience because, after all, the league's Web site guarantees that the XFL is nothing if not a "100 percent competitive sport-the brand offootball that hard-core football fans haven't seen in a long time." We couldn't wait to connect, although I was feeling a little intimidated by the poten­tially unbridled force ofthis game. But then it started. And it was simply (not very good) football. The question at hand is whether this stuff qualifies as entertainment, as Jerry is tack­ling the league's shady claim at constituting a valid sport (facing page). So I will not make any further judgements regarding the athleticism of the players, but I will add a side note: As I watched these ex-college players grunt at each other and roll around, 1. was continually reminded that although my dad played in an over-35-year-old bas­ketball league throughout much ofmy child­hood, he does not cite this participation as proof that he is an "athlete," much less an intense one. At any rate, the game's overall lack of intensity doesn't necessarily mean that there weren't fleeting moments of furious pas­sion, by which I mean "vague entertain-

In-Your-Face Tedium 
Not even vinyl-clad cheerleaders can save this league 
ment." At one point, one of the announcers complained that "the only way to shut you [his fellow announcing buddy] up is to tum your microphone off." After this utterly demoralizing, withering insult, the other guy responded with a lot ofmumbled grunts that culminated with him declaring proudly -and, no doubt, intensely-"I'm gonna say what I want to say." 
Other key phrases uttered by these stellar announcers included, "That one's gonna be a dandy," in reference to an upcoming play­off game, and, "Well, these Enforcers are higher than a kite right now," in reference -we think -to the Chicago team's well­executed offense. 
Furthermore, I particularly enjoyed the postgame interviews, during which report­ers are apparently supposed to ask "in-your­face" questions of the players, according to the Web site; So, when the announcers de­scended upon the players, I was ready for some bigtime confrontation. 
"You!" the announcer cried to Enforcer running back John A very as I shivered with anticipation, "are the hottest team in foot­ball right now." 
"Yeah," Avery eloquently replied, caus­ing us, in unison, to wipe beads of sweat from our brows. "Ifanybody's in this league right now, they're scared to death of the Chicago Enforcers." 
Sadly, this statement seemed to lose a large percentage of its potential intensity when Avery qualified it by adding that mi­nor part about "if anybody's in this league right now." Because, frankly, not a whole lot of people are. There are eight teams in the XFL, bringing the total number of play­ers to fewer than the total number of Zahm residents. The lack ofteams instead made us question why our announcer friends were talking so animatedly about the Enforcer's chances at the playoffs. After all, if, in this league, you don't make it to the four-team playoffs, I would venture to say that you should start sending resumes to Wendy's, or at least resort to some less-intense league (recall the over-35 church-league option). 
Even the cheerleaders-the self-invented ones and the actual, paid ones alike -were decidedly non-intense. The camera kept pan­ning by a few inexplicably excited -and, of course, high-class -fans of the "fat old man" variety who were sporting wife-beat­ers that spelled out "Enforcers." Just as I was wondering where the legitimate, and much-hyped, cheerleaders were, a few of them flashed across the screen, wearing black-and-silver vinyl creations that were strange! y deficient in the front as they danced 
·halfheartedly for a minute before stopping to chat with each other. 
As we sat, soaking in the final extreme moments of the broadcast-actually, I was by myself at this point, as I lost my room­mates to the considerable lures of a bag of Doritos, a People magazine from last October and accounting home­work-I let loose a sigh of deep re-· lief. I had survived my first XFL en­counter intact, ·· which leads meto ask: Does the game count as en-. · tertainmen t? Given a loose un­derstanding of that word, sure: Was it quality en-. tertainment? We'11 let you loyal readers decide. D 

: • • • ." , • • -• • • •, I ~ ,, ., "., t • ~ • ~ 

: . . .'JHE SPORTS PERSPECTIVE . _ 
This is a Sport? 
The XFL seems to be missing that X-tra kick it promised 
GERARDMESKILL 
Well, it's postseason time in the XFL. Do you have your tickets? Do you even know who made theplayoffs?TheXFL Website'sFanPicks of the Year section asks, "John Avery, Tommy Maddox, Mike Pawlawski, Jeremaine Copeland or Jeff Brohm?" If your answer is "Who the hell are these guys?" you are in agreement with the major­ity of the nation. The reason why these names are almost universally meaningless is that the XFL is a failure. The biggest reason why? Simply because Vince McMahon failed to deliver the prod­uct he advertised. First, he proposed all sorts of extravagant rule changes to make the game more exciting. For example, he threw out the opening coin toss in favor of amidfield scramble for the football. When 
FLATLINE Unimpressed by the soporific XFL 
exploits enfolding in front of them, these Fisher . Hall juniors slowly slip into a coma. 
most fans heard this, they envisioned a guy, -or, better still, a team ofguys -lined up in each end zone dashing for the football on the 50-yard line. That would have made the game more violent, as McMahon promised. Instead, he offered a meaningless track event to start a football game. 
Then, he offered legal bump coverage to defend the pass, meaning that defenders could push receivers until the quarterback releases the football. This rule was elimi­

' nated midway into the season because what it actually did was slow down the game, since it rendered more passes incomplete. In essence, his new rule made the game more boring. The Super Bowl was boring enough, Vince, wedon'tneedtodedicatean entire league to the Nebraska Cornhusker offensive strategy. The N is for "napping." What's the X for, by the way? McMahon also eliminated the PAT in an attempt to eliminate "routine" plays; I com­mend him for the effort. But that's why the two-point conversion was invented -it's·called the element of surprise. -McMahon eliminated a play where teams usually score and replaced it with a play where teams almost never score. Watching something that you are fairly certain will fail isn't exciting either, Vince. The one idea that worked was the new overtime format. For those (many, many) of you who don't frequently watch the XFL, the team that starts with the ball is given four downs to score and ~annot kick a field goal until the fourth down. There are no first downs·. Ifthe first team scores in fewer than four downs, the opposing team is given only as many downs to score as the other team needs. But this only applies to overtime, so it did not make a huge impact on the sea­son except for the Los Angeles-Chicago 
triple-overtime thriller. One game can't make a season, though. 
McMahon's second major error was that the sideshow he created to enhance the awful football on the field actually deval­ued it. If you've ever watched WWF, you know that Vince understands very well that sex appeal sells. With the WWF, this works well because the wrestling is fake and the storyline is silly, so scantily clad women work well with the overall con­cept. However, with the XFL, fans who are watching to see football -a radical idea for fans of a football league -may feel that the focus on such low-value en­tertainment gimmicks as the cheerlead­ers, clueless politician-announcers and sideline interviews trivialize the game. If fans see the game as trivial, a die-hard fan base will not grow. For any sports league to succeed, it needs a strong, loyal fan base. McMahon's tactics have turned the XFL into a football version of the WWF, minus any trace of athletic talent. 
McMahon's biggest mistake was relying on television ratings to support his fledgling league. Unfortunately, an XFL game isn't remotely entertaining unless you are inside the stadium drinking beer with the rest of the crowd. But, then, as many college stu­dents know, standing in a cinder-block room doing nothing but drinking beer and talking to other people drinking beer can also be entertaining, so I'm still hesitant to give McMahon any credit. 
Without added violence, exciting new rules or, for that matter, anything else to separate the XFLfrom the NFL in a positive way, it comes down to a contest of which football game is more entertaining. Even though the Super Bowl was downright aw­ful, the NFL still wins that contest hands down. But cheer up, Vince: You still have theWWF. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 


When Doves Cry 
The most important moment America has ever seen 
JOSEPHHOWARTH 

Trust me, my friends, this might be the most important story you ever read. 
On Saturday March 24; 2001, the world shook. In the seventh inning of a spring-training game between the Arizona Diamondbacks 
,·. and the San Francisco Giants, hard-throw­ing, left-handed, National League Cy Young award-winning pitcher Randy Johnson completely unintentionally hit and killed a dove flying in front of home plate. The dove exploded into a cloud offeathers and bounced to its death in foul territory. Shocked play­ers and fans who witnessed the fate­ful moment were both confused and · horrified. I honestly believe it was one of the most important events in the history of the world. 
I first saw the dove explode on an iMac in the DeB artolo computer clus­ter a week after the incident occurred. My first reaction, conditioned by the frequency of digitally altered videos 

I ,. nowadays, was that someone's cruel imagination had created an emotion­ally intense but completely impos­sible scenario. It was just too hard to, believe. lilt,. 
First, the odds were impossible. ..._•-•-­
How could two remarkably small ob­

jects traveling at enormous speeds collide 
in such random fashion? I have tried hard, 
but without success, to hit a bird on purpose, 

so I struggle with the idea that Mr. Johnson, entirely unintending to hit one, would be 
any more fortuitous. 

Second, what would a bird be doing fly­ing so low and so close to the players in the infield? From what I can remember about animals-with the exception ofthe domes­ticated squirrels on Notre Dame's campus -they make every effort to avoid contact with humans. 
I'·;, 
't! Finally, the spectacle ofthe exploding bird 
I:;:
•:, 
really made me wonder: Would a bird really 
i I 
I blow up like that were it hit by a baseball, 
I feathers showering in every direction, leav­ing nothing but a plucked, bouncing carcass? I really didn't think so. But I was wrong. A 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
little more research confirmed it. 

Randy Johnson's pitch killed a dove in a real baseball game, in a real ball park, in front of real fans. What I was seeing had happened. It was truly remarkable. 
The video ofthe exploding dove had been attached to a quickly circulating e-mail that praised the hilarity of the event. I replayed the bird's death dozens of times, frame by heart-stopping, ball-stopping, feather-flying 
frame, awed by the raw energy 0 f 
'":-. 
~..... 

such a strik­ing death. 
While some of my female friends winced at the shower of feathers, most everyone else who saw the incident has embraced it as one ofthe funniest or coolest things they had ever seen. I entirely agreed. 
But not anymore. 

In the lqng, storied tradition of baseball; America's great pastime and national sport, only one other bird has ever been killed. In 1983, Yankee outfielder David Winfield killed a bird on a warm-up throw. The bird was a sea gull, it was aimed for, and it was in Canada. Last weekend, things were some­what different -but the message was the same. Randy Johnson's fastball killed a dove, the $ymbol of peace, on American son, playing America's game. I demand that the world recognize this as a prophetic warning that America is killing the peace of the world, the nation and the family. This dove's death was not a coincidence. It was a divine symbol. 
I know what you might be thinking: Just because I am Canadian, I am looking for another excuse to rip on America. I wish that were the case. Sadly, this is serious. America, I implore · you to listen to this dove's death. Do not ignore such an unbe­lievable phenomenon or throw it away as a freak coincidence ormere chance. I ask you to see the incident as it is: A screaming attempt to finally wake you from your con­tinued slumber. 
You have been told a thousand times 
about the moral degradation ofyour young 
and powerful nation. You see the rise in 
school shootings and gratuitous sex and 
violence in television, video games and 
movies. You are witness to the break­
down of the fundamental social com­
munities offainily, church and schools. 
Yet you do nothing about these. While 
it is true that some people recognize the 
problem and attempt to teach the world, 
the country as a whole continues to sink 
lower and lower into its love of money, 
power and pleasure. Do you not see that this dove's death is demanding that you change? Do you not see how its death truly was a sacrifice of the highest kind? Do you not see_its deliberate message to the world, the me$sage that you continue to ignore, one th~t'begs you to face the horrors of your self-righteous capitalism and globalization? 
America, I write to you today that we may all honor this m.artyr, prophet and hero. I write to you today so that the unspoken purpose of the most amazing display of courage, bravery and sacrifice this country has everseen may fin~lly be heard. I write to you today so that history may not forget the most importantlesson, the most significant sign, the most important moment in this country's great history -the death of this dove. . 
·To see fq~tage ofthe exploding dove, e­mail ''.Canadian" Joe Howarth at. howarth.J@nd.edu. 


-Cristin Fenzel 

• 
Thu 12 Basehall: ND vs. Georgetown, 12:05 and 2:00 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Thu 12 Softball: ND vs. Loyola Chicago, 4:00 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Sat 14 Crew: ND women at Indiana Classic, 8:00 AM, Bloomington. 

• 
Sat 14 Softball: ND vs. Pittsburgh, 12:00 and 2:00 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Sat 14 Baseball:-ND vs. West Virginia, 12:05 and 2:00 PM, Eck Stadium. · 


, • Sat 14 Lacrosse: ND men vs. Army, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Stadium. 
lectures 
• Tue 19 "Science and Satire in Early Modem England," Mordechai Feingold, 4:15 PM, 131 DeBartolo. 
movies 

• Thu 19 The Contender and All the Pretty Horses, 
10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• 
Fri 20 and Sat 21 You Can Count On Me, 7:30 PM and 9:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Fri 20 and Sat 21 The Contender and All the Pretty Horses, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 


the arts 
• 
Wed 18 Carl Sandburgh and the guitar ofAndres Segovia with John Aker, 7:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. ­

• 
Wed 18 Notre Dame Schola Musicorum, 9:30 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

• 
Sun 22 Notre Dame Jazz Band, 3:00 PM, Band Building. 


• Wed 25 Oedipus Rex, 7:30 PM, Washingon Hall. 
• Wed 25 Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra, 8:00 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
student life 
• Tue 17 Spring Security Auction, 6:30 PM, Stepan Center. 
_ _-sports 

• 
Thu 19 Baseball: ND vs. Central Michigan, 5:00 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Sat 21 Baseball: ND vs. Villanova, 12:05 and 2:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Sun 22 Lacrosse: ND women vs. Georgetown, 1:00 PM, Moose Krause Stadium. 

• 
Tue 24 Baseball: ND vs. Bowling Green, 5:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Wed 25 Baseball: ND vs. Valparaiso, 6:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Wed 25 Softball: ND vs. Toledo, 4:00 PM, Ivy Field. 


35 _ 


by Karen Swanson 

Dreams Do Come True 

Karen Swanson is a sophomore management major with basketball-coach aspirations. Her dad and her sister, Julie, graduatedfrom Notre Dame; her mom graduatedfrom St. Mary's; and her brother, Eric, w#l attend Notre Dame in the fall. 

After my team won the National Champion­ship in St. Louis, I couldn't help but reflect on where we've been and what we've been through. What 12 athletes and five coaches achieved as one unit is in itself inspiring. But there were times along the way when the road seemed too rocky to over­come. One moment of pure joy came only after thousands ofmoments ofpure anguish and seeming defeat. One title came only after hundreds of pre­season workouts, in-season practices, film sessions, wind sprints and weight lifts -not to mention physical and emotional breakdowns. At those times it took something extra to bring us from doubt to certainty. We turned to the strength we have within, our external support networks, and to any other inspiration we could find: 
"In back ofeve,y creation, supporting it like an arch, is faith. Enthusiasm is nothing; it comes and goes. But ifone believes, then miracles occur. " 
-HemyMiller 

My hometown, Westlake, Ohio, is a small sub­urb ofCleveland. It's no Macy, Ind., but it's small enough for me to appreciate my humble begin­nings. I played for Westlake High School and 
National Title AAU, 
but that was the ex­tent ofmy basketball exposure. I was a good basketball player, but no All-American. 

People always said, "Go somewhere where you '11 play." They'd laugh at me when I told them I was trying out for the prestigious Notre Dame women's basketball team. And they were never careful to conceal the fact that they didn't think I could make it. 
"The path may be rocky and twisted, but the world is waitingforthatspecial contribution each ofus was born to make. What it takes is the courage to follow those whispers ofwisdom that guide us form the inside. When I listen to that, I expect nothing less than a miracle. " 
-Marilyn Johnson Kondwani 

But I was a believer. I was determined, focused and dedicated, and I set my sights high. By believing in my dream and choosing to shut out all of the negative energy that surrounded me, I accomplished what I set out to do. · 
"Positive energy is all around you, like sunshine that warms your soul andputs you atpeace with the world. Every blade ofgrass has its angel that bends over it and whispers 'Grow, grow. ' " 
-The Talmud 

The course ofmy own story is strikingly similar to the journey our team underwent. If you want to talk about humble beginnings, we didn't even have a women's basketball team until 1978 -and even then we were only a Division III school. We weren't ranked No. I in the country, and we didn't go to the first women's Final Four. We had barely even begun admitting women to the university. 
"Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepestfear is that we are powe,fulbeyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us ... It is not just in some ofus, it is in everyone. " 
-Marianne Williamson 

When my team sincerely believed it'd be No. 1 during the season, people laughed in our faces. "People have no respect for you," our strength coach con­stantly reminded us." They don't know about Notre Dame women's basketball." No one believed in the common-vision that our 12 members shared from the very first time we stepped on the court this season. 
"As we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberatedfrom our own fear, ourpresence auto­matically liberates others. " 
-Marianne Williamson 

But we were believers. We were determined, fo­cused, dedicated; we set our sights high. By believing in our dream and choosing to shut out the negative energy that surrounded us, we accomplished what we set out to do. 
"Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage. Sometimes youjust have to take the leap and buildyour wings on the. way down. Ourfeet are earthbound, but our hearts and our minds have wings . ... Believe in yourself, and you will fly. " 
-AnaisNin 

My team and I would like to leave you with this: Always believe in yourself. Don't listen to what others say. Follow your dreams, reach for the stars and go for the gusto. After all, not only National ­Championships, but the-whole future, belongs to those who believe in the power oftheir dreams. . 

When my team sincerely believed it'd be No. 1 during the course of the season, people laughed in our faces. 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 


join the 

FIRST AID SERVICES TE AM 
Enjoy saving other students from harm with qualifications in CPR and First Aid. 
FAST is looking for a few good volunteers. 
-, 
No experience is necessary. We will show you what you need to know. 
FAST provides aid at the football and basketball games, 
the Bookstore Basketball tournament, Bengal Bouts, all interhall sports, and most events that come to campus. 
CD 

BEAPARTOFTHEACTION 
For more info try www.nd.edu/-fast If interested, contact abarbour@nd.edu 
FAST is also looking for a webmaster. 



-

There's always fun calling ... 
1939 Nightclub Murders 
interactive comedy.& dinner theater, dress to impress lafortune ballroom april 19,8-11 pm $5, tix available april 16 at lafortune box office 
All the Pretty Horses &The Contender 
debartolo 101 & debartolo 155 april 19, 10.30pm april 20-21,Bpm and 10.30pm $2 at the door 
Acousticafe lafortune thursday, 9pm 
You just have to know where to look for it. SUB.


