The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing:'] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. J
Volume LXVIII
January 11, 1935
No 13
nt own ASKS FOR ANNUAL TESTIMONIAL FOOTBALL BANQUET TW™’11 ™PUY will BE HELD HERE ON NEXT TUESDAY
The complete text of Father O’Hara’s speech will be found on page 5.
The value of athletics in the proper development of American youth was stressed by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, at a luncheon of the Sports-€ manship Brotherhood in New York, Dec. 27.
Athletics have a proper place in a well - rounded educational program, Father O’Hara declared. “All know what happens,” he added, “if a boy wears a Phi Beta Kappa key on a flat chest.”
Father O’Hara offered to provide an auditorium of sufficient size to accommodate the crowds whenever “the public shows as much interest in our debates as it does in our football teams,” but he added, “for some reason or other, the public would rather watch twenty-two men play football than listen to six men debate.”
J'
It is within the ethics of good sportsmanship, he told his listeners, to permit the public to pay for any college activity, from a debate to a football game, and to make the charge “proportionate to the interest manifested by the public.”
Chet Grant, Backfield Coach Speaks at Villagers Meeting
& The first Villagers’ Club meeting of the New Year was held at the Peacock Cafe in South Bend last Monday night at 6:30. Elmer Layden, who was to have been guest speaker of the evening, was unable to attend, so Chet Grant, Irish backfield coach, very capably filled in the speaking assignment for him.
In the business session following the Club dinner, the Villagers discussed their Chritmas Formal Dance which was so successfully held at the ? Jefferson Plaza in South Bend on
Dec. 26th.
January 11, 1935
1935 Junior Prom Will Be Held March 1; Dinner Dance Is Also Planned
The Notre Dame Junior Prom for 1935, sponsored by the class of 1936, will be held Friday evening, March 1, according to an announcement made today by Tom Murphy, president of the class.
The plans for this year’s prom include the usual dance proper on Friday evening and the dinner and dance Saturday evening.
Further details of the junior weekend are as yet in the making. Announcements concerning the place, orchestra, and various committees will be published in a subsequent issue of The Scholastic.
Junior class officials also announced last night that plans for a class smoker to be held early in February were being formulated. .
Armand Kellogg Recipient of Beaux Arts Award
Armand W. Kellogg of Rock Springs, Wyo., a senior in the department of Architecture was awarded a second medal by the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design for his design of “A Roman House,” a problem in archaeology. Arnold B. Morrison received a mention on the same problem.
On a one day sketch problem, “A Down Town Cafe,” mention awards were received by A. W. Kellogg, E. T. Hickey, and R. A. Marre and half mentions by M. F. Gaul, F. S. McNeill, G. A. Beltemaacchi, and J. D. Murphy.
Mr. Kellogg’s medal drawing and the sketches awarded a mention will be published in the Bulletin of The Beaux-Arts Institute of Design.
WARREN BROWN TO SPEAK
By Clifford F. Brown
To honor publicly the football squad and coaches, admirers of the 1934 Notre Dame team will attend the Civic Testimonial Football Banquet to take place in the University dining halls, Tuesday, Jan. 15. This banquet is the fifteenth annual event, and another capacity attendance of over a thousand is expected.
JqhnT
He will introduce Brown.
The banquet this year, as in other years, is sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. This organization is preparing to make the event comparable to past banquets. The price of the tickets has been set at two dollars each. These can be secured from Herb Jones in the Notre Dame Athletic office. Since tickets have been selling rapidly, students wishing to attend are advised to make reservations immediately.
Mr. John T. McGovern of New York City will fill the toastmaster’s position. Mr. McGovern is consular of the Carnegie Foundation and well-known in ' international athletic circles.
Another prominent personality who has accepted an invitation to speak is Warren Brown, sports editor for the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
(Continued on Page 6)
One
Fr. Nieuwland Awarded William H. Nichols Medal for Chemistry
PAINTINGS OF JACQUES ARE TO BE EXHIBITED
HIGH SCIENTIFIC AWARD
The, William H. Nichols Medal of the New York Section of the American Chemical Society for 1935 has been awarded to the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., professor of organic chemistry in the University.
The award, one of the highest honors bestowed by chemical science
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. Another medal for him.
in this country, goes to Father Nieuwland “for basic work on syntheses from unsaturated hydrocarbons,” according to the announcement by Dr. J. M. Weiss, chairman of the jury of award.
Working in a field with dangers, Father Nieuwland successfully carried out investigations in the chemistry of acetylene, his discoveries being utilized in subsequent research in the laboratories of E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Del., which led to the development of the synthetic rubber called “Du Prene.”
“Father Nieuwland was engaged for many years in investigations of reaction of acetylene hydrocarbons and derivatives, a field which most investigators had not entered because the compounds were unstable and presented serious hazards of explosion,” Dr. Weiss explained.
“Persisting, Father Nieuwland learned how to control these reactions and make them safe to handle in general laboratory manipulations. As a result of this work, he was able to produce a number of new and unusual unsaturated hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon derivatives.
“Employing Father Nieuwland’s technique in handling and controlling the reactions, chemists of the du Pont Company developed the chemical materials from which 'Du Prene’ is produced.”
Dr. Elmer K. Bolton, now chemical (Continued on Page 19)
Alumni Donate Prizes For I. C. O.; List of Entries Increases
Unusual interest is being shown in the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest for high school students which is being sponsored by the Wranglers Society of the University this year.
The contest this year is to be an expansion of the Northern Indiana Oratorical contest which has been conducted in past years. Students of twenty-four Catholic high schools throughout Indiana have been asked to select an entry for the finals which will be held at Notre Dame about the end of January.
Some of the larger schools which have already signified their intention of haring a participant in the contest include Central Catholic of Fort Wayne; Central Catholic of Hammond; Cathedral High school of Indianapolis; St. Mary’s High school of Huntington, and St. Mary’s High school of Anderson.
The plan to stimulate the study of oratory among the Catholic students of Indiana has been warmly indorsed by Bishop John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, and Bishop Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., of Indianapolis.
Trophies are being donated by Joseph P. McNamara, deputy attorney general of Indiana, and Notre Dame alumni throughout the state are cooperating with school authorities in preparing students for the contest.
Several elimination meets are contemplated -but the finals will be held at the University late in January at which time the students who survive the preliminaries will spend several days here as guests of the Wranglers and of Notre Dame.
Bookmen Select New Books After Vigorous Debate
The Bookmen, discriminating readers all, started the New Year off right last Thursday night with an informal business meeting held in the Law Building. They engaged in a vigorous debate as to the choice of the 15 new (and good) books that will be added to the Club library this semester.
At the last meeting of the Book-, men before the holidays, James McDevitt, Commerce Senior, was speaker of the evening, reading a papei’ titled “Hawthorne, His Life and ;• His Works.”	- -
Professor Emil Jacques, head of the art department, will have an exhibit consisting of fifty-six paintings at the National Gallery of Art at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C., from January 10 to 31.
Pictures, all oils, include religious studies, figures, and landscapes. The
Professor Emil Jacques Paintings to be exhibited.
collection was forwarded by Professor Jacques at the invitation of R. P. Tolman, director of the gallery.
Outstanding in the collection is a tryptich consisting of “Queen of Heaven,” “Women Saints,” and “Men Saints” which has been highly praised by art critics of the entire country.
Professor Jacques, of Flemish origin, was a student, at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts at Antwerp and at the High Art Institute of Belgium and won the Grand Prix of the city of Antwerp. He also obtained second prize in the Grand Concours of Rome.
Professor Jacques came to this country and organized the art department at Columbia University in Portland, Oregon. Since 1929 he has been professor of art at Notre Dame.
He is now working on a series of nine murals for St. Mary’s cathedral in Portland, Oregon.
Symphony News
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel has started to rehearse Beethoven’s second symphony. This is the first time the orchestra has prepared the entire symphony, the third movement of the symphony appearing on the program before.
Plans are being formulated for a trip to Howe, Indiana where the symphony has been invited to give a concert.
• The Scholastic
Two
Noted Flyers to Gather Here
Next Week for Aeronautical Meet
MANY CHRISTMAS DANCES BRING FINANCIAL WOE
WAR ACES WILL ATTEND
Leaders of the aviation world will meet at the University of Notre Dame next week for a discussion of aeronautics as a profession and the future of the flying industry.
The meeting is scheduled for January 15 and will be preliminary, it is believed, to the introduction of a course in aeronautical engineering at the University next fall.
Among the wartime "aces” who will come to Notre Dame for the meetings are Lieut. Al Williams, famous Navy flier, Col. William A. Bishop of Montreal, author of The Flying Squad, and Prof. H. J. Burden of the University of Toronto.
In addition, Dr. Albert Zahm, who has been credited by the Wright brothers as responsible for much of their success with heavier than air machines, is expected to come from Washington for the conference. Dr. Zahm occupies the Guggenheim chair of Aeronautics in the Congressional Library and conducted original experiments in flying at Notre Dame coincident with those of the Wrights at Kittyhawk in 1903.	•'
Victor Kleisrath and JolmR. Gaut-ley of the Bendix Aviation Corporation will explain industrial phases of modem flying in connection with an inspection of the South Bend plant of the Bendix company.
Others who have been invited for the conference include Commander H. B. Grow of Detroit, who served as aviation advisor to President Leguia of Peru, South America, for seven years after his retirement from the United States navy, and Col. T. F. Sherburne, chief of staff, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indianapolis.
Besides advising the university the visitors will make a tour of inspec- • tion of the Bendix Aviation corporation plants and may also be present at the 15th annual testimonial banquet that evening in honor of the 1934 Notre Dame football squad.
The university’s interest in such a course has been considerably stimulated since Father O’Hara became president last year. A flying enthusiast, Father O’Hara, himself often travels by air.
Alumni Important
“A college can grow no faster or finer than the loving ambition of its sons. Its successful work may attract admiration. It will enlist friends. But the driving wheel of steady progress is the enthusiastic, untiring ambition of its Alumni.” — William A. Jones, Amherst, ’81.
La Londe Attends
N. S. F. A. Congress In Boston During Holidays
In attendance at the Tenth Annual Congress of the National Student Federation of America, held during the vacation in Boston under the auspices of Boston University, were Notre Dame’s S.A.C. President Thomas K. LaLonde and 350 delegates from 203 colleges and universities from Southern California to Maine. They discussed such topics of national stu-
James K. LaLonde
He worked during vacation.
dent interest as these: athletics, student government, publications, the honor system, student finances, phases of the New Deal, and the question of isolation vs. cooperation. The Congress lasted five days, from Dec. 28 to Jan. 1, during which time activity centered around Boston University and the Parker House. President LaLonde was a member of the committee on Foreign Travel and Debate, and elected vice-president of the delegation from the East-Central region.
Two hour sessions were devoted to the discussion of each topic, and from them issued these three most important resolutions. First, the Congress resolved by a 47 to 7 vote to favor open subsidization in college athletics as a remedy to present-day conditions, with certain qualifications, namely, that the man subsidized be of good character, a good student as well as a good athlete, and that these scholarships be handled officially through the university, as other scholarships are. Secondly, the N.S.F.A. resolved to condemn all worthless, superfluous intercollegiate organizations, particularly national honorary fraternities. The N.S.F.A., through its Chairman, Wesley D. Osborne, of Boston University, appointed a committee to investigate the growing at-(Continued on Page 17)
By Paul Foley
“ 'Twas a night around Christmas and all through the land.
Notre Dame men were dancing—but who’ll pay the band?"
From the sophisticated splendor and gaiety of a New York hotel to the simpler frivolity of the Peoria Club the campus organizations once again launched their perennial Christmas dances.
Not to be contented with the simple pleasure of dancing the club members have brought back to the campus many and varied tales of social success and financial hopes. Though reports have it that the Metropolitan Club’s dance was thronged the same campus rumors point to an almost empty cash register.
The Detroit Club, whose affair was, for the first time handled by the alumni organization, had a weird tale to supplement their pre-vacation difficulties.
After some perfunctory bickering the affair was definitely taken over by the alumni group. When tickets finally arrived on the campus it was found that the Oriole Terrace, a Detroit night club, had been selected as the locale. Dec. 28, was set as the date and the tariff was fixed at §2 per couple.
Elation at the low price was quickly dispelled, however, when the 25 loyal couples who purchased tickets found that they had paid $2 for the dubious privilege of entering a public club which was not hired privately and which was open on that night to anyone who desired entrance without paying any such admission price.
The biggest surprise of the evening was still reserved for the Notre Dame faithfuls, however, and was only made known when it became apparent that the club has a $1.50 minimum charge per person which also must be paid—all this for the mere privilege of entering. The accumulated charges of at least $5.00 entitled those present to witness a second-rate floor show and the only apparent return for the original $2 investment was a corsage of uncertain ancestry roughly estimated to cost not more than 40 cents.
Detroit Club tears would undoubtedly be more plentiful if the story did not have a brighter side. The true perspective can only be seen by comparing the Motor City affair to other plights worrying club officers and hapless members.
The Grand Rapids Club, whose membership is always a bit reluctant to sign up before Christmas, has de-(Continued on Page 18)
Three
January 11, 1935
LAWYERS LOWER PRICE OF DANCE TICKETS
Michael Coyle, chairman of the Lawyers’ Ball, announced that the price of the tickets for the annual dance sponosored by the Law Club has been reduced. Those who had purchased their tickets prior to the announcement of the reduction may
Michael Coyle
He will subpoena ladies.
receive a refund from the lawyer from whom they bought their tickets. The price stated on the tickets is to be disregarded in favor of the reduced price. This reduction places the dance within financial reach of many who previously considered it too expensive, and this announcement is expected to prove very popular.
The following lawyers are selling tickets on the campus: John Lagoni, Herman Cohen, Edward Vyzral, Robert Kenline, Paul Schrenker, William Walters, Thomas Hughen, Arthur Mulholland, Caesar Kalman, George Meister, Robert Moynihan, Mitchell Tackley, Orland Yates, Philip Wack, Jerry Shine, Ray Martin, and James Boyle.
The Lawyers’ Ball is open to any student including freshmen. First year students have been admitted through a new regulation, and, since this is one of the few school dances which freshmen may attend, it is expected to prove popular among them. The dance is always popular among the upper-classmen, who may this year buy tickets in the hall in which they live.
Jess Hawkins’ orchestra will furnish the music. This orchestra is now playing at Merry Gardens in Chicago. The Lawyers’ Ball will be held in the Palais Royale, Friday, Jan. 18.
Four
PROF. T. BOYER CAMPBELL ELECTED FACULTY PRESIDENT
David L. Campbell, associate professor of English, was elected president of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty club of the University at a dinner meeting held Monday evening at the Rose Marie tearoom in South Bend. He succeeds Louis F. Buckley, retiring president. Leo F. Kuntz was named vice president to succeed John T. Frederick, while John A. Scannell takes over the office of secretarytreasurer, left vacant by Professor Campbell. Attendance at the club’s meetings during 1934 showed a substantial increase over that of the preceding year.
Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., guest speaker, addressed the group on the new aims of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, of whose board of review Father Cunningham is a member. He pointed out that the new basis for ranking its member institutions would hereafter be general policies rather than specific standards, and that evaluations of the factors in the makeup of an institution would be made in the light of its own stated purposes. Contrary to general belief, the speaker indicated, such a change makes the North Central Association stricter than ever in its requirements. He illustrated his talk by means of a large map which has been devides to facilitate the ranking process. The map contains at present 81 items on each of which member institutions will be ranked. Father Cunningham stated that the Association expects to take five years to complete its first ranking of all member institutions.
Dome Pictures
Editor John Walker of the Dome announces that for the accommodation of Seniors who signed up to have their pictures taken for that publication and failed to do so, the Dome photographer will be brought to the campus again next week. The photographer will be in Walsh basement from Monday through to Friday with hours from 1:30 to 5:00. Any Senior or Junior who has not yet had pictures taken may do so next week. Coming in early will assure getting your pictures in the Dome.
All Juniors and Seniors are requested to turn in the proof which they have selected. Otherwise, the editor must make the selection. Editor Walker announces that the most complete faculty section in the history of the Dome will appear this year. One hundred and seventy proofs have already been sent to the engraver.
FR. MURRAY OUTLINES NEW PROBATION PROGRAM
Probation work, hitherto partly graduate and partly undergraduate, is to be a strictly graduate curriculum at Notre Dame, commencing next Fall, according to the recent decisions of the Department of Sociology. Under the new plan, the details of
Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C.
His department is popular.
which will be announced shortly, graduate students who have had a good background in sociology and other social sciences may complete the Probation Work courses and receive the Master of Arts degree in one year. It is suggested that interested seniors who have not already done so should consult the Reverend Raymond Murray, C.S.C., or Professor Flynn about necessary background courses before the start of the second semester.
The curriculum in Probation Work trains men for positions in the general field of social work, with emphasis upon crime prevention. Although the first class graduated in 1931, practically every graduate of the curriculum has a position, in spite of the depression. Several are with the State and County probation and parole departments, others with Catholic charities, and a few are acting as supervisors in emergency relief work. It has been said that social work is one of the fields where there is still a dearth of trained men.
Glee Club Quartet Tryouts To Be Held This Week
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Notre Dame Glee Club, announced this week that quartet tryouts to help select the final personnel of the club will be held this Saturday afternoon at 12:30 in the music room of Washington Hall.
Plans are being formulated and the program prepared for the clubs annual Easter tour.
‘The Scholastic
Text of the Speech of the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
The Address Delivered by Father O’Hara, at the Sportsmanship Luncheon, Town Hall Club, New York City, December 27, 1934.
Back in the ancient days, when Terry McGovern and I were kids, there was a game called “shinny.” In case you do not remember, it was a sort of polo without horses or hockey without skates. It stadium was the back alley; its ball was a tin can; its hockey club was turned by a hatchet instead of a lathe; its book of rules consisted largely of one admonition —“shinny on your side.” There was no regular league headquarters with oak-panelled walls; there was no national rules commission. True, when we played a team from the next block, we agreed on a referee; and when we went south of the tracks, we took a friendly policeman along. There were, in a word, none of the elaborate trappings of modem national sport, but there was lots of fun.
The Game Is The Thing
While I have not yet reached the age of mellow reminiscence, I sometimes think that we poor deluded Victorians had all the best of it in sport. We seldom lost sight of the fact that “the game is the thing.” We had our over-emphasizers, of course, who were determined to win at any cost, and who clubbed heads instead of shins when defeat seemed imminent. If we took a policeman on our excursions beyond the tracks, it was to make sure that the standards of fair play, if not of scholarship, in that climate were at least no worse than our own. But we had not yet reached the stage of piling rules upon rules, and splitting situation after situation until we lost sight of the fun the game was supposed to furnish.
While I never like to appear in the role of a crusader, I sometimes find myself strangely in sympathy with the idea of a war to end wars and a plan to end planning. It is not that I have any particular confidence in these schemes, any more than I would have in a law to end laws. I recognize that most of us mortals are very short-sighted, and that in the pursuit of a minor objective we are prone to lose sight of our real goal. But I do wish that now and then we would stop to ask ourselves the questions, “What is it all about?”
Doctor Woelfel Quoted
After five years of depression, a large number of educators are beginning to ask themselves that question. In a recent interesting review of 17 prominent educators, Norman Woelfel uses such expressions as these: “Confusion in both theory and prac
]anuary I 1, 1 93 5
tice prevails today through the educational system”; “The education of educators is so over-balanced on the technical side that educators as a class are, to a tragic extent, uncultured and ignorant in matters about which they should be capably informed”; “Confusion reigns supreme at the very heart of public education”; “The profession as a whole is outside the real social situation and leans dangerously towards moral and spiritual bankruptcy”; “Educational leaders today are as much confused as anyone else.” Dr. Woelfel, you should remember, is speaking of generally recognized leaders in American education.
North Central Association
To make the case more complete, the largest educational association in the United States, the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, in its meeting last March, scrapped its whole system of evaluating the academic worth of its member institutions, admitted that it had been working in a fog, and proposed an entirely new scheme of examination, covering eighty points of investigation. Most significant of all is the recognition by the Association of the existence of very divergent objectives on the part of educational groups represented in the membership. These groups have been asked by the Association to agree on their objectives, and means proposed for attaining these objectives, and they are promised that they will now be judged according to their own set of ideals. In other words, the engineering schools are invited to say what constitutes an education for engineering, the liberal colleges are asked to agree on what constitutes a liberal education, etc. Just how far the liberal college group will get, I am not prepared to say. But if they put on their debate in the Yankee Stadium, I want a seat on the 50-yard line.
Concentration On Credits
Lest the chairman rule me out of order, I hasten to say that what I am getting at is a plea for a little sportsmanship in education. I want you to remember that, as in athletics “the game is the thing,” in education the development of the child is the thing. In sport, too many rules makes us lose sight of the honest recreation sport is supposed to furnish. So in education, there has been a tendency to lose sight of the child entrusted to our care, and concentrate on credits he is asked to amass in this, that, and the other thing—particularly in the other thing. In sport we have been
prone to regard the rules as more important than the game they .protect; in the schools, too many teachers have been so concerned about their publishers’ contracts and their membership in learned societies that they have forgotten their obligation to the child entrusted to their care.
Well Rounded Development
Let’s take a look at the child. Suppose we consider your boy or girl. As a father who has assumed responsibility for the life of a human being, you have an obligation to see that this child can make a living and enjoy a moderate amount of happiness in the world in which we live. And if you believe in an after-life, you must also see that the child prepares its soul for a happy immortality. You must recognize the need of physical, intellectual, and moral or spiritualdevelopment; a well-rounded development, with stress on each of these factors according to its importance. You recognize that the penitentiaries are full of clever men whose moral sense was never properly developed; I am sure that you have all known stubborn fools who developed their will power without paying much attention to the growth of sound judgment; and you don’t have to be told what happens if a boy wears a Phi Beta Kappa key on a flat chest. These three facts have to be recognized if the school to which you have entrusted your child is going to play fair—and I am afraid that in many instances professional educators have concentrated so much on one or two particular sides, they have missed the large picture. This is particularly true on the moral side. While there has been an effort made by a whole group of educators to disclaim any responsibility for character development in the formal educational process, it is significant that in the last July number of the Educational Record, published by the American Council on Education, there are four articles dealing with character education.
Belief In Fair Play
We need not go into the matter further. I am addressing a group of men who are common-sense citizens, and who are banded together in this particular Brotherhood because they believe in fair play. You certainly believe in fair play for your children, hence I take it for granted that you want for your children a well-rounded program of development, with proportionate attention given to the
(Continued on Page 20)
Five
EDITOR LAWTON WORKS ON SECOND SCRIP ISSUE
The deadline for contributions to this quarter’s issue of Srip, which will appear Jan. 25, has been set by Editor G. Albert Lawton at Jan. 18. Scrip is still in the formative stages, but it already boasts several short stories, a play, and a poem, along with the second installment of the series “The Aesthetic Criticism of Poetry.” Editor Lawton is still looking for material, especially material which would have been suitable for last year’s Juggler. Contributions may be submitted under either a pseudonym or the correct name.
FOOTBALL BANQUET
(Continued from Page 1)
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and Coach Elmer Layden of Notre Dame will also be on the speaking program.
The list of speakers includes the Rev. Michael Moriarity who attended Notre Dame between 1907 and 1909. Father Moriarty is now director of charities in the Cleveland diocese. Lieut. Al Williams, war ace, will be present at the speakers’ table with Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University, and Timothy P. Galvin, president of the national Notre Dame Alumni Association.
The central idea of the dinner will be a tribute to the late Knute Rockne, the late Rev. Charles O’Donnell and the late Johnny “Tex” Young, star of last year’s Notre Dame team. Prof. Casasanta and members of the band will furnish the music. The dining hall will be appropriately decorated for the banquet. The attendance prize will be a football autographed by the present football team. Another feature of the program will be limiting the speakers to prevent a too extended program.
Many old-timers will attend the banquet. Gus Dorais, coach at Detroit University and a teammate of Rockne’s; Pete Vaughan; Howard “Cap” Edwards; Charles Bachman and Frank Herring have signified their intention of being present.
Notre Dame’s football banquet will be graced by such distinguished guests as Dr. Clarence Spears, coach at Wisconsin; Major Griffith, Big Ten commissioner; Clark Shaughnessy of Chicago; Noble Kizer of Purdue, and Tug Wilson, athletic director of Northwestern. Many St. Joseph Valley high school coaches are also expected to attend.
Six
Gentleman, student, and diplomat are the characteristic annotations describing the genial, blond promoter residing in 213 Walsh Hall. This week we introduce to you Arthur Lucius Joseph Bernard Korzeneski,
one of the most prominent yet unassuming leaders of the Senior class.
Art came to Notre Dame in the fall of ’31 from St. Thomas Military Academy in St. Paul after he was graduated as a first lieutenant in Uncle Sam’s Reserve Corps. Distinguishing himself as sirdar of the crack platoon in his last year at St. Thomas together with his position as manager of football, Mrs. Korzen-eski’s boy was well prepared to become a precursor at Notre Dame.
Though coming from the west side of Chicago, Logan Boulevard to be exact, one hears little from Art about his place of birth. This in itself is an admirable characteristic when living in an environment where there is current talk to the satiation point of “back where I come from.” Of such prattle Art can never be accused.
Having had a brother Bernard precede him at Notre Dame our friend found that a standard had been set for him and the family name was at stake. So, during his freshman year Art was little known. His time was spent in Dillon Hall, in the class room and in the natatorium (where he demonstrated for the rest of the group how easy it was to swallow half the contents of the pool.) It was in this first year that Arthur discovered by careful scrutiny where he might achieve success. He watched and he waited coming before the public eye only twice — as an All-Interhall Freshman debater and as one of six freshmen to be accepted by the Wranglers.
Lyons Hall became the residence (Continued on Page 19)
PROF. MANION TO DEBATE THOMAS ON SOCIALISM
Notre Dame undergraduates will be given an opportunity to test the merits of the socialistic scheme of industry, Monday evening, Feb. 11, when Norman Thomas, noted socialist leader, and Professor Clarence (Pat) Manion, of the University Law School, will argue the virtues of socialism and capitalism. The debate, scheduled to be held in the Central Senior High School auditorium, will . find Professor Manion arguing the affirmative of the subject, "Resolved, that controlled capitalism is superior to socialism.”
Arrangements for the debate have not yet been completed, but it is expected that a prominent Republican will be selected to act as chairman.
Mr. Thomas is probably one of the best known socialists in the United States, and was twice selected as his party’s candidate for President. Professor* Manion is well known on the campus where he is in great demand as a speaker at student gatherings. He is recognized as an authority on constitutional law, and in 1932 was keynoter of the state democratic convention.
John Shaner Reads Paper
On Embryology to Academy
John Shaner, senior in Science, read a paper entitled “A History of Embryology” at the regular meeting of the Academy of Science Monday night. Shaner, in tracing the history of the branch of science, named the outstanding men who propounded the various theories concerning the subject. The speaker dwelt at some length in contrasting the several theories advanced to explain the formation of the embryo.
“The Quantum Theory” was the title of a paper presented by James Kaufmann, a senior in Science. In his talk, Kaufmann, gave a short history of Physics and traced the development of the outstanding theories in the field. He used the photoelectric cell to demonstrate the difference between the so-called practical and quantum theories.
Arthur Hoffman and Emery Randall served as critics for these two papers, and asked several questions to open the discussion which followed. There being no business to be brought before the A c a d e m y, President Schlueter concluded the meeting after the discussion.
4
I
4
The Scholastic
PROFESSORS ATTEND VACATION CONFERENCES
Faculty members of the University of Notre Dame attended a series of educational meetings during the Christmas holidays.
On Dec. 27 and 28, DePaul University, Chicago, acted as host to the members of the American Catholic Philosophical Association in their
Judge William M. Cain.
He predicts Hauptmann’s acquittal.

tenth annual meeting. The general subject of the conference was the Philosophy of Religion. Dr. Robert F. Pollock, of Notre Dame, read a paper on “Cause in Modern Philosophy and the Traditional Arguments for the Existence of God,” Prof. Louis Mercier, of Harvard, contributed a paper on Humanism and Natural Religion, and Rev. Wm. P. 0 Connor, one on "Recent American Philosophy of Religion.” Other papers were by Rev. Dennis F. Burns, S.J., on “Philosophy of Faith,” Rev. Berard Haile, O.F.M., on “Motions of Religion Among the Navajo Indians,” and Sister M. Agnes Teresa, S.N., on “Some NonIntellectual Approaches to the Existence of God.” The speakers at the annual banquet, held at the Drake Hotel, were Prof. Mortimer Adler, of Chicago University, who spoke on “The New Scholastic Philosophy and the Secular University,” and Rev. Francis A. Walsh, O.S.B., who delivered the presidential address.
The afternoons were devoted to round table conferences. Among the subjects discussed were “The Philosophy and Psychology of Sensation,” “The Place and Importance of Doctrinal and Critico Textual Research in the Study of the History of Phil-(Continued on Page 17)
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
“We trust you’ll find a reason If the joyous Christmas season Sped your forging of ambitious resolves To include an open second In your time so closely reckoned
For observing how collegiate world revolves.”
PLAUDITS:
To President Henry N. MacCracken of Vassar for requesting the Press to recognize undergraduate interest in national politics by devoting a few inches of space given athletics to student expressions. ... To Ohio Staters, undaunted by Supreme Court decision upholding the right of land grant colleges to compel military training. ... To M. I. T.’s, DePaul’s, Missouri’s, Michigan’s, Purdue’s, and Northwestern’s productions of worthwhile American and European dramas and musicals. ... To the LITERARY DIGEST for conducting a peace poll of 150 American colleges and universities.
From Minnesota Daily: “Campus co-eds have nothing on the one-eyed man who ordered a second glass eye ‘slightly bloodshot for the morning after’.”
DICTUMS
“There are only eight institutions in the country which can rightfully call themselves ‘universities’.”—Nicholas Murray Butler.
“Coeducation is a ridiculous fad.”— Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, anthropologist.
“Punctuation i s unnecessary.”— Gertrude Stein.
“Students as well as others need an opportunity to let off steam.”— R. J. Kerner, U- of Cal., History Prof.
“I’ll fire any student that dares to say a word against Huey Long. I’ll fire a thousand. That’s my university.”—Gziess who?
A Colorado forestry professor gave this illuminating advice about fighting forest fires: “The important thing to remember is to keep cool.”
STATISTICS
U. of Wisconsin boasts more than 79,000 alumni, of which 30,000 now live in the state. ... In ’33 some 315 leading colleges maintained employment offices for their graduates. . . . Exactly 5,610 degrees have been granted by Oklahoma A. an M. since 1891. . . . Co-eds at U. of Arkansas live on ten dollars a month at the campus 4-H cooperative house. . . . C.C.C. camps in the U. S. outnumber colleges and universities 1,641 to 1,466.
WRANGLERS BANQUET INTERHALL DEBATERS
The Turkish Room of the Hotel Oliver was the scene, last Tuesday evening, of the annual winter banquet of the Wranglers society tendered the winning teams in Interhall Debate.
John Donovan He was introduced.
Eugene Malloy was chairman of the banquet and Arthur L. Korzen-eski, president, acted as toastmaster.
Robert Schmelzle, chairman of Interhall Debate, gave the speech of the evening mentioning experiences he encountered during the debate season. Finally, Schmelzle introduced to the Wranglers the members of the two teams that met in the championship debate won by Walsh Hall. The debaters present who spoke included: John Donovan and John Lynch of Walsh Hall; and Robert Weaver, Robert Lochner and Charles Meyer of St. Edward’s Hall.
The toastmaster introduced the coaches, Richard Ballman of the victorious Walsh team and John Locher of the defeated St. Edward’s group Both men scored their individual teams for the splendid cooperation received. Franklyn C. Hochreiter also spoke recounting holiday experiences with the president.
Following the banquet the group attended a local theatre.
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., Is Italian Club Chaplain
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., will be installed as club chaplain at the first meeting of the Italian club of the year, Tuesday evening, Jan. 1>5, in Walsh Hall basement. Father Hope will be the principal speaker of the evening. President John Busichio urges all members to attend as the club program for this year will be discussed.
The Italian club proposes to have students and professors deliver from time to time during the year papers treating the various phases of Italian culture and accomplishments.
Plans will be formulated for the organization of a basketball team, and the drawing up of a complete athletic program ot supplement the social activities of the club.
January 11, 1935
Seven
WORK OF ST. VINCENT DE PAUL IS DESCRIBED
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
KNIGHTS OF COLUNBUS PLAN ANNUAL DANCE
By James A. Byrne, Jr.
A few miles to the northeast of the University campus lives a pitiable family of four—a mother, two sons, and a daughter. They are grimly attempting to eke a niggardly existence from the earnings of the younger boy who has received but $12 from his past three weeks employment. The older son, a fine strapping, young fellow in blue overalls and badly battered tennis shoes, and his mother, a kindly, careworn, old lady were at home and graciously admitted your narrator and one of the members of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, who was handling this particular case, to their meagerly furnished dwelling on a very cold afternoon one day last week.
There was absolutely no heat in the place, the building itself serving only to break the wind and to keep the snow from within. But withal, a cheery atmosphere germinating from hope and faith in the future seemed to pervade the barren rooms of what was, to those people, home! The musty odor of kerosene and a neat pile of wood, a freshly cut sapling, graphically told of the tragic plight of our hosts. The little fuel that was available had to be conserved for cooking purposes; the kerosene was used to light the room sufficiently for the members of the family to partake of their evening meal which consisted of bread, potatoes and tea.
The chief concern of the mother and son was that the boy who was doing outside work might have a coat of some sort. To date he had been without such a luxury; and they were afraid that he might be taken ill. The daughter was going to high school, and desperately hoped to finish her education.
The older boy having just returned from a tour of duty with the Conservation Corps was persistently trying to gain employment but has been quite unsuccessful in his efforts. Though he has been going out in search of work wearing nothing but the overalls and tennis shoes, he felt that he could get through the winter without a coat as long as one might be secured for his brother. He did make a rather curious request, though. He would be delighted to receive a dictionary or any other books, that is, old, worn books, which the students had a mind to discard. He was particularly interested in mathematics and had worked and re-worked the elementary texts which he had managed to obtain some time ago.
The mother proudly appraised the qualities of her children, the courage (Continued on Page 20)
Eight
Heard After Vacation:
“I had only two cuts left, otherwise I would have stayed over until Sunday.”
“He knows his stuff all right, but he just can’t put it across.”
“Aw! he never flunked a guy in his life.”
“Sure, I was cut out when I got back; but I had it fixed up.”
“He’s a good man, but we can’t understand him in class.”
“I had him for economics—no duties at all.”
“I have to take twenty hours next year. Do you think they’ll let me?”
“The guy next to me knows his stuff.”
“I told him that I’d make it up over vacation.”
“I don’t know whether to play the league or bring hei- down from Chicago.”
“I’d like to make the dance, but I’m afraid she‘11 hear about it.”
“I’ve got it fixed so I won’t have any eight o’clocks at all.”
“Better keep out of that hall. He’s death on sleeping in.”
“We can still do it and make the nine o’clock South Shore.”
“Why worry? He said it was going to be a true and false.”
“Do you think it will be the same one he gave his other class?”
“I’m going to take them in stride.”
“Next semester we’ll get our own gang at the same table.”
“He said my exam was good; it was the class work.”
“I found out who (whom to E. M.’s). his corrector was.”
“She’s a good dancer.”
“I’ve got it fixed so I change profs at the semester.”
“He always rings two bells when he’s going to check.”
“I found a book over in the library that has them all written up in a hundred words.”
“He gave his other class a five minute quiz.”
“Her father wants me to work for him.”
“I’m not going to leave the campus until Easter.”
“She wants me to get a date for a girl friend of her’s.”
“I think I’ll live off campus next year.”
“He said he was going to send me to Carroll if I didn’t get down tomorrow.”
“What can you expect; he’s a commerce man.”
“Answer for me today.”
Members of the recently initiated class of Knights of Columbus were individually introduced to the council in general at the meeting last Monday night in Walsh hall. A short session was held during which Lecturer Arthur Korzeneski outlined his plans for the remainder of the year. Business sessions will be made shorter, improved, and educational entertainment will constitute the Lecturer’s Hour.
The next meeting, to be held Monday, Jan. 21, will be Faculty Night. All members of the faculty, both clergy and lay, who are members of the Knights of Columbus are invited to attend. A string quartet will furnish entertainment along with interesting speakers. This faculty night is an innovation which is expected to prove highly popular with both faculty and student knights.
Jim Foohey, chairman of the bowling league, announced that he has reserved the Jefferson Plaza bowling allies for Wednesday nights. Several teams bowled there last Wednesday night, and the other teams will start next Wednesday night. Bob Grogan declared that the new membership drive is under way, and will be renewed with vigor after the final exams.
Ray Martin, editor of the Santa Maria, announced that his publication will be distributed on the campus Saturday, Jan. 19. That will be the last issue prior to the final exams, but another will follow shortly after the exams. John Clark, chairman of the K. of C. Formal, announced that Bob Cavanaugh has been appointed chairman of the ticket committee, and Mike Santulli, chairman of the music committee. The dance will be held Feb. 8. Further announcements concerning this dance will be made in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Leo Cormier Reads First Paper of Year to Patricians
At a meeting of the Patricians held last Wednesday evening at 6:30, in the Law Building, Leo Cormier, ’37, read the first paper of the New Year before the classical society.
It was announced, following the discussion by the speaker of the evening, that the next meeting, Jan. 16, would be addressed by Prof. Rufus W. Rauch, of the University department of English. Mr. Rauch’s discussion of “Humanism,” promises to be of great interest, since he is well prepared to speak upon the subject.
The Scholastic
I
Voice of the Campus
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Notre Dame’s New Deal
Editor of The Scholastic:
I have watched with strict regularity the column, “Voice of The Campus,” since its first appearance early this year. Everything from booing in Washington Hall to a letter from the President of the Detroit Club has been given space. It appears exceedingly queer to me that no letters concerning the New Deal at Notre Dame have been published. Perhaps some have been submitted and have felt the “editorial axe.” I hope this letter will not meet a similar fate.
In my four years at Notre Dame I have not seen a more acceptable “deal” nor as square a “deal” as is being given the Notre Dame man of today. If he believes that discipline is too strict, he is young and frivolous and will sometime, as have others, be thankful he is subject to it. If he bellows of overemphasis of religion he is neither rational nor Christian. If he still childishly complains of meals, he is sorely in need of fruit for thought. This could go on indefinitely, but why dwell on the blue side of things?
To the adult Notre Dame man, he is living within the confines of a University that is doing all that is humanly possible to give him an education, religiously and otherwise. If you say Notre Dame has always been such a school you are correct; but the general way in things are handled show complete and effective efficiency as well as a friendly spirit of cooperation. But most of all let it be said that the Notre Dame man of an adult mind likes, yes, thoroughly enjoys this New Deal Notre Dame.
Sincerely yours, (J. 0. B.)
Calendar
Friday, January 11
Scholastic meeting, Editorial offices: Editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., news and sport staffs, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, January 12
Butler University vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.
Sunday, January 13
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m.
Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Interhall basketball (see sport section for schedule).
Tuesday, January 15
Testimonial football banquet, Dining Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
January 11, 1935
Day Coach
If it’s all the same to you we’ll start the vacation resume in a hurry and end it quickly. As you know, there was a vacation recently. We all had a couple of weeks in which to go away somewhere and rest. Well, we all went away somewhere, and now if you’ll please turn down those radios, we’d like to get the rest.
By the way, the first thing that struck us upon returning, outside of the inevitable welcoming rain of course, was that people still listen to that Detective Dan X-9 somebody or other on the radio around five p.m. every night. As an appetizer for supper, perhaps. However, although we’re no radio critic, if someone were to approach us and ask us to name the worst sketch on the air, we wouldn’t shuffle our feet and stutter. But probably no one ever will, so the whole lot of you can go right on listening to the blamed thing and vrel-come.
Back to that vacation we were talking about. Having ridden the daycoaches to New York only 25 times before, we were curious to see what it was like, so one of those Wednesdays back in December we joyfully, and wetly, ascended the steps to the cattle cars and for a dozen or so hours were permitted the rare sight of gazing upon Fred Solari in his monogram sweater.
Sometime during the night, or early morning, we were aroused (that’s good—aroused from a seat in the day-coach) by a scuffling in the aisle. It was a small, sullenly irate, Negro pullman porter who was engaged in a somewhat lackadaisical tug-of-war with All-American Bobin-son. In the center was a pillow, which Robby had borrowed, much against George’s wishes, from the capitalist beds at the rear of the train. And the George, ignorant and unimpressed and obstinate, won out.
•
Big Time
So big we couldn’t fit.
We started, in very wonderful company, for the N. Y. U. game in Madison Square Garden, sloppily unconcerned about tickets as usual, and found many closed doors and no one caring the slightest hoot for our two dollars.
But the game had to be covered by The Scholastic, so we proceeded to tell everybody who had a uniform about it. One burly cop asked, “The Scholastic? What’s that?”
“Well,” said we, “have you ever hear of Time?”
He admitted he had. “Well, there you are,” we said, and that stopped him. It also stopped us. Then we sent notes down to those in charge. Said Father Boland: “I can’t get you in.”
Said Manager Kirley: “Sorry, all out of press tickets. See Keogan.”
Said Coach Keogan: “Busy.”
Said Coach Layden: “Have nothing to do with it.”
Said the team: “Joe Petritz is in South Bend.”
Said Joe Degnan: “Too bad the Juggler folded.”
Said we to our very wonderful company: “Have you seen Hal Kemp?” She hadn’t. She still hasn’t.
Noiv, the Game
The highlights of the game, as best we can gather them:
We had N. Y. U. in the first half, but they paid off on the second.
Foul shots, like field goals on the gridiron, are below our dignity.
Elser sustained, upheld, and furthered our observation that the sport is merely indoor football, when he tucked the ball under his arm and sprinted down the court.
If intersectional basketball is to continue, eastern and western and southern officials have got to get together and formulate a standard set of rules.
Notre Dame was headlined on the Garden marquee, and in several papers was referred to as the “bait” for the rest of the program. Not too dignified an appellation, but there were 16,000 present to give it sufficient credence.
Night After Night
Towards the end of the Christmas Dance, we were confronted with President Maffei.
“Well,” he remarked cordially, and with somewhat of a glow, “now it’s back to N. D. and the ol’ Dome Dust, eh?” And he smiled a big smile.
Well, President Maffei, we’re back to N. D. all right and we can hardly wait to hear what your Peoria Club is going to do next.
Learn to Fly
The aviators are coming to town, and still they’re doing away with the softest landing places on the campus —the trees.
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE..........................  Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING.............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI_____________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN_______________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_______________________College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, II_________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY._____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff	.
JOHN J. MORAN______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN___________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL__________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN----------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER------------------------HARRY	A.	BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS__________________________FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY----------------------------IRWIN	L.	GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI_______________________FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH_______________________JOHN	A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
• JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST_____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. sTKOKER___________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN-----------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY----------------------Graduate Manager
member
Associated Collegiate ®ress ’’l934 (ElUcgidtllinfst 1935 e-HAIXSOH	WISCONSIN
January 11, 1935
ON AMERICAN EDUCATION
Every student on campus should not only read but become thoroughly acquainted with the speech of the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, which is printed on page five of this issue. The ideas expressed by Father O’Hara in this speech are valuable and valid ones. They deal with the true aims of education. It is to be regretted that they cannot be completely assimilated by every American educator.
Education, by the bald statements of its own leaders, has been in the midst of deep confusion during the past decade. Under what they consider the irreproachable banner of experimentalism, American educators have tried everything but education, and have completely forgotten the fact that their major care is the welfare of the student. Even if the experiments of these ostentatious, publicity-mad, pseudo educators were successful, they would serve only to produce clever men. And as Father O’Hara pointed out, “The penitentiaries are full of clever men.”
American education must rid itself of these false ideas before it will have any claim to validity. This is not a cry to stop education. Rambling experimental ventures do not constitute progress. True progress in education
Ten
must be straight ahead toward the goal of a balanced ,~ physical, intellectual, and moral or spiritual development. American education, save in a few isolated instances where sane heads were in charge, has made but little, if any, progress during the past years.
Much of a bewildering and confusing nature has been recently written and said about the alleged evils of football. Father O’Hara did much to clear up this obfuscation. Physical development, at least enough development to keep a student in fit condition, should be a very definite part of any educational program. No one, no matter how much given over to experimentalism, will be brazen enough to deny this. If an athletic program is legitimate, then football is legitimate, for football is an integral part ■ of an athletic program.
As far as the morality of gate receipts is concerned, Father O’Hara pointed out that there is no reason why the public should not pay an admission charge to a collegiate activity, whether it be a stage production, a debate, or an athletic contest. Viewing the same gate receipt situation in another light, Father O’Hara came to the conclusion that “If the public interest in football can be made to pay dividends that will supply for waning interest from endowment funds, its place in the educational setup is probably secure, at least for the period of the depression.”
This speech — brief though it may be — contains 4 more valid ideas on education than the thick textbooks of a dozen experimental professors.
•
BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED
Most people make New Year’s resolutions. Most of these resolutions are shattered bits of history by the first of February. Rather than assume the risk of breaking all our resolutions, we’re going to express ten hopes for 1935 which we are sure are the hopes of the entire student body. We hope
That the Students Activity Council will continue to be active despite the fact that the football season and the time for student trips and pep meetings has passed. In recent years the S.A.C. has enjoyed a siesta from Christmas until the spring elections. The Scholastic hopes that things will be different this year. With its capable	$
president Thomas K. LaLonde in charge, the S.A.C. ' should live up to our hopes.
That the various city clubs will continue to hold meetings now that their Christmas dances are over. And that those clubs which lost on their dances will pay their debts. And that the Presidents’ Council will disband those which don’t.
That the practice of having class smokers will not be confined to the seniors, who have already had one, and to the juniors who are planning one, but will be carried on by the sophomores and freshmen.
That the excellent lecture programs in Washington Hall will be continued and supplemented with occasional “ musical offerings from the concert stage.
That our contemporaries the Dome and Scrip, will make their deadlines with material worthy to carry on the fine traditions of both publications.
That student dance prices will be uniformly lower and that the budgets of all class dances will be published.
That all of Notre Dame’s athletic teams will have successful seasons, and especially that no one will be seriously injured in competition.	[
That sometime before 1936 the campus drainage system will finally function as it should.
And that the Bengal Boxing Show will meet with the f greatest success it has ever known.
The Scholastic
* SPORTS ♦
Scholastic to Sponsor Boxing Show
♦
NTEPS
FROM TUG lfc^>R£SS BOX
Fourth Annual Ring Festival to Aid Bengal Missions and Decide Titles
a
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
BOXING
On the opposite side of this page appears a story for which many of you have waited. The Bengal Boxing Show, for the past three years sponsored by The Scholastic, is one of the high spots of the late winter sports program. Probably most important are its two purposes. The bouts are sponsored, in the first place, to aid financially in the Bengal missionary work done by the Congregation of Holy Cross. The second goal, equally important from another angle, is to determine the University champions at the various weights and in the different classes.
If we are to be accused of encouraging boxing on an intercollegiate scale that is all well and good. We can see no great harm in boxing whether it be intramural or intercollegiate in scope. On the other hand, perhaps the ring game is yet a bit too embryonic at Notre Dame to warrant its official recognition as a minor sport; but if anything we can do will build it sufficiently to merit that recognition we are, so to speak, at your services.
A
ANOTHER NEW DEAL
And speaking of minor sports, we notice with the greatest of satisfaction that tennis, golf, and cross country have been given a New Deal. The revised constitution of the Athletic Association provides, among other things, that participants in these sports will be compensated with standard five inch chinchilla monograms. We feel that this is as it should be. We’ve been uncompromisingly loyal to the school that believes the golfers, as well as the tennis and cross country squads, have been practically abused in the past by awarding them small cloth monograms of not more than three inches growth. The New Deal should act as an incentive to athletes in these fields. It is a posi-(Continued on Page 15)
CAPTAIN-ELECT
Joe Sullivan
An Irishman leads the Irish.
INTERHALL TEAMS START BASKETBALL SEASON SUNDAY
Sunday the curtain rolls up on another interhall basketball season, and the spotlight is focused on the activities of the defending Brownson quintet.
For the past several weeks the players have been working hard getting into condition. Practice games have been played at irregular intervals to re-establish the feel of things, and now the coaches and players are anxiously awaiting the opening whistle.
An inter-club league will be organized if the interest shown warrants such action. Those campus organizations desiring to have teams should communicate with Mr. Scannell in the Physical Education building at once.
Some of the regulations for interhall basketball laid down by Mr.
(Continued on Page 13)
Will be Held in March
By James A. Waldron
As another year rolls around preparations get under way for the fourth annual Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic for the benefit of the Bengal Mission. This event will be held in March on a date to be announced later. Originally this attraction was put on by the S.A.C., but The Scholastic took over the duties in 1932. Since that time three very fine shows have been sponsored for the entertainment of hundreds of enthusiastic fans. As an added attraction of this year’s gala boxing night, a famous personality of the boxing world may be brought in to referee the bouts.
Will Award Sweaters
Last year eight University champions were crowned from the fifty-some aspirants and as rewards they received sweaters emblematic of their titles. Oddly enough there was a freshman in almost every final bout, several of them becoming champions of their respective divisions. It is hoped that this year will surpass any of the previous shows in the number of entries. All of last year’s champions will be on hand to defend their crowns. The Scholastic will award sweaters to the winners in each division and these sweaters will again have the gloved emblem with an “N.D.” woven onto it. There is no restriction on any student whether he be freshman or upperclassman and experience is not a requisite to entrance. The inexperienced men need not fear meeting a man who outweighs him by many pounds. There will be a strict supervision of the weights of each contestant and proper divisions will be drawn up accordingly.
This year The Scholastic is seeking keener interhall competition. To attain this end an award will be given to the hall which collects the most points during the course of the tour-(Continued on Page 15)
January 11, 1935
Eleven
Revised A. A. Constitution Puts
BUTLER AND NOTRE DANE *
Irish Athletes On Strict Diet
TANGLE HERE SATURDAY
MINOR SPORTS BOOSTED
By Joseph P. Prendergast
At the last quarterly meeting of the Faculty Board in control of athletics a revised constitution concerning intercollegiate athletics was adopted. This announcement was made by Dean James E. McCarthy, secretary
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
He’s chairman of the Board.
of the Board. The Faculty Board is composed of Rev. John H. O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the board; Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C.,; Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.; Prof. William L. Benitz; Dean James E. McCarthy, secretary of the board; and Prof. Clarence E. Manion. The director of athletics is not a member of the board but may be called upon to advise, without vote as do three members of the alumni appointed by the president of the University.
This new bulletin is not a new constitution but in large part a revision of the old. The revised bulletin has followed the regulations of the Big Ten just as in past years. In doubtful cases the counsel of Major John Griffith and the general committee of eligibility of the Big Ten has been asked. Notre Dame has followed the regulations of the Western Conference for a number of years and is a charter member of the Indiana Conference.
There are many changes in the new constitution which are of great importance in the field of intercollegiate athletics. Under the new ruling no student may participate in intercollegiate athletics after his eight semesters in college or take part in intercollegiate contests for more than three years in the aggregate. This
(Continued on Page 16)
Irish Drub Indians And Albion; Defeated
By Wildcats, 26-25
The result of a trio of basketball games played by George Keogan’s netsters prior to the trip -East was two wins and one loss. Albion College, from Michigan, was smothered by the Irish on Saturday, Dec. 15, 37 to 11. This affair marked the debut of Marty Peters and Don Elser in basketball warfare this season. Peters tallied nine points to lead the scoring. The game was never in doubt. Notre Dame swung away to an early lead and was never in danger thereafter. Albion was held to three field goals by the close guarding Irish netmen.
Northwestern inflicted the first defeat of the season on the Irish Dec. 18 in a wild and thrill packed battle. At the end of the fray the verdict was 26 to 25 with Northwestern in the van. Inability to count from, the foul line was the main reason for Notre Dame’s downfall. Northwestern made no less than 10 out of 12 free throws against a mere five out of 12 by Notre Dame. The Irish counted 10 times from the floor to lead the Wildcats who were successful on eight occasions.
Notre Dame led 12 to 11 at the halfway mark but once Northwestern grabbed the lead shortly after the opening of the final half and were never headed. With four minutes to play and Coach Lonborg’s pupils ahead, 25 to 21, Johnny Hopkins let go a long shot from the center of the flooi- which hit its mark. Joe O’Kane next took a pass from George Ireland and made another two-pointer to tie the score at 25 all. Peters fouled McAnally and the large Northwestern pivot man was forced to leave the ball game. Grossberg, his substitute, shot the free throw and connected to clinch the win.	,
Another victory was scored by Notre Dame on the evening of Dec. 26 when they met and defeated the Stanford Indians, 29 to 19. Mai*ty Peters with 10 points was again the big noise in Keogan’s attack. Johnny Ford, who managed to register seven points, was next in line.
Stanford started very well and amassed a six to one lead after about eight minutes of play. Notre Dame rallied strongly, however, and held a 16 to 7 advantage at half time. From here on it was only a question of the margin of victory for Notre Dame. Bryan Moore, of the California out- • fit with six points, was high man for the Indians.
Notre Dame’s basketball team meets the Butler five in the local gym tomorrow night to continue a 26 year old rivalry. During that time 22 games have been played of which the Irish have won twelve to the visitor’s ten. The break in the series came last year when Notre Dame won both of the games played.
The high point in the game tomorrow will probably be a duel between the two centers, Marty Peters and Gene Demaree, both of whom have
George E. Keogan He’s an author too.
been high scorers for their respective teams this season. Demaree stands six feet, seven inches in height as compared to Marty’s six feet three inches and the Butler center will, no doubt, make use of his advantage in height to break through Peters’ defense.	'
Notre Dame’s win over Marquette last Tuesday came as a pleasant surprise, for it was thought that the team which defeated a championship Irish team last year would be able to overwhelm Keogan’s smaller unit. Although Notre Dame matched the Marquette floor play, the game was undoubtedly won by the improved work of the Irish at the free throw line.
Keogan’s men have had more than a little difficulty with foul shooting in the games with N. Y. U. and Minnesota and the improvement shown in the last game is an ill omen for the Butler team. Playing the same brand of ball that they did in the Marquette game, the Irish should have little trouble in breaking through the Bulldog defense, but they may have some difficulty in stopping the Butler attack which is built around its tall center.
The Bulldogs are coming here in an effort to again even the score in the series and although they are not as strong a unit as several of the teams which Notre Dame has met this year, they will be no push-over.
The Scholastic
Twelve
PETERS’ GOAL IN FINAL MINUTE NIPS MARQUETTE
Joe Sullivan Elected Captain
Of 1935 Irish Football Squad
By Cy Stroker
In a thrilling, pulse-quickening game that kept the spectators roaring throughout the second half, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated the Marquette five in the Notre Dame gymnasium Tuesday night by a score of 23-20. The Irish were hard pressed by the Jesuits from the first whistle and it was only during the last two minutes of play that Keogan’s men surged into the lead.
Scoring started early in the first half when Notre Dame made good two free throws, but Marquette soon retaliated with a field goal and a free throw which put them in the lead. The first half continued in a comparatively leisurely way and it was the improved foul shooting of the Irish that accounted for their 13-8 edge on the visitors when the period ended.
The rough-and-tumble style of play which marked the second half began at the first minute of the period with both teams committing fouls. With three minutes left to play Marquette caught up with the Irish lead to make the score even at 19 all. Elser’s point from the free throw line again gave the Keoganites the lead. Again Marquette evened the score and again Notre Dame surged ahead.
In the last minute of the period, Marty Peters found the hoop for a field goal and the game was over.
High scorer for the Irish was Peters who, ■with four field goals and four foul shots, rolled up a total of 12 points. Morstadt, Marquette right forward, led the way for the Jesuits with three field goals and two free throws for a total of eight tallies. Johnny Jordan and Frank Wade kept an all night watch on him and kept him well in check.
The game was a repetition of Notre Dame’s former encounters with Coach Chandler’s teams. Tuesday’s three point margin over Marquette seems quite large when compared to the scores of the last few years. Last season the Irish defeated Marquette by one point in the Notre Dame gym and were defated by the same margin in the return game played on the visitors’ floor.
The line-up:
Notre Dame (23) B F P
Ford, f ________1	0	0
O’Kane, f-------1	2	2
Peters, c-------4	4	1
Jordan g -------1	1	1
Ireland, g -----0	0	1
Wade, g ________0	0	2
Elser, f _______0	2	1
Totals _______7	9	8
Marquette (20) B F P
Eirich, f ____0	0 0
Morstadt, f ....3 2 0
Ehrig, c _____0	1 3
Rassmussen.g 2 13
Rubado, g ....2 0 1
Wolfe, c______0 0 1
O’Keefe, c ___1 0 0
Seeger, g ____0	0 0
Casterson, f....O 0 0
Totals__________________________________8 4 8 Referee, Lane (Cincinnati) ; Umpire, Schommer (Chicago).
Nick Sees Good Year Ahead For Trackmen If Two Men Recover
“We’ve got a good team, no world beaters, but if two men hold up we will win quite a few of our dual meets,” thus stated John Nicholson, track coach, when he was interviewed concerning the prospects for Indoor track. The two men in question are John Francis in the mile and McFarlane in the two mile. The former has been hampered by appendicitis and kidney stones, but now seems to be rounding into good shape. Leo McFarlane has had weak arches since last year, but they have been holding up well of late. Without these two men the two events will be practically unchallenged.
There are five good men in the sprints: Boyle, Jordan, Moore, Hoc-ter and Frawley. In the quarter mile Nick has Bob Bernard, a star of last year, and Rubly, Parsons, Bowdren, Kiszelli and Frawley. Coach Nicholson said that his mile relay team is improving day by day, and promises to be one of the best teams in the history of the school.
In the half mile there are four capable men in Ducassa, Shiels, Cavanaugh and McGrath. The two mile relay team is fair and should do something.
Besides McFarlane and Francis in the two and one mile Nick has Gott, Kenyon, and McKenna. The four mile team is not so good, having lost all four members of the championship team of last year.
In the shot put there is Joe Sullivan and Levicki. Elser will compete when he can get away from basketball. In the high jump besides Captain Vince Murphy, who can always be counted on for five points, there is Williamson and English. Jack Edwards is the only returning veteran in the pole vault, and will be aided in this event by McCarthy.
“Yes, I have a fair team, but no world beaters,” again exclaimed Nick and then went to the far end of the gym to give one of his charges more instructions. •
SYMPATHY
THE SCHOLASTIC wishes to express its sincere sympathy to Walter J. O’Brien on the death of his father Wednesday morning. Walter is a Senior in the College of Commerce whose home is in Oak Park, Illinois. Last year he was an Associate Editor of the DOME.
NAMED LEADER MONDAY
Joseph J. Sullivan, of Belle Harbor, Long Island, regular left tackle on the football team the past season, was unanimously elected captain of the Notre Dame varsity football team for 1935 last Tuesday afternoon. Dominic Vairo, of Calumet, Michigan is the retiring captain who will receive his diploma in June.
Joe was Ed Krause’s understudy in the 1933 campaign and did not see a great deal of action. During last fall however, he played 361 minutes having more time to his credit than any of the other footballers with two exceptions, Rocky Schiralli and Wayne Millner. Joe won a monogram in track last year teaming up with Don Elser to garner many points for Coach Nicholson.
Joe played four years of football at St. John’s Prep, in Brooklyn, before entering Notre Dame. He captained the team in both his junior and senior terms at this institution. He was national scholastic shotput champion while a senior at St. John’s and was adjudged the best athlete in the city, winning a trip to the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. Joe is 21 years old, weighs 210 pounds and spends his summers as a life guard at Rockaway Beach, L. I., where he has a record of saving ten lives.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 11)
Scannell include:
Eight minute quarters will be played, and there will be eight minutes of rest between halves.
One technical foul will be called for each minute of delay beginning each half.
Men under 150 pounds play lightweight ball, but may play in heavyweight class, but not in both.
No provision is made for spectators at lightweight games.
Suits are issued to ten men for each team and coaches must turn in names this week.
Varsity or Freshman squad members are ineligible for interhall play.
The schedule for Sunday, January 13:
Group I—9:00, Lyons vs. St. Edwards; 9:50, Morrissey vs. Badin; 10:40, Dillon vs. Sorin; Corby—bye.
Group II—1:30, Howard vs. Walsh; 2:20, Brownson vs. Off-Campus; 3:10, Carroll vs. Freshman; Alumni—bye.
Thirteen
January 11, 193 5
INTRODUC ING
SCHOLASTIC CONDUCTS
ALL-AMERICAN POLL
By Joe Prendergast
In the summer of 1929 at Camp St. George in the Wisconsin lake region, it was counselor John Jordan and head counselor Frank Carideo. It was amidst these surroundings with Carideo telling of his football expe-
Captain John Jordan Popular and outstanding.
riences at Notre Dame and with Johnny Jordan, then about to enter his junior year in high school, doing the intense listening that our present captain of basketball decided upon entering Notre Dame.
In June of 1931, John received his diploma from Quigley Preparatory School in Chicago, Illinois. During his five year stay at the “Prep” Johnny participated in basketball and baseball, each for a five year duration and would have played football but the institution did not sponsor the sport. He captained both the basketball and baseball teams in his sen. ior year at Quigley besides being
Notre Dame Rifle Team Meets Buchanan Sunday
The Rifle Club will resume activities Sunday after the vacation by engaging in a dual match with Buchanan, Michigan. Their two defeats suffered in the last two starts has resulted in a considerable shake-up and more frequent practice.
The prospects are good that representatives will be sent to Boonville, Missouri, in February to shoot in the invitational tournament to be held by the Kemper Military School.
New material is wanted and anyone interested is urged to report to 335 Walsh Hall and arrange for a tryout.
F ourteen
voted the most popular as well as the outstanding athlete in the school.
In the fall of his sophomore year John Joseph decided to give football a try and went out for the left halfback post. He was placed on the “B” team and played in just one contest. The day before the “B” team left for Texas to meet Texas Tech, Johnny tore a ligament in his right leg and was confined to the infirmary for a week. “This put a stop to my making the Texas trip and I never put on a football suit again.” He won a varsity berth on the basketball team as a sophomore and played in every game that year. Last year, his junior year, he saw service in every tilt but one, the Michigan State game played at Notre Dame. He played on the golf team his sophomore term at school, and can chop and putt with the best of them. Basketball holds more interest for him than any other sport.
His big moment was “the night in Chicago, playing against Chicago University in my sophomore year, with the home town folks looking on I managed to score 17 points — more than I have totaled since.” Johnny is a great leader and makes an ideal captain. He is the third consecutive boy to captain George Keogan’s hoop-sters to hail from Chicago. John is president of the Chicago Club—“Oh! the dance; say it was a fine affair, I heard. Couldn’t attend myself but would have liked to.” He has a younger brother, Tom — a freshman, who is quite a basketeer in his own right. Regarding the best team he ever played against, John thinks the Pitt team of two years ago could stop them all. He and Vic Mettler jointly hold the peanut concession at games and expects a big year.
Rocco Schiralli Elected Monogram Club President
Rocco Schiralli, of Gary, Indiana, a Senior in the College of Commerce, and regular left guard on the 1934 varsity football eleven, was elected president of the Monogram Club at a meeting Wednesday evening in Walsh Hall. In addition to this office, Schiralli holds the position of president of the Calumet Club of Notre Dame.
Johnny Jordan, basketball captain, and Jim Bowdren, middle distance trackman, were elected co-vice-presidents. Lou Dunn, captain and first baseman of the baseball nine, was chosen secretary-treasurer of the organization.
The Scholastic has taken a consensus of 14 of the leading All-American football teams in the nation and by means of a system of voting has selected the leading men for their respective positions. In this tabulating five votes were alotted to first team men, three votes to second team, two votes to third team, and one vote for honorable mention.
Jack Robinson, Notre Dame center, far outdistanced the other candidates for this post. He received 40 votes to 18 for Shotwell of Pittsburgh his nearest rival. The contest for the tackle positions was the closest of the lot. Cutter of Navy polled 28 votes to be followed by Lee of Alabama with 24, Reynolds of Stanford with 22, and Steen of Syracuse with 21. Bobby Grayson of Stanford was selected quarterback over Munj as of Pittsburgh, 30 votes to 14.
“Dixie” Howell Nosed Out
It is interesting to note that “Dixie” Howell, the oustanding participant in the recent Rose Bowl massacre, was beaten out for the first team honors at right halfback by Pug Lund of Minnesota. Dominic Vairo, Captain of the Notre Dame eleven during the past season, was recipient of seven votes for the right end berth.
The teams and the respective votes of each man chosen follows:
First Team
Hutson—Alabama—47 votes. L. E.
Larson—Minnesota—47 votes R. E.
Cutter—Navy—28 votes L. T.
Lee—Alabama—24 votes R. T.
Hartwig—Pittsburgh—50 votes R. G.
Bevan—Minnesota—41 votes L. G.
Robinson—Notre Dame—42 votes C.
Grayson—Stanford—30 votes Q. B.
Borries—Navy—36 votes R. H.
Lund—Minnesota—34 votes L. H.
Weinstock—Pitt—30 votes F.B.
Second Team
Bogdanski—Colgate—17 votes R. E.
Moscrip—Stanford—34 votes L. E.
Steen—Syracuse—21 votes R. T.
Reynolds—Stanford—22 votes L. T. Barclay—N. Carolina—32 votes R. G. Monahan—Ohio State—38 votes L. G.
Shotwell—Pittsburgh—18 votes C.
Howell—Alabama—32 votes R. H.
Berwanger—Chicago—18 votes L. H. Kostka—Minnesota—17 votes F.B.
Munjas—Pittsburgh—14 votes Q. B.
The Scholastic
• CAGERS WIN AND LOSE ON EASTERN JOURNEY
Having divided the spoils of victory, Notre Dame’s traveling basketball team returned home from the first of its Eastern intersectional invasions. The Irish dropped a 25-18 decision to N. Y. U. on Dec. 29, but two nights later did an about face and completely overpowered an inexperienced Holy Cross outfit 45-19.
Before more than 16,000 enthusiastic rooters who jammed every nook and corner of the spacious Madison Square Garden, Notre Dame dropped a close game to N. Y. U. It was the Irish bugaboo of inability to shoot fouls that again cost the Keoganites a game.
Using a fast breaking offense with Peters in the pivot post, Notre Dame outplayed the New York school and led at half-time 12-10. In the second half with the Irish attack bogging down, the Violets functioning smoothly ran up a 20-14 advantage before the Blue and Gold tightened their defense. Missed fouls began to prophecy the ultimate result as the Irish missed five in a row with the score 20-18. N. Y. U. got going again to seal the game up by adding the final five points.
Notre Dame looked the better team in every department but the all-important one of scoring. Missing 12 out of 18 tries from the charity stripe, the Irish had many chances to win the ball game. Marty Peters and Joe O’Kane were high point men, but Johnny Ford gave a marvelous exhibition in passing and guarding.
Displaying a smooth and bewildering passing attack, Notre Dame easily defeated Holy Cross on New Year’s Eve 45-19, at the Boston Arena. Paced by Marty Peters who dropped in eight goal from the floor and three charity tosses, the Irish put on a great exhibition against the comparatively green Holy Cross team. Scoring was opened by Notre Dame with two field goals.
The Crusaders fought back early in the game to come within three points of the Irish. From this point the Ramblers opened up and led at half-time 22-7.
The second half was almost a repetition of the opening period, the Irish scoring one more point to end the game 45-19. The Crusaders fought hard but were no match for Notre Dame who showed the Greater Boston fans how the Middle West can play basketball. There was very little improvement, however, in the accuracy of the Irish in their penalty shots.
(Continued from Page 11)
tive fact that there will be greater turnouts, the competition for places on the squads keener, and as a natural result better teams will represent Notre Dame.
The most welcome article of this constitution was that which prohibits men of more than eight semesters residence at the University from participating in athletics. It makes Notre Dame the leader of a movement to return amateur sports in general and collegiate athletics in particular to a plane where they can be spoken of as simon-pure without the present accompanying snickers. There is naturally a cloud of suspicion, whether justified or not, thrown around the athlete who remains on the college campus for more than four years or its equivalent, eight semesters.
ALL-AMERICAN
If you’ve forgotten football by this time, let us dust it off for you momentarily for a bit of comment on the All-American football selections appearing elsewhere in this issue. The idea of gathering all published honor teams and from them selecting an All-American is not strictly our own. It has been done before, but the idea is still an excellent one. We believe it is THE All-American, pure and simple, because it represents the selections of all leading men in that sport as well as the pickings of outstanding critics.
' If it is a bit late for such a presentation we beg forgiveness on the grounds that its publishing was purposely postponed so that as many selections as possible could be included in our poll. Sports Editor Joe Prendergast is responsible for gathering the various All-Americans, counting the votes, and presenting the results to you. Incidentally, the whole thing shows very conclusively who won the race for center. And may his horses win their share of races too.
Beg Your Pardon
In the Dec. 14 issue of The Scholastic it was erroneously stated that Frank Gaul, varsity quarterback, is the only man from the state of Maine to win a monogram. George Wentworth also of that state, was awarded an “N.D.” for service on the baseball team of 1934.
GOPHERS HAND NETTERS DEFEAT IN CLOSE GAME
Boasting one of the strongest outfits in the Big Ten this year, Minnesota staged a brilliant last half rally, in their own “backyard” last Saturday night, to sneak out a victory over the Irish basketeers, 30-28.
Keogan’s men, after spotting the Gophers six points at the beginning, came back and took advantage of their opponents’ miscues to gain a 19 to 14 lead at the intermission. Playing a remarkable and spectacular defensive game, Notre Dame held the MacMillan - coached quintet to one lone bucket registered from the field, in the final 14 minutes of the period. The Green were on top with a 23-16 count after practically half of the third stanza had been underway.
Minnesota garnered its laurels from the foul line, making a grand total of 16 out of 24 gift shots. Kup-perberg, flashy forward, paved the route, with six heaves from the charity mark while also ripping the net cord for three strikes, to capture high tally honors with a grand total of 12 points. George Ireland followed a close second behind him, crashing in on no less than five tosses from the floor, besides chalking up one marker from the free throw stripe.
The lineup:
Notre Dame (28) B F P
Fold, f_________1	1	4
O’Kane, f_______2	4	1
Jordan, f (C)_0	0	1
Hopkins, f_____1	0	1
Peters, c ______1	0	4
Elser, c _______0	0	1
DeMots, c ______0	0	1
Ireland, g______5	1	3
Wade, g ________1	0	3
Totals _____11	6	19
Minnesota (30>) B F P
Kupperberg.f 3 6 0
Roscoe. f(C) 0 2 2
Baker, f-----2 1 2
Norman, c ___1 3 1
G.Svendsen g 0 0 1
Stelzer, g---0 1 0
Eiken. g ----1	3	4
Barnum. g____0 0 1
Totals_____7 16 11
BOXING SHOW
(Continued from Page 11)
ney. Points may be gotten in this way: For every entrant a hall sends to the preliminaries, that hall receives a point. For every victory scored in the preliminaries, that hall to which the victor belongs receives two points. For each man a hall places in the semi-finals, that hall receives five points. For each candidate a hall places in the finals, that hall receives ten points. The trophy will reside in possession of the hall, which has the highest number of points, for one year until the next Scholastic Boxing Show.
For all those anxious to learn the fundamentals of this popular sport, Max Marek, Golden Gloves Champion, will conduct classes on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday of each week, at four o’clock. These lessons are not just for the entrants in the Boxing (Continued on Page 16)
January 11, 193 3
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By James M. McMullen
We’re at it again — so what? . . . the lads from the East will wake up and start bragging about City College of New York soon . . . that outfit has ran through 40 consecutive basketball victories on their home court . . • Little Mariette, of Dear old Ohio, has come through with a great big team. . . . their center is 6 foot 8, and he teams with three men reaching six, four . . . “SHORTY” ZIEGLER, guard for the quintet, is only six, two. . . . Out on the coast, Stanford, U.S.-C., U.C.L.A., and California have all abandoned the center jump. . . . the ball is given to the team scored against. . . . DORIS ANDERSON, of El Dorado (Ark.) high school, scored 106 points in one game . . . she was hieh point scorer that night, an accompanying article states . . . 15,652 holes in one have been claimed by golfers in the last five years . . . speaking of pounding the fairways I see where cities in Egypt are constructing their courses on sand. . . . there’s no tall grass, lakes, or woods, so the canny camel riders are using various grades of sand to permit hazards. . . . Chicago boasts of 217 golf courses, and the boys still have trouble getting started Sunday mornings. ... We often hear of “as fast as a jack rabbit” . . . that means from 30 to 35 miles an hour, recent clockings show . . . and a snake’s maximum velocity does not exceed three and a third miles per . . . this from a California professor. . . .
THE REVEREND CHARLES E. COUGHLIN, noted radio priest, was a champion hand bailer. He played on two title winning teams during his school days in Canada. . . . During 1934 Navy teams held victories over Army in five major sports . . . the Middies won track, basketball, baseball, lacrosse, and football laurels. * - . The entire Illinois line of the past season was composed of men originally reporting as ends . . . LINK LYMAN, 36 year old tough man of the Chicago Bears, punches cattle in the off season . . . Marquette and Harvard closed their seasons with all sophomore backfields. . . . The outfit worn by a goalie in professional ice hockey weighs from 45 to 50 pounds ... and the Hockey’s ace gentleman is FRANK BOUCHER, pivot man of the New York Rangers. . . . He’s at home in any parlor. . . . More than 1,500,000 persons watched automobile races in the U. S. in 1934. . . . LEE RAMAGE, one of the late victims of the colored menace, JOE LOUIS, does all his own cooking when on the road. . . . MAXIE ROSENBLOOM, ex-light - heavy champ,
earned more than $200,000 in the ring. . . . Max is now virtually penniless. . . . VILLA, LABARBA, TAYLOR, FIELDS, THOMPSON, KAPLAN, MANDELL, SINGER, LEONARD, CORBETT, and ROSS, all champions at one time during their career, and all have been defeated by Ireland’s Baby Faced Killer, JIM Mc-LARNIN . . . and while you’re at it, don’t forget BILL HOOLAHAN, the Terror of Erin, who is all set to be the next heavyweight champion of the world. .■. .
635,013,599,600 to 1 . . . some odds . . . but if you are considering betting on chances of holding 13 spades in a bridge game, take or give those. . . . JACK SHAEFFER ran 432 points, 18-2 balkline billiards against E. Horemans at Chicago in 1925. . . . The only 300 game ever rolled in an American Bowling Congress was turned in by W. J. KNOX at Toledo in 1913. ... In 1915 HEINE GROH, playing third base for the Reds, played through a 15 inning game without handling a single fielding chance . . . the other club must have knocked them all over the fence. . . . During the same year the Cardinals bought ROGERS HORNSby for- $500 . . . Minor leaguers now cost the big clubs at least $20,000. . . . RABBIT MARANVILLE, Boston’s aged shortstop, is getting that busted leg back in shape by attending three dances per week . . . wonder what BEARSKIN would think of that. . . . The Albany club of the International baseball league needed a new manager . . . JOE CAMBRIA, their president had 19 applicants for the job—so he put all their names in a hat and drew one . . . the lucky winner was AL MAMAUX . . . WAITE HOYT, the great comeback hurler for the Pirates, is spending the winter bowling a lot of cricket in Honolulu . . . They say the bat makers would close shop if BABE HERMAN dropped out of the leagues . . . the superstitious Babe bought 86 war weapons last season. . . .
COL. JAKE RUPPERT collected $35,000 rental when the Irish met the Army there . . . Bad seasons come and go for the Wolverines of Michigan, but an opposing team has yet to intercept a Michigan pass and hotfoot it for a touchdown . . . JIMMY LONDOS, the famous Greek, has engaged in approximately 2,000 mat contests during the past 15 years. . . . A certain footballer committed suicide because of a mistake he made in the Chicago-Michigan game of 1906. . . . a mistaken decision, say eye witnesses, was the real cause for his boner at that . . . At one time, basketball was played with nine men on a side . . . we have games played now with seven men on one side. . . .
A. A. CONSTITUTION (Continued from Page 12)	’ f
——-	—     _	I
is the outstanding revision in the new ! setup and one which is as strict an ; eligibility rule as is to be found any- I where in American collegiate circles. •
Other changes have to do with the elections of captains and the awarding of monograms. Captains must now be elected within three weeks after the final intercollegiate event in that sport and must be approved by the board before publicized. There is no change in the requirements neces-	)
sary to earn a football monogram.	’
The basketball monogram is now awarded to those members of the squad who have participated in at least one-half of the regular scheduled contests and for a total time ■ equal to one-fourth of the playing i time of the season.
Those who have scored 12 points in I a season, indoor or outdoor will now ■ receive track monograms. Baseball • monograms will go to those who have ’ played in half of the scheduled contests and for a total time equal to one-fourth of the playing time of the ‘ season. For pitchers and catchers the minimum time is one half of that required for other players.
The dimensions of the monogram for minor sports is changed. The letters are to be the same size and ' material as those awarded for a • major sport only they will have small letters CC (for cross country), T (for tennis), and G (for golf) woven into the large monogram. Football practice will start on Sept. 10 whereas it formerly began on Sept. 15. This	.
is in keeping with the new Big Ten	’
ruling.
The president of the University, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., still	_
maintains the power under the new	•
code to approve or reject any policy proposed by the Board.
BOXING SHOW (Continued from Page 15)
Show, but also for any student who is eager to learn the fine points of boxing. There is no requirement that anyone in the latter class has to enter the bouts? A general meeting of all candidates will be held on Monday, ' January 14, in the boxing room of $ the gymnasium, under the basketball stands. Here gloves, punching bags, and all other necessary equipment will be provided for usage.
To the Freshmen The Scholastic adds the reminder that the competition is open to all students regardless of class. Previous experience is not a necessary factor as capable instruction by experienced boxers is given three times a week. Some men have been working out intermittently for the past few weeks, but all will start £ from scratch on Monday afternoon.
Sixteen
The S cholastic
,	FACULTY VACATIONS
f 9	(Continued from Page 7)
osophy,” “The Relationship of Ethics to Science and Metaphysics,” “The Place of Philosophy in the College Curriculum.”
It was generally conceded that this meeting was the most successful of any in the history of the association. The members of the local faculty of Philosophy present were Fathers Miltner, Moore, O’Toole, Hoff and Sigmar, and Professors O’Grady, McMahon, Chapman and Pollock.
The officers elected for next year are: President, John 0. Riedl; vice president, Rev. John Touhey, and secretary-treasurer, Doctor Charles C. Harit.
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Notre Dame College of Law, Professor John H. A. Whitman and Judge William M. Cain attended the annual meeting of the Association of American Law Schools in Chicago, Dec. 27-30.
Professor George Collins of the department of Physics attended a meeting of the Physical Society in Pittsburgh, Pa., on Dec. 27, and a faculty representative was present at the meeting the same day of the National Collegiate Athletic Association in New York City.
N. S. F. A. CONFERENCE
(Continued from Page 3)
— so the inquiring reporter was satisfied
tention being paid to the large fees being charged honorary units.
Thirdly, the Congress entered into economic discussion, and delivered a resolution comprised of a number of points. In its organization and operation, the N.R.A. should be more equitable in its distribution of labor. The Congress approved of the 30-hour week, provided wages remain the same. It approved proportional contributions to insurance from capital, labor, and government.
Home Economics
MAIL 10 CENTS FOR SAMPLE COPY
REPRESENTATIVES WANTED
Why not telephone home one night each week? For bargain rates, call by number after 8:30 P. M.
CREATE
YOUR OWN FORTUNE
With the "UNIVERSAL BUDGET", World's most Unique System of Personal
Finances. Endorsed by / ..JJCa . America's foremost edi-1 • .nJjDGET OST tors and by professors of ’ * ”	■* — I-
UNIVERSAL SYNDICATE ""
MARINER TOWER • • MILWAUKEE
A reporter for a metropolitan daily asked a number of persons on the street, "What is the biggest buy for a nickel?” Two-thirds promptly replied, "A telephone call.”
Americans throughout the country evidently agree with this judgment of value received from the telephone. For each day they hold more than 57,000,000 conversations over Bell System wires.
Year after year Bell System planning extends the telephone’s reach —increases its speed— makes it more convenient, more valuable to everybody.
January 11, 1935
HE INSISTENCE ON THE BEST IN MEN'S APPAREL, WHICH IS NOTABLE AMONG COLLEGE MEN AND I COLLEGE TAILORS EVERYWHERE,
IS REFLECTED IN THE PREFERENCE AT COLLEGES FROM COAST TO COAST FOR KOVER-ZIP, THE INVISIBLE SEAMLINE CLOSURE.
.. <=J-t Celtic ciao
famous Chicago tailor to University ’ men says— I have repeatedly
rejected the ordinary zipper fly fastener because the uncovered
metal detracts from, rather than adds to, a well-tailored garment. The new Kover-Zip fly is the complete answer, as evidenced bjr its popular acclaim among students.
^VctLliweslezi'L
outfittersto North-
western men. comment—”We are always looking for the latest
leading Evanston
improvements in men’s clothing. Without doubt, Kover-Zip would be so classified. This new covered fastener insures the neat and stylish fit so necessary to the well-dressed college man.
Oiilslandutcj college Lailots, athlete endczse Idcvet—^ty as lite only slid ' /it let /me custom cl elites
■net
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR, INC., LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y.
PARIS PRAGUE DRESDEN WARSAW BARCELONA LONDON
CHRISTMAS DANCES
(Continued from Page 3)
tided that the only successful aftermath of their merry-making will be an assessment on each member which rough figures place at about $7.00.
On the brighter side of the ledger
Eighteen	-
the Chicago Club comes forward with a report of social success and nicely rounded financial profits. A queer quirk of this affair centers around the fact that President Johnny Jordan, also Capt. Johnny Jordan, was in the East with the basketball squad the night of the dance, and John Breen, chairman of the dance, was
BEST DRESSERS AMONG COLLEGE MEN CHOOSE KOVER-ZIP CLOSURE
It is widely recognized among college men that though the uncovered zipper is an improvement as a fly closure over the wrinkled buttoned fly, and gives a smooth flat effect to trousers, it does not belong on fine clothes because of its display of flashy metal. The nation-wide preference for Kover-Zip, the invisible seamline closure, is due to the style appeal of this modern fastener, in which the metal elements are completely concealed. “Best-dressed” seniors at leading colleges realize, as the following comments indicate, that Kover-Zip is the one fastener which meets the requirements of good taste:
Rich Ross
Illinois, 1934 "The new covered zipper fly is a big improvement over buttons. And as no metal shows it corrects the raw effect of the ordinary zipper. The covered zip is inconspicuous as a seam.”
John Eggers
California, 1935 “I've never seen a flyfastening device of any kind that compares with Kover-Zip. For trousers of all types, from dress clothes to sports wear, it is in good taste.”
Davis N. hott Northwestern, 1935 “Kover-Zip fasteners have been enthusiastically received by the best-dressed men on the Northwestern j campus—Kover-Zip is | certainly the answer to i a long-felt need in men’s apparel.”
the FINEST and MOST EXPENSIVE slide fastener
golfing in Florida. Richard “Duke” Walters stepped into the breach and evidently proved more than successful.
. The New Jersey Club also reports profit, while various other of the many geographical units are still holding their breath.
The Scholastic
FATHER NIEUWLAND
(Continued from Page 2)
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
(Continued from Page G)
LIBRARY ANNOUNCES NEW BOOKS WITH FICTION PREDOMINATING
C	of “Artie” in his second year. It was
during this term that John Clark, Korzeneski’s room mate, had to suffer the original decorations of his friend and live among innumerable “hangings.” In fact there were so many and their arrangement so exotic that the room looked much like the desert tent of a Sahara chieftain. All that was missing in the picture was the 5	sand and a camel or two. But, not:	withstanding this “home touch,” Art
began his career as an organizer at the outset of his sophomore year. The Professor Phillips’ Crocaw Club, the first Polish society on the campus, was founded by Korzeneski. He was elected president and has retained the chair ever since.
Returning in the fall of ’33, the boy from the “Windy City” decided he would live alone so he picked out _ the smallest room in Howard Hall, placed a green lamp in the window (to guide late returners safely up the lonely stretch of Dorr Road) and set himself out to do “big” things. His goal was realized for not only did he distinguish himself extracurricularly on the campus as Chairman of Interhall Debating and Financial Secretary of the Military Club, but he also was personal host to the son of the President of Poland and to the Field Marshal sent here by the European commonwealth as an ambassador of “good will.” It was, however, his unanimous election to the presidency of the Wranglers (the first of such procedure in the history of the society) at the end of his junior year that perhaps gave Art his greatest thrill.
This year Ait is climaxing and concluding his sojourn at Notre Dame with another title added to his already envied record, that of lecturer of the Knights ofx Columbus. But again we find national affairs entering his busy calendar for in November he was Sergeant at Arms at the Polish Students Association firt district convention in Milwaukee. Later, at the National convention of the same organization in December in Buffalo, Art was elected Chairman of the National Board on Cultural Relations of Polish Students in the United States.
Korzeneski’s most enjoyable recreation is talking. He plays “hearts” when nothing better presents itself but that is seldom. During his freshman year he kept goldfish but they died of starvation. Not to be outdone by other freshmen of his own age “our boy” experimented with horses on the University farm in his first year. The observations proved inaccurate and the experiment was never repeated. Perhaps his fondest
January 11, 1935
The library has announced a list of new books now available for student reading.
Fiction: The Talking of the Gry, by John Masefield; The Ante Room, by R. 0. O’Brien; English Journey, by J. B. Priestley; Murder in the Stacks, by M. M. Boyle; Lost Paradise, by R. P. T. Coffin.
Botany: Wild Floiuers, by H. D. House. At present this is one of the most popular books on the subject in the library.
Biography: Stages on the Road, by Sigrid Undset. This book is a group of biographical sketches on the lives of Swedish saints.
Travel: European Journey, by Philip Gibbs. One’s Company, by Peter Fleming. This book is by the author of the popular Brazilian Adventure.
Journalism: City Editor, by S. Walker.
English Literature: Early Career of Alexander Pope, by G. W. Sherburn.
Art: Materials of the Artist and their use in Painting, by M. Durner.
Sociology: Windoivs on Henry Street, by L. D. Wald. An interesting book dealing with the work and problems of a social settlement.
Business: Security Speculation, by J. T. Flynn.
General: Triggernometry, A Gallery of Gun-Fighters, by E. Cunningham. Rebel Destiny, by M. J. Hersko-vitz. The Chinese Soviets, by V. A. Yakhontoff.
As well as the new books mentioned above the library has received a timely pamphlet on munitions, The Secret International.
recreation to pass the time while traveling (he uses buses) is to sit in the rear seat and eat apples. There is no point to it but Art finds it amusing and comforting. While in Buffalo for the convention Arthur made new friends which we fear will take the place of his dear pals Jerry and Bobby in Chicago. He says he may reutrn to Buffalo some day just to keep things fresh.
On January 7th Art was 22 years old. He was almost a Christmas present but Santa Claus thought better of the plan. After Notre Dame the “man of affairs” anticipates taking law at the University of Chicago for he claims “it is a tradition in our family.” Best of luck, Art. We know you will go far and that the old adage “as you sow, so shall you reap” will prove true for you. Your planting has been wise and fertile, may your harvest be full and golden.
director of the du Pont Company, initiated in 1925, while he was in charge of the research work in the company’s dye department, the investigation of synthetic rubber which resulted in the production of “Du Prene.”
Following a symposium on organic chemistry held by the American Chemical Society in Rochester, at which Father Nieuwland’s researches on acetylene were reported, arrangements were made with Father Nieuw-land to undertake a study of the synthesis of vinylacetylane in the du Pont research laboratories.
Further research in these laboratories by Dr. Wallace H. Carothers • and his co-workers culminated in the synthesis of a material which “when manufactured under very carefully controlled conditions exhibits many useful and interesting properties, some of which duplicate those of natural rubber.”
Facing unusual laboratory perils is not a new experience for Father Nieuwland, it was pointed out. At the Catholic University in Washington during the World War he carried on researches in war gases which involved extraordinary hazards.
The ceremony at which Father Nieuwland will formally receive the medal will be an outstanding event of a week’s celebration of the 300th anniversary of the founding of the American chemical industries to be held in New York City in connection with the 89th meeting of the American Chemical Society beginning April 22.	.
Speakers will include the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., of the Arts Faculty, whose theme will be “Father Nieuwland — The Man,” and Dr. E. R. Bridgewater, of the du Pont Company, who will describe the practical application of Father Nieuwland’s work. Dr. Weiss will present the award to Father Nieuwland, who will deliver the annual Nichols Medal address.
Father Nieuwland was bom in Hansbeke, Belgium, on February 14, 1878. He received the bachelor of arts degree at the University of Notre Dame in 1899. In 1903 he was ordained a priest, in the Congregation of Holy Cross.
In 1904 he received the Ph.D. degree from the Catholic University, and in 1911 the Sc.D. degree from Notre Dame. He joined the Notre Dame Faculty in 1904 as professor of botany, and since 1918 has been professor of organic chemistry. He was Dean of the College of Science from 1920 to 1923.
Father Nieuwland is botany librarian and curator of the Botany Her-(Continued on Page 20)
’	e t e en
FATHER O’HARA ASKS FOR FAIR PLAY
(Continued from Page 5)
physical, intellectual, and the spiritual.
With this assumption, I believe it is unnecessary for me to argue to the legitimacy of athletics as a part of the college program, and I need only a shadow of an argument to defend the practice of admitting the public to such athletic exhibitions as may interest them. It is customary in most well regulated college communities to admit the public to debates and other evidences of academic progress, just as in the days of the country school-house it was customary to have a Christmas Eve entertainment with the star pupils reciting pieces for the edification of the landed proprietors of the district. If the public ever shows as much interest in our debates as it does in our football games, we will be glad to build an auditorium to accommodate the public, or move the debate to Madison Square Garden, as may seem best. We generally practice our debating behind closed doors, but we meet our opponents in a public forum. At Notre Dame, we have almost as many candidates for the debating team as we have for football, and we foster both activities by the same interhall system. But for some reason or other, the public would rather watch 22 men play football than listen to six men debate. However, if the public temper changes sufficiently we may have to put a roof over the stadium, and move our football games to Washington Hall.
It appears to me quite within the ethics of good sportsmanship. to permit the public to pay an admission charge to witness these juvenile activities, whether debates or athletic contests, and I do not hear a great deal of objection from the calamity howlers against the practice of making this charge proportionate to the interest manifested by the public. I do like the practice of dividing the gate receipts on a 50-50 basis, whether or not the other team has what is called "drawing power,” and I feel
“FIVE NUTS IN TWO ACTS,” A SUCCESS
In what proved to be some 40 minutes of first rate hilarity, the renovated Student Theatre group presented two acts of vaudeville in Washington Hall Friday night, Dec. 14. The presentation was accompanied by a movie. Two complete performances were given so as to enable the entire student body to witness the show.
The first act was preceded by a group of popular selections rendered by the University Collegians directed by Frank Barbush. The Notre Dame
that this should be done in any sport that is able to finance itself. If the other team is a worthy opponent fair play demands that its worth be recognized.
I seem to have heard somewhere a criticism that football is over-emphasized in our colleges, and the criticism seems to have come from someone who felt that the funds used for football, an expensive sport in its modem trappings, rightly belong to more intellectual pursuits. I believe that the best answer I have heard to this criticism is one that was given by Terry McGovern at a football banquet in New York recently when he stated that it looked as though football “which was dishonored and put out as a step-child a few years ago, has now come back to support the old man when he is out of a job.” If the public interest in football can be made to pay dividends that will supply for waning interest from endowment funds, its place in the educational setup is probably secure, at least for the period of the depression.
In conclusion, allow me to come back to my plea that first consideration be given the child in any scheme of education. That is true sportsmanship in education. When the future citizen is made a guinea pig for all sorts of experimentation; when his usefulness as a citizen is jeopardized and his happiness as a man is impaired to make case material for some faddist professor, he is not given a square deal. Dr. Woelfel’s admission of confusion in the educational setup comes none too soon. There has been too much attempt to cure surface disorders, and too little view of the whole problem. Just as in medicine, there is a growing demand for a return of the general practitioner, so in education, there is a recognition of the fact that too many professional educators have' concentrated on some single aspect of a child’s development, and have missed the larger picture. And that is not fair play.
tumbling team, coached by Professor John Scannell, presented an unusual array of tumbling acts which were highly lauded by the students who attended the show.
The highlight of the evening was the presentation of Father Hope’s much talked about satire-opera, “Five Nuts in Two Acts.” To quote Announcer Jim Boyle, it made no difference whether there were four, five, or any number of nuts in the show, and certainly it was impossible to determine where one act terminated and the other began.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
(Continued from Page 8)
•with which they faced adversity, the willingness with which they accepted ’ her advice, the pains which they were taking to make themselves useful members of society, the aversion which they felt towards the radical ideas and principles of those with whom they were forced to come in contact. She was grateful for any help which the St. Vincent de Paul Society might lend her and her children in their hour of need. And as she remarked of the kindness of the students for their interest in her case, tears clouded the tired, yet determined, eyes of the hopeful old lady. She wanted her boys and girl to be ever faithful to those principles which she had taught them when they were little.
The problem of the family described above represents just one of the many urgent demands upon the efforts of that little heralded campus organization which is composed of, and operated by members of the student body under the direct supervision of the Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C., the St. Vincent de Paul Society. This case is typical and is illustrative of the need for and appreciation of the indulgence of the student body in the work of the St. Vincent de Paul organization.

FATHER NIEUWLAND
(Continued from Page 19)
barium and the E. L. Greene Herbarium at Notre Dame. He is the founder and editor of The American Midland Naturalist. In 1904 he published a book entitled Some Reactions of Acetylene, and in 1917 edited a de luxe edition of Le Conte’s unpublished plates.
He is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the British Chemical Society, and the Indiana Academy of Science, of which he was. vice-president in 1929-30, and president in 1933-34. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, the Chemical Society of London, the Biological Society of Washington, Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft, and Phi Sigma.
The Nichols medal, which encourages original research in chemistry, was established in 1903 by the late Dr. William H. Nichols, who was Chairman of the Board of the Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation, a charter member of the American Chemical Society and a benefactor of New York University and other institutions.
Member of the Jury of Award, in addition to Dr. Weiss, are Dr. Walter S. Landis, vice-president of the American Cyanid Co.; Prof. Victor K. La Mer, of Columbia University; Prof. Arthur E. Hill, of New York University; and Dr. D. P. Morgan, of Scudder, Stevens & Clark.
T venty
The Scholastic