The Notre Dame
Scholastic
September 30, 1955
Enjoy both sides of smoking pleasure!
that
teaeaas^amib.
JMHi Ol O^i^l
Switch to Cavaliers! Light up and taste that wonderful, welcome flavor — so light, smooth and easy! Try a pack of Cavaliers today. See if
you don’t agree with thousands of smokers who are switching to king-size-Cavaliers—and getting an extra measure of smoking enjoyment.
• You can’t help but notice smart smokers everywhere are shifting to king-size Cavaliers. Try7 them and find out tvhat a pleasure smoking can be tvhen the smoke feels so mild and tastes so good!
Cavaliers give you the world's aristocratic tobaccos blended in an extra length. There is no better natural filter! There is no finer source of delightful flavor! Today’s the day. Get Cavaliers ... get all the extras! The extra enjoyment of extra length, extra flavor ... at no extra cost!
CAVALIERS ARE KING-SIZE yet priced no higher than leading regular-size cigarettes!
KING-SIZE CAVALIER
EXTRA LENGTH ... EXTRA FLAVOR .... EXTRA VALUE!
4 The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Sept. 30, 1955 No. 1
‘ Mh	Dice Quasi Semper Victuals
Kr	Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
! =========^^
I	Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
s CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor j ED JOYCE ....................  Copy	Editor
IBOB KAUFMAN ............Production Manager
DAVE KUBAL .............Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON.............Assistant News
[	james McDonald.........___Assistant News
j ®JIM O’BRIEN ........... Co-Feature	Editor
[ JOHN GUEGUEN ........Co-Feature Editor
RICHARD NAVIN................Art Editor
KEN WOODWARD...........Business Manager
NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager
DAVE DAVIN
Sports Editor
JOHN GLAVIN JOE NORTON .
.Assistant Sports
Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national adtertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre. Dame. Indiana.
INVENTORY
page
•Entree .....................     6
View .....................     7
Campus Scene ...............   9
Folio ..................      15
Art Roundup .............     22
Irish Scene ................  25
Time Out ...................  28
Back Page ..................  34
| On the Cover Artist Dick Navin de-| picts a time-honored scene, freshman 'l arrival on campus. More of Navin’s un-1 Visual and sensitive work will appear in ■ the Scholastic throughout the coming j year.
September 30, 1955
Quickest, cleanest deodorant, you’ve ever used! Simply glide stick ' under arms—it melts in instantly. ' ContainsTHIOBIPHENE* the most effective anti-bacteria agent. It’s the New Kind of Social Security — gives you absolute assurance.
4 to 5 months' supply,	|OO
*Trodemcw	1 p|us fax
At leading department and drug stores.
no more
•	runny liquid
•	sticky cream
•	messy fingers
SHULTON
New York Toronto
NOW OPEN
GILBERT’S NEW [
located next to the Book
An interior view of Gilbert's Notre Dame Campus Shop
Shop in the Shopping Center. Everything is new and fresh. You will find only the finest Brand Name Clothing and Furnishings . . . and in YOUR size. Come in tomorrow!
Gilbert's Campus Shop . . . Home of Wilson Bros. Skipper Sportswear
4
The Scholastic
CAMPUS SHOP
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER 6
If you haven't been among the hundreds of Notre Dame Men who have already paid us a visit . . . then please come over . . .if just to say "hello!" We want to welcome you to what we hope will become one of America's finest campus shops. You will find a big selection of quality brand names ... a complete size assortment . . . and the unconditional guarantee of satisfaction that has made Gilbert's name famous.
OPEN A GILBERT CHARGE ACCOUNT
J January 1st
PAY — February 1st No Carrying Charge a	3 March 1st
GILBERT’S Campus-Wise Values
A Noire Dame Man’s best friend. Durable, good looking slacks of rugged cotton chino. Perfect for class, play or just loafing. Washable. of course, and easy to iron. Ivy League model with plain front, tapered legs and adjustable backstrap. In khaki. Specially priced at just 3.95.
Save one-half! Fine combed cotton Tee Shirts with Nylon reinforced neck that holds its shape through all kinds of hard wear. Regularly 1.25 . . . now a Campus Shop special at just 63c. Stock up now!
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
{Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)

September 30, 1955

by William Malloy
9
concerning things like freshmen!
Yes, yes, yes, I know, welcome back and all that. No! I did not have a good time this summer and I don’t wish to hear anything about your “wonderful summer with: (a) Grandmaw at the farm; (b) down at the beach; (c) out west with the Chickenfat Indians; (d) at home making more money than father.” Nor am I the least interested in such laborious topics like “my new girl, my new car (with dual carbs, souped-up raccoon tail, manifolded spark plugs) or the great new friends Bob and I made while on a neat trip to Lodi Woods.”
* * *
The new freshmen, traditionally the topic of every “first” column because they are easily impressed and because they actually bother to read some of them, came here in full force, or rather push, some days ago, muttering under lowered eyes the exhortations of their parents, relatives, graduates, and the State Highway Patrol.
“Now let’s see,” chewed John Hairbrush, Jr., freshman and trying, “I have my bags, my room, my room-mates, five tickets filled out in triplicate, but I must study hard and get good grades (nothing like education) •without cheating (Iowa game), or ruining my health (life you save may be ... ) after I give this ticket to Father Farley and laundry bag in building seven at 9 o’clock fold and paste . . .”
Somewhere a voice cried desperately reminding him that there were others dying of thirst on this desert . . . “but mother, how can I take my bags up to the fourth floor if I got to see Student Accounts before I get my room and if my class schedule is in conflict with lunch and . . .”
“Shut up!” mother smiled lovingly at him, “You’re supposed to be in college
now and take some responsibility and do things for yourself, etc., etc.” (We all have it memorized.) So John Hairbrush, Jr., stood still listening to the activity about him. As the people passed him he heard:
“I . . . and I don’t see why, I mean after all I’ve seen Knute Rockne—All American three times and I don’t see . . .”
“You should see my room-mate, his name is Pat Doran and he has about 700 new ties I can borrow plus 132 new jazz records that I need for . . .”
“. . . not at all like the Notre Dame I knew when I was here son; it’s gotten a lot easier, but it still is the same in spirit—why I remember the time . . .”
“. . . Mass checks . . .”
“Of course I’ll miss you so you write every day and stay away from those St. Mary’s . . .”
“. . . the paths of Glory lead but to the grave . . .” (see page 13)
“. . . let’s go over to the Huddle.”
“Where’s that?”
“Right across from the Student Center.”
“Where’s that?”
“Next to Washington Hall!”
“Where’s that?”
“How long you been at Notre Dame?” “What? You mean this isn’t Purdue?” John Hairbrush, Jr., looked up to see a young man with a whistle in his mouth directing traffic.
“Can you help me, Sir?”
“Why sure, kid, that’s what we’re here for. All you have to do is keep your grades up and personality bubbling, wear a coat and tie and you’ll make it.”
“Make what?”
“The Blue Circle, of course.”
“The Blue Circle?”
“Yes.”
“What’s it do?”
“Why it helps kids like you. Ah, excuse me please, I see we are having another meeting over on the lawn.”
A gentle South Bend breeze came up and blew John to the Dining Hall. I
“Well, I’ll eat,” said John. He stepped in line and waited for his turn.
“Card please,” came the challenge.
“?” said John.
“Your card!”
John produced his social security card and moved on, leaving the bewildered guard checking over his board. Then he sat down to eat.
“Nice day,” he said to the boy acros4 from him.
Silence.
“Anyone want my butter?”
The boy next to him reached over and took it.
Cough, cough.
Silence.
“Food’s good.”
Silence.
“Excuse me,” he exhaled and stoo<^ up. He looked expectantly at the seated boys and then walked out of the hall.
Later that night I saw John pleading with someone over the telephone.
* * *
POETS! This is to announce a poetry contest held by this column. Send your poem and ten cents (reading charge) to Entree, c/o Scholastic, Notre Dam<^ Ind. The decision of the judge will be* final. This contest will continue until further notice.
6
The Scholastic
Vina

debut
1 _
For the past two weeks incoming freshmen have been subjected to a program known as orientation. They have become acquainted with the campus, their roommates, spiritual, social, and academic life at ND; they have had the chance to come into contact with the University’s miscellaneous rules and regulations. They have been formally orientated.
However, there is another type of orientation which has had only about a week to get underway. Let’s call this informal orientation. It began when the upperclassmen trickled back to campus—one, two or three years wiser in the ways of Mr. Collegiate.
In some cases, these “vets” are fairly brimming with advice on how to live under the Dome in one easy shortcut. All you’ve got to do is know the ropes, they say. Why the ropes here at ND are no tighter than anywhere else; they’re only as tight as you make them for yourself.
i These members of the informal orientation committee are generous with their “knowledge.” They gladly give it to freshmen with or without solicitation. Their branches of “learning” reach far and wide.
They know how to beat the long lines in the Dining .	Hall: find an opening up front. They can tell you how to
;	pass those exams: just a few hidden notes are needed. They
j	know how to take a free cut in class: get a buddy to sit in
>	for you during one of the first few days when the prof
doesn’t know your face yet. They can show you a good i	time downtown, too; a spare driver’s license will do the
trick.	’
A The net result supposedly effected by following this ad' v vice is a much “fuller” four years of college life. After all, these fellows agree, you’re only in college once, all work and ; no play make Tom a dull boy, and let’s “live” a little.
Formal orientation taught the freshmen how to spend their four years living according to the book. This is a tried and true method—it’s hard to fail doing it this wav. It’s , the best way.
! Those who are disciples of the “easy” way, the shortcut, will argue this point. But they argue only to convince themselves. They will probably spend the rest of their lives trying to make this conviction stick.
i They will go through life knowing the ropes, knowing | ,^how to beat this and that, how to pull a fast one here and there. During their lifetimes they will have fooled a lot । of people, but, worst of all, they will have fooled them-selves.—P.L.
September 30, 1955
orientation
I guess practically every editor going back for 87 years has done just what I’m doing—sat in front of his typewriter and wondered what the devil he should write about in his first editorial. For the first time he really begins to think about what his fellow students are interested in. For the first time he wrestles with the problem of conveying something of value without sounding absurd in his fatherliness. And somehow he gets an inkling that no matter what he says, or how he says it, all too many of the fellows are going to whip right on past it into the features or sports sections.
But be that as it may, it’s up to me and the Scholastic’s associate editor, Paul LaFreniere, to express some sort of opinion every week on matters of interest to the fellows we go to school with. We’ve completely discarded the idea of crusading or being “controversial”—it seems to us that the students are already overwhelmed with that sort of thing.
We’re going to discuss various subjects, and as much as possible we’ll present both sides of the question. Needless to say, we don’t fancy ourselves oracles of Delphi—we have opinions—so do a lot of other people. We’ll be the first to remember that.
Perhaps a word about the Scholastic in general might be well worth the space at this time. The Scholastic staff is not entirely oblivious to the fact that our magazine has come in for considerable criticism in the past. Some of it has been justified, some of it has not. The things that can be remedied we are trying and will try to remedy right from the outset. As to the rest, we can but explain our position.
In the first place, the Scholastic is a weekly newsmagazine supplemented by columns, features, and service articles. We don’t make any pretense at being anything else, not a literary magazine, not a humor magazine—to try to compare it to one of these is rather inane to say the least. If we might toot our own hom a bit at this point — the Scholastic is practically alone in its class in college publications.
Secondly, printing a 36-page weekly magazine is no mean undertaking—it requires a staff of about 130 or more men working a good part of the week to put it out. Work on a particular issue of the Scholastic is begun often as many as four weeks in advance and concentrated effort begins two weeks ahead of the time it comes out. Between thirty-five and forty thousand words of copy have to be written and checked five times, laid out and headed. Typesetting, makeup, and printing require four full days. Consequently, when we miss a story or misspell a name or two it isn’t as if we have been sitting around playing with our grease pencils.
Nevertheless, the Scholastic is a magazine for the men of Notre Dame—it’s their magazine. We want to print what , they want to read, and so we welcome suggestions for articles, constructive criticism, and perhaps an occasional bit of praise. Letters and the like are the guideposts that keep us from bogging down in the mire of disinterest—they’re one thing we never get tired of reading.
The staff has great plans for the Scholastic this year— some of the changes are pretty evident in this issue—more are yet to come.
With a note of anxiety and no little anticipation we present this first issue—this, then, is the Scholastic, 1955-56. ~J.A.
The big
news
One good look, and you'll agree with Kim Novak...
See Kim Novak in “PICNIC”
A COLUMBIA CINEMASCOPE PICTURE IN TECHNICOLOR
breezes in
Two new campus styles arrive, via Arrow.
This button-down shirt, with soft roll collar, marks a great advance—a new full-length back pleat for never-before comfort. As a fitting companion, Arrow offers a new chino slack with tapered legs, pleatless front and adjustable back strap. Chino slacks in black, tan and grey, $5.95. Oxford shirt, $5.00, in stripes and solid colors.
Good shoe grooming is simple as ABC!"
It's apparent, even to a man who has to cram for Phizz Ed, that this City Club shoe is the right choice forthe Sunday date, faculty teas, and other "clothes make the man " occasions. And the $12.95 price tag means that this isn’t a “clothes break the man” occasion.
FREE pin-up of Kim Novak) Ask your City Club Dealer, or write Dept. CN9, Peters, Division of International Shoe Company, St.
Louis 3, Mo.
CrlyCIiib by Mm distinctiw stew for men

— first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • SLACKS
Mijmm
208 E. Jefferson. Ph. CE 3-0969
welcomes you to Notre Dame and South Bend
WASHING AND DRYING AT REASONABLE RATES
Colored Hose Washed Free
MITCHELL
Travel Service
LaSalle Hotel
CE 2-2253 Phones CE 3-1181
Residence CE 2-0185
Open Saturdays to 3 p.m.
8
The Scholastic
Ca^pMi S(XM
• ENGINEERS TAKE SOJOURN THROUGH PAST TONIGHT
Belloc's Melodies, Hoosier Football Set Pace For 'Time' Debut of Fall Social Season
Men of the College of Engineering and their dates will Turn Back the Hands
of Time tonight from 9 o’clock until 1 a.m. as they dance to the music of Dan Belloc,
his Saxophone and his Orchestra, in the
Car permissions and a 2 a.m. residence curfew have been granted for 0 tonight only.
Dean Karl Schoenherr will crown the queen of the ball, Miss Mary Catherine Cullen. Miss Cullen is from East St. Louis, Ill. She is a graduate of Rosary College in Chicago, Ill., and presently teaches the third and fourth grades at St. Luke’s Parochial School in Belleville,
Student Center.
orations for the dance, which will open the fall social season.
Other chairmen for the Engineers’ Ball include: Felix Tardio, band; Jack Scriba, business manager; Bob Miller, blind dates; John Juerling, entertain-
MARY CATHERINE CULLEN
. . . reigns tonight . . .
ment; Dave Huber, hotel accommodations; Bill Brehl, publicity; Bill Reeve, refreshments, and John Massman, tickets.	‘
Ill. Miss Cullen 'will be escorted by Chairman Jim Mason, a senior mechanical engineer from Belleville, Ill. Mason is also the chairman of the Engineering Advisory Board.
Dan Belloc is known for his origination of Pretend, the hit song which was No. 1 on the Hit Parade several years ago. He currently records for two major record companies, DOT and MGM.
“Dick Miller and His Sugar Foot Stompers,” a Dixieland band comprised of Notre Dame students, will provide the entertainment at intermission, which also will include a trio from St. Mary’s College made up of Bobbie Fredrics, Judie Wiedner, and Mary Jo Walsh.
Phil Bradtke has provided floral dec-
EARLY SUPPER TONIGHT
Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., announced that the supper hour tonight will be from 5 until 6:15 p.m. This change will enable students to finish supper in time to attend the WNDU-TV telecast of Coke Time in the Fieldhouse. The Fieldhouse doors will close at 6:15 p.m.
Numerous Changes for Rectors and Prefects Include New Off-Campus Chaplain, Fr. Barry
Several changes in the prefects and rectors of the campus residence halls were announced here recently.
Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., was transferred from his post as Junior Class chaplain to the position of Off-Campus chaplain. His office will be in the basement of the Student Center, with office hours from 1 to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and from 7 to 10 p.m. every evening.	;
Rev. Clement Kane, C.S.C., will be the new Junior Class chaplain.
Also, Rev. Wilfrid Menard, C.S.C., 107 Howard, replaced Rev. Victor Dean, C.S.C., as the Sophomore Class chaplain.
Changes are as follows: Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., from rector of Sorin to rector- of Pangborn; Rev. Paul Bailey, C.S.C., basement of Pangborn; Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., from second floor Sorin to second floor Pangborn; Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., third floor Pangborn.
Other changes are: Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., rector Badin; Rev. James Shilts, C.S.C., third floor Badin; Rev.
Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., fourth floor Badin; Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., rector Sorin; Rev. James Doll, C.S.C., second floor Sorin; Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., rector Cavanaugh; Rev. Victor Dean, C.S.C., rector, St. Edward; Rev. Matthew Miceli, G.S.C., third floor St. Edward; Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., fourth floor St. Edward; Rev. Francis Phelan, C.S.C., fourth floor Cavanaugh; Rev. Richard Downes, C.S.C., second floor Zahm; Rev. Frederick Barr, C.S.C., third floor Zahm; Rev. Charles Weiher, C.S.C., fourth floor Zahm; Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C., second floor Farley; Rev. Roman Ladewski, C.S.C., fourth floor Farley; Rev. James Trepanier, C.S.C., third floor Breen-Phillips; Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., first floor Dillon; Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., second floor Dillon; Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., third floor Dillon; Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., second floor Howard; Rev. Donald Draine, C.S.C., third floor Howard; Rev. Thomas Engleton, C.S.C., second floor Morrissey; Rev. William Morrison, C.S.C., fourth floor Morrissey.
September 30, 1955
9
NEW HOME OF NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATIONS . . . ‘Coketime’ to christen studios . . .
'Coke Time,' Starring Eddie Fisher, Headlines Weekend WNDU-TV Dedication Ceremonies
By jim McDonald
The NBC Television Network show Coke Time, starring Eddie Fisher, will be telecast in its entirety from the campus of the University at 6:30 p.m. tonight over WNDU-TV.
Accompanying Fisher for his first inperson show from a college campus will be conductor-arranger Axel Stordahl and his orchestra, announcer-emcee Fred Robbins, production personnel of the Coke Time program, and the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club. Fisher’s newlywed bride, Debbie Reynolds, may make an appearance with Fisher.
Fieldhouse Backdrop
The show will originate in the east end of the Fieldhouse. Stageside seats have been reserved for the faculty, executives of the Coca Cola Company, and clients of WNDU-TV. There will be a special Student Section located in the west end of the Fieldhouse.
A dinner will be held tonight at the Morris Inn for NBC executives, Robert Sarnoff, and Frank Folsom, presidents of RCA. From noon today until 6:30 p.m., rehearsals for Coke Time will be held in the Fieldhouse.
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-Indiana game will follow the telecast of Fisher’s show at 7 p.m.
At 8:30 p.m. tonight, Brigadier General David Sarnoff, board chairman of RCA, will receive a Doctor of Science Honoris Causa Degree, and deliver the principal address at a special University convocation marking the dedication
and formal opening of WNDU-TV in the Drill Hall.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will confer the degree of Doctor of Science on General Sarnoff, a pioneer of the American radio and television industry.
The convocation will be telecast in its entirety by WNDU-TV and kinescoped in New York for special viewing sometime during the weekend by the NBC-TV Network.
Also on the agenda for the convocation will be a selection by Eddie Fisher, an academic procession, greeting by Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., remarks by Father Hesburgh, and a selection by the Notre Dame Band.
Tomorrow morning, the studio-office building of WNDU-TV will be blessed during a formal dedication program at 10 o’clock.
Governor Among Guests
Among the guests to be present at the dedication are: George N. Craig, governor of Indiana; John Scott, mayor of South Bend; Robert E. Lee and John C. Doerfer of the Federal Communications Commission; Barnard Barth, managing director of WNDU-TV; and Frank Folsom, president of RCA.
The Moreau Seminary choir, Notre Dame Glee Club, and University Band will participate in the program.
The formal opening will be concluded with a luncheon at the Morris Inn which will be followed by the Notre Dame-Indiana game.
Eminent Logician Here Under Professor Plan
Rev. I. M. Bochenski, O.P., an eminent mathematical logician who has been teaching at the University of Freiburg, in Switzerland, will be a visiting professor of philosophy at Notre Dame during the 1955-56 school year, it was announced recently by Rev. Philip S. 0) Moore, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs.
Father Bochenski is the author of Problemgeschichte and is widely known as an author in his field. He is one of several internationally recognized scholars being added to the Notre Dame faculty under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
Courses to be conducted by Father _ Bochenski include “History of Logical Problems” and “Contemporary Logic.” J During the first semester beginning in I September he will also deliver a series I of general lectures on existentialism. I He will give another lecture series on I dialectical and historical materialism during the second semester.
Father Bochenski served as president of the International Union of Logicians, Methodologists and Philosophers of Science during 1954. The organization (3^ met at Amsterdam in September of last year.
Nominating to Open for ND Who's Who Honors
Art Johnson, chairman of the Who’s Who committee, announced that the opening of nominations for this year’s Who’s Who will begin in about a week. Students are asked to watch for posters announcing the exact date.	'
Who’s Who is the annual selection of honors awarded capable college senior and graduate students throughout the United States. To be eligible for nomination, a student must be a senior or graduate student excelling in scholarship and having participated in extracurricular activities. Anyone may nominate a candidate including the candidate himself.
Nominations will remain open for two weeks and then seven juniors forming a’^ committee of the Blue Circle will vote on the candidates. The University is allotted a certain quota by the national Who’s Who organization and this quota is filled by the candidates who receive the most votes.
Anyone who wishes to nominate a student should send a letter containing the candidate’s name, campus address and qualifications to the Who’s Who Committee, 1 Sorin. Nominators are asked to be certain not to send in their nom- pjv inations before the date set for the opening.
10
The Scholastic
। Blue Circle Initiates Frosh to College Life With Week-Long Program of Orientation
Goren's Book Given Bridge Meet Winners
Approximately 1,350 freshmen began their college life at Notre Dame on what Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, called “good, solid footing” as they participated in the University’s Orientation Program for 1955.
This program, coordinated by the Blue Circle in conjunction with the Administration, followed a week-long plan of activities that introduced the incoming young men to the “spirit of Notre Dame in academic, religious, and social aspects of University life,” according to George Krembs, general I' chairman of Orientation week.
On Friday, Sept. 16, the freshmen registered and were assigned to their halls. At 4 p.m. the students and their parents took part in a reception held by University officials in the Student Center. Following dinner, the frosh heard talks by the rectors of their residence halls and then returned to the Student Center for an Open House.
Highlighting 'Saturday’s activities
Advisory Board to Aid 'Lost1 Incoming Frosh
The Freshmen Advisory Committee initiated its second year with the opening of the 1955-56 term.
' “To strike up friendship” is the theme ^of this frosh aid project. The program’s w object is to aid freshmen with their academic, spiritual, and outside activities during their first year at the Uni' versity.
, During the summer months the Dean i of the Colleges of Science, Liberal Arts, I Commerce, and Engineering contacted outstanding students and asked them to J serve as advisors to freshmen in their respective colleges.
There will be one advisor to every ^five freshmen, and the theme will be .^utilized to help solve the problems of the first year student. Through the experience of the upperclassmen, the program hopes to eliminate the “lost” feeling of the freshmen and to stir their . interests toward studies.
The program is again being handled i by a Blue Circle Honor Society Com, mittee. Tom Sheehan is chairman, and i is assisted by Bill Shannon, Jim Kennedy, Pete Sturtevant, Tom Schriber, I ^Tom Caplet, and Tony Yurchak. The Bcommittee is working in co-operation with the student counselor, Dr. William Burke.
were a joint University and Military presentation of the ROTC programs, aptitude tests, and a sports program. In the evening the freshmen received their first taste of college social life at a mixer in the Center with girls from St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s Nurses School.
Emphasis shifted to the religious side of Notre Dame on Sunday with the opening of the freshman Mission in Sacred Heart Church. Father Hesburgh delivered the sermon at the initial conference and celebrated Benediction at 7 p.m. During his talk, he presented the slogan: “It is better to sit at Notre Dame and think about hell than to sit in hell and think about Notre Dame.” The mission continued with Mass and Benediction on Monday and Tuesday and ended with Mass on Wednesday.
Sunday was highlighted by a mixer and a trip to St. Mary’s in the afternoon and the official welcome by the Administration in Washington Hall, followed by a showing of the movie, Knute Rockne—All American.
The social aspect of the week was concluded ■with interhall parties, coffeehour for foreign students, and a “Get Acquainted” mixer for the off-campus students. On Saturday, the freshmen held a picnic with St. Mary’s freshmen at Pottawatomie Park.
STUDY IN CONCENTRATION AS MASTER PLAYS
. . . Charles Goren meets local challengers . . .
Students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame were awarded autographed copies of Charles H. Goren’s Contract Bridge Complete as a result of winning a bridge tournament last Sunday afternoon in the Student Center. The tournament was held following Mr. Goren’s lecture in Washington Hall.
The awards were given to Charles Armbruster and John Chomeau of Notre Dame, and Maureen Musset, student body president, and Carolyn Conroy, senior class treasurer, of St. Mary’s.
It has been announced that weekly duplicate bridge tournaments will be held every Sunday in the Student Center at 1:30 p.m.
Outstanding players wall be entitled to receive American Contract Bridge League Awards, Fractional Master Points. The master points are bits of currency which enable the holder to claim various bridge titles.
The University has announced that it has received a gift of $5,000 to stimulate interest in bridge and golf among undergraduate students.
The donor is James Gerity, Jr., a member of the College of Commerce Advisory Council.
The newly established fund will be used to underwrite bridge and golf instruction and tournaments on the campus.
September 30, 1955
11
Senior Football Trip Scheduled for Oct. 15; MSU Game and Dance Will Highlight Jaunt
Two hundred members of the Class of 19-56 will journey to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game at East Lansing, Mich., on Oct. 15, the annual Senior Football trip.
Only 200 tickets will be sold for the trip. The tickets may be purchased Oct. 3 and 4 in the basement of the Dining Hall from 7 to 9 p.m. The price for the entire trip will be $18. The ticket will include train fare, lodging, sandwiches on the train, a dance after the game, green derbies, and a breakfast after Sunday Mass.
All tickets will be sold in a package deal. No separate tickets will be sold for the game itself. In order to purchase a ticket, the senior will have to present his I.D. card as proof of his senior status. Tickets will be sold only to seniors.
The group will leave for East Lansing at 3 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 14 from the Notre Dame siding. The train is scheduled to arrive in East Lansing at 6 p.m. The return trip will start at 7 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 16, and will arrive at Notre Dame at 10 that night.
Mr. Elwood Voller, assistant to the Dean of Men at MSU, has made lodging accommodations for the Irish in the Short Course Dormitory. The Dormitory is located on the campus, just 300 yards from the football stadium. Beds, washroom facilities, and a perpetual guard will be provided.
Friday evening the Notre Dame men
LA FOND, CHAIRMAN POWERS, CASEY
. . . Senior Trippers ready for MSU . . .
are invited to the Spartan Review, MSU’s biggest pep rally of the year. Included on the program will be the Notre Dame Glee Club and a popular trio from Hollywood.
Saturday evening there will be a mixer dance at the Women’s Gym, located on the campus. The dance is
SENIORS!
Those interested in permanent employment after graduation should register with the Placement Bureau, 122 Main Building, Monday through Friday, from 8:30 a.m. to 1 2 noon, and from 1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m., before Oct. 29. It is necessary to pick up an information pamphlet and registration form in order to be interviewed by personnel men of various companies. Military service, or any other temporary committment does not interfere with your employment.
being sponsored by the Newman Club of MSU. The dance will be from 9 p.m. to midnight.
Mass will be celebrated at the St. Thomas Aquinas Chapel at 7:30, 8:45, 10:00, and 12:30 on Sunday morning. All Notre Dame students are urged to attend the 10 o’clock Mass, after which
a breakfast will be served at Newman Hall. Mass will also be celebrated on Saturday at 7 and 8 a.m. in the chapel, which is about a ten minute walk from the dormitory.
Denny Powers is the general chairman for the trip. Other chairmen are: Jack Casey, business manager; Bill LaFond, publicity; and Felix Park, lodging.
The game "dll be nationally telecast A from East Lansing in color by the NBC television network.
Change Constitution
At 1st Senate Meeting
The first meeting of the Notre Dame Student Senate for the 1955-56 school year was held last Monday night at the Student Center.
President Tom Crehan proposed that a change be made in the Constitution of the Senate, regarding the require
>
!
ments for Senate Commissioners, minimum scholastic average for missioners was lowered from 85 percent. This move was made in
The com-to 80 order

to make the requirements for both the president of the Senate and the commissioners uniform. According to the Constitution the president must maintain an 80 average.	।
Commissioners for the Senate com- I mittees were also announced. They are: I Richard Clark, academic; Richard Lewis, campus clubs; Leo Linbeck, physical facilities; George Blake, public | relations; Pat Logan, social; George Dakoske, spiritual; Pete Sturtevant, N.S.A.; John Chomeau, N.F.C.C.S.;^ Don Walz, public information; and Karl Martersteck, Blue Circle.
It was announced that only 16 undergraduates failed to pay the Senate tax of $1.
Bill Warren was appointed as chair- I man of a committee to discuss the tax	I
with the Law Association. It was ex-	Hi
plained that some men who would act- Hi ually be seniors in the undergraduate II courses are freshmen in the Law School II and thereby avoid paying the tax. ^Ir
Rev. Thomas O’Donnell, C.S.C., was I. a guest at the meeting. Father O’Don- If nell outlined plans for the presentation ■ of the television show, Coke Time, from H the Field House. He also stressed the ■ importance of WNDU-TV, which will ■’ be dedicated tomorrow morning. The B new television station will play a great ■ B role in the school of communicable art, B' which is planned for the near future. B
A new Senate vice-president will be B elected at the next meeting of the Sem^B- I ate to replace Dan Devine who recently®® j resigned. He will be chosen from B| among the ranks of the present senators. B
The Scholastic ■
12
' Hall Elections Set for Oct. 20; Nominating Starts Wednesday
The Blue Circle recently announced that elections for freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior hall officers and Senators will be held Thursday, Oct. 20. Nominations will open Oct. 5 and close Oct. 17.
x In addition, three off-campus Senators ' will be elected. One will replace Phil Twigg who died during the summer.
As in the past, the preferential ballot will be used. In using this ballot, the winner must receive a majority of all votes cast.
Requirements for candidates are satisfactory disciplinary record and a cumulative scholastic average of 80 percent.
Nomination petitions are available in the Student Senate Office and in 425 ’ Walsh Hall.
Moot Court Finals Set For Late in October
The annual Moot Court finals for the 1955-56 term will take place in the Engineering Auditorium during the latter part of October.
Ronald Mealey, new head of the Moot I; Court, Ned Griffin, Ed Broderick, and Bill Fagan will be the chief figures in the Regionals to be held Nov. 19 in Chicago.
These men will pit themselves in the courtroom on an imaginary national problem concerning the Clayton AntiTrust Act of 1920.
Following the usual policy, the Court will have three active judges, including
Justice Thomas Clark, former Attorney General, passing judgment on the October hearings.
The winning team will have one month in which to prepare for the regionals. To aid them, the 26 members of the
Moot Court will query the two-man team on all possible questions and problems that may confront them in the Chicago competition.
In the event that Notre Dame tops all other mid-western Law Schools at the
regionals, the team will continue on to . the National Finals won by Columbia ft i University last year.
Chemistry Dept. Announces Appointment of Prof. Wilson
The appointment of Dr. Christopher L. Wilson as research professor of chemistry at the University was announced recently by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs. An authority on the mechanism of organic reactions, Dr. Wilson invented the poly-AVinyl synthetic sponge and holds many chemical patents.
Dr. Wilson first joined the Notre Dame
Debate Team Begins Freshman Orientation; 'Buddy System' Designed to Aid Newcomers
Notre Dame’s 1955-56 debate team, fifth ranked in the U. S., will begin organization for this season’s activities by orientating its freshmen aspirants, according to Dick Schiller, varsity team president.
This year the team will use a “buddy system” to aid and encourage the new members. Richard Ninneman, who last year distinguished himself as an outstanding freshman debator, will serve as coach of the freshman team. In addition to Ninneman’s help, each veteran member will be assigned to small groups of beginners.
It is hoped that in this way the new men will be brought into closer contact
faculty in 1946 shortly after coming to the United States from his native England. Since 1948 he has been a research professoi' at Ohio State University, Columbus, 0., as well as an officer of a Yonkers, N. Y., plastics firm. He has contributed numerous articles to chemistry journals in this country and England.
Dr. Wilson holds doctor of philosophy and doctor of science degrees from University College, London. He was named a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry in 1941. Dr. Wilson lectured at University College from 1933 to 1946. During World War II he was engaged in defense research, serving as director of research and head of the laboratories of Revertex Limited from 1942 to 1946.
“The Paths of Glory Lead but to the Grave.”
with the varsity team, thus receiving the benefit of the veterans’ experience.
This year’s varsity will be formed around a nucleus consisting of Schiller, sophomores Frank Draine, Jeny Brady, Jack Martzell, and Patrick Curran, a junior.
Schiller is anxious foi* a big freshman turnout, and says that there will be “very many opportunities for new men to participate.”
The question to be debated in all college tournaments this year: “Should the non-agricultural industries of the U. S. initiate a guaranteed annual wage plan?”
Some of the important tournaments coming up this year are the Purdue and Bradley invitationals early in November, and the Azalea tournament at Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala. in mid-Feb-ruary.
Last year the Irish debaters placed second at the Purdue Invitational and first at Bradley. They were second at Mobile, missing first place by one point. Freshman and sophomore team members will get workouts in both the University of Pittsburgh’s and University of Illinois’ invitational toui-naments. The Notre Dame frosh-sophomore combination placed fii-st in the Illinois contest last year.
Also high on the list of tournaments is the fourth annual Notre Dame Invitational, to be held March 23-24. Schiller promises that the tournament will be made up of “the twenty best teams in the nation.”
September 30, 1955
13
New, Old Radio Shows Return to Campus Under Station's New Call Letters, WSND
Several new shows, new times for some old shows, and old favorites in “the same time, same place” highlight the start of a new year for the “Student Voice of Notre Dame.” Operating for the first time under the call letters WSND, the station hopes to maintain and even improve its past standards.
One of the more important of the new shows is Kampus Kwiz heard on Tuesday evenings at 8:30. This program pits the skills of four-man teams from each of the residence halls, student government, campus clubs, St. Mary’s, and South Bend high schools against each other in answering questions prepared by faculty members from each of the five colleges of the University. Each week two teams clash and the following week the surviving team takes on a new opponent. Al Riley will be the M.C. on Kwiz and each week a guest professor will serve as moderator.
Music for Everyman's Taste is another of the new shows designed to make student listening more enjoyable. From 5:20 p.m. until midnight each Saturday evening WSND will present music in a widely varied scope. All types from swing to classical will be featured.
A third new highlight is Americana heard Monday through Friday at 5:20 p.m. This program of short sketches takes its format from a series of interesting advertisements for the John Hancock Insurance Co. entitled Know America Better.
Among the old favorites returning at
Father Burns Scholarships Awarded to Nine Freshmen
Nine students in seven states have been awarded Rev. James A. Bums Memorial Scholarships at Notre Dame, the University’s Committee on Scholarships and Prizes announced recently. The Burns scholarships, which are awarded on a competitive basis, provide $650 for the freshman year and $300 each year thereafter.
The scholarships winners, all of whom have entered Notre Dame this September, include Patrick V. Dunne, Houston, Texas; David L. Karnath, Kenmore, N. Y.; Francis P. Nacozy, Burbank, Calif.; Joseph E. O’Connor, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Philip G. Roethig, Boise,' Idaho; Robert C. Ware, Jr., Newburgh, Ind.; William L. Wessel, Louisville, Ky.
Partial scholarships have been awarded to Joseph S. Slade, and Emil A. Zernick, both of South Bend, Ind. Their scholarships will provide $300 for each of four years.
14
new times is Nothing with Al Riley and John Winslow. The new time for this zany program which was heard on Sunday evenings last year is 8:30 p.m. Wednesday. Also being aired at a new time this semester is Front Office, the program designed to answer the questions of the student body. This year the program is specifically, aimed at the freshmen in hopes of clearing up things for them. The time for Front Office is on Thursdays at 7:15. The first show of the semester on Sept. 23 featured Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
An old favorite back in its familiar spot is Show Time. Selections from the finest music of Hollywood and Broadway are once again being heard from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. Monday through Friday.
In order to keep the ND man well informed on the events of the world and of the campus, WSND has a complete coverage of the news. Seven times a day and seven days a week the news comes to the student body. This year the station is serviced by Associated Press reports.
Fr. Hesburgh Opens 114+h ND Schoolyear
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, last Sunday compared western democracy to a house “resting on sand” because the spiritual and moral values from which it is derived “have been discarded from the educational process as unsophisticated, or archaic, or what is most devastating today, unscientific.”
Father Hesburgh delivered the sermon during a Solemn High Mass marking the formal opening of Notre Dame’s 114th academic year. More than 500 faculty members marched in academic procession from the University Administration Building to Sacred Heart Church for the traditional observance. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident, was celebrant of the Mass.
The' soul of man is at stake in the “mortal conflict” of ideas and ideologies in today’s world, Father Hesburgh declared. Unless the university equips the student “to recognize the conflict of his times, to discern its basic issues, and to accept what part he must play to aid in final victory,” then it is a “parasite” in a society that looks to the campus for leadership, knowledge, wisdom and integrity, he said.
“Our belief in God, in the dignity of man and the immortality of his soul must be revitalized if the men of the
western democracies are to be equal to 41 the historical moment we face,” Father Hesburgh observed. “We do not pray today that somehow all crises 'will miraculously cease, for crises is the pattern of history and always will be. We only ask, humbly and confidently, that we ■may be worthy of the truth that is ours, for those on the side of truth are on the side of God, and, ultimately, of victory,” he concluded.	a
David Steinman to Address Joint Meeting of Engineers
David B. Steinman, bridge designer and engineer, will address a joint meeting of the Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers and the
DAVID B. STEINMAN
Mackinac The Impossible
Northwest Subsection of the Indiana A I Section of the American Society of Civil i Engineers next Wednesday evening. His J address will follow a dinner to be held at the Morris Inn. The subject of his talk will be “The Mackinac Bridge— Conquering the Impossible.” Dr. Steinman designed this bridge, as well as many others of the world’s largest bridges. The Henry Hudson Bridge in New York, the Mount Hope Bridge in Rhode Island and the Raritan River Bridge in New Jersey are among the „ structures that he has designed. ™
Since 1920 Dr. Steinman has been in private practice and has served as designing or consulting engineer in the construction of many notable bridges on five continents. Six of his bridges have •been honored in the annual awards for the most beautiful bridges in America. He has received numerous honors, both national and international for his work. ■
There are a limited number of reser- I vations available for the dinner. For all K information concerning the dinner, con-jlhHr tact John Massman at 303 Alumni before Tuesday.	K
The Scholastic I
What’s Notre Dame’s Alma Mater Song?
Has anybody ever asked you what Notre Dame’s Alma Mater song is? It sounds like an easy enough question, but the answer can get quite involved —and confusing. For instance:
. Ask a band member, and he’ll tell you it’s Notre Dame, Our Mother. Ask a glee club member, and he’ll probably answer Notre Dame, We Hail Thee. Ask at Father Norton’s office (or almost anywhere else on campus), and the answer will be simply, “I don’t know.” And that’s not all. Some would even tell you Notre Dame doesn’t have an Alma Mater song at all. And many people probably think it’s the Victory March.
Who’s right?
That’s what the Blue Circle wanted to know last spring, so the group appointed a committee to look into the mystifying situation and try to come up with a solution.
Problem Begun
The committee thought the problem over a while, then started making dust fly off the main library’s old bound volumes of the Scholastic.
The task was not easy. Back in the “old” days, it seems, many of Notre Dame’s budding journalists liked frilly writing better than factual writing. In accounts of football games, for instance, the old Scholastic writer might go into extensive detail explaining how the fullback’s sore arm behaved in the game, - without ever giving such basic informa' £ tion as where the game was played.
j But finally the Alma Mater story : started to take shape, and here it is:
' In 1931, a plane crash took Rockne’s life. When the fall football season arrived, it just wasn’t the same. Every-i body missed him so much the president I of the University, Rev. Charles L. \ O’Donnell, C.S.C., class of 1906, wanted to arrange a memorial ceremony for
; the Roc. It even had to have” music I ^especially written for it.
* So he called on Joseph J. Casasanta, class of 1923, the band and glee club
September 30, 1955
director, to compose a new song-for the • ceremony honoring the memory of Notre Danie’s greatest coach.
He had already written three other songs for Notre Dame, including the well-known Hike Song. Mr. Casasanta realized the importance of this new song as he looked for ideas. It had to be very different from his other school songs.
One day he found a poem to the Blessed Mother written by Father
NOTRE DAME, OUR MOTHER Notre Dame, Our Mother, Tender, strong and true, Proudly in the heavens Gleams the gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee; Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever Praise thee, Notre Dame, And our hearts forever Love thee, Notre Dame.
O’Donnell himself. It was beautiful in 1 its simplicity, and Mr. Casasanta was convinced its lines must be the lyrics for the new song.
Keeping his idea secret, - he set the poem to music and made it a hymn in ■ the rich key of G-flat major.
A hushed half-time crowd in the new stadium at the Southern California game in November, 1931, heard the band play the song for the first time—Notre Dame, Our Mother.	’
According to Mi-. Casasanta, who now lives on East Angela street not far from the campus, the University officials, late the same year, decided the new hymn
should be Notre Dame’s Alma Mater song and officially proclaimed it so.
The 1932 and 1933 Scholastics support this by frequently referring to . Notre Dame, Our Mother as the Ahna Mater song. The glee club and the band performed it at every concert. At the football games during those years the students stood and sang the words, but after Mr. Casasanta left the. University the hymn fell into disuse. The band and the seminary choir have since performed it only occasionally.
In 1936 Mr. Daniel Pedtke, now director of the University Glee Club, joined the faculty of the music department and the next year replaced Mr. Casasanta as head of the- department.
Soon after joining the staff, Mr. Pedtke composed another beautiful hymn in honor of Our Lady, Notre Dame, We Hail Thee. This is the hymn the glee club now sings. But it has never been officially made an Alma Mater song, according to Mr. Pedtke.
Problem Ended	-i
The Victory March, the committee found, is Notre Dame’s official r song, ’ not-'the Alma Mater, but it is so well . known throughout the world it is’ generally considered The Notre Dame song, and has often been called the Alma Mater song.	.
Its work finished, the Blue’ Circle committee reported its findings, and .the Circle this year wants to again popularize the official Alma Mater/ Notre = Dame, Our Mother, among the students. " The plan is eventually to have the entire student section singing it at football games.	1;
But whethei- this will finally solve Notre Dame’s Alma Mater dilemma re- s mains to be seen. No Alma Matei- might '' -J* be better than one in disuse or several -fit in conflict. The Alma Mater must =be ' . . -accepted by all if it is truly to represent Notre Dame. Your vote for or.„^ ' against it is your reaction at the games'^-'' this fall.	v
' ’ ■ 75
NO COMMENT!
I’LL GET THIS ONE EARLY.
winding, sagging, holding feet, multitudinous, centiwended endlessly around
Weaving, its weary pedal lines
may-new
year, the signs that the system change grow more hopeful. The
—*41^. A
and through the campus architecture.
To its many battered football opponents, Notre Dame lines are infamous —synonymous with aching anatomy and frustration. For undergraduates of the same University, the same holds true.
Many and various are the subterfuges crafty veterans use in their endeavors
to foil the system, desperate after years of bone-numbing experience. But few ever succeed. At Notre Dame you just can’t beat the system.
Ever since Notre Dame started getting too big for its facilities, students have stood in thousands of miles of lines, lines, and more lines. On these pages Scholastic photographers have tried to capture some of them.
But now that it is all over for another
bookstore has deprived freshmen of the thrill of standing in the rain waiting to squeeze into the old Badin book cove. Father Hesburgh’s recent announcement of another dining hall to be built may spell doom to still more lines.
Vanishing era? Maybe it is, and lest we become cynical, we shall end without further comment.
WHERE IT HURTS THE MOST!


<
Blue was very fond of band music. He would follow a vigorous band the whole length of a parade, never tiring of the blaring of the brass, the thumping of the drums. He especially liked martial music. His idea of one of the greatest offerings of life was a rich, full band . . . marching in gorgeous uniform, marching with high military bearing, marching down a broad avenue or boulevard out of the distance, metal flashing, uniforms flashing, marching proudly, nobly, radiantly, and playing some magnificent bizarre fighting tune.
“ 'The thump of it, and the pound of it, and the ring of it, and the call and challenge and command of it, start my blood racing, start my feet lifting, start my eyes searching, my heart stirring. Surely no man can deny there are things worth fighting for, worth dying for, who hears militant music like this.’ ”
Those words of Myles Connolly’s Mr. Blue have special meaning for the members of Notre Dame’s marching band,
18
Reeds Blow Up A Storm

The Scholastic
I
The University of Notre Dame Marching Band
Robert F. O'Brien. Director
Student Officers and Staff: Assistant Director. James Phillips: Drum Major, Jerome Gatto: President, George Murray: Vice-President, John Gucguen; Secretary, Richard Kopituk; Social Chairman, Richard Mein-ert; Alumni Co-ordinator, Richard Rupp; Secretary to the Director, John Mengel; Property Manager, Darryl Eartly; Librarian, George Muivay; Uniform and Instrument Custodian, John Gueguen: Assistant Librarian, John Heineman; Band Newspaper Editor, Norris Bishton; Irish Guard Captain, Tom McCluhan; Dipm Captain, George Murray.
now in its ninety-fifth year of service to the University.
Tomorrow the “Fighting Irish” will stage their second football show of the season under the direction of Robert F. O’Brien.
Mr. Blue’s comments about bands can be summed up in a single word—spirit. And that word, too, is the key to the Notre Dame band.
The band is one of the chief means of keeping student spirit high, mainly at pep rallies and athletic contests, and of spreading the Notre Dame spirit and Notre Dame culture across the country.
Big brass sounds off
To do this effectively each of the 120 bandsmen must have and does have an overabundance of spirit overflowing through his music and marching to all who hear and see the band perform.
Without this individual spirit, the Notre Dame band might not even be in existence. For unlike other university bands that exist because of compulsory membership for music majors, scholarships, and a large bank account, the Notre Dame band lives almost exclusively on the spirit of its members who take pride in their mission of marching and playing well for the greater glory of Notre Dame.
Probably no other university anywhere could field a band that spends each week 1,250 man-hours of free time, sweat, and aching muscles preparing a new program for football shows despite very little tangible reward.
No financial aid from the University for officers or individual bandsmen except six staff members; no academic
En route to rhythm
Not So Easy As It Looks
credit or grades; conflicting lab periods and Washington Hall movies; lack of co-operation from other departments of the University; erratic weather conditions that include rain, mud, and snow; antiquated, crowded quarters, and occasional lack of appreciation for its service to Notre Danie—these are some of the obstacles the band faces.
But probably its greatest difficulty is lack of a staff of band instructors. Nearly eveiy sizable college band has from two to five full time band directors and assistants, while at Notre Dame the band has only Director O’Brien. And other duties in the music department make it possible to devote only part of his time to the band.
Many times Notre Dame students do not realize all this when they watch the band performing, but it is “old stuff” for the band, and its members have
September 30, 1955
19
learned better than any other non-athletic organization on campus the meaning of doing a good job “though the odds be great or small.”
It is not an easy task to stage a new and appealing band show each week. Far in advance Director O’Brien and his student staff and show planning committee must spend long hours to plan the shows, work out formations, drills, and routines, specially arrange field music, and run off hundreds of copies of formation sheets and music for each individual bandsman.
On Monday formations and music for the next band show are ready for each bandsman to start learning music and formations during a free period.
Tuesday afternoon for an hour and a half the band meets in the band room to play the music together and then moves onto its practice field east of the Stadium to learn the formations under the command of its “slave driver,” Drum Major Jerry Gatto.
Wednesday evening after supper the band spends another session on its practice field, running through halftime and pre-game shows time after time, adding the music, and ironing out rough spots.
Thursday night is dress rehearsal. With about ten pieces of music memorized, the group goes through the shows again emphasizing details, each bandsman trying to make the music and formations second nature.
At the final rehearsal Friday, some bandsmen in late labs, the remainder of the band polishes all maneuvers and music to near perfection.
There is not much time to rest after the performance Saturday for the fol-
lowing Monday practice on a new halftime show begins.
Notre Dame’s band might be called one of the most non-professional university bands in the country for the reason that only eight members of the band are music majors. Half of the bandsmen represent the colleges of engineering and science.
Despite all the time they spend at rehearsal the bandsmen have a very good academic record. Last year one fourth of the band earned a place on the dean’s lists of the various colleges, a
much higher percentage than for the University as a whole. About half the bandsmen participate in other co-cur-ricular activities besides band.
Tomorrow when the band enters the field to take on the Indiana band, watch the Notre Dame spirit operate against a big, wealthy state university organization with a hundred music majors, four directors, and $10,000 worth of brand new uniforms.
Then decide for yourself if this is truly the spirit plus organization of Notre Dame.

Argentina
End of an Era
By JOHN J. KENNEDY
Argentina is one of the few modern nations to make Catholicism the official state-supported religion. Yet recently Argentina and the Catholic Church in Argentina have been at odds, and the antagonism between the two has undoubtedly been a major, though probably not the sole, cause of Peron’s downfall.
This paradoxical situation has a three-fold origin. It is complicated by - the provisions of the Argentine con-• stitution governing Church-state relations, the record of Peron’s treatment of the Church since his rise to power, and the long tradition of acute civic conscience of large numbers of active, democratic Catholics.
THE ARGENTINE CONSTITUTION
It establishes the official status of the Church, but does not make Catholicism . the sole religion of Argentina since it also guarantees freedom of belief and worship.
It requires the president and the vicepresident to be Catholics and gives the government vast powers over the Church. These include state control of hierarchical appointments and the right of the government to prohibit the publication of Papal decrees unless the president, and in some cases also the Congress, approves them.
Under this system Church-state relations have been generally harmonious for more than a century, but there have been critical incidents and sustained disputes before. Peron is by no means the first president to restrict the Church. Some of his predecessors have even deprived bishops of their sees and ordered them tried for “disloyalty.”
But the prevailing pattern has been one of good relations between civil and ecclesiastical authorities. It is the re, storation of this pattern that Catholic 9 groups who revolted against Peron were seeking. How had Peron violated it?
THE PERON RECORD
In his early rise to power Peron tended to respect the traditional position of the Church. Whether this was political policy camouflaging future designs will probably never be known.
The revolution of June 4, 1943, was a revolt against an incompetent, weak government. The army led the revolt, A but it seemed to have a great deal of popular approval. The army’s position, too, was weak, however, for the generals
September 30, 1955
could not provide the inspired leadership needed to win national support.
Into this situation stepped the well-known, but not especially prominent, Colonel Juan Domingo Peron.
Peron used his post as Secretary of Labor in the revolutionary government to build a strong labor organization, winning the loyalty of workers throughout the nation. Peron soon emerged the only man in the revolutionary regime with a strong personal following among the masses.
By the end of 1943 he was the dominant figure in the government, but he did not become president until 1946 through an orderly and scrupulously honest election.
Peron’s labor unions were nothing that a North American worker would recognize. There was no collective bargaining since the unions were essentially political pressure groups acting at Peron’s bidding. They did achieve a few so-called “social gains,” but these were tokens to hold the sympathy of the masses rather than genuine economic advancements.
Through the years Peron managed to balance the power of the military and labor to keep himself firmly in command.
Peron’s first overture to the Church came on December 31, 1943, when his government decreed the re-establishment of compulsory religion classes in the public schools. They had been dropped from the curriculum 60 years earlier.
The Church was criticized for accepting the arrangement because it was an “interference” with freedom of conscience. Actually it was not. The decree was limited to the public schools, and did not touch the sectarian schools where most of Argentina’s non-Catholics are educated, and the decree also provided that any child would be exempt from religious instruction at parental request.
This was probably a token of goodwill from Peron to the Church at a time when he was still consolidating his power. As soon as he was secure, he made it clear he would tolerate no examination or criticism by churchmen or laymen.
While destroying the great independent press of Buenos Aires and threatening the universities, he began moving against individual clerics known to have criticized his government.
Peron apparently distrusted any mass movement or meeting not under the
This is the first in a series of authori~ tative articles on current national and international topics the SCHOLASTIC plans to present this year.
John J. Kennedy, assistant professor of political science at Notre Dame, is especially qualified in the field of Latin American studies. He spent several years in Argentina before and after World War II in government service and is considered an expert on that country's politics.
Professor Kennedy, added to the Notre Dame faculty in 1951, took his doctorate at Columbia University last year.
auspices of his controlled labor organization. Catholic lay associations found it increasingly difficult to meet and to publish.
Until last year, however, Peron did not open a general attack on the Church. This did not come until Catholic opinion was so clearly outraged by the whole series of incidents that Peron felt it necessary to challenge the Church. This he did through anti-Church laws the Peronist Congress was only too willing to pass.
/
THE CATHOLIC CIVIC CONSCIENCE
July 11, 1955, the Christian Democratic Party issued its first declaration of principles. Disclaiming any official connection with the Church, the party leaders stated that in using the word Christian they were “confessing our concept of the temporal world.”
They pledged themselves to work for the restoration of liberty and the long tradition of freedom in Argentine history, pointing out acceptable solutions to previous crises that have been inspired by Christian principles.
They cited the leaders of a century ago who opposed the tyranny of Rosas and who established the constitutional basis for the modern Argentine state. They recalled the contributions to Argentine political development made by such later outstanding Catholic spokesmen as Felix Frias and Jose Manuel Estrada.
Whether this party will have a significant role in the future of Argentina cannot yet be stated. What is certain, however, is that the leaders have invoked one of the strongest traditions of Argentine democracy in appealing to the Catholic tradition. For in Argentina, Catholic sentiment and democratic sentiment have historically coincided to a much greater degree than in most Latin American countries.
In the late nineteenth century, for
(Continued on page 32)
21
Art Versus Mass Production
Difference of opinions makes horse racing. You are probably proud and confident of your opinions about your girl, the AP’s latest picks, the academy award choices, and your latest necktie. You are probably prepared to argue long and loudly concerning the relative
merits of these and a thousand other things.
This will be a column of opinions like these. Don’t get me wrong; I’m not trying to start an argument. However, since opinions are of interest to most people, even contrary ones, I feel justified in printing them.
I don’t propose to cover the whole range of opinion. As befits a column on the entertainment page, the discussions printed here will be limited to the adjoining fields of art and entertainment.
Nor is this supposed to be a “highbrow” column, considering music and the “ahts” as though obscurity were the aim of the course. There will be articles on music: jazz, pops and classical, and no quick and facile judgments as to the relative merits of these divisions. There will be long movie reviews, readable discussions of modern art, books and poetry. There may be comment on radio programs, local or national, new things which look promising, regular shows with appeal, possibly criticism of certain characteristics and developments. Once in a while, the columnist may look at trends or developing interests with an eye to the future.
All in all, I hope to set broad limits and then stay within the limits. I will try to criticize without sneering, and praise without cheering. Above all, I must not be boring. As a means to this end, I hope to tap many sources of critical talent for writing in this column, which should provide much variety in style, opinion and subject matter. The guest columnists will write about the things in which they are interested. In this way, their job should be not a chore but a pleasure, which in turn, would
liven up the page a bit. Their goal must be to interest rather than to teach; to raise ideas ■without trying to give all the answers.
I am aware that the present columnist does not live up to the standards which he sets for future writers. However, in the turmoil of the beginning semester and the past football weekend, it has proved necessary to use the available talent and hope for improvement in future issues.
It seems to me that it does not take much talent or insight to be aware that things of much value (in the fields of music and art) can not be mass-produced, and as I say this, I am thinking in particular of the popular song-writing industry. I do not refer to the mass production of records which has made good music available at low cost to a huge audience, although this has been a prime factor in the development of the situation which I will now try to sketch.
A great proportion of popular music today is, to my mind, dull, noisy, imitative and generally not worth listening
to. I feel that this is due, not to a lack of talented composers in the popular idiom, but rather to an excessive demand which has led writers to be more concerned with volume than with quality.- On the other end, publishers and record companies have built up a complicated system of song plugging and publicity through a hundred different channels, most of which aim at getting the song played widely and regularly. They have found that if a song becomes “popular,” in the sense that it is played regularly, records will sell and sheet music will sell. It is not important that this “popularity” is short-lived, due to the high pressure methods, as more songs can always be produced and manufactured into hits. The inevitable result was a vicious spiral of cause and effect which has its effect both on the listening public and on the composers and consequently, upon the quality of his work.
Everyone is aware of the listening op
portunities for popular music; it is impossible to live a normal life without being aware of them. Radio, juke boxes, public address systems, record stands, and countless phonographs blare the “latest hits” at the dulled sensibilities of the public eardrum. Booming bass, screaming brass and stereotyped harmonies blunt the capacity for appreciation; slake the thirst for variety and originality. .
The effect on the composer is allied. Compelled to consider the demand of the public, whether created artificially or not, rather than the demand of his art, the serious and talented songwriter is tempted to turn out second or third rate material, which serves as adequately as his best would do. Following in the footsteps of these men are the hack composers, the imitators, ready to limp on the bandwagon, slavishly copying the new chord, the new sound, the new trend. A case in point being the resurgence of the banjo—an instrument of limited versatility and appeal. Not only do many of the recent releases feature banjo backgrounds and solos, but even the lyrics plug the trend (i.e., “The Banjo’s Back in Toron")
This is not to suggest that there are not popular songs of beauty and musical worth, nor that they are few. Richard Rodgers, for one, has written many tunes of beauty and appeal, which have stood the double test of time and varied arrangement. There are many other fine tunes; even a sketchy list would prove fruitless and pointless. But how few are these tunes in comparison with the thousands which are poured into the public ear in the course of a year.
I am not a learned critic or expert. I have no practical knowledge of the difficulties involved in writing a song. But it does seem to me that there is an excessive amount of musical junk receiving an undue amount of listener attention. What do you think?
—Jim O’Brien

On these two pages the SCHO- „ LASTIC introduces a new feature on O entertainment and the arts. As the year progresses we will try to make this a complete guide to current offerings as well as review all the art forms from jazz and science fiction to opera and debate.
If there are other phases of entertainment and the arts our readers would like to see reviewed or included in the guide, please write us. Your ideas will be welcome.
—The Editors
22
The Scholastic
Movies
AVON
The Private War of Major Benson (ends tomorrow); A-l; Universal; color; Charlton Heston-Julie Adams— This movie about a man and 300 boys is different from any you’ve seen in many moons. You’ve got to see it to believe it—how good it is, that is.
" Doctor in the House (Sunday through Tuesday); A-2; Republic; British; color; Dick Bogarde-Muriel Pavlow—This No. 1 money-maker in England last year is a deftly humorous portrayal of episodes in the life of a young med student. It’s a repeat from this summer.
Pearl of the South Pacific (Wednesday through next Tuesday); A-2; RKO Stereophonic sound; color; Virginia I 4^ Mayo-Dennis Morgan—A treasure looting action film with the same old pearls, native girls, and South Seas setting. Strictly escapist entertainment.
COLFAX
The Left Hand of God (today through Thursday or longer); A-2; Fox; Cin-emaScope; color; Humphrey Bogart-Gene Tierney—This is the story of a downed flier who disguises himself as a priest to escape a Chinese war lord. Gene Tierney is the mission hospital nurse. Though the basic conflict re-I1 volves around the principles of the Church, it is handled with care and intelligence.
GRANADA
' Blood Alley (ends Wednesday);
•' Warner; CinemaScope; color; John Wayne-Lauren Bacall—Blood Alley is the Formosa Strait. The action re-? 9 volves around adventurous escape from I the Chinese commies. It’s a brand new film with not a few merits.
To Hell and Back (starts Thursday); A-2; Universal; CinemaScope; color; j Audie Murphy-Marshall Thompson — i Another late release, this is Audie Murphy’s story, the Sergeant York of World War II. It’s a story of war on a drudging, personal basis with heroism, sentimentality, and pathos. It’s worth a look.
i ♦	STATE
House of Bamboo (Sunday through Tuesday); A-2; Fox; CinemaScope; color; Robert Stack-Robert Ryan—A high and pure melodrama in modern Japan. It should satisfy both action fans and armchair travelers. One Desire (co-hit) A-2; Universal; color; Anne Baxter-Rock Hudson—Rock is a facile liar, handsome and debonair, whose woman is pretty but fading. Another back street job.
That Lady (Wednesday and Thursday); A-2; Fox; CinemaScope; color;
September 30, 1955
Olivia de Havilland-Gilbert Roland— Here’s a dazzling costume drama of medieval Spain that fails in its attempt to capture romance, court intrigue, and violence. This Is My Love (co-hit); B; RKO; color; Linda Darnell-Dan Duryea —A hitter domestic tale that starts in love and ends in hate, jealousy, and murder. Resembles a daytime radio drama.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Glass Slipper (6:40, 8:40); A-l; MGM; color; Leslie Caron-Michael Wilding—Here’s a literal treatment of the Cinderella fantasy that comes close to its intended goal of charming make believe. It’s light on action. A good one for the kiddies.
The South Bend Audubon Society is sponsoring a series of five full-length color movies on nature at monthly intervals beginning with Cypress Kingdom Oct. 15. Student season tickets are $1. All showings at 8 p.m. at Central High School. Write Room 220 at the school.
Lectures
POLITICAL SCIENCE—Dr. Kertesz Tuesday in the Law Building.
Exhibits
THE UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY. O’Shaughnessy Hall will exhibit for two months its collection of Peruvian pottery. The gallery is open week days from 2 to 5.
Concerts
THE SOUTH BEND CIVIC MUSIC ASSOCIATION AND THE SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY are again making available special student season tickets for their 1955-56 offerings. Students may purchase tickets for each series of five concerts in the Music Department office, 245 O’Shaughnessy Hall, from 8:30 to 12:00 and 1:30 to 5:00 Monday through Friday, and 8:30 to 12:00 Saturday. The price is $3.00 per series.
Gold and Fizdale, a two-piano team, will open the Civic Music Association series Sunday night, October 9, at John Adams High School Auditorium. Other attractions during the year include an English production by Doris Goldovsky’s Opera Theatre of Donizetti’s comic opera, Don Pasquale; the Ballet Theatre; Victoria de los Angeles, Metropolitan Opera soprano; and the Minneapolis 'Symphony Orchestra.
The South Bend Symphony season will begin Sunday afternoon, Oct. 16, at John Adams, with Van Clibum guest pianist.
Theatre
THE UNIVERSITY THEATRE, Washington Hall, has just completed tryouts for its first of three 1955-56 productions, Ben Jonson’s comic Elizabethan play, The Alchemist. Rehearsals will begin Nov. 3, and the play will begin its five-night ran Nov. 16. Students interested in any phase of theatre work should report to Father Arthur S. Haiwey, C.S.C., in Washington Hall.
Radio-TV Highlights
TODAY 5:20 WSND—Americana 5:30 WSND—Meet Your Opponents (Indiana) 6:00 WSND—Invitation, to Music
6:30 WNDU-TV—Eddie Fisher Show, originating from ND Fieldhouse during Indiana pep rally
7:15 WSND—Knights in Review 8:00 WNDU-TV—The Big Story 8:30 WNDU-TV—Famous Plavhouse 9:00 WSND—Requestfully Yours
WNDU-TV—Boxing 10:00 WSND—Musical Guide
SATURDAY
10:00 WNDU-TV—Station dedication, an hour-long program featuring dedication address by Father Hesburgh and music by the University Band and Glee Club
11:45 WNDU-TV—The World Series 12:30 WSND—Around the Town
3:45 WNDU-TV—Ohio State vs. Stanford
4:00 WSND—Football Scoreboard 6:45 WNDU-TV—Let’s Travel 8:30 WNDU-TV—Cinema 46 9:30 WNDU-TV—Your Hit Parade
10:00 WNDU-TV—Playhouse of Stars
SUNDAY
11:30 WSND—Hour of the Crucified 12:30 WSND—Ave Maria Hour
1:00 WSND—Jazz music by Maltby
1:30 WSND—Fred Waring and the Pennsylvanians WNDU-TV—Youth Wants to Know
2:00 WSND—Sunday Showcase
2.30 WNDU-TV—American Forum 3:00 WNDU-TV—Let’s Travel 4:30 WNDU-TV—The Christophers 5:00 WNDU-TV—Meet the Press 7:00 WNDU-TV—Variety Hour
WSND—The B.B.C. Presents The Little Price
8:00 WSND—The W’orld This Week WNDU-TV—Goodyear Playhouse
9:00 WNDU-TV—Loretta Young Show 9:30 WSND—Letters From Home
MONDAY
1:30 WSND—Showtime (Guvs and Dolls) 3:30 WSND—Afternoon Concert 5:30 WSND—Americana 6:00 WSND—Invitation to Music 7:00 WNDU-TV—Caesar’s Hour
7:15 WSND—Monday Night Quarterback
8:00 WNDU-TV—The Story of Notre Dame Television
8:30 WSND—The White Plume
9:30 WNDU-TV—TV Theatre
TUESDAY
1:30 WSND—Showtime (Pal Joey)
3:30 WSND—Afternoon Concert 6:00 WSND—Imitation to Music 7:00 WNDU-TV—Milton Berle 7:15 WSND—Student Government Show 8:00 WNDU-TV—Fireside Theatre 8:30 WSND—Kampus Kwiz WNDU-TV—Circle Theatre
WEDNESDAY
1:30 WSND—Showtime (Girl Crazv)
3:30 WSND—Afternoon Concert
6:00 WSND—Invitation to Music
7:15 WSND—Let’s Get Going
7:30 WNDU-TV—Familv Plavhouse
8:30 WSND—Nothing
WNDU-TV—Big Town
9.00 WNDU-TV—Cinema 46
THURSDAY
1:30 WSND—Showtime (The Mikado) 3:30 WSND—Afternoon Concert 6:00 WSND—Invitation to Music 7:15 WSND—Front Office
8:00 WNDU-TV—Dragnet 8:30 WSND—Focus
WNDU-TV—Ford Theatre
9:00 WNDU-TV—Video Theatre
FRIDAY
1:30 WSND—Showtime (Band Wagon) 5:30 WSND—Meet Your Opponents (Miami) 7:30 WSND—Notre Dame vs. Miami
23
Skowcc^t
By NORRIS BISHTON
C]
i
I
com shocks
Norris Bishton is a junior English major and a veteran member of the feature staff. He has contributed to THE SHOWCASE in previous years.
“What do ya think?”
“I don’t know. Somebody might get hurt.”
“Who?”
“I don’t know.”
“Come on. Let’s go. It’s almost dark.”
“Maybe we haven’t got time before supper.”
“You makin’ excuses?”
“No. Ya know, let’s get somebody else to help.”
“Who?”
“Dick.”
“He’s only in fifth grade.”
“So what. We’re only in sixth.”
“All right, we’ll get Dick but I think you’re chicken.”
“Ah, go to hell.”
“What if your mother heard you say that?” They both laughed at this and Jim forgot his initial fears.
They laughed again when they passed old Mrs. Higgin’s store. Somebody had written a dirty word on her window with soap. In fact, the guys had gotten her windows pretty good. Bill fingered a half bar of soap in his jacket pocket, but they had better things to do.
Dick was sitting on his back porch, carving a face on a pumpkin. He saw them coming and shoved the pumpkin out of sight inside the door, but Bill got a good look at it anyway.
“I could do better.”
“It’s not mine.”
“Who’s it for? Your little sister?”
“Uuuhh . . . yes. I did a good job on mine.”
“Lay off that stuff, Bill, and see if he wants to go.”	-
“All right. You want to come with us?”
“What for?” The last time he had gone with them, they had taken his jacket and hat and thrown them into a tree.
“We’ve got a trick to pull.”
“On me?”
“No.”
“You did last time.”
“That was last time.”
“I don’t know. I’ll go, I guess.”
Dick really wanted to go with them but he was afraid. He hoped they weren’t going to play a trick on him.
24
They walked in silence; past where the houses got thinner, across a vacant lot, and into a garden. Bill picked up an over-ripe tomato and plastered it against a billboard. Dick laughed.
On the other side of the garden stood some com shocks. Bill wrapped his arms around one of them. Then half dragging, half carrying the cumbersome shock, he started towards the road. Jim followed him with another shock, but Dick just stood and watched. Bill put his shock down and walked over to Dick.
“What’s wrong?”
“What are you going to do?”
“Line ’em up across the road.”
“What for?”
“So the cars will have to stop, stupid.”
“I don’t think that is such a good idea.”
“What’s wrong with it?”
“Somebody could get hurt.”
“Listen stupid, do you think I’d be doing this if I thought somebody was going to get hurt?”
“I don’t know.”
“You’re chicken.”
“I am not.”
“Are you goin’ to help us?”
“I don’t think so.”
Bill hit Dick in the face and Dick fell to the ground. He lay there crying. Bill kicked the cringing figure and walked away.
“Remember Jim, it was your idea to bring the chicken.”
After a while, Dick sat up and watched the other two boys hauling the corn shocks to the road. His side hurt where Bill had kicked him, but he hurt more inside. He waited a while, then got up and walked slowly over to where the others were working. They ignored him.
“Give me another chance?” Hopelessly, he stood and watched them work. Only one more shock was needed before Bill spoke to him.
“All right. You put the last one in and we won’t tell anybody you’re a chicken.” Afraid to refuse, he accepted the offer.
All the shocks near the road were gone so they had to walk over near the billboard to get one. Dick wrapped his arms around a shock and started dragging it towards the road. He was scared as he thought of the whipping he would get from his father. But Bill and Jim
were watching him. He managed to ' get his shock into place.
“You there!” '
He turned around so fast he tripped on a piece of corn and fell flat on his face in the street. He looked up. There stood nosey Mrs. Robertson from down the block. He scrambled to his feet. Bill and Jim were nowhere in sight. He started to run.
“I saw you, Dick Sheppard. I saw you. Just wait until <1 tell your father.”
He didn’t stop running until he reached home. Fearfully, he went up the back stairs into the kitchen. He could see his mother and father and little sister sitting at the supper table. He took a long time in the bathroom, washing the tear-stains off his face and trying to catch his breath. He was afraid to go into the dining room and face his father but he knew he must.
He slipped into his place without looking at his father but he picked up his fork.
“Just a minute, young man.” He put down his fork.
“You know you’re supposed to be home in time for supper.”
“Yes, sir.”
“You know what that means.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Where were you?”	|
This was the question he had feared. ' I Suddenly, he blurted out the whole story, I crying as he did so. His little sister	I
started to cry, too, so that his mother	|i
had to take her out of the room. The two of them sat in silence for a long time after he had finished. Finally his father spoke in a surprising quiet voice.
“You’ll have to be punished. I’m going to talk it over with your mother first. For now, go to your room.” Carefully not looking at his father, he got up from the table.
“I’m glad you told me, son.”
For the longest time, he lay on his bed without undressing. He felt better having told his father the whole story. He heard the door bell ring. That would 'be Mrs. Robertson coming to tell his father. He wondered what his father
would say to her. He crept from his room and into the hallway. From there he could hear what was said in the dining room. Instead of a woman’s voice, he heard a man’s.
(Continued on page 33)
■	The Scholastic
9^uk Scene
IRISH FACE INDIANA IN SERIES RENEWAL
g Hoosier Experience and Sharp Air Attack Raise Crimmins1 Hopes for Best Season
By JOE NORTON
Indiana University's Hoosiers will invade Notre Dame Stadium Saturday in the 25th renewal of their “intra-state” rivalry with the Fighting Irish. Although Indiana has won only five games 11 of the series, they have never been rated a pushover and have given the Irish many a bad moment throughout the years.
In a pre-season statement, Coach Bernie Crimmins indicated that an abundance of experienced talent might give Indiana their best team in several years. “This will be the most experienced squad I’ve had since I came to Indiana. It should help eliminate some l of the previous costly mistakes.”
Out of 40 returning players, 23 are lettermen and five of those were regu-. lars on the 1954 squad which won three and lost six. The biggest loss was that - of quarterback Florian Helinski who graduated.
Junior Chick Chichowski succeeds Helinski and is highly regarded by his coaches. Crimmins rates Chichowski’s passing ability as equal to Helinski’s. The Hoosiers were two deep at each end > position in 1954 and their receivers have shown definite improvement in practice already this season. That they are developing an “air game” has already
been proven in their opener with Michigan State last Saturday. Indiana backs attempted 26 passes, completing twelve for a total of 247 yards.
However, Chichowski and No. 2 quarterback Tom Cassidy, a Terry
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
INDIANA	NOTRE DAME
Fei linger ____ LE .... Prendergast
Skoronski ..... LT ....... Edmonds
Hall .......... LG ..... Bisceglia
Wietecha ...... C__________  Mense
Karras ........ RG ........ Gaydos
Amstutz ....... RT .....  Sullivan
Bomba _________ RE .......  Kapish
Chichowski ____ QB ....... Hornung
Johnson ....... LH ________  Lewis
Campbell ...... RH ......... Morse
Bartkiewicz ... FB ______ Schaefer
Kickoff—1:30 p.m.
Brennan product from Mt. Carmel, both suffered similar hip injuries in the State game, and the Indiana air attack may be slowed down considerably if the two quarterbacks are not quick to recover.
In the running department, 209 lb.
Olympic track star Milt Campbell will operate at right halfback for the Hoosiers. Last season he proved himself a power runner as well as a broken-field artist, averaging 5.1 yards in 67 carries. Campbell played 302 minutes over the season in spite of a knee injury and was second in team scoring with 24 points. He has a tendency to fumble,-however, and that may be a weakness the Irish will be able to capitalize on.
At fullback will be either Les Kun or - John Bartkiewicz, both seniors. Bart-kiewicz was the Hoosiers’ leading ground gainer last season and also led the team in playing time with 427 minutes. Kun was out most of last season with injuries but played in the Michigan State opener and appears to be sound.
Barry Johnson, a sophomore, will start at left half. Johnson is a smart runner who uses his blockers well. He is also one of Chichowski’s favorite targets, grabbing a pass good for 18 yards against Michigan State. He will alternate in the left halfback position with senior Jim Stone who averaged five yards a carry last season.
Indiana’s strength depends a great deal on the play of its line, which averages 212 pounds. Capt. Bob Skoronski 215-pound right tacke from Derby, Conn., • is the mainstay of the forward wall.
Last season he played 325 minutes on the left side of the line but has been shifted to right tackle this year. Skoronski is fast and has quick reflexes. Against Michigan State he recovered a

Pitching . . .CHICK CHICHOWSKI
Captain—Right Tackle BOB SKORONSKI
BIG GUNS IN INDIANA ATTACK . .
Catching . . .BRAD BOMBA
fumble by Campbell which might have been costly.
At the ends, Indiana has Brad Bomba and Pat Fellinger backed up by Bob Fee and Delnor Gales. All four are big and fast, providing excellent targets for Chichowski’s aerials. Bomba is rated one of the best ends in the Big Ten and may give the Irish secondary a few headaches tomorrow afternoon.
Ron Rauchmiller or Ted Ross will be at left tackle for the Hoosiers. Rauchmiller played 195 minutes behind Sko-ronski last season but Ross, a 223-pounder, was rated number one in that position at the close of spring practice.
Seniors Tommy Hall and Ted Karras will go at left and right guards. Both are lettermen and have plenty of experience. Karras is being pushed by returning Marine veteran, Tom Cousin-eau, however, and may be forced to yield the starting position he has held for two seasons.
Jim Vesel’s graduation left a big gap at center for Indiana, but either Ed Wietecha or 245 pound Joe Amstutz will start at that position. Both are lettermen.
The last time Notre Dame and the Hoosiers met was in 1951.
Irish Stun Mustangs
The Fighting Irish opened their 1955 football season in impressive fashion Saturday afternoon with a 17-0 win over the Mustangs of S.M.U. before a partisan crowd of 56,454 in Notre Dame Stadium.
Sparking the Irish in their season debut was Junior Quarterback Paul Hornung, who climaxed a first period drive of 75 yards with an 11-yard sprint around left end for the first score. Hornung, carrying on the tradition of great Notre Dame signalcallers, performed as a triple-threat, booted a fourth down field goal from the Mustang 28 early in the second stanza, completed two of five forward passes and ran for 70 yards in 13 carries. He also did some of Notre Dame’s punting.
Notre Dame scored the first time they had the ball. Sherril Sipes returned the S.M.U. kickoff to the Irish 25. Eleven plays later N.D. had its first TD.
Early in the second quarter, the Irish boosted their advantage to 10-0 with Hornung’s field goal, climaxing an attack which bogged down inside the Mustang 30-yard stripe.
Passes by Mustang Quarterback Roach kept the Notre Dame secondary alert throughout the afternoon. Several times, the Mustangs threatened to draw scoring blood through the air and with a wide-open ground game. However, only eleven of 28 Pony aerials hit their target.
26
UP FOR GRABS
Button, Button . . .
The Mustangs were horsecoil ared for the last time late in the third period when veteran Paul Reynolds, three-time letter winner at halfback, galloped 14 yards behind sharp interference into scoring territory. Don Schaefer booted both the conversions. Schaefer, Irish candidate for All-American, was again one of the leading ground gainers for the Irish, carrying for 63 yards in 19 tries.
Also featured in the ground attack which netted 285 yards were Sophomore Aubrey Lewis, who reeled off 53 yards in 12 carries, and Sipes, who churned out 28 yards in eight attempts. Impressive among the second-string ball carriers who shouldered much of the offensive duties in the final period were “Buddy” Ward, who netted 31 yards in only five tries, and Dean Studer, 28 yards in eight carries.
The Irish moved the first down sticks 16 times while the Mustangs picked up 13 first downs. The Notre Dame line, outweighed an average of 10 to 12
MENSE FLYING LOW AFTER TUCKER Irish Defense Saddles Mustangs
pounds per man, held the Mustang ground attack to 160 yards.
This victory by an almost new starting lineup chosen by Head Coach Terry Brennan gave the.Irish their sixth win in seven contests with the Mustangs from Dallas. It also kept alive an opening game victory skein extending from 1935.
Fall Practice Begins For Veteran Klinemen
Last Wednesday, Jake Kline began his twenty-third season as head baseball coach by starting fall practice on Cartier Field with a squad of 40 members. The outlook for the coming spring season is the brightest in Coach Kline’s long stay at Notre Dame, with the entire starting 1955 team back fighting to insure their positions.
Last spring, Coach Kline started the season with his regular team being composed of six sophomores and three juniors. The team lived up to his expectations by winning nine games while losing 11, with eight of their losses by one run.
With a full year’s experience behind them, their play this spring should show a marked improvement both at the plate ' and in the field. Coach Kline hopes to continue practice for about four weeks or longer, depending upon the weather.
The pitching staff will be hurt by the double loss of Ron Mottl and Bernie McClorey; but Dick Bunker, John Hammett, Chuck Symeon, Bill Roth, Tom ’ Sheehan, Angelo Capozzi, and Bud Buj-nowski will be back to take up the slack.
In the infield, Mike Lesso will return at first base; Ed Hurley and Steve Johnson at the keystone sack; Jim Car-ideo and Tom Russell at shortstop; Don Sniegowski and Joe Finn at third.
Patrolling the wide open spaces in Cartier Field will be Bill Teschke, Dan Nespo, Jim Cusack, John O’Drobinak, John Keller, and Bob Nowakowski. Cusack and Nespo both played in the infield last season when injuries forced Lesso and Sniegowski out for a good part of the season. Sniegowski is still recovering from the broken wrist he received last year and will miss fall practice, however his wrist should be fully healed by the time spring practice begins.
Once again a major league team has stepped in and signed another promising Notre Dame freshman player. Last year the New York Yankees signed shortstop Tom Carroll to a contract. A During the past summer, pitcher Jim -Brady accepted a	bonus contract with	j
the Detroit Tigers.	I
The Scholastic	I
Trojans, State, Purdue, Navy and Iowa Win As Five Irish Opponents Remain Undefeated
By BOB EARLY

ri Last week, as Notre Dame hammered v’ Southern Methodist from the undefeated h ranks, three other opponents were turned back, already leaving only five unbeaten teams remaining on the schedule. Miami dropped its opener two weeks ago to Georgia Tech.
Tomorrow in the Notre Dame stadium the Irish play Indiana. The Hoosiers . have a fine passing attack led by quarterback Chic Chichowski, but their ground game is rather feeble. Last week against Michigan State’s un-F experienced sophomores the Hoosiers gained only 42 yards on the ground, while State amassed 235, and that was the story of the Spartans 20-13 win.
Miami, hoping to recover from a 14-6 loss to Georgia Tech in the season’s opener on Sept. 17, takes on Florida State in the Orange Bowl tonight. The Hurricanes have a good line and use it to overpower the opposition with a _ grinding running attack.
■’ Against Georgia Tech the Hurricanes ran more than twice as many plays as Tech, but failed to score effectively.
. Fullback Don Bosseler’s 13 yard run in .the third quarter was the only score the Floridans got all afternoon.
Purdue, playing without the full-time services of halfback Jim Whitmer and All-American candidate Len Dawson who were injured, barely skimmed past College of Pacific 14-7 last Saturday. •’ Although the substitutes gave a credit
Soph Back Looks Good In Initial Performance
able performance, Purdue was really hurt without Dawson. With him in the line-up, passing is their most potent offense, but against Pacific they completed five of eleven for only 81 yards and had one intercepted.
Navy smacked into a tough William and Mary line, but managed to put one drive together in the first period to win their opener 7-0.
It was the Midshipmen’s brilliant passer George Welsh who put Navy ahead with a 26 yard pass to end Jim Baker in the end zone. The play climaxed an 88 yard drive.	•
Pennsylvania suffered the worst defeat of all Notre Dame’s opponents as they were bombshelled by Virginia Tech 33-0. The game, played on muddy Franklin Field, was rated one of the biggest upsets of the week. The loss extended the Quaker’s three-season losing streak to 14 games.
The Tar Heels of North Carolina led third-ranked Oklahoma 6-0 until the third quarter, but finally yielded to the Sooner’s power, 14-6. The Tar Heels displayed a fast, aggressive line in holding the Sooners scoreless during the first half.
Iowa Passing Sharp
Iowa, playing their opener at home, swarmed all over Kansas State 28-7 and showed rugged defensive ability. The Hawks held State to a mere four first
downs and yielded but 67 yards rushing. Their pass defense sparkled, too, as the Wildcats failed to complete any of the eight passes they attempted, and had two intercepted.
The Hawk offense was good all the time and brilliant in sopts. Led by quarterback Jim Reichow and halfbacks Earl Smith and Eddie Vincent, the Io-. wans were unstoppable. Twice Reichow threw to Smith for TD’s and just missed on a third. Vincent ran wild getting one touchdown from five yards out, and Fullback Jon Janda scored the other from the nine yard line.
Southern California became the first N.D. opponent to notch two wins. They stopped Washington State two weeks ago 50-12, and did likewise to Oregon 42-15 last week.
Against Washington State the Trojans looked a bit sluggish, falling into 98 yards of penalties and committing many errors. The highlight of the game was Southern Cal’s terrific pass defense. They intercepted six of State’s passes to break up one drive after another.
In the Oregon game Jon Arnett, 186 pound junior back, scored four* touchdowns, one a 90 yard punt return, and kicked four extra points to lead the attack.	'
Irish Harriers Await Opener With Chicago and Wheaton
Starting a year which could develop into one of national prominence, the Notre Dame cross-country team is awaiting the opening of the 1955 outdoor season in a triangular meet on Oct. 8, with the Chicago Track Club and Wheaton College.
Alex Wilson, varsity track coach, has been well pleased with the first two weeks of practice in which the harriers are rounding back into shape after the long summer layoff.	.
Only Jack Gits will be missing from the squad that took sixth place in the National Collegiate, swept both the Indiana State and Central Collegiate meets, and ended their 1954 regular season with four wins and two losses. Returning from last year’s team are Captain Spike Daley, Bill Squires, Al Schoenig, Peter Moroney, John Linehan, Al Porter, John Michno, and Neil Wallace.	.
Oct. 8 Wheaton and Chicago at Chicago.
15 Michigan State at East Lansing.
22 Indiana at Notre Dame.
28 Michigan at Ann Arbor.
Nov-. 4 Indiana Intercollegiate Meet at Indianapolis.
12 Marquette at Milwaukee.
18 Central Collegiate Conference Meet at -Chicago.
28 NCAA Meet at East Lansing, Michigan.
27
September 30, 1955
Time Out . . . for a few pats on the back. First to the Irish, who won a team victory last Saturday over Southern Methodist. They were on the spot from all angles. All pre-season polls had them from 15th to 19th place,
doomed to mediocrity as far as a Notre Dame team goes. But from the open-
PAUL HORNUNG
ing kick-off they began to use that ball like they owned stock in the Spalding company.
During the course of the afternoon the line, outweighed around 11 pounds to the man, pushed the big Mustangs where they wanted, when they wanted to. Eleven Irish backs carried the ball 293 yards during the afternoon’s activities. Not bad for a supposed bunch of green gridders.
It’s hard to single out a particular man as outstanding last week. Terry Brennan called on 11 men, only three of whom could be classed as regulars. This outfit squared off against a Mustang team new only at the ends, almost the same team that came within inches of the Southwest Conference title last
Officials1 Meeting Lays Plans
For Interhall Football League 1
The first organization meeting for the Interhall Football League was held last Monday, under the supervision of Mr. -Dominic Napolitano, setting up this year’s tentative schedule.
Once again the hall teams will be divided into two leagues, East and West, with the divisional leaders meeting each other in Cartier Field for the mythical	.
championship in late fall. Last season	|
365 players represented 13 halls with ' Badin walking off with top honors.
Mr. Napolitano, supervisor for all interhall athletics, announced that all ' necessary equipment will be furnished by his office. A medical slip from the infirmary will be necessary before any player will be declared eligible.
Lee, Matz, and Shannon
“greenies” came through in real Irish style.
fall, a team that gave a Notre Dame squad of Guglielmi, Heap, Palumbo, Varrichione, a tough time . . . for a while. And Terry’s
Perhaps most of the weight last Saturday rested on the shoulders of Paul Hornung. All Coach Brennan asked him to do was play quarterback ... in place of the graduated Guglielmi. And after watching him do his filling, we wonder if there is anything he can’t do. He completed two passes, led the regular backfield with a 5.3 average, scored the first touchdown, did the punting, and to top it off, kicked a 35-yard field goal. This was the first field goal he ever kicked, in high school or college ball. Perhaps next week he will give an exhibition of sword swallowing at half time.
* * *
To the joy of victory we have to add a note of sorrow. Ray Lemek, Irish captain, might have played his last game for Notre Dame. Ray left the game in the first half with a chest injury, suffered when he got stepped on in a pile-up. Later examination showed a severe bruise. The doctor said it might be serious enough to stop him from playing for the rest of the season.
His injury comes at a time when the Irish need spark on the field if they are going to make many sport scribes and pharisees eat reams of copy. But unless I miss my guess, if it is at all possible, number 72 might just be back in that line-up before the sun sets next Nov. 26.
* * *
Unique Golf Tourney . Slated for October 9
A new type golf tournament will be , held on the Burke Memorial course Sun- ' day, Oct. 9. Called the ABCD Golf ; Tourney, it is sponsored by the Physical Facilities Commission.
All those wishing to play must post three 18-hole scores played on the cam-^) { pus course this fall by 8 p.m. Oct. 8 in the golf shop. A $1 entry fee must be paid on the tee.
The lowest scores will be put in group A, the next highest in group B and so on. Foursomes will then be drawn blind so that each foursome includes a golfer ] from each group.	I
Each player will be handicapped according to his three rounds. Each player will then play an 18-hole round with the^ winning team chosen by a point system. One point will be awarded for each par, two points for every birdie and three I points for every eagle. Merchandise | prizes of $40, $30, $20, and $10 will | be awarded.
The tournament is open to all students except last year’s varsity and ’ frosh teams. For information about the tournament, contact Joe Mulflur, 123 Walsh.
Time out . . . for a few more words of piaise. To Commodore Ray Nelson and the Notre Dame Sailing Club who handled summer storage this year. Through the efforts of Nelson and the rest of the club, they are now debt free and the proud owners of three new boats.
Last spring the club was struggling to pay off a bill on their used boats. The men in the club cut lawns, washed windows and did other odd jobs to get money . . . for the club treasury. Then at the close of school about a dozen of them stayed around, collected chairs, lamps, dressers and anything else for storage, and put it in a warehouse. During this time they paid for their own lodging and food.
* * * •
Tomorrow the Irish reopen the Indiana series. They’ll be on the move, waiting to get in that last laugh, and should take Bernie Crimmins’ gang into camp, 28-7.—D.D.
PICKS OF THE WEEK
DAVE DAVIN, SCHOLASTIC SPORTS EDITOR
Pittsburgh over Oklahoma
U.C.L.A. over Washington State
So. California over Texas
(Fri. night)
Ohio State over Stanford
Michigan over Michigan State
Maryland over Baylor
Army over Penn State
Texas Christian over Arkansas
Iowa over Wisconsin	“
Miami (Fla.) over Florida State |' Purdue over Minnesota
West Virginia over Wake Forest
The Scholastic
I Training for Novice Bouts | Slated to Begin October I
Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano announced this week that training for novice boxing enthusiasts 'will begin on & Oct. 1. The six to eight-week instruction period will conclude ■with the Nov-। ice Tournament two weeks before ' Christmas vacation.
- “Nappy” indicated that all those who _ have not fought in the amateur ranks or Golden Gloves are eligible to participate. He added that a medical slip 1 must be secured from the Infirmary, j
i A good indication of the popularity = of the tournaments is the fact that over i 100 boys participated in the five-night । tourney last year.
Cancel Net Tourney;
Frosh Prospects Good
The annual campus tennis tournament will not be held this fall due to the renovating of the concrete courts. Varsity coach, Charles Samson, indicated also that the lack of time and threat of bad weather were reasons for the can' cellation.
During the past summer the eight clay courts have been put back into playing condition. A new type of surface is being used on the courts called Teniko Royal which will provide for a fast drying court. Samson said that it was the type of court being used in many of the colleges throughout the B country. Six new varsity courts have * also been built. “The whole tennis program here at Notre Dame will be as good as any place in the country,” said Samson.
A three-monogram winner at Notre Dame himself, Samson is quite optimistic about the freshmen prospects. Maxwell Brown of Louisville, Kentucky heads the list of promising frosh net-ters. He went all the way to the semifinals of the National Junior Champion-• ships last August and also was a member of the Junior Davis Cup team coached by Don Budge. In 1954, Brown was runner-up in the National High School tournament.
Ron Schoenberg, a left-hander from Los Angeles is one of the top ranking juniors in southern California. Among his many victories was a win last year over the National High School Champ.
Sergio Barzan and Hector Cabello from Mexico City have also caught the Aeye of Samson. They are two of the out-^standing juniors in Mexico. Vincent Chinn from California will also make his presence felt on the freshmen squad.
Napolitano Selected For Phy Ed Meeting
Mr. Dominic J. Napolitano of the Department of Physical Education has been selected as one of the limited number of college physical education leaders chosen to represent the profession at the National Conference on Intramural Sports for College Men and Women, to be held in Washington, D. C., Oct. 30-Nov. 2.
The Conference is to be sponsored by the American Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, the College Physical Education Association, and the National Association for Physical Education of College Women.
The purpose of the Conference is to consider intramural programs for college men and women and to formulate principles and to recommend practices of
Notre Dame Gets Mile Record Holder
Another champion enters Notre Dame. Track Coach Alex Wilson and Assistant Leo McEvoy welcome Tom Skutka who set a new National High School mile mark of 4:19.5 while winning the New Jersey high school championship.
The Skutka family (all 14 of them) is well accustomed to having track stars around the house. Tom has three older
administrative procedures relating to current and future programs. This will be the first concerted attention given to this area of higher education. “Nappy” is one of 90 college physical education teachers invited by the selection committee to participate. The committee, representing the sponsoring associations, has made these individual selections with the belief that each individual will make a significant contribution to this important conference.
The Association, a non-profit educational organization, reaches nearly 40,000 teachers, administrators, health educators, recreation personnel, physical educators, coaches, students, and others concerned with health education, physical education, and recreation. It has functioned since 1885 to bring about unity of purpose and correlation of effort among those engaged in these programs of education for children, youth, and adults.
brothers miming at college and two younger editions in high school. Tom claims to have developed most of his speed running to the dinner table. At any rate, Coach Wilson sees many dark days ahead for rival coaches and their milers. Tom thinks he will feel right at home at Notre Dame and hopes to go on to further records under Coach Wilson.
September 30, 1955
29
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here October 18
New Sculpture Studio Built for Mestrovic
The University announced recently that construction is almost completed on a §75,000 building which will provide studios for sculptor Ivan Mestrovic who joined the faculty this September. The celebrated Crotian artist has been a professor and sculptor-in-residence at Syracuse University since 1947.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, said that the new building is the gift of I. A. O’Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minn., oil executive and philanthropist. He was the donor of the §2,300,000 O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts dedicated two years ago. Mr. O’Shaughnessy is a member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
The new structure, which measures 80 by 20 feet, is situated at the southeast corner of O’Shaughnessy Hall and connected to it by a breezeway. The two studios to be used by Mestrovic and his students are 17 feet in height since so many of - Mestrovic’s works are of heroic proportions.
Architects for the building are Ellerbe and Company, St. Paul, Minn., who designed O’Shaughnessy Hall. The new studio building, like O’Shaughnessy Hall, is Tudor-Gothic in design and constructed of buff brick and limestone. Construction Engineers for the studio are Thomas Hickey and Sons, South Bend.
Mestrovic is generally regarded as the outstanding living sculptor of religious subjects. He is one of several inter
30
nationally recognized artists and scholars who have joined the Notre Dame faculty under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program. He was awarded honorary degrees by Notre Dame and Marquette University at their June commencements.
Senate Loan Service Opens to Aid Students
Student Loan Administrator Walt Penney has announced the resumption of the Student Senate Loan Program for the 1955-56 school year. This service is designed to make cash available to students in need of temporary financial aid.
Since the fund is limited in amount, and in order to permit as many students as possible to receive needed loans, certain limitations have been imposed. A maximum amount for each loan has been established at §30, though as much as §50 may be obtained in cases of extreme emergency.
The loans are for 30 days, and no rate of interest will be charged. However, a penalty fee of §1 must be paid for any loan more than 30 days overdue. Penney explained that Christmas and Easter vacation periods are not included in figuring the due date of the loans.
A file is maintained for every student who has ever received a Senate loan. A red mark will automatically go on the students permanent credit rating as soon as a loan becomes overdue.
The Loan office is located in the base
ment of the Student Center and is open “ for business from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday.
Students wishing to obtain loans are required to fill out a short application form which is reviewed by a special Senate Loan Committee. Upon committee approval, given on the basis of individual need and credit rating, the Loan Administrator gives the applicant his check. These applications, on the average, take one day to be completely processed.
Appoint Dr. de Luna 'Natural Law' Editor
Dr. Antonio de Luna has been appointed visiting professor of natural law at Notre Dame and acting editor of The Natural Law Forum, the new publication of the Notre Dame Law School, it was announced recently by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., University vice president for academic affairs. An authority on both natural and international law, Professor de Luna has been a faculty member at the University of Madrid since 1932. He is one of several internationally recognized figures appointed to the Notre Dame faculty under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
The Natural Law Form which Professor de Luna will edit, will publish articles of the highest scholarship on natural law in the context of today’s world. The publication will feature reports on developments in the field of natural law and is expected to make the University of Notre Dame the in-^ temational center of information on the subject.
Professor de Luna lectured at several leading American universities during 1954 at the invitation of the State Department. He is the author of The Foundation of International Lazo and The Professional Ethics of the Lawyer as well as numerous articles in professional journals. He was educated at the Universities of Granada, Madrid and Bologna where he received a Doctor of Laws degree in 1925. He studied in ^ later years at the University of Freiburg in Germany.
From 1932 to 1936 Professor de Luna was director of the Institute of International Studies in Economics in Madrid. During this period he provided refuge at the Institute for a number of Jewish scholars who fled Nazi Germany. Since 1941 he has been head of the international relations department of the Institute of Political Studies. He is a member of the Spanish Commission^ for the Codification of Air Law and a , former member of the Board of Admission to the Spanish diplomatic service.
The Scholastic
1
'll Prof. Sessler Returns | From European Tour
f Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head of | the Department of Art, recently re-turned to the University after touring f a number of European art centers.
Professor Sessler’s itinerary began in Y?" London where he conferred with Dr. Ste-phen Rees-Jones of the Courtauld Institute of Art on the restoration and conservation of museum objects. In England, Sessler’s study was concentrated in the National Gallery, the Tate Mu-- seum, and the British Museum.
The Notre Dame artist then visited ' a number of renowned laboratories of t art on the continent. He visited the National Laboratories in Brussels, the • Rijs Museum in Amsterdam, the National Museum in Copenhagen, and the Louvre in Paris.
Commenting on the appreciation by ! the general public of art in Europe, ; Professor Sessler said, “I was deeply impressed with the deep quiet and silence kept by the large crowds of visitors at the Louvre.”
At Brussels Mr. Sessler conferred | with the famous technicians who ex-posed the Van Meegheren forgeries of ™ Vermeer, and examined examples of this fraud. While on the continent, Sessler also toured Bruges and Ghent in Bel-I gium and Haarlem and the Hague in Holland in order to study techniques of the Dutch and Flemish masters.
Sessler closed his tour of Europe by attending the International Art Congress in Lund, Sweden, where he was one of the six delegates representing the United States.
£) “Art instruction in the United States,” said Sessler, “matches or excels any in the world today.”
Hammes Shopping Center Dedicated by Fr. Hesburgh
The Romy Hammes Shopping Center was officially dedicated last Friday afternoon, with the Most Rev. Thomas Gorman, bishop of the diocese of Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas, blessing the new building. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, W' C.S.C., president of the University, officiated at the ceremony.
Present at the dedication were the donors of the $250,000 structure, Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes, Monsignor Hammes, a relative of the donor, and Mr. Hammes’ fellow members of the College of Commerce Advisory Council.
The bookstore was formally opened on i Thursday, Sept. 22. Brother Conan ! Moran, C.S.C., manager- of the Center, stated that it is extremely difficult to A handle 5,500 students, but that -with the new self-service system instituted this year, faster and better service will be provided for all.
______Wembley
0 University Repps
Wembley introduces the latest color combinations as well as traditional campus colors — all planned to go with your new Fall suits and shirts. National university panel of top undergraduates selected these ties for Wembley.
O ALL-SILK $2^0 ACETATE RAYON $1^
Robertson Bros.
South Bend, Ind.
September 30, 1955
31
Capsule Corner
‘Democracy’ Lecture
Prof. Hans J. Morgenthau will deliver a lecture October 4 in Room 101 in the Lav/ Building on “The Permanent Values in the Old Diplomacy.”
Morgenthau’s talk is the first in a series organized by the Committee on International Relations on the subject of “Diplomacy in a Changing World.”
The committee has secured the cooperation of outstanding American and foreign specialists for the various topics which will eventually be published in a symposium.
Student Wins Design Award
Manuel Villazon, architecture student, won a Church Property Administration Award in Atlantic City, N. J., last spring. Villazon collected $75 for his design.
The contest, held among Notre Dame architects, concerned the designing of a convent for 15 high school nuns.
The Notre Dame entries were viewed
at Atlantic City in the National Catholic Educational Convention.
Commerce Club Seeks Members
The newly organized Propeller Club is now seeking members for the coming school term.
The objective of the club is to stimulate interest in foreign commerce activity by increasing the understanding of foreign commerce and the opportunities available in that field after graduation.
Those interested in joining should contact Membership. Chairman Jerry Nault at Apartment 35-E, Vetville or John Manion, 320 Walsh.
Graduate Awarded Law Grant
Columbia University in the City of New York has announced the awarding of the Armstrong Fellowship in Law for the academic year 1955-56 to Attorney Edward G. Coleman, of Springfield, Ill.
Coleman is a practicing lawyer in
Springfield and was graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1950.
This scholarship honor’s the late Major Edwin H. Armstrong, the inventor of FM radio, who made a grant to Columbia in 1953 to encourage research by legal specialists to draft and promulgate effective legal procedures for fact finding and determination in scientific and technical fields.	<
Rev. Fitzgerald Delivers Invocation
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., associate professor in the Department of Economics, gave the invocation at the opening of the 41st Annual International Conference of Industrial Accident Commissions in Chicago last Monday. .
The conference was attended by ( government representatives from Washington, D.C., 46 states, Canada, and the territories of Alaska and Hawaii.
Among the problems taken up by the conference were the improvement of workmen’s compensation, rehabilitation of the injured, changes in legislation, and accident prevention in industry.
Argentina
(Continued from Page 21)
His Girl [s Transferring to St. Mary’s.
example, democracy had no more eloquent or systematic defender than the great teacher and philosopher, Estrada. At the same time Estrada showed the depth of his religious convictions in the Church crisis of the 1880’s. At the height of his brilliant academic career Estrada sacrificed his university post under government pressure rather than discontinue his defense of bishops the government was persecuting.
Estrada is outstanding, but not unique in Argentine history. He is probably rather typical of the Catholic-democrat in Argentine history.
It was inevitable, then, when the Peron regime moved into an anti-Catholic position that it would add a new outrage to those whose democratic sentiment had already been offended. The result was an increase in the intensity of the anti-Peron opposition, which recently proved more than the regime could withstand.
It is much too early to say what the provisional regime of General Lonardi will be. It has apparently drawn favor from both Catholics and democrats. The chances are it also enjoys the support of other elements neither Catholic nor democratic.
Yet if Argentina is to be reconstructed along democratic lines, the emergence of a strong Catholic-democratic leadership is most needed and most likely to happen.
32
The Scholastic
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS
Late daily Masses are said every morning in Dillon Hall Chapel at 8 and 8:30 a.m. Communion is distributed at ten minute intervals throughout the morning. Religious Bulletins are available in the Dillon Hall Chapel Vestibule. Confessions are heard every morning and evening from 6-8.
Showcase
(Continued from page 24)
“I’d like to speak to your son. I’m
3 Lieutenant Southland.”
| “Police? About what?”
“About some corn shocks stacked on the road.”
v “I know about that. He’s being pun-
■=; ished now.”
; “I’m afraid there’s something you | don’t understand. A man smashed into •' a telephone pole trying to avoid those
’ shocks.”
•	“Was he hurt?”
.	“They don’t expect him to live.”
There was a long pause.
“Who sent you here?”
“A Mrs. Robertson. She saw your son put those shocks on the road.”
Got it! A deuce on Dark Lady in the Fifth.
The Wild Irish Rise
The people from whom Notre Dame takes its football name, and occasionally .	a football player, have made the news
(	this week. The Irish have finally
assembled a force of an impressive army, a system of spies, and a formidable 1	underground intending to threaten the
I	English foothold (not football) in the
north of Ireland. Mounting in power and courage the Irish intend to settle once and for all the question of who owns the north of Ireland if they have to eradicate every “Limie” to prove it.
Unfortunately the English haven’t bothered to notice this threat—being too A occupied with foreign policy and socialized medicine. I think they’ve quite forgotten that they ever owned the north of Ireland and rather imagine the subject as some sort of local joke or maybe a convenient topic of conversation like the weather, employed in a jaunting cart, or, perhaps a kind of medication that complemented the stimulating effects of beer.
I Now in spite of the Irish claim that the persecution of the Church was the \ cause of their loss of the Orange states 9 (and therefore they should be given back) the problem, actually, is much more involved. A difficulty might not
have arisen had not the sore been reopened by the birth of television in the United States, and in a certain respect TV is giving the Irish Free State almost as much trouble as it’s giving the Irish at Notre Dame. For since commercial TV and the local theaters have been flooded with English films, the Irish don’t see why they shouldn’t use more Irish actors because most of the films are about the Irish revolts. And because their requests in this vein were ignored, several attempts have been made to open motion picture companies in Ireland so that they could do the job themselves. However they were unsuccessful for the price of the new Irish films couldn’t compete with the price of the old English ones. And besides, why should the American people want to see Irish Irishmen when they can see American Irishmen like Pat and Margaret O’Brien? What the Americans want is official and real Irish movies and the Irish just aren’t equipped to do it.
But the Irish are not unaware of this market and they are at present doing something about it. “Suppose,” they argue, “we could get the same old Irish movie with a new exciting twist! Instead of acting out the misery and
emotional tragedy of loyalty and suffering we get an authenic account of a. revolution that is free from historical error, with a cast of thousands, and with a very low overhead and no employees—it would be a perfect enterprise.” So the Irish have started another revolution with the English so that they can film it right on the spot. While the men are stealing. guns the women are buying cameras, and every shanty is being converted into a movie studio.
Unfortunately there will be no war because, as I have said, the English are too busy with other things. Like marriage in Ireland, it’s another economic failure.—William M. Malloy.
CASH PRIZES
A prize of $5 will be offered by the Scholastic every week for the best human interest story about Notre Dame campus life to be submitted by anyone. Entries need not be long and can deal with any aspect of the campus scene, humorous or serious. Send entries to “Human Interest” c-o Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
September 30, 1955
33
I bv Curt Matthews i ~
the art
of living
I guess after a week or so of orientation you freshmen are pretty well fortified with a list of do’s and dont’s. Nonetheless, at the risk of being called old hat, I’d like to add one more “do” to the list you already have. I hope this doesn’t sound too much like fatherly advice or an inside tip by the all-knowing upperclassman. I’m not as yet a father, and, although I happen to be an upperclassman I must confess my grades have indicated I’m far from all-knowing.
What I’d like to say to the” freshmen is simply something that I consider worth-while thinking about as you begin your days at Notre Dame. At this University you will have an unequaled opportunity to learn an art that has been in demand since the “sixth day.” The. art of living.
You learn the art of living by doing —by living. The more you do the more you live. When I say do things I’m not speaking merely of the many curricular and extracurricular activities that are an integral part of college life at any university. I mean the many things you can do and should do on your own.
These experiences are a necessary part of your maturing process. Each one, whether it is gratifying or disappointing, can and should add something to your personality. Each, experience can help make you a more sensitive, live, and enjoyable person. The art of living is based on experience in living.
Not every experience adds to the personality in the same way or amount. That’s why we need so many to be really well-rounded people. It may be
a handball game down at the Rock or a trip to Fort Lauderdale over Easter vacation. It can be as slight as a pleasant “hello” to that guy who sits next to you in philosophy class; or as involved as giving religious instructions to school children in South Bend.
Among the most rewarding experiences you will have at Notre Dame will be the everyday life with your fellow students. Your life with these men can give you a broader, more tolerant outlook on the world and its problems.
You can meet the son of an Iowa farmer, or the son of a Manhattan banker. You can meet a Baptist here on a football scholarship or a Jew on a scholastic scholarship. Many different backgrounds, but all Notre Dame men just like you. To know these people in a university atmosphere like Notre Dame’s is invaluable. Take advantage of the experience.
Some of the most useful and important lessons I’ve learned at Notre Dame have not been in the classroom, but in the conversation free-for-alls that are a part of dormitory life.
I guess the “bull session” was around long before formal education. Plato and Socrates had a good many way back when—and they weren’t the first. Serious, intellectual discussions—and even humorous light-weight exchanges—in which men express and trade their ideas may have done more to advance civilization than all the classroom hours since tuition was invented.
Your classroom work should be the basis, the starting point, for many of these discussions. In class you learn
what is accepted as a standard. In the outside discussions you can learn how | this standard affects you and your con- । temporaries in this ever-changing world.
If you can develop the technique of	j
getting your ideas across to someone,	|
to broaden his outlook and awareness j and at the same time not become obsessed merely with your own ideas, you will graduate from Notre Dame with one of the most useful tools for the art of living. The best way to develop this technique is to practice it—in fact, that’s the only way.	f).
So, that’s my only advice to the new Freshman Class—do things and talk ! about the things you do. I really don’t ; think it matters much exactly what you -do. But, as with everything else you’ll get just as much out of it as you put into it.
Your freshman year- is the ideal time to do things—lots of things—'because in your freshman year you can get in on the bottom. You can find something you like and develop it through your four years here.
I think it’s probably a good idea to be more or less a dilettante your first year. Dabble in everything a little bit. Don’t become obsessed with the idea of finishing a thing merely because you started it even if the project has become distasteful to you. . That's a virtue you can and should develop later.
On the title page of his novel, This ' Side of Paradise, F. Scott Fitzgerald used the quote: “Experience is the name i so many people give to their mistakes.”^ p These words might almost be sufficient advice for any college Freshman Class.
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
TRIED THEM YET? —ONLY CHESTERFIELD IS
Made the Modern
way _ with
New Electronic Miracle brings you Smoother, Cooler Smoking than was ever possible before!
UNLESS YOU’VE TRIED Chesterfield made with Accu-Ray, you just can’t know how much modern science has increased cigarette enjoyment! With electronic accuracy, Accu-Ray checks and controls the making of your Chesterfield. So for the first time you get a...
1 PERFECT-SMOKE-COLUMN-FROM-END-TO-END! J.
(	gj
You’ll marvel at the extra flavor that comes through. Yet because this measurably better cigarette smokes more slowly — you enjoy a cool mildness never possible before. From first puff to last, Chesterfield gives you a smoke measurably smoother... cooler... best for you!
So put a smile in your smoking! In the whole wide world, no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield!
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
i
