otre wane
^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
IT IS NOT TOO LATE —MEET THE GANG AT
THE SUNNY ITALY
/or ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
Under Management of Josie and Jim 601 N. Niles Avenue	Phone 3-0678
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney........................   Editor-in-chief
Ralph Abell........................       Associate	Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole_________________________..’...Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon....Asst. Managing Editors Jim Cassidy and Bob Schellenberg____________...."The Week"
Bill Waddington__________________________________Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty_________________________Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett_______________The Green Banner
Dick Murphy_________________________________College Parade
Al Lesmez...___________________________Man About Campus
Ratshin and Grossman........................Now Hear This
News Staff
Frank Keenan_____________________________;__News- Editor
Al Lesmez.__________________________________Campus Editor
Edward Madden________________________Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelson Joe Plante
J. D. Usina	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
Jim Regan	H. G. Gilligan	Bill Thompson
Paul Wood	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Steve Loyacano John Locke	Mike Canair
Features
Al Broten __________________________________________Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner	Harry Tanner	Charles Veenstra
Sports Staff
Bill Carey__________________________________________Editor
James H. Howard	Jim Fennelly.	.	Jack Houghteling	.
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey
Staff Photographers
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller Frank Cacciapaglia
>	Circulation
John Matmiller________;__________________... Manager
Don Cole___________.'.______________________Asst. Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.............Faculty Advisor
SERVICE MEN, you are always
WELCOME
at the NAVY CANTEEN
REGULATION HABERDASHERY
CIGARETTES
COCA-COLA
CIGARS
CANDY
GUM
Make the Navy Canteen Your Club
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at. the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
2
£ HICKEY-FREEMAN OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS — DOBBS CAPS
U,. S. Navy Officers
WHITE
5 OXFORDS
NOW is the time to get your immaculate white oxfords — an important "must” in the navy officer’s complete wardrobe. Fortunately we now have a complete stock and a full range of sizes from which to make your selection.
FLORSHEIM
Navy Officer’s WHITE OXFORDS
HOLLAND
Navy Officer’s WHITE BUCK OXFORDS
$1050
HOLLAND
Navy Officer’s WHITE NU-BUCK OXFORDS
$ff85
$

THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
’	'	813-817 S. Michigan Street
SOU TH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
3.
The Week
To Father Smith an “A” is rare, C’est La Guerre.
I often wonder how in thunder, The war’s involved in a social blunder. Yet when our dates are not debonair, C’est La Guerre.
BY JIM CASSIDY AND BOB SCHELLENBERG
WE STILL LOVE 'EM
Special Komunikay No. .007
From: Field Hq., St. Mary’s fightin’ four hundred.
Concerning: Men, you old, horrible, disgusting, wonderful things, you!
1)	Seeing as how the ratio is now 20 V-12s for every St. Mary’s girl, it will be neecssary for every said V-12 to have an invitation in order to gain admittance to said St. Mary’s.
2)	Absolutely no one will be let in without an invitation.
3)	Any one wishing an invitation, call 3-0567.
THIS AIN'T NOTRE DAME
Chief: “About time to get up, fellows. It’s getting near ten o’clock!”
SAFARI TO CHICAGO (or) Death Rides the Rails
Do you need a change of atmosphere, change of surroundings, or a change in bedding? Why not try that famous suburb of South Bend, known as Chicago? It’s such a pleasant trip, especially when you go by South Shore instead of pogo stick.
The train pulls into the station and slows gently to a stop. After the conductor has pulled the last car out of the first one, everyone boards the train with a complete air of indifference. Several conductors who were foolish enough to be standing in the doorway have been lost to the South Shore.
It’s not really hard to get a seat. Invaluable in this process is the use of a black jack or a pair of brass knuckles. After pushing the lady with the baby down in the aisle and pounding on the fingers of the guy hanging outside on the window, you are practically seated. Merely tell the marine already occupying the seat his shoe his untied, club him on the head, and shove him out the door. (Moral, don’t bend over when strange people tell you your shoe is untied.)	.
At this point Bill Fitzgerald, who has been reclining in the last car suddenly screams with terror: "Let me out of here, there’s no driver in this car.” (Bill’s first train ride.)
After the train has started smoothly off, you pick yourself up and watch Bill Fritz make friends with the pretty brown eyed goddess seated in front of him.	.
“Do you mind if I smoke,” asks Bill, not noticing the wedding ring on her finger.
“I don’t care if you burn to a crisp,” is her pert reply.
At this point a suitcase comes sprawling gracefully to earth, strikes you gently on the head and you become horizontal for the remainder of the trip.
You are awakened by the tramping of feet as the travelers step blandly on your face in order to detrain at Chicago.
Stepping off the platform, you spy Joe Gentile wiping his forehead and leaning against the side of the train. A conductor comes up to Joe and says: “Beat it, you. What do you think you’re doing, holding up the train?” As Joe ambles away the train falls on the conductor.
The trip back is completely uneventful and your only reminder of the experience is the ten demerits received for the train being three hours late.
❖
ODE TO N.D.'s OWN (Sea going Sojers)
We’ve traveled about to many hotels
And have seen some finely dressed hoppies,
But we’ve got to admit, there is no parallel
Between them, and Our own glorified copies!
(Any one wishing to contact author, see Barney Ross; my manager.)
C’EST LA GUERRE (Pome)
Although the war is so unpleasant, We blame a lot on what it doesn’t, If weather isn’t always fair,
C’est La Guerre.
I don’t know what we’d do without, The war for men to pout.
If Gallagher’s girl gives him the air,
C’est La Guerre.
Everything that suits us not, We readily blame on you know what.
So if in class you are besot, Don’t blame the war for what it’s not. But use your head, and have a care,
Don’t say, “La Guerre.”
CHRISTMAS
One of the most entertaining events to come out of the holiday season here at Notre Dame was the Christmas Show put on in Washington hall. With Noel Digby handling things on the stage and Jim Cassidy handling them elsewhere, the result was as funny as we’ve seen to date. The antics of a Mr. K. C. Snyder and Co. were the hit of the show. Especially, Seaman Snyder’s breathless description of his girl friend:
“What eyes,” murmured K.C., “what lips, what nose!” . . . and later,
“I’ll never forget our first kiss. It was like eating grape fruit without the spoon.”
The inspiration of the affair was the doing of John Toole (Pd. Adv.), who slapped the show together in two rehearsals. Nice going, Noel and John.
PINPOINT POISINALITIES
Stanly Obremsky (We hope): “I love’s ya, Ellen, more spaghetti, please.”
Manuel Gan : “Now all you guys that were late to muster . . . shame on you!”
Dave Smith: “Now, there’s where you are all wrong!”
James Bates Nickel: “She’s a queen I tell you, a be-oo-ti-ful queen. And does she ever go for me!”
Mario Rubenelli: “Six days for Christmas, boys, I got inside information.”
Edward Eimers: “The ex-sophomore lover.”
Engineers: “Irish commerce men.”
GOBSERVATIONS:
“We noticed Paul Sippl didn’t even get a ripple from that WAVE when displaying his moustache last weekend. About that cookie duster — it shows, on a clear day, at least three hairs.”
“Lester Krulevitch stayed up all night studying for a blood test.”
“How about that guy who went to wit school and only got half way through?”
“We hear Dick Seidel received greeting from the president. Civies are running out, Dick, . . . might be a case of 1-A.”
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing . at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	-
VOL. 80
JANUARY 7, 1944
NO. 7
V-12 Ball, Planned for Jan. 14, Promises to be Social High light of this Semester
BY PVT. JOHN MATTMILLER
The Notre Dame V-12 unit’s anxious anticipation for the biggest and best ball of the year will be fully realized next Friday when the popular Johnny Long brings his orchestra from the Panther Room in Chicago to play for their formal ball in the Navy Drill Hall.
No effort has been spared by the committee to make this a superb dance. Elaborate decorations have been planned x by Seaman Dick Bevington and his committee which will completely change the interior appearance of the Drill Hall. Special arrangements have been made to give the ball-goers an added night on the week-end of the ball at the South Bend Service Men’s Center. A special guest card is being given to each ticket purchaser which will assure the ball-goer and his date admittance to the Saturday night party. Invitations to be sent to the girls are also being given with the purchase of each ticket. Unique programs have been ordered and will be distributed at the dance. The Navy men and their dates will get gold and blue programs
Gene Williams
while the Marines will receive their traditional scarlet and gold colors. These programs will make excellent souvenirs of the ball.	..
Transportation and Tickets
South Bend residents will be asked to help make the ball a success by refraining from using the taxicabs during the times that they will be most needed by the ball-goers. Seaman Joe O’Keefe and
Patti Dugan
his transportation committee have made special arrangements to have two busses available for those who are escorting girls from “The Rock.” Busses will leave St. Mary’s at 2100 and 2115. Arrangements have also been made for busses to and from town and the Drill Hall. Parking space will be provided and extra police.will be on duty the night of the ball.
Tickets were placed on sale Monday in the zero deck of the dining hall. The tremendous sale already effected seems to indicate that the limited number of
Johnny Long
800 tickets will not last until Wednesday, Jan. 12, the time set for closing ticket sales. Every man planning to attend the ball should obtain his ticket immediately, as there will be no tickets available .after the limit has been reached. No reservations have been or will be observed: first come, first served. -
The committee feels that James Griffin did the unit proud when he obtained the popular Johnny Long and his orchestra for the ball. The Longfellows, known as the “Miracle Band of 1942” make up the fastest rising band in the country and are popularly placed as one of the “Big Ten.” Long and his orchestra have made record breaking engagements at many of the spots at which they have played.
Johnny Long and his orchestra have been moving straight for the top since the end-of 1939. That would make it seem like the band is a comparatively new one. Far behind 1939 the real story of the outfit begins.
At Duke University in 1931, during Johnny’s freshman year, the idea of the band was born. A group of first year men, all high school pals of Johnny’s decided to form a dance band in the
(Continued on page 22)	•
5
Gilbert-Sullivan Production "Ruddigore," to be Staged by Prof. Birder Feb. 9,10,11 and 12
BY SEAMAN
The Notre Dame Savoyards, under the direction of Cecil Birder, will present performances of the Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera, “Ruddigore,” at Washington Hall, on Feb. 9, 10, 11 and 12 at 8:15 p.m. This production will be the fifth staged by the organization.
‘‘Ruddigore” was originally called “Kensington Lore” or “Robert and Richard Were Two Pretty Men.” This title was changed later because the people objected to the “nasty name.” This opera —as all G. and S. operas—is a satire on the transpontine melodrama, itself an unconscious satire.
The story of “Ruddigore” is concerned with the curse of the Murgatroyd family. Sir Rupert Murgatroyd, who had an insatiable taste for burning witches, was cursed by one of his victims as she died. Consequently, every lord of Ruddigore was doomed to commit one crime a day, and if he attempted to avoid it or refused to perform it, he died in agony. Every heir to the title inherited the curse and came to a horrible death.
The action of the opera begins with the effort of Robert Oakapple to woo Rose Maybud. Robert’s shyness causes him to employ Richard, a sailor home from the seas, to woo Rose for him. Dick follows the dictates of his heart and asks Rose to marry him, and she, after consulting the book of etiquette which has guided her every action since birth, consents. Later, however, she discovers that Robert has greater riches than Dick, and transfers her affections to the more wealthy of the two suitors. Other complications in plot arise, but— as in all comic operas—all ends well.
The first of the four performances of the opera on Wednesday, Feb. 9, will be for the Midshipmen; Thursday the 10th, for the Community Members, the Faculty and guests, and civilian students; Friday the 11th, for the V-12 contingent; and Saturday the 12th, for the public.
Only four of the original Notre Dame Savoyards still remain to take an active part in the opera. The name Savoyards may be taken by any group which enacts Gilbert and Sullivan operas. The term itself comes from the Savoy Theatre in London where these operas originally played.
The Notre Dame Savoyards came into existence in 1940 with the production of
ART WAGNER
their first opera of the Gilbert and Sullivan repertoire, “The Gondoliers,” which is regarded as their finest comic-opera. After the arrival of the V-7 program, “H.M.S. Pinafore” was produced. “Trial by Jury” followed, and is the only work in which the music is continuous; in it there is no spoken dialogue. Last year’s production was “Patience,” which is considered the most delicate and dainty.
Cecil Birder, the director, organized the Notre Dame Savoyards. He is head of the speech department of the University.
The coming production, “Ruddigore,” is rarely presented because of its production difficulties, Mr. Birder said: “ ‘Ruddigore’ may not be the most popular of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas, but it can boast of qualities of imagination to which none of the other operas can lay equal claim.”
Following is the complete cast of char
Birder's Savoyards in ”H. M. S. Pinafore"
acters: Robert Oakapple—George Bas-tyr; Richard Dauntless—Bernard Slater; Despard Murgatroyd — Richard Ames; Old Adam—Robert O’Toole; Rose Maybud—Joan Michel; Mad Margaret—June Anderson; Dame Hannah—Agnes Haney; Zorah—Dorothy Czarnecki.
Ghosts: First Baronet—Thomas Bremer; Sixth Baronet — Raymond Clark; Twelfth Baronet — Morris Wagner; Eighteenth Baronet — James Murtagh; Twenty-first Baronet—James Crowley; Twenty-sixth Baronet—Gene Peciulis.
Chorus of Officers and Ancestors are: Thomas Bergin, Joseph Dahms, Bernard Duclos, Albert Fisk, William Graham, Richard Pearse, John F. Homan, James Maguire, Benjamin Mammina, Richard Markiewicz, John McKeon, Philip Meyers, Paul Pandolfi, Charles Powers, Francis Repillado, Jerrold Ruskin, Clarence Slyngstad, William Spillane, Paul Taggett and Gerald Welch.
Professional Bridesmaids: Helen Ja-qua, Patricia Czolgosy, Lois Hodgins, Benita Guthrie, Marie Manuszak, Barbara Kaiserman, Eleanor Przyzbysz, Marylin Nelson, and Shirley Witkowski.
6
| NOW HEAR THIS! | I V-7 NEWS I i.................................h
FAMOUS PIPES
“The 11th company will carry rifles to athletics; — the 12th company will carry the 11th company.”
“The inspection party is now on board” — “The safe is open; — stow your valuables.”
“Christmas trees will be posted on all floors.” And a merry Christmas to you, too.
INSPECTION
One Saturday morning two midshipmen awaited the inspecting party. One officer came in, mounted the desk and ran his fingers over the moulding. He left, to be replaced by another, who ran his fingers over the newly marred desk top and muttered darkly, “M-m-m— Dusty.”
RECREATION
Two non-midshipmen have developed a new variation of the game of hide and seek. When the midshipmen are at class one will close his eyes and count while the other hides. Then the game of “Commando” starts and the first participant seizes a rifle to hunt the hiding member. “Bang, — I’ve got you,” resounds through the passageway — and they start over.
LIBERTY
The restrictions on shore leave have been relaxed somewhat. It is now necessary to bring only two fathers, one mother, their birth certificates, and architects’ plans of South Bend or Chicago residences at which you plan to stay — all certified, of course.
SOUTH BEND—Beauty Center of U.S.
We have all heard how statistically and geometrically South Bend was calculated to be the beauty center of the U.S. This seems about as logical as the story of two mathematicians who went duck hunting. One shot five yards in front of the duck, the other five yards behind it. The law of averages killed the duck.
But maybe they weren’t too illogical — for they said beauty radiates from South Bend. (Our dictionary tells us radiate = emission or sending out of).
THE OFFICERS
One officer while on regimental watch was seen playing' cops and robbers with his pistol. Noticing that he had been observed he challenged the midshipman in the next room,
“Hey mister, how many rounds have I left?”
Stehlin’s Victory Band Swing Concert;
Music, Vocalists Make Hit With Audience
BY AL LESMEZ
One of the real treats of the semester was enjoyed Wednesday evening as John Stehlin and his “Victory Band” entertained a packed Washington Hall. By show-time, a capacity crowd of service men and civilians jammed in for the swing concert.
A novel opening of the program had all the audience guessing just who was behind the drawn curtains, as the band played in turn the unmistakable themes of some of the country’s leading bands. It was not until after Charlie Spivak’s “Stai* Dreams,” Glenn Miller’s “Moonlight Serenade,” Tommy Dorsey’s “Getting Sentimental,” Guy Lombardo’s “Auld Lang Syne,” and Benny Goodman’s “Let’s Dance” had been aired, and the curtain began parting to the music of Stehlin’s theme, “It’s Always You,” that speculation ceased. The various themes were imitated so cleverly that they challenged the most ardent followers of popular bands to tell them from the original.
After this catchy introduction, the entertainment really got under way. The “St. Louis Blues” soon had conservative old Washington Hall beating tempo to the snappy rhythm of this excellent 18-piece band.
Buddy Brownson on bass was tremendous as he slapped out the rhythm, and Tom Butler, on the drums, beat so cleverly that he kept the feet of the packed house beating out tatoo. The whole rhythm section was outstanding. The snappy piano handling of John Clark was real enjoyment not only to listen to, but also to watch. And still another fine piece of work was handed in by the other member of this section, Bob Oster, on the guitar.
But although this band has rhythm, it has other things just as outstanding. It has five excellent trumpets, three outstanding trombones, five melodious saxes, and two wonderful vocalists; then too, it has one John Stehlin. And he is nothing short of sensational.
After the “St. Louis Blues,” featur-
“Two sir.”
“You’re wrong; — I’ve got three, bang, bang, bang.”
HAPPY HOUR
The “happy hour” is scheduled for Jan. 7, 1944. From all indications it will live up to previous shows and be a “happy hour” for midshipmen only.
ing Boy Lange on the trombone, was finished, Dick Ames, vocalist, gave his rendition of “I’m Thrilled,” and the currently popular “Paper Doll.” This last selection especially was superb craftsmanship. Dick may compliment himself on being a much improved vocalist over his last semester’s appearance.
“Jelly Boll Blues” was next, followed by “Leaves,” featuring Bay Kapituk on the trumpet. The brass was especially outstanding in these numbers, punching their way through magnificently.
Miss Pat Chapman next stepped up to the microphone. She was an immediate hit. Her lovely voice and her charming manner soon made her the highlight of the evening, as she sang “Embraceable You.” Her interpretation of the theme song “It’s Always You,” at the close of the program, finished the job and won her the heart of all.
A medley of “You Taught Me to Love Again” sung by Dick Ames, “Cuddle Up a Little Closer,” and the beautiful song “Mary” completed most of the program. All except for the “Victory March.”
This Notre Dame “Victory March” was arranged originally, and was greeted with terrific applause. It is in these arrangements, as evidenced throughout the show, that John Stehlin’s talent comes to the fore, and he proves himself a real music master.
Great credit must be heaped upon the head of Stehlin for being the real driving force behind this “Victory Band.” Not only is he a fine front man, and a superb showman, but his arrangements are masterful and catchy. He has a definite flair for novel arrangements, interpreting music in new veins. It is this that made this Swing Concert the very best that has come to Washington Hall for a long time. Great work, John!
The stage setting contributed its hit by adding to this impressive demonstration of young talent. The background was a huge silver-starred “V,” underlined with the symbolic three dots and a dash. Arranged neatly in rows, and stepped up in three tiers, the band presented a professional-like appearance with its initialed stands.
Coming at a time when there is a natural lull in activities, this Swing Concert was welcomed by all, and all joined in asking for more like it — more often.
7
College Parade
“Ab-so-lutely! Vat do you vant?”
“Veil, listen Abie, dis is Moe. Can you lend me feefty dollars?”
“Ven Abe comes in I’ll tell him you called.”
—The Tattler
BY RICHARD MURPHY
A SURE WINNER
The Purdue Exponent tells us that they are about to investigate conditions of independent students down by way of Bloomington, seat of that questionable seat of learning—I—U. It seems that the boys were a little quizzical after reading the following article in a South Bend paper: “While travelling through southern Indiana, this correspondent was amazed to find huge signs posted in Bloomington saying ‘Vote for Vice.’ I thought Bloomington, home of Indiana University, had suddenly gone wild and wooly.” .... and so did the staff of the Purdue Exponent until their sleuths checked up and found out that Vice was the last name of a very pretty candidate for the title of prom queen, backed by the Independent students. All agree that it sounded good, anyway. Full name: Marilyn Vice.
LIFE’S SHORTEST STORY
Christmas and a bankroll.
New Years Eve and a bankroll.
Feb. 1st.
JANUARY BLUES
Pass me the sugar bowl, John, My eight o’clock class is near
And we’re getting a ten-minute paper, I hear.
But how can I know what it is all about
Before the morning sun comes out?
For. I hate the gloom,
A.nd.1 hate the cold
And New Haven’s landscape
So bleak and old.
I don’t like fog;
I don’t like snow,
And I want to be Where palm trees grow, Where blossom-laden breezes blow, Where girls in leaves and grasses go. Why don’t they let Co-eds in here To add a little Charm and Cheer: With Co-ed dimples And Co-ed smiles And Co-ed knees Along the aisles?
For it’s fun to play bridge, And it’s fun to get tight;
But it’s more fun to date up A Co-ed some night;
But of course we’ll never see them here, For college was meant to be austere. And my eight o’clock is drawing near, And we’re getting an awful test, I fear; So pass the sugar bowl, John.
YALE RECORD
CHEERING THINGS UP
Dear old lady: “Dear me, what were those college boys arrested for down at the cemetery?”
Constable: “I caught ’em replacing the ‘No Trespassing’ signs with ‘Happiness in Every Box’ advertisements.”
CIGARETTES FOR SERVICEMEN
The De Pauw, tri-weekly publication of De Pauw University, Greencastle, Ind., informs us that the student body has just sent 40,000 Chesterfield cigarettes to servicemen overseas. The money that made this fete possible was collected at one of the football games this season in old milk bottles. Servicemen always appreciate cigarettes — so why not some campus organization trying the same stunt at a few of our home basketball games? A little thoughtfulness on our part certainly would be appreciated by the fellows fighting for us across the seas.
THE SAME OLD STORY
Telephone rings.	■ .
“Hello.”
“Hello, that you Abe?”
. . “Yes, dis is Abe.”
“Veil, it don’t sound like Abe.” "Veil, dis is Abe all right.” -“You’re positive it’s Abe?”
Did you hear about the Moron who drank eight Cokes and burpt seven up?
And then there was the other Moron who thought he was built upside down, because his feet smelled and his nose ran.
The Moron who tops all that was the one who backed off the bus as he feared someone would grab his seat.
Funny place for a silo, ain't it?
Addresses Speech Dept.
George A. Mayoral, former National Broadcasting company announcer and engineer, and now superintendent of the electrical test department of the Studebaker corporation, addressed the, speech department of the University recently. Mr. Mayoral spoke on “International Activities of Radio Broadcasting.” He was previously chief announcer 'of the foreign broadcasting division of WLW -in Cincinnati.
8
Sinclair Corp, to Show
Movie on Monday Night
Mr. Leland V. Stanford, a vice-president of the Sinclair Oil Corporation, will show the movie “Lubrication” on Monday night, Jan. 10, at 8 o’clock, without charge, to the students of the Engineering College of the University of Notre Dame, to the members of the Engineers' and Architects Club of South Bend, and to other interested parties. The movie will be shown in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
The film, shown widely in this country and South America, was made by the Sinclair Co. in conjunction with the U. S. Bureau of Mines, and comes highly recommended.
Leland V. Stanford was bom in Independence, Kans., in 1889. He was educated in the city and county high schools and is a graduate of Str Mary’s College,' Kans., Class of 1908.
He grew up in an atmosphere of oil and recalls that as early as 1903 he dropped the “go devil” which shot an oil well. Mr. Stanford was deputy treasurer of Montgomery County, Kans., in 1910 and 1911 and a merchant in his native town from 1911 to 1914.
During the years from 1914 to 1917 he was operating in the oil business for himself in the producing and refining fields, and during 1918 was in Europe with the A.E.F., and received a decoration from the French government.
Joining the Sinclair Refining Company in February, 1919, in Chicago, he later became assistant division manager of the Central District. In 1921, shortly after Sinclair had purchased the Union Petroleum Company, Mr. Stanford moved to Philadelphia as vice-president of the Union. When that company was merged with Sinclair in 1923 he moved to New York and was made a vice-president and director of the Refining Company and became export sales manager, and shortly after was placed in complete charge of all the company’s export business.
His numerous trips to Europe add up in miles to more than ten times around the world and he has traveled to South America and Mexico on numerous occasions. Mr. Stanford was in Paris when the present war started, but returned to the United States shortly after.
In addition to his work as vice-president in charge of exports, he is assistant to the president of the Sinclair Oil Corporation and a director of Venezuela Petroleum Company.
20-Piece Marine Band
Organized, Debut on 15th
By John Knutson .
The newly organized marine band will play for the first time during a practice review to take place on Saturday, Jan. 15. The band is under the direction of Sergeant Rockwell, who has been assisted by Mr. Lee Hope of the Notre Dame faculty.
Private James Kress is drum major. He leads a 20 piece organization which is more than a drum and bugle corps in that it has several trombones as well as trumpets, snare drums, a base drum, and a cymbal.
Due to the fact that the band is still in the untried state, Sergeant Rockwell is not too optimistic about it. But he said that in spite of the small amount of practice the members play pretty well.
The band was organized to make the reviews of the detachment more colorful and military, and to give the Marines of the detachment appropriate training for Parris Island.
Professor from Mexican U.
Addresses La Raza Club
Prof. Roberto Carriedo, who teaches at the National University of Mexico, gave a lecture to La Raza Club at their last meeting. He spoke of the various social problem’s and conditions in present day Mexico. Professor. Carriedo started ■with the history of the country, tracing its political and cultural traditions through the years. The second aspect of his lecture was the description of the geography of the country, together with the political reasons for the founding of the “Sinarquista Movement.” A full history of this movement was described, taking into consideration its origin, development, organization, aims and meaning. In brief, the Sinarquista movement in Mexico is a social movement to teach the average Mexican to become a land owner—giving him a knowledge of modem farming, and at the same time giving him a desire to own and work his own land. It is only through a plan such as this that the standard of living for the average Mexican will be raised.
After a discussion, he concluded by pointing out the existing basis for the union of Latin America, and a more comprehensive attitude toward the understanding of North and South American relations based upon Christian fraternity.
N. D. Alumni Cited for
Service in Pacific Theatre
By Seaman V. E. Mikkelsen
As the war progresses more and more Notre Dame men take their places in the battle line. When American troops landed in Sicily, despatches say they marched ashore to the time of the famous Notre Dame Victory March. That same Victory March is sung from poignant memory by men stationed in all parts of the world, from the fog-bound Aleutians to the steaming New Britain jungles, for Notre Dame alumni are to be found wherever Yanks are to be found. They are serving with distinction, too, and their names are included in every new list of promotions and citations. During the past week, several such decorations and citations have been disclosed.
Lt. Paul A. Mullen (Marine Corps Pilot), ’40, who now has five Japanese planes to his credit, was awarded the Air Medal “for meritorious achievement in aerial attacks against the enemy.” The medal was given for Mullen’s activity in two separate engagements during July of this year. The citation further stated that “His courageous conduct was in keeping with the highest traditions of the U. S. Naval service.”
Ensign Robert Hargrave, ’41, well known to football fans as the quarterback on the Irish elevens of ’39, ’40, and ’41, took part in the invasion of New Britain. Hargrave was commissioned upon his graduation from the Midshipmen school at Notre Dame in the spring of 1942. Two of his team mates, Ensign Paul Lillis and Bernie Crimmins, are serving in a PT boat squadron in the same battle area. Lillis was captain of the unbeaten ’41 team, while Crimmins was an All-American guard on the same team.
Word comes from the Canal Zone that Paul Morrison, ’39 graduate, has been promoted to first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Coming from Jersey City, Morrison played under Elmer Layden on the ’39 team.
❖ ♦ ❖ LECTURE TONIGHT ♦
Professor Waclaw Lednicki, PhD., ♦ ❖ formerly of the Universities of Mos- ♦ ♦> cow, Cracow, and Brussels, will lec- * ❖ ture in the Engineering building to- ♦ ❖ night at 8 pan. Mr. Lednicki will speak on “Russian Literature." He * ❖ has a masterful command of the * ❖ English language, and all students ♦ are invited to attend his lecture on ♦ this currently popular subject. ♦
9
Q mu....mi..iiniuMimm»immHH««»M«»i»»*”,M,,,,Mi,»n,El
I Marine Murmurs I
=	By Private Knoc-E Toff	:
(>]>■■<■■>■<<■■■■■>■■■■■■■■>...niumimimnmmmnnmliu g
New Year’s Eve — rousing cheers, tinkling glass, raucous horns, rattling pans, screaming sirens and the snoring of Notre Dame Marines rent the air as the clock struck 2400. Remember — any ether version of how we welcomed in the New Year would be self-incriminating evidence.
With the New Year comes the innovation of a drum and bugle corps for this detachment. Tomorrow this drum and bugle corps will make its premiere. With it we should and will be the snappiest and most dignified outfit on the campus.
Also with the beginning of a New Year comes the resumption of those foggy treks to the old gym and drill hall, each morning, for the V-12 trainees; thanks to a certain select number of fellows who weren’t men enough to resist snatching a few extra winks after reveille. Their successful restoration of setting-up exercises is certainly appreciated 1
DOPE FROM A D.I. AT P.I.
Whitey Kjellenderg, a former member of our detachment, now a drill instructor at Parris Island, writes and states that it would be greatly to our advantage to learn before entering boot camp the following chapters of the Ma-rine'Corps Manual: The first chapter, the chapter- on the M-l rifle, the first-aid chapter, the chapter on scouting and patroling, and the one on extended order drill.
Our talent scouts have found what we believe is the most unique musical organization on and off the campus in this vicinity — the quartet composed of Pvts. Backos, Rollos, Stravidies, and Angelakos. Their specialty, Greek folk-
(Continued on page 23)
Rev. Leo R. Ward Heads
Catholic Philosophy Assoc.
The American Catholic Philosophical Association last week elected Rev. Dr. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. as president of the association at its meeting in Chicago. Father Ward succeeds the Rev. Dr. Joseph A. Schabert of St. Paul, Minn.
New members named to the executive council included Rev. Stewart Dollard, S.J., West Baden, Ind., and Dr. Mortimer- Adler, Chicago.
Rev. Leo R. Ward, an associate professor of philosophy here at the University, is considered one of the nation’s most brilliant philosophers. Father Ward has written a great many essays in the general field of philosophy, and more particularly on the subject of cooperatives. He has also had a number of books published, two of his latest being, God In An Irish Kitchen and Co-operatives In Nova Scotia. Since his association
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
with Notre Dame Father Ward has studied at the University of Louvain in Belgium while on leave from the University.
•	5* The Executive Board of the South *♦* ❖ Bend Symphony Orchestra wishes to ❖ ❖ invite all men in uniform on the ❖ campus of Notre Dame, to attend this ❖ ❖ year's series of concerts. They will ’J* ❖ be admitted with a feminine guest, ❖ by uniform. NO TICKETS ARE NEC- ❖ ❖ ESSARY. The concert is held at the *1* ❖ John Adams High School Auditorium. ❖ ❖ The next concert wil be he’d Feb. ❖ *5“ 6 at 4:00 p.m. and the program will ’S’ ❖ include Overture to "The Bartered ❖ ❖ Bride," Symphony No. 5 in B flat .❖ major by Shubert, and the Overture: "Tannhauser" by Wagner. Featured
*	1* at concert will be William Miller, American baritone, well known to *Z* radio fans, as well as to lovers of ❖
❖	opera and oratorio.	❖
THE LAWS OF THE NAVY
By Capt. Hopwood, R. N.
Now these are the Laws of the. Navy, Unwritten and varied they be;
And he that is wise will obey them, Going down in his ship to the sea;
As naught may outrun the destroyer Even so with the law and its grip, For the strength of the ship is the service, And the strength of the service the ship.
Take heed what ye say of your seniors. Be your words spoken softly or plain, Lest a bird of the air tell the matter, And so ye shall hear it again.
If ye labour from mom till eve’n And meet with reproof for your toil, It is well that the guns be humbled, The compressor must check the recoil.
On the strength of one link in the cable, Dependeth the might of the chain, Who knows when thou may’st be tested?
So live that thou bearest the strain When the ship that is tired returneth, With the signs of the sea showing plain, Men place her in dock for a season, And her speed she reneweth again.
So shall thou, lest perchance thou grow weary,
In the uttermost parts of the sea, Pray for leave, for the good of the service, As much and as oft as may be
Count not upon certain promotion, But rather to gain it aspire;
Though the sight line end on the target, There cometh, perchance, a miss-fire, If ye win through an arctic ice floe, Unmentioned at home in the press, Heed it not, no man seeth the piston, But it driveth the ship none the less.
Can’st follow the track of the dolphin, Or tell where the sea swallows roam;
Where Leviathan taketh his pastime, What ocean he calleth his home.
Even so with the words of thy seniors, And the orders those words convey Every law is as naught beside this one—
THOU SHALT NOT CRITICISE, BUT OBEY!
10
George L. O'Brien, Lay
Trustee and Alumnus, Dies
George L. O’Brien, Notre Dame alumnus of the class of ’89, and the University’s newest member of the Board of Lay Trustees, passed away last Thursday morning at St, Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. The prominent local businessman was 70 years of age at the time of his death. He headed the nationally-known O’Brien Varnish Company and played a prominent part in South Bend civic affairs.
Mr. O’Brien was born in South Bend on Sept. 14, 1873, the third son in a large family. Upon his graduation from Notre Dame he joined his father and brothers with the O’Brien Varnish Co., one of the city’s outstanding manufacturing concerns, which had been founded
George L. O'Brien, '89

by his father in 1875. In 1928 his broth-ex- William died, and George L. O’Brien succeeded him as president of the company. He had served since in that capacity.
Mr. O’Brien took more than an ordinary part in the municipal welfare of his native city. He was deeply interested in Healthwin hospital and served for 29 years as a member of its board of managers. He was also a member- of the Association of Commerce, at one time serving on its board of directors. He was a director and first vice-president of the City National Bank; a member of St. Joseph Church, of the Indiana Club, the Knights of Columbus, the South Bend Country club, the Morris Park Country Club, and the Chicago Athletic Association. In November of last year Mr. O’Brien was elected to fill one of the vacancies existing on the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame.
Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, who sang the funeral
Mass on Monday morning, paid this tribute to Mr. O’Brien in his expression of sorrow at the passing of the trustee:
“George O’Brien was universally respected because he was a Christian gentleman in both his business and social relationships. Despite the fact that he was occupied with the affairs of an industry that had gained a national reputation, he always found time to interest himself in the development of his native city. Enterprises that would better mankind or relieve suffering, such as Healthwin sanitarium, had the benefit of his prudent counsel and’ substantial support. He kept in close touch with all phases of the life and development of his alma mater, and never failed her when she called on him. In mourning his loss, the University, can pay him no higher compliment than to say that he was an exemplary Notre Dame man.”
New Son for Handys
An eight pound son was bom to Mrs. E. K. Handy, wife of “Doc” Handy, Irish track coach, in South Bend during the past week. Coach Handy has two othex-children—a boy and a girl.
Handy’s trackmen congratulated the coach, but failed to receive the traditional cigars. They’ll have to wait until the season is over, Handy said.
THE COVER
The Scholastic feels that this week’s cover is especially fitting and symbolical, inasmuch as it vividly portrays a cross section of student life at Notre Dame, as the doorstep into 1944 is crossed. The unity symbolized by the representatives of the five groups is a unity that emanates concretely from the one square mile that is the physical University today. And it is the unity that must exist among all men if 1944 is to be the Year of Victory. More important, even, than victory is the peace which must follow, if that victory is to be made worthwhile. Here, mankind must draw from Father Sorin his ideals of courage and self-sacrifice, for these can make the peace what it must be — a just, lasting and Christian peace.
Just as five young men are gathered around the statue of Father- Sorin, so must all men imbibe the principles for which he stood, and which resulted in — Notre Dame.
Left to right : Dave Cartwright, N.R.O.T.C., Juniox- from Ellwood City, Pa.; Tom Shay, V-12 Marine, Freshman from Kansas City, Kans.; Al Les-mez, Civilian, Junior from Jackson Heights, N. Y.; Frank Keenan, V-12* Navy, Juniox- from Dover, N. H.; and Robert Jacobi, Midshipman, graduate of Canisius College, from Buffalo, N. Y.
By Al Lesmez -
It was a Christmas day in historic old New Orleans when the Digby family came downstairs to look in their Christmas stocking to see what Old Santa had brought. Little red curls and a freckled chubby face greeted them. And so it was that Noel Francis Digby was born on December 25, 1924.
Perhaps it was the red hair, or perhaps it was the freckles but right from the beginning “Dig” decided that his major interest would be the stage. He therefore did not lose too much time getting into the dramatic club at Jesuit High in New Orleans. While attending this school, Noel became the president of the Sodality and later was named president of the Dramatic Club.
Aftex- his graduation, he managed to do some Little Theater work, taking the lead in Pursuit of Happiness. It was during this period that he decided to attend Notre Dame. He had visited the University a year before to see older brother, Fred, former* editox* of Scrip, graduate mugna cum lattde.
And so in September of 1941 Noel entered the College of Arts and Letters here at the University. He did not major* in any particular subject as he sensed the coming of the navy and began preparing himself mathematically for the fundamentals of engineering. He will leave the school in February to go to Midshipman school where he hopes to become a Deck Officer.
“Dig” is quite active on campus with a new plan for bi-weekly student shows. The success of the Christmas variety show met with such approval that plans have been laid for the next one. This issue of the Scholastic can-ies the details of this show to be held in Washington Hall next Tuseday evening, January 11. Later plans include taking the show down to the U.S.O.. Center in South Bend. Noel may be remembered for his excellent performance of the tailor’s assistant in “The Tailor-Made Man,” campus show, put on two semesters ago, and also his part in the student musical, “Let’s Get Going.”
“Dig’s” father is the well known Fred Digby, spoxts editor for the New Orleans Item — the gentleman who has been doing his best each year to get Notre Dame into the Sugai* Bowl.
Noel’s biggest thrill came when he had (Continued on page 20)
11
Quiet New Year's Eve Celebration Here as Only Civilians Were Allowed to Leave
BY SEAMAN JAMES PARIS	.
THE SNOOPER
Snooped, Edited and Written by:
“’Twas the night before New Years, and all through the Hall,
Not a creature was stirring— Supposedly.
Such seems to be an adequate description of the manner in which the service students here celebrated New Year’s Eve. Visions of a rollicking, gay, merrymaking celebration, reminiscent of former years, in which one thoroughly enjoyed himself, at least until the “Morning-after,” were quickly dissipated, when, contrary to the current scuttlebutt, it was announced officially that liberty would be granted to no one, for no reason, nohow. Unquote.
So, with some reluctance, the majority of service students rapidly reconciled themselves to the idea of studying. Of course, some became understandably discouraged at the prospects of a solemn and sober celebration and took to the brighter-lighted regions (The neighboring metropolis of South Bend, the “beauty center of the country”). .
But all was not exactly peace and quiet on the Notre Dame scene. To all outward appearance a perfectly normal and regular Friday night before a Saturday Physics quiz—where, in the second semester, E = IR replaces F = MA. it soon became apparent that few had any intention of letting the old year escape without some sort of a sendoff, and those who had the intention of studying soon put the idea out of their minds.
The peaceful tranquility of the third deck of Alumni, for instance, was disrupted after a fuse blew out, putting one section in complete darkness, and making study impossible for its inhabitants, who forthwith proceeded to conduct a rather early whoopee party, which, in turn, made study elsewhere next to impossible. From the darkened corridor one imaginative character emerged clad in his flat hat and a handkerchief, representing, of course, the infant 1944 himself. His sauntering about in a more or less state of undress was good for laughs and soon everyone was singing “Auld Lang Syne” in true festive spirit.
A similar occurrence in Dillon disrupted study there. The Dillonites, chiefly men from the fleet, with a saltier sense of humor, went Alumni’s contribution to the spirit of the times one better, when, from an un-darkened corridor emerged, not one, but a chorus of cherubic, bouncing, erstwhile New Year infants clad in the prescribed garb with the addition of that Navy symbol, “The Hat.”
Things had returned to normal by 11:00 p.m. (’Scuse me, 2300), but as the lights-out bell rang, all the New Yorkers burst out with, “It’s New Years in New York,” and “Auld Lang Syne” was again in order. One of the metropolitanites aptly expressed the feeling of all when he philosophically remarked: “Chee, some guy’s kissing me babe right now.”
But things soon quieted down, with some insistence on the part of the respective rectors, and in all respects, it was all over for another year.
But such was not to be the case. From 11:40 until midnight, the citizens of Alumni were subjected to the serenading of the returning civilians who had not had the foresight to take week-ends, one of whom was faintly heard to remark, “Thish hash shertainly been a wunnerful evening.”
At midnight the whistles (Bahndix, Ball Band—Remember the place—etc.) began to whistle, the horns (some prewar tin ones were heard) blew, and an occasional “C” card holder blowing out his - exhaust muffler.—They must have had “C” cards, otherwise they wouldn’t have been driving. Parking does save gas, you know. But don’t try that routine on your O.A.O. unless you’re sure she won’t suggest that you get out and push awhile, since that also saves gas, although its disadvantages are obvious.
What a Difference This Year
THE SNOOPER
Last Saturday morning, not more than five minutes before the eleven o’clock formation, one Mr. Louis Singer (Co. B, 379 Dillon), decided he didn’t smell pretty enough. In order to remedy this situation, he decided he would use toilet water to give him the proper odor — he did just that. His flat hat was put into the “head;” then he made a valiant attempt to make it appear as an accident.
It was revealed to me the other night that Mr. C. F. Waters (104 Alumni) is making a bold attempt at setting a new style. He has decided that history must repeat itself, and that the men of today have been wearing pajamas too long. His proposal is that men should wear a nightgown to bed — he does!
One Mr. Robert Arthur Burton (Co. C, 123 Dillon) has become either indolent or short-sighted. The other day when he sent his laundry in, he enclosed the following note:
“Dear Laundry—
“I’m sorry but I do not know how to mark my socks. Who knows but that I might strike up a life long acquaintance.” .	-
I ask you, was he trying to be humorous, was he just lazy, or did . . .? well, you tell me.
It has been recommended to me that quite possibly the Supply Department would be grateful for information about Mr. Richard S. Hirsch (Co. C, Dillon) . Hirsch has spent so much time working in the V-12 Office that he has become a proficient yeoman; so much so that the V-12 Yeomen have presented him with a yeoman’s strikers badge. Would you like to leave the V-12 ranks and be a Fleet Yeoman, Mr. Hirsch?
When Mr. Arthur Prigge was seen drinking water with a straw and asked why, he argued, “Well, they tell us to drink out of straws because the glasses _ (Continued on page 20)
'5 »
12
Notre Dame Sports
Kentucky Tomorrow Night;
Marquette Here Tuesday
By lim Fennelly
Notre Dame will attempt to keep its ’44 sport record clean, when it takes the floor against the rangy mountain boys of Kentucky University, tomorrow night in the armory at Louisville, Ky. It will be remembered that in the same setting last season, the Wildcats blew out the torch of any national title aspirations the Irish entertained. The much improved Notre Dame varsity will be' seeking their second straight win of the new year, and a double purpose will be served if the Irish can hang the ’cats pelt on the victory line. The Blue and Gold started their victory parade last week at the expense of a reputedly strong Purdue outfit, and a win over Kentucky will make it four victories against three defeats for the Irish in the current campaign.
. The Wildcats boast a well balanced offense and possess enough height to dominate play under the basket. They also are a high scoring outfit, twice this season hitting close to the 70 point mark. They took Indiana U. into camp to the tune of 66-41, and overwhelmed Carnegie Tech 66-13. They also list St. John’s University of Brooklyn, a power in the East, among their victims, downing the Redmen by a 44-38 score.
The Kentucky forces will be bolstered by the acquisition of a new player, Maurice (Red) Bell, sophomore transfer from the University of Alabama. Bell, a high scorer for the Tide last season, was the main reason for Alabama splitting a two game series with the powerful Kentucky club. Adolph Rupp, coach of the Wildcats, believes that with Bell in the lineup Kentuck will possess more scoring power.
Coach Krause’s charges will also be “up” for this game, for they have developed from an uncertain and mediocre club.into a poised and fighting outfit. In their last two games Notre Dame has shown excellent ball handling and an improved style of play. The reason for this sudden change can partially be traced to two newcomers to the lineup, Johnny Lujack, football quarterback, and Carl Lloyd, a newcomer to the Irish sport scene. Lujack an aggressive player, has fitted nicely into the Irish pattern. Lloyd
has proven to be the spark necessary to touch off the Irish scoring threat that has been so dormant all season. However,
Leo Klier continues to be the workhorse of the squad both on offense and defense. In the six games to date he has averaged well over 16 points in each contest.
The Lineup:	
Kentucky	Notre Dame
Whitehead, f	Klier, f
Bell, f	Lloyd, f
Brannum, c	Todorovich, c
Moseley, g	Rutledge, g
Johnson, g	Lujack, g
On Jan. 11 the University of Marquette will pay a call to Notre Dame campus, seeking to avenge the two defeats suffered at the hands of last season’s Notre Dame club. Coach Chandler of Marquette brings to town, a team that, like the Irish, can boast of a victory over Wisconsin, and that played the powerful Camp Grant team to a standstill before going down to defeat 47-43. The Hill toppers are led by Jim Chandler, who, although he is the coach’s son, really deserves his starting berth. In the Camp Grant tussle it was his all around play that kept Marquette in the ball game. He has seen four season’s of action and should cause a lot of trouble for the Irish in the Fieldhouse on Wednesday night.
This will mark the first Notre Dame home game since Dec. 23 and a good attendance is expected to turn out and watch the rejuvenated Irish in action.
Saturday, Jan. 15, is an open date
THE LA RAZA CLUB SOCCER TEAM
First row from left to right: Prieto, Pazmino, Cardenas, Romagoza (Capt.), Munecas, Ochoa, Smith. (Second row): Father Cunningham, Lavalie, Faarup, O'Rourke, Aguilar.. Vila, de Romana, and Prieto.	.
on the Irish schedule, hut so far no contest has been hooked.
The lineup:
Marquette	Notre Dame
Kallenberger, f Klier, f
Prado, f	Lloyd, f
Downey, c	Todorovich, c
Chandler, g	Rutledge, g
Polzin, g	Lujack, g
Varsity Reserves Outscore the N. R. O. T. G, 42-30
By Jack Houghteling
The NROTC basketball team dropped its first decision in four contests when it came out on the short end of a 42-30 count with the Notre Dame varsity reserves in the preliminary to the Notre Dame-Purdue game, on Thursday evening, Dec. 23.
Gleason and Trump paced the reserves attack with 15 and 10 points respectively, while Al Wade topped the navy scorers with nine points.
The Notre Dame “B” squad jumped into a 5-0 lead in the first few minutes of play on the strength of a pair of field goals and a free throw by “Dean” Trump, giant center from Mishawaka. The NROTC never overcame this lead but stayed within striking distance all through the first half which ended 21-17.
The reserves took a commanding lead in the second half as they roared to a 38-22 lead. Baskets by Wade, Tony-Earley, and a pair of free throws by Harry Gilligan and Al Bohn constituted the final threat of the Irish cadets as they cut the score to 38-30. However, a bucket by Gleason and a free throw each by McLaughlin and Smid extended the score to its final count of 42-30.
13
Scrapiron Young, Alumnus and Trainer Extraordinary, Has Had Colorful Career
BY JOE MURNANE
A short but husky figure ran to and fro among the taped, painted, and bandaged bruises of husky athletes. Yells, questions and queries for advice greeted him everywhere. “Scrap, what do I do for this blister, what do I do for this ringworm, what about this stone bruise?” These came from all corners of the medicinal-smelling training room. Every athlete who has ever been anybody at Notre Dame knows “Scrapiron” Young, but few know him as Eugene Young.
Eugene “Scrapiron” Young was born in Dover, Ohio. At an early age, Scrap learned to fight to-earn his own way for his father had died. He had to put himself through school. Although he worked eight hours a day at a steel mill, Young
Eugene "Scrapiron" Young
put himself through school in a record time of two years, and still he found time to play football, basketball and baseball. He captained the latter two squads. In the fall of 1923 he came to Notre Dame, and went put for the football team. It was here that the great Rockne took such a deep interest in the industrious athlete. “Rock became a second father to me,” Scrap, said. It was the inimitable “Rock” who gave Scrap his nickname.	: .
In the spring of 1924 Notre Dame had much tough luck. Dlness hit the football team, and less than a dozen fellows were fit to play. Yet 140 pounds, gutty Scrap-iron took punishment and more punishment; and he never was hurt. “A little squirt like that who never gets hurt needs a name,” Knute Rockne said. Con
sequently the name “Scrapiron” was born.
Because of his great speed on the football field, it was decided for Gene Young to concentrate on track. In the first half mile he ever ran he beat Notre Dame’s all-time outstanding milers, Kennedy and Cox. He also established the state record in the two mile, and never ran in a meet without winning either the half mile or mile. In the meantime he was appointed student trainer and ' manager of student help on campus. In the summer he studied physio-therapy and anatomy at the National College in Chicago. The following fall he ran in cross country meets, and was never defeated in dual competition in two years of varsity running. Young’s record should stifle the complaints of longhaired professors and educators that athletics should be abolished, for his routine daily schedule included three or , foui' class periods, a couple of hours of track, five or six hours of trainers’ duties, and to top it all, the direction of all student employment. Despite all these multifarious activities he maintained a four-year average of 90. During his last year Scrap beat out his roommate, Joe Boland, former N.D. coach and famous spOrts announcer, by /i point for the Hering Award—given annually for excellence in scholarship and athletics, and coveted by all ND athletes.
In 1927, after taking his degree in Law, Scrapiron went on to coach St. Catherine’s High school in Racine, Wis. There his teams in three years earned a state football championship, and won 77 basketball games while losing only five. He came here in the summer of ’31, , and has remained ever since.
Among the football stars rated best by Trainer Young are Ted Toomey, Bud Boringer, Bernie" Crimmins, and Kitty Gorman. Bernie Crimmins is the most courageous athlete ever handled by Scrap. In the Northwestern game with . both ankles, both knees, hips, ribs, and shoulders taped, Bernie played the bang-up game of his career.
Mr. Young makes his home in South ' Bend, is married and has two boys, one 14 and one 7. Scrap is more than a , trainer to the boys out for sports at Notre Dame. Athletes come . to him not ' only to have their aches and pains cured but also to have school troubles settled
and to receive fatherly advice. They trust him implicitly. In all his years here he has never had one argument with any of the boys. Of this year’s team he says, “They are the greatest bunch of fellows I have ever handled.” And of Coach Leahy, “a great coach________ very thorough and a sticklei' for fundamentals and tim-1 ing.” Coming from an intimate and cherished friend of Rockne and a moulder of the character of Notre Dame men for 13 years, no higher words of praise could be spoken
Varsity Track Team Points for First Indoor Meet
By Joe Fahey
The 1944 indoor track squad is starting its final week of practice under the watchful eyes of Doc Handy. The V-12 trainees who make up the bulk of the squad are devoting most of their free afternoons to intensive practice. Though not expected to live up to the record of last year’s team, which was one of the best in track history at Notre Dame, the ’44 squad tackles a heavy schedule which will cover a period of ten weeks. First of the four meets at home will bring together the Irish and the Notre Dame Midshipmen. .
A glance at the most promising in the various events finds but. a few veterans holding down their positions, for a majority of the men on the squad are newcomers. Back, tossing the shot will be John Yonakor and a freshman, George Sullivan. In the pole vault is another veteran, Jack Zilly, and Anderson of Marquette. Dashmen are Jones, Scarpelli and Lynch, while Lundergan, Jones, Purcell, Murphy, Quasey and Wares are the most promising quarter-milers. The hurdlers are well-represented with Laurita, Lindahl, Hourigan, O’Neill and Hasbein, all looking good. Hilliard and Eck seem to be leading the broad jumpers and Hoag is first man in the high jump. The distance men, most of whom belong to this summer’s championship cross-country team, are Martin, Pohland, Schwinn, Tully, Kunzler and DeWolfe.
The schedule, subject to approval by the Athletic Director, is as follows.
Jan. 15—Notre Dame Midshipmen, here ' ’ 29—Western Michigan, here.
Feb. 5—Marquette, there. .	.
. ' 12—Great Lakes, here.	.
. -	19—Michigan, there.
26—Illinois-Purdue, Illinois.
Mar.’. 4—Open.	•	-	. - '
- 11—Marquette-West. Michigan, here.’ . ' ,18—Chicago Daily News Relays
■	-	'. (Individual-Invitation), Chicago
: 25—Purdue Relays, there. ’	.
14
Irish Cagers Defeat Boilermakers Twice, But Lose to Badgers in Last 20 Seconds
Upset Purdue, 47-40
Purdue, one of the teams given a chance to upset Northwestern’s applecart in the Big Ten cage race, went down in defeat, 47-40, as an aroused Irish five poured on the steam. It was a Notre Dame game almost from the start, as Carl Lloyd and Johnny Lujack, new members of the starting five, led the attack. The addition of these two men seemed just what the doctor ordered. Lujack was tops on floor play while Lloyd went after the baskets. Again Leo Klier was high scorer with 13 points. Lloyd and Bernie Rutledge came next with ten points apiece. Charley Haag ran up 11 points to lead the Purdue detachment.
Notre Dame held a ten point lead most of the way, but at no time was the game dull. In the last half when Bernie Rutledge tackled one of the Purdue boys the Boilermaker bench was up on its feet but the referee cooled them down. Twice, during that wild second half, Mark Todorovich and Haag from Lafayette looked as though they would exchange blows, but again the referee stepped in.
The game was very fast as these figures indicate: Notre Dame hit 20 out of 83 shots, five out of 39 in the last half. Purdue connected for 15 buckets in 92 shots at the basket, six in 36 tries in the second half. This fast pace can probably account for the near hostility.
The Notre Dame team for the first time this year looked like an Irish team of old. They had fight and they handled the ball well enough to defeat a highly touted Big 10 opponent. .
—By Tom Hynes
Wisconsin Revenge, 47-45
A field goal in the last 20 seconds of play by Des Smith of Wisconsin decided a 45-all tie between Notre Dame and Wisconsin U. cagers in Milwaukee last Friday as the Badgers eked out a 47-45 victory over the Irish.
It was an upset for the re-vamped Wisconsin five who several weeks ago suffered a 41-31 lacing from the Irish in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
The tilt was a point for point battle from start to finish. The Dairy State . club led by a narrow margin throughout the first and second quarters and held a 22-20 advantage at half-time.
Midway in the third period, after the Badgers had stretched their lead to 38. to 31, the- erratic Irish offensive finally
hit scoring form. Led by Leo Klier the green and gold set a torrid pace and by the closing minutes of the contest had the Irish score on the long end of a 44-41 count.
At this point the Irish lost two men via the foul route. Mark Todorovich and Johnny Lujack were the foul ‘“victims.” Both men were defensive stars of the fray and their loss in the final minutes was noticeable.	•
A few seconds later Smith hooked one from the side of the court after the Badgers had tied the count at 45-all and the battle went to the home club.
Leo Klier came close to setting a new Notre Dame scoring record in the game. He chalked up 23 points before the final gun sounded. Klier missed by three points the record set by Bobby Faught in Madison Square Garden against New York University two years ago.
—-By Paid Brennan
Down Purdue Again, 35-32
For the second time this season Notre Dame’s superior ball handling and fight won over a strong Purdue quintet in a close 35-32 contest last Monday in the Boilermaker gym.	..
The victory was the third in six starts for the Irish, and Purdue’s fourth loss in the same number of. starts. Notre Dame, as usual, was slow in starting its offensive, but once clicking, it dwindled the lead of the Boilermakers rapidly.
Leo Klier again led the attack with 16 points. Next came Mike Todorovich and Carl Lloyd with six markers*each. John' Kelly with four, and. Bernie Rutledge with two. Johnny Lujack, Ted Furman, Ernie Kivisto, and Mike Smith contributed to the Irish cause. -
The N. D. defense was so strong that the Boilermakers were held scoreless for the last 13 minutes, while the Irish rung up eight tallies. .
Purdue took an early lead. At half time the Lafayette lads were out in front by six points, the score standing at 25 to 19.	'
The second half saw. a determined offensive by Purdue increase their six point half time lead by two more baskets. The Irish retaliated by. dumping four buckets in quick succession. With the score at 29 to 27, the Irish allowed Purdue only three more points. .
The Purdue cagers were paced by Paul Hoffman, freshman and Charles Haag sophomore. The aggressive Boiler-
makers were a constant threat throughout the last 13 minutes, but the tall, rangy Irish out jumped and outplayed them in their traditional fighting- spirit.
The Notre Dame scoring average was below par as was. their free-throw attempts. The Irish missed 14 charity shots out of 17.
Purdue (32)	Notre Dame (35)
B F P	B F P
Horn, f	12	1	Klier, f	7	2. . 3
P.'Hoffman, f 3	1	1	Lloyd, f	3.01
Cline, f	0	0	0	Furman, f 0 ‘ 0	1
McPherson, cl 2	3	Kivisto, f 0	1 O
Frazier, c	10	2	Todorovich, c 3. - 0	4
Haag, g	3	5	4	Smith, e	0	0	0
Walley, g	0.03	Rutledge, g 1	0-4
Elliot, g	0	0	0	Lujack, g ' 0	0’2
Friend, g 2	0	2	Kelly, g	2 0	0
Free throws missed—Hom (2). P. Hoffman . (2), Frazier. McPherson, Haag (3),-Klier (4), Lloyd (2), Smith (2), Todorovich (6).
Referee — Nick Kearns (DePaul). Umpire — Glenn Adams (DePauw).	" .
—By Jim Howard
Servicemen and Civilian Fives Begin League Play
, By Jim Regan
Changes in the Interhall competition have been necessitated because of the new Navy regulation which releases men with an average of 80 percent or better in the evening, thus allowing them to compete in an Interhall League of their
Basketball—Interhall Style
own. The Navy Drill Hall Is to be equipped with four basketball courts, It has been announced, and a league will be conducted there for service men. The service league will also ultilize one of the courts' of the Rockne Memorial each evening.
The Navy teams will be divided into company teams, and the winner of the league will undoubtedly be pitted against
15
the champion of the civilian league at the end of the season. As soon as the Drill Hall is made ready the Navy league wfill start play there, hut until that time the Rockne Memorial will be the scene of their games.
So far in the Service League and the Overflow League about a dozen games have already been played. The “Harps” and the La Raza quintet opened the schedule Monday night while the Service League started play Tuesday. The traditional Interhall League opens play tonight when Off-Campus plays Sorin and St. Ed’s tangle with Brownson. Breen-Phillips drew the bye for the first week.
The schedules of the three leagues will be posted on the bulletin board in the gymnasium at the beginning of each week. Spectators probably will not be allowed at the games because of lack of space. John A Scannell and Frank Maxwell of the department of physical education are in charge of the civilian leagues and wfith the assistance of the Navy personnel are also conducting the Service League.
Deck I Leads in NROTC Walsh Hall Deck League
By Jack Houghteling
Three straight victories have boosted Deck 1 into the top position of the N. R. 0. T. C. Deck basketball league. The undefeated First Deck eagers have rolled over all the opposition in very impressive style.
Deck 2, defeated by the First Deckers in their opening league fray, have bounced back with two wins to move into the number two spot in the league. Deck 4 holds the third place with one win in three games while the Third Deck is resting in the cellar without a victory.
The three Deck 1 triumphs have been a 30-20 count over Deck 2, 39-32 over Deck 4, and 35-29 over Deck 3. Only in the fray with the Third Deck have Paul Heimann’s men been threatened. Leading 28-21 at the end of the third period, Deck 1 stalled and allowed Deck 3 to come up and tie the score at 29-29 with a minute left to play. However, the First Deckers whipped in three quick baskets to put the game on ice. Jack Zilly, Deck 1 center, dropped in 15 points to set a new league record.
Leo Ouillete, Deck 1, leads the league in scoring wfith 34 points, while teammate Zilly follows wfith 27. Bud Gotta, Deck 4 captain, has racked up 24 points to rank third in scoring.
League Standings on Jan. 2
W L PCT.
Deck 1	_______ 3	0	1.000
Deck 2	.....__ 2	1	.667
Deck 4 __________ 1.2 . .333
Deck 3	_______ 0	0	.000
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Sonja Heine’s Hollywood Ice Review7, currently appearing at the Chicago Stadium, gives quite a tribute to Notre
Dame in the rendition of two choruses of the Victory March in one of the featured numbers. . . .' Sammy Kaye and his orchestra added more praise to the Golden Dome campus as he wound up his ’43
Bill Waddington weekly radio Program wfith a few stirring refrains of the March, in honor of the number-one grid unit in America. Pre-game Sugar Bowl press notices gave quite a play to Clyde LeForce and Red Wade of Tulsa, but when all the figures were added up, a 145-pounder named Jimmy Ford got the Oklahoma recognition, hands dowm. . . . Two of his punts travelled over 60 yards; he ran 75 yards to pay dirt, and then he did some sensational passing for the losers. . . . With all due credit to Tech’s Eddie Prokop, who paced Bill Alexander’s Yellowjackets to one of the most amazing comebacks of the campaign, it seems ever more in the right to say-hats off to big little Jimmy Ford, the double-underdog who came through! . . .
Glenn Raasch, V-12 trainee and quite a frequenter of St. Mary’s lake during the frozen season, appeared in Sonja Henie’s picture, Wintertime, a few7 years ago. . . . Pic magazine, wfith Harry Wismer in the driver’s seat, wfill release its 1943 All-American team January 18. . . . Russ Wendland, former Northwestern cage captain and a recent member of the DePauw7 Pre-Flight quintet, has been transferred to Wisconsin, having aided the Badgers to bring defeat to Notre Dame in the second game and finale of their series this season. ... We read last week where some of the experts think that football might have a real chance to build-up this fall. ... A lot of clubs that abandoned the sport this past year are going to make a comeback, having realized their mistake in dropping it and haviing ironed out difficulties facing them w7here military player statuses and schedule arrangements w7ere concerned. . . . There seems to be an enthusiastic oncoming, but some of the experts also contend that competition will be keener since
Notre Dame w7on’t dominate play and a team like Columbia might have a chance to wfin now and then. . . . The boys similarly paralleled the Fighting Irish for the season just recorded but somehow7 they were fooled in their bit of prognosticism — and wfith the incentive that this past season’s gridders produced, the skeptics wfill probably go awry once more. . . .
After winning seven straight, Great Lakes basketeers took it on the chin twfice in one wreek by Illinois and North-w7estern, being thoroughly drubbed both times. . . . With DePaul still on the rampage as much as ever plus the three above mentioned clubs, it seems as though the mid-w7est wfill again produce the national champs during this cage season. ... In a recent naval basketball game for church charity at Fort Schuyler, New York, the coach’s dream got together in the way of Frosty Sprow7!, Purdue; Bob Davies, Seton Hall; Gene Englund, Wisconsin; Ed Riska and George Sobek, Notre Dame; Wilbur Schumacher and Bob Dietz, Butler; Lefty Steffin, Kentucky; and Gilbert Huffman, Tennessee. . . . Tw7o more games face the Irish before they get a chance to get even wfith Nortlwestern, January 21. . . . Tomorrow7 night they travel to Louisville wfliere they meet the once beaten Kentucky club and then take on Marquette’s Hilltoppers during the coming w7eek in the fieldhouse. . . . The DePaul-U. of Chicago billing as part of tomorrow7 night’s double-header in the Chicago Stadium should prove to be one of the highest scoring contests of the season, but all one-sided on the Blue Demons’ side of the ledger. . . . We called three bowfl games right, missed one, and tied one, and who w7ould have picked L.S.U. anyway? ...
❖ *♦* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ *♦*
❖ "If you're not particular where you ❖ *•* go or what you do, come to the Co- ❖
Hop Saturday night."	❖
❖ Marty Ross and his orchestra will ❖ *•* be featured at the Progress Club to- *1* ❖ morrow night fom 8:15 to 11:15 p.m. ❖ ♦♦♦ when the eleventh in the series of ❖ *•* entertainments will be sponsored by the C.A.S. Admission will be 50c, ❖ *!* tax included, and refreshments will ❖ be served.	❖
❖ ❖
16
24th Annual Football Banquet a Glowing Tribute to Our National Champions
BY BILL CAREY
The 24th annual Civic Testimonial banquet honoring the Notre Dame football team and its coaches was held on Wednesday evening, Jan. 5 at the Indiana Club in downtown South Bend. Sponsored by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley the tribute to the Fighting Irish was voiced by 600 enthusiastic admirers in attendance.
Organized by President Walter M. Langford and General Chairman Paul M. Butler* the affair represented the united efforts of the entire alumni of the St. Joseph Valley. Fittingly, it was a glowing tribute to the 1943 'National Champions, the fourth in ND gridiron history.
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the National Notre Dame Alumni Association acted as toastmaster and his ready wit linked together a chain of outstanding guest speakers.
The honorable Jesse I. Pavey, mayor of South Bend expressed the civic pride that was wrapped up in the success of the Irish this fall. He said that the city of South Bend was proud of Notre Dame not only because of its athletic prominence but also because of the religious and patriotic spirit that is conspicuous on the campus of the twin lakes.
Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commanding officer, IT.S.N.R. Midshipmen School on campus phrased the accomplishments of the team as valorous and courageous.
As athletic director of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Lt. Comdr. J. Russell Cook, USNR, traced the competitive record of the two rivals since its inception, and expressed the hope that they might continue in the future the glorious tradition that had been founded in the past.
Clark D. Shaughnessy, at present head coach of football at the University of Pittsburgh and one of America’s foremost pigskin mentors gave a stirring defense for the continuation of football throughout the current emergency. He maintained that football instills in youth the will to win—a definite contribution to our war effort. Shaughnessy then made the sincere statement that today Frank Leahy stands on a par ■with the immortal Knute Rockne and that the future will substantiate his statement. . Sports editor of the Indianapolis News, William F. Fox, Jr., expressed the sentiment of the nation’s sports experts when he said “the press has spoken—Notre Dame is the top team of the nation.
There never was a greater football team than the eleven that drove almost the length of a gridiron to score its final, touchdown against Great Lakes.”
In the absence of Lt. Comdr. Harvey J. Harman, USNR, Lieut. Don Faurot, USNR, head football coach of the Iowa Pre-Flight school stated “there is no doubt that Notre Dame was the number one team of the nation. In my mind it was one of the greatest teams of history. Frank Leahy stands today the best coach in the country.”
Leader of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station Bluejackets that ruined Notre Dame’s dream for the most successful season in over a decade, in the last 20 seconds of play, Lieut. Paul D. “Tony” Hinkle, USNR, was very well received by the audience. His opening phrase “I wish that I could be a mind reader” was answered by a heckler in the rear of the hall who chirped “you are a mind reader.” Tony then traced his 27 years of contact with Notre Dame, as an athlete at the University of Chi-caago and as a coach at Butler College and Great Lakes. He termed himself as one of Notre Dame’s most rabid synthetic alumni and praised Frank Leahy and his team for their splendid showing all season.
A surprise addition to the program was Lt. Larry “Moon” Mullins, USNR, an Irish great of the Rockne era and at present backfield coach of the Seahawks.
An unexpected call elsewhere prevented President Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., from attendance but his place was ably taken by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and faculty administrator of athletics. Father Cavanaugh praised the team for their exemplary actions off the field as well as before cheering crowds.
Radio star of the Blue Network and master of ceremonies of the popular Breakfast Club, Don McNeill spiced the entertainment by his wit and humor.
Frank W. Leahy, head coach and director of athletics for the University of Notre Dame and the man directly responsible for the great success of the Irish this fall said of his lads, “I have never seen a finer team than this 1943 Notre Dame club.” He traced its success to outstanding material, the best assistant coaching staff in the land, the burning desire to emerge triumphant, an excellent captain and the spirit of cooperation that was obvious at all times. “There has never been a more loyal
group of men” he said, “loyal to Notre Dame, loyal to themselves, loyal to their coaches.” Leahy praised the boys for their modesty, their personality, their level headedness and their genuine sense of humor. Concerning the Great Lakes defeat Leahy said, “Everyone who played, saw or heard the game, should carry away two lessons. First that a burning will to win will conquer regardless of what stands between it and victory and secondly that triumph should never be anticipated until the game is history.”
Assistant Coach “Texas” Ed McKeever then introduced the entire 1943 Notre Dame football squad, National Champions one and all. Each boy rose as his name was called and received a mighty ovation.
Captain. Patrick Filley, a home town South Bend boy who made good, said that this year had been the culmination of a schoolboy dream. He thanked the coaching staff and his teammates for all they had done for him.
Songs by Dan Ryan, Columbia Broadcasting System baritone and Robert Eldredge, boy soprano, and organ music by Marguerite and Orville Foster and Roy Graveel rounded out a most enjoyable evening.
Mechanical and Electricals Tops in Bowling League
By Jim Gonnelcy	*
The Notre Dame engineers have inaugurated a bowling league composed of the six engineering organizations on the campus. The league began its schedule on Dec. 18, with the Mechanicals grappling the Aeros, the Electricals hooking up with the Metallurgists, and the Chemicals bowling the Civils. The results of these matches showed the Mechanicals victorious over the Aeros, the Electricals shocked the Metallurgists, and the Civils took two for three from the Chemicals.
The second week of competition showed the Mechanicals again on top of the’ Metallurgists, and the Civils defeated the Aeros in two out of three games. The Electricals and Chemicals must re-play their match because of the ineligibility of a player.
The standings of the teams, after two weeks of bowling are:
	W	L	AVG.
Mechanicals ...	.....6	0	1.000
Electricals 		3	0	1.000
Civils 		.....4	2	.667
Chemicals 		.....1	2	.333
Aeros 		.....1	5	.167
Metallurgists ..	.....0	6	.000
- The Mechanicals have been dominating the battle for individual as well as team honors, with the Electricals, Civils and
17
Chemicals close behind. After trouncing the Aeros by 300 pins, with a 2,000 pin total, they duplicated their 2,000 series against the Metallurgists for a 200 pin advantage. The Electricals too have had very good bowling from their team and a very tight race should result.
Individual honors go to Bob Martina of the Electricals, whose 169 average gives him the highest in the league. The five men who have had the best averages so far in the campaign are as follows:
Bob Martina, Electricals—169; Jim Gormeley, Mechanicals—154; Ed Burke, Mechanicals—150; Mike McGlew, Civils —146; Jack McAndrews, Chemicals— 142.
High games so far include a 199 by Joe Kearney of the Electricals, 194 by Bob Martina and Mike McGlew’s 182.
A game has been scheduled between the Engineering faculty and an All Star team of the league on Jan. 29. Then, the Faculty will bowl the winners of the league on Feb. 5.
. The remaining games on the schedule a.re: Jan. 8—Mechanicals vs. Civils; Aeros vs. Electricals; Metallurgists vs. Chemicals.
Jan. 15—Mechanicals vs. Chemicals; Aeros vs. Metallurgists; CMls vs. Electricals.
Jan. 22—Mechanicals vs. Electricals; Aeros vs. Chemicals; Civils vs. Metallurgists.
Jan. 29—Electricals vs. Chemicals; All Stars vs. Faculty.	,
Feb. 5—Champs vs. Faculty.
That’s all for now fellows, drop down to the Bowl-Mor some Saturday about 1:30 and give a little moral support to your team and have a lot of fun in the meantime.
INTRODUCING
Frank Jones and R. P. Smith
Army’s most unforgettable character, one James J. White, will soon be an old man of — 23 years. Of Irish descent, Jim has one brother, a crack high school athlete. The two White boys teamed up at All Hallows High in the Bronx, forming the nucleus of a tough football squad. Fourteen monograms attest to Jim’s prowess on the gridiron as a tackle, on the track squad as a shot putter and quarter-miler, on the basketball court, and in the outfield on the baseball team. Many hours were spent from grammar school through high school, rowing, swimming, and chopping wood
18
with Luke Higgins, a former N.D. tackle.
. Now a senior Phy-Ed major in the Navy V-12, Jim lives over in Zahm with Jim Flanagan. Scuttlebutt has it that White and Flanagan were put in Zahm to take care of the Marines (you can guess where those rumors started). Neither can understand how anyone could join the “Semper Fidelis” outfit.
James White
For relaxation Jim’s favorite occupations are handball and sleeping. His outstanding sports idol is Jim Flanagan, and the two best backs he has ever seen are Bruce Smith and Creighty Miller. As his top sports’ thrill, Jim likes to recall playing before 100,000 fans in the Los Angeles Coliseum as a sophomore. Thinks Notre Dame is tops — and chief among his likes are “White Christmas,” the stories of “Character” Farrel, and making sure that his roomie, “Fitz,” doesn’t take too much medicine.
On every All-American team in the country you’ll find, WHITE — Tackle. Quick to decipher plays, Jim was in on practically every opposition thrust throughout the season. His spirit was contagious, and he has been aptly described as “one of the fightin’est men” on the field.
If possible, Big Jim wants to finish hiis schooling here at Notre Dame after . the war, and then set out on a coaching career. The best of luck and orchids — to jim White.
JOHN YONAKOR
Perhaps John Yoriakor can best be introduced by this, little story. A few weeks ago Dick Todd, great Iowa Seahawk back, received a letter from John stating that he was very sorry about Todd’s broken jaw, and that he hoped there were no hard feelings. Todd, always a great sportsman, wrote back and said that it was all in the game — and
he hoped some day they would be playing on the same club together;
It certainly is amazing how that man could twist in the air, especially for one of his size. To look at him you’d never dream that John Yonakor could do a one-and-a-half or a full gainer off a diving board, but he can! And exceptionally well, too! The 6' 4," 222 lb. giant is one of a family of five, having two brothers and two sisters. His folks are of Lithuanian blood, and now live in Dorchester, Mass. Two memorable events of his childhood are a case of pneumonia and a badly infected leg, which the doctors predicted would always bother him.
At Mechanic Arts High School in Boston, “Jumbo” excelled in baseball, track and football, winning three monograms in each sport. His 5' 11 leap in the high jump gave him the title of state champ in that event. While in high school John took on a mere 70 pounds, climbing two inches in stature.
As a Phy-Ed major John wants to coach or teach physical education after the war. When he’s not active in sports, he talks sports. And he’s not so crazy about eating as one might imagine, looking at him from a distance. Bob Westfall of Michigan is John’s idea of a great back, though he has never seen him play.
A
t
4
I

John Yonakor
-A
$

The biggest thrill in the football life of John Yonakor was, of course, catching those two Lu jack-thrown passes which whipped the cadets from West Point. It was a special treat for John since his brothers were in the stands for that one. One thing he never stops talking about is the spirit of the National Champs this year. “Football is the greatest game going, and the friends you make are lasting.” Maybe that sentiment has a lot to do with Yonakor’s making All-American. .
A

I
I
HI, CHIEF!
' This week it is my pleasure to present to you the Chief who is undoubtedly one of the most outstanding football players on the Campus: Chief Specialist Robert James Robertson.
“Robie,” as he is universally called, was born- on June 18, 1917, in Pine Ridge, South Dakota. Before he reached high school age, he and his parents moved to Omaha, Nebraska. Robie attended the Omaha Central High school, where he participated in football, basketball, baseball, and track. He won letters in all four sports. In his Junior year, he was picked All-City and AllState fullback. Shortly after this achievement, he lost his father and was forced to leave high school. However, good fortune smiled on the Chief, for he managed to complete his high school at the Black-Foxe Military Institute, in 1937.
Robertson then made the trek to California to enroll at the University of Southern California. While there, he went out for football and made a remarkable showing. So remarkable, that in his sophomore year, when U. S. C. played in the Rose Bowl, he was the only sophomore on the starting line-up. When he told me this, he also said, “I sure had everybody fooled; I had ’em snowed under.” U.S.C. played, and defeated the University of Tennessee that year (1940), 14-0. Robie said .that game was one of the hardest and one of the dirtiest football games he ever played; but it was a “swell game.”
One of his most exciting games, I was told, was the game against the University of California at Los Angeles; this game, in 1939, was the deciding one . for the Rose Bowl honors. The score was 0-0, with a minute left to play; U.C.L.A. was on the U.S.C. 2-yard-line; it was fourth down. U.C.L.A. threw a pass, which, if completed, would have won the game for them, but in the nick of time Robertson managed to knock it down. U.S.C. took the ball on their 20-yard-line and kept it during the remainder of the game. The final score was 0-0. U.S.C. went to the Rose Bowl because of its superior record. U.S.C. had, defeated Notre Dame, 20-12 that year, here at Notre Dame.
In 1941, the Chief was acclaimed AllAmerican halfback. In 1942, he traveled entirely across the continent to play with the Brooklyn Dodgers. The 1942 season -was Robie’s only season of professional ball. This year is the only year Robertson has not played football.
He says that football is definitely, and by far, his favorite sport.
On June 5, 1942, Robertson married a U.S.C. co-ed. He also added, “she’s pretty, too;” and believe me, she is!,
On December 15, 1942, Robertson was
sworn into the U.S. Navy at a New York City recruiting office. He then was sent to Norfolk, Virginia, for his C.S. P.A. training. From Norfolk, he was transferred to the Naval Air Station at Alameda, California. After four months
ATTENTION NAVY OFFICERS-
Officers Dress
of Quality with Built-in Comfort, in
WHITE “SHUBUCK”
and also
DRESS BLACK
Quantities are Limited — First Come, First Served. (Please bring Special Ration Stamp with you)
19
at Alameda, he came to Notre Dame.
When I interviewed Chief Robertson, I found it rather difficult to get him to talk about himself. I asked questions, and he, very modestly, answered them. To this one question, “How about some spectacular plays, Chief,” he answered, “Ah, there weren’t any spectacular plays.”
To you, Chief Robertson — All-Amer-can halfback and star football player — we take off our hats!
Gary Group Salutes the Campus "Anselm Forum"
By Edward H. Madden
The recently formed Notre Dame forum group received the following salutation and felicitation from the Anselm Forum of Gary, Ind. It was written by Reuben Olson, one of the charter members of the organization.
“May we sons of Anselm convey to you our sincerest appreciation of the honor you do us in naming your discussion group after ours. We are delighted with the idea of another group seeking with us the fellows of friendly motives.
“The Gary men wouldn’t swap for the world their neighborly hours together.
“Behind the dissimilarities that separate men into discordant groups the fellows have discovered the similarities and resemblances. Personal horizons have enlarged. Infinitely richer concepts have developed from associations across the barriers.
“So here’s our hand! Godspeed. Do your utmost to preserve America’s traditions of fair play and cordial respect for differences.”
The next official meeting of the Notre Dame Anselm group will be held Friday, Jan. 7, at six-thirty p.m. in room 123 Dillon.
Engineers Clubs Form Dance
Plans; Hear Pumps Lecture
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers was held jointly with the American Society of Civil Engineers last Monday evening, Jan. 3, in the Engineering Building auditorium. More than 70 members were present.
After a short business meeting in which plans for a dance early next semester were discussed, the meeting settled down to its real purpose.
Messrs. N. A. Pedersen, sales manager, and T. J. Ulkiema, chief engineer, of the La Bour Co., Inc., of Elkhart, Ind., manufacturers of Hydrobalance
centrifugal pumps for use in the chemical industry, spoke to the group.
Mr. Pedersen discussed the various problems involved in construction and application of centrifugal pumps to chemical processes. Aftei* his talk, Mr. Pedersen held open forum and answered the questions of the interested members.
The meeting concluded with the distribution of a special slide-rule type of Fluid Flow Calculator developed by the La Bour Co. Refreshments w-ere served. The next regular meeting will be held on January 24.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS (Continued from page 11) ? an accident with an oncoming car. In order to avoid a head-on collision, Noel swerved his car, and immediately found himself in the cellar of the house into which he steered. The more serious consequences of this otherwise humorous accident was the near loss of one eye, along with numerous cuts and bruises from flying glass.
“Dig’s” hobby is reading plays, working on the stage, or acting. His favorite actor is Joe Cotten, the automobile manufacturer in Orson Welles “Magnificent Ambersons,” and his favorite actress is the crazy aunt of that same picture, Agnes Morehead.
“Dig” does not believe in limiting his acting ability to the stage, but rather, enjoys the frequent skits, monologues, and impersonations w-hich he puts on in the course of his daily activities wher
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO.BEND R. R.
ever he comes in contact with a friend who will listen. Perhaps it is this outstanding quality of his, this constant foolery of his, using all the “tricks” of the showman which he has managed to pick up through the years of acting experience, that makes him as popular as he is. And then, perhaps it is just his red hair, and- his freckles.
THE SNOOPER (Continued from page 12) t are dirty.” A noble argument — remember that, fellows!
Hollywood mourns Johny Barrymore yet. However, a person has been found who wnll, in the future, acquire the title of “The Great Profile.” That person is none other than James (Profile) Butler (Co. B, 379 Dillon). At least, that is the title bestowed upon him by his many friends — and he likes it too.
My dear Sergeant King, I understand you are up in arms about the little article I published about you. Also, that you are very anxious to know who I am in order that you may make life miserable for. me.. All right, I’ll tell you. I am a Navy V-12 trainee! It is written, “It is only the truth that hurts.” If you had been in China, as you claimed when you reported aboard here, you would not have let a little thing like knitting botlier you. The “old timers” used to be very.proud of their embroidery work! Also, I understand you have been in the Marines a long time — since December, 1942. Pistol Packin’ Sergeant, lay that pistol down !
20
The Green Banner
By Jim Casey and "Buzz" Hassett
Who said that trains would be crowded around Christmas time? There was plenty of available standing room. We noticed that Notre Dame men worked in pairs during the course of their trips home. Whenever a seat was unoccupied, one would block out the old women and children rushing for said seat, while the other smoothshoe would slide into the empty chair.
After finally locating a seat (on the baggage rack), I looked about the car and received the surprise of my life. Uniforms, uniforms, uniforms! For a moment I felt as though I were riding in a troop train. I had hardly settled myself when we stopped at Elkhart, and as usual the thoughtful women from the local U.S.O. came strolling down the aisle with huge baskets of sandwiches — for uniformed men. As one foodladen woman neared me she stooped and said, “You poor boy. I can tell by your emaciated expression that you must be coming from Notre Dame. Tsk, Tsk. Such dining halls!” Then she handed up all the groceries she had left.
A few of the boys, to insure their prompt return, had themselves wrapped and post-marked by packages. This they thought would get them back to school in fairly comfortable style and in an inexpensive manner. This it did, but third class mail is always slow; in arriving. Having been delivered a few days late, they were cleaned of cuts and they were the boys who pretended that they did not mind staying on campus for New Year’s.
’Twas rumored that the navy supplied paper hats and noise makers to all those who stayed in New Year’s Eve. Our future admirals must be a real bunch of students, because as far as the report went, no one left their respective ships?
It was impossible to get into George’s New Year’s Eve without having made reservations in advance. A grand time was had by all, but general opinion had it that the $5.00 cover and the $10-00 minimum charges per person was a bit steep.
Wasn’t it fun being at school last week. It broke the monotony one generally finds prevalent at home during the Christmas vacation.
Saturday night in the Dining Hall “Bud” Walker was overheard muttering to himself: “Hash again. I hate the stuff and I hate the cook. I'won’t eat it here
Telephone lines from poles to homes take a terrific beating from old man weather. And with wire for replacements drafted for military use, existing lines must be kept in good condition.
Asphalt coating applied in time keeps out moisture, chief trouble maker on telephone lines. Without lowering the wires, this trolley painter speeds the coating — helps recondition 50 lines a day.
This simple "stitch in time” helps keep communications open to the homes of America—and saves critical materials for vital war weapons.
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy
... That’s why your call may be delayed.
21
because I don’t know what’s in it, and I never eat it at home because I do know what’s in it.”	.
When the girls get together back at St. Mary’s this week, it’s going to be a real battle of tongues, and imaginations. She who can talk the longest, the loudest, and the fastest without taking a breath is going to dominate the whole show. The other damsels, out of politeness and green with envy will have to sit and listen while she of the strong lungs gushes onward concerning her purely imaginative conquest. (We who know them realize that this is all they could possibly be). Tsk, Tsk, what a gang of female Stoopnagles! Perhaps we had better drop the matter. Who knows, maybe a few of those lovelies did do a liT stepping. No doubt a number of them have got brothers. Ta, Ta!
Harry Walters had a very nice Christmas vacation — N.D. style. He got off the train in Grand Central, said Hello and Merry Christmas to his folks, and had to run to catch the train leaving for South Bend, to get back in time for classes. Was it cold in New York, Harry, or did you have time to notice?
RUMOR OF THE WEEK
The new pipe line being installed south of the fieldhouse is to be used to bring milk direct from the N.D. farm to the dining hall. The new management is sure on its toes.
POEM
We’re grateful for the skies of blue And fields of waving green, And lots of howling men, All sandwiched in between.
Sounds like a St. Mary’s prayer.
NEW YEARS—NEW YEARS
That sure has a familiar ring to it. Ah— yes. I remember now, that was when we used to go out and get (censored) . We don’t talk about that — not here anyway. Yes, they tell us Sweeney’s was quite crowded-----personally we wouldn’t know about that. Strictly hearsay. Quit laughing there, fellow. We were just getting material. There must be something about the girls from Rosary. The fellows always come back tossing bouquets their way. Furthermore they read the Green Banner. Are ,we flattered!
Well, it won’t be long before the femmes from the' Rock Will be back in .. their old hunting grounds; but it looks as if they are being given serious com. petition from those two smoothies of our own little campus, Kay Landing and Virginia. Cripe. The “Rockettes”
could sure take a lesson in technique. Ask Joe Connerty.
Well, gang, your old dirt daubers have about dug themselves in up to the neck, so we will stop before we get in too deep. Anyway we have a South Bend
version of Betty Grable waiting for us; so we must be off for the slaughter.
V-12 BALL, JAN. 14 .
(Continued from page 5)
hope that they could earn enough money to keep them going through school for the four year period. Long, who had the financial problem to contend with, decided to drop his ideas of specializing in symphony, and for the first time in his 17 years, played popular music. Through Johnny’s natural qualities of leadership and his fine background as a student of music and violin prodigy, the boys agreed Long was to be their leader. The first band numbered 11 men. Today, ten years after the band was born, six of the original company still remain, and some only left to join our armed forces.
The first job of any importance was a booking at a summer vacation spot known as White Lake, North Carolina. The boys scored an immediate hit. “Pop” Goldson, the managing director of the spot, who gave them their first chance, was impressed from the start. By way of appreciation, the Long band has returned to White Lake for eight summers out of the ten.
The following fall term saw Johnny and his band serenading such smart spots around the country as the William Penn Hotel in Pittsburgh, the Chase Hotel in St. Louis, the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston and the Cavalier Beach Club in Virginia Beach, Va.
In the summer of 1940, the band invaded New York for the first time. Roseland Ballroom, on the Great White Way,
booked them for three weeks. From the opening night the crowds went overboard for Johnny’s band. The engagement was extended. A look back over the last 12 months and one finds that Long band was brought back three times, at . increased wages, to accommodate the.
thousands of patrons who requested Long’s return. This is sensational, especially since Johnny’s outfit is primarily a sweet band and . Roseland has always been a “jive” center. True, Johnny did adapt his established style to fit . the surroundings, but on the whole, Long presented a generous supply of sweet
= tunes, his own expert. southpaw violin , solos and a dozen or more sure fire novelty numbers. •
In June of 1941, the greatest of all breaks came along. Out of nowhere and completely by surprise, Johnny Long and .
his orchestra were booked into the Hotel New Yorker. On opening night the
jammed throng labeled the outfit “The Miracle Band of the Year.” It does tell the story most completely. Originally, the contract called for a three week
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON . YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS *
APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE. FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Sl.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES ' PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. "T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS
CIGARETTES
CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
22
booicing, but a packed house nightly kept the band around in a record breaking engagement until Oct. 8. On the strength of the sensational reception at the New Yorker, the Paramount Theater, famed , New York showcase for name bands, booked the band for a stage appearance. The New Yorker recalled Johnny and his boys to the Terrace Room bandstand in June, 1943. And in 1942 he made such a hit in Washington that he was selected to play at the President’s Ball of 1942— the goal of all bandleaders.
Now numbering 14 musicians, the outfit embellished vocally by pretty Patti Dugan and handsome Gene Williams and the personality plus fronting and Adding of Johnny Long. The band has also turned out some excellent Decca records. Through these, together with their more than 500 NBC and CBS broadcasts in the last two years, the Long musicmakers have developed followings all over the country. The band is particularly liked by the college kids, but. they are not type favorites and do draw people of all ages.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Specializing in the ex-• amination of the eyes.
Dr. *E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
' 212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
“The Miracle Band of 1942” is expected to add further “miracles” to their amazing record in the next twelve months.
Add to all this the fact that next week the Scholastic will be officially dedicated as the “V-12 Ball Number,” and a very entertaining and memorable evening is guaranteed to all who attend the Notre Dame V-12 Ball on Jan. 14, 1944.
MARINE MURMURS (Continued from page 10)
songs. It certainly is all Greek to their privileged or otherwise audiences.
Fool of the Week — The Pvt. who doesn’t buy a ticket to the V-12 ball.
NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS—
Pvt. “Turk” Tarver resolves or did resolve to lay off of South Bend girls and stay true to his little Irish lass far, far away. We understand, however, he broke this resolution Jan. 2.
Pvt. Don Hearway resolves not to flip away his paycheck in the future. Doesn’t Miss Lady Luck love you, Don? Gunny suggests that you shave your shoes and shine your face.
Resolved by occupants of the second floor of Zahm to stuff Pvts. Mattmiller, Mason, Mangen, Mitchel, and Mampel in their sacks with a sock in their mouth promptly at 2300 every night.
Resolved by detachment as a whole to treat “chow hall” George with due respect.
Pvt. Car] Dickenson resolves to leave a bigger and shinier apple on the Q.X. desk. The reason?	.
Scuttlebutt — Three month’s boot camp at P.I. beginning in March.
His back is straight as a bowed arrow, His nose has that famous beer glow, And his clothes he continually seems to outgrow—
That is our Sgt. --—
Demerits to all he is proud to bestow, He’s a friend to few and to many a foe, His authority he certainly likes - to show—
That is our Sergeant ------
Personality as changeable as a rainbow, He is friendly to all his superiors we know,	.
But does he act like a hick to us in . the lower row—	. ,	.
Yes—that is qur Sergeant -------
A Christmas card he sent us, why we don’t know,	-
For next morning his real sentiments: he did show,	.
When out of his way he did go, _ -
To award many demerits —	-
Our Sgt. ------- .
The sentiments of many this poem does show,
And if bars on our shoulders ever glow,
We’ll be marines for the discipline the
Sgt. did show,	v
And will certainly be thankful to = .
Our Sgt.--------.	■ .
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS .
E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S. .
623-629 Shetland Bldg. ' South Beni, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS .
406-408 Tower Building '	Phone 3-2574 .
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY .	.
X-Rays and Consultation ' -	.
- Diseases and Surgery of, Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South. Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER . DENTISTS •	...
.	503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
'	825 Shetland Building .
. .L. E. Fisher, MJJ.	M. J. Thornton, MD.
23
iS* * “* -■ »<a
b^TTY GRABLE
S7"'K'cm T~' ^THCOm
VH-UPGIRI'
Iwth the boys...Its
Chesterfield
I
You see Chesterfields everywhere these days—and why? Because they are milder and better-tasting and no wonder . . . Chesterfields are made of the best tobaccos that grow. And that’s not all— it’s the blend —the Right Combination of . these tobaccos that makes Chesterfield / the cigarette that