May 8, 1931
813
COMMENT
Promoter Ed Madden, who is slaving day and night (so we think) in preparation for the S.A.C. boxing tournament, has worked himself up to a fever heat over the impending battles, and wishes to announce that the card which will be offered to the ring enthusiasts of the campus will make everyone want to pay twice, coming and going.
Of course, knowing the students as we do, it is quite certain that no one will donate more than is required. However, if such contributions are forthcoming, Promoter Ed will have his hands open. Anyway, we’re not going to miss the battles. (How about a comp, Ed?)
More than twenty-five men have already signified their intention of donning the gloves. Among this number are some fancy boxers who are certain to provide plenty of entertainment. Billy Magarrall will be in the ring to do business. And who says Billy can’t make an average performer look silly?
The tournament ,which will be held on May 12, is the result of student demand for excitement. It was carried out successfully last year and by popular acclaim was scheduled again. Some difficulty was attached to the arrangements, but now everything is ready. Student patronage is the only requirement left. See you there, Bill! . . . you too, Ed.
Score one more for Jack Funny Fellow. The “Girls Number” of the Juggler is about the neatest display of feminine art we have looked at for a long time. Having seen the cover before it appeared on the magazine, we were enthusiastic over the issue as a whole. Now we’re satisfied. To those of you who have bought copies of the Juggler, we need not recommend it further; to those who haven’t we advise that a purchase be made at once before it is too late. The alluring blonde on the cover would make an appropriate decoration for any man’s desk, which, of course, is only a minor thing. But the remainder of the drawings, as well as the written work, are clever, and the fact that they came from outside contributors with a variety of ideas and keen humor insures a banner number. Better buy a copy or two!
—W. V. B.
Su..••**•*«.IHHIIIIIUIIIIII...UIUIIUUIUIUI...  tltllHMUIIIIIUIUIlU
| The Notre Dame Scholastic
| Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
=	Founded 1867
EMIL L. TELFEL—Ewtor-in-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley
Edward E. Brennan Austin Boyle John Pick
The Week Richard J. O’Donnell
Music and Drama Frank E. Seward
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique
William Knox
William C. Karl, News Editor
Edmund Stephan, Assistant Netvs Editor
Sports Staff henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Edmund Moriarty
Managing Editor John E. Bergan
Associate Editors James J. Kearney James Carmody William W. Corr
Make-up Editor Walter V. Beesley
Feature Editor James K. Collins
Nezus Staff
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson
George Belting James Kearns
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr. Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess
J. Albert Smith	Daniel E. Brennan	'
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Pubucations Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
j Vol. LXVI	MAY 8, 1931	No. 26
|	Frontispiece _______________________________________________814
i	The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell 815
I	Senior Ball Will Be Held Tonight—William C. Blind-----------816
=	Guests at the 1931 Senior Ball------------------------------818
1	Harper Marvels At University Progress—Walter	Johnson--------823
|	A Man About the Carmnus—William Knox------------------------824
|	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan----------------------------825
j	Editor’s Page_______________________________________________827
|	The Wink____________________________________________________828
=	College Parade—Daniel C. Williams---------------------------829
E	Norb Crowe Captain For ’31-’32—Henry B. Asman---------------830
=	Golfers Win Two—T. Edzvard Carey----------------------------831
|	Introducing Haskell Askew—James S. Kearns-------------------832
=	Interhall Sports____________________________________________842
=	On Down the Line—Cleve Carey--------------------------------844
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame, Manuscript* may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
5 Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at 5 special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
:	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage or
:	All Notre Dame Men.
Q..........■■>■■■■..................  mil............nmmnmil................................
Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward R. Brennan Paul J. Hallinan Lloyd Teske
College Parade Daniel C. Williams
Campus Clubs W. Leslie Raddatz
Lawrence Prybylski
William Bund Joseph Degnan Lawrence Dunda
T. Edward Carey Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
Qlllltli tllllt II tlltllHIHinitniHlIIIIIIHintilHtllllllllMlltHUHttllHIIIillt lUlllinHIIIMIHtlllllltllllHltlillllllUIIIIIIIIHMII tlHIUlll tHIHIMHilliitltH UHIItHillltHtllllllUHHI Illi HI IHltlllltltllllinnHlItllintilUIIHIIIIHUIIIIIItltlllftinillHtlllllllllllHnitllltllllHIIIUtlllHUIIIIIHIItlHIIIIUHIfffHI
SONG FOR KAY
Now before this night Is lost to me, Let there be songs Szmg wistfully;
Let there be music Soft and low, And let your eyes Dream and gloiv.
Now before this night
Is lost to me, Let there be laughter
Gay and free;
And let there be heart-beats
For a secret sign, And let there be love
That matches mine.
—E. L. T.
May 8, 1931
815
♦ THE WEEK ♦
w HAT is it about a stalled machine that has such an irresistible attraction for the ordinary human? A man can’t lift the hood of a broken-down automobile without being almost mobbed by curious bystanders. These fellows That repair telephone wires have seen as many tonsils as the average dentist. Let anything go wrong, be it a disabled kiddy car or a Mack truck, and in no time an advice-giving crowd has assembled to stand guard until all is well again. All this is leading up to the fact that the typewriter on which this is being written has been out of commission for the last twenty-four hours. Yes, it is unfortunate that it couldn’t have been fortyeight, but why be nasty? Anyhow, while the poor Royal lay stretched out, with its intestines revealed to the eyes of all visitors, one-half the total number of residents of Sorin hall enjoyed themselves by prodding the machine with a screw driver, thumping it with a hammer, shaking it to see if it rattled, and several dropped it on the floor to see if that wouldn’t teach it a lesson. Joe Blaney tinkered with it for at least a half hour, tore the ribbon, disabled two keys, and, judging by his appearance when he finished, removed every bit of grease, oil, and dust from the machine. As he extricated himself from the mangled mechanism, he remarked solemnly, “I wouldn’t fool with it if I were you; you better get a repairman to look at it.” To Joe, and the rest of the wreckers who contributed their services so generously, we hereby extend our thanks. If they ever have any trouble of a similar nature, we promise to be right on hand with a sledge hammer, a fire axe, and perhaps a pound or two of blasting powder.
Sorin subway, traditional home of all Americans, confidence men, campus characters, racketeers, and similar figures of repute and disrepute, is in mourning. The subway boys, to all appearances the most hardened and sophisticated .on the campus, are really the epitome of the virtues of charity, generosity, and soft-heartedness. Witness the touching incident of this past winter when the sub played host during many cold weeks to a friendless little rabbit and a starving police dog. For months these two animal friends were sheltered in the cozy atmosphere of the subway. They came to know all the boys, and friends, they came to love them. The little rabbit was called “Isham,” for its closest pal was Mike Teders. The dear little puppy was not called anything in particular, because it wouldn’t have done any good. If there were any food around, he didn’t have to be called. .If there were no victuals within smelling distance, any name in any language could not budge him from his sprawled-out position alongside Tom Flannelly’s radiator. Happy were the lives of these two little beasties, honorary members of that one big family that lives in the sub, until spring came along. Then the police dog broke from his lethargy one night and trotted out into the enticing darkness. The bunny tried to stick it out a while, but soon he, too, broke the traces and left Teders, to search for his brother bunnies. And so the subway has been cast into an abyss of . sorrow. The tender hearts of the residents have been sorely touched. Ed Mahon is grief-stricken. “The place,” he said, as he sniffed the air mournfully, “will never be the same.”
One trying experience that this year’s graduates will not have to go through is that of attempting to get near the bulletin board in the Main building which announces the results of the drawings for room numbers. For several days now, juniors, sophomores, and freshmen have been ।	milling about there like a crowd of Scotchmen around a
free lunch counter. No casualties have as yet been reported, but many pairs of good shoes have been ruined and many ribs have been bruised by pointed elbows. Why not have duplicate lists printed and spread about the other bulletins on the campus ? It would certainly save an enormous amount of trouble on the part of those c	who are eager to determine their standing. It might al-
so be a good idea to notify the freshmen of a certain tradition which is connected with the drawing of room numbers. Those who receive a number higher than three hundred should always remark, “H’m, I guess I’ll have to live in Mishawaka.” In the sophomore year, the comment is the same except for the fact that one substitutes the •	more distant town of Gary for that of our neighboring
suburb. Juniors always exhibit their sophistication by changing it to the Stevens hotel. It’s a quaint old custom. No one, of course, considers it a joke any more.
A. FTER checking over all the details of the Senior Ball week end, we have decided that there is no reason why it should not be one of the most enjoyable occasions in the careers of the about-to-be alumni. Let us hope that none of them become alumni before the regulation date arrives for the assuming of graduate dignity. The dance this evening and the affair tomorrow should be eminently successful. Isham Jones undoubtedly has one of the sweetest orchestras in the country. John Kuhn promises decorations that will dazzle the most sophisticated eye. Three hundred seniors are spreading the news that they will have the most beautiful girl at the Ball, so what is lacking? Walter Cahill and Jack Saunders have done a lot of work on the dance, and in the face of no little opposition. The latter consisted chiefly of the well-known depression, but this was assisted by obstacles of a more personal nature. The business of running a class dance is no easy assignment. If it fails, the chairman and his aids never' hear the end of it. If it is a success, they are immediately labelled high-powered racketeers. Judging by the results, Jack and Walt have done their work well. They can afford to laugh at the post mortems, secure in the satisfaction that they have been successful in spite of circumstances which might have spelled failure.
816
The Scholastic
WEEK-END PROGRAM
FRIDAY, MAY 8—
10:00 p. m., Senior Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom.
SATURDAY, MAY 9—'
2:00 p. m., Tea Dance, Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club.
Informal Parties, South Bend.
SUNDAY, MAY 10—
10:30 a. m., Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
The Senior Ball tonight at the Palais Royale ballroom will be the climax of all social events for the members of the class of 1931. Everything which goes to make a dance a complete success has been provided for by General Chairman Walter E. Cahill and his assistant committemen.
For weeks Cahill and his able helpers have been working hard and have managed to secure the fortunate combination of a good orchestra, novel decorations, and original favors. From all indications this year’s Senior Ball will eclipse those of other years, according to the men in charge.
Decorations Novel
One of the most distinctive and original features of this year’s Senior Ball are the novel decorations which follow the popular modernistic motif. The entire ballroom will present a garden effect. The walls are hidden by vine-covered lattice-work and all around the floor are placed pots of royal palms. Another innovation is the lowering of the ceiling with a canopy of balloons. The stage is terraced with flower-strewn steps and the background of the orchestra is done in varying shades of blue. Suspended over the orchestra is a set of silver’ class numerals. The beauty of the decorations will be enhanced by the unusual lighting effects which Chairman John Kuhn and Iris committeemen have evolved. For the first time, not only the ballroom, but the entire interior of the building,
SENIOR BALL WILL BE HELD TONIGHT
Walter E. Cahill
General Chairman of the Ball
the foyers and the balcony, will follow the same style of decoration.
Isham Jones to Play
Isham Jones and his orchestra have been chosen by Vincent M. Teders, chairman of the music committee, to furnish the music for the dancers. Jones is one of the best orchestras in the country. lie has recently concluded a nation-wide tour, coming to South Bend from Cleveland, where he played at the Golden Pheasant restaurant. He also has an international reputation, not only having made successful appearances at the College Inn, the Palais D’or, and other well-known places in this country, but also having a successful stay at the Kit Kat club in London. His music is characterized by its smooth, mellow quality, and the easy swing and slow tempo so popular today.
Jones, aside from his prominence as an orchestra leader, is also famous as a composer. Many of his compositions have been season hits, among which have been “What’s the Use?” “You’re Just a Dream,” and
BY WILLIAM C. BLIND
TIT "^T
others equally well-known. Jones is also known for his phonograph recordings and his radio broadcasts. He has been broadcasting since' the infancy of radio and in recent years has done much playing over national chain hook-ups.
Favors Attractive
The favors this year are unusually attractive, and represent a departure from the ordinary favors given at dances. They are portable secretaries and contain a complete writing
Miss Jean Chrisman Queen of the Ball
set. In the shape of a portfolio, they are trimmed with hand-tooled imported leather and lined with brocaded silk. In appropriate compartments the secretary contains stationery, a letter opener, and a large blotter. The gay hunting scene on the front cover of the favor strikes a warm and cherful note.
Miss Jean Chrisman of South
May 8, 1931
817
o'
PLANS COMPLETE FOR GALA AFFAIR
ISHAM JONES TO PLAY
nr nr w
Bend, as the guest of Chairman Walter Cahill, will be Queen of the Ball. John F. Saunders, president of the senior class, will have as guest of honor, Miss Frances Meyer Min-nier of Syracuse, New York. Guests of other seniors have arrived from all sections of the country, including Maine, California, Washington, and Florida.
The programs for the Ball this year are especially elaborate, and will match the favors, according to co-chairmen William Chawgo and
Miss Frances Meyer Minnier, Guest of Honor
Malcolm McVean. They will also be trimmed in hand-tooled imported leather stamped in gold, and contain a list of the committee chairmen, patrons and patronesses, and class officers. A novel arrangement of apportioning the dances will also feature this program. The programs for the tea dance will be simple, and consist merely of small cards with. a list of the dances.
John F. Saunders, President of the Senior Class
As in other years, the invitations will be formal and elaborately engraved. This year, a French deckleedge design paper has been used.
Tea Dance Arranged
The tea dance tomorrow afternoon will be held at the Chain-O’-Lakes Country club, according to arrangements made by Chairman Edward Shean of the tea dance committee. Isham Jones will play for the tea dancers. Incidentally, this is the first time in years that the same orchestra has been engaged to play for both the Ball and the tea dance. The time of the dance will be from two until five, Central standard time. The Chain-O’-Lakes Country club is located several miles northwest of South Bend.
The seniors and their guests will dance to the strains of “Romance by Moonlight,” written especially for the occasion by Austin Boyle, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Katheryn Ullmen, a senior at St. Mary’s college. The music was com-
SONG
“Romance by Moonlight”
Words by
Austin Boyle and Katheryn Ullmen Music by
W. Franz Phillip
VERSE:
When I first met you by moonlight, I played I was in love.
Still the same moonbeams are shining. Telling me that I dream of . . .
CHORUS:
Romance by moonlight, the moonlight and you.
What was the spell that held us two?
And why did you cry when we said goodbye ?
Midsummer madness enthralled us. I said romances never last long. Though you were sure I was wrong. But now I know what you knew on that night—
I long for romance by moonlight.
posed by W. Franz Phillip, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. The song has been on sale for the past several weeks and from indication of the sales promises to be a hit. It has been featured for the past week at a local theatre by a member of the University Glee club and has been well received by the public. Isham Jones promises a special arrangement of the song for the Ball.
Patrons and Patronesses
The patrons and the patronesses for the Ball will be: Mr. and Mrs. William F. Roemer; Mr. William J. Coyne; Mr. Clarence Manion; Mr. and Mrs. Louis Buckley; Mr. and Mrs. Heartley Anderson; and Mr. Charles Phillips.
In conformity with the new faculty ruling, an honorary committee has been created instead of the usual list of guests of honor. Members of this committee are: Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; Timothy E. Benitz, chairman of the SA.C.; Thomas Conley, 1930 football captain; John E. Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Benedict L. McShane, president of the Chicago club; Edward R. Madden, chairman of the Blue Circle; John J. O’Brien, captain of the track team; Thomas S. Yarr, football captain; Daniel D. Halpin, 1930 manager of football; Dennis O’Keefe, captain of the baseball team; and Arthur McManmon, president of the Monogram club.
818
The Scholastic
HiiiiiiiiiniiniiiHiiiininHiiiintiiiHiHiiiiiiiniiiiiiii
Guests at the 1931 Senior Ball
Kathryn Meyer, Mishawaka. Indiana Elizabeth Richard, Mishawaka, Indiana Hildegarde Wismar, Unionville, New Jersey Irene E. Hafron, South Bend, Indiana Mary T. Buckley, Cicero, Illinois Vera Rogers, Evansville, Indiana Florence Ryan, Chicago. Illinois Jean Chrisman, South Bend, Indiana Frances M. Minnier, Syracuse, New York Mary Gannon, Pasadena, California Mildred Belina, Detroit, Michigan Anna Rose Reibly, Valparaiso, Indiana Christy Hallar, Altoona, Pennsylvania Catherine Smith, Lafayette, Indiana Margaret Hilger, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Ind. Mrs. Lester Wisda. Jackson, Michigan Mary J. Collins, St. Mary’s College Bernice Sheppard, Chicago. Illinois Helen Kopek, Detroit, Michigan Mary Catherine Walters, South Bend. Indiana Mary Louise Savage. Chicago, Illinois Frances McNulty, Springfield. Ohio Patricia Malsbury. Bozeman, Montana Elinor Kirby, Indianapolis, Indiana Maelyrel Hayhurst, Chicago. Illinois Dorothy Walsh. Chicago. Illinois Mary Lahey, Chicago, Illinois Leola Mary Elbel. Laporte, Indiana Dena Dicras, Jacksonville, Florida Isabelle Edelen, Muskogee, Oklahoma Mary Catherine Halpin, Flint, Michigan Bernice Stephens, Champaign. Illinois Sally Ann Ashe, Rochester, New York Mary Cunningham, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Mary Agnes Harris. South Bend. Indiana Lygia Winninger, Washington, D. C. Geraldine Kuntz. Indianapolis, Indiana Dorothy Sullivan, Chicago. Illinois Bessie Loucks. Elkhart. Indiana Virginia Geissler, Cincinnati, Ohio
Virginia Henneberger, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Mary UHmen, Chicago, Illinois Ruth Nelson, South Bend, Indiana Katherine Becker, Dubuque, Iowa Lillian May Hazel. Ypsilanti. Michigan Mildred Ternus, Humphrey, Nebraska Doris Bromann. Oak Park, Illinois Ruth Flowers, South Bend. Indiana Frances Beidenharn, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Olive Marian Geis, Casper, Wyoming Margaret Mary Larmer, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Susan King, Charleston, Illinois Eleanor Joyce, Chicago, Illinois
Regina Hegarty, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Elizabeth Fisher, Ottawa, Illinois Virginia Gage, La Grange, Illinois Estelle Reeland, St. Mary’s College Romayne Fuller, Aberdeen, Washington Catherine Dillon, South Bend, Indiana Margaret Crowley, River Forest, Illinois Vera Heminger, South Bend, Indiana Margaret Zoss, South Bend, Indiana Ida Lencione, Kenosha, Wisconsin . Betty O’Hara, Chicago, Illinois Mary A. Bergan, South Bend, Indiana Anne Telfel, Newark, New Jersey Mary F. Hayes, Springfield, Ohio Aubrie MacDonald, Erie, Pennsylvania Jane MacDonald, Flint, Michigan Virginia Cook, Flint, Michigan Ernestine Chayie, South Bend, Indiana Yvonne Sias, Oak Park, Illinois Helen Bauer, Toledo, Ohio
Onna Ewing, Salt Lake City, Utah Sarah Griffith. Memphis, Tennessee Esther Bain, Sharon, Pennsylvania Jean de Lesseps, Montreal, Canada Mary McAiear, New York, New York Louise Robinson, Kewanee, Illinois Mildred Whitmann, Erie, Pennsylvania Margaret Hall, Evanston, Illinois Frances Ritter, Wellesley, Massachusetts Mary Lou Quinn, Rosary College	'
Norma Keegan, Chicago, Illinois	:
Rosemary Beverlin, Kansas City, Kansas : Loretta Welsh, Des Moines, Iowa	;
Virginia Smith, Florence, Alabama	'
Mary Carolyn Graeff, Corpus Christi, Texas : Eilene McCarthy, New York City
Delisle Kroeger, Refugio, Texas	;
Ruth Eichhorn, Skidmore College	i
Margaret Downs, Oak Park, Illinois	;
Ruth Dorsey, Chicago, Illinois	]
Rose Anne Gorman, St. Mary’s College j
Katherine Mulrey, Indianapolis, Indiana Lee Donohue, Brightwaters, New York Emma Gogerty, Cheyenne, Wyoming Constance Houkins, Evanston, Illinois Mary Rahaim, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Ruth Mill, Elyria, Ohio Catherine Dieth, South Bend, Indiana Eileen Morcerean, Moline City, Michigan Mary Wills, South Bend, Indiana Julia Donahue, Chicago, Illinois Harriet Kenimel, South Bend, Indiana Alice Mahoney, Chicago, Illinois Ann Cotter, Chicago, Illinois Bertha Shaffer, Mishawaka, Indiana ■ Albertine Gagnier, St, Mary’s College
Mary Roach, Erie, Pennsylvania
Margaret Bernbrock, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Marcelle Sacher, Wheeling, West Virginia Angela Huch, Wheeling, West Virginia Mary Whelan, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Frances McMillian, St. Mary’s College Dorothy Plotz, St. Mary’s College Ruth Downey, St. Mary’s College
Margaret De Cais, Kalamazoo, Pennsylvania Delores Chartres, Wilmette, Illinois Louise O’Keefe, River Forest, Illinois • Alice Tobin, Elgin, Illinois
Marie Hoffman, South Bend, Indiana Gertrude McCarthy, Chicago, Illinois Mary Rowen, Flint, Michigan Grace Pierce, South Bend, Indiana Marjorie Adelspergh, South Bend, Indiana Mary Jane Schumaker, South Bend, Indiana Adele Rahaim, Jacksonville, Florida Marie Linehan, Chicago, Illinois Katherine Cisne, South Bend, Indiana Helen Cook, Mishawaka, Indiana Isabella Loftus, Utica, New York Virginia Desmond, Chicago, Illinois Gertrude McCarthy, Davenport, Iowa Frances Grisez, Laporte, Indiana Julia Telfel, Newark, New Jersey Mary Eggeman, Fort Wayne, Indiana Mary McKeever, Tulsa, Oklahoma Jane Bryan, South Bend. Indiana Rose McCarthy, Walla Walla, Washington Dorothy Irvin, South Bend, Indiana Mary Teigner, Roswell, New Mexico Bernadotte Wallace. Chicago, Illinois Mary Wolf, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Gustafson, South Bend. Indiana . Helen Kirkhoff, Fort Wayne, Indiana Esther Gilmore, Lima, Ohio Mardelle Luther, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Kilbane, Cleveland. Ohio Rose Bohling, Hannibal, Missouri Marie Halligan, Birmingham, Alabama Jean Margaret Tischer, Ottawa, Illinois Alice McManus, Chicago, Illinois Monica Mowry, Conneaut. Ohio Catherine Brensinger, Joliet, Illinois Mrs. Paul Cushing, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy E. Royal, St. Louis. Missouri Mary Drausman, Detroit, Michigan Louis Wilson, Portland, Oregon Helen Fogarty, Springfield, Illinois Mary Stockdale, Parsons, Kansas Catherine Cullen, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Helen Callahan, Chicago, Illinois Agnes R. Carey, Salem, Ohio Irma Crowley, Cincinnati, Ohio Irene Colville, Louisville, Kentucky Mary McCarthy, Casper, Wyoming Virginia Dodd, Miami, Florida Alberta Metzger, Albany, New York Virginia Dean, Chicago, Illinois Louise Bahmin, Boston. Massachusetts Genevieve O’Neil, St. Mary’s .College Marybelle Denny, Chicago, Illinois Alexina Philion, Mishawaka, Indiana • Monica Feeney, Joliet, Illinois .Helen Roche, Chicago, Illinois
Sally Greif, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Rosemary Williams, St. Mary’s College Dorothy Gore, Oak Park, Illinois Mary Newton, Chicago, Illinois Marge Powers, Chicago, Illinois
Peggy Carpenter, Louisville, Kentucky Elizabeth Noble, Brooklyn, New York Mary Dreux, Winona, Minnesota Helen Slinde, Madison, Wisconsin Sarah Welsh, Kansas City, Kansas Dorothy Owens, Chicago, Illinois Mary Hurley, River Forest, Illinois
Josephine Patricia Murphy, Chicago, Illinois Anne Karl, Newark, New Jersey Mary Virginia Harfst, Chicago, Illinois Bernice Cannon, St. Mary’s College Geraldine Normile, Cleveland, Ohio Norma Shean, El Paso, Texas Dorothy Bon Durant, Duluth, Minnesota Elizabeth Hyde, Duluth, Minnesota Dorothy Hall, Chevy Chase, Washington, D. C. Dorothy Ahern, South Bend, Indiana Helen Lauerman, Marinette, Wisconsin Janet Crowley, Des Moines, Iowa Vivian McMaster, Joliet, Illinois Charlotte Ponds, Hollywood, California Marie Cooney, St. Mary’s College Catherine Arth, Lakewood, Ohio Marjorie Hoyt, South Bend, Indiana Winifred Grogan, Chicago, Illinois Mary Ford, Dubuque, Iowa Eline Kane, La Grange, Illinois Mary Davis, Lakewood, Ohio Dolores Leyes, Mishawaka, Indiana Harriet Stafford, Rock Island, Illinois Ann Marie Soos, South Bend, Indiana Marion Conley, Chicago, Illinois Patricia Harmon, St. Mary’s College Virginia Koch, St. Mary’s College Helen Calhoun, Little Rock, Arkansas Mildred Franklin, Baltimore, Maryland Miriam McCoy, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Mrs. Ray Dunda, South Bend, Indiana Edith Agnew, Nashville, Tennessee Jane Cobb, Fort Worth, Texas Dorothy Raleigh, Cleveland, Ohio _ Marjorie Kelley, Brooklyn, New York Katherine Shaffer, Hamilton, Ontario Margaret Eisenbeic, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Charlotte M. Farwell, Chicago, Illinois Catherine Mary Mahon, New York City Margaret McCarthy, St. Mary’s College Lillian Mae McDonald, South Bend, Indiana Florence McCarthy, New York City Irene Lewis, Chicago, Illinois Marion Geddes, St. Mary’s College Audrey Marsh, Rolling Prairie, Indiana Thelma Klinedinst, South Bend, Indiana Helen O’Donnell, St. Mary’s College Betty Cahill, Utica, New York Marion Conley, Chicago, Illinois Harriet Stafford, Rock Island, Illinois Margaret Fitch, Waukegan, Illinois Myrtle Cawley, Toledo, Ohio Marian Pierce, South Bend, Indiana Mary Eleanor Krebser, St. Mary’s College Annabelle Kruze, South Bend, Indiana Lucille Hardman, South Bend, Indiana Mary Catherine McGinness, Chicago, Illinois Margaret Hellen, Waterloo, Iowa Bernadine Sterner, Cedar Rapids, Iowa Catherine Ann Davis, Wichita Falls, Texas Virginia Hiester, Denver, Colorado Jeanne Catlett, Denver, Colorado Joan Harding, Olney, Texas Elizabeth Fox, Waterloo, Iowa Louise Parker, Salt Lake City, Utah Jane Carr Walters, Raton, New Mexico Louise Esposito, Rome, Italy Ruth Keating, Chicago, Illinois Elenor Hadlow, Benton Harbor, Michigan Jane Bill, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Beck, Niles, Michigan Mary Gaskill, South Bend, Indiana Agnes Leener, Joliet, Illinois Audrey Mooney, Joliet, Illinois Dorothy Gray, Hartford, Connecticut Harriet Gonciarz, Chicago, Illinois Mary Lister, Pueblo, Colorado ■ Harriet Elliott, Bangor, Maine Margaret Storen, St. Mary’s College Mary O’Donnell, Pocatello, Idaho Alyce Dugan, Cleveland, Ohio Martha Cox, Mattoon, Illinois Berenice McManus, Chicago, Illinois Marge Gordon, Wilmette, Illinois Catherine O’Conner, Crystal Lake, Illinois Dorothy Marshall, 'Wilmette, Illinois Betty O’Neill, Chicago, Illinois Marie Hetzel, Chicago, Illinois Virginia Becklenberg, Cairo, Illinois Fern V. Carter, Beaver College Barbara Simpson, Darlington College Gert Jaeger, Vassar College Miriam Stephan, New York City- " Margaret Brennan, Kalamazoo, Michigan
May 8, 1931
819
❖------—---------------------
NOTICE!
Applications are being received for membership in the Spectators for next year. Students desiring to join may apply to Al Stepan, Badin hall, or Tim Benitz, 101 Sorin hall.
YOCH, MURRAY AND TROY NAMED A. S. M. E. HEADS
James Yoch of St. Louis, Missouri; Frank Murray of Battle Creek, Michigan, and David Troy of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, were elected president, rice-president and treasurer respectively, of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, at regular meeting held last Wednesday in the Engineering building. William Mar-tersteck of South Bend was chosen corresponding secretary, while Francis O’Keefe of Chicago was elected recording secretary.
A student paper on “The Muscle Shoals Development” was given by William Karl, vice-president, after which Chairman Joseph O’Hora spoke on “Air Conditioning.” William Mar-tersteck presented a short paper on the topic “The Manufacture of Tire Rims.”
Lost and Found
The following men have articles in the “Lost and Found” department in the Main building:
John G. Templeton, W. A. Hunt, Gilbert Augustine, Fred Sullivan, Herbert Myers, Charles I. Busser, Robert E. Ward, Walter Barlow, Jerry Greer, Lawrence Doorley, Jules de la Vergne, Robert Joyce, Frank Connors, and Thomas W. Oakes.
Howard Hall to Banquet
Howard hall will hold its annual banquet next Tuesday evening at six-thirty in the Faculty Dining room according to Lawrence Prybylski, chairman of the affair. Some one hundred-sixty men, including guests, will be present. Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame, will be the speaker of the evening. Entertainment will be furnished by men of the hall.
Tickets may be obtained from the chairman.
CONNELLLY, FINNERAN AND FFRENCH ARE WINNERS IN CLASS ELECTIONS
Heavy Balloting is Feature of Polls as Annual Political Battles Rage
Eugene T. Connelly was chosen president of the class of 1932 in the general elections conducted yesterday by the S. A. C., defeating Vincent Whelan by a vote of 257 to 211. The newly elected president is a member of the electrical engineering school and is a resident of Corby hall.
In the race for the vice-presidency of the senior class Florence J. McCarthy defeated Francis H. Reilly by a vote of 159 to 200. The office of secretary went to Thomas A. Burns with 265 votes. William Newbold received 125 votes. The ballots for the treasurer in the final count totalled 242 foi- Oliver Powers and 220 for Joseph M. Foley.
Juniors Elect Finneran
John F. Finneran, a member of the College of Science and a resident of Morrissey hall, will head the junior class of next year. John H. Poynton, the defeated candidate, received 109 votes to Finneran’s 292. The office of vice-president went to Nicholas P. Lukats who received 214 votes to 195 for John A. Baldwin. John J. Ryan was elected secretary of the class with 228 votes. His opponent, Frank H. Hurley, netted 180 ballots. The race for the office of treasurer was a close one. James E. McFeeley received 206 votes, defeating Fred Mac-Beth by a margin of 7 votes.
John P. Ffrench, a resident of Brownson hall and a student of the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the sophomore class, receiving 269 ballots to Hugh J. Devore’s 214. The office of vice-president went to Edmund F. Fitzmaurice by a safe margin, Jack C. Rivers being the defeated candidate. Secretary of the class will be Stewart H. Osborn. He received 275 votes to James J. Forrest’s 208. James V. Moscow was elected treasurer by a margin of 7 votes over Joseph A. Young. The actual count was 244 to 237.
Representatives Chosen
Eight new men were elected to the Student Activities Council. Robert J. Law will represent the senior arts and
letters students. He defeated James K. Collins by a ballot of 108 to 87. Myron E. Crawford was chosen by the science students, with Charles Quigley as the defeated candidate. John A. Perone defeated James H. Chadwick in the race for senior engineers’ representative on the council. John G. Higgins and Myles J. Mullen were the commerce men running for S. A. C. posts. The former was elected by a ballot of 88 to 76.
The junior representatives elected for next year are as follows: Ray J. Brancheau, two-year term; James J. Gerend, two-year term; and Robert E. Cook, one-year term. They defeated Louis Murphy, Edmund A. Stephan, and Thomas M. McLaughlin, respectively, by safe margins.
Edwin W. Kenefake was elected sophomore S. A. C. representative by the narrowest margin in the entire election. He received 241 votes to 238 for Harry J. Rockett.
It is interesting to note that all three of next year’s class presidents come from New York City or vicinity.
Senior Vote Heavy
Heavy balloting was the order of the day. Four hundred and sixty-three votes were cast for the senior class presidency. This is one of the largest polls ever- recorded in a senior-class election. There were many split tickets in the election because of the lack of complete straight tickets to guide the voters.
The balloting in the other elections was not as heavy in proportion to the membership of the class as it was in the senior class. Of the total enrolled membership in the class there were but very few who did not visit the polls some time during the day.
Electioneering near the polls was rampant with the senior elections having the greatest number in the vicinity. It appeared to an impartial observer as if ninety percent of the senior class were working for one candidate or the other.
820
The Scholastic
ORGAN RECITAL PLANNED
E. J. Walder and Bro. Arnold Give Recital Thursday.
Mr. Edward J. Walder, Jr., and Brother Arnold, C.S.C., assisted by Mr. Richard Seidel, violinist, will give an organ recital in Sacred Heart church on Thursday, May 14, at 8:00 p. m. Both Mr. Groom, who will serve in the capacity of accompanist, and Mr. Seidel are members of the faculty in the department of music at the University. Mr. Seidel has also been a member of the Chicago Symphony orchestra for forty years. The program is as follows:
1.	Prelude in G major.................Bach
2.	Vision ....................Itheinbergcr
3.	a) Fugue in G minor................Bach
b) Adagio from Violin Sonata in G minor.........................Bach
4.	Gavotte, 17th Century............Gossec
5.	Allegro Moderate ..............Lemaigre
Brother Arnold, C.S.C-.
Andante Doloroso—from Violin Concerto—in C major.............Vivaldi
Mr. Richard Seidel, Violinist Mr. Willard L. Groom, Accompanist
6.	Third Sonata for Organ.........Guilmant
a)	Allegro Maestoso
b)	Adagio
7.	Grand Cheour.....................Dubois
S. a) A Desert Song...............Sheppard
b) Andante Cantabile— 5th Symphony ..............Tschaikowsky
9.	Sketches of the City..............Nevin
a)	The City from Afar Off
b)	On the Avenue
c)	An Old Lady on a Porch
d)	Urchin Whistling in the Streets
e)	The Blind Man
f)	In Busy Mills
g)	Evening
10.	March Religieuse .............Guilmant
Mr. Edward Walder
“Huddle” to Be Filmed
Frank Wallace, former Notre Dame student and well known sports writer, has sold the film rights of his recently published novel, “Huddle,” to the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Film Corporation. The story is about Notre Dame and the fame she has won on the football field. According to an announcement made by the producers the company ■will go on “location” early this summer. As yet leads for the picture have not been chosen, but several prominent stars are under consideration.
Two other books entitled “Stadium” and “O’Reilly of Notre Dame,” the latter being a story of the more juvenile type, have just been completed by Mr. Wallace. Farrar and Rinehart are the publishers of the books.
UNIVERSAL PICTURES TO CONTINUE WORK HERE; FEATURE PLANNED
Notre Dame has been “on location” for the past few days. The Universal Motion Picture Corporation has moved truck upon truck load of equipment to the University campus and has been filming football as it is played by Notre Dame teams. Mr. Albert Kelly is directing the picture, the scenario of which was written by the late Knute K. Rockne. Heartley Anderson, present senior coach, is enacting the role originally intended for Coach Rockne.
The films will be composed of four “shorts” or treatises of football as it is played under the leading systems of the country. The Warner method, the famous “Minnesota shift,” Howard Jones’ system, the Notre Dame system, as well as numerous other famous types of football are portrayed. Together with the graphic description of these systems by action and sound will be the showing of famous plays run off by various outstanding teams throughout the country. Eyth’s 77-yard run when Carnegie played Notre Dame, the famous dash from short punt formation against Illinois as executed by Stecker of Army, Bucky O’Connor’s 80-yard run when Notre Dame defeated Southern California, and other equally famous sprints will be featured. Individual shots of Notre Dame players are to be included in the “shorts.”
It has been rumored, too, that a feature picture, the name of which shall be “The Spirit of Notre Dame,” is to be filmed on the campus. The football sequences will be made here,-while shots of the story are to be taken in the studios at Universal City, California.
“Scrip” to Feature Stories
The final issue of Scrip will appear on the campus in about one week. Most of the next issue will be taken up by stories. George Spalding has contributed one of his “Gibby” stories; and Louis Brennan is revising a story for presentation in the issue. Professor William Leen of the philosophy department is also to appear in the issue and has written a very entertaining essay about St. Patrick, the patron of his native Ireland.
The third issue of Scrip was well received on the campus, and most of the students praised the quarterly very highly.
CHICAGO CLUB ELECTIONS
Edward Ryan Wins Presidency In Close Balloting.
Edward Ryan was elected president of the Chicago club last Tuesday evening at the annual elections held in the gymnasium. Paul O’Toole, his opponent, received 108 votes of the 224 cast. John Groves was chosen vice-president over Jerome Reidy. The secretary’s position went to “Kitty” Gorman, who was opposed by Jack Poynton. Dan Casey will handle the club finances next year. The other candidate for treasurer was Hany Locke.
The features of the evening were the nominating speeches by Francis McGreal and James O’Shaughnessy. McGreal, in nominating Ryan, showed the capabilities of his candidate. He scored the opposition for their policy in sending out “misguiding” letters. He concluded with an appeal to the members to support Ryan. O’Shaughnessy in his speech extolled the excellent character of O’Toole and went on to defend their policy in circulating the letters; He stated that the purpose of the letters was for the “best interests of the club since it brought clearly before the members the issues at stake.”
SCHIAVONE ELECTED TO LEAD ITALIAN CLUB; PLANS DISCUSSED
The Italian club held its annual election of officers last Monday in the Main building. The officers for the ensuing year will be Leo Schiavone, president; Adam Sferra, vice-president; Sal Bontempo, secretary; William Blind, treasurer; and Edward Marolla, historian. The club members gave a vote of thanks to the retiring officers of the club.
Mr. Schiavone made a short speech of acceptance in which he outlined the plans for next year which call for several banquets and smokers. The proposed summer tour to Europe with an extended visit to Italy is also under consideration. Another plan which was considered was the establishment of an Italian Center of Culture at the University next year.
Papers at the meeting were read by the Messrs. Monack, Bosco, and Pugliese.
May 8, 1931
821
“JUGGLER” SCORES BIG HIT
Girls’ Number Well Received By Student Body.
Last Friday evening the annual “Girls’ Number” of the Juggler made its appearance on the campus and was enthusiastically received. The humor and the art work of the girl contributors far surpassed the expectations of the Funny Fellow. That competition for the coveted Juggler key was keen this year is seen from the fact that the large amount of material which Editor Jack Dempsey received, sufficient to fill four numbers, included four cover designs, 120 drawings and 200 written contributions. When it came to the awarding of the key for art it was difficult to decide between the work of Avis Mac, a Chicago girl, who painted the striking pastel head used on the cover, and that of Doris Johnson of Syracuse university, who submitted several outstanding drawings. It was finally, decided to send keys to both girls. To Margie Cannon of Loretto Heights college, Colorado, went the key for the best written humor. Evelyn Romanin of Toledo, and Bernice O’Keefe of St. Mary’s received mention for their splendid art and verse contributions.
The prize presented to the Juggler for the highest standard of art work this year among college publications is reproduced in color in the “Girls’ Number.” It is the thousand dollar oil painting by R. F. Schabelitz which appeared on the cover of the May issue of College Humor. The prize was awarded to the Juggler partly because of the fact that there has been a big demand for its art work this year. Four covers, twelve pages, -eleven half pages, and twenty-five miscellaneous drawings were sent to other colleges for use in their publications, and constitute what College Humor terms “the most impressive exchange” it has yet seen.
Among the most amusing sections of the “Girls’ Number” is the center-spread dedicated to the girls themselves and entitled “See Yourself as Others See You.” Therein are given the reflections of many great men on women in general and are, on the whole, not overly complimentary.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staffs this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
BAND TO PARTICIPATE IN BLOSSOM FESTIVAL
The University band will journey to St. Joseph tomorrow morning to participate in the annual Blossom Festival. The parade which begins at 1:00 o’clock will march from St. Joseph to Benton Harbor, where the prizes for the best pei-formances in the various events will be awarded. The organization will return to the University the same evening.
Last Saturday afternoon the band was photographed by Universal Pictures corporation as a part of the football shorts -which they are now in the process of filming.
New Classification
The Library of Congress system of classification is fast supplanting that of the Dewey decimal system used exclusively previous to February, 1929, in the University library. The old system was not considered up-to-date or scientific enough for college work. Both letters and numbers are employed in the Library of Congress system, making it possible to have even small divisions of different departments on the book shelves. Many of the leading college libraries of the country, including those at Michigan, Creighton, and Loyola, have already installed the system.
Class Visits Hospital
Sociology classes will attend their annual clinic at the Logansport State hospital, Logansport, Indiana, on Thursday, May 14. This clinic is limited to students who have taken or are now taking Sociology 3a. Students who have already completed this course are requested to give their names to Charles Spangenberg, 304 Walsh hall, who will explain details concerning the trip, before Monday, May 11.
SPECTATORS HEAR TALK
Stephan Discusses Future of Russia’s Five Year Plan.
Edmund A. Stephan, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Spectators at the weekly meeting of the club last week on the subject “Russia and the Five Year Plan.” After giving a brief summary of the economic and the political situations of Russia from the World war up to 1928, when the five year-plan was inaugurated, Stephan went on to discuss the various phases and possibilities of Russia’s new experiment. By showing the enormous strides that this country is making today in the field of intensive industrialization and by bringing out the fact that-if the plan were to fail at all it certainly would have done so during the present period of worldwide depression, Stephan showed himself in favor of the present Russian economic policy. His talk brought about a heated discussion, in which the possibility of Russia’s success in her- present venture was strongly debated. Where Russia will turn for sufficient capital to continue financing her gigantic program was a question which gave rise to various opinions, and seemed to be the turning point of the entire argument.
President Alfred Stepan announced at the meeting that new members will be received into the club within the next few weeks.
PARAMOUNT DONATES
FILM OF KNUTE ROCKNE
According to an announcement by Joseph Petritz, publicity director of the University, Paramount Sound News has presented to Notre Dame for permanent use a half reel of film of the late Knute Rockne. The news reel includes a camera interview with Mr. Rockne at Coral Gables, Florida, early in the season regarding the team’s prospects for 1931; the last motion pictures ever made of the famous coach when he turned out the football squad for the spring practice picture; the wreckage of the plane at Bazaar, Kansas, and the highlights of Rockne’s career at Notre Dame; the funeral, which includes the chapel and cemetery ceremonies; and lastly, a tribute to Mr. Rockne by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
822
The Scholastic
NOTICE!
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, are now receiving applications for membership. Requirements are a scholastic average of 85% and participation in some form of forensic activity at Notre Dame.
All applications should be mailed to John Wilson, chairman of the membership committee, in Morrissey hall.
DR. KUNTZ GIVES TALK
TO ENGINEERS’ CLUB
Dr. Leo Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, was the main speaker at the last regular meeting of the Engineers’ club held last Tuesday in the new Law building.
Speaking briefly on the various phases of education, Dr. Kuntz mentioned in particular the trend in modern teaching methods. In speaking of the intelligence test he pointed out that in general engineers rated high. “Intelligence, however, does not necessarily have as a prerequisite the ability to read or write,” said the speaker. “Intelligence is rather the ability to adapt oneself to new situations quickly.” Prof. Kuntz closed his address by a very appropriate bit of verse in which he compared the “builder of structures” with the “builder of the mind”.
N. D. Men at Conference
Mr. C. J. Griffin, instructor in the department of education, and Mr. H. Seymour, graduate student in education, attended the Indiana Junior High School Teachers’ conference held at Terre Haute last Thursday and Friday. Mr. Griffin will teach a course in junior high school work at the University this summer, and therefore had a specific interest in the proceedings of the conference.
The question of .whether junior high work is becoming more exploratory than educational was debated at the conference with the result that special emphasis was laid on the obvious superiority and necessity of education over orientation.
While in Terre Haute the Notre Dame delegates attended dinner at the Kiwanis club as guests of Mr. Vass, president of the conference.
BOXING SHOW TUESDAY
S. A. C. To Sponsor Annual Spring Sport Event.
Edward J. Madden, chairman of the boxing commission of the S.A.C. has arranged a card which includes some of the foremost battlers on the campus. These men will strut their stuff before what Madden hopes will be a crowded gymnasium next Tuesday evening, May 12, at 8:00 p. m.
Heading the list of contenders is Bill Magarall, Golden Gloves Champion of South Bend and surrounding territory. Butch DeVault, mythical heavyweight champion of Notre Dame, will also appear on the card. The other men who will fight are: Kitty Gorman, Len Dunn, Jim Boscoe, Bud Tarrell, Norm Greeney, George Kozak, Tony Sicuranzo, Art Kline, Louis Godoy, Sid Steinburg, Jack Fisher, and Sigmund Sluszka. Although - the pairings have not been completed official S.A.C. bulletins will be posted Saturday morning announcing the matches.
Frank Carideo will be the referee. Marchy Schwartz will time the bouts, while John Perone will serve as announcer. Tom Conley and Tom Yarr have been announced as the official judges.
The council promises an evening of entertainment, and since medals are to be awarded to the winners, the various contestants will no doubt mix it up. Student admission to the contest will be twenty-five cents. Tickets may be secured from the hall representatives or from members of the Blue Circle.
QUALIFYING ROUNDS OF TOURNEY BEING PLAYED
The qualifying rounds of the University championship golf tournament are being played all this week on the William J. Burke University course. All men desiring to enter the tournament must have entered their name and deposited their scorecards in the clubhouse before 5:30 p. m. Sunday, May 10. The thirty-two lowest qualifiers will compete in match play to determine the school champ.
The winner last year was Arthur Bradley, a member of the varsity team.
❖------------------------—
NOTICE!
Students desiring admission to the Scribblers foi' next year should apply to Louis A. Brennan, 245 Corby hall. Applications should be accompanied by at least two original pieces of literary work. These may be short stories, essays, poems, or critical articles.
FATHER BOLAND SPEAKS ON BUSINESS CONTROL
Reverend F. J. Boland, C.S.C., professor in the department of economics of the University, on Tuesday, May 5, addressed the members of the University club of South Bend. Father Boland discussed the business cycle and the possibility of its control, an especially timely subject.
Placing the responsibility for depression on the industrial leaders of the country, he stated that if government intervention and control of the situation were to be avoided, then industry would have to furnish the leadership and means of solving this problem. Since business is organized for profit, Father Boland added, and since the profit motive is only a means of encouraging the organization of industry to satisfy the needs of society, therefore if it leads to abuses some form of control will have to be exerted.
Granada Features Ball Song
George Menard, a freshman in the arts and letters school, has been appearing on the stage of the Granada theater during the past week. He has been singing the theme song of the Senior Ball, “Romance by Mocnlight,” accompanied by Pat Patterson at the organ. The song has been featured by the theater three times daily. Menard first introduced the song at the monogram men’s show, “The Gold and Blue Revue,” and has duplicated his success with it there at the downtown theater.
Glee Club Gives Concert
The University Glee club presented its full program of songs before the assembled student body of Mishawaka High school last Wednesday morning. Among the well known numbers rendered were “John Peel,” “Cornfield Melodies” and “Song of the Jolly Roger.”
May 8, 1931________________________________
HARPER ON HIS RETURN MARVELS AT PROGRESS MADE BY NOTRE DAME
“But The Spirit of Notre Dame Lives Now As It Always Will,” He Reminds
By Walter Johnson
That a great many changes have been brought about at Notre Dame during the past decade can hardly be denied. Yet as seen by Jesse Harper, who returns to Notre Dame after his absence of aimost thirteen years, the University, paradoxically, is in essence the same, and at the same time unrecognizably different.
In an interview with a Scholastic reporter on his return to Notre Dame, Mr. Harper said:
“I had heard and read of the immense change in Notre Dame, but it was necessary for me to see the campus itself, before I could actually realize the tremendous growth of the University. The physical appearance of the campus amazed me. The stadium, the gymnasium, Howard, Morrissey, St. Edward’s and Lyons halls and the Law building were all new, and gave the place a decidedly different aspect.
“I was surprised and gratified to see the exceptionally large turnout for spring football practice. Such a group as I saw last Friday was undreamed of thirteen years ago.”
Mr. Harper’ assured the Scholastic that the real Notre Dame was not changed. “During the short time I’ve been back,” he said, “I have found the students much the same as before I left Notre Dame. They dress the same, their mannerisms are the same, and I believe that they themselves are the same. The spirit of Notre Dame lives now as it always will.
“I came to Notre Dame as football coach in 1913, the year in which Knute Rockne captained the team and played his last college game. Our relationship that year might be compared to that of Mr. Rockne and Frank Carideo last fall. Later, when Knute became my assistant, that friendship grew into something more. I intended to retire within a few years and therefore began to groom him to take my place. This threw us more and more together, as I took him into my confidence always, that he might learn whatever I could
teach him about the department.”
Athletic Director Harper does not intend to inaugurate a new system, but rather will try to carry on as nearly as possible in the manner
Jesse Harper
Rockne would have done. He makes no predictions, other than to promise the usual hard-fighting team, fighting all the harder for “Rock.” “Because of two undefeated teams,” he warns, “the students must not think that to be good a team must go through its season without losing a game. As a matter of fact, for good healthy relations with rival universities we cannot always win. I don’t intend to imply that we will lose purposely anything but that. However, the students must not expect an indefinite number of undefeated teams, but rather, must expect losses, and learn to be good losers.”
This rather ominous bit of advice was somewhat mitigated as Mr. Harper concluded: “It seems mighty fine to be back. I was especially gratified by the cordial welcome afforded me, and by the wonderful cooperation which I received from everyone. I have every confidence in Mr. Anderson, senior coach, and in Mr. Chevigny, junior coach, and I feel sure that they will handle their departments in an eminently satisfactory manner.”
823
“ALUMNUS” TO ISSUE ROCKNE MEMORIAL
James Armstrong, secretary of the alumni association, is preparing the Rockne Memorial Number of the Alumnus which will appear on the campus in the near future. The issue will contain a cross-section of the major tributes paid by the nation to the memory of Knute Rockne. Editorials, poems, eulogies, and leading comment from all sources will be carefully chosen.
If there are any students who wish to secure copies of the issue they are asked to. see James Armstrong at the Alumni office. The number of copies printed is sufficient to meet the demands of the alumni, and any extra copies must be secured at the Alumni office.	-
Law Club Elects England
Edward J. England, a junior in the College of Law, was elected president of the Law club for 1931-32 at the annual election of the club, held Tuesday evening in the Law building. England, a native of Redlands, Calif., received his A.B. degree last June and has acted as freshman track coach this past year.
Other officers elected were: John Harrington, Racine, Wis., vice-president; Joseph Dunn, El Paso, Texas, and Norbert Christman, Green Bay, Wis., treasurer. The retiring president is Joseph Yoch who will be graduated from the College of Law in June.
New Books in Library
The University library announces that the following books are now available:
History—The Fall of the Russian Empire, by E. A. Walsh.
Fiction—Salute to Cyrano, by P. Feval; The Axe, by Sigrid Undset.
Literature—Boners, by A. Abig-don; Essays for College English, by W. E. Brennan; The Craft of the Critic, by S. S. Smith.
Science—Science of Life, by H. G. Wells.
Economics—The Menace of Overproduction, by S. Hamlin.
Law—Hoza to Conduct a Criminal Case, by W. H. Black.
Latin Work—A History of Late Latin Literature, by F. A. Wright.
824
The Scholastic --------------- 'i
A Man About the Campus
KOHLBRENNER WRITES FOR CATHOLIC MONTHLY
One September afternoon in 1928 a confident-appearing young man paraded into the office of the Boston Beanpot, Boston university’s humorous monthly, announced himself as Joseph Wilk, former circulation manager of the Notre Dame Juggler, and asked that his valuable services be put to some use. At the time, the Beanpot editors were badly in need of an experienced man to drum up some circulation. So Sophomore Joe Wilk, whose relationship with the Juggler was in reality limited only to a few minor contributions, got the job. (It’s a great system. We’ll have to try it some time.)
There is something besides parental coercion that brings fellows back to Notre Dame. Whatever it is, Joe felt it, and carrying a very light suitcase and a certificate of 18 hours’ credit from Boston university, he boarded the train to South Bend. Maintaining his exuberant stride, Joe tossed his light suitcase into Dan Williams’ room and was off, at a mile-a-minute pace, looking for some means of earning the well known B. R. T. In a downtown restaurant he found it. Later on the National Guards of Mishawaka were in sore need of a leader. Deeply bred into Joe were the military tactics of the Citizens’ Military Training camps, so putting on his uniform, Joe marched all the way out to Mishawaka for the appointment. For a year he successfully added color to the Lord Mayor’s parade, deftly did he flip eggs (and caught most of them), and dutifully did he study his Education.
In his third year, Joe began selling things: advertising, football rainhoods, Fuller brushes, jewelry, pennants, and cocktail shakers. That year the Dome ran a circulation contest, with the managership of that publication and a trip to Europe as the prize. Joe won the contest; or need we mention that? After accepting the managership job, he told those fine fellows in the Publications’ office that for a nice, fresh check, he would entirely forget about the trip to Europe. Before he knew it he found himself circulation manager of the Dome, the Juggler, Scrip, and the Santa Maria. Sometime during his waking hours Joe found time to become vice-president of the Educa
tional Confraternity, member of the Blue Circle, Connecticut Valley club, and the Junior Prom publicity committee. And if you don’t know it, Joe was the inventor of that musical signboard which croons to you three times a day in order to inveigle you into purchasing tickets to Proms, Balls, ordinary dances, and revues.
Perhaps you remember the fellow who cornered you last semester and
Joseph A. Wilk
had you sign for a Dome before you really knew his business? That was Joe. He has secured for the Dome the largest circulation it has ever known, and has succeeded equally well with the other three publications. And just to show the home folks that he has energy to spare, he has undertaken the teaching of freshmen and found plenty of pep left over to study appreciation of music, literature of the Bible, the psychotherapeutic analysis of the maladjusted moron, and all such educational endeavors.
Joe doesn’t confine his traveling experience to the chasing of sales resistant sophomores about the campus. One Easter vacation finds him ’ wandering through the Vieux Carre in sunny old New Orleans, and the next finds him bucking the wintry blasts of the Lake Superior copper country.
For four years Joe has lived off-campus. For four years he has never walked slowly. For four years he has never missed an opportunity!
Mr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, instructor in the department of education, is the author of an article published in the April issue of the Catholic School of Interests under the title “Research and the Classroom Teacher.” The magazine is edited by Mr. A. Confrey, former head of the department of education at Notre Dame, and now dean of Springfield Junior college, Springfield, Ill.
The theme of the essay is briefly, that although teachers may not be qualified to carry on productive research, they should adapt the findings of research workers to local conditions and circumstances. Furthermore, that school administrators should secure the cooperation of teachers in conducting local research studies. This is the eighth article published by Mr. Kohlbrenner in this publication in the past two years.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS INITIATE 24 NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
Exemplification of the second and third degrees of the Knights of Columbus took place in the council chambers of the Elkhart council in Elkhart, Ind., on last Sunday. Candidates of the Notre Dame, Elkhart, LaPorte and Mishawaka councils took the degrees, and the members of these councils attended the ceremonies. Members of the Mishawaka council presented the second degree and District Deputy Michael Dona-ghue of Detroit, the third degree.
John P. O’Donnell, state deputy of the order, and the Hon. Samuel B. Pettengill were the speakers at the banquet which followed the initiation.
The candidates of the Notre Dame council were: Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., Ronald Bugni, John H. Cahill, John F. Cary, Cyril Collins, Patrick Crowley, William Day, John M. Doran, Charles J. Fiss, Alfred Grisanti, Ernest F. Haberkern, Frank W. Honerkamp, Frank J. Madden, Hugh J. McNarney, William R. Murphy, John M. Ruberterto, John W. Schwantes, Ralph B. Simonette, Harold A. Stone, Joseph F. Straus, William J. Sheils, John W. Walsh, John P. White, and Howard Flannery.
May 8, 1931
FOUR CRIMINOLOGISTS TO GRADUATE IN JUNE
A Man You Know
Four young men, constituting what is probably the first American college class trained specifically for positions in correctional and preventive work in the field of crime, will be graduated from Notre Dame next month. The men are Albert Roche of Perry, N. Y.; Leonard Horan of Medina, N. Y.; Francis D’Muhala of Stamford, Conn.; and Raymond Disco of Dannemora, N. Y.
Among the faculty members of this department are Professor Maurice L. Pettitt, Dr. Patrick H. Weeks, and Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., who is head of the department. The curriculum consists of the usual foundation and cultural subjects of the A.B. course, together with many special courses in sociology, criminology, and psychology. Before being graduated from this course, the student must first show ability to do satisfactory probation work with juvenile delinquents in connection with two different courts. The four graduating men did field work with the juvenile courts in South Bend, and in Chicago and New York City.
MOTHER’S DAY CARDS ON SALE ON CAMPUS
“Mother’s Day,” which will be celebrated Sunday, May 10, has been given an added impetus this year at Notre Dame by the sale of a combination greeting card and spiritual bouquet now being offered at the University book-store and news-stand. The card contains an impressive etching of the Grotto drawn by Mr. Stanley Sessler of the art department. Inside the cover is the greeting, “To My Mother,” below which is appropriate for filling in the various items of the spiritual bouquet. The cards are priced at twenty-five cents each.
Boy Guidance Lecture
Mr. William P. Campbell, of the field department of the Boys’ Club Federation of America, addressed the Boy Guidance students Monday on the work of boys’ clubs and their federation.
Mr. Campbell gave a high tribute to the success already attained by graduates of the Boy Guidance course who are engaged in boys’ club work throughout the country.
The study of languages is usually considered work—labor of the most tedious and irksome sort. Therefore, when we find a man like Mr. Benjamin G. Dubois, who considers the mastering of various languages an agreeable diversion, we have discovered something unusual, to say the least. No doubt it is better to study
Mr. Benjamin G. Dubois
languages under such a teacher than to study it under a teacher who regards it as hard, gruelling work, for, after all, the attitude of a student towards a subject is chiefly the reflex of the teacher’s attitude.
Mr. DuBois was born in Keene, New Hampshire, and secured his early schooling there. In 1906 he entered St. Laurent college in Montreal, Canada, staying there two years. Then he attended Ottawa university, re ceiving his bachelor’s degree from that college in 1910. He did graduate work at Clark university in Worcester, Massachusetts, and secured the degree of master of arts in 1911. He taught high school in Albany, New York for one year, and was an athletic coach there. In 1913 he went to Troy academy. There he was an assistant-principal, a teacher, and the director of athletics. Receiving a Knights of Columbus graduate scholarship at Catholic university, he studied there for a year. Then he taught biology and directed athletics at State Normal college, in Potsdam, New York where he remained until the United States entered the war.
In May, 1917, he enlisted and went to Madison Barracks Officers Training camp, where he received his commission as second lieutenant. He re
ceived additional training at the Adjutant-General’s department in Washington. Finally he was sent to Newport News, Virginia, taking charge of embarkation. There he remained until his discharge in 1919. He came to South Bend in 1919, and was in charge of the transfer section at Studebaker’s for one year. In 1920 he started to teach in South Bend high school, retaining this post until 1924. In the latter year he came to Notre Dame as a teacher of French, the position which he now holds.
While in college he played football, baseball, and hockey, both at St. Laurent and at Ottawa. Therefore, we can understand why he says that his favorite diversion is refereeing a football or basketball game. He is also a fisherman, and a devotee of the fast-moving game of handball.
He belongs to the Knights of Columbus, and he is also a member of the Modem Languages association, both the state and the national divisions. He is an active member of the Reserve Officers’ Training corps, holding the rank of major therein.
K. OF C. PICNIC WILL BE HELD AT INDIAN LAKE THURSDAY, MAY 14
Arrangements for the annual picnic of the Notre Dame council were announced by James Murphy, general chairman of the affair, at a special meeting of the council held Monday night in the Walsh hall chambers. Indian lake near Dowagiac has been chosen as the location for the picnic on Ascension Thursday, May 14.
All qualified members of the Notre Dame council are eligible to attend, and must secure their free tickets before May 11 from chairman Murphy, 202 Corby hall, or James Collins, 422 Walsh hall. Members of outside councils may attend by purchasing a ticket.
Members of the committees assisting chairman Murphy are: James Collins, Maurice Goodeve, Arthur Bergen, Raymond Naber, Francis Marley, John W. Burke, Robert Streb, William Judge, and William Taylor.
826
The Scholastic
TEXAS CLUB TO HOLD ROUND-UP WEDNESDAY
Book Reviews
The annua] round-up of the Texas club will be held next Wednesday evening in the Walsh hall recreation room. William Berning, chairman of the affair, states that the round-up this year will surpass any previous entertainment ever offered by the “Lone Star” state organization.
Janies Simmons, chairman of the entertainment committee, has arranged a complete program of vaudeville consisting of campus talent and a ten-piece orchestra that will furnish the music. The hall will be transformed into a frontier lodge with many decorations reminiscent of a Texas ranch.
The affair will not be limited strictly to members of the club but will be open to the entire student body. Joe Dunn is prexy of the club. Admission is nominal.
Freshmen Name Candidates
The members of the freshman class at the nomination held in the gymnasium on Friday, May 1, named as their candidates Hugh Devore and James French for president; Edward Angsten and Edward Fitzmaurice for vice-president; James Moscow and John Young for treasurer; Stewart Osborn and James Forrest for secretary; and Rudolph Obergfall and Edwin Kenefake for S.A.C. representative. The defeated nominees were August Petrillo, John Rivers, Richard Chapman, Joseph Voegele, Frank S a n d e r a, Harry Rockett, Clyde Craine, Jr., and Vincent Reishman.
McGrath at Louisville
Jack McGrath, who played tackle and fullback on Notre Dame teams between 1925 and 1927, has recently been signed as head coach of football at the University of Louisville to succeed Tom King, another" pupil of the late Knute Rockne, who resigned a little more than a month ago. McGrath was an assistant to King during the past season.	.
Express Office Notice
The following professors and students have packages at the express office:
Professors E. J. Maurus, J. C. Corona, Daniel Hull, Clarence Manion, and Frederick R. Sullivan of Lyons hall.
The Orchid. By Robert Nathan. Bobb-Merril. $2.50.
When spring finds its way through the labyrinth of streets and towering buildings of New York there is no accounting for the actions of the men and women with whom it comes in contact. At least that is the premise upon which Robert Nathan, heretofore best known for novels entitled The Puppet Master and The Fiddler in Barly, builds his new fictional effort, The Orchid. It is all a little mad, this novel, and very gay. It is also somewhat pensive and colored by the whims of the actors and actresses of the little comedy.
An assorted lot, these actors and actresses. There was for instance, Rose Grogarty, indeed a bona fide actress. She was the star of a Broadway show, popular and with a wide following, a beauty who inevitably found herself worried by the fact that she had just turned 30.
And then there was Mrs. Connor, an artist but essentially a business woman.
And then there was Mrs. Heavenstreet, a club woman in a big way. So busy she was that it was not until springtime that she realized that she had probably lost her husband to Miss Grogarty.
And finally, but most important of all, an artist at life and an artist at the piano. It was Prof. Pembauer, in his wisdom and sympathy, who manipulated the various strings that control the lives of the other actors and actresses in Robert Nathan’s story.
Faintly ironical, keen in its wisdom, written in prose of gracious ease, The Orchid is a masterpiece, a very slight masterpiece, perhaps, so far as sheer bulk is concerned, but nevertheless, a very big masterpiece in its own little way.
Fatal Interview. By Edna St. Vincent Millay. Harper. $1.50.
It is to a further study of the “anatomy” of love, to give an ancient word its ancient connotation, that
Edna St. Vincent Millay commits herself in her new book of poetry, Fatal Intervieiv.
Fatal Intervieiv, the eighth volume of verse to come from the richly lyrical pen of Miss Millay, is the first in which she has limited herself solely to the sonnet as the form of expression. Certainly she has done more with the sonnet than have any of her contemporaries and some of her sonnets deserve a position beside the greatest of all poetry.
Whether they are sonnets of imperishable beauty, time alone can decide. Yet there is beauty in them, a fresh lyrical beauty, an ardent, poignant beauty, born of Miss Millay’s deep understanding of love and the human heart’, that gives them, certainly, suggestions of imperishability. They add materially to the stature of a poet who is called by some, justifiably perhaps, the greatest of contemporary poets.
Above the Tumult. By Hugh Walpole.
• Doubleday, Doran. $2.50.
In a small flat “above the dark tumult” of traffic-choked Picadilly Circus in London four men meet by appointment Leroy Pengelly, who several years before connived to have three of the men sent to prison for attempted robbery. Essentially decent fellows, all of them, they have been unable to live down the disgrace of their imprisonment. Pengelly, believing them to be at the end of their rope and therefore in his power, suggests that they join with him in a blackmailing ring that will make them all wealthy.
It is this suggestion that leads to the murder of Pengelly, and subsequently to the weird adventures of one of the most fantastic nights ever described in fiction. A mere recital of the events which take place, all within the confines of a few hours, can give no suggestion of the intensity of the interest with which the -reader absorbs the tale. For the story is largely one of atmosphere, a strange and fantastic atmosphere as admirably created by Mr. Walpole as that which Robert Louis Stevenson built for the purpose of his story in “A Lodging for the Night.”
May 8, 1931	827
III K IT CAGE
UNDERGRADUATE POLITICS
Before the campus blotters have absorbed all the bombast of campus politics, the Scholastic wants to advance a few opinions. Before the mud which has been slung has properly dried it wishes to protest loudly and heartily against the present mode of electioneering, both class and club.
America, it has been said many times, needs more statesmen and fewer politicians, more actions and ideals and less cigai’ smoke and cheap slogans. Campaign pledges in our national and state elections are as lasting as campaign buttons. New men and new methods are needed.
Where shall these come from? If we want a peculiarly rotten sham and grovelling sycophancy, it will come from beer parlors and hotel rooms. If we want statecraft based on a cultured outlook, and statesmen who are correctly trained in the sociological, economic and moral practices, they should come from the colleges and universities.
The Scholastic fears that this need is being frustrated by the cheap devices employed in the campus politics of today. Such training can lead only to the multiplication of political charlatans adroitly performing dubious parlortricks with the responsibilities entrusted to them.
Campus politics at Notre Dame are an example. They are too much in the spirit of outside politics. The shady practices of outside politicians are aped. As a result, low methods and disgusting abuses prevail in the class elections.
Sly “can-I-see-ya-just-a-minnit?” advances by the fourteen or fifteen morons who have been rendered ecstatic by the promise of the dance chairmanship; scurrilous mimeographed letters which state this and insinuate that; totally unnecessary bills for blotters and match papers (which someone has to pay for) —that sort of politics should have no place here.
Clean, interested members of class and club will find it a decided pleasure to strangle slowly the throat of the first Ghibelline who begins to whisper, “Now McSnargle is all right, BUT—.”
One ardent rooter wanted a Scholastic editorial charging corruption in a certain present administration, with an obviously political
motive. He’s getting the editorial, but whether he’ll see the point we can’t say.
Francis Bacon spoke wisely when he said, “By indignities, men come to dignities.” And The Week was even wiser when it said “If the gentlemen who eventually win out would only pursue this diligence in fulfilling the duties of their offices, there might be more honors and importance connected with their positions than there is at present. The'fly in the ointment apparently is the tradition whereby so much enthusiasm is wasted on winning an election that there is none left to carry through the folloiving year”
THE SENIOR BALL
For the past month advertisements and posters (nearly all of which had the magic word “she” in quotation marks) have been heralding the 1931 Senior Ball. Tonight it will be held. Behind the posters and advertisements are months of hard work of which they are only the outward symbols. Tomorrow seniors will realize in some small way what Senior President John Saunders and Ball Chairman Walter Cahill have accomplished.
The Senior Ball is not the accomplishment of a few men working together for a few months. It is far more. It is the work of a whole class working together during four years at the University to make this last gay gesture of the graduating class something to be remembered. The Sophomore Cotillion and the Junior Prom are mere stepping stones to the Senior Ball; the Ball climaxes and overshadows both.
Tonight the senior class becomes more than a group of students; it becomes a solid unit, gathered together for one last night of glamor and fleeting beauty. The Palais Royale becomes more than a ballroom; for a night it is a place where grace and loveliness move in an atmosphere of soft lights and wistful music.
Sentimental? Yes, but sentimentality is the prerogative of youth. The cyme will sneer and the scorn er -will scoff—but let them. Who cares? Tonight is the Senior Ball—the final beau geste ot a great class. Tonight the class of 1931 will dance—and will read secret, intimate messages from shining eyes.
828
The Scholastic
THE WINE
Tsk. Tsk. Imagine— Alan Bragg Attended the Ball As a stag.
Reprimanding somebody in “hard lines”—
HARSH WORDS FOR B. O’B. Ogden Nash Gets plenty cash, (Wh-o said for trash?) And you are brash To try to dash Off imitations Of his creations.
—Rah-Rah.
THE APPLE TREE IS A ROSARY
The apple tree is a rosary, And each blossom is a bead, And every raindrop falling there Is a sweet and silent prayer.
The apple tree is a rosary, And each blossom is a bead, And every bud that blooms there Is an “Amen” to the prayer.
AH, MAY CAN HOLD NO JOY FOR ME Ah, May can hold no joy for me, Though showers fall to wake my lawn, And flowers ’merge to greet the dawn. The saddest month of all the year— I always think of Guinevere;
I only see her pale visage, And quiet hands on her corsage. I know my sorrow may not end, For each May-month I watch her die, And can not weep—I only sigh. Ah, May can hold no joy for me.
—Bishop M.
TO A. B. E.
I walked with you. When spring was on the hill;
But 1 didn’t see its greenness,—
I only felt the thrill
Of your red lips. And their impress Left me a little chill.
I talked with you
When stars were on the hill;
But I only saw their cluster (And felt only the thrill!) In your dark eyes,—their luster Made me a little bold.
Yes, I walked and talked zvith-you When spring was on the hill— But I saw you . . . only you.
—Canaras.
SONG
You are complete completeness,— I wonder what that be.
I only know that you, my dear, Are everything to me.
You are my joy, my being, The life of my poor heart; Ah, you would be my death, too, If we should part.
You are complete completeness, A flower beyond compare— A rose with perfect stemming And every petal fair;
A gentle moon that rises Singing a lullaby, A glorious dawn that gladdens And frees the sky.
You are the inspiration of My every word and deed.
You are my one ambition, love, And greatest need.
—The Warden.
Having allowed the poets their fling, we ourselves are practically stumped for words on such a memorable occasion. It is the night of the Senior Ball, remember, and words would fail you, too, if you were going through such trials as we are up against. If there is anyone in the crowd who has an extra set of studs, can really tie a bow tie, and control a particularly unruly shirt bosom, he can have our ticket and date and go off to Dick O’Donnell’s “final and finest” in our stead. He, at least, would have a fifty-fifty chance to do something besides hide out in the rest-rooms all evening.
After the Ball is over and the boys and girls have had their fun, someone is going to come crashing through a back window, and barging through the strewn revellers, present commiseration cups to the following unfortunates:
The fellow who sent out two invitations to the Ball, both of which were accepted.
The fellow who sent out several invitations, none of which were accepted, and who ended by taking a “blind date.”
The girl whose escort was the life of the party.
The fellow whose guest had attended in the last two weeks three balls, four proms, and half a dozen other dances at various mid-western universities.
The fellow whose girl talked only of her “Lit” classes and handsome athletes.
The fellow whose girl thought the ball she attended six years ago was much, much nicer.	'
The girl whose escort furnished transportation a la rumble seat.
The fellows who could not get their St. Mary’s guests out on week-ends.
Till after the Ball is over, then.
—The Weary Bumper.
May 8,1931
829
COLLEGE PALACE
COLUMBIA COMMENTS
Except for the annual return of elections, junior proms, and senior questionnaires, nothing seems to be stirring in the collegiate world at present. The Columbia University year book conducted its annual poll of the senior class recently, with some very interesting results. Five hundred seniors, representing about five-eights of the class, answered the questionnaire. Although a plurality of the seniors are Republicans, they are opposed to the reelection of President Hoover. Two hundred and two seniors called for a change in the prohibition laws, 44 declaring for modification and 158 for repeal of the 18th amendment. Only 27 members of the class were dry. One hundred and twenty-nine seniors said that they have a religion, 59 of these professing atheism and 18 upholding atheism. One hundred and fifty-eight seniors voted on the benefits of college chapel, of which 98 said that they have never attended a service there.
Sinclair Lewis was chosen as the favorite author. All Quiet on the Western Front was named the best book of the year (and also the best motion picture of the year). The New York Times was regarded as the best newspaper, and The Satzirday Evening Post and The Nezo Yorker ran an even race as the favorite periodicals. “The Green Pastures” was regarded as the best play of the year, while ■ Jane Cowl and Walter Hampden on the stage, and Ronald Colman and Greta Garbo on the screen were the favorite Thespians.
Such senior polls are institutions at several of the eastern colleges. The classic answer was provided last year in the Dartmouth contest. The question: “What institution does the most for Dartmouth men?”. The answer: “Smith college.”
CAN SUCH THINGS BE?
Dr. Flexner in his book Universities, groaning over the decline of cultural education in America, cited some of the crazy courses that are given for credit in our leading colleges. Here are a few more that Dr. Flexner may have if he wants them: Cornell’s credit course in whooping cough prevention: North Carolina’s State’s course for janitors; University of California’s class in “How to See Europe Properly”; Oregon’s packed classes in Canoeing. Colorado State Teachers college has classes in culture and philosophy for the janitors, custodians, and engineers of the college. Lectures on practical widowhood and dishwashing have been suggested as part of the curriculum of a new department at McGill university. The one course which is being dropped or attacked at most colleges is compulsory military training. Washington university and Nebraska are leading the fight against it, and many other colleges are following their lead.
STUDIES VS. ACTIVITIES
Now that the editor of the Scholastic has raised serious doubts about value of extra-curricular activities, we present a different slant at the subject, written for the Daily Pz-incetoniazi by alumnus Erik Barnow:
“You ask about the relative value of studies and extracurricular activities. The value to whom? That’s all it depends on. A man who’s certain he’s going to be a doctor would find it much more valuable to sit around a biology lab cutting up tartantulas than to spend his afternoons at the Intime constructing imitation fireplaces. An aspiring architect will find more value in architecture courses than in Princetonian experience.
“But for some people the activities have a more practical value. Anyone who is determined to do something with writing or publishing ought to find the Princetonian, the Lit and the Tiger very valuable punching bags, more valuable than courses on Chaucer. And anyone who is going to do anything in the theatre will learn more about that pottering around the Intime than from any of his courses.
“That’s the way it’s been with me. The question with me is not: Did I spend too much time on extra-curricular activities? but rather: Why did I waste so much time trying to get good marks? Why was I so confoundedly conscientious about some of those courses that bored me to death? Why did I sacrifice some of those activities that interested me to the courses that certainly didn’t?
“It all amounts to this: it’s most valuable to do what interests you, whether it’s studies or activities. Nobody ever derived very much benefit from boredom. If it bores you to make speeches, don’t go out for debating. It’ll be a waste of time. If you prefer Greek philosophy you’ll derive more benefit from working hard on Greek philosophy.
“And of course it works the other way too. If your activities really interest you and seem to benefit you, and if your courses impress you as tedious drivel, concentrate on your activities and don’t spend any more time on your courses than is necessary to dispose of their requirements. Treat your studying, in that case, as a necessary though irksome payment which you must make in return for the privilege of being allowed to live in a pleasant place like Princeton among pleasant people and to engage in various activities which seem worthwhile.
“It’s just a. matter of finding out what you’re interested in. Don’t let public opinion bamboozle you into selling Tiger subscriptions if it doesn’t really interest you to work for the Tiger. And don’t waste your time trying to get a first group in Greek philosophy if you don’t really care about Greek philosophy.
“In other words, the question of ‘Studies vs. Extra-curricular Activities’ was settled a long time ago by Polonius when he said: ‘To thine own self be true.’ ”
830
The Scholastic
♦ SCCKTS ♦
Norb Crowe Captain For ’31-’32
Joe Gavin Elected Honorary Leader For Past Season at Annual Banquet
Jesse Harper Expresses Faith In Basketball Team; Keogan Thanks Men For Efforts.
Norbert J. Crowe, a junior in the College of Commerce and a stellar forward on Coach George Keogan’s basketball squad for the past two years, was elected to captain the
Nokb Crowe Captain-Elect 1931-32
Fighting Irish squad for the 1931-32 season at the annual testimonial banquet held last Monday evening in the lay faculty dining hall. At the same meeting Joe Gavin, who will be graduated with an A.B. degree this June, was elected honorary captain for the season completed last March.
Gavin is the only monogram man to be lost from this year’s squad and is a veteran of three years.
The banquet last Monday marked the first appearance of Jesse Harper at such a function since he returned to the campus last week as athletic director. Mr. Harper, the principal speaker on the evening’s program, stressed the importance of the athletes keeping up in their studies, addressing his words particularly to the freshmen, on whom much dependence is being placed for next year. He concluded by expressing his extreme confidence in the ability and eagerness of Notre Dame athletes to enable Notre Dame to maintain the peak position in collegiate athletics which she now holds.
Coach Keogan served in the capacity of toast-master for the occasion and took the opportunity to thank the squad for the wonderful spirit they showed all year. Despite the more or less unimpressive record hung up by the Gold and Blue eagers during the past season, Dr. Keogan told the guests that he considered the 1930-31 team one of the best he has ever coached. He ventured the opinion that a far better year would have been experienced had it not been for the disheartening series of sicknesses and injuries suffered by members of the squad.
Other speakers on the evening’s program included Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce, “Hunk” Anderson and Jack Chevigny, football coaches for 1931, “Oonie” Donovan, freshman basketball coach during the season, Ike Voedisch, varsity end coach, Paul Gilbert, South Bend merchant, Joe Gavin and Frank Butorac, graduating players, and ' Norb Crowe.
Mr. Gilbert presented gold basketballs to the eight members of the
Joe Gavin
Honorary Cajitain 1930-31 varsity squad and the manager who earned their monograms. This presentation is an annual affair, the balls being a token of the spirit existing between the business men of South Bend and Notre Dame athletics.
Norb Crowe is the fourth member of the Lafayette, Indiana family to make his mark in athletics at Notre Dame, and the third one to captain a Fighting Irish squad. Clem Crowe was leader of the 1925 football team and starred in basketball as well. Ed played at the same time and helped to pave the way for Fran, who turned out to be one of the best forwards ever to play on a Notre Dame court. The wee sharp-shooter divided the captain’s duties with Joe Jachym in 1928-29 and the following year saw Norb win his monogram as a sophomore successor to his brother’s forward berth.
Monogram winners of the past season were Bay DeCook and Al Schumaker, centers; Norb Crowe, Bill Newbold and Joe Gavin, forwards; Johnny Baldwin, Tom Burns, and Clay Johnson, guards; and Jack Hughes, senior manager. Frosh numeral winners were also guests at the banquet.


^K^aaa,.
May 8, 1931
GOLFERS WIN TWO FROM
IOWA, LOYOLA TEAMS
Blue and Gold Annex Fifth Victory; Beaupre Stars.
Notre Dame’s squad of par-shat-terers added two more victories to their impressive record during their weekly invasion when they crushed the golf teams of Loyola university, Chicago, and Iowa university. The stiff competition expected from the Loyola team did not materialize and the Blue and Gold squad swept every match to win by 18-0 on the Biltmore course at Barrington, last Friday. The going was tougher at Iowa City the next day, .however, but Notre Dame was on the long end of an 11% to 6% score.
Captain Fran Beaupre was outstanding in both meets, shooting a brilliant 69 against Loyola to break the course record, and tying with Larry Moller for low against Iowa with 72, one stroke under par, the lowest score made on the Iowa university course this year. In his sensational card at Barrington, Beaupre made six birdies, and the foursome in which he played, which included his teammate Moller, and Cavanaugh and D’Esposito of Loyola, accounted for sixteen of the one-under-par holes.
Iowa furnished the stiffest competition that Notre Dame has struck this year. The Blue and Gold contingent were forced to accept a 6-6 tie in ’the singles matches, Larry Moller and the Beaupres each dropping a single point in their matches, and Bill Redmond losing to Stewart, 3-0. This latter match is the only one that Notre Dame has lost this year.
These two meets were the fourth and fifth consecutive victories of the Notre Dame golf team this season. Other teams to fall before the locals were Valparaiso, Michigan State, and the University of Detroit. The remaining three meets, against the University of Pittsburgh, and return matches with Michigan State and the University of Detroit, will all be played at Notre Dame. The first of these, the Michigan State meet, is scheduled for tomorrow, the singles matches starting at 9 o’clock.
Summaries:
NOTRE DAME 18, LOYOLA 0.
(Continued on Page 836)
RESERVE AND FROSH WIN OVER VARSITY IN FINAL SCRIMMAGE OF SEASON
Old timers—national champions of 1930—Carideo, Schwartz, Brill, and the majority of the late Knute Rockne’s great stars of the past season, donned their gridiron togs for the last time Saturday afternoon. Some of them had played on two national championship teams and last Saturday afternoon was the first time that they had tasted defeat in two years. The freshmen and reserves plowed over the line, smashed through tackle, and skirted the ends to score three touchdowns and a 19-0 victory.
The varsity backfield was composed of Marty Brill, Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, and Clarence Kaplan. This all-star combination was able to register but one first down as it drove time after time into a stone wall. When Schwartz attempted to slide off tackle he was dropped in his tracks. When Kaplan tried to hurl himself over the line he was pushed back. The forward wall was impenetrable. Captain Tommy Yarr, center; Kurth and Culver, tackles; and Kos-ky and Carberry, ends—this was the crew that at times held the opposition last year, but Saturday they were forced to yield to the untiring onslaughts of the reserves.
Among the shock-troops and freshmen, the outstanding players were: Tom Gorman, at center; George Kozak and Phil Krause, tackles; and Harriss, Greeney, Pierce and Terlaak, the four guards from last year’s reserve material.
Neither team was able to score in the first quarter, but early in the second period Koken passed 25 yards to Host who caught the ball over the goal line after falling to the ground. Koken added the extra point from placement.
In the third session Steve Banas leaped into the spotlight when he smashed off tackle for the second touchdown, after he had made 30 yards in three drives through the line. Near- the end of the third quarter Kozak intercepted one of Schwartz’s passes and raced to the 10-yard line before he was brought down. Here the new men lost the ball on downs and Carideo kicked to his own 35-yard line to open the last session. Joe Sheeketski picked up 15 yards in two attempts. Four line plays placed the ball on the varsity’s four-yard marker, and Sheeketski ran wide around left end, cutting in at the side line to register the final score of the game.
______________________831
NOTRE DAME EXHIBITS
IMPROVED FORM AT OHIO
McCormick Loses to Tolan By Foot in 100-Yard Dash.
The eighth annual Ohio Relays held at Columbus last Saturday marked the close of the 1931 relay season and the curtain was rung down most auspiciously when two new unofficial world’s records, one national record, and six new meet records were established. The hosts, Ohio State University, took honors in the university division, while Michigan and Illinois trailed with three firsts apiece. The Buckeyes annexed five first places, chiefly through the efforts of their sensational sophomore hurdler, Jack Keller, who placed first in the 120-yard high hurdles and was a most important cog in the winning of the relay events.	.
Notre Dame made a much better showing than at Drake the week before, although they were unable to win any first places. Bill McCormick ran an excellent race in the 100-yard dash to take second to Tolan of Michigan and defeat Hutson of Denison. Hutson had previously defeated Tolan in the semi-final heat, and McCormick established himself as a foremost sprinter by defeating him and placing second to the speedy Tolan.-“Dutch” Johnson gave a very good account of himself by taking third in the pole vault, which resulted in a deadlock for first place between Warne of Northwestern and McDermott of Illinois who were tied at 13 feet 7 inches. “Nordy” Hoffman again placed third in the discus while Bob Darling annexed a fifth for himself in the high jump with a leap of 6 feet 1 inch.
In the relay events Notre Dame placed second to Michigan in the 880-yard event; third in the distance medley relay and fourth in the mile relay. In the latter event, the Blue and Gold baton-passers ruled as one of the favorites, but were completely outclassed and finished a poor fourth.
The feature race of the day was between Keller of Ohio State and Sentman of Illinois in the 120-yard high hurdles. Keller assumed an early lead, increased his advantage at every hurdle and finished four yards ahead of his chief rival. His time for the event established a new world’s (Continued on Page 836)
832
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING— Haskell Askew
Haskell Askew is well named. Since Haskell means “little savage” in the Indian language, we really think that Mr. Askew merits the name. In the first place, he has a firm resolution to disprove that old adage to the effect that “you can’t kill a reporter.” He admitted quite freely that he has put Slip-in O’Donnell, a notorious news hound, on the spot.
“After that,” he continued, “I’m going in for professional wrestling, and it will be my biggest thrill when I pin this Londos chap with my body slam.” He doesn’t seem to have any doubts as to his ability either. “Unless, of course,” he said, “I become muscle bound before the match can be arranged.”
Having bared his plans for the future with so much reticence, the mighty second baseman was just as talkative about his past. He was bom in Oklahoma City in 1908, and has lived there ever since. “In my younger days,” he said, “I spent a lot of time keeping the Indians away from the front porch, for despite the fact that I’m part Indian myself, I like a peaceful life.” (The unmade beds in 102 Sorin that morning at eleven-thirty looked as if he had found it.) Still on the subject of the redmen, the “little savage” requested a press notice for the pow wow that he and Tommy Yarr are planning for the edification of the members of the Met club and other eastern organizations.
In case some one may be wondering where the 110-pound Mr. Askew acquired his ability as a second sacker, we’ll put it down here that he played baseball at Catholic High in his home town. He played basketball there too, and appeared in the Loyola tournament in his senior year. He gave up baseball at Notre Dame, but managed to make the travelling baseball squad in his sophomore year. Last year he won a monogram as a regular, and is doing a great job of winning the second one this spring.
When we saw him, Haskell was looking forward with a lot of hope to the games with Hosei. “They’ll be my size,” he chortled, “ and that’ll make it more interesting for me.”
It seems that in the last game here with- a Jap team, Haskell and the opposing catcher had a bit of difficulty at the plate, and the Notre Dame brute crashed through the visitor for
Haskell Askew
Stellar Second-Baseman
a score. “I learned a lot of Japanese that time,” he laughed.
When Mr. Askew gets his A.B. this June he expects to return to Oklahoma to study law at the state university there. He doesn’t think he’ll practice the profession, though, as the wrestling will probably keep him busy. Besides, he likes to work out of doors too well to stay at a law practice. He is especially fond of golf and riding as means of recreation.
Pretty soon the other half of 102’s population showed up — it was Joe Meitzler. The halves put on a mutual admiration society meeting for us. “Haskell’s a great guy, if he could only find things around here once in a while. But he stays in and keeps me company, so we get along fine.” That was Joe.
Haskell had a little eulogy all
worked up too, to the effect that, “Joe’s a great roommate; he finds things for me.” He added a fear that Joe was contemplating an important merger at Illinois U.
We left the happy little home with the thought that despite his manhandling intentions, Haskell Askew was a worthy third with Joey Gavin and Bert Metzger for a triumvirate of big little men at Notre Dame.
TENNIS TEAM SCORES FIRST VIN OF SEASON
Manchester Squad Beaten In Easy Fashion By 6-1.
The Blue and Gold racquet-wielders exhibited form last Friday that proved that they will have to be reckoned with in future matches, by soundly trouncing the team from Manchester, Indiana, in a dual meet by a 6-1 score. The Notre Dame net-men clinched the meet by scoring a slam in the single matches and then winning one of the two doubles matches during the play.
Captain Matt O’Brien started the afternoon’s onslaught by easily disposing of Rorie in straight sets, 6-2, 7-5. In this match, Captain Matt showed a complete reversal of form and displayed a brand of tennis that was puzzling as well as unbeatable to his opponent, who chose to play a net game and was an easy victim to the Notre Dame captain’s “chop” tactics. The match between Bob Kendall and Miller of Manchester, proved to be one of the most interesting as well as gruelling of the whole afternoon. Kendall took the first set in rather easy fashion, but in the second, Miller hung on to the end and forced the set into extra games, Kendall finally winning out 10-8.
Mike O’Brien has yet to taste defeat in a singles match this season, and registered his third win in as many matches by virtue of a win over Jones of Manchester. Mike was fighting with his back to the wall until the final set, because previous to that he had dropped the first set and barely managed to eke out a victory in the second, 10-8. This sensational bit of rallying completely unnerved his opponent and Mike cap-(Continued on Page 841)
May 8, 1931
833
A short trip and a merry one . . .
A vacation abroad... and only three weeks (or less) away from home has now been made possible by the two fastest liners afloat and the fastest world cruiser
Bremen €UROPR
COLUmBU/
★ EXPRESS VACATION TOURS, $295up	18-27 days . . . with 7-17 days’
sightseeing in Europe. In conjunction with American Express Company.
★	THIRD CLASS BECOMES EXCLUSIVE The entire 3rd class reserved for students on the STUTTGART, sailing July 2. Returning on the DRESDEN, Aug. 6, or STUTTGART, Aug. 20. $155 and up round trip. .
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
★	SPECIAL STUDENT SAILINGS The entire Tourist 3rd cabin reserved for students on the EUROPA,, June 20 and the BERLIN, June 25. Returning on the BREMEN, Aug. 13.
★ SEND FOR BOOKLETS.
Apply to L. Plate, General Western Passenger Manager, 130 West Randolph St., Chicago, Ill. or your local agent.	.
834
The Scholastic
SUZUKI LIMITS NOTRE DAME TO THREE HITS
Hosei Team Fields Faultlessly To Win First of Series.
Exhibiting a snappy brand of baseball both at bat and in the field, the Hosei university nine, hailing from Hosei, Japan, overshadowed the attempts of the Notre Dame basebailers in the first contest of a two-game series Thursday afternoon on Cartier field and won by a score of 4-1. The second encounter will take place this afternoon.	-
A gentleman passing under the monicker of S. Suzuki let Coach George Keogan’s boys down with three hits, while his teammates ganged up behind him to garner eight safeties, six off Romanin, who remained in the game for six innings, and two given by Lisciki, the portsider who followed Romanin to the slab. Aiding their pitcher in recording such a victory, the sons of Nippon dashed madly hither and yon in the outer gardens all afternoon, snatching balls that seemed destined for hits in any park. Truly, the great American pastime
was given a workout Thursday at the hands of the Japanese who seemed to be functioning in top form.
Two big innings gave the opposition the four runs, which proved enough to sew up the game. A walk, a sacrifice, and a single was sufficient to push the first counter across in the fifth. Another single shot along the ground to McGrath advanced Matusi to second, and this was followed by a one base hit sent solidly along the third base line, to score Matusi.
Romanin worked himself into a hole again in the sixth inning when Hosei filled the bases by virtue of a free trip to first base, an error by Sullivan, and an infield tap which no one fielded. After Karita fouled out to Sullivan, Yano hit a zipper through Mahoney to score Kubo, the visiting second baseman. Hosei’s last run was gained through a cleverly executed squeeze play which brought Fujii across the plate.
In the Notre Dame turn at bat in the seventh frame O’Keefe hit a hot grounder between second and third, Lomasney walked, Sullivan lined to first, and then Kolski clouted the ball to short center field, on which play O’Keefe slid across the home station.
O’Connor, O’Keefe, and Kolski were
the three Notre Dame players that fathomed the shoots of the visiting Nipponese, and each was successful only once.
The contest with Purdue set for Wednesday afternoon was called off because of rain. .
The box score and summary:
HOSEI	AB	B
Takeda, cf..............5	0
Shima, If...............4	0
Kubo, 2b ...............2	1
Fujii, rf...............3	1
Nishigraki, 3b..........3	0
Karita, ss..............3	1
Tano, lb ...............4	0
Matusi, c ..............4	1
S. Suzuki, p............4	0
Totals ................32	4
MPA
2	4	0
0	2	0
10	0
0	3	0
2	2	1
0	0	2
18	0
17	0
112
8 27	5
NOTRE DAME	ab
Askew,. 2b ...........4
O’Connor, cf..........4
O’Keefe, 3b...........4
Lomasney, if .........3
Sullivan, lb..........2
Kolski, c ............3
Mahoney, ss ..........3
McGrath, rf ..........3
Romanin, p............1
xRusso ...............1
Lisicki, p ..........1.
Totals ..............29
R	H P	A
0	0 4	4
0	10	0
1112
0	0 0	0
0	0 14	0
0	16	0
0	0	11
0	0	10
0	0	0	7
0	0	0	0
0	0	0	2
1	3 27	16
x Batted for Romanin in the sixth.
Score by innings:
Hosei ...............000 022 00 0—4
Notre Dame...........000 000 10 0—1
Error—Sullivan. Struck out—by Suzuki (5). by Romanin (4), by Lisicki (2). Hits—off Romanin, six in six innings. Bases on balls— Suzuki (2), Romanin (4). Stolen bases—Sullivan, Kubo. Sacrifice hits—Kubo, Karita, Yano, Matusi. Time of game—1:45. Umpires —Daly, Cleary.
STARTING SATURDAY
CRACKED NUTS
BERT	ROBERT
WHEELER & WOOLSEY
THE BOYS BUY A REVOLUTION . . . . GO NUTS DODGING SHELLS and SENORITAS WHILE WAVING THE FLAG OVER THEIR CUCKOO KINGDOM — IT’S CYCLONIC!
Added Attraction! “GOLF” with Johnny Farrell
---------STARTING SUNDAY---------- GALA RKO VAUDEVILLE “OKLAHOMA”
BOB ALBRIGHT - That Big Breezy Western Boy With
Beverly Birks—Eleanor Hoffman and Snowball
SAUL FREED FOURSOME
With Kay and Grant in “Motion and Rhythm”
THE ALEXANDERS JACK HERBERT & CO. “Practice Makes Perfect”	“Laughlanders”
OTHER RKO ACTS
" On The Screen
A Startling Modem Drama “WOMEN MEN MARRY”
With
KENNETH	NATALIE
HARLAN	MOORHEAD
Your eyes will be opened to a new problem of today!
ALWAYS A GREAT SHOW!

5
May 8, 1981
835
Dear
Mr., Miss or Mrs.
Try a fresh Cigarette!
That little STING way down in the throat when you inhale a cigarette is caused by parched dry tobacco. You never feel it when you smoke fresh, prime Camels. The Humidor Pack keeps Camels from drying out or going stale. That’s why they are always so cool and mild, so throat-easy. Blended from choicest Turkish and mellowest
Domestic tobaccos and kept in tip-top prime condition by an air-tight wrapping of moistureproof Cellophane, Camels are mighty hard to leave once you have tried them. If you don’t believe it, switch to Camels for one whole day, then quit them, if you can.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.

»
A
Camels
Factory-fresh CAMELS are air-sealed in the new Sanitary Package which keeps the dust and germs out and keeps the flavor in.
© WS1, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

836
The Scholastic
I
Phone 3-1254
GOLFERS WIN TWO MORE
(Continued from Page 831)
5
£
£
E
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
E
405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
Don’t
Look
Because
« « «
You’ll never find a South Bend autoist disputing the Chicago highways with a perspiring truck driver. The South Bender prefers to use the hourly service of America’s fastest electric railway, with its downtown Chicago terminal.
Singles
Redmond (ND) defeated Morrissey (L), 3-0; Moller (ND) defeated Cavanaugh (L), 3-0; F. Beaupre (ND) defeated D’Esposito (L), 3-0; R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Moulella (L), 3-0.
Best Ball Matches •
Redmond and F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Morrissey and Cavanaugh (L), 3-0; Moller and R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Moulella and D’Esposito (L), 3-0.	'
Fran Beaupre’s Card
Out:
Par________444	435	345—36
Beaupre____344	435	344—34
In:
Par________443	544	345—36—72
Beaupre____352	434	347—35—69
NOTRE DAME 11%, IOWA 6%
Singles
Moller (ND) defeated Roddy (I), 2-1; F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Schlanger (I), 2-1; R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Otteson (I), 2-1; Stewart (I) defeated Redmond (ND), 3-0.
Best Ball Matches
R. Beaupre and Moller (ND) defeated Otteson and Roddy (I), 2%-%; F. Beaupre and Redmond (ND) defeated Stewart and Schlanger (I), 3-0.
Low Cards
Out:
Par________444 443 444—35
Moller_____434 444 544—36
F. Beaupre_324 543 544—34
In:
Par________553 434 554—38—73
Moller_____453 434 544—36—72
F. Beaupre_444 444 545—38—72
« « «

Every hour on-the-howr to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers.
N. D IN IMPROVED FORM (Continued from Page 831) , record, but it is doubtful if it will be ruled as official, because he knocked down two hurdles on the course. Captain Johnnie O’Brien of Notre Dame, generally conceded to be one of the outstanding hurdlers in the country, failed to qualify for the event.
Coach Jolin P. Nicholson is now pointing his men for the dual meet with the Naval Academy at Annapolis tomorrow and the State and C.I.C. meets on the following Saturdays. Both Captain O’Brien and Roy Bailie have fully recovered from injuries and should be in fine shape for q these meets.
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW
NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCATIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in AH Cases.
Morning, Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar
233 Broadway, New York
On
Mother’s Day May I Oth,
Remember Her with a Bouquet of the Seasons Choicest Flowers
Williams
The Florist
. 219 W. Washington Ave.
Flowers telegraphed anywhere on short notice.
May 8, 1931
FORMER GRID STARS TO SHOW PLAYS OF THEIR
DAY IN SPORT MOVIE
A small group of old-time Notre Dame football stars will get back into harness Saturday and Sunday of this week in Memorial stadium. The final reel of the moving picture shorts which Universal has been making, will start early Saturday and a touch of sentiment will be combined with the technique of latter-day football.
Ray Eichenlaub and Gus Dorais, teammates of Knute Rockne in 1913, will revive memories of that historic team and present-day players will demonstrate just how the famous Do-rais-to-Rockne forward passing attack overwhelmed the Army. Jesse Harper,
head coach in 1913 and present director of athletics, will appear in the film with the other old timers. Rog Kiley and Hunk Anderson will put on a play that went big in 1919; Howard Edwards, captain in 1909 will be on hand; Paul Castner will represent the team of ’22, and Art Parisien will uncork some of the left-handed passes that clicked in 1926. Noble Kizer, head coach at Purdue, will demonstrate a play reminiscent of the Four Horsemen in 1924. All old-timers will be back in uniform.
The football subjects are part of a series entitled the “Christy Walsh All-America Sportreel,” directed by Albert Kelly, who also directed the “Leather Pushers” and other popular sports film.
837
STAAB, SHEEKETSKI WIN HERING MEDALS
The finals of the 1931 Hering Medal contests were held last Friday. Fred Staab and Joe Sheeketski won the two events that had been held over from the preceding afternoon.
Staab was awarded the medal for fullbacks taking ends in. Kramer forced the Wisconsin boy to the limit before a decision was reached. Staab is a sophomore. Sheeketski took first honors in the contest for halfbacks blocking ends out. This event, too, was marked by close competition as Brancheau and the winner battled through the finals.
The last of the Hering awards, that for the most improvement in play, has not yet.been awarded.
Just before bedtime
DO YOU ever get hungry late at night? Just drop in at the campus restaurant and order a howl of crunchy-crisp Kellogg’s Rice Krispies.
Enjoy with milk or cream—fruits or honey added. It’s delicious—and.so easy to digest, you’ll sleep like a top! Try it tonight.
Kellogg’s Rice Krispies are nourishing rice bubbles that actually crackle in milk or cream. Fine for breakfast. Treat for a quick lunch. Ask that this “different” cereal be served in your fraternity dining-room.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, "Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit.
' Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.

RICE KRISPIES
Ton'll enjoy Kellogg’s Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B, C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 £. S. T. Also KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00, and KOA Denver at 10,30.
838
C. I. C. TENNIS MEET SCHEDULED NEXT WEEK
Notre Dame To Sponsor Third Annual Tournament.
The third annual Central Intercollegiate tennis meet will be held at the Chicago Town and Tennis club in Chicago on May 14, 15, and 16. As in past years, Notre Dame is sponsoring the meet, which has proved to be one of the most popular as well as representative affairs in the middle west.
Manager Tom Ashe, who is in charge of arrangements for the meet, has been kept busy for the past week acknowledging the entries from the various colleges and universities who are planning to compete in the meet. Among those who have signified their intention of entering to date are: Drake university, Butler, Loyola of Chicago, Western State college of Kalamazoo, City college of Detroit, University of Detroit, Kalamazoo college, Michigan State, Washington university of St. Louis, and Notre Dame. The deadline date for filing an entry is not until next week, and so it is very likely that this present list will be swelled considerably by that time.
Western State college of Kalamazoo, last year’s champions, will be on hand again to defend her laurels and
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage * —
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY UNION TRUST COMPANY CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
* ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK . ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
stand a very good chance of repeating. “Skinny” Byrum, their captain and number-one man, will meet all comers in the defense of his singles championship, and with his partner, Sorenson, should go a long ways in the doubles play. Little is known about the strength of the other teams, although it is certain that the usual high caliber tennis will be exhibited and a most successful tournament should follow.	'
It has not been definitely decided as to just who will represent Notre Dame in the meet and just how many will make the trip. It has been the custom in previous years to send but two men to the tournament, but it is very possible that this system will be altered this year, and a larger delegation will be sent to Chicago to represent the Blue and Gold. Bill Reaume and Bob Kendall are the two most likely candidates for the trip, although Reaume is still bothered with an injured wrist and may be forced out of the play. The men will probably be chosen according to their showings in the practice sessions and in the meet against Armour
Salesmen Wanted
Men with selling experience will be interested in the excellent earnings obtainable through the sale of Class Rings Frat. Pins, Favors, Trophies, etc. Write for proposition.
THE METAL ARTS CO., Rochester, N. Y.
The Scholastic
Tech of Chicago, which is scheduled to be played on the local courts next Tuesday.
“Indiana” Team Feted
A banquet in honor of the “Indiana” squad of the spring training season was tendered to the men composing the team, Wednesday evening, in the lay faculty dining hall. The “Hoosiers” were the only ones who were able to register a win over the varsity.
IF YOU'RE HAVING YOUR FORTUNE TOLD
And the Cards Say You’ re Going On a Long Journey
Phone the South Shore Line ticket agent, 3-3111, and have him make reservations for you. He’ll probably arrange it so you can have a few hours between trains to look around Chi-cago—and you won’t object to that.

Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago.
May 8, 1931
839
Livingston’s
forecast the latest style flash!
Rattinee Shirts
A cool mercerized “air cloth” crepe that has proven very-smart for spring and summer wear. The neat tan, blue and green pastel colors will “take your eye”! they’re so different ! — Be the first to wear one!
campus shop
C. Pat. O’Reilly (mgr.)
For your convenience the campus shop will be open Friday eve., May 8th, Notre Dame Senior Ball.
208 N. Michigan Street
50c Pepsodent Tooth Paste . . . . .
35c Palmolive Shaving Cream . . .
Listerine ........
Christy Razor and 1 blade
35c Gem Blades
27c
19c
59c
8
23c
CIGARETTES
Lucky Strikes Chesterfields Old Golds . Camels . .
Tin of 50
26
are the equal of any 75c ball you’ve ever had. They’re lively, well-balanced, and they’re practically cut-proof. They’re the greatest Golf Ball value we know of at 45c each. Three for $1.35.
Peau-Doux Golf Balls.... 33' (3 for 90c)
Right reserved to limit quantites
You’re Always Welcome at Walgreen’s
The Scholastic
TRACKMEN JOURNEY TO
ANNAPOLIS FOR MEET
Strong Navy Squad Favored To Win Over Notre Dame.
Coach Jolin P. Nicholson and a squad of 25 track men entrained last night for Annapolis, Maryland, where the Notre Dame thinlies will meet the Navy Saturday while the latter’s baseball outfit engages the local lads here. Notre Dame defeated the Middies in a meet in the east last season, winning by a four-point margin, but Coach Nicholson has said that Notre Dame must show exceptional form in order to best the Navy this year.
According to experts who have seen the Navy track squad in action this spring, some of the stiffest competition that can be found will be thrown against Nicholson’s men. Lack of ability to pile up a sufficient number of second and third places is seen as a possible serious handicap by the Notre Dame mentor, who also fears a loss due to a weakness in the field events.

Remember Your
MOTHER
On Mother’s Day—Sunday, May 10th with a Beautiful Box of Our Special Mother’s Day Package
ASSORTED CHOCOLATES
The contents consist of all favorites—cream, fruits and nut filled centers, hand dipped in rich smooth chocolate.
To insure delivery, place your order now. Packages are 1 and 2 pounds.
A Gift Worthy to Convey Your Sentiment
Comer Michigan and Colfax
McCormick, who finished on the heels of Eddie Tolan, Michigan Negro flash, in the Ohio relays last week to take second place in the century, is expected to give the Middies a run for the well-known money.
In the previous meets this season Notre Dame’s athletes have shown that they are able to garner more than an average number of first places with such dependable men as Wilson, Kelly, O’Brien, Johnson, Howrey, and McCormick. The latter’s chief threat tomorrow is embodied in the person of McKinzie, a Navy sprinter who has shown a remarkable fieetness this season.
In the hurdles O’Brien and Bailie are ready to enact their parts in the play which will be staged Saturday. If it becomes necessary, Alex Wilson, will be entered in both the quarter and half mile. If Wilson runs the quarter only, Brant Little will more than likely handle the half mile. Navy boasts of a runner who can clip off a fast 880, but if Little evinces the zip that he displayed in the Wisconsin meet, this event should prove exceedingly interesting, according to Coach Nicholson.
NAVY MIDSHIPMEN TO END "BASEBALL WEEK”
Strong Lineup to Face N. D.; To Play Badgers on 13th.
Tomorrow afternoon at two o’clock (Notre Dame time) the Notre Dame baseball team meets the strong Middy squad from Annapolis. According to eastern sport writers the Navy team is a formidable one and has cut a wide swath of victories from many of the leading colleges of the east. The strength of the team was indicated in their game against Duke university at Annapolis last Saturday when they defeated the strong Duke team 13 to 8. Coombs, the Navy’s best pitcher, hurled six innings of the game and was relieved by Davenport who held the Duke team to two runs throughout the rest of the game. The Navy line-up against Duke was: Fitzgerald, left field; Ashworth, second base; Hodgins, shortstop; Hurley, catcher; Byng, center field; Bunce, right field; Keen, third base; Hunter, first base; and Coombs, pitcher.
8
8
8
YOUR EYES
Have them examined every
year
we hear someone boast of
QCCASIONALLY the extreme long life of his glasses—as
though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.




May 8, 1931
Hodgins, the shortstop of the Middy team is their leading hitter.
Next Wednesday, May 13, the Notre Dame balltossers travel to Madison to encounter the strong Badger team. The Fighting Irish defeated the Wisconsinites in the first game played on Cartier field by a score of 8 to 7. Wisconsin has a percentage of five hundred in the Big Ten conference. They were defeated by Chicago in their first Big Ten game, but won the second from Illinois. Coach Jones has indicated in a Madison paper that he will use Som-merfield or Poser against the Blue and Gold in an effort to avenge the defeat they received from that team. Coach Keogan will probably use either Lisicki or Palt in the game with Wisconsin.
The St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association is planning to give the Navy team a grand reception when they come to Notre Dame. The grads will drive to La Paz, Indiana, in cars to greet the team, after which they will be escorted to the local campus. Following the game a banquet is to be tendered them in the Lay Faculty Dining hall. The Middies will entrain Saturday evening for Annapolis.
TENNIS TEAM SCORES WIN
(Continued from Page 832)
tured the final set 6-1 to win the match. Joe Borda, the former Atlantic City flash, scored the most decisive win of the afternoon by whitewashing Huffman of Manchester in straight sets, 6-4, 6-0. Joe was master of the situation throughout and was never in danger of being headed. His game has shown a steady improvement and he should be in top form for the coming matches. Pat Mangan, a newcomer to the Blue and Gold ranks, climaxed the day’s singles play by winning from Rood, 4-6, 6-1, 6-2. Pat seemed to have a little difficulty in getting started, but once under way, he turned on the steam and from that time on his opponent did not have a chance.
Manchester annexed her lone point when their doubles combination of Rorie and Jones took a hard-fought match from Mike O’Brien and Frank Sullivan, but only after three sets had been played. The Blue and Gold team lost the first set, staged a rally to easily win the second, and then Manchester again came to the fore
841
and won the final set and the match. Captain Matt O’Brien and Bob Kendall had little trouble in winning from Rood and Miller in straight sets to top off a most successful afternoon.
The showing of the team in Friday’s meet was exceedingly gratifying and it is hoped that they will continue in their winning stride for the remainder of the season. The next match is scheduled for May 12, with Armour Tech furnishing the opposition. Bill Reaume, Blue and Gold ace who was out of Friday’s match with an injured wrist, is expected to be ready for play again by that time.
Results:
Singles—Matt O’Brien (ND) defeated Rorie (M), 6-2, 7-5; Kendall (ND) defeated Miller (M), 6-4, 10-8; Mike O’Brien (ND) defeated Jones (M), 3-6, 10-8, 6-1; Borda (ND) defeated Huffman (M), 6-4, 6-0; Mangan (ND) defeated Rood (M), 4-6, 6-2.
Doubles—Matt O’Brien and Kendall (ND) defeated Rood and Miller (M), 6-2, 6-2; Rorie and Jones (M) defeated Mike O’Brien and Sullivan (ND), 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.
I Style! Quality! Comfort! |
e Friendly Five Shoes for Sport j i	and Dress Wear	I
i A AAA to E 5 to 12	Combination Last \
| BALDWIN SHOE CO. |
=	Home of Friendly Fives	1
e	110 West Wayne Street
QuiumiiiiiiHuiitiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiintiiiiiiuiHtiiiHtitt...iirtiiiiiHinninitiniiSl
'■iiiiittiHiMiuiititiiiiniiHniniiiiiiititiHtMHiiiitniiitmitiiiiitiiiiinimiiiitiiiiiniiiiitiiiiiiiiiiTal □ =
I A COMPLETELY REMODELED ' 1 I NOBILE'S | e	That we may serve you better e
△	I
I	NEW SODA FOUNTAIN	|
AND	!
SANDWICH SERVICE	j
|	FOR	|
I EXCELLENT QUICK LUNCHES |
j	△	1
i	We serve special dinners for |
e	Seniors and their guests	e
1	△	1
|	TRY OUR MALTED MILKS	I
I	△	I
e	108 South Michigan Street	e
842
The Scholastic
Interhall Sports
Krause supplying the batting punch.
Art Becvar and Mike Crawford led Walsh to a 2-0 win over Brownson, while Buckley and Milheim were the Brownson luminaries.
SWIMMING
Although St. Joseph’s lake is crowded daily with swimmers who prefer the colder waters, the finals in the interhall swimming meet will be held tonight at eight o’clock at the natatorium. Brownson hall led the list of qualifiers with eight men, followed by Freshman with seven; Mor-
MOCCASIN TOE
WORK SHOES
As Shown. Wearflex Soles. Rubber Heels. Storm Welt.
MEN’S
WORK OXFORDS
All Sizes Black Elk
Blucher Oxford.
RUBBER HEELS!
Moccasin Tip, Double Sole. Oak Middle Sole. Wearflex Out Sole.
$1.99 As Shown!
Men’s and Boys’ NEW OXFORDS
$1.99
Black Calf Uppers, Long Wearing
GIL-BRO’S
330 South Michigan Street
rissey and Howard with six; Lyons and Off-Campus with three apiece; Walsh with two, and St. Edward’s and Carroll each qualified a man to complete the list of entrants.
Following is the list of qualifiers:
100-Yard Back Stroke—O’Shaugh-nessey (Morr.), Hennessey (Fr.), Herold (Br.), Dorschel (How.).
40-Yard Back Stroke — O’Shaugh-nessey (Morr.), Messina (Fr.), Herold (Br.), Dorschel (How.), Lacey (How.).
Punge—Leonard (Morr.), Dobinsky (Fr.), Burns (Br.), Kinnerany (Br.), O’Shaughnessey (O.C.), Dorschel (How.).
40-Yard Free Style—Moore (Fr.), Sullivan (Morr.), Herald (Br.), Quigley (Br.), Burchell (How.), Nash (Lyons).
220-Yard Medley Relay—Morrissey, Brownson, and Lyons.
100-Yard Free Style—Moore (Fr.), Messina (Fr.), Spalding (Fr.), Birch (Br.), Simonette (St. Ed.), Durkin (How.).
40-Yard Breast Stroke — Georgia (Morr.), Purdy (Car.), Becklenberg (Walsh), Sexton (Lyons), Burdick (O.C.).
BASEBALL
Johnnie O’Brien returned from the Ohio Relays in time to hurl a creditable game for Sorin, but not enough to down Morrissey, who were victors in a close contest 5-3. Pinode and Gandour starred for Morrissey, while Dick O’Donnell and Ray Smith were best for Sorin.
St. Edward’s kept their slate clean in group one by trimming Badin 8-3. Tobin, pitching for St. Edward’s, held his opponents scoreless until the final inning, when Badin, led by Van Rooy, chalked up three counters. Vejar and Addonizio were the heavy stick men for St. Edward’s.
Lyons forfeited to Corby 9-0, while Sophomore drew a bye in group bne. Freshman managed to nose out Carroll 5-3, and remain undefeated. Carroll led most of the game, but an error by their leftfielder with the bases loaded paved the way for a Freshman rally and victory. Ben Kane, Carroll twirler, pitched good ball, but errors and his own wildness accounted for his downfall. Dupuy pitched well for Freshman, with
GOLF
Last Sunday marked the opening of the interhall golf season. The cooperation shown by the halls entered and the results of the matches, showed that this will prove to be one of the most popular sports on the interhall program. According to some of the scores handed in at the end of the day’s play, Notre Dame will have little to worry about concerning the future of golf here, as many of
A Tour Offers More Values
The best way to see EUROPE is on a carefully selected tour —one made up of interesting young men and women from leading schools and colleges— a tour that takes in everything and still leaves plenty of time for independent action ... a tour that offers the best hotels, a private automobile trip thru the beautiful Swiss Alps, a week in Paris, a week in London ... a tour that gives the most for the least possible money.
On such a tour you will be among congenial companions, you will see more of Europe and you will get the most for your money. Ask for information.
Hobart Shean
410 Walsh Hall
Complete tours for as low as $390

s
May 8, 1931
843
the cards would vie with those of the varsity men.
Pugliese of Lyons, and Montedonico of Howard, had the best cards of the afternoon. Pugliese going out in 41 and coming back in 35 for a 76, while Montedonico shot a 40 and a 39 for a 79.
Pugliese’s card:
Out 444 653 54 6—41
In 552 433 53 5—35—76
Montedonico’s card:
Out 545 543 54 5—40
In	754 443 53 4—39—79
Next week’s schedule has been announced by the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., who is in charge of the interhall tournament.
Consolation:
Lyons vs. Off-Campus, 1:40 p. m.
Carroll vs. Freshman, 1:30 p. m.
Championship flight:
Badin vs. Walsh, 1:50 p. m.
Morrissey vs. St. Edward, 2 p. m.
Howard drew a bye.
Salesmen Wanted
LAST OPPORTUNITY
No house to house canvassing. Guaranteed minimum earnings $460.00 for summer months to those who qualify. Personal interview required Leave name, address and telephone number in Box 117, Notre Dame, Indiana.
LUXURY with BUS ECONOMY-]
the country as you "RIDE with PREMIER"
Go Premier once and you’ll go Premier always. It’s the last word in enjoyable travel, combining friendliness, fascination, and economy with train comfort and luxury. Every Premier coach has a washroom and toilet, furnished with soap and linen towels. A porter is on hand at all times to look after your luggage, to see that your journey is comfortable and agreeable.
Flowers
For
Mother s Day
Sunday, May 10 th
at
BEYERS
Between Palace Theatre and Hotel Lasalle
Flowers telegraphed to all parts of the country.
PREMIER COACH LINES
CENTRAL BUS STATION 203 W. Jefferson St. . . . Phone 3-6755
844
The Scholastic
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
On Down the Line
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
. . . Bat boys must wear uniforms, according to a new rule of the national league . . . The now defunct SALLY baseball league developed many famous stars, including TY COBB, NAP RUCKER, JOE JACKSON, GOOSE GOSLIN, LLOYD WANER, KIKI CUYLER, EDDIE CICOTTE and GABBY STREET . . . JACK KELLER, Ohio State’s sophomore hurdling star, who set a new world’s record for the 120-yard event at the Ohio relays, is coached by LARRY SNYDER and DR. FRANK CASTLEMAN, both former star hurdlers . . .
♦>———————---------------—
'	n	!
|	Residence	Office	|
Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 |
। Dr. Edgar S. Lucas |
J Dentist I
1 - 1 |	702 J. M. S. Building	|
।	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	।
i	3
I Cor. Main and Washington I
—-—.—-—-—-—-—-—.—«—.——.4.
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The. favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
GLENN WRIGHT, Dodger shortstop and captain, wears a high top shoe with a metal brace to support a weak ankle on his right foot and a regular baseball shoe on his left . . . JOE JACOBS, manager of MAX. SCHMELING, spent his spare time at camp SPARTANSBURG, South Carolina, during the war as sports editor of the camp newspaper . . . TOM O’ROURKE, probably the oldest fight manager in the United States, is piloting a giant Irish heavyweight of 260-pounds, PAT REDMOND, of whom he expects big things . . .	•
. . . ABE GOLDSTEIN, former bantamweight champion, is one of those lads who came out of an orphanage to win fame and fortune, and now that he is through fighting, is living the life of RILEY in New York on. the income of a $100,000 bankroll . . . CARNATION LOU DARO, of Boston, landed in Los Angeles ten years ago penniless and now is estimated to have a bank account of $500,000 which he made promoting wrestling matches on the coast . . .
. . . WES FERRELL, Cleveland Indian’s pitching ace, tossed the first no-hit, no-run game of the year last week ... It was the first such game to be pitched in two years . . . CARL HUBBELL of the New York Giants was the last one to pull the trick . . . Because of the extensive travels to be taken next fail by West Virginia’s eleven, a “blanket” insurance policy, paying liberal amount in case of a serious accident to the men in travel, has been taken out by the school athletic association . . .
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy-
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
