


FROM THE EDITOR ... 
I still remember his first press conference like it was yesterday. No line stuck that day 
more than "We're going to have a hard-working, intelligent, nasty football team." Nasty? 
Did new Head Football Coach Charlie Weis really say that? Some university administra­
tors were on the brink ofa brain hemorrhage when he used the word. But Weis was right. 
Notre Dame was sadly losing the toughness and mystique that once made its opponents 
tremble. He seemed determined to rectify that. Perhaps he was the "one" who would bring 
balance to the force. 
I remember one cold January morning at the Joyce Center where Weis held a meeting 
with over 100 students (including me) at six in the morning. As a reward for our senseless 
dedication, Weis shared his coming-of-age story and expectations for Notre Dame foot­
ball. I couldn't resist the gravitation of my eyes to his ridiculously large Super Bowl ring. 
Show some restraint coach! Anyways, I left the meeting thinking he was just different. 
He was direct, intelligent, and surprisingly humorous. Who knew then ifhe could coach 
successfully at Notre Dame? But I got the sense he genuinely understood the mystique of 
this place, something guys named Willingham and Davie for one reason or another simply 
failed to grasp. Perhaps it helped that Weis went to school here just like the rest ofus. 
I remember watching the Blue-Gold game on a freakishly cold day in April and leav­
ing thinking the following: Brady Quinn will one day be a legitimate Reisman Trophy 
candidate, andJeffSamardzija will have a breakout 2005 season. My friends scoffed at me. 
There was no way a struggling Quinn could win the Reisman, they said. They didn't even 
know that a guy with a last name they continually crucified ~even on the team. 
Fortunately Quinn, with his 2005 numbers, will probably need to reserve a ticket to New 
York in 2006, and Samardzija became an All-American almost overnight. But not even I 
could foresee that the Irish would break 47 team and individual records this season. Nor 
did I think Notre Dame would come within six points of a magical undefeated regular 
season. Watching the offensive renaissance being painted by Weis was quite a sight. Yet 
the 2005 season is simply a portion of a masterpiece he still has to finish. He has yet to 
add strokes ofspeed and experience. Rome wasn't built in a day, was it? 
The media that doomed Notre Dame to mediocrity suddenly began praising the old 
echoes once again. The 9-3 record was unexpected, but Weis will be the first to tell you he's 
disappointed. He wants to win every game and anything else is unacceptable. Some think 
that's arrogance, but I think it's excellence. Excellence is Notre Dame, and she deserves 
nothing less. And lucky for me, I got to see it all happen traveling throughout the country 
and watching all twelve games ofWeis' first season in person. What a wild ride. 
Sincerely, 
lj/4;ol,A fu~ 
Michael Kim Football Review Editor 


Notre Dame Head Football Coach Charlie Weis ranked 5 3rd in The Sporting News' "Power I00" list of the most powerful people in sports today. Weis was the highest-ranked individual associated with college athletics, beating NCAA President Myles Brand (No. 63). 
The Notre Dame football team finished No. 9 in the Final 2005 Associated Press Top 25 College Football Poil, marking the lrish's first appearance in the top IO since 1993. It marked the 35th time that the Irish have finished in the final AP top I O since the poll began in 1936. 
The total attendance for the six 2005 Notre Dame home games was 484,770. 
I cJ. I 5 true freshmen from the 2005 recruiting class played this year. During the three years of former Irish Head Coach Tyrone Willingham's tenure, only I I total played as true freshmen. 
During the 2005 Notre Dame home football season, 352,I 13 beverages were sold at Notre Dame Stadium. 

Notre Dame scored 440 total points during the 2005 season, more than any team in the history of ND football. The previous record was 426. 
I 
Football expenses for the 2005 season will exceed $ I 5,000,000, an amount ,,vhich includes such costs as equipment, 
travel, s~laries and recruiting expenses. Expenses for the 2004 season totaled $ I5,092,475. 
A brutal schedule? Notre Dame started the 2005 season with what looked like one of the toughest schedules in the country, as 5 Irish opponents were ranked, with three of them falling in the preseason top I0. But Notre Dame ended up having one of the easiest 
schedules -on paper, at least. Only three Irish opponents finished with winning records (Michigan, USC, Navy). 
According to the NCM, Notre Dame ranked No. 2 in graduating football players at 9 6 percent Notre Dame's 2005 opponents had the fol­lowing rates: Navy, 98 percent; Stanford, 92 percent; Washington, 75. percent; Syracuse, 75 percent; Purdue, 70 percent; Michigan, 68 percent; 
USC, 55 percent; Ohio State, 54 percent; Pittsburgh, 48 percent; Michigan State, 4 I percent; and BYU, 40 percent. 
The 2006 Fiesta Bowl Telecast on ABC produced a I 2.9 Nielsen television rating, the highest for a Notre Dame game during the 2005 season. The Notre Dame-USC game on Oct. 15, 2005, garnered a 6.7, but peaked at 14.2 in the final few minutes. •·· 

45,589 ticket requests were made for the 2006 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl, the most requests ever received for any postseason game in Irish foot­ball history. It took 20 staff members in the Notre Dame ticket office more than I00 hours to process and input every order. 
THE GREEN JERSEYS  FIESTA BOWL STUDENT TICKET LOTTERY  
t  They were the right tint of green this time around, unlike the kelly green jerseys worn in 2002. If only we can find a way to win in these things ...  l  Looks like the ticket office staff has too much faith in the student body. How could they not foresee that students were going to try to get multiple lottery  
numbers? They're not all holy.  
HIGH-DEFINITION FOR HOME FOOTBALL GAMES  
t  ON NBC Finally, the telecast doesn't look like it was prepared by kindergartners. Alumni and fans get to see the gold helmets  l  FIESTA BOWL TELECAST ON ABC Laura Quinn actually managed to get more air time than her brother.  

shine the way they need to on television. 
THE GUGLIELMINO COMPLEX THE SHIRT 2005 
t 
Widescreen plasma televisions and video game consoles Although the highest selling Shirt, it ruined student in the locker room? ls this an athletic facility or a high-class unity. But worst of all, it made us look like Michigan 
bachelor pad? fans. 
' 


Lifetime sehlice opportunities with multinational organization for graduating seniors. 

. . 
-"A.NSWERj;jjf'( 
THE (:AL:.:t.:. ·v!:J•• 







POWERING THROUGH Fullback Rashon Powers-Neal bursts through Pittsburgh defenders. Powers-Neal had three rushing touchdowns. 



The Weis Era Begins 
Notre Dame 42 Pittsburgh 21 
n his last v1s1t to 
Heinz Field in 
Pittsburgh, Penn., 
on Jan. 23, 2005, Charlie Weis, then-offensive coordina­tor of the Patriots, masterfully orches­trated a potent New England offense to beat the Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC Championship, 41-27. And while the pressure of a potential Super Bowl berth was not hanging in the balance on Weis' next visit to Heinz Field eight months later on Sept. 3, 2005, he faced the weight ofdebuting as Notre Dame's 28th head coach against the then-No. 23 Pittsburgh Panthers. 
Many Irish fans were optimistic about Weis' hire, but at the outset of the Notre 

THE DEBUT Head Coach Charlie Weis greets his players during warmups. 
Dame-Pittsburgh game, the Weis era did not look so promising. Only four min­utes into the first quarter, Pittsburgh quarterback Tyler Palko connected with wide receiver Greg Lee to give the Pan­thers an early 7-0 lead. 
Disgusted with the way his defense was playing, Weis went over to defen­sive coordinator Rick Minter and said angrily, "[They] better start playing bet­ter or I will put in the second string." His stern message resonated among the Notre Dame bench. The Irish responded to Weis' threat by scoring on their own opening drive, with running back Darius Walker taking a screen pass from quar­terback Brady Quinn 51 yards to the end zone. It was the longest reception of Walker's young career. 
While the Panthers closed out the first quarter with a field goal, putting them ahead of the Irish by three, the second quarter saw a Notre Dame of­fensive outburst with the Irish scoring 28 unanswered points. Walker led the offensive barrage .with a 2-yard touch­

THE MAYS EXPRESS Linebacker Corey Mays chases after Pittsburgh quarterback Tyler Palko. 
Palko was sacked five times by the Irish. 

down run, followed by a spectacular, acrobatic, 19-yard catch by wide re­ceiver Jeff Samardzija, the first of his career. Running back Rashon Powers­Neal also added two powerful touch­down runs. 
Pittsburgh and Notre Dame fans were stunned -the former by their home team being pummeled after such high expectations and the latter by see­ing the beginnings of a long-awaited offensive-•renaissance. Weis recalled at halftime that his "players started to re­alize they're· better than they thought they were," and the scoreboard certain­ly proved it, witl;i. Notre Dame domi­nating 35-13 at the half. The Irish tal­lied 3 19 total offensive yards in the first half, enough to surpass the total of five full games from the 2004 season. 
In the third quarter Notre Dame continued its newfound mastery of ball-possession offense -reminiscient of Weis' former Patriots teams -with a 20-play drive that milked seven min­utes off the clock. Powers-Neal capped off the marathon drive with his third touchdown run of the night. In the fourth quarter, Pittsburgh added a touchdown with a two-point conver­sion, but this did little to change the game. Notre Dame won impressively with a final score of 42-21. Quinn, leading the new Weis-installed offense for the first time, went 18-27 for 227 yards with two touchdown throws and one interception. Walker finished with 20 rushes for 100 yards. 
Although the victory was a tremen­dous success for Notre Dame, some 

growing pains were evident through­· out the game. The Irish committed 10 penalties for a loss of 94 yards, and at one point in the game, Samardzija forgot his holding duties for an extra point, forcing the Irish to burn a time­out and infuriating Weis. Defensive end Ronald Talley made a foolish late hit on one of the Pittsburgh players, and Weis gave Talley a mouthful ofun­pleasant words on national television. Even Weis had some trouble adjust­ing to being the head coach, especially with the headphones that allowed him to speak to his assistants in the coaches' booth. "I'm hammering someone on offense, and they'll say 'You're [talk­ing] to the defense, coach."' 0 

TURNING THE CORNER Running back Darius Walker runs by Michigan linebacker Shawn Crable. Walker had 104 rushing yards against the Wolverines. 
Hail to the Irish Victors 
Notre Dame 77 Michigan 10 
lthough it had been 
almost two years 
since the Irish's last 
visit to Michigan 
Stadium in 2003 -which resulted in a 3 8-0 loss -and a hefty 12 years since they had topped the Wolverines in the "Big House," Notre Dame was fueled by still fresh memories of past defeats when the Irish arrived in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Sept. 10, 2005, for their second game of the season. Con­versely, Michigan was looking to avenge its 28-20 upset by the Irish at Notre Dame Stadium in 2004. Both sides had something to prove and the Irish were hungry to beat the then third-ranked Wolverines. 
Notre Dame came out on its opening drive using a no-huddle offense to throw the Michigan defense off-balance. The Irish marched 7 6 yards down the field with relative ease, never facing a third down, and ended the impressive drive with a 5-yard pass from quarterback Brady Quinn to wide receiver Rhema McKnight for his first touchdown recep­tion of the season. 
The game proved to be a fierce defen­sive grind. Injuries plagued both sides, with Irish linebacker Corey Mays mak­ing a booming hit on Michigan running back Michael Hart that resulted in a game-ending hamstring injury for Hart. Notre Dame, on the other hand, lost McKnight, who severely twisted his knee when he was sandwiched between two Michigan defenders. 
The stagnant Wolverine offense showed signs of life late in the first quar­ter when wide receiver Steve Breaston gained 30 yards on a reverse that made the Irish defense look flat-footed, but Michigan only gained a field goal from the effort. 
Notre Dame struck back by earning every grueling yard against an inspired Michigan defense. The Irish capitalized on a 5-yard play-action pass from Quinn, who threw into a swarm of Michigan de­fenders. The ball was tipped but caught by wide receiver Jeff Samardzija for a touchdown, putting Notre Dame up 14­3 at halftime. 
Michigan attempted to dismantle the Irish in the second half, especially with a third quarter drive that put the Wol­verines on the Irish 12-yard line. But the Irish defense stepped up, as safety Tom Zbikowski intercepted the ensuing pass on the 1-yard line to avert any danger. The Wolverines kept pressing but con­


HOLDING THE LINE The Irish defense gave up only 10 points despite surrendering 337 ­yards. 
"Coming into the Big House and get­ting a win can be a once-in-a-lifetime experience," Irish defensive end Victor Abiamiri said. "You want to do every­thing you can to let it sink in." The win snapped Michigan's 16-game home win­ning streak and handed the Wolverines their first loss at home to a non-confer­ence team since 1998. 
Weis became the first Notre Dame coach to win his first two games on the road since Knute Rockne in 1918. Weis was asked if he sensed the historical sig­nificance of the win. "If I answered by dignifying that, [Bill] Parcells and [Bill] Belichick would humiliate me," Weis I said, referring to his coaching mentors. 
I
"I've just coached two games and they've played two games. Let's come back and 
'I 
revisit that in about 10 years." 0 
iiI, 
ii 
tinued to squander their chances with failed fourth down conversions and turn­overs. "We just made too many mistakes in the red zone/' Michigan Head Coach Lloyd Carr said. "You can't get the foot­ball down there and give it away like we did." 
Instant replay became the story of the game in the fourth quarter. Michigan quarterback Chad Henne was ruled down on an attempted quarterback sneak at the Irish 1-yard line. But "indisputable evi­dence" showed that he had fumbled the ball and that safety Chined um N dukwe recovered in the end zone for a touch­back. The Michigan student section be­gan throwing water bottles onto the field in disgust and hit several of their own re­cruits in the process. Instant replay stung Michigan again when it showed that a Quinn fumble occurred after his knee 

touched the ground. Michigan would add a touchdown with 
3:4 7 left to get within reach of the Irish, but they failed to put together a serious drive to tie the game. Notre Dame ran the clock out to seal the 17-10 upset vic­tory. 
\". 
WEIS GUY Charlie Weis became the first Irish 
Head Coach since Knute Rockne to win his first two games on the road. 
• -<. -C' ~ -• ., ---~ -_.........__"---­
~------------~ --~ ­


ABIT OF ASTRETCH Wide receiver Maurice Stovall scores a touchdown in Notre Dame's unsuccessful bid for a comeback victory. 
The One That Got Away 
Michigan State 44 Notre Dame 41 
ne stop -that's all 
it takes to swing the 
outcome of a game 
and even a season. 
On Sept. 17, 2005, one stop would have given Notre Dame the opportunity to defeat the Michigan State Spartans after the most improb­able of comebacks -a 21-point second­half resurgence led by Irish quarterback Brady Quinn. But on first and 15 in over­time, when they lined up to stop Michi­gan State quarterback Drew Stanton, the Irish would come up short. Running back Jason Teague punctuated the loss for Notre Dame on a pitch from Stanton that resulted in a 19-yard Spartan touch­down run. Michigan State improved to 3-0, defeating the previously unbeaten Irish, 44-41. 
For Head Coach Charlie· Weis, it was his first loss at the collegiate level. Weis voiced his disappointment during the post-game press conference. "I told them that they don't give out medals for trying," Weis said. "They shouldn't feel good about themselves for coming back." 
While the loss was disheartening for the Notre Dame faithful, several Irish players demonstrated their potential for improvement during the loss. Quinn ar­rived on the Reisman radar following his 487-yard, :five-touchdown perfor­mance. Quinn's target, wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, also made his case for being the best wide receiver in the nation with his three touchdowns and near 100-yard performance. Meanwhile, wide receiver Maurice Stovall made eight receptions for 178 yards. 
The first half was riddled with mo­mentum swings. After both teams failed to capitalize on their opening drives,. the pffensive showdown got underway, and Notre Dame and Michigan State ex­changed scoring drives until late in the second quarter. 
Then, with the game knotted at 17 apiece and halftime approaching, Michi­gan State took control of the game. Teague rushed for 18 yards on the open­ing play of the drive, leaving less than a minute on the clock. Michigan State Head Coach John L. Smith called a timeout and gave Stanton the go-ahead to throw the ball deep. After missing on his first throw and being forced out ofthe pocket on second down, Stanton came up strong, throwing 45 yards to wide re­ceiver Terry Love, who was forced out of bounds at the N9tre Dame 2-yard line 

SO CLOSE,BUTYET SO FAR Notre Dame defense tackles Michigan State running back Jason Teague 
and almost ended the game in regulation with a safety. ­
by Irish safety Tom Zbikowski. Stanton then carried the ball into the end zone to put the Spartans up 24-17 going into the locker room. 
With momentum on their side, the Spartans continued to bombard the Irish in the second half. On the opening drive for the Irish, Quinn threw two ill-advised passes, one resulting in an incompletion and the other in an interception, which was returned 3 0 yards for a touchdown by Michigan State defensive back Sirdar­ean Adams. The turnover gave the Spar­tans a comfortable 14-point lead. 
The Spartans continued to play tena­cious defense throughout the third quar­ter, forcing the Irish to punt on their next two possessions. With six minutes remaining in the third quarter, Stanton once again went to the air with a pair of passes to wide receiver Matt Trannon for 27 and 65 yards and another touchdown. 
With limited time and a substantial deficit mounted against the Irish, Quinn took the reigns of the offense. Quinn would throw the ball on the next nine downs, completing eight passes in a row for a late third-quarter touchdown. The Irish entered the last quarter of play down 38-24. 
As the Notre Dame defense held strong, Quinn continued to open up the field on offense with a pair of passes to Stovall, the first for 50 yards and the sec­ond for seven yards and a touchdown that put the Irish within seven ofthe Spartans. Quinn would lead another miraculous drive later in the fourth quarter, hitting Samardzija for a 4-yard touchdown pass to tie the game at 38-38. 
With time winding down, Michigan State was pinned deep in their own ter­ritory. Beginning from their own 4-yard line, the Spartans were pushed back 3 yards by the Notre Dame defense. Stuck in his own end zone and unable to kneel out the clock, Stanton rieeded to kill the time without yielding a safety. With Irish linemen Derek Landri and Trevor Laws bearing down on Stanton, the Spartan quarterback managed to scramble out for a 1-yard gain and a chance at overtime -a chance that Michigan State would capitalize on. 

With Teague's 18-yard touchdown run in overtime, Notre Dame's hopes of an undefeated season came crashing to the ground. In postgame celebration, the Spartans planted their flag at midfield, much to the ire of the Irish faithful. With five straight wins at Notre Dame Stadium including this overtime thriller, the Spartans certainly have claimed their territory. 0 

FLIPSIDE Quarterback Brady Quinn lines up against a Washington team led by his former coach Tyrone Willingham. 

A Ty Bowl Victory 
Notre Dame 36 Washington 17 


edia members cir­cled Sept. 24, 2005, on their calendars when they heard that former Notre 
Dame Head Coach Tyrone Willingham was hired by the University of Wash­ington. On that day, Willingham would lead his Huskies against the Irish less than IO months after his dismissal from Notre Dame as head coach. Head Coach Charlie Weis lmew the distraction this presented for his players, who were still dealing with the fallout of Willingham's controversial firing. Weis refused to comment on Willingham's firing since the day the former New England Patriots offensive coordinator was hired and con­tinued to do so leading up to the game he coined the "1y Bowl." Weis and his team focused solely on football, leaving emo­tion at home as they headed to Seattle, Wash., to play the struggling Washing­ton Huskies. 
Washington came out fast and furi­ous on its opening drive; it was evident that they had the urgency to win one for Willingham. However, their opening drive quickly unraveled when wide re­ceiver Craig Chambers fumbled the ball to the Irish on the Notre Dame I-yard line. The play foreshadowed the rest of the day for the Huskies, as they commit­ted costly turnovers at inopportune mo­ments. 

Although Chambers' fumble forced the Irish to begin their first offensive drive on their own I -yard line, on the first of­fensive play ofthe game for Notre Dame, quarterback Brady Quinn questionably rolled to the right in his own end zone and connected with tight end Anthony Fasano, who then acrobatically leapt over a Washington defender for a gain of 13 yards and a first down. However, as Irish fans would later discover, Weis' first call of the game was deliberate; he had prom­ised Montana Mazurkiewicz, a 10-year­old boy who was dying of an inoperable brain tumor, to call the "pass right" play as the first play of the game. Mazurkie­wicz sadly died before he could see the play that he asked Weis to call. 
SHARK ATTACK Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija beats Washington cornerback Roy Lewis to score a 52-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter to give Notre Dame a 29-3 lead. 
Despite the effectiveness ofMazurkie­wicz's "pass right" play, the Notre Dame offense started off sluggishly, and the only bright spot for the Irish in the first half was a 17-yard touchdown run by running back Darius Walker, who would finish the game with 128 rushing yards, making him the first Notre Dame running back to rush for 100 yards in four consecutive games. Kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick added two field goals for the Irish in the first half, and the Irish.went into the locker room at halftime ahead 12-3. 
Washington had its chance to take control of the game in the third quarter when Huskies quarterback Isaiah Stan­back threw a career-long pa.ss of 69 yards to wide receiver Marlon Wood. But the Huskies wasted the effort when, two plays later, Stanback carelessly threw into the end zone and Irish cornerback Am­brose Wooden intercepted the pass. 

Notre Dame began to surge late in the third quarter when fullback Rashon Pow­ers-Neal bulldozed his way into the end zone for a 2-yard touchdown run. The Irish put the game out of reach when Quinn threw a 52-yard bomb to wide re­ceiver Jeff Samardzija, who waltzed in for a touchdown, providing his team with a 29-3 lead. Running back Travis Thomas later added an 11-yard run in the fourth quarter for his first touchdown of the sea­son. Despite the two touchdowns scored by Washington in the fourth quarter to make the score closer, ultimately, Notre 
Dame easily defeated Washington 3 6­. 17. There would be no last laugh for 
Willingham. 
As the clock wound down, dozens of 
photographers raced to the center of the 
field to get a shot of Weis and Willing­
ham shaking hands. Many of the Notre 
Dame players that Willingham recruited 
greeted him warmly, wishing him luck. 
Weis was relieved that the game was 
over. "I think, psychologically for the 
players, this will be a good thing to have 
behind them and move on to the next 
game," he said. 0 

SPORTING NEW COLORS Tyrone Willingham roams the sideline in his new Washington purple while facing his former team. 

hen former Notre 
Dame Head Coach 
Tyrone Willingham 
was fired by the uni­
versity on Nov. 30, 2004-just three years into his six-year contract-after compiling a 21-15 overall record, it caused a seismic uproar in the college football world. Willingham be­came the first non-interim head coach in 70 years to be released from Notre Dame before the allotted time on his contract. Controversy engulfed Notre Dame; vo­cal media members accused the school of being racist and selling out its high standards to become just another football factory. A media firestorm was brewing, and it would only gather strength when Willingham, as the new head coach at Washington, would face his former team just 10 months after his dismissal. 
Willingham deflected questions about his tenure at Notre Dame in the days leading up to Washington's game against the Irish. He gave eloquent but empty answers to media members that were trying to sensationalize the story into one of personal vengeance. Refusing to budge, Willingham continually said that the game would be just "two teams com­peting." However, his own Washington players sensed their coach's unflappable image was merely a facade for the emo­tions that were driving this game. 
"There was a difference at practice [that] week," Washington cornerback Josh Okoebor said. "We knew he wanted this game bad. He's intense every week, but you could tell he had that extra oomph for this one." Perhaps that extra "oomph" . was demonstrated when Willingham looked more fiery and vocal on the Wash­ington sideline, getting into the faces of his players for every wrong move. It was different than what Notre Dame fans grew accustomed to when he used to roam the Irish sideline with his calm demeanor, crossed arms and steely-eyed stare. 
The Huskies surely had their chances to upset the Irish, but costly turnovers would prove to be their downfall. The inconsistency was eerily similar to the West Coast offense Willingham tried to install at Notre Dame -one with flashes of brilliance, but one with head-scratch­ing unproductiveness. When the final seconds ticked away, Willingham would not get the last laugh, as Notre Dame handed him a 36-17 loss. 
Willingham put his disappointment aside for the time being and greeted his former players, whose homes he visited when he recruited them. "It's still the same; I have a great respect for the [Notre Dame] program," Willingham said. "I have great respect for the young men left in the program, great respect for many of the administrators there." After the game, Notre Dame Head Coach Charlie Weis was relieved that the game was over and downplayed the media circus. "Our coaching staff and our players have the ,utmost respect for Willingham, his staff, his players and the University of Washington," Weis said. "At this point, the game is over. I'll move on, and I hope they move on." ­
Notre Dame could finally distance it­self from the backlash it faced during the Willingham affair. Coaches have come to and gone from Notre Dame, and it was finally time for Willingham to fade into the history books. He can move on with his life as he tries to rebuild a once-proud Washington program, while Notre Dame can try to recapture its glory days. 


wvfi.nd.edu aim: wvfi radio 

JAW DROPPER Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija makes a one-handed grab to set up the first touchdown for Notre Dame. 

Irish Bury Boilermakers 
Notre Dame 49 Purdue 28 
fter a Darius Walk­
er touchdown put 
Notre Dame up 28­
0 over Purdue with just under three minutes remammg in the first half, ESPN's cameras caught Purdue defensive coordinator Brock Spack throwing a hand up in disgust with a look of bewilderment across his face. The Purdue defense had no answer for a Notre Dame offense that came out firing on all cylinders at Ross-Ade Stadium on Oct. 1, 2005. 
The Irish scored touchdowns on five of their first seven possessions. Quarter­back Brady Quinn was near perfect in the first half, completing 20 of his 23 pass attempts for 283 yards and one touch­down. He finished the game 29-36 with 440 yards and three touchdowns, and the Irish won 49-28. 
The result was better than Quinn's previous game at Ross-Ade Stadium two years prior, where he made his first colle­giate start as a freshman in 2003. In that game, Quinn threw four interceptions and was battered by the Purdue defense in a 2 3-10 loss. "I wasn't thinking about revenge coming into this game," Quinn said. "What enabled us to win was the ex­ecution of our game plan." Head Coach Charlie Weis praised his quarterback fol­lowing the game. "Brady is performing like the leader we need him to be, and I look for him to continue to progress in upcoming games," he said. Weis was par­ticularly pleased with Quinn's ability to complete short, quick throws to receiv­ers and allow them to gain yards after the catch. "Brady picked them apart," Weis said. "We were taking 3-yard passes and ·turning them into 15-, 20-yard gains." 
Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija was the recipient of several of these quick passes, and after most of them was able to use his size and speed to beat Purdue's iso­lated cornerbacks for long gains. But Sa­mardzija's best reception -and the most impressive play of the game -came on a deep ball. Early in the first quarter, Sa­mardzija took off down the middle ofthe field and made a diving, one-handed grab at the Purdue 1-yard line. The 4i-yard receptionsetup Notre Dame's first score, a 1-yard run by running back Rashon Powers-Neal, who had two touchdowns on the game. 


Other Irish scorers included Samardzi­ja, who also had two touchdowns, running backs Walker and Travis Thomas and tight end John Carlson, who scored his first collegiate touchdown. And though he did not find the end zone, wide re­ceiver Maurice Stovall :finished the game with eight receptions and 134 yards. 
The defense and special teams made big plays as well. On Purdue's second possession of the game, running back J erod Void looked to be headed for the end zone on a long run, but cornerback Ambrose Wooden saved a touchdown by knocking Void out of bounds at the 1-yard line. On the next play, linebacker Brandon Hoyte forced a Void fumble that was recovered by cornerback Mike Richardson. Then, in the second quarter, defensive tackle Trevor Laws blocked a Purdue field goal attempt. 

The loss was the second in a row for the Boilermakers, who many predicted would win the Big Ten Conference and who entered the game ranked No. 22. Their defense, which returned 11 starters from 2004, seemed nonexistent against the Irish, and their offense d1d not get going until the second half, during which they moved the ball well and scored 2 8 points. But with Notre Dame's sizeable lead, it was too little, too late. 
Weis was happy with his team's perfor­mance after the game. "Sooner or later we were going to play a complete game, which this was," he said. 0 
WHERE THE GREEN GRASS GROWS The Notre Dame Stadium grass was left extra-long to negate USC's speed on offense. 
Game of the·Year 
n 1988, a newly re­
gilded Golden Dome 
welcomed the No. 1 
Miami Hurricanes as they rolled onto campus boasting a 36-game regular season winning streak. The Irish ended up beating Miami 31-30 on that glorious October day. Seventeen years later and with a Dome that had been regilded once again the swnmer prior, Notre Dame's campus saw a simi­larly unstoppable No. 1 USC team with a 27-game wi1111ll1:g streak step onto its grounds. Notre Dame looked to repeat history. 
In the most hyped game in recent Irish history, Notre Dame looked as if it had a chance against the Trojans, un-

LIGHTNING. STRIKES! USC running back Reggie Bush scored three touchdowns against the Irish. 
like in their previous three meetings, in each ofwhich the Irish lost by 31 points. But with a rejuvenated confidence and a 4-1 record, Head Coach Charlie Weis sensed the opportunity to make history. 
His team warmed up in their traditional blue home jerseys, but Weis surprised · the crowd when the Irish burst out of the tunnel sporting green jerseys. Weis was a student in the stands when he saw the 
. first "Green Jersey'' game in 1977, when Notre Dame crushed USC 49-19, and he hoped to bring back the magic of the jerseys to inspire not only his players but also the Notre Dame crowd. 
The Irish ran into some bad luck early in the game when quarterback Brady Quinn's flea flicker pass in the first quar­ter was deflected and intercepted by USC linebacker Keith Rivers. The Tro­jans capitalized on the turnover in only 34 seconds, as running hack Reggie Bush broke through Irish defenders, storming 3 6 yards for a touchdown: Not even the. purposefully uncut, five-inch grass on 

ONE ON ONE Running back Travis Thomas avoids USC safety Darnell Bing on his way to 
score the first touchdown for the Irish. -­

· -the :field was enough to negate the speed of the Trojans. 
l 
The Irish remained undeterred and converted on a risky fourth-and-one play to keep their second drive of the game alive. With the help of USC penalties that moved the chains on multiple plays, running back Travis Thomas broke key tackles and sprinted 16 yards into the end zone to tie the game, 7-7. The Trojans,1 however immediately would answer the Irish drive when they marched down 
the field in just over a minute to score a 2-yard rushing touchdown by running back LenDale White. The Trojan drive that put the Irish behind by seven was exactly what Weis had warned his Irish defense about; he knew that Notre Dame would have to keep the ball away from the potent Trojan offense as long as pos­sible and play a ball-possession game for the Irish to come out on top. He hoped to "shorten the game" by relying heavily on running the ball and slowly but surely moving the chains. But even Weis' of­fensive strategy was not enough to defeat the mighty Trojans; while Notre Dame won the possession battle convincingly, holding the ball for over 3 8 minutes compared to USC's 21 minutes, the Irish eventually would fall to the Trojans. 
The second quarter was a turning point for Notre Dame. Quinn looked down the :field and connected with wide receiver Jeff Samardzija for a 32-yard touchdown to tie the game, 14-14. The Irish then delivered the biggest blow to the Trojans when safety Tom Zbikowski returned a punt 60 yards for a touch­down, sending the crowd into a frenzy. It was the :first punt return for a touchdown by Notre Dame since 2002 when Vontez Duff returned the ball against Maryland for an Irish score. USC looked to answer again, but quarterback Matt Leinart's pass was deflected and intercepted by safety Chmedum Ndukwe in the end zone for a touchback; Notre Dame play­ers and Weis went into the locker room up 21-14, knowing they had a chance to pull the upset. Yet they were-well-aware that USC was notorious as a second-half team having a knack for overcoming def­icits. 

In the third quarter, the Trojans lived up to their billing as a second-half team when Bush struck with a 45-yard run for his second touchdown to tie the game, 21-21. The Trojans looked to do more damage until Leinart threw another rare completed three passes and then capped off the drive by lung­ing into the end zone for his first rushing touch­down of the season. Notre Dame claimed a 31-28 lead with 2:02 left. Irish fans could feel the upset, especially when defensive tackle Trevor Laws 

IRISH EVASION Safety Tom Zbikowski cuts past kicker Tom Malone during a sacked Leinart 60-yard punt return that gave Notre Dame a 21-14 lead over USC. for a loss. Notre 
interception right into the hands of cor­nerback Mike Richardson. 
In the fourth quarter, kicker D.J. Fitz­patrick gave the Irish back the lead with a 32-yard field goal. However, Bush, mak­ing a case for the 2005 Reisman Trophy on this national stage, eluded Irish de­fenders and scored his third touchdown of the game. With just over five minutes left, the Irish found themselves with one last scoring opportunity. They marched down the field with authority as Quinn 
Dame forced 

the Trojans to a fourth-and-nine where one defensive stop would seal the game for the Irish. However, Leinart, the 2004 Reisman Trophy winner, lived up to his reputa­tion by changing the play at the line of scrimmage amidst a screaming Notre Dame student section and connecting with wide receiver Dwayne Jarrett for a 61-yard gain that brought the ball to the Irish 13-yard line. 
The Irish crowd was stunned, but the 

Trojans still had to score. Leinart tried to run the ball to the corner ofthe end zone, but after a hard hit the ball came loose and flew out of bounds. The clock kept ticking. Weisand the crowd thought the game was over; Notre Dame had won. Students charged the field, but it proved to be a premature celebration as the offi­cials put seven seconds back on the clock and spotted· the ball at the I-yard line. USC Head Coach Pete Carroll looked like he was signaling Leinart to spike the ball so they could stop the clock and kick a field goal to go to overtime. Instead, · Leinart went for the quarterback sneak. Although initially denied, he scored af­ter being aided by Bush, who pushed him 
. into the end zone for the touchdown. use was up 34-31 after missing the ex­tra point with three seconds left. Notre Dame hoped they could return the kick­off, but all hopes were squashed when Zbikowski was tackled. The game was over, and USC kept their national cham­pionship hopes alive. 
After the game, Weis went into the USC locker room to commend the Tro­jans for a hard-fought game and wished them luck for the rest of the season. Even with the loss, Notre Dame captivated the nation and reawakened the echoes in this epic game. 

\ .· .. ~":· .. 
• Photographers
: . '·. ::. ~:~,·. ··.·. ·. 
' .:· '
. .._, 
• Graphic Designers
,,.··) :b.-. . . 
•Web Designers 

, 
-•Valet for Editors 
'\ 

\ E-mail Scholastic at 
' 
\

¦ ¦ ·scholast@nd.edu 
agg,,asrou 





Photo 

Reprints Available 
vVhat better way to celebrate the Notre Dame Fighting Irish's return to glory than with pho­tos of your favorite players and plays from the 2005 winning season? Order reprints today of any of the student-photo­graphed pictures from Scholns­tic's annual football review. Full­color prints ar~ available in 5x7, 8xl 0, or 1lxl4 sizes. 

5x7 -$5 8x10 -$10 llxl4 -$20 
for ordering information, contact Scholastic at scholast@nd.edu. 
AIR RAID Wide receiver Maurice Stovall overpowers BYU cornerback Dustin Gabriel for his record-breaking fourth touchdown in one game. 
An Aerial Assault 
Notre Dame 49 BYU 23 

o help his players get over their emo­tional loss to USC at home on Oct. 15, 2005, Head Coach 
Charlie Weis said that the Irish's slate was wiped clean and that the BYU game would be the start of their "second sea­son." But this "second season" presented a challenge to the Irish, who had not won a home game since Oct. 9, 2004, when they defeated Stanford 23-15. The Irish offensive would have to adapt to BYU's unique 3-3-5 defense, which had con­fused the Irish the previous year in a surprising 2 0-1 7 loss to the Cougars in Provo, Utah. But Notre Dame was de­termined to rid itself of its woes in front ofa home crowd missing students still on fall break. For students who were in at­tendance, they witnessed an aerial assault show never seen before at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Despite falling behind by three points only five minutes into the first quarter af­ter a BYU field goal, Notre Dame gained offensive momentum when quarterback Brady Quinn fought off a sack and hit wide receiver Maurice Stovall in the back ofthe end zone for a 10-yard touchdown. BYU answered with an end-of-quarter touchdown, putting the Cougars ahead 10-7. However, the Irish were able to continue their trend of aerial dominance in the second quarter, racking up touch­downs when Quinn delivered a 14-yard pass, to wide receiver Jeff Samardzija and then again to Stovall with a 15-yard strike. Samardzija became the first Notre Dame receiver to have touchdown recep­tions in seven consecutive games, break­ing the record set by Malcolm Johnson in 1998. , 
Although Notre Dame was leading 21­10 at halftime, the Irish were woefully lackingin rushing yards, but Weis had no problem with the imbalance of the run­ning and passing game. His game plan was to neutralize the 3-3-5 BYU defense by excessively throwing the ball to negate 

PASSING A RECORD Quarterback Brady Quinn had a record-breaking passing performance against the Cougars when he threw for six touchdowns. 
their blitzes and having an empty back­field with five wide receivers. BYU Head Coach Bronco Mendenhall admitted af­ter the game that he was surprised Notre Dame chose such formations. "Notre Dame's passing game was better than our coverage in every instance today," Men­denhall said. 
The game seemed out of reach for BYU in the third quarter when Sa­mardzija grabbed his second touchdown reception of the game -a 21-yard pass from Quinn. However, BYU continued to grind with two touchdowns of their own, cutting the Notre Dame lead to five points, 28-23. Notre Dame distanced themselves when Quinn pump-faked a 
' 

-~--------­
screen pass, fooling the BYU defense and leaving Stovall wide open in the end zone for his third touchdown reception of the game. Weis later called the pump fake "a thing of beauty." Stovall would add a fourth touchdown when he took a screen pass from Quinn and used his si:x-foot­five-inch frame to overpower a smaller 
·BYU defender. Stovall became the first Notre Dame receiver to have four touch­down receptions in a game. He teamed with Samardzija to become the first Irish receiving tandem to both have at least 10 catches in one game. 
In the fourth quarter, the game was put away when safety Tom Zbikowski in­tercepted BYU-quarterback John Beck's pass and ran 83 yards for a touchdown. The final seconds ticked away, and Notre Dame finally claimed a home win with a 49-23 rout. "It feels so good to see the clock run out and have a winning score," Quinn said. 
Quinn went 32-41 for 467 yards, giv­ing him three 400-yard passing games on the season. He also threw an Irish record of six touchdown passes in one game against the Cougars, breaking his own record set earlier in the year against Michigan State. The game was also sig­nificant for Weis, as it was his first win at Notre Dame Stadium. 0 

HANGING ON Wide receiver Maurice Stovall hauls in a 35-yard touchdown pass in the first quarter againstTennessee. 


Rocky Topping Tennessee 
Notre Dame 41 Tennessee 2 7 
nNov. 5, 2005,Notre Dame and Tennessee entered Notre Dame Stadium with their programs heading in different directions. One team was BCS­bound while the other was undergoing a rebuilding season -but which team was which was a surprise. The Volunteers, ranked No. 3 in the preseason, were the ones who suffered a horrendous start, while the Fighting Irish, unranked in the preseason, had their eyes on a coveted BCS game.• In this topsy-turvy season for these two storied football programs, nothing could be predicted or taken for granted. There was a chill in the air on that Saturday morning when both sides knew that the game could redefine the 
season for either team. 

Earlier in the week prior to the Notre Dame-Tennessee game, Head Coach Charlie Weis identified Tennessee's de­fense as a· possible roadblock to an Irish victory. The Notre Dame offense, how­ever, simply overpowered the Volun­teer defense early. The Irish scored two touchdowns within a minute of each other in the first quarter. 
The first came after a string of com ­pleted passes by quarterback Brady Quinn, including the 43-yard pass to tight end Anthony Fasano for the score. On the ensuing kickoff, Irish cornerback Mike Richardson forced the ball out of the hands of Tennessee's Lucas Taylor for a fumble, which was recovered by the Irish. Beginning deep in Volunteer ter­ritory, Quinn completed a pass to wide 
receiver Maurice Stovall for another touchdown. With the bat of an eye, ·Notre Dame went up 14-0 on the highly touted, yet seemingly hapless Tennessee 
defense. 

A\though Volunteer kicker James Wil­
hoit tacked on a field goal before the first 
quarter expired, the Tennessee offense 
continued to struggle in the game. On 
its first possession of the second quarter, 
Tennessee was forced to punt. Safety Tom 
Zbikowski returned the ball 78 yards for 
a touchdown to put the Irish up 21-3. 

Just as the Notre Dame fans were be­
coming comfortable with the Irish lead 
over the Volunteers, Tennessee's de­
fense started to own up to the reputation 
that Weis had cited earlier in the week. 
Notre Dame's highly potent offense 
was shut out for• the next 25 minutes of 
IT'S A CELEBRATION Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija gives fellow receiver Maurice Stovall a high-five after Stovall's first quarter touchdown catch. 
play. Meanwhile, the Tennessee offense gained momentum following a fumble 

by wide receiver Jeff Samardzija. Ten­nessee quarterback Erik Ainge and run-. ning back Adrian Foster managed three successful drives against the Irish, result­ing in a field goal, two touchdowns_ and a two-point conversion. The Tennessee offense had posted 18 unanswered points to even the game, 21-21. 
Once again, the Irish found themselves in need ofa big fourth quarter in order t9 secure a victory. Opening the last quarter ·of play on the Tennessee 2-yard line, the Irish seemed to be in a perfect position to take the lead back. Quinn managed to give the Irish nation a good scare, fum­bling the ball on the 4-yard line, only to have it recovered by Notre Dame line­man Dan Santucci. Following the near­turnover, Quinn hit Samardzija, who carried the ball into the end zone for the tie-breaking touchdown. 
The Irish never looked back. The de­fense held tight, shutting the Volunteers out in the fourth quarter, while kicker 
D.J. Fitzpatrick tacked on a pair of field goals. Down 34-21 with only three min­utes remaining in the game, Ainge threw into tight coverage and was picked off by Zbikowski, who returned the ball 3 3 yards for the score -the final nail in the coffin for the Volunteers. After one more unsuccessful drive by Tennessee, Notre Dame was able to kneel out the clock and celebrate its victory over one of the big­gest obstacles on its schedule. 
After losing to the Irish for the second time in as many years, Tennessee Head Coach Philip Fulmer could only con­gratulate Notre Dame on its win. "They really have improved in a year," he said. "Our hats go off to them for how they played against us." 

A NAUTICAL TRAVIS-TY Running back Travis Thomas stretches the Navy defense for his fourth rushing touchdown of the season. 
Honor and Class 
Notre Dame 42 Navy 27 
onor. Courage. Com­mitment These three words, the motto of the United States Naval Academy, say everything worth knowing about the battle on Nov. 12, 2005, between the Irish and the Navy Midshipmen. While the Midshipmen haven't always garnered the success of more celebrated Irish opponents, the Mids had a burning desire to break a 42­year-old, NCAA-record losing streak to the Irish. That, combined with Navy's own five-game winning streak coming into the game and the possibility of over­confidence by the Irish after demolishing Tennessee, caused this showdown to have 
MEN IN UNIFORM Navy students pack Notre Dame Stadium to cheer on their Midshipmen. 
"upset special" written all over it. 
But in his typical fashion, Head Coach Charlie Weis kept his troops focused all week, and the Irish came out sharp. After winning the opening toss, Notre Daine elected to receive. The ensuing drive was a Weis clas~ic that culminated in an eye-popping 31-yard reception by wide receiver Maurice Stovall for the first touchdown. 
All signs pointed to a steamrolling of the Mids, but mobile quarterback La­mar Owens i:ushed eight times in Navy's opening drive, opting for the pass only once in an attempt that fell incomplete. The Irish defense had no answer for the rushing onslaught brought by the triple option offense ofNavy Head Coach Paul Johnson, letting Navy tie the game. 
Tl-).e Mids knew that the best way to conquer the potent Irish offense was to control the clock, much like the Irish did against USC fo1:1r weeks earlier. Momen­tum appeared to be swinging the way of the Midshipmen as the Irish lost posses-. 

HONORING WHAT'S IMPORTANT Defeated players of Navy gather their composure and proudly 
listen to their alma mater after the game. 
sion on downs, and the subsequent Navy drive featured the first pass completion of the game for Owens, a 14-yard toss that eluded defensive back Mike Richardson. But Owens was stopped short of a first down on four consecutive rushes, and the Mids turned the ball over on downs. 
From there, the Irish never looked back with Quinn throwing consecutive 16-and 22-yard passes to Stovall, capping off the drive with a 12-yard touchdown rush by running back Travis Thomas. On the next drive, Irish linebacker Co­rey Mays recovered a" fumble by Owens at the Navy 49-yard line. The turnover set up the second Irish touchdown of the quarter. Walker ran the ball 13 yards for the score, and he finished the game with 118 yards, his first 100-yard game since he began the season with four in a row. Navy followed this with a quick turn­over on downs, and the Irish responded with tight end Anthony Fasano's 8-yard touchdown catch. It gave the Irish two touchdowns in 88 seconds and wrapped up the first half at 2 8-7. 

Navy came out hot in the second half, beginning it with a touchdown set up by. a 34-yard catch by running back Reggie Carn,pbell. The Irish responded quickly with an 82-yard drive that culminated in Stovall scoring his second touchdown of the game-a 16-yard reception that put the Irish up 35-14. 
The Mids and the Irish then traded in­terceptions. A Navy punt set up Stovall's third touchdown reception on a fade route. Navy would go on to score one more touchdown against the Irish sec­ond string, but the difference was insur­mountable. Notre Dame won convinc­ingly, 42-21. 
It was a historic game for Quinn, who broke J arius Jackson's single-season pass­ing mark of 2,753 yards. Quinn also set the school record for most pa~ses with­out an interception, 130. He finished the day 22-31 for 284 yards with one inter­ception and four touchdowns. 
Also of note was a classy gesture by Weis following the game. He led his Irish to the Navy comer to honor Navy by respectfully listening to "Navy Blue and Gold," their alma mater. It was one of the more memorable moments of the 2005 season. 


ORANGE ALERT Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija tries to elude the grasp of three Syracuse defenders. 
Crushing Orange on Senior Day 
Notre Dame 34 Syracuse 70 
was already alive with chatter ofthe Fiesta Bowl and a new year in Tempe, Ariz. As a result, the tension among the players and the anxiety in the student section was much expected when the Orange took an early 3-0 lead. But Head Coach Charlie Weis stressed the importance of the task at hand -de­feating a 1-8 Syracuse team that was looking for a highpoint to their abysmal season -before looking towards the likely BCS berth. Weis realized what ex­pectations were placed on his Fighting Irish and the pressure that accompanied it. His remedy for the early game woes was simply, "Relax, just gain your com­posure." With quarterback Brady Quinn at ease, the game unfolded as would be expected -the Irish came out strong in the second quarter and never looked back, winning convincingly, 34-10. 
As final home game of the season, the Notre Dame-Syracuse game was the last time the seniors would play at Notre Dame Stadium. During the postgame pre,ss conference, lineman Dan Steven­son addressed the win. "We are all proud of each other," he said. "Syracuse came out and played a great game, but fortu­nately we were able to send our seniors out the right way." 

While wid~ receivers Maurice Stovall and Matt Shelton were the most success­ful seniors on the day, the most celebrat­ed play was the 16-yard pass by backup 
· quarterback Marty Mooney to wide re­ceiver Michael O'Hara, a fellow walk-on. Even Weis identified the pass as his fa­vorite play of the game. KickerD .J. Fitz­patrick also had a respectable day, hitting two of four field-goal attempts. 


Although it was the senior game, the underclassmen mostly were responsible for the victory. Sophomore running back Darius Walker had a big game, rushing for 123 yards and a touchdown on 26 carries, while Quinn, a junior, turned in his usual solid performance of 270 yards passing and two touchdowns. 
Both of Quinn's touchdowns came in the second quarter, marking the turning point in the game. Stovall was the recipi­ent of the first touchdown pass from 25 yards out, while wide receiver Jeff Sa­mardzija pulled in a 28~yard pass for the second touchdown, putting the Irish up 14-3 heading into the second half. 
The Irish gained momentum in the second half, when cornerback Leo Fer­rine intercepted Orange quarterback 

Perry Patterson on the most unlikely 
of plays. The ball dangled in the air af­
ter hitting off a diving receiver's fingers. 
In the short ti.me that the ball remained 
airborne, Ferrine came in, scooped it up 
and returned it for a 16-yard touchdown 
to give the Irish a 21-3 lead. 
With the game well in hand, Fitzpat­rick hit a pair of field goals at the end of the third quarter and the beginning of the fourth quarter to give the Irish an additional six points. Later in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame and Syracuse ex­changed meaningless touchdowns on . two long drives, eating up over nine min­
utes of clock. 
At the end ofthe game, Weis pulled his 

starters and gave his seniors a chance to 
play one last ti.me in front of their class­mates. Players like Mooney and O'Hara got a chance to register their first ti.me in blue and gold. Defensive back Rich Whitney also saw some playing ti.me, breaking up passes by Patterson, and running backJeffJenkins got four carries on the final drive. 
As the clock ran out at Notre Dame Stadium, the seniors' ti.me as members of the Fighting Irish drew to a close. The team jogged around the stadium to the cheering of their faithful fans. They also sang the Notre Dame alma mater with their arms around their fellow teammates on the field with the rest of the student section. And for one last ti.me, the seniors raised their golden helmets to their fel­low students in the stands. 0 

GOLD RUSH Running back Darius Walker turns upfield against Stanford. Walker rushed for a career-high 186 yards on 35 carries. 

A $14 Million Dollar Game 
Notre Dame 38 Stanford 31 
eeking to prove its 
worthiness for a Bowl 
Championship Series 
bid and a ninth win to become eligible for selection, Notre Dame traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., on Nov. 26, 2005, to face the last obstacle of its regular season -a motivated Stan­ford team playing its final game in the 84-year-old Stanford Stadium. 
After 15 seconds of play, quarterback Brady Quinn connected with teammate Jeff Samardzija over the middle for an 80­yard touchdown on just the second play of the game. But the Cardinal remained poised under first-year Head Coach Walt Harris, who had defeated Notre Dame 41-38 at Notre Dame Stadium in 2004 when he was the head coach of Pittsburgh. Using a clever passing game to give the Irish secondary difficulty, Stanford tied the game 7-7 when wide receiver Mark Bradford caught a 2 7-yard pass from quarterback Trent Edwards. The Cardinal, too, had an incentive to . play well; they also needed a win to be bowl-eligible. 

Notre Dame began showing weakness in its offense when Quinn threw two in­terceptions in the first half, but the Irish still had their chances to score; with 7 :48 left in the first quarter, Quinn once again found a wide-open Samardzija in the end zone on a 7-yard play-action pass that gave.the Irish a 14-7 lead. But Stanford continued to hurt Notre Dame with the deep pass, and seven minutes into the second quarter Cardinal wide receiver Justin McCullom caught a 38-yard pass from Edwards to tie the game. Neither the Cardinal nor the Irish could put to­gether an effective scoring drive during the remainder of the second quarter, and the teams left the :field at halftime knot­ted µp with a score of 14-14. 
The third quarter saw little scoring, save for a 10-yard touchdown recep­tion by wide _receiver Maurice Stovall, after which kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick un­characteristically missed the extra point. 

WRAPPED UP Defensive end Victor Abiamiri seals the Irish victory with his fourth sack. 
Fitzpatrick, who had injured his kicking leg the week before against Syracuse, later missed a 42-yard field goal attempt. However, scoring picked up in the fourth quarter, starting with a 29-yard field goal converted by Irish backup kicker Carl Gioia. On the ensuing kickoff, Stanford gave Notre Dame a devastating blow when cornerback T.J. Rushing took the ball 87 yards for a touchdown to put the Cardinal within two points of the Irish. But running back Travis Thomas would temporarily soothe the jitters of nervous Irish fans on an 8-yard stretch play that was his fifth rushing touchdown of the season and put Notre Dame up 30-21. 
The Irish had their .chances to put the game away throughout the fourth quarter, but repeat~dly came up short on scoring opportunities. Head Coach Charlie Weis decided to put a battle-tested Fitzpatrick back into the game to kick a 29-yard field goal, but his kicking woes continued as he missed again to the left. Stanford cap­italized on the blunder, marching down the field and scoring a touchdown with only 1 :46 remaining in the game. 
Irish fans were shocked that the team's BCS hopes were fa jeopardy, but panic was nowhere to be found on the Notre Dame sideline. With relative ease, the Irish moved up the field in 51 seconds and capped off the drive when running back Darius Walker barely broke into the end zone to give Notre Dame the lead. Weis decided to go for the two­point conversion with a trick play from his old New England Patriots playbook. The ball was directly snapped to Walker, who went right up the middle of an un­suspecting Stanford defense to put the Irish up 38-31. 
With 51 seconds left in the game, Notre Dame ended . any chance of a Stanford comeback when defensive end Victor Abiamiri wrapped up backup quarterback T.C. Ostrander for a loss and claimed his fourth sack of the game. The Irish limited Stanford to -11 rush­ing yards the entire game. Notre Dame breathed a sigh of relief and clinched its all-important ninth win of the season. "I didn't know if they understood how to win games like this," Weis said. But the Irish dug deep and learned to pull out a victory in a close game when in the past they have let so many slip away. The win propelled the Irish to a No.6 BCS rank­ing, which assured them an automatic spot in a BCS bowl. 
Notre Dame compiled 663 yards of total offense, their fifth highest total since compiling 720 yards against Navy in 1969. Walker had a career-high 186 yards on 3 5 carries, while Samardzija and Stovall became the third and fourth re­ceivers to have over 1,000 receiving yards in a single season for Notre Dame. 0 






ffensive <1{,enaissanc( 
It was the first dri been able to handle a lot, and Notre Dam we have been able to do a hole. Pittsbur lot," Weis said at a Dec. 10, 2005, press conference. "I 
think the success ofour of-pa , with a seamless ease fense can be pinpointed to that conjured up memories of the the progress of Brady." last time these teams met and the Quinn's great season was Panthers snuck by to defeat the made possible in part by a Irish at home. But things were dif-~,~s:..;;io--pair of six-foot-five-inch ferent this time around, as less than targets who had break-three minutes later Brady Quinn out years of their own in flipped the ball to Darius Walker 2005. Wide receivers Jeff in the :flat, who found a shield of Samardzija and Maurice blockers and ran 51 yards to the Stovall caught a combined end zone. Walker's scamper set 26 of Quinn's 32 touch-the tone for the game and the sea-down passes and posted son, as it quickly became clear that 2,213 yards of receiving Notre Dame football was back, between them. led by Head Coach Charlie Weis' Samardzija, who set the new-look offense with Quinn at ·Notre Dame single-sea­the helm. son touchdown-reception 
I1, ·.:.;:·.., After a disappointing 2004 sea-record with 15, had never 11 .,. ·•__ son in which the Irish finished just seen the end zone before ;1 ·-,~l-·0s_t·. __m_·. the'·nation in total offense, this season, playing mainly .1 .-~;}005 squad put up some of on special teams during his '"tii:l;t~st offensive numbers in the first two seasons. His most ''' ' ·'.~):tistory. Notre Dame set impressive athletic statis­al ·and team offensive tic at Notre Dame prior ·:,: _eraging almost 37 to the 2005 football cam­0·e Notre Dame's paign was arguably his 8-1 .:i;age ever. record as a pitcher for the 
· e:th~rewrit-SUCCESS IN A SNAP Quarterback Brady Quinn seemed to have little baseball team laSt spring. q9ks, set-trouble adjusting to Charlie Weis' new offense. · After snagging one :,.. , for :. touchdown catch against 
0
1Kf~%; _:~:::!:!e~~tf:t1~ h;:::c;~:J~: ;:,b;:!:r:ta: 0~=~ ~!:°~e~:~= you feel much more comfortable going ing lineup when Rhema McKnight went ' ii!ro the next week." down with a season-ending knee injury 
c: , .~is. was impressed with Quinn's in Ann Arbor, Mich. 'tii.pi,1.i.ty from the start. "First of all, "It really started off with that catch 'fW <fue inherent traits to already against Pittsburgh, and that really just Waft~rhack. He had played for opened things up," Quinn said of Sa­,,.. .eda lot offootball and mardzija during a Dec. 19, 2005, press ·,\,,;, "' ' .ug;h and smart. conference. "He's -had a tremendous sea­.. . . tern, which son. Looking at the plays he's made, he's 
,,;:; gi'._It puts been such a huge factor in every game. In ackbut the Tennessee game, he had that big play 
e: on the third down conversion to kind of ):.,furn the tide in that game," Quinn said. 
~\~/)\: ·. 
,: 
) ./  He added, "All season, he's come up with big plays, big blocks, he's done everything the coaches have asked of  
him. He's truly been the prototype  
of a team player and what that all in­ 
cludes. Being there to lay a block out  
for [Walker] or catch a big pass when  

we need it; he's just made great strides from last season to this season." 
Samardzija credits his quarterback for helping him develop so quickly. "You just sort of follow someone who does what Brady has done on the field," Samardzija told the East Valley Tribune (Arizona). "It's a ripple effect. One guy makes a play, and the next guy is going to want to do the same thing. \iVhen you feed off each other like that, then maybe that's where the term leadership comes from." 
Lining up across the field from Sa­mardzija was Stovall, who had seen a good deal of playing time over his first three seasons, but was coming off a disappointing junior year during which he scored only once. 
In a striking turnaround, Stovall scored 11 touchdowns in 2005, more than twice as many as he scored in his previous three seasons. He grabbed the attention of NFL scouts with a full highlight reel of acrobatic, leap­ing receptions over helpless defensive backs. 
"[Stovall] has what I call 'pluck­ability,"' Weis said at a Nov. 20, 2005, press conference. "'Pluckability' is when that ball is up for grabs and they seem to pluck it out of the air." In ad­dition, Weis added, "He blocks, he gets off the line of scrimmage, he runs well. He's really had a really good year for us. He's got a very bright future in this game." 
\iVhile Stovall will not be return­ing next season as he enters the NFL Draft, Quinn and Samardzija will both be back, with a new swagger and loftier goals. 
"I want to win a national champi­onship," Quinn told the Associated Press, "and I think our team has the ability without a doubt to win it, espe­cially with the people we have coming back on offense and defense." 0 
BIG NUMBERS FOR THE LITTLE MAN Running back Darius Walker rushed for 1,274 yards on the season. 







$oundations inJ-Iistory 

n addition to a new coach and a return to the top 10 ofthe Associated Press college I football poll for the first time since 1993, the Fighting Irish's 2005 football season also marked another major landmark for the university -the 7 5th anniversary of the hallowed Notre Dame Stadium. Dedicated on Oct. 11, 1930, before a crowd . of 40,593 spectators, the first sets of eyes ever to witness a game in Notre Dame 
Stadium saw former Head Coach Knute Rockne's undefeated squad annihilate the Navy Midshipmen by a score of 26-2. And the excitement housed within the stadium has only grown since then, with 139 first team All-Americans, 11 national championship teams, seven Heisman Tro­phy winners and five national championship coaches calling the house that Rockne built home. 
Fans and visitors to the stadium this past year were greeted by banners hanging from the stadi­um's rafters in commemoration of the storied history of the Irish football program. Notre Dame Stadium has seen its share of leg­endary pigskin play in its 7 5 years. There have been so many memorable games on Irish soil, in fact, that the university's official Web site, www.und.com, asked Irish fans across the country this past August to vote 011. the top 20 games played 
· at the university. According to the survey, fans deem the pe­riod between 1988 and 1993 as the greatest period in the history of the stadium, with seven of the top 10 games com­ing from this era. The top 10 list also is littered with. some of Notre Dame's fiercest archrivals, including three games against both USC and Michigan, two games against Miami and a game apiece against Florida State and Penn State. Scho­lastic has its own preferences for the five most exciting games ever to be played in the stadium: 
1.No.1 Miami vs. No. 4 Notre Dame, Oct. 15, 1988 
The most heated college football ri­valry of the late 1980s, this game saw the Irish snap the hated Hurricanes' 36­game regular season winning streak. Free safety Pat Terrell batted down a Miami two-point conversion attempt with 45 seconds remaining. ND 31, Miami 30. 

2.No.1 Florida Statevs.No.2 Notre Dame, Nov. 13, 1993 
Notre Dame triumphed over Flori­da State Head Coach Bobby Bowden's Seminoles with a ground assault against FSU's staunch run defense. The Irish rushed for 239 yards and four touch­downs against a Seminole team that had given up only four touchdowns on the ground the entire season entering the game. A last-second Hail Mary pass by FSU quarterback and eventual Reisman recipient Charlie Ward fell incomplete. ND 31, FSU 24. 

3. No. 1 USC vs. No. 9 Notre Dame, Oct. 15,2005 
Ranked by ESPN.com as the greatest college football game of the last. 3 5 years and, oddly enough, 17 years to the day , after the aforementioned glorious vic­tory over Miami, the Trojans brought a 27-game winning streak to South Bend. USC escaped an upset defeat to the Irish · after Trojan quarterback Matt Leinart completed a 61-yard pass to wide receiver Dwayne Jarrett on a fourth and nine and then benefited from the infamous "Bush Push" on the next play to reach the end zone on a quarterback sneak with three seconds remaining. Heartbreaking. USC 34,ND 31. 
4.No. 2 Miami vs. No. 6 Notre Dame, Oct. 20, 1990 
In the final installment of the Catholics vs. Convicts series, the Irish -aided by kicker Craig Hentrich's five field goals and a 94-yard .kick return by the explosive wide receiver Rocket Ishmail -dashed the Hurricanes' remaining natic-nal championship hopes. The Irish racked up 2 7 6 rushing yards against Miami's No. 2 "defense on their way to a nine-point win and a 9-2 regular season record. ND 29, Miami 20. 

5. No. 5 USC vs. No. 11 Notre Dame, Oct. 22, 1977 
Now deemed the "Green Jersey Ganie," this match marked the begin­ning ofa remarkable streak ofirish domi­nance during the final seven games ofthe season -games in which Notre Dame outscored its opponents by a margin of 317-80. Although warming up in their traditional-home blue jerseys, the Irish 
~ 
returned from the locker rooms sport­ing bright green jerseys en route to a 3 0­point routing of the Trojans, their worst loss since falling 51-0 to Notre Dame in 1966. ND 49, USC 19. 


LI.I 
:c DomerDollars 

I-
¢1!l_:]~tWjli'f 


-'IIPP. . 

® -
IIJIIDDm 

llllmbE 
HUDDLEMart 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
food.nd.edu 



. 64.9 3919 45.0i -3 1 1 -33.3 28 0 . 
Mooney, Marty 234.40 I 1 0 100.0 16 0 SCORING 440 294 
Samarclzi)a,Jeff 0.00 0 b 6 0.0 0 0 Points Per Game 36.7 24.5 
Total 157.82 454 294 8 64·.8 3963 32 80 FIRST DOWNS 314 239 
Opponents 126.37 410 218 13 53.2 3175 18 85 Rushing 126 82 Passing 169 13'7 20 Samardzija, Jeff 77 1249 15 80
Penalty 19 ·stov:iif,Maurice ­
69 -·-· -ii49
RUSUING YARDAGE· 1765 1588 50 Fasano, Anthony 47 576 12.3 2 43
Yards Gained Rushing 2079 1931 
351 ··•··
Walker, Darius .. -43 8.2
Yards Lost Rushing 314 343 2 si Shelton, Matt 28 329 11.8 0
Rushing Attempts 491 403 33 
PO\\~e~~Nea1, "R.1Sfi0n 9' 90 io.o 0 ... ls 
Average Per Rush 3.6 3.9 ·carlson,John
Average Per Game 147.1 132.3 7 56 v.o 22 TDsRushing 21 17 27
McKnight, Rhema 5 69 13.8 Schwapp, Asaph 3 22 7.3 0 12PASSING YARDAGE 3963 3175 
... ft 
Arr-Comp-Int 454-294-8 410-218-13 c;rJines):ia~c1 2 i9 si:5 · ii Average Per Pass 8.7 7.7 
Thomas, Travis 2 -9 4.5 0 8
Wciac1s,Roh ______ _ ·•-c -28 ()
Average Per Catch 13.5 14.6 2ii:li" i's" Average Per Game 330.2 264.6 0 16
O'Hara, .Michael 16 16.0 
Total 294 3963 13.5 32 80 Opponents 218 3175 14.6 18 85 TDs Passing 32 18 
TOTAL OffENSE 5728 4763 Total Plays 945 813 
HELD GOALS '. ,_ l=GM · . -·l=GA · .. ·, Pct.···-.~ Lg · ." · ," Blk 
Average Per Play 6.1 5.9 
!'i~patric'4 ~.J: 11 17 64.7 48 Average Per Game 477.3 396.9 
Gioia, Carl 100.0 29 0 KICK RETURNS-YARDS 34-646 65-1379 PUNT RETURNS-YARDS 28-396 27-174 SCOREBY. QRS ,' 1st . -Znd . 3ril ' ·''1th . ·-OT "(otal 
Notre Dame 87 145 78 127 440
INT RETURNS-YARDS 13-223 8-103 
·-··•---··--· ------···-· Opponents 75 47 69 97 6 294
KICK RETURN AVERAGE 19.0 21.2 PUNT RETURN AVERAGE 14.1 6.4 
INTERCEPTIONS. No.. ·_. ·: _Yds' -· Avg .: ·.. ·. TD . · _-Long
INT RETURN AVERAGE 17.2 12.9 
Zbikowski, Tom 5 136 27.2 2 83l=UMBLES-LOST 17-6 20-11 
~ch_a_rd~CJ11, i\1ike 16 5.3 0 13

PENALTIES-YARDS 77-667 71-554 
Wooden, Ambrose 2 41 20.5 0 41 
.. ...
Average Per Game 55.6 46.2 
Ndubve, Chinedum 2 14 7.0 0 14 
·--......
PUNTS-YARDS 47-1873 61-2503 Ferrine, Leo 1 16 16.0 16 Average Per Punt 39.9 41.0 
Total 13 223 17.2 3 83 Net Punt Average 36.1 34.5 
Opponents 8 103 12.9 30TIME Of POSSESSION/ 32:51 27:09 GAME PUNTING . -No:· . )'ds '· -Avg . Long ln-ZO ,· ~ : _Bl~d 3RD-DOWN 90/184 58/165 
Fitzpatrick, D.J. 45 1815 40.3 60 12 

CONVERSIONS 
TEAM 10 10.0 10 0 0 
3rd-Down Pct 49% 35% 
Quin;;," Bi-;dy 1 48 48.0 48 0 0',TU-DOWN 9/18 14/27 
Total 47 1873 39.9 60 12

CONVERSIONS 
Opponents 61 2503 41.0 64 14
4th-Down Pct 50% 52% 21-135
SACKS BY-YARDS 31-216 PUNTRETURNS . No. Yds. ·· Avg · TD. · ·Long MISC. YARDS 0 4 Zbikowski, Tom 27 379 14.0 2 78 
.. 
TOUCHDOWNS SCORED 58 37 Grimes, David 1 17 17.0 0 17 FIELD GOALS-ATTEMPTS 12-18 12-17 Total 28 396 14.l 2 78 PAT-ATTEMPTS 54-57 32-33 Opponents 27 174 6.4 0 22 ATTENDANCE 484,770 370,858 
Games/Avg Per Game 6/80,795 5/74,172 KICK RETURNS No. · • Yds Avg TD -Long Grimes, David 15 338 22.5 0 40 7 123 17.6 0 36
J-fC>rd2PL
RUSUING . Att Net Avg JD · Long · Avg/G 
Hoskins,Justin 5 105 21.0 0 24 Walker, Darius 253 1196 4.7 9 38 99.7 I-Iarris,_Brandon _ ·-· ,____ _ 53 17.7 0 22 
.. ~---------·--·-·· --··-·­
Wooden, Ambrose 1 13 13.0 0 13 _Powers~Neal, Rashon 31 100 3.2 6 10 20.0 ·schwapp, Asaph 10 10.0 0 io 
.,__ ----------·-·--··-··-­
_Q11illil,_B,:_ady _ 70 90 ..... n 16 ?,5 Zbikowski, Tom -10 -10.0 0 0 Schwapp, Asaph 27 67 2.5 0 7 5.6 Total 34 646 19.0 0 40 Jenkins,JAf __ ..... __19 ___ 56 _2.9 ______ Q____ _o___ _s.1_ Opponents 65 1379 21.2 1 87 Wolke, D_avid .. 1 22 22.0 0 22 3.7 
KICKOl=l=S _ -· No. · Yds -Avg TB OB
9 · ___ JL _ 1.4 ·--__ o______ 9 _____1.1 
Fitzpatrick, D.J. 61 3690 60.5 8Grimes, David 2 8 4.0 0 8 0.7 
Gioia, Carl . 20. 1115 55.8 2McConnell, Ashley _______ 1 ______ .. 8 _______ 4.0 ________ 0 _____ 8 _____ 1.0 __ ... _ Total 81 4805 59.3 10 2Stovall, Maurice 2 0.5 0 1 0.1 
Opponents 58 3499 60.3 21 2
Bo~ki!lJ, J11stjn__ __ 2___ --... -1 ····· ···--0.5_ _ 0 ____________ o -· -0.2 _McKnight, Rhema 1 -7 -7.0 0 0 -2.3 l=UMBLE RETURNS -No. _ Yds Avg ' TD · Long ;TEAM 10 -31 -3.1 · 0 0 -5.2 Total 0 0 0.0 0 0 Total 491 1765 3.6 21 38 147.1 Opponents 4 4.0 0 4 Opponents 403 1588 3.9 17 68 132.3 
-•DENOTES RECORD 

12 80 12.5-48 5.0-35 0-0 
12 6( 74 o~o 0!6 2-4i 
12 42 29 71 1.0-10 1.0-10 5-136 4 0-0 
12 50 16 -66 5.0~26 3.0:22 3:16· -7 f-0 -2· Crum Jr., .i'vlaurice 12 32 25 57 3.5-5 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 
NJUlcwe;·cli·illedtlffi. 12 31 YI 52 z.s:s ·o-6 2-14 4-il T o ·Abiamiri, Victor 12 34 14 48 15.0-92 8.0-78 0-0 0-0 0 t.;,c1r1,be,ck -Ii 16 ii -43 8.0:26 3:0-14·. -0-0-2 0-0 -o:
-.-­
Laws, Trevor 12 8 25 33 3.0-17 1.5-13 0-0 0-0 0 0'Tolley, Ronald --. · rr· 9 ·· 14 23 1.5::-s 7.o-r· ··o:o ·2 ·1-0 o·· ·· o' ':Ferrine, Leo 12 17 5 22 2.0-6 o-o 1-16 o 1-0 o o· ·neid~ltsCli, jJfi:i·~ -12 5 9 14 t:o:s · -1..0-4· · ·-o:o o o-o o o; ·Bruton, David II 10 4 14 0-0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 0 0 
Carlson.Jolm . iI 9 -4 13 ·o:o ·o:o o:o o ·-o:o · r··-·01 
Brown,Justin 12 9 3 12 1.0-2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 liroclcington, Joe .. 11 . 4 5 9 1:0-T 
o-o· -o---o: Salvador, Anthony 12 -2 9 0-0 0-0 0 0 Lambert, Terr.iii ··• .. Ii 1··· ·1 8 0~if (l ··o: Cull~n, Casey 12 5 3 8 
0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 
All3St.1Si0-,--thasC-· l'f 3 5 s· Tho~as, T~vi~ 12 
Frcime,Chris . 6 
Carney,Jake 6 4 6 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 
narseti)-llcf r C -4 o-o · · ·o.o ti:o·~o_ o~ 
----· .. ·------------· 
H~r~i;,i;Ray 8 2 3 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0 Fitzpatrick,I)J:. _ · 12 -1 4 0-0 0-0 0-0 o-o · o___ oj K~tz, Pat · --8 -3 -4 0-0 ··-0-0 0-0 o:a ·o o 
0-0 ­
Quinn, Steve ·• 10 2 2 4 0-0 0-0 0-0 o o;
\re~;gii;, ;~th~~y---5 2 2 4 0-0 0-0 0 0 
-0 ·o-o · o
Freem~~:_i\l!ar~1:1~ 12 4 0 4 0-0 0-0 0-0 
------·· ·---~-·-·--·
"i,~;;;~.-~th~;,y · 12 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 Smith, Scott · · 8 3 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 o·-o' 
...I
j;;;;~-;;j_f -. -7 2 0-0 0 0
0-0 0-0 0-0 0 Cherv:mick, Dan 4 . 2 0-0 . 0-0 o:o ·o ·o:o 0 o:
H;~·ri;~ ·:s~~d~-;--·----8 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 o·· 0-0 o-· o 
TOTAL OFl=EHSE · · · 6_ . Plays Rush _ Pass .Total Avg/6
Harns, Ryan 12 0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 o:o o oj 
Quinn, Brady 12 520 90 3919 4009 334.1
-!)~~~~~ P~~l 6 0 1 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 
-0 Walker, Darius -12 ,253 1196 --o ii96 99)1
LeVoir, Mark 12 0 1 0-0 o:o o:o . o:o _ o o] --~·-··--···-····-·--------·--· ----------·----------·------••------------~ 
Santucci, Dan 12 0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 Thomas, Travis 12 63 248 0 248 20.7 
··--··-·· --···------0:0 ·•·--0 __ O;
·Thomas, Mitchell 5 0 0-0 0-0 0 Powers~Neal, Rashon · 5 31 100 0 100 . 2?_~0]
ii;dg~-~~~ ii; LaB~~~-----3 1 o 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 67 . . 67
0 12 27 . 0 . 5.6.
Schwapp, Asaph 
McKnigh~ Rheru 3 -J 0 1 0-0 0-0 0 o-o ___o_-_ .~] 
11 . --19 56 0 -56 . 5.i)
·st;,;,;,i;.v1;;;.:i~~ 12 o 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 Jenkins, Jeff ---______6_____,___4____ --22 28 50 8.3 
.Gioia;Carl ----6 . 1-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 () 0-0 o · o' W~lke, David S~hic~ra"no, Nat~ 0 0-0 0-00 0-000 Mooney, Marty 2 1 0 16 16 8.o: 
Hoskins, Justin 5 0 0-0 0-0 o-o ·· -o ___o-o ___ o__ o: . --iz.. ----9 -}3 ______,_ 0 ·-i}___ Ll 
Samarclzija;Jeff
s;;;;;;dzij;jeff-· 12 ---·o -·----·o:o-0-0 0-0 0-0 0
0 
Grimes, Davi_d il 2 8 0 8 ·-·of
Bonelli,James 5 o· 0-0 0-0 0 · ·o-o o____o] ·······---·-----····--,____ --------·--·-----·-.J 
Whimey m, Rich . 4 0 . 0 ---·o·· ---0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0 McConnell, Ashley 3 0 1.0 
Total 12 495 335 830 76-307 31-216 13-223 41 11-0 14 0 
Stovall, Maurice 
1 ____o__~----~~---0.1: 
Opponents 12 664 329 993 73-293 21-135 8-103 35 6-4 II 0 
Hoskins, Justin · 2 -1 0 -1 -0.2 ~7 o :.7 · ;~2.31
ALL PUR.POSE . : , 6 Rush -Rec_. , PR -KOR . , IR -Tot -Avg/6 McKnight, Rlieina 3 1 
··----·--··-----....... ---.
TEAM .. ­
Walker, Darius 12 . 1196 351 0 0 0 1547---__ 128.9! 6 10 -31 0 -31 -5.2 Samardzija,Jeff 12 13 1249 0 0 . 0 1262 105.2 Total 12 945 1765 3963 5728 477.3 ·stovall, Maurice 12 1 ii49 o o o il5o · 95.81 Opponents 12 813 1588 3175 4763 396.9 
i;;~;~~-~-th~~Y 12 · ·---~·-o-· · s16 0 0 0 576 48.0 
ZOOS Scheduleand Results· · · · -. . · . ·__ · · 
Zbikowski, Tom 12 O 0 379 ~10 136 505 __ 42.lj 
September 3 at Pittsburgh 42-21
Griiii:es))a~id ------·re-· --8 19 17 . 338 0 382 34.7 
·september io. -atMicliig:ii, .. _______ :_________ __________ _______ ______ 17-1~ ·shelton, Matt 12 0 329 0 0 0 329 27.4! 
September 17 . ,.\,llCHIGAN STATE 41-44
---· --·---------·--------···---­
Th~mas, Travis 12 248 9 0 0 0 257 21.4 
September 24 . at Washington. -----------~~-----------·31,:f1j Powers-Neat Rashon 5 100 90 0 0 0 190. 38.0: October 1 · · at Purdue · · · · W 49-23 

6 0 0 0 123 0 123 20.5 October 15 USC L Ji~34:
'------· ------·· ,-•-----~--·-·-~-----·~--·---•--·· -----·--·· ·---···------•-·-•---·-·-·-~-·------·---·-··~---·------4 
October 22 BYU W 49-23
Hoskins, Justin 5 -1 0 0 105 0 104 20.8! 
····----' 
s~hwapp, Asaph 12 67 22 0 10 0 . 99 8.2 -~~~~~~e_i: 5_:___:' __ ---~-1:_i.;~~_i;:~-~--------------_______:_____ -~--"Y~-----=-~----J1~2!.l 
November 12 NAVY W 42-21
Quinn, Brady 12 90 0 0 0 0 90 7.Si 
--·-----·--------·· November 19 ... SYRACUSE ______________ -~---______ 34-lOi 
Carlson, John 12 0 56 0 14 0 70 5.8 
N~vember 26 · at Stanford W 38-31 lvicKnight, Rhema 3 -1 69 0 0 0 . 62 20.7! 
. -·---· ... ' January 2 _____________:'s_~io S~r_::___________ _ ___________ _f_ __ _ .. 20:34;
Jenkins, Jeff . . . .. 
11 56 0 0 0 0 56 5.1 :Wooden, Ambrose 12 0 0 0 13 41 54 4.5i ZOO6 Sdiedule . . . -. -·· -. -. 
------------·----·-. 
·g;ITis, Brandon . 53 6.6 September 2 at Georgia Tech 
8 0 0 0 53 0 Wciods,Rob 11 0 28 0 28 ___ 2.51 September9 _______!'~~"!:_~~--------------------------------------------~
0 -0 September 16 ,.\,llCHIGAL'<
w;!ke~ Da~,r--6 22 0 0 0 0 22 3.7 
Sepiembcr23 -at Michigan Srote -i 'Ferrine, Leo 12 0 0 0 0 16 i6 l.3i September 30 -PURDUE · , · -· · -, ·O'Hara, Michael · · 2 · 0 ·· 0 0 16 8.0
16 0 
October 7 . STANFORD 
-. ·12 (j 0 ­
R.ic:liardson, Mike· 0 0 16 16 ..... 1.3] 
October 21 UCL-I. Ndul..-we, Chinedum ·1.r 0 0 0 0 14 14 1.2 October28 ---·atNavy(Baltiinore,Md.) _____ -____ ____ ...... ---:·· ... _-J 
McConnell, Ashley 3 0 0 0 0 ______ L___ _1.01 November 4 NORTH CAROLINA
TEM{ ··•--····· ---­
6 -31 0 0 0 0 -31 -5.2 Total 12 1765 3963 396 646 223 6993 582.8 

November 18 ARMY 
.,

Novembei-25 ·at USC
Opponents 12 1588 3175 174 1379 103 6419 534.9 
--------·-·--__,/_' 




9/2 Acappella quintet TOXIC AUDIO, described in rave 11/1-11/2 Modern dance with the renowned MERCE 2/18 THE SOWETO GOSPEL CHOIR, world-famous reviews as "the audio equivalent of STOMP." You CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY; African inspirational musicians, in concert; 8pm won't believe your ears! 8 pm 7:30 pm (both nights) 
2/26 Premiere classical flautist SIR JAMES GALWAY, 
9/9 Classical musicians ENSEMBLE GALILEI and 11/6 Grammy Award-winning Senegalese pop musician LADY JEANNE GALWAY, and the POLISH NPR's "Talk of the Nation" Host NEAL CONAN YOUSSOU N'DOUR-"The Voice of Africa"-in CHAMBER ORCHESTRA in concert; 7pm in amultimedia performance that includes images concert; 7 pm 
3/2 Ireland's most recognized name in traditional music
from the Hubble Space Telescope; 8 pm 
11/8 Contemporary jazz from Mexico with the ETHOS THE CHIEFTAINS in concert; 7:30 pm 9/16 An evening with BRUCE HORNSBY, former Grateful TRIO; 7:30 pm 
3/4 Classical guitarist ROBERT BLUESTONE in 
Dead band member and versatile rock pianist; 9 pm 
11/9 Classical pianist KRYSTIAN ZIMERMAN in concert; WOVEN HARMONY, amultimedia concert featuring 9/30 Legendary Irish musician, the "Bard of Armagh" 7:30 pm the textile art of REBECCA BLUESTONE; 8pm TOMMY MAKEM in concert with his sons, 
11/27 Austria's world-famous VIENNA CHOIR BOYS 3/9 Grammy-award winning musician EDGAR MEYER
THE MAKEM BROTHERS; 8 pm 
in concert; 3 pm (standup bass) and MIKE MARSHALL (mandolin, 10/6 OPERA VERDI EUROPA GALA NIGHT: An evening guitar) perform bluegrass with classical influences;
12/1 The PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA,
of opera's greatest hits; 7:30 pm 7:30 pm
conducted by Hans Graf with violinist Sarah Chang; 10/13 Traditional jazz with the world-famous 7:30 pm 3/21 POMERIUM in concert, performing acappel/a PRESERVATION HALL JAZZ BAND; 9 pm sacred music of the Renaissance; 7:30 pm
12/9 Classical guitar virtuoso CHRISTOPHER 10/14 Academy Award-winning composer and conductor PARKENING and bass-baritone JUBILANT 3/23 One of Russia's best-known classical ensembles, MARVIN HAMLISCH; 9 pm SYKES perform aspecial Christmas show; 8 pm the KIROV ORCHESTRA, directed by Valery Gergiev; 7:30 pm
10/21 Acelebration ornypsy song and traditional 12/11 Enjoy atraditional Celtic Christmas with award-Spanjsh dance with BALLET FLAMENCO winning performers CHERISH THE LADIES; 7 pm 3/25 Contemporary Irish instrumental band FLOOK; 8pm JOSE PORCEL; 9 pm 
2/4 Arab composer, violins!, and oud master SIMON 4/1 Britain's leading period-instrument orchestra, the 10/27 Atlanta's 7Stages Theatre performs Athol Fugard's SHAHEEN in concert with OANTARA; 8pm ACADEMY OF ANCIENT MUSIC; 8 pm ground-breaking play about apartheid "MASTER 
2/10 Grammy-winning violinist MARK O'CONNOR'S . 4/21 BILL CHARLAP TRIO in concert, built around th.e 
HAROLD"... AND THE BOYS; 7:30 pm 
HOT SWING in concert; 8 pm phenomenal jazz piano of Bill Charlap; 8pm 10/29 Internationally celebrated mezzo-soprano 
2/14 Canadian classical pianist ANGELA HEWITT 
DAWN UPSHAW and contemporary ensemble in concert; 7:30 pm
EIGHTH BLACKBIRD perform Osvaldo Golijov's "Ayre"; 8 pm 
' 
STUDENTS CAN PURCHASE TICKETS WITH DOMER DOLLARS, PACFUNDS, CASH, CHECK, OR CREDIT! 
Student ticket prices range from $10-$20, depending on performance. 







