The Notre Dame Scholastic
363
|iitiiitHiiitiiiin.......................tMitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitt	mit in tiiiiiiiiiitttnii......
0
COMMENT
The appeal of Coach Keogan for a more enthusiastic display of school spirit with regard to basketball games apparently struck responsive chords in the hearts of the students, judging from the numbers which flocked to the gym to watch our varsity give the Ohio State five a neat trimming. And nearly everyone who was present will agree that Notre Dame at present is capable of holding its own with the best of basketball teams. The offense which has bothered the coach since the beginning of the season, seemed to “click” with great effectiveness save for a few moments when Ohio snapped out of it long enough to register a few baskets on its own account. The work of Baldwin and Burns at guard was pleasing to watch. They played the entire game and did a neat job of their assignment. It took the Ohio team about five minutes to get hold of the ball after the opening whistle. The Ohio game was just the spark that was needed to set the fire of enthusiasm which should burn brightly from now on. (Pardon the figures of speech.)
Had Edgar Allen Poe been present on the campus during the Christmas holidays he no doubt could have written a story which would make the world shudder. His story, “The Fall of the House of Usher,” reeks of that lonesome, “all gone” feeling, but a story with the Notre Dame campus as a background would eclipse even that great work. Never was a place so empty and devoid of life as was this campus; the “Deserted Village” would look like Mishawaka in comparison. But it is pleasing to see “the gang” back and we want to extend our heartiest greeting for a happy and prosperous New Year, even at this late date.
The professors haven’t been a bit ‘ backward in reminding us that within the next two or three weeks we shall have to submit to another thorough “going over.” Taking them seriously, it isn’t a bad idea to heed the warning and study a little bit. The seniors will have the greatest worry, for it is necessary to, place one’s name on the eligible list in February so that he may worry for a few months more. It isn’t pleasant to be reminding you of such disagreeable things, nevertheless a little forethought might save considerable embarrassment later on. W. V. B.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1872
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-In-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bercan	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward E. Brennan-Austin Boyle	Associate Editors James J. Kearney-James Carmody	Edward R. Brennan Paul J. Hallinan
The Week Richard J. O'Donnell	Make-up Editors Alfred E. Gall Walter V. Beesley	College Parade Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama Frank E. Seward	Feature Editor James K. Collins	Campus Clubs W. Leslie Raddatz
Neics Staff Lloyd Teske, News Editor William C. Karl, Assistant News Editor William Fitzgerald	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dunda John Conley	William Corr	Sanguinet	Williams Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Lawrence	Prybylski Joiin Pick	Walter Johnson		
Sports Staff Henry’ B. Asman, Sports Editor Cleve Carey	George Belting James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns		T. Edward Carey Irving Halper
Business Staff
James H. Rorke, Local Advertising Mgr. John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr. ANDREW McGuaN. Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications
E Vol. LXIV	JANUARY 9, 193|	No. 12
TABLE OF CONTENTS
j	The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell----------------------------365
i	A Man You Know—Edtvard E. Brennan------------------------368
|	A Man About the Campus—William Knox----------------------372
E	Notre Dame Wins Erskine Award----------------------------373
=	The Scholastic Saga—James K. Collins---------------------374
=	Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan-------------- 376
:	Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward--------------------------377
E	University Announcements_________________________________378
=	Editor’s Page____________________________________________379
|	The Wink_________________________________________________380
5	College Parade—Daniel C. Williams________________________381
=	Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz---------------------------382
=	Cagers Defeat Ohio State—James Kearns--------------------383
=	Interhall Sports _______________________________________ 388
E	Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B.	Asman--------------391
E	On Down the Line_________________________________________392
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.

E	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of
E	All Notre Dame Men.
El uiHiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiniimiiiiiiiuniiMiHinmiiiuiiiiiiiiHminiimiiiHiiHnniiiuiiiimiiiiiiMiiiiim’muiiiiiiiHiiuitiiiiiiiiii,!
364
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Winter at Notre Dame

The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK
c

*	■	PTIMISTS who are seeking to talk and write away
i	the national economic depression should interview the
campus chairmen of the vacation dances. The reports, financial and social, of the results of the various affairs should help to substantiate the golden picture they are trying to paint with red ink. As yet no one has heard of a dance by any city or state club which was not a huge
•	success. The bread lines may be large but they are no
larger than the throngs which were attracted by the lights and music which marked the assembling of Notre Dame men and their friends in many parts of the United States. The syncopation of the Victory March was probably applauded by more couples than ever before. We are sure that this announcement will be heartily welcomed by Mr.
•	Brisbane and the rest of his “Buy Now” advocates. No
doubt the news that our University has come forth with the substantiated proclamation that there is no such thing as a financial crisis -will put the nation back on its feet. If the loyal sons of Notre Dame had their vacation pocketbooks sufficiently lined with green to unanimously support their holiday social affairs, this depression idea must be
*	nothing more than a myth. Let us hope that other educational institutions in the country will come forth with similar statements. Then watch the bears be herded out of Wall street, and the bulls stampede back into the pasture, or whatever it is that bulls are kept in.
a dash of pepper, and a bucketful of imagination to his story concoctions. Then let it age in the wood, or else in his head, or is the distinction necessary?
s
EVERAL of the saddest, most disastrous, most ironical, accidents that have ever been mentioned in these pages occurred in the residence halls Monday and Tuesday of this week. Those involved are still mourning over their bad luck. Their cries about the injustice of fate and the lack of reward of virtue have been so insistent and so hearty that they have probably received sufficient publicity already. But their case merits plenty of griping. Anyone who returns promptly after a vacation is either a loyal scholar or an indiscreet “cut” waster. At any rate, when a man travels several hundred miles to be present at his first class there is some dire necessity or insistent purpose prompting him. The worst thing, then, that could possibly happen to him is to have some trifling obstacle, such as an inefficient alarm clock, stand in the way of his accomplishing his purpose. And this is just w’hat happened in a surprising number of instances. Tide and professors still wait for no student, and the sad-eyed gentlemen who slept through triple cut Monday and Tuesday classes will never again forget it.
OW is the time when all good Notre Dame men come to the aid of the old home town. Not that the old home town needs any aid, in spite of undergraduate opinion to the contrary, because it is probably getting along very well despite the retreat of the student horde, but still the campus will resound for days with the loud praise of the burg, whether it be New York or Oshkosh, wherein the campus playboys did their playing. Judging from the bull sessions that have been conducted so far, the usual number of feminine hearts, windows, and New Year’s resolutions have been broken, the customary amount of red paint has been spread, and the allotted number of wild escapades have been experienced. The stories so far have not, however, have been so vividly related and so dramatically told as had been expected. The explanation probably lies in the fact that the actualities are so recent that the imagination has not yet filled in the necessary thrilling details. By mid-winter the tales which right now provoke nothing but yawns, forced and artificial, will have gathered much more human interest, local color, and melodramatic climax. After all, the more distant the memory, the more impressive it is. Absence makes the heart grow fonder, as Rudy Vallee has it. So don’t be disappointed if your roommate’s vacation confessions lack the power to hold your attention. Give him time to add a bit of spice,
I F the enemies of Notre Dame . . . hypothesizing that we have some . . . would like to secure some destructive criticisms of the University, this week would be the ideal time for them to do their gathering. The first several days following the Christmas vacation finds student appreciation of their Alma Mater at a lower ebb than it reaches at any other time of the year. Comparisons are always odious, but never so pronouncedly as at the present. When a melancholy, homesick Carroll halier begins to compare his tent with his late room at home, his ten o’clock retiring with ten o’clock dates, his campus regalia with his holiday attire, and his meals at home with the dining hall’s fare, the University is bound to suffer. The frosh himself, of course, also suffers, for the mournful, self-pitying attitude he assumes is the stuff that has frequently brought about dementia praecox, or something that sounds equally as bad. It is typical of paradoxical human nature that the June graduate is morose over his departure from the University, whereas his arrival there the preceding January provoked condemning expletives, and intense dissatisfaction with life. Time, though, has never failed to cure this emotional depression. Other healing factors are: a check from home, a letter written in a dainty feminine hand, sometimes a good, stiff exam, and most usually, a long, cathartic, bull session.

366
The Notre Dame Scholastic
These dates are subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Jan. 9—Scholastic staff meeting, Main building, 7:30 p. m. —Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Wabash at Wabash.
SATURDAY, Jan. 10—Movies, Will Rogers in “So This Is London,” 6:40 arid 8:1-5 p. m.
SUNDAY, Jan. 11—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Jan. 12 — Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building.—Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium, Commerce Forum, Press club, A. I. E. E.—A. I. E. E. meeting, 7:45, Badin hall basement. —Wranglers’ club meeting, journalism room of library, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, Jan. 13—Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium, Law club, A. S. M. E., Academy of Science.— Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Marquette at Notre Dame.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 14—A. S. M. E. meeting, 7:45 p. m., Engineering building.—Scribblers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec” room.— Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium, Spanish club, Italian club, Classical association. — Football banquet, election of captain, University dining hall, 7: CO p. m.
THURSDAY, Jan. 15 — Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.—Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium, Physical Ed. club, Boy Guidance club.
CLUB TO HOLD BANQUET FOR ITALIAN CONSUL
S. A. Bontempo, president of the Italian club, has called a meeting for j	next Monday night in Room 2 of the
\	Main building at 6:30 p. m. to discuss
i	plans for a banquet to be held some-
time in the near future for the Italian consuls from Chicago.
Announcements concerning the com-, -	mittees in charge of the affair will be
S'	made at this meeting. No definite
date has been set as yet, although the f	banquet will probably be held within
:?	the next two weeks.
ROCKNE GIVES VIEWS ON COMMERCIALIZATION
OF SPORTS
With all the talk about commercialization of football, Coach Knute Rockne has come forward with the statement that college football is not commercialized enough.
College football, in the opinion of Rockne, has not paid nearly enough in the past few seasons. Other sports are dependent on the surplus accumulated during the football season in case of short gate receipts. Let football attendance fall down and the entire sports program suffers.
Quite a new and interesting view to take on the football situation. The truth of Rockne’s statement is shown in the abolition of football at two universities.
N. D= MEN FEATURED IN
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
Four Notre Dame men, Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; Ramon G. Smith, senior in the College of Commerce; Faris Cowart, freshman in the department of physical education; Alfred E. Gall, senior in the College of Engineering, have been photographed for special pictures which will be used in featuring an automobile in a national campaign. This is the first time that a company has advertised directly to the collegiate class and photographs picturing college students from the leading universities in this country will be used in all magazines.
JUNIOR CLASS BOASTS
SONG TO FEATURE PROM
Walter F. Philipp, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, who composed the feature song of last year’s Senior ball, “Reminisce,” has written the music for another song which is to be featured at the Junior Prom on February 13.
The words for the new song, “My Heart Tells Me,” have been written by E. Katheryn Ullmen of Oak Park, Illinois, a senior at St. Mary’s college. Miss Ullmen, who is on the staff of the yearbook at St. Mary’s and is the president of the Blue Pencil club, literary society, has achieved originality in the composition, and her words, combined with Phillip’s lyric, should gain for the song instant popularity.
AVIATION SCHOLARSHIPS OPEN TO STUDENTS
Students of the University of Notre Dame desirous of competing for the aviation scholarships sponsored by W. E. Boeing, Chairman of the Board of United Aircraft & Transport Corporation and the various Boeing manufacturing and operating, offering courses at the Boeing school of Aeronautics, Oakland, California, can obtain complete information from the Registrar, it was announced today.
These scholarships have a cash value of 87190 and range from the complete Master Pilot course, including 204 hours of flying and 924 hours of ground school, to Private Pilot, Master Mechanic and Master Pilot Ground School courses.
Any undergraduate students, including 1931 graduating class, with one or more years in any approved American college or university, is eligible to compete for Boeing Scholarships. Each candidate must have maintained a scholastic standing classifying him in the upper one-third of his class for the entire period of his college enrollment and will be required to write an essay not exceeding 2,000 words on an assigned subject. Additional information can be obtained from the registrar.
PRE-LAW CLUB ELECTS
OFFICERS AT MEETING
Thomas Tobin, of East Chicago, Indiana, and a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been elected president of the newly organized Pre-Law club. Robert E. Lee, of Chicago, also a junior in the same college, was chosen vice-president, while Frank McGee of Chicago, a sophomore, was elected secretary. William Newbold, of Rushville, Ind., a junior, was named treasurer.
The second meeting was held December 17 in the old Law building. Judge Cain of the faculty addressed the club, chosing as his topic, “Fundamentals of Law.”
Several talks of interest were given by various members of the Law club.
❖----------------------------♦
NOTICE!
There will be a meeting of the editorial board of the Scholastic this evening at seven o’clock. Attendance is compulsory.
$---------------------------

The Notre Dame Scholastic
367
Motsett Named General Chairman of Knights of Columbus Formal
Dance Is to be Held February 4 in Palais Royal
Ballroom; "Tweet77 Hogan to Play
C. Bourke Motsett has been appointed by Grand Knight Louis Buckley chairman of the annual formal dance of the Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, to be held February 4 in the Palais Royale ballroom. The appointment was announced at a special meeting of the council held in its chambers in Walsh hall Jan. 7.
Motsett, a senior in the College of Commerce, is past recording secretary of the council. He is also the manager of the varsity track team and president of the Peoria club.
Chairman Motsett announces that “Tweet” Hogan and his band will play for the dance. Hogan has played for the Chicago club’s annual Christmas dances, and during the past summer played at the Drake hotel in Chicago.
Each member of the council is to have one extra bid to the dance. Tickets are to be-purchased from the men appointed to sell them in the various halls.
The members of the committees to assist in arrangements for the dance have also been chosen by Grand Knight Buckley:
Ticket—James K. Collins, Walsh hall, chairman; August Von Boecklin, Howard hall; John S. Wittliff, Morrissey hall; Frank Noll, Lyons hall; Paul J. Hallinan, Badin hall; James Murphy, Corby hall; George Murphy,
VERTACNIK INJURED IN TAXICAB CRASH
Joseph F. Vertacnik, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, suffered slight injuries last Monday morning when a taxicab in which he was riding was struck by a large truck. Vertacnik was taken to St. Joseph’s hospital where he was treated for a slight chin laceration.
The cab was proceeding, east on Colfax avenue near the race bridge when the truck which came out of a factory driveway crashed into it broadside. The driver of the truck claimed that cars parked along the street impaired his vision.
Carroll hall; Harry Hart, Brownson hall; Leo Clark, St. Edward’s hall; Philip Ott, Sophomore hall; Frank E. Messina, Freshman hall; Maurice Goodeve, off-campus.
Music — Vernon Knox, chairman; Thomas Forschner, Philip Agston, Joseph Boyland, Gilbert Gaudie, Frank Kelly, Robert Streb.
Publicity—F. Granger Weil, chairman; John Bergan, Joseph Petritz, Roger Beirne, Joseph Lauerman, Austin Boyle, William Taylor, Arthur J. Kane.	■
Programs—Frank McGreal, chairman; Henry O’Connell, John Hock-walt, Wilfred Cardy, John Sloan, Louis Hasley, Arthur Klefeker, Arthur Cavender.
Decorations—Eli Abraham, chairman; Robert Neydon, John Anderson, Ellis Bloomstrom, Raymond Naber, Gerald Conway, Joseph Blaney, Clarence Brink, Austin Sullivan, Francis Loney.
Reception — Leonard Donaghue, chairman; Bert Metzger, Frank Car-idio, John O’Brien, William Kerrigan, John Chevigney, Charles Quigley, Arthur Berger, Stanley Czpulski.
Arrangement — Stanley Nowatar-ski, chairman; Joseph Kennedy, Dan Hanley, Frank Donalty, Joseph Mu-nizzo, Louis Psenick, Maurice D. Mul-rey, Roy Catizone, Vincent Eichenlaub.
“MUSIC IN THE AIR” WHEN SPARTANS WIN
A Michigan State victory in the field of sport is the signal for music. Each time a Spartan victory is written into the records the chimes in Memorial tower, in East Lansing, are played by Russell Daubert, coach of the swimming team of the college.
Daubert has, for several years, made the study of this art his hobby and has now become a “past master” in playing the big bells. The chimes were augmented this fall by the addition of several new bells and the range of playable music has been materially widened.
FINAL DEBATING TRYOUTS
TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK
Final elimination for the varsity debating squad will be held on the evenings of January 15 and 16, in room 219 of the Main building, under the supervision of Reverend F. J. Boland, C.S.C., University debate coach. The following will participate:
Thursday, January 15, 4:00 p. m.— Affirmative: Hanna, O’Meara, Rati-gan; negative: Boyle, Hannan, McGreal.
Thursday, January 15, 7:45 p. m.— Affirmative: Cline, O’Malley, Kirby; negative Burke, Allan, Hartzer.
Friday, January 16, 7:45 p. m.— Affirmative Pick, Meehan, Belting, Keefe; negative: Baer, McIntosh, O’Shaughnessy, Johnson.
These men have survived two previous eliminations, one in November and a second in December, which cut the squad from an original seventy to the surviving twenty. Of these, eight more will be eliminated, cutting the group to twelve, two teams of three men, and an alternate for each position.
n interesting schedule, which will be announced in full at a later time, is being prepared by Father Boland. It will include debates with sectional schools, and tentatively, an Easter trip through the East.
ALUMNUS TO HAVE PLAY PRODUCED BY YALE
“This Victory,” a full length play by Basil Rauch, will be produced soon by the Yale University theatre. Mr. Rauch, a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1929, wrote this play in Professor George Pierce Baker’s advanced playwriting class. Because of the experimental nature of the play, it will be produced before a special audience of students, faculty and invited guests, who will submit written criticisms. The production will be directed by Professor Alexander Dean.
Mr. Rauch is a brother of Professor Rufus W. Rauch of the English department. As an undergraduate, he was the winner of the Mitchell Memorial award for playwriting. The Midland has accepted several of his short stories for publication, one of which was awarded an honorable mention by Mi*. Edward J. O’Brien in his listing of the best short stories of 1929.

368
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4 A Man You Know £
A hobby is usually thought to be a diversion entirely different from a man’s work, but the hobby of Professor Maurice L. Pettit, a teacher of sociology and politics, is so closely
Professor Maurice L. Pettit
related to his work that it is hard to tell where the one leaves off and the othei- starts. Mr. Pettit teaches the technical courses in sociology for the students majoring in probation, and he is in charge of the field work of these men. He works with the juvenile court in South Bend for amusement and now holds the position of chief adult probation officer there. No more advantageous arrangement of vocation and avocation could be made. In his work with the juvenile court he has many opportunities to test the worth and practicability of various sociological theories, and he is therefore able to teach to the students taking his courses theories which have been proved by actual experience.
Mr. Pettit was born in West Unity, Ohio, in 1903. Most of his schooling was secured in Toledo, however. He attended Scott high school in Toledo and was graduated in 1921. Then he went to the University of the City of Toledo and finished there in 1925, taking the degree of bachelor of arts, majoring in history. For a year after his graduation he worked as principal of Catawba high school, Catawba Island, Ohio. He came to
Notre Dame in September, 1926. He has been in charge of juvenile court work in South Bend since then, starting in 1926 as boys’ probation officer.
During his first year at Notre Dame he did graduate work, specializing in education, and he received the degree of Master of Arts in June, 1927. He became a member of the faculty here in the summer session of the same year. He now teaches courses in politics and in sociology, and in previous years he also taught courses in education and in history. His ability to teach four different subjects is irrefutable proof of a better than average versatility.
The Department of Sociology first offered a probation major in 1929, and the popularity of this course shows that the students here appreciate its worth. For the last two years. Mr. Pettit has devoted himself almost exclusively to teaching technical courses in probation work. A glance at the University catalogue will show that he is teaching many courses with awe-inspiring titles— Immigration, Emigration, and Degeneration Problems, and other courses of that sort. Since he was appointed chief adult probation officer in South Bend in 1930, he is particularly fitted for work with students majoring in probation.
In his years at college he took part in many extra-curricular activities. In his last two years there he was student manager of basketball. He was also president of his fraternity (Chi Rho Nu) and of the Briar and Java club, an honorary fraternity. He is now a member of Phi Gamma Nu, a national honorary fraternity of men interested in social science. He also belongs to the American Sociological society and to the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
N. D. PRESS PRAISED
Lawrence Perry, sports editor of the New York Sun, well-known for his unstinted praise of Notre Dame football teams, devoted his sports column this week to a defense of other Notre Dame institutions. He praised the Notre Dame publications as being equal in quality to the football team. The publications and printing office were run with the same seriousness and effectiveness as the athletic department, he stated.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
MEMBERS ADDRESSED BY
PROFESSOR O’GRADY
At an open meeting of the Academy of Science, on December 15, Professor Daniel O’Grady of the philosophy department spoke to a group of three hundred students on “Ways of knowing.” “People have, broadly speaking, four approaches to the interpretation of reality, namely: the artistic, religious, scientific, and philosophical,” declared Professor O’Grady. Commenting on each of these four approaches, he pointed out that science finds its only permanence in its method, and warned that the tendency of scientists to encroach on fields outside their understanding is increasing. Science, together with religion and philosophy may be classified as approaches to reality through “the head,” that is, they are concerned primarily with intellectual processes in contradistinction to art, which is essentially a matter of the . heart.
Concerning religion, Professor O’Grady refuted the statement of Professor Einstein that religion is based on fear. Emotion may enter religion, but is not the essence of religion. Aesthetic values in religion are dis-tictly negligible compared to the predominant intellectual factors. The purpose of art is to interpret active experience. Turning to philosophy as an approach to reality, Professor O’Grady stated that philosophy is no subjective, intuitive, or appetitive process, but is fundamentally a matter of discursive reasoning. Philosophy is distinguished from science, in that it deals with reality itself while science considers phenomena. The lecture was well received by the audience.
CONLEY ACCEPTS POST AT LA SALLE, PHILADELPHIA
Announcement was made in Philadelphia early this week that Tom Conley, captain of Notre Dame’s 1930 national champions, has accepted a contract to coach football at La Salle college of that city, next fall. LaSalle is a new college, having been opened only last February and next season will be its first on the gridiron. Conley’s home is in Philadelphia.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
369
<•—•----------------------------♦>
Campus Opinions
❖-------------------------------.J.
“What department or feature in the Scholastic do you like best?”
Edward Myers, Off-Campus, senior —“On Down the Line, to my estimation, is one of the best columns in the Scholastic, due to the fact that it contains, in a concentrated and interesting manner, all the up-to-date sporting news. It states the high lights in the sporting world, without going into lengthy discussions and details.”
Karl W. Scherer, Morrissey hall, senior, and president of the Pharmacy club—“I like the Editor’s Page best, especially because of the manner in which this page is carried out this year. In past years only statements of facts and, once in a while, conservative criticisms were published. But, this year the page contains sarcasms and criticisms of an awe-inspiring nature. True, many times these criticisms may not be exact or may be a bit exaggerated, still they always leave food for thought.”
J. Raymond Fox, Off-Campus, junior—“The best department in the Scholastic, in my opinion, is that devoted to Music and Drama. It is well written and adds a certain aesthetic tone to he magazine. Whoever conducts this department has a discerning sense of value and has developed a definite appreciation of art. He has his individual likes and dislikes but is not carried completely away in the expression of them. In other words he uses judicious restraint.”
George W. Harrison, Lyons hall, junior—“I think the Week is the most interesting of the features appearing in the Scholastic. It is a true resume of life on the campus for the past week, written in an interesting manner, with a fine personal touch.”
Edward L. Shean, Badin hall, senior—“The Scholastic offers to the student body a variety of departments from which it’ is difficult to choose the best. Difficult as the choice may be, I feel safe in picking A Man About the Campus. It is this department that aids most in bringing about
TELFEL AND STOECKLEY
PLAY SANTA CLAUS TO
AVE MARIA PRINTERS
Emil L. Telfel, genial Scholastic editor and better known as “Judge,” along with John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications, presented the members of the Ave Maria composing and press rooms with several boxes of La Palinas (El Cab-bago size, three for a nickle).
Presentation of the gifts was made on the day before Christmas (“ ’Twas the night before . . . etc.”) and Brother Martin, C.S.C., was a special invited guest at the pompous celebration which took place in the northwest corner of the composing room.
With the entire force clamoring for a speech, Mr. Telfel assumed the burden and took the table with a Deni-shawn leap. His agile grace was wildly applauded by the composers and pressmen. Mr. Telfel then thanked the men for their wonderful co-operation during the year and said that it was only through their consistent good work that the Scholastic was pulled out of the mire. “We appreciate your good work,” he said, “and we bear malice towards none and charity to all in presenting these gifts to you.”
WELSH SINGERS TO GIVE CONCERT NEXT WEEK
The Welsh Imperial Singers of North Wales under the direction of R. Festyn Davies will give a concert in Washington hall, January 14, at 8:15 p. m.
Following successful tours in the various European countries, Canada, and Newfoundland, the Imperial Singers are making a transcontinental tour this season of the United States. Their repertoire consists of more than one hundred numbers including choruses, part-songs, glees, duets, and solos.
The Welsh singers have been called “Britain’s Greatest Male Chorus,” and has been highly commended by many outstanding Englishmen, as well as by the leading newspapers in Europe and America.
the good-fellowship so typical of Notre Dame. A rather indirect way of doing things, one might say, but there is no denying the effect. The column acquaints the reader in a most specific and interesting manner with the chosen Man About the Campus.
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE ADDS VICTOR A. CRECCO TO FINANCE DEPARTMENT
Graduate of Harvard Business School to Teach 4 Courses.
Victor A. Crecco, B.S., M.B.A., has been secured by the department of finance in the College of Commerce to teach courses in money and banking, credit and foreign exchange,
Victor A. Crecco, B.S., M.B.A.
corporation economics, and public utility economics.
Mr. Crecco was graduated from Harvard in 1924 with a B.S. degree. He studied for two years at Harvard graduate school of business administration, receiving the degree M.B.A.
From 1926 until 1928 he was connected with the depository and foreign analysis division of the First National Bank of Boston. At this time he also served as assistant treasurer of the Shawnault Credit Union. For the last two years he has been employed by Cluett Peabody and Company of Troy, New York.
Mr. Crecco, formerly of Medford, Mass., is now living in South Bend. He will teach the class in money and banking for - the remainder of the semester. Credit and foreign exchange, corporation economics, and public utility economics are second semester courses. The last named course is being taught at the University for the first time.
o
370
The Notre Dame Scholastic
At the South Bend Theatres
PALACE
The second week of January hits at the RKO Palace starts Sunday, January 11 with a vaudeville program headed by Pepito, the famous Spanish clown, assisted by Juanita and Bombo. In Spain, buffonery has been developed to a high art, and the mountebanks there, judging by the work of Pepito, must be as versatile as the troubadors of old. He is funny in various ways, and some of the clowning includes imitation of birds and animals, bits of cycling on miniature wheels, and numerous antics not acquired by other funsters. Juanita, doing the straight for him, is a pretty and able assistant who plays the saxaphone and participates in the routine. Pepito is one of the first clowns of Madrid and has for five years been the favorite of King Alfonso and the royal family.
On the bill with Pepito is another star vaudeville hit with Betty and Tommy Wonder, the California Bluebirds, who may well be described as coming wonders. These two charming people, although new to vaudeville, have established an enviable reputation for themselves as singing and dancing artists. They hail from California after experience in the movies. .
With this program the Palace offers the year’s most human story—a story of a mother’s love. The title of the film is “Mothers Cry,” and it features Dorothy Peterson, Helen Chandler, David Manners, Sidney Blackmer, and Evelyn Knapp, and was directed by Hobart Henley. The story is an intense drama of sacrifice, and mother love. There have been three great productions on this topic: one in 1920 entitled “Over the Hill,” another in 1925 called “Stella Dallas,” and now perhaps the finest of the three, “Mothers Cry.” The screen version has been well adapted from the best-selling novel by Helen Grace Carlisle. The unusual title is from the old nursery rhyme: “One, two, three, four, five, six, seven—All good children go-to heaven. When they die, Mothers cry—One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.” The story covers thirty years of a mother’s life, beginning with her marriage as a young girl. The question often in her mind is, “Why are my children so
different from me?” for one has become a builder and left her, one is a killer, another a wife, and the fourth an unwed mother.
For the last half of next week the Palace has scheduled “The Costello Case,” an underworld, mystery drama, starring Tom Moore and Lola Lane. The vaudeville supporting the picture includes such well known names as Harriman, Swan, and Lucille; Reynolds and White; Ray Huling and Charlie; and Lillian Rothdale and Co., all combining to offer a finely balanced variety bill.
GRANADA
Starting Saturday, January 10 and continuing through Tuesday is “The Lash” with Richard Barthelmess, Mary Astor, and Marian Nixon. After appearing in the roles of a gangster in “Weary River,” a Chinaman in“Son of the Gods,” and an Englishman in “The Dawn Patrol,” Barthelmess now plays the romantic role of a Spanish don turned bandit in the manner of Robin Hood. The story is laid in California about 1850 and is adapted from the novel by the Bartletts. The plot concerns itself with the adventures of the young Spaniard home from school and planning to take up cattle raising. In a spirit of revenge on the white people who have oppressed the Spaniards, the hero stampedes his cattle through a town and is then forced to turn outlaw. This he does and proceeds to hold up any number of stage coaches, sending his loot to a monastery. There is a love affair, of course, Mary Astor responding to the ardent phrases of our hero. “The Lash” is pretty good entertainment in a trite setting.
Next Saturday at the Granada is the fifth of a series of Universal pictures in which Charlie Murray and George Sidney have been featured. This latest comedy, “The Cohens and the Kellys in Africa,” introduces Cohen and Kelly as piano manufacturers whose business is at the point of ruin because of a shortage of real ivory for their piano keys. Meeting a pseudo-explorer who paints a glowing picture of veritable mountains of ivory in Africa, Cohen and Kelly decide to finance an expedition to the Dark Continent with the explorer, “Windjammer Thom,” as leader. The
comedians become involved in almost every conceivable tangle on their memorable expedition, including the loss of their wives. The screen play follows their adventures from the time they leave the boat at Mombasa, over the veldt and through the jungles until their departure from a sheik’s harem for the United States.
Murray and Sidney are seen here at their best. Having worked together in motion pictures for several years, they form a good comedy duo, natural in every movement, and managing to produce a satisfying number of laughs. Vera Golden and Kate Price are cast as Mrs. Cohen and Mrs. Kelly. The comedy is, of course, the usual slap-stick, but you may enjoy the show.
COLFAX
Joan Crawford in her latest vehicle, “Paid,” which opens at the Colfax Saturday, January 10, and continues through the following Wednesday, makes a departure from her customary flapper roles and comes upon the screen in a play which requires dramatic ability. Miss Crawford, like others who were wise enough to discard their shopworn specialties, has chosen a picture which reveals more than the usual pictorial appeal and stamps her as a star worthy of dramatic parts as well as party escapades.
The picture “Paid” is the modernized version of Bayard Veiller’s stage success “Within the Law,” which also enjoyed like success in the silent drama.
The story opens in a courtroom with Mary Turner (Miss Crawford) being sentenced to prison for a crime she did not commit. The major portion of the picture is concerned with the attempt of Mary Turner’ to avenge herself on an unjust society and the friendship which she makes with Robert Armstrong provides the necessary romance in the plot. The action is tense but rapid and events move along in a highly pleasing manner. Miss Crawford is capably adapted to the part assigned her, and her supporting cast of Robert Armstrong, Marie Prevost, John Milj an, Purnell Pratt, Tyrrell Davis, William Bakewell, Gwen Lee, and Isabel Withers are excellent in their interpretations of the various characters.
AT A GLANCE
Colfax—Joan Crawford Granada—Barthelmess’ “Lash” Palace—A Laugh and a Tear
The Notre Dame Scholastic
371
JUST FILLER
1930, farewell! And welcome, 1931. Only twelve months ago that tottering, gray-bearded patriarch, ’30, was a robust infant, loudly proclaiming his importance to the world. He was going to right the wrongs of that disastrous rebel month, October,' 1929, when several bottoms fell out of the market. Well, 1930, you’ve had your days-—all 365 of them, in fact. And now, the books are being balanced.
What words of wisdom are you whispering into the pink, shell-like ear of your successor, infant ’31? Are you speaking of “normalcy,” optimism, better business, employment, culture, science, — or even (hated word) depression? What does 1931 promise to this worried world?
‘SCHOLASTIC’ PUBLISHES SPECIAL HOLIDAY ISSUE
AT CHRISTMAS SEASON
As a special Christmas greeting-card a miniature “baby” Scholastic was published during the holiday season. One-third the page size of Notre Dame’s favorite weekly, this unusual number was printed in four pages with the regular cover reduced to suit the occasion. The back cover carried an advertisement in keeping with the ordinary magazine format, headed “Straight to the heart of Notre Dame----”, and emphasizing the fact that more than 10,000 vitally interested readers of Notre Dame publications see the advertiser’s message week after week, month after month, year after year. That nationally known merchandising experts are satisfied, with the results from the Juggler, the Scholastic, the Dome, and similar student publications was emphasized.
Inside the cover* the regular masthead of the weekly was run, and at the bottom of the page, the season’s greetings from, the staff. Opposite this page appeared the headline, “Holiday Greetings Extended in This Special Christmas Edition.” In easily read bold face type we read:
“Somehow an editor is never completely happy when presses no longer roar and “linos” are cool and idle. It is only a publisher who breathes easier when the overhead mounts at a reasonable rate. Well, here’s an organization that has solved the problem of keeping a staff, a print shop,
and the government postal clerks happy—at least, this helps to keep them busy.
“Seriously, at Christmas time we do feel a kindly warmth for those of you who have worked with us throughput the past year. We would like to express these Yuletide wishes in person but time and space forbid. So, it’s simply, ‘May true happiness be yours at Christmastide, and prosperity for this New Year.’ ”
Among the many letters received in response to this unique Christmas card were these from several national advertising agencies complimenting the editor and his business assistants on the idea. One alumnus of 1925 sent his check for a year’s subscription to the Scholastic, commenting that he was under the impression that the magazine had meekly “folded up” after he left the University.
This promotion idea was mailed to all the prominent alumni and friends of Notre Dame, as well as to our regular advertisers. A special edition of the tiny Scholastic will be issued each quarter hereafter.
NEW YORK STATE GIVES
N. D SPECIAL PRIVILEGE
An announcement that will be of particular interest to the students of the College of Commerce has been received by the University from James Sullivan, assistant commissioner for higer education of the state department of education in connection with the University of New York.
The letter, addressed to Mr. James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, is as follows:
“This is to advise you that I have registered the four-year courses of study of your institution leading to the degrees of Ph.B. in Commerce and B.S.C. Holders of these degrees will be entitled to two years’ credit toward the five years’ experience required in this state for a certificate as certified public accountant.”
SPANISH CLUB MEETS
The first meeting of the Spanish club since the holidays was held last Tuesday evening, January 6. Mr. Jose Martinez, faculty adviser of the organization, showed the members a few pictures of the most important cities of Spain, and gave a partial history of all these cities. Gilbert Augustine, president of the club, gave a short talk in Spanish on the history of Spanish literature.
GLEANINGS
Edward Thode, ’24, is opening a law office in Minneapolis with Mr. Kunze, a graduate of Georgetown.
John Mahoney, ’22, of Enid, Okla., . was a spectator at the Northwestern, Army, and Southern California games.
William A. Castellini, ’24, has set up an office in Cincinnati as public relations counselor. He addressed the journalism students early in the year on publicity direction.
Oscar Lavery, ’25, broadcast over Station WICC, Bridgeport, Conn., during the Catholic hour on “The Attitude of the Catholic Church Toward Socialism and Communism.”
Raoul Flores, ’27, is co-partner in a firm of consulting engineers in Mexico City.
Members of the class of ’28 connected with the Western Electric Company include Frank Creadon, Ray Mulligan, Daniel Moore, Edward Mandeville, James Lydon, and Edward Flynn.
Troy Bonner, '28, is connected with the legal office of the Standard Oil Company in Tennessee.
William Miller, ’30, is assistant secretary of the Chamber of Commerce in Memphis.
Walter Stanton, ’30, was elected to the Indiana state legislature, while his classmate, Austin Gildea, is a justice of the peace in Elkhart.
Harry Sylvester, ’30, is to be seen in print very often with articles and stories. Harry is connected with the New York press.
James Walsh, ’30, president off the Wranglers last year, spent the weekend in Chicago visiting classmates.
Bernie Conroy and Dan Cannon of the class of ’30 were in New York over the holidays and were prominent guests at the Metropolitan club dance.

372
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About The Campus
This reporter was glad that J. Edward Phelan’s room wasn’t the least bit sissy. In fact, it was a rather virile room, especially the two ugly alarm clocks dangling from a rough,
J. Edward Phelan
lonely rope. Still, when we entered the room, he was stuffing a pair of green silk tights under his coat for use while rehearsing “Twelfth Night,” the opus recently given by the University theatre. Without letting us know at all that we were detaining him, Phelan gave us a few facts about himself.
The home town of J. Edward Phelan (stick with us a whole and we’ll call him “Ed”) is Paterson, New Jersey. During the summer he’s the night clerk at a sea-shore hotel in Asbury Park. (Yes, pet, the night clerk. Who do you think takes care of you after you get in the lobby? The doorman, you know, doesn’t throw you up to your room.) Another of his attachments in that state sends, so I hear, neatly addressed letters post-marked “Montclair.” Ed (there, what did we tell you?) says that she is very intelligent and very beautiful.
To get anything out of him about his high school days, we had to take Ed’s head in one hand, his feet in the other, and twist and twist. Finally a little came out: he’s living down some poems he wrote; has had art published that doesn’t need living down, since it won prizes; left high school occasionally but always came back just before
the place went completely to the dogs.
We didn’t ask him why he came to Notre Dame. Usually that’s fairly well taken care of the first month or so in a none too fairish English theme and—well, why in the world did you come to Notre Dame? Anyhow, as a freshman, he sailed into the unyielding rock of the A.B. college and in spite of that got time somehow for interhall debating.
In his sophomore year he took on (single-handed) the Wranglers and Glee club. When junior year came around he found out that the boys on the varsity debating team weren’t so tough and challenged them to a duel which he won. And in the same year the Wranglers sentenced him to a secretaryship. Without taking a count (how d’ya like that?) he bounced against the doors of the University theatre, beat them down, did a few vigorous cart-wheels and became Curtis in “The Taming of the Shrew.” Imagine the pool- fellow leaving home this .summer and telling the folks how the guys at Notre Dame don’t never do nothing and yawning through this list: president of the Wranglers; manager of the Glee club; varsity debating; the President’s council, and interhall debating.
This year Ed began his freshman law, to fill the gaps in his schedule left by his sociology major. In “Twelfth Night” he was Sir Andrew Aguecheek. To shake off vacation lethargy, the night before school opened he shovelled all the snow out of the stadium, turned over all the sod, and before morning had the roof of the Law building as bright and shiny as you please.
His tastes, for all we know, incline toward the elegant. That is, they differ from those we low-brow hooligans have. First of all Galsworthy’s plays intrigue him. As a second choice1 2 3 the works of Oscar Wilde; the man he despises. He finds the idiosyncracies of Ruskin and Ben Jonson amusing. (Say here’s a chance for us to learn some English lit.) In art it’s Whistler; in music, Lizst; or when feeling fanciful, Gershwin. When Ed is in a downright, high-kicking, frivolous mood, he finds Paul White-man tolerable. Phelan’s knowledge and general good behavior with a piano increase his appreciation of music. His hobby is nuts, hearty,
CARIDEO, METZGER, AND KASSIS HONORED
BY K. OF C.
Frank Carideo, Bert Metzger, Tom Kassis, and Richard Donoghue, members of the 1930 national championship football team will be given insignia bearing the legend of Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, of which they are members, according to an announcement made by Grand Knight Louis Buckley recently.
Further announcements were that degrees would be administered to a class in the first week of February.
N. D, ARCHITECTS RECEIVE BEAUX ART MENTIONS
In a recent competition held by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York, R. Bisceglia, L. R. Chreist and L. J. Stitt received mentions while R. P. Bedan, P. P. Chuey, F. D. Heath, R. H. Heitger, and Paul Kigali received half mention. All of these men are students in the department of Architecture here. The subject designed by the contestants was an entrance to a museum.
Out of six designs submitted for a concert hall in Class A competition, J. P. Farrell received a mention, while J. H. Hanson, A. G. Patrick and F. R. West received half mentions.
nut-house nuts. . For those of you with 90 averages in abnormal psychology, this is no doubt plain as can be.
During Christmas vacation Ed conferred with Roxy and with Ben Piazzi of the RKO Palace and Paramount regarding a New York engagement for the Glee club during the Easter vacation. As a Wrangler he looks forward to the northern Indiana oratorical contest this spring in Washington hall. That gives you an idea of bis duties. Our own impressions of him were: (1) He is an unaffected young man, much too smart and much too easy-going to affect sophistication;
(2) He is confident of his knowledge and generous with his cigarettes; and
(3) He is clever. As we prepared to leave he suggested this to us, “If, in thinking you think you are really thinking when merely thinking you are thinking, then, what have you thought?” We didn’t answer. We said, “Good!”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HUMANISM SUBJECT OF TALK BY PROF. O’GRADY
;	Professor Daniel O’Grady of the de-
■	partment of philosophy at the Univert	sity, read a paper entitled “The New
f	Humanism Is a Step in the Right
•	Direction” at the monthly meeting- of
I	the South Bend Round Table which
■	was held at the Oliver hotel last Wed-
nesday evening-. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, presided over the banquet as chairman and introduced Mr. O’Grady to the audience.
The substance of Mr. O’Grady’s speech was as follows:
.	That because of unrest of political,
economic, social, religious, and intellectual kinds, both domestic and foreign, it is necessary to take a step in some direction. When ruin lies ahead obviously the right direction is backwards. Continuing in his discussion, the speaker said that while the new .	Humanism does not go far enough,
i	nevertheless, as a reaction to the ma-
’ J
;	terialism and naturalism of this me?	chanical age, it is on the path to
truth. Among the most distinguished
i	of the new Humanists, according	to
;	Prof. O’Grady, are Irving Babbitt	of
Harvard and Paul Elmore More	of
'	Princeton.
Notre Dame Wins Albert Erskine Award For The Second Year
Irish Tally 261 Votes Out of 275 Possible;
Presentation of Cup Made January 2nd
| CARROLL ELECTED TO ;	SCRIBBLER MEMBERSHIP
:	President Emil L. Telfel announces
i	that at the latest meeting- of the
Scribblers, held the Wednesday before i	the Christmas recess, Joseph W. Car’	roll, a freshman in the College of
d	Arts and Letters, was elected from a
il	list of four applicants as a member
of Notre Dame’s literary society.
p	Carroll, whose home is in Chicago, has
already created quite a stir on the i	campus because of the high quality
of his writings. A poem of his entitled “Sonnet,” appeared in the first issue of Scrip this year.
Elections will be held again in the near future. Students with literary '	aspirations are invited to submit
I	their applications for membership in
the Scribblers as soon as possible. With their applications must be handed in two original compositions in any literary form: short story, poem, criticism, etc., as evidence of their ,	creative writing ability. Elections
are based on the merit of these submitted compositions.
The next meeting of the Scribblers is announced for the night of Wednesday, January 14, in the Howard hall “rec” room.
•^o
Notre Dame wins a smashing victory in the final balloting- of the country’s leading- sports writers engaged in selecting- the championship football team of 1930 foi- the Albert Russel Erskine award. For the second successive year, Rockne’s team captures the national gridiron title, according to announcement by W. 0. McGeehan, chairman of the Erskine Committee of Award.
The preliminary ballot, which was completed three weeks ago, resulted in re-submitting to the jurors the names of Notre Dame, Southern California, and Alabama for- the final vote. This final vote tallies 261 for the South Bend team and 5 for Alabama. It includes the votes of the sporting writers who compose the jury, plus the votes of the 20 members of the Award committee. Theodore Roosevelt’s selection was cabled from Porto Rico by way of the War department in Washington.
The Notre Dame team will be entitled to hold for another year the huge silver cup which is the emblem of victory. The formal presentation
FROSH HALL GETS PRIZE; TO SEE FREE MOVIE
In the competition for the best sign design and idea used in welcoming the team back from Southern California, the prize went to Freshman hall, who had a banner depicting the stadium with the legend “National Champions 1929-1930.”
The prize awarded is a free show to be given to the members of the hall on Monday night at the Palace Theatre through the courtesy of Mr. Hooten, the manager* of the RKO theatres in South Bend.
Freshman hall also had the horsedrawn wagon that was such a source of enjoyment to the spectators at the celebration to welcome the team.
of this cup, as well as the presentation of a parchment scroll and a Studebaker car- to Rockne, took place in New York on January 2.
The balloting affords interesting comparisons with that of 1929. The final vote last year showed Notre Dame leading with 179, Pittsburgh second with 41, and Purdue third with 2 votes. This year neither Pitt nor Purdue figured in the selection, and the Irish lead was so great that there was no third place team at all.
Analysis of the votes by states shows an almost unanimous and thoroughly nation-wide conviction that Notre Dame deserves the title. The five dissenting votes came one each from Alabama, Tennessee, New Mexico, Illinois, and Mississippi. -
The Erskine award, according to Mr. McGeehan, has established itself this year as the ideal method and institution for selecting a championship football eleven. Comment from experts all over the country, he reports, indicates general satisfaction with the Award and its work.
CONCERT ORCHESTRA TO BE ORGANIZED SOON
A concert orchestra is to be organized on the campus in the near future, according to Joseph J. Casa-santa, head of the department of music. Its purpose will be to satisfy a self evident need—that of bringing the works of classical composers to * the campus through the medium of the orchestra. It furthermore will aim to develop such individual talent as may be found on the campus, and for this reason anyone who can play any orchestral instrument such as the violin, cello, string bass, flute, etc., is urged to report for the first rehearsal in the band room of Washington hall on Tuesday, January 13.
374
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Eighty Years: Or, The
Some heroes of the Saga—a “Scholastic” staff of the Mauve Decade in conclave assembled.
You may have your own opinion concerning favorite books of fantasy, but for real fantastic reading which can and, incidentally will, take you back 80 years into another world, introduce you to people whose memory is revered by the University, and give you many new ideas about Notre Dame then and now, this writer suggests reading the early issues of the Scholastic.
They should be especially interesting at this time when students just returning from the social whirl of the holiday season decide that Notre Dame is behind the times in everything but teaching ten men how to run interference for an eleventh. And since we were speaking of vacations, we might as well tell when and why* the cry of backwardness first was set up, in print, by the students.
In the first issue of The Scholastic Year, the official name of this publication in 1867, appeared the roll of the student body and the date of arrival of each student on the campus
“so that parents may know whether their children have loitered on the way.” Protests appeared regularly concerning this in the Correspondents’ column for many weeks after that printing.
Anyone searching through those back numbers for names, dates or events is apt to become interested in an item oi* advertisement and forget what he started to do. For instance, one might see the advertisement of the University (in 1867) which states that for the sum of $150 a student may obtain'“board, bed and bedding, and tuition (Latin and Greek included), washing and mending of linens, doctor’s fees and medicine, and attendance in sickness, per session of five months. Payment invariably in advance.” The studies of German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew were extra, as were the studies of music and the fine arts. St. Mary’s college also advertised in The Scholastic Year, and its advertisement stated in bold-face type that total fees were “$200 per annum.”
The Scholastic has passed through almost every stage which is possible for a publication and still exist. This is shown when one attempts to find its origin and discovers that it grew out of other publications, the first of which was called by the high sounding name of The Notre Dame Literary Gazette. This was started by one John Collins, away back in the fifties. The first issue was “summarily destroyed” because of some misunderstanding of a Prefect. This destructive act so chagrined said Mr. Collins that he, with three friends as assistants, decided to start the successor to the Gazette immediately.
This successor was called Progress and was edited by Collins. His friends who became associate editors were Francis C. Bigelow (later ordained in the Congregation of the Holy Cross), Ben B. Barron and John H. Fleming. Only one copy of Progress was made each issue and this was circulated among the literary lights of the University. This copy was written in longhand “by the more elegant penman of the three,” we are told.
Before many issues were written a demand for a wider circulation of Progress, was made by the student body, which wanted it as their official organ. The faculty heeded the general clamor and announced that the paper would be read aloud in the study hall every second week. It was H. Gillespie, C.S.C., took over the work of supervisor of the paper. The early supervisor of the paper. The early editors who followed Collins in the work were T. E. Howard, General Robert Healy, James B. Runnion, A. J. Stace, Phillip Carroll, D. M. M. Collins, M. O’Reilly, J. M. Howard, and L. G. Tong.
Father Gillespie was sent to France in 1863 and the interest in Progress
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Scholastic Saga
By JAMES
K. COLLINS
As the “Scholastic" Office Might Look, But Doesn’t.
Being a More or Less Interesting Delving Into Dust-Covered Volumes
AT'^s
slumped considerably, finally giving way to intermittent publications, such as the Olympic Gazette and the Weekly Bee, neither of which lasted long.
Father Gillespie returned to the University in 1866 and found that a printing plant had been established to publish The Ave Maria. Ever zealous for the literary welfare of the students, he easily found means of publishing another paper from the same press. This was for the students’ benefit and was called The Scholastic

Year.
The first ten issues were appended to The Ave Maria in the hope that “such a connection may insure a long and vigorous life for our paper.” The first issue was printed September 7, 1867, and carried, among other items, a double salutory “to greet the friends of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.”
The Reverend Augustus Lemonnier, C.S.C., then director of studies, took active charge of the magazine and appointed a different set of three editors to edit the paper each week. Soon Father Lemonnier found his time too well taken up with his own work to handle the affairs of the publication, so he turned the work over entirely to the three editors. This system proved unsatisfactory as the group of one week refused to consider recommendations from those of a succeeding or preceding week. Occasionally they
even refused to use type already set up but not printed the previous week.
After the “three editors a week” . plan failed, Father Lemonnier again took charge of the work and retained an auxiliary board of editors. This plan was more successful and was in practice until 1918.
The name, The Scholastic Year, was changed to The Notre Dame Scholastic in 1869 when Father Gillespie resumed charge. Issues then were published twice a week. In 1870 it was published as a weekly for three issues, then went back to a bi-weekly. In 1872 the magazine, then under the editorship of the Reverend M. B. Brown, again became a weekly, because “it was more agreeable for parents to hear from their sons and daughters.” It has continued to be issued weekly ever since. The magazine contained eight pages from 1867
until 1881, when it was enlarged to twelve. Since that time both the number and the size of the pages has been increased many times, the last enlargement being- in 1928, during the editorship of John V. Hinkle.
Until the St. Mary’s Chimes was established in 1892, the College had a column of correspondence and its roll of honoi- in each issue. The last appearance of the notes was in the issue of November 26, 1892.
Just to be different, the staffs of 1898 and 1899 published a daily issue for three days during their respective commencements. It was compiled by the regular- staff and contained news and features of the graduation week, and had four pages. Its sponsors claimed the distinction of it being the first of its kind in the United States.
(To be continued.)
376
The Notre Dame Scholast
i c
« Glances at the Magazines »
The Midland, after 16 years of successful publication, has moved its quarters from Iowa City to Chicago. The reasons for the change are outlined in Mr. Frederick’s editorial in the December issue. The chief reason, expressing as it does so well the very high aim of The Midland, is best given in the editor’s own words: “I believe that in steadily increasing degree commercial expediency determines rhe selection of the material published in nearly all American magazines. In the field of the short story, especially, standardization along the. lines of formulae which have proved commercially profitable is all but universal. The young writer who takes it as his aim to write sincerely and competently of American life as he knows it is met by the editorial demand that he distort characters, exaggerate situations, and develop a glib and blatant style. Otherwise, there is no place for his work.
“I regard it as highly desirable and necessary, for the good of the young writers now developing in America and for the future of American literature as a whole, that this commercial standardization shall not remain unquestioned, shall not become complete. I believe that America needs at least one magazine to which a writer in any part of the country can send his work knowing that it will be judged on its literary merits alone, not upon its probable effect upon circulation or advertising revenue. The Midland exists because of this belief. It attempts to be such a magazine.”
There is another paragraph which makes clear why the editorial offices were not moved to New York. “I feel,” the editor continues, “that the domination of commercial expediency in the literary world is to a large extent correlated with the centralization of editing and publishing in New York. I believe that New York’s literary despotism is bad: bad for criticism, because New York writers and critics know each other too well and see each other too often; bad for creative writing, because the example of great commercial success, never lacking in New York, is so terribly infectious. It is desirable that New York’s ascendancy shall be challenged, shall be to some degree mitigated.”
The quality of the contents of The
Midland is high, measuring up to its standards. The poetry, short stories, sketches, and book reviews are excellent.
It is still possible to secure the Christmas number of the Juggler, which boasts one of the best covers of any college magazine we have seen. Also are included two drawings by Mr. Gilbert Keith Chesterton—caricatures of himself. The cover is Joe Lopker’s work, for which he has received much deserved praise.
To counteract the innumerable popular illusions regarding novel-writing and novelists, Mr. Kenneth L. Roberts, author, wrote “The Truth About a Novel” for the Saturday Evening Post. It appeared in the issue of January 3. The article outlines some of the practical difficulties which confront the author, and Mr. Roberts frankly discourages young men from adopting literature as their profession, unless they have something more than a vague inclination to write. He estimates that 97 per cent of college students in this country are desirous of breaking into the literary field. Although so high an estimate was backed up by the opinion of the late Jesse Lynch Williams, president of the Authors’ League, it is exaggerated. A great many of the prospective writers of America have their ardor dimmed long before they actually begin work on anything so extended as a novel. The difficulties encountered in preparing a substantial thesis, in writing something acceptable for short story classes, even in passing certain English classes, has a great deal to do with the rescue of countless otherwise useful members of society from the cluttered up field of literature.
Frank Wallace’s Huddle was concluded in the January issue of College Humor.' . . . E. Phillips Oppenheim begins a new series of short stories in Collier’s. He is always present in popular collegiate reading lists. Erich Remarque’s The Road Back, the sequel to All Quiet on the Western Front, is appearing serially in Collier's. . . . The Alumnus (December issue) is interesting and very newsy. . . . The Lawyer is a substantia] magazine, with many worthwhile con-
MANY POOR CLOTHED BY KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS’ OLD CLOTHES CAMPAIGN
The largest amount of old clothes for the poor ever, collected on the campus came in from the pre-Christ-mas campaign of the Knights of Columbus, according to the Reverend Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart church.
“And all in all they came in very handy,” said Father Finnegan. “Some children were fitted out who had no clothes at all, and some men were clothed, enabling them to go out and look for work.”
The sweaters, given proved to be the most usable, although odd vests, too, served a purpose, covering large spaces in some small boys’ trousers.
The §100 donated by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights went to furnish baskets of food to poor families. Altogether 85 baskets were given out by Sacred Heart parish, whose Welfare league worked in conjunction with other charity organizations of South Bend.
Father Finnegan said that any more gifts of old clothes would be appreciated, and that anyone with old clothes could leave them at his door in the presbytery.
LAW FACULTY MEMBERS ATTEND CONVENTION
Dean Thomas Konop, and Professors Elton Richter, William D. Roili-son and William M. Cain were present at sessions of the Association of American Law Schools meeting at Chicago on December 29, 30, and 31.
tributions, notably an article written by Mr. G. K. Chesterton. It is the dedicatory issue.
Paul Fatout, an instructor in English at Purdue university, has an amusing little essay in the Lion’s Mouth department of the January Harper's. The title is “After Wordsworth.” It relates the trials and tribulations of the professor who is trying to impress upon his class the quiet tone of Wordsworthiana while outside a ceaseless din of railways, motor buses and street noises, screams a terrifying accompaniment. Which reminds us of Professor O’Grady’s attempt to shout a lecture over the rattling clang of the steam shovel that hovered so distractingly about Science hall last year.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
377

FOOTBALL SQUAD HELPS
SALE OF XMAS SEALS
BY SIGNATURES
The majority of the people of this country will in a few months remember the Notre Dame national champions of 1930, merely as football players, but the Anti-Tuberculosis League of Saint Joseph county will remember them as contributors to a worthy cause. Foi- it was on Friday night, December 12, 1930, that the South Bend Tribune’s broadcasting station WSBT auctioned off Christmas health seals for the League, bearing the signatures of Coach Rockne and his men.
A sheet of seals inscribed by the entire squad of eighty-two men was sold for $75. Another sheet of 100 seals, bearing the signatures of Coach Rockne and the first team netted $10. The sheet on which the autographs of the second team appeared was sold for $3. Seekers of the signatures of the men on the third team also paid $3.
The Christmas seals were on sale at Livingston’s store. Many enthusiastic fans called at the store to obtain the seals bearing the signature of their favorite player. Frank Carideo’s autograph was much in demand by the South Bend public.
The usual plan of auctioning was not used. Instead of awarding the Christmas seals to the highest bidder, the first bidder was rewarded with the sheet.
CLASSICAL CLUB HOLDS
FIRST FORMAL MEETING
The first formal meeting of the Notre Dame Classical association was held recently in the Latin Seminar rooms of the Law building. President John Cooper opened the meeting with an informal talk, outlining the aims of the association. Several papers were then read by members: “Humanism,” by John Pick; “A Problem From St. Augustine,” by Thomas A. Galligan; and “Virgil As a Fertilizing Genius,” by Francis J. O’Malley. Two original translations in verse of Horatian odes were read by Raymond Geiger.
Following the formal program there was a general discussion of the papers and their contents, and of the business affairs of the association. The meeting was closed with the announcement that the next assembly would be held on January 20.
« Music And Drama »
This week we have a few words to say concerning the performance of “Twelfth Night” given in Washington hall just before the holidays. The less said about it the better, we suppose, but if nothing is said there is even less chance that there will be any attempt at improvement in the future. The acting was poor in many cases, lines had not been learned, and the settings did not possess an iota of originality, but were typed and stereotyped throughout.* Of course, we realize that the equipment of Washington hall is frightfully inadequate for anything but a glee club concert. But why blame Washington hall again? It has been done before, but other structures have been deemed more necessary and valuable. The production committee for “Twelfth Night” could not turn the auditorium into a decent playhouse, but they could have remembered the favorite Scholastic saying, “Nemo dat quod non habet.” If an attempt at a realistic staging of the play were to be made, the producers should have found out in the beginning if such were possible. A single conventional set would have made for a much smoother production, and with a single intermission the script of the play could have been kept more intact.
As for the acting, Miss Pyle as Olivia had perhaps more stage presence than the other two ladies, but though she read her lines intelligently she did not quite click with us. Miss Huff as Viola was the best of the three, but her voice was not so pleasing a one as we should dike to hear. The Maria of Miss Mourer was well carried off, and her work in the more farcial scenes had a fair degree of finish to it. Mr. Beirne, by far the best actor in the play, was very fine and can certainly be proud of his work. He wasn’t living his role, and he knew he wasn’t Malvolio, but what was much greater art, he made us think he was. Messrs. Merdzinski, Phelan, Thornton, and Ryan were all good in their parts, although we were disappointed in Mr. Thornton’s portrayal of Sir Toby Belch.
The campus here cannot be so sterile of theatrical talent as would seem apparent from this recent production. Nor are the student audiences of such low mentality that they can enjoy farces or high comedies
which have been distorted into farces. We have no objection to “Twelfth Night” in itself, but after “The Taming of the Shrew” last year, a change to the more serious drama might be enjoyable. It was rather obvious that the drinking scene and the “goofing party” scene were played up especially. This performance of “Twelfth Night” certainly added nothing to anyone’s knowledge or appreciation of Shakespeare because it was too jerky and laborious to be enjoyed, and it certainly did nothing to advance the development of the drama at Notre Dame.
E. Ray- Goetz’s presentation of “The New Yorkers” at Moss’ Broadway theatre in New York is due for a long run according to present indications. Seats are selling six weeks in advance.
Responsible for this popularity in a large measure is the excellence of the cast which includes Hope Williams, Frances Williams, Ann Pennington, Charles King, Marie Cahill, Robert Carle and those three master comedians, Lou Clayton, Eddie Jack-son, and Jimmy Durante.
Clever songs round out this excellent satirical extravaganza which was costumed by Peter Arno, whose drawings in the Nezu Yorker have always been so well appreciated. “Where Have You Been” is the most popular song-hit from the show. A very clever skit with Frances Williams and a male chorus at Reuben’s restaurant has a drinking song which is well done and invariably has an encore.
LEONARD CHOSEN FROSH CLASS PRESIDENT
Elections for officers of the Freshman class were held on December 10, 1930 with the following results: President, Russell J. Leonard; Vice-President, Frank X. Connelly; Secretary, John P. French; Treasurer, James V. Moscow.
Under the direction of the S. A. C. the ballots were counted before the students left for Christmas vacation and the results have just been released. The defeated nominees, respectively, were: John J. Locker, Jr.; Frank J. Sullivan; Thomas W. Oakes; and Thomas G. Vessels.
378
The Notre Dame Scholastic
i
UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCEMENTS
p
$
I i £
4 w
I i
I
£
Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, has received the following notices of scholarships and fellowship offered by universities. Further information about them may be obtained from his office in the Main building, or from the universities concerned.
YALE UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL
Seessel Fellowships for Research — Seessel fellowships, of the value of SI .500 each, are offered for original research in biological studies at Yale university. Competition for these fellowships is open to both men and women in the United States and other countries. In making the awards, preference is given to graduates of universities who have had such training and experience in research as is indicated by the degree of doctor of philosophy, and who have demonstrated by previous work their fitness to carry on successfully original research of a high order in one of the three departments of biological studies: physiology (including physiological chemistry), zoology, and botany.
Holders of Seessel fellowships are required to submit reports on their work, either at stated intervals or at the expiration of their fellowships; and when the results are published they are expected to give proper credit to the assistance they have received as Seessel fellows.
Applications for these and the following fellowships must be made to the Dean of the Graduate school, Yale university, New Haven. Connecticut, before March 1, and should be accompanied by: (1) an official transcript of the applicant’s academic record; (2) reprints of scientific publications by the applicant; (3) letters of recommendation; (4) a statement of the particular problem to be* investigated; (5) a recent photograph of the applicant.
Application blanks may be obtained from the office of the Yale Graduate school.
Alexander Brown Coxe Memorial Fellowships —One or more fellowships, carrying stipends not exceeding $2,500 a year. Additional small grants may be made to cover unusual expenditures necessitated by the investigations in progress. These fellowships are offered annually to investigators of promise in the biological sciences. Conditions and require-ments for applicants same as for Seessel fellowships.
Application forms may be obtained either from the office of the Graduate school or of the School of Medicine, Yale university.
Strathcona Memorial Fellowships in Transportation.—Five Strathcona Memorial fellowships in transportation, of $1,200 each, are offered annually for advanced work in transportation, with special reference to the con
struction, equipment, and operation of railroads, and other engineering problems connected with the efficient transportation of passengers and freight, as well as the financial and legislative questions involved. Transportation by water, highways, or airways, and the appropriate apparatus involved, and also other general aspects of the broad field of transportation, embracing its legal and economic phases, will be included in the lists of subjects which the fellows may select for investigation and study. The holder of a fellowship must be a man who has obtained his first degree from an institution of high standing. The primary purpose of the fellowship is to promote advanced work, especially research ; but it is possible to combine such work with the attainment of an advanced degree. In making the award, preference is shown, in accordance with the will of Lord Strathcona, to such persons or to the sons of such persons as have been, for at least two years, connected in some manner with the railways of the northwest.
Applications for these fellowships should be addressed to the dean of the Graduate school of Yale university, New Haven, Connecticut, before March 1, on blanks which may be obtained from him. Applicants must submit with their application a brief biography, a statement giving the reasons for desiring to pursue advanced work, and the subject contemplated for special study, and a certified record of their previous courses of study in college or technical school, and their standing therein. They should also submit testimonials bearing upon their qualifications. A recent photograph of the applicant is requested.
Bishop Museum Fellowships — Two fellowships, of the value of $2,000 each, are offered for study and research in anthropology, botany, zoology, geology, or geography. The fellowships are open to men and women, in the United States and other countries who hold the degree of doctor of philosophy or are far advanced in their work towards the degree. Preference is given to candidates who have already obtained the degree of doctoi- of philosophy or who have otherwise demonstrated their fitness to undertake original research.
The fellowships are primarily intended to promote scientific investigation within the Pacific ocean region. The results of all research must be submitted to the Bishop museum for publication.
Fellowships for Graduate Study in the Social Sciences. Cowles Fellowships in Government. —Four fellowships, of the value of $1,200, are offered for graduate study in government and political science. In awarding fellowships with the full stipend, preference will be given to candidates who have completed a substantial part of their graduate work. Occasional aw-ards of fellowships with a stipend of $800 will be granted to candidates whose record shows unusual scholarship as undergraduates in a broad study of government.
In addition to the Cowles fellowships, the Graduate school offers the Sterling fellowships, with stipends ranging from $1,000 to $2,500,
and the University fellowships, yielding $350 to $500, to qualified students in all branches of study including economics, sociology, and government. The Sterling fellowships are reserved in general for students who either have taken the degree of doctor of philosophy or are so far advanced toward that degree as to be able to devote substantially all their time to investigation..
Applications for all fellowships must be made upon specially prepared blanks not later than March 1. Inquiries should be directed to the Dean of the Graduate school of Yale university. New Haven, Connecticut.
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI GRADUATE
SCHOOL
The University of Missouri offers annually a number of fellowships, bearing a stipend of $600 each, to students that have successfully completed at least one year of graduate study.
To promising graduates of standard universities and colleges a large number of scholarships, bearing each an annual stipend of $300, are available.
These fellowships and scholarships are awarded to the applicants best qualified, irrespective of departments of specialization, in: biological and physical sciences, mathematics, engineering, philosophy, education, journalism, the social sciences, languages, literature, art, agricultural and medical sciences, and home economics.
Applications, in order to receive consideration for the academic year 1931-32, must be in the hands of the dean of the graduate faculty not later than March 2, 1931. For application blanks and further- information write to the Dean of the Graduate school, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri.
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA GRADUATE
FELLOWSHIPS
Open to graduates of any college or university :
Four Shevlin fellowships at $500, one each in the colleges of agriculture, chemistry, medicine. and science, literature, and the arts.
The duPont fellowship in chemistry at $750.
Four Caleb Dorr research fellowships in agriculture at $500 each.
The Clara H. Ueiand Memorial fellowship at $500, is open to graduate women whose interests are in politics and government.
Also teaching assistantships, and assistantships, with stipend ranging from $225 to $1,200, with remission of tuition in the Graduate school.
Applications for these fellowships must be made on or before March 1. Blank applications may be obtained from the Graduate school, £34 Administration building. University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
379
ihuit page
STATIC
Early in the year the University announced that a ban would be placed on all radios and similar contraptions which were possible interferences with the routine of study. The ban was a limited one, applying only to those whose academic averages were below a certain set mark. The presumption probably was that the student whose scholastic grade was sufficiently high to permit him to own and operate a machine would not be bothered with the shallow and even idiotic entertainment which makes up the greatei* portion of the programs broadcast over the air.
This University ruling, however, has been very loosely enforced, if not altogether forgotten. Perhaps the authorities have decided ■ that the students are of an age and mental development sufficient to allow them to use discretion in the choice of program and the hour of choosing. Possibly they came to the decision that the barring of machines which had cost the owners a rather high sum of money would not be just. Or maybe the conclusion was that the radio would provide a harmless and perhaps educational source of amusement during the winter months.
The unenforcement of the ban is a probable commendable action. But the promiscuous use to which some campus radio fanatics have put their machines is decidedly uncommendable. The corridors of some of the residence halls sound like a section of Bedlam at almost any hour of the day. When four or five of these instruments of torture are emitting their agonizing squawks from adjoining rooms and simultaneously, the effect is enough to drive any ordinary student with a fair amount of scholastic ambition into a frenzy.
For be it from us to advocate that the radio in the residence halls be again declared anathema. This would not be showing fair consideration to the men who use some discretion in the time they select to play their machines, and the volume with which they receive their broadcasts—also the few who have enough good taste to tune in on worthwhile programs. But it is about time that something be done to aid the poor unfortunates who are wakened every morning by the radio in the next room which is shouting out setting-up exercises to the
beat of a thumping piano. They cannot begin to study without having the greatest invention of the age transport the voice of some lunatic from hundreds of miles away, who is all excited because “His Baby Don’t Care For Clothes,” or something to that effect.
TOO MUCH IS ENOUGH
The choice of something or anything written by Shakespeare as a vehicle for the talents of the University players has proved to be a rather sad one. It is true that Shakespeare is the dean of all the dramatists; he is a master of tragedy and an expert in the handling of comedy. But there are others as interesting as he; playwrights who are giving us what everyone is looking for—originality in thought and freshness of method. Even the high schools are getting a little tired of the time-honored and extremely boring custom of thinking in terms of Shakespeare whenever the presentation of a play is considered.
Most universities in the country, even those poor in facilities and with only small groups of actors or prospective actors available, are finding themselves able to stage productions which reflect the progress that is going on in the field of the drama and satisfy the increasing interest in the stage. University theatres have been so perfected that they are able to give appreciative audiences productions that compare favorably with those of commercial theatre groups.
The University theatre has great potentialities. The only way to actualize them is to leave Shakespeare and the tendency to overstress his comedy alone for a good long time; to devote some of our energy to looking around at what is going on in the world of the theatre, and the rest of it to put what we learn into a setting that is at its best without Shakespeare. Washington hall can be made an adequate place for the presentation of dramas by some of the less lurid of the crop of modern playwrights and at the same time free a more or less sophisticated audience from the necessity of watching otherwise competent actors make a hash of action that can be handled well only by professionals who have devoted years to the study of Shakespeare.
380
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Q UESTIONNAIRE
Did your Christmas dance go over? Did the girl friend treat you right? Did they give you ties or money?
Is it true you got so tight?
QUICK WINKS
Monogram club candidates wondering whether they or their 6x18x1 oak paddles will be the first to crack . . . The four-inch fingernail which one. of our queerest as-, sociates has been cultivating ... To raise it, proudly claims this modern “Jack the Ripper,” took as much time and lovi.ng care as the growth of his miniature moustache ... It must have been handy for opening envelopes, at that . . . The gent living on our right, who so kindly helped us out with a little verse in this issue, is collaborating with us on the scenario for a sequel to George Arliss’ “Old English” . . . The title is “Young Yiddish” and will probably star Benny Rubin . . . He got the idea while trying on his first derby . . . Bill Sullivan telling admiring audiences about the Christmas trip to the tropic with College Humor's ball team ... Joe Thornton, the actor-chappie of “Twelfth Night” fame, who made good in that football game out on the coast . . . Club treasurers about to quit congratulating club presidents on what a success the Christmas dance was and starting to worry about the financial report to be turned into the prefect of discipline’s office . . . Umpty-ump more days until Easter ... We shall give another report as soon as the boys from Howard hall rush in breathlessly with the exact figures.
ODE TO MORPHEUS
When evening creeps upon the restless land, And man retires to soothe his weary mind, Thou, god immortal, on him shoiver kind, Refreshing kisses and with gentle hand Stroke troubles from his broiv, and waft his soul To valleys of enchanted sleep zvhere all
Is quiet and serene. It is purple
Where pleasures, cares, lose interest and pall— Relief from troubles ere the rising sun Releases man to burden sore his mind.
O, god of sleep, thy work is never done Till thou hast seen the last of all mankind.
—Alabaster.
—o—
As we have remarked before, we can’t win. Just when we had attached a few loyal contributors, a slip of the typewriter occurred in the last issue which may bereave us of the highly valued services of two of them. In typing out the column we inadvertently omitted the name of Bishop M. beneath “To A Newsboy,” and that of Canaras after “The Blind Man and the Sinner.” The fellows over at the office put a name to one and left the other unsigned.
Sorry. Sometimes we think we’ll give it all up and go around striking little children or start selling apples or something. But if the Bishop and Canaras forgive and forget and you, dear public, (and you and you and you) will send in a little more poetry and such (ours has all run out) an arrangement will be made with the graduate manager of publications to hold a contributors’ banquet at the end of the year in the best hamburger joint in town. Obey that impulse—contribute to the Wink!
We remember, ah yes, how sadly we remember, when back in the dear dead past we would come back from the Christmas vacation as a freshman, sophomore, or junior, and listen enviously to the tales our classmates spun of the rollicking misdeeds they had perpetrated during the holidays. It seems that everyone at least had either had one auto accident or had fallen in love. We were a pretty nice little guy then, and just used to sit back and take it all in. We didn’t believe any of it, but always gave our polite attention as a matter of policy. But now we’re different. We merely fix the boyish prattlers with our best cynical smile and inquire cooly, “Listen, did any of you guys ever lead the grand march at your club dance?” If that doesn’t stop them, we go on to describe what a devilish figure we cut and what a good time was had by all. We never mention the fact that all the other officers were absent.
POEM ADDRESSED TO ONE
IGNATIUS LOYOLA GILHOOLEY
Ignatius Loyola Gilhooley,
Your parents mistreated you cruelly,
Believe me, they did, To give their own kid Such a name which must follow “Yours truly.”
—Moomoo.
Have you seen the percentage column ? Good old Walsh, after producing the championship interhall football team, goes right out and cops the campus laurels for the scholastic averages. What manner of men are these? The Carnegie Foundation should be notified immediately. We await only the report of Father O’Hara in the religious bulletin to award the physical, mental, and moral supremacy of the campus, and maybe even one o’clock lights, to these super-men of Walsh hall.
Look what our erstwhile pal, Danny Williams, has gone and done in his College Parade on the page opposite. We haven’t seen it yet, but he’s given us the general idea. It’s tough to be shown up in public like this. We were getting tired of doing this column, but thought we’d stick till the semester, anyway. But now—oh, the shame of it all. Comparison, truly thy name is odious.
—The Beamy Bard.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
381
COLLEGE PALACE
THE ELINE
Heave a sigh for the Beamy Bard And all his foolish capers, To get your chuckles he works hard But we just clip the papers!
QUICK BLINKS
The remark of Dean Mandell of Yale that conversation has declined because the old fashioned beer-garden is no more . . . the recent debate at Michigan in which the men defeated the co-eds . . . the subject was: “Eesolved, that girls are not human beings” . . . the gloom of the Southern California Trojan the Monday after the disaster . . . The Amherst practice of betting on the number of the hymn to be sung in chapel . . . University of Nebraska’s new school for cheer-leaders . . . The recent drought, which caused Hood college to permit only one bath a week . . . Savage school, where the girls must take a bath every day . . . probably some big soap tycoon on the board . . . Cornell’s decision that women are mentally equal to men . . . Well, that’s where Cornell and Michigan disagree . . . Wesleyan college, Connecticut, which wants to change, its name . . . reason: too many colleges with the same name . . . Worst Blink of all: the abuse heaped on College Parade by irate Blue Circle chairman of Seton Hall college . . . He didn’t like the crack made about his organization . . . says Blue Circle is a great organization . . . practically made Seton Hall . . . tsk, tsk, we’ll sick Ed Madden on them!
racket yet reported was put on by the Lit, Yale’s literary periodical. Arouet claims that the Lit published advertisements for 11 local speakeasies in the last issue. Eacketeering is playing such an important part in Yale undergraduate life that the Dramatic club’s autumn play was “The Eacket,” and The Harkness Hoot, another publication, recently published a survey of the local racketeering situation. Now that Juggler Editor Dempsey is producing his “Eacket” number of the Juggler, The Blink suspects that (1) Bugs Moran will draw the cover; (2) that all the Juggler salesmen will short-change the unwary purchasers; and (3) the editor will go in for blackmail in his Campus Chatter column.
The depression has even wandered into the wilderness of Southern Indiana. Stop-Light, columnist of the Indiana Daily Student, mourns thus:
“There’s no need trying to economize on tobacco during the depression, we find. We used to spend S1.25 per week for fags and they handed out matches to light them with. Now we have adopted a pipe, and we spend thirty cents pei- week for tobacco and §1.50 for matches.”
“Twenty-eight students will be graduaetd from a course in table-waiting Thursday. The final examinations in the waiter’s course will be given under the direction of Mrs. Jane Kennedy of the Home Economics department at that time. It will include tests in setting and serving tables as well as written questions.”
—Ohio State Lantern.
TO A HAT
I know not where thou art;
I only know
That thou wert on the hook as clean
And pure as snow.
And as I turned my head to eat
What was in my plate
Some heartless wretch just grabbed You while I ate.
I knoiv not who he was, nor shall I ask;
I’m not so dumb,
Perchance it may have been The guy I stole it from.
—Syracuse Daily Orange.
■ Arouet, the Walter Winchell of the Yale Daily News recently announced that racketeering is growing rapidly on the New Haven campus. Possibly the most naive
OUR EPITAPH
Here’s the end of Joe Bikkle Whose love for likker was fikkle;
He never did thinkke
When he took up a drinkke, He just liked to hear it trikkle.
—The Pennsylvanian.
Public censure at student assemblies will be the punishment for coeds caught necking at Ferris institute, according to drastic rules laid down by President Wells D. Wliite. President White told the students that while he had no objection to a co-ed “admiring a good, red-blooded man,” that admiration must be kept off the campus. “Students are here primarily to study academic courses,” he said.
College Parade requests all readers to turn to the Wink across the page, and watch the Beamy Bard, the one-man show, prove his superiority to this All-Collegiate line-up of college columnists. Hey, hey, Beamy Bard, hey, hey.
382
The Notre Dame Scholastic
< I J CLUEJ
SCHOOLS
Speaker at the last meeting of the FRENCH club was Professor Benjamin Dubois, his subject “French and Canadian Schools.” Educated at Ottawa university in Canada, Professor Dubois was able to give the members a first hand comparison between the educational system there and in France.
quainted with the newer men, interests various cities in Notre Dame activities. Most important of these is the first. It is easy, especially in a large city, to lose track of campus acquaintances. This condition the club Christmas dance remedies.	-
Comment of the average student on his club’s dance: “Boy, was it a brawl!”
AFTERMATH
“A complete success . . . greatest dance in the club’s history . . . thanks to the chairman and committees . . . big crowd . . . attractive decorations.”
Thus did the average club secretary sum up his club’s annual Christmas dance. Most club officers found that a national championship football team with its accompanying publicity is an invaluable aid to the success of a dance wherever it may be. Officers, chairmen, committeemen may labor for weeks without making the affaii- the success that football can make it.
Since September club meetings have discussed little except the plans for their dances. Club banquets, smokers, bowling tournaments and other activities were allowed to pass almost unnoticed. Orchestras were dealt with; halls were haggled over; patrons were solicited. At last, during the past two weeks, campus clubmen could look with satisfaction upon their work, could dance through crowded ballrooms, listening to comments of their (paying, of course) guests. Most comments were favorable.
Statistics: Largest dance, as ever, was that of the CHICAGO club (some 700 couples); smallest, surprisingly, was that of the newly formed EAST PENN club (only 50 couples). Least expensive dance was that of the GRAND RAPIDS club ($1.50); DETROIT, INDIANAPOLIS, NEW JERSEY were most expensive (all $6.00). DETROIT, EAST PENN, VILLAGERS’, WABASH VALLEY stopped earliest (one o’clock) while AUBURN, CLEVELAND, METROPOLITAN lasted until three. Wisest group was the GRAND RAPIDS club which had one public dance, a private one later for members and their guests.
Orchestra: Noteworthy were the Notre Dame dances of 1930 for their orchestras. Among the nineteen clubs which sponsored dances, five hired nationally known, recording bands. Besides Notre Dame’s football advertising, the following orchestras attracted dancers during the Christmas season: Johnny Hamp and Tweet Hogan at the Chicago club, Jack Chapman at the CLEVELAND club, Bert Lown at the METROPOLITAN club, Ted Weems of the MINNESOTA club, Tom Gerun at the VILLAGERS’ club.
Significance of every Christmas dance lies in the fact that it brings men together at home who know each other only on the campus, gives alumni a chance to become ac-
HOT AIR .
Two weeks before the Christmas recess the MINNESOTA club informed this page that it planned to charter two airplanes to hurry impatient Minnesotans home for the holidays. Before the time came, however, the same Minnesotans, more conservative, decided upon a slower, surer special train.
SURPRISE
Surprise of the Christmas season was the small crowd at the dance of the EAST PENN club. The explanation is simple. Villa Marie, a Pennsylvania girls’ school, happened to be having a dance the same evening. Even this might not have lured the crowd away from the EAST PENN dance had it not been for the fact that the Villa Maria dance was free. Only some fifty couples preferred to pay $3.50.
PICTURES
Taking of club group pictures for this year’s Dome will continue until January 27, according to Editor Paul J. Hallinan. In order to speed up the work three pictures will be taken every day until then instead of two as has been the custom in the past. The schedule for the coming week is this:
Monday, January 12—Commerce forum, Press club, A. I. E. E.	.	’
Tuesday, January 13—Law club, A. S. M. E., Academy of Science. •
Wednesday, January 14—Spanish club, Italian club, Classical association.
Thursday, January 15—Physical Education club, Boy Guidance.	.
Friday, January 16—Knights of Columbus, Monogram club.
All members of these organizations are to be in the gymnasium at 12:20 dressed as neatly as possible. Cards have been sent to all club secretaries who are to announce the date for the taking of the picture at their club meetings. It is the duty of the club officers to see that a representative group is in the gymn for the picture.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Cagers Defeat Ohio State By 27-24
SPLIT EVEN IN HOLIDAY
GAMES; N. U. FIVE TAKE TWO
Staging a brilliant rally in the closing minutes of the game, Notre Dame copped a close decision from Ohio State university Tuesday night by a 27 to 24 score. The Buckeyes started slowly but forged to the front on long shots to hold the lead till late in the battle. Norb Crowe played a leading* role in the Blue and Gold’s come-back with a brace of field goals, while Newbold and DeCook contributed one each in the last four minutes.
Notre Dame grasped an early lead when Bill Newbold and Ray DeCook dropped baskets in the first minutes. Lively,* Larkins, and Hinchman came back with five points to take the lead and the game tightened into a nip-and-tuck battle. The lead changed hands three times before the half which ended with Ohio State holding a 12 to 11 advantage.
Opening the second half DeCook scored three points and the Blue and Gold was once more in front. Fesler and Lively gave the Buckeyes a three-point margin with five minutes left to play. Here Crowe re-entered the game and Notre Dame came back. First Crowe, then DeCook, Crowe again and finally Newbold registered field goals and the Blue and Gold was in front to stay. Tommy Burns’ de-
fensive play	was	a feature of the
game. The score: Notre Dame, G	27 F p	Ohio State, 24 G F P
Newbold, f 3	2 2	Ervin, f	10 0
Crowe, f	2	1 0	Hinchman, £303
Gavin, f	1	0 0	Lively, f	3 4 0
Koken, f	0	0 0	Russell, c	0 0 2
DeCook, c 4	1 0	Paulsey. c 0 0 1
Baldwin, g 1	1 0	Larkins, g 10 1
Burns, s	0	0 0	Mattison, g 0 0 0
	 .		 		Fesler, g	2 0 2
Totals	11	o 5	Totals	10 4 9
Referee: Kearns (Chicago).
Umpire: Schommer (Chicago).
Northwestern 20; Notre Da.aie 17 January 3, 1931
A revamped, fighting Notre Dame basketball team came within an ace of gaining revenge on Northwestern last Saturday at Evanston, Illinois, but the Purple cagers finally squeezed out a 20 to 17 triumph. Northwestern, playing before a home crowd, was facing defeat until Joe Reiff came through in the closing minutes to snatch the game from the Blue and Gold with a trio of field goals.
Brilliant play by Tommy Burns and Chuck Jaskwich had held Reiff scoreless during the entire evening before he staged his rally. The Blue and Gold guards had kept the Purple star under the closest kind of watch by their superb defensive work.
Notre Dame stepped out to an early lead but Northwestern closed the gap before the half and the intermission came with the score tied 6 to 6. Opening the second half, Northwestern gained a brief advantage that faded before a Notre Dame rally which put the Big Ten representatives three points to the bad. Here Reiff did his act and the scoring was over.
Notre Dame played a_ greatly improved brand of basketball over that of the previous Northwestern game and up till the final minutes had captured most of the honors.
Score:
Notre Dame, 17
Crowe, f Gavin, f Newbold, f
De Cook, c Butorac, c Baldwin, g Johnson, g
Burns, g Jaskwich, g
G F P 0 0 2 0 2 1 2 1 -1 2 2 3 0 0 0 10 3 0 0 0 10 4 0 0 3
Totals
Northwestern, 20
G f p
Riel, f	2	0	0
Reiff, f	3	0	2
McCarnes.	c	0	1	4
Johnson, c 021
Marshall, g	2	0	1
Smith, g 110
6 5 20 Totals 8 4 8
Notre Dame 24; III. Wesleyan 17 December 30, 1930
Led by Bill Newbold and Norb Crowe, Notre Dame’s rejuvenated bas-
(Turn to Next Page)
CAGERS TO MEET WABASH TONIGHT; MARQUETTE
NEXT TUESDAY
A tough assignment faces Coach Keogan’s basketeers next Tuesday night when they will meet the strong quintet from Marquette university. The Hilltoppers have been going full blast so far this season. Their most important victory has been over the powerful Wisconsin university five, which they set back by the close score of 16-14.
The Marquette team is under a new coaching regime. William Chandler, an all-western star from Wisconsin has begun his first year as mentor under the Marquette banner.
Marquette university is represented by an experienced squad. Four lettermen and one sophomore compose the varsity five. The lone newcomer is Joe Fitzgerald, left forward. The quintet is rounded out with Captain Joe King and Al Shipley, guards; Walter (Whitey) Budrunas, center, and Frank (Tiny) McElligott, forward.
Three of the regulars, Captain King, Fitzgerald, and McElligott, leaped from their football uniforms into cage togs and it appears that the three are as fast and eagle-eyed on the hardwood as they proved to be on the gridiron.
This evening Coach Keogan takes his men to Crawfordsville, Ind., where they will clash with the fast-stepping quintet of Wabash college. Pete Vaughn, a former football and’basketball star of Notre Dame, is coach of the down-state aggregation. Vaughn has two real threats in Chase and Howell. It will take plenty of close guarding to keep these two scoring aces from breaking loose.
Coach George Keogan wishes to call attention to the fact that two changes have been made in the basketball schedule which appeared in the December 12 issue of the Scholastic. The changes are: February 3,Indiana, there; February 13, Wabash, here.
384
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAGERS DEFEAT O. STATE
(Continued from Page 383)
ketball team handed Illinois Wesleyan a 24 to 17 beating on the losers’ floor December 30. Bill Newbold and Norb Crowe, forwards, turned in a classy exhibition of basket shooting to cop scoring honors with eight points each.
The superiority of the Notre Dame team was apparent throughout the evening as their improved form carried them along well in front for most of the game. The only serious threat from the Little Nineteen eagers came late in the battle when the result was' practically assured.
One of the features of the Blue and Gold play was the appearance of Joe Gavin in the role of guard. The diminutive ex-forward was shifted to hold down the post occupied by Crowe in the. Penn game. The losers’ total of three field goals speaks well for the defensive play off Notre Dame.
On your radio tonight... listen to Loma Fantin, famous numerologist. She’ll tell you how names and dates affect success in business, love or marriage. A real radio thrill. WBBM at 8 o’clock Saturday
CENTRAL STANDARD TIME
Notre Dame, 31
jp t*. Lorillard Co., lne«
OLD GOLD
RADIO PROGRAM
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Qmnlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
The score:
Notke Dame, 24 c F T
Crowe, f	4 0 8
Newbold, f	4 0 8
Baldwin, f	10 2
DeCook, c	113
Johnson, g	Oil
Gavin, g	10 2
Totals 11 2 24
III. Wesleyan, 17 G	F	T
Meehan, f	2	2	6
Rodman, f	0 11
Anderson, f	0	2	2
Presley, c	13	5
Callans, g	0	2	2
Mercer, g	Oil
Totals	3 11 17
Notre Dame 31; Pennsylvania 19 December 19, 1930
In its fourth game of the year Notre Dame met and decisively defeated the University of Pennsylvania net squad on December 19, in the University gymnasium. The score of ‘31-19 hardly tells a true story of the game. The Blue and Gold let loose a whirlwind attack in the opening minutes of play which fairly smothered the Quakers, and not once during the game did they relinquish their lead.
Newbold and DeCook, playing their usual brilliant game, were the center of the Notre Dame offensive, contributing 13 and 11 points respectively. The local defense, in addition, functioned better than ever before this season.
Notre Dame led at the half by 15-7 and added three more points early in the second period before the Penn boys could score. From this point out the victor was never in doubt.
A revamped Notre Dame lineup took the floor at the start of the game. Norb Crowe was in a guard position and Schumakei- replaced him at forward. Twelve men saw action in the game and an entire reserve team was playing when the timer’s gun ended the activities.
The score:
G F P
Newbold, f	5 3	2
Schumaker,	f 0 0	1
DeCook, c	4 3	0
Crowe, g	0	0	2
Johnson, g	10	3
Gavin, f	0	0	3
Baldwin, f	10	1
Jaskwich, g	1	0	0
Staab, g	0	10
Koken, f	0	0	0
Buterac, c	0	0	1
Teters, f	0	0	1
Pennsylvania, 19 G f p
Ullrich, f	2 10
Peterson, f	0 0 4
Sanders, c	113
McNiff, g	0 12
Tanseer, g	112
Prager, f	3 0 2
Hale, f	0 10
Totals 12 7 14
Totals
7 5 13
Purdue 34; Notre Dame 22 December 15,1930
Notre Dame lost its opening road game of the year on December 15, bowing to a strong Purdue squad by a 34-22 score. The Big Ten champs,
centering their attack around Johnny Wooden, their all-American guard, fairly dazzled Coach Keogan’s men, who could not stop the Boilermaker flash.
Wooden’s efforts for the evening amounted to 21 points, just one less than the Blue and Gold total. He registered from all angles and his mates never failed to feed the ball to him when the opportunity presented.
Despite the thoroughness of their defeat, Notre Dame showed improvement over their previous game against Northwestern. They worked in for frequent short shots but failed to capitalize on their chances at the basket.
Gavin, DeCook, and Johnson bore the brunt of the Notre Dame attack, the latter two counting seven points apiece while the flashy little forward accounted for two field goals.
The game was witnessed by a ca-* pacity crowd of 4,000.
The score:
Notre Dame, 22				Purdue, 34 G		F	p
	G	F	p				
Gavin, f	2	0	2	Eddy, f	0	0	1
Crowe, f	0	0	0	Porter, f	0	1	2
Newbold, f	0	1	1	Kellar, f	2	1	3
Schumaker,	f 0	1	0	Tilford, f	1	0	0
Koken, f	0	0	1	Stewart, c	2	0	3
•DeCook, c	2	3	3	Wooden, g	9	3	2
Schrader, c Staab, g Baldwin, g Johnson, g Farris, g Jaskwich, g	1 0 0 3 0 0	0 0 0 1 0 0	0 0 0 1 1 0	Snyder, g	0	1	0
Totals 8 6 9 Totals 14 6 11
Northwestern 44; Notre Dame 29 December 12,1930
It was just a case of too much Joe Reiff, Northwestern’s sophomore star, in Notre Dame’s second start of the 1930-31 season. The only newcomer on the Wildcats’ veteran cage squad, Reiff did not wait long to show that he was perfectly at home with his more experienced mates. Twelve points, the result of four field goals and four free-throws, represented his work of the first half which ended with N. U. on the long end of a 24-19 count.
Notre Dame had held the lead only for a few moments early in this period and the men of Coach Lonborg pulled away as play progressed. Near the end of the half the brilliant floor work and shooting of Jack Baldwin and Clay Johnson started a Notre Dame rally which was continued after the rest period and finally brought the score to 29-27 with ten minutes of the game remaining.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
385
At this point Reiff, now playing at forward, broke loose again and counted fourteen consecutive points before the timer’s klaxon ended the struggle.
The score:
Notre Dame, 29 Northwestern, 44
	c f r	G	F	p
Crowe, f	2 10	McCarnes. f 3	1	2
Newbold, f	12 0	Reil. f	2	2	3
DeCook, c	3 0 4	Reiff, c	10	6	1
Johnson, g	3 0 2	Lockhart, g 1	3	1
Farris, g	0 0 0	Marshall, g 0	0	2
Baldwin, g	3 0 3	Whelan, f 0	0	0
Schumaker,	f 0 0 2	Johnson, c 0	0	0
Gavin, f	10 1	Farber, g 0	0	0
Jaskwich, g	0 0 0			
Butorac, c	0 0 0			
Staab, g	0 0 1			
		 „ __	—	—	—-
Totals	13 3 13	Totals	16	11	9
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE FOR 1931 LISTS FORMER
OPPONENTS
“If you succeed, try, try, again,” must be the creed of Knute K. Rockne if the 1931 schedule for the Notre Dame football team can be taken as a criterion. The “Vital Viking,” as our California friends have it, has lined up every team on the 1930 schedule with the exception of Southern Methodist for his new schedule, which, though unofficial, is considered correct. The potential victims are: Indiana, Northwestern, Drake, Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Navy, Pennsylvania, Southern California, and Army.
The schedule for the past season was rightly termed “suicide,” but it looks as though it might take a pretty fair team to go through the 1931 card and still remain in an organized state. With Northwestern’s western conference champions scheduled for the second game, and with Southern California, Navy, Carnegie Tech, and Army to be met in succession, it seems as though the boys are in for a few lively Saturdays.
Five of the nine games are to be played on the road. The home games are Drake, Pitt, Penn, and Southern California. Northwestern was originally signed to appear in the Notre Dame stadium, but the game was changed to Soldier Field and the additional revenue that will result from the larger seating capacity was given to Indiana and Illinois charities by the two universities. Pitt, Penn, and Southern California will make then-first appearances at Notre Dame when they came here next fall. All three are big drawing cards, but Southern California should cause the greatest demand for tickets. The Trojans will be the most colorful, and probably the
most powerful team that has ever appeared at Notre Dame.
Drake is the only team that could possibly be associated with the word “breather,” but in the light of their last performance here the distinction seems clear enough.
ALL-STARS WIN AND LOSE IN CHARITY GAMES
Echoes of the “fall of Troy” rang across the gridiron of the Los Angeles coliseum as a band of Notre Dame all-stars, led by the giant fullback, Joe Savoldi, took the measure of a West-South all-star team, 20-7, on Saturday, December 27. Sixty-five thousand spectators witnessed the game staged by the Elks’ club of Los Angeles for the benefit of California charities.
The South Benders, captained by the all-American quarterback, Frank Carideo, had little difficulty in disposing of the eleven led by Russ Saunders, former U. S. C. star. Savoldi scored first during the third minute of play on a brilliant dash of 56 yards, and again on a 34-yard jaunt near the end of the quarter. Carideo added both extra points.
In the fourth quarter Savoldi added the final marker for the Rockets on a short plunge. Saunders scored the West-South touchdown on a long pass from Apsit, and then added the extra point.
Players who made the trip were: Carideo, Brill, Elder, Savoldi, Metzger, Kassis, McManmon, Cannon, Twomey, Parisien, Vezie, and Veo-disch, of Notre Dame, and Glen Harmeson of Purdue. The team was coached by Heartley Anderson, line coach at Notre Dame.
Benny Friedman, and his New-York Giants won a lop-sided victory over a Notre Dame ex-star team, led by the Four Horsemen, 22-0, in a charity game played in New York City, December 14. The ex-stars were in poor condition and displayed little organization, failing to even register a first down.
Friedman, all-American quarterback from Michigan, scored two of the Giants’ touchdowns and added one extra point.
The Notre Dame team was composed chiefly of the members of the 1924 national championship team, although such later stars as Cannon, Twomey, Moynihan, Carideo, O’Connor, Vezie and Elder got in the game.
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
j Residence	Office |
। Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 |
I	I
| Dr. Edgar	S. Lucas I
[	Dentist	i
l	।
?	»
I	702 J. M. S. Building	|
I	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA |
1	!
----—----------------- ——■+
386
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“FOOTBALL REVIEW” HAS LARGE CAMPUS SALE;
EDITORS PRAISED
The 1930 official Football Review made its appearance on the campus just before the Christmas holidays with an attractive cover containing a picture of Coach Rockne in gold on a deep maroon background. It is a clever piece of work that has received ■ much favorable comment.
Pictures of the various players together with short sketches of theii-football activities at Notre Dame are an annual feature. Each of the departments connected with the team from the managers to the equipment men received short articles. The forewords by Coach Rockne and Captain Conley and the editor’s preface pays homage to 1920’s national champions.
Warren Brown’s article on the press-box as well as Frank Wallace’s story on “Has Notre Dame Changed?” were commented upon favorably in various sources.
Reprinting Lawrence Perry’s article on Notre Dame football will bring home to many the fact that there is more to the University than merely a football team.
Selected stories on the various
STARTS SAT. ■	THRU TUES
--------1	THEATRE VW |-----:----
With her eyes, her brains, her lips .... She plots revenge on the man who ruined.her life.
In the talking version of Bayard Veiler’s successful stage play, “Within the Law”
-----ADDED----
PARAMOUNT
SOUND NEWS
games were reprinted. As the Riss-man trophy was presented before the Review went to press, the story of the the presentation, which established beyond a doubt the right of the University to the title of national champions, was told.
The story of Bert McGrane of the DesMoines Tribune, “Eloquent Silence,” received the most favorable comment.
Editor Joseph Petritz and his assistants, Dick Donoghue, Tom Kassis, and Gus Bondi, have produced, in the minds of the critics, the finest Review since its origin several years ago.
BILL SULLIVAN STARS ON XMAS BASEBALL TRIP
While the majority of the students were enjoying Christmas vacation at home, there was one who was carrying the name of Notre Dame to the vicinity of Panama and Cuba. This young man was none other than Bill Sullivan of Walsh hall, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Sullivan was chosen to represent Notre Dame on the College Humor all-star baseball team, composed of the men from various colleges and universities, who in the opinion of the athletic author
“PAID”
A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Picture with Robt. Montgomery
And for the Dedication of our Organ we present JOE ALEXANDER Metropolitan guest organist at the console of the Colfax Wonder Organ.
ities of the school, was considered the outstanding player on his nine last season. Bill played first base for the All-Stars and besides giving a classy exhibition of fielding around the initial sack, he clouted a circuit blow’ in the final game of the three game series. The first game, which was played at Panama, was won by the All-Stars, as w’ere the other two. The score of the initial contest was 4-2. The remaining games played with the Cuban Telephone Company team, resulted in 3-2, and 13-4 victories for the collegians.
CARIDEO TO COACH AT PURDUE UNIVERSITY
Frank Carideo announced his acceptance of a position as assistant coach at Purdue university during a reception in his honor at his home in Mt. Vernon, New York, last Monday. This is the first official statement of his acceptance although such had been rumored on the campus for several days prior to the beginning of the holidays.
Frank becomes first assistant to Noble Kizer, one of the Seven Mules of 1924, who has just completed his first year as head coach of the Boilermaker institution.
-----ADDED---
VITAPHONE
SOUND VODVIL
The Notre Dame Scholastic	387
BULLETIN ON HURLEY
COMMERCE COLLEGE OUT
A bulletin on the Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce has recently been published by the University. The bulletin is in the form of a catalogue containing all the details of Mr. Hurley’s recent gift, including his letter of donation. Letters of congratulation from the Apostolic Delegate, His Excellency Pietro Fumasoni-Biondi; the Right Reverend H. C. Boyle, Bishop of Pittsburgh; Herbert Hoover, President of the United States; Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the Interior; James J. Davis, Secretary of Labor; Charles F. Adams, Secretary of the Navy; Calvin Coolidge, ex-President of the United States, and well-known business men, are in the front of the bulletin.
The catalogue contains a list of the courses leading to the various degrees. A history of Notre Dame; articles by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion; the Reverend Thomas F. Lahey, C.S.C. and all the other features of the University’s regular annual catalogue are also included.
‘DOME’ SPORT SECTION TO
OFFER NEW FEATURES
Neil N. Hurley, sports editor of this year’s Dome announces that the football section is practically completed. Editor Hurley has kept his entire staff, consisting of William Corr, Sanguinet Williams, Edward Stephan, John Conley, and Irving B. Halper, busy since the start of the past football season writing features and articles on every one from the water boys and trainers to Coach Rockne. In addition there will be pictures of the players and of action photos of various games.
Sanguinet Williams has been appointed to cover the present basketball season.
This year’s sports section will be entirely new and boasts of several important additions and innovations to past annuals.
DECEMBER “ALUMNUS”
FEATURES CHAMPIONS
The December edition of the Notre Dame Alumnus appeared during the Christmas recess. Considerable space is given over to the praises, pictures, and receptions of the 1930 national
champions. Along different, yet interesting lines, is an ai-ticle entitled “Fifteen Minutes With Gilbert K. Chesterton,” in which several amusing impressions of the famous Englishman are given.
FROSH TRACK TEAM GOOD
Coaches John Nicholson and Edward “Spike” England, in talking of the 1930 edition of the frosh track team, said in an interview last week that the present squad is most promising. “The relay teams will be exceptionally strong,” said Nicholson, “for there are several lads who are good in the 220, 440, half-mile, and mile events. These men together with the hold-overs of this year’s team will continue to make Notre Dame relay teams ever prominent.”
PAYMENT OF BILLS
Accounts for the second semester may be paid any time after January 15, according to an announcement issued by Mrs. Mary Beyer, secretary of the University, and posted about the campus the first part of the week. The amount of the individual accounts may be secured at the office of the secretary.
I
The Beautiful
Gvancidci Saturday
SCRIP
Notre Dame's Literary Quarterly
Now On Sale
RICHARD
BARTHELMESS
Dick as every fan wants to see him! in THE
"CLASH”
He broke a vow of love to fulfill an oath of hate! Tender romance building to climaxes of drama. It will lash your emotions—and your curiosity	:
Wednesday thru Friday ....
A Whole Jungle Full of Laughs!
Its a hot time in Africa when Cohen and Kelly are turned loose in the jungle. You’ll chortle and cheer. :	:	:	:
George SIDNEY
Charlie MURRAY
388
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
THE ERSKINE AWARD
Our own Fighting Irish have won the right to retain possession of the Erskine trophy for another year, and Coach Knute Rockne has been presented with another Studebaker President. Two hundred and sixty-one votes for Notre Dame, five for Alabama, and none at all for Southern California, was the result of the final ballot published last week. A year ago when the Blue and Gold received 171 votes to win by nearly one hundred, the majority was thought to be remarkable. Now, after adding ten more victories to the original nine, only five of the 266 critics still remained unconvinced. Of these five, four* hail from states south of the Ohio; the fifth from our neighboring state, Illinois. The preliminary vote which placed Southern California in third place ahead of Washington State, despite its two defeats by Washington State and Notre Dame, was interesting but served chiefly to swing all of the Coast votes to Notre
Dame. Had the boys from Pullman been on the ballot for the final vote, there would, no doubt, have been many loyal far-westerners who would have stuck by their champions.
ALABAMA 24; WASH. STATE 0.
Who would have thought it? The men of Coach Wallace Wade seemed to be trying to give the Coasters the surprise of their lives in double doses. At that, though, we believe the inhabitants from over the Rockies were prepared for anything after December 6. The Southerners are probably quite chesty over their Crimsons now, and rightly so, for theirs is a good team; It was interesting to note, however, that within 24 hours after the Rose Bowl victory was written into the records stories emanating from the south placed Alabama on at least an even basis with Notre Dame, and in some cases rated them better, even though they played an entirely sectional schedule, excepting the postseason game with the Cougars.
One article declared the teams evenly matched on the basis of the schedules played and proceeded to compare the two, game for game, from the opening game to the last, giving a point to the team who conquered the stronger opponent in the first game,, then in the second, and so on.
The final game of the season was, perhaps, the most interesting for each team. It resulted in a 24-0 victory for* Alabama over Washington State, and a 27-0 victory for Notre Dame over Southern California. Despite the fact that Southern Cal. is generally recognized to be stronger than their western neighbors, even though defeated by them by a 7-6 margin early in the season, and despite the fact that Washington State was invited to play in the Rose Bowl only after- the Trojans declined to participate, Alabama was given the vote for having beaten the stronger of the two opponents. This vote brought the standing to five points for each team.
TWO-MILE RELAYS.
Coach John P. Nicholson has his track stars hard at work again in preparation for the 1931 season which is scheduled to open early next month.
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
>	FIRST NATIONAL BANK
I
I	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
E
1 ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS
।	BANK
I ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST
I	COMPANY
I
I UNION TRUST COMPANY E
■	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
1	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
I
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS
I	BANK
K
I
I »—— ■ ———.......................
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
E I E
E I
I I E
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
E
§ I I I s I 1
E I E
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A two-mile relay team again seems to be “Nick’s” best bet in the indoor invitational meets in the east. Three men from the team which set a new record in Madison Square Gardens last year are back again and only Captain Joe Abbott must be replaced. Joe Quigley is beginning his third year of varsity competition and it should be his best. Alex Wilson should reach near* the peak of his already brilliant career this season though only a junior, and with an-othei* year of college racing. During the past summer he annexed the 440-yard championship of the British Empire, at Hamilton, Ontario, running against picked stars from all over the great domain of King George. Brant Little, his fellow Canadian, is dependable and when pressed can be counted upon to stay up with the leaders. The fourth place, at present, is open, with a large number of candidates trying out for it. From a spectator’s point of view, Mickey Macbeth, another Canadian Olympic star, seems to have an inside track for the place. He has been working long and diligently and seems to be fully recovered from an ankle injury which bothered him last fall. Three weeks of practice, how
ever, may find the place occupied by any one of a half-dozen men including: Troy, Tuohy, Rudd, Scanlan, Bradley, and others.
CARIDEO STARS IN BASKETBALL GAME FOR CHARITY
With more than 11,000 enthusiasts jamming the Coliseum in Chicago, a picked team flaring the banners of Walsh hall of Notre Dame went down to defeat before the Knights of Columbus All-Stars of Chicago when a belated rally gave the Windy city team a four-point advantage to bring the score to 24-20 as the game ended.
Frank Carideo was seen as the outstanding performer in the Notre Dame lineup. His shooting was instrumental in giving’ his team a 9 to 6 lead at half time. As the allAmerican quarterback appeared on the floor clad in the scanty basketball attire the large crowd thundered a mighty ovation and cheered his every move throughout the game.
Two other games between Catholic high schools of Chicago rounded out the program, the proceeds of- which went to charity.
389
VETERAN ATHLETES LAUD CARIDEO AND N. D.
The Veteran Athletes of Philadelphia, who each year single out what they consider to be the most outstanding performances in the world of sport, have picked Frank Carideo, Notre Dame’s two-time All-American quarterback, as the best football player of the 1930 season. The Notre Dame team was also chosen national champion and will be awarded the Bonniwell trophy in recognition of the honor.
Two other awards in the realm of football were made to Leonard Macaluso, Colgate university fullback, as high scorer of the nation, and to the Colgate team as the foremost team of the east.
All trophies and awards will be presented at the annual dinner of the organization to be held on January 31.
ROCKNE TO LECTURE AT LUTHER COLLEGE
S. S. Roque, athletic director of Luther college, Decorah, Iowa, announced Tuesday that Coach Knute Rockne, of Notre Dame, will deliver a lecture at the Iowa institution on February 5.
nn—in—nu^— nn-
•ibi—wt—-bh^—tm-
5 I X
I I
I X g
X I
I
I X
I X
I X
X I
I X I I
I X
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP
A. M. MYERS, Prop.
Complete, Courteous SER VICE
1 I X
X
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
X
X I X I X
I
I 1 I
I X
I X
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
“Winter Weight” Unionsuits 89c
Men’s winter weight elastic ribbed union suits. This garment is made of fine combed cotton. Snugly fitting cuffs at w'rist and ankles. Reinforced at all points of strain. We guarantee long wear.
Men’s 4 Budde Arctics $1.99 and $2.49
Men ’s Field Shoes
TWO FULL DOUBLE SOLES w
MEN’S FELT-SLIPPERS —ALL SIZES 59c
MEN’S FLEECE-DOWN-UNION SUITS $1.39
WOOL-SWEATERS $1.95 to $4.95
E
390
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ROCKNE LAUDS ATHLETES AT ERSKINE AWARD PRESENTATION
Within the portals of New York’s city hall, Knute Rockne and Frank Carideo, representing the Notre Dame football team, received the Albert Russell Erskine trophy last Tuesday afternoon and thus accepted the championship nomination for the 1930 season. The speech of presentation was given by Mayor James J. Walker.
Although the award was not unanimous, Alabama polling her usual “twenty-four” votes, the number of votes received by Notre Dame left no doubt in any mind as to who was to receive the award. Composer of 275 sports writers from every sector of the nation, the jury of award cast 261 votes for Notre Dame against five for the Crimson Tide.
In accepting the award from Mayor Walker, Coach Rockne replied to those who are crying “football overemphasis” by saying: “I wish Mr. Erskine would give an award for an academic trophy. The eleven boys who form the Notre Dame varsity team could, I believe, hold their own with any other eleven boys in the country, in art, literature or any scholastic subject.
.ret—bu^—»<
I YOUR | EYES
Have them examined every year
I QCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of ] the extreme long life of his glasses — as 1 though it were something of which to be proud.
1 Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best 1 experience proves that the ophthalmic correction ! provided by lenses usually requires changing s every eighteen months to two years. To wear g glasses longer than that means that the eyes are । • being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, | instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
LEMONTREE5
£	I
I	102 W. Washington St.	»
I	222 1-2 S. Michigan St.	f
I	I
♦------— ——-— ———————4
tu»—» mi— nu—bb—uu^— tm—-wi—bb^— bb—Ba—an—
j	Buy Your Kodak Film	{
l	and have them DEVELOPED	I
|	at the NEWS STAND in the	I
I	I
i Notre Dame Cafeteria I
!	When in town visit our store	)
I	1
l	with a complete line of . Photo-	l
I	graphic Supplies	{
!	j
j	Schilling’s Photo Supply	i
J	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	I
I	South Bend, Indiana	!
I	I
i	!
i PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE I i	I
i	|
♦——-—.—-—.—.—.—.—-—.—-—-—.—.—.—.—_—.—_—.4,
This is the second consecutive year in which Notre Dame has been awarded the Erskine trophy and also the second year Coach Rockne has received a new Studebaker automobile as coach of the national chamiponship squad.
COACH J. P. NICHOLSON
WORKS TRACK SQUAD
Coach John P. Nicholson has put his track men to work in earnest now that Christmas interruptions are over and the opening of the 1931 season is less than a month away. Men who had good dirt tracks available in theii’ home towns were given assignments to be carried out during the holidays. These cases were so rare, however, that the whole squad is hardly more than in the first stages of the difficult task of getting into condition for the first time this year.
Practice so far has consisted of calisthenics and jogging. Hurdlers have been working for form, shotputters to get the “feel” of the heavy ball rather than distance, and the sprinters have been trying out the starting blocks once more.
Freshman candidates have also been asked ’ to report, and, as has been
Coach Nicholson’s custom in the past, will continue to work right along with the varsity. Freshman Coach “'Spike” England will take charge of them after Nicholson has directed the calisthenics and given the usual instructions.
Between 40 and 45 men have been reporting each night and many more are expected in the next few days. Track prospects, this year, are very good, and with a little co-operation from the student body Coach Nicholson should put out a better than average team.
FOOTBALL TEAM TO HOLD ANNUAL BANQUET
The annual banquet of the football squad and managers will be held next Wednesday, January 14, in the University dining hall. The banquet has become an annual affair in recent years and marks the occasion of the official award of monograms and the election of the captain for the following year.
Admission to the banquet is restricted to the men on the squad, the coaches, managers, and the speakers. Coach Knute K. Rockne is expected to preside.
The Notre Dame Scholast
4 INTERHALL SPORTS £
C	391
At Virginia and Kentucky ... down where
As the opening of the interhall cage season draws near, coaches of the various hall teams on the campus are rapidly rounding their squads into shape by working out on the evenings appointed for practice on the varsity and apparatus room floors. The leagues will again be run into two divisions, lightweights and heavyweights, with the 150-pound mark setting the line of division.
With the schedule calling for the beginning of play on Sunday, January 18, and the final games set for the first week in March interhall teams will each engage in two games a week throughout the entire season. Because of the fact that there are thirteen ’ squads entered in the competition, one team will remain idle on Sundays and Thursdays, but each will play the same number of games by the time the schedule is completed. Playoffs of ties and postponed games will be held on March 8.
Suits for members of the various teams will not be issued by the athletic department until the coaches have made their final selections. The final cuts will probably be made shortly before the opening of the season. Officials for the games will be chosen from students of the department of physical education.
Interhall track practice is scheduled to get under way within the next two weeks. As in past years, the halls will be classed in two divisions. After several weeks of practice and instruction under Coach Nicholson each division will hold its own meet. The winners of the first three places
INTERHALL BASKETBALL COACHES
HEAVY-	LIGHT-
HALL	WEIGHTS WEIGHTS
Freshman ....................... Artman	Brill
Sophomore ...................... Kaplan	Howrey
Carroll ........................ Yarr	Bresson
Brownson ....................... Rusk	Capter
Walsh .......................... Taylor	Nichols
Corby .......................... Romanin	Luckett
Badin ........................;.	Griffen	Napolitano
Howard ......................... Kosky	Kuhn
Morrissey ...................... Leahy	Cunningham
Lyons .......................... Carideo	Behrman
St. Edward’s ................... Conley	Sheeketski
Off-Campus ..................... Seifert	O’Connor
Sorin .......................... O’Brien	Bohnsack
in each event will become eligible to compete in the annual interhall meet. Winners of places in this meet will be awarded medals.
All students of the University with the exception of varsity track men are eligible for interhall competition. This gives freshmen additional opportunities to show their ability in competition and at the same time work for their numerals. It may be mentioned that freshman numerals are awarded in track to any man of that class who equals the required times or distances in any competition, or in the presence of Coach Nicholson.
Following is the schedule for interhall basketball practice during the coming week:
Friday, Jan. 9
Varsity Floor Badin Lyons Morrissey	7 p. m. 8 p. m. 9 p. m.	Apparatus Room Freshman Carroll Brownson
Sunday, Jan.		11
Sorin	9 a. m.	Off-Campus
Corby	10 a. m.	St. Edward’s
Howard	1 p. m.	Sophomore
Freshman	2 p. m.	Badin
Carroll	3 p. m.	Lyons
Walsh	4 p. m.	Morrissey
Monday, Jan.		12
Off-Campus	7 p. m.	St. Edward’s
Brownson	8 p. m.	Carroll
Morrissey	9 p. m.	Sorin
Tuesday, Jan. 13
Lyons	7 p. m.	Walsh
Freshman	8 p. m.	Howard
Badin	9 p. m.	Corby
tobacco grows
college men choose this one outstanding SMOKING TOBACCO
THE men who go to the universities of Virginia and Kentucky know tobacco . . . they see how it grows and what makes it good.
So when Virginia students, and the men who stroll down old South Limestone Street in Lexington, pack their pipes with Edgeworth, their choice tells volumes about the cool, slow-burning quality of this favorite smoking tobacco.
It’s the same story everywhere— North, South, East and West. In 42 out of 54 leading colleges and universities, college men prefer the smooth, fragrant burley blend of Edgeworth. Try Edgeworth yourself. You’ll find more pleasure in a pipe than you ever knew before. Every tobacco store has Edgeworth, 15d the tin. Or, for generous free sample, write to Lanis & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready-Rubbed” and “Plug Slice.” AU sizes, 15|! pocket package to pound humidor tin.
392
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
. . . SAM HORWITZ, captain-elect of the University of Chicago eleven, played every position on either side of the line except center last season, and on defense was used wherever the pressure was greatest . . . Only four-members of the University of SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA’S first team will be lost by graduation . . . and will the other seven be out for revenge when they come to South Bend next time!
r-
is overcut...
You rarely miss a lecture or a quiz—but if attendance of minds was checked—boy, how you’d be overcut! Wandering attentions can be quickly and pleasantly controlled by a simple change of rations. Switch to Shredded Wheat for breakfast and you will soon notice the difference. The reason why is simply this—Shredded Wheat is whole wheat, including all the bran in a tasty and easily digested form. Two biscuits in milk make a nourishing breakfast, packed full of vitamins, and properly balanced in carbohydrates, proteins and mineral salts. A satisfied stomach promotes a clear mind—and that means more work with less effort. Let Shredded Wheat help you. Start tomorrow!
NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers"
SHREDDED
. . . RED MAXEY, scoring ace of William and Mary, averaged more than 11.5 points per game in the first eight contests of this season . . . Minnesota made 45 changes in its football lineup during a game with South Dakota . . . it’s probably just as well that the glee club was not available. . . . ERNIE SMITH, popular West Coast sports announcer, said that the Trojans were as bewildered at the Notre Dame offense as a farmer using a dial telephone for the first time . . . not bad, ERNIE, not bad at all . . .
❖ «
. . . Pugilists who choose the nom de ring “AL CAPONE" will not be allowed to perform in a California bout in the future . . . the State Boxing commission decreed thus after ALADIN TRUGHILL fought there under that name and was the recipient of a number of “Bronx cheers” . . . WAYNE KING, whose orchestra played for the Junior Prom last year, was at one time a fullback of no mean ability . . . Only three hockey players performing in professional circles were born in the United States . . . they are BILLY BURCH, Yonkers, TAFFY ABEL, Saulte Ste. Marie, and FRANK PETERS, Rouse’s Point, N. Y. . . .
. . . WES FESLER played all season with a jammed wrist which had to be stiffly bandaged . . . and then turned out to be the greatest individual star the Buckeyes ever had . . . BENNY FRIEDMAN, former AllAmerican from Michigan who is now playing pro football, missed his first game in eleven years recently ... a knee injury was the cause . . . PAT PAGE, JR., was awarded freshman football numerals at the University of Chicago recently . . . PAT, SR., present football coach at Indiana university, was a star all-around athlete at the Maroon institution twenty years ago. ...	'