t
Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 30, 1886.	No.
For A Birthday.
ELIZA ALLEN STARR.
These grapes, now purpling the September vines, Have not grown old;
Not less, but more, of heaven’s delicious dew Their clusters hold.
Thus life, well lived, can never have in store
A sad old age;	9
But deeds, like words, more richly tinted in
On Wisdom’s page. .
The Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
BY REV. S. FITTE, C. S. C.
(Conclusion.)
Besides .the motives explained in the memoirs sent to Bossuet, President Lamoignon, brother of Intendant Basville, insisted, with the weight of his authority and experience, upon a political consideration, which proved the knot of the difficulties. Said he to the Bishop of Meaux:
“Dear Sir:—After examining the paper I addressed to you, you will judge and see if it be possible to make use of a greater meekness and moderation. Nothing else is required than to say: they must go to Mass, without any violent means being used to compel them to obey if they refuse. There is no longer question of extinguishing the new religion in France. The work begun is going on, and the whole thing is for us a point of honor. The question - at issue is whether we shall give up the enterprise altogether. For if what has been done is now condemned, and if the work is not to be advanced still further, it were much better to abandon everything at once. Nay, more, we must rebuild their temples and protect their worship; for it is not becoming that there should be in the kingdom so many people scattered throughout all the provinces, deprived of any religion whatever. In this case the king must support an army in the heart of his kingdom, in .order to defend himself against his own subjects.”
However closely pressed on all sides, however plausible and specious the reasons opposed to his
sentiment, however great the number and consider- . able the influence and authority of those who up- : held the contrary opinion, Bossuet stood firm and unshaken. Although it was not possible to refute in detail all the opposing arguments, he, nevertheless, maintained against all his adversaries that the . Huguenots should not be compelled, or the new converts forced—and still less their children—to go to Mass, or to attend any portion of the Catholic service; and this sentiment of his at last prevailed.
What was the foundation for such a well-determined opinion? It is worth knowing, in order . to guard against misunderstanding, and prevent the .	’
reader from taking the high inspirations of Bossuet . and the Catholic Church for the seemingly liberal
| views of our own age. We knovy that the so- ' called philosophers of the 18th and 19th centuries ' .. also claimed to be advocates of freedom of conscience; but this they did less through respect for . the sacredness of conscience itself than as a revolt . against truth.	.
Quite contrary was the position held by Bossuet. ■ It was because he entertained for truth a religious ' respect, and for the Sacrifice of the Mass a pro-' found veneration, that he would not admit or allow the least constraint or violence. The homage which the human conscience is called upon.to pay . to that Most Holy Sacrament cannot be worthy . except inasmuch as it is true and sincere, cqnse? " quently free. Therefore, relying on that incontestable principle, he replied to his opponents:?. ?	'
“ After compelling the new converts to go to Mass, why . do you not compel them to go to confession also? Be- .? cause, forsooth, you think they are not well disposed, and . ? ? you fear to expose them to the danger of committing sac- • ' rilege by inducing them to go to confession against their l?;	.
conscience. Hence you look upon them as infidels;and .?? . if this is the case, you cannot ibrce them to go to Mass,as. they could not attend it with edification, or without being '-! guilty of an act which they themselves call idolatay.” ’ ' v
Hence Bossuet concluded:	.A”??'?''?? :
“There was no reason to presume upon the good faith of the new converts, unless they submitted without exception ?	' ' _
to all the exercises of the Catholic religion; and.that, if this good,faith were wanting, they could not, more reason- / ??< ,, ably, be compelled to go to Mass than to follow the other ' '????,: practices, because, the1 stubborn repugnance which' they -?'. :??v-manifested, to their fulfilment, showed them to'.be'unworthy of Mass as well as of the rest” .	:	?
138	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We read in the memoir, addressed by De Bre-teuil to Louis XIV, in favor of the Huguenots, a fair appreciation of that true toleration which is the logical consequence of faith and charity, and which, through the voice of the .Catholic religion at length listened to, prevailed, though late, over measures of violence. After establishing a contrast between the two methods then used in the work of conversion, he adds:
“In the system patronized by Christian charity, the clergy, more strict and earnest, less anxious for the number than for the sincerity and duration of conversions, received no abjuration except after mature reflection, requiring long and serious trials from the new converts before allowing any of them to take part in the sacraments. Thus it was that, constraint being irreconcilable with probationary trials, the force of religion alone brought back the government to the principle and practice of toleration.”
Such was the reason that—alas! too late to last long—a new era of tolerance was opened for the Huguenots. De Torcy was directed to write to both intendants and bishops a circular letter, which seems to have been dictated by Bossuet, and in which are to be found the very expressions used by the latter in his answers to De BaSville. Says the circular letter:
“His Majesty, having discovered that meekness and per- suasion produce more efficacious results than any other 'measures, believes that they must be given the preference. . You must, above all, take great care that no one be compelled to go to Mass.”
After the remarks we have just made, one might imagine that we tried to plead the extenuating circumstances in favor of the Revocation of the Edict, and to show that it does not reflect upon or weaken the doctrine of the Catholic Church concerning the question of tolerance. Such is not the case. We have, it is true, defended a delicate cause, but simply for the sake of truth and justice. In doing so. we were impartial, and have, therefore, a right to pass sentence. We have expressed our opinion with full independence, because, far from being responsible for the Edict, the Catholic Church might justly complain of it. Long before the modern spirit in regard to toleration had made any effort in that direction, the Church was alone in raising her voice against the action taken by the great king in the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Therefore, notwithstanding all that has been said in support of Bossuet and the prudence of the French episcopacy, we believe and declare, in the name of the Catholic Church, that they were to be blamed for having associated themselves with that universal eulogy. We agree with Bayle in saying that they were wrong in not protesting against “ a policy directly opposed to the spirit of Christianity.”
But whence comes that wrong? It comes, first, from their having been more French than Catholic; more Gallican than Roman; and the servants of Louis XIV rather than the faithful subjects of the Pope. They made themselves the accomplices of a stratagem contrived by « The Grand Monarch,” and which Voltaire characterizes in two words: “To,crush the Pope by extirpating the Huguenots.” That is to say, they disguised their war against Rome, particularly in. the question of La
Regale and that of the “Four Articles,” under an excessive zeal for the Faith. In truth, their aim was to establish a legal schism by placing the king above the Pope, imitating in this the Protestant reformers.
Pope Innocent XI, in whom the Catholic spirit was personified—a spirit of wise and generous moderation, always characteristic of the Church— was not deceived by their schemes. While resisting James II, and blaming his imprudent ardor amid the passions and prejudices of his Protestant subjects; while earnestly working to bring about a religious pacification amongst the Protestants of Germany; while making use everywhere of persuasive negotiations and advocating free convictions, the Pope openly and strongly expressed himself against the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and condemned the violence exercised in the name of Louis XIV against the Huguenots.
Public opinion, above which he raised himself— the same public opinion which to-day accuses the Church of having effected the repeal of the Edict —never forgave his disapproval of its publication, and he had to suffer for his toleration the stings of most bitter criticism. Need we proofs of this statement?—On the 27th of October, 1685, the newspapers of the time say that the Pope was not well pleased at hearing of the conversions which took place in France; and that he went so far as even to say tl^t in avoiding one error they have fallen into another. . The Pope declared, on the 3d of-November, 1685, that he could not be satisfied with such conversions as those in France, at the same time intimating that “one,”—meaning the king, after the fashion of the time—was encroaching upon the rights-of the Church. And Le Gendre:
“ This is almost incredible, though really true. However great the joy evinced by Catholics at such a happy issue, yet Rome does not rejoice in the least, and Innocent XI less than anyone else. He gives as excuse that he cannot approve either the aim or the means of those conversions by thousands, of which not one is free and sincere.”
The same is attested by all the French writers of the time, who unanimously agree with Le Gendre. Nay, poets do not differ in this respect from the churchmen and magistrates.	.’	'
“ Pour nouvelles d’Italie,”
thus wrote La Fontaine,
“ Le Pape empire tons les jours; Expliquez, Seigneur, ce discours Du c6te de la maladie:
Car aucun Saint Pere autrement Ne doit empirer nullement.
. Celui-ci veritablement
' . N’est envers nous ni Saint ni Pere; Nos soins de 1’erreur triomphants, Ne font qu’augmenter sa coRre Contre l’aine de ses enfants.”
And elsewhere:
“ Le chevalier de Silleri, En parlant de ce Pape-ci, Souhaitait pour la paix publique, Qu’il se ffit rendu Catholique. . Et le roi Jacques huguenot: Je trouve assez bon ce mot.”
THE NOTRE DANTE SCHOLASTIC.
139
And again: o
“ De tout le parti protestant, Du Saint Pere en vain triomphant.”
Racine himself, as Daunou and commentators affirm, alluded to the same Pope in his Prologue to “ Esther,” where he says:
“ Et 1’enfer, couvrant tout de ses vapeurs funebres, Sur les yeux les plus saints a jete ses tenebres.”
Chief-Justice Falon thundered in the same strain against the court of Rome; and the Pope’s official organ answered as follows:
“ The reunion of all the Huguenots with the Roman Church is doubtless a work that would have given the king of France immortal glory if the manner in which thatgrand design was executed had not disgraced the tvhole enterprise. The Pope would not have failed to acknowledge, not only in word, but in deed and by new favors, the great service his Majesty has thereby rendered the Roman Church. The Church and all her ministers would have shown him, by new tokens of esteem and respect, how much they were obliged to a prince who had labored so strenuously, and with so much success, to increase the number of her children and bring back thpse who had unjustly separated themselves from her obedience. But the Pope, the Church, and her wiser ministers know that an increase of people is not always an increase of joy. They are too clear-minded to take great pleasure in an outward and apparent conversion of nearly two millions of persons, who, for the greater part, have come back to the Church only to profane her by an infinite number of sacrileges, and pollute all her most sacred institutions by professing the Roman Religion without changing their convictions.”	’
Such is, indeed, “the Catholic spirit” to which the infidel Bayle appealed, and which actuated the conduct of the Head of the Church and his ministers. Without running the risk of offending “ the Grand Monarch,” or of contradicting public opinion, or without even seeming to countenance the revolt of the whole .Huguenot party in a vain triumph over the Pope, they feared not to blame the violence which presided over the execution of the Edict of Nantes. Why was this? Because they were convinced that such an act was an attempt to outrage the holiness of religion, which demands and receives but free souls. By their solemn protestation they sought to vindicate the cause for which they had so eloquently-pleaded, and upheld the interests of true toleration and freedom of conscience.
Labor.
He who takes even a passing glance at the common pursuits of man will not stop to inquire in what labor consists. He sees it defined in the busy mill, the bustling workshop and the cultivated field; its voice is heard on every hillside and by the side of every stream throughout the land; amid the clash and hum of machinery, fashioning that which may minister to the comfort or necessity of mankind.
Labor, or work, is the sole means whereby man may attain the end for which he was created. The imperative demands of nature must be satisfied, and by labor alone can this be done. This stern but undeniable fact we may learn from every
thing in existence around us. Throughout the whole range of creation we find nothing idle. The rivers rush with a sparkle and murmur; starting from the limpid fountain, they leap from crag to crag till they reach the valley and then career away to fertilize the plain, to dress out the earth in all its glory and magnificence. But were they to shrink from usefulness, they would lie in vile stagnation, a blot upon the loathing earth and poison.to the air. The same is true of all created things, from the little flower that springs up by the wayside to the mighty planets that roll through immeasurable space. All around is life, activity and, therefore, work; and it all tells man that in labor lies his only hope of existence, his only comfort and happiness.
It is a principle of our being that we must labor; and all things conducive to the welfare, or destined for the improvement of man’s condition, are hailed as priceless blessings. To such a degree has this spirit taken possession of men that they demand now the useful in all their objects of pursuit. The lance of chivalry rusts in obscurity and neglect, while the plowshare is bright with honorable use. The venerable castle, moss-covered and shattered by the storms of a thousand years, is of little consequence as it stands by the smart, new-built manufactory, its neighbor, whence those things that subserve some of the conveniences of life are constantly flowing. The mountain, cloud-capped and snow-crowned, towering sublime over the plain beneath, the theme of poets and the restingplace of the imagination, is thought little of in comparison with the dark and gloomy mine at its base whence is drawn the ore for manufacture, or the coal with which it is prepared. We find all things estimated now according to their immediate utility; and when not carried to an extreme, no one should sigh over the tendency of the age to bring the various transformations of matter to the standard of the useful, for such were they intended by an all-wise and beneficent Providence. By this is not meant to harbor a spirit that would look upon this fair earth merely as a great farm intended only to maintain its numberless denizens by its productive powers; that would look with an invidious eye upon lakes and mountains as useless incumbrances; that could recognize in the pure light of . heaven and the blowing of the breezes only the means to promote vegetation or bring the harvest to maturity ; that would regard men as mere instruments in these great operations and as bound to their country and each other by no stronger ties, no better feelings than such as a low and selfish interest would suggest. By assiduous labor and unremitting industry on the part of all is not meant the transforming of everything into dollars and cents, or their equivalent. While labor directs the march of improvement, it cannot, nor does it, prevent the co-operation of our best nature, of tempt us to smile blandly on the glories of this visible world. Labor is the road to wealth, the source of production. All that has been accomplished .by.man in. = the past can be traced back to one and the same common origin.	- .
140	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
More especially7 does the efficacy of work commend itself to the student in his desire to attain the individual object of his ambition. The culture of mind is necessary, and around the mind, as a centre, do the creations of matter revolve, aiding, enlarging and perfecting it, because the end of life, and of all things which concern it, is to minister to the needs of that which is spiritual in man’s nature. Of all things, in any degree entrusted to human management, the soul is, beyond expression, of most worth, because it is the only thing that is valuable in and of itself. All other forms of existence are only means to be used and valued so long as they7 contribute to the development, exaltation or dignifying of the mind. Farms and houses, railroads and shipping, earth and stars, powers and principalities, things present and things to come have just this one use and none other—to minister, each in its own way7, to the illimitable, infinite, eternal desires of the mind. If anything in the range of human knowledge can be pointed out of which it may be said it does not contribute to the perfecting of the mind, we say that thing has no reason for existence. For this purpose was the earth and everything created, that it might contribute to the glory7 of God and to minister, in its various forms of harmony, beauty7, and sublimity, to the necessities of the mind. It is for this that the mountain shoots up from the plain to the distant sky; for this the earth puts on her gorgeous robes of spring and summer; for this the sea spreads out its wide ex-, panse, and the winds are hushed or roused to terrible sublimity; for this all nature, like a grand instrument, has been uttering her voice from the time the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted their joy. Every7 tint of the rose, every sigh of the breeze, every7 glimpse of the sunshine is laid as an offering upon the shrine of the spiritual; and man, feeble and frail though he be, is admitted to a share of the magnificent homage.
Knowing, as we do, that there is nothing of so great importance as the mind, it must follow, as a logical consequence, that its development is the grandest and noblest aim of life. For this reason is the student willing to forego the pleasures of the outside world, willing to sacrifice all the gorgeous allurements of youth, and pass the brightest part of his days in seclusion and retirement.
Yet he might live forever within college walls, but without industry, all attempts at becoming a scholar would be futile. Were it not for energetic application, we would have no great names adorning the pages of history. Daniel Webster, Benjamin Franklin, and Christopher Columbus would never have risen to such eminence. The little Corsican would be slumbering quietly7 in ob. scurity, and Julius Casar would have attempted in vain to cross the Rubicon. The cold canvas would never have started into forms of real life and beauty, as seen in the “ Aurora ” of Guido, or the “Incendia del Borgo” of Raphael, were it not for the labor of the painter. Nor are those who have won the greatest laurels or. the greatest hum an praise he only ones deserving of honor. - In the humble
cell and quiet cloister, where some of the grandest problems in life were solved, the arts and sciences / were cherished, cultivated and brought to a high state of perfection by the industry of men whose names will never be written, who will never be held up as meritorious of the world’s admiration, yet whose achievements in literary7 and scientific fields have never been excelled and are handed 1 down as a rich inheritance to posterity.
Glancing over the state of society, what do we find industry accomplishing? We find it the origin of progress and the great motor that sways the world; we find it bridging rivers, building railroads, towns and villages; clearing away the forests and making the wilderness blossom like the rose. Nowhere can we find a better example of what labor effects than in our own country. The rapid strides America has made within the last century is due, mainly, to the thrift and energy of her people. Take, for example, the Metropolis of the West; fifteen years ago a heap of ashes almost buried the boast of Michigan’s ’blue-shore; yet this city7 now covers over ten square miles, and numbers within its limits over 670,000 inhabitants. What is true of Chicago, is true of other cities in the Union. Nor is progress and industrial improvement confined to the towns exclusively. The mighty7 forests, that for centuries stood unwinking at the sun, are fast yielding to the axe of the in- ■ trepid pioneer. The vast plains, where the buffalo and antelope roamed at will, are now converted into fields of waving7 grain. The great rivers, which for centuries ran idly to the sea, now furnish the motive power for numberless factories and mills, besides excellent facilities for inland commerce. Our ships whiten every7 sea, and lift their tapering masts against every sky. America stands ' to-day, in the pride of her wealth and resources, unequalled among the nations of earth; and all because of the diligence and untiring industry of her people.
Every7 age and nation has its distinguished men: it has its heroes, poets, orators, philosophers and statesmen. Whether we go tolthe abodes of civilization or the haunts of savages, we shall find men who are properly7 the master spirits among their fellows; who possess the natural talents requisite to make them shine conspicuously7 in their country’s history. But these talents had to be developed, and it was only	"
by constant labor that they7 succeeded. Take, for 1 example, one of the numberless instances which his- I tory7 affords—that of Dr. Samuel Jonson. Whether we regard the variety of his talents, the depth of his penetration, the acuteness of his sagacity or the wide range of his knowledge, he is equally7 the subject of' admiration. It will not, perhaps, be hazardous to affirm that within the range of ancient or modern history it is difficult, if not impossible, to point out a single individual in whom was discoverable so various-a combination of literary accomplishments. And how did he amass such a quantity of literary wealth? Was it by playing the truant, or squandering the day'S of his yrnuth in idleness?' Most assuredly not. Neither did fortune j lavish her stores upon him, for we find that eminent 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
scholar in a state of penury in his youth, and even when he attained the age of manhood. By no other means, then, save hard and persistent labor, did he surmount the obstacles which poverty had thrown in his path and surpass all his contemporaries in the fields of learning-. Oliver Goldsmith may also be pointed to as another example of assiduity. The child of poverty, he was obliged to struggle against that dreadful foe; yet, by diligence and an invincible determination, he succeeded at last. Long after contemporary men and events will have been forgotten, the author of the “ Deserted Village” will be remembered and esteemed. By skill and industry in the investigations of languages, Noah Webster will transmit his name to the latest posterity. The dictionary which embodies the work of his lifetime will never perish, except with the great globe itself.
So we might go on recounting the deeds of all illustrious men in every age and find industry the chief cause of their success. Superior talents may be the grand distinction of some, and the smiles of fortune the aid of others; yet it is by toil, unremitting toil, that the brightest and most favored triumph.
Let the ambitious student, then, remember that his first requisite is persistent effort. Let him put forth his whole strength and energy without troubling himself about the question whether he possesses great talents or not. If he has these, industry will improve them; if he has only moderate abilities, industry will supply their deficiency. With good principles, a sound judgment and untiring industry he need never fear but that he will fight the battle of life and fight it successfully.
If peace is to be enjoyed without alloy; if the approbation of society and our fellow-man is to be gained; if the world is to profit anything by our living therein, and, above all, if the golden crown of immortality, attainable by everyone, shall some day be ours, we must do that which our very life and nature imply—we must work.
w. s.
Brevitas Vitse.
Occidit sol, ast iterum resurgit, Luna mutatje reparat figurae Damna, dum stelke quoque nocte fulgent,
Luce necatie.
Herba, virgultum, variique flores,
Quae gelu diro peredit veneno, Ad sonum veris redeunt, adhucque
Pulchra resurgunt.
Nos tamen, rerum domini potentes, Frangimur, ver dum breve transit revi;
Nec levamur, nec tumulum quieta
Claustra resolvit.	-
V. A. N;
Close application to study will affect one’s mind. It will, as a rule, affect it favorably, however.
Colossal Statues.
The unveiling of the great statue of Liberty, on < Bedloe’s Island, at the entrance to New York Har-. bor, naturally recalls to our minds what we have _ read of other famous colossal, statues which have , . been raised at different times in the world’s history. Great statues abound in Egypt. The Memnon and its companion statue, standing near Thebes, are . over fifty feet in height. These are among the ; largest that have ever existed, though not equal to the famous colossus of Rhodes, which was counted among the seven wonders of the world.
Assisted by the king of Egypt, Ptolemy Soter, . the citizens of Rhodes repulsed the attack made upon their city by Demetrius Poliorcetes, King of Macedon, and as an expression of their gratitude to their allies and to Apollo, their tutelary deity, they erected a brazen statue to their god. A writer states that “ Chares of Lind us, the pupil of Lysippus, commenced the work; but having expended the whole amount entrusted to him before it was half completed, he committed suicide, and the ’ statue was finished by Laches. It cost three hundred talents ($316,677), and twelve years were occupied in the work. It was cast piecemeal, and then soldered, for the ancients did not dare to melt a huge mass of metal at once, fearing-it would cool too rapidly. -The statue was seventy cubits high, . and hollow, with a winding staircase that ascended . to the head, from which Asia Minor could be seen. After standing fifty-six years, it was overthrown by an earthquake, 224 B. C., and lay nine centuries . on the ground, and then was sold to a Jew by the . Saracens, who had captured Rhodes after the middle of the seventh century. The metal weighed seven hundred and twenty thousand pounds, and loaded nine hundred camels. In Flaxman’s ‘Lectures’ there is an engraving of the head of this colossus. . The Rhodian coins also bear a representation of the head. According to Pliny, Rhodes had one ; hundred colossi of inferior size.”	'
It is related that Semiramis erected statues in pure gold of deities corresponding to Jupiter, Juno .	•
and Rhea. The statue of the first is said to have been twenty feet high; the statue of the second represented the figure as standing, holding in . its . hands a serpent and a sceptre, whilst the third was .	.
seated in a chariot of gold with two golden lions . in front of it and two silver dragons by its side. . Xerxes had a statue of Belus, twelve cubits high and of pure gold, removed from Babylon.	.
In Greece, Phidias made several colossal,statues.	. /
In the Parthenon he erected his Minerva, com-, . ; -posed of gold and ivory, and measuring thirty-nine : L. feet in. height. The battle of the Athenians and . the Amazons was sculptured on the shield; The battle of the Centaurs and Lapithae on the buskins; and the birth and history of Pandora on the ped- . estal. As the Athenians would not permit Phidias > \ to'cut his name, on the statue, he inader his own .	.
portrait on the shield. The statue of Jupiter which .. . be constructed for the Eleans was sixty feet high. ;
i42	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In the time of Alexander the Great, Lysippus erected at Tarentum a statue sixty feet high, the weight of which alone prevented Fabius from removing it to Rome.
In Rome, colossal statues were common. The first, however, which was erected was constructed in bronze by order of Spurius Cavilius, to commemorate his victory over the Samnites. Among the most celebrated of the colossi in Rome were those of Apollo in the Palatine Library, that of Jupiter upon the Capitol, and that of Augustus in the Forum Augusti, all in bronze. The marble statue of Nero, which was placed in the vestibule of the golden house built by that Emperor, is said to have been one hundred and twenty feet high. In the reign of Vespasian a new head was placed upon it, and it was changed into a statue of Apollo. A bronze statue of Domitian as the deity of the sun, in the Forum, was also celebrated.
Of the modern colossi, that of San Carlo Borromeo at Arona, near Milan, is probably the best known. It is made of bronze, and is sixty feet high. In the interior-there is a stairway to assist the workman in making such repairs as are necessary. At Munich, in Bavaria, there is a' colossal statue in bronze, some thirty feet high, designed by Schwau-thaler.
The colossus of Arminius, the Hermann of the Saxons, who destroyed Varus and his famous legions, stands on the summit of the Grotenburg, near Detmold in Westphalia. The work is the result of a national subscription. The artist is Ernest von Bandel, the Bavarian sculptor. The statue alone is sixty-four feet high. Arminius stands draped in a long mantle, thrown back and giving a glimpse of his' rich barbaric costume. His heavy buckler rests upon the earth, and his right hand brandishes a sword twenty-four feet in length. At his feet are the Roman eagles and the fasces of the lictors.
The statue of Our Lady of France, at Puy, is of colossal proportions and placed at a great height. A symbol of purity and protection, it conveys this idea rather by the graceful ensemble of the form and by the general attitude than by the expression of the face. The statue stands upon a semisphere, the right limb slightly bent; the foot rests upon the serpent that circles the globe with his folds. A crown of stars surmounts the head, and on the right arm is posed the Infant Jesus, with hand raised to bless the world. This statue was modelled by M. Bonassieux, and is the largest bronze statue in Europe. It is placed on the precipitous Mountain Corneille and overlooks the nestling city of Puy in the valley below. In the interior are placed a series of steps that permit one easily to make the ascent.	;	.
Of the statue of Liberty and its pedestal a contemporary says: “At the foundation the ground covered is 91 feet square, arid at the top 66 feet and 7 inches. The base itself is 13 feet above high water mark, and the top is 52 feet and 10 inches from the base.; It will be seen, then, that the base of the pedestal proper is over 65 feet above high water mark. The sides of the pedestal do not slope
gradually in, but show a series of layers, which has the effect of relieving the dull appearance it would otherwise possess. Above the stone walls of the fort, curved stairways are on either side, and in the centre of the base, on a level with the ground, are wide passageways leading into the centre, where there is a vertical circular shaft, where run the elevators and stairways that bring the visitors to the top. The doors of these passageways are 13 feet high and 5 feet broad, and on either side are disks of stone, which bear in relief the coats of arms of France and the United States. The rough stone work here has a good architectural effect, and presents a very pleasing aspect to the eye of the artist. Above each door 10 disks project, and on these, worked in relief as in the corner disks, are the coats of arms of the different states of the Union. These disks are over 4 feet in diameter, yet they appear very small to an observer stationed on the ground beneath. Above these disks are panels 23 feet 6 inches long, by 5 feet 3 inches high. Seven feet above the strong masonry of the base the walls begin to recede, leaving between them and two columns and pilasters on every side a balcony which extends along the wall from corner pillar to corner pillar. The enormous size and stupendous height of the statue itself are better imagined than described. Nothing could be more harmonious than the relative proportions of island, fortress wall, concrete base, pedestal and statue. These are, in fact, so symmetrical that the vastness of the work is not fully appreciated at first sight, but has to be established by comparison. As the visitor approaches the island, he observes that the buildings upon it— one or two of them full-sized structures of three or four stories—are dwarfed to mere toys, nestling at the base of the cliff-like pedestal. The masts of the largest ship passing on the bay would scarcely reach to the feet of ‘ Liberty.’ Her torch, 350 feet above the water, will gleam like a constellation in the heavens. Workmen are at present moving like industrious ants over the classic draperies and uplifted arm of the mighty figure. They remind one of the Lilliputians swarming over Gulliver in the picture books.”	K.
Art, Music and Literature.
—11 Frovatore oi Milan announces, in a late issue, that Verdi has agreed to write an opera for the French festival in 1889.	’
—The longest word in the English language is Methylbenzomethoxyethyltebrahydropyndme-carboxylate. Show this to your Russian friends; it will please them.
—A unique feature of Lippincott's Monthly Magazine for 1887 will be a series of articles describing the social life of the students of the various colleges of the United States, each contributed by an undergraduate actually taking the collegiate course, and consequently fully acquainted with the matter whereof he writes,	_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	143
—In response to a letter of inquiry, the N. T. Sun says:
“ The tours of Dr. S\ ntax in search of the picturesque, in search of consolation, and in search of a wife, were written by William Combe, an English literary fraud, born in 1741, and died in 1823. ‘ The Tour in Search of the Picturesque ’ appeared originally in the Poetical Magazine, and was republished in one volume in 1812. It was at one time very popular, but is now seldom seen.”
—“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” is the title of a new American operetta that was produced by the Gilbert Company at Lynn, Mass. It was written by Dexter Smith, the editor of the Musical Record^ and George Lowell Tracy, who prepared the “Mikado” for Sir Arthur Sullivan. The production was merely for the purpose of enabling a few friends of the author and composer to see and listen. The opera will be produced in Boston later in the season.—Ex.
—Mr. Charles L. Webster the publisher, of New York, has completed arrangements for the publication of a life of his Holiness, which is now being written by Dr. Bernard O’Reilly, based on an authentic memoir furnished by the Pope himself. The work will be published simultaneously in London by Messrs. Sampson, Low, Marston & Co.; and in New York by Messrs. C.L. Webster & Co. Translations will be issued by the houses of Firmin Didot & Co., Paris; J. P. Bachem, Cologne; Espasa & Co., Barcelona; E Union Tipografo Editrice, Turin; and De Maatschappij de Katholich Ilhistratie,>flo\\ar\A. All Continental arrangements pass through the hands of Messrs. Sampson, Low & Co.
—Doubtless, by the time Lord Tennyson’s new poem is readv we shall be in a fit condition to read and appreciate it. Every one is very-wise about this new poem. But, I am inclined to think, very few people know much about it. It is said to be a sort of continuation of “Locksley Hall”—the hero of that poem returning as a broken-down man of So, who gives his views of life, men, women, and manners, according to his mature experience. This, if thoroughly carried out, will be vastly edifying, when we think of the rapid changes that have taken place in- thought, education, and manners since “ Locksley Hall ” was penned. The experiences of Cousin Amyj who by this time must be a grandmother, would undoubtedly be well worth listening to. But whatever the poem may be, we shall welcome it heartily. But I fear it will not be published so speedily as many of the newspapers seem to imagine.— The Bookbziycr.
Scientific Notes.
—A remarkable landslide, involving an area of nearly two square miles, is reported from Gunnison County, Colorado. The attendant phenomena were attributed by the frightened people to an earthquake, but no such shock has occurred.
. —Prof. Rucker delivered a brilliant lecture on “ Soap Bubbles ” before the last meeting of the
British Scientific Association, wherein he demonstrated that the thickness of the bubble-film ranges . from 7.2 to 14.5 millionths of a millimetre. - -
—The French Government has decided to extend the department of ballooning for military, purposes. Every corps is to be provided with the \ -implements necessary for strategic ballooning; At. present there is but one aerostatic station, namely, Versailles; but seven others are to be established ' at Epinae, Toul, Verdun, Belfort, Montpellier, Grenoble, and Arras.
—A curious paint has been introduced in England calculated to tell when a bearing on an engine’ becomes overheated. If all the bearings on an O	'
engine are covered with the paint, which is of a brilliant red color, and one of them becomes heated the paint will immediately darken and become, a deep brown when a temperature of 1800 F. is reached. On cooling, the bearing assumes once more its original brilliant red color.
. —Science has found out something very novel, namely, that the fruit tree slumbers in daytime and'works at night. This modern idea is that fruit trees acquire most of their growth by night. The fruit of the cherry laurel, for instance, has been found by Dr. Krauss, of Halle, to increase at the rate of ninety per cent, at night and only ten per cent, by day, while apples increase eighty per cent, at night and twenty per cent, in the daytime.
—M. Henri de Graffigny, a member of the . French scientific press, has been amusing himself with the application of electricity as motive power L for the bicycle. It is said that with accumulators. . . properly charged one may travel 200 miles without experiencing any fatigue and at a speed ap- ' < proaching that of a railway train. The experiment has been made before, but with results hardly in accord with the sanguine views of the experimenter as to the future development and popular- > ity of electricity in this direction.	;	7.
—The inhabitants of the Andaman Islands are the smallest race of people in the world. The average height of full-grown Andamans is four feet five inches, and few weigh over seventy-six pounds. They are marvellously swift of foot, and, as they smear themselves over with a mixture of oil and red ochre, present a very strange appearance. Few travellers care to encounter any of these belli- . cose little people, for their skill in throwing the, - , spear and in using the bow is only equalled;by r their readiness to attack strangers.—Ex.	.<
—Some good landscape photographs have ;re-.	; -
cently been taken by Mr. A- S. Barker by means . ; " . . of lightning flashes during a stormy night. ~ A high Y-'Y: win'd was blowing at the time, and on one of the negatives there are distinct traces of leaves of a tree, which had moved during theexposure. Some . interesting queries arise, therefore, as to the dura- ; tion of the flash, as. it would appear that.rsome. Y . L measurable time must have elapsed in order to al- ; Y -low for the movement of the leaf, which is counter Y Yy J to the accepted theory that the flashes practically instantaneous.	. Y--Y
i44
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
way a ag
Notre Dame, October 30, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—We hope to present next week the promised description and history of the great crown—the souvenir of Notre Dame’s consecration to Our Blessed Lady. Accompanying the sketch will he engravings showing the appearance of the crown before and after its mutilation.
—One day last week each of our younger breth-ern of the'Minim department sat down and wrote a feast-day letter of congratulation to Very Rev. Father General, who, from time immemorial, has adopted the “Princes” as his special proteges. The reply which the venerable Father sent to the teachers of the department, while complimentary to the youthful writers upon their effusions, will be found to contain, in condensed form, abundant suggestive and instructive thoughts. It is as follows :
“ I return you the precious package of feast letters I received from our young and lovely Princes. I read every line, every word of them; and scarcely know how to express my joy and my thanks to the loving and promising writers.
“ It was undoubtedly a happy thought to allow these innocent, stainless and artless young hearts to pour out their real and unfeigned sentiments of contentment and deli°-ht. Evidently, they enjoyed the opportunity of revealing their beautiful souls in a manner not only very acceptable but surprising to me. Indeed, most of their letters are charming little epistles and some of them are simply masterpieces of the art of letter-writing. . They confirm me in my old belief—that letters written at this tender age brine- out the inmost feelings of the heart, until a handwriting a’ittle more cultivated, will paint out, as a picture, the features of the face. Once more, 1 am delighted with this first essay, .which will soon pave the way to their addressing, to their own beloved parents at home, letters of which they will be proud; Pray, keep these letters as a little treasure.
“E. Sorin, C. S. C,”
Apart from the suggestive thought of early practice in letter-writing—to which we shall have occasion again to refer—there is an idea contained in the concluding sentences, which may well be dwelt upon, even at the risk of repeating what has often been said, and in better words.
We, Americans, have a great affection for our parents; and we do not admit that the children of any country have more love for their father and mother than well-bred children in America have for theirs. Yet we must admit that among those whose intellect has been educated to the exclusion of the affections—who have had their head well trained, while their hearts were left without culture—there are some who deem it too childish to show affection for parents in kind words and acts; while there are many others who, to outward coldness, add the indifference of a misguided heart and head-that makes them wish to escape as soon as possible from parental control, which they consider rather as a tyrannical and arbitrary rule, than the blessed and loving bond it is, uniting the hearts of affectionate, grateful children to those who gave them life and cared for them as they advanced in years. That this evil is due to a defect in early training goes without the saving. The young must be taught that it is their duty not only to love and venerate their parents in their hearts, but also to manifest that love in affectionate words and kindly acts.
And this can never be done except by educating the heart as well as the head; by giving as much prominence and importance to the Decalogue as to the multiplication-table; by explaining as thoroughly the duties of children to their parents as the theorems of geometry; and making them understand their obligations as well as the differential calculus. And for this, too, while discourses and explanations are necessary, example and daily practice must be added—and it is on this account that in all Catholic Colleges and schools so much stress is laid upon the subject. If prompt attendance to duty is required, if polite and agreeable demeanor to professors and prefects is considered a matter of course, it is because the professors'and prefects represent the parents of the students, and to them the students give the outward respect which, when at home, should be changed into manifestations of affection in word and act to their parents.
Colleg-e Associations.
Every institution of learning is a garden where human minds and hearts are nurtured, brought out to a suitable degree of perfection, made to grow and flourish with all the luxuriance that a rich, fertile soil .can impart. Intellect, heart, senses, internal and external, in a word, the whole man grows by culture, practice, education; and the more tender the plant, the more care it requires, as is proved by daily, experience. As Shakspeare says:
“If springing things be any jot diminished, r They wither in.their prime, prove nothing worth;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	•	145
The colt that’s backed and burdened, being young, Loseth his pride and never waxeth strong.
The summer flower is to the summer sweet, Though to itself it only live and die;
But if that flower with base infection meet, The basest weed outbraves his dignity;
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.”
Hence the object of education is to cultivate, strengthen, and bring to maturity the dormant powers of intellect, without neglecting the physical and moral being of man. The true education furnishes one with all that is necessary for physical, moral, and intellectual growth, while preserving him carefully from all base infection.
Here it will be to our purpose to draw the line between two kinds of education, theoretical and practical. The proper union of these is what goes to constitute the truly educated man. Mere theoretical knowledge, however extensive it may be, • will prove of but very little value unless it be accompanied with a facility for practical application acquired by actual intercourse with our fellow-men. No man lives for himself or dies for himself. All men have sprung from one common stock; all are linked in unity more or less closely; all exercise an influence, stronger or weaker, over their fellowmortals with whom they are brought into contact by the ever-varying phases of human existence. , Now, here at college, we may be said to have given us in our intercourse with each other a well-defined representation of that practical intercourse which, as men and citizens, must be ours in afterlife; for here, nearly every phase of human nature may be seen. And this intercourse is more constant, more extensive, more close than is generally found even in the world at large, for which it is a preparation. And though it is true that one wise friend i< better than a thousand foolish ones, yet we are far from admitting that college students, as a class, are behind the age in point of mental endowments or practical wisdom. Each one brings his slender store, and, throwing it into the common mass, sees the noble pile rise aloft in chaotic grandeur, till, suddenly, order is diffused over all by the well-formed mind of a preceptor or one’s own innate genius. Some maybe extremists; some may be eccentric; some may be carried away with impracticable hobbies; but the vast majority will always be found sensible young men. Very few of our young men can be fairly accused of being narrow-minded, bigoted, prejudiced, or as being always on the lookout to catch others in some real, if possible, otherwise in some imaginary wrongdoing. Such people, thanks to the more enlightened and liberal spirit now prevailing, are generally treated with the silent contempt or open defiance which they deserve. Nothing is more at variance with the true American character. .
These failings, and such as these, are generally removed or pi evented by a proper college training. By their college associations many haw been broken of bad habits as well as of wrong ideas. They are taught to know themselves, their own strength, their own failings, the true, extent of their knowl
edge, then- peculiar fitness for this or that state of life. They learn that no man is such a fool as not to give good advice now and then; nor is there anyone so wise as not to err at times; though a wise man knows that he is sometimes foolish, while a fool does not know when he is wise and when not.
Such is an instance of the many ways in which students acquire practical knowledge by their mutual intercourse. And the best and most enduring knowledge, that which sinks deepest in one’s mind, is that which is gained by experience and one’s own sagacity.
But now, besides this general association of young men in an institution, we have also particular societies for special purposes, such as debating societies, literary societies, musical societies, which are open to all who, possessing the qualifications for membership, wish to join them and abide by their rules. These societies are productive of many good results; they foster a deeper spirit of emulation; they bestow advice more smoothly; they treat more practical questions, and render all their labors lighter by reason of their companionship. What is instilled into the mind from a spirit of emulation is immensely mo're profitable, being far deeper rooted in the mind than that which is driven in by hook or by crook, according to the Knickerbocker style—though the latter method is not always out of place. And then the toil and labor of the serious student are consoled and enlightened by the constant consideration that others are laboring.with him at the same arduous tasks. V<irba docent, exempla trahtmt. Says Shakspeare:
“ So should I have copartners in my pain;
And fellowship in woe doth woe assuage, As palmers’ chat makes short their pilgrimage.”
Books and Periodicals.
—Benziger Brothers—New York, Cincinnati and St. Louis—have issued “The Catholic Home Almanac for 18S7.” This is the fourth year of the publication of this interesting annual, which, since its inception, has grown rapidly in publicfavor, and become known far and wide. The “Almanac” for the coming year possesses all those points of excellence which gained for its predecessors such an extended circulation and has, in addition, many new and pleasing features. The frontispiece is a splendid oleograph portrait of His Eminence, Cardinal Gibbons; and the various sketches, histories, tales, biographies, choice poetry, etc., etc., intermingled with numerous and well-executed illustrations, making it one of the most entertaining yearbooks one could have at hand or present to a friend.
—From C. A. Bardeen, Syracuse, N. Y., we have, received:	.
“ Topics and References in American History with Numerous Search Questions ”—A neat little book of about 50 pages containing, as its title indicates, a -series of qiiestions in reference to' the -main points of the history of our country, calculated to stimulate research and thereby aid in the acquisition of abundant and useful information.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Intermediate Problems in Arithmetic for Junior Classes ”—a book of about ipo pages—“ containing more than two thousand problems in Fractions, Reduction and Decimals” designed for practice work among young pupils.
Nos. Ill and IV of the “ Pedagogical Biography,” which belong to the series of School Bulletin Publications. The first is a sketch of the methods and theories of John Locke, the second is an estimate of Rousseau’s teachings.
—-The first number of the new volume of St. Nicholas is an early realization of the good things promised in the attractive prospectus. Louisa M. Alcott, contributes a charming and characteristic story, called “ The Blind Lark.” Then, some of the tales that Victor Hugo used to tell his favorite grandchildren have been collected, and are here put into English for the first time by Brander Matthews, with capital illustrations by Reginald B. Birch., There is also the opening chapter of “ Juan and Juanita,” the new serial by Frances Courtenay Baylor, which treats an unusual phase of boy and girl life in an unusually vivid and attractive style. Out-of-door sports receive recognition in a spirited story of a Yale-Princeton football match, with the queer title of “ Richard Carr’s Baby.” Pictures of Celia Thaxter’s study and Edmund Clarence Stedman’s summer home are among Harry Fenn’s beautiful illustrations of Alice Wellington Rollins’s “A City of Old Homesteads.”
—The Popular Science Monthly for November opens with an article entitled “North America in the Ice Period,” by Dr. John S. Newberry, of Columbia College, N. Y. The interesting paper tells the story of the great ancient ice-sheet which once covered half our continent, and which, more than any other single cause, gave to it its present surface configuration. With the aid of illustrations, the record left by this mighty agency of the past is very clearly interpreted for the general reader, who will obtain from the account an insight into the mode of the working of Nature’s forces that only years of special study could afford. Charles A. Young contributes an instructive paper on “ Recent Advances in Solar Astronomy.” In it he sum-mai'izes, in a very readable way, the results obtained and the discoveries made during the last five years by the principal investigators who have been studying the physics of the sun. There is also an article by Dr. W. B. Richardson on “ The Hygienic Treatment of Consumption,” which is full of information of the utmost practical value to those who are suffering, or who are threatened, with that fatal disease. The paper consists of ten simple rules of living, with, full explanations of the reasons for them, which any one of ordinary capacity can understand. They may be folio wed. with . or without the aid of a doctor, with the certainty of salutary results, where the present methods of treatment usually end in death. ::
; —The Catholic World .for November opens with an able and forcible article on ‘‘Religion in Education,” from? the pen of -the Rev. T horn as .J. Con'aty. The arguments ’in support of the neces
sity of the religious element in a system of education are presented so clearly and concisely as to carry conviction and produce a profound impression. Says the writer:	.
“Government requires that its citizens be educated in their duties. Republics demand that they be able to read and write, in order to exercise the franchise. But every government needs, first of all, that its citizens be honest, good, pure. It needs that the masses be educated, but as Christians It is useless to put tools in the hands of miners, unless you give them -means of discriminating the true metal from t^e base. . Religion does this for man. Neglect religion in teaching youth, and what security for law, for life, for property? What avail guarantees? Duty and loyalty are high-sounding names, but vain, dead, if not arising from religion. • Neglect religion and you forge links which time and chance will unite in producing revolutions which will upheave society and finally destroy it. If you place keen weapons in a vicious man’s hands you breed Catilines and Robespierres.’’
The following’appeal to the testimony of history is worthy of quotation :
“ The most glowing pages of history are those that tell of» the labor of religion in education. In the beginning of the Christian era Christianity had to contend with the paganism of the tyrant emperors, and in education it had the schools of the empire to battle against. In the days of St Mark, in Alexandria, under the shadow of the bishop’s cathedral, the first Christian schools were established. Entering Alexandria, he found the classics of Greece and Rome in the schools, the science of numbers from Egypt, the Hebrew scriptures translated into Greek, because of the beauties contained therein. He brought to the schools the books of the Gospels, the traditions of St. Peter and St. Paul, the Apostle’s Creed—which contained more true ’ philosophy than all the books ol Greek and Roman sages— and the chant of the church; and these were the first classbooks of the Christian schools. Clement Origen Tertul-lian are the names of some of the great masters of those early Christian schools, where the literature of the pagans was studied side by side with the literature of Christianity. As we look back to those schools, can we wonder that the . young Christian student found the story of Ovid and the Golden Age insipid when compared with the glowing imagery of the prophets painting the kingdom of the Son of Jesse, the Saviour of man? Can we wonder that the Christian student laid aside the sweetly-flowing verses of Horace and Virgil, and the elegant periods of Tacitus, and the glowing story of the gods, to fill his heart with the sweet lessons of the Incarnate Word, the God made man? During the first three centuries, schools were established at Jerusalem, Edessa, Ephesus, Smyrna, and Antioch. These were the beginning of the episcopal seminaries, where the young clerics were taught the.liberal arts and the science of theology. In those days there were also the priests’ schools established in each parish under the charge of the parish priest, where the children of the poor received their education free. The Council of Vaison, in 528, obliged pastors to found such schools, and to this may be traced the origin of parochial schools. Then came the’ monastic system, which trained the monks, like bees, to cull the honey from the flowers of literature and store it for future generations. Prominent in that system were the Benedictines, in 552, the source of the schools of the Middle Ages. The monastery had its interior schools, where the subjects of - the order were instructed; its exterior schools, where the poor:children of the neighborhood received not only their education gratuitously, but were even fed and clothed. And yet men talk of free schools as an institution of this age of ours. ‘ The praise of having originally established schools,’ says Hallam, ‘ belongs to some abbots and bishops of the sixth.century.’ Anglo-Saxon records tell of Theodoric, Archbishop of Canterbury,sent by the pope, in 668, to propagate schools in the Anglo-Saxon Church. * In the beginning of the eight century we find the schools of England, under Egbert, remarkable for art and science. In council at Aix-la-Chapelle, in 789 bishops Jwere commanded to establish free public.schools. The Third General Lateran Council, 1179,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
renewed the order. In Rome, in 1078, a school of liberal arts was placed beside every episcopal school. Through the “dark ages” every bishop had his seminary, every monastery its exterior school, every priest obliged to sustain free parochial schools, as we may see from the Synod ot Mentz in 800, Council of Rome in S36, and Lateran Council in 1178. In 1245, the General Council of Lyons spoke of it. In the eleventh century the monastic system began to decay, scholasticism arose, and with it arose the universities of Paris, Padua, Salamanca, Bologna, Oxford. No man’ can justly dispute the claims of Christianity—and remember, Christianity was then the Catholic Church—to the education and civilization of Europe, even that of the barbaric hordes who swept across the Continent. No scholar can ignore the popes who, during all these long ages, were the nursing fathers of Christian science, whether in maintaining free schools for the poor, or in establishing and supporting the universities; sending an Augustine to the Angles, a Patrick and a Palladius to Erin, a Boniface to Germany, a Cyril and a Methodius to the Slavs.”
In conclusion, says the writer:
“The strength of manhood is in virtue, which springs from faith in Christ, whose maxims are to guide in the development of true character. Christianity is divinely com- . missioned to teach all nations, and insists that the child be taught according to the Gospel. Religious men and women, consecrated to education, receive the blessing of Mother Church, and teach science and literature in an atmosphere o: religion in the church schools. America need never fear those schools. They are not rivals, but co-workers in the education of the people. Patriotism is taught there side by side with the Commandments of God. Inseparably intertwined are country and God. Love of America and her republican institutions is inculcated from the first primer lessons. In times past, Catholic valor was not wanting when the freeman’s blood was demanded that the country might live. When the crisis comes—and it comes to every country—no stronger power will be ready to sustain the people than that springing from schools where men are taught to be virtuous and upright according to the Gospel of Christ. To socialism, anarchy, the tyranny of capital, and the cry of oppressed labor, the Catholic Church answers with the teachings of her Divine Founder, which alone can regulate societv and save it from ruin; and she demands that society, in justice to itself, educate her children at least in those saving precepts.” •
Among other articles in the number are “Christian Unity vs. Unity of Christians”; “Has Rome Jurisdiction? ”; “Provincial Life in England”; “ Present State of the Chinese Missions,” etc., etc.
Personal.
—Brent Goodfellow, of ’85, is engaged in the United States’ Coast Survey, off New York Harbor.
—Frank E. Dooling, student of last year, has charge of the parochial school at Litchfield, Ill.
—C. V. Larkin, of ’S3, a former member of the Scholastic Staffs is a leading lawyer at Streator, Neb. ‘	.
—The Hon. Ben. Harrison, U. S. Senator from Indiana, passed a few pleasant hours at the College last Saturday.
-—William Walsh, of 58, now holding a promi-. nfent government position at Chicago, was among the recent visitors to the College.
—The Hon. B. J. Shively, Democratic candidate for Congress from this district, was a welcome vis-jtor to the College last Thursday.	-A
—Monsignor Straniero,in a recent letter to Prof. Edwards, desires to.be remembered to thesupefiors, c < ’ Faculty, and each of the stui ents of-the Univer-- A sity.	'	. *' •
—Guy Williams (Com’l), ’76, is now an en- . gineer on the Panama R.R., at AspinwaIl, U. S. of Columbia. His brother, Merrick, is clerking, : for the Pacific Mail Steam Navigation Co., at the' same place.	.	•	. : . -	.	-
—We are glad to state that Wm. Wabrausheck, f of last year, is rapidly recovering from a severe.at- . tack of typhoid fever, which has confined him to _ his bed the last four weeks. We hope he will ' soon be able to pay his Alma Mater a visit. A'-A’
—Macrae Sykes, of ’85, is now a cadet at the ■ ' -. United States’ Military Academy, West Point, N. Y. In a recent letter to a friend, he sends his J best wishes to all at Notre Dame. Bruce Wallace,. of Montana, who was here in ’82, is also at West . Point.
—Frank H. Dexter, of last year’s Staffjwrites : us from Columbia, Mo., expressing his happy recollections of Alma Mater and his desire to receive ... the Scholastic that these memories may be ever : kept alive. Frank’s hosts of friends at Notre’ Dame will ever be pleased to hear from him, .and. to know that their best wishes for. him are realized,. - A that his efforts are attended with the success they : so well deserve.	j
—Mr. Geo. H. Alward, the efficient. Clerk for . St. Joseph’s County, Indiana, visited Notre Dame on Sunday and Thursday of this week. He called ... on Prof.Hoynes, and otherfriends here, and greatly enjoyed the vLit. Mr. Alward is a candidate for -re-election to the office of Clerk. He intends to devote his spare time, during the ensuing four years, to qualifying himself for the Bar. ; He has ■}. taken much interest in the Law Department at Notre Dame, and proposes to attend hereafter at . least the morning lectures.	A
—Colonel and Mrs. Otis, of San Antonio, Texas, . : so well known at Notre Dame, celebrated their i “ Silver Wedding” on the 26th inst. The .genial > Colonel and his amiable wife have left many happy / . memories at Notre Dame, and the hosts of friends ; whom they formed during their sojourn here, unitein tendering their heartfelt congratulations upon A.. , the recurrence of this joyful anniversary.and ex-A-; : pressing their sincere wishes that many more years; . " including the “ Golden Jubilee,” may find themrin: the possession of health and happiness. . .. AAAI
—Among the visitors during the. weekAyerer - . Rev. B. Roche, C. S. C., St. Vincent’s, jnd.; Rev. ; J. A. M. Distter, C. SS. R.. St. Louis, Mo.;;Rcy. A A C. J. Laffineur, C. SS. R., Detroit, Mich;; vRevs.; ... M. T.Mackin and D. E. McGrath, of St. Malachy’s . Church, Chicago; J. W. Bowles, Littleton,’Colo.; Mrs. A. MJ Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Francis : J A T. Colby, Chicago; Dr.- and Mrs. S. B. Hiner, A Lima, Ohio; M. J. Huiskamp, Ft. Madison, Iowa; A. Mr. and Mrs.’ O. Clark, Stevens Point, Wis.; Mrs. . P. Morrison, Jackson, Mich.;:.Mrs. F. O. Portey,v A Chicago; Ill.;; G. A. Duemich, Lagrange, Ind. a-J A ■ ?
148
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—We study to please.
—Vote for McMichael.
—Furniture for the room!
—Boys, pull up the boards.
—“He studies civil engineering.” o	o
—Look up your skate-keys, boys!
—The Grads’ rooms are being painted.
—The chestnut humorist—we’ve got him on the list.
—An interesting murder case is on the docket for next Thursday afternoon.
—Next Monday is the Feast of all Saints. Services in the church will be as on Sunday.
—How to pay for the boats is a question that gives much concern to more than one at present.
—The staff member who fell in the lake was not searching for items, it was a mere faux j>as.
—The first ecclesiastical conference for the presentscholastic year- was held on last Thursday morning.	’
—Workmen will soon be busily engaged in introducing steam heating apparatus into the smoking apartment.
—Bear with us this week. We promise to “ let up ” on the Aeryodites. Gone to ' meet our friend John.
—Slowly and sadly we consign the ash and leather to the snuggest corner in memory’s “ old
00	-J
curiosity shop.”
—The dark reaper this time has laid his cruel sickle in front of the Science Hall. Herr Baum’s squirrel is no more.
—Both crews had their photos, taken last Thursday. Those desiring copies can leave their order with the Rev. Prefect of Discipline.
—Election-day Tuesday. It will be just as well, if not a few degrees better, for persons who have no right to vote to stay away from the polls.
—Prof, of Geography:—:“ How many poles are there?”—Young Hopeful:—“Three: the North pole, the South pole, and the Election poll.”
-—“ I’m good-natured, Don, but you can’t flaunt that red neck-tie, with the red ribbon and the anchor in the centre, with impunity much longer.”
—We have received a poem after—a long way after—the style of “ Hiawatha.” We must decline to publish it, as the writer gave us not his name.
—Rev. J. Frere, C. S. C., Professor of Rubrics and Church History at the Petit Seminairey makes his lectures both interesting and instructive. His class is delighted with him.
o	_
" —At the 2d regular meeting of the Thespian Society, held on the 19th, the following were elected to membership: Messrs. Newton, Rothert, Connally, Meeker, Cusack and C. Combe.
—Since the Chief has gone away with the keys, the Aeryodites have been unable to make use of
their valuable library, which consists of Spalding’s B. B. Guide for 1886, complete in one volume.
—It has been well suggested that the armory and 00	J
drill room be transferred to the “ gym ” building. Our militia will find there plenty of room and brilliant light, while sensitive ears will not be oflended.
—Many valuable books and pamphlets have lately been placed on the shelves of the Lemonnier Library. The books are multiplying so rapidly that a gallery and second tier of shelves will have to be built to accommodate the volumes.
—The congreg tion of the Church of the Sacred Heart, at Notre Dame, performed the exercises of the Jubilee during the first three days of this week. Eloquent sermons appropriate to the solemnity were preached by the Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.	'
—The “princes” present their thanks to Very Rev. Father General for his grand pyramidal feastday cake that he presented them. Thus does the venerable Founder, from time to time, prove, in a substantial manner, that the Minims are veritably his favorites.
—At the regular meeting of the Total Abstinence Society, Mr. Warren Cartier read an essay and Rev. President Walsh delievered an address to the members. Judge Scully and Col. Rend, of Chicago, have promised to speak at one of the meetings before Christmas.
—By an oversight, the name of Prof. J. F. Edwards was omitted from the list of the officers of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association. The Sorins request the genial Editor of the Scholastic to coirect the mistake and to notify their esteemed President of his re-election to office.
—Yesterday (Friday), the twelfth anniversary of the death of Rev. Father Lemonnier, fourth President of Notre Dame, was not forgotten by his friends. His grave, as usual, was decorated with tributes of affection, and fervent prayers were offered for the eternal repose of his soul.
—Of the feast-day letters written by the Minims to Father General that of F. Crotty was considered the best, and the next in the order of merit were those of J. McIntosh,‘C. Mooney, W. Martin, W. McDonnell, A.Nester,R. Munro, C. Boettcher, R. Graham, J. Huiskamp and S. Backrack.
—The seminarians have moved into the new addition lately erected on the south of the old seminary building. Rev. Father Spillard, Rector of the Seminary, is meeting with gratifying succes in his endeavors to give the young men under his charge the benefits of a thorough ecclesiastical training.
—The military organizations in the different departments are having an unprecedented boom. Under the instruction of competent officers and the supervision of Col. Hoynes, the “awkward squads’” are fast becoming proficient in the marchings, and, for the first time, guns are to be provided for the Sorin Cadets.
—The members of the C-. T. A. Society held a
THE, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149
pleasant reunion last Wednesday evening in the Seniors’ reading-rooms. The Crescent Club Orchestra contributed to the pleasure of the evening by selections from its repertoire. Prof. Paul also added to the joy of the occasion by performing some of his inimitable piano solos.
—The indications are that during the winter months the “gyms” will be liberally patronized. Steps have been taken to thoroughly equip them, and the new teacher who holds “court” therein is receiving numerous accessions to the ranks of his pupils. Gymnastic exercises promise to hold a prominent place among winter amusements.
—Mt> St. Vincent, the site of the Professed House, can now boast of the second deepest well in St. Joseph’s County, the first being located on the Studebaker farm east of South Bend. The artesian well near the Professed House, which was finished a few days ago, is 176 feet deep, and the purest of clear, crystal water flows therefrom.
—“ Now is the winter of our discontent,” as Hawthorne ( ?) hath it.
The glorious sun of Baseball shone this fall, Despite the clouds that lowered o’er our campus; And gently sinking as the chill breeze blew, His parting ray did fall with ruddy hue
Upon the “ white-washed ” remnants of the Atlantics.”
—There was a grand fete in the “ gym ” last Wednesday evening, when the electric light was turned on for the first time by Rev. President Walsh, attended by several distinguished visitors. Great enthusiasm was manifested, and many were the encomiums bestowed upon our genial Prof. O’Dea, whose skilful labors had brought about the good result, o	.
—At a meeting, of the Columbian, Literary and Dramatic Club, held on the 14th inst., a very lively debate on the question of Chinese immigration was the principal feature of the evening exercises. Those who took part were Messrs. W. Lally, E. Kendall, E. J. Rhineberger, G. H. Sullivan, W. Jewett, P. Martineau, C. Shields, J. Houck. Mr. G. S. Crilly read a creditable essay, and Messrs. W. H. Dorsey, H. Greene and J. French were elected members.
—At the 3d, 4th and 5th regular meetings of the St.Cecilia Philomathean Association, held Sept. 29, Oct. 6 and 20, Masters Cavanagh, McKenzie, McGuirk, Vhay, McPhee, Devine and Adams were elected members* Among the essayists worthy of mention were Masters F. Goebel, F. Long, C. West and W. Henry. The following were named public readers for the coming week: Masters Darragh, Henry, Goebel, Long, Luther, McPhee, O’Kane, Ewing, Wagnor and Devine.
—On Tuesday, Father General came to thank the “ princes ” for their beautiful letters which, he said, gave him such pleasure. Finding a class at the blackboard he gave them some Arithmetical problems, based on the measurement of the Palace. The velocity with which they presented the answers made him say more than once, “ I knew they were bright boys.” Very Rev. Father General’s visits and his gracious words of encouragement have the best influence on the Minims.
—Rev. President Walsh made a visit of the classes of the Minim department on Friday. After expressing himself pleased with the start the Minims had made in their studies, he encouraged them to continue as they had begun, to make the best use of their time. He said: “ I see how far advanced you are now, and I know what I may expect at the end of the session, and at the close of the scholastic year.” From what we know of the Minims, we think they are the last boys to disappoint the expectations of the Rev. President.
—A close and exciting game of football was played Thursday on the Senior campus. A crisp, clear atmosphere, coupled with Bro. Paul’s donation of a barrel of “Northern Spies,” alias apples, to the winning team, stimulated all to the acme of exertion. (“Acme” is a good word.) The first goal was gained by the “ Reds ” after an equal scoring of points, lasting forty-five minutes. Struggles at the second bout were many, hot and furious, but the “ Reds ” carried the goal points, and hence the game, on a clever “punt” and some splendid work by their rushers. Messrs. Triplett, Cusack, Combe and Prudhomme, deserve special mention for clever work with the ball.
—An excellent game of baseball was played last Sunday afternoon on the Senior grounds between the University nine and the Atlantics of the Manual Labor School. The game resulted in a well-earned victory for the Universities. None of the Atlantics were able to cross the plate, owing to the fine pitching of Cooper, and the brilliant field support given him. Combe and Benner’s fielding, Cusack’s base running, McHenry and Burns’ battery work, and O’Regan and Cooper’s heavy batting were the main features of the game:
Universities. Combe, c................ Cusack, 1 st b.......... Benner, 2d b............ O’Regan, s. s........... Cooper, p............... Triplett, 3d b.......... Reilly, 1-f............. Fehr, c. f..............
Luhn, r. f..............
Total............■......
Atlantics. Sullivan, istb...........
Burns, c................
McHenry, p............ P. O’Brien, 1. f...... H. Dean, s. s......... Lahey, c. f........... E. O’Brien, r. f...... Dempsey, 2d b...........
J. Lyons, 3d b..........
Total...................
A.B. R. I.B. T.B. P.O- A. E. 5000830 4	o	o	o	10	o	o
5	1	O	o	5	I	o
5334031 5	2	2	5	O	II	o
4222122 401	I	100
4 0 i	i	i o o
4000100
40	s	9	13	27	20	3
A.B.	R.	I.B.	T.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
4OOO5O2 4	O	O	O	I4	4	2
4’0	I	I	I	16	O
3	0	0	0	1	1	2
3	0	0	0	2	1	I
3OOOOO4 2	0	0	0	0	0	0
3	o	o	o	4	I	A
301	1002
29 o 2	2 27 .23 14
Struck out: by Cooper,8; McHenry, 14. Wild Pitches: McHenry, 1. Base on Balls: off Cooper, 1; McHenry, 2; Passed Balls: Burns, 2. Three Base Hits: Cooper. Two Base Hits: Cooper, O’Regan.. Double Plays: Cooper, Benner, Cusack; Cooper, Combe, Benner. Time of game: 1.30. Umpire: C. J. Kraft. Scorer: J. B. Meagher.
Score by Innings:—1 23456789	.
Atlantics:—0 0000000 0=0
Universities :—o 0 0 4 0 o o 3 i=S
150	THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
—At the session of the University Moot-court, Saturday, Oct. 16, the case of Sam Lawton, suing, by his next friend, Ellen Lawton, the Chicago and Grand Trunk R.R. for $15000 damages, was tried before Judge Hoynes. The case was adroitly and eloquently argued in favor of the former by G. H. Sullivan and Chas. Rheinberger; of the latter by J. Judie and W. Jeffs. The jury returned a verdict of $10,000 damages.
On Saturday, Oct. 23, the court convened for . the purpose of hearing the case of the State of Indiana vs. J. Armstrong. The interests of this hopeless leader of the Salvation army, who was indicted for having pounded his bass-drum with undue enthusiasm, thereby disturbing the peace of mind and body of the quiet-loving denizens of the Bend, was represented by Messrs. F. X. Claffey and E. Britt. The State was represented by G. H. Sullivan and V. E. Greene. The case was well conducted, spice being added to the proceedings by the liberality with which the attorneys bombarded one another with missiles from well-stocked arsenals of humorous shot and satirical shell. The defense, especially, succeeded in exciting the usually grave and decorous body of the court to hearty outbursts of laughter. Their verbal gymnastics, however,did not clear their client, who was mulcted by the jury to the tune of $10.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	.
'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs.M. Akin,'Ashton, Aubrey, Becerra, Britt, Brown, Burke, Bowles, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Byrnes, Barrett, Colina, Chaves, Cusack, G. Cartier, C. Combe, W. Cartier, Coady, Cooper, Craft, Cassidy, Devlin, W. Dorsey, S. Dorsey, Dougherty, Dore, Deary, Dreever, Dwyer, Dierdorff, Dickenson, Eyanson, Eisenhauer, Egan, Ensor, Finckh, Ford, Gallardo, Galarneau, Gieseler, Gibbs, Greene, Houck, Hinchman, Hiner, Hummer, Hagerty, Judie, Jordan, Jno. Kleiber, Kendall, Kreutzer, Kelly, Ley, J. Langan, Lyons, H. Langan, Lais, Leonard, Larkin, Lally, Long, Mohan, T. McDermott, McErlain, McAldister, J. McDermott, Murphy, McGinnis, Mallay, McFarland, Mulkern, V. Morrison, McNamara, L. Meagher, Myers, Newell, Neill, Neff, Nelson, O’Connor, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Connell, L. O’Malley, J. O’Malley, Padilla, Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Rheinberger, Rothert, Rodriguez, Regan, Rochford, Ruger, Suing, O. Sullivan, G. Sullivan, Sproehnle,.Stubbs, Shannon, Soden, Triplett, Taylor, Valasco, White, Werst, A. Williams, Wagoner, W. Williams, Whalen, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
v Masters Austin, Bacigalupp, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Badger, Bunker, Bailey, Brabrook, W. , - Boland, H. Boland, Black, Burns, Baca, Benner, J. Clarke, Bl Clarke, Cleveland, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford, Cobbs, Casey, Cooney, Coad, F. Chute, L. Chute, S. Campbell, Curtis,-Cook, Darragh, A Duffield, F. Duffield, Decker, Devine, Doss, Draper, Dempsey, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Flood,-Fisher, Goebel, Garber, Glenn, Hoffman, J. Henry, Houlihan, Hurd A. Hake, T. Hake, -Hannin, Hayes, Hampton,' Higgins,. Inks, Jewett, Jacobs, Julian, Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Kpnzen, Katz, Kern, Kellner, Kutsche, Keating, Lesh, Landenwich, Luther, Morrison, McNulty, Monarch, McKenzie, McCart, Mathewson, McMahon, Mallay, McGurk, McIntosh, Macatee, McPhee,
Mulburger, Moncada, Meehan, Noud, Nations, B. O’Kane, O’Connor, Ormond, Oxnard, O’Brien, Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, Preston, Power, Quealy, Roper, Rudd, Reynolds, M. Smith, Sweet, J. Stephens, B. Stephens, F. Smith,’ L. Smith, Steele, Spencer, Taliaferro, Tionen, Vhay, C. West, L. West, Warner, Wilbanks, M. White, Wagoner, Weadly, Walker, Walsh, Weldon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Boettcher, Bloomhuff, Boyd, Blumenthal, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, Black, Clendenin, F. Crotty, Cohn, W. Connor, C. Connor, Cook, E. Conners, J. Conners, Doss, Dahler, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, J. Dungan, J. Dungan, Foote, T. Falvey, F. Falvey. E. Falvey, G. Franche, C. Franche, Grant, Gale, Graham, Garber, Griffin, Haney, Hillas, J. Huiskamp, Jewett Kutsche, Kerwin, Koester, Keefe, Kain, Klaner, Kraber, Lewin, Lane, Lowenstein, McIntosh, McGuire, McDonnell, Martin. Mahon, Mason, Aug. Morgenweck, A. Mayer, A. Morgen -weck, Mainzer, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, G. Mayer, McPhee Munro, Nester, O’Mara, O’Neill, Prior, Paul, Priestly, Quill, Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Stone, Savage, Sullivan, Sweet, Steele, Smith, F Toolen, Triplett Fred. Toolen, Tillenburg, Taft, Tompkins, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Witkowsky, Wickler.	'
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—accor-ing to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
SPECIAL COURSES.
Industrial Drawing—E. Devlin; Figure Drawing—F. Long; Telegraphy—C. Hurd, R, Rodriguez; Type-Writing—S. Nussbaum, H. Long; Phonography—T. Flood, H. Long, H. Werst, G. Meyers, A. Hoye, G. Cartier; German—J. Henry, J. McMahon, F. Baca, J. McDermott; French—C West, J. Wagoner, E. Adams; English History—E. Darragh; English Composition—T. McDermott,' Elocution:—D. A.’Latshaw, E. Darragh, C. Stubbs, J. Kleiber, P. Wagoner, J. Houck, G. Sullivan, J. Wheadly, O-Regan, F. Cobbs, C. Padilla, D. Regan, M. Mulkern, P. Reynard, J. O’Malley.
The servants of the public in this glorious Republic are not, after all, such an exceptional lot. Read the following words of advice to the public officials of Acadia, and see how the beautiful conduct of our own office holders and seekers is made to serve as a model for imitation everywhere—for ex uno disce omnes'. . _
Tes electeurs visiteras	.
A tout le moins une fois l’an. ■ . - - •
'■	. A chacun d’eux tu prometteras -
Des emplois du gouvernement.
SitOt rentre leur dcriras;
. “ Pas de place pour Michel Tout-i-fait asteurrr;.......”
Du nord au midi rouleras "
.	En express gratuitement .
A la buvette tu seras .
. Plus souveht qu’au parlement.
Mais qu’un roi vienne et tu sauras .
,, L’assurer. de ton devouement. .
. Par ce moyen tu mettras	. .
, .	, Dans ta poche plus qu’autrement. ,
'	, . .	'—Moniteur.Acadien.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	151
Saint JHavy's Acate my.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The monthly lecture before the. St. Cecilia Society was read on the 16th inst.
—The lecture before the Christian Art Association was delivered on Thursday evening.
—At the regular Academic reunion the readers were the Misses R. Smith and L. Pierson.
—Through oversight, the name of Miss E. Coll was omitted from the tablet 'par excellence last week.
—The French address, on the Feast of Very Rev. Father General, was read, and in a beautiful manner, by Miss Snowhook.
—In last Saturday’s issue of the Scholastic, by mistake, the excellent performance of Nicode’s “ Characteristique Polonaise,” on the Feast of St. Edward, was incorrectly credited. It was played by Miss Horn.
—Those entitled to draw for the Roman mosaic cross were the Misses Beaubien, Boyer, Bragdon, Bruus, Campbell, Crane, Coll, Dempsey, Fritz, . Hake, Hinz, Hull, Huntting, Knauer, Leonard, Mason, McDonald, Morse, E. Nester, Prudhomme, Rhodes and Stapleton. Cora Prudhomme was deserving by excellence.
—Charlotte Caddagan, has been the fortunate winner of the Politeness Badge of the Minim department, and also of the golden prize for excellence of behavior. The entire Minim department repaired to the pastoral residence, and the award was made at the hands of Very Rev. Father General—a distinguished honor upon which they very justly plume themselves.	«
Scenery.
Much as association does towards investing the scenes of nature with their greatest charm, there are intrinsic features which belong to the varied landscapes of earth, and which render them indifferent oi‘ interesting; repulsive or attractive; insignificant or suggestive. We have the vast plain, the undulating prairie, the hill, the mountain; the valley, the meadow, the grove, the forest. To these we add those objects which often seem indispensable to beautiful scenery—the water-courses, the spring, the rill, the brook, the river; and the more expansive collections of water—the pond, the lagoon, the lake, the sea, the ocean. These are all natural features, but the dwellers by the “castellated Rhine,” or in “Venice, the bride of the sea,” or on the storied Bay of Naples, behold the charms that art has added to nature. The stately towers, the grand edifices, the gondolas, and the graceful ships, though the products of human industry, augment the loveliness of many a brilliant scene. .
The residences, the places of birth and the burialplaces of great men give character to otherwise
indifferent localities. We see beauty in a shrub or vine growing over the grave of Washington that we would not notice in another place; so of many things to which associations have-imparted interest.
To the pure of heart the grandeurs of heaven and earth are but so many evidences of the truths of revelation. Sidereal space, as well as the celestial paradise, which “eye hath not seen,” but.the reality of which, we are assured of in Holy Writ, these, as w’ell as the beautiful earth on which we dwell,speak of an Infinite Intelligence. Oh! they who doubt the Omnipotent Hand which wrought all these wonders are more to be pitied than blamed, “ The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God.” How can one contemplate nature, without emotions of gratitude and love to the Creator? for He exists, all-powerful and divine, dispensing good to all His creatures.	'	.
Ideal scene-painting is the work of poet, artist and musician alike, and they but interpret what is suggested to them in nature. No wonder that we, who are less lavishly endowed, are sometimes dazzled as we look abroad and behold the variety of sublime and lovely views, delineated by the Hand Divine.
Though we listen with delight to descriptions of Alpine grandeur, or of the matchless coloring in the Italian skies; though, in imagination, we linger by the Avon, or the Ayr, our own American scenery is dearer to our hearts. Not to the far-away beautiful Hudson and Potomac among rivers; nor to the Cumberland and the Catskill among mountains do we allude. Our western states to us have even brighter landscapes than those reveal.	-
A view now rises before the eye of the mind.. A vast prairie, rich in luxuriant verdure, reminding the beholder of a limitless carpet of velvety softness. Fertile and fair the fields are spread. We ride along in the clear, pure atmosphere, till the road winds up a steep ascent. The summit at length -is gained; and there we meet a vision of such ravishing beauty that we instinctively hold our breath. Our sentiments of admiration find no adequate voice but in the involuntary expression, “Thank God for His goodness! How beautiful He has made the world!” From East to West, from North to South, the country lies in its midsum-mei' splendor, spread out in an unintercepted view. Hills rise and sink into vales; streams flash and expand; rivers flow in graceful curves;.and,fully twenty miles from the point of sight, we behold that which seems but a thread of silver, just on the border of the horizon. . It is the Platte River, the largest stream of the many presented in the landscape.	.	. .	> .
Numerous herds of cattle are grazing here and there, delighting in the sumptuous banquet spread out before them. Everywhere we behold the fields of Indian corn, tall, sturdy stalks, rising like the trees of a miniature forest.' Stirred by-the wind,'the leaves rustle and.send upward a sweet, weird sound, fit accompaniment to the musical. theme, pleasant thoughts are weaving in the mind. Fields of wheat, barley, oats and rye intersperse
ija	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the fair landscape in exquisite variety of shade, showing that eastern Nebraska is truly a land “ flowing with milk and honey.”
Many are the grand mountains in the world; but association has made those of northern California most interesting to us. There, in the Sierra Nevada range, Mount Shasta rises fourteen thousand feet above the level of the sea. This peak is covered with perpetual snow. The clustering ranges in summer are blue; but in winter they, too, are decked in ermine-like robes. But, grand as is this sight, there is one to surpass it. It is a storm on the mountains. Once witnessed, it can never be forgotten. From the valley below, approaching over the mountain tops, we see heavy, black clouds. They cast waving, graceful shadows on the pure snow. Lower and lower they sink, until they envelope nearly the entire range, and we behold them as a bluish black mass of vapor. By this we know there is a “blizzard” on the mountains; but in the valley the sun shines warm, the flowers bloom, and in luxuriant clusters on the trees and vines, the fruit hangs rich and ripe. How like a conscience at rest, either from a blameless life, or from the guilelessness of vouth’s fair morning! The tempests of discord rage around, but the - clear conscience heeds them not. We are reminded of the pretty stanza from the sweet old song, as we take in the two scenes before us—
“ The winds are all hushed, and the waters at rest: They sleep like the passions in infancy’s breast, Till storms shall unchain them from out their dark caves And break the repose of the soul in its waves.”
We cross the mountains now, and reach the Pacific, there to behold ocean scenery unrivalled by any in the world. Is it out of compliment to the classic Mediterranean that the gorgeous ocean sunsets of the West are compared to those on her world-renowned waters? We know the power of association, and the deep historic interest connected with the beautiful sea whose waters lave the shores of three vast continents. We would not rob her of her well-earned laurels.
With pleasure we might dwell on other scenes made charming by many considerations; to far-famed sites, both North and South. We might advert to the great lakes, so rich in national interest as. well as in lovely landscapes. We might offset the legendary “ Lakes of Killarney ” by “ The Four Lakes of Madison,” described by Longfellow as
“ Four lovely handmaids that uphold
Their shining mirrors, rimmed with gold To the fair city of the West.”
Were we to follow fancy, our theme would never close. Well, is it known that hearts have been broken and lives blighted by exile from the scenes they loved; but God wisely orders all things. He would not have our hearts cling to created objects, however good and beautiful. Obeying His commandments upon earth, and loving Him above all things, great shall be our reward in heaven, the Fatherland of the soul, whence, once we have /happily entered therein, there can be no exile for evermore.- .	’	. •	.
: / .Marie Cressy Fuller -( Class ty/).
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF ACADEMIC RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Blair, Bates. Brophy, Burke, Blacklock, Beschameng, Blakeslee, Clendenen, Clifford, F. Curtis, M. Curtis, E. Coll, Dillon, Dezenberg, E. Dunkin, M. Dunkin, Egan, English, Ewing, Fuller, Faxon, Flannery, Griffith, Guise, Gordon, Gavan, Horn, Hummer, Hertzog, Harlem, R. Henrichs, V. Hen-richs, Hodges, Henke, L. Hutchinson, E. Hutchinson, Johnson, Kearsey, Kearney, -Kearns, Kingsbury, Kennedy, Larkin, Lingle, M. F. Murphy, McHale, L. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, Marsh, M. McCormic, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, Nester, Pierson, Proby, Riedinger, Rend, E. Regan, Scully, St. Clair, Shephard, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, Sherman, Swegman, Stafford, Triplett, Van Horn, Williams, Wolvin, G. Wynn, Wehr, Wimmer, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Beaubien, Boyer, Bruus, Blaine, Campbell, Crane, Coll, Dempsey, Fritz, Hake, Hinz, Hunt-ting, Knauer, Kennedy, Leonard, Mason, McDonnell, Mores, Nester, Prudhomme, Rhodes, Stapleton.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. ■
Par Excellence—Misses M. Becker, I. Becker, L. Cad-dagan, B. McCormick, E. Qualey, A. O’Mara, J. Wallace.
Class Honors.
[The following-named young ladies are best in classes— according to Competitions held during the past month.[ Graduating Class—Misses Horn, Wolvin, G. Griffith, Dillon, Kearney, Kearsey, Fuller, McHale, St. Clair, Shephard, Williams.
ist Senior Class—Misses Hummer, G. Regan, Trask, Brady, Heckard, Snowhook, Carmien, Swegman, Brophy, L. Blaine, Faxon, Foin, H. Miner, A. Duffield, Guise, Kearns, Gordon.
2D Senior Class—Misses N. Dempsey, Rend, Hertzog, Van Horn, Stadtler, Barry, E. Balch, Bub, Clifford, Kingsbury, M. Smith, Moran, E. Coll, L. Hutchinson, Patrick, 'L. Meehan, Riedinger, M. Morse, Henke, M. Dunkin, Stafford, English, H. Rose, Ewing.
*3d Senior Class—Misses E. Flannery, R. Smith, C. Dempsey, G. Wynn, Triplett, Egan, Shields, McEwen, A. Miner, M. McCormick, Pierson, Proby, Burke, E. Dunkin, Kennedy, E. Regan, M. Hutchinson, Thompson, Huntting, Quill, Desenberg, M. Duffield, Harlem, Marsh, J. Lingle, Coglin, V. Henrichs.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses M. Curtis, Wimmer, E. Nester, C. McNamara, Sherman, Blacklock, Prudhomme, T. Balch,-Beaubien, Bragdon, F. Moore, E. Blaine, Hake, Koester, Lindsey, M. Morse, H. Nestor,. Zahm.
. 2D Prep. Cla'ss—Misses Beschemang, Mason, Boyer, Qualey, M. Kennedy, Stapleton.
Junior Prep.—Misses Cook, Rhodes, Wallace.
ist Junior Class—Misses E. Dempsey, M. Campbell. book-keeping.	•
ist Class—Misses N. Kearns, B. Snowhook, G. Faxon, L. Blaine, F. Carmien, M. Morse, H. Guise.
2D Class—Misses I Bub, A. Kennedy, R. Sterns, E. Coll, B. Desenberg, M. Patrick, N. Dempsey.	.
. 3d Class—Misses L. Griffith, J. Lingle, N. Larkin, M. Murphy, K: Shields, A. McDonnell, A. Blacklock, L. Henke, M. Thompson, E. Regan.
TYPE-WRITING AND CALIGRAPH.
Misses C. Griffith, A. Blacklock, M. Morse, M. Coll. .	.	, phonography.
ist Class—Misses K. Shields, F. Carmien.
2D Class—Misses E. Kearns, M. Rend.
. 3D Class—Misses' K. .Brophy, G. Wolvin, C. Griffith, M. Patrick,/E. Flannery, A. Kennedy, A; Riedinger, M. Duffield, R. Stems, J. Lingle.'