o
by
Beautiful New Parker
the makers of the world’s most
00
NAME ENGRAVED FREE IN 14K GOLD
• VISIBLE INK SUPPLY
• SUPER-SMOOTH POINT—of especially blended metals for extra-resilience and durability.
If you ore not completely satisfied with the new Parker" 21 —■simply return pen to us for refund within 10 days.
• SLIP-ON METAL CAP—no twist, no turn, no threads to wear out.
• CONCEALED FILLER—faster, easier . . . cleans as it fills.
• SPECIAL INK REGULATOR—assures a steady, no-skip line.
• USES DRY-WRITING SUPER-BRILLIANT SUPER-
CHROME INK (can use any ink)
wew Parker "21"
THE BOOKSTORE
irfcerZt
<
I
Never before so fine a precision writing instrument at such a low price!
wanted pen —is a perfect writing companion. Get yours on free trial today.
$1°° DOWN A WEEK
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

new Parker
of pens selling at
k
It’s precision-built
features
twice the price
Copr. 7952 by Tha Parkar Pan Company
He s as easy to see through as the 21 ’s Pli-glass reservoir.”
Stops^~fi>r. "filling- are fcwaddfarbetwaen. It's like my new.'Pen.”
"He'sgotsucb a smooth line!' .v'For:asmooth: line, I 'll take-i the; new-‘21 /; any day J
■ ‘You've got a grip like that new '21* dip!”
by the makers of world-famous New Parker "51
Offers the smart style... smart
It’s the low-cost pen that will never let you down! No scratching! No skips! No blots!
New “21” has the smooth-gliding Octanium point.. „ a patented ink control... new fast-action filler. The ink supply is visible „ „. and you get- real protection against leaking.
Ask your favorite pen dealer now to show you the New Parker “21”—the most popular $5.00 pen. It's the “what’s new in school.” Lustraloy cap. Choice of points. Colors: blue, green, red, black. Set—pen with matching pencil—$8.75. You’ll do better this time by buying a New Parker “21”!
NOTE: Prices subject to F. E. Tax,
And—when it’s time to hint for a gift— hint for the finest of all: New Parker ”51
New Parker “51” and “21” Pens “write dry” with Superchrome Ink. No blotters needed! (They also use any other fountain pen ink.)
'ebruary 8, 1952
3
LETTERS
Pitt ‘Sportsmanship’
Editor: '
I went to the Notre Dame-Pitt game and had the misfortune of sitting in the Pitt “cheering” section. A friend of mine who is a Pitt student asked me to sit there. After the game got underway, some of Pitt’s students were almost ready to take me out in the alley because I was cheering for Notre Dame, and I sympathize with them on that point.
. . . When a Notre Dame player went to the foul line, they made more noise than they did when the final gun sounded a victory for Pitt. When an obvious foul was called against Pitt, they booed the referees loud and long . . .
I imagine, however, that most of these indications of poor sportsmanship can be found anywhere. What really brought the temperature of my blood to 99.99 degrees centigrade was listening to them . . . turning a mere basketball game into a religious war. It is difficult to imagine college students saying such things as “They forgot to eat their fish tonight” and “Chug-a-lug holy water.” Yet these were only two of many similar remarks said, not only among themselves, but shouted for the benefit of the entire field house.
I would really like to have heard these wise guys last Oct. 20. I am looking forward to hearing them on Feb. 18.
Name Withheld
This Is an EnginEER?
Editor:
Since the Scholastic has thus far failed to render its subscribers a formal definition of an Engineer, I respectfully submit the following for your critical analysis: “An Engineer is a PERSON who passes as an exacting expert on the basis of being able to turn out with prolific fortitude infinite strings of incomprehensible formulae calculated with micromatic precision from vague assumptions which are based on debatable figures taken from inconclusive experiments carried out with instruments, of problematical accuracy by persons if doubtful reliability and questionable mentality foi' the avowed purpose of annoying and confounding a hopeless chimerical group of fanatics referred to all too frequently as Engineers.”
Sincerely Yours, Michael J. Mahoney 202 Howard
4
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
ARROW WHITE SHIRTS and ARROW VALENTINE RED TIES
ARROW PAR, ividespread soft collar GORDON DOVER, oxford button-doiun
ARROW VALENTINE RED TIES
ARROW »»-------------->-
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
The Confederate cap rage is sweeping the campus . . .
Bigger and Better Lines
Did your registration line seem longer this year? Well, small wonder, since a bright new complement of freshmen replacements have arrived at the Athens of the midwest to replenish the positions vacated by the January grads, who, by now, have already accustomed themselves to new horizons and more than likely have already taken up their stand in the already confused business world (to further confuse things). Oh well, caveat emptor, ’er whatever.
Remarks Overheard in a Registration Line
“Show me the guy who invented the eight o’clock class.”
“But I tell you I took that last semester.”
“No. I’m dropping that one; he flunked my roommate last semester.”
“What do you mean I haven’t paid my bill?”
“How do. you go about transferring into Commerce?”
Salute to Barry
Although the home fires of Caponeland usually serve as roosting places during the semester holidays, we deviated from the norm this season, and with our hyperthyroid colleague, Chas. “Boy Needle” Schubert, we decided to investigate the claims of the Miami Chamber of Commerce and visit in the Sunshine State, where mercury readings below seventy-five degrees are considered abnormalities of nature and where snow is a vulgar word.
While the Nawth chattered in near-
By Jack Hynes
tempted to couple a bit of business with pleasure and visited Barry College (St. Mary’s with a Southern accent) for the purpose of investigating their campus radio facilities (Chas, felt a station break coming on).
Fortunately, however, the Confederate charmers at Barry don’t have a radio station. But they do have a swimming pool and just heaps of that ol’ Southern accent, both of which features are noticeably lacking at our sister school across the highway.
The Barry maidens, 270 in number, served as charming hostesses to Mrs. Schubert’s son and yours truly for a goodly portion of our stay in “My-amuh,” supplying us with road tours, beach tours, sun-glasses, and advice about the weather, together with introducing us to their corner post-class hangout, Miami’s version of Wal-green’s, a small variety' store just up the road from the college, (the proprietor of which, a surly fellow with little love for drugstore cowboys, later ejected us from his premises for thumbing through and disturbing his magazine rack).
We mention all this for the benefit of those who might be planning a similar visit during Easter vacation. For full particulars and informative brochure, address inquiries to The Week, the station to which you are now listening, or write direct to the Miami Chamber of Commerce and Barry College (just don’t mention our names).
Let’s Celebrate!
Among the accumulated matter piled up in the in-coming mail basket in the Scholastic office was a handy,
little calendar put out by the ACP Business Review (I don’t know what ACP means either; but it probably has something to do with business being better than ever; or is that the movies?)
At any rate, this calendar thing gives an account of the merchandising days and weeks for the year 1952 (no merchandiser or columnist dares be without this information), and we note that this coming week has been designated by whoever designates this sort of stuff, as National Kraut and Frankfurter Week.
It means nothing. I just thought I’d pass it along to you as a potential topic of conversation which might enable you to make new friends — like, “Say there, friend, did you know today is the first day of National Kraut and Frankfurter Week?” Oh well, it might help. It’s possible, madam; it’s possible.
Bottom of the Week
. . . They are ridiculous, aren’t they?.
Why Pay More?
LONG PLAYING RECORDS
(33 1/3 R. P. M.)
30 Off
Factory New! Every Record Guaranteed!
For FREE Complete Catalogue and Price List, write to:
Record Haven Stores (Dept. C) 520 W. 48th St. New York 19, N. Y. (Enclose 10c to cover postage and handling)
If in N. Y. C. visit our Midtown stores: 1125 - 6th Ave.; 1145 - 6th Ave.; 1211-6th Ave.
zero temperatures, the thin one and I basked and bronzed our frames on the sun-drenched beaches off Collins Avenue. And, though it cost us our life savings plus a tidy donation from the family exchequers, we are healthy looking; although the waitress in Joer’s confused our tans with yellow jaundice and threatened to call in the board of health if we didn’t submit to a patch test. But nevertheless, we are healthy-looking (they’re using our picture now
P on Serutan boxes).
During our balmy sojourn we at-
CATHOLIC SUMMER SCHOOLS ABROAD
ENGLAND:	Newman Association Summer Session at Oriel College, Oxford,
July 5 - August 2.
SWITZERLAND: University of Fribourg, “Building a New World,” French and German Language Courses, July 14 - Aug. 22.
IRELAND:	University College, Dublin. “Ireland Today.” July 14-26.
SPAIN:	Summer University of Santander, Spanish language, history,
“	folklore, etc. August 1-31.	'
GERMANY:	Special Seminar for American and European Students, •
August 1 - 31.
For full information write:
INSTITUTE OF UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD
1346 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.	Washington 6, D. C.
February 8, 1952
There are dancing Arab girls, sandstorms,
roughest of them all.
Good-night, just as
say
collect a modest return
GRANADA (to Feb. 12)—Lost Continent
(A-l) is one picture
FEBRUARY 9
WASHINGTON HALL—James Mason in The Desert Fox.
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
much to the effective-
FEBRUARY 12
$1.20
on the whole it’s a pretty good job.
but
FEBRUARY 14
STATE
(to
Rosenblum with
Chicken in the Rough'
Telegraph with Tim Holt.
213 N. Main
Open Sunday
6
The Scholastic
after doing rough spots
reason” of the picture color. The and white, ness of the
Feb. 16)—A couple of things called Skipalong Maxey Rosenblum and Max Baer and Overland
in office is the theme Walter Pidgeon and
he fig-on his a lace
up with another good with Shelley Winters,
Investment, he’d wind up with full of Splinters Discouraging.
time to ured to
AVON (to Feb. 15)—The Avon comes film this week in The Raging Tide (A-2)
COLFAX (to Feb. 13)—Ten Tall Men (Legion of Decency Rating B) is nothing more than an adventure story about the Foreign Legion with Burt Lancaster as the biggest, toughest,
a unique innovation which adds film.
vide an exciting touch of realism. Hoodlums of the co-feature The Sellout (A-2) with John Hodiak.
1784 and his experiences there in the past. Most of is concerned with this world of 1784 and is in techni-modern day shots, however, are photographed in black
Once there was a freshman who had a Problem. He couldn’t get to first base with the Opposite Sex. Oh, they’d go out with him and wade briskly through p steak. But when it came
chases across the desert and unbelievable heroics by the dashing Legionnaires. If you don’t mind a lot of baloney, this won’t be bad.
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
Richard Conte and Stephan McNally. Conte plays the part of a criminal who might have turned out to be a pillar of any community had he been turned in the right direction in his youth. Instead he becomes a San Francisco racketeer and most of the picture is concerned with his hiding out from underworld enemies
away with one of their pals. The picture has its
One Man's Valentine is Another Man's Swan-Song OR what really happened on February 14th
c $
PALACE (to Feb. 14)—Any Air Force man who fails to see Wild Blue Yonder (A-l) ought to be drummed out of the service. It’s a real Gung-Ho job about the part the B-29’s played in the last war, and captures very well that glory that goes only to the men who fly. Cast includes Wendall Corey, Vera Ralston and Walter Brennan. Actual combat shots spliced into the film pro-
that will make anything else in town this week seem like an epic. It’s a tale about Air Force men searching for a stray Air Force rocket and stumbling upon a pre-historic plateau high in the mountains, complete with monsters. Washington Hall’s younger set may find this one right down their alley. Unknown World (A-l) is another of those science fiction pictures only this time the explorers go 2000 miles into the earth in their “depth ship.” They, too, find a new world but the discovery fails to pull the pix out of the mediocre class.
In desperation, he calculated himself new angle. He ignored February 13th completely. Didn’t send out a single Billet-doux. But on the morning of February 14th, he strode down to the Western Union office and sent Telegrams to a carefully selected list of fifty Females. Very touching messages, on the “Be mine” theme. Then he went back to his room and shaved expectantly.
The first starry-eyed Girl drove up an hour later. The procession kept up all day. Talk about a Mouse-Trap! Now he’s very happy. So are all his Wives. They just love Mecca.
There’s a factual point tv this frivolous case-history: No message is as pleasing and convincing as a telegram: none gets a more positive reaction. Nothing makes a gal or guy feel more special than receiving one whether it’s congratulations to Dad or love to Mother or filching a Date with Destiny. Wan* proof? Just call Western Ur.irn.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
PALAIS RO YALE—Student Council dance from 8:30 to 11 with the price still at the all-time high of ?2 per couple.
AVON (to Feb. 11)—Til Never Forget You (A-l) with Tyrone Power and Ann Blyth is probably the best show in town this week. It’s a fantasy of one modern man’s brief escape into the “age of
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT
Vol. 93 February 8, 1952 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE................News
PATRICK CARRICO.........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY.........Features
JACK R. VARLEY.................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER............Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER.......Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulat nn
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-. dress all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: As you must have noticed, we made a slight change in our cover style this semester and we hope everybody likes it. Whether you do or don’t, we’d appreciate hearing about it. And you also must have noticed that the picture on this week’s cover is pretty old. In fact, we gathered from the sign on the trolley that it harks back to the dear old days when matinees cost 10 cents. On page 17 of this issue, our feature, ND Through the Years, gives you a few glimpses of those days. The changes will be apparent at a glance. Unfortunately, we can’t credit the unknown photographers who took those pictures but hats off to them for preserving scenes of how “they used to look.” We don’t envy the lads their bushy haircuts or derbies or self-conscious poses, but we sure are sorry there’s no more may pole dancing across the road.
Do You Want the Honor System?
Columnist Bill Riley, who authors “The Back Page” for Scholastic, wrote a piece this week on the honor system. Read it; he has something to say. Though you might not have been aware of it, there’s been a lot of talk and action, too, on the part of some students who would like to see such a system installed here at Notre Dame.
We say “some” loosely. Actually, we’d guess there are quite a few of them. These gentlemen feel that if an honor system works at other places, it can work here. They point out that the honor system does contribute in a positive way to a man’s discipline of will and action. It gives the student more reason *for justifiable pride in his school and fellows. It implies a certain amount of trust in him by the college he attends. It gives him more of a stake in the well-being of the student community. Why shouldn’t it work in Our Lady’s school? The system would reflect honorably on school and student and stop the cribbing which proctors can’t completely stop.
One compliment that should be paid these gentlemen is that they realize that for the honor system to be successful it must come from the students and have their sincere support. They are trying to build this support.
A word of warning, though. This support must be complete: Exams and quizzes must be controlled and administered by somebody. The bad apple is always with us. If the University does institute an honor system, it must be with the understanding that the student body is prepared to accept the responsibility for its maintenance and enforcement. It’s not an easier system than what we have now. It is merely a transfer of responsibility.
And before you go off half-cocked and bellow “Of course we can accept responsibility!” remember that this entails more than running a dance or a meeting. It reasons down eventually to the logical conclusion that sooner or later a student will be faced with the distasteful task of “turning in” a fellow student. (If by the way, this is not the case the system is not being adequately enforced and amounts to no control whatever.)
Even if the “turning in” is to a student committee of some kind, it means discipline. And Riley’s point about student loyalty is a good one. So the problem is a big one. It poses a decision that is just as difficult for the student as for the University administration.
Consider all sides of the matter. Keep in mind the advantages of both the honor and proctor systems. We’ll be glad to hear from all the troops concerning this serious and important issue. What’s your opinion?
Fall Out for Fun
It’s Mardi Gras time again. This traditional pre-Lenten celebration has always been a very pleasant thing around here. Its purpose is charity and its keynote is fun and everyone comes out the winner.
This year’s Mardi Gras should follow the usual successful pattern. A good committee has contributed fine ideas and hard work. The Carnival promises to be the biggest yet staged and a fine band is lined up for the Ball. We hope all you troops get behind it. You can’t lose. As we said, it’s the sort of deal by which everybody profits. Remember, that there won’t be any dances during Lent. And certainly no carnivals.
February 8, 1952
7
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Announces
THE MORRIS INN
"on the campus"
Will Open in April 92 rooms 92 baths
Rates from $6.00 Single - $9.00 Double
•	Dining Room, excellent cuisine, air-conditioned
•	Private Function Rooms, also air-conditioned
•	Room Service
•	Gift and Souvenir Shop
•	Cigar and Newsstand
•	Golf, Locker and shower facilities for men guests
Putting Green
•	Radio and circulating icewater in every room
•	Parking area, paved and lighted, adjoining
FOR the many friends, the Alumni, and the Parents of the Student Body of Notre Dame, the University is proud to announce the opening in April of its own hotel, The Morris Inn, right "on the campus," made possible by the beneficent gift of the late E. M. Morris, '06, of South Bend, Indiana.
The Morris Inn will offer its guests unforgettable views of the Notre Dame campus, with its famous buildings and landmarks, its traditional beauty and surroundings. In addition, if you are visiting at the University you will appreciate the convenience of staying at the school, saving you much travel time.
Guest accommodations include single, double and twinbedrooms, also parlor and bedroom suites. The air-conditioned Private Function Rooms will accommodate from just a few to sizeable groups and are ideal for civic, social and business ,, luncheons, dinners, receptions, meetings, etc. The beautiful Terrace Dining Room is also air-conditioned and will serve excellent cuisine. Room service will be available to those who wish to dine in the privacy of their rooms. Other features of the Inn include cigar and newsstand, Gift and Souvenir Shop, Golf, with shower and locker facilities for our men guests and a large, well-lighted and paved parking area.
• RESERVATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED • E. H. Hunt, Manager
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 15
FEBRUARY 8, 1952
Television Planned For Bengal Finals
Registration Indicates Capacity Enrollment Championship Fights In Graduate, Undergraduate Classes at ND Set for St. Pat's Day
Registration figures just released by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs, show a capacity enrollment of 4,949 students in the University’s various programs for the second semester.
Enrolled in the four undergraduate colleges are a total of 4,619 students. In addition there are 304 graduate (regular) students and 26 persons in the newly organized graduate evening program.
The new evening program was just inaugurated this semester by the University in order to open Notre Dame’s educational facilities to teachers, engineering personnel of industry, and
Registration — Conflicts and Class Changes “How can I take four courses at the same hour?”
other interested and qualified persons in the area.
This semester saw the return of the class card system of registration, replacing the single sheet of paper.
The new system eliminated much of the paper work involved previously, and greatly facilitated class changes and the solution of conflicts in the students’ schedules. Printed class lists for teachers, class lists for students, add and drop slips, and other familial* enrollment forms were replaced by two IBM cards in each case, one for the office of Academic Affairs and one for the student to present to the proper instructor.
By BOB RUST
WGN-TV, channel . nine, Chicago, will televise the finals of the 1952 Notre Dame Bengal Bouts on St. Patrick’s Day, March 17. Cost of the televising from 7 to 9 p.m. will be defrayed by the Chicago Motor Club.
Due to recently made television commitments, the dates for the Bengal Bouts have been changed slightly. March 11, 12, 13, 15, and 17 are the new dates.
Promoter Paul Rupp has announced the prices on student general admission tickets for the bouts. Admission has been purposely lowered in order to insure a full house for the preliminary evenings. Ducats for these preliminary matches are 25 cents; the semi-finals are 50 cents. On the final evening students will be admitted for 75 cents.
Rupp expressed his gratitude to those who have already made their contributions to the purchasing of the plaques and trophies. However, he has expressed desire to see quicker action on the part of the remaining campus organizations who have not made their donation.	•
There will be more men out for Bengal competition than ever before in the history of the bouts. The Novice tournament for first-year men entering the Bengals is now being conducted in the Rockne Memorial. The novice matches are a new addition to the Bengals program.
Judges and oificials for the Bengals will be the same as last year. Harry Richwine, Albert Doyle, and Bill Lubbers will be the judges for the bouts. The timekeepers will be Roy Biondell and Francis Maxwell, and the referee will be George Vanderheyden.
An enlarged program for the bouts will include information about former Bengal Boaters.
February 8, 1952
9
Jack Hynes, Chazz Schubert, Jerry Costello Addleman, a “Student Job All the Way Around”
Student Musical 'Stay Tuned for Addleman' Scheduled for May With Tryouts Next Week
Under the direction of Business Manager Bill Hank, preliminary groundwork has begun for the new student musical, Stay Tuned For Addleman, scheduled for a tentative four-night presentation in early May.
A budget for the play is being worked out, to be approved by the Student Council. Written by Notre Dame students Jack Hynes and Charles Shubert of local WND fame, this year’s musical is also being directed and produced by students and will be backed by the student body through the Student Council — adding up to a student job all the way around.
The musical has as its basic theme the trials, troubles, and tribulations of a New York disk jockey and will require a great deal of costuming to be worked out properly. Stay Tuned For Addleman is the second consecutive performance of this type to be put on after the idea of a student musical was revived last year, although a number of very successful musicals have been produced at Notre Dame in past years.
Tryouts for the singing roles, both male and female, will be held at 7:30 p.m. this coming Monday and Tuesday in the band room beneath the theater in Washington Hall. All interested
students and secretaries at Notre Dame are urged to attend the tryouts.
There are a great number of good roles to be filled, and Business Manager Hank has stressed the fact that the producers want “the best possible variety and talent in the roles, none of which are sewed up and none of which will be filled until after the tryouts. Everyone interested has a chance, whether he or she has had previous theater experience or not.”
Stay Tuned for Addleman was selected by the Student Council as this year’s musical production. The book for Addleman was written by the Chazz and Jack duo with the assistance of Jerry Costello, who also wrote all the music and lyrics.
Hank was chosen business manager by the Student Council at a recent meeting.
CLUB TREASURERS
There will be a meeting of the treasurers of all clubs registered under C.C.N.D. at 7 p.m. Monday in room 101 Law Building. This meeting must be attended by all club treasurers, as it concerns the auditing of club books.
Plant Layoff Prompts Vefville Body Action
Because of the recent layoff of approximately 3500 employees of the Studebaker plant in South Bend, the Vet-ville Council called a special meeting with Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., in the Vet Rec Hall late last week. The layoff was caused by a shortage of materials and by the changeover from civilian to military production.
Since a number of Vetville residents, besides other Notre Dame students, are employed at Studebaker, the layoff has caused some concern. At the meeting it was decided to determine to what extent ND students have been affected, and to arrive at some means to combat the layoff. Another meeting will be held soon, and will probably be open to all persons interested or concerned with the problem.	"
The directory of students and families in Vetville is on the press now, and is expected to be distributed in the near future. This directory contains information similar to that in the campus Student Directory, but also includes information about the rest of the family.
New Paint, New Twist, New Families
The smell of paint will be in the air, as brushes are soon to be wielded in decorating the Rec Hall. Appropriations for this work were recently approved. As before, no fee will be charged for use of the hall, though a slight charge will be made when the record player and P.A. system are used.
Another pot-luck supper is sched- J uled for Vetville residents, but with W a new twist — the husbands are going to serve the women folk. The gathering will be held in the Rec Hall on Saturday night, Feb. 16, at 8 o’clock.
Four new families are residents of the community this semester. The mayor and his council interviewed 15 applicants for the vacancies opened between semesters.
Russell Barta has been selected as chairman of the Vetville bake sale booth at the Mardi Gras carnival, which will be held soon. In charge of the booth-building job is Leo Pat-elle, assisted by T. J. Bergan and Ed Malo.
To date the ward councilmen have collected two tons of waste paper. It will be sold and the revenue placed in the community treasury, though it is stored in the quonset hut adjacent to the Vet Rec Hall at present, in antici-pation of a rise in price.	I
The Scholastic 1
IO
Placement News
Representatives from the American Cyanamid Co. of New York City will interview M.S. and B.S. graduates in chemistry and chemical engineering at the Placement Bureau Monday.
Also on the same day Montgomery Ward representatives, Chicago, will talk to Arts and Letters and Commerce students interested in becoming merchandising or operating trainees in the mail order business. These openings will lead to supervision assignments following the training program.
The Upjohn Co. (pharmaceuticals), Kalamazoo, Mich., will be at Notre Dame on Tuesday seeking Ph.D. organic Chemists finishing their work up to mid-1953. On the same day a representative of the Department of the Navy, Bureau of Ships, will talk to all graduates in electrical, mechanical and architectural engineering.
The Shell Co. Corp, (subsidiary of Shell Oil), New York City, is interested in graduates for technical sales work only — those to be considered for interview Tuesday are B.S. graduates in Chemistry and Chemical Engineering.
Bendix Aviation Corp., Research Labs., Detroit, and the Bendix Radio Division, Baltimore, are interested in M.S. nad B.S. electrical, aeronautical, and mechanical engineers; physicists, and mathematicians with advanced degrees only. The Detroit plant will conduct interviews Wednesday, primarily for those interested in research. The Baltimore schedule will be especially for electrical engineers (communications) and physicists.
Also on Wednesday the Victor Chemical Works, Chicago Heights, Ill., will interview B.S. chemical, electrical, and mechanical engineers, and chemists (except physical) on all degree levels.
Sperry Gyroscope Co., Great Neck, L. I., N. Y., will interview Ph.D., M.S. and B.S. mechanical, electrical and aeronautical engineers; physicists, and applied mathematicians Thursday. Also Mathieson Chemical Corp, of Niagara Falls, N. Y., will interview graduates in chemistry and chemical engineering on all degree levels.
Thursday and Friday the Chance Vought Aircraft, Dallas, Tex., will interview graduates in aeronautical, mechanical, and civil engineering and advanced degree graduates in mathematics, physics, and electrical engineering.
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. of St. Paul will interview graduates in chemistry and chemical engineering for technical work and also sales candidates for training program, for which no specific academic background is required.
Mardi Gras Committee Offers Package Deal: Ball, Social, Minstrel Show All for Only $5
The Mardi Gras committee, headed by Chairman Bill Toohey, has announced a special low rate of §5 for couples who attend this year’s gala festival.
The $5 ticket includes Friday night’s semi-formal Ball, with music provided by Ralph Marterie; the carnival social Saturday afternoon, and a special student-participation minstrel performance on Sunday. Bought separately, bids for these affairs per couple will come to §5.75 — §3.75 for the semi-formal Ball, §1.50 for the ’Social, and §0.50 for the Minstrel Show.
The men who are serving under Bill Toohey as chairmen of the various Mardi Gras events are Ed Raque, carnival chairman; George Sweet, semi-formal Ball chairman, and Jim Powers, minstrel chairman. The raffle is being taken care of by Ed Vasta, publicity by Phil Toole, and the Carnival Social by Tom Krug.
The Palais Royale will be the scene of the Saturday afternoon dance instead of the Erskine Country Club, as previously announced. In order to cut down on expenses, the committee has made this change and set the price of the bid at §1.50, which includes refreshments —• cookies or sandwiches or punch — served at the dance. Jerry
Mardi Gras Masterminds
For a Bigger and Better Festival
Costello and his combo will provide music from 2 to 5.
All this past week, tryouts have been made for the Minstrel show Sunday. Anyone who is still interested, however, and has some special talent should contact Jim Powers in Sorin Hall. The minstrels will perform for two afternoon shows and one evening show Feb. 24.
The carnival itself has been scheduled to run from 7:30 to 11:30 in the Navy Drill Hall Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday nights. The grand drawing for the big prize, the Buick Riviera, will take place on Tuesday with the seller of the winning ticket getting a Nash Rambler. Last Wednesday, the committee selected the best booths for the carnival from those submitted by the various campus clubs.	•
Students who would like to cash in on the §2.50 bonus per book and also compete for prizes for most books sold, may still get books from their fioor representatives. Also they have till the night of the carnival to make returns. This year the three top sellers on campus will receive §100, §50, and §30, with smaller prizes going to runnersup. Also, of course, the student who sells any books automatically competes for the Nash Rambler which goes to the lucky seller.
February 8, 1952
11
Notre Dame Men and St. Mary's Girls Visit National Capitol in Dr. Bartholomew's Tour
By LARRY BREHL
A happy, though tired, group of girls and fellows returned to St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame last week, along with other students returning from between-semesters trips home and elsewhere. This particular group — composed of 23 St. Mary’s gills, two girls who work at the ND library, and three ND men — were the participants in the trip to Washington. D. C., and other places of interest, sponsored by the Department of Political Science and directed by Dr. Paul Bartholomew.
The tourists followed a planned itinerary in their jaunt through political and scenic Washington, and enjoyed a number of side-trips tn historically famous sites.
Headquarters was established at the Lee House, and from there the trij?-pers conducted their tours of Washington. Among these activities were the tour of the Library of Congress, a reception at the Indian embassy, attendance at a State Department briefing session, witnessing the Supreme Court in session, and a tour of the Pentagon Building, conducted by three majors.
Meet Bess Truman
Several unplanned incidents were of great interest to the touring students. Chief of these was the honor of being received by Mrs. Truman at Blair House, the official residence of rhe President while the White House is being completely remodelled. Then, they also were entertained by William Miller, the doorkeeper of the House, who is better-known in Washington by his nickname, “Fishbait.”
Members of the Senate and the House, of Representatives were also met.
Besides seeing the Capital, the group took. an overnight boat trip dov. n Chesapeake Bay to Norfolk, whence they went to picturesque Williamsburg, Va., Jamestown, Yorktown, and several other famous places. After-■ wards, the Marine Museum at Newport News was the scene of a visit.
Pat Blevins, a St. Mary’s student " who made the trip, thinks that Williamsburg, with its beauty and meticulous detailed restoration, was the most impressive part of the trip.
On this side of the Dixie, Dick Shea of Farley Hall particularly enjoyed the dinner and reception at the home of Walter Trohan, an ND grad and chief of the Chicago Tribune's Wash
ington office. Several senators attended, and the student group discussed a number of subjects with them, mainly issues of political interest.
Miss Meeting J. Edgar Hoover
Though the tour of the FBI building was slightly marred by the disappointment of not meeting J. Edgar Hoover, as had been planned, the students were conducted through the va-
Mid-Year Sightseers Social Pleasantries Were Not Neglected . . .
rious departments. The one which evoked great interest was the museum, where numerous weapons are displayed — relics of famous crime cases solved by the department. Also of interest was the display of FBI marksmanship on the shooting range, by several G-men.
But, with all of the sightseeing, the social pleasantries were not neglected, for the group went to the Paladium Room of the Shoreham Hotel, where they enjoyed dancing.
The following day the girls and fellows boarded the B. & 0. “Columbian” for the ride back to LaPaz, arriving there the next morning and riding schoolward by chartered bus.
Though the trip is over, it was of such, great interest that the participants have planned to hold a dinner at Rosie’s in several weeks, to hash over the happenings of their tour.
Theatre Group Will Present 'Skin of Our Teeth' Mar. 2-5
Under the direction of Mr. John D. Tumpane, the Notre Dame University Theater will commence its Spring activities with the presentation of Thornton Wilder’s comedy, The Skin of Our Teeth, on the evenings of March 2 through March 5.
Average American and Destiny
The play is a comedy about George Antrobus, his wife and two children, and their general utility maid, Lily Sabina, all of Excelsior, N. J. George Antrobus is a John Doe — the average American at grips with a destiny, sometimes sour, sometimes sweet.
The Antrobuses have survived fire, flood, pestilence, the seven-year locusts, the ice age, the black pox and the double feature, a dozen wars, and as many depressions. They run many a gamut, are as durable as radiators, and look upon the future with a disarming optimism.
Although victims of all the ills that flesh is heir to, they have survived a thousand calamities by the skin of their teeth.
Robertson, Alice Weiss in Leads
Leading roles will be played by Alice Weiss as Mrs. Antrobus, Doug Robertson as Mr. Antrobus, Jean Richards as Sabina, Denni Egry as Gladys, Dick Simons as Henry, and Walter Swift as the Fortune Teller.
Other members of the play’s cast include: Gerry Voit, Walter Werner, Dick LaPata, Richard Gercken, William Bleakley, Lawrence Monaco, L. X. Tarpey, Neva Sausser, Lee Wermuth, Ruth Ann Fisher, John Mahoney, John Corcoran, John Noland, Ronald Davis, Peggy Danehy, Phil Nash, Jack Kissle, Richard Gaeckle, John Slavick and Terence O’Keefe.
Sommers Is Technical Director
Also: Joseph Daley, Thomas Cassidy, Julie Karass, Jeanie Dosmann, Les Halsema, John Wallace, Tom Jeffers, J. J. Dockry, Jerry Pruce, Robert Jay. Bernard McDermott, Gerald Godwin, Hildegarde Vargyas, Jane Simon, Jack McDermott, Paul Corcoran, Charles Doherty, Ray Kennedy and Dan Caulfield.
Mr. Leonard Sommers will act as technical director; Richard Byrnes as scenery designer, and Paul Coutley as assistant designer.
12
The Scholastic
€ Benefits in Form of Fellowships and Awards Open to ND Seniors and Graduate Students
Undergraduate and graduate students will have opportunities to further their education and obtain reputable jobs through a recent release of applications for such positions by various educational institutions and business firms.
The New York University Law Center annually awards 20 Root-Tilden scholarships to undergraduates who show unusual promise of becoming outstanding lawyers and public leaders in the American tradition. Value of the scholarships is §2,100 per year- for three years.
Two such awards are allotted for the seventh judicial circuit which ineludes the states of Illinois, Wisconsin '* and Indiana. Applications must be received on or before March 1 by the Hon. Russell D. Niles, dean of the New York University School of Law, Washington Square, New York 3, N. Yr
Graduate fellowships totalling §27,000 will be awarded by the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies for the academic year- 1952-53. The new fellowship program will provide for three awards of §2,000 each, five of §1,500 each, §11,500 in smaller grants, and an additional §2,000 fellowship for Middle East studies at the School, offered by the Middle East Institute, with which the School is affiliated.
The larger fellowships will be awarded on a competitive basis, while the smaller awards will be given on the basis of merit plus need. Deadline ; for applications for the fellowships has t) been extended to Feb. 20.
Opportunities in Advertising
Seniors considering a career in advertising will find an opportunity in the sixth annual A.A.A.A. Examination for Advertising to be held in Chicago Feb. 16. The test is open to anyone in his last year in college or now in business, but not employed by an advertising agency. Seniors here can secure full information and application blanks from the following faculty members: Mr. Edmund A. Smith, Mr. Thomas Stritch, Rev. Leo R. Ward, Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, Mr. William R. Dooley, and Mrs. F. J. Viser.
The deadline for the applications which must be in the hands of the Central Council of the A.A.A.A. of Chicago, is Jan. 25.
Mr. A. D. Marshall, assistant secretary of the General Electric Company and secretary of the GE Education. Committee, has announced that appli
cations for grants under the Committee’s program for the 1952-53 school year are now being accepted. The fellowships will be awarded to graduate students for work in the fields of physical science, engineering, and industrial management under* either the Charles A. Coffin fellowship, or that of Gerard Swope.
Applications must be mailed to the Secretary, General Electric Educational Fund, Schenectady, N. Y., by Feb. 18.
Business Fellowship at Columbia
Two fellowships of §2,000 each have been established in the Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, by Seaboard & Western Airlines, international air freight carrier. The grants will begin with the 1952-53 academic year and will provide for study and research on international air freight across the North Atlantic.
Recipients of the fellowships must be eligible and acceptable for admission to Columbia’s Graduate School of Business, or be currently enrolled in it.
Candidates may take the Medical Center Admission Test May 10 or Nov. 3 at administrations to be held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1953 take the May test.
Application forms and a Bulletin, of Information, which gives details of registration and administration, as well as sample questions, are available from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office by April 26 and Oct. 20, respectively, for the May 10 and Nov. 3 administrations.
An authorization of §510,000 was provided by the Du Pont Company for the award of 75 post-graduate fellowships to 47 universities, and grants-in-aid to 15 other* universities. These grants are for unrestricted use in the field of fundamental chemical research and are guaranteed for two years. Each of the fellowships provides §1,400 for a single person or §2,100 for a married person, together with an award of §1,200 to the university for the next academic year.
DePaul Sorority Has South Bend Initiation
Last weekend, Notre Dame students invaded Chicago for the Kentucky-game, but in return South Bend was visited by a smaller, though fairer group — 43 members and pledges from Beta Chapter of Epsilon Eta Phi sorority at DePaul University in Chicago.
They came to South Bend to hold their annual pledge weekend, during which the pledges are initiated prior to being accepted as full-fledged members of the sorority.
The Windy City girls arrived here Friday evening, and registered at the Oliver Hotel — carrying assorted paraphernalia like mops and pails. A few* ND men expressed amazement at this sight, w*hich greeted them when they called at the. hotel for some of the girls that night.
But the worst was yet to come for the pledges on Saturday. After looking around the town during the morning and early afternoon, a scavenger hunt was begun, with such things as cats, 25 cigarette butts (five each of five different brands), umbrellas, and other odd things being the articles sought for. In preparation the girls were relieved of all .their money.
For several hours they paraded through South Bend in their weird costumes, performing the outlandish stunts dreamed up by the already full-fledged members. But with the stroke of midnight, the period of ordeal was ended.
On Sunday morning some of the group came out to ND to attend Mass at Sacred Heart Church and to take a tour of the campus.
February 8, 1952
13
Dean Manion Resigns as Law School Head; University Will Name Successor in June
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, has announced the resignation of Dr. Clarence E. Manion, for the past 11 years dean of the College of Law.
Father Cavanaugh, in making the announcement, said that Dean Manion tendered his resignation because “the pressure of private business, together with a constantly lengthening schedule of writing and speaking commitments, now makes it physically impossible for me to continue to administer the affairs of the Law School.”
Father Cavanaugh said Dean Manion’s resignation will become effective in June. A successor will be named at a later date.
Dr. Manion, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1924, also is nationally recognized as an outstanding orator and author. His latest book, The Key to Peace, is a current best-seller. Dr. Manion has been dean of the College of Law since 1941.
During his tenure as dean, Dr. Manion was instrumental in the founding of the Notre Dame Natural Law Institute. Held annually in the Notre Dame College of Law since 1947, the Institute is designed to emphasize the Natural Law (man’s participation in the Law of God) as the basis of democracy and the American way of life, and to urge a return to the Natural Law principles by the nation’s legal profession. Several hundred legal experts annually attend the Notre Dame Institute.
Dr. Manion, in tendering his resignation to Father Cavanaugh, said: “The pressure of my private business, together with a constantly lengtheningschedule of writing and speaking commitments, now makes it physically impossible for me to continue to administer- the affairs of the Law School.
“I have reached this conclusion with great reluctance and regret, but I am, nevertheless, happy in the conviction that the College has now reached a new high peak of achievement in all of its departments. Our faculty is the best in our history and it is doing excellent work with a carefully screened student body, representing practically every state in the union. The College is ripe for a new phase of progressive achievement. It has and will always have my affectionate and prayerful good wishes.”
In announcing Dean Manion’s resignation, Father Cavanaugh said: “Dean
Manion, in his 28 years on our faculty, and even in his undergraduate years in our College of Law, exemplified the qualities Notre Dame exists to implant. He has contributed in a singular way to American life. His career has marked’ the personal, the professional, and the spiritual that add up to a remarkable epitome of what Notre Dame means by moral, responsible leadership.
“The national recognition of Dean Manion as one of the great modern
Dean Manion
Contributed in a singular way
voices of fundamental Americanism reflects how deep must be our loss in permitting him to resign. Our justification is in the added freedom he will have to pursue the widening opportunities for his talents in the era of critical need which they serve.
“Naturally, it is with regret that we accept his resignation. The remarkable progress of the College of Law, under his direction, is a record of real achievement of which Notre Dame men everywhere are proud and will remain ever grateful.”
A native of Henderson, Ky., Dr. Manion received a Bachelor of Arts degree from St. Mary’s College in Kentucky in 1915. He received a Master of Arts degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., in 1916, and a Master of Philosophy degree from the same institution in 1917. He was awarded the J.D. degree by Notre Dame in 1922, following military service in World War I.
During the national emergency from 1935 to 1938, the Notre Dame educator served as director of the National
Emergency for the State of Indiana, at the same time continuing his duties at Notre Dame.
He also is a member of the American Bar Association’s Special Committee to Study Communist Tactics and Objectives. He has been honored in both 1950 and 1951 with an award from the Freedoms Foundation.
In addition to The Key to Peace, Dean Manion has authored two texts. Lessons in Liberty, and one on Air Law, both of which have been widely adopted for class use in schools throughout the United States. He also wrote Americanism.
Dr. Manion, besides his duties at Notre Dame, has engaged in the practice of law as a member of the firm, Doran and Manion, in South Bend.
Six Commerce Clubs Form Co-op Council

The various commerce clubs at Notre Dame are attempting to organize themselves into an advisory council which will correllate any activities concerning all the clubs. As such, the council will become a chapter of the campus NFCCS, and have its chairman serve as a representative to the local NFCCS Council.
Work on this project began when a meeting was held with Assistant Dean Edmund Smith of the College of Commerce shortly before Christmas. Presidents of the six clubs, along with other interested persons, attended the meeting, at which it was decided that the advisory council would consist of six member clubs, each represented by two persons, the club president and a member-at-large, from whom the council’s officials would be selected. A faculty moderator — either Dean Smith or a faculty member appointed by him — will supervise the council.
Bob Kosydar was appointed temporary chairman to set up an organizational meeting for the setting up of a constitution. All arrangements for this meeting, which is to be held in the near future, are subject to approval by the six clubs.
These clubs are the Advertising, Finance, Marketing, Propeller, and Accounting Clubs, and the Commerce Forum.
With this advisory council, it is hoped that various functions which have been too difficult for any single commerce club to undertake in the past ■will be successfully dealt with.
Another aim is to bring about close relations among this and other commerce groups in the membei- schools of the Federation.
14
The Scholastic
Pre-Lenten Mardi Gras Ball at Palais Royale To Offer Ralph Marterie's Music for $3.75 Bid
Ralph Marterie and his Orchestra will provide the music for the Mardi Gras Ball Feb. 22. “The Trumpet Sensation Across the Nation” will play from 9 to 1 at the Palais Royale. For this dance, which is Notre Dame’s on'y major social affair open to the entire student body, the bid v. dl cost §3.75.
Ball Chairman George Sweet has dropped the original plan for a masquerade ball because of the difficulty and expense involved by the necessity of buying or making costumes. Therefore the Ball will be a semi-formal affair.
Ralph Marterie
Last Dance Till Easter
The Prefect of Discipline nas granted 2 o’clock permissions for the dance and allowed students to use cars for Friday night only provided they register with him. This semi-formal Ball will be the last dance before Easter because of Lent.
The bid can be gotten as part of a §5.00 per couple ticket which will cover the entire weekend. Now on sale at the Dining Hall these tickets are offered at this low price so that fellows who would like to may bring girls in for the whole weekend at a reasonable '•ost.
The band chosen for the ball, Ralph Marterie’s, should be well known to Notre Dame students because of its Mercury recordings a^d also ?ts appearance last fall at the Palais Royale. Marterie has appeared on all the major radio networks and now has his own show on ABC. Generally recognized as one of the nation’s up-and-coming
bands, it was featured for several weeks last summer at Chicago’s Edgewater Beach Hotel.
The chairman for the dance is George Sweet, senior class president, and assisting him with publicity is George Higgins of the Advertising Club.
Sheehan, Fr. Sheedy Address Graduates
One hundred undergraduate and 25 graduate students received degrees from the University at January Exercises of the 107th annual Commencement, held in Washington Hall Jan. 26. Also included on the program for the convocation was an afternoon reception held in the Faculty Lounge by members of the Notre Dame administration for members of the graduating class, their parents and guests.
Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, delivered the principal address at the convocation. The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion at Notre Dame, delivered the sermon at the Baccalaureate Mass, celebrated by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president.
A program of “Christian cooperation among individuals and groups” was advocated by Professor Sheehan as one of the most effective means of combating Communism.
Professor Sheehan told the graduates that “our duty in our profession or vocation is to apply personally the principles of social-economic morality, and to strive towards having our profession or vocation accept and use these principles.”
Warns of Deflation
Although “our most pressing social responsibility is concerned with the specific facts of defense inflation,” Professor Sheehan warned the Notre Dame graduates that “in the ever-changing panorama of specific circumstances, a dangerous deflationary situation can very well face us in two to five years, barring the outbreak of World War III.
“Some program of responsible activity, carried out by common interest associations, seems to be a possible middle road between giant private economic dictatorship and giant governmental
dictatorship,” Professor Sheehan ventured.
Father Sheedy, in his Baccalaureate Sermon, reminded the graduates of their responsibilities to God after leaving Notre Dame.
“Christ calls out to you to be responsible about your entrance into marriage,” Father Sheedy explained. “Secularizing influences have crept even into Catholic marriages, ... to distract a man’s mind from the terrible seriousness of the basic fact: a partnership with God and a woman, a helpmate, in union with Christ. One man and one woman until death.
Responsibility in Job
“And Christ Our Lord calls out to you to be responsible as a Catholic in your- job. ... In that office you represent Christ, and you are responsible to give Him decent representation. And then there are the larger issues, where honesty, and integrity, and the virtue of justice are involved.
“And finally, Christ calls out to you to be responsible to Him ’ for the growth and progress of His Church. . . . The list of your responsibilities could be lengthened. The education of children, not only your own but the children of the community; decent po- ■ litical life and good government; your responsibility to Notre Dame.”
Hoosier FBI Head Becomes Alumni Association President
Harvey G. Foster of Indianapolis, special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Indiana, has been elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Mr. Foster, who played guard on the Irish football team from 1935 to 1937, succeeds R. Conroy Scoggins, Houston, Tex., attorney. Mr. Scoggins was elected honorary president of the Association. .
Other new officers of the Association elected during the meeting include Richard J. Nash, Chicago contractor, first vice-president; Dr. Matthew W. Weis, St. Louis, physician, second vice-p resident; and William C. Schmitt,-Portland, Oregon, steel executive, third vice-president. James E. Armstrong was reelcted executive secretary.
Retiring officers of the Association include first vice-president William J. Sherry, Tulsa oil executive'; second vicepresident William B. Jones, Washington, D. C., attorney; and third vicepresident Edward J. Beckman, New York City public relations consultant.
February 8, 1952
15
Fignter Joe Brown
Talented and Well-Remembered
THE PUNCH BOWL
Text by JOE IMBRIACO
Photos by JERRY SHEEHAN and JOHN KINVILLE
“High atop the Fieldhouse of Notre Dame” every afternoon you will find some 80 or 90 active, quietly resolute, game fellows working up a heavy sweat in boxing drills, calisthenics and ropeskipping. Officially begun two weeks ago, the training season for Notre Dame boxers is now in full swing under the direction of Dominic J. Napolitano, grooming some real “fighting Irish” for a heavy schedule of boxing activity in the next two months. A triple treat of boxing awaits the Notre Dame enthusiast with the Boxing Club scheduled for a homeland-home tournament with Purdue University this month, followed by the Bengal Bouts and the Novice Boxing' Tournament in March.
Foremost in the minds of both fans and those boxers going through the six weeks of gruelling training is the twenty-first annual Bengal Bouts. This boxing classic — a real tradition at the University—will match the best student boxers of eight weight classes against one another. Sponsored by the Knights of Columbus for the benefit of the Bengal Holy Cross missions, the' bouts bring thrills and excitement each year to a Fieldhouse crowded with boxing fans from Michiana as well as from Notre. Dame.
Close to a hundred boys have begun training in the Fieldhouse for the Ben-
gals. Mr. Napolitano is reluctant to make any predictions at this early date but he anticipates one of the largest and finest tournaments this year. The preliminary rounds will be' held in the Fieldhouse on March 11, 12, and 13. Semi-finalists will meet each other on March 1-5. The finals, on the 17th, will be televised.
Bengal Bouters’ Club
Members of the newly-organized Bengal Bouters’ Club will meet Purdue University boxers in matches here February 15 and at Purdue February 27. These bouts may very well be the first step in the formation of an intercollegiate boxing varsity team here at Notre Dame. The last time we had a varsity squad was in 1926.
The Bengal Bouters is an autonomous campus club, under the direction of Mr. Napolitano. The size of the group will be restricted to about thirty-two—the four outstanding boxers in each weight class. Members qualify through competitions such as the Bengal Bouts. Although the club is in its early stages,
and Students
Nappy
The Mainspring for Twenty Years
seme of the' finalists of last year’s Ben-gals are members.
The third boxing activity for which Mr. Napolitano and about 50 young, prospective pugilists are in training is a Novice Boxing Tournament to be held late in March. Open only to students who have competed in less than two bouts, the' Novice Boxing Tournament is being preceded by two months of instructions and work-outs in the rudiments of boxing. This is the first time a special tournament is being held for beginners. Mr. Napolitano hopes that this “course” and training program for neophytes will not only promote greater and safer participation in the sport, but will also serve as a “feeder” for the Bengal Bouts.
Six Weeks’ Training
The six-week period of intensive training and instruction is well under way, directed by Mr. Napolitano in preparation for the triple-barrelled dose of boxing activity. Aspirers to the Novice, Bengal and Purdue tournaments work out daily in the second-floor small gym.
(Continued on Page 32)
16
The Scholastic
ears
just as surely as
any-
one wonders, just
what
5
t
items: “Here we are again. —Water-
the -days bacco is students regularly
Scholastic was one of the chronic offenders, although perhaps it takes a modern reading to find the humor in those yellowed pages. The first issue of the yeai- ’76 had a column known
Notre Dame thing else.
And then
rector up at 1:30 in the morning and said he was staying in town overnight, ’cause he teas almost killed once and ‘there’s no sense tempting fate'.”
And the time cracker doivn was standing “Haw, haw,
someone dropped a fire-the stair well when he at the bottom?”
and how he heard buzz-
when “. . . the use of to-strictly forbidden ... and are expected to take baths ...” In those days the
Here are some
Back in ’76
They happened back in 1876, back in
as “Local Items.’
Remember the time ice put a slab of cherry pie in Brother Adelbert’s bed? And how he came doivn the hall at five o’clock the next morning waking everyone up with a bugle?”
“Yeah, and how about poor, old Arnold Crasby? Remember how we used to squirt shaving cream in his slippers?
ing noises for a week?”
“And how about Henry What’s-his-name?”
“And hoiv about Henry what’s-his-Remember his brother, Sam What’s-his-name, and that time his folks came down? Mr. and Mrs. What’s-his-name?”
“Ah, you know ivho I mean. That guy who was almost hit by a car walking back from town the night of the big fog? And then he called the
Just a bunch of grads at a class reunion, talking over old times. The kind of thing this current 5000 will probably talk over in years to come. Little stories, odd stories, funny stories, stories that added personality and color to the four years spent at Notre Dame. Stories like the one that just circulated last week, about the fellow who was awakened at 4 o’clock one morning by his sleeping room-mate singing in a strong, clear voice, “I Guess I’ll Get the Papers and Go Home.” These are the things one remembers when names and football scores grow hazy. When the fourfold value of philosophy and the law of diminishing returns slip from mind. These are the things which mean
was it like here in the old days? Do the pages of Irish history contain only Sorins, Rocknes, costly fires, and rebuilding programs? Did odd, funny, memorable little things happen then as now?
They did.
February 8, 1952
17
TOP: campus cops, vintage righteous, more similar arms BELOW: guess where?
1915. It would be difficult to find two more Keystonish, more of the law than these. It's about time to put down the rulebook
Irish, more bluff, more and make the rounds.

f
< -
every
ever been.
To Chicago, where few stu-
where few
students had ever been. On
More
Local Items
for
for
tions and continued their
meditations
In 1896 the
Hill St. a long
time ago
that you couldn’t find on
streetcars have
to pushing them over.
were taken off when students
took
trams
The- only thing Chicago backs of transfers. The Chemistry Department.
again better
before the closed door of the cafeteria.” Yes, it was the first religious bulletin.
eye was turned toward the West, to the plains, where few students had
is “A Smile A Day” on RIGHT: informality in
the the
to fight the Philistines/ The years went by.
the fu-
more ture,
From that first ing for every see who would see the latest
important present—all those terrible calamities.”
day it was must read-Notre Dame man, to be excoriated next, to effort against student •
the cafeteria of such “fit reading
began a dance ... forgetting in
More local items: “—Excursions
Brother Francis Assisi has been appointed janitor, than whom a could not be named.”
Those were the days, when
dents had ever been. To St. Mary’s,
Ml
melons are plenty just now. —They are putting all the study halls in good order. —The number of visitors to the College during vacation was very large. —Quite a fine donation was lately made to the Cabinet of Natural History. Classes begin on the first Tuesday of September. Let everyone be on hand. —Students should by all means subscribe to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. See to it at once. —Visitors will be pleased to learn that
the last, Notre Dame men depended for information upon letters from “delighted visitors.” One such letter described a graduation ceremony, which, apparently, anticipated scores of later Winter Carnivals. "The Juniors amused their audience by an extremely laughable representation of Merry Juniors, and ‘those excruciating, selftormenting Juniors,’ who would trouble about the sorrows and trials which were to happen fifty years hence — which sorrows, however, speedily vanished when their merry companions .. .

watermelons are taken about once a week. —We understand that a number of airs are being arranged for the chimes. —When David dreaded Saul and saw that he had in him a powerful rival, he sent him into foreign countries
The Fighting Irish in the days of yore. Not very many of them, not very large, not always very good, but quite evidently they were ‘‘all whipcord and spirit.”
campus lapsed into gloom because the football team lost its opening game, 4-0, to a fighting eleven from CP&S (Chicago Physicians & Surgeons). It was nothing to the scandal which rocked the campus in 1912. The prefect of discipline discovered a group of law students in a downtown hotel, and smoking cigarettes. How the culprits ever managed to live down the disgrace is still somewhat of a mystery, but from that time they were perversely known as the “Anti-Cigarette League.”
School remained rather placid for almost ten years. But then, one October day in 1921, seven typewritten sheets were passed out, one to each hall. On them, names were mentioned both distinctly and profusely, to the effect that “150 students left the Church this morning before instruc-
imperfections and foibles. Efforts such as this: “How rumors- spread around Notre Dame! Just because a halfdozen half-baked half-wits have planned gin parties ...” The R.B. was here to stay.
Calm Before the Storm
Again what could be described as a calm settled over the University, broken only several years later- by the student vigilantes’ defense of Saint Mary’s from the Ku Klux Klan. But the Scholastic again lent a helping hand in 1934, when it launched a crusade against the prominent display in
coal miners” as Bill Barnes Adventure Stories and War Aces.
Three years later a slight, end-of-an-era type flurry occurred when Law School Seniors stopped carrying canes in favor of emblematic keys. But what was soon forgotten in the acclaim that followed the birth of a new campus hero. Name: Jack Murphy. Occasion: The First All-Montana Parade. Prize: §100. Type of act: horseback impressions. Time of pose: two hours. Clothing: very little. Ethnic background of character portrayed: Indian chief. Role: “Appeal to the Great Spirit.”
It was a very good story. In fact, it was only topped once, several years later, when two characters, forever after celebrated in song and story, built a raft out of old telephone poles and floated up the St. Joseph River to Niles. Of such stuff are legends born.
These are just some of the stories. Many, many more undoubtedly exist which never got into print, which are remembered only by the old grads, and which come out of the mental archives in reunion after reunion. Someone inevitably fell into the swimming pool, but it wasn’t the football team, so the tale was quickly forgotten; someone must have set fire to his room, but that wasn’t the Main Building, so another story faded from recollection. It’s too bad only the big stories are remembered out here, like the football team falling into the swimming pool and the burning of the Administration Building. There’d be some good ones to tell.
But then, quite a bit worth telling has happened in the past four years. Perhaps we should be satisfied with that.
Seniors Sign Ray Anthony; Chairmen Set Ball for May 9
Plans for the Senior Ball are in the making. Co-chairmen Roger Fitzsimmons and Dick Stubbins have not yet appointed definite committees, but they have signed Ray Anthony to play for the night of May 9.
The budget for the dance is the highest of any dance in recent years, and therefore, the price of the bids will be “about §9.”
Early applications for reservations have prompted the chairmen to seek as large a site as possible. The Drill Hall and the Rockne Memorial were listed as the probable choices.
There will be a meeting of all committee members and others interested in working on the Senior Ball this Monday at 7 p.m. in Room 101 Law Building.
20
History Department Continues Talks on Christian Education
The February discussion sponsored by the Department of History will be held Wednesday at 7:45 p.m. in Room 101 Law Building, continuing the general theme, “Who Shall Be Educated — and How Shall He Be Educated?”
The topic for this discussion will be “The Christian Ideals of Education.” Opening the discussion will be Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the Department of Philosophy, who will discuss the topic, “How Aristocratic is Christian Humanism?” The Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, will continue the program with the subject, “Present Trends in Religious Education.” Chairman of the discussion will be Prof. Paul E. McLane of the Department of English.
After the presentation of these brief papers, the topic will be open to discussion from the floor under the chairmanship of Professor McLane. The general public is invited to attend and to participate in the discussion.
French Picture 'The Damned' Opens Foreign Film Series
With yesterday’s presentation of a French production entitled The Damned, the Department of Modern Languages opened its Foreign Film Series for the Spring semester. The European movies, all with English subtitles, will be shown bi-weekly in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Admission to each showing is 25 cents.
The five remaining titles and the
“Now that Exams are over, it’s nice to . get back to a routine"
dates on which they will be shown follow:
Feb. 28-29: The Mad Queen (Spanish). March 12: The Captain From Koe-penick (German).
March 31: The New Gidliver (Russian).
April 22-23: Don Quixote (Spanish). May 7: Bicycle Thief (Italian).
Former 'Scholastic' Editor Exposes Devil in New Book
Joseph A. Breig, assistant managing editor of the Cleveland diocesan newspaper, The Universe Bulletin, and a former editor of the Scholastic in 1926 and 1927, has recently published a book entitled The Devil You Say! in demonstrating the inner workings of the devil in imps, demons, and fiends on earth.
The work is a 127-page cloth bound volume printed by the Bruce Publishing Company of Milwaukee, Wis. It has been announced as a selection of the Catholic Literary Foundation, largest Catholic book club in the country.
A newspaperman for almost 25 years, Breig first started writing in his home town of Vandergrift, Pa. His writing multiplied during his editorship of the Scholastic and later during his stay on the Sun-Telegraph, where he was employed as a rewrite man.
He joined the staff of the Catholic Universe Bulletin in 1945 and has since had articles in many leading Catholic and secular newspapers and magazines, of which Commonweal and Coronet are the most prominent.
The Scholastic
9 Debaters Face Best in Nation This Spring; DeCrane Takes First in Johns Hopkins Meet
By PETE CONNOLLY
eluded. Dress will be semi-formal with corsages optional.
Tickets, priced at $3.60 per couple, may be obtained either in the lobby of the Dining Hall at the regular noon or evening meal hours, or from the hall representatives. •
Participation in six major tournaments, involving many of the nation’s leading collegiate debate teams, will highlight the Spring schedule of the Notre Dame debaters, according to an announcement by Prof. Leonard Sommer, coach of the Irish arguing unit.
In the Johns Hopkins University debate tourney held Feb. 1-2 at Baltimore, Md., the Notre Dame debaters, in competition with 32 leading colleges, captured fourth place, winning • four matches while dropping two. Tri-( umphs by DeCrane and Sophomore Bill / h Hank over Boston University, Penn ' State, Lehigh, and St. Joseph’s of Philadelphia and losses to St. Peter’s and Princeton set the Irish speakers behind three other schools — Princeton, Loyola (Baltimore), and South Carolina — which tied for first honors with five-and-one records.
Competing in a field of 42 contestants in an extemporaneous speaking contest, Junior Al DeCrane, team president, won first-place laurels with his affirmative arguments on the subject: “Should intercollegiate athletics be abolished?”
DeCrane had qualified for the final round of ten speakers by taking three out of three first-place votes in a preliminary round against ten other contestants. In the preliminary, he took the affirmative on the topic: “The Communist Party should be outlawed in the United States.”
The University was presented with a permanent plaque for DeCrane’s victory.
Trophy for ND
A novice tournament at Purdue University Feb. 2 saw two frosh-soph teams of the Notre Dame debating squad competing with 38 top colleges for novice honors. The Irish first team captured seven of eight contests, while the second team Avon three and dropped five.
Other February tourneys in which the varsity debate unit will participate include the Boston University Invitational on Feb. 15 and 16, and the annual Azalia Tournament at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala.
Featured on the Notre Dame debate schedule during March are two Easter. ern tourneys. Coach Sommer and his ' team will appear March 7 and 8 in the Brooklyn University Invitational
Tournament, and on March 28 and 29 in the Georgetown University tourney in Washington, D. C.
The final major tournament on the Spring schedule for the Irish will be the National Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament, to be held April 3-6 at Case Institute in Cleveland.
DeCrane and Hall will be representing Notre Dame in the majority of the tourneys on the Spring schedule.
Bids Still on Sale for Feb. 15 Science Ball at Palais Royale
Notre Dame labmen will desert their infallible slide rules and resort to a bit of “Black Magic” next Friday night in the romantic atmosphere of the Palais Royale at the scene of theii- second annual Science Ball.
Ted Gallagan and his orchestra will provide the melody, and the scientists will introduce the new look in decoration schemes with the presentation of a motif of multi-colored lighting, designed by the decorations chairman, Charlie Duff.
Co-Chairmen Bill Santoro and Fred lonata have indicated that approximately 150 couples will attend the affair, which will last from 9 till 1, with 2 o’clock and car permissions in-
“He keeps muttering something about a physics prof”
Library Exhibits Rare Bibles During National Bible Week
The University Library, cooperating with the National Catholic Biblical Association of America, will feature a display of old and rare Bibles in the library card-index room during National- Catholic Bible Week which will be observed Feb. 10-16.
These Bibles are from the Treasury Collection of the school library. Bibles to be displayed are categorized along lines of beauty, age, and literary merits. It has .been reported by the library that on display will be such rare items as the oldest Bib.le printed in the United States, the first Catholic ■ Bible printed in the United States, the Gutenberg Bible, and other specimens of illustrated religious subjects.
National Catholic Bible Week stems from Bible Sunday, which was incorporated by the Episcopalian Committee of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine back in 1941. This is' the first instance in which a whole week is set aside for purposes of, in the words of the Biblical Association, “increasing the knowledge and love of the Sacred Scriptures among Catholics of our country.”
February 8, 1952
21
Vocational Institute
Begins Wed., Feb. 13
Beginning next Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, the Department of Religion will sponsor a series of informal discussions on the various callings in life The series, entitled “The Institute on States in Life,” will be directed by Rw. Joseph Haley, C.S.C. Mr. Richard L. Kilmer of the Department of History is the general chairman.
The Marriage Institute has been offered for the last four years, but a need has been felt for a complementary series covering vocations other" than marriage. This is the reason for the Institute on States in Life. The Marriage Institute will be held at a later date.
The Institute seeks to acquaint the student with all the callings in life — not just the one he chooses for himself. Father Haley says that it is necessary for people to have a knowledge of the four states of life — marriage, the priesthood, the religious, and the dedicated single life — because God calls all to one or another' of these states.
In order to know what is one’s state in life, it is necessary to have some knowledge of all the callings in life. It will also be the duty of every person to advise others in their choice. This applies especially to the married person with children; he is responsible for assisting and guiding them.
The discussions are open to the student body and faculty of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Twenty-five cents will buy a ticket good for all four talks. The money will be used to defray the expenses of the series.
Four-Week Schedule
The Institute will be held on the next four Wednesday evenings. The following is a schedule of the subjects and speakers:
Feb. 13—MARRIAGE
Marriage—A true Vocation, Mrs. Burnett Bauer.
Marriage—Its Practice, Mr. Burnett Bauer.
Feb. 20—PRIESTHOOD
Nature of the Priesthood, Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C.
The Diocesan Priest, Rev. Richard Smith.
The Religious Priest, Rev. Van Wolv-lear, C.S.C.
Feb. 27—RELIGIOUS LIFE
Nature of the Religious Life, Rev.
William Robinson, C.S.C.
The Sisterhood, Sister Carmen, C.S.C.
22
Mass Schedule
Monday, Feb. 11—Feast of the Apparition of the Blessed Virgin at Lourdes.
Tuesday, Feb. 12—Feast of the Sunday.
Wednesday, Feb. 13—Ferial Wednesday.
Thursday, Feb. 14—Feast of Saint Valentine.
Friday, Feb. 15—Feast of Saints Faustus and Jovita.
Saturday, Feb. 16—Saturday of Our Lady.
Mass of Sunday, Feb. 10, will contain an instruction on “The Mass as a Great Treasure.” Speakers will be: at the 7 o’clock Mass, Father Curtin; at 8, Father Davis; at 9, Father Keller; at 10, Father Sheedy.
The Brotherhood, Brother Edward Kaniecki, C.S.C.
Mar. 5—DEDICATED LIFE
The Dedicated Single Life, Mr. Vincent Giese.
Secular Institutes, Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C.
New Face on Mag, New Faces on Staff
As this week’s front cover might indicate, the Scholastic has changed its outer appearance somewhat by incorporating the new look in cover design as an added feature for the present semester. Besides changes in makeup, there have also been some changes in the personnel.
Mr. John P. Def ant, director of publications, has done away with the photography editor’s position, the post formerly occupied by William Fraser, and a new setup has been inaugurated whereby two new photographers, Jerry Sheehan and Dick Bennett, have been employed.
In the sports department, Bill Londo has left his old position as assistant sports editor and now is employed in the University’s Sports Publicity Office as assistant to the Director of Sports Publicity, Charlie Callahan. Tom Foote succeeds Londo in his former office.
Invitations are extended to all students who are interested in joining the Scholastic staff for the new semester in either the news or the sports department. Weekly meetings of both departments are held Wednesday evening at 6:45.
Those interested in news or feature writing are asked to contact News Editor Don Carbone or Feature Editor Dick Cody, in the basement of Farley Hall, northwest wing, at the next weekly meeting; those interested in sports writing should contact Jack Varley, sports editor, at the same meeting.
First of Pre-Lenten Dances On Tap for Tomorrow Night
Leading the' Student Council’s parade of pre-Lenten dances will be a St. Valentine’s Day special, “Valentine Prelude”—tomorrow night, at the Palais Royale from 9 until 11:30 p.m.
ND men and their “Valentines” will dance to the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen. Added to the program will be a “lead the band” contest for those who wish to display their musical talents. A carton of cigarettes will be awarded the lucky winner.
Admission to the dance' will be $2.00 a couple, and 12:30 permissions will prevail.
Tentative plans have been made for a social February 16. It will be either a roller skating party or a sport dance. Student Council president Jim Garvin has asked foi' suggestions as to the decision.
These will be the last social events sponsored by the Student Council until the Spring when the dances will commence the first Saturday after Easter.
Law Association Elects New Officers; Deeb President
Joseph F. Deeb of Grand Rapids, Mich., United States attorney for the western district of Michigan, has been elected President of the Notre Dame Law Asociation, composed of lawyers who received their legal training at Notre Dame.
Deeb, succeeds William B. Jones, Washington, D. C., attorney. Jones was elected honorary president of the Association.
Other newly-elected officers include Leo B. Ward, Los Angeles attorney, vice-president; F. Gerard Feeney, South Bend attorney, secretary-treasurer; and Prof. Robert E. Sullivan, a member of the faculty in the Notre Dame College of Law, executive secretary.
The Scholastic
Recognition of Campus as Scientific Research Center Receives Boost Under Fr. Cavanaugh
This is the fourth in a series of articles on the accomplishments during the administration of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, who currently is in his final year of office.
In another important biological project Rev. Cletus S. Bachofer, C.S.C., is directing a radiation biology project to help clarify the effect of radiation on living beings in order to determine how to protect against it. The singularity of Father Bachofer’s research project lies in the fact that he is using ' the virus — because it is the most
Known for many years as the birthplace of synthetic rubber and the site of the United States’ first wireless message, Notre Dame has becom? even more widely recognized as a center of important scientific research during the six-year administration of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the University’s 15th president.
Father’ Cavanaugh, who assumed the presidency of Notre Dame in 1946, according to Canon law must retire from office in 1952. By Canon Law, i N the superior of a religious community ’ may not serve more than two consecutive three-year terms.
At the time Father Cavanaugh rook office, most scientific laboratories at Notre Dame were just being taken out from behind lock and key, where they had been during the years of World War II because of classified war research for the United States Government. The job was one of reconversion to peacetime research, with the emphasis being placed on long-range fundamental research.
To guide the significant research projects in the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry, Dr. Charles C. Price was added to the Notre Dame faculty as head of the Department of Chemistry. Dr. Price has since isolated four compounds which may be capable of neutralizing the dread Rh factor in human blood. ,
Two Atom-Smashers Here
Notre Dame chemists also have made significant progress in projects concerning cancer, malaria, tuberculosis and several other important problems.
A Radiation Chemistry Project, sponsored jointly by Notre Dame and the Atomic Energy Commission, was established in 1949 to study the general effects of high energy radiation which are produced in the processes of radioactive decay in all types of substances.
The AEC provided a 2,000,000-volt atom-smasher, the second such electrostatic generator in use at Notre Dame. Dr. Milton Burton is director of the Notre Dame project.
The Department of Physics’ 4,000,000-volt atom smasher is being used for fundamental research designed to advance the ultimate utilization of atomic energy for everyday
use. Notre Dame’s nuclear physics research program is under the direction of Dr. Bernard Waldman.
Other’ far-reaching physics research projects during Father Cavanaugh’s administration include one with rubber and plastics in the University’s High Polymer Laboratory, which may ultimately provide a more reliable guide in the development of new “tailor-made” synthetic products, and an electronics project which may provide information valuable to improved television reception and radar systems.
Two especially significant research projects have been carried on for the past several years in the Notre Dame Department of Biology. One of the projects, under the direction of Dr. John Mizelle, concerns the elimination of the sheep stomach worm, which annually costs the nation’s farmers a tremendous ' loss. If Dr. Mizelle’s project is successful, it might well mean a substantial saving to meatconsumers across the butcher shop counter.
“I think I’ll pick up some text books this semester”
simple form of life — as his “guinea Pig-”
One of the highlights of Father Cavanaugh’s administration at- Notre Dame was the raising of LGBUND (Laboratories of Bacteriology,’ University of Notre Dame) to the status of an Institute for Research in the Life Sciences. LOBUND was made an Institute during ceremonies in 1950 for the dedication of a new Germ-Free Laboratory, which will enable LOBUND scientists to rear a stock colony of germ-free animals for scientific research.
DO YOU TAKE PICTURES?
Any student with a flair for taking pictures and a desire to spend some time doing just that will be more than welcome by SCHOLASTIC. All you need is a camera; our photography technician will do the developing and printing. If you’re interested, our office is in the basement of Farley Hall.
February 8, 1952
23

Capsule Culnel
article in which he claims that the Irish people are nearing extinction has aroused much discussion. The talk is open to all students.

STEEL TALK
CITATION FOR NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame has been honored by the Chicago Defender, Negro newspaper, for outstanding activity in bettering race relations. The University was named by the paper on its 1951 Honor Roll of Democracy “for expanding the principle of democratic education and active participation in campus life of all races and creeds.”
DOWNEY JOINS EMBASSY IN RIO
Dr. Thomas E. Downey of the Department of History has accepted an appointment as executive secretary of the American embassy in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Dr. Downey, who has been in charge of the Program of Latin American Studies at Notre Dame since 1946, will be on a two-year leave of absence from the University. During his absence, Dr. James A. Llorens will direct the Latin American program.
QUICK ACTION ON TB CASES
Of the eight suspicious cases of tuberculosis found during the x-ray survey at Notre Dame, two persons, a girl employee of the library and a 19 year-old student—have been hospitalized. A priest and a Brother were diagnosed as having inactive infections. Two Dining Hall employees, one with a mild case, the other’s apparently inactive, have both moved.
One professional worker on the teaching staff is still under observation, another has a healed infection.
FR. LAUCK SCULPTURE HONORED
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., professor of sculpture at Notre Dame, has been honored by the National Academy of Design in New York city. Honorable mention rating was given by the jury of Awards of the Academy to “Monk at Work,” a carving in limestone by Father Lauck.
SECULAR INSTITUTES CONFERENCE
A Conference on Secular Institutes, a relatively new form of life in the Catholic Church, was held Jan. 26-27 at Notre Dame, to provide information regarding the Secular Institutes, which had their beginning only in the last century and received official Papal approval only in 1947.
Members take vows of poverty, chas
tity, and obedience, but are distinguished from religious in that they live and work in the world, and thus are not obligated to the common life or to a distinctive form of dress.
TO DISCUSS ENCYCLICALS
One week from tonight a new discussion group on the social encyclicals of the Popes will be held in the YCS office, Room 3 Law Building, at 7 o’clock. This group, moderated by Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., will meet once a week thereafter.
Any student or faculty member interested in the Papal teachings is invited to attend.
COMMERCE FORUM HEARS DEAN
Notre Dame’s Commerce Forum heard Commerce Dean James E. McCarthy speak on “The Welfare State and Free Enterprise” at the Forum’s semester banquet recently.
The next social event on the Forum schedule will be a smoker Feb. 11.
New officers installed at the banquet are President Arthur Schulte, VicePresident Edward Gray, Secretary Maurice Murphy, and Treasurer John Lange.
‘VANISHING IRISH’
Rev. John A. O’Brien will open the second series of Sociology Period Talks with “The Vanishing Irish” tomorrow morning at 11 o’clock in the Main Building. Father O’Brien’s recent magazine
The Notre Dame Chapter, American Society for Metals will hear an address by C. L. Clark, metallurgical engineer for the Timken Roller Bearing Company, at the monthly meeting Wednesday, at 8 p.m., in Room 5, Engineering Building. He will discuss the application of steels to high temperature service.
The technical session will be preceded by a dinner in the Dining Hall.
Houck, Manier, Fink, Hafner Chosen YCS Officers for '52
Two juniors, John Houck and Ed Manier, have been chosen to head YCS for the coming year. Acting as president and vice-president respectively, these two men will decide the organization’s over-all policies, while the secretary and the treasurer, Jack Fink and Yates Hafner, will handle the administration of YCS.
The new officers assumed their posts at the beginning of this semester according to the YCS Constitution. Each of them was chosen unanimously by the organization’s group leaders after the various candidates had been discussed.
The new president, John Houck, is an English major from Wisconsin, formerly A.B. section leader and group leader in YCS. Ed Manier represents the College of Science as a former group leader. The other two officers, Fink and Hafner, were re-elected to the posts which they held for the last semester.
24
The Scholastic
&
Billikens to Host Irish Tomorrow Night
ND Boxers to Meet Jordan's Cagers Entertain Powerful DePaul, Purdue Next Friday Return Game With Butler Bulldogs Next Week
By ROGER FERNANDES
From the 15th of this month to mid-March boxing will highlight the Notre Dame intramural sports calendar with several outstanding attractions. To begin with the top Irish intramural boxers will meet the Purdue Intramural Boxing club here at the ND fieldhouse at 7:30 next Friday evening.
Eight matches are scheduled for this first of a home and home series with the Purdue fighters. The Notre Dame team will make the trip to Lafayette, Ind., for the second meeting with the Boilermakers on Feb. 27.
The bouts on the 15th and 27th will be governed by the regular Intercollegiate Boxing rules. The matches scheduled tentatively for next Friday night’s show are at 127 pounds, 135, 140, 145, two at 160, 175 and heavyweight.
The Purdue-ND meet between the best of the two schools’ intramural gladiators will be the first Irish ring meeting with another* institution since 1927 when ND was represented by an intercollegiate boxing team. Notre Dame students will be admitted to the bouts here upon presentation of their ID cards.
Fifty boys are training for the coming Novice Tournament, but there are still openings for those interested in trying out but who have had no previous experience in the art of fisticuffs. Boxing sessions for the beginners are held every day from 4 to 6 p.m. in the boxing room in the Fieldhouse. About 32 ND men are training in the hope of representing the University against Purdue and for the annual Bengal Bouts.
According to present plans the preliminaries for the Bengals will be held on March 11, 12, and 13, the semifinals on the 15th and the finals on the 17 th.
By TOM FOOTE
An ineligibility-riddled Irish cage squad runs into anothei* major obstacle of the season when they take on the perennially powerful St. Louis Billikens tomorrow night in St. Louis’ Kiel Auditorium.
Although lacking some of the luster
Ron Feiereisel
Leads from the guard position
of Billiken fives of previous years, Coach Ed Hickey’s charges have consistently ranked among the top collegiate teams in the country this year. Their greatest triumph was a 61-60 decision over vaunted Kentucky in the Sugar Bowl tournament while their
fortunes reached their lowest ebb in a surprising upset at the hands of Wisconsin whom the Irish beat early in the season. In all the Billikens have lost only four games, with Holy Cross, Washington State, and Bradley also turning the trick.
Billikens One of the Best
Guard Ray Steiner, who at 5’10” is the shortest man on the club, has been the sparkplug of the Billikens thus far, having scored 203 points in the first 17 games in addition to his superb defensive play. Fred Kovar at 6’3” teams with Steiner at guard while Bob Koch, 6’6” center is outstanding under the bucket. Captain Ray Sonnenberg (6’5”) and Lou McKenna are also highly dangerous from their forward positions while Kevin Harrington (6’9”), Jerry Koch, and Tom Lillis, whose last-second tip-in beat Kentucky, give the Billikens a strong bench. With all their speed, height, and talent, the Billikens can be labeled one of the nation’s best quintets.
Thus, the Irish will be forced to rely chiefly on spirit and determination to upset the St. Louis aggregation, especially on their home court. Last year Notre Dame got off to an early lead and went on to spill the Billikens 77-70 here in the greatest Irish triumph of the season, but dropped a 56-47 decision at St. Louis.
Return Against Butler
Monday the Irish travel to Indianapolis to meet the Butler Bulldogs in a return engagement. In the initial game last month the Irish won a loosely-played 55-49 decision, and the scrappy Bulldogs would like nothing better than to avenge this loss as well (Continued on Page 29)
February 8, 1952
25
Fencing at Notre Dame
by Tom Foote
Although fencing is one of the oldest sports from the point of view of its historical background, it is one of the newest to have been adopted by Notre Dame.
It was in 1934 that fencing got its start here by an exiled professor of
Pedro de Landera
Started by an exiled professor
Spanish, Pedro de Landera. A native of Mexico and an N.D. graduate of 1911, de Landera came here to teach
“ . . . this year’s crew will be one off the m ost experienced to represent Notre Dame”
“In practice each fencer is actually a coach ...”	A quarter hour of brisk calisthenics
in 1926 because of the religious persecution in his homeland at that period. He remained at Notre Dame till 1939 when he again returned to Mexico.
A skilled fencer in his native country, de Landera proved to be a successful coach and made Notre Dame a fencing power in short order by direct
ing his charges to undefeated seasons in 1935 and 1936. Two of his sons led the team at this time, Carlos serving as captain in ’35 and co-captain in ’36 and Telmo acting as captain in ’37.
After de Landera’s departure, Walter-Langford, who is the present coach of both fencing and tennis, took over the coaching reins in 1940 and served through the' ’43 season. The sport had to be discontinued during the next three war years, but with its resumption in 1947, Notre Dame quickly soared to the top under coach Herb Melton. His ’48 and ’49 teams lost only one meet in each of those seasons, and his undefeated 1950 team was without doubt the strongest the University has ever-had. This crew wound up sixth in the NCAA tournament that year.
Strongest in —pp-
After Melton’s resignation Langford took over as coach again last winter and enjoyed an 8-2 record. “And we should be equally as good this year,” the genial mentor maintains. “Since Nick Scalera in foil was the only member to be lost from last year’s team, this year's
crew will be one of the most experienced to represent Notre Dame.”
Coach Langford expects the epee to be the strongest event. His trio of Ernie Franzgrote, Brian Duff, and Joe Conlon won consistently last year and saved many meets when the foil and sabre
1952 FENCING SCHEDULE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Jan. 19—Case at Notre Dame Feb. 2—Michigan State at ND Feb. 9—Ohio State at ND Feb. 9—Iowa at ND Feb. 16—Northwestern at Evanston Feb. 16—Wisconsin at Evanston Feb. 23—Illinois at Champaign Mar. 1—Chicago at Chicago Mai-. 8—Detroit at ND Mar. 14—Louisville at Louisville Mar. 15—Cincinnati at Cincinnati Mar. 28-29—NCAA at Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
men were not faring too well. However, the latter events also figure to be much stronger this year since the contestants are all veterans of the' fencing wars. Captain Jim Walsh is No. 1 man in foil, followed by Jim Jacobs and Jack Mooney. In sabre it’ll be Charles Daschle, Paul Gibbons, and Jim Graham. Several promising underclasmen may also see
26
The Scholastic
action, but the nine lettermen appeal* quite certain to hold down their positions on the basis of their experience.
The team opened its all-game schedule here on January 19 against Case Institute of Technology and will duel Michigan State, Ohio State, Iowa, Wisconsin, Northwestern, Illinois, Chicago, Kentucky, Cincinnati, and Detroit in the course of the season. The top man in each event will participate in the' NCAA meet at Yale, March 28-29.
Electrical Machine Determines Points
In a dual fencing meet each of the three men in an event encounter each of the opposing trio so that a total of 27 matches is fought with the victory going to the team to win the greatest number, which of course must be at least 14.
The' chief difference in the foil, sabre, © and epee events consists in the determination of the valid target area. In foil a point is scored by contact by the tip of the blade with the opponent’s body between the neck and groin. In sabre the head is also included in the valid area, and points can be scored with the cutting edge of the blade as well as the point. The entire body is the target area in epee and this event does not necessitate officials in that it is judged by an electrical machine. This device can determine which opponent struck first up to 1/25 of a second. In foil and sabre the first contestant to score five of nine points Mins the match ; in epee' it is three of five.
Each Fencer Is Coach
The fencing gear consists of a canvas
Epee should be the strongest event Conlon, Franzgrote and Duff practice accuracy
jacket which covers the torso, a glove on the fencing hand, and a face mask of screen mesh. Since the sport is so highly competitive, it is necessary for a fencer to be in good physical shape. Thus, a typical practice session consists of 15-20 minutes of brisk calisthenics and 1% hours of man-to-man combat. “In practice each fencer is actually a
Faster thinking, better co-ordination Captain Jim Walsh practices on stationary blade
coach, picking out and helping to correct the defects of his partner. This greatly improves the spirit of the squad as well as the quality of the fencer,” Captain Jim Walsh explains.
Fencing achieved its rightful recogni
tion at Notre Dame when it was made a major sport after the 1948 season. It is unique in that it is the only sport in which a man can become a squad member without previous experience since little organized fencing exists on the secondary school level.
Although many of the uninformed look down on the sport as merely a holdover from the mediaeval ages and as such, outmoded and useless, nothing could be farther from the truth. For instance, its value has been recognized by the military and naval academies at West Point and Annapolis where it is a required sport. As Coach Langford explains. . . . “fencing accounts for faster thinking, more complete co-ordination of mind and muscle, development of poise, and the ability to remain calm under fire.”
TRACK MEETS
Students will be admitted to all varsity track meets in the Fieldhouse upon presentation of ID cards. Field events will begin at 1:30 p.m., the first track event at 2:00. Ilse West Entrance only.
Dual and Triangular meets are as follows:
Feb. 9—Missouri
Feb. 23—Marquette, Mich. Normal Mar. 1—Indiana
The Central Collegiate Confer-“nce Indoor Meet will also be held at Notre Dame on March 8, an alldav affair. Starting times will be announced at a later date.
General Admission tickets for the first three meetings will be sold at the Fieldhouse Boxoffice, priced at SI.00 including tax, for the general public.
—TICKET COMMITTEE
Track Schedule
Notre Dame will participate in seven indoor and ten outdoor track meets in the coming season, according to the schedule released by the Department of Athletics. Four of the indoor and two of the outdoor meets will be held here with the indoor Central Collegiate Conference meet here March 8 shaping up as the top local attraction. The complete schedule is as follows:
INDOORS
Feb. 9—Missouri at Notre Dame 1^—Mich. State at E. Lansing 23—Marquette & Mich. Nor. at ND
Mar. 1—Indiana at ND
8—CCC meet at ND
14—Cleveland K. of C. Relays
February 8, 1952
27
By Jack Varley
Tomorrow afternoon the second meet of the Notre Dame indoor track season will be held when Coach Alex Wilson’s tracksters meet Missouri, the defending Big Seven champs. According to Wilson the Tigers have just about as good a team as they had last year when they routed Notre Dame, 105-26.
“They haven’t changed much,” Wilson states, “but we have.” The fast talking mentor is very happy about the improvement of his squad over last year’s.
“The morale is good. We did very well against Michigan State. The only thing that hurts us is we have a rough schedule — Michigan State, Missouri and Indiana.”
Rough Competition Good
However, Wilson feels that the rough competition will be good for his predominately young team and he’s probably right. As the season progresses the team will improve and Wilson will have done a good job of building a team around younger men. Shot putter Jack Cunningham, who came out for the team as a result of tryouts held in the phy ed classes, pole vaulter Jim Harrington, miler Jack Alexander, hurdler Harvey Newquist and pole vaulter Joe Springer are all sophomores. Quarter-miler Bob English and broad jumper Ray Morris are freshmen and two-miler Harry Snyder is a junior. The remaining mainstays of the squad are three seniors — high-jumper Hughes Wilcox, two-miler Benny Almaguer and captain Bucky Ewing in the 60-yard dash. All of which adds up to a bright future for Notre Dame track.
Harrington, incidentally, is the son of Paul Harrington who as a pole vaulter for Notre Dame held the world record at one time.
MSC Thinclads Best £ Irish at East Lansing
The Michigan State Spartans spoiled Notre Dame’s indoor track opener last Saturday as they topped Coach Wilson’s thin-clads, 611/3-521/3. Before a crowd of 1,027 at Jenison Fieldhouse, the home forces chalked up victories in seven of the twelve events, setting three new dual meet records. Garnering the remaining five first places, the Irish stayed right with MSC until freshman Jim Vrooman clinched the decision for the Green and White when he set a new meet record at 6’3 in the high jump. The other two record smashers were Don Schiesswohl, an MSC footballer, with a toss of 49’2” in the shot put and Jerry Zerbe who was clocked at 9:47 for the two-mile run. „
O
The Irish were not without standout performers of their own. Paul Ewing checked in at :06.5 in the 60-yard dash, edging out teammate Dave Foy, and Harvey Newquist of Notre Dame sped over the 70-yard low hurdles in :08.3 finishing ahead of Dick Henson and John Corbelli of the Spartans. Jim Harrington of the Irish copped the pole vault, soaring 12 feet 6 inches. Joe Springer tied for the runner-up spot with two of the State vaulters.
Irish Relay Team Wins
I Army All-Americans
I	Several familiar names appeared on the All-Army
|l	football team. Larry Coutre, an All-American halfback
fj	and the man who scored three touchdowns against
B	Tulane in ’49, was named fullback on the first team
hl	while John Helwig, playing for Camp Ord, was named
—aiu*-— grs£ team guar<j. Both Coutre and Helwig graduated from Notre Dame in ’49. Coutre, who played for Camp Breckinridge, received the most votes of any player nominated. Tackle Al Zmijewski and halfback Frank Spaniel made honorable mention.
The 440-yard run and the one-mile relay provided the most exciting action of the program. The 440 saw the Irish’s Bob English nip State’s Lou Vargha at the tape in :52.0. English, a freshman, was also the hero of Notre Dame’s mile relay triumph as he out-legged the same Mr. Vargha in the stretch of the final lap. The time was a good 3:28.0. Other members of the Irish foursome, which the previous evening placed second in the second section of the Milwaukee Journal meet, are Hughes Wilcox, Kevin Begley and Norm Feltes.
Odds ’n’ Ends
High-scoring Leroy Leslie won this year’s Wai* Memorial Trophy as the outstanding player on the Notre Dame basketball team. The award, given by the Buffalo Club of Notre Dame, is in memory of those Notre Dame students from the Buffalo area who lost their lives in World War II. The presentation was made in the Buffalo Memorial Stadium before the start of the Canisius-Notre Dame game by Henry Balling, president of the club.
Jim Brislin and Ted Prahinski, former members of the Scholastic sports staff, are both on active duty with the armed forces in the Korea area. Prahinski is with the Navy while Brislin is with the First Cavalry Division.
In the mile run won by Michigan State’s Jim Kepford, soph Jack Alexander, who starred in cross-country meets this fall, captured third. Kepford’s time was 4:23.3. John Corbelli wound up in front of ND’s Harvey Newquist and John Campagnone in the 70-yard high hurdles. His time was :09.0. Harry Snyder and Benny Al-magauer followed Zerbe in the latter’s record-breaking two-mile run. Con Tetrault brought the Irish colors in second in the 880-yard run, trailing Dick Janett of the Spartans to the line. Janett covered the distance in 1:57.0. Wilcox of the Irish placed No. 2 behind Vrooman’s meet-winning high jump while Roy Morris of the Wilson-
24
The Scholastic
men. took third in the broad jump won by State’s Russell Olexa with a leap of 22’3/2”. Big Jack Cunningham nailed down some more points for the Irish aggregation when he placed second to Schiesswohl’s record shattering toss in the shot.
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 the ND cindermen hope to make their home opener a bit more successful when they engage the Missouri Tigers in the fieldhouse.
St. Louis, DePaul
(Continued from Page 25)
as two 1951 defeats administered by the Irish.
Coach Tony Hinkle, in his twenty-third year as head mentor at Butler, i _ will field a squad lacking both experi-“ ence and height, but one capable of providing an upset. Leading the Bull-\	dogs from his forward post is Captain
i	Orvis Burdsall, the team’s leading
I	scorer in 1951, who was greatly handi-
|	capped in the earlier game here by
i	four personal fouls called against him
a	in the first few minutes. Keith Greve,
J	a promising 6’1” freshman, holds forth
a	at the other forward position while
1	6’7” sophomore Ray Stewart will
I	handle the pivot chores. Second-year
j	guards Bill Roepke (5’11”) and Jim
।	Crosley (5’9”) are speed demons and
capable floor men. John Hall, who ,l scored 38 points against the Irish in
John Hall
Scored 38 last year
two games last year, Mike Radkovic, and Chris Theofanis give the Bulldogs additional reserve strength.
The Butler series is one of Notre Dame’s oldest. The coming game will be the 52nd between the two schools with ND having a 34-17 edge in games won.
Demons Present Obstacle
The Irish then return to the home hardwood next Thursday to tackle De Paul’s tough Blue Demons. Coach Ray Meyer, a former ND basketball captain, has once again come up with a crack outfit as is evidenced by the fact that the Demons won eight straight be
A heroic effort against Kentucky
Rosenthal attempts a long shot
fore being knocked from the undefeated ranks by Kentucky and later defeated by Illinois. However, in the return game with Illinois two weeks ago the Demons again received national acclaim by dumping the Illini from the list of the all-victorious with a 69-65 upset win.
The Demons lost such stars as Gove-darica, Pavilonis and Lahey through graduation last year, but have come up with outstanding replacements. Captain Ron Feiereisel, a 6’3” junior, leads the Demon offense from his guard position. Last year Feiereisel registered 222 points in 25 games. Stan Hoover will probably start at the other guard post although substitute Jim Lamkin who led the Demons to their win over Cincinnati last Saturday with 18 points will also see considerable action. Gene Dyker, a 6’7” junior, is a capable pivot man while forwards Ray Caplis (6’3”) and Bill Schyman (6’5”) add height and scoring ability to the Demon offense. De Paul •will be attempting to even up the series between
Gaack ‘

The Notre Dame basketball team and coaches wish to thank the student body and band for the tremendous demonstration of spirit exemplified at Chicago Stadium last Saturday night.
In the face of great odds you picked up the team mentally and pushed them on to a great performance against the number one team in the nation. Kentucky had . us out-manned, but I assure you because of your support they were out-fought.
We have enjoyed your support all year and only wish that we played more games at home. In preparing the schedule for next year we are keeping this in mind and I promise we will have about eleven of the top notch teams appearing on your- home court.
Again, many thanks for your loyal support. We appreciate it.
the two schools, Notre Dame having a 9-8 advantage thus far.
After a temporary slump in midJanuary, the Irish came roaring back to blast Marquette 74-56 at Milwaukee in what was regarded as their finest performance of the season up to that time. The Irish then annihilated Michigan State 56-48 at East Lansing to avenge their previous loss to the Spartans and then took a 10-day layoff while semester exams were in progress. Canisius fell by the wayside 72-59 at Buffalo upon resumption of the schedule Jan. 26, but Jordan’s hoopsters ran into trouble at Pittsburgh two nights later and bowed to the Panthers 62-55.
Last Saturday, with Strasser, Stephens, and Shine out of action because of scholastic ineligibility, the Irish met Kentucky’s Wildcats in the big game of the year and put up a heroic struggle before succumbing to Hagan, Ramsey, Linville, & Co., 71-66. Jim Gibbons and Jerry McCloskey joined Leslie, Rosenthal, and Bertrand in the starting line-up, and the' entire squad played an inspired game, but lacked the talent and class to outlast the mighty Wildcats after holding a 39-33 halftime advantage. Rosenthal with 25 and Leslie with 20 points led the Irish attack.
February 8, 1952
29
Michigan State Edges Notre Dame Fencers
Coach Walter Langford’s Notre Dame fencing team fell prey to a victory-starved Michigan State squad last Saturday in the fieldhouse, with the Spartans gaining a 14-13 decision in their first fencing triumph over the Irish since 1947. It was the initial setback of this young season for Notre Dame, the Irish having previously won their opening encounter against Case Institute, 21-6.
Contesting in the epee and foil divisions each team traded victories, with Jim Jacobs, Jack Mooney, and Jim Walsh registering a 6-3 foil win for the Irish, while Ernie Franzgrote, Brian Duff, and Joe Conlon lost the epee match by the same score. Duff won two of his three matches to keep his team in contention, being beaten 3-1 only by State’s three-game winner, Dick Berry. Franzgrote, who sustained a broken finger in the second match, had to retire in favor of Dave McBride who won his only match for the Irishmen.
Starting off like a house afire, Notre Dame gained a 4-1 edge only to be overtaken by the Spartans who steamed ahead 11-4 in winning ten straight matches. The Irish rallied beautifully, outpointing State seven to two in the next nine matches, but fell short by one as Fred Frecheit won his third sabre contest from Notre Dame’s Charlie Daschle, 5-0.
The sabre division actually turned the tide of victory, with the Spartans picking up a 5-4 verdict in that bracket behind Frecheit’s outstanding fencing. Before defeating Daschle, Frecheit ousted Paul Gibbons, 5-2, and Jim Graham, 5-1.
Notre Dame Bowling Team Downs St. Joseph's College
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate bowling team opened its season in commanding style recently as they rolled their way to a three out of five game match win over St. Joseph’s of Rensselaer. This meet was actually scheduled before the tryouts were over two weeks ago, but it produced six top-notch bowlers, all of whom will probably make the traveling squad on which only six out of the possible eight-man team can participate. The Irish keglers travel to Loyola of Chicago Feb. 16 to engage the Ramblers in a five-game set.
The league itself is made up of five teams, consisting of DePaul and Val-
BASKETBALL ADMISSIONS
Students are reminded that all seats in the Fieldhouse except those in the North Balcony will be held for students UNTIL 7:30 P.M. ONLY. Space available at that hour will be sold as General Admission to the public at the West Boxoffice. Varsity games begin at 8:00 p.m.
Every student must present his ID card for admission. Students matriculating at the semester must apply at once to the Prefect of Discipline for ID cards and exchange Athletic Certifications (green slip) at the Ticket Office, Breen-Phillips Hall, for the athletic ID card container. Remaining home games in the second semester are:
Feb. 14—DePaul
Feb. 18—Pittsburgh
Reserved seats for most of the remaining games, both home and away, are still available at the Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips.
—TICKET COMMITTEE
paraiso, St. Joseph’s Loyola and Notre Dame. Each team will bowl three separate five-game series against one another, totaling sixty matches over the entire season. Under the Intercollegiate Ruling Committee the league winner is picked by the number of games won, and not the total pinfall, as accepted in numerous other circuits.
Composing this young group of competitive Irish keglers are the foremost bowlers on campus, with six of the eight rolling for the Kampus Keglers Association every Sunday afternoon. Most of them sport averages of 170 and upwards and should give anyone of the four other loop teams a real run for their money. Against St. Joe’s they copped three matches out of five, losing the two even games by very slim margins.
The following pin-blasters who constitute the squad are Jim Shapiro, Jerry Ledwidge, Jim Shannon, Jerry Sheehan, Dick Ryal, Bob Dougherty, Neal Murphy, and Paul Pfohl.
Thousand-Plus Irish Invade Chicago for ND-Kentucky Tilt
“Follow the team” was the watchword last week-end as over 1,000 Notre Dame students and the Band went to Chicago for the Kentucky game.
Two special student trips provided
for the transportation of about 350 of the itinerants. The freshman council sponsored a trip which took 270 men, and the Central Illinois Chib took 70.
Nearly 900 other tickets were sold directly from the ticket office to those who wanted to make the trip on their own. At the Stadium, the spirits of the fans and team were bolstered by the presence of the band, which played long and loud in support of the cheering thousand.
Swimmers, Cagers Resume Action on Interhall Front
The interhall athletic program, seeking to shake off the lethargy brought on by two weeks of inactivity due' to final exams and the mid-semesters vacation, swings back into high gear in the coming week with a full schedule of <’5 swimming and basketball.
Gil Burdick, swimming instructor, has arranged two meets for his swim- , ming enthusiasts. There will be an interhall relay meet on February 13 with the eight-heat card being dominated mostly by novelty races. These will include butt, sweatshirt, ping-pong, and obstacle relays, with 15 gold medals being awarded to the winning team.
Two weeks after this novelty meet, there will be a regular meet with the usual race's included. Thirty-nine medals will be awarded to the winners
in this go.
On the hardwood, the various club and hall teams have been reseeded and divided up into ten groups of four teams each by Mr. Szekely. There is an afternoon and an evening division, with seven groups playing in the afternoon and the remaining three groups in the nightcap. The schedule calls for each team to play three game's, one with each of the other three teams in its league, with the winners of each four-team league participating in a tournament which will be held during the early part of March in the fieldhouse.
—Ken Murphy
Nationally Advertised. I
WATCHES DIAMONDS
GIFTS
REPAIRING
30
The Scholastic
Band Keeps Up With Tooting Chores During 'Lull' Season
Although in the midst of a comparatively “quiet” period between the hectic grind of football weekends and the forthcoming rush of spring conceits, the Notre Dame Band is nevertheless fulfilling a sche'dule of basketball and dinner performances fully capable of keeping the musicians on their toes.
A 60-piece band accompanied the basketball team to Chicago last Saturday night and did its best to aid and abet the situation, although Notre Dame eventually wound up on the short end of the evening’s count. The band also performed at last night’s contest with Marquette in the Notre Dame field house and will next urge the team on in its home encounter with DePaul, & Feb. 14.
On Feb. 16 a small group of 25 musicians picked from the local band will furnish music for the Studebaker Centennial dinner, attended by the South Bend Chamber of Commerce and honoring the 100th anniversary of the Studebaker organization.
CSMC Again Holds National Convention on ND Campus
The 15th national convention of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade will be held Aug. 21-24 at Notre Dame, according to an announcement by Rt. Rev. Monsignor Edward A. Freking, national secretary of the Crusade.
The 1952 convention of the Crusade will mark the third consecutive time _ that Notre Dame has been selected as the site for the national meeting. The national convention is held bi-annually.
Nearly 3,000 student delegates, representing Crusade units in thousands of American communities, are expected to attend the convention at Notre Dame.
The convention also will feature an exhibit of missionary activities carried on around the world by the various religious orders.
ND Receives Chapter Status In National Sigma Xi Society
The appointment of the University of Notre Dame to chapter status in Sigma Xi, national honorary scientific society, was approved at a recent meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Formal installation of the Notre Dame Chapter of Sigma Xi probably will be held in the Spring. Chapters
of Sigma Xi are in operation at the well-known scientific schools of the United States.
Membership in the Society of Sigma Xi is limited to individuals of Chapters who have demonstrated ability to carry out original research in the various fields of science. President of the new Notre Dame chapter is Dr. John A. Jump, associate professor of biology.
Undergrad Summer Session Begins June 16, Ends Aug. 8
Summer Session for undergraduate students will open June 16 and continue through Aug. 8. Students working toward advanced degrees in the Notre Dame Graduate School will attend the Summer Session June 20-Aug. 5.
Courses offered during Summer Session are designed to meet the needs of teachers who wish to prepare themselves for better work or to secure higher rating from state boards of education of persons who wish to secure an advanced degree in the Graduate School, of undergraduates who wish to secure extra credits or to make up deficiencies, and of veterans who wish to complete their college work in a shorter period of time.
Among the courses offered in the Summer Session will be the new and unique “Canon Law for Sisters,” designed to help solve problems besetting Sisters’ Communities. Summer Session annually attracts representatives of Sisters’ Communities from all parts of the United States.
Two Engineering Instructors, Five Profs Added to Faculty
The Office of Academic Affairs has announced the appointment of seven new teachers to the Notre Dame faculty for the second semester. Five of the appointments are in the College of Arts and Letters while the remaining two are in the College of Engineering.
New instructors in the Department of History are Mr. James Green and Mr. Bernard Norling. Temporarily appointed instructors in the Department of Philosophy are Mr. Frank Keegan and Mr. Edward Menard. Mr. Garret R. Weathers has assumed the position of visiting instructor in the Department of Education.
Mr. Michael Delich has been appointed an instructor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, while Mr. John A. O’Brien, Jr., has been temporarily assigned a similar position.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	J. M. S. Bldg.
VALENTINE GIFTS . at Hans-Rintzsch Luggage, Wallets, and ■ all Leather Goods HANS - RINTZSCH 138 N. Michigan Get your
--------EUROPE—a
60 Daiis-fmi ^599’
(incl. steamer) Bicycle, Motor, Faitboat, Rail, Self-drive, Family living and Study Tours offered by -America's largest organization for edu* cational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Less Our 19th Year
See your local repneenl-atire or write io:
STUDENTS INTUMATIONAL \A 9 ■	TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
-----545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 17 • MU 7-0254
ATTENTION MEN!
Do you need a typewriter?
Don’t rent an old machine
Rent a new portable or late model standard. Forbes' PLAN permits 3 months' rental as purchase credit if you desire.
Forbes Typewriter Co.
Forbes Bldg., 228 W. Colfax. Opp. Tribune
Thursday is Valentine’s Day and you’ll want to send that special girl a special gift. You’re sure to make a hit if you send candy from the Philadelphia. They make their own — and is it good!
Philadelphia Inc. 116 N. Mich.
February 8, 1952
31
The Punch Bowl
(Continued from Page 16)
The stiff program which the boxers run through every afternoon looks something like this: two miles of roadwork; a half-hour of calisthenics; three-fourths of an hour of instruction; a half-hour of hitting- and defensive drills; and a final half-hour of calisthenics, sparring, bag-punching, and rope-skipping. Contact work conies only after sweating out three or four weeks of this.
Mastermind and workhorse behind all this, a name that has become synonymous with Notre Dame boxing is Dominic (Nappy) Napolitano. The af- . fable, slightly-greying physical education instructor has been the mainspring behind boxing here for twenty years, except for several years spent in the Navy as a boxing coach at a preflight base.
Guidance and Safety
“Nappy” is interested in collegiate boxing because of the elements of competition. sportsmanship, clean-fighting,, and good form. Rough-houseing has no place in the Fieldhouse workouts. Accordingly, Mr. Napolitano insists on at least six weeks of training before any
We have every kind for all the people you have in mind.
OFFICE ENGINEERS 116 S. Michigan St.
Ph. 3-3118
competitive bouts. Headgear are used in all heavy contact work, as are twelveounce gloves. N.C.B.A. regulations are followed in all tournaments.
Thanks to Nappy’s guidance' and his stiff training program, there have been no serious injuries in the long history of the Bengals. Fortunately, not a bit of excitement has been sacrificed to the safety precautions in effect, and those who saw last year’s tournament can testify to the thrills generated by the fine bouts so traditional with the Bengals. As proof of the resulting unpredictability, you only have to consider that only one returning champion out of three was able to successfully defend his crown.
Brown, Cotter Return
A number of talented and well-remembered boys are expected to return this year. Among- them is the very capable Joe Brown, and both principals of what many believe was last year’s most exciting’ fight. Tom Chisholm and 155 lb. champ Dick Windishar. Other highly-regarded boys are heavyweight champion Dick Cotter, Bob Bickert, and Jerry Hagemann. Many such excellent boxers have come out of the Bengals, but one of the most famous was Max Marek, 1932 champ and Chicago CYO victor who knocked out Joe Louis shortly before the latter won the world’s professional heavyweight championship.
This year’s tournament promises to be as full of thrills and excitement as any in the past. It might be well for one to buy his ticket early.
Irish Singers Return After 6100-Mile Tour
Sunday was a red-letter day for the 36-man traveling squad of the Notre Dame Glee Club, for it marked the return of the Singing Irish from the longest concert tour ever attempted by an ND group. The tour traced a course to the west coast and down through the southwest, covering an area of approximately 6,100 miles.
The Glee Club left Notre Dame Jan. 24 and arrived that same night in St. Louis, where they gave their scheduled concert the following night. A reception followed at the Hotel Lennox.
Leaving St. Louis on the 26th, the Glee Clubbers took the “City of St. Louis” to San Francisco. Sunday Mass . was celebrated by Rev. Charles CtJey, C.S.C., on a portable altar set op in the coach while the train made a brief stop at Denver.
The longest ride of the entire trip was made less tedious by the picturesque scenery along the Donner Pass,
where only a few days before, the “City of San Francisco” had been C.' snowbound.
After a concert in San Francisco Jan. 28, the group traveled to Stock-ton, Calif. Enroute to Phoenix from Stockton, the train stopped over long enough in Los Angeles to allow the fellows to see the sights and visit a few of the high-class entertainment spots.
The stay at the Kachina Lodge outside Phoenix was considered by the clubbers as the most enjoyable part of the entire trip. Some of the group went sight-seeing in Phoenix, others went mountain-climbing, and the rest went swimming in the warm (85 degrees) Arizona temperature.
The next stop was El Paso, Tex., where the group stayed at the Hilton Hotel. Many of them took the opportunity to visit Juarez, Mexico, across the river from El Paso, and gather a <1 few Mexican souvenirs.
On Feb. 2 the Glee Club left El Paso aboard the “Golden State” for Chicago. The trip back was marred only by the death of an elderly gentleman who passed away, in the coach where most of the club was seated.
—John Nolnv.rl
Congregation Will Join Choir In Singing Sunday High Mass
Each Sunday hereafter, the 9 o’clock Mass will be sung by the Moreau Choir with the congregation participating. Students interested in more active participation in the Mass are urged to attend and join in the singing.
Because the Sacrifice of the Muss is the highest act of worship of the mystical body, all people are considered to be offering Mass with the celebrant. Hence the theological importance of the liturgical revival of recent years, which re-emphasizes the -proper role of the people in the Mass — not as spectators but as active, intelligent participants.
There will be a series of instructions on the Mass and Sacraments throughout the semester in the Sunday sermons. Everything from the prayers at the foot of the altar to the ceremonials will be discussed. The topic and the speakers for each Sunday will be listed in the Mass Schedule box.
MARDI GRAS BOOKS
For those students who want more books, Mardi Gras raffle books are still available from Hall representatives.
32
The Scholastic
I I
i	Council Appoints New Group
'	To Discuss Interhall Sports
Starting off the second semester’s work, the Student Council got under way with a meeting in the Law Building Monday.
Jim Garvin, president of the Council, made known the formation of a special advisory council which would discuss interhall athletics with Mr. Scannell, Department of Physical Education head. Lately, there has been some comment on the fact that the program at the University has not been receiving proper response from the students. The aim of this specially appointed committee will be to iron out such problems.
A series of dates reserved for club socials were also accepted by the Council. April 18 has been reserved ' for the Villagers Club dance tentatively to be held at the LaSalle Hotel. The Architects also have April 18 reserved for their Ball. The site has not yet been decided. The College of Law has submitted its reservation for May 2, when it will hold an informal dance.
. Appointments to several different committees were also listed. Jim Mutscheller was placed on the utility committee, while Fred Mangialardi was assigned to assist Ed Noonan on the Blue Circle service committee. Bill Byrne drew the chairmanship of the academic group. Larry Mullins was appointed to assist Floyd Blair and George Sweet on the social committee.
Plan Leaflet About Council
< Tentative plans have been drawn up by the Council to publish a four-page • leaflet that would carry personal news and views about the Council, its activities, and the administration of the University. This is to afford the students a chance to become better acquainted with the work and aims of the Student Council. Details will be worked out by Jim Mannion and Tom Reedy.
It was proposed that the Blue Circle investigate plans proposed by the -Academy of Political Science for mock Republican and Democratic Presidential Conventions in the Spring. They would be conducted in the same manner as the real conventions with student delegates, representatives, and presidential candidates.
Norb Kraft, editor of the Commerce News, a new student publication of the College of Commerce, spoke with the Council about securing a loan to in-W sure future publication of the paper. Financial difficulties which arose un-
expectedly made this request necessary. The loan, after some discussion, was referred to the NFCCS Commerce Chapter for further’ action.
The Student Council planned a meet-
ing with the Blue Circle Dining Hall committee to discuss Dining hall problems, especially the line-crashing episodes that have recently been occurring.—Fred Eckart
RETAILING needs college-trained young people like YOU
as FUTURE EXECUTIVES
Retailing is a dynamic profession. It offers as many career possibilities as there are personal aptitudes: interesting positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching. One-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience—with pay—in top New York stores. Program for Bachelor’s degree candidates and non-degree students also.
REQUEST BULLETIN C-52
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY School of Retailing
100 Washington Square	New York 3, N. Y.
Join the fun at the many Arthur Murray Student parties. Here’s your chance to dance with the experts and learn the latest steps at very little cost.
Now's the time to learn to dance and save...
Don’t wait another day to enroll at Arthur Murray’s. Special anniversary rates are in effect and extra special parties are planned, too. And, learning is quicker and easier at Arthur Murray’s with his wonderful ."First Step To Popularity” method. So hurry, hurry—come in now.

AT ARTHUR MURRAY’S
WERE
CELEBRARNO OUR
38*AMWERMRf
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
CALL 2-3339 — For Your Appointment NOW
120 E. WAYNE ST. SPECIAL — STUDENT DISCOUNT'
February 8, 1952
------------------------------------------------------ By Bill Riley
A topic which, I suppose, has come up every few years for student discussion is again becoming talked about among the great unwashed. The question is whether or not Notre Dame should institute the honor system.
Now, in the first place, it seems to me that you don’t institute an honor system. The sentiment, or desire for such a method of regulating examinations must be there to start with, in the grass roots, so to speak. If the desire is not there, to talk about an honor system is merely to stir up air currents. It is a waste of time in meaningless speculation. If the desire is present, there is room for discussion as to whether or not such a system will work.
No one, I think, would quarrel with the idea of an honor system, as to the desirability of its end. It is certainly much more fitting for students in a university to conduct themselves in an honest way out of their own volition in an examination than to police them so tightly that they will be afraid to cheat.
A Proctor Is An Admission
The very presence of -a proctor in an examination is a tacit admission by those in authority that there will be some members of the class being examined who may cheat. This, while a reasonable assumption, is not too happy a. one for an institution that is supposed to be devoted to learning for its own sake, and where, it is not unreasonable to assume, Christian character has developed into somewhere near full-quota completion.
Proponents of an honor system begin by asserting, almost bellicosely, that 'fit works at Virginia.” Or Stanford. To which opponents of said system reply that it didn’t work too well at West Point a semester or so ago, much to the detriment of the class of football played in Michie Stadium. Or, perhaps, it didn’t work until too late.
However, these arguments are largely extraneous to the problem at hand, which is whether or not it will work at Notre Dame.
What Do You Mean by Honor?
There are, I think, two main difficulties which would keep it from work
ing effectively here. The first and more immediate could be called the difficulty of the studential conception of honor.
Most of those who propose an honor system, I get the feeling, envision it working in a sort of moral Utopia, as if, immediately following its inception, all cheating would cease. Unfortunately, it almost certainly would not. Paul Gallico, a great columnist, once wrote in a book on sport that in every group of 100 men there will be “one liar, one grafter, and one cheat.” Give or take a few, this is probably true. In a crowd of 5,000, anyone who isn’t v'earing his rosy-tinted specs would agree.
A Young Man Needs An 85
So, we have, in a test in Dynamics, or Shakespeare, or Ethics, under our newly-founded honor system, a young man who does not know the matter, but needs an 85 to pass the course. He kicks open his book with his right foot to page 163 and starts copying. (He’s got very good eyes.) There is nobody in the room except other students, intent on passing sans outside aid. One notices this young man. Is he going to hustle down to the east wing of the Main B. and put the finger on his buddy? Mebbe so, but you’ve got a doubter here. There is too strong an idea of loyalty within the student hotly, which acts as a cohesive force against any and all outsiders. Maybe policing has caused that force to exist. What-ever the cause, it does exist. And it is a real problem to be faced.
The second difficulty is more basic, but perhaps less readily apparent.
An honor system would work without flaw in a university which was devoted to knowledge for its own sake. A test in such a university would merely be a convenient means for. a student to measure his own depth and breadth of knowledge in a particular course. His grade would serve as a good way for him to tell how well he was doing, no more.
A University Realistically Viewed
Under the present set-up, a university is much more than that. Realistically viewed, it is, among other things,
a training-ground for business and the professions, a means of deferring army service, and a place where a season ticket to some excellent athletic competitions can be had for nothing more than the price of the tuition. Since it is all these things, it becomes, after a while, a place at which most who are in attendance would like to stay. Some of these are of such material that the only way that they can retain their status as students (in the wider sense of the word) is to cheat. This has happened to most over a period of four years. If you don’t believe that, ask anyone who has ever proctored an exam.
A Sufficiently Strong Sense of Honor?
At any rate, because of all these, and other measures, a test has become something that has to be passed. Whether a concept of honor is suffi-ciently strong to be an effective counter-pressure that will overbalance the scales is, at this time and to my mind, a moot question. I am however, more than willing to be convinced. Do I hear any convincers?
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
I HEALTH SPOT !
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
20%
DISCOUNT on Cleaning and Pressing to N. D. men. Expert Shirt Laundering RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON ON THE BUS LINE
34
The Scholastic
HOW MANY TIMES A DAY
DO YOU INHALE?
[ 50? ] [lOO?} f2OO?]
IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT ANSWER IS OVER 200!
Yes, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING Philip Morris!

Poking

PROVED definitely milder . . .
PROVED definitely less irritating than any other leading brand .. .
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow ... you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
s PHILIP MORRIS
R AMERIC
AT
SMOJCe^l^^HANGING JO CHESTERFIELD!'
selling ci
because of
MILDNESS plus
- Copyright 1952, Uggett & MvrR5 Tctwcco Co.
No Unpleasant After-Taste*
* FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
... AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT!
famous RESTAURANT; that Chesterfield is our largest

irood,	BARBARA’H^
fields __	FIRST TIA®