Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.	No. 2.
Vacation.
’Twas only friendship, and became affection, A pleasant, calm, Platonic kind.
Some pretty verses and some dim connection Between the workings of each mighty mind.
And then reproaches: when some cherished letters Were duly trusted to the post.
The mutual sorrow o’er those tender fetters Being regret that cancelled stamps have cost.
Marion Muir.
A Summer Tour Among the Rocky Mountains.
. Denver, Colorado, August 14, 1883.
Editors “ Scholastic ”:
A large party of Professors and students from Notre Dame have, during vacation, been touring through the Rocky Mountains and the far West. They report a very pleasant time, and everywhere they go they say they find one or more of the old students of Notre Dame, many of whom have made themselves a local name and fame among the magnates of the Great West.
. Among the excursionists are Rev. Father Zahm, Rev. D. A. Clarke, editor of The Catholic Columbian,—the latter going West in quest of health, impaired by arduous parochial duties united to those of editor of a weekly paper. Albert F. Zahm,. A. B., and several other students are of the party. In Denver we met Prof. A. C. Unsworth, A. M.,.who preceded the party by several days, having gone to Colorado to look after some mining interests that promised a good return for labor and capital. Mining, however, is very uncertain in result—very much like a lottery; many of those who had been engaged in it for years are now turning their attention to stock raising, which yields a large and steady profit. A man may delve for fifteen or twenty years in the mines, and at the end of that time be as poor as when he struck the first blow as a prospector,—while, all the time, and on every side of him, men who began as poor as himself are drawing fortunes in golden ore from their claims. Ex-Senator Tabor and hundreds of others, once poor men, but now millionaires, are examples. Whole trains are daily loaded with rich gold and silver ore, which is carried
o	7
to the immense smelting furnaces in Denver and Salt Lake City, whence it is shipped East in bullion. Gilpin County, although the smallest in area of all the counties of Colorado,'is at present the greatest gold country in the world, but many other places in the State now begin to give promise of equally good results. From 1858 to 1883 the little ’ county of Gilpin produced $36,500,000 worth of the precious metals, and to-day is seemingly as rich as when the pioneer first sunk his pick into her gold-lined hills. S.ome of the true fissure gold veins of Gilpin County have been worked to the depth of 1000 and 1500 feet below the surface, and are richer now than when first opened.
Professor Unsworth says his party hasn’t struck a bonanza yet; if they do so in the future he avers he will be agreeably disappointed; he clings to his’ philosophy too much to base any large hopes on mining, but there’s no telling what may come. I understand that Prof. J. F. Smith, formerly a pupil . of Gregori’s at Notre Dame, is also interested in mining speculations, although confining his attention chiefly to his professional duties in Denver. He has been for the last three years engaged as Professor of Drawing and Painting in the Brinker Institute, in this city’’, and has also a large special class, including many teachers, taking lessons in his studio. The best portraits in the Art Gallery of the great Exposition here are from his easel. One of his pupils, Mrs. Ella Corbin, also shows some very good work in painting as well as busts in plaster from the living figure, whose truthfulness of contour and excellent finish show fine talent.
Rev. Father Zahm and Albert are at present making an extensive tour of Colorado, New and Old Mexico, Arizona, California, etc., chiefly in scientific interests—Father Zahm being desirous of studying the customs and archaeology of the Accoma and Zuni Indians, and, when opportunity offers, gathering materials for a cabinet of minerals and museum of curiosities, to replace those lost in the conflagration of 1879.
Before starting south, Father Zahm and Albert spent several weeks visiting the Rocky Mountain summer resorts and mineral springs, which are very numerous in Colorado. The natural scenery at these places and along the various railroad routes is very fine—in many places not being surpassed by the grandest views in Switzerland and Wales. Some wonderful feats of engineering have been performed on the railways. The Alpine Tunnel,
iS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
on the South Park railroad, is 11,500 feet above the level of the sea,—the highest railroad tunnel in the world. At Kenosha Hill—sixty-nine miles from Denver, on the Union Pacific road—the train winds round the mountain on a grade averaging 1 s8 feet to the mile. As the ascent is making, the passengers look down 200, 300, and finally nearly 1,000 feet below, at the bottom of the gorge. At an elevation of 10,200 feet—very near the timber line—the summit is gained. In some places on the South Park road a hundred mountain peaks are visible, each over 13,000 feet in height, and the extent of vision is said to be fully 150 miles. In the construction of a part of this road ordinary methods of engineering had to be abandoned, resort being had to measurements by triangulation and stadia chairs. From the summits of cliffs 1,000 feet high men were lowered by means of ropes tied about their bodies, and so held until they could drill holes in the perpendicular granite walls, place pins in the holes and boards upon the pins, thus making a platform for the workmen. Bracket work was then attached to the sides of the wall, on which the track was laid, and over this the passenger trains now travel. Imagine yourself on one of these trains, looking down a distance of 2,000 feet!
Colorado is truly a wonderful country, and, young as it is in the ken of the white man, it is surprising that there yet remain hundreds and hundreds of miles of fertile Government land unoccupied. In addition to its wealth in mineral products of all kinds—iron, coal, gold, silver, copper, lead, etc.,—rthere can be no question that in many respects the Centennial State possesses the finest climate in the world. The extremes of temperature shown by the thermometor here have no meaning whatever as we understand the measurement of heat and cold in the East. Foi' instance, when the thermometor here shows 120 degrees in the sun, the heat is equivalent to 90 or 160 in the East; on the other hand, when 30 deg. below zero is registered the cold is not felt half so keenly as in the East at 10 deg. below zero. During the warmest days of summer, sun strokes are never heard of in Denver or elsewhere in Colorado.
Towns and cities spring up here as if by magic. Twenty-four years ago, Denver, which now has a population of 70,000, consisted of. two or three log cabins, which at the suggestion of an enthusiastic frontiersman who wished to “start a town,” - was called Auraria. The place was afterwards named after Gov. Denver, of Kansas. Leadville gives another, instance of extraordinary growth. In three months after the first log hut was built it had a population of more than 3,000 people, with a mayor, city council, police force, and public buildings for the city government and transaction of civil business. In 1870 Leadville had a population of only 100 persons; now there are in the neighborhood of 30,000 souls within the city limits.	-
All parts of Colorado, and especially the springs, are visited by people from various parts of the United States, in great number, in quest of health.
Pulmonary, asthmatic, and miasmatic diseases are treated with wonderful success. For consumptives the climate is particularly beneficial, and asthmatics are greatly relieved; rheumatism, neuralgia, catarrh and nervous diseases, however, become worse 4 in 7 this high and dry temperature. Up among the mountains, 8,000 feet and more above the level of the sea, are numerous fertile and verdant parks where large herds of cattle may be found grazing. In winter, however, watch has to be kept for the bears, mountain lions and coyotes, which, often coming down from the mountains in search of food, attack and devour the cattle. Large hogs and horned cattle generally show fight, and often succeed in beating off their adversaries. A good dog will attack a mountain lion and make him take to his heels. Not long ago a young lady of my acquaintance, sister to a priest ministering in one of the mining-districts, heard a plaintive cry, and notwithstanding the admonitions of the rest of the party persisted in going in quest of the suffering person from whom she supposed it came; but on reaching the place she found to her horror that it was a mountain lion. Turning her horse’s head, she gave him the whip, and was soon back to the party. While wandering alone through the mountains, one fine morning, unarmed, I heard in the distance, above me, the roar of a bear, repeated once or twice, and I felt exceedingly uncomfortable. I afterward heard of some hunters having tracked a bear in the neighborhood a day or two before, but they failed to get a shot at him. Unless wounded or very hungry, the bear will run from a man, especially if no signs of fear are shown by the latter. Deer and elk are killed in great numbers during the winter months, and venison .in abundance is found upon every table.
Trout-fishing in the mountain streams is a favorite pastime in summer. Capt.,Lindsey made arrangements for a party at Troutdale, in the Bear Creek Canon, during vacation, and a pleasant time was’ had. The streams were swollen and murky from the recent rains, and the trout scarce, but plenty of other amusements were not wanting. One of the Notre Dame party has written a description of Troutdale and the Bear Creek Canon for the Rocky Mountain News, of Denver, in which he took occasion to refer at some length to the enigma of the wooded mountain-sides and treeless plains of Denver. The article has been extensively read, and excited much favorable comment in scientific and social circles in Denver. At the Brinker Institute, where distinguished graduates from Yale, Princeton, and other of the Eastern colleges are gathered, all agreed unanimously with the theory of the Notre Dame writer, namely, that the absence of trees from the plains east of Denver was originally owing to prairie fires, and not the result of climate or soil. Viator.
It is said that the value of the idols manufactured and exported by England to. the, Indian and African trade exceeds that of,-th$Bibles,.tracts, and hymn-books, exported by her to, those countries,.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
19
A Home Vision.
’Twas noon in the forest, the bright sun was beaming, ’Neath the shade of the foliage I lay down, to rest;
I slumbered, and quickly anon I was dreaming
Of dear ones at home I had loved and caressed. --
I saw my .old father ’neath the arbor reclining, His locks were all silvered, his form bent with years; His spirit -was cheerful, in him no repining, And at his kind raze I restrained not mv tears.
-	O	•/	-
In his arms he clasped me, his heart overflowing With joy at the sight of his offspring once more;— How quickly his love set my cold heart a-glowing! For love I had known not, tossed round the world’s shore.
In the neat little garden my mother was weeding;
Her looks were much changed by the passage of time, And'nothing around but her plants was she heeding— Her pinks and carnations, her sage and her thyme.
How softly she smiled—ah, that smile so endearing! How sweetly she kissed me, as she oft did of yore!
How kindly she spoke with her soft voice so cheering!— “Ah! mother,” I cried, “I am happy once more!”
“ But where is my brother I loved ever dearly, And where is my sister so blithesome and gay? ”
“ Ah! son,” said my mother, in a voice not so cheerily, “ They are gone to that land where there always shines day.”
A dark cloud of sorrow seemed then to surround me, My heart was most sad in the depth of its woe;
. For death, cruel death, of my loved ones had.’reft me, And left me to mourn in this cold world below.
“ Ah! mother, dear mother, how sad is this meeting! The loved ones are gone, I shall see them no more Till the trumpet of doom to my ears sends its greeting, And then I shall see them on Heaven’s bright shore.
“From my father and you never more shall I sever, I ’ll cherish both fondly in your winter of life: Be happy, in future from you I shall never Depart to engage in the world’s weary strife.”
■I awoke from my slumbers; how transient the pleasure! Nor father, nor mother, nor human was near’— Alas! I was dreaming, and all my fond treasure Had fled, and the wild, spreading forest was here.
.	J. McC. ’
The Kremlin—Moscow.
The most striking feature of the city-of Moscow is presented in the Kremlin, a collection of structures, interesting, not alone to the inhabitants of Russia, but also to the civilized world, as being the place usually chosen for the ceremony of the coronation of the monarch of “ all the Russias.” As its name indicates, the Kremlin is a citadel, and, intended to serve as a means of defense, it was in former, times surrounded by deep moats. Now, it is seen to be an enclosure girdled by high walls, each of the many and irregular corners of which is flanked by massive and stately towers. Its erection is co
temporary with that of the city itself, dating, as it does, from the middle of the twelfth century. In the begrinning, when Moscow was but a mere village, the Kremlin was nothing more than a wooden palisade, encircling the homes of the Moscorts; 20 years,later—about,1160 or 1170—Andrew, grandson of Wladimir Monomachus, the prince of Kiew, built in the midst of these frail dwellings a stone church, and placed therein a miraculous image, the portrait of the Blessed Virgin, painted by St. Luke. In the middle of the thirteenth century, the nascent city was sacked and burned by the Mongols, but soon after was rebuilt on a much’ larger scale. An anchoret’s cabin was transformed into a fine church, and on either bank of the river numerous convents sprang into existence.
Under the administration of Jouri III, Moscow became the capital of a principality, and, as the years rolled by, extended its limits north and south. Ivan Danclovitsch erected two new churches, and caused strong oaken walls to be built around the city—these latter were torn down by his grandson Demetrius, and replaced by walls of brick. Towards the end of the fourteenth century, when a disastrous plague and several .wars had completed their work of devastation, the city of Moscow occupied both sides of the river, and included within its limits a number of churches and monasteries.
In these churches and monasteries, together with the fortress of the Kremlin proper, we have before us the cradle of Moscow and the resttme of its complete history, placed, as it were, between the sword, the inspirer of terror, and objects of religion, commanding respect and reverence. In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the city suffered greatly from the inroads of the Lithuanians; but, though devastated and ruined for the third time, it sprang up, phcenix-like, from its ruins under the reign of rhe ambitious and haughty Ivan Vas-silievitsch, who enriched it with the spoils of No-vogorod, enlarged its boundaries, and- built the towers of the Kremlin. His successors carried on with zeal and ardor the work he had so well begun, and under the reign of Ivan the Terrible, Moscow occupied already an immense extent of territory.	■
The Kremlin, which at one time was the city proper, still remains its central point, and around it, with a radius of about a mile, is a line of boule vards. Outside of this line, and concentric with it, is another line of boulevards, with a radius of a mile and a half; while beyond all, and forming the girdle of the city’-, is the outer rampart, with a circumference of twenty-six miles. It overlooks the whole city. Its tower of Ivan Viliki, with its gilded dome rising up amid the other, towers which surround it, its thickly-placed ramparts and embattlements, seem still ready to defend as of yore, the resting-place of the Czars and the sane-' tuary of the patriarchs. Within the walls' there is presented to the view a motley collection of edifices, whose architecture denotes the transition from various periods, and buildings of every description. There may be seen cathedrals, chapels, palaces, all in one confused jumble, whose existence "
20	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is traced to the pious thought of some sovereigns and built in accordance with the capricious taste of some artist. This melange of religious and profane architecture^ ancient or byzantine in style, this collection of sharp-pointed spires and rounded domes—all this variety of tints and colors, facades, belfrys, etc., produce a strange, inexplicable effect, presenting at the same moment to the astonished beholder, the attraction of an arabesque and the awe-inspiring aspect of a monument consecrated by time and noble memories.
The Kremlin comprises the principal buildings of the city, first among which is the Cathedral of the Assumption, founded in 1326, a small but gorgeously-decorated edifice. It was the first church built of stone in Moscow. Its nave is dark and narrow, and the vault is supported by four enormous pillars, which occupy almost the one-third of the interior. The pillars, walls and vault are covered with paintings in fresco, representing in gigantic forms, with purple mantles and golden aureoles, figures of Apostles and saints. What is called the iconostasis—that is, the barrier which separates the sanctuary from the rest of the church and which extends to the vaulted ceiling above—reminds one of those fabulous walls of which eastern poets have sung—a wall of vermillion covered with images elegantly carved and resplendent with precious stones.
Near by is the Church of St. Michael the Archangel, which is surmounted by five domes, and enriched with a magnificent iconostasis and several relics of great fame. It contains the tombs of all the Czars down to the time of Peter the Great, who changed the royal burial-place to St. Petersburg. Next is the Church of the Annunciation, the floor of which is paved with jaspers, agates and carnelians of various shapes, presenting at the same time figures of the Apostles and martyrs, together with some of the famous Greek philosophers. This latter feature might perhaps be construed into a demonstration of rare religious toleration. A few steps further, on the side of the quarter called the Kitaigorod, may be seen what is certainly the most curious and astonishing building in existence—a church with two stories and made up of twenty chapels, with sixteen towers unequal as to size and beauty—one is at a loss to determine which is the main entrance or where the altar and nave begin and end. It was built in A. D. 1554, to commemorate the taking of the city of Kasan, by Ivan IV, surnamed the Terrible. It is said of this prince, that he was greatly astonished when he beheld the church completed, and wished that it should be the only one of its kind in existence. To this end he ordered that the architect’s eyes should be plucked out. Two eyes more or less in his principality mattered little to him, and he was now sure of having within his domain a church, singular at least in this respect, that the most irregular buildings of Moscow would appear marvels of beauty in comparison with this collection of cones, bulbs and excrescences.
The ramparts of the Kremlin enclose the palaces and treasures of the Czars. Of the former, the most
interesting to the visitor is the “Red Palace”— wherein may be seen all the crowns of the different countries subjugated by Russia. - There are shown also the globes, sceptres and thrones of the Czars; the robes worn but once by the Emperor, on the day of his coronation; all the presents made to ancient Czars by the chiefs and princes whom they conquered; the large golden vessels on which are placed the bread and salt which the people offer to their Sovereign each time he deigns to visit them: in a word, all the insignia of monarchy herein displayed reveal the whole history of the Russian Empire.
Along-side of the palace of the Czars, which the present emperor has reconstructed in more magnificent proportions, is the “ Palace of the Patriarchs,” a dark, harrow edifice, in which are found preserved numbers, of mitres, golden croziers, vestments decorated with pearls and rubies—all of which the monks take great pride in exhibiting. There may be also found the Library of the Synod, containing exclusively works in the Greek and Slavonic languages; among which is an exquisite and rare MS. of Homer.
But the chief object of interest in the Kremlin is the famous Mammoth bell called “ Czar Kol-kol” (King of Bells). It no longer lies half buried in the ground, but has been raised on a high pedestal of granite through the skilful work of a French engineer. The dimensions of this great bell are well known; it is twenty-two feet high and more than twenty-two in diameter. The Kremlin communicates with the city by five immense gates, which are adorned with images and decorated with heroic and sacred legends.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—-Jenny Lind, at 60 years, has lost her upper notes, but sings with her old-time fervor.
—Mr. George Simonds, of London, is at work on a marble bust of Ralph Waldo Emerson. '
—The Russian composer Tschaikowsky has just completed a new opera, “Mazeppa,” which is to be produced next season at St. Petersburg.
—Berlioz’s opera “ Benvenuto Cellini ” was produced for the first time at Leipzig on the 3d inst. The part of Cellini was sung by Herr Schott. This work was enthusiastically received.
—In the National Gallery in the City of Mexico there are original paintings of Leonardo da Vinci, Zurbaran, Murillo, Rubens, Correggio, Velasquez, Carreno, and good pictures of the Florentine and Flemish schools.
—The new concert-hall at Leipzig, which is to replace the celebrated Gewandhaus, is now almost completed. The fagade is adorned with statues of Beethoven and Mozart, who have also given their names to the adjoining streets.
—Ari odd book has appeared in England. It contains diagrams of the palms arid backs of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hands of twenty-two eminent persons, among whom are Mr. Gladstone, Charles Darwin, Wilkie Collins and the Duke of Argyle. '
—The statue of Henrik Conscience, the most celebrated of Flemish authors, which has been erected before the new library at Antwerp, his native town, has been unveiled in presence of the members of the family of Conscience. An address was delivered by Jan Van Beers, himself a Flemish author of much repute.
—Mr. George MacGregor, of Glasgow, who has already won more than a local, reputation for his writings on antiquarian subjects, has now in the press an edition of the collected writings of Dougal Graham, known in the last century as «the skellet bell-man of Glasgow,” and acknowledged to be the most popular writer of Scottish chap-books.
—Mr. Edwin Arnold, it is announced, has nearly ready another Indian poem composed of five idyls from the Sanskrit of the “ Mahabharata,” as follows: “Saritri; or, Love and Death,” “Nara and Damayanti,” « The Enchanted Lake,” “ The Saint’s Temptation,” and “TheBirth of Death.” A new illustrated edition of the author’s “ Light of Asia ” will be issued at the same time.
—The illustrious pianist, Abbe Franz Liszt, is at present at Weimar, not only enjoying excellent health, but, considering his years, displaying extraordinary activity and love of work. He is occupied with the completion of a great oratorio, “ St. Stanislaus,” at which he has been working for several years. Among smaller productions which he has lately published are a third “ Mephisto Waltz,” a second and a third “ Valse Oublide,” etc.
—W. Dindorf, the elder and abler of the two celebrated brothers who have done so much for Greek literature, has at last passed away, at the age of eighty-one. It is fifty-three years since he brought out his first book, and a full list of his works since that time would be long. Of course, all the vast amount of editing he performed was not, and could not be, done with equal care; but it may certainly be said that he deserved well of all the students of Greek.
—An elegant edition of his Holiness’s poems is published by the Protectory printing-office at Udine. His Holiness has given the privilege of printing his poetical works to this charitable establishment. This first edition is judged a very pretty book by the Milanese press. A second edition has been issued, not so elegant, that can be had from the same Typografia, del Patronato, Udine, for $2; This second edition is sold for the benefit of the Catholic, poor schools of Rome.
—The Munich antiquary, Herr Karl Fr. Meyer, found recently in the library of the former Carthusian monastery at Buxheim a volume which had evidently been bound in the monastery itself. The first and last leaves were pieces of a parchment manuscript, which has no connection with the contents of the volume, and had unfortunately been cut down to suit its size. Examination showed that they contained about four hundred lines of an
old German poem, “Kong Rother,” of which only one other manuscript copy exists, so far as is known, at the Heidelberg Library. This Buxheim fragment, which Herr Meyer believes to belong to the .close of the thirteenth century, varies considerably from the Heidelberg manuscript. .
—Millard Millmore, the sculptor who died recently in Boston, was an Irishman by birth, but came to Boston with his widowed mother and four elder brothers in 1851, when he was eight years of age. He graduated at the Brimmer School, and soon after, in i860, entered the studio of Mr. Thomas Ball. His advance in art was very rapid. The chief works which have given him his reputation are cabinet busts of Longfellow, Sumner, Edwin Booth; the granite statues of Ceres, Flora and Ponoma that adorn the front of Horticultural Hall, Boston; portrait busts of Sumner, Wendell Phillips, Henry Wilson, George S. Boutwell, Emerson, Pope Pius IX, Cardinal McCloskey, General Grant, Longfellow, General McClellan; the colossal figure of the Sphinx in the Mount Auburn Cemetery; the Soldiers’ Monument on Boston Common. He left in the clay a bust of Daniel Webster, ordered by the State of New Hampshire.
—A Mr. Shapira, of Jerusalem, a bookseller and dealer in antiquities, has deposited in the British Mus,eum fifteen slips of black sheepskin leather on which are written, in characters similar to those on the celebrated Moabite stone, portions of the Book of Deuteronomy differing materially from the received version. The date of the slips is the ninth century before Christ, or sixteen centuries older than any authentic manuscript of any part of the Old Testament. Mr. Shapira bought them from an Arab, and he asks for them $5,000,000 from the British Museum. M. Clermont Gauneau, commissioned by the French Minister of Public Instruction to examine these MS., pronounces them to be cleverly-concocted forgeries. It was he who discovered and established the apocryphal character of the Moabite pottery sold by Mr Shapira to the German Government some ten years ago. The result of the labors of Dr. Ginsbury, who is now engaged on these MS., is anxiously awaited.
Books and Periodicals.
—St. Nicholas for September presents a number of bright and interesting articles, among which are “ Little'Py ramus andThisbe,” by Louisa M. Al cott; “Tom, Dick and Harry in Florida,” by Mr. Daniel Beard. The “ Work and Play ” department contains the first half of a profusely illustrated-article on “ The Playthings and Amusements of an Old-Fashioned Boy,” who lived when boys had to make their own toys or go without. Sarah Ome Jewitt, Aunt Fanny, and Celia Thaxter contribute each a poem, and there are, in addition to the usual quota of stories, sketches, and verses, illustrations by Sandham, Blum, Reinhart, Champney, Birch,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Culmer Barnes, Rose Mueller, Jessie McDermott, AV. H. Drake, De Cost Smith, and many others.
—The Catholic World for September opens with a criticism by Mr. R. H. .Clarke on the new edition of “ Bancroft’s History of the United States,” which, as it is the “ author’s last revision,” might be supposed to be the most perfect. But Mr. Clarke points out many and important defects. .In the present number, he takes issue with the historian upon his neglect of the subject of the discovery of America by the Northmen. The Rev. J. De Concilio contributes an article entitled “ Thought is Free,” which is a concise, philosophical refutation of one of our present popular fallacies. That “thought is bound by the law of evidence ” is a truth that admits of no controversy; yet the infidel cry of “ Freedom of opinion ” shows how blind is reason when left to its own bent, and to what absurdities it leads. An interesting sketch of the late Very Rev. Thomas N. Burke, O. P., is ‘given by Prof. J. N. Kavanagh. And among the other articles are “ Sundayism in England,” “John Calvin,”uEn Route to the Yosemite,” “The Wedding at Conneroe,” “Skeeling Michel,” and the continuation of Christian Reid’s interesting story of “ Armine.”
—Unusual variety and range in.illustrations and reading-matter and an out-of-door quality befitting the season are the distinctive qualities of the September Century. A fine portrait of Robert Burns is the frontispiece. It is after-a daguerreotype owned by Mr. Edmund C. Stedman, and made from a miniature which belonged to the sister of Burns. In the same number is a delightful account of “A Burns’ Pilgrimage,” by H. H., who relates several anecdotes freshly gleaned in the poet’s country. Among the illustrated papers are: “ Cape Cod,” by F. Mitchell; “ Indian War in the Colonies,” by Dr. Edward Eggleston; Lieutenant Schwatka’s account of “A Musk-Ox Hunt,” and Roger Riordan’s “Ornamental Forms in Nature.” “Topics of the Time” treats of “The Temperance OutLook,” “The Reticence of American Politicians,” and “ College-bred Statesman.” Among a variety of interesting subjects discussed in “ Open Letters,” besides Mr. Bunner’s letter, mentioned above, are “ The- Massachusetts Experiment in Education,” by Charles Barnard; “A Romantic Career” (that of Dr. Francis Lieber), by President Gilman, of John Hopkins University; and the new scheme for “ Standard Railway Time,” by the inventor of the proposed system, W. F. Allen, editor of the “ Official Railway Guide.” .
—The North American Reviezv for September contains a number of interesting and, timely articles,, chief among which is the contribution;of the Rev. Dr. D.- S. Phelan, editor of the Western Watchman^ on the subject, “ Limitations of Freethinking.” That Free Thought is, and al ways will be; a misnomer^ is a truth that now, more than ever, needs a forcible presentation. In these day sj when the air around us is reverberating with cries of “ Liberty of opinion,” the. “ self-supremacy of reason ” and the .verbiage of Ingersoll, when Protestantism,
grasping at a last plank, is making its concessions—as if it had any to make—to “ the liberal spirit of the age,” we are glad to see the subject put forth in its true light in a journal, where we have reason to hope it will not fail to meet the eyes of those immediately concerned. The paper on “State Regulation of Corporate Profits” is by ' Chief-Justice T. M.' Cooley, of Michigan, who shows how far, by wise legislation and by applying in the spirit of enlightened jurisprudence the principles of the common law, the harrowing exactions of corporate companies and monopolies in general may be restrained and the interests of the . people effectually conserved. John A. Kasson, M. C., writes on “Municipal Reform,” and offers suggestions for the abatement of the evils of misgovernment in our great municipalities that will command the earnest interest of all good citizens without respect to party. Richard Grant- White treats of ; “ Class Distinctions in the United States,” a subject	(
that is destined to occupy more and more the at-	I
tention of the American people as great fortunes increase. “Shooting at Sight” is the subject of some pertinent reflections by James Jackson, ChiefJustice of the State of Georgia. In “ Facts about the Caucus and the Primary,” George Walton Green unveils the tricks practised by political managers
in large cities. The well-known English essayist,	|
W. H. Mallock, contributes “ Conversations with a Solitary,” in which he sets forth with much ingenuity the arguments adverse to popular government. Finally, Grant Allen, the most charming of all living writers on natural history, discourses on “An American Wil£< Flower.” Published at .
30 Lafayette Place, New York, and for sale by booksellers generally.	~
College Gossip.
—Three ladies, have, after examination, become members of the Faculty of Paris.
—Professor Painter, of Roanoke College, Virginia, joins Charles Francis. Adams, Jr., in the crusade against Greek and Latin.
—An International Congress for the discussion ■	( o
of the best means of educating the deaf and dumb
is to be held at Brussels next year. . ,
—The Athenazum says: “The success of the performances of the ‘Ajax’ at Cambridge have been so great that the ‘Birds’ of Aristophanes will be produced in next October term.”
----The Rev. Dr. J. A. Lippincott^ Professor of Mathematics in" Dickinson. College^ has accepted	।
the Chancellorship of the" University of Kansas,	H
which was recently offered to him. • ’
.—There were fifty candidates: for the medical degrees of the College of Physicians of Dublin, the other day, of whom two were girls. One of these, a daughter of the late Dr. Kenealy, excelled all other competitors. ’ J- ' J
—Professor Gilbert, of the Catholic University of Louvain, has been awarded the grand diploma of/honor,'the highest distinction allowed at the -Amsterdam Exhibition, for his “Barogyroscope,”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*3
ah ingenious instrument fbr supplying the rhechari-i'cal proofs of the rotation of the earth.
>	—Mr. Charles Dudley Warner is busily pre-
paring a series of lectures bn literature, to be delivered before the senior clas§ of Princeton College. It is a part of the plan of Princeton to in,	vite specialists in every department of knowledge
to supplement the regular courses of instruction.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Wigger, Bishop of Newark, is making strenuous efforts to raise $50,000 by subscriptions from among the wealthy Catholics of his diocese, for the purpose of reducing the debt on Seton Hall College, and meeting the expense of recent necessary expenditures. We hope that the appeal will call forth generous responses. ~	—Next May will be a time of extraordinary re-
joicing at the Catholic University of Louvain, for that institution will celebrate its 50th anniversary, or golden jubilee. Founded in 1834, or rather restored, —for the old University of Duke John, founded in 1425, was suppressed by the French revolutionists, 4th Brumaire, An VI, (October 1797)—the University began with 86 students on ‘its books, now it numbers over 1,600. Vivat, flor eat, crescat!
—The Annual Report of St. Xavier’s College, Shanghai, China, presents a striking feature in the marked diversity of nationalities, as shown by the names of the students. Among them are Chinese, Japanese, Malays, Parsees, Eurasians, Indians, Portuguese, Russians, Irish, Germans, French, English and Americans. In some instances, the juxtaposition of names is curious; for instance, Siao-sin-te and .Henry Hickey, Jeremiah Doyle and Jose de Salva, Benjamin Mitchell and Joseph Ju, '. etc. Our “ Roll of Honor ” certainly shows a great variety as regards the nationalities represented, but St. Xavier’s beats us “ all hollow.”
—The appeal to the Catholic public for aid for Mount St; Mary’s College, the noted seat of learning at Emmettsburg, Maryland, is being generously responded to. The Rev. Dr. Mackey, who has undertaken the work of raising funds, says that the offerings of the churches in Philadelphia, in which collections have been taken up, have exceeded his hopes. The Rev. Dr. Hurtsmann, the ' rector of St. Mary’s, has made an individual gift of $5,000 for the purpose of establishing a free scholarship. The College will for the future educate a certain number of students without charge fbr missionary purposes, chiefly for the dioceses of the South.—Catholic Union and Times.
—President Porter, of Yale, takes issue with Charles Francis Adams, and denies that Greek is '	a “ college fetich ” which modern life requires to
be freed from as speedily as possible. He declares (in the September Princeton Review} that there is a positive need for the study, greater now than formerly. The rush and hurry of our modern activity need the infusion of a calmer spirit and of ’ steadier thoughts. Its rash and eager generaliza-•	tions and its exaggerated statements heed strong
and steady thinkers who were trained in the school of severe definitions and sharp conceptions and .steady and clear-eyed good sense. The extrava-
gant oratory, the sensational declamation, the encumbered poetry, the transcendental philosophy, the romantic fiction, the agnostic atheism, the pessimistic dilettanteism, to which modem speculation and modern science and modern poetry tend, need now and then a “ season of calm weather,” such as a dialogue of Plato, an oration of Demosthenes, a tragedy of Sophocles, or a book of Homer, or at least a letter of Cicero, an ode of Horace, or a Bbok of Virgil to quiet the fevered spirit. *
—Among educational curiosities must be reck?-oned the Wanderschulen, or perambulatory schools, of certain parts of Prussia, especially on the banks of the Piegel, the river of Kbnigsberg. As the habitations of this country are widely scattered, the schoolmaster wanders about from one to the other, staying a week or a fortnight in each. His personal effects and his materials for teaching are carried from village to village on a cart;-and the teacher installs himself in the large apartment which serves as the common room for the family with whom he is lodging. Here he gathers together the children of the neighborhood, whom he teaches under considerable difficulties. The only ventilation of the crowded room is afforded by broken window panes; the singing lesson is mingled with the noises of the poultry and farm animals; whilst the uneven pavement has at least the advantage of affording-to the youthful minds of the pupils, practical ideas of the mountains and valleys of their geography lesson. Often the lessons are interrupted by the necessity of hanging up or stirring the pot-au-feu-) which hangs in the middle of this primitive class-room; whilst sudden inundations of the Piegel sometimes put a stop for weeks to all scholastic pursuits. In recreation time the children are turned out into the farmyard, where they are enabled to amuse themselves by rolling on the dung-heaps or playing with the poultry and pigs. We owe this curious description to Herr Glang, himself a local teacher, who read a paper on the subject at the recent conference of schoolmasters at Kbnigsberg.—London Athenieum^
Nowadays, people are living “too fast,” if we may use that somewhat popular expression. In comparison with what life was, it now is as the steamer to the sailing-vessel, the sewing machine to the seamstress, the rifle to -the bow, the cannon to the catapult, the locomotive to the ox-cart, or the telegraph to the mounted courier. We are burning the candle of life at both ends; and hence the decay so common, as well as the great number of premature deaths. While still comparatively young, thousands become dyspeptic, decrepit, paralyzed—thoroughly broken down; and they and their'families disappear after a few short years or generations, all recorded traces of them decaying and perishing from the earth. How many names prominent in business and public affairs less than a century ago have shared this fate! And such must continue to be the case so .long as existing conditions prevail. Fast living is a great evil, and it is hurrying countless thousands to dis-' ease, debility and death, ,
24
J
THE NOTRE DATE SCHOLASTIC.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seven-teexth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid. ’
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—A very promising scholastic year has just begun. The attendance of students is large—fully up to the expectations of the most sanguine friends of the University. Among them is an unusually large proportion of new students. Many of these are from Mexico and remote parts of the United States. This is a gratifying evidence of how widely known Notre Dame has become. It is likewise an indication of the confidence reposed in it as an Institution of high rank and solid merit by persons who live even beyond the limits of the great Mississippi Valley. This fact is duly appreciated by all friends of the University. But to those more particularly identified with its past and present interests—to those who have watched and labored as it grew up from a humble beginning to the high rank it now holds—there is a source of special gratification in the undoubted assurance of its prosperous present and more than.promising future.
„ *
It is the office of an Alma Mater to seek to be a mother to those who place themselves under her protection and invoke her care? The first thoughts of innocent childhood, the first affections of the young heart, the purest promptings of the happiest years of life, go but spontaneously to the mother and invest her with a halo of the noblest virtues. A.nd well she deserves this exalted appreciation, this devoted attachment. She repays it with care the most unselfish, love the most unalterable, and.' constancy the most touching—constancy that is proof against all vicissitudes, and as lasting as life. The true Alma Mater seeks to regard the mother
as an exemplar. All her pupils are dear to her. She instructs and admonishes them in the light of her wide observation and matured experience. She assures them that the habits they form when young will become interwoven with their lives, entering into the warp and woof of their character. There is not one of them toward whom she is indifferent. Her cordial interest and wholesome care go out to and encircle all; and she finds her greatest pleasure in the success achieved by those whom she sends out into the world crowned with her laurels and attended by her benedictions.
If students be true to themselves, they surely need have no fear that their Alma Mater will be untrue to them. But she can do no more than . place within their reach all that she has and all the advantages that her resources can command. To enter into a corresponding atmosphere of good-will and cordiality, they must accept her counsels, appreciate her advantages and avail themselves of the opportunities she offers. Every student knows that the University, and the Professors, and his fellow-' students naturally feel well-disposed toward him, or at least have no bias whatever against him. He also knows that this spirit of good-will is certain to continue unchanged and unchangeable as long as he acts the part of a gentleman. If he discovers any decrease in manifestations of regard and • respect for himself, he can feel assured that it is he himself who is to blame. While he is courteous, upright and irreproachable in act and word, he cannot fail to command the respect of all. Indeed, this is an important lesson of life. It is as applicable to the intercourse of men in the outside world as it is to life within the college precincts. As a rule, no person who is not naturally near the level of the fool will go out of his way to court feelings of unwarranted dislike against anybody. Gratuitous malice is beneath contempt, and a sensible person cannot afford to feel irritated by it, or even to notice it. Rare as it is ridiculous, it hardly answers the office of “ an exception to the rule.” . Let it pass, without further comment.,
*
Students should appreciate the advantages which a college life affords. Every person who neglects to profit by these, advantages bitterly regrets it afterward. Try as hard as he may in after life, he nevertheless feels that he cannot repair the defects growing out of his negligence. He may say “farewell” to college life, and all its associations, and all its promptings, and all its studies, as soon as he enters into the active life of after years, dealing with its practical questions, battling vyith its stern realities, and suffering its disappointments or enjoying its hopes.- It is very little to his credit to have received a collegiate education, and neverthe- . less to be as ignorant and incapable,as many who have received . comparatively-no education whatever. . The dispassionate observer is inclined to view such a person as having, been wild to the verge of folly, or foolish to the verge of stupidity, during ~his college.days. In these.very practical . times it does not do to say “I have attended col-


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lege.” Natural gifts' and acquired knowledge must undergo far severer tests. Practically, nothing is taken for granted. One mu?t have a good education—an education worthy of a college life well improved—if he would refer to it with pleasure and look for honor in the capacity and acquirements of which it should be a standard and measure. If he is wanting in such an education, diplomas and degrees will avail him but little. He must either retire in humiliation and pass into obscurity or seek to maintain a cheap notoriety by the devious methods or brazen effrontery of the quack and the mountebank. The tests of practical life almost invariably expose the counterfeit in education, as well as in morals and character.
In view of these facts, it is impossible to urge too warmly the.wisdom of profiting by the advantages attainable during college life. And such advantages are now offered in plenitude to the students of Notre Dame. The hours for study, recitation, recreation, etc., are so arranged as to afford for active work all the time concomitant with proper sanitary regulations. The food is substantial and wholesome. The ventilation is good. Cleanliness prevails everywhere. The first law of nature, of health, of business, of effective work— regularity—finds response in the whole’order of discipline. Students can here study day by day and week by week without special. intermission. The rules, the incentives, and the whole atmosphere of the University, are favorable to study and work. Nowhere can time be better utilized by the industrious. Nowhere can less of it be lost by the indolent. The religious spirit here fostered is not obtrusive, even'though it turns the thoughts , frequently to Him from whom we have life, and health, and everything we possess—the Great Father, whose constant love and indulgent charity embrace the whole world. In all the great colleges and universities of the country religious exercises take place daily, and at Noti’e Dame they are not of a nature that can offer offense to the conscience of any reasonable person.
There is no lack of opportunity at Notre Dame to acquire a thorough education. Such facilities as clearly serve to promote that end have been supplied, and they are available to all. But no more can be done. It is not to be expected that the University can do more than offer to students all that it has and all that its resources can command. Many have heard the saying that, “You may lead a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.” And in the same tenor it may b.e said that you may offer to students opportunities .without number; but if you go any further and endeavor to force them to accept the same, they will J be very likely to remind you That “ this is a free country.” Of course a reasonable man will hardly try to controvert so conclusive an argument as u	that, and he must feel that he. has .no alternative
’	but to let the vis inertice dominate and indolence
take its course. . Opportunities are of no.avail unless they be accepted and-utilized. And this can
■	J,,,,.!1
not be done without.work.' They are as coy as quicksilver to all forces in nature except work, energy and judgment. Only these can grasp, hold and command opportunities. It is better that students should understand now than later that nothing valuable can be acquired without work, supplemented by good judgment. This is the true ‘philosopher’s stone”—more potent in every relation of life than that for which the learned of bygone ages sought so long and patiently. No great achievement was ever wrought without work. No scholar ever rejoiced in the consciousness of erudition without study and labor. Trite but true is.the old saying, “There is no royal road to learning.” More favored is he who has the will to work, -supplemented by the necessary endurance and capacity, than he who, without it, rejoices for a brief period in the fleeting-fame of brilliancy or genius. Buffon, in referring to his own great parts and remarkable labors, states that “ Genius is nothing more nor less than a capacity for hard work.” Prepare, therefore, to profit by the opportunities available. . Reach out and take them with a firm hand—and the bright promise of this scholastic year shall be more than realized in the work and success of the Institution and the substantial progress of- students in their several studies.
Communication.
Notre Dame, September u, 1883.
Dear Mr. Editor :
I trust you will kindly permit me to make a few remarks anent Gregori’s new fresco, in consideration of the fact that I have seldom troubled you with communications, although I have been a constant reader of your excellent paper for more than two years. What I shall say will at least have the merit of brevity, and I will endeavor to express myself in such terms that he who runs may read. As will be seen, the new fresco is rather- the occasion of my remarks than the subject of them.
It speaks well for the taste and culture of the denizens of Notre Dame (as also for the liberal spirit of its venerable Founder and officers in securing the services of so distinguished an artist) that they recognize in Gregori’s paintings the work of a master, while all must honor in the genial Professor himself a man of singular worth. However, there are, perhaps, half a dozen ignorant persons in the neighborhood—and it is their stupidity to which I wish to direct attention, more in the hope of lessening it a little (if this is possible) than because I apprehend any danger of its ever being shared in by-others—who are accustomed to judge of the merit of. everything our artist accomplishes by the amount of time consumed.' This is stupidity, or there is no name for it. In the first place, few, even of those, who know something of Prof. Gregori’s methods of work, have any idea of the amount of labor and pains he bestows on the study of every, picture he paints. I have heard of his spending a
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
whole afternoon of a chilly day in spring trying to get sight of some sheep in a sitting position; he had forgotten just how they look. The mechanical part of his work is for him the least of all. He first ruminates on his subject till it takes form in his mind, then he materializes it on paper. In perfecting a sketch, he may spend days of incessant labor, changing, obliterating, amplifying, as the case may be. A painting, especially one in which two or more figures are to appear, requires study for arrangement, just as a piece of architecture does. It is as senseless, therefore, to judge of the worth of a painting by the amount of time consumed in putting it on the canvas as to estimate the value of architectural plans by the number of workmen that may be required to execute them. In painting his admirable scenes from the life of Columbus, which adorn the main corridor of the University building, Prof. Gregori had to study the great Admiral’s career as narrated by his best biographers, to consult works relating to the Indians in order to secure faithful physiognomy, etc.; and this required more time than the painting of the largest of these pictures. I remember, too, that the Professor sent all the way to Milwaukee for a Franciscan habit, so as to have the figures surrounding Columbus’ death-bed true to life. But enough on this point.	.
My worthy old grandmother used to say, “ Children and fools ought to keep silence except among themselves,” a piece of advice we recommend to the daily remembrance of those for whose benefit we are writing; in fact, they would do well to copy it and paste it in their hats or some place where it would. frequently greet their eyes; it might have the effect, who knows?—the little waves wear away the hardest rocks—of lessening somewhat the colossus of their self-conceit.
When one desires to have a piece of plumbing done he naturally goes to a plumber, and if he be a good workman, it is no surprise to hear him talk intelligently of what concerns his trade; but should the plumber volunteer information on art topics or place an estimate on the art treasures his employer may possess, the latter is naturally amazed at the fellow’s impudence and conceit, and if he can trust himself to speak at all, it is to remind him of the good old adage, «A shoemaker should not go beyond his last.”
ProL Gregori never pretends to be a mason, or a glazier, or a gunsmith, or anything else he is not. In this he shows his common sense; while in setting themselves up as art critics, the individuals to whom I refer betray their lack of it -Gregori will be remembered and his works at Notre Dame will be admired long after the loose tongues of his opponents have ceased to wag. Will not these persons heed a piece of friendly advice, viz., to refrain in future from passing judgment on matters above their capacity and to restrain, themselves from meddling with what does not immediately concern them ? If they would only do this, they will merit when they die the eulogy some negroes once bestowed on a venerable friend of burs— ‘ After all, he was a sensible man?’
Dear Mr. Editor, I have now had my say. If you think my communication will not do harm, that it will be read in the spirit in which it is written, that it will not “ stir up the bears ” too much, all right. The only request I have to make is, to publish it entire, or not at all. Should it be rejected, please put the MS. aside, and some time when I am passing near your office, I will call for it.
Yours very respectfully,
Philip Freelance.
To the Editor of the Scholastic.
Personal.
—Robert Green, of ’65, is cashier in one of the National Banks at Chicagp.
—Frederick W. Green, of ’65, has prospered in the real estate business in Chicago.
—George Crosby, of ’74, is General Agent of the C. B. & Q. Railroad Company in Chicago.
—Lynn Austin has been, during vacation, assisting his father in his extensive business in Denver, Colorado.
—Joseph H. Zimmerman, of ’76, is money-order clerk in the Denver Post-office. Residence, 318 California Street.	.
—Joseph Homan, of ’69, is doing a fine business in silver and silver-plating ware, in Cincinnati, Ohio. He is head of the firm of Homan & Co.
—W. N. Babcock, of ’75, is General Agent of the Chicago & Northwestern Railroad Company in Denver. His office is in the Windsor Hotel building, Larimer and 18th sts.
—M. E. Donohue, ’83, has entered the Ecclesiastical Seminary at Troy, N. Y., where he has begun his theological studies. We all hope for a speedy and successful completion of his labors.
' —A. J. O’Reilly-, ’68, is General Western Agent of “ The Old Reliable ” Hannibal & St. Joseph & C. B. & Q. Railroad Company; office, corner . Larimer and 17th sts.; residence, Windsor Hotel, Denver.	.
’ —Alfred Hellebush, of ’72, is with his father in the jewelry business in the Pike Opera House building, Cincinnati. They have one of the most extensive houses in their line of business in the United States.	.
—A pleasant call at the house of Dr. J. B. Ber-teling, ’8bj in Cincinnati, Ohio, at once left ah unmistakable impression that the Dr. is in the midst of a press of business. Dr. Berteling is still full of the thoughts of days “ lang syne ” at Notre Dame, and says he will surely be here at the .next Commencement.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, visited the College last Friday, for the first time since his return from Europe. The Bishop is in good health and spirits, and relates many an interesting reminiscence of his Eastern tour. His Lordship leaves to-day for Chicago, to take part in the ceremonies attendant upon the consecration of. Bishop-elect Riordan, of San Francisco, Cal.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Among the visitors to the College during the past week were Joseph A. Kelly, of ’63, James Taylor, of ’57, John R. Lambin, of ’80, E. W. Robinson, of ’76, Ferdinand E. Kuhn, ’83, James H. Ward, Chicago; Charles F. Muhler, ’52, Fort Wayne; Mrs. M. A. Stace, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. W. H. Cole, and Mrs. Captain Lindsey, Denver, Col.; Mrs. Amoretti, Wyoming; the Misses Vion, Papin, Taylor, Mamie and Grace Papin, St. Louis.	‘
—Rev. John P. Quinn, of jg, was ordained priest by Bishop Spalding, at Peoria, Ill., on the 6th inst., and celebrated his first Mass at his home in Danville, on Sunday, Sept. 9th. The sermon on the occasion was preached by Rev. J. J. Quinn, ’78, brother of the celebrant, whose ordination it was our pleasing duty to chronicle in these columns a few months ago. Father' Quinn’s many friends at Notre Dame rejoice at his elevation, and wish him many years of usefulness in the sacred; ministry.
—The Hon. P. T. Barry, of Englewood, Ill., visited Notre Dame last week. He was accompanied by his daughter Mabel, who returned to St. Mary’s Academy to resume her studies. Mr. Barry is recognized as one of the most active, enterprising and public-spirited citizens of Englewood. Some years ago he served in the Legislature with great credit, and he is well known throughout the State. In fact, he has thousands of friends and business patrons in nearly all parts of the country, and all of them know how to appreciate his generous traits and manly qualities.	.
. Local Items.
X	-----
—The glorious 350!
—We are all here, and more coming.
—A grand revival of the “ cause” is on the tapis.
—The Collegiate and Law Courses are unusually full.	.
—“ The Knights of St. Edward” are numerous o
but select.
—;We are obliged to Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., for kind favors.
—What do von think of our sign in the office? Look at it!
' —The fresco over the Minims’ Hall is a perfect bijou of art.
—Write for the Scholastic. Oiir box is still in the same place.
. —The Vice-President of the St. Ce.cilians is strong and weighty., ..	.	- -
—The classes have been organized and are now ' in good working order.	,
—A fine addition has been made to the Thespian dramatic wardrobe.
—A new complimentary phrase now heard is, “ You are quite electric.”
.—Two fine roo'ms have been made in the printing-office for the use of ye editors.
-—The St. Cecilians were t he first to organize with the Philopatrians a good second. .	‘
—Nearly one thousand volumes have been' added to the Library during the vacation. •
—The delegation from the great South-West was one'of unusually large proportions.
—Work on the New Science Hall is being pushed forward with great vigor and activity.
—The Minims are greatly excited. Only 18 more and the centennial Parisian dinner is secured!
—The “Roll of Honor” appears this week. “ Class Honors ” will be published two weeks hence.
—The Euglossians have been greatly reinforced and have entered upon their career with renewed vigor.
—The Rules were read to the students on Wednesday, and commented upon by- Rev. President Walsh.	.
—Our astrologer is busy with the globes. No ,doubt preparing his predictions, for the coming Annual.
—One of the figures over the Minims’ Hall, it is said, will exemplify an ancient proverb: Fiat ■ justitia^ ruat caelum.	.
—The Directors of the Junior Reading-rooms are under obligations to Mr. Ernest Kitz, of Indianapolis, for kind donations. '	,
—A previous study of elocution for eight months is one of the conditions required for admission to the Euglossian Association.	'
—The report of the meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, which was held on the nth, will appear in our next. '
—The Senior Study-Hall “Faculty ” will apologize to the young gentleman who was locked in, if he will only make himself known.
—The Class of ’84 have the third flat almost entirely to themselves. What a splendid opportunity to engage in literary pursuits! We know it will -be profited by. ‘	-
—Prof. Gregofi has completed his fresco on the front of the Minims’ Hall. As might be expected from the maestro?s fame, it is a fine work of art. We hope to present a critique in a future number.
—The first sociable of the season was held in the Juniors’ reception-rooms last Wednesday evening. Solos on the piano, violin and zither, were rendered by Prof. Paul, Bro. Anselm and Master Adolph Pleschke; and altogether, a very pleasant time was had.
—The “Princes” return their sincere thanks to Very Rev. Father General for the elegant manner in which he has furnished the Palace. There is not a room in the building in which some object does not remind them of the generosity and affection of their noble patron.
—Four fine paintings on galvanized iron have been placed over the Minims’ Hall. . They represent figures typical of Purity, Justice, Honor and Religion; and greatly enhance the beautiful appearance of the building. It is intended to have similar paintings—but in greater number—placed on the College buildings.
o	o _	.	.
—Among recent gifts to the Cabinet of Curiosi-
28	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ties is a beautiful floral basket filled with roses, fuscias and other flowers, all made of tiny sea shells and scales of fishes. This valuable gift was artistically arranged by Miss Katie McCarthy, of San Francisco, Cal., and kindly presented by her to Bro. Chrysostom for the Cabinet of Curiosities.
—The other day, our friend John saw two buffaloes in the yard, and, as inight be supposed, was greatly dismayed at the sight. However, as the animals were quiet and were enclosed in a cage, he plucked up a little courage and undertook to inspect them more closely. As he approached, it gradually dawned upon him that the buffaloes weie—the new duplex fire-pump!
—The exterior work on the Dome is now completed, and everything is in readiness for the reception of the statue of Our Lady. We understand that the great work of removing the statue from its present position and raising it to its place on the summit of the Dome will be begun next week. Mr. Staples, of South Bend, of stand-pipe fame, will undertake the task, and, we have no doubt, will accomplish it speedily and successfully.
—/The Lemonnier Boat Club reorganized for the present session on last Wednesday evening. Fathers Walsh and Toohey were re-elected as Director and President respectively. The active officers were all elected by acclamation and are as follows: Commodore, Frank Gallagher; Recording Secretary, J. A. McIntyre; Corresponding Secretary, T. E. Steele; Treasurer, Chas. A. Tinley; Captains, C. A. Tinley and J. A. McIntyre.
—The special trains run on the L. S. & M. S. and Cincinnati, Wabash & Michigan R. R., Goshen route, are a great accommodation to those coming to the University from Cincinnati and intermediate points. Persons leaving Cincinnati in the morning, by this route, arrive here at 7 p. m., and vice - versa—making only twelve hours on route. Many persons at the College are indebted to Mr. Owen Ripe, Gen’l Ticket Agent, Elkhart, Indiana, for favors received.
—Last Thursday morning, the ex-juniors engaged the present Junior nine in a game of ball on the latter’s Campus. The game was well played and exciting throughout, and, at the end of five innings, was won by the ex-juniors by a score of 12 to 8. The battery for the victors was composed of Gibert and Warren, who frequently changed their positions during the game, each pitching and catching. Howard and Devine were the Juniors’ battery. . .	_	. .
—Yesterday, the 14th, was the 43d anniversary of the arrival of Very Rev. Father General Sorin, and celebration of his first Mass, in America. It was a day of rejoicing and felicitation among the Community and students, but, as usual, the most demonstrative observance of the occasion was that
• of the young “Princes.” At ten o’clock they were assembled in the hall of the “ Palace” where they received their venerable Patron. An address of congratulation was presented, to which Father General feelingly replied. .	.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held September qth. The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; J. F. Edwards, LL. M., Honorary President; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; G. Seegers, 1st Vice-President; F. Curtis, 2d Vice-President; C. Cavaroc, Secretary; B. Rothschild, Corresponding Secretary; J. Dwenger, Treasurer; J. R. Devereux, 1st Censor; J. Rhodus, 2d Censor; J. McGordon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
—The Junior Class defeated the “Upper Ten” Club, of the College in a game of ball, last Thursday morning. Loose playing caused the latter’s defeat. Positions were changed by them at times during the game which tended much to defeat them by a score of 12 to 11 in five innings. Three batteries were used by each club. The decisions ■ of the umpire at times occasioned much comment. •Though beaten this time, the “ Upper Ten ” are confident of victories in the future. They have adopted this motto: “ We die, but never surrender.” \
—The 1st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Monday, Sept. 10th. The following are the officers for the present session: Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General C. S. C., Perpetual Honorary Director; Rev. T. " E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, LL. M., Honorary President; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Pro- i moter; Profs. A. J. Stace, A. M., C. E., and W.J. Hoynes, A. M., LL. M., General Critics; Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the Orpheonic Branch; D. G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President; C. F. Porter, 2d Vice-President; J. Fendrich, Recording Secretary; W. Mug, Treasurer; W. Mahon, Historian; J. Courtney, Corresponding Secretary; G. Schaeffer, 1st Monitor; F. Dexter, 2d Monitor; F.~ Hagenbarth, 1st Censor; W.J. Schott, 2d Censor and Organist; E. Gerlach, Librarian; J. McDonell, ■ Sergeant-at-Arms; H. Foote, Marshal; J. Smith, 1 st Property Manager.
—The formal reopening of the scholastic year very fittingly took place on the Feast of the Nativity ofg the Blessed Virgin, with the solemn celebration of the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. Rev. Vice-President Toohey officiated as celebrant, assisted by Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Fitte as deacon and subdeacon. Mr. M. Regan, C. S. C., acted as master of ceremonies. The choir rendered a Gregorian Mass in their usual efficient manner. After the Gospel, the Rev. President Walsh delivered an eloquent and "effective address to the J students. Appropriately, the subject of his dis- , course was—Education, and the duties incumbent upon the young in pursuit of the same. It was pointed out that true education should have the three’ essential elements of being at the same time mental, moral and physical, and that here at Notre Dame opportunities would be afforded of acquiring . such a training. The address was listened to with deep attention, and, we are sure, produced a lasting impression.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
29
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.] .
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Anchando, J. A. Ancheta, J. Burke, V. Burke, J. Bani-gan, W. Bowers, J. Burns, G. Brosseau, W. Barron, A. Buchanan, T. Becerra, J. Bates, W. H. Bailey, J. Burke, J. Conway, P. Carbajal, L. Cond, R. Callan, T. Cass, W. Cartier, Jno. Cusack, Jas. Cusack, S. Crawford, J. Creel, A. Celia, F. Delgado, j. De Groot, G. De Wolf, J. Donohue, G. De Haven, S. Dickerson, M. Dolan, N. Ewing, W. Fogerty, C. Foster, D. Gonser, W. Gandrup, L. Gibert, P. J. Goulding, A. Gonzales, J. Guthrie, J. Geizer, T. O. Gutierrez, W. W. Gray, F.' Gallagher, J. A., Hyde, G. W. Henderson, P. Howard, W. Hoffstetter, J. Hafner, L. Hopkins, W. Johnson, A. Jones, C. C. Kolars, C. Kerndt, G. Kimmel, C. Kaufman, W. Lasley, F. S. Lucas, G. Meyer, G. Moross, G. McErlaine, W. McCarthy, W. Mahon, J. J. McCabe, T. McKinnery, L. Mathers, E. B. Mason, R. Marquez, J. Neeson, R. Neuman, Edward O’Brien, Geo. O’Brien, Eugene O’Brien, W. O’Connell, E. Ott, G. F. O’Kane, J. Riley, M. O’Dea, F..T. O’Rourke, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, L. Pour, H. Porter, J. E. Rudge, R. Ryan, J. Shea, C. M. Stull, F. Stover, H. Steis, J. Spangler, B. Scholfield, M. Sykes, J. F. Shields, O. Spencer, T. Steele, D. Saviers, H. Turnock, C. A. Tinley, F. Uranga, J. Uranga, W. Veale, Chas. Warner, J. D. Willson, W. Whalen, J. Wagoner, P. Warren, J. Warner.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Aikins, E. Arkins, L. Anchando, B. Arnold, A. Adler, S. Barons, W. Borgschulze, W. Berthelet, C. Cavaroc, J. E. Chaves, G. E. Costigan, J. S. Courtney, M. Clarke, T. Cleary, G. Cartier, F. Curtis, R. Divine, J. Devine, J. Dorenberg, F. Dexter, F. Diederich, A- Eisenhauer, F. Fehr, J. Fitzgerald, J. Garrity. J. Grunsfeld, F. Grothaus, E. Gerlach, E. Gimbel, S. N. Holman, G. Huestis, W. Hemisbaugh, J. Halligan, J. H. Hopkins, F. Hagenbarth, E. Howard, B. Henry*, A. Howard, F. Jensch, P. Johnson, T. King, G. Louis, J. Letcher, M. Loscher, P. Louis, A. W. Miller, C. Muehler, A. Meyers, M. B. Mulkern, P. Mullane, G. Moye, F. Matias, J. Monschein, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, T. McGill, C. Mason, G. Menig, S. O’Brien, J. O’Donnell, C. Porter, E. Porter, P. Barela, A. Pleschke, C. Regan, B. Rothschild E. Ryan, F. Rogers, J. Rhodus, H. H. Sedberry, W. J. Schott, G. Schaeffer, E. Schmauss, M. Scheuerman, L. Scheuerman, J. Shea, J. Stumer, D. Taydor, W. Mahon, J. Talbot, G. Tarrant, E. Uranga, J. Violette, W. Wright, F. Weber, S. Waixel, J. Weiler, H. Warner, W. Wabraushek, P. Wagoner, C. Whitman.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Amoretti, Ackerman, Adams, Boos, Bunker, Butterfield, Brown, Crawford, Curtis, Crotty, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, Dirksmeyer, Delaplane, Devine, Devereux, Drown, Dungan, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Garrity, Gonzales, Grunsfeld, Henry, Kraus, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Keefe, Landen-wich, Lowenstein, Lowis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey*, Lare, Loya, Morrison, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Morgan, McGill, Moye, McPhee, McVeigh, Meehan, McGuire, Noonan, Nusbaum, Otis, O’Connor, M. O’Kane, R. Papin, V. Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlan, Quiggle, Rebori, Rhuderhouser, Studebaker, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, L. Scherrer, Stange, Spencer, Steele, Stewart, Schmitz, Schqneman, Smith, Sokup, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, Le Tourette, West, Welch, Wright, L. Young, C. Young, C. Jones.
For the Dome.
— Schmitz, Chicago.......................$10.00
James R. Reilly, Savannah, Ga............  5.00
Wm. Wabrauschek.......:................... 5-oo
Mr. Smith............................     •	5°°
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University. .
—On the last day of August, Miss Mary Campbell, Graduate of the Conservatory of Music, Class ’83, left for her new home in Jamestown, Dakota.
—James Ward, Esq., and Mrs. Agatha St. Clair Ward, Class ’76, of Chicago, left St. Mary’s on Friday. Mrs. Ward has placed her two sisters at * the Academy.
J
—The classes were organized on the day announced in the Catalogue, and now, in passing through the Academy halls, one can scarcely realize that the two months’ vacation have elapsed, so naturally has everything fallen into the accustomed order.	"*'	‘
—On Saturday, the Festival of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the scholastic year was formally opened by the celebration of Solemn High Mass. At the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament in the afternoon, Very Rev. Father General gave an appropriate instruction.
—The “Roll of Honor” and “Class Honors” will be published next week. On the 1st Tablet will appear the names of pupils whose conduct and deportment have been irreproachable. On the 2d Tablet the names of those less perfect in observance of rules, etc., but who have riot forfeited their good notes. On the list of “ Class Honors ” only those names will be mentioned whose average in classes for the week have not been below 90, 100 being perfect. Let us see everyone’s name.
—On Friday- morning, Hon. E. W. Keightley and Mrs. Mary Mitchel Keightley, of Constantine, Mich., made a welcome call. Mrs. Keightley was . a pupil of the days when the present Academy buildings were not in existence. The last year she passed at St. Mary’s, however, was that memorable! one, the precursor of the present, when the beautiful statue of Our Lady was first erected above the dome of the old University of Notre Dame, and the most distinguished ecclesiastics and laymen of the Union were our guests.
’ —Among the numerous visitors and friends of the Institution, pupils of former days have been welcomed at the Academy, and others have evinced their devotion to their Alma Mater by sending or bringing new pupils to secure an education where theirs had been acquired. Among them we will name Mrs. Wykler, of Chicago, who was among the boarders of St. Mary’s when it was first established. She brings her daughter; Miss Eleanor McEwen, a pupil of the scholastic year of 1874, brings her younger sister, and Mrs. Minnie Cravens Hoyt, U. S. A., Class of ’77, sends substantial proof of her appreciation in the person of Miss Jackson, who came under the protection of her accomplished mother, Mrs. Jackson, U. S. A., from Cheyenne, Wyoming Ter,
—Among other visitors'we name Miss Teresa Killelea, Ottawa, Ill., Class ’81; Miss Sarah Hanbury, Coldwater, Mich., Class ’82; and Miss Anna
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ryan, Lockport,, Ill., Class ’83; Miss Amelia Mullhall, a former pupil, and her sister, from St. Louis; Miss Catharine Kelly, Joliet, Ill., a pupil of i860; Miss Lizzie Kirkham, of Niles; Mrs. G. Cummings and Mrs. L. Scott, of Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Regan, Indola, Texas; Mrs. M. B., Morrison, Clarksville, Texas; Mr. J. R. Reilly, Savannah, Ga.; Mr. A. J. Keilly, Denver; Mrs. Filipe Chaves, Belen, N. M.; Mr. Keating, Council Bluffs; Miss Fannie Goldman, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Mrs. Platt, Niles, Mich.; Col. W. L. Crawford, Dallas, Texas; Justice Scully, Chicago; Mr. J. Dungan, Lima, Ohio; Mr. P. Sheridan, Ft. Howard, Wis.; Mr. A. Bruhn, Texarkana, Texas; Mr. H. C. Dodge, Elkhart, Iowa; Mr. J. Cass, St. Mary’s, Kansas; Mr. J. R. McCarthy, Lafayette; Mrs. Capt. Lindsey, Denver, Col.; Signor Perfecto Armijo, Albuquerque, N. M.; Mrs. Robt. Morrison, Chicago; Mrs. Dr. Priestman, Neponset, Ill.; Mr. S. F. Hale, Bunker Hill, Ill.; Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Chicago, III.
“Joan of Arc.”*
“ Shalt show us how divine a thing A woman can be made.”
In the history of Joan of Arc, it is not the first time we see the weak things of earth chosen to confound the strong. We may suppose that it was most humbling to the serpent to have God say to^him, “ And her seed shall crush thy head.”
Standing out in bold relief amidst the warriors of old, we find the names of Judith and Deborah, beings divinely appointed the deliverers of their people. In the case of Joan of Arc, a simple peasant girl lays aside her spindle and her shepherd’s crook, and presents herself fearlessly before that shadow of royalty, Charles VII, declaring her divine mission. She rouses the patriotism of the warriors, who think it no disgrace to follow the white plume of this valiant maiden to battle. But let us glance at the early life of Joan. About the beginning of the 15th century, when anarchy and war were making their ravages in the fairest countries of the Old World, Joan of Arc was born in the village of Domremy. Her early years were marked by simplicity, gentleness, industry and piety. The simplicity of her character, was beautifully.displayed by the zest with which she entered into the village sports. Between the -flowerins- banks of the Meuse and the sombre forests of oak grew a beech tree of remarkable beauty, called the “Tree of the Fairies,” for it was supposed that fairies' had danced under it in olden times. Every spring the simple villagers assembled under its friendly shade, on Latare Sunday. The youths and maidens of the village made a picnic of the occasion,. singing, dancing, and wearing garlands of flowers, which they hung on the branches of the beautiful tree. Joan came with the rest, though often in the midst of the dance she would steal away to a little neighboring
* Essay read before St. Theresa’s Literary Society.
chapel, and hang her garlands of spring flowers on the statue of Our Lady. Gentleness must have been a prominent trait of our fair heroine’s character, for history testifies that the tiny warblers of the forest would alight on her hand and pick the crumbs therefrom. Ever possessing a noble and generous heart, more ready to suffer an injury than to inflict one, is it to be wondered at that the gentle shepherdess felt indignant at the insults to which her king, her country, nay, even the inhabitants of her native village were at times subjected? Though desirous to redress these evils, Joan did not spend her time in idle dreams, but assisted her mother in spinning and other household duties, visited the sick, and carefully attended her father’s flock. During her early life she attained proficiency in equestrianship, by riding her father’s horses to water. Joan’s fidelity to present duties admirably fitted her for the arduous task to which she was divinely appointed.
The union of tenderness, modesty and piety in a woman demands our highest respect, but when to these beautiful traits are added valor and a strong determination to overcome all obstacles met with in the pursuance of right, then admiration becomes blended with the deepest respect.
France at this time had entered upon the darkest portion of her history. Besides being enervated bv internal feuds, she was engaged in war with one of the strongest European powers.
England, having added Burgundy to her former French possessions, was closely besieging the city of Orleans, and the subjugation of France seemed inevitable.
At this critical moment assistance came from a most unexpected quarter. A young girl appeared in Vaucouleur and declared to Capt. Baudricourt that she was divinely appointed to deliver France and crown her king at Rheims. At first her de-mands were treated with contempt, but, on persevering, she at last obtained permission to appear before Charles.
This young girl was Joan of Arc. Having undergone several tests as to her supernatural character, all were satisfied that her mission was divine, and the king placed her in command of his troops. She immediately wrote a letter to the English General, requesting him in a peremptory manner “to give up the keys of all the fair cities he had taken and defiled, and trudge out of France as fast as possible.”
As she sent the message she herself rode forward with the army the king had given her, and came to the city of Orleans like a brave queen.
- The English were defeated in three well-directed attacks, compelled to raise the siege ’ and" retreat. Several of their officers were 'taken prisoners. Thus France saw with joy the partial fulfilment of the Maid’s declarations, and anxiously awaited new results.
Joan then hastened the king’s departure for Rheims, where he was solemnly crowned by the Bishop of that city. Joan, who had knelt by his side during the. ceremony, now fell at his feet, declared her mission fulfilled, and begged to .take
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
leave of the army and resume the simple duties of her home life. How clearly do we see that her mission was supernatural 1 She looked for no earthly reward; she asked for no honors. ' ’ '
Undoubtedly, her mission ended here; but yielding to the entreaties of Charles, she still retained her position as commander.
During the siege of Compiegne, in a sally against the Burgundians, she was made prisoner by John of Luxemburg, the Burgundian commander. F rom this time until her death life was a torture. The English, to gratify their revenge for the many losses they sustained through her valor, condemned her under a charge of various pretended crimes, and caused her to be burned at the stake. The execution took place on the 31st of May, 1431.
When dying, she prophesied many things for France, which were afterwards fulfilled. The ingratitude with which Charles VII requited the services of the Maid of Orleans, must forever remain a blot on the history of France. He did not even show the justice of a king to a subject, as he refused to be present at Joan’s trial.
He offered no ransom for her release, and throughout acted towards the poor girl in a weak and contemptible manner. Let cynics rail if they will at our heroine, but all impartial historians must admit that Joan is a noble example of true womanhood.
In the capacity of shepherdess, by her assiduous attention to the duties of her sphere she affords an excellent model for poor peasants, and by her persevering energy and undaunted courage she shows us—“ how divine a thing a woman can be made.”
G.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
AND SCHOOL OF
DBA WING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic and Classical glades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the 11 gular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice-
Esthetics and Composition —A larue Musical Library in French. German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Hat mony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING. PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on. the great Art Schools of. Europe,drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Erne Arts in English. French, German. Italian, ami Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or iu the Art Department.	,	.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	'
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Class of 1862.
JAMES M. HO WAJRD^ Attorney at Lazu^
Valparaiso, Indiana.
E. F. ARNOLD, (class of
W. H. LANDVOIGT-
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys-at-Law,
131 C STREET, SOUTH EAST,
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Special attention given to claims and practice before the Departments.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAPTHATTHE
CHICAGO,ROCK ISLAND APACIFICR’I Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the west by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kan. sas City, Council Blufis, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman's Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News. Chattanooga, Atlanta. Augusta, Nashville, LouiaviUe, Lexington, Cincinnati. Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
AU Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pres. * Gen'l M'g’r, Gea'l Tkt. * Pass. Agt. .
CHICAGO.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE mnSBSIH OF XOTRE DzlMB, a'D.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of '	CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty ot the Institution.
In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.	-
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address	____



Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.

Michigan Central Railway


On and after Sunday, May 27, 18S3, trains will South Bend, as follows: *
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25
leave
Main p.m.;
Buffalo, 8.00 p-m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p'.m.;- Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.65 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line .arrives at Toledo,’540 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m. .
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago, 6.10 a.m. .
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m.
Chicago, 8.20 a.m.	.
7.40 a.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, S.20 a.m. Chicago, 1040 a.m.
‘ 1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4-35 P-m- Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m.	‘	-
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend..	.
L W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
*	A.~ G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
. JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleve’and.
Time Table-Nov. 1«. 187$)
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles		 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33p.m 3 45 “ £48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 pm. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 p m 11	so *• 12	48 a m 2 28 “ 3SO 5 00 “	’ 8 00 “ 	 .aRrast
	•Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--"■ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City- Ar. Chicago		7 CO a. m 10 20 41 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 3<> “ 6 50 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	950 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 530 “ 8 00 “	1 15 ““ Wl 4 55 “ 730 u WB®
IViles and Sovitli Bend Division

♦GOING SOUTH.
~ *GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 70 p.m. Lv. Niles—.
“ N. Dame—8 52 “	6 15
Ar. Niles—	9.25 “	715
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.
O. W..Ruggles, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Kuaorr, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
H. B. Ledyard, Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mich.
______ •	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame—7 40 “	448 .“
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	455 “