THE CAMPUS SHOP
FOR MEN'S FINE SWEATERS
9.95
upward
You’ll find a big selection in pure wool and wool blends . . . slipovers and button or zippered cardigans . . . solid colors and bold patterns ... light or bulky knits . . . V-necks, crew-necks . . . they’re all here. See them soon.
^SILBERrS
vQ^ampug^hop^)
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
1/3	1/3	1/3
IN JUNE	IN JULY IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Need a new tux for the holidays ahead? Whatever you need, get it when you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Whether you need new clothes for yourself or want to do your Christmas shopping, the Campus Shop is always ready to serve you . . . with a good selection . . . and your charge account is always open. Come in soon.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
3
SELF-DEFENSE, OF SORTS: Ordinarily, we are not so sensitive as some j about our “public image,” but the remarks made by co-captains Roy and | Buoniconti at last week’s pep rally go too far beyond being off-hand barbs | to be ignored. To hear these men tell it, the Scholastic has been waging a deliberate, systematic campaign to undermine the student body’s support of the team. Indeed, the tone of the denunciations was somehow reminiscent of the ancient Hebrew ceremony of driving out the scapegoat laden with the sins of the tribe.
The Notre Dame
We realize that, in the full heat of pep-rally excitement, a calm and reasoned approach is probably too much to expect; however, we do think that those who have merited such public honor have an obligation to weigh their public utterances a bit more carefully than did the team co-captains last week.
	Vol. 103	No. 7 November 10,1961
The charges made were simply untrue. The Scholastic has done nothing more than report the unfortunate truth that we lost some games and that the level of play has not always appeared consistent with the team’s ability, and attempt to propose possible reasons for this. The charge that the team has been attacked “week after week” is ridiculous. We have given football very extensive coverage. Each week we have had a major article based solely around comments on the current Irish performance by some member of the team itself.
Founded 1867
But we do not think that to support properly the University’s football team it should be necessary to withhold the truth, to predict an unbeaten season when no knowledgeable person could reasonably expect it of the team, or to ignore the causes of our grid reversals and write off everything as “bad luck.”
Finally, it seems pointless to hold a pep rally if student spirit is to be directed elsewhere than against the opposing team.
CRITIC’S CHOICE: We wish to congratulate the Student-Faculty Film Society for their excellent choice of motion pictures to be shown during the year by Cinema ’62. It indicates the establishment of a new and more valid criterion in the matter of judging film entertainment: the artistic quality of the picture itself, rather than its conformity to some artificial structure of questionable relevance. At the same time it represents a move further away from the oversimplification of every situation by a directive ex machina which once was the characteristic attitude in such cases. A further example of a movement against the former “blanket ethic” is seen in the showing so-called “objectionable-inpart” movies on campus, if there is artistic justification for so doing. This is evidence of more than merely an attitude of concession on the part of the administration; it indicates a willingness to approach the problem raised by a work of art with something other than a casuistical textbook in hand____________to view them as valid expressions of human experience which must be faced rather than fled. It is one of the most encouraging aspects of the “new regime” that we have seen.
SUGGESTION: Perhaps in connection with the large scale revisions of administrative policy going on this year, a few minor ones might also be considered. Chief among these should be an extension of the hours of the Student Center. As the situation exists presently, there is no place on campus where students may gather after ten o’clock (except perhaps the halls themselves__________a not too desirable alternative). Informal meetings of students and student-faculty groups are often held there, and it would be an added convenience if such groups did not have to break up so much earlier than necessary. We note that the library, with a minimum of difficulty, has managed to remain open an hour and a half later than last year. It would seem that the Student Center could I easily follow suit.________________________________________________________|
—W. d Z. |
I
The Scholastic | I
I I
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
news staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey# Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stapp, S<e*e Stuecheh, Don Wharton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E. McGowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Pesto, Mall Cosgrove.
sports editor
WILLIAM CARY, John Bechtold, Bob Chiappinelli< Terry Wolkerstorfer.
spgrts staff—Jim Higgins, Frank Hinchey.
Dove Fuys.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky.
photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Datum.
ad salesmen—George Maguire, Rich Rog9* veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisor
DONALD COSTELLO
On Campus Shulman
(Author of “I TTaa a Teen-age Dwarf","The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
POVERTY CAN BE FUN
It is no disgrace to be poor. It is an er
ror, but it is no disgrace.
So if your purse is empty, do not skulk and brood and hide your head in shame. Stand tall. Admit your poverty. Admit it freely and frankly and all kinds of good things will happen to you. Take, for instance, the case of Blossom Sigafoos.
Blossom, an impecunious freshman at an Eastern girls’ college, was smart as a whip and round as a dumpling, and scarcely a day went by when she didn’t get invited to a party weekend at one of the nearby men’s schools. But Blossom never accepted. She did not have the rail fare; she did not have the clothes. Weekend after weekend, while her classmates went frolicking, Blossom sat alone, saved from utter despair only by her pack of Marlboros, for even an exchequer as slim as Blossom’s can afford the joys of Marlboro—joys far beyond their paltry price: rich, mellow tobaccos, lovingly cured and carefullj’ packed, and an exclusive selectrate filter.
Croesus himself could not buy a better cigarette!
However, Marlboro’s most passionate admirers— among whose number I am paid to count myself — would not claim that Marlboro can entirely replace love and romance, and Blossom grew steadily moroser.
Then one day came a phone call from an intelligent sophomore named Tom O’Shanter at a nearby men’s college. “Blossom,” said Tom, “I want you to come
down next week for the barley festival, and I won’t take no for an answer.”
“No,” said Blossom.
“Foolish girl,” said Tom gently. “I know why you refuse me. It is because you are poor, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” said Blossom.
“I will send you a railroad ticket,” said Tom. “Also a hard-boiled egg in case you get hungry on the train.”
“But I have nothing to wear," said Blossom. .
The makers of filter-tip Marlboro, who bring you this column, are also the makers of non-filter king-size Philip Morris Commanders, who also bring you this column. Have a Commander. Welcome aboard!
Tom replied, “I will send you one suit
of cashmere, two gowns of lace, three
slacks of velvet, four shoes of calf, five socks of nylon, and a partridge in a pear tree.”
“That is most kind,” said Blossom, “but I fear I cannot dance and enjoy myself while back home my poor lame brother Tiny Tim lies abed.”
“Send him to Mayo Brothers and put it on my tab,” said Tom.
“You are terribly decent,” said Blossom, “but I cannot come to your party because all the other girls at the party will be from rich, distinguished families, and my father is but a humble woodcutter.”
“I will buy him Yosemite,” said Tom.
“You have a great heart,” said Blossom. “Hold the phone while I ask our wise and kindly old Dean of Women whether it is proper for me to accept all these gifts.”
She went forthwith and asked the Dean of Women, and the Dean of Women
laid her wise and kindly old hand on Blossom’s cheek and said, “Child, let not false pride rob you of happiness. Accept these gifts from Tom.”
“Oh, bless you, Wise and Kindly,” breathed Blossom,dropping grateful tears into the Dean’s reticule. “I must run and tell Tom.”
“Yes, run, child,” said the Dean, a smile wrinkling her wise and kindly old eyes. “And ask him has he got an older brother.	® i»«i mu sbuim»n
REPERCUSSIONS
FROM THE SOUTH
Editor:
Messers. Joe Baroody and John Kolbe deserve felicitations for their competent discussion of the “New Conservatism . . . ” (Scholastic, October 13). In view of the efforts of many people to “immanentize the eschaton,” it is appropriate that spiritual values receive their due consideration in our efforts to solve the problems of modem society.
In their discussion of “new conservatism,” mention was made of a new book entitled Revolt On The Campus, by M. Stanton Evans, editor of the Indianapolis News. All students, liberal and conservative, should find in it a searching account of the incipient political movements occurring on campuses throughout the country.
William R. Mapother, '60 Charlottesville, Va.
PATRIOTISM
Editor:
In reference to the Patriot of the Year elections, I would like to thank you for your valuable assistance in publicizing this event. The vote this year broke all existing records, both as to ballots cast (818) and percentage turnout. Over 85% of on-campus seniors voted, as did better than 30% of the off-campus seniors. According to the Blue Circle Election Chairman, the off-campus percentage was the highest recorded for any election in recent years. I have no doubt that the space devoted to the elections in the Oct. 27 edition of the Scholastic contributed materially to this success, especially among off-campus seniors.
Several serious criticisms of the elections have circulated among seniors, and I would like to take this opportunity to comment on them. The first, and in a sense most serious, had to do with the accusation that the Nominating Committee was “stacked” in favor of Republican and/or conservative nominees. The nominating committee system has been used for the past three years. In the first two years, this resulted in the nomination of five men associated with the national Republican Party, and only three men in the Democratic party. This year’s nominees included three Republican politicians and two Democrats. Sam Rayburn would have been the third Democrat, but he was removed for reasons which will be explained later. It is my opinion that the Nominating Committee should be complimented for its selection of five (Continued on page 36)
November 10, 1961
5

Pat Weaver, National College Queen
What does this lovely College Queen want in her diamond ring?
Miss Pat Weaver, America’s National College Queen, revealed her feminine taste as well as her practical sense when asked about diamond rings. She selected as her favorite the lovely Artcarved Evening Star—one of Artcarved’s awardwinning designs. Why did she choose it? Because of its breathtaking beauty and guaranteed quality. You see, every Artcarved ring is guaranteed, in writing for all the years to come by America’s most respected ring maker. You buy it with confidence—wear it with pride.
Visit your local Artcarved Jeweler and see why Artcarved diamond rings have been the choice of millions for more than a century. Perhaps you can start hinting for yours now!
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED IN
AMERICA'S LEADING MAGAZINES 'Artcarved' DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
EVENING STAR First choice of America's College Queens
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc^ Dept CP-31 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N.Y. Please send me more facts about diamond rings and "Wedding Guide for Bride and Groom." Also name of nearest (or hometown) Artcarved Jeweler. I am enclosing 10? to cover handling and postage.
Name. _
Address ____
City	County or Zone
State	_________
youR HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $	60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet................ $	30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO
NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311 AMkerfnd Artcarved tmo
6
The Scholastic
GLANCES
Some of you may have wondered how the Main Building got that way. Charlie Bowen told us April 17, 1959, his story is retold in “a sentimental column.”
The “Paul Revere four,” a quartet of Republican Congressmen will speak here next week . . . page 11.
Sometime in the nebulous future, Notre Dame will have a new FM station . . . page 12.
For a report on theatrical experiments, see . . . page 13.
There’s more on that business of the “Twist,” lavishly illustrated, in Art Graham’s column . . . page 14.
The Glee Club is about to begin its series of concerts; learn about it on ... page 15.
Right-hand man of the late Dr. Dooley was John Kimm. If you’ve never heard about him see... page 16.
Here’s something about the Germano String Quartet . . . page 17.
If you’re looking for something to do, check “In Town and Around,” along with the bridgeman’s “Kibitzer’s Korner” . . . page 19.
A dash of whimsey, a jigger of wisdom; everybody’s favorite Religious Bulletin is viewed in an historical perspective . . . page 20.
The Sophomore Cotillion in living black and white . . . page 22.
Chess, that fabulous new parlor game that’s taking the country by storm, has a column to itself... page 24.
In the good old days of 1905 — what happened at our place? It’s on ... page 26.
Preview of the Pitt encounter tomorrow . . . page 31.
This week’s voice from the gridiron is that of Gerry Gray . . . page 32.
And “As We See It” on page 33.
Two angry young scientists, Tom Schwartzbauer and A. G. Hermida, reply to the “Forum” of a fortnight ago, bearing the standard of science into battle.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer. College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC, is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
COVER: “Cocktail Party" in form and color is the theme of today’s cover. The effect of light airy colors and simple shapes blend in an attempt to capture the feeling of cocktail party — the first ND stage play of the 1961-’62 season.
—TOM HANSEN
IN WATCHES IT'S
Bold, bright styling. Famed accuracy.
A Hamilton has the look and the feel and dependability of a leader. It’s one mark of distinction you can wear all the time, not just on special occasions. At Hamilton Jewelers everywhere.
Accumatic A-600, Self-winding $85 Stephanie $69.50
November 10, 1961
7
Cats are notoriously silent in their singularly feline way. But even the most stealthily treading tomcat could take lessons from the men at Ford Motor Company whose job it is to track down and suppress unwanted noise in vehicles.
At our Ford Research and Engineering Center in Dearborn, engineers have created a unique room without echoes, virtually duplicating the perfect stillness that exists miles above the earth's surface.
The “Silent Room", as we call it, is a chamber utilizing fiber-glass wedges as sonic "blotters" to soak up noise emanating from subjects undergoing developmental tests. In this acoustically sterile environment, electronic instruments seek out the source of vibrations, rattles, rumbles and squeaks so that they can be eliminated in production.	-
This scientific approach to silence is but a tiny facet of the manysided program of pure and applied research which goes on daily at Ford Motor Company. It is another example of Ford’s leadership through scientific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR TH I AMERICAN ROAD • TH I FARM • INDUSTRY • ANO THS ACi OF SPACt
8
The Scholastic
A Sentimental Column
by CHARLES BOWEN
Mr. Bascomb is the University Custodian of Custom and Tradition.
A few golden hours spent in his cozy office and listening to tales of the glory that was and is Notre Dame is enough to restore the pride and dignity of any man; to make him walk tall and proud in the sun; to make his back straight, his eyes bright, his chest deep, his coat glossy, and his nose cold and wet.
Mr. Bascomb is a kindly little old gentleman with white hair, twinkling eyes behind rimless spectacles, and a habit of prefacing everything he says to you with “Well, shonny —” which serves to heighten his already strong resemblance to Walter Brennan. His office is furnished with comfortable
leather furniture, walnut paneling, a little statue of Fr. Sorin, and over the fireplace one of the University’s 427 oil portraits of Knute Rockne. The walls are lined with many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore, all bound in blue and gold leather. Of course there is an outer office and a secretary with the omnipresent electric typewriter, but she seems part of another world altogether. And actually she is. Mr. Bascomb has in recent years turned over one-half of his duties, those dealing with the production of new traditions, to his secretary, a bright young lady named Miss Ichabod, and has himself concentrated exclusively on the rich past.
You must have seen Miss Ichabod’s work. She’s very efficient. Suppose Fr. Cumberback is disturbed because he discovers a footprint in the peat moss of his tulip bed as he is setting bulbs one afternoon. One brief phone
November 10, 1961
call is all it takes, and within a day or two at most the following bulletin is contributing to the campus-wide thumbtack shortage:
Notice: It is traditional for Notre Dame Men to express their reverence for living things by staying on the sidewalks and not stomping on the grass or traipsing through flower beds, especially the one immediately north of the front entrance of Pang-bom Hall. This tradition will be effective immediately.
But however fascinating this work is, and in spite of its obvious importance to the University, it is in the inner office of our kindly Custodian of Custom and Tradition that the real treasures of spirit are to be garnered.
An afternoon visit, for instance, might include tea with dear, sweet, 104-year-old Fr. Wimple, who came here in 1861 as a minim and has never left the University grounds since that time. He can spin out endless fascinating stories about men that are just awesome names to us today, and his reminiscences of Fr. Sorin are lumps of pure gold, dropped in a pond of pleasantness and placidity, to ripple there at will as the shadows in the room slowly lengthen and the pile of scones disappears from the teacart. But you see I am allowing myself to become subjective and gushy.
Anyway, I visited Mr. Bascomb just the other day and our talk was even more interesting and inspiring than usual, so I thought I would pass along the story he told me. I can’t hope to duplicate his inimitable narrative style, but that’s all right, because he made the scene so present to me that I can
easily see it as a drama. In that form I am presenting it, and I hope to have it produced as a pageant sometime before I graduate (which may well be a distinct possibility).
(Our scene is our beloved campus, “somewhere north of Vincennes,” on a balmy morning in 1879. A motley horde of amateur and professional stonemasons, bricklayers, carpenters, priests, brothers, students, etc., are swarming over a vast and shapeless mass of piled bricks which gives promise of someday becoming the Main Building. Supervising the construction are Fathers Sorin, Corby, and Dillon.)
Corby: Well, what do you think of it, Father?
Sorin: Bah.
Dillon: Well, we’re sorry, but we’re doing the best we can.
Sorin: Oh, I know. Eet ees not your fault. We should have known better zan to start out weezout an architect. But oh! Quel miserable!
Corby: You’ve been working pretty hard, you know, Father.
Sorin: I know. Nevair mind zat. (aside) But ze breakfasts zey serve here! Agh! Le morte yellow again zis morning! Ees no wonder I feel lousy. Pfui!
Dillon (to Corby): Say, Father, doesn’t the left wing look a little off-balance? I don’t think they’ll ever meet the right at that rate.
Corby: I was wondering myself. Isn’t Brother Innocentius supposed to be watching from the front to take care of that?
Dillon: Yes, but ever since he broke his glasses he’s been having trouble lining things up. We’d better put in another turret over on the left there to even things up.
(They are interrupted by an excited professor who rushes up to exclaim): Fathers! Fathers! The back wall just fell off and the class of ’81 is buried alive!
Sorin: Everyw’ere I turn — Incompetence!
Corby: Well, we ought to have enough marble left over for a small memorial. Save as many bricks as you can.
(Exit the professor.)
(Continued on page 40)
9
Bright futures in data transmission at W. E.
New engineers with initiative who can meet Western Electric’s high standards are offered many exciting career opportunities with our company in data processing development work as it relates to communications.
For example, Western’s engineers—working closely with BellTelephone Laboratories—have solved development and manufacturing problems connected with the Bell System’s new DATA-PHONE Data set (made by Western Electric). DATA-PHONE service lets business machines, such as computers, “speak” to each other in a language of numbers and symbols over existing telephone communication networks. This represents a tremendous boon to business; and consequently, it is estimated that some day there may be more machine talk than people talk using telephone lines.
Of course, data communications is only one of many rewarding career areas that await you at Western Electric. Here are just a few of the others: electronic switching . . . solid state electronic devices . . . microwave radio relay... computer-programmed production lines ... solar cells ... optical masers ... futuristic telephones.
We need high-caliber, forward-thinking engineers now to help us transform these plans into realities or to work with us in scores of other key communications areas. Your future, the future of Western Electric, and the future of America’s communications—could well depend on your first career connection.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6106, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure Io arrange for a Western Electric Interview when our college representatives visit your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.-, Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, 111., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7. N. Y.
10
The Scholastic
THESPIANS RETURN
The University Theatre undertakes one of its most difficult presentations this week and next as it stages T. S. Eliot’s The Cocktail Party. Curtain time tonight, tomorrow, and Nov. 16, 17, and 18, is 8:30 p.m. In commenting upon the production, Director Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., stated that the play is one of extremes, most rewarding if done well but flat if not.
The cast has been in rehearsal since Sept. 24 and is marked by its experience. Faculty wife, Jeanne Klein, in her first N.D. role, is cast as Celia Coplestone. Very professional for the usual college theatre, Mrs. Klein is an alumna of Clarke College, holds a master’s from Villanova University and lists roles as Juliet in Romeo and Juliet and the title role in Anastasia among her chief dramatic accomplishments. Also drawn from the out-ofcollege ranks, Angela Schreiber, likewise appearing for the first time at N.D., appears as Julia Shuttlewaite. Pat Gallagher, SMC senior and veteran of last season’s Holiday, completes the female cast, as Miss Barraway. On the male side, Joe Harrington, with leads in Babes in Arms and Most Happy Fella among his credits, is in the role of Edward Chamberlayne. Remembered for his outstanding success as Iago in Othello, Dick Kavanagh portrays Sir
BETWIXT COMEDY AND TRAGEDY
Henry Harcourt-Reilly. Bill Cook (Babes in Arms) is cast as Alexander MacColgie Gibbs and first-timers Jim McGovern and Jim Strahs are in the roles of the Caterer’s Man and Peter Quilpe respectively.
One of the major difficulties in staging The Cocktail Party was the conversion from the original poetry to stage usage. As Angela Schreiber put it, it’s beautiful but its appearance of “wordiness” must be overcome in a stage production. For continuity’s sake, the play has been reduced to two acts rather than Eliot’s three. Another member of the cast noted that as a high comedy (more subtle), it is very difficult to act. Along the same line the difficulty of going from light to heavy within the ' same sentence was also cited.
REVERES RIDE HERE
A team of Republican congressmen, touring the states of Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois will arrive at Notre Dame Wednesday under the sponsorship of the Young Republicans. This self-acclaimed “Paul Revere Panel,” made up of Congressmen Alber Quie, Howard Robinson, Charles Chamberlain, John Kyi, and James E. Battin, will present its case at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
This panel is one of five touring the nation under the auspices of the
National Republican Congressional Committee. The name “Paul Revere Panel” was selected, according to the Committee’s chairman, Representative Bob Wilson, “because these Republican congressmen will carry a warning to the American people that our system is imperiled by the policies of the present administration, and of the Democratic Congress.” The panel stresses the Republican fear of “the headlong rush toward an all powerful Federal welfare state.”
The panel is composed of five young congressmen, none of whom have been in Congress more than five years. Congressman Albert H. Quie, a former Minnesota farmer, is a member of the Agriculture Committee and the Committee on Education and Labor.
New York Representative Howard W. Robinson has devoted his interest to the national highways. Charles Chamberlain, from Michigan, was elected to the House in 1956 after a successful legal career. Representative John Kyi of Iowa is a member of the Interior and Insular Affairs Committee. James F. Battin is a freshman representative from Montana serving on the Judiciary Committee.
TECH REVIEW APPEARS SOON
A revised Tech Review makes its 1961-1962 debut this Nov. 20 when the thirteen-year-old magazine is distributed to the Notre Dame engineering students. The last three issues will appear sometime in January, March, and May.
Tacan-Vortac, a new aeronautical guidance system for plane-to-plane contact, will be featured in an impressive cover and story layout. Also in the first issue is an article by Rear Admiral Hyman Rickover entitled “The Meaning of a Profession — Engineering.” Other stories deal with structural aluminum, electronic machine language translation, the Joint Engineering Council, and the geodesic dome of the new Activities Building.
The “Did You Know?” and book review section, traditional Tech Review features, have been retained. Innovations include a general advice column by Dr. Norman Gay, dean of engineering, and a historical series.
Editor-in-Chief for this year’s version is Bill Long. Other editors are Joe Bendick and Dan McGuiness, associate editors; Hank Mittelhauser, business manager; Dennis McMahon, article editor; James Moran, feature editor; Dave Cleary, art and layout; Al Korenjak, copy editor; and James Pottmyer, book review editor.
November 10, 1961
11
No longer will the only contact with Notre Dame that many residents of South Bend experience be that of running into a wary freshman stealing out of the door of Joer*s. Beginning early next year, WSND FM will begin broadcasting to Michiana the University ideals of education and culture.
Unless he comes on campus, the South Bend resident cannot take advantage of the many cultural and educational facilities available at Notre Dame. Consequently he may think of Notre Dame in terms of the Saturday afternoon football game and the Saturday night mob on Michigan Street. With WSND FM, the public will see another, more pleasing and truer face of Notre Dame.
Completely staffed by Notre Dame students, WSND FM will broadcast at 91.1 megacycles to the residents of South Bend, Mishawaka, and Niles. Though projected chiefly as a classical music station, it will, according to program director Gary Townsend and chief announcer Jim Kolb, provide a wide range of good quality listening. As the cultural voice of Notre Dame, it will try to provide good listening to “break the monotony of present day broadcasting” in Michiana.
WSND FM is a direct outgrowth of WSND Channel II which began operations in 1959 and was operated as a subsidiary of WSND, the closed circuit student radio station. For two years, Channel II brought classical
12
music to the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
The original idea of Channel n was that one day it would become an FM station, and last month the FCC granted the station a license to operate as an educational FM outlet. As such, the station will have no advertising and will spend about 15 per cent of its time on educational subjects like lectures, interviews, and news analysis.
The station’s rather modest ten-watt transmitter will cover a radius of about ten miles. Station personnel are looking to the future, however, as they have made arrangements for more powerful broadcasting if and when these improvements become practical.
Afternoon programming on the FM voice of Notre Dame will dwell on light classics, romantics, and impressionistic music. Broadway music in the early afternoon will be followed by classical music. In the late afternoon, the station will feature the latest jazz interpretations along with jazz styles of old.
During the dinner hour from six to seven, WSND FM will feature dinner music and from eight to twelve, classical music will again prevail.
The seven to eight slot will air special shows, which wall feature, on different days, show's on German folk music, continental music and American folk music. Sharing this time on
JAMES KOLB AND GARY TOWNSEND
various days will be Forum, a discussion show on current events, art, and literature.
Talks by noted lecturers speaking on campus will be taped for later broadcast along with interviews of personalities visiting Notre Dame. On certain occasions, the station will broadcast “remotes” covering the Glee Club and special events on campus. Sundays will be especially cultural with the airing of an opera each week.
With a depth of campus personnel informed in many fields, WSND FM can top competing FM stations in the quality of its broadcasting. It will also have at its disposal a wealth of visit- • ing personalities which few commercial stations could afford. It can thus become an important radio voice in northern Indiana.
WSND FM will be the strongest FM signal to South Bend, and, being Notre Dame’s voice to the outside, it will be an important part of the University. •
Over $3000 has been invested in giving a radio voice to Notre Dame. The new equipment will be installed in the tower of O’Shaughnessy Hall, and a 20-foot tower on top of the building will send out the WSND FM schedule.
Students are advised that unless they have an FM tuner, they will not be able to get WSND FM as it will not be carried to the halls on carrier current as was Channel II.
The Scholastic
Experimental
Working on the classroom level, the University Experimental Theatre seeks to train students in the arts of staging and acting out dramatic works. A recent offshoot of the University Theatre, the group works under the direction of Prof. A. Owen Klein.
Offered as a credit course in the Department of Communication Arts, the Experimental Theatre aims for experience as its first objective. Besides gaining acting experience the students become acquainted in the equally important arts of casting, directing, and designing. Many times new talent is uncovered in presenting the various plays, but discovery is only a secondary concern of the class.
The group uses plays that are of an unknown quality or are not acceptable at the popular level. First plays or plays obscured by time are best adaptable to experimentation. Taking one of these plays, the group injects
Theatre Trains Student Thespians
its own ideas and interpretations into it, applying methods and techniques fundamental to the stage. In the case of older plays they attempt to bring it up to modem standards with fresh ideas and new techniques.
Usually only excerpts from plays are presented, and only the individual scenes and acts best suited to different ideas are chosen for production. This year the students will produce and act out scenes from three plays of Michael de Ghelderode, a Flemish writer who only recently came into recognition as a prominent playwright. The three plays to be presented are: The Blind Man, Christopher C., and Escurial.
Dave Soilau, Phil Smith, and Greg Wood take the principal parts in the excerpts from the Blind Man; and Frank Vitio, John File, and Art Smith are among the principals in Christopher C. Mike Hartford, John Lee, and others then take over in Escurial.
Prof. Klein, a graduate of Villanova University, emphasizes that there is no set pattern that must be followed. As a matter of fact he says: “In experimental theatre, you don’t know what the final product will be or even should be. As opposed to the major University Theatre productions, which have a set standard, they aim to find what the standard or goal should be in the case of a particular untried play.”
Rehearsals are part of the class itself, and are held every Tuesday and Thursday afternoon. The final showing of the plays is not open to the public and is seen only by special invitation. Early December is the general date for the presentation of the excerpts from De Ghelderode, and about twenty -students are expected to be in the casts.
The Experimental Theatre is not confined to Communication Arts majors. Anyone interested in the stage should see the Rev. Arthur S. Harvey.
November 10, 1961
13

COMMON SENSE AND 'SIN-SNIFFERS’
“When a good lookin’ girl does a good twist, there is not one good red-blooded American boy who has a good thought during that time.” So said Doug Drane, Alumni Hall Senator, during an hour and a half debate on The Twist Monday night.
Drane’s remarks were typical of the wild discussion which kept SBP Buckley and officers Schlereth and Haidinger grim-faced all evening. The Senate failed to take any positive action on The Twist.
Dave Castaldi presented the orgi-nal motion banning The Twist from all student functions on campus. Castaldi emphasized that “the administration is giving us the opportunity to exercise more control over student life.” “Is the Senate willing to take a stand against the pressures of the student body?” Castaldi asked.
He said to do nothing would be to lose the chance to make a decision. To advise restraint would be ineffective, “It is the girls we are worried about, not the boys.” The only practical solution would be to ban it.
IMMORALITY? THE TWIST
Student Government takes dim view of proposed ban.
Simon St. Laurent suggested that the Senate should also consider the “so deemed amorous embraces in the Student Center.” “We need common sense to clean up a moral mess.”
John McGuire pointed out that if you ban The Twust, you ought to ban girls from the campus.
Paul Charron told of a poll taken in
Lyons Hall: 147-17 against banning The Twist. Charron said The Twist was “a vulgar expression of emotional and social immaturity.” “We have degraded the Senate by adverse publicity.”
Dave Ellis said, “If we pass this, we might not have the student back-(Continued on page 15)
MARRIED STUDENT UNFURNISHED 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
AFTER NOVEMBER 10, 1961 IN UNIVERSITY VILLAGE
OPEN TO ALL MARRIED STUDENTS—UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE — WITH OR WITHOUT CHILDREN RENTAL $65.00 PER MONTH INCLUDING ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR AND ELECTRIC STOVE—UTILITIES EXTRA
OPEN HOUSE —SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11TH —1 TO 6 P.M.
14
The Scholastic
GLEE CLUB INTO 47TH SEASON
The Notre Dame Glee Club made its second campus appearance last Saturday night at the Victory Dance in the LaFortune Student Center. Dancing stopped for twenty minutes while the Glee Club, led by Student Director Phil Jones, sang seven of its most popular numbers to an enthusiastic group of students and their dates. The highlight of the performance was a number called “Ride the Chariot,” with a solo by Hilton Hill, a tenor from Bermuda.
The Glee Club, directed by Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, this year beginning its forty-seventh year as a touring group, opened this season last week with a concert in the near-by town of Buchanan, Mich.
Recently the club participated in Notre Dame’s “Challenge Night," which was an attempt to acquaint the alumni with the University’s “Top Priority” program. A closed circuit telephone hookup broadcasted the Glee Club to over 125 cities throughout the country.
This weekend the Glee Club is invited to the University of Illinois. Each year at this time Illinois sets aside a weekend, called Dad’s Day Weekend, when the students host their fathers. It is something like Junior Parents' weekend at Notre Dame. Part of the entertainment for the fathers will be a concert given jointly by the singers from both glee clubs. On the way back to the campus
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB
Lacking only wine and women.
the Glee Club will stop in Joliet, Ill., long enough for a concert there.
After this trip, the Glee Club will begin rehearsal for its annual Thanksgiving tour, this year to the New York City area. Next on the agenda after the Thanksgiving tour is the traditional Christmas concert here on campus on Dec. 12, and following that, a joint concert with St. Mary’s Glee Club.
President John Crowe and Business Manager Bill Weinsheimer have
RED CROSS INSTRUCTION
A Red Cross water safety instruction course for those interested in becoming swimming instructors will be offered this semester and next. It will be a 30-hour course and is scheduled to begin in December. The first meeting will be held at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial on Nov. 13.
mapped out an ambitious schedule of tours and concerts for this season, and if last Saturday night’s performance in the Student Center is any indication of the quality of the club this year, they can expect a very successful season.
Other officers of the Glee Club are as follows: Fred Weber, vice-president; Tom Fabish, secretary; Nick Harkins, treasurer; and Tom Delay, publicity manager.
'Sin Sniffers'
(Continued from page 14) ing for the student government that we should be responsible with.” John Kost said, “I would rather the Senate be a mature, responsible, influential body, than moral police, SS, and sin sniffers.”
Kevin Hart felt that “the Senate had no right to determine what is morally right and wrong.” He read from Father Hesburgh’s letter to the students of last summer: “The student will be penalized only when his actions violate the rights of others or hinder the goals of other students.”
At this point Bob Hellrung suggested an amendment to the original motion. Hellrung’s amendment: “The Senate recommends to Father Mc-Carragher that the status quo be maintained with regard to the formal administrative attitude toward The Twist, and that the control of excesses be handled by the Senate through its individual dance chairmen.”
With a motion and two amendments on the floor parliamentary procedure got very complicated, but in essence here* is what happened: Castaldi’s motion was not considered. McGuire’s amendment was not considered. Hellrung’s amendment was defeated 18-20.
Badin voted as a block with Haid-inger, Schlereth, Hellrung, Walker, and Bishop voting for the amendment. Castaldi voted for it. Clark, Connor, Hart, Ellis, Drane, Jalovec, Kost, McGuire, and Hartnett voted against the motion.
The Senate should have taken a stand on this matter. Hellrung’s motion would have been ideal. There would be “control of excesses through the individual dance chairmen.” This is deliberately vague. The chairman would be free to use his own discretion, which he would be doing anyway. He would not be making a “moral judgment.” Excesses of The Twist are obviously as undesirable as a student appearing improperly dressed. No one would object to the chairman acting in the latter case, why not the former?
The Twist' will be controlled regardless of the Senate’s vote, but the Senate lost a chance to take a hand in establishing a social norm. The failure to take positive action is a failure to lead.
Motions to move the Blue Circle office to a new location in the Student Center and to appropriate $338 for a showcase for the Tom Dooley Room of the Student Center were passed unanimously.
November 10, 1961
15
MEDICO ASSISTANT
RETURNS TO CAMPUS
Back to the University this year after one and a half years’ absence is Korean-born John Kimm, who spent some eighteen months with Dr. Thomas A. Dooley in the jungles of Laos. Kimm left school in January of 1960 during his junior year and returned last June to continue his studies in pre-med.
The hospital at Moung Sing where he first worked with Dr. Dooley was located in a deep valley, surrounded
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES - Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED	' '
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing
•k
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leading Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street
5	Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
by mountains and jungle, and about five miles from the Red Chinese border. The only means of transportation to and from Moung Sing was a single-engine plane.
Though averaging eighty to a hundred patients daily the hospital itself contained only twenty-four beds. Dooley’s staff consisted only of Kimm and two other Americans. According to Kimm, both disease and language presented barriers to the Medico project in this area. Malnutrition, malaria, dysentery, and leprosy were very common in Moung Sing. To complicate matters there were about eight separate tribes located here and consequently eight separate dialects, all considerably different.
Forced to evacuate Moung Sing in January, 1961, Dr. Dooley, John Kimm, and the, two Americans moved to Ben Houei Sai, about forty-five minutes flying time or ten days walking distance southwest from Moung Sing. Kimm was stationed at this post until June.
Kimm reports that though the people were extremely poor, none of the care given them was free; all paid for his treatment in his own particular way. The children did odd jobs around the hospital, helped in the clinic or brought food for barter. In this way the hospital accumulated large amounts of bananas, chickens, monkey meat, monkey blood, and other native delicacies.
The pride of the Laotion people is accented by their honesty and trustworthiness; there were a few toys, swings, and slides at the hospital, and they were used by literally hundreds of children, but not one was ever stolen or abused.
Kimm feels that his reward for all the efforts and sacrifice that he and the others put forth in this work was being able to help alleviate some small portion of the human suffering which exists in the world today. Do- ■ ing such work, he says, “Convinces me of the brotherhood of man as well as the Fatherhocd of God.”
Kimm’s plans for the future include getting his M.D., and returning
to Laos, or some other area where he will continue the work begun by Dr. Dooley. At present, he is writing a book of his experiences, Heed the Call of the Distant Drum, which will be published next spring. He is also scheduled for a lecture at Notre Dame next Thursday.
Continuing in this missionary work, John Kimm and Stan Fedewa are working with CILA, the Council of International Lay Apostolate, to promote summer projects in South America. CILA will arrange transportation and places to stay for those students interested in devoting a summer to lay apostolate work in underdeveloped countries. CILA campus headquarters are located in the basement of Farley Hall.
Last Saturday, Mrs. Thomas Dooley was the official guest of the University. She was invited as part of last week’s dedication of the Tom Dooley Room in the Student Center.
16
The Scholastic
Quartet Presents Concert
The Germano String Quartet will present a concert in the University Art Gallery at three-thirty Sunday afternoon. The worlds to be played are the String Quartet No. 29 by Haydn, the Flute Quartet in C major by Mozart, and the Quartet opus 49 by Shostakovich. Admission is free and the public is invited.
The Quartet is made up of members of the South Bend Chamber Music Society. The violinists are Mr.
and Mrs. Gerald Lewis, former members of the St. Louis Symphony and the Los Angeles Symphony, who are now principals of the South Bend group. Prof. Rocco Germano, the violist, was a member of the Chicago Symphony and is now a member of the music faculty of St. Mary’s. The flute will be played by George Opperman, a onetime member of several New York orchestras. Miss Marian Johnson, violoncellist, is also a principal in the South Bend Symphony.
The music for the occasion is provided by a grant of the Trust Funds of the Recording Industries.
SENIOR BALL
Applications for committee chairmen posts for the Senior Ball will be accepted no later than Sunday. To qualify, a candidate must submit a letter to Earl Linehan, 259 Alumni, stating all previous experience in the field in which he desires to work.
If you are about to decide on your future employment and are graduating with outstanding scholastic achievement in engineering or the physical sciences . . . the Sandia Corporation would like to arrange an interview with you.
At Sandia, you would work in research, design and development, or engineering. Our scientists and engineers are engaged in projects in the fields of solid state physics, plasma physics, materials research, explosives technology, pulse phenomena and radiation damage, You would work in a modern well-equipped $100 million laboratory and be associated with some of this nation’s outstanding technical personnel. You would receive liberal
benefits which, in addition to insurance, retirement and vacation, include an opportunity for continuing your graduate studies.
You would be employed in sunny, dry Albuquerque, a Southwestern cultural center of over 200,000, or in our laboratory at Livermore, California, with all the advantages of the San Francisco Bay area.
OPENINGS AT SANDIA
At all Degree Levels
Electrical andMechanical Engineers
at MS and PhD Levels
Chemical Engineers Inorganic Chemists Ceramic Engineers « Physicists »»'	“
Physical Metallurgists » s. . \
Organic Chemists i -s - .	-
Industrial Engineers »	'	:
Mathematicians ” ' s v ' ' Statisticians'. '	'	- '	'
Physical Chemists »	- -: •	'
Engineering Physicists ' - < '	'
Aeronautical Engineers •< "
Sandia Corporation' recruiters will be on your campus soon.* For appointment for interview, see your College Placement Officer now.
AI! qualified applicants will receive considera* tion for employment without regard to race, creed, color, or national origin.
CORPORATION
ALBUQUERQUE. NEW MEXICO LIVERMORE. CALIFORNIA
The Sandia representative will be on campus November 15-16
November 10, 1961
17
recognized the real need for an exclusive, young men’s shop in the area for some time.
Hence the Cypress Room. It’s your shop—set apart from our other fine men’s furnishings.
And it’s packed with all the latest and smartest campus fashions for fall.
The rich and mellow Cypress Paneling ... the authentic Colonial decor ... the handsome coach light ... the informal Coke and coffee bar and the many other appointments combine to create a friendly and casual atmosphere for you. Come in soon and shop or browse with the other young men who are on their way up.
We at Rasmussen’s have
Cricketeer Clothes* H. I. S. Wash Slacks London. Fog Rainwear • Arrow Shirts Repps & Foulard Neckwear by Reis • Thane Full-fashioned Sweaters • British Byford Hosiery • Gulf Stream Slacks • H. bS. Outdoor Jackets* Cricketeer Sport Coats

SPLITTING THE CORNER AT MAIN & WASHINGTON, SOU
18
The Scholastic

Of Special Interest. The University Theater presents The Cocktail Party on the Washington Hall stage this weekend and next. The T.S. Eliot comedy in verse will be presented tonight and tomorrow night at eight-thirty. Tickets are available at the Washington Hall box office from four to six. It’s a good idea to support your campus thespians ... besides which they are very entertaining. Reports have it that this is a fine production by Father Harvey. Be certain to make time.
The Music Man will bring his seventy-six trombones and pool table to the stage of this Morris Civic Auditorium tonight and tomorrow night. And a matinee tomorrow afternoon. If you’re not student tripping, and have seen the Notre Dame Cocktail Party — then it’s a perfect way to finish off a football afternoon. Almost as good as Joer’s.
The Germano Quartet will make an appearance at the Art Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall at 3:30 p.m. on Sunday. Admission is free.
The South Bend Symphony orchestra will present a Youth Concert at the Morris Civic on Sunday afternoon. Some of those with AB music electives might be interested. Very basic musical indoctrinations.
Avon Art. Sad to say but the Avon again is going to show their rueful presentation which is currently illuminating the Avon Screen. I mean this is trash. I didn’t even like parts of it The Night of Shame and the Lowest Crime are the titles of the duo. Both pretty sad excuses — even for a low budget effort. There is word, however, that they might be pulled later in the week for a new Bardot flick: The Truth.
Campus Clubs. The California Club will show Call Me Madam, a travesty on the State Department, with Ethel Merman. Very light and breezy, set to Merman’s brassy voice and a clever international plot The Engineering auditorium — tomorrow at 7 and 9:15 p.m.
The Detroit Club will show the Desert Fox in Nieuwland Science at 2 and 7 p.m. Sunday.	>
Mr. Roberts makes one of his many seasonal trips to the ND campus. With Jack Lemmon, remember — and about the Navy in the Second World War. (Our fighting Navy.) Takes place on a barge. But it gets less funny the more times you see it. If you haven’t — do. Sunday at 2, 6:30 and 9 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
The Kansas City Club will get classical and show Helen of Troy (in color with Rosanna-wow-Podesta) Tuesday night at seven-thirty only in the Engineering auditorium.
The movie Between Heaven and Hell, in Cinemascope and color, starring Terry Moore and Robert Wagner, will be shown by the Sorin Cadet Club next Thursday, the 16th, at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is by membership only, so if you’re a pacifist or pre-med student, hunt up one of your ROTC friends and borrow his membership card.
A note: Campus Club presidents ... if you want your movies mentioned (and reviewed if warranted) please make known your show, time, and date to Dick Meece at least ten days in advance.
Colfax. A very timely picture about a rape in West Germany... by American GI’s, no less. Four of them, the meanies, and one poor German girl. Shades of
(Continued on page 28)
Well, it’s time for another column, and through some monumental inefficiency, I am still here to write it. There will be something new today; we’ve decided to go controversial and discuss the weak no-trump — strong no-trump controversy.
To most of us simple folk, a 1-NT opening means a balanced hand and 16-18 high card points, with at least three suits stopped. Since 26 points is the magic number for game, responder’s action depends on the possibility of arriving at this sum, With seven or less, game is dim; responder may pass or take out into his long suit. Eight or nine deserves an invitation to opener in case he has a maximum hand, and with ten or more, responder should not be satisfied with less than game. For an opponent to enter the bidding, he must have unusual distribution or great playing strength, because responder has a good picture of opener’s hand and can make telling penalty doubles. With a strong, balanced hand, experts prefer to double, not wishing to lose the opportunity of exacting a penalty.
The weak no-trump, on the other hand, is currently enjoying a revival after many years of disuse. Two special reasons for this revival seem to be the surge of duplicate bridge and the integration of the weak notrump in a general bidding system, aiding its exploitation and making its use safer.
Duplicate bridge, as we explained in a previous column, is essentially played like rubber bridge, but has a set of rules and scoring all of its own. Because it evaluates a score in reference to those of others who have played the hand and in the same fashion, the scoring raises part-score bidding to a pre-eminence, since these are the hands that are most frequently met. In a part-score battle, you must be prepared to push the opponents beyond their depth, arrive at your proper contract, or be unafraid to double when the opposition has pushed you out of yours.
(Continued on page 25)
November 10, 1961
19
THE
RELIGIOUS BULLETIN:
A familiar spirit of light moralizing pervades each issue of the Religious Bulletin. An average copy might run to six hundred words, sport one or two illustrations, and may or may not bear the signature of the University Chaplain. Digest-sized copy featuring news of coming religious events, moral questions of the day, or terse comments on behavior and ideals, is typical of most issues.
The quiet approach is essentially what makes the Bulletin a successful if unimposing project. Something invariably catches the attention of the reader giving, almost by habit, a cursory glance to the thumbnail topics. This consistent record of interesting information — it might be a subtle slam at the refereeing in the last game, or some fellow’s opinion of fallout shelters — makes the quick look a habit for most students.
The Bulletin takes an occasional poke at student fads and foibles: generally in guarded language. Apathy, laziness, and obtrusiveness fall under a fairly didactic line, while a popular scourge like the Twist is handled more diplomatically. Similar matters, in fact, occasioned the writing of the first Bulletin in 1921. As Prefect of Religion, Father John O’Hara, the late Cardinal now interred in Sacred Heart Church, wanted to call attention to several abuses that he had noticed during the first day of the Mission.
He typed out a few notes and posted them in the various halls. In what
WHIMSEY and
WISDOM
approached levity, the Prefect noted that, “One hundred and fifty students left the Church before the instructions this morning and continued their meditation before the closed door of the cafeteria.” Cushioned dismay arose over another matter: “Eighty campus students took a beauty sleep this morning after 6:30,” the Bulletin revealed. Not to blaspheme tradition, sports too made an appearance in the debut number. But here the whimsey was diluted: “It is summoned,” the item ran, “that certain students were overcome with joy as a result of the football victory last Saturday. This is strange appreciation of a victory prayed for and won in the name of Our Lady.” In his most serious tones Father O’Hara advised that, “A single mortal sin would be too great a price to pay for any victory.”
On the next day of the Mission the Bulletin showed up again. Qualified success was apparent in some areas. Briefly one note ran, “The weather man promises colder weather tomorrow. The twenty-five students who spent thirty-five minutes each in front of the cafeteria this morning would do well to wear overcoats tomorrow
morning.” Perhaps it isn’t entirely fair to portray the Prefect of Religion as roving the campus, stop watch and note pad in hand, in quest of statistics with which to chastise the undergraduates the following morning. Yet, additional evidence betrays Father O’Hara’s predilection for figures. Two days later a Bulletin memorandum offered as the “intention for tomorrow” the success of the endowment drive.
When the 1921 Mission ended, so, it seemed, did the Bulletin. But Father O’Hara had hit on a formula of droll insight that was not soon to fade out of sight. As Father Hope, in Notre Dame — One Hundred Years, put it, “Father O’Hara’s psychological approach had been so genuinely apt that there was a general clamor for more of the Bulletins. He responded with two or three a week, and finally they began to appear every day, posted on the bulletin boards of the campus.”
Flippant semi-sarcasm was a natural promoter’s gimmick. Sharpening the barbs on his pen, Father O’Hara remarked with the arrival of winter, “The first snow was hard on the Poor Souls. There was a drop of twenty-two per cent in attendance at Holy Communion.”
From its beginning the Bulletin is probably better described as a newsletter of student interests. Subtle wit and common sense won a pleased audience. One day Father announced
20
The Scholastic
that a supply of pamphlets on the “all-absorbing topic of marriage and courtship” had arrived at the University. The topic indeed proved allabsorbing, for ten days later it was ■	reported that a fresh supply of
;	pamphlets on the topic, as well as
several on how to make a good coni fession, was available in the residence i halls. Then, when the Bulletin spon-f sored a contest — a hand-painted ' Haviland tea-cup for the best sugI gestion of a motive for religious devel-\ opment that will reach Sorin Hall — i interest undoubtedly soared.
Other reasons (fortunately) can be found for the later success of the Bulletin. Pamphleteering in the thirties and forties was not what it is today, when stapled reports on any imaginable subject are easily procured from a number of sources. The scarcity of short material can be inferred from a “want list” that was regularly compiled by the students. In such an anemic atmosphere the sketchy Bulletins knew wide acclaim. This remains true even in the face of such occasional sly remarks from Father O’Hara as, “These Bulletins are always signed. > Criticisms of them should also be signed."
Glenn Boannan, C.S.C.
Demand continued to increase, and the single sheets of paper went a long way. “in 1929,” writes Father Hope, “the demand for personal copies was so great that one hundred and fifty copies were mimeographed daily and given to those who requested them. But the demand grew to such proportions that copies were placed at the doors of each of the students.” Alumni and faculty members began asking for copies, and soon the Bulle-. tin was filling requests from students of other schools. Between six and ten
November 10, 1961
thousand copies were daily run off and mailed to every state in the country. For particular occasions the Bulletin was printed in South Bend, although as a rule it was mimeographed in the Main Building. The jottings of the Prefect of Religion reached every continent. Among the list of influentials receiving the Bulletin at this time were Mrs. Franklin Roosevelt, Postmaster General Frank Walker, and James Farley. Army chaplains, Newman Clubs, members of the hierarchy, and an impressive number of non-Catholics all were on the Bulletin’s mailing list. But the actual circulation cannot be calculated, since several of these parties often reissued the Bulletin through their own resources. While it is impossible even to guess at the Bulletin’s influence in all of these cases, that it was considerable can hardly be doubted.
Today, while the Bulletin is still produced in quantities that number in the thousands, only about fifteen hundred copies leave Notre Dame through the post office. An upswing in the volume of small scale publishing, especially on the pamphlet level, is a likely contributing reason. “The need for the Bulletin has dropped off other than for ourselves,” acknowledged Father Glenn Boarman, University Chaplain and the present Bulletin author.
When he took over the writing chore three years ago, Father Boarman tried to forget completely about outsiders, wishing to concentrate on the problems of the Notre Dame community. These problems, nonetheless, remain those of many others. Many outsiders still see the Bulletin. Letters that Father Boarman receives reflect the importance of his work.
Over the years the Bulletin has come to deal with a wide range of activity. As it still often does today, the early Bulletin issues carried excerpts of timely journalistic material, poetry, and art work. Comments by Coach Rockne made excellent copy, as did the words of prominent individuals which could be keyed to University problems. In the past, really the Bulletin covered a far wider range of affairs than it does now. Lectures were reprinted and lengthier material was included. Focusing on day-to-day events, the Bulletin usurped what had been restricted to bulletin boards or the columns of the Scholastic.
Because of paper shortages during the Second World War, the daily schedule was abandoned. The red, orange, and purple Bulletins appeared less often. A certain liturgical emphasis arose after Father O’Hara
stopped writing the Bulletin. But some of the colors that appeared during the “Halloween era” approximated more nearly the devil’s wrath. It wasn’t until 1958, when Father Boarman took over the writing, that the paper assumed its present format. All issues were printed now, and a standard, attractive layout had at last been achieved. Suffering only the aftereffects of the arty years, the appearance gradually quieted to the conservative one that students know today.
John Cardinal O’Hara
Father Boarman has retained, though, the essentials that have made the Bulletin an “old member” of the ND college family. Despite the physical changes, the early wit is still there, along with the general purposes of the original typed copies. It remains the aim of the Bulletin to point out instances of neglect and take unpretentious steps to correct them, to inspire without solemnity, to motivate purposefully. Chipping away at daily problems, Father Boarman endeavors, as he removes the slag of fault, to produce in his readers a brighter sculpture of Catholic thought and example.
Arousing interest is the important step. The Religious Bulletin can be called the official organ of the University Chaplain, whose main duty it is to forge a link between the students and the religious experiences of Notre Dame. Personal contact is essential. It is necessary to adapt a vigorous and forceful approach to the scheme. The Bulletin, as the voice of the Chaplain, is excellently suited to this plan.
(Continued on page 36)
21
Forty dollars .. . Forty dollars ... Forty dollars'
"Hi, fans."
SOPH COTI
"Don't be silly. How could anybody be watching us?"
mow
"Look out! A photographer!"
"But why can't we do the Twist?"
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. -	on the hour.
• Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
wuFcataijna
MAN RELAXED ...the friendly comfort of a sweater is great companionship for your favorite pastime...or any time. Created by our celebrated designer, John Norman, who himself makes a study of the art in 'moments of relaxation!
CHESS
H. MORPHY
FIRST GREAT AMERICAN
by RICHARD JENSEN
Paul Morphy is perhaps the best known of all chess players. He is the hero of a large body of romantic literature and legend which exalts its demigod into the greatest of all masters — into an infallible chess wizard. While expert opinion is more eager to demonstrate his many flaws and weaknesses, few can doubt his high rank in the annals of chess.
A chess prodigy, the boy at twelve could whip anyone in New Orleans, and at twenty he captured the U.S. Championship. A year later, in 1858, the highly regarded American began a spectacular European tour. Morphy crushed all comers — even the great Anderssen — and was soon awarded the palm of world champion. But upon his return, Morphy unexpectedly gave up serious chess, and attempted a career at the bar. Paradoxically his immense fame as a chess master stymied his advancement as a lawyer. No one would regard the chess prodigy as an ordinary attorney. Frustrated by this rejection, Morphy gradually became paranoid, dying insane in 1884.
The following encounter with two talented amateurs took place at the Paris Opera during a performance of The Barber of Seville. Its sheer elegance and simplicity was scarcely surpassed by the Rossini masterpiece being performed on the stage.
WHITE: Morphy
BLACK: The Duke of Brunswick and Count Isouard
Paris, 1858
1.	P-K4	P-K4
2.	N-KB3	P-Q3
The distinguishing moves of the “Phil-idor Defense,” unpopular now because White gains initiative and freedom, but Black gets a cramped position.
3.	P-Q4 B-N5?
A positional blunder. Better is 3...
N-Q2.
4.	PxP	BxN
5.	QxB	PxP
6.	B-QB4	N-KB3?
6 . . . Q-K2 must come first. Mediocre moves lose quickly to Morphy.
7.	Q-QN3 Q-K2
8.	N-B3
If 8. QxP, Q-N5 exchanges queens.
8. BxPch, QxB; 9. QxP is good, but less artistic.
8.	P-B3
9.	B-KN5 P-QN4?
Better was 9 ... Q-B2. Now Morphy’s brilliancy unfolds inexorably.
10.	NxP! PxN
The first sacrifice.
11.	BxNPch. QN-Q2
12.	Castles QR
This is the quickest way to unite the rooks for a queen-file attack against the square Q7. The pattern of doubled rooks on an open file recurs frequently in Morphy’s games.
12.	R-Ql
Defending the pinned knight. White’s threat was 13. QBxN, PxB; 14. BxN ch.
13.	RxN! RxR
A pinned rook replaces the pinned knight.
14.	R-Ql
Still another piece to attack the vital square Q7.
14.	Q-K3
Black can now move his knight without losing his queen.
15.	BxR ch. NxB
16.	Q-N8ch.!!NxQ
This removes the knight from the scene.
17.	R-Q8 mate.
The Scholastic
24
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 19)
ART LECTURE
The advantages of opening 1-NT with a balanced hand with 12-14 points are essentially the same as those when a strong no-trump is opened: responder has a good picture of opener’s hand and can confidently place the contract or penalize an errant opponent. Since such hands are more probable than the 16-18 variety, it would seem that the weak no-trump would have a decided edge. However, in rubber bridge, the gap is made up by the larger number of penalties received when the oppon-nents have the balance of power. In duplicate, these infrequent sets do not mean as much, since it is the frequency with which the bid succeeds, rather than the total number of points it wins or loses, that is important. Besides, a levelheaded responder knows immediately when the opponents have the balance of power and can avoid much of the trouble by taking out into his long suit. People using this convention will usually indicate a normal 1-NT opening by opening a suit and rebidding notrump.
The problem of coping with the weak no-trump becomes especially acute, since the hand may very well be yours. A double for penalties is necessary; otherwise, the opener, like our pre-emptor of last week, can escape scot-free every time. There is a great difference of opinion on the subject, but most experts double on a balanced hand of about 15 points on up, for this reason: when you double with a hand stronger than that of declarer, you first of all are giving partner a notion of your strength, and the remaining strength is likely to be divided among the other two at the table in such a way as to give you the balance of power and make a penalty double profitable. When you double with a hand of approximately the same strength, the remaining strength is just as likely to be divided against you as well as for you, and you will be penalized as often and as heavily as you penalize. Takeout is accomplished by the Landy or Astro Conventions, which both employ artificial minor-suit overcalls to describe a hand primarily interested in the majors.
Whichever you play is your personal choice; each has its peculiar advantages. I personally prefer the Weak no-trump, but whichever you choose, learn It and play it well.
— Wallace J. Guillaume
November 10, 1961
Clarence Ward of Oberlin College will speak on, “The Gothic Cathedral — Bible of The Middle Ages,” Nov. 14, 8:30 p.m., 104 O’Shaughnessy.
RELAX
IN A MAN’S WORLD
FRESHER!
POUCH
PACK
KEEPS
TOBACCO
WITH
SIR WALTER
RALEIGH
Pipe smokers appreciate Sir Walter Raleigh’s choice Kentucky Burley — extra aged for flavor and mildness. Now kept 44% fresher in the pouch pack. So relax and get away from your cares with Sir Walter Raleigh—the quality pipe tobacco!

25
THE GOOD OL' DAYS
1905
Here’s the second in the series of our looks into the past through the eyes of long-gone Scholastic reporters. This issue, we hunted up Volume 38, for the 1904-05 school year. Apparently there were only three notable events the entire year: (1) Henry James, called by the Scholastic “one of the greatest literary geniuses in the contemporary field of English literature,” visited the campus and gave a lecture on Balzac, (2) the Sorin porch was built (to prevent passers-by from being doused with water thrown from the top floors; a favorite joke of the day was “The only way you can get a bath in Sorin is to walk around the building.”), and (3) Julius A. Nieuw-land, C.S.C., then an unknown grad student, submitted his doctoral thesis at the Catholic Universiy of America. The Scholastic reviewed the thesis, and concluded, “If his future work is as succesful as the present thesis he will have made valuable contributions to chemical science.”
In 1905, the Scholastic fulfilled the functions of a daily paper, bulletin board, critical journal, and weekly Juggler, so pieces of fiction were printed every week. One of the more interesting short stories is reprinted below:
THE LANDLORD
George J. McFadden, ’06
It was growing dusk on a gloomy winter afternoon as I stopped at a little farmhouse. I had a long drive to make across the country, and wished to get a place to stop for the night. I knocked at the door, and a tall thin man with sunken, sun-burnt cheeks and a long, sandy mustache, responded to my summons.
“I am on my road to Seaton,” I said, “and as darkness has overtaken me I thought I would see if I could stay all night with you.”
“Wife, there’s a fellow here wants to stay overnight with us. I guess we can keep him, can’t we?” he called back over his shoulder.
“O I suppose so, if he wants to put up with what we have,” I heard a voice reply.
I went in. There was a table in
the room with a red oilcloth upon it. The board floor was white and clean. In front of the cheery heating stove, a large shepherd dog was lying.
His wife came in from an adjoining room, and I introduced myself to her. Soon we had supper. Then he gave me the county newspaper, and said that perhaps I would like to read it, and he himself sat by the stove in silence for a long time. At length he asked:
“You are in town a good deal, are you?” I answered that I had been.
“Do you know how much a man gets for work in the factories?” he queried.	-
“About a dollar and a half a day,” I answered.
“And how much is house rent?” he continued.
“O I don’t know exactly. I should think one could rent a house for about ten or fifteen dollars a month.”
“Then a fellow could save a little. I wish my debts were paid and I had money enough to get to town,” he said, as if speaking to himself.
“We could move into town yet this winter, and get some nice little house,” said his wife, as her eyes brightened.
“I don’t believe I’ll have money, wife. You know it was in the mortgage that I was to pay old Jake Stuart his rent by the first of December and I mortgaged my team and everything I have. Markets are poor now, so I asked Jake if he would wait for a while, and he said no. Well, I sold nearly all my com today, and it doesn’t make the rent by two hundred dollars.”
“Well, I don’t believe that he will foreclose the mortgage,” said his wife encouragingly.
Just then a rap came to the door and an old man was admitted. He had a long grey beard, wore a yellow * duck jacket and carried a huge cane in his hand.
“Who’s this fellow?” he asked, bluntly, pointing at me with his cane.
The man explained.
“Yes,” he grunted, “anybody can get a meal off you. Well, I ain’t got no time for nothin’. I just came over to-night to collect my rent.”
“Well, Jake, I’m sorry,” the man said, “but I haven’t got it all. I sold all the crops and it don’t make the rent.”
“Hui,” growled the old man as he took a chair. “The com needed plowin’ the Fourth of July, but you went to Seaton to hear Bryan. I reckon he couldn’t have spoke if you hadn’t been thar.”
“Yes, Jake,” said the man slowly, “I did lose the Fourth, but you know it was the only day all year that I didn’t work late and early.”
“You went to preachin’ blamed nigh every Sunday — drivin’ your team and tirin’ ’em out.”
“Well, Jake, I’ll pay you eight hundred. That is all I have, and I ■ think when a man gets the whole crop and all his tenant’s work he ought to be satisfied.”
“Well, I want what’s mine. The mortgage calls for the horses and implements. Come to Seaton tomorrow, and we will fix it up with Judge Maddock. I can’t afford to lose a penny.”
“But, Jake, what do you expect a man to live on? I worked hard. Another year I might have made it all right. I’m sure I always tried to do my best by you. I helped you last summer when you were sick and —”
“Yes, you hurt yourself working for me, didn’t you?” snarled the old man. “I’ll give you ten dollars a month to work for me through the winter if you want to work. If you don’t, I don’t care if you starve. Be sure and come to Seaton to-morrow after-noon, so we can fix it up about the mortgage.”
As the old landlord rose to go he stepped on the dog, and then hit it with his cane. The dog howled and ran and huddled under his master’s chair. After the old man went out all was silent. Both the man and his wife seemed buried in thought. I too w’as in a dejected mood. This I thought has ever been the fate of the worker — to sow that others might reap — to produce wealth that others may enjoy it. But then I mused, as I heard the wind whistling outside, perhaps the worker is just as happy, and perhaps he does as much good in the world as the rich, the greedy, the powerful.
Perhaps. But we doubt it.
In 1905, interhall sports had a much bigger following than today. The following account of an interhall track meet indicates that even the unbathed inmates of Sorin came out for the games.
The Inter-Hall track meet held in the gymnasium last Saturday afternoon was one of the most successful
26
The Scholastic
of its kind ever held at Notre Dame. By three o’clock the gallery was packed with enthusiastic rooters from the different halls, who loudly cheered their respective teams and the members of them. Sorin easily led in this respect, and it must be acknowledged that their excellent cheering was one of the factors that helped Captain Quigley and his men to win the banner. The most inspiring of Sorin’s songs was the following which is sung to the tune of that glorious war song — the "Battle Cry of Freedom.”
Hurrah for Sorin! Hurrah for her team!
Hurrah for Quigley, ain’t he a dream?
We’re going to win the meet, boys,
For “Quig” is here to-day, Shouting the battle cry of Sor.. .in. The first event was the forty-yard dash, and Corby made an auspicious beginning by taking the three places, giving her a total of nine points. Things looked gloomy for Sorin, but in that desperate moment her devoted adherents in the gallery broke into the glorious chant:
Sorin, Sorin, dig, dig;
Hit up, old “Quig.”
The effect was at once apparent, for Bracken restored the prestige of Sorin by taking first place in both the high and low hurdles. After the hurdles came the 880-yard run, an event in which the greatest interest was shown. Sorin expected Quigley
to win this race; and when he got a poor start a groan of despair came from their section. “Quig” made a manful effort to catch the bunch, and by a game sprint came up with them only to run into a pocket from which he could not escape. In spite of the misfortune first place went to Sorin, for Tommy Welch in a beautiful sprint ran away from Murray and crossed the line a winner, while the gallery shrieked “Sizzle drizzle doodle dum.” On the last lap Quigley escaped from confinement, and by one of the grittiest finishes ever seen on the local track, took third place and a point for Sorin. The final score was: Sorin, 43; Corby, 39; Brownson, 10; St. Joseph, 7.
“HOUR RFEER-8HRUE LOTIOR, SIR”
"Jason, you dolt! You know I use only Mennen Skin Bracer after-shave lotion."
"Of course, sir. And this..."
"I’ve told you that Skin Bracer cools rather than burns.
Because it’s made with Menthol-lce."
"Quite, sir. And this...”
"Besides, that crisp, long-lasting Bracer aroma has a fantastic effect on girls.”
"But sir. this is Skin Bracer. They’ve just changed the bottle.
Shall I open it now, sir?"
*
“Indeed so, sir. And..."
"Tonight t need Skin Bracer. I'm going to the Prom. So take that stuff away and get me some Skin Bracer!”
^ACTUALLY. YOU DON'T NECO A VALET TO APPRECIATE MENNEN SKIN BRACER. ALL YOU NEED IS A FACE I
November 10, 1961
27
RUBIN CLEANERS
★
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card ★
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line ★ Complete Laundry _ Service
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
NOW SHOWING
AOJIDKIEy IHIEIPEQjm
“The gayest comedy Hollywood has served up in years. LIFE MAGAZINE


WflKEEST
A JUROW-SHEPHERD PRODUCTION
AIM nut IK
GEORGE PEPPARD
Technicolor
In Town
(Continued from page 19) Virgin Spring. But the American Army prefers a court-martial to a “trial by fire” and, of course, there is always a loophole. In this case, the loophole is simply that statute permits no death sentence unless the girl herself testifies. A shrewd defense attorney (Kirk Douglas) persuades the court that the innocent victim is more than just a little promiscuous... but can’t convince the girl’s father that it might be better to let the girl off the stand. And what is an innocent German nymph to a shrewd defending attorney?
His actions prove successful, but do the ends justify the means? His fellow officers think not, the German
GRANADA
THEATRE • SOUTH BEND
THAT DELIGHTFUL DARLING. HOLLY GOLIGHTLY! serving warm kisses, wild oats, and wonderful fun I
CO-STARRING
★ PATRICIA NEAL
★ BUDDY EBSEN
★ MICKEY ROONEY
town thinks not. Town Without Pity: much Kirk Douglas, much suspense, much Christine Kaufman (a sixteen-year-old German starlet) ...
{Town: 1:10 — 3:10 — 5:10 — 7:15 — 9:15.)
Granada. Breakfast at Tiffany’s is Truman Capote’s story of erratic love as opposed to erotic love. Audrey Hepburn takes the lead as a high-strung young miss whose first marriage (to a Tex-an, mistah) has been annulled and whose greatest pleasure is to breakfast on a bun and coffee in front of closed Tiffany’s (a big jewelry store in New York for you Midwesterners) at six in the morning.
George Peppard plays her opposite. He is a newcomer and has by all means secured a niche in the industry’s unpredictable future. He provides the perfect complement to Miss Hepburn’s verve. George plays the pedantic writer who lives upstairs and who is willing, by all means, to teach the madcap Hepburn what sincere, honest love is all about. And all of it is highlighted by a series of “hilarious” parties — and fast stepping shenanigans which are better seen than explained. Excellent film fare — for a little bit of relaxed enjoyment. Nostalgic, besides, for those from New York.
{Breakfast: 1 — 3 — 5:05 — 7:10 — 9:15.)
The River Park. Come September with Rock Hudson and Gina will play the Mishawaka neighborhood theater for any of those who didn’t catch it while it was in season. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday only.
The State. The Devil at Four O’clock will stay at the State for two more weeks. It is a picture to see. Perhaps it is because I like Frank Sinatra (he plays a hard-baked, Hoboken-style convict... in the Good Samaritan role). Or maybe it’s because I like Spencer Tracy (he’s the hard-crusted, soft-hearted, missionary priest who — because of public ignorance of leprosy and its modem cures — has seen a hard time during his sixteen years of caring for diseased children). And it might even be that I have a yearning for the South Pacific — and its volcanic mountains, its blue waters, its green brush. Whatever the reason — I enjoyed the picture very much. The story does get sloppy at times . . . and the ending might even be classed as maudlin. But the idea is good: Is life a series of “.. • penny catechism lessons ... " ? And the cast superb.
{The Devil: 1:20 — 3:50 — 6:20 — 8:50.)
— John McGuire
The Scholastic
28
NOTRE DAME MINIATURES
A Special Gift — Reserved for Special People
"The Ideal Christmas Gift"
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
★ ★ ★
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS — 1961-62 All rings are in durable 10K Gold
Black Onyx ......................................$17.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00
Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back..... 19.00
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back------- 19.00
Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue ................... 19.00
Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel
No. 1, buff fop, faceted back ................ 19.00
Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel
No. 2, faceted top and back .................. 19.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
All-diamond cluster ....................$165.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00
WEDDING BANDS
Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular .........$	8.00
Lady’s, plain	or	beaded.	Contour .......   9.00
Man’s, plain	or	beaded.	Regular ........ 11.00
Man's, plain	or beaded,	Contour .......... 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax_____________________________ Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Ring Site For Measuring Finger
3456789 1011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
November 10, 1961
29
Notre Dame Men
Have to Win
in each of^/iceroy§
Big Football Contests
C 1®«1, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
ONE OF 8 MIGHT
THE AS
WELL BE YOU!
1STPRZE$1OOO°
2nd PRIZE $50^0
3rd prize $2500 5 PRIZES OF O°°
PLUS OTHER PRIZES OF FREE
VlCEBO''
Filter Tip
Something Special End to End...(E SPECIAL FILTER! SPECIAL BLEND!
Why look for just filter or flavor in a cigarette? You get both with Viceroy! At one end is Viceroy’s famous Deep-Weave Filter. And at the other, Viceroy’s famous Deep-Cured Blend —for a special taste of goodness you deserve in your cigarette, and get only with Viceroy.

i

JV GET ENTRY BLANKS ON BALLOT BOXES WHERE YOU BUY CIGARETTES ON CAMPUS
The Scholastic
30
IRISH AND PITT MEET ON COMEBACK TRAIL
Plagued by injuries, officiating, bad luck, and a slump which has extended through the last two games, Notre Dame’s football team takes the field tomorrow in Pittsburgh hoping to make the Panthers its fourth victim of the year.
This has not been a good season for Coach John Michel -osen and his group. After an opening win over a fine Miami (Fla.) team, the Panthers lost successive games to Baylor, Washington, West Virginia, and UCLA before nipping Navy 28-14. However, they got right back on the losing track last week with a 28-9 thrashing at the hands of Syracuse.
Injuries to such key players as Bob Clemens, Regis Coustillac, Woody Hauser, and Bob Guzik have given the Pittsburgh hosts a big boost toward their worst record in four years.
Clemens and another member of the famous “C Boys,” Fred Cox, head the backfield returnees. Junior quarterback Jim Traficant and fullback Lou Slaby round out the top backfield.
If he is ready to go, the 200 - pound Clemens should give the Irish line a rough afternoon. Although a bit overweight last season, he still chugged for 349 yards and a 4.7 yards per carry average. In his fine sophomore season he returned an Irish punt 64 yards for a score.
Both Clemens and his backfield mate, Fred Cox, have already been drafted by National Football League clubs. The Colts grabbed Clemens because of his superior defensive work and the Cleveland Browns took Cox for his fine all-around ability.
Irish fans need no introduction to Cox. In last year’s game he scored a touchdown, converted twice and pilfered two passes. He also led in yardage gained.
Handing the ball off to the C pair will be Jim Traficant who hit with 29 of 57 aerial attempts last year.
The fourth member of the starting backfield will probably be junior letterman Lou Slaby, a fine comer linebacker and blocker.
Other backs slated for heavy duty are Paul Martha, John Yaccino, and John Telesky.
Opening holes for these operators will be a tough but injury-depleted forward wall sparked by center Andy Kuzneski, the team leader in minutes played last year.
GOING DOWN
Clay Stephens and Mickey Bitsko on the tackle
Backing him up will be junior John Holzbach, a 6'3", 215-pounder.
Although Regis Coustillac has been forced from the number-one guard position by injuries, Coach Michelosen still has great depth at this position. Larry Vignali, an All-East selection for the past two seasons, holds down at tackle.
Tom Brown has replaced Coustillac on the left side of the line. Brown lettered as a soph last year and plays middle guard on defense.	•
Two other juniors, John Draksler and Ralph Conrad, round out the list of experienced guards.
Gary Kaltenbach and Bob Guzik lead the returning tackles. Kaltenbach, also a junior, weighs 233 pounds and is being counted upon to develop into one of the nation’s best linemen before he graduates. Guzik, the brother of Pitt All-American John Guzik, lettered at guard last season but during spring practice the coaching staff decided that his 222 pounds could be used to most advantage at tackle.
A pair of rugged sophomores, Ernie Borghetti and Ed Adamchik, have been filling in quite adequately for Guzik since he was injured.
The biggest graduation loss suffered by Pittsburgh was the departrure of ends Mike Ditka and Ron Delfine. Ditka, the All-American who is currently starring for the Chicago Bears, has been replaced by Steve Jastrzembski, while John Kuprok now mans Delflne’s old hangout.
Woody Hauser, the number one right end in spring practice, has seen limited service because of injuries. His substitute, Kuprok, starred in the spring game and is expected to be a passcatching threat.
Jastrzembski, an outstanding defen
sive performer, has already been drafted by the Baltimore Colts. His great performance against UCLA in 1959 won him the “Sophomore of the Week” award.
This will be the twenty-eighth meeting between the two schools. Notre Dame enjoys a 16-10 advantage, with one contest having been tied.
However, the Panthers have taken the last three games. In 1958 they pulled out a thrilling last minute 29-26 victory. Two years ago they sloshed through mud and rain for a 28-13 win and last year they held off a late Irish rebuttal to win 20-13.	—Bob Chiappinelli
November 10, 1961
31
GERRY GRAY: PLUS vs. MINUS
by GERRY GRAY as told to BOB CHIAPPINELLI
I think that this season can be divided into two separate sections, one being a plus area and the other being a minus area.
The plus part of the season includes the first three games of the schedule and the first half of the Michigan State game. During that time we could not do anything wrong. But one play, Herman Johnson’s interception of one of our passes, seemed to ruin everything. Since that time we haven’t been able to do anything right.
I don’t think that Northwestern and Navy really beat us — we beat ourselves. And it isn’t any one man who is doing something wrong. The whole team seems to make one big mistake and because of it we lose.
You could compare the last three games to three consecutive tests. You could go into each of these tests feeling confident and remain confident during them, but when the grades come back you find that you have failed.
Navy didn’t surprise us last week. With the exception of that long pass which bounced into a receiver’s hands, Ron Klemick, Navy’s quarterback, didn’t hurt us much.
As far as comparing Navy with Pittsburgh, it seems that they are as different as night and day. Navy depends upon, speed, and deception while Pitt tries to run over you.
Like us, Pitt has been having its troubles, but they are a strong team, much like Purdue.
In Fred Cox they have one of the
best backs in the country. He can run, play defense and kick.
Getting back to the Navy game, I think that George Sefcik and Bobby Lehmann were our outstanding players. Bob played both ways and did a fine job. George, in my opinion, played the finest game of his career, both offensively and defensively.
We should be a lot stronger for this game than for the last one. Nick Buoniconti, Jim Kelly, and Les Traver might all be back at full strength.
I still think we have a very good team, much better than the last one I played on in 1959. This team has a better running attack, a stronger defensive line, and plays a stronger schedule.
It’s still too early to tell whether we will install anything new for Pitt. We drilled a lot on short passes for Navy so we might use them again against Pitt.
The past three games have been very frustrating for us. If we can get one really big break like that pass which bounced off our defenders into the hands of that Navy man or an important fumble recovery, I think that we can beat Pitt and go undefeated through the rest of the season.
None of the remaining teams, Pittsburgh, Syracuse, low’a, or Duke, can be rated above Michigan State. And since we played State almost to a standstill, we seem capable of beating these remaining four teams if we get back on the right track.
GERRY GRAY 112 yards gained
OOPS!
Denny Murphy shakes ball loose from Bill Nelson
JOE THE TOE
Perkowski kicks for three against Southern Cal
32
The Scholastic
Cross
Country
Notre Dame’s grid legions were not alone in experiencing defeat last weekend. The cross-country team, winless in five meets this season, finished a weak third in the Indiana Big State meet in Indianapolis. Indiana won last Friday’s event with 20 points, and Ball State was second with 82. Notre Dame had 97.
In capturing its fifth straight team title, the Hoosiers took four of the first five places but were denied a perfect score by persistent Frank Carver of the Irish. Carver finished second for the second week in a row after three first places in earlier meets this fall. Tom Dempsey, captain of Notre Dame’s team, experienced a bad day and finished seventeenth.
ND runners Ray Wherley, Bob Latsko, and Kevin Walsh finished 21, 24, and 33 in a field of 70-odd, which splashed through the South Grove golf course in a steady downpour. Carver, who had defeated the meet winner, Charles Umbarger, on Oct. 13, was off form this time and placed 25 seconds behind the Hoosier.
Today, the durable sophomore will get a chance to compete against some of the finest distance runners in the Midwest in the Central Collegiate Conference meet in Chicago. Carver has already disposed of a fair portion of the field in previous races this year.
Western Michigan’s Jerry Bashaw, Carl Reid, Don Hancock, and the entire teams of Central Michigan and Bowling Green head the list; and a possible addition might be Loyola’s Tom O’Hara. Western Michigan is a heavy favorite in the meet.
The poor showing of the Gold and Blue this fall is no surprise to Alex Wilson, coach. Two weeks before the first meet, Wilson predicted probably the most dismal season in a decade, and the way things are going, results will bear him out. The services of Bill Yaley are missed considerably and his knee injury threatens to sideline him from indoor track competition this winter.
Next year should be a vintage one with a freshman team as good as or better than the present varsity moving up and only two seniors, Dempsey and Latsko, departing.
— J. C. Higgins
November 10, 1961
AS WE SEE IT
CARY RESIGNS
Bill Cary has resigned as Sports Editor of the Scholastic. He resigned not under pressure from the football team, from the magazine, or from the administration, but simply because he felt he could no longer devote a sincere, all-out effort to the job. We feel that the sports section made considerable progress under him this year, and we will endeavor to continue his general policies.
SUPPORT OF THE TEAM	x
At last Friday’s pep rally, Co-Captains Norb Roy and Nick Buoni-conti criticized the Scholastic for its attitude toward the football team, without giving any specific examples of what they objected to. Norb Roy, however, explained to us later this week, that his objection was not to a simple and forthright criticism of the team on occasion, but rather to the use of certain remarks, specifically “We wish that . . . the head coach of a local college team....”
We wish to treat the football team with the same fairness with which we would treat any other team, student group, or individual student, and we feel that it is the definite prerogative of a magazine like ours to make an occasional criticism or evaluation — to call it As We See It.
We do feel, further, that our support of the football team on the whole has been very strong. This year marked the initiation of a player interview series, allowing a squad member to comment as he pleased on the football situation, and also the first time the magazine has singled out an individual back and lineman for special praise each week. The preview of the Michigan State game picked the Irish by virtue of the fact that they were “ ... a gutty, hard-nosed team, determined that they will not and must not lose, and convinced that they can win.” We could hardly have paid them a larger compliment. In that issue we also thought highly enough of the team to discuss the chances of their being accorded a bowl bid. And of the play in the State game, Bill Cary said: “Two players stood out for Notre Dame Saturday. Offensively, Mike Lind blasted relentlessly at the Spartan defenders in a tremendous performance. — Defensively, Nick Buoniconti played like the AllAmerican he is.”
THIS WEEK
That the performance given by the Irish the past two Saturdays has not been equal to the standard they set in their first four games has been painfully obvious to all. Even Norb Roy admitted he was at a loss for an explanation. Nationally syndicated critics of the Irish have proposed as the problem, everything from lack of pass defense, to lack of coaching, to poor attitude on the part of the players. We frankly admit that we are uncertain if any or all of these is the problem.
But we do know that giving up on the team at this point is not the solution. We feel that the team’s coming performances will reflect the attitude of the student body.
As for tomorrow, the problem will have to be solved if the Irish are to beat Pitt, and avoid a disastrous season. We feel it will be. Make the final score Notre Dame 17, Pittsburgh 14.
— John Bechtold, Terry Wolkerstorfer, Bob Chiappinelli
33
DILLONITE WINS SECOND VICEROY CONTEST
Bob “Tex” Moylan joined his fellow Dillonite Scott Carroll in Viceroy’s Ace Football Forecasters Club last week when it was announced that he was the winner of the second campus-wide Viceroy football contest.
“Tex" missed only one game in compiling a 9-1 card that was good for the top prize of $100. John Kali of 221 Morrissey was runner up and won the second prize of $50. George Grant of 309 Breen-Phillips finished third and won $25. Other winners of $10 each were James A. Daniel and Bill Goodwine of Alumni, Jack DeChellis and Fred Lederer of Morrissey, and Ray Raedy of Fisher. Lederer was the only repeat winner from the first contest, winning $10 in that contest, also.
Winners of the third contest will not be chosen until after the Wisconsin-Northwestern game played tomorrow.
Already underway, though, is the fourth contest involving the games to be played Nov. 18th. So, pick up your entry blanks where you buy your cigarettes and start saving the Viceroy names from empty packs or the sample packs passed around in the T.V. lounges during the Sunday football games, or even draw up “reasonable facsimiles” of the Viceroy name so that you can enter as many entries as possible. Midnight, Wednesday, Nov. 15th, is the deadline for the contest. Entry blanks and ballot boxes are located in the huddle and in the cafeteria.
VICEROY
34
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
IOWA VS. MINNESOTA: In the Game of the Week, the rugged Gophers will overpower the speedy Hawks to repeat their crucial victory of last season.
MICHIGAN STATE VS. PURDUE: The once-mighty Spartans will find it difficult to recover from last week’s loss at Minneapolis, and will succumb to the Spoilermakers, in the Upset of the Week.
BAYLOR VS. TEXAS: The nation’s number one football machine will grind out its eighth win in a row over disappointing Baylor.
DUKE VS. NAVY: In a battle of two Irish opponents, the Blue Devils’ strong running backs should be the salvo to sink the Middie ship.
COLORADO VS. UTAH: The tough Buffalo line, bulwarked by All-American Joe Romig at guard, should be the margin of victory as Colorado continues unbeaten.
LSU VS. NORTH CAROLINA: The Bayou Bengals, upstart victors over Mississippi last week, should claw the Tarheels, with a bowl bid in the offing.
NORTHWESTERN VS. WISCONSIN: The passing of Wisconsin's Ron Miller won't be enough to defeat the pesky Wildcats.
TCU VS. UCLA: The passing of 6'7’ Sonny Gibbs should ruin the Bruins, and give TCU its fourth win of the season.
RICE VS. ARKANSAS: The Owls will stop the running of Lance Alworth, and will pull out an upset victory over Coach Frank Broyles' Razorbacks.
OTHER GAMES:
Auburn over Mississippi State California over Air Force Georgia Tech over Tennessee Michigan over Illinois
Maryland over North Carolina State Missouri over Oklahoma Oregon over Washington State Washington over Oregon State Southern Cal over Stanford Florida over Georgia Clemson over South Carolina
Booters Tip Goshen
Notre Dame’s soccer club upheld the winning spirit of the Irish as they edged Goshen College 1-0 last Saturday. The victory gave the Irish a 3-1 record on the season.
Callisto Madavo, Irish right wing, scored the game’s only goal in the first quarter of the contest. The Irish, led by Captain Josef Echelle, kept the pressure on the Goshen eleven throughout the game but were unable to obtain insurance markers.
This week, the booters will face the Cardinals of Ball State. Thus far, Ball State has taken its first three outings while holding its opponents to only three goals. Purdue and Calvin were downed by 6-0 and 3-0 scores with Dayton being conquered 5-3.
Since soccer has just become a varsity sport at the college, Freshman Coach Chris Sweeney will start Fred Ginther, goalie; Perry Schlie and Floyd Brown, fullbacks; Dick Thompson, Steve Barnett, and Nelson Deuitch, halfbacks; and Jim Osborne, Tom Tom, Homey Vaziri, John Pinter, and Dan Tayaganon. Ball State is experiencing its first season in the Midwestern Collegiate Soccer Conference.
The Irish have bounced back from their opening 8-0 loss to Washington University to whip Purdue, Indiana Tech, and Goshen in their last three contests. Purdue fell by a 4-1 score, while Indiana Tech was trounced 4-0.
Notre Dame will start Juan Simon, goalie; John Poelker and Fred Slamin, fullbacks; Pete Aizupitis, Bob DuBois and Bob Chou, halfbacks; Callisto Madavo, Hernan Puentes, Fran Juda, Josef Echelle and Charlie Wong, forwards, against Ball State.
TOUGH BOUNCE
The Scholastic
Pick Your Own All-American Team!
End.......................................................
End.......................................................
Tackle....................................................
Tackle....................................................
Guard.....................................................
Guard.....................................................
Center....................................................
Quarterback...............................................
Halfback..................................................
Halfback..................................................
Fullback..................................................
Coach.....................................................
Lineman of the Year.......................................
Back of the Year..........................................
RESULTS WILL APPEAR IN THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL REVIEW, DEC. 8, 1961. Drop ballots in box at south end of Huddle near the “Riders Roundup” board.
IRISH FOOTBALL STATISTICS
With better than half the season gone, Angie Dabiero still retains his ground-gaining lead with 376 yards and a 7.6 average. Sweet Pea started with a 176-yard effort against Oklahoma and hasn’t stopped yet.
Although he missed all of the Navy game and half of the Northwestern encounter, junior fullback Mike Lind holds on to his second ranking with a 5.8 average compiled on 49 trips for 286 yards.
George Sefcik, who upped his total to 242 yards, Jim Snowden, Daryle Lamonica, and Gerry Gray round out the list of 100-yard men. Snowden has earned 159 yards; Lamonica, 130; and Gray, 112.
Joe Perkowski, with four field goals and eight extra points, leads in scoring. Incidentally, his field goal total ties a school record. Mike Lind and Daryle Lamonica trail Joe with 18 Points apiece.
Les Traver leads the pass receivers, having corralled seven tosses for 133 yards.
On the other end of the line, La-wionica has thrown 43 times and has Piet with success 18 times. He has gained 272 yards and has hit with two touchdown passes.
Defensive figures show Nick Buoni-^ovember 10,1961
conti and Tom Hecomovich leading the tacklers with 41 and 38 tackles respectively.
IRISH LINEMAN OF THE WEEK
For his fine two-way job, Bob Lehmann gets the nod as the top Irish lineman of the week. But recognition must also be given Les Traver for his brilliant four-minute stint, in which he grabbed four passes for eighty-four yards.
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Diminutive George Sefcik led all Irish rushers with a total of sixty-. three yards gained, on nine carries for a seven-yard average. In gaining Back of the Week honors, Sefcik also recorded one of Notre Dame’s two interceptions.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
An Agency Representative will interview undergraduate Seniors and Graduate Students for positions with our Organization on November 27th and 28th on Campus. Please consult the Placement Bureau, Administration Building for information concerning these positions and to schedule an appointment.
OUT OF TOWN GUESTS?
Clean, comfortable motel rooms reasonably priced. Phone or write for reservation.
BIRCHWOOD MOTEL
15 miles south of South Bend on U.S. 31
LAPAZ, IND. • SU 4-2382
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING • ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST.
South Bend, Indiana CEntral 3-2409
Mitchell Travel Service
LaSalle Hotel — South Bend CE 2-2253 — Phones — CE 3-1181 •
OPEN SATURDAYS • ★ AIRLINE RESERVATIONS * HOTEL & RESORT RESERVATIONS
ALL AT NO EXTRA CHARGE TO YOU
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
• .
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Bulletin
(Continued from page 21)
Perhaps the one disappointing aspect of the Bulletin is its failure to adopt anything resembling a definite editorial stand. Father Boarman explains this on the grounds that he is primarily attempting to stimulate controversy, rather than become involved in it. Here his policy seems weak, for actually his readers want to know where the Chaplain locates himself on any particular issue. The reader realizes that the Bulletin is an informal chat between the writer and himself. This is the very reason that he desires to know Father Boarman’s position. True, a person should not
Dn RW TURBOW
\pPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
MODEL 22AW
pursue controversy for its own sake; yet, neither is opinionless regard an alternative worth developing.
The University Chaplain, it would seem, should avail himself of every opportunity for frank conference with his students. A fine common denominator is again the Bulletin. Controversy, even with Father Boarman in the middle, will only generate interest and discussion in all respects consistent with the principles of university life.
All sides considered, if the Bulletin doesn’t immediately come to mind when one considers Notre Dame tradition, it is at least an item that goes a long way toward forming that tradition. A concise appraisal has probably been best rendered by its founder: “It is an application of modem principles of advertising to the spiritual life. From day to day, it hammers at student foibles, or suggests means of advancement in the spiritual life. It is a caricature rather than a portrait, for a portrait is too true to be comfortable, while the exaggerations of a caricature carry home a point without leaving too much sting.” The Bulletin caricatures the student, reaching him simply, humorously, convincingly. And in its simplicity is the secret of its effectiveness.
RAH! RAH!

Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9* s’pecify 23* frames. Men under 5'9* specify 21* frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
ALBRIGHTS
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
Repercussions (Continued from page 4) outstanding nominees outside of the political realm. The fact that I was referred to as “Chairman of the Nominating Committee" in the article might have helped stir up this particular controversy, since my personal political viewpoint is fairly well known. I would hasten to assure all Liberal Democrats in the senior class that my position as General Chairman of Washington Day Exercises is completely separate from the functioning of the Nominating Committee. My sole contact with this committee , was first its selection — subject to the approval of the class officers —• and then coordination and the tabulation of their ballots.
As to the case of Mr. Rayburn, probably no one on this campus — certainly not this writer — will deny that Mr. Rayburn is an outstanding example of patriotism in action. His name was, in fact, on the original list of nominees. He was removed at the suggestion of several members of the administration, due to his ill health. Since this award was established to be given to a living American, and since it is not given in absentia, the prudent course of action was clearly to remove his name from the list of nominees. I would point out that Mr. Rayburn was nominated in each of the past two years, but was not a close contender in the voting. I suspect that, were Mr. Raybum still healthy, there would have been little interest in his candidacy. In light of his outstanding accomplishments over a 50-year span, it is unfortunate that his contributions have not been sufficiently recognized until such a time as the country realizes that it is about to lose him.
A final criticism that has been brought to my attention concerns the policy on announcement of the results. This policy is simply not to announce the recipient until we have received confirmation that he will accept the award in person. Should the first place winner refuse for any reason, then the second highest votegetter is contacted. This procedure is common practice at a number of schools who give awards of this nature. This procedure is also followed at graduation with the awarding of honorary doctorates.
My final comment has to do with the editorial “On Patriots” in the Oct. 27 issue of the Scholastic. The editors expressed the opinion that the title “Patriot of the Year” seems inapt. This conclusion is based on the classical definition of the term which,
(Continued on page 38)
The Scholastic
36
]
Young Man With a Date
Make a date to talk with a representative of the Bell System Recruiting team
NOVEMBER 15 & 16
The Placement Office is now making appointments for interviews with representatives from the following companies:
AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY long Lines Department — builds, operates and maintains the world's largest communications network
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY
— the nation's largest manufacturer and supplier of communications equipment
SANDIA CORPORATION
— design and development of ordnance phases of nuclear weapons
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
ILLINOIS BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
Supplying the finest in communications to homes and businesses—and representing Bell Telephone Companies across the nation.
This team will consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin.
November 10, 1961
37
“NAVIGATION IS OUR BUSINESS”
AC SPARK PLUG
The Electronics Division of General Motors
Our current projects include development and production of Inertial Guidance Systems for the TITAN II, THOR and MACE missiles. V/e are also the Systems Integration Manager for the modified B-52C&D Bomb* ing Navigation System. In the commercial field, AC has developed and is now producing a new mobile radiotelephone. Research and development programs include navigation systems for mobile ICBMs, space vehicles, supersonic aircraft and ocean-going vessels.
AC is seeking qualified engineers and physicists to fill permanent positions in Milwaukee, Boston and Los Angeles. You may qualify for employment if you have a BS or MS degree in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering or Physics. Advanced positions are also available for men who are completing their doctorates with specialization in navigation and related fields.
To provide a transition from academic learning to practical career development AC offers the following training programs:
MILWAUKEE
Career Acceleration Program — A twelve-month program with formalized classroom instruction given in conjunction with rotating job assignments in Manufacturing, Reliability and Engineering. Courses include:
Ballistic and Cruise Missile Laboratory Sessions
Advanced Servomechanisms Principles of Airborne Digital Computers
Basic Principles of Inertial Guidance
Semi-conductor Technology Probability and Statistics Philosophy of Reliability
Field Service Program—• Two- to four-month classroom and laboratory training on inertial guidance systems or bombing navigation systems. Domestic and foreign assignments follow completion of program.
BOSTON
Advanced Concepts Research and Development On-the-Job Training Program AC's Boston Laboratory is engaged in developing advanced inertial guidance equipment primarily for application in earth-bound vehicles.
LOS ANGELES
Advanced Concepts Research and Development On-the-Job Training Program — AC's Los Angeles Laboratory is occupied with advanced guidance research for space vehicles and ballistic missiles, plus advanced research in special purpose digital computers.
See your College Placement Office regarding an appointment for a personal interview with the General Motors and AC Representative.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Thursday, Nov. 16th
If unobt. Io apply in person itnd risumi Io Mr. G. F. Hootch, Director of Scientific ond Professional Employment. Dept. 5753. 7929 South Howell, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Ask your Placement Officer for AC's new employment Brochure.
AC SPARK PLUG
The Electronics Division of General Motors
MILWAUKEE • LOS ANGELES • BOSTON
AChiever Inertial Guidance Systems for Titan II, Thor and Mace. Bombing Navigation Systems for the B-52C&D and B^7. AChieverfone Mobile Radiotelephone Systems.
Repercussions (Cont'd) according to the editors, is applied to men such as Nathan Hale, and not the idol which mother wants little Johnny to grow up to be like.
I would point out to the directors that the term patriot in modem usage would connote a man who possesses a love of country, and who is oriented towards a public and nationalistic spirit. The rationale for establishing this award was first to help	j
bring a nationally prominent citizen	j
to the Washington Day Exercises. It	j
was decided that the award itself	j
should put emphasis on service to	j
country; thus the term “Patriot” was	J
selected because it best connotes the	j
idea of loyal service to one’s own j country.	j
Richard C. Meece General Chairman Washington Day Exercises
ELECTIONS
Editor:
There seems to be no valid basis for your adverse criticism of student response to hall elections. The majority of students, contrary to the j editor’s opinion, have not become	i
aware of any insignificance in hall ) elections. Total tabulation of how	i
many students voted is not available | but enough statistics are in to show ! that only one hall had less than 50%	;
participation. Thirteen halls showed I a combined participation of almost 80%.
Even upperclass halls had good returns. Badin had 92% participation, Sorin 80% and the ex-Do-Nothing, i Walsh had 81%. What does the Scholastic consider a majority? Also what does the Scholastic include in the term office that “just don’t have , a sufficiently important function?" Hall President? Hall Vice-President? Treasurer? Is the Rector to choose who will represent the students? Is the Rector to collect and expend hall funds with the agreement of an appointee? The hall president has always had the job to work to help keep a hall a good place in which to live. These are all important functions given to hall officers.
By no means must hall leadership be postponed to some future time when conditions are calculated to be even more favorable toward responsible action. The Hall Presidents’ Council and the individual hall councils are not going to wait for a stay hall system as long as there is a job to do now.
Hall Presidents’ Council Chairman Mike Hartnett
' The Scholastic
38
TRIBUNE FOUNDS FUND
The South Bend Tribune Foundation has established the Aaron H. Huguenard Law Scholarship, in honor of the late South Bend attorney and secretary of the Tribune.
Huguenard, who died at 59 last March 5, was a graduate of Notre Dame and member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. An agreement between the foundation and the University provides a $1,000 fund to underwrite the scholarship, to be awarded to outstanding students selected by the dean of the law school on the bases of financial need, academic achievement, and personality.
have made previous trips know that the peaceful austere atmosphere of the place is very appropriate for retreats.
The bus will leave Friday morning, Nov. 24, the day after Thanksgiving, for the Abbey, and will return Sunday, Nov. 26. The trip is open to all undergraduates, graduates, and faculty members and is sponsored by the Young Christian Students.
Those interested may inquire at the Office of the vice-president for student affairs in the Student Center, or at 330 Dillon. Reservations are on a first come, first served basis and will be open until November 15.
30,000 alumni. Balloting will close Dec. 15.
Those nominated include four attorneys: A. L. Castellini of Cincinnati, O.; C. L. Donovan of Bedford, Ind.; W. B. Dreux of New Orleans, La.; and J. R. Gorman of Washington, D. C.
Other nominees are P. J. Faccenda, president of the Midwest Container Co., Chicago, Hl.; P. J. Kernan, Jr., with the Ford Motor Co. of Detroit, Mich.; A. J. Walsh, U. S. Marshall of Brunswick, Me.; and T. J. Walker, president of Walker Insurance Associates of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.
STUDENTS INVITED TO RETREAT
Those who aren’t going home either for the full or partial duration of Thanksgiving vacation might want to take the short trip down to Bardstown, Ky., to make a retreat at the Trappist Monastery there. Those who
ALUMNI PICK DIRECTORS
Eight Notre Dame graduates have been nominated to serve as directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Four of the nominees will be elected to three-year terms in a nation-wide mail ballot among the
CALL THIS NUMBER
Anyone wishing to announce activities in the Scholastic should call extension 515 between 2 and 3 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 7 to 11:30 p.m., Sunday and Monday.
SIC FLICS

w mm i
KING
r
*


4*
I*


“Thanks, Mr. Frobish-but I still think I’d rather have CHESTERFIELDS!”
IGAI^ETTES
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!	,
AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
November 10,1961
39
CAPRI
Chrome cap, five barrel colors. $1.95 gift-boxed
CAPRI MARK IV Gold or chrome finish.
$3.50 gift-boxed
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Escape
(Continued from page 9)
Sorin: I am geeving up on zis whole crummy beeziness. You said you could do eet. I lat you try. Zis is ze result!
Dillon: Well, perhaps I did speak a little too enthusiastically. But you mustn't judge until we’ve finished, Father. True, there have been setbacks ...
Sorin: (sarcastically) Oui, zere have been setbacks. Like for instance ze front door getting put on ze second story.
Dillon: (nervously) Well, don’t you think the porch looks nice there now?
Sorin: Oh, sure. Ees so good I may keel myself.
Corby: Well, Father, we’ve come this far pretty successfully, and there isn’t time for much of anything else to go wrong.
Dillon: (After frantic gestures to Corby which are missed:) Uhhh...
Sorin: (groaning) Oh, no, Father, what ees eet now?
Dillon: Well, er, it isn’t really so much, but it’s just that, um, well, you see I didn’t quite get the orders straight and there’s this like, well, see, running right up the middle and we don’t know what to put on top of it.
(Sorin is temporarily incapable of speech, reverting to a series of inchoate babblings interspersed with groans, and kicking an occasional rock.)
Corby: Um, why not just some more chimney pots and things?
Dillon: Nothing to hold them up with.
Sorin: (recovering himself with an effort) I wash my ’ands of zis whole sing right ’ere and now. I don’t care w’at you do. I’m going home and sack out. Wake me up for Gunsmoke.
Corby: A steeple?
Dillon: Got one already. Might try a dome.
Sorin: A dome. A dome! C’est assez ridicule! Ohhhhhh. I just don’t care any more — do whatever you want, but don’t bozzair me again. (He walks away.)
Dillon: Have you any suggestions for the color, Father?
Sorin: (turning around) Ze color! Bah! Paint eet peenk! Paint eet gold for all I care! Get gold leaf! Ohhhhh! (muttering) A dome! Zat I should see ze day... (exit.)
Corby: Did he say gold leaf?
Dillon: (shrugs) That’s what he said. Jehosaphat!
The Scholastic
40
thee
LX*'
II IK
I
Which would you choose upon graduation...
L4 a
'O
t
□ a $4,500-a-year job in the II. S.
. □ or a Peace Corps job in Africa?
© Are Greek-letter sororities and fraternities good for American Colleges
© Do men expect their dates to furnish their own cigarettes?

ASVA 6oKMI9

BB3
Q 0

□ YES
□ NO

□ YES □ NO
I

Expect more... get more from
L4M
The rich-flavor leaf among L&M’s choice tobaccos gives you more body in the blend ... more flavor in the smoke ... more taste through the filter. Get lots more—L&M!
•09 O39WOI SHIAH y lUQQn

LlGGCTT t HYERS TOBACCO
.0^.1
•skoals 0} Ahbbj oqu a/doBd jo/ 9}}Bjb6io jo)h/ eqt s.wj—xoq jo j/obj
%LZ %U
‘°NQ
S8A
%W %L3
■°NQ
sax
.......sdjoo eoBBd
%6S......•"s,nui qof “
FORUM
SCIENTIFIC
EDUCATION:
ITS VALUE
IgNORANCE coupled with envy is its own reward. Hence, the drivel which appeared in the Forum of Oct. 27 would not even merit a rebuttal, were it not for the fact that the opinions of Messrs. Barton and Rhodes seem to find echo in a number of equally misinformed “students.”
Let us look at the facts. It is perhaps one of them that the scientific curriculum is more demanding than the others. One might note that in addition to their own rigorous science program, science students can and do take advanced and honor courses in the AB school with consistently good results. This cross-fertilization is noticeably lacking in the other direction.
It might be argued, of course, that this is not due to any lack of abilities in the liberal arts students, but rather because anyone concerned with the rarified heights of medieval Scholasticism would find it difficult to lower himself to such things as quantum mechanics, electromagnetic theory, or the theory of complex variables. If such is the case, however, then these students should not be so free in using the term “whole man” in their defense. They might do well to reconsider their definition of the whole man. Certainly one who is ignorant of modem science and its implications could hardly be classed as whole.
Let it be clear that in no way do we
42
by A. G. Hermida
and
Tom Schwartzbauer
wish to imply a lack of apprecation of the course of studies pursued in the AB school. However, the argument so frequently proposed by the liberal arts students in defense of their onesided education, that they are concerned with a kind of knowledge higher than the scientific, would, if carried to its logical extreme, find everyone taking theology courses exclusively. For it is precisely their point that they cannot take any time away from their AB courses to invest in the less important science courses.
Let us consider now the science students and their curriculum. A quick look at the graduation requirements would reveal that science majors take an average of 55 credits in liberal arts courses, and approximately 74 in science courses. Physics majors, for example, take 14 credits in philosophy versus the AB average of 12. But this is only a naive approach, for numbers alone do not tell the whole story. The final criterion is the attitude of the science students toward these subjects. And the statement that they as a whole consider them “inferior, trivial, and meaningless” is sheer stupidity.
^^NYONE who sat in Dr. Gross’ honor English course for freshman
physics and mathematics majors two years ago, or in Father Maguire’s science majors’ theology section last year, could testify to the keen interest that science majors hold in fields outside their own special province. This is indeed more than one can say for the majority of the “well-rounded” liberal arts students, most of whom have only the foggiest notions of the principles and theories of science. And science is, after all, one of the main driving forces of the society in which they live.
Granted, of course, that liberal arts students take more AB courses than science students do. But to suggest that they hold a monopoly on these subjects is simply ridiculous. To cite a particular instance, science math majors take an average of 66 AB credits out of a total of 135, whereas AB math majors take 82 AB credits out of a total of 124. Not a sufficiently great difference, one would think, to place condemnation on the one course of study and complete approval on the other. And to the claim that “it is doubtful that the graduates of the j sciences have acquired any insights j into things religious and philosophical” ’ one can answer with enough counter- j examples to render it meaningless. It s is possible, however, that Messrs. Rhodes and Barton have become acquainted with only those science majors (and there are possibly some) who have only disdain for the liberal arts. If so, we can only pity them for their poor taste in friends.	f
Nor do the science students, in j general, view the liberal arts students j with the obvious contempt shown j towards us by Messrs. Barton and j Rhodes. None but a fool would mini- * mize the importance of the humanist I to our society. We are simply aware j of the fact that while we can, and do, j communicate with them on their	■
grounds, they cannot communicate	i
with us on ours.	;
More important than all this, how-ever, is the positive contribution which 1 the scientific education, per se, makes 1 to the development of the individual. » The insights it provides into episte- j mology and the philosophy of nature are probably unequaled. It develops j to a high degree the capacity for	i
analytic reasoning so necessary for	|
any philosophic thought. But more j significantly, a commitment for life j to a search for truth, for intelligibility | in God’s universe, cannot (as Plato ( argues in his Symposium) fail to j develop, through a continually increasing love of wisdom, the individual’s ability for worship, his capax Dei.
The Scholastic
Arrow
cwb-jcMJ"PA R
Short sleeves $5.95
Long sleeves $6.95
From the
"Cum Laude Collection'
The pullover shirt with no handicap
This new knitted shirt of 100% orlon is magnificently tailored to conform to natural body lines.
Its comfortable good looks and swing-free action brings out the best in you at work or play.
Banion comes in 12 colors.


£
2
a s
I The favored 6VVbJ^OVb® knit for the college man
No campus wardrobe is complete without a selection of Arrow Banion knits for active sports or just relaxing. Come in to see this new uxury collection of knits. Specially designed for the man of action.
$5.95
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend