7'
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Ct*, a Copy $3.00 the Year
March 18
19 3 2
Industry takes a hint from the kitchen
The domestic art of baking is closely paralleled in telephone manufacture at Western Electric, where plastic molding is an exact science.
Telephone bell boxes, for instance, are no longer formed of metal. They are molded from a phenol plastic compound—containing carbolic acid, formaldehyde and other ingredients—because Western Electric manufacturing engineers saw the way to make a better
product at lower cost. These men developed a new and exceptionally efficient type of plastic molding press—and determined precisely how long to bake the mixture and the exact temperature to use.
In quickly taking advantage of the new art of plastic molding, Bell System engineers once more showed that they have the kind of imagination that keeps American industry forging ahead.
BELL SYSTEM
NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
c'
March 18, 1932
• One
Easter Holiday
Excursions
Chicago and Return
$3.01
These low round trip rates will be in effect on the South Shore Line between South Bend and Chicago for over the Easter vacation. Tickets are good on any train leaving South Bend Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday, March 21, 22, 23; and good returning any time up to and including the 11:30 train out of Chicago Thursday evening, March 31. Train service hourly in both directions.
For information or reservations on any road, get in touch with our representative, Charles Woods, 222 Lyons Hall, or call our station, Michigan and LaSalle streets, 3-3111.
rSOUTHNSH°RE
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
Two
The Scholastic
Gateway to Notre Dame
But Also The Last Glimpse
To The Senior Who Will Graduate Just Two Months After The Easter. Vacation Ends
March 18, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at ths Uninen-its of Notre Dame. Manuscripts map be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Tl	I <	I I g ■ Entered ae second-dose
I ne INotre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mariturus
FOUNDED 1865	authorized June ts, 1918.
Neil C. Hurley________________________Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASMAN------------------------Managing Editor
William W. Corr------------------Departmental Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM BLIND GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN...........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHEL TACKLEY. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT	DILLON
MAURICE GARLAND	PAUL	FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM	DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL	WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT ' RAY WATERS
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY.............The	Week
JOHN PICK.............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN...........Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER...........Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS.........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH.
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON.........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O'BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN.......Circulation Mgr. RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’f. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR*.....Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY MCGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY. • ■ .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.	MARCH 18, 1932	Number 20.
SUMMARY
NEWS
Grad basketball men play former team-mates Monday in season’s last game; The Scholastic staff versus the S. A. C. in preliminary-------------- 5
Ed Krause alias Mrs. Tony Wans, 1931 football squad as beauteous chorus, and Madame Zazu feature in Monogram Absurdities April 13, 14 and 16- 5
Henry Busscher, as general chairman, administers Law ball at the Palais Royal, April 22--— 5
The Glee Club, under Prof. Casasanta, will tour the east during vacation; to sing Holy Mass Easter morning at Milford, Mass---------:------- 7
Hon. Benjamin N. Cordozo, recent supreme court appointee features in March issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer______________________________14
FEATURES
Jim Carmody, an English major, referees boxing
bouts, plays football, and stokes fires in a steel mill; “A Man About the Campus”---------------------12
N. D. observatory, deserted by even the squirrels, to stage a comeback next year-------------------------16
As the idea of a saintly man, Father Sorin, The Ave Maria grows from a small pamphlet to a magazine 1	with thirty-three thousand circulation--------17
SPORTS
Alex Wilson leads Irish runners in successful defense of C. I. C. title__________________________________20
Extensive improvements made on University golf course 20 l’	Purdue, Kansas, Pitt, and U. S. C. to play on Notre
Dame gridiron in 1933_____________________________21
Eight-match schedule for varsity golf team released this week 23
Lyons defeats Sophomore for place in interhall finals with Off-Campus____________________________________26
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, March 18—Scholastic staff meeting: editorial board, Publications’ office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Room 222, Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 19—Movie, Richard Arlen and Peggy Shannon in “Touchdown,” “Ovei- the Yukon Trail,” . News Reel, Screen Song, Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:25 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 20—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Glee club concert, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
MONDAY, March 21—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Meeting of the Bookmen, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—French movie, Washington hall, 7:45 p. m. —Basketball, Varsity Grads vs. Undergrads, and Scholastic vs. S. A. C., Notre Dame Gym, 7:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 22—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec”, 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 23—Easter vacation begins at 12:00 noon.
The Scholastic staff wishes you a merry Easter vacation, hopes for prosperous club dances. Yea, even from the super-sophisticated Metropolitan frolic to the gala, good, healthy fun of the Peoria club.
Good luck, All.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
|f you go in for a few laughs now and then, you must by all means get in on the latest on the S. A. C. - Scholastic battles. It’s to be basketball at about fifty paces, with the two organizations choosing weapons from among their members. We suppose that The Scholastic will politely give the S. A. C. team a big blow, and the S. A. C. men will finally speak to the embryo journalists. It will be a great day, with both sides of the arena banked with votes in the flesh and the few persons who, we hope, read the well known weekly. And we understand that as usual the Bengalese, the lucky devils, stand to get more cakes and rice out of the affair. As an added attraction or detraction, we, The Week, shall cavort from basket to basket. More fun!
JoE McCABE appeared in a new role last Tuesday night at a meeting of the big and very unwieldy Chicago club, and was, as everyone will admit, the absolute payoff. As a combination Will Rogers, Phil Baker, Ted Healy, and Harry Savoy, he paniced them to say the least, even so far as to make them forget the sandwiches and coffee—quite a feat, that. Indeed, the only glum faces about the audience were on the waiters, who with thoughts on their beds and eyes on their watches, wondered when it would all end. Fun is fun for those boys, but banquets, after fifty or so a year, just aren’t fun. The Week took part in the entertainment, too, but its part had best be glossed over, since it was rather pathetic, all things considered. From now on we are going to stick to being a policeman, and do our singing, if at all, in a group or among friends, if we have any left.
The flower of humor has blossomed again among the more witty of the Russians—which is the name designating the present crop of five-year men. Stump Cronin despatched a telegram, collect, to Bernie Leahy in Chicago, who was a six-year man of some fame, asking for 60 tickets for the Golden Gloves bouts, at two dollars per. We can just imagine how Bernie laughed as he kicked the messenger down the stairs. A little funnier was the wire Kitty Gorman sent to Turk Larkin at school in the South, concerning a notoriously basketless member of the cage team. It said simply: . . made a basket.” Supply your own name in the dotted space.
T IS the hour of two. The editor and a few others who are interested in the time that The Scholastic is dropped in front of your door Friday afternoon are huddled together in the musty darkness of a Sorin chamber. Now and then a prayer is wafted heaven-ward, an anxious look cast towards the “quod.” Why so pale and wan? “The Week” Carmody is missing. Big Mike, the beer baron, has lost his best waiter. Jim was last seen hurrying towards Washington hall about eight o’clock to rehearse one of those gas-house, sud-slinging roles that have made him the pride of Professor Kelly and company. “The Akron” doesn’t know that his colyum was one paragraph short. He’d probably be here if he did. It is whispered about the University theater will practice well into the morning. Perhaps somebody ought to risk his four-year scholastic standing, circumnavigate the watchman and get Jim. Gosh, though, there’s no room left now.
March 18, 1932
Five
MONOGRAM CLUB GETS SET FOR ABSURDITIES
Letter-Winners Will Burlesque Undergraduate Life.
By Granget Weil
Ed Krause as Mrs. Tony Wans, and Jim Harriss as Mrs. Harpo Marx in a radio skit will be features of the Monogram Absurdities of 1932, the annual musical comedy of the Monogram club, to be held April 13, 14 and 16, in Washington hall.
Casts of the different skits were allotted at the meeting of the Monogram club Monday evening.
About This Radio Skit
Jim O’Connor will take the part of Tony Wans in the radio skit, Harpo Marx will be portrayed by Joe Pavarnik, and Charlie Palt will play Graham McNamee. Charles Weiss as Mrs. McNamee, Charles Jaskwhich as Floyd Gibbons and Bill McCormick as Mrs. Gibbons will complete the cast.
The beautiful maids of the chorus will include George Kozak, Paul Host, Joe Shekeetski, Mike Koken, Bill Newbold, Norb Crowe, Steve Banas, and George Melinkovich. They have been in rehearsal for several weeks and by the time of the show, their flashing limbs should be in perfect rhythm.
“The Old Professor,” a typical classroom scene, will be enacted by almost the entire club. Bill Lomasney will have the lead as the professor. This will be the first time in the history of Notre Dame classes that men have been assigned beforehand to render solo and chorus “birdies.”
An Added Attraction
As an added attraction, the Great Mysterious Madame Zazu has been contracted for a mind reading act. The Madame’s powers are well known and she has solved the mysteries of some of the greatest football teams of the country.
John Perone with a team of four cohorts will be on hand to give a special skit which is to be announced at a later date. Perone presented an act in the “Absurdities of 1931” that is still remembered by those who saw it.
Joseph Casasanta will be the director of the Absurdities, and will be assisted by Nordy Hoffmann, president of the Monogram club.
VARSITY GRADS TO PLAY THEIR MATES IN CHARITY BASKETBALL TILT MONDAY

Law Club Picks Dance Chairmen;
Announces Date
Harry A. Busscher was appointed to the general chairmanship of the Lawyers’ ball this week by Ed. J. England, president of the Law club.
Harry A. Busscher
A Ball, with the Law on its side. „
With the announcement of the appointment was the information that the affair will be held on the 22nd of April in the Palais Royale ballroom.
Customary ballyhoo concerning the orchestra was itemized, but no definite selection has been made as yet. According to the committee “several of the leading orchestras in the East and Widwest are being considered.”
The tickets will be placed on sale immediately after the Easter vacation, with the subscription standing at three dollars. Officers declare that no more than three hundred ducats will be placed on sale, with the proviso that each member is to be allotted but two of the pasteboards.
The complete committee personnel follows:
Harry A. Busscher, general chairman.
TICKETS—John T. Harrington, chairman ; Raymond J. Reardon. Lawrence Duffy Johnson, John W. Manley, ojseph F. Deeb, Lewis R. Gentili, Carl M. Cronin.
ARRANGEMENTS — James W. Halligan, chairman ; Henry T. Horka, Joseph P. Sitek, Herman A. Ziffrin, Phillip L. Konop, Robert V. Markland. John F. Connolly, Edward T. Koiski.
(Continued on Page 15)
S. A C. TO BE IN CHARGE
“Scholastic” Staff Will Also Meet The S. A. C. In Curtain Raiser.
The final appearance of the great 1932 Notre Dame squad will be made Monday night when the senior members of the organization meet a quintet of the undergraduate eagers for the benefit of the Bengal Missions. A preliminary game between the S. A. C. and The Scholastic team will start at 7 p. m. Admission to everyone will be on a twenty-five cent basis.
Two Squads Evenly Matched
There should be little to choose between the two squads in the feature encounter. The graduates will undoubtedly be slight favorites because of the presence of four of the varsity regulars in their lineup.
It is probable that they will start a team composed of Norb Crowe, Bill Newbold, Ray DeCook, Tom Burns, and either Al Schumacher or Clay Johnson. All of these men are monogram winners.
Big Ed Krause, sophomore sensation, will lead the undergraduate squad from his pivot position. Joe Voegele is sure to be at one forward and Leo Crowe at guard, with the other two starters doubtful.
Alberts To Work With Voegele
Eddie Alberts will probably be nominated to work with Voegele and the unfilled guard post will be handled by one of a number of reserve eagers. Freshmen basketeers are not eligible for the contest.
The S. A. C. - Scholastic encounter in the curtain raiser will transfer a full-grown feud from the editorial pages to the basketball floor. Besides being replete with “color,” the tilt should produce a share of acceptable basketball. Interhall luminaries are on both squads and will be the nucelus of the starting lineups.
Six
The Scholastic
Theatre Discovers New Star In Irish Dramas Last Night
HONORED INSTITUTIONS HUMORIZED IN JUGGLER
HIGGINS IS PRAISED
“Current Events” Number Full of Satirical Sketches.
Walsh and Miss Chisholm Also Win Plaudits; Cast Acquit Themselves Well.
By John E. Ryan
The University Theatre, giving its most difficult presentation since Julius Caesar, last evening played three
George Higgins
An Irishman ivas the star.
Irish plays, one by W. B. Yeats, the other two by Lady Gregory.
Despite the difficulties to be faced, the players acquitted themselves unusually well, though the plays, being strange to the student body, were perhaps less popular on the whole than the recent production, “Gold in the Hills.”
“The Rising of the Moon,” by Lady Gregory, brought a new player to the fore in the ranks of the University Theatre in the person of George Higgins. Sharing the spotlight with the veteran Virgillius Phillips, Higgins carried the allegory of the play in fine fashion.
In the second play of the program, a play more potent with meaning than the first, William Walsh returned to the stage of Washington hall with all the ability which he has previously shown in The Merchant of Venice and Gold in the Hills. Supporting him was James Carrico, playing the Fool, and David Powers as the King’s Son.
The longest and most difficult of the plays, Hyacinth Halvey, also by Lady Gregory, closed the evening’s per-
(Continued on Page 30)
Scholastic And S.A.C. To Meet
On Cage Floor
The Student Activities council and The Scholastic staff will let their typewriters lie idle this week, as the scene of their heated battle is shifted to the Notre Dame gymnasium.
There on the well-kept basketball court of Dr. George Keogan, the two undergraduate organizations will ’ meet to settle their time-old grudge, which flared anew last week in the editorial page.
A Preliminary Battle
The cage tilt, although serving as a preliminary tussle to the graduateunderclassmen battle, will not be lacking in fervor, nor in good basketball, according to critics.
John Kramer, president of the S. A. C., opened the hostilities this week, when the final arrangements were made.
“We’ve got this game cinched,” he declared to a circle of friends in the cafeteria. “I’m willing to bet Hurley or any one else on The Scholastic staff ten dollars that the S. A. C. comes out on the long end.”
When Kramer’s offer was carried to The Scholastic office the bet was immediately accepted.
Intense Rivalry
All of the intense rivalry that has been brewing between both groups is expected to blaze into white heat by game time, as the hoop throwers from both organizations get ready for the tip-off.
John Perone, whose mirth-provoking antics have long been indisputable, will be on hand to assist the S. A. C. in their attempts to prove their supremacy over The Scholastic.
English Major Exams Sunday
Examinations for those sophomores desiring to major in English will be held Palm Sunday, it was announced this week by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
By Edmund Stephan
Taking some of the most time-honored institutions for the worst sort of “ride” the Current Events number of the Juggler will flash its
John Murphy
He saiv two good shows.
pages across the campus this evening.
Anybody who is dissatisfied witn the present status of things in general will take particular delight in the Funny Fellow’s satirical sketches of presidential candidates, national heroes, depression gags, Senate investigations, and everything else which lends itself to the glorious mass in which we Americans find ourselves today.
The written material of Gorman’s issue more than balances an art section which is slightly less attractive than that of previous issues.
The cover is typically Lopkerian but, with the exception of several very excellent drawings by Frank Conboy, the art on the whole is below par.
Lucky enough to make the new “K e y h o 1 e Portraits” column this month were Joe (Scrip) McCabe, Bill (Basketball) Newbold, and Gene (President) Connelly. Tighe Woods is running an excellent sheet.
The theater section, handled by John Murphy, with its reviews of the “Band Wagon” and “Smiling Faces” was good enough to make us want to see both shows. Miss Adele Astaire, of “Band Wagon” fame, graces a full page at the editor’s request.
March 18, 1932
Seven
WITTLIFF DISCUSSES DEPRESSION REMEDIES
“The Gold Standard/’ Subject of Paper Read to Seminar.
Remedies were suggested as aids for the depression in a paper, “The Gold Standard,” presented by John S. Wittliff, before the Economics seminar, Monday evening.
Forty Glee Club Members Will Make Vacation Tour
College Comics To Be Graded In National Ballot
TO JOURNEY EAST
Collins and Prof. Casasanta Arrange Trip Over Route Planned For 1931.
John Wittliff
. By reduction of gold in the dollar, prices would rise.”
“The Gold Standard, which is the best medium of exchange known has collapsed,” Wittliff read. “Two-thirds of the world’s gold supply is held by the United States and France, so it is impossible for foreign nations t-j pay their debts in this time-honored '	medium of exchange. As a resuit,
this condition is depressing our world wide depression; trade cannot be carried on if countries cannot pay for goods.”
By a reduction in the amount of gold in the gold dollars, he said, prices would rise, causing optimism throughout the industries, and consequently employment would begin. Also it would enable the easier payment of debts that were contracted during a period of high prices; the purchasing power returned to the creditors would be about the same as they extended to the debtors. This rise in price would also increase the equity mortgagers throughout the country, thereby reducing the number of foreclosures.
If these suggestions, which are set economic authorities, were accepted, j	trade would revive and the mal-dis-
’	tribution of gold would tend to cor-
rect itself.
College comic magazines will be graded this year in a nation-wide poll to be conducted by The Scholastic, it was announced today.
John Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications, together with Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, were in Chicago last weekend to complete final arrangements
John Lansinger, publisher of College Humor, and one of the judges for the contest, pledged his support to the undertaking.
Lansinger O. K.’s Idea
“I am heartily behind any movement that will aid student magazines,” he declared Saturday. “My best wishes go to The Scholastic in this important contest. You are doing a real service to the cause of collegiate humor publications.”
Other judges in the tentative schedule worked out at present includes Russell Patterson, nationally famous artist, and George Eggleston, editor of Life.
All comic magazines will be allowed one vote, with which they will ballot upon the merits of other undergraduate humor publications.
The sectional winners will then be sent to the judges, who will hold a special meeting in New York. Winners will be awarded original drawings by several nationally known artists, whose names are not yet divulged.
National Scale
“We are working this contest on a national scale,” declared John F. Stoeckley this morning. “And for this reason expect some exceedingly interesting returns.”
The Scholastic was authorized by the National Association of College Comics to carry on the present poll, which is expected to prove a lure for editors to turn out the best possible comic magazines.
By Mitchell Tackley
Forty members of the University of Notre Dame Glee club will leave the campus next Thursday morning to begin their annual Easter vacation tour of eastern cities. James K. Collins, business manager of the club, made the announcement last night. The trip has been arranged by Collins, acting in conjunction with Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organization.
Annual Event
The spring trip has been an annual event in the schedule of Prof. Casasanta’s singers, and the territory to be covered this year is approximately the same as that of the proposed trip last year. The 1931 trip was cancelled as were other University activities of the time, because of the sudden death of Knute K. Rockne.
The singers will go via the New York Central railroad directly to Boston. In that city they will hold their final rehearsal before going to Milford, Mass, where they will sing Guonod’s Second Mass on Easter Sunday morning. This will follow a Communion breakfast given by the Catholic people of Milford. The regular concert program will be presented that evening, and as Milford is the home town of Prof. Casasanta, special efforts are being made by the club to make this its best concert on the tour.
Returns To Boston
The following day the club will return to Boston where a concert will be presented under the auspices of the Emmanuel college. Much of the time spent in and around Boston will be given over to tours to points of interest.
Traveling westward again, the club will make its next appearance in Utica, New York, where a concert will be presented. The following (Continued on Page 10)
Eight
The Scholastic
KIRBY WINS PRAISE AS N.D. DEBATES MICHIGAN
No Decision Given As Teams Open Rivalry Last Week.
t
i I
i
1
By Raymond Waters
Last Friday night in Washington hall the University of Michigan met Notre Dame in a debate for the first time in the history of either institution. No decision was rendered.
The topic was: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a compulsory, nation-wide plan of control in the major, basic industries.” The negative side was defended by Notre Dame.
Personnel of Teams
The Michigan debaters were Howard Simon, Victor Rubinowitz and Nathan Levy. Thomas O’Meara, James J. Boyle and William Kirby represented Notre Dame.
Labeling the business cycle “a picture of human unintelligence at its greatest,” Howard Simon, the first speaker for the affirmative outlined the plan of government control advocated by his team. The plan called for a federal board of economic control and a series of sub-committees which would be similar to the Interstate Commerce commission.
Simon’s two colleagues explained how the plan could be applied, and attempted to prove its effectiveness.
Stating that such a plan was in direct opposition to all rights of private property, personal liberty and private enterprise, the Notre Dame men attempted to show that the plan, if adopted, would bring ruin to the nation.
Kirby Effective
The two most effective speakers of the evening were Kirby of Notre Dame and Levy of Michigan.
Kirby, in comparing the plan with the one tried by Brazil, said: “Brazil tried to control its coffee crop. What happened? At present it has to use the surplus coffee as fuel in its locomotives . . . and, as a result, the passengers can’t sleep at night.”
As a final retort in defense of his plan Levy declared: “No matter how cross-eyed a man may be, if he intends to hit a target it is better to keep those crossed eyes open than to close than.”
BUSINESS MAN
Edmund Britz, whose career at Notre Dame is marked by an unziszial ■ advance in undergraduate business affairs. As advertising manager of the “Dome” last year, he scored an individual phenomenal success, and again as the financial zvizard of the 1931 Football Review he once more lured many dollars into the bzisiness coffers.
St. Mary’s College To Hold Easter Dance In Chicago
A new epoch in the social history of St. Mary’s will be inaugurated on Tuesday evening, March 29, when the alumnae and students cooperate in the first dinner dance to be held off the campus.
The dinner dance will be held at the Edgewater Beach hotel in Chicago and will be a strictly subscription affair at five dollars per couple. Admission will be by invitation only.
Invitations, however, are expected to be in the mail this week for the members of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame and Notre Dame students living near Chicago. For those Notre Dame students spending the Easter vacation on the campus, who wish to attend the dinner dance, special arrangements have been made. They may secure tickets and information from Tighe Woods, 325 Corby hall.
As this dance is expected to draw a large crowd, the Marine dining room and a smaller ballroom will be used. Reservations will close Saturday noon, March 26th. Dancing will be from seven until twelve. Mrs. Clifton F. Woods is general chairman of the dance and Mrs. Jerome J. Crowley is treasurer.
DR. O’GRADY AIRS VIEWS
Continues Faculty Series Over Station WSBT.
A reviezv of the speech bzj Professoz' Charles Phillips, ivho was on the air Wednesday, zvill be found on page 11.
“It may seem ambitious on the part of a man” said Professor Daniel G. O’Grady, of the department of philosophy, College of Arts and Letters, in the Monday evening radio address, “to attempt the formulation of a view of the cosmos and it may appear boastful to claim that one had such a view, and yet, that is precisely what the philosopher does.”
Speaking on the subject of “Contemporary Views of the Universe,” Professor O’Grady continued stating that every man has his own philosophy that is his view of the universe. “Philosophy,” he said, “is equivalent to the sum total of a man’s convictions.”
About Professional Philosophers
“The men who are called professional philosophers,” explained Prof. O’Grady, “are those who have specialized on this branch of human endeavors, and who devote themselves to the innate demands of the intellect.” A histroical sketch of such philosophers as Plato and St. Thomas Aquinas was then given.
Professor O’Grady stressed the fact that outside of man’s ordinary life, his working hours, and his appetite, he needs something that will cater to his other interests as a human being. He needs philosophy over and above his science.
Science Differs
Differentiating between philosophy and science, one can .compare them as an aviator and a pedestrian, he said. “The pedestrian sees more incidental details than the flyer, but the latter makes up in scope, or breadth of view for his lack of information as to the particular features,” he continued.
In concluding his talk, the professor stated that blind chance cannot explain the constancy, regularity, concordance, and repetition of phenomena. “Truly, as Sir Thomas Brown said,” he quoted, “the course of nature in the art of God.”
March 18, 1932
Nine
FR. M1LTNER AT MEETING
Attends Convention in Chicago of North Central Association.
Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, left the University yesterday, and is to attend the annual meeting of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools as a representative of Notre Dame. The affair is being held in the Stevens Hotel in Chicago.
Sessions of the association began yesterday and will end this evening. Those in attendance at the convention include members of the three commissions, which are standing committees, as well as non-members.
At the meeting, numerous reports will be presented relating to standards for high schools, standards for colleges, athletic policies, college entrance requirements, the scope of units in certain secondary school subjects, and other matters of professional interest to college and high school representatives.
Principal addresses before the association will be delivered by President H. W. Chase, of the University of Illinois; President A. G. Ruthven, of the University of Michigan; President G. W. Rightmire, of Ohio State University; and President Walter A. Jessop, of the University of Iowa.
Each secondary school or college holding membership in the association is entitled to send a delegate who will have the right to vote on all matters of business coming before the association. A special session was held yesterday morning when the National Survey of Secondary Education was discussed.
Jeannette Murphy Quits Post;
To Take Job At St. Mary’s
Miss Jeannette J. Murphy has resigned her position as head cataloguer of the University library to become head librarian at St. Mary’s college. She was succeeded by Miss Ellen D. Kistler who has been cataloguing the Dante collection.
Mrs. Gennaine Mischker Benz has also resigned, and she has been succeeded by Miss Margaret Jones of Jackson, Tenn. Another new member of the library staff is Miss Mabel Reinhart. Miss Reinhart formerly worked in the library of the College of St. Catherine in St. Paul, Minn.
MANAGER
(Story on Page 17)
Brother Martin, C.S.C., who in his duties as manager of the Ave Maria Printing office, superintendents the publishing of the Ave Maria, Notre Dame Alumnus, The Catalyzer, The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes, The Midland Naturalist, The Notre Dame Retreatant, and The Notre Dame Scholastic.
Religious Bulletins On Marriage Now Obtainable
All the Religious Bulletins on “How to Prepare For Marriage,” that appeared from March 4 to 10, have been bound into booklet form and are now available at the pamphlet racks of Sorin and Dillon halls.
The booklet made its appearance last Tuesday. The subjects treated by it are: “If possible keep your head,” “Lead a clean life,” “Learn frugality,” “Seek counsel,” “Never confuse infatuation or lust with love” and “Try out her cooking.”
With the exception of some slight revision the articles in the pamphlet are the same as the ones that .appeared in the Religious Bulletin. This is the fifth printing of this series. The custom of binding them began in 1925, the year that the Bulletin was first mimeographed.
There are between eight and nine million homes in the United States that are not wired for electricity. More than four million of these are farmhouses owned by white families, and less than a fourth of these unwired homes have any sort of radio equipment.
ETHICS IN LINDBERGH CASE ARE DISCUSSED
Father Raemers Gives Talk To Commerce Forum.
By William Flynn
Charging that prohibition, big finance, politics, and lax law -enforcement were the big offenders in the kidnapping of Charles A. Lindbergh, Jr., the Reverend S. A. Raemers, member of the Philosophy department of the University, discussed the ethical sides of the question before the Commerce Forum last Friday night.
Only Lindbergh Offended
“People are wondering,” said Father Raemers, “if Colonel Lindbergh did right in resorting to all possible means to save his child. The question of whether or not one is permitted to pay a ransom and thus further the cause of the crime, has again been the subject of debate.
“We must first remember that the offense given in this case was an individual offense to Colonel Lindbergh and that he is in a position to condone an injury done to himself and that he can ethically condone it as far as he is concerned.
“Establishing a precedent that may lead to kidnapping becoming a big business, should Colonel Lindbergh pay the ransom, is the only unethical phase of the question,” Father Raemers said.
Times Are At Fault
“The criminals are not so much to blame as the conditions in which we live and which all tend to grow these species of beings in the hot-house of prohibition,” continued Father Raemers. “This is the unethical side of the Lindbergh case. The government and government officials can shoulder the blame in this case.
“The guilt is theirs, because they have brought about the situation; they have laid the scene and the actors only came on and played theii' part.”
In conclusion, Father Raemers stated that it would be unethical to free Al Capone, should he recover the famous flyer’s lost son, for his debt to society is too great to be condoned by such an act.
r
Ten
The Scholastic
FATHER BURKE URGES MORE CLUB LIFE HERE
Delivers Principal Speech To Chicago Club Tuesday.
Two hundred members of the Notre Dame-Chicago club packed into the Faculty dining room last Tuesday evening to participate in the best meeting of the present year.
The Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., honorary president of the organiza-
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
They liked his jokes.
tion, was the principal speaker, and entertained his audience with a talk on the family spirit of hall life.
“When you leave Notre Dame,” Father Burke declared, “you can take your law, your engineering, or your commerce knowledge away with you, but you must leave the spirit of the halls here for future generations.”
He then suggested that the club attempt to build up that spirit among its members, to establish close relationships between men from the same city.
“In this way,” Father Burke maintained, “the college friendships will not be broken up on graduation day.”
But Father Burke’s speech was not all instructive.. In the early portions of his talk he went into the humorous side of prefecting, and gave examples to his audience of incidents that had happened in his earlier days.
Joe McCabe, editor of Scrip, added zest to the program with a few stories from experience.
Politics Class Will Journey To Washington
A group consisting of the politics students are leaving South Bend on Sunday, March 20 at 5:05 p. m. from the Pennsylvania station. The party is being conducted by Professor Paul C. Barthlomew.
Leaving South Bend on the Pennsylvania, the party changes at Plymouth to the Rainbow Limited, going east. The return trip will be made on the Liberty Limited, leaving Washington Wednesday evening, on the twenty-third of March.
GLEE CLUB GOES ON TOUR
(Continued from Page 7)
morning the club members will attend the Mass for the repose of the soul of the late Knute Rockne, on the first anniversary of his death.
The last concert of the tour will be given in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and the singers will return to the Notre Dame campus, March 31st.
Saturday, April 2, the Glee club has been engaged to appear in Grand Rapids, Mich., where they are scheduled for a double-header. One concert will be given during the afternoon, and another in the evening. The club will return Sunday, April 3rd. Concerts are also booked for Fort Wayne as well as Anderson, Indiana, at a later date in April.
Word has been received from the concert cities that elaborate plans are being made for the reception and entertainment of the Notre Dame singers. The men chosen by Director Casasanta for the trip are:
FIRST TENORS—James Collins, William Casazza, Charles Dietrich, Joseph De Paul, Joseph Kennedy, Arthur Glascow, Frank O’Neil, John Sodaski, and Maurice Scanlon.
SECOND TENORS—James Carmody, Gerald Conway, William McNulty, George Eichler, Jack Mathews, Herbert Wehrlen, Frank Maas, Herbert Petzel, Thomas Downs, Tom Roach; and John F. Ryan.
FIRST BASSES — Robert Nesbit, George Menard, Tom Garver, Bill Waltz, E. D. Quinn, Justin Tompkins, Robert Butler, Robert Cahill, Jerome Roach, Paul O’Toole, and Frank Oberkoetter.
- SECOND BASSES—Fred McLaughlin, Daniel Rolfs, George Coady, James Wade, Tom Meade, William Ayres, Philip Geoghegan, George Lennartz, and Bernard J. Huston.
WILL PRESENT CONCERT
Glee Club Program Monday to Include Popular Numbers.
In an exhibition that will mark their first appearance of the year on the campus, the Notre Dame Glee club of forty members will present a varied program of vocal selections, Sunday evening, March 20, in the Washington Hall auditorium. The concert will open at 8 o’clock.
Under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, a repertoire of motets, standard secular music, folk songs, and college songs, will be presented.
The highlight of the evening’s concert will be the singing of “The Cruiskeen Lawn,” an old Irish air by Le Febvre. Another feature of the program is the “Night March” by Kountz, and a soldier’s marching song, “Why Don’t You Try?” written by Pietra A. Yon, famous composer and organist at St. Patrick’s cathedral, New York.
The final number of the program will be the singing of “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” words by the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and music by Professor J. J. Casasanta.'
The complete concert program follows:
Part One
1.—Motets— (a) “Regina Coeli” ..............O’Connor
(b)	“Emitte Spiritum’’
Schuetky-Singenberger
Notre Dame Mass—
(c)	“Benedictus”....4. J. Hope, C.S.C. 2.—Baritone Solo—
(a)	“Little Grey Home In The
West” ....................Lohr
(b)	“I Hear You Calling Ma”. .Marshall Mr. George Menard, Jr.
3	.—Part Songs—
(a)	“The Cruiskeen Lawn”—Old
<
Irish Air...........Lefebvre
(b)	“In Old Nassau”......Murchison
(c)	“John Peel” ...........Andrews
4	.—Tenor Solo—
(a)	“One Alone” ...........Romberg
(b)	“Romance” ...........Donaldson
Mr. John F. Ryan
5	.—Part Song—
“Notre Dame, Our Mother” (new)
—Very Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Casasanta
Intermission
(
Part Two
1	.—Part Songs— (a)	“The Night	March”........Kountz
(b)	“River Boat	Song”.........Seiler
(c)	“Mosquitoes”	.............Bliss
2	.—Baritone Solo— (a)	“Sylvia” ..................Speaks
(b)	“Until” ................Sanderson
(Continued on Page 14)
March IS, 1932
Eleven
PHILLIPS ON RADIO WED.
Experience Is Back of All Literature, Says N. D. Prof.
Stating that literature is life. Professor Charles L. Phillips,Department of English, of the College of Arts and Letters, concluded the University series of radio talks over WSBT, broadcasting station, Wednesday evening. “The Background of Literature” was the subject of his speech.
“Literature is life,” he declared, “because it is nothing more or less than the written record of man’s experiences in life.” Prof. Phillips then gave his definition of literature as the written record of the best thoughts and the best feelings of man.
Speaking of the great authors of the ages, Professor Phillips asserted: “What these men wrote is literature. We call it ‘classic literature.’ But it is not literature because we call it such. It is not classic because we label it so. Those two terms, ‘literature and classic’ have most unhappily taken on a very unfortunate connotation for us.
“If as I have said, we are prone to think of literature as something ‘highbrow,’ so also we are too often inclined to think of ‘classic’ as something cold and carven, something cut out of marble and set high upon a pedestal, something dead and pre-
(Continued on Page la)
Commencement Invitations May Be Ordered Now
Walter Terry and Philip Dunleavy have been appointed co-chairmen of the Commencement Invitation Committee, according to an announcement this week by Eugene Connelly, president of the Senior class.
Orders for the invitations were being received Wednesday by the various hall representatives. A choice of a leather or cardboard cover is offered, the former being priced at sixty and the latter at forty cents.
The following men are in charge of the sale: Sorin, Frank Rilley; Corby, William Murphy; Walsh, Lawrence Fischer; Off-Campus, Ed Riley and Clif Prodehl.
Special Notices
Sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters who intend to major in sociology next year are asked to meet on Saturday at 1:00 p. m. in the north basement room of the library.
At this meeting details concerning the pre-legal, probation work, and general sociology curricula for next year will be explained.
The comprehensive exam for majors in economics will be held Saturday afternoon at 1:15 in Room 1 of the Main building.
BROTHER MARTIN GIVES CLUBS PRINTING DATA
Mechanical Information Listed For Presidents.
In an effort to acquaint Notre Dame campus clubs with certain requisites when ordering printing, The Scholastic presents the following interview with Brother Martin, C.S.C., superintendent of the Ave Maria printing office.
“In planning for production,” Bro. Martin declared, “there are of course some preliminaries to take care of before the actual manufacturing begins. Selection of paper, ink and of cover material and the face and style of type is most essential.
“The building process,” he continued, “starts with composition and then progresses into electrotype, that is, making plates of type in page form for printing, and finally binding. Illustrations and engravings may be disposed of in advance of typesetting, or after proof of the composition has been submitted.
“Cover design is also another early consideration,” he stated, “as dyes must be prepared for the cover operation. Creating a good book or catalog from the idea of the originator is somewhat like developing a home.
“There must be a plan and the plan
(Continued on Page 15)
The East Will Hear Their Hikes And Their Marches
The travelling personnel of the Notre Danie Glee Club which will entrain for Eastern
parts next Thursday morning.
Twelve
The Scholastic
K Man About the Campus -
James Carmody
By Joe Degnan
“The Akron” was moored to the side of the ring. His bulk held the ropes taut as he rested with the ease of a genuine long-count artist. Face half black and half white, rowdy clothes, iron hat, and a huge finger flickering red sparks from his “Garcia Mystery” while he inquired sol-elmnly what the ring-side scribes thought of Anaconda Copper — that was Jim Carmody.
Inside the ring the Perone, Heitz’ felons were killing each other with masterly restraint. But Lord Jim was not at all concerned. Merely the referee, merely the referee.
* # * * *
If you squeezed your way into Washington hall the night the campus Thespians presented “Gold in the Hills,” the Bowery scene in that melo may still be with you. In Big Mike’s beerhouse there towered a white-aproned guy who plowed his way between the tables, clanking down suds and picking up coins with the air of a natural.
In his mouth was the same old Garcia. Perhaps Jim was merely being himself again. Admittedly, an atmosphere tart with beer or an occasional silver fizz is hardly against the grain. Yuh, just against the law.
* * *
Could you have perched yourself on that old green fence that borders Cartier field any late November afternoon you might have had another picture of genial Jim. Fingers numb with the cold, faces well-grimed, and now and then a sharp, terse command —football. Somewhere in the imbroglio of blue dirt-creased jerseys shifted our subject.
What he was doing is hardly important. A team or B team practice is about the same. After the drill a shower, and after the shower a rapid stroll to the dining hall. Jim waits on table.
*****
Campus scribes have seen Jim at The Ave Maria office now and then. Pounding viciously at the keys, pausing, then pounding again with renewed vigor — “The Week” taking shape. What was it that week: farewell to Mrs. Nick, a note on the local
Bing Crosby, a blow to Red Flynn now housed in the best South Bend jail, a curt estimate of our Washington birthday celebration, a swan song for Joe Casasanta’s derby or a suggestion for better Target cigarette ads?
$
Jim mounted his train at Chicago when he decided to come here to school. In Chi. he attended Mount
James Carmody He teas in big Mike’s beer-house.
Carmel and worked at the same time. When summers settled across Lake Michigan they found Jim doing various things. For some time he lugged ice.
At another time he stoked fires in a steel mill — which is one way of keeping w arm for the summer. Then again he did a little shoveling. All
these jobs have eased the subject through to his senior year.
Just now Jim is enjoying his English major and the classes of Professor Phillips. His inclination is toward some field of literary endeavor. Perhaps a couple years of teaching, then he’ll try to edge his way in on the fields journalistic.
In appearance, he is not unlike Don Marquis, another sturdy member of the literati. Well, Chicago has had others, and Jim may be one of those on the way.
Those who know Jim well credit him with powerful optimism and keen wit. And though he is one of the boys who appears in full dress with other campus songsters whenever the Glee club appears, “The Akron” is not at all averse to a free Crosby rendition — just for the boys in the sub. Joe McCabe, up on the second floor, says he misses none of the tone vibrations, however.
The songsters will tell you quite frankly, however, that despite happy moments of the four years the biggest will come when he gets his de-(Continued on Page 25)
CHKAGOANS Will DANCE
“Tweet” Hogan Heads Musical Talent For Affair March 28.
The Chicago club will hold their annual Easter dance on March 28, according to an announcement by “Bud” Groves, president.
“Tweet” Hogan, popular orchestra from the Windy City, will lead the musical score, with Bernie Kane and his band handling the musical refrains in an adjacent room.
The affair will be held at the Congress hotel, with one of the largest crowds ever to attend a Chicago dance expected to pack into the Gold and Balloon rooms.
To meet the financial conditions of today, Groves announces that a “depression” price of $3.50 will admit ducat purchasers to the floor.
“We are looking forward to a capacity attendance,” Groves stoutly declared after the Chicago club meeting last Tuesday. “All students who are not going home for the Easter vacation can consider this an invitation to be present.”
Peoria Boys and Gals To Dance On Easter Monday
Announcement that tickets for the Easter dance of the Peoria club were on sale was made at its meeting last Tuesday night. Club members are to promote the ticket sale.
The Easter dance, an informal affair,.will be held in the ballroom of the Pere Marquette hotel on Easter Monday. Herb Heuer’s vagabonds will furnish the music. The admission will be three dollars. The time from nine to one o’clock.
Weather Man Is Tipsy; Boys
From South Shovel the Snow
By Intercollegiate Press.
Flagstaff, Ariz., Mar. 17.—While midwestern college students who have been in the habit of earning some of their spending money by shoveling snow have had to seek other occupations this winter, such students at the Arizona State Teachers* college have had plenty of such work.
Up until the last week the midwest had enjoyed southern weather with no snow whatsoever. But in the same period, according to the United States weather bureau, Flagstaff has had a total of twelve feet of snow.
March 18, 1932
Thirteen
BADGERITES PLAN DANCE
Miller Is General Chairman; Glenn Lyte Will Play.
Glenn Lyte has been announced as the orchestra for the Wisconsin club Easter dance to be held March 28 at the Milwaukee Athletic club. Frank Miller, general chairman, made the
Frank Miller
Picks a band for the Badgers.
announcement last night at the meeting of the club.
The various committees which will handle the dance have been made public. Joe Devitt will handle the tickets. Publicity will be in charge of John Brust. George Calhoun and Jim Corrigan will take care of the reception.	,
John Carey secured the music, and the ballroom arrangements were made by John Corrigan. Decorations are under the direction of Robert Hamilton.
About 200 couples are expected to attend this dance which is the first Easter function of the club. Glenn Lyte and his music are well known in Milwaukee. He is now playing at the Eagles’ ballroom since completing his engagement at the Badger room of the Hotel Wisconsin.
Utah Dean Grabs Gunman
By Intercollegiate Press.
Salt Lake City, Utah, Mar. 17.—Dr. Herbert B. Maw, dean of the University of Utah, recently aided in the capture of a gunman whom he saw shooting a citizen in the downtown section here.
Olympic Star
Visits Campus;
She Likes It
By William W. Corr
One of the visitors to the campus this past week was Miss Kit Klein of Buffalo, N. Y. Miss Klein was the leading point-scorer for the American women’s Olympic winter sports team in the games held recently at Lake Placid, N. Y.
She is at present on an exhibition tour through the Middle West and while here was the guest of Charles Hitzelberger, president of the Presidents’ council.
In an interview given to The Scholastic she said: “In the short time I’ve had to view the Notre Dame campus my impression was one of the great bond of unity existing between the students.” She expressed a desire to be able to visit the campus again some time in the future.
Tribute To Brother Alphonsus Is Made by Midland Naturalist
A tribute to Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., rector of Brownson hall from 1898 to 1928, and a late member of the English faculty, appears in the latest volume of the Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science.
“He became interested in birds about the year 1900,” says the writer, “and what at first seemed but an engaging hobby gradually developed into an absorbing passion. Many an hour found him about the lakes at the University or along the St. Joseph river with field glasses in hand for observations of his little friends in feathers, carefully tabulated and preserved,
“Records of these observations he carefully tabulated and preserved and from time to time articles from his pen appeared in the American Midland Naturalist, a magazine devoted to natural history, and edited by Doctor Julius A. Nieuwland, C. S. C., of the University of Notre Dame. On various occasions he addressed the members of the Audubon Society of the State of Indiana.”
Appended to the sketch of Brother Alphonsus’ life is a bibliography of some sixty items — contributions to periodicals on his favorite subject, the birds.
FRENCH MOVIE WILL BE SHOWN HERE MONDAY
Announcement Made By Prof. Dubois of French Club.
At the last meeting of the French club held Monday evening Professor William DuBois announced that the French films had arrived from New York and will be shown in Washington hall next Monday, March 21, at 7:45.
There are two films, one of which pictures Strasbourg and the surrounding country in Alsace; the other shows scenes in the French colony of Tunis.
They have been secured primarily for the students in the French classes at the University, but any who may be interested are invited to attend.
Professor DuBois’ announcement was followed by three talks in French given by members of the club. Vernon Tetrault gave an account of a trip he made down the St. Lawrence river and told of his impressions of the shrine of St., Anne de Beaupre and the spots of historical interest in Quebec.
George Schidel told an anecdote in the life of King Henry IV of France. Then Adrian Wackerman sketched the history of Alsace since the war of 1870, and described the life of the Alsatian peasants who live in the valley between the Vosges mountains and the Rhine.	.
The next regular meeting of the club will be held on April 4th in room 3 of the Main building.
New Ruling For Combined A.B.
-Law Course Not In Effect Yet
In order to avoid any misunderstanding concerning the new requirements for the combined program of -A.B.-LL.B., as announced in last week’s issue of The Scholastic, Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. announces that the new regulations will in no way affect students who at present have junior standing.
The new rulings will go into effect at the pre-registration of next year’s junior class.
Harvard university has an endowment of $108,087,473, the largest of any university or college of the country.	‘
Fourteen
The Scholastic
LAWYER TO APPEAR ON CAMPUS NEXT WEEK
Issue Will Contain Full Page Cut of Judge Cordoza.
Featured in. the March issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, the quarterly law review of the campus, which will make its appearance next tveek, is a full page cut of the Hon. Benjamin N. Cardozo, recently appointed justice of the Supreme couit of the United States. The picture is accompanied by an editorial written by Edward C. Massa, editor-in-chief of the publication.
Law Authorities Contribute
The March issue contains eight leading articles written by authorities on law. There is also the student section, and Law Notes, and the book reviews. Following is a list of the contributors and their subjects:
Dean Thomas F. Konop is the author of an article entitled “The Lawyer and the Public.” This essay treats reactions of the public to court decisions and a lawyer’s procedure in court. “Delay in the Administration of Justice” is the subject of an article written by Judge William M. Cain.
Students Write Articles
“Infants Liability—When Not Liable” is the contribution of Leo Or-vine McCabe, professor of law at DePaul university. Attorney Edward Cohen, of New York City, is another contributor. Attorney-general James M. Ogden, of Indiana, has written an article entitled “Lincoln’s Early Impression of the Law in Indiana.”
The remaining articles, “Nullification, a Slogan or a Process of Government,” and “The Taking of Eminent Domain in Indiana,” are the works of Professor Forrest Revere Black, University of Kentucky, School of Law, and Julius R. Bell, Professor of Law at John Hopkins Institute, respectively.
The student articles are written by John Fetzer, George Landgrave, Daniel Lencioni, Thomas Reed, Andrew Kata, and F. X. Kopenski. The book reviews are written by Professor William D. Rollison, of the Law faculty, and Professor William Roemer, member of the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters.
PHILOSOPHER
Professor Daniel G. O’Grady, in his talk over WSBT Monday stressed that outside of a'man’s ordinary life, his tvorking hours, and his appetite, he needs . . . interests as a human being.
HOENNINGER SPEAKS ON LIFE OF GOETHE BEFORE GERMAN CLUB GROUP
John Hoenninger, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, gave an illustrated lecture before the German club, Tuesday evening, on Goethe, the famous German poet. It was the club’s observance of the 100 anniversary of the death of Goethe, March, 22.
Hoenninger, with slides furnished by the German Tourist Information office of New York City, pointed out the various stages of Goethe’s life, his heritage, education, the important influences of friends upon his life, his marriage, his long life, and most important, his friendship with Shiller.
The German club, finances permitting, intends to bring renowned speakers to address the club, one of whom was under Count Von Luckner in the great war, and who is supposed to be as good a story teller as the famous count.
' Treasurer Andred O’Keefe announced that the club pins will he decided upon at the next meeting.
Excavators repairing an old sewer recently discovered, only a few yards underground, the wall which David built around the ancient capital of his Israelite kingdom when he captured Jerusalem from the Jebusites three thousand years ago.
SEMINAR HEARS PAPERS
Natural Law Is the Subject of Philosophic Discussions.
Francis A. Dillman and Leonard J. Dunn presented papers before the seminar in philosophy last Monday night at which Father Sigmar was the guest of the evening.
Dillman, in his paper entitled “The Early American Interpretations of the Natural Law” explained how the Divine Law concept developed in the colonies.
“The Puritans,” he declared, “dealt with politics only because it was frequently interwoven with the problems of religion.”
“Early American lawmaker’s had only one basically true law, that being of God’s making,” he said. The laws of men were transitory and inferior rules agreed upon by beings of limited understanding, stated Dillman.
In the second paper of the evening, Leonard Dunn stressed the development of the natural law concept from the period of the Constitution until the Civil war.
In the discussion which followed the reading of the two papers, Father Sigmar enumerated instances in which men have sacrificed everything in order to vindicate the natural rights.
“The American government was founded on the necessities of man’s nature. The Constitution was created to free man from the absolute law of Kings.” declared Father Sigmar, “The colonists wanted to prove that the natural law was better than the positive law of man.”
With Monday’s meeting of the Seminar was completed the first phase of its schedule, the examination of the role which the natural law concept has played in the formation of our national constitution.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT TO BE GIVEN MONDAY (Continued from Page 10
Mr. S. Jerome Roach
3.—Part Songs—
(a) “Song of the Jolly Roger” Chudleigh-Candish
<b) “Why Don’t You Try”...........Y<m
4.—Songs of the Campus— -
(a)	“Hike, Notre Dame!’’....Casasanta
(b)	“Down the Line!”........Casasanta
(c)	“When the Irish’ Backs Go
■ Marching By” (new) —
Rev. Eugene Burke-Casasanta (d) “Victory March” ..............Shea
March 18, 1932
Fifteen
"CATALYZER” COMES OUT
Lawrence Baldinger Writes Feature Article.
The March issue of The Catalyzer, published by the Department of Chemistry and edited by the Chemists’ club, appeared on the campus this week.
The main article in this numbei' was written by Lawrence Baldinger, M.S. ’31, instructor in the Department of Pharmacy. It is entitled “The Chemistry of Anesthesia” and opens with a brief definition of anesthesia, narcosis, hypnosis, and analgesia.
In the brief summary of the historical status of anesthesia which follows, the history of anesthetics from Biblical times to the modern conceptions concerning them is traced. Various theories postulated by different experimenters are then given and discussed.
Academy of Science Meets
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held Monday evening, March 14, in room 104, Science hall. Business was dispensed with, and an open forum discussion of scientific subjects was held.
This was the first such meeting by the Academy this year, and proved highly interesting and instructive to the members.
PRINTING ADVICE GIVEN
(Continued from Page 11)
must be followed. In negotiating with a customer detailed specifications and full information are secured which are first covered in making an estimate on the cost of production.
“There should be a thorough agreement between the contracting parties in this method of procedure,” Brother Martin continued, “so the printer can do the job intelligently, smoothly and without delay. All departments are automatically informed of the nature and details of each order as it is scheduled on the customer’s specification sheet.
“Specification forms of the most modern design enable all departments to co-ordinate their work and keep costs down to a minimum.” He concluded, “Thus each respective department of the entire organization is prepared to perform its part in the production when the work is put in process of manufacture.”
ENGINEER
Raymond L. Pfeiffer, president of the Engineers’ chib, who made the committee appointments for the first Ball in the history of the club.
N, D. Special Train
There will be a special train on the New York Central 1 eaving South Bend on Wednesday, March 23rd, at 12:30 and arriving in New York the next morning. Fare in the Pullman cars is §44.64 round trip, tickets good until April Sth. In the day coaches, §29.74 round trip, tickets good until March 31, 1932. For further information see S. A. Bontempo, 2 Lyons hall, or Ed. Kosky, 337 Walsh hall.
tAW CHAIRMAN PICKED
(Continued from Page 5)
PROGRAMS—Anthony W. Kegowicz. chairman ; Walter R. Bernard, James J. Flanigan. Joseph E. Talbot, John N. Fetzer, William T. Hall, John M. Ruberto.
MUSIC—Joseph Glass, chairman: George R. Langrave, Clare Randolph, Edward C. Massa, Leo W. Hodel, Robert R. Waterson. William M. Newbold.
INVITATIONS—Joseph A. Moran, chairman ; James R. Rohl, Joseph R. Munizzo. John M. Crimmins, Leo K. Cook, John F. Harrison, Edward L. Barrett.
DECORATIONS — Malcolm E. Trombley, chairman : Henry R. Pratt, Peter J. Stefans-cik, Robert W. Prescott, Francis W. Brown. William R. Desenberg, William G. Weir.
PUBLICITY — John A. Bitter, chairman: John V. Leddy, J. Thaddeus Morawski, George W. Vandervennet, Charles T. Baxter, Anthony R. Schreiner, E. D. Vallely.
RECEPTION — John D. Voss, chairman ; Marchmont Schwartz, F. N. Hoffman, William 3. Sullivan, Vincent G. POnic, Joseph M. Foley, Herbert P. Giorgio, Dennis J. O’Keefe, C. F. Powers
ENGINEERS DANCE TICKETS FOR SALE
Frank Murray and Committee To Peddle Pasteboards.
Tickets for the Engineers’ ball, to be held April 15, in the Knights of Columbus ballroom, were placed on sale early this week by Frank Murray, chairman of the ticket committee, and his staff of helpers. Off-Campus members of the club may obtain their tickets from Chairman Murray at 225 Sorin hall.
Tickets for the ball will be limited to two to each member of the Engineers’ club, and the members are urged to purchase the ducats in the near future since the majority of the tickets have already been disposed of. The charge is §1.75 per couple.
Nathan Altman, chairman of the decorations committee, is making extensive pains for the decorating of the ballroom for the dance. Rumor has it that a modernistic touch will prevail.
Program-favors in black and gold will be presented to all those who attend the dance. The music will be by Glenn Stoneburner and his Kilties.
The personnel of the ticket committee is as follows: F. Murray, Chairman, Sorin; T. Skeehan, Alumni; R. Fitzsimmon, Lyons; E. Calhoun, Walsh; F. O’Connor, Corby; L. Lopker, Carroll; E. Troy, Badin; G. Shields, Morrissey; R. Shields, Sophomore; C. Andres, Howard; and M. Saleh, Dillon.
PROF. PHILLIPS ON THE AIR
(Continued from Page 11)
served like a mummy in a museum.
“What the Greeks wrote, what Dante and Shakespeare wrote is literature not because we name it so, but because it is a record of life, not chiseled out of stone, but cut by the sharp knift of experience out of the hot hearts of living men. And it is classic, not because it is dead, but because it is alive.”
Concluding his speech, Professor Phillips said: “The man who knows what literature really is, need not be a Webster to define it, nor the wisdom of Richard’s Almanac to discuss it; he can judge it by the measure of his own experience and his own aspirations, and find his talk well done.”
?■
Sixteen
The Scholastic
The Observatory, Vacant at Present, to Stage Comeback
By William Kennedy
It’s a lonesome-looking affair—the University observatory. Stuck out there in that rock-strewn corn field back of the late - but - not - lamented Freshman hall, it only adds to the general barrenness and desolation of its surroundings.
The three of the four- windows are loosely boarded, giving it the appearance of a deserted hot-dog stand in the middle of the winter. The single door is off its hinges and creaks when opened. Inside is ----nothing.
Squirrels All Gone
Even the squirrels have gone. It is said that two years ago, when the observatory was at the south end of the campus, a family of these rodents burrowed a rather intricate series of tunnels under the eaves. Here they ■were evidently content to stay until their home was moved to make room for the new Commerce building.
But the observatory, empty though it now is, will not remain in that condition for long. Astronomical students look forward to the return of Reverend James E. Kline, C.S.C. from California, where he has been studying for the past year. Next fall, under his direction, they hone again to investigate the nebulae with the aid of the famous Notre Dame Wafner-Swasey equatorial telescope.
Succeeding the late Father DeWulf, who held the post of Professor of Astronomy for almost ten years, Father Kline carried on until his departure for the coast.
Good Telescope
This telescope, presented to the University by Napoleon III of France, through Reverend J. C. Carriere, C.S.C., who was the head of the department, is equipped with a filiar micrometer, which can be read to onethousandth of a millimeter. It boasts eye pieces of varied magnifying power, and lens of six-inch aperture. A revolving dome aids immeasurably in observation work.
To the average person, the observatory doesn’t appear to have much space for this stellar work, but a little reconnoitering discloses four complete rooms! One of these, appropriately called the projection room, is fitted out to project motion
pictures taken of the lanets. Exposures, some of them from five to six hours long, have been collected from all parts of the world and shown to the students
The building, in its prime, was a lively place. Occasionally the discovery of a comet attracted nationwide attention. Given front-page publicity in the newspapers, it would arouse
the interest of many students who promptly flocked to the observatory. Local papers, too, despatched reporters to the campus to seek the opinions of experts in that field.
But where the press is merely looking for facts, the students go in search of a thrill, with the expectation of seeing something unusual, perhaps, vastly amusing. They don’t exactly know what they’re looking for —possibly a flaming ball of fire hurtling through space at a tremendous rate of speed. Their disappointment is keen, therefore, when the comet pointed out to them is no bigger and no more breath-taking than an ordinary star.
Popular For Summer
Popular as the Department of Astronomy was during the regular school year, it became even more so in the summer months. Nuns attending the classes seemed to derive a peculiar fascination from the phenomena of the heavens as viewed through the lens.
Conclusive proof of student interest may be seen in the fact that, up to 1931, the observatory has always had its doors open for the benefit of these eager, embryonic astronomers.
The deserted structure, stripped bare of its — what one might call glamor — reflects none of its former . glory. But, in the words of a certain big league ball-club, “Wait until next year!”
CONCERT BAND MAKES INITIAL APPEARANCE
Professor Casasanta Directs At First Public Concert.
By Lawrence Dunda
The Notre Dame concert band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, made its first public-concert appearance of the season, Monday evening in Washington hall before an appreciative audience.
Opening the program were two famous marches, “Semper Fidelis,” played in memory of its late composer, John Philip Sousa, and “On the Mall,” by Goldman. The rousing march from the operetta, “The Desert Song,” by Romberg, was the next number. The ever popular selection of Victor Herbert favorites continued the first part of the program.
“Pomp and Circumstance”
The stately “Pomp and Circumstance,” composed especially for the coronation ceremonies of George V, present King of England, by Sir Edward Elgar, followed, and was the heaviest and most classical number on the program.
Selections from the operetta, “The New Moon,” by Romberg, preceded the intermission.
Part two of the program was begun with “Stepping Along,” and “On the Campus,” two marches by Goldman. These ■were followed by “Mister Military Man,” a march by Sedgwick, and selections from “The Desert Song.”
Five Songs End Program
A group of five “Songs of the Campus” concluded the concert. “Hike, Notre Dame!”, “Down the Line,” and “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By” were both played by the band.
The new “Notre Dame, Our Mother” was presented in a special arrangement. The words to htis song are the composition of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and honorary president of the band, the music by Professor Casasanta. As the band played the “Victory March” as the final number, the audience rose and sang the chorus in unison.

The oldest university in the world, The University of Pavia, in Italy, was founded in 825 by Lothaire, the grandson of Charlemagne.
March 18, 1932
Seventeen
VINCENT LOPEZ WILL PLAY FOR MET. DANCE
Hotel New Yorker Is Scene of Easter Frolic.
The following article was written by Frank Nutty, prominent campus writer and staunch New York booster. The story is specially contributed.
By Frank Nulty
The plans. for the Metropolitan Club’s Easter Formal are complete. Vincent Lopez and his Hotel St. Regis orchestra will play, and the place is the Grand Ball Room of the Hotel New Yorker.
Lopez, judging from the committeeman’s correspondence with him, is as enthusiastic about the affair as a young maestro playing for his first dance.
He promises a gala show—new orchestrations, including highly danceable arrangements of the school songs, a quartet that is said to rival the Mills Brothers, and a generous helping from his bag of piano tricks.
He promises, too, a surprise in the way of waltzes. What it is, we could not discover, save that the decorations committee is “in on it,” and they promise light effects to harmonize with Lopez’ rhythms.
Altogether it will be a glorious wind-up of the club year. And for the seniors, it will be the last Easter Frolic they will attend as students. There is a special train making the round-trip for one-way fare. So be at the New Yorker on Easter Monday, March 28, and forget about Indiana snows, listening to Lopez’ warm music.
.St. Thomas Dedicates a New $300,000 Administration Bldg.
By Intei’collegiate Press.
St. Paul, Minn., Mar. 17.—Rev. John Gregory Murray, archbishop of St. Paul, last week dedicated a new $300,000 arts and administration building at the College of St. Thomas.
The following day classes were held for the first time in the new building, which contains 28 class rooms, sufficient to house all college classes excepting the science and laboratory courses. On the first floor are the business and administrative offices and the offices of various organizations.
Fr. Sorin’s Hopes Realized in Pages of “The Ave Maria”
Most of us are fairly well acquainted with the progress of Notre Dame since it was founded. But there are relatively few who are aware of the fact that, as Notre Dame grew, so did
One of tne machines used to print the “Ave Maria” and a score of other publications, including The Scholastic.
The Ave Maria. The history of this magazine, the first of its kind in America, reads something like an “Algerism.”
At the present time The Ave Maria is printed in the spacious office to the rear of the Main building, under the capable direction of genial Brother Martin, C.S.C., whose duties are as varied as they are numerous.
Father Sorin thought that, in a land discovered by a champion of the Blessed Virgin, the national feast of whom is the Immaculate Conception and in which her help was greatly needed, there should be a periodical to make her better known and better loved. He succeeded in bringing such a periodical into being. He himself was the first editor, with the valuable assistance of Mother Angela, C.S.C.
The first issue went to press about the first of May in 1865. That and the following editions were printed in Chicago. Then a crude, shanty-like structure was erected and a small press installed under the supervision of a Mr. Alfred Talley, who was a retired Chicago printer. Publication has been carried on steadily since that time without once being stopped.
But in that same printing shop was a figure who has worked faithfully
for The Are Maria and has retired quietly with but little credit for his work; credit, that is, from those who have recorded the history of The Ave Maria. He is Brother Leopold, C.S.C.
Brother is ninety-six years old now. In the days before the beginning of The Ave Maria, he had come to Notre Dame. It was just about the time that Fathei- Sorin was planning the magazine. When he was asked his occupation, Brother Leopold replied that he had been a printer but disliked the work very much. Father Sorin considered his coming a miracle and ordered him to take care of the printing of The Ave Maria. Obediently Brother Leopold complied and worked as a printer for ten years until the gradually improving presses were taken over by younger men.
Father Sorin was succeeded as editor by the Reverend Neal Gillespie, who carried on the work in the excellent ’ style of his predecessor. He held this position until his death in 1874. Next came Father Daniel Hudson, a convert to the Catholic church, and later Father Eugene Burke, who is the present editor of the magazine.
Thus The Ave Maria grew from a mere pamphlet, the idea of a saintly man, to a weekly publication with a circulation of thirty-three thousand. The old saying, “East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet,” seems to have been ex-(Continued on Page 25)
Eighteen	-	The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
Columbia to the Rescue
Connoisseurs of Columbia Extension curiosa will be interested to discover that the newest addition to this strictly academic institution’s courses is one in baseball for women.
Interesting? Not So?
It is too bad that we really aren’t modern after all. The Mount Holyoke News in a recent edition published the results of a test which shows that our vocabulary today is the same as that of our ancestors in 1924. A list submitted showed that the most useful words were: my dear, good-looking, marvelous, food, hate, can, adore, fiendish, dumb, cut, class, sophisticated, clothes, bridge, life, pay, man, family, and letters. This list is almost identical with one made out in 1924. Imagine our embarrassment if the collegians of 1942 are still using our same vocabulary.
Serves Best
At Harvard university there are over four thousand people employed at the university, while there are only eight thousand students.
Fudge
A little boy walked into a fraternity house on the campus of the University of Chicago with a basket of fudge on his arm in the hope that he might be able to sell some. He could not get any buyers there, but instead was given a letter of introduction to President Hutchins. The letter read:
“This young man is working his way through college in search of a higher education and we thought you might buy some of his candy. Yours for a belly-ache, (signed) Sam Eells, Hamilton ’32.” A little later the small boy returned to the fraternity house with a book under his arm which the President had given him. On the title page of the book, “Arts and Education,” was this inscription: “Yours for a merry education, from Bobby Hutchins, Yale ’21.”
Anxiety Abated
Believing that too much emphasis is placed on marks, Grinnell officials have decided that all marks shall be withheld until after graduation. Students will be told from time to time whether work is poor or satisfactory.
At Hamilton
Because of the uncertainty of weather conditions, the requirement that each graduate must complete six hours of skiing to graduate has been abolished at Hamilton College.
Significant I
Research at the University of Minnesota shows that butterflies’ legs are 16 times more sensitive to sweetness than the human tongue.
Advice Accepted
An instructor in English at the University of Kentucky is considering dropping outside assignments in reading lest he might lose his class. The last time an outside reading, “The Royal Road to Romance,” was assigned he advised his teacher not to assign “The Road to Rouen” because of possible effects.
P. S. It Really Happened
At the University of Utah a sweet young coed tripped lightly up to the desk in the library and asked for a book entitled “Horse’s Oats.” After some questioning it developed that the misunderstood visitor wanted Horace’s “Odes.”
Homer Nods
The dead languages are becoming deader at Holy Cross college. There is only one Greek course at the school and there is only one pupil.
Modern Galahad
Women students at the University of Southern California have set this standard for the ideal man: intelligence, 20 percent; cultural background, 15 percent; personal appearance, 15 percent; personality, 10 percent; courtesy, 10 percent; physical fitness, 5 percent; clear understanding of the word “no,” 5 percent; dancing ability, 5 percent. Put them all together and they spell 100 percent and everyone is happy, if the girl doesn’t chew gum.
Onions, Mustard, or Relish?
“College students might as well be given hot dogs as diplomas from college, for at least they could eat the hot dogs, but they can do nothing with the diplomas,” says Dr. W. C. Krueger, instructor in psychology at Detroit college.


March 18, 1932
Nineteen
HITCL’f PAGE
ACTIVITY IN THE S. A. C.
Last week, with all of the editorial vehemence that it could muster, The Scholastic assailed the S. A. C. Their organization was branded as inactive, inadequate, and not worthy of a place in Notre Dame undergraduate affairs.
The Scholastic’s assertions were based on the assumption that a campus publication should be concerned vitally with goings-on about the campus, and that the paper should attempt to point out and to correct, when possible, things which took on the nature of abuses.
The Scholastic’s remarks, be it said, had a poignant effect.
For the S. A. C., meeting Sunday, snapped from their winter hibernation with a gusto. Plans were hurriedly thrown together for an active Spring. Someone suggested the basketball game, which is chronicled on page five of this issue. Another brought up the matter of a Student Activities council office.
The ideas did not stop with superficial or abstract suggestions. ■ Chairman John Kramer, conducting the meeting in a mist of blue cigarette smoke in the Journalism room, made immediate appointments to carry out the plans.
The S. A. C., if such activity continues, give all indications of travelling far. Their recent lethargy can be forgotten in the flood of new, original and well organized activity that the local governing body is about to foster.
The Scholastic’s praise is not extravagant. It is carefully considered, thoughtfully planned. It is not inconsistent with its editorial stand last week.
It asked activity from the S. A. C. It got it. The Scholastic, its purpose accomplished, has no reason to be anything other than laudatory.
The cause of the Student Activities council will not be lost, nor their purpose questioned, if meetings are held each time with the fervor of the eventful Sunday morning gathering.
The condemnation that The Scholastic piled upon the heads of the S. A. C. members has been turned into congratulatory praise. This is brought about, not by lack of editorial courage to portray student facts, but by an efficient S. A. C., who have once again gained their grip on undergraduate affairs.
SLANGUAGE
An article in the Chicago Daily Neivs of this week declares that slang, as practiced by American society, is quickly winning a prominent position in the language of the country.
This is no new idea. G. K. Chesterton, when he was lecturing here last year, became interested in this strictly American literary phenomena. His findings tended to praise its use, to laud its graphic implications.
But the advice of Mr. Chesterton, as well as any liberalist who approves slang, is “keep it modern.” Nothing is more objectionable, nor more distasteful, than the six months’ old words that connote no cleverness, nor originality.
If you must use slang, and it has its advantages of graphic appeal, use it as a test of your own ingenuity and coin your own phrases.
ANOTHER BENGAL BATTLE
The Notre Dame basketball team, after piling up a record of sixteen straight victories, will hold a civil war skirmish among themselves on Monday night.
The battle, which will be between the graduates and the members available for next year, is for the benefit of the Bengal missions. The admission charge to students will be twenty-five cents.
Notre Dame’s basketball team, under the leadership of capable Norb Crowe, has completed a great season. A fitting tribute to a great squad would be a packed house Monday night.
The complimentary list for the evening has been erased. Even the players are to pay, according to announcements from the S. A. C.
The Scholastic does not have to endorse the game. It feels that Notre Dame students will once more be on hand to witness another great Bengal sporting event.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Notre Dame Retains C.I.C. Title
Wilson Leads Way To Irish Win As Meet and Gym Records Crash
GOLF COURSE IMPROVED DURING WINTER MONTHS
Middle Distance Star Sets 440, 880-Yd. Marks; Chamberlain Upset By Pilbrow, Grinnell.
By Joseph A. Morper
Notre Dame won the sixth annual Central Intercollegiate indoor track meet held at the local fieldhouse last Saturday, scoring 26 7-10 points. Michigan’s Normal’s 22 3-5 points were good enough for a second, and Marquette’s 14 3-5 points gave them third place.
One w’orld mark was established, another tied, and five conference records were erased from the books as the athletes from fourteen middle western colleges and universities battled for the championship. Eleven of the 14 schools entered, broke into the scoring column.
Wilson Sets Mark
Alex Wilson was the bright spot in the Notre Dame victory. The great middle - distance runner set a new •world mark for the quarter, on an eight-lap track, of :49.3. His winning of the half mile was equally as impressive. He ran the distance in 1:57, two and three-tenths seconds better than his conference mark established last year.
Captain Bill McCormick came in for his share of the record breaking when he traveled the 60 yard in :06.2, in the qualifying heats on Friday night. Ralph Metcalfe, however, beat hi min record time in the finals on Saturday.
Dues Wins Shot Put
A new meet record for the shot-put was established by Dues, of City College of Detroit. The big green-clad negro tossed the weight 47 feet 9 7-S inches, bettering the old mark by over a foot.
TEAM STANDINGS
Notre Dame____________26	7/10
Michigan Normal_______22	3/5
Marquette_____________14	3/5
Kansas State (Pitt)___10	1/2
Michigan State_______10
Drake__________________8	3/5
Grinnell______________8
Butler _______________8
C. C. of Detroit______5
Western State_________5
Detroit U.____________2
Swartz, of Western State Teachers, had little difficulty in winning the mile. He opened up a big gap on the huge field and won easily over How-ery of Notre Dame, and Jackson of Drake.
Chamberlain of Michigan State was beaten in the two mile run by an unknown from Grinnell. Chamber-lain set a torrid pace for the first mile and had the better part of a lap on Pilbrow at this point. Here Pilbrow started to close in on the State runner. A belated rally failed to save Chamberlain. Pilbrow’s time of 9:24.2 equalled the meet record.
The relay race was run in two heats against time. Notre Dame’s quartet of Wison, Vettel, MacBeth, and Kelly, clipped nearly three seconds off of the old record of 3:28.3 set by the Irish last year. Grinnel was second, and Michigan Normal, in winning their heat in 3:26, was awarded third position.
Summary:
MILE RUN—Won by Swartz (Western State Normal) ; Howery (ND), second; Jackson (D), third; Hyland (D), fourth. Time 4:25.3.
60-YD. DASH—Won by Metcalfe (M) ; McCormick (ND), second; O’Neill (D), third; Schatte (MN), fourth. Time :06.2 (teis world and conference record).
440-YD. DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Arnold (MN), second ;Burns (B), third; Hershey (MN), fourth. Time :49.3 (new world’s
(Continued on Page 24)
New Greens, Traps, and Practice Grounds Planned.
By T. Edward Carey
Extensive improvements have been made on the University Golf course since its closing last November. Greens and traps have been rebuilt or newly constructed, several fairways have been altered, and an extensive landscape program has been carried out.
New Practice Field
A distinct and important addition to the course has been the construction of a new practice field. The field is triangular in shape, the two sides radiating from the practice tee, situated between the second green and the third tee, are 275 yards in length, and the base is 200 yards wide. The old fifth green, located at the extreme right hand corner of the field, as viewed from the tee, has been reshaped and will be used as a practice green.
Another innovation is an eighteen hole putting course constructed between the starting house and the eighteenth green. This course has been seeded with the same type of bent grass used throughout the course and will in all probability be ready for use about the middle of May.
Many Trees Planted
During the winter months 175 trees have been planted on the course and will greatly enhance its beauty. Most of this landscaping has been done on the first nine holes, which previously were rather barren in appearance contrasted with the rest of the course. The sixteen new tees constructed during the summer and fall of last season have been re-seeded and will not be available for play (Continued on Page 24)
March 18, 1932
Twenty-one
All-American Nominee
NINE GAMES CARDED
FOR ’33 GRID SEASON
Kansas, Purdue, Pitt, and U. S. C. To Play Here.
Ed Krause
Named by cage experts on all-Westem and all-American teams. Scoring 48 field goals and 42 free throws, he led the Notre Dame scoring activities for sensational season.	'
(1932 Grid Schedule will he found on Page 24)
Announcement of a nine game football schedule for the season of 1933 was made this week by Jesse C. Harper, director of athletics. Foor games are carded for the Notre Dame stadium, and the site of the Navy game is still undecided.
Probably the feature of the new grid program is the signing of the Purdue Boilermakers for a renewal of their old-time rivalry. The game will be played at Notre Dame on Armistice day, Nov. 11, and will be the first of a home and home series.
Kansas To Open Card
Another newcomer to the local gridiron will be Kansas university. The Jayhawkers will be met next fall in a game at Lawrence, their own stamping grounds, and will return the visit bn Oct. 7, 1933, for the opening game of the year.
After an absence of a year, Indiana will resume a place on the Irish calling list on the ’33 schedule. The Hoosiers will not meet the Notre Dame eleven next fall but will take Drake’s place the following year.
A pair of traditional rivals, Pittsburgh and Southern California, will complete the home schedule. The Pitt squad will appear on Oct. 28, in the fourth game of the year while the Trojans will wind up the home stay of the Irish on Nov. 25.
. Four Road Game
In addition to the Indiana trip, road games are slated with Carnegie Tech, Northwestern, and Army. The cadets will be played in New York.
The game with the Navy, scheduled for Nov. 4, has not yet been definitely placed. Slection of a site will be made by officials of the two schools some time in the future.
The complete schedule for 1933: Oct. 7—Kansas, at Notre Dame. Oct. 14—Indiana, at Bloomington. Oct. 21—Carnegie Tech, at - Pittsburgh.
Oct. 28—Pittsburgh, at Notre Dame. Nov. 4—Navy, (Place to be decided}. Nov. 11—Purdue, at Notre Dame.
Nov. 18—Northwestern, at Evanston.
Nov. 25—Southern California at
Notre Dame.
Dec. 2—Army, at New York City.
Tzventy-two
The Scholastic
LYONS TAKE HONORS IN FIRST SWIM MEET
Pete Dorschel Stars With Four Places, Pool Record.
Lyons hall won the first preliminary interhall swimming meet last Monday night by scoring 26 points. Dillon finished second with 20, Sophomore third with 13, St. Edward’s fourth with 8 points, and Badin last with a score of 5.
Dorschel led the Lyons team to victory when he placed first in the 40-yard and 100-yard back-stroke events. He bettered the natatorium record of :24.4 in the 40-yard swim when he travelled the distance in :24.2. He took second in the plunge when Leonard of Badin stretched one inch farther than his best mark. Dorschel also swam two laps for the Lyons’ relay team which placed first, twenty yards ahead of Sophomore.
Farrell of Dillon was another star of the meet. He won first places in both the 40-yard and 100-yard breast
what makes
a college leader?
stroke events. He also swam one of the laps for the Dillon relay team which placed third.
The following men in the first preliminary meet qualified for the finals Monday night at 8 o’clock, March 21: Dorschel, McCarthy, and Burchell (L); Farrell, Olson, Dunn, Flanni-gan, Nockels, and Moulder (D); Moran, Cruncian, Glanzner, Carter, and Corrigan (S); Moore (St. Ed.); and Leonard (B). The relay teams of Lyons and Sophomore also qualified for the finals.
Final Preliminary Tonight
In the second preliminary meet to be held tonight each hall will be allowed to enter three men in each event. No man will be permitted to compete in more than three events.
Men winning first, second, and third places in the final meet Monday will be given medals shortly after Easter vacation.
Summary:
40-YD. BREAST STROKE—Won by Farrell (D) ; Olsen (D), second; Moran (S), third. Time :27.5.
40-YD. BACK-STROKE—Won by Dorschel (L) ; Glanzner (S), second; Dunn (D), third. Time :24.2.
40-YD. FREE STYLE—Won by Moore (St.
Ed.) ; Flannigan (D), second; Cruncian (S), third; Carter (S), fourth. Time :20.8.
100-YD. BREAST-STROKE—Won by Farrell (D) ; McCarthy (L), second; Moran (S), third. Time 1:24.2.
100-YD. BACK-STROKE—Won by Dorschel (L) ; Gaugnec (S), second. Time 1:10.2.
100-YD. FREE STYLE—Won by Burchell (L) ; Moore (St. Ed.), second; Nockels (D), third; Corrigan (S), fourth. Time 1:01.5.
PLUNGE—Won by Leonard (B) ; Dorschel (L), second; Moulder (D), third; Carter (S), fourth. Distance 43 feet, 11 inches.
RELAY (40-yard back, 80-yard breast, 100-yard free)—Won by Lyons (Dorschel, McCarthy) ; Sophomore, second (Glanzer, Carter, Rich) ; Dillon, third, (Des Camp, Farrell. Moulder). Time 2:43.8.
Jewelry
» » »
With that distinctive appearance found only in merchandise o f quality and at prices that will amaze you.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee real coffee that lets you sleep.
Personality, of coune. An engaging attitude toward others. Boundless energy for class and campus activities.
Good health is the basis. So few have it. Constipation frequently
causes headaches, loss of appetite and energy, sleeplessness.
Yet it can be overcome so easily —by eating a delicious cereal, Kellogg’s ALL-BraN. Two tablespoonfuls daily will promote regular habits.
Try it with milk or cream. Ask that Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant. .
» » »
We carry a complete stock of N. D. monogram jewelry—Rings, Compacts, Cigarette Cases and Lighters.
LeRoy’s
101 S. Michigan St.
March 18, 1932
Twenty-three
NEW GOLF SCHEDULE LISTS EIGHT MATCHES
Three Home Appearances For Notre Dame Link Squad.
Seven dual matches and the Indiana state tournament have been booked so far for the golf team this season. Five of the teams on the schedule have been met before, but Western Reserve of Cleveland and Purdue are new additions to the lineup of teams to be played.
Open With Valpo
The schedule opens April 16 with Valparaiso coming here. In the opener last season, Notre Dame defeated Valpo, 17 to 1. The following week Loyola of Chicago is scheduled to play here. The Chicagoans were also met last season and were whitewashed, 18 to 0. The third match, against Detroit, gives the golfers their first trip. Detroit was defeated twice last year by the Notre Dame golfers.
On April 39, the day following the match with Detroit, Michigan State entertains the locals at East Lansing. The Spartans were also set down twice by Notre Dame last season. All of these first three matches are tentative engagements, but may be accepted with reasonable certainty.
Western Reserve is the next foe, and the boys journey to Cleveland for the match on May 13. The following day the team will be in Pittsburgh for a match with the University of Pittsburgh. The last home match brings Purdue here on May 21.
At State Meet
The Indiana Intercollegiate matches at Greencastle will be the closing bit of competition for the team. For the past three years this tournament has been dominated by Notre Dame entrants, but with most of Notre Dame’s two-year undefeated team graduated it should be a more open affair this season. Bill Redmond, who won the individual, crown in 1930, will be the dark horse on the “winter books” of this tourney, however, even though he finished only fourth last year.
The complete schedule is as follows: Apr. 16—Valparaiso, here (tentative). Apr.23—Loyola, here (tentative). Apr. 29—Detroit at Detroit (tentative) .
Apr. 30—Michigan State at East Lansing.
May 13—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
May 14—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
May 21—Purdue, here.
May 27-28 — Indiana Intercollegiate matches, Greencastle.
There are in the United States 81 college fraternities and 34 college sororities.
you CAN'T AFFORD TO LOOK SHABBY
When such a reputable house as Hart, Schaffner & Marx offer their renowned quality in a spring suit at $25.00, there is no longer any excuse for shabby appearance.
At such prices you can’t afford the risk of a bad impression—and you know the human weakness forjudging by appearance.
Drop in before you go home for the holidays and let us show you real quality at prices of sixteen years ago.
Sam* I Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
Appeal Dog’s Sentence
When Prof. L. H. Halverson of Northern . State Teachers college, Marquette, Mich., complained that a mongrel dog had bitten the hand of his two-year-old son, the dog was sentenced to death in municipal court. Several lawyers immediately offered to appeal the case, and a petition pleading for the dog’s life was circulated in the town.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
N. D. RETAINS C. I. C. TITLE
(Continued from Page 20)
indoor mark for 8-Iap track; new conference record; old record :50.2, made by Wilson).
60-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by Bath (MS) ; Ravensdale (M), second ; Tauer (B), third; Beatty (MN), fouith. Time :07.6.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Pilbrow (G) ; Chamberlain (MS), second; Geissman (M), third; Howrey (ND), fourth. Time 9:24.2 (ties conference record set by Chamberlain in 1931).
POLE VAULT—Won by McKinley (MN) ; Roark (M), second; Schramm (M), Collins (D), Snyder (MN). Rohrback (ND), and Slattery (ND), tied for third. Height, 13 feet.
SHOT PUT—Won by Dues (Detroit C. C.) :
rpHE blue and white of Greyhound buses will be fashionable colors for this year’s Easter Parade ... students saving money going home in these famous coaches. Lot’s of comfort, lot’s more fun, too. You’ll find them best for trips any time of year, with most frequent schedules, choice of straight through service or stopovers enroute — and convenient downtown terminals. For tickets and information see:
Greyhound Campus Agent University Book Store
GREYHOUND
z	_ ~	. I
Blanck (D), second; Finkel (ND), third; Russell (KS), fourth. Distance 47 feet, 9% inches (new conference record).
880-YARD RUN—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Brown (KS). second; Gallagher (D), third: Arnold (MN), fourth. Time 1:57 (new conference record).
65-YD. HURDLES — Won by Simmons (MN) ; Beatty (MN), second; Liberty (MN), third; Trost (M), fourth. Time 7.3.
HIGH JUMP—Nelson (B), and Schroeder (KS), tied for first; Darling (ND) and Stain-bach tied for third. Height 6 feet, 4% inches.
ONE-MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Wilson, Vettel, MacBeth, Kelly) ; Grinnell, second ; Michigan Normal, third ; Kansas State (Pitt), fourth. Time 3:25.5 (new conference record).
Round Trip Fares
Detroit $ 5.00 St. Louis 10.00 Cincinnati 10.15 Cleveland 10.30 Pittsburgh 14.20
Buffalo 16.15 New York 29.05 Coldwater 3.30 Flint	5.65
Toledo	6.30
GOLF COURSE IMPROVED
(Continued from Page 20)
until May 15. All eighteen fairways have been re-seeded.
Two greens, the first and fifth, have been completely rebuilt in new locations. The first hole has been lengthened by 85 yards and now has a total of 353 yards. The fifth hole has been completely reconstructed and is now 467 yards long. Other radical changes in yardage affect the second and sixth holes. The second has been increased from 290 to 367, and the sixth has been reduced from 187 to 139 yards. Four greens, the second, third, fourth, and sixth have been completely reconstructed. Forty-two traps have been rebuilt or newly constructed on these six holes.
The date for the opening of the course has not yet been determined, but weather permitting, it wTill probably be opened to the students shortly after the Easter vacation. The fee for students will be the same as last fall, ten cents a day.
Regulations for the golf course this year will be most strictly enforced. Players will not be allowed to stair from any tee but from the first. The ordinary rules of golf etiquette, especially those concerning the replacing of divots, covering of tracks in sand traps, and the refraining from shooting until players ahead are out of range, must be obeyed. Penalty for failure to observe these regulations will be the player’s debarment from the course and the imposition of a monetary fine.
1932 Football Schedule
(Officially released by Jesse C. Harper)
October 8—
Haskell Institute at Notre Dame.
October 15—
Drake University at Notre Dame.
October 22—
Carnegie Tech, at Notre Dame.
October 29—
Univ, of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
November 5—
University of Kansas at Lawrence.
November 12— Northwestern Univ, at Notre Dame.
November 19—
Navy (Cleveland)
November 26—	.
Army at New York City.
December 10— University of Southern California at Los Angeles.
Marell 18, 1932
Twenty-five
“AVE MARIA” FULFILLS HOPES OF ITS FOUNDER
(Continuer from Page 17)
cepted by the magazine, because it is read wherever the English tongue is spoken. From the leper colony of the late Father Damien to the most populous cities of the world.
It has even been suggested that it be printed in foreign languages. Perhaps some day this suggestion may materialize, but for the present The Ave Maria will be confined to the English tongue. And it will continue in its purpose to make the Blessed Virgin better known and better loved.
The Ave Maria is printed at the printing office behind the Main building. There one finds all of the up-to-date printing mechanisms, such as automatic presses, feeders, stitchers, and also a Webb press.
This latter press feeds from rolls of paper. The rolls average 1,400 pounds each. One carload of paper is being used every three weeks, according to Brother Martin, C.S.C., head of the printing organization.
An average of twenty thousand copies of story books are printed here each year. Among these are publications of such well known Catholic writers as Maurice Francis Egan, Mary Mannix, Christian Reid, Mary Waggaman, and the Reverend Patrick Carroll, C.S.C.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 12)
gree. Perhaps he shares the viewpoint of Eddie Collins that college is all right but it is only college— and that four years are enough.
To find Jim at home in his den in Sorin is not easy—but it’s considerably worth the wait. The room reminds one of a ship cabin; vigorous and then some. He likes it cold, and
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
the window is always a trifle open. Breezes from across the lake make you shiver.
But Jim talks affably, and while he talks you can look over his sets of Conrad and Kipling. On one wall is an etching of a ship at sea—just now without a frame. Jim needed the frame for his girl’s picture.
He puts you completely at ease,
Talk to ike folks at home!
College life presents many perplexing problems; problems that could be answered by Dad or Mother in short order if they were near. But a letter is so slow . . . and so hard to write exactly as one feels . . .
Talk to the folks at home ... by telephone!
Telephone toll calls are quick, satisfactory, and economical. Make it a habit to call home at least once a week.
Indiana Bell
Telephone Company
talking slowly, candidly, with flashes of quiet humor. Before you leave you are curious to know who gave him the nickname of “Akron.” Just a Sophomore . . . Begley . . . good guy.” No resentment with Jim.
And as you leave, you catch another glimpse of the smile — with which he indicates pretty firmly that he knows what all this is about.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Sunday morning will see the champions of two campus leagues clash for the Interhall basketball championship in both lightweight and heavyweight divisions. The lightweight game between Badin and Carroll will be played at 9:30; the Lyons-
If you are staying in South Bend over the
EASTER VACA TION
The Mary Ann . ^nn
invites
Your breakfast dinner and supper
Mary Ann Inn
119 Colfax Ave.
Off-Campus heavyweight tilt is scheduled for 10:30.
In the heavyweight class, Off-Campus has yet to be beaten. The daydogs have taken everything that has been pitted against them rather handily. Vitt and Bognar, forwards, lead the Off-Campus offense.
Lyons was defeated in the first game they played, against St. Edward’s. But since that time they have beaten Sorin, Morrissey, and Sophomore, (twice), three of the best teams in Interhall basketball.
Gildea and Hall, forwards, and Vettel, guard, lead the Lyons quartet.
To come to the lightweights, Badin, champions of Group I, and Carroll, Group II champs, have yet to be defeated. Both of these teams are fast and play heads-up basketball. Graves and Thole, leading scorers for Carroll will battle it out with Montgomery, forward, and Freeman, center, of Badin.
Gildea, right forward, led a fighting Lyons team to a 21 to 12 victory over a stubborn Sophomore five, Monday evening. This victory gave Lyons the leadership of Group I of the Interhall league, and the right to meet Off-Campus Sunday morning for the heavyweight title.
The defensive play of Vettel of Lyons, and Crossen of Sophomore, was pleasant to watch. Forwards found them stone walls when they try to pass.
FINAL STANDINGS
GROUP I
Heavyweights				Lightweights			
	w	L	PCT	w		L	PCT
Lyons	6*	1	.857	Badin	y	0	1.000
Sophomore	6*	1	.857	Dillon	5	2	.704
Sorin	5	2	.704	Sophomore	5	2	.704
Morrissey	4	3	.571	Sorin	4	3	.571
St. Ed’s	4	3	.571	Morrissey	2	5	.283
Badin	1	6	.143	Corby	3	4	.428
Corby	1	6	.143	Lyons	1	6	.143
Dillon	1	6	.142	St. Ed’s	1	6	.143
GROUP II
Heavyweights				Lightweights			
	w	L	PCT	. w		L	PCT
Off-C’pus	6	0	1.000	Carroll	6	0	1.000
Freshman	4	2	.667	Brownson	5	1	.833
Walsh	4	2	.667	Howard	3	3	.500
Carroll	2	4	.133	Off-C’pus	3	3	.500
Alumni	2	4	.133	Alumni	2	4	.333
Howard	2	4	.133	Freshman	2	4	.333
Brownson	1	5	.167	Walsh	0	6	.000
* Lyons won in a play-off.
There are in the United States 29,980,146 families with an average of 4.1 persons per family. Of this number 40.3 per cent, or 12,073,345, have .
radio- sets. -	-
Summary:
Lyons (21)	' c f p
Gildea, f ......................3	0	2
Hall, f ........................2	0	0
Paskwitz, f.....................1	1	0
Sandura, c .....................2	0	3
Curry, g .......................0	0	2
Vettel, g ......................2	0	1
Sophomore (12)	c	f	‘ p
Weigand, f .....................0	2	1
Cavender, f ....................1	0	0
Shanahan, f ....................0	0	1
Rogers, c-......................2	0	1
Wynn, g ........................0	0	0
Crosson, g......................2	0	0
Novak, g .......................0	0	1
Senior Ball Committees Will Work During Easter Vacation
C. Budd Dyniewicz, chairman of the Senior ball, declared this week that the ball committees would be active during the Easter holidays in an effort to make the Senior formal one of the best ever held.
The decorations committee will hold several meetings with leading supply houses from New York and Chicago. They expect to have something new in the way of decorations that will last long in the • minds of those attending.
As yet the music committee has done nothing definite to report concerning the selection of an orchestra but they plan to have one picked by the end of the Easter vacation. Wayne King and Ben Bernie are among those who are being considered, Dyniewicz admitted.
New Jersey Club to Dance
The New Jersey club will hold an Easter Dance in conjunction with the Alumni association on Monday, March 28, at the Chanticler club in Millburn, New Jersey. Music will be by Frank Crums, celebrated Club Chanticler orchestra. Subscriptions will be three-fifty per couple. All are invited to attend.
K. of C. Notice!
- Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, will receive Holy Communion in a body, Saturday at 6:25 in Sacred Heart Church, it was announced by Grand Knights Collins.
.Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., ; chaplain of ..the council will be the celebrant.	.
March 18, 1932
Twenty-seven
WALK OVERS NOW
□1 moneyJ}
We’ve had scouts out. Not only here in town but on 200 college campuses. And the up-to-the-minute result of what these Walk-Over style observers discovered has been incorporated into the Walk-Over styles we now offer you.
And not only will they make your feet look as smart and snappy as the
best-dressed man from any campus, but the cost would fit a freshman’s budget. §6 now buys Walk-Over’s famous standard grade of quality formerly priced at $8.50. New authentic college and young executive styles. New leathers, toe shapes and features of fit never before offered by us at any price. Come in and save dollars.
• IMPERIAL—Black calf.
• ARENA—Brown deerskin, darker saddle.
WALK OVER SHOES
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
SOLEM OF IOWA
Well, Iowa finally landed a coach. After an overtime sparring exhibition with Jimmy Crowley and some excellent juggling, they have managed to sign Ossie Solem, former Drake mentor. Their luck is to be marvelled at in being able to land a man of Solem’s ability at this late stage.
There is little doubt that Solem is a good football coach. His record at Drake proves it. Without attempting to question the wisdom of Drake expansion policy in the grid world, unstinted praise must be given Solem for the way in which he carried it out. His eleven years at the DesMoines school recorded 51 wins, 35 setbacks, and two tie games.
Considering the evident overmatching and killing travelling features of several of his schedules, the record is made even more remarkable. Individual stars developed on Bulldog squads included such luminaries as
Dick Nesbitt, Ted Sloan, later allAmerican at Navy, Lynn King, Waldo Don Carlos, and many others.
Solem’s change will be a severe loss to Drake. It should be a great gain for Iowa. The problem of his successor will be an interesting one to watch. Possibly Bill Boelter. The fact that Solem is following two of his predecessors at Drake, Tug Wilson and Major Griffith, into the Big Ten, attaches a worthwhile heritage to the Drake post.
V
IRONMEN
Possibly the old-time athletes who chorus “easy” and “you should have seen . . .” each time a modern star arrives will go a bit more gently from now on. Their particular point of strength — stamina, and lasting ability—suffered a decisive invasion by two collegiate track stars over last week end.
Alex Wilson’s performance at the
C. I. C. meet needs a little elaboration. For a man to run two preliminary heats on a Friday night in the 440- and 880-yard runs, and then tn return on Saturday to win both final events is approaching the incredible. Add to that a smashing fifth race —the first quarter of a mile relay and you have the two-day assignment of the Irish ace.
Another Hoosier runner burst into full glare of the spotlight Saturday as Henry Brocksmith, Indiana veteran, turned in what is probably the outstanding performance of the indoor year. A mile in 4:12.5 is a superb race; Brocksmith managed it.* Forty-five minutes later he went to the starting line of the two-mile run of the Big Ten championships. As he cantered home first in 9:18.4 he ' completed a day’s work that marks him as the cream of the mid-west’s distance field.
The average male undergraduate at Columbia University prefers to marry a cultured, clever, sensitive woman. The average woman student at Barnard College, in Columbia University,, thinks “her man” should, have culture, good looks, money and a sense of humor.	.
Whether your purchase is a tube of Shaving Cream, a Box of Candy or a Fountain Special, you will always find you can depend upon the genuine freshness and quality of Walgreen’s merchandise— and the same time effect a substantial savings. Make Walgreen’s the meeting place and enjoy a delicious fountain drink made the inimitable Wal-
green way.
208 North M ichigan
----------:------—----------
*1
9
March 18, 1932
Twenty-nine
INTRODUCING a Charlie Pali
By William Flynn
Portside pitchers have written baseball history. Just before the war Rube Waddell was chalking up victories for Connie Mack’s edition of winning Philadelphia Athletics. Now there is Lefty Grove. Babe Ruth began his career in major league ball by throwing them up from the south-paw side.
Notre Dame also has her south-paw pitcher. He is Charley Palt, captain of this year’s baseball team.
Is Native of Chicago
A native of Chicago, this Notre Dame captain carved a niche in the annals of Windy City prep school baseball a few years ago. In the spring of 1928 Lindbloom and Lane high schools were playing at the Sox park for the city championship. Palt was in the box for Lindbloom and Summerville, now of Wisconsin, was his opponent.
The final score read, Lindbloom, 5; Lane, 3. Palt had won his first victory over Summerville.
The following fall the winner matriculated at Notre Dame. His opponent in the final city championship game went to Wisconsin. During 1930 and 1931 they were members of
KRAUSE TAKES SCORING HONORS (Season totals)
	* G	FG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT	PTS
Krause	18	48	42	33	30	.583	138
Newbold	20	34	21	43	14	.600	89
DeCook	17	35	16	18	12	.571	86
N. Crowe	20	36	9	34	12	.429	81
Voegele	18	28	19	20	20	.487	75
Baldwin	9	17	5	14	5	.500	39
Burns	20	13	11	39	9	.555	37
L. Crowe	15	14	4	9	3	.571	32
Davis	11	14	3	11	2	.600	25
Schumacher	12	5	3	5	2	.600	13
Johnson	11	1	1	9	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schrader	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	0	1	.000	0
Totals	20	243	134	238	114	.540	620
Opponents	20	143	151	206	125	.547	437
Game Average:	N.D.	12.15	6.7	11.9	5.75		31
	Opp.	7.15	7.55	10.3	6.25		21.85
* G—games; FG—field goals; FT—free throws ; PF—personal fouls ; FTM—free throws missed; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PTS—total points.
opposing teams. This year they will meet again when Wisconsin plays Notre Dame here in the season’s opener, April 15.
During his first year of varsity competition, Palt won two games and lost three. He earned victories over Georgia Tech and Illinois but lost to Michigan State, Northwestern, and one other. His second year under the tutelage of Dr. Keogan was a different story. He finished with an average of .800, winning four games and losing one.
Looks For Good Season
This year he is captain of a team he believes should have a good season. There will be an experienced man in every position with the exception of second base. For that spot in the infield there are several promising members of last year’s freshman squad.
Palt is a student in the College of Arts and Letters and is majoring in sociology. His thesis will be written on some phase of the immigration question.
Until last year his summers were spent in Chicago playing baseball in man, Corby “sub” baseball expert, calls an unhitable “screwball.”
the city’s amateur leagues. Then he went to Westpine, Wis., and worked in a hub-cap factory. During the school year he substitutes for Bill Newbold as waiter in the lay faculty dining hall.
The best pitcher Palt has ever seen in collegiate circles was' Ozzi, who pitched for Luthei- college, in Iowa, a few years ago. Smith of Hillsdale is his choice for runner-up position. But Palt is something of a pitcher himself. He has a fair amount of speed and good curves, and what John Cole-
Fly Home This Spring Vacation
1% hours to Detroit....$9.95 % hour to Chicago.$4.95 10% off on round trips. Connections to all parts of the U. S. from South Bend Municipal Airport via
4ransamerican Airlines Gwp.
“South Bend’s Oldest Airline”
VETERAN PASSENGER and AIRMAIL PILOTS
Pioneer Air Transport Operator.
For reservations and information call
3-8151
Thirty
The Scholastic
LARGE SQUAD REPORTS FOR VARSITY BASEBALL
Sixty Answer First Call; Indiana Game Definite.
A squad of sixty candidates for the varsity baseball team reported to Coach George E. Keogan Wednesday at the first general squad workout in the gym. Battery men have been in training for about two weeks.
The definite scheduling of the Indiana game at Bloomington, April 25,. was also announced this week. The game had been listed as tentative on the official schedule, released last week.
Outstanding among the pitching
INTERHALL NOTICE
All interhall basketball equipment must be returned immediately to the Physical Education building. Players to whom the equipment was issued will be held accountable for its return.
F. Clarence Tomasi, Manager, Interhall Equipment.
candidates are Captain Charlie Palt and Charlie Mannix, both monogram winners on last year’s team. Other hurling possibilities include Lagger, of last year’s freshman team, and Louie Del Prete.
A trio of three catchers headed the candidates reporting for the receiver’s job. Marty Dolan, Joe Shekeet-ski, and last season’s reserve grabber, Luckett, comprise the field.
With only two of last year’s prize infield available, the task of rebuilding the inner circle looks to be the biggest assignment for Coach Keogan. Ex-captain Denny O’Keefe will be back at third base, Jim Bosco, utility man a year ago, will probably be stationed at shortstop, with the guardians of the first and second sacks undecided.
Leo Cummings, understudy to Billy Sullivan last spring, has an inside position in the first baseman’s race. Stemper and Rockett, graduates of the frosh squad, should extend Cummings in the battle for the place.
Prospects are more than ordinary for a good outfield. Lomasney, Russo, and O’Connor, experienced gard-ners, have all returned to the fold.
George Kozak, who will be remembered for his devastating hitting
when the Marshall college nine visited the campus a couple of seasons back, has reported for the squad as he has one year remaining of his eligibility. Cummings, the first baseman, can also be used in the outfield.
IRISH DRAMAS SUCCESS
(Continued from Page 6)
formance. It was no surprise to those who have seen him before on the stage to have Joseph McCabe play the leading role. But it remained for Miss Theresa Chisholm to finish the evening with a splendid performance of the part of Mrs. Delane.
The supporting cast for the final play of the evening featured the playing of James Carmody as the Sergeant, and of Miss Charlotte Mourer as Miss Joyce, both of whom have previously appeared with the University players.
Successful thus far in the present season with two hits, Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Department of . Speech, is looking forward to the next production of the Theatre, something which he expects to be of more particular interest to the student body than the highly artistic presentation of last evening.
Get Your Tickets Now for the Spring Festival DANCE and Card Party SATURDAY, APRIL 2nd K. of C. Ballroom
Music by MYRON WALZ and His Orchestra Sponsored by Veterans of Foreign Wars Drum - Bugle Corps
Advance Sale Admission, 25c
At Door, 50c—Dancing Free
Tickets on Sale at Elbel Bros. Music Store	K. of C. Club Rooms
112 N. Mich. St.	320 W. Jeff St.
MEN
Save on your Easter Shoes
Factory Cancellations
$3, $4, $5 OXFORDS
>2.00
Fine black and brown Oxfords that were intended to retail from $3 to $5 now on sale for only $2. These shoes were sold to Gilbert’s for cash at a tremendous loss to the manufacturer. They were cancelled because of late delivery. Most any style and leather a man would want. AU sizes in the lot, but not in some styles.
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
March 18, 1932
Thirty-one
NOTRE DAME RELAY TEAM TO WIND-UP INDOOR RACE SEASON
The Notre Dame one-mile relay team, unbeaten since their first appearance of the season at the Millrose games, will run its final indoor races at two invitation meets within the next week.
A five man squad composed of Alex Wilson, Charley Kelly, Louie Vettel, Fred McBeth, and Jack Scanlon left today for Chicago where they are scheduled to meet Purdue, Northwestern, and Chicago at the Bankers’ meet tonight. The annual carnival is to be held in the Illinois National guard armory on Chicago’s south side.
The second of the trips will take the same squad to Cleveland next Saturday for an appearance in the Cleveland A. C. games. The opposition that the Irish will face is not known, but it is probable that Michigan Normal will be included in the field.
Five times this year stocky little Emmett Toppino of Loyola university, New Orleans, has equalled the world’s 60-yard for indoor track. He made the distance in 0:06.2.
UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS COMPLETES PLANS FOR RELAYS
By Intercollegiate Press.
Lawrence, Kans., Mar. 16.—Twelve relay races and nine special individual events were announced today as the program of events for the tenth annual Kansas Relays of April 23 by Dr. F. C. Allen, director of athletics of the University of Kansas and manager of the Kansas Relays.
The Kansas Relays proper again will be a one-day event, with preliminaries in the 100-yard dash and 120-yard high hurdles set for the morning of Saturday, April 23, and the program of final events scheduled to start at two o’clock in the afternoon.
In addition to the regular relays program the Missouri Valley A. A. U. will again conduct an open decathlon event, five events of which will be run off in the Kansas stadium the afternoon of Friday, April 22, and the final five events the morning of Saturday, April 23.
The seven university class relay events include the quarter mile, halfmile, one mile, two miles, four miles, distance medley (440, 880, 1320, one
mile), and 480 yard shuttle hurdle relay.
College class relay races are at one-half mile, one mile, two miles and a distance medley (440, 880, 1320, one mile).
There also is listed a one-mile relay for junior college athletes.
The special individual events to he contested include the hundred yard dash, 120-yard high hurdles, 1,500 meters run (a new event replacing the former 3,0000 meters run), shot put, javelin throw, discus throw, high jump, broad jump and pole vault.
In all the colleges and universities of the United States there are a total of 40,498,291 library volumes.
NOTICE!
The Barber Shop Will be open Saturday, Monday and Tuesday evenings before Easter vacation, until 8:30.
We wish all a Happy Easter
Hello Men!
Smith s
Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you re hungry
High Gracie Jewelry at Lower Prices
A visit to the store will convince you
Headquarters for
N. D. JEWELRY
BLOCK BROS.
220 So. Michigan Street
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, Inc-
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St. Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
On Down the Line
0. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 N. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
❖
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
❖
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
❖
WE HAVE NO KEY
With Joseph Morper
WILBUR (JUNIOR) COEN is coach, captain, and star player of the University of Kansas tennis team . . . WILLIAM MULDOON, 85-year-old boxing commissioner, walks several miles a day . . . HARVARD has competed in 3,485 intercollegiate contests in the past decade . . . The Lent regatta at Cambridge started with 72 crews, and 48 contestants entered in the annual bumping races . . . ENGLISHMEN must get a big kick out of our Poughkeepsie classic when an “immense” fleet of nine starters usually battle it out for honors. . . .
V
In the Southern California-Univer-sity of California L. A. basketball game on Jan. 23, a BRUIN player read a newspaper while two U. S. C. guards stalled 13 minutes passing the ball back and forth between themselves ... 24 years have elapsed since the U. S. captured the 1500-meter run in the OLYMPICS . . . VENZKE may again put America in the win column ... Old JACK QUINN, Brooklyn twirler, the only survivor of the FEDERAL LEAGUE, is starting his thirtieth year in the big time.
V	•
Purdue, Big Ten basketball champs, scored 718 points in 18 games . . . an average of 39.8 points per game . . . WESLEY FERRELL has won over 20 games a season in his three years as a big league pitcher . . . last year he also led the American league pitchers in hitting . . . PAUL ROBESON, great negro singer, a four letter man at RUTGERS, was once elected on Walter Camp’s AllAmerican eleven . . . 118 minutes in penalties were meted out in a hockey game between SEATTLE and PORTLAND. . . .
V
MARSHALL DUFFIELD, former All-American quarterback, is working as a $5 a day “extra” on the Hollywood movie lots . . . “What price glory?” . . . RUBIO is the only ' American-bred horse to win the Grand National steeple-chase . . . KEENE FITZPATRICK, track coach at Princeton, has trained football teams and coached track athletes for 42 years ... In 1890 he taught ALONZO STAGG the rudiments of track and field sports . . . JIM THORPE, as halfback on the Carlisle Indian football team in 1912, scored 198 points. . . .
Here’s One Smoke for MEN
IET the little girls toy with their
■4 long, slim holders—let them park scented cigarettes with their powdeT compacts. That’s the time for you to go in for a REAL MAN’S smoke.
And what can that be but a PIPE!
There’s something about a time-proven, companionable pipe that does satisfy a man’s smoking instincts. You become attached to it—like
She won’t borrow the way it clears your pipe! your	yOur
imagination, puts a keen edge on your thinking.
And you know the heights of true smoking satisfaction when you keep your pipe filled with Edgeworth. It’s the finest blend of choice, selected
hurleys. And its rich aroma have made Edgeworth the favorite among pipe tobaccos in 42 out of 54 leading American colleges and universities.
Edgeworth? You can buy Edgeworth wherever good
mellow flavor and
The smoke you can call your own
tobacco is sold. Or, if you wish to try before you buy, send for special free packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old budeys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15^ pocket package to #1.50 pound humidor tin.
t
TONIGHT
You’ll Get Your March Laugh Treat » » » »
IF you get your copy of the
Current Events Number
THE JUGGLER
Featuring
What the Great and Near-Great say About
MANCHURIA— DEPRESSIONWORLD EVENTS—
LOPKER FRONTISPIECE 1001 LAUGHS
ON SALE TONIGHT
In all the Halls and
at the Cafeteria
While They Last Twenty-
Five Cents a Copy
Si
5» c »« □
3
BECAUSE
• 1951, Liggett * Myeks Tobacco Co.
WHY do more and more smokers say.
C«J ft:
THEY’RE MILDER. It’s the tobaccos! The best tobaccos—the smoothest and mildest that money can buy — go into Chesterfield. Ripened and sweetened in the sunshine... cured by the farmer... then aged for two years in wooden hogsheads. No wonder you say,"They’re so much milder!’*
THEY TASTE BETTER. These mild smooth tobaccos are put together exactly right. That’s Chesterfield’s secret—but millions of smokers agree that the job couldn’t be improved! Rich aroma of Turkish and mellowsweetness of Domestic, blended and cross-blended to Chesterfield’s own BETTER TASTE.
THEY’RE PURE. Cleanliness and purity, always! Everything that goes into Chesterfield is tested by expert chemists... tested thoroughly. The purest cigarette paper made, burning without taste or odor. Sanitary manufacture... no hands touch your Chesterfields. They’re as pure as the water you drink!
THEY SATISFY. You break open a dean, tight-sealed package. You light up a well-filled cigarette. Yes,.sir... you’re going to like ibis cigarette—you know that with your very first puff.' And right there’s where many a smoker changes to Chesterfield. They Satisfy!