s
WINSTON
PASTES GOOD 1


Seems almost eveiyone knows the good word forWINSTON
AND THE WORD IS “TASTE” . . . good taste! See if you don’t think that Winston is the best-tasting cigarette you’ve ever smoked! Part of the reason is the exclusive snow-white filter, carefully made to let you enjoy Winston’s rich, full flavor. It’s no wonder, really, that Winston is America’s best-selling filter cigarette — and by a wider margin than ever! Try a pack real soon!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
SHOULD 1
. .. T a -
1

Enjoy WMSTOBL..with the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip!
Questions students ask DuPont
— and some of the answers in summary form
*
"Do you hire men who have definite military commitments?" asks Oran A. Ritter, Jr., of Louisiana State University.
Yes. because DuPont lias always been interested in men on a long-term basis. DuPont has employed many graduates with military commitments even though they were due to report for duty a few weeks after joining the Company.
"Where would I work for Du Pont?" asks Gaylord E. Moss, of Tufts College.
DuPont has more than 140 plants and research and development laboratories scattered through 26 states. If you have a definite preference, and DuPont has an opening there for which you’re qualified, your chances of getting it are good.
We can give only brief answers to these questions in this space. But we’ll be glad to answer them more fully, and to try to answer other questions you may have that bear more directly on your own future. Why not write us today? Address: The DuPont Company, 2507C Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
"Would a graduate degree help my chances for advancement at Du Pont?" asks John C. Nettleton, of Villanova University.
Many factors are involved, and an advanced degree would undoubtedly have a favorable effect in all technical work, but it would probably be of more direct benefit in research or development at DuPont than in production, marketing or sales.
"How are chances for advancement in a large company like DuPont?" asks Herschel H. Loomis, Jr., Cornell University.
Good! DuPont is large, but it’s made up of 11 independent departments — like smaller companies — under one management. And it’s a basic policy to promote from within and on merit as Company growth creates openings. -
REG. U. S. PAT. Of
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH “DU PONT THEATER” ON TELEVISION
3
y 10, 1957

The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Tailors - Clothiers
Vol. 98 May 10, 1957 No. 23
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
The best dressed Notre Dame men all over campus rent formal wear today from Parker-Winterrowd, Inc., their tailors will fit them perfectly and that they’ll save enough to buy their date a beautiful corsage.
Every garment is spotlessly cleaned and pressed. Next time rent all your formal attire from Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Impressive and inexpensive Blue tropical tuxedo and trousers, cummerbund, shirt, tie, jewelry and suspenders.
Special to N. D. Men $9.00
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Upstairs—North of Oliver Hotel 115’/2-117’/2 n. main
Phone CE 3-6318
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON I Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER   News Editor JAMES McDonald _________Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ... Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS......Assistant News
BOB WILLIAMS ...........Assistant News HARRY McKEE.............Assistant	Copy,^
MARSH PIDGEON___________Assistant Copy DON STUHLDREHER...Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ___________Business Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN..........Sports Editor
BOB EARLY.........Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK _______Assistant Sports
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Bill Duffy, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Karnath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek^| Roger Leto, Ed Plumly, Bob Quinn, David I Schwartz, Don Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mik<p| Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the ' school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notrf ( Dame, Indiana.	'
4
The Scholastic

by Bryan Woods
ESCAPE'S OUTSTANDING SENIOR AWARDS
Every year at this time, all over the .country, recognition is being given to *the outstanding men in this year’s graduating class. Notre Dame is no exception, but I think there are a number of men who have been overlooked by the others, and so this week Escape wants to call attention to these unsung but deserving men.
The first man I want to mention is Neville P. Nurd of Alumni Hall. Neville is graduating with a B.S. in Commerce, |but this is not why he is getting the award. Neville holds the distinction of never having taken part in a single organized extracurricular activity. He’s never had the joy that comes from a tour well-conducted, or a freshman well-oriented.
He’s never experienced the warm afterglow that comes when you’ve spent a Sunday afternoon at a mixer in the .Student Center. When we asked about mis plans for The Senior Ball Weekend he just shrugged. He said his time would be taken up by his three favorite hobbies: sleeping, movies, and the Strat (or maybe Thilman’s if Saturday afternoon was nice.) When asked about his plans after graduation, Neville explained he was looking for a sinecure. Or as he put it, “You know, where you get paid [for doing nothing.” And so, Neville P. Nurd, for your unique record for the last four years, you receive the first of Escape's outstanding Senior Awards.
The recipient of our next award, Globular J. Ponderous, Fisher Hall, Bachelor of Arts with a sociology major, holds another unique distinction. Globular, sometimes known to his friends as “‘■the blob,” has never missed a meal at
May 10, 1957
the Dining Hall. He holds the further record of most number of consecutive firsts in line in the history of the school, an amazing 1,128. His string was finally shattered the morning he overslept and didn’t get over to the Dining Hall until 7:15 a.m. There, to his horror, he found six freshman already in line. He begged them to let him ahead of them, explaining all that was at stake, but it didn’t help. You know how freshmen are about getting their meals. Since then things have never been quite the same. (Globular has missed being first several times, once being as far back as twelfth.)
When asked how he managed to compile such a splendid record, he just shrugged (quite a feat for Globular) and said “Well, it was paid for, so I might as well eat it. Besides, I like it.”
If space permitted, I would go into detail concerning the other Award winners, but I am afraid that I will have to be content with giving the names and the achievement which won them the award.
Limpid C. Fishback who proposed to, and was rejected by 37 St. Mary’s College girls and three St. Joe girls (high school, that is).
Queasy W. Barfquift, NROTC, who was seasick for five weeks and four days of a six-week summer cruise. (The other three days the ship was docked at Le Havre. However, during this time he drove to Paris and was carsick both going and returning.)
Vermin F. Hogwash, who has worn the same pair of khakis for four years. This is the same Vermin Hogwash who always looks as if it has been exactly three days since he last shaved, no more and no less.
Downwind Trainsmoke, who brushed
more men of the year
his teeth one hundred and eighty-seven times when he was initiated into the Monogram Club as a sophomore, and hasn’t bothered again since.
Albert Aloysius Aardvark, whose name has been the first one in the student directory for the last four years.
Xerxes Zylophobic, whose name has been the last one in the student directory for the last four years.
Charles McKendrick, editor of the Scholastic.
MORE MOTLEY MISCELLANY
Attention Juniors. If by some mischance you didn’t manage to get Chubby Jackson’s autograph, you can still get it if you act fast. And it goes for the low, low price of $.50 worth of laundry tickets. And as a special bonus, the first ten who write in get that fabulous new calypso tune, “Terry Laughlin sings the Victory March,” with Dick Lynch conducting.
Naturally everyone has noticed the guys who are walking around with those teriffic Florida tans, but how about the ones with the Florida pallor that looks like they spent the last five years in Leavenworth. It kinda makes you stop and think.
This week is the next to last issue of Escape for this year, and thus my next to last column. (No applause, please. It’s too piercing.) For a number of reasons, (mainly threats of physical violence,) I will not 'be doing it next year. So if any of you feel like doing a column next year, write a couple of samples, (about 600 to 700 words each) and send them to, Editor, The Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind., for his consideration. If you get it, have fun.
5
WHITE FORMAL JACKETS
25.50	28.95
Enjoy your summer formal occasions in your own white formal jacket. Our selection includes regular or Ivy League models . . . properly tailored in the fine tropical weight fabrics that resist wrinkles. Try one on today. Charge it the Campus Shop way.
Tropical Weight Formal Trousers .... 10.95 and 12.95
6
On the Campus—Notre Dame
T
The Scholastic

CHARGE IT,
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY!
Pay 1-3 in July
Pay 1-3 in August
Pay 1-3 in September
(No carrying charge)
PAY
1
3
SEPT
Get the clothing and'furnishings you need now at the Campus Shop and pay for them later out of your earnings this summer. If you wish, there’s nothing to pay ’til July. Pay one-third then, one-third in August and the balance in September. It’s the easy way to get a good wardrobe together—on a budget.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You con1* afford not to!
B
On the Campus—Notre Dame
I
May 10, 1957
Men in the know
know true from false
FALSE
True. Only in isolated colleges where no women’s colleges are near do college men turn to the town gals.
True. Jockey is a registered brand and trademark of Cooper’s, Inc. It applies only to Jockey brand briefs, Midways® longs, undershirts, T-shirts and boxer shorts. Each the very finest and most comfortable of its kind, too.
False. Popular music is more popular on campus, according to record sales. After college, too.
Classical music is preferred over popular music by college men
College men prefer to date college gals
Jockey is a Trademark.
It refers to underwear made only by Coopers
Men on the go ■ ® underwear
BRAND “
made only by

MY SONS, MY SONS. . . .
Editor:
There are a number of things that adversely affect the visitor’s opinion of the campus. One of the more apparent is the treatment of the flag in front of xi the law building. Since returning from service and re-entering the University I have noticed with very few exceptions that the flag is flying many hours after dark, is flying in sleet, rain and snow, and occasionally is in bad disrepair. Whoever is responsible for the courtesies to the flag, and flying the flag at improper times is a great insult, should be instructed in those courtesies and be harshly dealt with if he fails to carry “ out proper handling of the flag. The ROTC units could easily supply the gentleman responsible for the flag with manuals giving all the necessary details.
On a recent jaunt between the cafeteria and the chemistry building 21 out of the 25 of the students along the way managed to spit on the sidewalk. No doubt this was a high average but it apparently isn’t enough to engage in the S' disgusting habit in the grass these goons have to do it on the sidewalk. How
about having the Blue Circle forget about their rubber stamps and see if they can exert some of their mythical influence in shaping up the troops?
Joseph Haggin, ’53
1107 N. Notre Dame Ave.
South Bend, Ind.
io ।
ACADEMIC FRAUD
Editor:
In your last issue a story was printed regarding a lecture by Dr. D. A. Daist, the “noted economist.” For your information, Dr. Daist has been denounced as a charlatan by the National Economic 1 ■ Advisory Board, and it had been my understanding that he was unwelcome at most colleges around the country.
I realize that the University of Notre Dame is a liberal institution and wont to refuse anyone the right of free speech. But is the University aware that this same Dr. Daist was condemned by the Vatican in 1942 as an economic anarch- J ist? His doctrine of “Economic Nihilism” is directly opposed to the principles set forth in Quadragesimo Anno, particularly in its antagonism to the labor movement.
Leave us remain consistent!
Ricardo Laissezfaire
Righttowork, Indiana	i
The Scholastic
View
e
our policy
During the past year the Scholastic has endeavored to improve Notre Dame. We have sought this improvement by trying to point out conditions which we felt did not contribute to the betterment of student welfare. In so a doing we have offended a number of people at the University.
These same people seem to feel that the editors of this magazine were on a sensationalism binge. Nothing could be further from the truth. These sacrosanct individuals resented our intrusion into their organizational affairs. Why, we do not know. If their activities were beyond reproach, then they would have had no cause for worry.
As stated above, we have sought to make this a better University. Our actions have always been based on this motive. Certainly we have made mistakes. We will be the first to admit them, for the Scholastic does not claim •to have patents on intelligence, maturity, and foresight.
But there is one thing that strikes us as being very ironical. The groups with which we have taken issue over the course of the year have tossed our criticisms aside as being “negative,” partial, or absurd. Apparently these organizations are laboring under the misapprehension that nothing could possibly be wrong at Notre Dame.
Any person who keeps his eyes and ears open can discover failings in any society. Those who seek to correct these faults are the people who are valuable to the society. ^The ones who refuse to admit that a rotten apple may be "present hurt not only themselves but the society as well.
We have openly sought to amend the wrongs we have seen. For attempting this we have been condemned as malcontents, crackpots, and radicals. When looked at objectively our policies bear no trace of radicalism. It is only because such things have not been said in the past that they appear to be radical. Also, we must remember that new ideas are not necessarily radical ideas.
It also seems strange that the different organizations ^on the campus would not appreciate having their policies held up for everyone to inspect. Since no one of the groups can be said to have a monopoly on worthwhile ideas, it seems likely that they would welcome suggestions on how to improve themselves.
This writing is in no way intended to be an apology for our actions this year. If we had to do it all over, we would choose the same course. We regret our mistakes. We are in no way sorry for the changes we may have brought w about.	C.McK.
May 10, 1957
the senator
Senator Joseph R. McCarthy’s unexepected death last week evoked outward professions of regret from many of his colleagues in public life. But there seemed also to be definite undertones of satisfied relief. McCarthy had been labled “the most controversial figure of the decade,” a term in itself largely connoting evil when applied to the arena of political affairs in the United States.
In spite of two world wars and great advances on the part of world Communism, which avowedly threatens to eradicate American institutions completely, there still remain in this country strongly vocal elements who refuse to allow any disturbance or criticism of the American way. There are still people convinced that the sacred institutions they worship will continue to survive on intrinsic goodness alone, as long as they are “believed-in” wholeheartedly.
In such an atmosphere of blind confidence, a man like Senator McCarthy, who dared to test these institutions with fire for the purpose of preserving them, was bound to be regarded as close to diabolical. It is not strange then that he was formally censured in 1954 by his colleagues in the Senate; an unusual move on the part of these men, taken possibly to re-assure themselves and their constituents of their good faith.
It might also be within reason to suppose that some of those who hated McCarthy looked on his abrupt death as the wrath of God approving that censure motion, and felt a certain consolation in their souls for being on the side of truth and justice.
Other even more ignorant people, not content to breathe relief at his passing, have already sought to attach degrading implications to the conditions of his death. And still others have suggested immortalizing the term “mccarthyism,” in repudiation of what they consider a dark age in the American past—a scapegoat to carry away the great sin against Democracy.
Senator Joseph R. McCarthy was far from being an ideal figure of the American politician. But he was a sincere man, with an awareness of the real danger to the American way of life posed by Communism (a danger more terrifying than “mccarthyism,”) and with courage enough to fight it in the face of ignorance and personal animosity.
A Democracy unable to stand a McCarthy would have little value or substance, and an even smaller chance of surviving external attacks. Faith in such a Democracy would certainly be without reliable foundation. But a McCarthy helped to purge that faith of fantasy, and made it stronger in the outcome.	].N.
9

to
a young
man
s,. P

with the world on
string

This June, the graduates of our engineering and scientific schools, pockets stuffed with job offers, have “the world on a string.”
But there’s another “string” attached to this fabulous situation: A man can only accept one job offer.
How can the graduate make up his mind wisely about Iris vital decision?
We’re not going to try to tell you. And we’re going to resist the temptation to point out die many advantages of working for IBM—much as our company, like every other, needs top-notch engineering and scientific talent.
We’re merely going to leave you with one thought that may help you make your decision:
IBM’s President has stated this policy:	. I want this company to be
known as the one which has the greatest respect for the individual.”
J
j
I
f $
IBM
INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION
s
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS MILITARY PRODUCTS • SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • TIME EQUIPMENT
10
The Scholastic

MARY JO CLEARY
Reign tonight . . .
Solemn Mass Marks Holy Cross Centennial
Priests and Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross throughout the world will inaugurate Monday a yearlong observance of the centennial of the Vatican’s approval of the community’s Constitutions.
Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne will celebrate a Solemn Pontifical Mass marking the occasion in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus at 9:30 a.m. Archbishop John O’Hara, C.S.C., of Philadelphia, a former Notre Dame president, will be present in the sanctuary. The sermon at the centennial Mass will be preached by Rev. ^ernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indi’ ana province.
A highlight of Monday’s observance will be ground-breaking ceremonies for the new Moreau Seminary to be erected on the Notre Dame campus. Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C., provincial, will officiate at the ceremonies at the site of the $3,000,000 structure. Scheduled for Completion in the fall of 1958, the new building will house 200 seminarians studying for the priesthood.
The new seminary, like the building it will replace, is named for Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, a priest of the diocese of LeMans, France, who founded the Holy Cross Fathers in 1835. Father ^loreau was officially approved as a candidate for beatification on March 15, 1955.
SENIORS ‘REFLECT’ TONIGHT AT FINAL COLLEGE DANCE
Maltby's Orchestra to Provide Music for 700 Couples;
Weekend Activities Include Dinner Dance, Breakfast
The members of the Class of 1957 will climax their college social lives tonight at the 1957 edition of the Senior Ball, “Reflections,” from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. in the Drill Hall. Richard Maltby and his orchestra will provide the music for over 700 couples.
During the course of the evening, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president
MAUREEN MURRAY ... At Senior Ball
of the University, will crown the queens of the Ball. Miss Mary Jo Cleary, from St. Mary’s College and Miss Maureen Murray, from Rosary College, will reign over the evening. They will be escorted by Bill Maddux and Tom O’Bryan, cochairmen of the Ball.
In keeping with the “Reflections” theme of the Ball, decorations will depict the events of the past four years at Notre Dame.
Tomorrow evening, a dinner dance will be held at the Erskine Country Club.
Dinner will be served buffet style from 7 to 9 pan. Throughout the evening, Ed Pistey and his Lettermen’ will provide music for the couples.
A Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall following the 8 aan. Mass in Sacred Heart Church will close the weekend. Chairman Dan Bergen has announced that approximately 360 couples will hear Father Hesburgh give the main address.
Car permissions, as usual, will'extend from 12 noon today until Sunday at noon.
The Senior Ball committee, in addition to Maddux and O’Bryan, is composed of Hal Blakeslee, publicity; Jack Cogan, hotel reservations; Dick Kopituk, entertainment; Tom Castellini, tickets; Mark Maley, refreshments; and Don Flock, decorations.
The dinner dance will be managed by two co-chairmen, Bill Kigali and Bill Garvin, assisted by business manager Bill Gerardo.
Kauffman Named '57 Winner Of Outstanding Cadet Award
The Marine Corps association announced early this month that Midshipman Francis Kauffman is the winner of the 1957 Award of Merit as the outstanding NROTC candidate for commission in the U. S. Marine Corps.
The award was presented in behalf of the association by Lt. Col. H. A. Feehan, USMC, associate professor of naval science. It carries with it a full membership in the Marine Corps association and a two-year membership to the Marine Corps Gazette, the professional magazine for Marines, published by the association.
Kauffman’s selection, made by the NROTC staff, was based on scholastic achievement, military excellence, and leadership.
May 10, 1957
11
NEW CIRCLE OFFICERS
Hirschfeld, Torruella, McCarthy
Hirschfeld Selected Blue Circle Chairman; McCarthy, Torruella Also Named Officers
New officers of the Blue Circle Honor Society, elected on May 29, are John Hirschfeld, chairman; John McCarthy, vice-chairman; Juan Torruella, secretarytreasurer.
At this meeting were 22 new members selected by the Circle from the 170 applicants this year. These new members,
ROTC Units to March On Armed Forces Day
All three Notre Dame ROTC units will march in the annual Armed Forces Day Parade, Saturday, May 18 in South Bend.
Thirteen honored Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC students, including the Anny and Air Force bands, will be in the first division of the parade, which will be led by the Fifth Army band from Chicago.
Beginning at 2 p.m., the parade will form at South Street and Michigan. The parade route is north on Michigan to Colfax, west on Colfax to Main Street, and north on Main to the Courthouse.
At the Courthouse an address will be made by Marine Brig. Gen. Frank Croft. Mayor Edward Voorde of South Bend will then lay a wreath on the Soldiers Monument in front of the Courthouse. The Fifth Army band will play the National Anthem, which will be followed by a volley from a firing squad, and taps.
12
who did not vote in the election, are: Bob Callaghan, Tom Carroll, Dick Corbett, John Crowley, Dan Cullen, Chuck Dahm, John Dewes, Gep Durenberger, Joe Ferrone, Barrett Gleixner, Bill Graham, John Hayward, Marty Kelly, Pat Martin, Larry Martin, Dave McMahon, Tom Scanlon, Phil Sebold, Dennis Shaul, Bill Stahl, John Ward, and Guy Weis-mantel.
Tuesday night Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., Rev. Edmond P. Joyce, C.S.C., and Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., will speak at the final banquet of the Society at the Hotel Mishawaka. At this banquet the seniors will receive the plaques in memory of their activities in the Circle, and the new members will be awarded their membership certificates.
At present the Freshman Advisory Board of the Blue Circle is asking for students who would like to be freshman advisors next year. Anyone who is interested should see Larry Wentz at 440 Howard.
WRITERS
Students wishing to write the “Back Page” or “Escape” columns for next year’s SCHOLASTIC are invited to submit at least two manuscripts for consideration. Entries should be mailed to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Duke Ellington to Play® at O'Laughlin Monday
Duke Ellington, one of the foremost modern American bandleaders and composers, will appear in a concert with his orchestra Monday night in the O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s College.
Ellington is composer of many of the^ “standard” hit tunes, including “Sophisticated Lady,” “Mood Indigo,” “Solitude,” “Caravan,” and “I Let a Song Go Out of My Heart.” His music is considered by many to be among the two original American contributions to world culture.
The career of Ellington has ranged through all areas of music. In addition to writing many popular songs, Eiling-^ ton is the author of several successful^ revues, musical shows, and was the first big bandleader to invade Carnegie Hall, in 1943. For this debut he unveiled his first long work, “Black, Brown and Beige,” which he subtitled a “Tone Par-rallel to the History of the Negro in America.” Every year since then he has returned to Carnegie Hall and premiered a major work.
The Duke is unique among composer.^ in the universal appeal of his music. ■; “There’s no longhair music and no jazz music,” he says, “There’s just music.”
Ellington and his band have played in . every part of the United States, Canada and Europe, to every kind of audience. = His appearances have been in dance j halls, concert halls, theatres, audi-| toriums, over radio, television, and oncef from a bombproof shelter in Paris. S-
Tickets for the concert, which start^ at 8 p.m., are available by callingl CE 3-9082 or CE 2-2381. They are! priced at $1.65.	I
Senate Slates Project For Summer Storage
Hall salesmen recently began selling, tags fox* articles to be stored by student^ this summer. The project is under th^ direction of the Student Senate summer' storage organization. All property will be insured up to $50 by the organization.
The price of storage varies from $1.50 . to $3.25 depending on the size of the article. The hall salesman will be the final authority on the price of articles.
Undergraduates and returning seniors' living in Senior Halls should conta^ either Tom Berry, 131 Fisher, or Henry Luepke, 403 Walsh. Off-campus men should also see the senior salesmen. ;
The organization will not store hi-fi sets, phonographs, televisions, glassware • and any other breakable or perishable items. For further information students may contact their* hall salesmen or safe Pat Rogers in 38 Pangbom Hall.
The Scholastic
1 —
' ’ Good News* to Continue Through Sunday; Ferrone Portrays Hero in Musical Comedy
NROTC Cadets Plan For Summer Training
Good Netos, the final production of the University Theatre, will continue in Washington Hall through Sunday with evening performances and a matinee on Saturday afternoon.
“ Dan Ferrone takes the lead role of Tom Marlowe in the production, and his romantic interests are portrayed by Barbara Ann Adamson, and Marilee Young, portraying Pat Bingham and Connie Lane respectively. Dave Shanahan plays the part of Bobby Randall, Tom’s roommate.
The play tells the story of Marlowe, star halfback on the Tait College eleven, % who must take a special test in astronomy to be eligible for the traditional game with rival Colton. Trouble arises when Tom’s girl, Patricia Bingham, arranges for her cousin, Connie Lane, to tutor Tom.
Others in the cast include: Sue Clark, George O’Donnell, Jerry Dodge, Joe
« ROTC Cadets Attend ND Memorial Service
Thirteen hundred Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC students at Notre Dame participated in a solemn but colorful outdoor Memorial Service and then attended a Military Mass in Sacred Heart Church last Sunday.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., ^president of the University, celebrated the Mass in the campus church following the memorial rites in the University’s main quadrangle. During the outdoor ceremonies, which were conducted by Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., director of the Office of Military Affairs at Notre Dame, a wreath honoring all of I the University’s war dead was placed at the memorial door of Sacred Heart -^Church.
Speaking from the steps of the Administration Building, Father Woodward told the cadets and midshipmen that patriotism “is not an unreasoning, sentimental and biased loyalty.” Nor, he said, does it consist “in a love of hills and valleys, of lakes and streams.” On the contrary, he continued, patriotism “is a love of spiritual principles and of ^persons rather than of material things and places.
Notre Dame’s ROTC students marched in the annual Presidential Revue on Monday afternoon on the parade grounds opposite the Morris Inn. Lt. Gen. William H. Arnold, commanding general of the Fifth Army, ' Chicago;' "headed a ^group of armed forces representatives ^attending the ceremonies.
Maier, Rudy Hornish, Bruce Junius, Don Zeifang, Peggy Barnish, Sue Brown, and Bill DeSeta.
The production is under the direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., assisted by Mr. Fred Syburg. Sets and lighting are under supervision of Mr. Gilbert Rathbun. Mr. A. J. Powers did the choreography, and Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., is in charge of choral work. Mike Koch is the stage manager.
ROMANTIC LEADS
Dan and Marilee
Orchestra seats for the four remaining performances are §1 for students and faculty, $1.50 for others. Balcony seats sell for §1 and $.75. Curtain time for the three remaining evening performances is 8:30 p.m., and the matinee Saturday will begin at 2 p.m.
Marketing Department Plans Advertising Meet Thursday
The Bishop O’Hara Task Force meeting, sponsored by the marketing department has been scheduled foi’ next Thursday afternoon.
Lawrence Holmberg, vice-president and manager of Compton, Advertising, Inc., of Chicago, will deliver a lecture on “Advertising Agency Structure and Management Principles.”
Dr. Edmund Faison, research manager of Leo Burnett Co., of Chicago, will talk on “Advertising Research, Including Copy, Packaging, Promotion.”
The third speaker of the day will be John Willmarth, vice-president and creative director of the Earle Ludgin Advertising Co., Chicago, who will discuss the “Creative Man in Advertising.”
Ovei- 185 midshipmen from the campus NROTC unit will participate in cruises and summer camp this year.
Cruise Alfa will have 76 regular freshmen and junior midshipmen taking part in it. The cruise extends from June 8 until Aug. 6. Among the ports that will be visited during this cruise are: Norfolk, Va.; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Santos, Brazil; Trinidad, British West Indies; St. Thomas, Virgin Is.; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Cruise Charlie, with 45 junior contract students participating, will last from July 6 until Aug. 7. The ports which Cruise Charlie will visit include: Norfolk, Va.; Quebec, Canada; and Boston, Mass.
All regular NROTC sophomores will spend three weeks in aviation training at Corpus Christi, Tex.; and three weeks of amphibious training at Little Creek, Va. The dates set for this training are from July 9 until Aug. 22. The midshipmen will be at Little Creek from July 9-30. From there they will be flown by Navy airlift to Corpus Christi, where they will be in training from Aug. 2-22.
Both Regulars and Contract junior Marine students will participate in the Marine Corps summer training program at Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Va., during the period from July 29 to-Sept. 7.
Grad Students to Hold Annual Dinner Dance
The Graduate Student Association will hold its second annual dinner-dance tomorrow night at the Morris Inn. The dinner, at which Robert Hochman will serve as master-of-ceremonies, will be seiwed in the Donor’s Room at 7:15 pan.
Following the dinner, the couples will dance to the music of Ken Taylor’s band in the Mahogany Room.
The queens of this year’s dance will be Miss Sheila Dougherty of Kenmore, N. Y. and Sue Colby, of St. Mary's College. Miss Dougherty, a graduate of D’Youville College, Buffalo, N. Y. will be escorted by Association President Joe Grande, and Miss Colby by Dance Chairman Charles Allen.
The Association will wind up this year’s activities with an election of officers to be held at a general meeting next Tuesday, at 8 pan. in the La-Fortune Student Center.
Announcement was also made that the Graduate Student Lounge in the Student Center is currently in the design stage.	'
May 10, 1957
13
Five Seniors Honored by 'Technical Review1 As Recipients of 'Engineer of Year' Awards
The Technical Review has chosen five outstanding seniors of the Engineering College as recipients of the 1957 Engineers of the Year award. Candidates for the award were picked by engineering department heads and interviewed by members of the new Technical Review staff.
Final selections were made on a basis of scholarship, leadership, service, and character. The respective winners are Robert Weiner, Tom Schriber, William
English Department Sets Poetry Session Monday
Next Monday at 8 p.m. in the O’Shaughnessey Art Gallery, the department of English will present a program of “Verse Rhythms of the Mediterranean World.”
Mr. Henry Rago, well known poet and critic and editor of Poetry Magazine, is coming from Chicago to make the introductions. The program will consist of readings in Greek, Latin, Provencal, Italian, Spanish, and French, with remarks on theories of rhythm and their relation to poetry in English.
The dozen or so meters demonstrated will include work by Homer, Sophocles, Catullus, Horace, Raimbaut de Vaquei-i-as, St. Thomas Aquinas, Dante, and St. John of the Cross.
Mr. Robert Fitzgerald (see page 18) and Mr. John Frederick Nims will conduct the program. Mr. Nims has lived in Italy and traveled in Greece, Spain, and France. His translation of Euripides’ Andromache is to be published in the University of Chicago’s complete Greek Drama Series. His translations of the poetry of St. John of the Cross, some of which were published a few years ago in Poetry and in Commonweal, are being compiled for publication.
ENGINEERS OF THE YEAR
Weiner, Conron, Schriber, Scriba, Reeve
Reeve, Greg Conron and Jack Scriba.
Weiner, a chemical engineer, hails from Canoga Park, Cal. He will graduate maxima cum laude, third in his class. In his junior year Bob won a Westinghouse Achievement scholarship.
He is editor of the Irish Pennant, and was chairman of the 1957 Grad Weekend. In addition he has been selected for “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.”
Tom Schriber, also a chemical engineer, will graduate magna cum laude this year. Schriber, from Muskegon, Mich., is associate editor of the Technical Review, a member of the Joint Military Council, and a Blue Circle member of
two years’ standing. He recently won a National Science Foundation scholarship for graduate study. He has also been selected for “Who’s Who.”
William Reeve, an electrical engineer from Bloomsfield, Conn., will graduate cum laude in June. Reeve was editor-in-chief of the Technical Review this past year. His other activities include publicity chairman for the 1956 Engineer’s Ball, member of the Joint Engineering Council, and treasurer of the AIEE. Reeve also was named to “Who’s Who” this year.
Greg Conron an electrical engineer and a resident of New Canaan, Conn, will graduate this June magna cum laude. Conron served as chairman of the AIEE, vice-chairman of the Joint Engineering Council, and publicity chairman of the Engineering Open House of 1957. He has also been awarded a National Science Foundation fellowship for graduate study.
Jack Scriba, Jr., of Berwyn, Ill., is a dean’s list student majoring in mechanical engineering. Among his activities, Jack has represented the Engineering College in the Student Senate as engineering senator. He has also been chair-
Three at ND Receive Fulbright Fellowships
A faculty member and two students
at Notre Dame have been awarded Fulbright grants to teach or study abroad during the 1957-58 academic year, according to an announcement by the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the , s Graduate School.	H
Dr. Ernest Sandeen, associate professor of English, will lecture in American literature at the University of Aarhus in Denmark. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1946, Professor Sandeen is the author of Fifty Years of the American Novel. His poems have been collected in Antennas of Silence. He was educated at Knox College, Galesburg, Ill., at Oxford University, England, and 0 at the State University of Iowa, where
he received his doctorate in 1940.
Bernard Browne, a research assistant for Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations, will study political science at the Free University of Berlin beginning in October. A graduate of Manhattan College, New York City, he received a master’s degree in political : science at Notre Dame last year.	->
Paul Clemens, who will graduate from ©
Notre Dame in June, will study French history at the University of Lille next year. He is vice president of “The Bookmen,” a student literary group, and a member of Notre Dame’s Arts and Letters Advisory council.

I
Fulbright grants are administered by K the Department of State through its ft International Educational Exchange ft service. Teachers and students are ex-^ changed between the United States and W more than 70 foreign countries in the g program.	g
man of the Joint Engineering Council, f associate editor of the Technical Revieiv, | and business manager of the 1957 Engi- g neering Open House and of the 1955 I Engineer’s Ball. He also was named to | “Who’s Who.
14
The Scholastic
^TN this article I am going to discuss 1 what I think is the fundamental problem facing our Catholic colleges. I shall state the problem in general and then restrict my delineation to Notre Dame in particular.
The general problem takes this form: It is estimated that more than double the present number of people desirous <xof entering college will apply for ad-^mittance in 1967.
It is evident that the public universities will be able more effectively to expand their facilities to accommodate
graduates a man who has not attained a proper stature of intellectual development and competence in his field of study, though that man be a saint, his university has failed. The specific purpose of any university, is intellectual development. It is to prepare a man for this world—to think rightly about it, its Creator, and its creatures. The university is not a gymnasium or a monastery. It is a seat of learning. Admittedly, man’s proper end is union with God. This, however, is not the end of the university though the student’s in-

What is Wrong
with
Catholic Colleges?
by Jack Crutcher
•this influx than will Catholic Colleges. Thus, the ratio of the number of Catholic college graduates to non-Catholic will increase. What is to happen to Catholic leadership in the secular world? This is a tremendous problem. It is staggering when we reflect on what the situation will be in the next ten or 20 years.
If we ever come to grips with the •problem it must be now. And it must be here. If we cannot increase substantially the number of Catholic college graduates, we must increase their quality as men of learning, judgment, and competence. In short, they must be real leaders —leaders in thought and in creation, and leaders of men by influencing their thought and action.
• That they possess and follow the principles of Christ is the pre-requisite, not the substance of what we seek. They must lead in the various fields of human endeavor—in science, philosophy, law, journalism, engineering, and politics. Their goal must be excellence in their chosen fields. But they have not shown jit. Everytime a Catholic university
May 10, 1957
tellectual development may concide with and aid his quest for this union.
The problem at Notre Dame is that, while it is not anti-intellectual, it is nonintellectual. There are many reasons to supoprt this fact. In short, here are a .few: often the concept “whole man” shrouds the idea of, or renders ineffect-tual a wholehearted concentration on the “spiritual man” and “thinking man.” The concept “whole man” applies in theory, but as a working formula it is a poor one in the sense that “You can’t do two things at once.”
In Wrangler, Blue Circle, and Bookmen interviews of prospective new members this question was often asked: “What do you think is Notre Dame’s biggest fault?” Other than the usual gripes about disciplinary regulations, the answer took this form: The general atmosphere or tone of the university is not academic. The courses often do not challenge the student.
The example most frequently cited was that the students are not given the opportunity to study theology as distinguished from religion and that memory and emotion are too frequently
substituted for the desired understanding which results from purposeful study, reflection, and judgment. The use of textbooks in theology which water down the subject was especially criticized, as was the lack of proper emphasis on the significance of the Mystical Body and its worship.
The students pointed out the stress on devotions at the expense of an understanding and appreciation of the fundamental realities of our faith.
The fault lies with the students, however, in that they have not demonstrated their displeasure with academic mediocrity in any organized way and have not proved themselves mature in their academic interests and abilities. An indication of the truth of this statement is found in a check of the subscription list to the only student publication on the campus devoted to thought and creativity on the intellectual plane, the Juggler. Less than one student in ten subscribes to it.
Student Government is equally at fault. It has primarily concerned itself with social problems. True, it is developing and it has increasingly concerned itself with the more important matters. But it has a long way to go. Most of the men applying for student government work still desire to be on the Social Commission. And who ever heard of any man running for an elective position in either the hall or the class ever build a platform around any other theme than more parties, mixers and banquets?
The above description of the present situation at Notre Dame is admittedly sketchy. It is not profound. It is an observation which any of us could make. Let us make it then and seek a remedy to the situation. The solution to the problem of student apathy toward their own intellects and toward the things which are worthy of possession by their minds can only be sought among the men who compose Notre Dame. If we are to graduate into the world as leaders and as men of intellectual prowess, with minds developed both reflectively and analytically, then we must start thinking and acting toward the abolition of the non-intellectual atmosphere which envelopes us.
15
Review
by David L. Kubal
Brown and Shanahan Bring' 'Good News’
Wednesday, May 8, Notre Dame, Ind.
The happiest show of the year bounced across the aging floor of Washington Hall tonight, stumbled in a few places, but managed to land on its dancing feet. Good News, a 1920’s musical by Buddy DeSylva and Ray Henderson sings and dances to a brilliant array of fine tin-pan alley tunes which the Notre Dame audiences will be humming for a long time. By local standards the show should be a hit in every way.
The story takes place in a small college town during the week before the big game. The star half back of Tait College is in danger of becoming ineligible because of an astronomy exam, and this worries everyone except the professor who is an ‘old salt’ at heart. Through the theme the authors twine gay music, love stories and a lot of good comedy to make the play worth sitting through.
The first page headline in Good News is without a doubt Dave Shanahan who developed Bobby Randall, the third stringer, who, of course, eventually made the winning touchdown. Shanahan, at times the ham, but a ham that is never too salty, pei-fectly filled the role of the empty-headed and lovable Randall. However, he did not confine himself to comedy. His song and dance routines with Sue Clark were especially well done, and were more acceptable than some of his comic lines which by now have been drained of every laugh.
This is the first large part that Shanahan has attempted. The thing that will make him memorable in this part is one word i.e. ‘showmanship’. His number ‘Five Foot Two, Eyes of Blue’ (an addition to the original score) which actually did deserve an encore proved his ability.
Sue Brown, one of the comic female leads, again displayed hei- musical comedy worth with fine dancing and singing. In this show her voice carried well into the audience, and Miss Brown
16
THE PRINCIPALS
Flo .........................Sue	Brown
Millie ................. Peggy Barnish
Babe O’Day....................Sue Clark
‘Beef’ Saunders .......... Bruce	Jani us
‘Pooch’ Kearney ...... George	O’Donnell
Bill Johnson ......... Philip Donahue
Tom Marlowe ............. Daniel	Ferrone
Patricia Bingham .... Barbara	Adamson
Sylvester ................ Jerry	Dodge
Constance Lane ......... Marilee Young
Bobby Randall .......... Dave Shanahan
Charles Kenyon ......... Donald Zeifang
Directed by Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., Settings and Lighting by Gilbert Rathbum. Choral direction by Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C. Choreography by Allan J. Powers.
captured each and every one there. On a few dance numbers she teamed with Jerry Dodge and Peggy Barnish to supply the show with a spot of professional ‘hoofing.’ Theatre followers will remember Dodge and Miss Barnish for their expert dancing in this winter’s Carousel. Dodge also made a good comic.
Daniel Ferrone and Marilee Young, seen earlier in the role of Lady Macbeth, combined in the romantic leads. Both Miss Young and Ferrone performed admirably. Their singing voices are good, but acting wise they both showed small weaknesses. The love scenes in the show, however, were not the best material to work with. Miss Young pressed the point that she was the unrequitted lover which is not called for in musical comedy. Ferrone at times was not altogether fluent in his lines and movements.
Sue Clark, as Babe O’Day, exhibited a very fine talent for comedy. Miss Clark worked well with Shanahan throughout, feeding him lines with good timing, as well as taking her share of laughs. Their song “In the Meantime” manifested their
© respective talents well. The ‘crap-game’ bit was one of her best comedy scenes.
Barbara Ann Adamson was well cast in the role of Patricia Bingham, the snobish president of Phi Beta Phi. Miss Adamson displayed a surprisingly sweet voice and thrilled the audience with her rendition of “Together.” She was the villian of the show, but finally gave up Tom to make the end happy for everyone.	®
The versatile George O’Donnell (Willie in Death of a Salesman) took the role of ‘Pooch’ Kearney, the hard drinking trainer of the Tait eleven. He was good as usual, and even showed a bit of dancing talent which was a joy to ; watch.	|
The soft-hearted Prof. Charles Kenyon, | took on an interesting actor in Don Zeifang. Admittedly, a trite role, Zei-^j fang subtley took care in making it sound new.	I
Phil Donahue was fine in the role of | the coach and Bruce Janius, as the big f football player, ‘Beef’ Saunders, was beefy.
Both the singing and dancing choruses | did a good job, showing hours of work. They acted throughout which in most shows in this locality is missing.
One glaring error which hurt the pace^ of the production in the second act was a missed cue. A number of the ‘glee club’ quartet was pushed ahead to fill the gap. However, the stage was empty for an embarrassing time.
The music accompaniment was very good. Miss Terri Steinhoffei- and Edward Thomas were at the pianos, ; Thomas Plofchan at the organ, Paulas Willhnganz and Jack Potash played the'^. k
drums and banjo respectively.
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C. did a ; fine job with the show as he has always i J done with spring musicals in the past. I
Nothing is essentially wrong with | Good News. An application of polish | here and there will make it the best | musical of the year.	I i
I
The Scholastic fl
‘The
Junior
Prom
<
Last Friday evening over 600 juniors and their dates converged upon the enlarged LaFortune Student Center for their annual spring prom. Chairman Doyle and his committee put on the big show with the help of Chubby Jackson and his group.
The next day the attire switched from formals to bermudas and most everyone - headed for the colder winds sweeping off the lake. Some couldn’t take the cold so they went to the dinner-dance at the Eagles’ Club. The weekend came to an end with Mass and the Communion Breakfast at the Dining Hall. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and Mr. Don Miller spoke.
ft* “I wonder if it would be large enough for our dates?”
May 10, 1957

Man of Letters
Robert Fitzgerald Comes to Notre Dame
by James Lenox
Beneath a mural panel in the faculty lounge of O’Shaughnessy Hall last week, the Scholastic held an interview with Mr. Robert Fitzgerald. Just above his head there were four words written on the mural which aptly read, “And the moral is—” Our talk began with the strangest of topics, the crab apple tree that sits behind Fisher Hall. It was on the blues, purples, and sweet scent of that same tree that our interview ended.
Mr. Fitzgerald was dressed in a modest grey suit, blue shirt and brown tie. Before answering any question he calmly deliberated and then spoke in a quiet voice. His mildness belied the fact that he has won a National Institute of Arts and Letters grant this year, the Shelley Memorial Award (1955) and has received critical acclaim for his translations of the classics as well as for his poems.
During our conversation he thought in concentrated silence. He unconciously smoked a cigarette as he talked. At times Mr. Fitzgerald removed his glasses and swung them in making a point. His demeanor suggested that he was a very gentle artist. But his biography and accomplishments prove his life is full and active.
Born in Geneva, N. Y., and raised in Springfield, Ill., he was educated at Harvard University and Trinity College, Cambridge. During World War II he served as a Navy officer at Pearl Harbor and on Guam. Mr. Fitzgerald is a former poetry reviewer of the New Republic and has taught literature and creative writing at Sarah Lawrence College, Princeton University, and Indiana University.
During his high school days he was active in football, tennis, rowing, and boxing. It was then that he was given favorable recognition by Vachel Lindsay for his writing.
For a year and a half, in 1934 and 1935, he worked as a reporter for the New York Herald Tribune. One of the things he recalls with pleasure from his Herald Tribune days was his apprenticeship under Stanley Walker, the author of City Editor. In 1936 he became a writer for Time.
In the summer of 1940, he repaired to Santa Fe, N. M., “to live quietly,” as
ROBERT FITZGERALD
he said, “and collect myself in the face of the world’s difficulties and my own.”
Among his childhood memories are the Springfield landmarks of Abraham Lincoln. The old Edward’s place where Lincoln was married stood half a block from his house. In the family kitchen, he recalls, stood a table that his grandfather had acquired from the Lincoln-Heondon law office; the initials A.L. were deeply carved in it.
For the brief period of this one se- £ mester Mr. Fitzgerald has left his home in Italy to teach courses in “Literary Theory” and “Seventeenth Century English Poetry” at Notre Dame.
Mr. Fitzgerald, in his role as a teacher, feels that it is a welcomed second vocation. “A teacher,” he says, “is also a student, or he ought to be. It is part of his job to encourage young students who have talent and not to step on them.”
The notion that Notre Dame is not producing enough literary minds, Mr. Fitzgerald feels, is too simple. “Notre Dame,” Fitzgerald said, “is perhaps becoming the American center of Catholic intellectual activity. Literary minds cannot be produced, but in such a center they may grow. America is no longer ® a mission country. Catholicism has taken root and now has the leisure to deepen its culture. Notre Dame will inevitably be a much more influential and vital university.”
After receiving his National Institute of Arts and Letters grant in New York City on May 22 and finishing his semester work here at Notre Dame, Mr. Fitzgerald plans to return to Genoa, Italy, and rejoin his family. Then he will ~ return to work on the Odyssey of Homer.
He is considered by reviewers as having a “Grasp of classic resonance and balance which brings him out always on the side of simplicity; he is incapable of either rhetoric or bombast.” . Concerning his translations, critics say J they produce “an idiom uncolored by i. colloquialisms and yet like the colloquial in their cadence and fluidity with power to respond to the demands of any [ conceivable occasion.”
Mr. Fitzgerald feels that his translation of The Odyssey requires a genuine act of faith to undertake. “Translating Homer is a job both fascinating and difficult,” said Fitzgerald. “Each morning this summer I hope to work on it. I count on swimming with my children in the afternoons. Revising in the eve-^ ning, I can usually destroy most of what I did in the morning.”
Mr. Fitzgerald’s six children range in age from nine to two. His eldest boys, eight and six, are now Chierichetti, or altar boys in the parish church. All the children speak fluent Italian. Mr. Fitzgerald’s wife is the former Sarah _ Morgan of New York City.	♦
A sensitive and sincere man, Mr. Fitzgerald feels that his stay here at Notre Dame has been made more enjoyable by the very kind people he has met. At the end of our interview he said he . hoped someday to return to the campus. = Then, he went off to visit the crab apple * tree.	1
IB
The Scholastic
Men of Distinction
Just a Frat Party
by Frank Spiering
ONE night recently I had the honor of attending the initiation ceremonies of that grand and glorious organization, which boasts that it is the only inactive fraternity on campus — The Purple Snorkel Ushering Society.
For weeks the organization had been accepting applications and supplications, and, after much deliberation by a board _of black-ball experts new members were W finally chosen. The basis of these decisions remains a secret. Neither academic or extra-curricular ability seemed to matter to the board of judges. The winners were chosen despite anything they ever did, but such is often the case in a fraternity like the B.S.P.S. (Benevolent Society of Purple Snorkels)
I was not invited to the initiation, but with the aid of a stepladder and a ^pair of binoculars I watched the entire w affair outside a window of the “Snorkel Chamber.”
It was an interesting study of school spirit in its primitive state. The ceremony was conducted by four hooded in-
dividuals wearing Blue Bookstore Blazers. The room was heavily draped with long velvet trappings. It was lighted by a row of metal urns shaped in the form of a large “S.” The new members took an oath of allegiance, which slightly resembled the Boy Scout Oath, and after1 numerous incantations there was a tense silence. As the incense smoldered and the cymbals clashed they bowed three times toward the Golden Dome.
Following this part of the solemn ceremony a figure in white, whom I took to be their chief, mounted the carpeted stairway to the great golden rostrum at the front of the chamber. The new Snorkels quickly found their respective thrones, which were inscribed with their names, and the figure in white began to speak. He spoke in a slow drawllike whisper,
“Neophytes:
Yesterday, you were just College Men.
Today, you are Snorkels. (Applause)
It is indeed a pleasure to welcome you into our illustrious organization. You have been picked by an unbiased panel of youi- classmates, picked because you’re outstanding. They pondered many long hours before they made their choice . . . and you are the fruits of it.
Brethren:
The Snorkels are a tradition at the University. Our predecessors led our founder up the river to this site where we now stand. That was the first “Purple Snorkel Tour.”
We have gained recognition for our efforts. A Snorkel lobbyist in the Student Senate recently managed to finagle bronze statues of each graduating member to be placed as lasting monuments up The Avenue as far as Rocky’s Pizza Parlor.
This is your heritage, loyal Snorkels.
Bear it with pride.”
He walked down from the rostrum amidst a barrage of applause, and bestowed upon each new member a large
“You wanted to see Lobund.”
gold badge bearing his name and matriculation number.
Amidst the torrential tears of gratitude that began to flow, he tapped the statue of the “Purple Snorkel” founder on its green head. A maze of floodlights filled the room, 300 young college girls danced out from behind the velvet drapes, and the huge golden rostrum turned into a bar.
I watched for a few moments as the party began. At last, overcome with nostalgia, I took down my ladder and walked away. As I started back to my hall I could still hear their voices floating through the campus, echoing the good cheer that was there. They had joined in a song, a song sung to the tune of the “Lady in Red.”
Oh, we are the Snorkels, the good hearted Snorkels,
A wonderful group are we.
We lead daylight tours,
and in the evening drink Coors,
A wonderful group are we.
The girls that all know us, Continually tell us, that we
Have plenty of verve.
We have as our tool, the chrome plated rule,
“Blessed are they who serve.”
Oh, we are the Snorkels, the good hearted Snorkels,	.
A wonderful group are we.
We lead daylight tours,
And in the evening drink Coors, A wonderful group are we.
19
May 10, 1957
<
r
c
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Buster Keaton Story. (A-l) Donald O’Connor, Ann Blyth, Rhonda Fleming, Peter Lorre. The film is an alternately funny and sad story of the lives and loves of Buster Keaton. The humor comes primarily in reproductions of a number of the old routines that Keaton did in pantomime in his heyday. O’Connor does an excellent job of recreating silent-movie technique. Interlaced into these scenes of comedy is what is purported to be the story of Keaton’s career in Hollywood. According to this film, he was the classic figure of the clown, who, while he makes others laugh in public, endures a miserable private life.
Summing up: The trouble with mixing fun and sadness in a movie is that the audience cannot always tell which is which.
PALACE
Kelly And Me. (A-l) Van Johnson, Piper Laurie, Martha Hyer. Like the hero of “Kelly and Me,” this picture is corny but not to the point of being obnoxious. The story tells about a dog, its master, and their ups and downs in show business. Van Johnson who is “Me” is a run-of-the-mill song-and-dance man in the days when vaudeville was gasping for breath. The hero meets Piper Laurie and for some reason unbeknownst to this poor writer they fall in love.
Summing up: This is primarily a dog picture.
Co-hit: Frontier Women. (A-2) Cindy Carson, Lance Fuller. Besides this all-star cast a great supporting cast is supplied by the Choctaw Indians. Miss Carson is cast as the daughter of Davy Crockett, left motherless aftei-birth, and reared by an Indian squaw. Into this situation steps none other than Rance Howard, who as you all know means trouble. However not enough trouble develops and the finish falls flat.
(Sunday) The Storm Rider. (A-2) Scott Brady, Mala Powers. Brady is a professional gunslinger employed by the cattlemen to keep out baddies. Scott himself is somewhat of a baddy and the town folk try to keep him out which makes for unsuspected thrills.
Co-hit: Smiley. (A-l) Sir Ralph Richardson, “Chips Rafferty.”
The story is about a down-under Tom Sawyer and the way they do things in Australia, which is not too interesting unless you have some interest in Australia.
GRANADA
The Incredible Shrinking Man. (A-l) Grant Williams, Randy Stuart.
Although there are no big names in this movie the story is so novel and unusual that it is well worth seeing. For some odd reason Grant Williams suddenly begins to shrink. Each day he grows a little smaller and has to make tremendous adjustments in his life. Finally he shrinks to a size that he has to live in a doll house. The height of the movie comes when he falls into the cellar, and regains consciousness in a strange, horrible and alien world of incredible size. He has a gory battle with a spider in which he uses a pin as his weapon. Eventually he escapes thru a window by crawling thru the holes in the screen.
AVON
Wee Geordie. (A-l) Bill Travers, Alastair Sim. Wee Geordie is a tiny boy who is laughed at by the other schoolboys because he is a weakling. He takes a correspondence course in physical culture and becomes the biggest boy in the area. He is sent to Australia as a member of Britain’s Olympic team. He becomes homesick and wants to retui-n home until he falls in love with a Danish lady shot-putter. The picture is done in typical English style but it is still pretty good.

for this
sensifiuil GIFT OFFER

$500 Golden
Jewtlry-finishtd Electroplated Gold
WITH THE PIGGY BACK REFILL The Ideal Gift hr tay Otasht
FREE GIFT BOX
Notre Dame Bookstore
May 10, 1957
21
Rev. Hesburgh Delivers Talk at Inauguration For Student Senate Members, Class Officers
Last Sunday evening in the LaFortune Student Center, members of next year’s Student Senate and all recently-elected class officers were inaugurated.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered the main address at the ceremony. He spoke on “Student Responsibility.” Other speakers were: Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs; Pat Logan, the Student Senate president this past year; and Jerry Brady, the new president. Connie Conway, chief justice of the Student Court, administered the oath of office. Tom Cahill acted as chairman of the inauguration.
In addition to the class officers, new village and college senators, the stay senators were also inaugurated. These students were elected at the May 1 Senate meeting to serve another year. Vick Clesi, Harry Wasoff, Tom Cahill, Bill Graham, Marty Kelley, Bruce Babbitt, and Jim Rose were the stay senators elected. Wasoff was chosen by the Senate to serve as vice-president for next year. Graham was elected secretary, and Kelley named treasurer.
SONIC
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store — he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a CAPRI phonograph for as little as $19.95.
This month’s special is the CAPRI 550 — a twin speaker high fidelity portable with 4-speed Webcor automatic changer, hi-fi amplifier in attractive two-tone Forest Green. . only *5
at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC.'19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N.Y.
Senate President Brady also announced that he is now accepting applications for the seven commission chairmanships: academic, spiritual, social, physical facilities, public relations, student organizations, and judicial.
Brady is also accepting applications for chairman of next year’s Mardi Gras Ball and for positions in the Student Court, both justices and attorneys. An appeal is also made to this year’s freshmen and sophomores, who are not members of the Senate, to serve on Senate committees such as the Library, Dining Hall, and permanent hall residence.
DRY DOCK
“Dry Dock” will be the theme for one of the final dances of the year to be held tomorrow night in the LaFortune Student Center from 8 to 11 p.m.
Bob Brynes and his combo will provide the music for the dance. The dance is for couples only, and the price of admission will be $1.
Dr. Biondo Publishes ' Music Teaching Book
Dr. Charles Biondo, associate professor of music and director of the Notre Dame Symphonette, is the author of Starting the Instrumental Program, a new book published by the Gregorian Institute of America, Toledo. Professor' Biondo’s book deals primarily with the’ teaching of instrumental music at the grade school level and is based on his several years of experience in conducting an instrumental program in the parochial schools of South Bend, Ind.
In his book Professor Biondo dis
cusses all orchestral instruments and all types of school musical activities. Included in the volume are descriptions^ of playing techniques, fingering charts, -seating plans for orchestras and bands, rehearsal plans, selection of material and personnel, tuning of the instruments and the ensemble and many other items of interest to music educators.
Professor Biondo has been a member of the Notre Dame music faculty since 1947. He was educated at Potsdam State Teachers’ College, at Columbia University Teachers’ College where heg received a Master’s degree in 1946, and ” at the Chicago Musical College which awarded him a Doctorate in music education in 1950. Dr. Biondo has headed the instrumental department of the National Catholic Music Educators Association since 1955, and is a frequent contributor to professional journals.
Art Students, Architects Hold 'Sketch Party' at St. Mary's
Art students from St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame’s architects held a “Sketch Party” last Saturday, at St. Mary’s. The party, the first of its kind participated in by the students of the two schools, was headed by Bob Hoffman of Notre Dame and Barbara Kluth of^. St. Mary’s.
Activities for the affair included a door prize which consisted of the winner having his or her portrait done in oil on the spot by Prof. H. Stanley Barrett of the College of Engineering. A demonstration in oil painting was given at the same time. There was an exhibit of St. Mary’s students’ art work, and architecture accomplishments from Notre • Dame. The students then paired off to undertake a sketching assignment somewhere on the St. Mary’s campus. A prize was awarded to the couple presenting the best sketch.
Music was provided for dancing and refreshments were served to conclude the day’s activities.	&
The Scholastic I
22
YCS CHANGE
Krapp and Fogarty
Fogarty Heads YCS; Plans Made for '57-58
Thomas Fogarty, a junior in mechanical engineering from St. Joseph, Mo., was elected president of the Federation Council of YCS at its annual elections on April 30.
As president, Fogarty will be in charge of all Catholic action on the campus and will represent YCS in the Student Senate. Previously, he had served as vice-president for the fresh-Cmen and sophomore groups.
Vincent Carroll, from Laguna Beach, Cal., was chosen vice-president for the college groups. He is a junior pre-med. The vice-president for the sophomores next year is Wyman Spano, from Minneapolis, Minn., an Arts and Letters freshman.
The Federation Council elected John Hayward, sophomore English major C/from Toledo, 0., secretary, and Edward Weyhing, Arts and Letters sophomore from Louisville, Ky., treasurer.
In addition to these five, the Federation Council made three appointments. James Merz, physics sophomore from Teaneck, N. J., was selected the freshman committee chairman. Lawrence Martin, from Toledo, 0., a freshman ^math major, was named executive secretary for next year. Roy Wessel, sophomore physics major, from Louisville, Ky., will be the tutoring service chairman.
One of the immediate plans for YCS I is the organization of groups for next » year. Hall groups will then be able to choose leaders for next year before go™ ing home for the summer.
h May 10, 1957
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
23
"Yes, you’ll start in the thick of things as a Burroughs engineer.”
(Put yourself in this student engineer’s shoes for a minute as he asks a Burroughs representative some important questions.)
Q What do you mean m start “in the thick of things”?
A, I mean you’ll start on the work you’re trained for; you won’t be a man who gets lost in a shuffle.
Q What kind of work would be open to me at Burroughs?
Research and development in ballistic missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications and electro-mechanics—to mention a few.
Q. Will all my work be in defense?
P^ No. Burroughs is a worldwide leader in the * business machines and data processing fields. Of course, we’ve many defense contracts too. And that involves fascinating work in mechanics, electro-mechanics and electronics.
Q. Are all your plants in Detroit?
P^ No. We’re really on a global scale. Detroit’s ’ the home office, of course. Our big research center’s in. Pennsylvania. We have plants in New York, Michigan; New Jersey, California and Pennsylvania in the U. S., and in Canada, Great Britain, France and Brazil.
Q. What about my future at Burroughs?
We at Burroughs feel that young engineers * are the key to Burroughs’ future expansion.
Though our engineering staff has increased seven times since the end of World War II, we are just on the threshold of our biggest expansion. This, plus our promotion-from-within policy, assures an outstanding future for engineers joining Burroughs now!
Q. What about retirement plans, hospitalization, vacations—you know, the fringe benefits, I think they're called?
P^ Burroughs is noted for these! In fact, Bur* roughs pioneered many of them. You’ll have hospitalization insurance for both you and your dependents, secure retirement, and educational aid programs, paid vacations and sick benefits, to mention a few.
Send for free booklet today. Why not get more information on the opportunities Burroughs offers engineering students. Find out how you, too, can get in on the ground floor of Burroughs’ great expansion. Send for our new career booklet today. Write in care of:
Placement Coordinator
BURROUGHS CORPORATION
Detroit 32, Michigan.
24
The Scholastic
i c
Scum
BASEBALL NINE ENTERTAINS GREAT LAKES
•Golfers Unbeaten;
Run Win Streak to 11
Klinemen Set Sights on Possible NCAA Bid; Sailors Visit Cartier for Tomorrow's Contest
The Notre Dame golf team travels to Madison, Wisconsin, this Monday for a triangular meet with the Wisconsin Badgers and the Northwestern Wildcats. The Irish claimed victories over Northwestern, Iowa and Michigan State last Mon-^;day to run their win streak to eleven straight without a loss.
Charlie Thurn, a junior from South Bend was the low scorer in the fourway match. He fired a 72-78—150 to pace the Irish linksters. Joe Grace and Don Williams had 36 hole totals of 152. The other Irish scores were: Tom Garside 153, Lloyd Syron 158, and Jim Mrus 160.
The scores of the team matches were ©ND ^0% Northwestern 15%, ND 20 Iowa 16, and ND 19% Michigan State 16%.
On April 23, the team met Louisville in Louisville, Ky., for their first match of the season. Joe Grace and Tom Garside, each with a 72, paced the Irish to victory, 21%-5%. Dave Vahn and Bill Musselman led Louisville, each with a 76. On April 26, the Irish were in a Peoria, Illinois, where they beat Bradley University and Western Illinois State. Bradley was beaten 15%-2% while Western fell to the tune of 13%-4%. Charlie Thurn led the Irish with a 73. Grace, Marty Carroll, and Syron each had a 74 while Garside had a 75.
The Irish returned home for their first home meet of the season on April 29, and bested Wabash 31%-4% and Tri _ State College 28%-l%. Syron led the K' Irish with a 69 with Thurn at 71. Garside had a 36 hole total of 149. Wabash’s Don Black had 73 while Jim Loeker turned in a 78.
On May 4, the Irish bested Detroit, 27%-8%, Iowa 25%-10%, and Michigan State 20-16, in their last home engagement of the season. Thum led the attack with a 72 while Syron had 73. J) Thurn was also low man for both rounds at 148. Jim Sullivan led the Spartans with an 18 hole total of 73 while George Wakulsky had a 150 for the full tour. Bud Judish and Phil Joselyn each had a 74 for Iowa. Joselyn had a 150 for the full thirty-six. Tom Watrous had a 75 in the morning round for Detroit ■s and duplicated it in the afternoon round for a 150.
.May 10, 1957
Notre Dame’s baseball team, with their eyes set on an NCAA bid will entertain Great Lakes Naval Station on Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon. On Monday, the Irish will play Michigan State at East Lansing and then return home to meet Northwestern on Wednesday.
Last Saturday, the Klinemen made shambles of the Glenview Naval team by whipping the Sailors, 12-1. On Monday, Tom Bujnowski pitched a neat seven hitter as he defeated Wisconsin, 4-1. A ninth inning error was the cause for the senior righthander losing his shutout. The win raised the locals record to 7-5.
On Tuesday, the Badgers reversed the loss with a 14-9 decision. An error by third baseman Jim Morris in the fifth opened the gates for eight Wisconsin runs.
Last Saturday at Cartier Field, Notre Dame toyed with Glenview for six and a half innings before the game was called by the mutual consent of both coaches. The 12-1 triumph raised the Irish above the .500 mark for the season with six wins in eleven outings.
ERRORS WILL HURT!
One of four Glenview errors in the fourth.
Although the Irish only connected for eight hits, they were helped by eleven bases on balls and nine errors by the stumbling Glenview defense.
The game was close only for three innings. The Irish picked up two runs in the first on triples by Gene Duffy and Jim Morris sandwiched around a walk.
Then—the fourth. After- pitcher Tom Bujnowski had homered, and two other batters had gone out,.first sacker George Seaberg of the Sailors committed four-errors to let in four more runs. Bob Senecal, the ninth man to bat in the inning, finally grounded to the pitcher, and Seaberg held onto the ball for his first chance without an error in the inning.
Between the start of Spring vacation and the Glenview game, Jake Kline’s charges had trouble with Big Ten teams, winning only one of four games, and split a two day series with Ohio U.
Michigan started the trouble for the Irish by nipping them in a doubleheader Good Friday at Ann Arbor. A walk and a triple in the tenth gave the (Continued on page 28)
25
Impressive Tennis Squad Faces Heavy Slate; Kalamazoo Stops Win Streak With 5-4 Victory
Notre Dame’s tennis team, sporting a nifty 7-1 record visits Ann Arbor this afternoon to meet the University of Michigan. Michigan State will provide the opposition at East Lansing tomorrow before they return home to face Western Michigan on Monday and Detroit on Wednesday.
Kalamazoo College, one of the country’s top collegiate tennis squads, handed Notre Dame their first defeat of the current campaign when they bested the Irish last Saturday on the ND courts by a 5-4 count. The visitor’s victory was clinched when, with the count tied at four-all, Bob Brice and Bob Yvell teamed up to down Notre Dame’s combination of Hector Cabello and Sergio Garza in the No. 3 doubles, last match on the program with set scores of 6-4, 4-6, 9-7.
On Monday, the locals started a new victory string as they upped Marquette, 8-1.
Sophomore Max Brown provided the most thrilling match of the afternoon when he upset Les Dodson in the featured singles match, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5. Last summer at Forest Hills, Dodson, competing in the National Singles, played Lewis Hoad of Australia, the No. 1 amateur in the world.
Ron Schoenberg added the second Irish point when he outlasted Jerry Schram in the second set 14-12 and won the third 6-2, after having dropped the initial set 6-1. Cabello won the third point in singles by defeating Yvell in straight sets, 6-3, 6-0.
In the other singles matches, Mike Beal registered Kalamazoo’s first point when he defeated Harry Smith. Also,
HARRY SMITH
Ahead here, but loses
Bill Japinga downed ND’s Chuck Vanon-cini and Garza lost to Brice.
With the score tied at three points each, Brown and Smith took the first doubles competition from Dodson and Beal, 6-0, 4-6, 6-3. But in the second match Schram and Japinga of Kalamazoo beat Vanoncini and Schoenberg 6-2, 6-3, setting the stage for the final and meet-deciding match.
Led by sophomores Brown, in the-first man position and Schoenberg in the No. 2 slot, the Irish tennis team had registered six consecutive victories before running into Kalamazoo.
After opening the season with a win over the University of Chicago and then having a match with Western Michigan postponed, the charges of Coach Tom Fallon started on their victory streak against the University of Wisconsin here on the campus April 22, defeating the Badgers 6-2. Brown and Schoenberg, playing one and two men respectively, defeated Wisconsin’s Al Hentzen 9-7 and Tim Frautschi 6-3 in the Fieldhouse before sunshine dried the outdoor courts. Darkness halted the final match in doubles play.
Wisconsin was able to win only the No. 6 singles match when Jim Cummings defeated Cabello, and in the No. 2 doubles where Vanoncini and Smith of the Irish dropped a three set match to Frautschi and Joe Weycer. Other winners for the Irish were Smith, Vanoncini, and Garza in the singles.
April 24th the Irish opened a four match road trip by blanking Marshall College at Huntington, W. Va., winning all ten matches in straight sets and handing the Big Green their fourth setback in six outings. Brown opened with a 6-1, 6-2 victory over Charles Bearden and Schoenberg followed with a dual shutout over Cebe Price, 6-0, with Garza treating his opponent, Dale Freeland, in a similar manner. Smith turned back George Templin, 6-1, 6-1, Vanoncini won over Leo Byrd by 6-2, 6-1 scores and Cabello downed Jim Craig 6-0, 6-2 while Chuck Stephens was defeating Jack Young, 6-0, 6-1.
Against the University of Kentucky the following day, and paced once again by Brown, the Irish captured seven singles and three doubles events in winning then' fourth consecutive match in as many outings. Sophomore Brown blasted Wildcat ace Randy Sexton 6-0, 6-2 to get the rout rolling and then teamed with Schoenberg to drop Sexton and No. 2 man Art McCarty, 6-0 and 6-3. Kentucky was able to salvage only one set in the matches, a 6-3 win in the first set of the No. 2 doubles.
Irish Trackmen Lose To Tough Missouri
The Notre Dame track team, fresh from impressive performances in their only two outdoor meets of the season, the Ohio State relays and Drake relays, was defeated Saturday 72 to 59 by a very strong Missouri team at Columbia.-^ Mo. The meet produced eight new rec-^ ords and a tie in the ninth.
The Irish and the Tigers split the record setting honors as Jack Cote set a record in the broad jump with a leap of 24 feet 3 inches. Co-Captain Mike Kauffman hurled the discus 154 feet
2 inches for another record. Aubrey Lewis ran the 100-yard dash in :09.8
and Joe Foreman ran the 220-yard dash
in :21.2 followed closely by Co-Capt. - |
Bill Keegan.	S
Missouri’s Charley Batch set two records in the high and low hurdles. He sped over the highs in :14.1 and beat Lewis in the lows with a 23.3.
The versatile Lewis placed third in the javelin and anchored the winning
mile relay team, which captured the
event in 3.19.9. Mike Haverty won his , two mile specialty in 9.29.4.	I
In the Ohio State Relays on April ' ’ 19-20, Cote took second in the broad jump, and set a new Notre Dame record with a jump of 24 feet. He placed second to Greg Bell who broke Jesse Owens’ record. Don Faley came in fifth.	]
The Irish placed second in the sprint I medley as Foreman led off with a 440, Lewis and Keegan both ran 220’s and Dale VandenBerg finished with an 880.
The Irish shuttle relay team com- i posed of Steve Dornbach, Ron Parker, Booker Rice, and anchored by Lewis I took first place.	ll
The half-mile relay team of Frank | Hall, Aubrey Lewis, Keegan and Fore- H man, took second in the event.	Ill
Haverty finished third in a special mile and one-half event.	Ill
The best performance of the relays | was turned in by the mile relay team, I which set a new meet, Ohio Stadium, and II Notre Dame record with a time of 3.14.5.
Lewis anchored preceded in order by I Keegan, VandenBerg, and Foreman. Ill
A week later on April 26-27, the Irish traveled to Des Moines, Iowa, where ] they sent sixteen representatives into the Drake relays.	I
The shuttle-hurdle relay team of Dornbach, Parker, Rice, and Lewis took	ill
third place.	Ill
The four-mile relay team of Ed III Monnelly, Haverty, Vic Dillon, and Dick	I
DeCamillo came in second.
The team of Keegan, VandenBerg,	[jl
Foreman, and Lewis took third place in ' the sprint medley on a very muddy ;i track. This same team took first place
(Continued on page 30)	h
The Scholastic j
ll
26
father Holderith Celebrates
Twenty-Five Years
on the Fairways by Bruce Huot
Notre Dame’s sophomore loaded golf squad finished sixth in the National Inter-Collegiate Gold Tournament last summer, and Rev. George L. Holderith was especially pleased. In the next two seasons, as he says, the Irish have the potential to produce one N.C.A.A. champion. “Last year’s green sophs are experienced juniors now, and we have an average set of sophs this year, and a very promising freshmen group,” said Father Holderith.
An NCAA championship in 1957 would be an excellent silver anniversary present for the man who “made” golf at Notre Dame. This spring Father Holderith will celebrate his 25th year as mentor of the Irish linksmen. In 1933 Father, O’Hara, president of Notre Dame and C;ow Archbishop of Philadelphia, appointed him as golf coach. Since then Father Holderith has served as president of the National Athletic Association of golf coaches. From 1933 his teams have won 152 matches, lost 59 and tied eleven. Notre Dame has entered the National Inter-Collegiate 18 times, winning once, finishing second twice, winding up third on four occasions and capturing fourth position twice. Only twice, since becoming an inter-collegiate sport in 1928,
COACH AND TEAM
Father Holderith and 1957 Varsity
have the Irish had a losing season. This is remarkable considering only one golf scholarship is awarded each year.
In 1944 the Irish walked off with the NCAA title. Led by Captain Mel Wilke, James Bessenfelder, Jack Fitzpatrick, and Bob Terry, they toured the Inverness Country Club layout in Toledo, Ohio, in a combined score of 311—one stroke lower than runner-up Minnesota. Earlier in the season the Irish had drubbed the Gophers in a dual match, 20 to seven. Father Holderith views winning the NCAA as a dream come true. “It’s the ambition of every coach, and a great honor for the team and the school.”
The NCAA championship came only two years after golf became a major sport at Notre Dame. In December of 1941 Father Holderith wrote a letter to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, vice-president of the university, and asked that major monograms be awarded to varsity golfers. Father Cavanaugh granted his request. That year the Irish won eleven, lost none, tied one, and were the host team for the National Inter-Collegiate, played at the South Bend Country Club, where they finished seventh in the tournament. .
Unlike the Notre Dame football ranks,
COACH AND CO-CAPTAINS
Grace, Father Holderith and Thum the Irish golf squads have turned out only one professional player, Russ Beaupre who has a course in Detroit. Father says he always has tried to discourage professional golf as a career for his players, because anyone with a college education shouldn’t have to depend on golf for a living. “Don’t get me wrong, pro golf is a wonderful thing, but there are too many real good players now, and unless you’re sensational you have a better chance to make a good living on your education,” he commented.
The reason for no outstanding pro linksmen coming from Notre Dame surely doesn’t stem from the fact that the Irish haven’t had a crop of excellent players. Father Holdei-ith picked a few excellent linksters for an All Time Notre Dame golf team—men he would like to see playing on the same squad. From the class of 1931 there was Larry Moller, captain of the 1930 team. Moller was medalist in the National Inter-Collegiate at the Oakmount Country Club in Pittsburgh and also was a finalist in match play losing to George T. Dunlop Jr. of Princeton. He was elected president of the National Inter-Collegiate Association for 1931. Now living in Springfield, Ill., Larry is one of the top amateurs in the state.
Winfield S. Day captained the 1936 squad his senior year. He is the only person in Notre Dame history to win the University Championship four consecutive years. In the 1934 Nationals, Day lost one down in the quarter-finals to champion Charlie Yeates of Michigan. It, by far, was Yeates’ toughest match of the tournament. At the present, Day is at the head of a financing firm in San Diego.
From the class of 1939 came Tom Sheehan who captained the ’38 and ’39 < (Continued on page 32)
27
' May 10, 1957
Sailing Club Wins Indiana Championship;
Compete Next Week for Midwestern Crown
The Notre Dame sailing club after three fine performances in the Purdue Invitational, the Middle Atlantic Spring Invitational and the Boston University Invitational, won the Indiana championship by defeating Purdue and Indiana last Saturday at Notre Dame.
The Irish scored 40 points to 36 for Purdue and 25 for Indiana. They won nine out of the twelve races.
The weather was cool and the lake was choppy as Ron Meissner took three firsts and Ray Nelson, Tim Rice, and Pete Raffetto took two each. Freshmen Dan Schuster and Leo Gorman alternated as crew members.
On April 6-7 in the Purdue Invitational, the Irish finished second in a field of seven to Michigan State. MSU scored 35 points to Notre Dame’s 33 and Purdue’s 32. Marquette, Bowling Green, Indiana, and Wayne State followed in that order.
Due to extreme weather conditions only six of the scheduled 14 races were sailed. In the first race, Ron Meissner capsized in the heavy wind just before the finish line as Dave Irish of Michigan State finished second in the race. This proved to be the margin of victory for State. Meissner, Nelson, and Lou Morgan skippered as Tim Rice and Joe Boland Jr. acted as crews.
On April 13-14 in the Middle Atlantic Spring Invitational, the Irish finished fourth in a field of twelve, which included ten strong eastern crews.
Navy again proved to be unbeatable on the Severn River as they racked up 180 points to Michigan University’s 163, MIT’s 161, and Notre Dame’s 146. The Irish fouled out of two of the 24 races and had equipment breakdown in two
ANNOUNCE GERITY TOURNEY
All Notre Dame students are invited to play in the Gerity Golf Tournament. It will consist of 36 holes of medal play, which can be played anytime between Saturday May 11, and Sunday May 19.
There will be a trophy awarded for low gross score and over 25 merchandise prizes for scores on a handicapping system. The handicap will be adjusted to each score after it is turned in. There will be a box at the first tee into which the scorecards must be placed.
There is no entry fee for this tourney. Golf team members are ineligible.
For further information see Joseph Pivnicka in 106 Walsh Hall.
others, but still finished fourth with consistent sailing. Again the weather was cold and windy.
On April 20-21 at Boston University, Notre Dame finished third in a field of 14. MIT captured first place with 346 points. Boston U. was second with 333 and Notre Dame was third with 296. The weather was warm, but extremely windy as 35 mph. winds swept the lake and hampered the boats. Tim Rice after getting off to a poor start, finished with four straight wins for Notre Dame.
Ron Meissner, Ray Nelson, Tim Rice, and Leo Morgan skippered. Meissner also served as a crewman along with Joe Boland Jr.
Next week on May 11-12, the Irish will be at Wayne University in Detroit where they will meet Ohio State, Michigan, Michigan State, Marquette, Tulane, and Loyola.
May 18-19 they will be at Ohio State for the Midwestern Championships.
Irish Face Sailors
(Continued from page 25) Wolverines the first game 5-4, and Michigan’s Clark threw a three hitter at the Irish in the second contest for a 3-0 win.
At Athens, Ohio, the next Friday, Bob Giarrantano and Tom Bujnowski led Notre Dame to an easy 8-3 win over Ohio. Giarrantano drove in five runs with a homer and a double while Buj-nowski was fanning 14 Ohioans.
The next day, Ohio bounced back to a 7-4 victory on Dick Horwood’s two home runs. Gene Duffy slugged two round-trippers for Notre Dame in the loss.
April 30, Michigan State moved to an early 4-0 lead and made it enough. Four singles in the second accounted for two markers, and a throwing error by third baseman Jim Morris gave the Spartans two more in the fourth. Notre Dame rallied for two in the seventh and one in the eighth when Elmer Kohorst doubled and scored, but they went down one-two-three in the ninth. Kohorst paced the Irish batters with three hits in four attempts while Bujnowski suffered his second straight loss after two victories.
Notre Dame parleyed six hits and two walks into six runs in the first three frames and went on to a 8-4 win over Northwestern at Evanston on April 31. Bob Giarrantano showed the way with three singles, and Elmer Kohorst added two. John Connors, Tom Marquez, and Hank Bretting combined for a five-hitter against the Wildcats.	•
Varsity Spring Records
TENNIS
April	6 ND 22 ND 24 ND 25 ND 26 ND 27 ND	9 6 10 10 9 7	Chicago 0 Wisconsin 2 Marshall 0 Kentucky 0 Louisville 0 Cincinnati 2	
May	4 ND	4	Kalamazoo 5	
	6 ND	8	Marquette 1	
Record: Won 7;			Lost 1	
BASEBALL				
April	12 ND	6	Indiana 1	
	13 ND	9	Indiana 7	
	ND	0	Indiana 3	F
	16 ND	3	Central Mich. 2	1
	19 ND	4	Michigan 5	
	ND	0	Michigan 3	I
	26 ND	8	Ohio 3	i i
	27 ND	3	Ohio 8	i
	30 ND	3	Michigan St. 4	j
	31 ND	8	Northwestern 4	
May	4 ND	12 Glenview 1		
	6 ND	4	Wisconsin 1	
	7 ND	9	Wisconsin 14	
Record: Won 7; Lost 6
GOLF:
April	23	ND	211A	Louisville 5’A
April	26	ND	15’A	Bradley 2'A
		ND	13’A	W. III. St. 4’A
	29	ND	31’A	Wabash 4’A
		ND	28’A	Tri-State 1 ’A
May	4	ND	29’A	Detroit 6V2
		ND	20	Mich. St. 16
		ND	25’A	Iowa 10 V2
May	6	ND	20’A	No’tern 15 ’A
		ND	20	Iowa 16
		ND	19’A	Mich.St.l6V2
Record: Won 11; Lost 0
TRACK: COLUMBUS RELAYS April 20
1st place—Mile relay 3:14.5 (New ; Relays and school record)
1st place—Shuttle Hurdle relay 1:02.9
2nd place—Broad Jump (Cote)
2nd place—Sprint Medley Relay
2nd place—880 yd. Relay
3rd place:—1 'A mile run (Haverty)
DRAKE RELAYS April 27
1st place—Mile Relay 3:13.1 (New school record)	।
1st place—440 yd. hurdles (Lewis) 1
2nd place—4 mile Relay
3rd place—Sprint Medley Relay
3rd place—Shuttle Hurdle Relay
5th place—Broad Jump (Cote)
28
The Scholastic

Leglers Hold Banquet; Many Awards Given
The Kampus Keglers held their season-closing banquet last Wednesday night. The annual affair was highlighted with the team and individual trophy presentations for the year.
The first set of trophies was presented < the members of the Cleveland Club, who garnered first place in the 6:30 Wednesday league. Finishing behind Cleveland for the season were the Press Club in second place and the third place Met Club. In addition to the winning team awards, individual trophies were given to the top bowlers of the league. The Toledo Club dominated the season’s individual honors, with Tom Jablonski racking high average with 179 and high series with a 608.
The St. Louis Club won the first place trophy in the 8:30 Wednesday league, followed by Wisconsin and the Student Law Association. Tom Clancy rolled high game of 234 and Bob Prebenda’s 601 for three games took high series,
both for Student Law. High average was held by Wisconsin’s Don Calcagnini with 165.
Nick Ranieri’s 178 high average led Chicago to first place in the 6:30 Thursday league, while Hank Deculuwe scored a 257 high game and 631 high series, boosting Detroit into second.
In the 8:30 Thursday league the Architects led the pack, with the Villagers and Washington-Virginia-Maryland in second and third, respectively. Jim Jones won high game honors for the Villagers with his 240 pin effort.
The final weekly league, at 6:30 each Friday, was topped by the Holy Rollers, while the De-Effers and Easterners finished second and third. Holy Roller Ed Silliman won high series with 596, while Virge Minnick bowling for the De-Effers, won high average with 170.
Following the regular- season play, a double elimination tournament was held for the top two teams in each league. The team of John Steurer, Frank Teget-hoff, Don Albers, Tom Sullivan, Dick Beers, and Tom Erbs rolled the St. Louis Club to a tourney victory.
MAGNIFICENT GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore.
we package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
111 SO. MICHIGAN Open a Convenient Charge Account
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 112 E. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana Under Max Adler Company B. FRED CRAVEN N. D. Boys Welcome
What a man uses on his face is important
CHOOSE QUALITY
SHAVE WITH
Rich, creamy quality for shaving comfort and skin health. New formula Old Spice Shaving Creams in giant tubes-.
Brushless .60 Lather .65
Old Spice aerosol Smooth Shave 1.00
S H U LT O N NEW YO8K • TOaONTO
Honor Captain Smyth as* Most Valuable Collegian
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
‘It Isn't necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. - You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional
amount.
CALL CE 4-3188 OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS LINE
John Smyth, Notre Dame’s basketball center and captain, was named the Most Valuable College All-Star on the Harlem Globetrotter-College All-Star crosscountry tour. Every spring the Globetrotters assemble the best collegiat^ seniors around the country and pla>~ them in a month-long tour. Smitty’s fine play all season earned him a berth on the collegiate squad.
In a recent interview, Smyth said he felt that the tour had been excellent experience for him. It had also given him the opportunity to travel the country. On the tour, he encountered a different brand of ball than he hart faced in the college ranks. The profes” sional Globetrotters showed him some much rougher basketball than he was accustomed to.
Commenting on the tour, Smyth felt that the game in Milwaukee was his best all-around. Although he did have better games point-wise, he scored 16 points, rebounded well, and played an excellent floor game. He was in double figures in most of the games and showe Tl consistent basketball throughout.
The best player he faced on the Globetrotters was 6-8 Willie Gardner, who has since signed with the New York Knickerbockers of the NBA for a reported $30,000. Gardner held down the defensive center’ post against Smyth and manned a forward post on offense. Smitty played mostly center for the AllStars.
He refused to single out one as the' best among the collegians. However, he did mention Dick.Duckett (St. John’s), Dick Heise (DePaul), Hank Nowak (Canisius), and Jed Dommeyer (Minnesota) as very fine ball players.
Smitty said definitely he is not going into pro ball. He was very emphatic.

Track
(Continued from page 30)

mmos UBtttYaad
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
and the University championship in the mile relay by setting a new Notre Dame and an all time relay record of 3:13.1. It was one of the fastest times in the country. Lewis ran an anchor leg of 46.2. Lewis also won the 440 hurdles on a very muddy track in 53.7 beatin $ I Gene O’Connor of Kansas State, last year’s champ.
Next week the Irish will face Pittsburgh U. at Pitt. Pittsburgh is one of the strongest teams in the east and have strong mile and two-mile relay teams. \ • The Irish, glaringly weak in the field p events, will pin its hopes on its strength.^ in the running events.	-
The Scholastic
30
foggier
Spring Issue
now on sale

IN
jim McDonald
To head "Juggler”
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year

Bookstore
AND
Cafeteria
Coming
May 16
Double
Summer Issue
Two Issues in One!
McDonald Appointed New 'Juggler' Editor
The University has recently announced the appointment of James McDonald, a junior English major from Cincinnati, 0., as editor of the Juggler. John Keyes, a PFA junior from Wauwatosa, Wis., will serve as business manager. McDonald has served for three years on the Scholastic as a news reporter and assistant news editor, and at present is copy editor.
An advisory board of editors was also announced. It is composed of: junior English majors David Kubal, from Lombard, Ill., and Petei- DeVito, from Staten Island, N. Y.; George Oser, a junior- AB-physics major from Bellaire, Tex.; Richard Thomas, a Commerce junior from Pelham, N. Y.; Michael Kennedy, a junior in the general program from Boston, Mass; John Picken, from Amityville, N. Y., a junior in the College of Science; and David Karnath, a sophomore English major from Kenmore, N. Y.	-
At present, the spring issue of the Juggler is on sale. This volume is composed entirely of critical essays done by graduating seniors of the Class of 1956.
The summer issue of the Juggler will tentatively go on sale May 15. This issue is devoted entirely to creative writing done by current undergraduates and will be a double volume. The winter issue, which was scheduled to appear Feb. 15, has been incorporated into this double volume.
Plans for next year* include four issues, one composed of creative work, one devoted entirely to criticism, and two volumes composed of both.
• 1,000 suits in stock
• AU the newest styles •Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56 •No Deposit for ND Students Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL 107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
’ May 10, 1957
31
OPORTUNIDADES DE EMPLEO EN MEXICO
La Compania Procter & Gamble busca jovenes universitarios para puestos de administracion en su Compama en Mexico.
La Compania ofrece oportunidades en los ramos de publicidad, compras, finanzas, relaciones industriales, manufactura y ventas.
A los candidates que reunan los requisites, se Ies dara adecuado entrenamiento preliminar ya sea en Mexico, los Estados Unidos o en Canada.
Ademas de estos puestos permanentes, la Compania ofrece a jovenes con las aptitudes necesarias, que no terminaran sus estudios en 1957, empleos en Mexico durante el verano como primer paso a puestos permanentes despues de haber recibido sus titulos.
Los aspirantes deberan hablar espanol como idioma natal y ser de preferencia ciudadanos mexicanos, aunque en algunos casos se tomaran en cuenta los ciudadanos de otros paises.
Si usted tiene interes en cualquiera de los dos ofrecimientos arriba mencionados, sirvase escribir a D. H. Trott, Gerente General, Procter & Gamble de Mexico, Vallarta 1, Mexico 4, D. F.
Especifique el tipo de trabajo que mas le interese, cuales son sus estudios principales, el titulo universitario que obtendra, lugar de nacimiento, nacionalidad y la fecha en que terminara sus estudios. Enviar asimismo su direccion permanente y su direccion actual.
ODT-2981-PG-5
Twenty-Five Years f
(Continued from page 27)
Photography Department Winner of the ANSCOFLEX CAMERA SET
			Edward L. Chott			
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
"HLWTURBOW \pPTOMETM«T
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
Oliver Hotel
207 W. Washington
Phone CE 4-5777
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Con Moke AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost First Bank & Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
squads. In both those years the Irish won the Indiana Inter-Collegiate. Originally from Chicago Heights and now residing in Detroit, Sheehan finished third in the National Inter-Collegiate in 1939 and lost in the second round of match play to Bill Hall of Iowa. That summej he set a new qualifying record in winning medalist honors in the 1939 National Amateur. He fired a 36 hole total of 139, breaking Bobby Jones’ old record of 140.
Walter Hagen Jr. captained the Notre Dame linksmen his senior year in 1940. That year the Irish took the Indiana Inter-Collegiate championship and Hagen walked off the course with the individual title. In his senior year, Hagen wa'sF consistently a par or below player. Originally from Detroit, Hagen Jr. is now residing in New York.
From the National Championship team Father Holderith chose Jack Fitzpatrick. Fitzpatrick, from Akron, Ohio, won the 1944 University Championship with a brilliant 279. This score still stands as the university course record for 72 holes.
“I hated to see Tom Veech graduate,’^ said Father Holderith. Veech captained the 1951 team, and was probably the largest golfer in Notre Dame history weighing 275. In 1948 he won the Wisconsin Open and the Western Junior. He reached the semi-finals in the 1949 InterCollegiate meet only to be beaten by Harvie Ward. Ward has won the National Amateur for the past two years. Veech also reached the quarter-finals o^ the National Amateur in 1950 anC.? accepted a bid to play in the Masters in 1951.
Tom Mattey, from Warren, Ohio, captained the 1953 Irish squad. As a sophomore sensation he reached the semifinals of the 1951 N.C.A.A. tourney at Ohio State. He was also medalist in the 1949 National Junior.
The Irish have encountered many formidable golfers, and many hav^ turned out to be golfing sensations. In Father Holderith’s mind the toughest man any Notre Dame club has faced was Freddie Haas of Louisiana State. It was in 1936 and Haas was paired against Irish captain Winfield Day. Day couldn’t cope with Haas’ booming tee shots and pin-pointed irons to the green. As a result Day lost his only singles^ match in three years of competition.^ Haas has gone on to become one of the country’s finest touring pros.
Father Holderith is exceedingly proud of the William J. Burke Memorial Golf Course. “I only wish that Mr. Burke could have lived to see it now,” he said. Mr. Burke used to manufacture the Vulcan golf club stick. According to Father
The Scholastic I
Tay. Burke made a number of summer retreats at Notre Dame. He became a good friend of Father Patrick Dolan, the retreat master, who wanted a golf course at Notre Dame. Working with the administration, through Father Dolan, Mr. Burke offered to carry all the expenses of building a golf course. In April of 1928 Mr. Burke, an architect, and a ^rge crew of men began to construct, "om an old cornfield, the William J. Burke Memorial Golf Course. In June, of that same year, William Burke suffered a heart attack and died.
In 1931 Notre Dame hired Chet Keeley, a merchandise professional, as greens keeper. He and Father Holderith worked hard from 1931 to 1946 carefully planning and changing the new course. They planted trees and shrubs, enlarged ^And traps, moved tees and even greens. The result is an interesting and difficult 71-par eighteen holes. And last spring Chet Keeley celebrated his 25th anniversary as head greens keeper at Notre Dame.
Father Holderith graduated from Notre Dame in 1918 with an A.B. degree. He was ordained in 1923, and received his Master’s degree in history from Notre JOame in 1932. He taught history at -Notre Dame from 1923 to 1925 and then for three years at St. Edward’s in Austin, Texas. He returned to Notre Dame in 1928 and was associate professor in History until 1952. Father Holderith also has the full-time job as supervisor of university buildings. He is responsible for the interior upkeep of all residence and academic buildings.
Father Holderith didn’t take up golf ^ntil after his ordination. He adopted the art quickly and in a few years was able to shoot consistently in the mid and low seventies. According to him, however, old age has had a telling effect on his golfing prowess. “No longer,” he says, “am I able to keep up with my pupils as I could in the past.” In time of service, Father Holderith is the oldest coach at Notre Dame.
PROBLEM:
How to get home for Vacation?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines speedy Mainliners!
Going Home or planning a holiday vacation? You’ll save valuable vacation time by flying United Air Lines. Fast, dependable service to 80 cities coast-to-coast and to Hawaii. ’Round the clock schedules. Call or visit your nearest United office or authorized travel agent today!
p. Father Holderith refused to discuss any definite plans for retiring. He only
said that he isn’t getting any younger. “Twenty-four years, in fact it’s working on twenty-five, is a long time for anybody to be sticking around a coaching job,” he commented. “However, I’d like to have one more National Champion be-
fore I call it quits," he continued.
It is more than difficult to build an
Average team on only one scholarship let alone an NCAA champion. But it is typical of Father Holderith to carry on Notre Dame’s uphill tradition that, when the unattainable is finally attained, it was only through the greatest of perse-verence and most discouraging odds. In 24 years he has built for Notre Dame golfing dynasty, and when he resigns : ne will go out big—a credit to his sport.
The Elkhart Symphony Orchestra presents the World Premiere of “The Park Avenue Kids” Words and Music by Don Gillis Featuring Notre Dame University Students Jim Feeney, Gene Ley-val, Charles Hickman, Joe McCue and Joe McArdle See Them For Tickets!
For Coming Proms ...	.
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
33
May 10, 1957
Back Paqc
by JOE TAFT
the venice of america*
Tides of the robber barons’ wrath have echoed as far as their New York headquarters. Even the baronesses are disconsolate at the collegiate invasion of their vacationland. “J. P. and I just have to leave by the first of April,” one baroness was quoted by an unemployed cabin boy at the Bahia Mar yacht basin. Still Captain Jim of the Sensational Seas—a modest looking jungle cruiser— reports, “I want to take this opportunity to welcome all you college people into the Sensational Seas family ...”
In the wake of traffic tickets, hush puppies, grits, SOFT SHOULDERS, CATTLE CROSSING, KEEP RIGHT . . . await a few ironical reminders of the seasonal defunct barons and baronesses. Signs such as RELAX FOLKS, YOU’RE ON VACATION, DRIFTWOOD-FACTORY TO YOU and WE POLISH UP ON NATURE seem as inapt as the apartments’ boasts of SPECIAL REDUCED RATES. This ironical welcome of Ft. Lauderdale—the Venice of America—is conquered by the April migrators’ elaborate preparations.
Armed with radar- defying field glasses, broken Lenten resolutions, black market identification, travelers cheques, motor club check points, suntan and burn elixirs and the firm resolution to emulate their predecessors, the college cult flocks to the Venice of America.
The daughters and sons of the distraught barons and baronesses monopolize the more desirable apartments and villas of the ocean front, the center of daytime activity.
The Elbow Room, recently remodeled to meet its social demand, is the forum of Fort Lauderdale’s college colony. It is a small bar where anything from Greek-lettered sweat shirts to table-top
beer rings may be the fulcrum of a conversation . . . and the acceptance or rejection of a date. For the more athletic type who is easily bored with the hum-drum of the Elbow Room’s hunt and peckisms, the beach across Atlantic Boulevard offers more of a challenging variety of activities—activities such as riding the breakers, borrowing sun lotion, playing catch •with anything, throwing sand or observing bananafish.
Although the beach has a most casual decorum, there are explicit rules that must be observed. These rules are posted on the life guard stand—STAY WITHIN 50 YARDS OF SHORE. NO SPEAR FISHING, NO BOTTLES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ALLOWED ON BATHING AREA, NO PICNICS, FIRES, BALL PLAYING OR SURF FISHING EXCEPT IN DESIGNATED AREA, NO DOGS ALLOWED ON BEACH.
This is the sandy coliseum—the outdoor proving ground where the strong and not so strong are pitted in the struggle for the attention of the buttermilk-looking females who command the upper Mid-West, the tall, thinnish Betty Bermuda-looking females of New England, the quiet coffee-looking females of the Southeast, and the heterogeneous, herculean-looking females of the midMid-West. Many strange costumes are worn by these Olympians. Anything from PROPERTY OF -----------, DADA
DADA DADA to THE ELBOW ROOM, FORT LAUDERDALE, FLA. may appear. This year a large contingent of unlettered green shirts swept the beach.
Other daytime activities may include-Captain Jim’s Sensational Seas tour of the Florida wilds. Alligator wrestling, tribal dances and songs are performed
daily from 2 to 4 p.m. by wealthy, athletic Indians who drive their Mercedes Benzes from the Fountainbleu to their lucrative jungle rendevous. Deepsea fishing boats may be hired by thosdj who are enthusiastically inclined. Gulf Stream Race Track offers a more expensive type of entertainment. The investment is often well worth the opportunity to observe a different type of race other than the ones Fort Lauderdale offers.
The challenge of daytime hotel pool crashing increased this season. An unknown exhuberant group played electri-^ cian with one of the hotel’s power boxes.^ As a precaution, the hotels doubled their guards who triple-checked — even the most imaginative—resident references.
Night time activities reach a peak of collegiate nationalism at Jade Beach. Located approximately 12 miles north of the daytime beach colony, it is one of the most popular retreats. Strumed voices and ukes gathered around an open fire provide entertainment for alma0 materers. Other activities are open to the more ambitious. The Venice of America has a small night club circuit.
An annual event in the green shirted itinerary is the Easter Monday dance at the Hollywood Beach Hotel. The plush setting of the dance terrace, excellent orchestra, bar, high diving board and pool are all utilized by this frugal clan.^ A beach party at Hollywood’s Chimp -Farm is rapidly becoming a post dance phenomenon.
One tragic omen has appeared within the flux of this April’s activities. Whether the predecessors of the barons and baronesses provoked it is irrelevent. Nevertheless a television set appeared in the famous Hoagy Hut this spring.
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
Keep your eye on White Tartan
Here’s a fresh new idea for spring in casual wear. It’s White Tartan, a rich-looking miniature plaid-on-white pattern; expertly tailored like all Arrow shirts. Famous Arrow University design features collar that buttons down in front and. center back... plus action box pleat. Cool-looking White Tartan, “Sanforized-labelled” gingham, $5.95.
ARROW—
CASUAL WEAR
New miniature plaid by Arrow
White accents are coming into their own for casual wear. And leading the way is this fresh new White Tartan miniature plaid by Arrow. Available now in the famous Arrow University Squire collar that buttons down in front {and center back). Action box pleat in back, too. Come in and see our handsome selection anytime! $5.95.
-GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So.- Michigan St., South Bend
odem...smoke EM
Get full exciting flavor I
>5
' BallnnnRide
w'
Pick the pack
MV«S TOBacco
^1-«stoBaccoco
FREE UP!
Get more fun out of life... more flavor out of smoking

You are free to choose... only when you smoke modern L&M. And only L&M gives you the full, exciting flavor that makes L&M America’s fastest-growing cigarette.

™E MirACL£
NEW CRUSH-PROOF BOX (Costs no more)
This is the newest, modern box. Closes tight! All the flavor stays in . everything else stavs out!
HANDY L&M PACKS
Yes, America’s fastest-growing cigarette is also available in handv Kins and Reeular oacks.