Dotre Dame Scholastic
DISCe-QVASI-SemPGR-VICT\^ VIVS -QVASI- CRAS-MOtelTVRVS-
Vol. XLIX. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 19, 1916. No. 21.
The Sorrow of the Sea. z ■	•
/	BY SPEER STRAHAN.
"	‘ Thy sorrow and the sorrow of the sea
Are sisters.”	—Lionel Johnson: Ode to Ireland.
Y^T know, O Singer of Ireland’s song, That though the sea is brimmed with bitter tears, Yet does she know dawn’s violet horizon
i	And all the gleaming streets of Ascalon;
a	And though she murmur of her stricken part,
Yet when her frail feet, wild with sudden fears, Run to the evening west. Does not her young head rest Upon the rose-red of the sunset’s heart?
The Influence of Albert Gallatin upon the Financial Conditions of the United States.
BY NORMAN C. BARTHOLEMEW. ----------------
F ALL the statesmen who have played important parts in the building up of the United States, it is probably impossible to find one who has left
behind him a reputation so poorly proportionate ,1 to his ability and influence as Albert Gallatin. As a member of both Houses of Congress, he had an excellent record; as a diplomat he T had much influence in shaping the foreign policies of his time, and he helped to formulate the Monroe Doctrine; .besides he ranks as one 1 of the most distinguished financiers of the world. The question then arises, why a man who has a record of this sort, does not hold a higher place in the history of his country?
There are several causes for this, among the most notable being the fact that he was foreign born and was regarded by many as never being thoroughly an American, but being rather cosmopolitan. He was a victim of cir-J cumstances, in that he had to bear the brunt t of the criticism heaped upon the Republican party from all sides.
. The chief aim of Gallatin was the material welfare of the people of the United States. He was always looking out for their best interests. He did not seek to make the country great, regarding greatness as the pedestal of prosperity; but he wished to make it prosperous, expecting power to result from mercantile success. What Gallatin desired to see was the people building ships, trading carried on and conducted on an extensive commerce, heaping up dollars, paying off the national debt, and thriving generally in financial affairs'. During the process of this accumulation the nation was not to be disturbed, but should submit to almost any humiliations rather than engage in war. It is a fact nevertheless that it was a policy of this sort which saved the United States. Had the United States followed in the trail of the Napoleonic idea, which was. overspreading Europe at the time, it would have a different tale to tell. We cannot now think of those humiliating times without flushing with anger.
For this policy to work successfully, was a question of economy, and the United States must outstrip Europe in economy of production. There can be no middle course in such a policy. It must be a success, or a failure; and its success was proved with most certain effect. In advocating measures to this end, Gallatin was criticised severely and harshly, and even accused of disloyalty to the country to which he gave the best he had.
It should be noted in consideration of these harsh criticisms that the men who made them and who doubted Gallatin’s patriotism were themselves for the most part habitually facetious or actually dallying with the idea of treason. In condemning his 'policies his opponents had recourse only to political criticism. They made absolutely no economic analysis or. criticism. They could find no flaws in, his theories. He built upon sound economic doctrines. His ends in the main were noble, useful, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
had been fighting so long for political power, 1 that their policies were more theoretical than • practical and that they did not know what to f do with it when they got into power in I8oi. But Gallatin in all his policies carried into practice the doctrine that the powers of govern-	j
ment being necessarily irresponsible and there-	!
fore hostile to liberty, ought to be exercised only within the narrowest bounds, in order to Jet democracy develop itself without interference in its true, social, intellectual and -■ economic strength.	.
Gallatin never failed to claim for the government all the power necessary for whatever object was in hand, but he was in practical agreement with Jefferson in checking the practical use of power, and he did this with a degree of rigor which has often been imitated but , never equalled.
The one cardinal principle which he laid x-down was, the extinguishment ■ of the public debt. That it was the mission of the adminis-• \ tration can be gathered from the following letter written by Gallatin: “I am firmly of _ opinion that if the present administration and Congress do not take the most effective measures ' for that object, the debt will be entailed’ upon _ the ensuing generations, together with all the systems which support it and which it supports.” And further he says: “If this administration shall not reduce taxes, they never will be permanently reduced.”
Gallatin sincerely believed that in the long v run interest and not violence would rule the ' world, and that the United States must depend for safety and. success on the interests they 1 could create. He was tempted to look on war .and preparations for war with suspicion, and , influenced his party to regard it as the worst . of blunders, for’ he. was sure that every dollar T • spent in industry was a means of overthrowing * । . the enemies of the United States more effectively than a larger amount spent upon war vessels । or a standing army. And it wa? thus that his principle’ of the economy of production was brought into practical use, put to the test ' and found’to meet all requirements.	s.
He had good reasons back of this policy. ; ! He knew it would be of great value to the United States, because he had studied American interests with infinite care and he had a thorough ■ knowledge , of European affairs, so he’ knew -where he was. ' '	:	’ U.
Gallatin’never asked anything of another
33°
always proved wise. He has high claims to the affection of mankind in his firm purpose to promote their welfare.
It was as Secretary of the Treasury that Gallatin left us his largest and best legacy— his work. He was called to this position in i So i, at a time when the United States was about to go through the most trying circumstances and when the very foundations of the government were threatened with failure and destruction. He entered upon his work with a vim and started to carry out his policies regardless of public opinion and criticism.
Gallatin possessed great personal force, and was always confident in himself and in his policies. He never feared anybody and had absolutety no shyness in dealing with men. He was liberal-minded and not at all jealous of his opinions. He yielded his own methods, if those of others promised better success, however, holding the end always in view.
Albert Gallatin was a master of the principles of political economy and their practical application in the handling of financial affairs, and in his clearness of convictions and intensity of purpose.
Finance was an instinct with him. Among his first -writings are pamphlets on finances, and their studies are ver}7- exhaustive. These pamphlets alone are worthy to place Gallatin among the first rank of financial economists, regardless of what other notable work he did.
It was due to Gallatin that order was brought into the 'Treasury Department. The foundations of the Department had been laid by Hamilton, but had not been reduced to an orderly system until Gallatin’s term. He inaugurated the custom of rendering statements in specific terms, instead of rendering a statement of everything under the Treasury supervision in a lump. He spent his first year in “arranging, or rather procuring correct statements amongst the Treasury, documents,” and in getting rid of the arrears of business and in perfecting the internal revenue system, so far as he could do this without specific legislation.
It was through the agitation of Gallatin, in his first term, that a standing Committee of • Finance was: appointed in the House to supervise the Treasury Department. This committee was the beginning of the. Ways1 and Means Committee, which has since developed into the most important and influential committee in the House. It is said that the Republican party
H	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i'
which he did not care to do himself. He had demanded a statement of Hamilton and so at the end of his first year he gave a statement of the conditions of the Treasury, but it was rather unsatisfactory because he had just finished overhauling the department and had not yet marshalled his forces. He found one important fact, that all the current expenses could easily be defrayed by the revenues and that by care and adding about $7,333,000 a year to the principal and interest, the whole debt could be discharged by 1817.
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana demanded extraordinary financial measures. The new obligation of $15,000,000 was a large sum in proportion to the whole existing debt of the United States. However, it did not change Gallatin’s system or plan of funding and reducing the debt, and he was sure that the fund would be sufficient to discharge the old (debt by 1818, besides paying the interest on both, and of the new within a year and a half after that.
Gallatin always .liked to measure the future, not by a probable mean but by his lowest possible extreme, and his chief aim was to check extravagance in appropriations. -
When in 1807 war first appeared imminent, Gallatin outlined the first principles which should be applied in case of war. He proposed, that war expenditures should be met with loans, and that taxes should be increased only to provide for the annual expenditures on a peace establishment, the interest on the existing debt and the interest on any new loans.
Gallatin arrived at this opinion on the theory that maritime war would deeply affect the resources of individuals, commercial profits would be curtailed, and the surplus of agricultural produce would fail to reach its accustomed foreign market; such losses and privations he was not willing to aggravate by taxes beyond what was strictly necessary. To meet the increased taxation, he proposed a revival of the duty on salt and possibly doubling the existing duties.
And thus this celebrated doctrine of war financiering places emphasis on credit rather than on taxation, and that with “ the return of peace, will without any effort afford ample resources for reimbursing whatever may have been borrowed during the war.” ,
Loans were to be relied upon for war and war
only, as it was inconsistent to borrow money to pay ordinary' running expenses. Favorable circumstances and rigid economy were required to meet these loans.
Whether taxes should be raised to a greater amount or loans be altogether relied on for defraying the expenses was a serious question. Gallatin said: “Taxes are paid by the great mass of the citizens, and immediately affect almost every- individual of the community. Loans are supplied by capital previously accumulated by a few individuals. In a country where the resources of individuals are not generally and materially affected by war, it is practical and wise to raise by taxes the greater part, at least, of the annual supplies. The credit of the nation may also from various circumstances be at times so far impaired as to have no resource but taxation.” But this was not so in the United States, as “an addition to the debt is doubtless an evil, but experience’ having now shown with what rapid progress the revenue of the Union increases in time of peace, with what facility the debt, formerly contracted, has in a few years been reduced, a hope may confidently be entertained that all the evils of the war will be temporary and easily repaired.”
Again Gallatin said in 1809 when urged to reconsider his retirement: “The reduction of the public debt was certainly the principal object in bringing me into office, and our success in that respect has been due both to the joint and continued efforts of the several branches of government, and to the prosperous situation of the government. If the United States shall be forced into a state of actual war, all the resources of the country must be called forth to make it efficient and new loans will undoubtedly be wanted. But whilst peace it preserved, the revenue will at all events be sufficient to pay the interest and to pay necessary expenses. I do not ask that in the present situation of our foreign relations the debt be reduced, but only that it shall not be increased so long as we are not at war.”
Mr. Gallatin was. an important cog in Jefferson’s administration, and he closed his eight years under him with flying colors, and his management of finances was a great part in. assuring the stability and success of; the administration.	‘
The troubles of Gallatin only began -under Madison. Under Jefferson, the Treasury was a bed of roses; now it was full of briars and
332	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
thorns. And besides, political abuse was very frequently resorted to as an invective against an opponent, and things looked very- unfavorable to Gallatin.
By 1S12, Gallatin had reduced the public debt to $45,145,463, and had a sum of more than five and a half millions of dollars on hand for current expenses. In eleven years Gallatin had paid the full purchase price of Louisiana, and had increased the revenue by nearly two million dollars, and had paid eight millions of dollars annually on account of the principal and interest of the debt.
He said of his financial policy at this time: “The redemption of principal has been effected without the aid of any internal taxes, either direct or indirect, without any addition during the last seven years to the rate of duties on importations which, on the contrary, have been impaired bj^ the repeal of the duty on salt and notwithstanding the great diminution of commerce during the last four years.”
Gallatin had absolutely no use for a sinking fund. He thought it rendered the accounts complex, and would seriously embarrass the policy of debt extinction.
The one thing that Gallatin worked hard for, but which never- rendered him any suitable satisfaction, was the United States Bank. He favored it because the department then needed some suitable place for the safe-keeping of public deposits, in helping in the collection of revenues, in the transportation of public money, in the facilities granted to importers and in loans that had been made to the government, so that payment* could be made in the most convenient place. When the Bank was disestablished, Gallatin was put to a great disadvantage; he could no longer borrow money and was forced to lay internal taxes.
Speaking in 1830 of the United States Bank, Gallatin said: “Experience, however, has since confirmed the great utility and importance of a Bank of the United States in connection with its Treasury. Except in its character as fiscal agent to the general government I attach much less importance to a national bank than several of those who are in favor of it.” And this is about what has been done by the Reserve Act which has recently gone into force. The recommendation was a long time coming, but has already shown its good qualities.
When, in 1813 great pressure was brought to bear upon the. Treasury, a crisis was averted by
Gallatin through borrowing eighteen millions of dollars. It saved the future of the United States. '	-
This was Gallatin’s last financial transaction. He could not stay in office at a time when he would have had to change his entire policy in order to keep things moving. But his work had not been in vain. It had only been put to the crucial test and the result was satisfactory. It had support everywhere and was adhered to ’by his successors, and twenty years later the entire debt had been wiped out.
The charge is often made against Gallatin’s system, that he reduced the debt at the expense of the defense and security of the country. Henry Adams answers this charge in his Life of Gallatin: “Mr. Gallatin had the sagacity to know that it would make but little difference in the degree of preparation of national defense and means of contest for which it is impossible even to obtain a considerable appropriation-before the near approach of the danger that may render them necessary.
. He knew that the money thus well and wisely devoted to the payment of the debt, was only rescued from a thousand purposes of extravagance and mal-applications, to which all our legislative bodies are so prone, whenever they have control of surplus funds.”
It was Gallatin’s prime concern to retrench expenditures; to pay off the public debt and to collect a rising revenue. He desired that the United States owe nothing to anybody. It was a vital principle to him, and all his efforts bent on this desire. He would have an annual income firmly established to meet all the annual expenses. He desired this because he was afraid the resources of ordinary revenue might fail, and if there were no permanent provision, a crisis could not be avoided. He was always looking forward to the permanent stability of the financial condition of the country.
He made it his general principle that the payment of the public debt take precedence over other expenditures. He said, that “Debts, taxes, wars, armies and navies are all pillars of corruption, but that the habit of mortgaging the future to supplement present waste is most fatal to liberty and purity.”
In all his theories, there was nothing which prevented him from spending money on defense armaments, on . internal . improvements; or any honest object,. provided that he had the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

money to spend for the project. And he was fully justified in this stand, because he was pledged, first of all to reduce the debt, and second, to reduce the taxes. The revenue was not sufficient, however, to do both, so he had to do that which was most potent, reduce the debt. Everything that he had accomplished in the establishment of a sound financial system, was but the basis of a broader and firmer, structure of national economy.	’
Mr. Gallatin was the earliest public advocator in America of the principles of free trade, and his experience of long service confirmed him in his convictions. He would give free scope to the development of national resources, with the least possible interference on the part of the government.
He soon became the recognized leader of the free trade- advocators. Thev advocated their policies as the system of “unrestricted commerce, which would eventually come to be recognized as the genuine American system.”
Gallatin’s influence was felt in the tariff of 1816, and in fact on all tariff regulations down to the Civil War, when expediency demanded a new method to meet the new conditions arising from the war.
Gallatin was never regarded with very much favor. He was modest by nature and never claimed his due allowance of the' public gratitude. He was devoted to his work and it meant everything to him, yet he was liberal minded, and could see good points in the arguments of his opponents. He was not a drone, but was always occupied by his work. He was not a mere rhetorician or an exponent of a theoretical policy, but was very practical in all his undertakings.
He had to fight in support of his policies, and was not very successful in having them adopted. Yet some time in his life, he had the satisfaction of seeing nearly all of them worked out in practice and doing the work he expected them to do.	.
Great interest attaches to Gallatin’s application of his financial principles, because of their relation to the more modern problems. He was very practical in seeing that the ultimate security is the faith of the government; that this security must be regulated from one source, so that no filtering of responsibility could injure it, or detract from it in any way. It was Gallatin’s, purpose to simplify the public finances, so as to bring them within
the comprehension of every member of Congress, and render them “as clear and intelligent as a merchant’s books.”
He corrected the abuses of the Treasury, and brought to a single department all accountability for money and causing all specific sums to be appropriated to their several purposes.
Gallatin was one of the ablest secretaries that the Treasury ever had. He was perhaps not the equal of Hamilton to rear a system from the foundation, but he was a much safer custodian of the purse, where economy and husbandry were invaluable. His administration of the Treasury Department was strong. It was eventful and full of strange and trying circumstances. His mistakes were those of a prudent rather than a daring man. Under all. these disadvantages he did not give up, although he had threatened to do so. It was a long time before he saw a result, but joy came to him at last.
It is only after seeing the practical application of his policies and their influence upon later developments, that we realize the really great part that he played.
Tew men deserve a higher place in the history of the country. His whole life was given to the service of his adopted country. His name is emphatically a name of history. He is well deserving of the nation.
The Godeau Case.
BY V. C. GIBLIN.
Two days after Mrs. Fred Walton had notified the police department of the disappearance of her husband, his body was found floating in a stagnant pond two miles beyond the city limits. I was in the Chief’s office gathering a bit of news for the Item when the telephone message came from the farmer who had discovered Walton’s body.
The Chief sent Jack Berge, his best man, out on the case and I secured Jack’s permission to go along. In a few minutes we were at the pond and helped the few farmers who had heard of the discovery to bring the body to the shore.
It was a clear case of murder. There was a bullet hole in Walton’s right temple. Berge bent over the body to examine the wound.
“The shot was fired at very close range,” he said, and beckoning me to stoop down he
334	THE NOTRE'DAME SCHOLASTIC
pointed to numerous little black powder spots about the face.	%
“But that ‘doesn’t give you any clew as to the murderer, does it?” I asked.
“No, not that fact alone,” Berge answered, “but perhaps you failed to notice that Walton was killed while in his shirt-sleeves.”
The body was without a coat, but I failed to see how the case was made any clearer.
Berge and I left the scene and walked to the Walton cottage which was a mile or so from the pond and about a quarter of a mile beyond the city limits.
A small ugly woman who walked with a cane answered the bell and ushered us into a neat little hall.- The floor was freshly varnished a dark red and shone like a mirror
The little woman had heard of the finding of Walton’s body, and after Berge had introduced himself by displaying his badge, they engaged in a lengthy conversation about the crime. She was Mrs. Godeau, Walton’s motherin-law. Berge inquired as to the whereabouts of Mrs. Walton and learned that she was at the home of a friend in the city. . ‘
“Mrs. Godeau, would you mind showing us to your son-in-law’s room? Perhaps we will find some clew among his personal effects or among his letters.” The woman readily assented to the request and we went up a flight of stairs, which, like the hall floor, boasted a new coating of jap-a-lac, and we entered Walton’s bed chamber. There we found the floor coated with the same bright, varnish. In the wardrobe Berge found several coats and among them was one that undoubtedly matched the • trousers which were on the dead man when .lie was thrown into the pond. Berge hurriedly examined every pocket, but found nothing. He strolled over to the window which overlooked the backyard of the place. A small wagon stood by the fence and in the stable a horse.was exulting over his morning hay.	-
Turning to the old woman Berge said: “Well, madam, there’s nothing here to help us out. I suppose we may as well leave.” The ol d woman led the way to the door, expressing a hope that the murderer wpuld.be captured.
When we were beyond the hearing of the old woman Berge remarked, “Well, Bill, when I first looked, at Walton’s body an idea struck ine and so far it’s working out perfectly. There’s only one thing more I want to find out now.”
. “You don’t mean to say that you know who
killed Walton, do you?” I asked in amazement. Berge smiled at my question,|but remained silent.
We boarded the street car and alighted in the heart of the city. Without telling me where he was going Berge entered the Van Antwerp office building and walked into the law offices of Clark and Brown. While we were waiting for admission into Mr. Clark’s office, Berge informed me that the firm of Clark and Brown attended to all of Walton’s financial business. ■ Once in Clark’s office Berge lost no time in getting to the point. “For how much was Walton insured?” he asked.
“Twenty thousand dollars,” replied the attorney.	.
“And who are the beneficiaries?”
“Well, his wife gets ten thousand and his wife’s mother gets ten thousand.”
“Thanks, that’s all I want to know, Mr.
Clark.”	_
We emerged into the street and our next stop was police headquarters. We found the Chief in his office and Berge made a report that made me dumb with astonishment.
“Well, Chief,” he began, “I think we’ve located the parties who did this Walton killing. We found Walton lying in the pond without a coat on. He couldn’t have taken a walk along that road without a coat on in this cold weather. We found the coat to the trousers he wore in his wardrobe at home. This made me pretty sure that he was murdered in his own house and carried to the pond. The floors from his bedroom to the door were freshly varnished, to hide blood spots, no doubt. There was a horse and wagon on the premises, which were probably used to carry away the body. His insurance policies named his wife and his mother-in-law as the beneficiaries. I think, Chief, if you get these two women you’ll have the parties who killed Walton. We didn’t find Mrs. Walton at home. She is probably too timid to undergo the strain of looking unflinchingly into the piercing eyes of a detective.”
Under the third degree the women confessed to the murder. Walton had thrown himself across his bed without taking off any of his clothing except his coat. While he was in a deep sleep Mrs.. Godeau had put the gun to his head and fired. And the two women had dragged his body down the stairs to the waiting wagon. . It made a big feature story for the Item and I made sure that the public learned what was done, by Jack Berge.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
335
Varsity Verse
Just a Letter.
,	BY MYRON PARROT.
f	____
D J^EAR Hully and Alike:—
This morning they laid my mail on the good
J ' ship ‘Bed.’
. The nurse (and, I say, she’s a pleasing maid) took an envelope and read,
j	"Say—Return to Hully and Alike.” "And they’re
. wrong again,” says I.
“What Hully and Mike sends me I’ll like well enough *	to keep till I die.”
.	Oh, it’s hard to lie on a dreary, bed while the long,
I	warm days roll by,
£
’	When all you can move are your hands and head,
and all you can see is the sky—
* And under your window the tennis courts—you follow the game by the shout;
And your dreams are of sports, and you read -	reports that the football squads are out.
| Just a football schedule from Hully and Alike, but the U	printing is gold and blue,
[ And dreams and longings it brings alike, for the Bend,
.	and the College too.
And I think of the dough Hully took to Yale, and the ' suppers I ate at Alike’s;
I remember a whale of a skiving tale, and my heart J	. is the place it strikes.
t Oh, I- know that the campus is green to-day, and
L	I know that the lakes are warm,
And I know that the men on the team are gay
[	’cause they’re out in uniform.
. Oh, I hear ‘Rock’ giving .his quick commands, V	.	■
■ and the punts are long and high,	.
t But all l ean move are my head and hands, and t	all I can see is the sky.
i The ‘Doc’ comes in, and he takes the card, and he i	reads and understands,	. ,
"But why should you take it so bloomin’ hard with . a pretty nurse? ” he demands.
£ “I carved your side with a bolo-knife, and you didn’t ''	seem lachrymose.” <
. . .. Can his bloody knife take more than life? . . . With my dreams my spirit goes.
! But'the nurse sits down like a real, live pal, and she reads my letters to me—
One from the girl in Alhambra, Cal., the other from Allerton Dee.
"And who are Hully and Mike,” she smiles, and her eyes are big and blue:
" They’re the two best sports in a million miles besides Bro. Bonnie and you.”
And the doctor says, in a little while, I’ll be able to walk outdoors.
And the nurse says she’s going to root and smile ■ when we read the football scores. -
So I says, "I’ll write to Hully and Alike, and say, ‘tho’ it’s kinda hard.
A fellow can’t be everywhere he’d like, and I’ll thank them for the card.
Heroic Metre.
The lakes lie quiet in the winter light. . Their glitt’ring waters covered; through the night The moon’s cold beams descend with silver chill, And little stars look down, remote and still. The spring-like air blows gently from the west, The sun’s warm ray, not long the season’s guest, Throws slanting beam on frozen ground and lake. The earth grows soft, the ice begins to shake And lose its hold on every branch and limb Of trees long dead since gathered snow-clouds dim Have hurled their forces, brought a life in death To growing things before the storm-king’s breath. And high up, crowning every building tali, The dome of glowing gold looks’down on all.
___________ ___________L. B. L.
No Local Option.
Now prohibitionists may rail
And strive in days to come To do away with beer and wine
With whiskey, gin and rum.
They may send'all saloons to hades
And confiscate all bars, But never will their mad crusade
Find welcome mid the stars.
For in the heaven Mr. Moon
Will have his little spree
He’ll get plumb full just once a month
Until eternity.
Barrett Anderson.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Irish in the Civil War.
BY FRANK MULCAHY.
{Continued from last week.)
Turning now from a consideration of the leaders to the men who served in the ranks, we find that the common soldiers of Irish blood, or parentage were an important factor in both armies. Speaking of the worth of the Irish volunteers, a prominent Southern general once said, “If to-morrow I wanted to win a reputation, I would have Irish soldiers in preference to any others.” “None were more gallant, or none more faithful to our cause,” is the testimony of another Southern leader. “Good soldiers, indeed,” he continues, “they worked, fought, and starved, just as required of them.
• The feeling of the South is of the warmest' character to them. If the war started afresh, I’d raise an entirely Irish regiment in preference to an}’ other.”
The distinction that the Irish soldiers gained during the war is most remarkable when we recall that not more than a third of them were entitled to vote at the time. Although the Irish were looked upon as “foreigners and aliens” they proved to be anything but that, for they flocked to the armies as good citizens .should in a time of trial. “They vindicated their citizenship” by gladly laying down their lives for the land that sheltered them from oppression. “They joined of their own free will—no Irishman was conscripted.”
One great reason why the Irish proved to be such valuable soldiers was the fact that at all times they were cleanly and neat. Whenever the command to halt was given, no matter how long the soldier had been marching, the Irishmen would not be satisfied till they had sought the nearest water and had thoroughly washed themselves and their clothes. The other soldiers would generally be content to rest where they stopped. Officers and chaplains of both armies spoke particularly of the cleanliness of the Irish , soldiers. Another element that had much to do with the success of the
* Irish in the war was their spirit of fun and their * optimism. Even in the most discouraging circumstances, the Irishman was not depressed. •
The kindness and chivalry of the Irish soldiers will long be remembered in .connection with the. Civil War. The Southerners, prej-
udiced by the unjust criticism that had been heaped on the Irish before and at the beginning of the war, feared the approach of an army in which there were Irish regiments. They later came, however, to look upon the sons of Erin more as protectors than as enemies, for wherever the Irish were in control, private property was safe from pillage.
The honor. of Ireland is the talisman that explains the fierce fighting spirit, the indomitable bravery and tireless energy of the Irish soldier. He felt that upon his conduct depended the reputation of his native land, a reputation of no mean worth that had been won by a gallant fight against • fearful odds that had gone on for centuries. The spirit that animated every Irish soldier is best expressed by an incident that happened during the defense o’ Charleston by the Southerners in 1862. An officer in command of an important Confederate batter}'- became panic-stricken at the approach of a strong Northern force and was beginning to rush away without putting up any kind of resistance.	’
“What means this conduct?” sternly inquired an Irishman.
“Oh, you can do nothing—it’s impossible-^-you must retire, the enemy are in overwhelming strength.”’
“You can retire if you please and nobody will be the wiser,” promptly replied the Irishman, “but if I left my post, the whole world would know of it; and sooner than do anything that would affect-the honor and reputation of Irishmen, or of Ireland, I’d stay here till Doomsday.”	‘
Although there was a liberal sprinkling of Irish in nearly every regiment of both armies, the Irish soldier .was at his best when fighting in an organization distinctly Irish. This accounts for the number of Irish companies, regiments and brigades that served on .both sides. When battling side by side with a man “.'rom the ould sod,” the Irishman felt that he was fighting, not only for the Union or for the Confederacy, but also for Ireland, and many were the battles that were decided by this fierce fighting spirit of the Irish organizations.
The Irish Brigade, cominanded by the gallant; Thomas Francis Meagher, is of course the best-known of the Irish organizations that fought in the Civil War. The matchless power and effectiveness of this command hardly needs to be touched upon. “That was one of
£
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
337
J

7
the handsomest things of the whole war,” was the way the Southern General Longstreet referred to the charge of the Irish Brigade at Fredericksburg. This Brigade did splendid work in the first Peninsular Campaign, fought gallantly at Antietam, Fredericksburg, Chancel-lorsville and Gettysburg and served under Grant in the battles of the Wilderness.
Among the other Iri -h organizations that were part of the Union forces are Corcoran’s Legion, the 23rd Illinois, the 10th Ohio, the 9th Massachusetts and a large number of Irish companies. At the opening of the war, the 23rd Illinois was known for a time as the Irish Brigade. It was organized in Chicago by Colonel James Mulligan and was composed of a number of Irish organizations in the Illinois metropolis, among them Montgomery’s Guards and Emmett’s Guards. The 10th Ohio was a Cincinnati Regiment and was known as the ‘‘Blood}'- Tinth.”
The Confederacy was also greatly aided by Irish organizations. The Jasper Greens of Savannah were the Irishmen who stood behind the ramparts' at Mayre’s Heights and calmly repulsed every attempt by Meagher’s men to carry the Con'ederate works. There were a number of Irish in Genera! Cleburne’s gallant division. Many Irishmen were numbered in VonZinken’s regiment of New Orleans. At the battle of Chickamauga, the Confederate General Hill came upon a badly wounded soldier of VonZinken’s regiment. ‘‘My poor fellow,” said the general, “you are badly hurt. What regiment do you belong to?” “The Fifth Confederit,” was the reply, “and a dommed good regimint it is.”
The comfort of chaplains and nurses is a great boon for an army. During the Civil War the Irish priests and sisters,- who have at all times given the best that is in them for their fellowmen, did not hesitate to go to the front and work hard for the men who were fightingthecountry’sbattles. Thefield of Gettysburg was hallowed by the general absolution given the Irish Brigade by Father Corby. The battle had already begun,, the men were under fire, but the heroic priest'did not hesitate to mount a rock and give to the men that which makes them lions in battle,—the feeling that though - death may surely come, they need not be afraid to meet it._
■Among the other Irish priests were Fathers Egan, Cooney, Dillon and Gillen. The chap
lains bore with light-hearted courage all the hardships of the marches and battles and felt . amply rewarded if they could “do but a little for the spiritual welfare of the soldiers. And the sisters were not inferior to the priests in their services to the soldiers. “ The events of the war,” • writes John Francis McGuire, “brought out . in the most conspicuous manner the merits and usefulness of the Religious Orders, especially those of Charity, Mercy and the Holy Cross, and in spite of prejudice and bigotry, made the name of ‘Sister’ honored throughout the land.”	.	.
The career and work of one Sister of Charitv cannot be passed by unnoticed. Mary Anthony, Mother Superior of the Sisters of Charity at Cincinnati, Ohio, was born (Mary O’Connell), August 15, 1814, at Limerick, Ireland. To the sick and wounded of the Civil War she became known as the “AngeFof the Battlefield” and many spoke of her as “The Florence Nightingale of America.” She received her early education from the sisters and was attending the Ursuline Convent at Charlestown, Mass., -when it was burned by an anti-Catholic mob. Her services were so highly valued during the ' war that she was permitted to go where she -pleased in the Union and Confederate camps. She had charge of all the Sisters of Charity. During the war she took care of some of the men who had taken part in the burning of the convent where she received her education when a girl. She died at Cincinnati, Ohio, December Sth, 1897.	.
The sisters were loved by the soldiers of both armies, not only for their skill in. nursing, but also for their patience with and sympathy for the wounded men. The gentle ways of the nuns had a soothing effect on the sick'men and helped, to alleviate their sufferings. Many conversions were effected during 'the war because of the tender solicitude of the sisters for the men that came under their charge.
The debt that America owes the Irish race can never be repaid. The Irish, through their generals, their common soldiers, their priests and sisters, Bung forth to the-American people, a lesson of true citizenship and patriotism.,. Their conduct during the entire” waf was most " exemplary, and by their strong devotion: to both the Federal and the Confederate causes they showed that in the future they could be counted on for aid by the United States. .	.
■ {The End.)
33
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
' Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
XLIX.	FEBRUARY 19, 1916 No. 21.
Board of Editors.
TIMOTHY GALVIN,	’16	SPEER STRAHAN, ’17
RAY HUMPHREYS,	’16	LOUIS KEIFER, ’16
EUGENE MCBRIDE,	’l6	D. EDMONDSON, ’18
HOWARD PARKER,	7	ARTHUR HUNTER, ’16
HARRY !		SCOTT, ’l8
—A crazed fanatic, brooding in a garret over a heterogeneous assortment of poisons that were potentially capable of exterminating half the citizens of .Chicago, epitomizes all Tolerating the aspects of a problem that the Anarchy, authorities of the United States have regarded with only too great indifference in the past. By the sheerest error of calculation, over two hundred notable citizens, are still alive, when, had the conspiracy of a score or .more of anarchists been more successful only in the measure of a fraction of a grain of arsenic to each human life, a tragedy almost unparalleled in history, might have ensued. A Prince of the Church, the Governor of the State, and three hundred other men whose lives and works made them worthy of a • seat at the banquet, would have died to sate the malice of a disciple of a creed of destruction. Jean Crones, anarchist and wholesale murder conspirator, is interesting only because his attempt to kill the guests at the banquet to Archbishop George W. Mundelein, has revealed or, at least accentuated, a condition that is at once a warning and an arraignment of the American method of handling the radical malcontents who seek our shores. Where did Jean Crones get the poisons that stocked his “murder” laboratory? Where did lie get the literature that inflamed his warped mind and impelled his pervert zeal? Where did he listen to the rabid and venomous exhortations that prompted him to kill with arsenic hundreds . of men whom he had never before seen, and whose deaths could in nowise alter or adjust the conditions he seeks to change? Anarchy
will always have but a limited number of exponents. Its violence and uncertainty, its paucity of constructive theories, its tenets of
- hate and destruction, repel most men. But those that embrace it present all the phases of savagery ‘ that an utterly unmoral philosophy, combined with abundant facilities for crime, might be expected to create. There may be no individual blame for the Jean Crones episode. But it is a striking indictment of the American theory that anarchists are to be treated just as tolerantly as possible. It is common knowledge that violence is the alpha and omega of Anarchy. Yet laxity in immigration restrictions, laxity in curbing their incendiary utterances, laxity in surveillance of their meetings and organizations, make the recurrence of such , potential tragedies ever to be expected. “I should not wonder,” said a Paris police chief, “that there were more anarchists in America than in most of the countries of Europe.” American tolerance and slipshod methods have made it a haven and a paradise for the more desperate “Reds.” And this significant utterance probably points the solution of the . problem. After the Haymarket convictions the stock of the “Red Revolutionists” was for a long time below par. Several decades of maudlin “free-speech” enthusiasm and relaxed vigilance has precipitated a situation fraught with infinitely greater menace. Perhaps in the assemblage imperilled by Crone’s murderous zeal, there were many who were wont to raise a mighty protest against more drastic immigration laws. Possibly sundry others would have championed 'the widest possible range of expression on paper or platform. Yet these two agencies are the most prolific sources of evil. When the most horrible attempt at wholesale murder ever_perpetrated in America, has been planned by men who have to be examined, through interpreters, it may point a lesson to many who have held that to be an advocate of more effective methods is to be hopelessly “un-American.”
State Oratorical Contest.
The Indiana-Annual State Oratorical Contest will be held in Indianapolis next Eriday, Feb. 25. This year Mr. Timothy P. Galvin will represent the University.. Mr. Galvin receives this honor by virtue of his victory in the Breen Medal Contest some time ago. In this contest


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	339
his superiority over the other speakers was decisively demonstrated by the fact that he A was given unanimous first place by the judges of both manuscript and of delivery. His oration, “A Prince of Patriots,” was a brilliant bibliographical tribute to Robert Emmett, Ireland’s greatest patriot. Delivered with his accustomed eloquence and glowing enthusiasm, Mr. Galvin touched the hearts of his hearers as he spoke feelingly - of the great virtues exemplified in Emmett’s life.
Mr. William Henry received second place with a well-written oration on the life of Father Damien, the martyr of Molokai. Mr. Voll, speaking on child labor, presented an earnest plea for the legislation necessary to alleviate the fearsome condition of the working child. Mr. Butler paid a heartfelt tribute to Father Ryan, the Southern patriot.
Notre Dame has not won the State contest since 1907. In the last two years, our representatives have received second place, missing the leading honors by but one or two points. Mr. Galvin has written a new oration for this contest, and we hope that he will be more fortunate than his immediate predecessors and return to us in the premier position.
The Reuter-Long Recital.
The joint recital of Messrs. Jacob Reuter, violinist, and Robert Long, baritone, was enter-1 taining as a whole, although there was not enough variety in the selections, most of them * being slow and serious. The cycle, “Language, of the Flowers,” Mr. Reuter rendered in a dainty, airy manner, that pleased. Among the baritone’s songs “Up from Somerset,” “Stone j Cracker John,” and a solo from “Pagliacci” found special favor with the audience. The > accompanists of both performers were skilled . pianists.
Obituaries.
Mr. John O’Hara.
' Mr. John O’Hara, who lectured at the University with great success a few years ago, passed away at his home in Indianapolis, February 15. Mr. O’Hara was United States Consul in Santos, Brazil, for many years; was a distinguished lawyer in Indianapolis and a
1 large figure in the affairs of the State of Indiana.
He was a man of beautiful character and edi
fying life. To his son, Mr. John O’Hara, C.S, C. (Ph. B. ’11), who was Professor of Spanish several years, and to the other members of the bereaved family, we extend sincere sympathy. R. I. P.
Mrs. Mulloy.
The sympathy of the University is extended to Mr. Bernard Mulloy, C. S. C., in the death of his mother, who passed away at her home in Chicago, February 15th. R. I. P.
Mr. Charles D. McPhee.
We record with extreme regret the death of Mr. Charles D. McPhee, who passed away at his home in Denver, Colorado, on February 11 after a lingering illness. Mr. McPhee was a long-time and devoted friend of the University. Three of his sons, William P., Charles B., and Raymond J., have been students here. A man of strong character and edifying life, we beg the prayers of Faculty and students for the repose of his soul.
Personals.
—Lorenzo J. Deur (Minim ’pS-’oi) visited the University last week. Mr. Deur is engaged in the lumber business at' Missouri Valley, Mo.
—Mr. George Ryan of Marshall, Texas (student ’09) is now associated with Mr. Joseph Scott of Los Angeles, California, in the practice of the Law. We are happy to have a good Notre Dame man associated with our brilliant and devoted friend of the Pacific coast.
—A pretty wedding took place last Monday morning in the University church, when Miss Florence Donahue was united in marriage to Mr. Frank Morgenroth at a nuptial high Mass. Rev. Wesley J. Donahue (A. B., ’07), the brother of the bride, performed the ceremony and sang the Mass at which President Cavanaugh and several other priests assisted. Breakfast was served at the Oliver Hotel in South Bend.
—A letter from Mr. George Schuster (A. B., ’15), who is engaged in teaching in Hibbing, Minn., says among other things: “I am writing this out at the school. Cold! Why, every day we have twenty or thirty degrees below zero. And snow! There has been good sleighing for two months, but now the snow is so deep that it is hard to get around. I am now a peace advocate. To ponder the terrible possibilities of leading a platoon in such a climate as this is enough to make one side with Bryan.”
340
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Old Days.
Issue of September 25, ’75:—“The boys managed to get away with 150 chickens on last Sunday.”
November 6, ’75:—“The remains of Rev. Fathers Deseille, Petit and Cointet are being removed from the vaults under the old church, where they rested for many years. Father Deseille, who was a missionary among the Indians in Northern Indiana, died in 1838, in the old log church which stood on the banks of the lower lake. Rev. Father Petit was also
a missionary old log hut Rev. Father of Studies, at
to the Indians, and lived in the that stood beside the church. Cointet, who was second Prefect Notre Dame, died in 1854. The
remains of all three will be placed in the new
church.”
November 27
/o
‘Mr. Joseph McDermott
of the Chicago Courier is acting editor of the South Bend Herald since the shooting affray of Monday last.”
The Herald must have been the ancestor of the Tribune.
.	May Recover.
December 25, ’75:—“F. H. Green of ’64 was married last December. He is doing well in Grand Rapids, Michigan.”	•
Same issue:—“T. F. Studebaker of ’64 is secretary of the famous Studebaker works in South Bend.”
“Mr. Murray, editor of the South Bend Herald, has received a- relapse and has been removed to the home of his father in Goshen.”
February 26, ’76:—“The original bell of Notre Dame is that clear, sweet-toned one that now ,rings out so pleasantly ■ from St. Mary’s Academy. The second bell -was one of 2400 pounds, which, becoming cracked, was taken down and was succeeded by the present great bell. The new bell with its rich, musical tones and magnificent, volume of sound has a national reputation, being . the- largest in the United _ States and one of the finest in the world.”
March 4,, ’76, Locals“ The members of the Orchestra are practicing a potpourri from Belisario.” :
“The Church clock seems determined to
—The Colonial Dance to be given by the Day
.	.	,	Students next Monday , evening at Place Hall,
.keep a time,of its-own, independent of sun and promises to be one ,of the most'pleasing events stars. .	. r ;	.	' . of the social season. The committee has labored .
stars.
.And Then Came Ferguson and Herricks Jong to make the affair a grand success.
March, ‘76, Locals:—“A checker club .is talked about by the lovers of the game here. It would be a good thing to have one. Who will start it?”	•
April 15, ’76, Locals:—‘‘A number of exstudents of Notre Dame, now living in Chicago, are to have a grand reunion at Hogan’s on Tuesday next.”
Local News.
—The Freshman lawyers will banquet at the Hotel Mishawaka next Wednesday evening.
—Brother Leo has been asked to address the Illinois State Agricultural Society next week.
—The Seniors’ flag has arrived. Now let us have the caps and gowns,—and a fair Tuesday. ’
—For some days we have had among us Ralph “Zipper” Lathrop, who has returned to complete his law studies.
—The first set of preliminaries held to choose members for the Varsity debating teams was completed on Thursday evening.
—Posters are out about town announcing the coming engagement of the Notre Dame Glee Club in a concert at Mishawaka.
—Now that the big chorus is assured for Commencement exercises, the plans for next June have, been wonderfully improved.
—A.bill is now before Congress providing for the erection of a monument in Arlington Cemetery to the eighty Sisters of the Holy Cross who served during, the civil war.
—Rehearsals will begin soon for the Commencement chorus, which will consist of 200 voices. S. W. Parrott, assisted by the Glee Club, will train, the aggregation."
—Professor ;Bmmett Lenihan is at work upon a “brand new show” to be presented on March 17. This year the Carrollites will yield the stage to their older brothers in the college.
—Prof. Cooney has accepted an invitation to read a paper before the American Conference of the Teachers of journalism, which convenes at .Kansas University, Lawrence, Kansas, on April twenty-second.
r
r-

r -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
34J
—The Notre Dame Song, words by F. C. , t Schwab, and music by D. J. Roche, former |	students, will be sung by the assemblage in
| * Washington Hall at each lecture and concert.
The object is to acquaint every undergraduate 1 with the song.
J	:—The Brownson Literary Society held its
- preliminary to choose members of the 1916-debating team for Brownson hall last Saturday
* evening. Mr. Frank Holslag was given first place by the judges, Mr. Mersch was placed
। second and Mr. Bdwin Hunter, third.
1	—Mr. Julius Jonas, general manager of the
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company, lectured at Notre Dame last Saturday after-
7 noon before the students of Insurance and C	Commerce. The lecturer was secured by Prof.
J	Grasso, who has charge of this new department.
I	—Mr. Robert Carr and Mr. Stuart Carroll
tied for the first prize offered to the Journalists for their work for the News-Times during the revival services in South Bend. Every man who served during the campaign will receive a group picture of the staff and a “booster’s - game” ticket in addition to his other compen-I sation.	.
—The following clipping from the Detroit f Free Press will be interesting news to those who knew Joe Kenny.
_ Manager McGraw regards Joe Kenny, the Notre Dame catcher, as a most promising player. He kept him under cover during the few weeks he was with the club at the end of last season, but expects great “ things of him this year. Kenny is not only a good catcher and thrower, but he can hit and run bases. He lives at Pittsfield, Mass.
4	—George Shanahan and Richard Daley were
elected, assistant Business Managers of .the f .University Glee Club at the regular meeting T of the Board of Control of the organization
I last Tuesday. The men were chosen to help i Harold McConnell arrange out-of-town engage-4 ments; and six or seven towns have already been booked through their efforts. The list of towns to be made will be announced in a short time.	,
k ;	—The military companies, recently presented
v	Sergeant Campbell with a very serviceable
/travelling bag. It was purchased from-the
| 7 proceeds of the. Military Ball. Sergeant I, .. Campbell has been at the .University for several H years past and has always been a favorite I*, j with the students.. They, took this opportunity , of expressing their appreciation foiythe Idndly.
interest and deep solicitude the sergeant has always had for them.
—At the Monday night meeting of the Electrical Engineering Club some interesting papers were read by several of the members. Mr. James gave a short biography of James Watt; Mr. Walter touched upon the high lights of the life.of Volta, and Mr. Neuses gave a diverting account of the life and works of Ohm, while the basic principles of wireless telephony were discussed by Mr. Ducey. It was voted by the Club that Mr. Swift be allowed an extension of time of one week in order to give more careful preparation to his paper on “The Action of a Condenser,” and the members are expecting a great deal from Mr. Swift.
There, have recently come into possession of the club two fine pictures; one is of Mr. George Westinghouse, presented by the well-known company of that name of which he ' is the founder, and the other is an autographed portrait of Mr. Thomas A. Edison. The club has also been promised a photograph of the great inventor, M. Nikola Telsa.
. It was voted at the last club meeting to hold a smoker on the night of March 6, and committees were appointed to make all necessary arrangements for the affair, which promises to be a huge success. The next meeting of the Club will be held Monday night, Feb 21, at 7:00 P. M. _
- '----------<♦*------- _ ‘
Wabash Too Good.
Wabash College won from the Varsity basketball team last Friday night, 42 to 19. The score is a good indication of the difference in strength displayed by the two teams. The visitors were playing too well for our team to have a chance .for victory. It is said that the Coach of the Wabash team, as well as some of the players, admitted after the game that the visiting team was playing “away oyer its head.” We are forced to believe that this is so because the Wabash team has lost several games, this, season, and it is hard to imagine a team that could have beaten them if they played as well as they did on our court. The Crawfordsville team is composed of big fellows, and yet they, are about the shiftiest aggregation of basket-tossers that we have ever seen. Their teamwork and passing was splendid, but was really * useless as it was entirely unnecessary for the; -visitors to work the ball;down the floor. Both
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Stonebraker and Bacon seemed able to hit the basket from any angle and from any distance. The Wabash men took ver}' few short shots but their long shots were much more effective than the short shots of an ordinary team. Every one of the Wabash players was dangerous the moment he got the-ball in his hands.
For the Notre Dame men it must be said that the}7- failed to play their best game. Yet they put up a good fight against a superior . team and we have nothing to be ashamed of in their defeat. In practice work it was evident that our men were off color in shooting as scarcely one basket in ten was caged. When Wabash got away to a lead of eight points before our men could score there was every reason to be discouraged, but the men never quit, fighting. Every spectator can testify that the game was as fast as any game could be.
The Wabash men were made to work all the . had little opportunity to show their ability.
time, and it was only their ability on long shots that made their victory easy.
The visitors carried out a well-planned defense that prevented Notre Dame from scoring with any great frequency. ■ Cauldwell, who looked even bigger than Stonebraker, played back under the basket and was altogether capable of guarding it. The visiting forwards by a rather unusual system of play were assigned the task of guarding Captain Daley, while Bacon took care of Fitzgerald. This left the giant Stonebraker to watch Meyers and the Notre Dame guard and to help out his team mates wherever help was needed. Whenever Wabash secured possession of the'ball Cauldwell stayed back, while the other four men came down the floor. That the plan worked well is evidenced by-the -result -of the game.
Tom King was easily the star of the game for’ Notre Dame. King and McKenna played well, back under the basket at the start of the game but when they saw that the Crawfordsville men were better on Jong shots than on short ones, tliey began coming down the floor to meet their opponents. McKenna was handicapped by an old injury, which so weakened
presented monogram sweaters to the members him in the second half that-he had to leave the of the 1915 football team. Seventeen men game,* hence he was not able to mix it as effec- received the coveted letters; Captain Fitz-tively as has been his custom. However, he gerald’s sweater bore four service stripes, came through as usual on long shots. King
went after his larger opponents with a reckless - determination that brought many cheers from the’crowd./	• • •’	.
' “Chief ” Meyers also deserves great praise
for his playing. Despite the fact that his opponent, Stonebraker, was both taller and heavier than “Chief,” Meyers was ^able to secure the tap-off with considerable frequency. The disparity in the weight of the men was so •great, however, that Meyers was not able to guard the all-State man as well as Mills and . Finnegan did last year. Meyers led the team in shooting. His long baskets kept the score from being even more one-sided.
Although both Daly and Fitzgerald played extremely hard, they were not able to do much effective work. Daly usually found two men at his heels every time he got the ball and hence was able to try very few shots. “Fitz” found the husky Bacon a very clever guard. Neither “Fitz” nor Daly enjoyed the luck of the Wabash men, as both missed baskets by. inches several times. ■ Keefe and Ellis
i
Wabash, 41 DeVol Coffing Stonebraker Bacon (Capt.) Caul dwell -
L. F.
R. F. ■ c:
L. G.
R. G.
Notre Dame, 19 Daly (Capt.) Fitzgerald Meyers King ■ McKenna

Substitutions: Wabash—Allen for Cauldwell; Corby for Coffing. Notre Dame—Keefe for McKenna; Ellis for Daly. Field baskets—Stonebraker, 8; Bacon, 6; Coffing, 3; DeVol, 1; Meyers, 3; McKenna, 2; Fitzgerald, 2; Daly, 1; King, 1. Free throws—Bacon, 5; Fitzgerald, r. Referee—Nicholas.
Between the halves of the Wabash game, the Brownson relay team won a pretty race from a team composed of four Corby runners and two Walsh men. The Brownson team had previously won the -Interhall Relay Championship, having gone through the season without a defeat. The Brownson team, which holds the “gym” record, was presented a silver loving cup in recognition of its accomplishments. Norman Barry is captain of the team.
- *** .
Before the opening of the game, Professor Benitz, of the Faculty Board of Athletic Control,

V
K
indicating that he had played on the Varsity for four years. “Fitz” is the last man who will receive four stripes as the three-year rule went into effect the year following his matriculation. .	'	.
-t. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
>
>	•	Reds Beat the Blues.
In the Red-Blue track meet held in the Gym last Saturday, many new men showed up to advantage, arid the old men showed up in good form; but the events which had caused much " interest before the meet failed to come up to expectations. Meehan was out of- the half-mile on account of a strained tendon, and Noonan -	' had to quit the mile when it was half over on
account of an injury to his arch which has been troubling him all year. It was thought ' that these two men would run good races against McDonough and Waage, and their absence was a great disappointment to the ' crowd. The feature of the meet was the 40-yd. dash. Mulligan, a new man, beat Bergman in one of the heats, tying the gym record, but 2 the veteran sprinter came back and defeated . ’ him in the finals. Hardy got a slow start and finished third. Considering the fact that Mulligan just got out of the infirmary, he made a remarkable performance and might have won . the event had he the strength he lost while sick. Edgren went 11 ft. in the pole-vault and promises to strengthen the Varsity considerably. Reynolds took the two-mile and Voelkers * the quarter in fairly fast time, the former especially giving the fans encouragement because it is some time since we have come close to winning a two-mile event.
j The old men showed all that was expected of them and showed that Illinois will have to F travel to beat them out. Capt. Bachman heaved the shot a distance of 43 ft. 6 in., and Hardy, Bergman, Kirkland, McDonough, Waage, and John Miller also made good records. Waage y was the individual point winner and deserves special mention for the distance he travelled T during the afternoon. He made a total of , nine points getting first in the mile, second in the half and third in the two-mile. Bergman and Kirkland were second with a first and second each making a total of eight.'	•
■ The high jump showed us to be* very weak, as two men who are ineligible beat out all the Varsity men with jumps of 5 ft. 6 in. Eries is a P; G. and Douglas is a Freshman; so our only consolation is that we event next year. ,
The quarter was a hard fight between Welsh J and Voelkers, but resulted in a victory for the latter by a small margin after Welsh had led
will be better in this Red, and Kirkland, Red tied for third.
343
over half way. Spaulding was a close third, giving us three good men for this event.
The 40 and the 220 were the closest finishes of the day. It was hard to tell from the stands. whether Bergman had beaten Mulligan or not in the 40, but in the 220 Hardy had a fair margin. These men, Bergman and Hardy, will give anyone a hard race "at any time, and it looks as if we are well -supplied with good dash men for a few years with the coming of Mulligan.
Kirkland and Fritch fought it out for honors in the hurdles, each crossing the tape with a first • and a second, but Fritch was disqualified' in the high hurdles for knocking three down and he lost second place to Starrett who was close behind him.
The remaining events were taken rather easily by veterans. Waage was not pushed in the mile and he saved himself for the other races making the distance in 4:47 3-5, considerably slower than he generally runs it. McDonough led by a great margin in the half and so did Bachman in the shot-put. John Miller made 21 ft. 2 in. in the broad jump and Edgren copped the pole vault from Yeager and McKenna with a vault of n ft. This should take first in most of the local indoor meets.
Summary: 'Reds, 66 1-2; Blues, 44 1-2.
40-yd. dash—Won by Bergman, Blue; Mulligan, Red, second; Hardy, Red, third. Time 104 4-5.
40-yd. High Hurdles—Won by Kirkland, Red; Starrett, Red, second. Time 105 4-5.	.
Shot-Put—Won by Bachman, Blue; Franz, Blue, second; Cooke, Red, third. Distance 43 ft. 6 in.
One Mile Run—Won by Waage, Red; Call, Red second; Logan, Red, third.- Time 4:47 3-5.
440-yd. Run—Won by Voelkers, Red; . Welsh, Blue, second; Spaulding, Red, third. Time, 53 3-5.
40-yd. Low Hurdles—Won by Fritch, Blue; Kirk-' land, Red, second; Starrett, Red, third. Time, 05 4-5.
220-yd. Dash—Won by Hardy, Red; Bergman, Blue, second; Freund, Blue, third. Time, .-24 1-5..
Broad Jump—Won by John Miller, Red; Freund, Blue, second; Fritch, Blue and W. Miller Blue tied ' for third." Distance, 21 ft. 2 in. .	-
SSo-yd. Run—Won by McDonough, Red; Waage, Red, second; Kennedy, Blue, third. Time, 2:06 '3-5. - _
High Jump—DeFries, Red, and Douglas, Blue, , tied for first; Hand, Blue, Bachman, Blue, J. Miller,
Height;
5 ft. 6 in.	.	1
Two Mile Run—Won by Reynolds, Blue; Coyle, \ Red, second; Waage,. Red, third. Time, 10:10 3-5. -
Pole Vault—Won by Edgren, Blue; Yeager, Red, ' and McKenna, Red tied for second. Height 11 ft. V
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
2
Safety Valve.
-All students are equal on entering college but some grow mustaches.
A student’s first appearance in full dress usually reminds him of the time he had lumbago.
- *** •
If you’ve never had a boil on your arm and have no idea of how uncomfortable it can make you, -wear a wrist watch.
***
Nor does anyone care to deny that B. V. Ds. are all right as far as they go. (	'
*** ’ •
Half the profanity in the world to-dajr can be traced to those who mend socks.	■
***
Show me the brand of cigars you smoke and 1’11 tell you who your friends are.
George Washington, the Father of his country, cut down a cherry tree and was never caught in a lie. George from all accounts was a good father but his son, or so my dad tells me every morning when he reads the newspaper, is going to the devil. Dad believes that George Washington’s son would be all right now if he (dad) had been elected congressman the last time he ran.	.
- ***
The bravest, man on earth is the man who can smile in a dentist’s office.
■ ***
Two can live cheaper than one—but who cares for hash?	■
*** •
Keeping His Dates.
Every skive a student takes may lessen his will power, but it usually increases the action of his heart. ■ . * ***
A student .who is conditioned in three classes feels about as comfortable during the year as a fellow who goes to bed on a cold winter night and finds the clothes are too short to cover his feet and shoulders at the same time.	'	.
■ ' *** •
-	Weather/Hint.
If you have flannels prepare to shed them now.
\ .-.***
Oh what is so rare as a day in June,
Or a.hamburger steak off the fire too soon?
; ... *** . ‘
,	■ / There’s The Rub. .
Yes, James has a sharp tongue, and sometimes he becomes as personal as a toothbrush? .
' . - - . - - *** . . - . • . ■
• ? :	Song Hits., - „	.
He.Never Had a Cuff-On Till He Went to Auntie’s
. Wake. .	’■	.	• -
. Haye Corset|Cpvers Elbows, or Who Fed Our Fido Fish?
I Scratched .Hjs-Back Each-Evening for a Ticket? to
■	•	■ the Sho^^	.T .	’
TheyTUsed.tq Make My-Breeches Out of Papa’s Gast-: - Off Tants, And JNpw I’ve .Gpt to Wear My ..Son’s Old
■ : r . .. . , .Clotlies.. 3 , ,	\	'
Most Walshites are as hard to figure out as that old clock owned by a Hoosier family. When the hands pointed to 8:30 o’clock and it struck eleven the familjr knew it was fourteen minutes to two.
Dear Editor:—	.
I am in love with a very talented girl whose beauty is simply beyond my description. She would have all the so-called pretty movie actresses ordering hash at a lunch counter where her fair face portrayed upon the screen. She is inflicted, however, with St. Vitus’ ’ dance and just at the time I desire her to show up best in company she twitches and grabs at her belt as though she were about to pull a knife. My friends seem afraid of her though she is as gentle as. a whole flock of doves. What shall I do for her?
‘	Corbyite.
Teach her the fox-trot and let her dance it when she meets friends. It is not nearly so refined as St. Vitus’ dance, but people will at least understand what she is doing.—Erf.
***
The Climax of a Play Written by a Freshman. He And dost thou love me, sweetheart, wouldst thou give
The moon and stars and firmament for me?
Would’st pawn both sets of teeth that I might live To slobber my caresses over thee?
She Yea, even so, my lord, for I hold dear
Thy crooked nose above a million, stars.
What care I though you never wash an ear—
Your voice to me is sweet as rolling cars.
He Then, little one, rest on this soup-stained coat That covers up my father’s old brown vest, -And let me smooth the wrinkles in thy throat While thou art dreaming on my manly chest.
’ (She places her head on his breast.)
She How sweet the music of, your throbbing heart
It soundeth like the rumble of a cart.
He I’m so entranced, my heart beats not at all,
I think you must have heard, my Ingersoll.
She Nay, that could never be, for paltry steel
Could never beat the love taps that I feel. .
He Now care I-not which way the world goes round "Another glance from thee and I’ll be found
Climbing the cold north pole in stocking feet, While many people' in the snowy street
Will ask their gawky .neighbors if it’s true
That I do this to make a home for you.
She Then like a broken rain pipe will I weep.
• I shall not know the soothing balm of sleep.
Your climb for me will put my reason out, For well I know that climbing with the gout . - Is not an easy task. .
He .	Ouch! lift you head
I think one of your hairpins did embed
Itself in my deep’, throbbing, shimmering chest—
‘ Yea, and it; made a hole in father’s vest.
She Then you refuse to hold my head, you brute, Your mouth, reminds me of a big coal chute.
. He .You are the biggest simp I’ve ever seen—
. .Thank.gpodness, I was born with a bean.
One time I thought that you might be.my wife, 'Blit now we’re through—I’m off of you for life.
- ? '4? 4? --V .? CURTAIN. - '•	,