COLLEGE PARADE
i—By ROBERT LeMENSE
“As Goethe said, 'There is only one good writer. That writer is me.
“Goethe was wrong. Four beer-parlors away was another great writer. But he wrote in German. Very few American writers can do that. But I don’t care a button if no one ever reads this. I’m
Men of the Future Look Back
The room is spacious and air-conditioned. Our gaze sweeps quickly past long rows of gleaming chromium desks and a battery of dicta-typewriters. Over in the corner two fellows, the only ones in the room, are taking it easy, talking to each other. One of them is idly flipping the pages of a formidably-bound volume. As we come nearer we see that the two are seated near a huge, built-in, revolving book case. A sign on the case says,. Scholastic files from 1878 to date; issues of 1896,1923,1946, and 1998 missing; DO NOT REMOVE from editorial room. One of the idlers speaks:
“Look, Mac, just 100 years ago today there was a half holiday so the students 20 years old and over could register for the draft. That was back in World War II you know. The guy who wrote this article says he looked out of his window in Howard Hall and watched the boys march past on their way to registration. Says most of the marching group were seniors. Say, Mac, where was Howard Hall?”
“Howard? Gee, Kelly, I don’t know. Oh yeah, I remember... you know where the old library is.... you know, on the old campus down near South Bend. Well that building alongside of the old library that they use to store rare manuscripts from the English department was Howard Hall. Go on with that article though, what else does he say?”
“He says it was misty and rainy that day.... same old Indiana! Oh yes, here it says: 'Most of the students registered early in the afternoon so they could take advantage of the holiday and take in a show downtown.’ Every Wednesday afternoon at the Museum they have showings of selected moving pictures from back in the 1930-1950 period. You’d never . believe that the fellows then paid from 25 to 50 cents to see the things. That was before advanced television, you know.”
“Come on Kelly, quit wasting time. We’d better get going before they turn off the juice on the elevators. Think I want to get campused.”
❖
No Evidence of Sabotage
At Lehigh University there have been two fraternity house fires within the last four months, the most recent blaze occurring last week. Last fall a $60,000 fire destroyed the Chi Psi house; last week 2,	*	'
another blaze ruined the Phi Gamma Delta house to the extent of $60,000 too. In both cases almost all the house fixtures were destroyed as were all the personal belongings of the frat members. Oddly enough, the two houses were only a couple hundred yards apart and in both cases the fire was out of control by the time it was discovered.
Then there was the Normandie....
Squibs
She was only the opticians daughter— two glasses and she made a spectacle of herself.
Curses said the flag—furled again.
Visions of Whistling Shells Spur Coeds to All-Out Effort.
No Blue Books For Soldiers!
Women Take Offensive Saturday Night For Annual AWS Goldiggers’ Ball.
On Modern Literature
In the Boston University News is “The Walrus . Column” which is very good—at times. A recent effort purported to be the sage words of a literary critic called Wallyver Wallston. Following is the last chapter of Mr. Wallston’s ramblings : ‘
“Modern writers must be optimistic. Once, Rudyard Kipling said, 'They’re hanging Danny Deever in the morning.’ This is a very positive statement. American writers would do well to follow such a clear example. John Don Passes isn’t positive. Don Passos is of the lost generation.
"Eunice hasn't been worth a snap since she met that boy from Notre Dame."
dead.”
❖
Justifiable Homicide
Is there any mail for me?
What’s your name?
It’s on the letter.
More of the Same
If you’ll give me your phone number, baby,-I’ll call you up some time.
It’s in the book, big boy.
Swell! And what’s your name?
That’s in the book too.
(Any similarity between the two preceding jokes is entirely coincidental; one came from the Queen’s Journal, the other from Northeastern News.)
"On the Ball" Girl
At St. Norbert’s College, a group of students sneaked off the campus at a forbidden time to see a picture starring Alexis Smith. The boys were caught and are now amusing themselves ‘on campus’ for some time. Well, anyway, somebody soon thought of writing to Miss Smith and giving her the details of the entire matter, incidentally inviting her to the Junior Prom. Miss Smith'replied with an autographed picture and a letter. Most interesting thing about the letter was the postscript. “Say fellows, how’s about a little studying—and I don’t mean movie actresses.”
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O’CONNELL
Top of the Week:	.
RrDay, and a “free” afternoon.
Carnival Aftermath
We can’t quote any figures to confine oui* suspicions, because they wouldn’t let us near the cash drawer, but from all appearances the Carnival last week-end was a howling success. We visited the Fieldhouse early Sunday morning to see what was left, and found it as. dark and silent as a night-club at noon . . . not quite empty, though. Around one of the booths was a squad of small boys, searching for pennies. “Any luck?” we asked, out of professional curiosity. “Naw,” one of them answered, disgustedly. “Some guy must have beat us to it.” The Carnival made so many things happen which we thought impossible that it wouldn’t surprise us' in the least if, on one of these moon-lit nights, somebody came around and swore that he’d heard coming out of the Fieldhouse, not only the ghostly thud of Greg Rice’s flying feet, and Benoir-like grunts from a shot-putting shade, but also the eerie rattle of Chuck-a-Lucks, and the eartingling whine of a Wheel of Chance.
Majors and Minors
Rocky Moran didn’t give us the exact set-up, but it seems that Education Majors and Minors do part of their work at high schools in .town—teaching class, or watching teachers at work —- something like that. Anyway, Rocky says his roommate, Ed O’Kane, had to go down the other day and sit in on a sub-normal class, to observe the instructor’s technique in handling mental defectives.
Ed stamped into the class room, with his'shiniest Education . Minorish expression, and announced politely that he was Edward O’Kane.	.
“My, my,” myed the teacher, smiling solicitously, “what a big boy you are. Now, you just sit down and study hard, Edward, and in no time at all you’ll be promoted into the Moron Class.”
. Sam Boyle told us the next one. Gentleman Jim Duggan, a Philosophy Major, was over in the Library, studying St. Thomas. Naturally, he closed his eyes every so often, for better pondering power. It was during one of these mo-■ ments that two Phy. Ed. men, bent on recording physical reactions, crept forward and gave him a hot foot. At the proper moment, Jim jumped up, without noticing the two scientists, and ran out - of the Library, screaming that he’d got
ten a sudden, searing inspiration from the Angelic Doctor. We hope that the truth doesn’t disillusion him.
The Draft
After looking at the lines in Dillon and Howard last Monday afternoon, we went downtown to avoid the wait. One of South Bend’s finest directed us courteously and efficiently to the National Bank Building, as the nearest place of registration. Nobody there knew anything about it, and a cashier suggested the Post Office. A Post Office clerk suggested the Union Trust Building, and at last the trail was getting hot, because . on the second floor of that building we ferreted out Local Boards 3 and 6. A pleasant young lady in Board 3 directed us across the street to the Sherland Building where, she said, they were registering Notre Dame students. But .the young lady at Local Board 2, across the street, was afraid she could not accommodate us. Indianapolis had failed to come through with a promised shipment of cards. Back we came to the campus, to try Dillon again. Father Butler ran out of cards when we were only six men from the Promised Land. Wearily we trudged over to the Main Building, where, at last, we got our card, graciously signed by Miss Barbara Dolezel. We then ate our dinner in the Huddle. All of which only goes to prove that there’s no place like home.
Can Such Things Be?
That recent announcement by the Student Committee for Decent Literature came as quite a blow. Their implication is obvious, but. we can hardly believe it. Does anyone really throw his Scholastic away when he’s finished, as if it were an old shoe, or a theater ticket stub?
"There’s gold in them thar__________" . A St. Mary’s scout informs us that since our comment here a couple of weeks ago, the “punch” formula has been changed. It now tastes like grape instead of apricot. That, we suppose, is a step in the right direction, but we feel the girls are missing a great opportunity. At the next dance, why doesn’t somebody set up a booth for charity, and dispense ice water at five cents a glass? Sales, we’re sure, would be terrific.
❖
Bottom of the Week:
Those midnight breakfasts.
BENCH CHATTER
Jim Brutz and Herky Bereolos
CENSORED
Two Notre Dame students were headed for-----and------few------. -
FIELD AND STREAM
. A heavy snowfall helped Hunter Father Glueckert track down two rational animals, who tried to escape from the vicinity of Alumni hall. Was it the Westchester rifle or good eyesight? Anyway, it was a record catch, made by a great hunter.	‘	.
JOE JUDICIOUS
Joe Laiber, after spending 3% years on the campus, moved home recently. As Joe started out the other evening he unconsciously asked his mother for a mid-night. Better make your morning checks, Joe.
POLAND vs. IRELAND
In a challenge match, Sebastian Nowicki’s Polish Polishers, polished off George Sobek’s fighting Irish at the Bowl Mor allies. Try taking along your score keeper, George. They say it works.
EMBRYO CHAMP
There is a two week’s suspension in store for the bad egg residing in Badin hall, who . tore pages out of Father Mac-Avoy’s Bowling Instruction Book. When last observed the good rector was still attempting to master the missing fundamentals. Anyway, the pinboys regard him as their favorite.	■
FOOTBALL MEMORIES
Boody Albert, varsity tackle of a few years back, once asked Coach Elmer ' Layden to explain the “Mousetrap Play.” Boody figured you needed a package of cheese to achieve results.
ONCE AN IRISHMAN ALWAYS ...
Billy Sullivan, Coach Leahy’s secretary, will soon be affiliated with LT. COMMANDER HAMILTON’S Navy aeronautics program in the department of public relations. Since Navy meets the Irish in football again this fall, Coach Leahy insisted on Billy pledging his allegiance to Notre Dame before he was able to leave. But the middies will be just as tough with or without a fifth columnist. The boys will miss you, Sully.
(Continued on page 27)
V
. further, the confining contour is always 77b units for curves of equal breadth which is the circumference of the circle. .
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing • at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
FEBRUARY 20, 1942
Number 15
NOTRE DAME TO HONOR GEORGE WASHINGTON WITH UNIVERSITY'S 96TH TRADITIONAL PROGRAM
Arts and Letters, Brownson Hall; Commerce. Carroll Hall; Science, Room 116; Engineering, Room 117 and 123.
Notre Dame’s traditional observance of Washington's birthday will be held next Sunday afternoon at 4 o’clock in Washington hall, the campus auditorium named after the first president by Notre Dame’s founder, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
Bernard Marbach James O’Neal
cessional will be “Knightsbridge,” from Coates’ London Suite.
Student orator of the day is Bernard 0. Marbach, White Plains, N. Y., a senior in the College of Science. The subject of his talk will be “Washington and National Unity.”
Seniors are asked to pick up their caps and gowns in the basement of Walsh Hall, Sunday afternoon, between 1:30 and 3:00.
Seniors will assemble in the Main Building at 3:15, according to colleges as follows:
SPECIAL LECTURE
Mr. Raoul Eugene Desvemine, noted Catholic layman and Papal Knight, member of the legal firm of Garey, Desvemine and Garey, of New York, a member of the NR A,, the SEC, and other important governmental agencies, as well as of the United States Steel Cor- . poration legal staff, will lecture in the Auditorium of the Law Building, Tuesday evening, at eight oclock. His subject: “Religion and the Law.”
Featuring the new navy affiliations of the University, Rear Admiral John Downes, U.S.N., Great Lakes, Ill., commandant of the Ninth corps area, will be the guest speaker to the class of 1942, Notre Dame’s first graduating class in World War No. 2.
Also playing a prominent part, as escort to the admiral, will be Notre Dame’s unit of the naval R.O.T.C., under command of Capt. W. H. Burnett, U.S.N.R.
The traditional program of the day, a program begun 96 years ago with Notre Dame’s first senior1 class, will be observed. The president of the senior class, James J. O’Neal, St. Louis, Mo., of the College of Arts and Letters, will present to the University the class flag, which will be blessed at the baccalaureate mass on Sunday, May 10, and raised on the quadrangle as Notre Dame’s official campus flag for the ensuing scholastic year.
The address of acceptance for the University null be given by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, ■ C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
- The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra will play. The processional, featuring the seniors in cap and gown for the first time in their academic lives, will be Bagley’s “National Emblem.” “The Star Spangled Banner” will be played as the new flag is officially presented. The re-
N. D. "VICTORY MARCH," GLEE CLUB, SYMPHONY;
SHORT-WAVED TO SOUTH AMERICAN RADIOS
PAUL CARR
Flashing across two continents, the strains of the “Victory March” will be heard by citizens of at least 11 Central and South American countries when Notre Dame broadcasts Thursday, Feb. 26. From WLW, Cincinnati, reputedly the most powerful short-wave station in the United States, the good-neighbor salutations of North, Central, and South Americas will be heard from 5-15 to 6:15 p.m., and again from 9:30 to 10:00 p.m.
Some time ago, the central office of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade in Cincinnati, wrote to the University, inviting its own C.S.M.C. group to sponsor and present one of the National C.S.-M.C.’s weekly college broadcasts. Since the program is to be in Spanish, Father Mathis, chaplain of the Notre Dame C.S.M.C., referred the invitation to Father Cunningham, chaplain of the Spanish-speaking La Raza club, and enlisted the club’s aid.
The national weekly broadcasts were instigated by the Crusade for. the purpose of enforcing better Catholic interAmerican relations. From them such
relations should inevitably develop. The broadcasts are of special aid to a general unity, inasmuch as 95 per cent of South America is Catholic.	-
Notre Dame’s contribution to the entire broadcast will be recorded here at the University and the transcription ' sent on to Cincinnati.
Eduardo Alcayaga of Chile will open the program with a five-minute speech about Notre Dame and the work that the Catholic Student Mission Crusade is doing here. Tony Donadio, of popular renown among us, will sing a Spanish song.	.
The program will include many of the musical activities of the University. It . runs as follows:	,
Notre Dame Victory March, to be played by the band.
Luis Flores of Arequipa,' Peru, will an- . nounce the overture to “The Calif of -Bagdad” to be played by the symphony orchestra. -	'	,
Senor Alcayaga presenting his five-minute charla, or speech. ♦
MATHEMATICAL CURIOSITY-
CURVES OF EQUAL BREADTH
PAUL M. PEPPER
How would you like to move a house on rollers as those in the photo below? Maybe you think the house would bob up and down. If so, you are wrong, for the rollers, as you can see from the picture, will keep the house at a constant level. These curious discs have the same width in each direction—a property you probably thought only the circle possesses — and for that reason their contours are called curves of equal breadth.
If one of these curves were placed in a square box of width equal to the breadth of the disc, the disc could be turned in the square box and under this motion the disc would maintain exactly one point of contact with each side of the box. Any rhombic box of altitude equal to the edge of the square reveals also this interesting property.
Any rhombic box of altitude. . . .
PROF. BROWN'S FIVE YEAR'S OF RESEARCH BRINGS SUCCESSFUL SPACE-TIME RECORDER
A simplified space-time recorder of greatly increased speed and efficiency is the latest engineering research project to be completed here, designed and developed by Prof. Frank N. M. Brown, head of the University aeronautical engineering department.
Prof. Brown gave full particulars of his experiments in this field from 1936 to 1941 in a lecture to the tenth annual meeting of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences held at Columbia University, New York City, recently.
A further interesting property of these curves of equal breadth is that, for any given breadth units the length of the confining contour is always 7rb units, which, of course, is the circumference of the circle of diameter b.
The illustration below shows only a few of the infinitely many curves of equal areas.
If you are still skeptical and want to verify their properties, it will be convincing to examine the exhibit in Science Hall of the excellent models made by Dr. C. V. Robinson of our Department of Mathematics.
Knowledge of the existence of curves of equal breadth (other than the circle) goes back-to 1778. In that year the famous Mathematician Leonhard Euler studied them under the name “orbiform” figures.
Prof. Brown’s recorder is a five-foot long, camera-type box which uses a photographic principle to record movement in graph form, enabling the operator to compute accurately the time involved.
This type of space-time recorder was developed by Prof. Brown to test landing-gear reactions in aeronautics. However, it may also be used in recording the movement of practically any object, such as a drop-hammer, or any oscillating object or device.
The recorder is provided with a 20-
inch lens which may be racked in or out to provided scales from one-tenth to one-half size. Ordinary flash-light bulbs attached to the moving object record movement on a photo-sensitive paper mounted on a revolving di’um in the rear of the camera. Between the drum and the lens is a shutter which is geared to provide 14,400 interruptions per minute on the graph.
Each of these interruptions represents l-240th part of a second. Thus the graph on the sensitized paper shows the irregularity in the movement of the object directly in relation to the time involved. This is not a picture in the ordinary sense of the term, but a record of movement involving comparatively small periods of space and time, as the particular experiment may require.
In contrast with other types of recorders, Prof. Brown’s’ invention is extremely variable and may be adapted to any particular purpose. It may be used any place that space-time record is desired, under any existing natural light conditions. .Furthermore, it is relatively inexpensive, and cuts one-third of the over-all time ordinarily required for taking a space-time record.
The most recent of the two recorders developed by Prof. Brown is now in actual use in the airplane landing gear engineering department of the Bendix Corporation. The other is in the University of Michigan aeronautical engineering laboratories.
Women's Symphony Here For Concert Tonight
The gleam of the neon-lighted announcement board on the west side of Washington Hall is symbolic of the group of musical luminaries who are to appear there tonight. Eighteen members of the distinguished Women’s Symphony orchestra of Chicago, under their regular conductor, Izler Solomon, are the scheduled artists.
Acclaimed as one of the finest symphony orchestras in the country, this organization has been heralded from coast to coast in concert appearances since its founding in 1925, and for 26 weeks it was a sponsored network attraction over the airwaves.
Guest stars who have soloed with the group since its inception include such famous personalities as Gladys Swart-hout, Helen Jepson, Nino Martini, Lily Pons, Paul Robeson, and James Melton.
The appearance of this group at Notre Dame marks the first of a brilliant concert series scheduled for late spring, which will include appearances of Jose Iturbi, Helen Jepson, and a performance of “The Marriage of Figaro.”
6

O'Grady Debunks Utopias at Student-Prof. Meeting
W.F. Talbot
Utopias, those funny fancies of idealists, composed the subject of the consideration delivered by Professor D. C. O’Grady this past Monday at the Student-Professor meeting. Since the time of Plato many great men, happily hunting a heaven on earth, have assiduously sought out and propagated their Utopias.
Professor O’Grady quite comprehensively divides this ideology into the types primitive and progressive. The Utopians who propose the primitive plan are retrogressive; i. e., they are the back-to-na-ture group. The progressivists, however, build futuramas in the sky. Mr. O’Grady explained that both are out of place in this world.
Excellent books have been written by Utopians in explanation or. in praise of their ideal worlds; at least one of them, Bacon’s’ Nezu Atlantis, has .merited a place among the great works of literature. The works of Plato, More, Bacon, Butler, Huxley, and Wells were conned by the assembly. The diagnosis ascertained one universal fault ■with these ideal governments and societies: none of them worked. It was not unusual to find that there were general characteristics in most of the Utopias discussed at the meeting. Hardly one did not advocate eugenics and a reform of the money system; and in all there was a “braintrust,” as Professor O’Grady termed him.
Among the minor characteristics of individual Utopias were proposals for public confession, a general habiliment, a four-hour working day (lucky John L.!), and the practice of polygamy. Butler’s topsy-turvy and cunning satire on the world of his day, together with Huxley’s Utopia on a caste scale, received the greatest deliberation by both Mr. O’Grady and the many assembled students.
Following a careful contrast between the socialistic and anarchistic Utopias attempted in America, Prof. O’Grady emphasized his statement that not all communistic societies fail; those that are economic do fail, but communism in religious societies, as in Catholic monasteries and convents, has seldom failed and seems destined to grow old with the world. Nevertheless, every hope for a
materialistic Utopia has so far been confounded; and every present Utopia, including those planned by Hitler and Stalin, has some important vestiges leading from the ideals of past Utopias.
The students who attended this meeting in the Rockne Lounge learned one thing in particular from the discussion: that is, that the perfections of an ideal society are only imaginary; the drudgery of regimentation precludes, paradoxically, any joys of diversion: Utopia is a dream.
(For announcements of forthcoming student-professor meetings, kindly consult the hall bulletin boards).
Pkof. O’Grady: Anti-Utopian
New Advertising Professor Is Former Newspaperman
J. G Clark
One of the more recent additions to the faculty of the University is Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune who will teach the class in Advertising, formerly taught by Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., who is on leave of absence because of illness.
As an associate editor of the Tribune, Mr. Cosgrove is better known as chief editorial writer through his understanding and comprehensive editorials and for his column, “Reading Lamp.” Behind this present experience, Mr. Cosgrove has a long record of enviable service to the press of the United States. From 1916 to 1920, he was connected with the Associated Press traffic department with but a short break for war service in the first great war. Then for two years, he was with the Times-Joumal of Dubuque,
Iowa, first as telegraph editor, later as city editor.
From 1922-1927, he. was news editor and managing editor of the Dubuque Telegraph-Herald. During part of this period, from 1924 to 1927, he was on the editorial staff of Life magazine, the predecessor of the present pictorial weekly. It was in this year that Mr. Cosgrove came to South Bend and to the South Bend Tribune where he has remained for the past 15 years. His present connection with the University will in no way interfere with his position on the Tribune staff.
Three N.R.O.T.C. Cadets Presented With Medals
Joseph Conerty
Flanked by members of the N.R.O.T.C. Battalion formed in platoons on the basketball floor of the Rockne Memorial, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University on Feb. 17, presented medals of honor to three naval cadets who have achieved exceptional military excellence in their work in the newly organized naval reserve training corps.
The Battalion was snapped to “Attention” and the staff of cadet officers saluted as Father O’Donnell and Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., entered the court. The Captain then spoke to the studentcadets, explaining the significance of the presentation and the honor and privilege of having the president of the University bestow the medals upon the naval cadets.
Besides personally congratulating the men upon whom particular honor had been accorded, Father O’Donnell congratulated the Battalion as a whole'. The men were commended for their improvement in appearance and for their splendid work since the establishment of the N.R.O.T.C. last September.
Father O’Donnell concluded his brief • address with the words: “As you leave Notre Dame for service in our first great line of defense, or into other fields, we hope you will never forget the beautiful traditions of Notre Dame and those of the United States Navy. . . . May God bless you.”
The cadets were chosen by a naval-officer staff composed of the Commanding Officer and the Executive Officer and their assistants. The selection was based upon military and scholastic aptitude,
7
character, and a general evaluation of their individual merit within the Unit. Each of these men has proved himself outstanding in these respects.
Those honored were Cadet Chief Petty Officer Charles M. Urruela, Miami Beach, Fla., winner of the Gold Medal; Cadet Lt. D. Coyne Callaghan, Chicago, Ill., recipient of the Silver Medal; and Cadet Lt. Commander Robert L. Bobbett, St. Louis, Mo., winner of the Bronze Medal. t
These awards were instituted by Col. Robert R. McCormick, publisher of the Chicago Tribune, and are granted annually to R.O.T.C. cadets throughout the Middle West. Recognition is based on achievement in both academic standing and military character in the R.O.T.C. program. Individual aptitude is the basis of selection regardless of military rank.
Gold Medalist Charles Urruela is a citizen of both the U. S. and the South American republic of Guatemala. He was born in Miami Beach, and brought up in his foster-country, Guatemala. He is a commerce major at Notre Dame, studying English and accounting, and last year was the winner of the highest scholastic award open to freshmen—the Student Activities Council Medal. He has made an extraordinary record in the Naval R.O.T.C. program according to Capt. Henry P. Burnett, U.S.N., in charge of the Notre Dame unit, having achieved a rating of 100 per cent in Naval Science for the first semester. He has had no previous military training.
Chicagoan D. Coyne Callaghan, commander of the second company and Silver Medalist, attended Loyola Academy of Chicago, Ill., and spent two years at Admiral Farragut Naval Academy, at Thomas River, N. J., before coming to Notre Dame. He is a sophomore in the department of mechanical engineering, and aspires to naval intelligence work in the Navy. He is the son of a Navy man, his father having served in the last war with the U. S. fleet. .
Battalion Commander Robert L. Bobbett, Bronze Medalist, is studying chemical engineering and hopes to be placed in the ordnance division of the Navy. He is a graduate of the Christian Brothers High School (military) of St. Louis, Mo.,
Scraps for "Scrip"?
The editor of Scrip, Charles J. Kirby, 335 Alumni Hall, is now accepting manuscripts for the next issue of the quarterly. - Aspiring writers are asked to turn in their work as soon as possible. .
and as a freshman at Notre Dame received distinct recognition in his appointment as the highest cadet officer of the R.O.T.C. battalion.
Notre Dame’s Naval R.O.T.C. unit was established in September of 1941 and is composed of freshmen and sophomores.
On Saturday, Feb. 21, the cadet medalists will be the guests of Col. McCormick at a broadcast over radio station WGN,
BENGAL MISSIONARIES MUST HAVE YOUR HELP
ARTHUR J. HAYES
From the increasing number of hopeful pugilists working out in the Boxing room each afternoon, it is evident that Bengal Bout time has rolled around again. An important feature of the Bouts is the fact that proceeds go to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India.
Bengal is a huge province whose principal city is Calcutta. The Pope has granted to the C.S.C. missionaries the task of converting the twelve million souls in the Dacca diocese of Bengal, set in a tropical jungle of snakes, tigers, elephants, and extreme poverty. The missionaries are all graduates of Notre Dame, and include some 30 or 40 priests, 25 brothers, and 12 sisters of the Holy Cross from Saint Mary’s, under the guidance of the Most. Rev. Timothy Crowley, Bishop of Dacca. Assisted by a few converted native clergy, they battle against ignorance, superstition, unbelievable pov-
"Suffer little children... .
Chicago, dedicated to the activities of the R.O.T.C.
Every student at Berea college, Kentucky, must work part time, and all students live in dormitories.
There are no “rookie” dollars. Send yours to the front! Buy U. S. Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps!
erty, and the deep-seated roots of Mohammedanism and Hinduism. Life in Bengal is more primitive than we can imagine, amidst almost unbearable heat, constant floods from the Ganges River, dust, dirt, disease, poor food, and practically non-existent finances. Automobiles are ahnost useless because of wretched roads, and the C.S.C. missionaries live on the frontier of civilization.
According to Father George Marr, .C.S.C., who "has traveled in Bengal, these Notre Dame men turn first to their Alma Mater for help in carrying on their struggles and work in Dacca. They rarely have money. Hence, the proceeds of the Bengal Bouts will help immeasurably. Bishop Crowley has repeatedly thanked the promoters, supporters, and fighters in the Bengal Bouts. From the standpoint of one boxing fan, the bouts have invariably provided interest and entertainment to an enviable degree.
8
Silverio Henrequez of Tegucigalpa, Honduras, will announce “How Merrily We Live,” to be sung by the Glee Club.
Ramon Araujo of Cartagena, Colombia, will announce “Ho Jolly Jenkin,” to be sung also by the Glee Club.
Ramiro Perez of Cardenas, Cuba, will announce the “Colonel Bogey March,” to be played by the band.
A dialogue will be held in Spanish, depicting the conversation of three lads on a North American college campus; two of the boys will be Mark McGrath and John Kirby, both of New York, and the third man will be Paco Cabrere of Mexico. Rafael Alducin of Mexico will announce this part of the program.
Charles Uruella from Guatemala will announce “Anchors Aweigh,” another rendition by the Glee Club.
Carlos Cuadros of Puerto Rico will announce Tony Donadio’s song “Yo Me Alegro de Haber Sido,” and a final announcement will be made by Armando Pacheco of Curityba, Brazil.
U. S. Rubber Co. Expert
Explains Relax Systems
Dodge Angelakos
At a recent meeting, Mr. Johnson of the United States Rubber Company addressed the Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. His subject was “Alternating Current-Faults in Electrical Circuits.”
Mr. Johnson referred to the difficulties encountered in the construction of an electrical sub-station at the Ball Band Rubber plant in Mishawaka. He discussed the electrical fault-boards which several manufacturers in this country have constructed in such a way that any combination of electrical faults on a large system of power distribution stations can be simulated in a miniature form so that the characteristic of the failure can easily be determined.
In his coverage of relays and circuit breakers, Mr. Johnson pointed out-their relative merits and behavior. Modern circuit breakers can clear faults on electrical power lines so quickly that it is seldom noticed by the consumer; most of them being opened and closed within one-tenth of a second. Some of the fault of the system, especially those caused by lightning, cause a mechanical failure in apparatus because of the magnetic attraction resulting from the flow of excessive currents. Mr. Johnson said that in some cases, this force was of the order of tons.
After the address, refreshments were served to the guests and members.
Education For The
Defense of America
It has not been much over a year since the United States discovered itself on the brink of war. It had passed the Conscription Bill and the Lend-Lease Act to aid Britain in her fight for security. All this entailed immense increases in oui-capacity for production and the danger of our technical men being drafted into the Army with a possibility of service in war. We had to train men, and train them rapidly. The idea to use the schools of the United States for the purpose of training our citizens to man. the increasing production of materials of war was finally conceived and underwritten by our government in the latter part of the year, 1940. However, it was not until the summer of 1941 that the Defense Training program obtained its full momentum.
All over the United States Catholic schools met the appeal for cooperation voluntarily and with all their energy. It has been necessary for the teachers of these courses to sacrifice much of their time and their ambitions to cooperate with the nation in this hour of peril. However, in the style that has always been synonymous with the word, America, they have come through with valiant fortitude.
The University of Notre Dame is performing its duty to the nation by cooperating to the full extent with the U. S-. government. The Defense Training has been under way here at the University during the evenings. The professors have given up many of their hours of leisure to perform the job of teaching the men in the industries of South Bend and vicinity and thus better enable them to meet the situation. Courses in Engineering, Science, and Production are the fields in which Notre Dame is lending a hand. Courses in Civil, Mechanical, Metallurgical, Aeronautical, and Production Engineering are being taught as are also Chemistry, Mechanical Drawing, Physics, Statistics, Accounting, Personnel Administration, Mathematics and . many others necessary to technical and non-technical men in industry. Courses in Mathematics are being given to students which will qualify them for positions of importance in the armed forces of the United States.
For the subjects that are directly concerned with the U. S. Defense Program, the tuition is free with no college credit available. The only requirement necessary is high school graduation or an equivalent industrial experience. The classes in the Defense School are taught (Continued on page 29)
Commencement Invitations
To Go On Sale Next Week
Hall representatives in each of the. three Senior Halls, Sorin, Walsh and Alumni, will begin taking orders for Commencement Invitations, according to Jim O’Neal, president of the Class of ’42.
The representatives will call at the rooms of the individual Seniors and demonstrate the three types of invitations: leather, cardboard, and paper. Transactions are on a cash and order basis.
After the halls have been canvassed, one representative from each hall will announce “office hours” so that Seniors who are unable to order their invitations when canvassed, can conveniently procure them.
South Bend Lathe Company Shows Movie to Engineers
Edward A. Buenger
At a meeting of the Engineers’ Club held last week in the Engineering Auditorium, a color film entitled “How to Run a Lathe” was presented through the courtesy of Mr. John J. O’Brien, chairman of the board of the South Bend Lathe Company. This firm was ably represented before the engineers and their guests by Mr. A. B. Jackman who has done considerable work in reorganizing and rewriting the material in the new edition of the book “How to Run a Lathe,” upon which the picture was based.
The entire production was filmed in technicolor and has complete dialogue accompaniment. Many of the fundamental operations of metal turning were shown in clear detail. With this film the local precision machine company hopes to lay the foundation for a series of similar films which will further aid in the teaching of the basic and advanced principles of lathe operation. The development of such motion pictures as that produced by the South Bend Lathe Company proves the effectiveness of pictorial representation.
"Scholastic" Meeting
All present and prospective members of the Scholastic staff are asked to be present at a special meeting tonight at 1:30 in the Editorial Room on the second floor of the Old Ave Maria Building.
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel.......................... Managing	Editor . Ed Drinkard ........................Staff	Photographer
William Scanlan............................Promotion	Leo Lee.................................Advertising
John Dinges ..........................  Sports	Editor ' Frank Kiener.............................Advertising
William Baader____________________________Art Editor John Lynch ..................................Photo	Editor
Tom Clemens.....................Administration	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;	■
Editorial Staff, 6:30 F. M.; General Staff, 7 :00 P. M.
. . . AND TO ALL THE OTHERS
Elsewhere in the pages of this issue you will find listed the names of men who are responsible, in no small measure, for the success which attended the War Charity Carnival of last week. But, in our humble opinion, the enthusiastic cooperation of the entire student body was very much in evidence. And if a small group planned the enterprise, it remained for the unnumbered and unnamed hundreds to lend their unqualified support, thus proving not only that the cry of charity was heard, but also that it was answered by a demonstration of loyalty seldom accorded campus projects. And though many visitors came to the Carnival, let it be remembered that the students themselves provided the patronage necessary to insure its success.
It is difficult to say which of the two groups was the more urgently needed: those who worked at the concessions, or those who patronized the booths. Happily for us, we need not make a decision. For all participated. And for that very important reason, the Scholastic, at the behest of the Carnival Committeemen, takes this occasion to thank qach man at Notre Dame for whatever role he played— for helping Notre Dame to help others. There was a spirit of merriment, of glamor, of the bizarre, and of unbounded cooperation about the whole affair. Most important of all —there was a generous spirit of charity about each man along the Midway.	•
JUST A MINUTE, MR. SENIOR!
Due TO the draft, Pearl Harbor and Singapore, you’ll see more serious faces around you at the Washington Day exercises Sunday, than you’ve seen on any other February 22nd you can remember. It’ll probably amaze you, maybe frighten you, to see so many stem-faced people. As you sit there on those hard, wooden seats, trying to work your hands
out of the billowy black sleeves and getting used to that black mortar-board slipping off your head, you’ll probably think it’s all pretty silly seriousness before you. But this attitude will soon disappear.
For you’ll see something in the faces of each of the fellows you’ve seen day in and day out for the last four years that will take all the silliness out of everything. For to you and your classmates, (and you’ll realize it then) this Washington’s Birthday celebration isn’t just another occasion to try on caps and gowns and listen to a speech and wave a flag. To you and your classmates, who are either presently sworn in or definitely decided about which branch of service you are going to enter, this Sunday is an opportunity to think seriously about the future of the United States of America and of your own future, and not to worry about whether you’ll come out of service in enough pieces to celebrate a few more February 22nd’s.
For you, Mr. Senior, it’s a strange way to think on Washington’s Birthday. You remember when all that was required was to think for a moment about a white-haired man who was the first President and to joke about the little boy who couldn’t tell a lie. That was the pretty, lace-edged celebration that you’ve been used to.
But there’s a new way to celebrate it. Watch, Sunday, and you’ll see what it is. It’s all part of this stem-faced serious thinking we’ve been talking about and which you seem to be afraid of. It’s six hundred seniors reaffirming in their own minds their willingness to give their country the assistance she.needs for her very existence, regardless of whether that personal contribution be their life—or just a part of it. It’s six hundred American citizens thanking Washington for all that he did for America. It’s six hundred soldiers, sailors, pilots and marines ready to fight.
Understand, Mr. Senior?
10
ComomA NewA
REGISTRATION BOARDS AVERAGE 12 MEN PER HOUR Huddle, Cafe Cut Coke
AS 616 MEN JAM FIVE CENTERS SET UP ON CAMPUS
DAVE CONDON
Supply By One>Third
C. S. Coco
A total of 616 men registered for selective service, Monday, Feb. 16, on the University of Notre Dame campus, it has been revealed by authorities. Of this number, 76 were religious, 25 were instructors or workmen engaged on the campus, and about 515 were students at the University. It is thought that the number might have been larger had not a great number of students already been registered for service as the result of previous registrations under peace time conditions.
The total at Notre Dame might also have been larger in proportion to the total enrollment, but some students registered at other places, principally at the fire station below the campus, while it is thought that many of the Villagers registered down town.
The registration, which required from four to five minutes per person, was held between the hours of 1 p.m. and 9 p.m. Places of registration, marked by Amer- • ican flags, were: Dillon, St. Edward’s, Howard, and Lyons halls, and the office of the prefect of discipline in the main building. The hall registration centers closed at supper time, but the office of
Some registered at the fire station. . . .
the Prefect of Discipline, where the greatest number signed up, took registrations until 9 p.m.
Registration centers were swelled by long lines of students waiting to register, the slowness of the process keeping the lines practically at a standstill. Students stood in the line anywhere from half an hour to two hours, moving along at the speed of about 12 per hour. Many remarks, such as “I didn’t know it would take this long to get in the army” and “Don’t look now but I think we just moved,” were made in good spirit by many of those waiting. As the final hours for registration came up, and a long line waited in the main building, students brought books along and attempted to while away the time.
Men subject to the registration were all previously unregistered males, (except those unregistered who were already engaged in military service), between 20 and 44 years of age.
The registrants were required to answer nine questions and fill in a physical description of themselves, as regards complexion, race, color of eyes, color of hair, weight and height, and any other physical characteristic that might aid in identification. Registration cards and registration certificates were made, it being pointed out that registrants must carry their “draft cards” on their person at all times.
All registrants who come from out of town were required to list their home residences. The registration cards are to be sent to the local board of the registrant, with this board having jurisdiction over him.
Officials of local draft board number two stated that they were very grateful to Notre Dame for offering this campus registration service. Assisting in the registration were, Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C.; Rev. Thomas Butler, C.S.C.; Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C.; Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C., Rev. William McNamara, C.S.C.; Rev. Joseph Garvin, C.S.C.; Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C.; Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; Mr. Robert McAuliffe, and Miss Barbara Dolezel.
And again the war strikes Notre Dame! It’s cut the supply of steaks; it’s reduced the amount of butter and milk students consume; it’s sped the school year up. And now students aren’t allowed to drink their favorite beverage,
even though it be a soft one, to the full extent of their desires. According to information gained from the Huddle and the Cafe, “cokes” are now rationed by the Federal government because of certain contents of value in the present emergency.
No drastic changes are near at hand as the full effects of this rationing has not as yet been felt. This is the way it works. This year’s quota of Coca-Cola will be cut approximately 33 and 1/3 per cent using 1940 as the basic year. For every “coke” a student drank in 1940, he will be allowed two-thirds of one in 1942. Or, if the fractions are confusing, for every three cokes consumed in ’40 you may drink two in ’42.	’
Wranglers Admit Four
Four new members were admitted into the Wranglers, campus discussion dub. A combination banquet and meeting was held Thursday at which they were announced as follows: Bill Lawless, sophomore; Joe Rud, sophomore; Jim McVay, senior; and Bernard O’Hora, sophomore. .At this meeting also, Jack Ryan gave a paper on “Price-Control.”
It was announced that the finals of the Interhall Debates, of which Stan latiz-zette is the chairman, were to he held on Friday, Feb. 20. Plans for the High School Oratorical Contest are well under way and will be announced soon.
11
h„. Notre Dame Charity Carn
The more romantic fans of the Colfax theatre, thoroughly intoxicated with the swashbuckling Errol Flynn’s latest ad-
venture, ‘‘They Died With Their Boots On,” have suddenly become dissatisfied
with the Saturday presentations in Washington Hall.
Even Scattergood Baines, with his sobering bits of sophistry, failed to impress these dreamers. But Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who contracts the movies, promises an interesting selection for the remainder of February and part of March. Next week we will be reminded of military matters with “Parachute Battalion”; the following Saturday, Abbot and Costello will liven things up in “Hold That Ghost.” Though the March bill isn’t definite, the two famous Disney full-length cartoons, “The Reluctant Dragon” and “Dumbo” are expected to be shown.
(Continued on page 29)
“The most successful student co-operative venture ever undertaken at Notre Dame” was what one man called it and he couldn’t have been more correct. For never before have 200 Notre Dame men banded together for four days of hard work in order to do anything even remotely like the Notre Dame Charities Carnival of last week-end.
How successful was it? Well, that will be unknown until perhaps a week has passed and all the bills are paid. But this story is not about its financial success but about those men who made it a success and a few of the humorous incidents that occurred during the three nights.
When Jim Fayette walked into the K. of C. Chambers just before Christ- . mas and suggested a carnival at Notre Dame, probably no one laughed louder than Eli Abraham. But again, probably no one worked harder than , this same Mr. Abraham to make it the success it was. If you know Eli as a great many students do, you’d know that no man can work harder or worry more than he when the opportunity presents itself.
ED RONEY
And another prominent worker, in the interests of the huge undertaking, was Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C. It became Father- Carey’s task dozens of times to tread over to the Prefect of Discipline’s office to inquire about this or that idea. Father Carey put in many hours in conferences with Mr. Abraham and the student' committeemen. Yes, no small part of its success can be attributed to Father Carey.
Jim Fayette, who first conceived the idea, and Ed Reidy made up the student backbone of the carnival. It was their job to confer with the presidents of the different campus clubs and to insure their total co-operation. That they did their job well can be seen from the way the clubs worked to make it a success. There were many, many others who whole-heartedly contributed their effort, the other committee-men, booth-chairmen and their assistants.
Other students who worked on the committees were Tom Tierney, Reggie Flynn and Ed Roney who handled the entertainment program and the loudspeaker set-up. Don Heltzel handled pub-
Co-Chairmen Reidy and Fayette: They invited some of the best people
32
ival a
licity through James Armstrong’s Alumni office.
A good share of the credit for the Carnival’s success belongs to such men as Boh Cahill, who was in charge of the , money; Paul Chaput, who directed the stock room; Tom Mills who directed the decorating the Field House; and Jim Connelly who handled the food conces-’ sion. -
Responsible for the Saturday night Valentine’s Ball, proceeds from which went to the Carnival’s War Charities, was the Student Council. Assisting the Council at the dance was the Maryland-D. C. Club which handled the soft-drink counter.
The men listed above were ones who had a hand in bringing the Carnival up |	from its baby stage, working over a
:	period of about two months. There are
!	many more students who worked in set-
|	ting up the midway and in manning the
I . booths on the three Carnival nights. Too | numerous to mention, most of them were j working directly with their city or state i club in co-operating with the Knights of :	Columbus in putting on the affair.
• Here are a few of the humorous car-j nival happenings:
j There was the booth that paid off to , Priests and Brothers only for the first I two hours of Friday night, and we al-1 most knelt and prayed that someone else I would win just to show that they could. । There was the Detroit man who spent
. . . including Fr. O’Donnell, Mayor Pavey, Fr. John Cavanaugh and Detroiter Roney.
Colorado Club: They barked well into the night.. .
five minutes teaching Professor Gurian how to play Hooligan only to have him look quizzingly at him after losing several times. .
And the sad case of Jack Whelan and Bud Dudley who achieved the enviable record of being 0.2 per cent correct in guessing the weights of the many people present.
There was that Monogram booth where Coach Leahy won, of all things, an autographed football with—you guessed it— Frank Leahy’s name on it.
Men of Notre Dame Are
Most Likely to Recede
“What is Notre Dame doing to your hairline?” The average student asked, scratched his head first—and even then a
few stray strands floated off. It was rather generally agreed that Notre Dame men are “most likely to recede.”
Those who believe that the water here is responsible for the situation are substantiated in their opinion by Professor Ervin of the department of biology, who admits that our water supply contains heavy mineral deposits. But here is what they said:
Charles MacFarlane, Sorin senior engineer: “Using the water on my hair coarsens it. However, I have noticed no decline in my hairline.”
Bill Kellow, Lyons Hall, sophomore premed; “My hairline has always been this way. Besides, a high forehead shows my brain bulges.”	-
(Continued on page 29)
13
COLLEGIATE PRESS ASS'N. POURS ON THE HONEY, INCLUDING FLIES; RATES 'SCHOLASTIC VERY GOOD
The Scholastic this week humped its collective shoulders and accepted a pat on the back. The pat came out of the West, from Milwaukee, Wis., home of the Catholic School Press Association. Patted CSPA: the Scholastic is a very good collegiate magazine.
This criticism was contained in a. critical data sheet released by CSPA, of which the Scholastic is a member, and covered publications up to and including the November issues.
The Scholastic was praised for editorial comment, style, typography, headlines and art. Included with the honey were two flies: not enough religion, occasionally sloppy head writing. Said CSPA in particular:
scholastic renown and its main purpose as a Catholic institution. It might be well to keep the Catholic Church more in the minds of the students.”
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty moderator of the Scholastic, explained in reply to the “general remarks” paragraph that the daily Religious Bulletin takes care of religious activities at Notre Dame pretty thoroughly. In regard to headline writing there were no ready alibis except for the fact that it has been a long time since the writers took a math course, perhaps thus accounting for their inconsistency in adding up units.
War Department Opens
Chances for Commission
The War Department announced today that the Army’s Officer Candidate Schools are now open to all qualified enlisted men from 18 to 45 years of age. The age limits for admission to Officer Candidate Schools have been broadened considerably to coincide with the new
induction and enlistment ages. This means that any men between the ages of 18 and 45 now serving in the Army, or inducted in the future, who is otherwise qualified, will be eligible for selection as an officer candidate.
Any civilian between those ages who is not now in the Army and who desires to seek a commission can enlist and attend a replacement training center with the knowledge that at the end of his training he can compete with his fellows for an opportunity to attend a further three months’ course for a commission.
In addition, the length of service required before becoming eligible for admission to candidate schools has been-reduced to three months for all enlisted men, regardless of where assigned. Heretofore the regulation has been four months fox' men from replacement training centers and six months for men from other units.
A soldier will be eligible for selection to an Officer Candidate School throughout his enlistment. The three months’ period of service is a minimum established to meet the requirements of the present emergency. Under this proce-'dure, those whose development is slow or whose qualifications are not immediately recognized will be afforded a continuing opportunity to qualify for at- * tendance at the school.
Style: “There is not a fault to be found in the style of the articles. They are well written, clear, easy to read, and carry the most important facts in the lead.”
Typography: “Typography is excellent. The publication is alive with eyecatching pictures, heads and boxes. Each department has its own place, permanently established from issue to issue.
Editorial content: “The editorial content of the Scholastic is very good. Every topic that is of interest to the students is covered, except one. There seems to be little mention of the Sodality and its activities. There should be a separate section, with a standing head, devoted to this most important of all topics.”
Art: “The art work is very good, as much as there is. You seem to have some excellent artists on the staff, why not give them more of a chance to show their ability?”
Headlines: “Headlines are concise, tell the dominant fact and are easy to read. Occasionally the head writers are a little sloppy in their counting, resulting in unbalanced heads that are hardly a credit to this magazine.”
General Remarks: “The great football teams and traditions of the school have a tendency to overshadow Notre Dame’s
Notre Dam£ Men Enlist In V-7 at Indianapolis
Pictured above is the group of Notre Dame students who went to Indianapolis recently to take their physical examinations for V-7. After completing the physicals in the morning the group was entertained at a banquet by the Alumni Club of Indianapolis, during the course of which they were sworn into the Navy. Reading from left to right, they are:
First row: William Fisher, John Kilbane, Bernard Turnock, Michael Kelley, Charles Steltmann.
Second Row: Raymond Ebli, Arthur Pope, Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., Lt. Commander S. A. Bishop, USNR, Robert Maddock.
Standing, third row: Charles Kearney, Thomas Maloney, - Leo Lee, Robert Browning, Robert Burke, Jeremiah McSweeney, Charles Kralovec, Frank Quinn, Eugene Fehlig, Cornelius Wade, Francis Delaney, J. W. Noda.
Top row:- Charles Crimmins, John* Reis, Hurley Engstrom, William Middendorf, Thomas Conley, Oliver Hunter.
14
Edward J. Sullivan
Those two promoters you see strutting around the campus represent the brains and power behind the Met. Club throne. Matty Byrne and Jim Burke are the names they go under while pursuing their intellectual development. To those who know them better, they are the Notre Dame version of the House of Rothschild a la Bronx.
An insight into their early life shows that even at the tender age of six, these two mercenary masters were making plans for the Met. Club Dance. When Matty first saw the light of day his father, the elder Byrne, is said to have cried in a state of ecstasy: “Now I can retire. . . .”
In a double-bed, it's still Boine & Boike.
One glance at their stationery and you can see how they get around their excess profits tax in this business of handling the Met Club destinies. It reads: “Boine & Boike, Inc.” Their formal titles are: “Matthew Byrne, President, and James Burke, Dispenser of Cigarettes and Custodian of Ice Cream For The Met Club.” Every time the cigarettes run low or the cash-on-hand begins to look depleted, the stockholders call a meeting. By the way, the stocks are controlled 99 and 44/100% by our two Bronx barons.
One of the more-popular discussions brought up and put in the form of a resolution by the honorable president, is the ever-present need of “working capital,” and as President Byrne puts it so adequately, “. . . so tonight we will have another drive for membership cards. Now for each fifty cents you secure, we will
give you a membership card. Jim Burke, my colleague, has been appointed Chairman of Membership and will be glad to receive the coin of tribute.”
Thusly, the two Insull boys have worked all through high school and through their residence at Notre Dame. Since their freshman year they have been roommates, obviously so they can afford to trust each other.
Now this is no Grand Jury indictment. However, when interviewed, the boys were indignant when the possibility of an investigation was suggested, and pointed two accusing fingers of scorn, (one very much nicotined, because Matty doesn’t smoke) at that noted reformer and arch-rival of the Barons, Matty “Cy” Miller, prexy of the Chicago Club.
So busy directing the destiny of the Met Club, Matty and Jim would seem to have so many executive duties on their hands as not to have time for any other activity. However, Matty’s scholastic average proves that he has found time to study for he averages 92 per annum. Besides his regular courses in English, Byrne has taken up additional courses in Mathematics and C.P.T. in preparation for his entrance into the Navy Air Corps this summer. In his junior year, he was kept busy as associate-editor of the Dome and as the honestly-elected Secretary of his class. Matty also did all right in intramural sports. He was quarterback on two championship clubs.
Jim Burke, who is a major in journalism, is better known as the “Bull.” Like his roommate, Jim’s scholastic average rates him a cum laude when the sheepskins are handed out in May. More proof of how the destinies of the “Gold Dust Twins” have run together lies in the fact that Jim held down the position of Sports-editor on the Dome, and was also a member of the same two intramural championship football teams. His plans call for breaking up of the partnership. Jim hopes to become a member of a New York news-service.
Seven Men Chosen For
National Speech Meet
The district meet of the National Extempore Speech Contest will be held on March 1, it was announced by Prof. George Reichle early this week. Notre Dame will have six men competing in this contest. The place where the contest is to be held has not yet been definitely decided upon.
The purpose of the National Extempore Speech Contest is to increase interest in discussion of Inter-American affairs at all American colleges.
The seven men entered in the contest from Notre Dame are:
Mark McGrath, John Morrison, . Robert Nenno, Leo Raymond, Joseph'Ryan, Rafael Alducin, and Robert Millet (alter- ’ nate).
There are 47 districts entered in the contest and six regions. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., and Prof. Reichle, the faculty advisors to the contestants, announced that the district meet will be run somewhat on this order: the contestants will take part in a round table discussion during the afternoon conference. Each contestant will give a seven-minute talk. A number of students will be chosen from this group for the evening conference. The two best men from the evening conference will go to the reg-ionals.
The Notre Dame entrants are now getting prepared to go into action. They will give an example of their skill tonight when they practice their oratory before the Inter-American Affairs Club.
The contest is sponsored by the Office of The Coordinator of Inter American Affairs, through the National Public Discussions Committee.
First prize is an expense-free tour of all the .American republics next summer.
Any Word Yet From
The Office, James?
There seems to be something mysterious about the coming of last semester's bulletins. No one has heard a word about
them—no, not even a rumor. Freshmen, especially, out of curiosity are anxious -to see them; Sophomores, of course, being wise, all know they have passed; the Juniors are making five checks a week in hope for a miracle; and
the Seniors have seen so many bulletins
in their day they don’t even think about them any more.
The Office is so silent an eavesdropper
can’t detect a whisper between workers about them. The only possible explanation seems to be that the marks are all so high, the Office is having trouble totalling them. We hope so.
If anyone is really desperate about. finding out his grades, there is only one way to do it: take a midnight some dark,. snowy evening, disguise himself in “The Shadow’s” outfit, grab his trusty twenty-two, and hold up the Office. But this wouldn’t be advisable, unless the person is looking for a vacation.
Besides, that won’t be necessary now; for it’s finally definite that the bulletins will make their debut in a very few days.
—Daniel Downey
15
Yacht Clubbers Plan
UNOFFICIAL "HALE AMERICA" DRIVE UNDER WAY
Annual Forum Trip	AS MEMORIAL USAGE INCREASES 25 PER CENT
“ ’Tenshun,” Commerce comrades. The
annual Forum trip to Chicago is soon
JACK ANDERTON
to be tapped.
Such w a s the information divulged last week by the treasurer and co-chairman of this year’s journey, Gail Fitch.
The freshman group knows little or nothing about this venture, but who has made one
of these jaunts well appreciated their worth. For instance, two years ago the Forum traveled to Chicago where they visited and inspected the Pullman Exhibit, the Board of Trade (grain exchange), and the Museum of Science and Industry. Incidentally every trip always includes a tour of three business establishments.
Last year on March 20 at 7 a.m. two chartered buses left the circle bearing 75 commerce men bound for Chicago. The initial stop was at Wilson & Co. who extended them an identical plant tour as had been afforded the Crown Prince of Norway some months previously. From here the boys went to the Mars Candy Co., where in addition to the factory examination they received free luncheons through the generosity of Mr. Kruppenbacher.
Their itinerary next brought the wanderers to a canvass of Marshall Fields. This concluded their business ramblings and the next four hours were do-as-you-want. At 8 p.m. everyone assembled at the Blackstone Theatre where they enjoyed the play “Life With Father.” Perhaps the greatest thrill was their opportunity to meet Lillian Gish and Percy Waram, the stars, backstage.
All was through then and they reached home at 2:30 a.m.
However, this year Fitch is experiencing greater difficulty. First, there are 325 members and only 150 are permitted to go; therefore the policy of “first come, first served” will have to be adopted. Second, there is immense difficulty in obtaining permission to visit plants. This is due of course to the war. Many plants such as the iron and steel type are engaged in defense work; consequently they are taboo. Third, it is impossible for a group of 150 to visit banks, vaults, or any other such confined institutions. And fourth, because of the increase in transportation rates, the cost
“Let’s go over to the ‘Rock’ for a little work out,” is becoming one of the most-often-heard expressions on the campus. Eight hundred students, or over onefourth the student body, take advantage of the Rockne Memorial’s recreational facilities each day, representing a 25 per cent increase over last year, according to Mr. Thomas Mills, director.
Those who have attempted to get a handball court on Saturday afternoon will substantiate Mr. Mills’ statement that handball is becoming one of the most popular indoor sports on the campus. The basketball court and the swimming pool also get a large percentage of the daily quota, with about 300 students a day taking a plunge in the 75 foot pool. A record was set during the first few days of school last fall when 815 students used the pool during one day. Badminton and squash are more
will have to be elevated to the vicinity of five dollars.
Nevertheless, Fitch promises to shortly have all wrinkles eradicated and to fur- -nish a pleasant, worthwhile trip for all.
—Frank Sierawski -
Money talks! United States Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps shout “Victory!”
Bonds or bondage? Buy U. S. Savings Bonds.
neglected; very few of the students have the rackets required to play the games. Interest is also being built up in weight lifting and boxing, the Bengal Bouts being responsible for much of the popularity of the latter sport. .
Many parents are deceived into thinking that Indiana, not California, should be called the “Sunshine State” when Johnny comes home for Christmas vacation with a radiant sun tan. The sun lamp in the Memorial responsible for this is one of the very few large scale sun lamps in the country.
Mr. Mills believes the war is largely responsible for the phenomenal increase in Rock usage. “Physical fitness is very necessary for a man in combat. Our boys realize this, and they wisely take advantage of the Memorial to get competitive sport as their recreation.”
Enlists in Navy
Edward Habecker, Jr., 23 years old, son of Mr. E. E. Habecker, Washington, Ill., a graduate cum laude in the College of Commerce of Notre Dame University, has just enlisted for officer training in Naval Aviation, it was announced today by Lieutenant Cadet -Selection Board, of St. Louis, by whom young Habecker was sworn into service.
Habecker was a member of his highschool football and basketball teams.
16
TWELVE JUNIORS SELECTED FOR COMMITTEE TO CHOOSE OUTSTANDING SENIORS MERITING THE "DOME" AWARD
Twelve members of the Junior class met in secret conclave last Wednesday evening. Behind closed doors, in the lounge of the Knights of Columbus chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall, they began a mystery which will not be finally solved until the night of the Publication banquet in early May. Their purpose: to choose the Dome award recipients.
The Wednesday meeting was the first of many. Before the committee of Juniors are done they will have mulled over the records and achievements of all of the outstanding members of the Senior class.
The Dome award, annually presented to the four seniors outstanding in extracurricular achievement is, perhaps, the highest honor a graduate may obtain. Achievement in extra-curricular activities during his undergraduate years at Notre Dame is the basis upon which each of the men will be voted the award. Furthermore, each of the selectees must have contributed something significant to extra-curricular life on the campus. His achievement must have been a personal one, over and above the gamut of politics and merely numerous affiliations. Likewise, his disciplinary, scholastic and religious records must be exemplary to the point of singularity.
Joseph Hillebrand, Toledo, Ohio, editor-in-chief of the 1942 Dome, together with his staff, has selected the group of representative Juniors who will, in time, select the outstanding seniors of 1942.
Hillebrand submitted the following list of men:
John T. Battaile, Dillon Hall; Jerome F. Cordes, Howard Hall; Roger S. Cummings, Dillon Hall. James W. Ford, Dillon Hall; John J. Gilligan, Dillon Hall; Edward J. Hickey, Dillon Hall.
Joseph R. Hillebrand, Dillon Hall; Henry M. Kane, Dillon Hall; Edgar C. Steeb, Dillon Hall; Quentin C. Sturm, Dillon Hall; John P. Wiethoff, Howard Hall; Raymond F. Wilmer, Dillon Hall.
SENIORS! REMEMBER
—to pick up your caps and gowns in the basement of Walsh Hall between 1:30 and 3:00 Sunday afternoon before you go to your respec. tive assembly rooms.
Engineers' Club Hears
Fire Underwriter Expert
Last Monday evening Mr. T. Alfred Fleming addressed a meeting of the Engineers’ Club at 8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Mr. Fleming is associated with The National Board of Fire Underwriters as a director of their conservation department. He also spends much of his time on speaking tours which have led him to the leading universities, clubs, and business organizations in the principal cities throughout this country. During his travels he has made many friends and has gained an enviable reputation as a speaker. It was upon the enthusiastic advice of his former listeners here on the Notre Dame, campus that his services were again engaged by the Engineers’s Club.
The topic which Mr. Fleming discussed was “Mistakes in Construction and Engineering which Affect Fire Safety.” In connection with this address he introduced certain ideas of his own, relative to civilian defense. Many local industrial men who attended the University defense classes were also present at this meeting as guests of the Engineers’ Club.
Ball Set For April 24;
Seniors; Start Planning!
Out of all the confusion of registration, the sad news from abroad, and the slanting rain and snow, came, with contrasting cheerfulness, the news that the date for the Senior Ball had definitely been set for April 24. Along with this announcement came the list of committeemen who have already begun working out plans to make this biggest social event in the life of a Notre Dame man worthy of the fondest desires of every
Bob Finneran Sam Boyle
Senior, who looks forward to the Ball and sees his last opportunity to attend a University class-dance before he graduates and goes into service.
Music co-chairmen Don McNally and Tom Walker have been negotiating for
several weeks with the agents of four of the ten most popular nationally known bands, according to Walker. Despite the fact that contracts have already been drawn for final signature, there will be no definite news of the choice of the Ball band for at least another ten days.
The announcement of a definite date for the Ball was enough to set many Seniors thinking and actually planning for their last big class dance. Four Walsh hall men went tripping to town Wednesday, after getting the news un-
Larry Kelley Frank Pollnow
officially through the “grapevine” and very wisely reserved rooms for their imported dates at one of the downtown hotels. A few Walsh gentlemen have already made arrangements to rent their “soup and fish” full dress for the festive week-end.
Uncle Sam, who has taken quite a cut out of the Senior Class already, attracted another one of the class of ’42 this week, when Don McNally, Winnetka, Ill., co-chairman of the Music commit-
tee, volunteered for immediate service
Capt. Lillis Fred Hoover
in the Army Air Corps. Larry Kelley expressed the regret of all the committeemen that Don will be unable to be present April 24 when the fruits of his vital work in contacting agents for well-known orchestras will have been realized.
The complete list of the chairmen of the various committees as announced by General Chairman Larry Kelly, are as follows:
Music, Don McNally and Tom Walker; publicity, Tom Powers and Sam Boyle; decorations, Matthew Miller; dinner, Mike Hines and Fred Hoover; favors, Paul Lillis and Bill Marshall; arrangements, Frank Pollnow; tea dance, Bob Finneran; programs, John Kilbane and Andy Chemey; tickets, Steve' Graliker and Harry Storck; patrons, W. P. Kelly and Joe Champley; invitations, John Gilbert and Jim Purcell.	~
17
MOVE FOR CONVERTING 7-MILE STEAM TUNNELS SYSTEM INTO AIR RAID SHELTER GAINS MOMENTUM
DAVE CONDON
curtains and drapes in their shelters, no such practice would be permitted at Notre Dame. (Curtains, drapes, potted ferns, and cnaries were held essential to feminine morale.)
It was Saturday afternoon in the Cafe. I was drinking a cup of coffee and reading Scrip. I was enjoying the coffee. Along came an editor of the Scholastic, who called my attention to a recent editorial on rumors. Immediately visions of all sorts of stories swarmed through my head.
Said he, “Did you hear the latest?”
“No,” I said. “What’s up?”
“Notre Dame is going to use the heating tunnels for air raid shelters.”
“That’s a good rumor,” I told him. “Who started it?”
“I did, just now. Go and write a story about it.”
There are easier things than writing stories on air raid shelters at Notre Dame, but I started out to find the story. The editor had said to see the comptroller and find out about the tunnels. I always thought a comptroller was how many legs has an encyclopedia, but this one turned out to be a guy behind a desk. He sent me to an engineer’s office.
Well, it turns out that there are seven miles of tunnels running under the campus and that the steam that heats the halls is piped through these tunnels. Of necessity, these tunnels are large enough for a man to walk through and check where the heat is escaping and also to find out why an occasional bit gets into the hall radiators. A checker paces these miles everyday and checks on the hot air. But like a fellow playing pool in Brownson rec, he walks a long way and gets nowhere fast.
To prove that air raid shelters in heat tunnels are practical, students of Lindenwood College, a women’s college at St. Charles, Mo., experimented. They sat in
Bill Welch, who first thought of it one day last fall.. . .
the tunnel and had their pictures snapped. •
If it established nothing else, it at least proved a novel way for the laughing Lindenwood lassies to get their pictures in the Collegiate Digest. Officials of Washington’s BVD committees have announced that, although the Lindenwood girls were permitted to put up
... shows Senior Ball Chairman Larry Kelley (standing) and Senior President Jim O Neal how his tunnel can be used as a casino in the event of an air raid.
Most of the details here have been worked out by campus officials. In case of air attack all students- not in class will hasten to the nearest radiator and enter the heat tunnels. (Students in class must remain there, since the shortened semester allows for only a minimum of class absences. However, University officials have solved this by declaring that any bombs dropped on classrooms, and (Continued on page 26)
18
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
N. D. EXPECTS EASY WESTERN RESERVE WIN;
SEEKS BULLDOG BLOOD HERE TUESDAY
Faught who held him to a measly three points.
Vengeance on Butler Tuesday
Faught Sets Scoring Record In N.y.U. Rout
John Powers
One of the highest-scoring all-sophomore quintets ever to wear the silks of Notre Dame, will face a Western Reserve sophomore team in the Fieldhouse tomorrow night. Bobby Faught, sophomore center with a total of 159 points scored this season, will be showing the way against the Reserve squad from his home town of Cleveland, Ohio. Coach Roy A. Clifford’s team, with only one senior and one junior along with ten sophomores, got off to a slow start but has been, improving since then. The Red Cats will have to be plenty “hot” tomorrow night if they even expect to keep up with the rampaging Irish. By thumping powerful Kentucky, Great Lakes, and New York University teams the last three times out, the Irish have placed themselves on a par with the best squads of the country. Notre Dame will enter the contest with a record of six straight wins and ten victories in the last eleven ’ starts. The season record thus far reads 13 victories out of 17 games played.
It was “Faught” night at Madison Square Garden last Saturday night, although it was not advertised as such. 17,790 fans packed the smokey Garden to its dusty rafters to watch this lanky sophomore' plunk ten baskets and six free throws through the hoop to total 26 points and thereby establish a new Garden and all-time Notre Dame record. The performance of Faught placed him on a par with Hank Luisetti among the stars who have played in the Garden.
He flipped in field goals from nearly every point on the court; from the corners, the pivot post, mid-court, and from underneath the hoop. In sinking a phenomenal total of 10 out of 20 baskets attempted, Faught broke the former record of 25 points which was established by Pick Dehner of Illinois in 1938. As Arthur Daley of The Times reported it: “The Irish had not been advertised as a fire-engine team, but they were going to a four-alarm conflagration most of the way.”
Notre Dame romped away to an early lead about halfway through the opening period. NYU with the help of Grenert managed to even the count at 12-12. Faught then swung into action, netting six points in a scoring spree which moved the Irish into a 23-14 lead. The Violets continued to shrink under a barrage of points rung up by reserves and the Irish held a 31-17 advantage at the Intermission. Faught scored 12 points in the first half and collected the remainder in the second half as the Irish stretched their lead to 19 points before the Violets could get a point. From that point on the Violets just about matched the Irish point for point; at one time Glogower and Grenert staged a rally that saved the Violets from a complete rout. They never advanced any closer than 14 points, however. Faught had garnered six points in consecutive order when Coach Keogan removed him from the contest in which he had played less than 30 minutes. Mele and Grenert performed well for NYU, each making ten points to tie for high honors for the Violets. Schuman, the usual high scorer, was tabbed closely by
"Given a win over Reserve, an Irish victory over Butler should be sweet...
Granting that the Irish can take Western Reserve in stride, they will be trying for their eighth straight win of the season in their last home appearance against Butler University Tuesday night. The revenge motif will be the keynote of the game since Butler defeated the Irish, 49-43 at Indianapolis on Jan. 17.
Incidentally, the loss to Butler was the first loss the Irish had suffered in the month of January since 1938, which should make the revenge taste a lot sweeter, if the Irish win. Notre Dame hopes for victory will be given- a shot in the arm by the fact that Wilbur Schumacher, the one man team who gathered 21 points in the initial appearance with the Irish, has been out of the lineup-lately and may not play Tuesday. Butler has also lost Woody Norris, high-scoring forward, who withdrew from school to play professional ball. The game will get underway at 8 pun.
Remember Pearl Harbor! Remember it every pay day! Buy U. S. Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps.
Billions for Allied victory ... or for tribute to dictators? There is only one answer: Buy U. S. Defense Bonds and Stamps.	.	.
19
TRACKMEN HUNT WOLVERINES TODAY
AFTER SCALPING ILLINI 62 1-3 -41 2-3
FRANK KEENAN
The University of Illinois track team, along with five meet records, fell before the invading track forces of Notre Dame last Saturday as the Fighting Irish made it two for two in this so-far successful indoor season. Notre Dame won eight of the 12 events in sending the Illini down to their first defeat in three starts, 621/3 to 412/3. And today at Ann Arbor the Irish are endeavoring to keep their slate clean while meeting Michigan’s Wolverines in the toughest dual competition of the season.
N. D. Balance Counts
Again superior team balance proved to be the decisive factor in the victory. Notre Dame swept the 440 as Capt. Ray Roy and George Schiewe tied for first in the meet record-breaking time of :49.9. Gene Fehlig finished third. Other N.D. record breakers were: Ollie Hunter who ran the two mile in 9:22, .6 under the old mark, and big Jim Delaney, who broke the shot put record with a heave of 49 feet 3% inches, 1% in. over- Don Elser’s (ND) previous record put.
For Illinois, however, sophomore Bob Rehberg set up two new meet marks in two attempts, beating out Tony Maloney and Frank Conforti in the mile run by seven yards in the excellent time of 4:18.4, and pacing the half-milers to a record 1:57.2 performance. Tupta and Kelly for the Irish followed, second and third.
Keith O’Rourke, Jay Gibson, Bill Dillon and John Wiethoff also won events for the Irish. O’Rourke leaped 6 -ft. 6 in. in the high jump, an inch improvement over his last week’s Madison Square
O'Rourke has improved since he left the Garden....
Garden effort. Gibson took the 60 yd. dash in :06.4 with Dillon second, while Dillon led the field in a :09.5 75-yard high hurdles and finished second just ahead of Gibson in the low hurdles. Wiethoff won the pole vault going over the bar at 12 ft. 6 in.
Wally Ziemba, with a third place in the shot put, and Hogue, also with a third in the broad jump, accounted for the final Irish tallies.
Wolverines Are Worthy Opponents
In running away with victories over Marquette and Illinois thus far, Notre -Dame has shown superb team balance and tremendous power. Today, however, they meet a track team which also boasts plenty in the way of these qualities. Michigan’s greatest strength lies in the running events up to and including the half-mile. In the sprints Dillon and Gibson will find plenty of competition in a pair of veterans, Peal and Thomas. Together with Uffer they form a trio of quartermilers who will give Roy, Schiewe and Fehlig many bad moments. In the half-mile Michigan will pit Uffer, Ackerman and Kautz against the Irish’s Tupta and Kelly. Ackerman and Kautz also perform in the mile. This formidable array of veterans are well-balanced by a number of potentially outstanding sophomores. All of which goes to make this meet the toughest of the indoor season for Notre Dame. But this year’s Irish trackmen are great, and win or lose at Ann Arbor, they will run their hearts out under a great coach, Bill Mahoney, a worthy successor to Notre Dame’s immortal John Nicholson.
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
By Red Lonergan
The University of Wisconsin can proudly point to the fact that its sports program is probably more extensive than that of any other mid-western university. But of all the many varsity sports in which Wisconsin participates, it has had its greatest success in boxing. In amateur boxing Wisconsin ranks as high as Washington does in crew or Michigan in swimming. Wisconsin’s unusual success has been the result of the patient labor of a smiling, battling, and cool Irishman, Coach John J. Walsh. This shrewd gentleman possesses one of the most successful coaching records of all time.
Boxer Walsh was a football man at South High in Minneapolis, Minn., from which school many Minnesota greats have come. He knew what a boxing glove was before he was big enough to lace one. Though he never boxed professionally he possessed the enviable record of two losses in over 100 tries, a past any professional boxer would be proud of. Even his success in gaining the Northwestern Golden Gloves title couldn’t turn him from the idea of higher education. He entered St. Thomas College in 1931 and gained a berth on the boxing team. In the first year of inter-collegiate competition he acquired the Mid-Western inter-collegiate title. At this time boxing was new at Wisconsin and the Badgers had scheduled St. Thomas purely on reputation. Boxing fans were not disappointed at the bouts for the contests were as good as many of the fans had seen in the whole section. Then Walsh was boxing and at the same time coaching for St. Thomas. •
nl the fall of 1933 Wisconsin decided to put boxing on an equal basis with football and John J. Walsh was offered the job of coaching. He accepted and started to pile up honors.
In eight seasons his teams have won 46 dual meets, lost four, and tied one. The Badgers have never been beaten in their home ring. Many national champs have come from his Wisconsin teams and in 1939 there were four individual champs, something that happens “once in a lifetime.”
While Coach Walsh was turning, out winners he was learning the “ins” and “outs” of law at the university. He now mixes his coaching with a law practice, a full schedule for anyone.
We wish to salute a man who has done what many men will not try to do and has done it successfully. He may be another real champ whose fine personality the arc of publicity has passed and failed to recognize.
20
f€< CI *N ll l lNTri f
fKCH THE PREJJ BCX
BY BILL SCANLAN
MILT PIEPUL COACHES DURING SPRING DRILLS
Milt Piepul, 1940 Irish football captain who last fall did his ground-gaining for the Detroit Lions of the National Pro league, now lives in Walsh hall. . . . Milt is doing graduate work this semester, and will be one of Coach Frank Leahy’s’ aides during spring grid drills. . . . Report says J. W. MacAllister, general manager of activities around Notre Dame’s always-busy gymnasium, is improving—which is welcome news to a good many N. D. athletes, past, present and future.
BILL SULLIVAN OFF FOR WASHINGTON
Coach Leahy’s No. 1 secretary, and recent boltee from the ranks of the bachelors, Bill Sullivan, leaves shortly for Washington, D. C. . . . Sullivan probably -will take over as director of a Naval sports publicity program. . . . Before coming here, where he has been quick to become a Notre Dame man by association through his typical campus name of Sullivan, Bill headed the sports publicity program at Boston College. . . . The 26-year-old publicist has been handling writing chores for Coach Leahy, and worked for the Boston Globe a year, after being graduated from B. C. in 1937. . . . “I’m sorry to leave,” was his comment the other day—and the thought is mutual with those who have had the privilege to be associated with him. . . . Notre Dame men -wish you success in the hew venture, Bill.
BOXING QUARTERS A LA TIMES SQUARE
Boxing quarters at the Rockne Memorial take on the appearance of Times Square after an Army-Notre Dame football game these days as 60-odd battlers participate in the conditioning program outlined by Generalissimo Dominick Napolitano. . . . More hardy men of the light heavyweight, and heavyweight sections on campus are welcome to join the crowd. . . . Dan Canale, tennis captain and defending titlist at 127 pounds, expects to report soon—as soon as he breaks away from work on an English thesis. . . . Oh, to be an English major! . . . Lou Rymkus, the man-mountain right tackle of football repute, has definitely retired from ring competition in favor of football. . . . Lou gained a lot of his aggressive ability and agility winning the University heavy-veight crown when he was a freshman. . . . He may not be fighting, but chances are he’ll have a buddy in the ring.
ANOTHER POWERS PUTS ENID, OKLA., ON MAP
Enid, Okla., that inkspot somewhere in the southwest, has been gaining nationwide acclaim by its semi-pro baseball and softball teams. . . . Then a fellow named Jimmy Powers came from there too. . . . He’s now New York Daily Netos sports editor and one of the most sought after speakers in New York. . . . Latest Enid sports figure is Tom Powers, brother of Jim, and current Scholastic editor. ... In all fairness to English majors, it must be admitted that Powers also claims that disputed distinction. . . . Dick Tupta, member of the all-time relay record-shattering quartet of Capt. Ray Roy, Gene Fehlig and George Schiewe, had one of the thrills of his life running in New York’s Madison Square Garden. . . . Fordham won a close race with Campbell turning in a final quarter of :48.2, but Tupta volunteers: “If we’d meet outdoors N. D. would win.” . . . Seems that board-tracks were new to most of the Blue and Gold men and as a result they did a lot of “high” running around the boards.
BENGAL BOUTER CHALLENGED TO RACE
A pre-view of conditioning progress of Bengal Bouts competitors is scheduled for 3 p.m. Saturday when mitt-slinger Bill McNamara of Badin hall meets the challenge of Ed Drake, Sorin senior, in a cross-country race from the gym to the library, by way of the lake route, the outgrowth of a rivalry drummed up by Jim Ferry, another Sorinite. . . . The trio are west hall waiters who believed one another was better physically after a layoff from past track competition. . . . One of Senior Ball Larry Kelly’s social problems has been settled: Orator-footballer Jim Brutz, recently turned author of h Scholastic humor column, has already selected his Ball date. . . . Who’s next? ... . The all-campus bowling championships, featuring rival league champions captained by Phoenix Joe Palmer and Nibs Trimborn of Oak Park, Ill., have been postponed until March 1. . . . Originally was scheduled for Sunday afternoon. . . . Now the fellows get a chance to do a little practice. . . . They’ve been throwing since October. (Turn to page 31)
SPORTS QUIZ
"Red" Lonergan
1.	What is the record attendance for a basketball game?
2.	What is called the basketball state of the nation?
3.	Who holds the existing three - year collegiate scoring record for any player?
4.	What is considered the largest gate in all professional boxing and in what city was the bout held?
5.	What are the three weapons of fencing?
6.	Approximately what is the present world record ski jump?
(Answers on page 27)
The University Seal—
Know What It Means?
Since Scholastic’s cover began carrying the Seal of the University many requests for an explanation of its symbolism have come to the Administration Editor’s desk.
. Here follows an explanation of the coat-of-arms which should be familiar to all Notre Dame men:
It was designed a dozen years ago by M. Pierre la Rose, a Harvard heraldry authority under the direction of the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., then president of the University.
The colors blue and gold are the colors of the Blessed Virgin Mary to whom Notre Dame (her very name) is dedicated. Since the official title of the University is “Universitas Dominae Nostrae a Lacu” (by the lake), the star, reminiscent of the beautiful epithet Star of the Sea, was chosen symbol in the new shield of arms. At the base of the shield the two wavy broad lines of silver- represent “a Lacu” of Notre Dame.
The Cross represents the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose members founded and still administer the University. The open book is always emblematic of an institution of learning. The phrase “Vita, Dulcedo, Spes,” taken from the ancient prayer to Mary the “Salve Regina,” means “our life, our sweetness, our hope”; the combination of these phrases with the symbol for university indicates the dedication of all Notre Dame’s activities to Our Lady.
Remember Pearl Harbor I Remember it every pay day! Buy U. S. Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps.
21
COACH LANGFORD PRAISES FENCING TEAM AFTER EDGING OUT FIGHTING ILLINI 14-13
PHIL KEENE
Notre Dame’s liigh riding fencers defeated Illinois, 14-13, Tuesday evening, Feb. 10, in one of the most brilliant and closely fought battles ever to be staged in the Fieldhouse.
A hint of what was to come came when Illinois took a 5-4 lead at the end of the foil bouts, despite victories by Flynn, Madigan, and Gonzalez. At this point, Mike Humphreys and Herb Melton took command and defeated Streed and Jobson, respectively, by the decisive scores of 5-1 and placed the Blue and Gold out front, 6-5. The Illini came back strongly to tie the score at six-all. Melton, Humphreys, and' Leising combined their efforts to give the Irish their biggest lead of the meet 9-7. Realizing the importance of the last two sabre bouts, the boys from Chanipaign fenced brilliantly to defeat the Irish aces and once again tie the score.
Double Touch Ties Score
The stage was set for an “all out” offensive. The nine epee bouts were to prove the deciding element of victory or defeat. Captain Veit and Johnny Flynn promptly sent the home squad in the lead with a pair of decisive 3-1 victories, but the Illini fought back stubbornly, tying the score and forging ahead, 12-11. Frank Veit helped provide the unusual in winning his next bout, when he and his opponent, West, scored simultaneous “touches” and thus changed the score from 2-1 ot 3-1, tying the meet once more and sending it into the final three bouts with the score at 12-12. Mike Humphreys attempted to put his squad out front, but was unsuccessful, and the Illini was one more step near victory.
Again, it was up to Captain Veit to fight under great pressure. A loss to his opponent, Titus, would clinch the meet for Hlinois. In the battle that proved to be the turning point of the meet, Veit and Titus traded point for point while • anxious judges frantically searched for the tell-tale colored ink that signified a touch. After both men had won one point, Titus scored on the wrist of the Notre Dame captain and placed the Illini within one point of victory. In a manner characteristic of his ability, Veit scored on the arm and shoulder and placed the Irish on an even basis, 13-13.
Flynn Scores Final Point
The deciding bout of the evening placed Johnny Flynn against West of Hlinois. The call “en guard” brought a
tenseness over the crowd as both men sought each other’s weak spots. West received the nod of the judges in the third point and went ahead 2-1. Again, from the shadows of defeat, the Irish fencer tied the bout with a clever fake and
"After a few seconds . . . Point-Notre Dame.
touch on the elbow of West. The last point of this meet proved to be an unforgettable sight. Several times after a scurry of flying blades the judges interrupted the contest, decided that there had been no touch and ordered play to resume. Finally, Johnny Flynn bent his blade on the arm of his opponent and the judges swarmed around to see if there was any red ink on West’s sleeve as evidence of Flynn’s touch. After a few anxious seconds, the cry was heard— “Point—Notre Dame.” Final score: 14-13.
Upon completion of the deciding bout, Coach Langford finally butted the cigarette that had been burning his fingers during the last two bouts, and paid the 1942 fencing squad a great compliment in stating, “We might have had better fencing teams at Notre Dame in the past, but we have never had a squad to compare with this one in team spirit and cooperation.”
. Chicago, Ohio State Are Next
Having successfully negotiated their •fourth hurdle in the path of an undefeated season, Coach Langford cautiously predicted that “we’ll have a fighting chance” against Chicago, Big Ten champions for the last seven years. The Maroons, although unexpectedly overwhelmed by Ohio State, 17-10, are expected to give the Irish a traditionally close battle. While admitting the power of Chicago, Mr. Langford confessed that
he is really pointing the team for Ohio State, scheduled to appear in the field-■ house on Feb. 23.
“We expect Ohio State to be the toughest meet of the season.” By virtue of the decisive beating that the Buckeyes gave -Chicago, one doesn’t have to be a logician to see the possibilities of a great battle when the boys from Columbus come here. The past rivalry with Ohio State has been definitely a “home team -wins” affair. Only once have the Irish broken this jinx. Proof of the closeness of this series can be seen in the fact that the Irish have a 5-3 edge in meets won, but only a four point difference in the eight meets.
Campus Pin Tilt Opens;
K. C.’s Lose to East Chi.
There will be a Bowling Tournament called the Walsh Hall Rec. “sweepstakes.” It will run on Feb. 21 and 22, Feb. 28 and March 1. The entry fee will be 50 cents per man per event, as it is a doubles and singles tournament. All entry fees will be returned in a prize fund.
The “sweepstakes” will be conducted on a handicap basis. The maximum number of pins allowed will be 40 per game. This event is open to all students. A bowler may enter the singles only, or ' secure a partner and bowl doubles. All entries close Saturday, Feb. 21, at 1:00 p.m. For further information inquire at the Walsh Hall Rec.
The University bowling team, sponsored by the K. of C., had a match game in East Chicago against the winner of the “A” Bowling League of that city last Sunday.
After a record of four wins against one defeat in matches bowled thus far, and finishing third in the K. of C. District Tournament, the team went down to a second defeat at the hands of the East Chicago bowlers.
Tom Fourmy led the N. D. team with a big 623 series. Followed by Bud Gans with 581; Cy Tlusty, 568; Tom Halligan, 549, and Vic Gulyassey with 512. The team will bowl next Sunday downtown at the Bowl-Mor starting at 6 o’clock against Gary.
Interhall Swimming
Rockne Memorial Director Tommy Mills announced this week that the annual Interhall Swimming meet will be held in the Memorial pool Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, March 10 and 11.
“I hope every hall has a team entering this meet, and the teams should get down to some hard practice because it’s less than three weeks before the finals,” was Mr. Mills’ comment.	?
22
LEDDEN REVIEWS 20 YEARS OF SPORT
DON MURPHY
“Yessir, Rockne helped me get this job and the first story I wrote for the South Bend Tribune was his obituary.” It was Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune telling the ironical story of how he came to the suburb of Notre Dame to continue his journalistic career.
“I had been batting around the country with eastern journals and was to be transferred to the South. However, I decided I didn’t want to go down there. I had had some dealings with Rockne, through interviewing him on his trips east, so I asked him if he would keep me in mind if he heard of any prospects. It was not long until he wired me of an opening in South Bend and with his good word, the deal was swung.”
That was not the end of this chapter, however. Mr. Ledden continued, “As I walked into the office, a boy handed me a paper telling about the airplane crash. It was unbelievable. Then I was assigned to get the reactions of the players to the tragedy.
“So, after looking forward to working with the great coach, who helped me get this job, I had to write a feature about his death. The first ones I interviewed were Captain Tom Conley and his room mate, Frank Leahy. Neither could say anything. They couldn’t keep the tears back. As I crossed the campus, I met hard nosed Frank Carideo who was never stirred by anything. He also was bawling. It was a terrible shock.”
Experience Backs His Comments
Mr. Ledden has plenty of qualifications for criticizing sports. He isn’t going on mere theories in his stories. He has had experience in high school and college football and baseball. While in high school, his team won claim to the state championship two years in a row. He and five of his team mates continued their careers at St. Bonaventure’s college in New York. He transferred to Cornell when Coach Gill Dobie was turning out great teams in ’22 and ’23. “That was about the time the “Four Horsemen” were rolling. I guess that’s one of the reasons I have taken a shine to Notre Dame. I was about the same age as the boys in that great back field.”
After graduating from college, the husky Irish editor obtained a contract to play with Rochester, but he broke his leg. “I had broken it before. Once, in high school, I broke both ankles, so there wasn’t much use trying to keep up with the big time.”
After telling of this “tough break” he discussed some of the stars on the Rochester roster. Among the greats were Bob Fothergill, later a Detroit star, Maurice Archdeacon, the fastest man in baseball, and Fred Merkle of the Giants.
Mr. Ledden settled back in his chair;
The man behind "Seen and Heard"
this time placing his elbow on his desk and started to tell of how he broke into the newspaper game: “I had had several jobs; engineering on a state highway, working with private contractors, and even trying my hand at office work. All the time, I was playing semi pro baseball. I could still- hit those bushers although I wasn’t fast enough for the big time. In the winter I would referee a few basketball games. Finally one winter I had a chance to cover some basketball games I was officiating. I didn’t mind writing them up and getting paid for it. It started me off and the old ink got into my blood. Although you can make more money in a lot of other jobs, none is as romantic as the newspaper business.
World War I Boosted Sports
“It so happened that in the early 20’s sports became individualized and writers ’ tried new ideas in their stories instead of the stereotyped accounts they used to print. It was just after the war and the young men came back from Europe in perfect physical shape. Some were aching to do something to work off that energy. They didn’t mind taking a few knocks in the ring and the concomitant cash.
It was the same with the other sports. Dempsey had just knocked out Willard. Red Grange was running wild. The Four Horsemen were on the loose. Babe Ruth
was packing them in, and Walter Hagen was startling the world with his feats both on and off the links. Of course such famous writers as Bill McGee, Ring Lardner, Heywood Broun, Hype Igoe, and Grantland Rice were on the scene. Men with such all-around knowledge of the sports and command of the English language were a cinch to go to the top.”
After answering the telephone, Mr. Ledden turned his chair facing the typewriter and leaned on his desk before continuing. “When I first came here, there were two students working in the Notre Dame publicity office. One was Joe Pet-ritz and the other Jim Kearns. Today, Joe is the best press agent in the country and Jimmy is doing o.k. on the Chicago Sun”
Then the conversation returned to sports. “Athletics have become offensive minded. Stadiums are being built for home runs, rules are being changed to increase scoring in all the other sports, and even the equipment is being made to help players increase their scores. This trend was brought about mainly by such men as Babe Ruth, Red Grange, and your own Knute Rockne.
Three Giants in Three Sports
“Grange is the man who brought a name to pro football. Before his time, the college stars were afraid to venture into the depths of such an unproven game. But he drew great crowds and has virtually financed the development of the pro game.
“Babe Ruth, by his great drawing power, did as much for baseball in a time when it looked as if the ‘Black Sox’ had ruined the national pastime. If there is any one person who has done as much for baseball as Ruth, it was Judge Landis, whose iron claw kept the players in line in the same era.
“And it was Rockne who did as much for college football. Although the other coaches were content to stay on top after they got there, Rockne continued to try new things and to keep one step ahead of the field. Most of the old timers failed to see the handwriting on the wall. When a new play was sensational they left it alone. They didn’t realize that the other coaches were building defenses for it. On the other hand, Rockne kept changing his system just enough to keep every one on his toes.
“Right, now there is-no more thorough coaching staff in the country than the one Frank Leahy has assembled out here. He knows the value of contact work and his staff isn’t afraid to go out and show them how. If a player makes a
23
mistake, they don’t just tell him about it. They work with him until it is corrected. And you can quote me as saying that in the close ones, Leahy’s team will be on top. He’s too much of a stickler for details to be beat in the tight games.
We wondered about his vacations. “Well, when I take a vacation, I don’t do like the busman. I try to get as far away from telephones and newspapers as I . can. In the summer, though, I run into Chicago to see a few series with the Yankees, Giants, or any other of the big ones. I usually make most of the Notre Dame trips, although, I don’t get much of a chance to get out on the coast. You know what a state this is for basketball and that’s about the time they start.
Athetics Builds Character
'‘You know, there are 827 high schools with basketball teams in Indiana and only 90 have football squads. It is too bad schools are so one sided in their sports programs. Those schools with all of the sports, baseball, football, basketball, swimming, track, and wrestling, will produce more successful business men than the ones which specialize in only one sport. Every boy should compete in the sport which he is most adapted to because it helps him to appreciate victory and to learn to take defeat in good spirit. But most of all it eliminates selfishness by teaching the value of teamwork.
by the successes attained by many of these inexperienced fighters. Paul Malloy, who will be trying for his third consecutive title in the 120 pound class this year, had never boxed before coming to Notre Dame. Two more great novice fighters of the past couple of years are Jerry Ryan, three times 175 pound champion, and Sammy Meyer, 135 pounder who as a freshman in 1940 dethroned three-year champion, Sammy Dolce.
The Big Six
Recalling some of the most exciting fights “Nappy” picked six as the most outstanding. The 127 pound championship match in 1939 in which Bob Duffy beat Vince Guarrachi in a breathlessly exciting bout was probably the most spectacular. “Nappy” picks the Meyer-Dolce bout in 1940 as the best in the 135 pound division, and the battle between Bill McGrath, a three-year champ, and Jack Green in last year’s finals as the best in the 155 pound division. The best fight in the 145 class was the scrap between Rod MacGuire and Tom Brown in 1939. MacGuire handed Brown his first defeat in three years of Bengal fighting and went on to become a three-year champion himself. The best fight in the light-heavy ranks was last year’s finals in which Jerry Ryan gained his third championship. He had to decision his best friend, Bill Hoyne, however, to defend his laurels. The outstanding heavyweight fight recalled by “Nappy” was in the days when most of today’s
Fighting Irish were in high school. After losing the first two rounds to the defending champion, in the 1936 bouts, Bill Kunto came back and won by a one-punch knockout in the third round.
. N.D. Man Beats Joe Louis!!!
“Nappy” picked the following boys as the best fighters he has seen in the Bengal Bouts: Paul Malloy, 120 pounds, present champ in his division and South Bend Golden Gloves champion; Frank Kenale, 135 pounds, who became a Chicago Golden Gloves champion; Johnny Noto, 127 pounds, also a Chicago Golden Gloves chamipon; Rod MacGuire, 145 pound, a three-year Bengal champ and “Nappy’s” mind the best all-around fighter in the history of the bouts. The best in the 155 pound division was Joe Di Ambrosio, brother of former lightweight champ Lou Ambers, who won the title in 1940, his only year at N. D. Max Marek, 1934 heavyweight champion who later turned professional, gained fame by beating Joe Louis in the National A. A. U. meet, was the best of the long line of Bengal heavyweights. Sammy Dolce, the three-year champion who lost to Meyer in 1940, was chosen as the most colorful fighter in bout history.
“Nappy” has refereed about 1500 boxing matches, both pro and amateur, during the past ten years. But he says that Notre Dame’s Bengal Bout winners are as good as any other real amateurs he has seen.
Meet "Nappy" and Review Some Bengal Highlights
Bill Reynolds
If there is anyone on the Irish campus who can recall Bengal Bout highlights, it is Mr. Dominick Napolitano, the diminutive, soft-spoken, black-haired man known to frequenters of the Rockne Memorial as “Nappy.” “Nappy” has seen the Bengal Bouts grow from a one-night exhibition of slugging to a tournament of excellent boxing.
Coming to Notre Dame from Westchester, New York, in the fall of 1928, “Nappy” enrolled in the Physical Education department. He received his 'A.B. degree in 1932, and began teaching gym classes while working for his M.A. which he received in 1933. That was nearly nine years ago when the Bengal Bouts were just starting. “Nappy” is still here but as an instructor now.
The outstanding feature of the ten years of the Bengal Bouts according to Nappy, and he has been connected with them for nine years, is the enthusiasm shown by the beginners. That this enthusiasm does not go for naught is shown 24	'	'	’ /
Mr. Dominick Napolitano, (right) ' A.B., M.A., diminutive, soft-spoken, black haired Bengal Bouts trainer, picked the battle between Bill McGrath (left), three-year champ and Jack Green as the best in the 155 pound division, and one of the six • most outstanding fights he has seen in the history of the Bouts.
INTRODUCING
BY JOE PALMER
We who have known Jim O’Donohoe here at Notre Dame have varied opinions of him. In the first place, we’d like to tell you that he is a great athlete, another star like his idol, Greg Rice, and a cinch to go on to greater athletic heights in the future. But we can’t do this. Nature just didn’t intend Jim to be a great runner. In the second place, we’d like to tell you that he’s really a swell fellow, the kind we’ll think of later when we think of the ’ best things at Notre Dame. In this respect, there is nothing to stop us, and we can give 100% affirmation to the truth of the assertion.
We said above that Jim O’Donohoe was not intended by nature to be a great athlete. But he . is just about the best example that we. know right now of what four years of continuous work and sweat can mean. From his coach, Bill Mahoney, we learned how the stocky runner came out of Central Catholic High School, Grand Rapids, Mich., determined to do something in athletics at Notre Dame. At that time, he had 175 pounds on his five-foot, six-inch frame. Bill went on to tell us how Jim worked so hard in that first year that, at the end of the
second semester, the bulk on that same five-foot, six-inch frame had melted down to 150 pounds. If you don’t think that means a lot of work, just try it some time. And now, in his Senior year, you can still see him on any old afternoon, trying hard to better his time in that twp-mile grind. Off-hand, we’d say his numerals were dearly earned.
Fourth Against lllini His Thrill
Jim’s biggest thrill in track came last year when he finished fourth in the two-mile in a dual meet at Illinois. His face really beams when he recalls that one, a typical Irish beam, too.
As for other athletic participation, i.e., outside of track and field, he loves to play ’em all. This - spring, when the horsehide begins to fly around Badin Bog, he’ll be there. If you want some
guaranteed first-class lessons on how center-fielder Barney McCoskey of the Detroit Tigers does things, ask that outfielders’. biggest booster. He’ll ge glad to show you the right technique.
Along scholastic lines, Jim will conclude his English course this coming May as one of the highest ranking Seniors in the school. At the present, his average is slightly over 92%. The shelf in front of his desk contains various
pieces of classic literature, and he can generally be found any evening curled up on the sofa in 31 Sorin, reading away industriously. He really enjoys it. Besides that, he’s an enthusiastic member of the Wranglers. His main complaint in life right now (as attested to by roomie Phil Glasser, senior aero-Engineer from Charleroi, Pa.) is that the next-door neighbor, Joe Knott, snores so loud that the walls rumble at night. (If you have any good suggestions on how to cure a neighbor of snoring, drop them under the door in 31 Sorin.)
Add a note that speaks of variety, real variety: In his three summer vacations since he entered Notre Dame, Jim has worked in an office, has been a shipping clerk, and has washed dishes in a Walgreen drug store.	,
Is He a Notre Dame Man?
Another note, this time for the Notre Dame record books: Until the latter part of his Junior year, Sir James had never taken a midnight while at Notre Dame. Then all of a sudden he took his first midnight when he broke loose and went . to a Wrangler banquet downtown. ’Tis said the strain was terrific. But he hung doggedly on and refused to give up his record of never having taken a midnight for (as he expressed it) “purely amusement purposes.” Then came the vacation between semesters this year and things came to a horrible finish. Several fellows from Sorin were going bowling (downtown) one night, and before you could say “I like mystery balls,” the plotters had persuaded Jim to take a midnight and go with them. Thus do the really worthwhile things of life come to an end. They say that the curtains in 31 Sorin rested at half mast for more than a . week.
On last Monday, the plucky “Michigander” walked to a nearby registration post and gave himself up to help his Uncle Samuel. Until he is called, however, he’ll wait with his roomie in the comfort that only tradition of Sorin can give. (Jim has gone on the “tradition ticket” for three of his four years — Freshman Hall, Badin, and now Sorin.) Every three-and-a-half weeks, he’ll get out that rusty razor blade of his (said to have more tradition than Sorin itself) and shave the fuzz off his face. In between that, his reading, and his track, he’ll sit and gaze fondly at the’ picture ' of—well, we promised not to tell, but he surely won’t mind if we say that it’s easily one of the loveliest pictures we’ve seen on the campus. Yes, she’s from Grand Rapids too. .
That’s what we’ve got to say about Jim, (more commonly known as “Renfrew,” O’Donohoe. He’s no Clark Gable to look at, but we’ll tell you right here that he’s 100% O.K. with all the fellows who know him.
. Flash!!! Just before this week’s Scholastic was to go to press, the best news we’ve heard in a long time came in. Coach Bill Mahoney announced the traveling list for the trip .to Ann Arbor, Mich., this weekend. After four years, Jim O’Donohoe is going to perform in his home state. We’re with you, Jim. Give’em fits!I	’
Enrollment figures at the University _ of Michigan show an increase of 150 women over last year, with 787 fewer . men students.	.
Bonds or bondage? Buy U. S. Savings’ Bonds.	..	.	. .
St. Ed's Heavies, Lights Lead League II Standings
Jack Denniston
Interhall Basketball passed the midmark on its schedule last week with all teams tightly bunched in each league. Heavy league I features a close race between St. Mary’s and Lyons who have not lost a game to date. In Heavy League II current leaders, St. Ed’s. A. C., face Cavanaugh next week, while Morrissey entertains a balanced Badin outfit. The Saints should humble Cavanaugh, but watch Badin in the upset role, a little extra fight could easily cinch it.
The lightweight picture in League I shows Morrissey and Dillon knotted for the lead. Morrissey tackles Walsh and Dillon faces Carroll this week. Both leaders should triumph. In League H St. Ed’s juniors will have little trouble downing Cavanaugh, and with Lyons not scheduled, will hold a safe margin.
Last week’s games found St. Ed’s, Heavy League “first placers,” add Walsh to their belts with Creevy, Earley, Murphy, Ziemba, Rymkus, and company flashing perfect team play, while downing the “gentlemen” 37 to 25. Also in Heavy League II, Morrissey routed the Law Club, who have calmed into silence after their sensational start, 34-14. Lo Bue collected 22 points, and Demore garnered 19 tallies while pacing Badin to a 48-28 win over Sorin.
Heavy League I witnessed Carroll trading point for point with St. Mary’s lads until the final minute, but a spurt by St. Mary’s in the last 60 seconds saved them 45-41. Cummings drilled home 12 counters to spark Dillon to a 32-26 victory over Breen-Phillips. Navy finally won a game, downing Alumni 33 to 29.
Lyons bested Badin in a thriller in Light League II, 30 to 29, with Berg’s ten points the deciding margin. Sorin won its first game in any league with the smart 23 to 19 tripping of Cavanaugh. St. Ed’s juniors rolled on, dropping Howard 38-14. Hoffman and Cook guided Morrissey to a 30 to 18 win over Zahm. Brownson lights, with Donovan, Droney and Thorsen pitching, dealt Carroll a 26 to 21 blow.
The standings:
Heavy League I .	W	L
Lyons___________5	0
St. Mary’s______4	0
Dillon__________3	2
Breen-Phillips	„ 3	2
Off-Campus ____ 2	3
Zahm  2	4
Howard  1	3
Alumni ________ 1	3
Carroll________ 1	3
Navy ROTC------ 1	3
Heavy League II
W. L
St. Ed’s_____... 4	0
Morrissey _____3	0
Walsh__________2	2
Badin__________2	2
Cavanaugh_____2	2
Brownson '_____1	3
Law Club______1	3
Sorin 0	3
Light League I W L
Morrissey ____ 3	0
Dillon_________3	0
Brownson______2	1
Walsh _________1	1
Alumni _______ 0	2
Carroll 0	2
Zahm 0	3
Light League II
W L
St. Ed’s______ 4	0
Lyons----------  3	1
Badin 2-	1
Howard 1	2
Breen-Phillips	..1	2
Sorin  1	3
Cavanaugh _____0	3
Results of week of Feb. 9
Heavy League H: Cavanaugh 36, Brownson 28; St. Ed’s. 37, Walsh 25; Morrissey 34, Law Club 14; Badin 48, Sorin 28.
Heavy League I: St. Mary’s 45; Carroll 41; Zahm 38, Howard 26; Dillon 32, Breen-Phillips 26 ; Navy 33, Alumni 29; Carroll 48, Zahm 30; Breen-Phillips 39, Off-Campus 24.
Light League H: Lyons 30, Badin 29; Sorin 23, Cavanaugh 19; St. Ed’s. 38, Howard 14.
Light League I: Morrissey 30, Zahm 18; Brownson 26, Carroll 21; Dillon default from Alumni.
Schedule for week of Feb. 23.
Monday, Feb. 23: 7:30 — Dillon vs. Carroll, Alumni vs. Brownson (LL 1) ; 8:30—Off-Campus vs. Howard (HL 1), Walsh vs. Morrissey (LL 1) ;
Tuesday, Feb. 24: No games. Varsity game with Butler. .
Wednesday, Feb. 25: 7:30—Cavanaugh vs. St. Ed’s, Howard vs. Sorin (LL 2) ; 8:30—Zahm vs. Navy (HL 1), Badin vs. Breen-Phillips (LL 2).
Thursday, Feb. 26: 7:30—Brownson "vs. Walsh, Cavanaugh vs. St. Ed’s; 8:30—Badin vs. Morrissey, Sorin vs. Law Club, (HL 2).
. Sunday, March 1: 9:30—Off-Campus vs. St. Mary’s, Howard vs. Carroll; 10:30—Breen-Phillips vs. Lyons, Dillon vs. Zahm (HL 1).
AIR RAID SHELTER (Continued from page 18) any persons killed as a result of this, will not officially count and the students will be only unofficially dead.)
Students in shelters will remain there until the all-clear signal is sounded and then will march to their halls in orderly fashion. All men fatally injured in an
February Only . . Hand-loomed HARRIS TWEED overcoat — genuine — with label — Fly-front closing — $42.50	■
ADLER-ROCHESTER suits and coats are right. Come in and see our wide selection.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER WINTERROWD
115% - 117% North Main Street (Upstairs)
Or see our campus representatives: CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTHY
■ 321 Alumni Hall	334 Alumni Hall	115 Sorin Hall
air raid are required to drop in at the secretary’s office immediately following the attack, and strike their names from the student directory.
In the shelters, exemplary conduct is expected of all. English majors will not recite poetry and students have been warned that school officials will not tolerate anyone running out to get a milk shake while the raid is on.
The Huddle has been granted the refreshment concession in the shelters, and all campus inhabitants are urged not to patronize any establishments as might be set up by down town merchants, unless said merchants have advertised in the Scholastic.
Campus officials were quick to point out that they were busy reconditioning all steam tunnels and that the College of Engineering was busy making calculations as to how many students might be accommodated per square foot of tunnel. (The school of engineering is specially qualified to do this, since in view of recent developments they have made measurements to determine how many students and naval men can be housed per square foot of hall space. They came up with the amazing data that 3.14 could live comfortably in the average hall telephone booth.)
If it becomes necessary to partake of meals in the tunnels, dinner clothes will not be required.	•
N. D. is the only school in northern Indiana to provide air raid shelters for students. Another school, across the lakes, has been considering the idea, but Washington authorities, after a careful investigation, have announced, “No one is likely to care to bomb St. Mary’s.”
All other details are military secrets. The value of the tunnels as air raid
26
shelters was first suggested by Bill Welch, a junior pre-med. Heretofore, the only practical use made of the tunnels was for heating campus buildings and permitting a student to make an underground entrance into last year’s Senior Ball in the Rockne Memorial.
BENCH CHATTER
(Continued from page 3)
Your work at Notre Dame was tops, and loads of luck in your new position. And may you come back to us soon.
CONFIRMED RUMOR
Boxing instructor Dom Napolitano announced today that Scoop "One Punch” Scanlan, will not enter the Bengal Bouts this year. Scoop can be remembered as the lad who tried to revolutionize the boxing game with his bobbing, weaving and you-can’t-catch-me tactics in last year’s Bouts.
START THIS PROGRAM TO-DAY
COST—Every day
1.	Ten minutes of morning bed exercises, to be given in next week’s chatter.
2.	One less turn-over nap.
3.	A few ounces of determined effort.
PROFIT—Every day
1.	Vim.
2.	Appetite.
3.	Less Worry
4.	Better Sleep.
5.	Sense of Power and Well-Being.
6.	Less Chance of High Blood Pressure.
7.	Greater Capacity for Enjoyment of life.
8.	Feeling of Ability to Drive instead of Being Driven.
—The Benchwarmers.
SPORTS QUIZ ANSWERS
"Red" Lonergan
1.	The 1931 National Basketball tournament at Peiping, China, recorded an average of 23,000 admissions a day.
2.	Indiana, a hoop in every back yard.
3.	Hank Lusetti has replaced Johnny Moir’s record of 1,131 points with his own of 1,451 points.
4.	It is the $2,650,000 gate of the Dempsey-Tunney fight in Chicago.
. 5. Foil, epee, and sabre.
6. A little over 300 feet.
Campus Radio Features Five Programs Per Week
Phil Keene
The Radio Club has prepared an ex
tensive schedule of programs to be aired
over South Bend’s
WSBT from the campus studio in the Engineering building. Bob Lejeune, president, announced this week that five entirely different shows would go
over the airlanes. This coming Monday, the already popular "Notre Dame News
cast’^ will be presented at 4:15, under the direction of Chuck Patterson and Vail Pischke who will introduce three members of the undefeated fencing squad, namely, Captain Frank Veit, Angel Gonzalez, and Mike Humphreys.
Tuesday evening at 7:45 the problems of the college student will be discussed in a program entitled “Men of Tomorrow.” Jack Morrison and Pete Moritz team together and present “Sportscast” at 4:15 on Thursday. This program will present, from time to time, leading figures in the world of sports as well as the up-to-date sporting gossip. On Friday, at 4:15, the “Campus Quiz” show will pit two Notre Dame residence halls against each other in a verbal battle of wits.
Saturday evening at 7:05 an entirely new show will make its appearance when the “Notre Dame Forum of the Air” completes a busy week of enjoyable and educational programs. The Forum will be under the direction of Vail Pischke and will feature Professor William Downey as moderator. Four students, divided into two teams, will complete the personnel. It is the aim of Pischke to present different professors each week discussing current economic problems.
In scheduling this five-program week, the Radio Club has set an enviable mark of continued success and endurance.
Add draft notes: In the Dillon Hall registration center two students could blame a slow-flying stork, for their not being able to register. One student was born three minutes past 12, Jan. 1, 1922. The other was bom the same day, at 12:30 a.m. Another student, seemingly anxious for a crack at the Japs, “registered” for the third time. He had registered last July, had been admitted into V-7 later, and then put in an additional appearance Monday, “Just to be sure.”
WYMAN'S Men's Shop
Invites You to See
THE NEW SHIRT OF THE MONTH
"Squadron Plaid"
(sketched above)
Tailored by WILSON
Fine woven broadcloth in soft tones of blue, grey or tan. Two collar styles — the "Eton" with long points for the man with average neck . . . the "Blake" with shorter points for the man with shorter neck. Sanforized-shrunk to keep their fit.
Direct entrance to Mens Shop right next to the Bank.
27
FROM THE FILES
Of the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC of Feb. 28, 1925 comes these excerpts of the' description of the Washington’s Birthday exercises, as it was commemorated in the roaring twenties:
M AD1ER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
After the national anthem had been sung, Ray C. Cunningham, A.B., ’25, delivered selections from Washington’s Farewell Address. George T. Koch, Ph.B., in Com., ’25, followed with a vocal solo, excellently rendered, and returned for an encore. An ode to Washington by Harry A. McGuire, A.B., ’25, recent winner of Columbia’s poetry contest and of the Breen Oratorical Contest, was then read. Mr. McGuire’s talent in versification and delivery were made evident to his audience.
s Adler’s for Arrows!
Complete stocks of Arrow Gordon Oxfords — together with other Arrow Shirts — are included in our wide assortment. See thsm tomorrow!
Donald C. Miller, LL.B., ’25, President of the Senior Class, performed the official ceremony of the day in presenting the flag to the University. In the name of his class, Mr. Miller promised steadfast loyalty to the ideals of Washington, of Notre Dame, and to the service of his country.	e
In the absence of Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University, Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., Vice-President, accepted the flag. In his short speech he warned the men of ’25 that the trend of modem thought and action was away from God-made laws and toward man-made laws. He recommended that the Ten Commandments be made the basis of all legislation. Father Irving exhorted the men to stand always with that group which advocated a cooperation of religion and patriotism for the best interests of the country.
The Museum of Middle American Research of Tulane University has the world’s finest collection of Maya artifacts. ’
Tulane University is 107 years old.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
on every campus!
pAVORITE of college men is the oxford cloth shirt — and leader of the oxfords is Arrow
Gordon Oxford. It comes in the button-down, regular and wide-spread collar models. Mitoga-tailored, Gordon xvill always keep its fit, for it is labeled Sanforized (fabric shrinkage less than 1%).
‘ In whites, solids, and fancy patterns. Get Arrow Gordon now!
And get some Arrow ties to go with it!
HARROW*
HIRTS and TIES
28
Debate Finalists Clash
Monday In Law Building
Ted Weber
Squads representing Dillon, Cavanaugh, Lyons, and Morrissey were scheduled to meet yesterday afternoon in the auditorium of the Law building for the semi-finals of the Wranglers interhall debate tournament. The two teams which survive will meet for a final decision and the Wrangler trophy next Monday evening in the Law auditorium.
The tournament, sponsored each year by Wranglers, honorary forensic club, supervised the work of about 50 hall debaters who participated in nearly 40 debates. Each of the 11 teams entered was allowed to lose two matches before being eliminated, and each of the semifinalists had dropped one decision prioi* to their meeting.
Judges for all debates have been members of Wrangler’s. Stan Litizzette, interhall debate chairman, judged one of the semi-finals, while Bill Meier judged the second match. Three faculty members will decide the winner of Monday’s final.
' Each of the teams was coached by a member of the club. Mark Lies, Dillon Hall commerce junior, directed Dillon while Jim O’Dea, sophomore arts and letters student of Morrissey coached the freshmen of Cavanaugh. Another AB man, Neil McCarty of Sorin Hall directed Lyons and Roger Young sponsored Morrissey’s squad.
The Wrangler’s trophy, given each year to the winning hall, is held at present by Alumni. Last year’s seniors won it by defeating Dillon in the 1941 final.
The question for debate has been the official collegiate resolution: “Resolved: That the Federal government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States. Affirmative teams .have contended that in face of defense needs, incorporation would forestall strikes in necessary industries while negative teams have pointed out that unions have now come of age and that the restriction of their rights is a step backwards in securing liberty for the working-man.
DRAGON AND DUMBO
(Continued from page 12)	.
Father Burke regretted that a more extensive list of pictures couldn’t be announced. But in order to gain the best possible choice the pictures are not contracted more than a month in advance.
—Daniel Downey
MOST LIKELY TO RECEDE (Continued from page 13)
Gene Peciulis, arts and letters- sophomore, Morrissey: “My curls are disappearing.”
Bill O’Leary, commerce freshman, Zahm: “The comb goes through more easily every morning. That is, the mornings I comb my hair.”	’
Bob Hughes, freshman in arts and letters, Zahm: “AB men don’t have to worry about their hair.”
Frank Keenan, Brownson freshman, arts and letters: “It seems to be going back.”
Bob LeJeune, senior engineer in Sorin: “5-4, 145 pounds, what’s left is blonde. I can be easily recognized walking about the campus when I don’t have my hat on. This isn’t a quiz show, but what do you think?”
Mike Pessemier, commerce sophomore, Lyons: “It’s not what my hairline is, it’s what it was.”
Jim Quinn, AB freshman, Zahm Hall: “If I had any, it would probably be hurtin’ it.”
Stewart Murphy, A. B. freshman,
Huddle
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ______________$ 1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular___....„ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ...... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran „....5.00 .
Hollycourt —-----—------ 3.50
Comoy ___________—:-----: 6.00
Corncobs_________.10c and 25c
Brownson: “It’s not doing anything for it.”
Dave Massa, a freshman pre - medical, Zahm: “I study so much I don’t look at my hair.”
Bill Scanlan, senior in arts and letters, Sorin Hall: “I’m not affected any. Fact is, it’s gaining all the time. But after you wash it, it takes about a week to lie down.”
EDUCATION FOR DEFENSE
(Continued from page 9) twice weekly for two hours each night.
Many students at the University have, made use of this opportunity, but the vast majority of the enrollment is made up of men in industry, attempting to better their positions for their own benefit, but mostly in the interests of the nation’s victory in the field of battle which is dependent on quality and quantity of material.
Dr.GRABOW
AND
[ THE	PIPE
The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it. Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine Pre-smokes every dr. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
NO BITE
NO BITTER TASTE
MADE BY M. LINKMAN A CO. Makati of }}oll{courtPifU
BREAKING IN
29
DISC-CUSSION
Edward Roney
A five year old tune takes the cake this week. Very popular when it was first released five years ago, “Where Or When” owes its new-found popularity to Benny Goodman and his vocalist, Peggy Lee. Although Benny had a trio arrangement of it before, when he released his new full orchestra arrangement with a vocal last month, the record shops found it impossible to keep in stock. Even those of you who usually don’t like Benny will enjoy this. For Goodman is finally playing numbers the way they were written. On the reverse of this one is “Blues in the Night” also sung by Peggy.
Tommy Dorsey has recorded another of those super-dupers of his. This time it’s the well-known “What Is This Thing Called Love.” Swingy in the right way with Connie Haines doing the lyrics, this number should end up on everyone’s shelf. Backing it up is “Love Sends A Little Gift of Roses,” a sweet ballad sung by Ken Curtiss and the Pied Pipers. This
side is just as good but in the opposite vein.
Jimmy Lunceford has produced two sides of some mighty fine “Blues In The Night.” The first side is all instrumental while the second has the vocal ensemble on the lyrics. Good blues done in the way you like them.
That rhythm number “Someone’s Rocking My Dreamboat” has been done very well.by Woody Herman with Woody himself on the vocals. On the flip-over is “Rose O’Day.” Woody asked for and received two different arrangements for these two tunes from his arrangers. Played just right, they’re really good listening.
Artie Shaw recorded a few numbers before breaking up his band and two of these hit the counters this week. The first, “Not Mine,” gives out with all the trimmings and Fredda Gibson sings this one as well as “Absent Minded Moon” on the B side. Whether you like Shaw or not you’ll like these.
Vaughn Monroe sings “Somebody Else Is Taking My Place” himself in his recording of this number and he does a. top-notch job of it. Backing it up is “Honey Dear” sung by Marilyn Duke
and both of these are on the nice swingy side. It’s hard to say just which one is the best.
“If You Build A Better Mousetrap” sounds rather corny as a title but the tune itself is strikingly different. With a vocal by Helen O’Connell and Bob Eberle backed up by Jimmy Dorsey and his orchestra, this is a nifty novelty number that has plenty of. swing and clever lines. Helping to make it a good record is “I Remember You” with Bob Eberle doing the singing of a mellow ballad in a slow tempo.
Nothing could be truer than the title of Les Brown’s new number, “Everybody’s Making Money But Tchaikovsky.” It’s in -a slow, steady rhythm perfect for dancing with Betty Bonney on the vocals. On the reverse is “Hereafter” with some good singing by Ralph Young and a beautiful piano passage that you’ll all like. Listen to these two.
“Keep ’em Flying.”
This years freshman class at University of Minnesota, is topping all predecessors in patronage of symphony concerts.
You sense in ice-cold Coca-Cola a thing that is good — a pure, wholesome drink with the quality of genuine goodness. Coca-Cola delights your taste, gratifies your thirst and leaves you happily refreshed.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
You trust its quality COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND ■	.	1107 Beyer Avenue
30
ANOTHER TRACKMAN TURNS TO GOLF
Big Dan Hilgartner, Sorin hall’s claimant to the man on campus receiving the biggest Valentine, expects to report for Father George Holderith’s golf team. . . . The former Irish broad jumper, who neared 23 feet as a sophomore until a knee injury sidelined him, has bettered 75 in golf in past seasons. . . . Only man on campus who didn’t have to shove his clock ahead when War Time came effective was Tom Schmidt, the magician-chemist of Walsh hall and Lakeland, Fla. . . . For four* years he has been traveling about the campus an hour ahead, keeping his timepiece on eastern standard time, in recognition of a fair belle ’tis. rumored. . . . More than one way to keep time.
Poem:
Bundles for Britain? We don’t mind.
Smokes for Sailors? Let’s be kind.
Food for Frenchmen? That’s o.k.
Tid-bits for Tearney? Hal
COME ON OUT. SON . . .
Here’s a schedule you can remember!
Many a good man has found himself behind the eight-ball because of an inability to remember train schedules. But with the South Shore you take your cue from your watch — when it says "half-past" you know there's- a train leaving for Chicago.
That's a fact: trains leave South Bend every hour at 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. until 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too!
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
A. I. Ch. E. Meets
Tom Degnan
Last week the American Institute of Chemical Engineers held their monthly meeting.
Feature of the meeting was the showing of two sound pictures obtained from the U. S. Bureau of Mines. The first of these, “Alloy Steels,” traced the development of steel from the middle age “blister bar” that was made by heating iron bars between layers of charcoal, to the modem molybdenum and tungsten alloys required to build modern machinery. The other picture, “Nickel Refin- -ing,” showed the steps in the manufacture of pure nickel from impure nickel sulfide ore.	• ,
At the next meeting the chief chemist of the Kingston Munitions Plant will talk on the opportunities for chemical engineers in munitions. . . .
President Bob Finneran announced that the bridge tourney sponsored last year by Frank Pollnow and himself will l'e under the direction of Bill Marshall this year. Members who play are urged to select their partners and sign up with Bill. There will be a nominal fee that will be returned to the winners and runners-up as prizes.
It was suggested that a skating party be held in March in conjunction with the Chemists Club.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. bldg. South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. building	Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER M.D.
Phone 3-2805
M.J.THORNTON
M.D
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone -3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
C.yril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Beno
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg.
Phone 3-2574
31
IT’S CHESTERFIELD says LOIS JANUARY Star of Stage and Screen
v




always Milder and Better-Tasting
always Cooler-Smoking ...that’s what makes Chesterfield
the steady smoke of more smokers every day. You can count on Chesterfields to give you, day in and day out, more smoking pleasure than you ever had before... So make your next pack Chesterfield and its right combination of the world’s finest cigarette tobaccos will go to work to give you all you want in a cigarette
Copyright 1942. Liggett & Nmi Tobacco Co.