WARMEST WISHES
FROM PENDLETON .
The Campus Shop has a wonderful world of Pendleton woolens to make Your Christmas giving . . . and getting ... a real pleasure. Every Pendleton is dyed, spun, woven and tailored of 100% virgin wool in a 90-year Oregon tradition of craftsmanship. In authentic tartan plaids. See them soon.
Pendleton Robes....22.50 to 29.50
Pendleton Shirts....11.95 to 17.50
Pendleton Socks............. 3.50
Pendleton Topster (Shown) ....17.50
Pendleton Slacks ...........23.95
^GILBERT'S
v^ampus^ho^
On the Campus—Notre Dame
On Campus W Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
’TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY
ii y
If you have been reading this column— and I hope you have; I mean I genuinely and sincerely hope so; I mean it does not profit me one farthing whether you read this column or not; I mean I am paid every week by the makers of Marlboro and my stipend is not altered in any particular by the number of people who read or fail to read this column—an act of generosity totally typical, you would say, if you knew the makers of Marlboro as I know the makers of Marlboro; I mean here are tobacconists gray at the temples and full of honors who approach their art as ingenuously, as eagerly, as trustingly as the youngest and most innocent of practitioners; I mean the purpose of the Marlboro makers is simply to put the best of all possible filters behind the best of all possible tobaccos and then go, head high, into the market place with their product, confident that the inborn sense of right and wrong, of good and bad, of shoddy and meritorious, which is the birthright of every Aineri- : can, will result in a modest . return to themselves for their long hours and dedicated labors—not, let me hasten to add, that money is of prime consideration to the makers of Marlboro; all these simple men require is plain, nourishing food, plenty of Marlboros, and the knowledge they have scattered a bit of sunshine into
the lives of smokers everywhere; if, I say, you have been reading this column, j'ou may remember that last week we started a discussion of what to give our friends for Christmas.
We agreed, of course, to give cartons of Marlboro to everyone we know or would like to know. Today let us look into some other welcome gifts.
Do you know someone who is interested in American history? If so, he will surely appreciate a statuette of Millard Fillmore
* * *
And greetings of the season from Marlboro’s newest partner in pleasure, the unfiltered, all-new, king-size Philip Morris Commander. At Yuletide, at any tide, welcome aboard!
4
with a clock in the stomach. (Mr. Fillmore, incidentally, was the only American president with a clock in his stomach. James K. Polk had a stemwinder in his head and William Henry Harrison chimed the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore, of all our chief executives, had a clock in his stomach. Franklin Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Taylor had seventeen jewels and Martin Van Buren ticked, but, I repeat, Mr. Fillmore, and Mr. Fillmore alone, had a clock in his stomach. Some say that Mr. Fillmore was also the first president with power steering, but most historians assign this distinction to Chester A. Arthur. However, it has been established beyond a doubt that Mr. Fillmore was the first president with central heating. No wonder they called him Old Hickory!)
But I digress. To get back to welcome and unusual Christmas gifts, here’s one that’s sure to please—a gift certificate
from the American Chiropractic Society. Accompanying each certificate is this fetching little poem :
Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, Joyous sacro-iliac!
May your spine forever shine, Blessings on your ashing back.
May your lumbar ne’er grow number, May your backbone ne’er dislodge, May your caudal never dawdle, Joyeux Noel! Heureux massage!
(c) i960 Max Shulman
Football Fury &
Editor:	f-
• To the Mediocrities of Notre Dame:	(
I have just noted with fury the news- ft paper accounts of a large proportion of ft the student body rioting in favor of | lower academic aims at Notre Dame, ft All of Father Hesburgh’s patient ef-^j forts to effect his changes with tact and conciliation have been met with a most ft-ignorant and stubborn resistance. If he ri chooses to meet this scandal with harsh J vigor, it will be with this graduate’s ft total support.
John J. McDermott, ’57 p
Editor:	H
Perhaps the UPI release, (Ee: Foot- ft ball Riot), is inaccurate, and the result^; of poor reporting. Let’s hope so.
If not, you as a student editor have ft a real job to do in explaining to 1,250 ft potential alumni that they will be able | to fulfill their purpose in life minus a g winning ND football season, but not I without knowing and exhibiting every | ounce of potential excellence their beings ? can accommodate.	f
James Kress, ’48
Editor:	W
After our rather dismal football season, many of us may feel that Notre Dame and Father Hesburgh have let us down. However, we should realize that although a winning team may mean publicity for the school, it will not provide a job for us after we graduate.
Now is the time when we should be proud of Notre Dame and the EXCELLENCE of the educational opportuni-^) ties afforded us.
Hal Wagner
Kennedy and Secularism
Editor:	'
In paragraph two of Mr. Keegan’s letter to the Editor of Time, he applies the description, “secular,” and excludes “secularist,” in his complimentary ap-(Continued on page 23)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
BOiHSSSMS fer"'-"'"	" • T®!
J ] The Notre Dome
"1
Vol. 102 No. 10
DECEMBER 9, 1960
Founded 1867
I*
editor-in-chief	/
CHARLES RIECK a associate editor -	■
ROY RUBELI	;
. news editor	. :
THOMAS WEISS	Oj
John McCabe , . ; ?
features editor THOMAS SULLIVAN William Gorman	.. .
Andrew Griffin	; '
a Thomas Hoobler
- sports editor	. <
JAMES KILROY	;
/ William Cary	/
John Bechtold copyeditor ‘	.
THOMAS MARCINIAK :	Gene Dpmbkowski
Philip Larrabee . " executive assistant	\
WILLIAM VEEDER arteditor	.
A DENNIS LUCZAK
Thomas Hanson	: . '
/photographer
/ ; WALTER DALY, Jr.	,
| - business manager ? JOSEPH FINNIGAN
/ ;} \ Robert Buckley , circulation manager
V ;/< J 'i JAMES HICKEY •< / /-moderator '' . ■.’< .. •” ”/
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c J^Jiew^st^	■;
f Joseph Caspar /.' •/■ Frank Cuiffo
4/;/ / Richard D’Amico -■<-'/	■_
./”// Lawrence Kavanaugh
C?Z-l'//J:F®!Pl*sKent\ ir //’	7
////jnipina^	-// . -/
Stbye'St uiMheli.'
A PARTING THOUGHT: After three weeks of reflection, it has become clear to students and Administration alike that the Thanksgiving demonstration registered more than simple impatience with eight football losses. Though there may have been as many motives as people in the crowd, a single spirit seemed to dominate. Above the individual voices crying for all-night lights, more appealing food and better dining hall service, loosening of dance regulations, and abolition of morning checks, was a single-minded spirit of discontent with day-to-day Notre Dame life. What was felt above all was that the Administration was wrong in its approach to student life.
The student is well aware of the increased scholastic pressure of the last five years and how much better a student he is than his predecessor. This drive toward Notre Dame’s projected academic superiority leaves the student reeling when it hits him week after week in decree after decree from the Foundation, Administration, and faculty. To respond to these is nothing short of an adult responsibility. Discontent is a mild word for the emotion then felt when the student surveys the artificial disciplinary system that is intended to lead adolescents to some nebulous goal known as an ordered life, but which, in fact, provides a twisted framework for a university student’s responsibilities. The leisure necessary for intellectual growth is destroyed by tension resulting from regulations at best meaningless to the student. For how can the student retain his emotional balance when he views what he thinks is this contradiction between the stated goals of the University and the life the University provides for his everyday existence? The atmosphere which led to the demonstration is then clearly seen.
The argument that the Administration sets the rules: he who disagrees can leave— is inherently false. The Administration has set a goal that reaches far beyond the patch of ground adjoining South Bend. It is nothing less than intellectually maturing the Catholic Church in America. There is now no choice for the student except Notre Dame.
That the demonstration succeeded is very doubtful. The Administration has always been very concerned with campus problems, but it seems to show no willingness to formulate an approach appropriate for students. Only when the Administration begins to see that its avowed goals have serious implications for its attitudes toward the community life can real progress be expected. And great success could be expected from the energy now exerted in the wrong direction.
HELP: Too often a precedent is set and then adhered to regardless of changed conditions. Such a situation seems to have come up in regards to the sailing team. In the past, the minor-sports committee of the Senate has been able to provide the team with sufficient, if not abundant, funds. Through careful spending the club was even able to purchase a new six-boat fleet which now makes it one of the finest in the Midwest. However, a seventh is still required to meet the needs of most regattas and if it is purchased this year $200 can be saved. The club must also bear the expense of fees, maintenance, administration and depreciation. When all of these factors are added up the team’s statement of expenses amounts to $1,758. (This total does not include any amount to help defray the expenses of members who participate on away-trips.) Unfortunately the Senate just does not have the funds to provide full assistance. Thus, even though sailing is classified as a minor sport, the Administration, through the athletic department, should make a serious effort to lend a hand and perhaps even consider the possibility of assuming the full subsidy of the sailing team.

Robert Chioppinelli

MONEY: We wish to commend the committee that proposed the Mardi Gras allocations and although we went to press before the Senate could take action on the committee’s recommendations, we are confident that the Senate will go along with them. We are particularly happy with the two major changes. The first of these was the increasing of the Student Center’s share to $15,000 so that renovation of the third floor could begin that much sooner. The second was a reduction of scholarship funds to $4,000. We have always felt that the Senate is here to serve today’s students and as many of them at one time as possible. In previous years the large scholarship amount has often required austere budgets for campus-wide events. The shifting of funds, when combined with the anticipated increase in net income, will place $13,000 in the Senate coffers for such things as Big Name Entertainment, Distinguished Lecturers, minor-sports, etc.
CONTINUED: And while we are on the subject of Mardi Gras allocations may we make the suggestion that the publicity committee in its brochures mention the previous year’s allocations instead of forecasting them in advance of the Senate’s action. This year, for instance, the pamphlet that was included with the tickets specifies four pledges of $10,000 each for charity, scholarships, Student Center and special appropriations. Yet, as noted above, the actual allocations varied a great deal from these advertised amounts. While it is not a disastrous situation, it would seem to us that taste and propriety would dictate an attempt to avoid such incongruities. —R & R
r
SM.. &
BERMUDA College Week 1961 bigger, busier, better than ever!
• Informal welcoming dance to start the fun.
•	College Day at the Beach... the biggest beach party of the year.
•	All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon, Calypso music, Gombey Dancers.
•	Round Robin Tennis Tournament.
•	College Week Golf Competition.
•	College Talent Revue.
•	Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests.
•	Barbecue Luncheon.
•	Sightseeing.
•	Special Golf and Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
n- BERMUDA Trade Development Board
620 fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
N.D. SPECIALS • See Mr. Flowers For— PORTABLE PHONOS Hl-R and STEREO WESTINGHOUSE MAGNAVOX WEBCOR $49.95 UP
•
See Don For— ALBUMS and 45’s Join The RECORD CLUB
1 Record FREE For Every 10 Bought
Sen-winding, Wentherpreef *
THIS CHRISTMAS...
HOPE FOR A HAMILTON
The Christmas you get your Hamilton will be remembered as the day you receive your diploma, win your varsity letter or star in the class play. A Hamilton is no ordinary watch. It carries with it the high regard of the giver, and expresses his pride in you as no lesser watch can. Hope for a Hamilton and you hope for the best. Hamilton Watch Company, Lancaster, Penna.
7-M M/LTO/V
for all the hours of a lifetime -M-
♦ Waterproof, dustproof provided original seal is restored if opened for servicing.
The Scholastic^
6
I war
5n piece
| a Did you ever stop to consider that our i AJniversity (if not quite as we know 5 it today) was a growing, living thing | during the Civil War just a hundred J years ago. Notre Dame had then out! grown babyhood: it had shed academic diapers for academic Doctor Denton’s. It was adolescent, for the big things were still in the future, only in a mind’s eye: football hadn’t been discovered, the Indiana Transport came only as far as ^Angela Boulevard, breechcloths were *till permitted in class, and frizzbee was allowed on the lawn behind Morrissey. While Lee and Grant played , war games in the Wilderness: bivouac i with the intent to kill, Father Sorin, • back home in Indiana, was doing his ; best to found an excellent University, i Great were the influences of each upon the other.
Before the war began Notre Dame had been pushing a thirteen-year plan during which they hoped to net the grandi-■ ose sum of three million dollars to provide teachers’ pensions, new turf for the horseshoe courts, and twenty-two new buildings — including Father Lang’s Gym and the Drill Hall. Donations from Napoleon III, Goodyear Tire and Rubber, and the hundred and fifty living alumni accounted for the first ' seventy-two dollars and fifty cents; and •just as things were rolling the war broke out. With it came inflation. The program had to be revamped.
DOME AND DOLLARS
Emergency measures had to be taken because many of the proposed buildings had been started, and ingenuity, the like of which wasn’t repeated until they put the basketball court in the field ^house, was necessitated.
The new administration building had been all but finished. Father Sorin decided, when eating an after dinner ice cream cone one evening, to place a : dome on top of the building and, after । it had been nailed to the roof, to coat the thing with silver Reynolds Wrap. But Father Badin (named after Badin Hall) disputed the decision. He was a staunch Union man (due, mostly, to the cold Indiana winters) and wanted to
^December 9, 1960
contribute the school’s silver to the Federal Army the whole of which was quartered in Dillon Hall. “And, anyway,”, he said, “It would look a lot like a water tower, and who wants a bulky, silver water tower messing up the campus skyline? Instead,” he suggested, “Let’s coat it twice with duco cement and finish it off with a bright red layer of Mary-Jane wrappers.” And thus the two leaders remained deadlocked. They took their problem to Mr. Kiplinger who was the University investment counselor at the time. Kiplinger, being a man of foresight, suggested that the pair buy a couple of gross of Inca fetishes (army surplus from the French and Indian War); melt and mix them well with equal amounts of iron pyrite, and paint the drab looking dome with that mixture. His plan was found acceptable — as can be easily verified (though nobody realized that fool’s gold is soluble in Indiana inclemency). Soon after Kiplinger was dismissed, however, because he also advised buying land to the North (where he thought they would someday build a Toll Road), investment in AT&T stock, and the purchase of Alaska from Russia.
Not all aspects of the building plan were successfully terminated and many parts were left unfinished. The second floor was left out of the West Dining Hall, and the cellar was omitted in the main building. The science building was used temporarily as a Student Center. The government let the University use the remains of Fort Sumpter for a temporary library until funds were available to put up the five story building that had been planned (which is about as high as a library ought to go). Almost complete Lyons Hall was 600 bricks shy, so they forgot about four rooms and left a silly looking arch instead. Nobody really minded because in those days pink slips hadn’t been invented; besides the IBM machines had been employed by the War Development and marks weren’t computed until months after one had graduated.
Not all was bad, however; the war was beneficial in many respects. The underground railroad passed beneath the campus and it has been since used for steam pipes. An invasion of the
campus by the Ku Klux Klan necessitated new sheets on an odd week, and. the oil shortage left the University no choice but to install electric lighting.
Notre Dame received many helpful grants to further the scientific aspect of the conflict: the engineers were busy plotting the effect of cherry blossom aroma on ininnie balls, the chemists developed a rubber horseshoe for sneak attacks, and the Physics department was hard at work developing a chocolate covered enemy demoralizer. Even the lib* eral school helped: the modem language profs taught courses in Southern drawl, -the Math Majors calculated a new table of “Lincoln logs,” and the History de-, partment emphasized the Holy Roman Empire which, they said, had nothing to do with anything but was very im- ? portant.
THEN TIL NOW
In those days Notre Dame had a very . quiet campus. Saint Mary’s was inaccessible because the Dixie was in rebel hands. Most of the girls entered the convent anyway, and consequently didn’t . want to date much. Which was all well and good because in those days there was only one phone to Holy Cross Hall. ■ So the boys frequently dated Hungarian peasant women who had been hired to. build the South Shore to Chicago. They 3 had come to find gold paved streets and ; they found Michigan Avenue; they’d, come to find rivers of champagne and ~ instead they had to cope with Chester’s. . ; And, in despair many of the students / . stayed on campus at night and attempt-. ; -ed to study. But that was impossible -• because lights had to be out, according to Congressional order, at eleven o’clock: -wartime blackout. There was, in addition, a ten P.M. curfew every nighty^/j save Saturday when the boys were lowed to stay in town ’til twelve so that they could catch the late show at. theAPl Avon. To enforce those important rulMk;^ the administration decided to employ e. -crew of campus police to keep order and thus, though Hie Civil War is orotyfe; a century, the effects are still very msMdk^r I felt	-^50
* ■ - ' ' - - . ’ ' ' ?-
ROCCO'S
537 NO. ST. LOUIS BLVD.
Sirloin Steak Spec. Tues. $1.50 Carry Outs - CE 3-0976
In the same time-honored tradition
ROCCO'S NEW RESTAURANT Just a forward pass away from Notre Dame Stadium
CARRYOUTS - OPEN SUNDAY Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties—for Reservations Call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
OUR COVER: This week’s cover featuring a basketball theme was illustrated by Tom Hansen, an art student from Chicago in his third year at Notre Dame. After the first of the year, Hansen will assume complete responsibility as the art editor, replacing Dennis Luczak, who is leaving the SCHOLASTIC in order to devote complete attention to handling an advertising campaign for Stan Kenton. Hansen will continue to follow the tangent that has been set in the art used in the SCHOLASTIC thus far.
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACUL' AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEAI Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Be)
Contact Lens Specialist *
Dr. T. R. Pitot	''
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Skin protection, that is. Old Spice refreshes and stimulates, guards against the loss of vital skin moisture. Feels great, too. Brisk, bracing, with that tangy Old Spice scent. It does seem to attract female admirers, but what red-blooded
man needs protection against girls? 1.00 plustax	S H <J L. T O IM
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic
3
I •
I.
! FATHER CAVANAUGH STEPS DOWN FROM POST AS FOUNDATION HEAD
I	Fr. Wilson to Replace Former University President;
|	Adds New Duties to that of Administrative Assistant
. 1 Stepping down from the directorship i J of the Notre Dame Foundation, Rev. • John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has i-elin-l ~ quished his post to the Rev. John H. ! Wilson, C.S.C. Prior to his official ap-; pointment by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-i’ . A burgh, C.S.C., University president, j ; Father Wilson had been acting director j I of the University’s $66.6 milion develop-i = ment program since September 1959. j f Previously he had served as Assistant I ? to the President, and will retain that | i title along with the new one.
| J Presently the Foundation has a per-IF manent professional staff of eleven, / with the function of coordinating the J University’s public relation and development activities. Among other du? " ties it is engaged in a three-year $18 million fund raising program including ■I the financing of the $8 million Notre j Dame Memorial Library.
I A native Chicagoan, Father Wilson graduated from Notre Dame in 1932 as I a layman, and received his law degree 1 from Chicago-Kent College of Law in j 1934. Ordained in 1941, Father Wilson was director of vocations for the Congregation of the Holy Cross for 12 • years. Promotion and advertising di, rector of the Catholic Boy for one year, he served as assistant chairman of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Office of Province Development for two more. Since 1958
I Father Wilson has been administrative
REV. JOHN H. WILSON, C.S.C. Key man in excellence drive.
December 9, 1960
assistant to the president of the University.
The former director of the Foundation, Father Cavanaugh, distinguished himself as President of the University from 1946 till 1952. Under his administration the Foundation was created and it has been under his leadership since its establishment in 1953. Over the past six years the department has received more than $36 million in gifts and grants, the greater part of which has been used to erect 15 major buildings on campus.
Appoint Prof. Keegan New Assistant to Dean
The appointment of Dr. Francis L. Keegan as assistant dean of the University of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters was announced by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs.
Keegan, who has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1957, is an associate professor in the General Program of Liberal Education and a staff member of the Jacques Maritain Center.
Father Soleta said Keegan will help Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean, and Prof. Devere Plunkett, assistant dean, in the administration of Notre Dame’s liberal arts school. The additional assistant dean’s post was created, he said, because the enrollment of the college has increased by 700 students since 1954.
Keegan also will head a newly appointed special committee which will conduct a year-long study of Notre Dame’s liberal arts program, Father Soleta said. Other committee members include Edward Fischer, associate professor of communication arts; Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., assistant professor of theology; Ralph Mclnerny, assistant professor of philosophy; and Robert Burns, assistant professor1 of history.
A native of Santa Rosa, California. Professor Keegan first taught at Notre Dame during 1950-52 while studying for his doctorate. He was a research fellow at the Institute for Philosophical Research, San Francisco, Calif., from 1952 to 1954, an instructor at City College of San Francisco during 1954-55, and associate director of the St. Mary’s College (Moraga, Calif.) Curriculum Study until 1957.
ND Alumni Take Part In Communion Sunday
Members of the University’s 175 Alumni Clubs throughout the world win participate in the Twenty-third Uni- -versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec. 11. According to James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, an apostolic blessing has been granted by Pope John XXIII as part of the forthcoming Ecumenical Council of the Catholic Church, the theme of this year’s activities.
The Notre Dame Communion Sunday was initiated by the Notre Dame Club of New York to illustrate the close ties between religion and citizenship in America. Since then it has been adopted by other clubs and is traditionally ob- -served on the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, though some cities hold the event at alternate dates.
The Universal Communion Sunday observance in Los Angeles, November 27, had as principal speaker, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Other gatherings across the nation will be addressed by members of the hierarchy, local clergy and priests of the University administration and faculty.
Pope John recently described the goal of the Second Vatican Council to more than 500 members of its preparatory commissions. He specified that its objective will be less to combat heresy than to re-establish “in value and splendor the substance of human and Christian thought and life” against a growing materialism.
ND. SMC Singers Unite For Concert Wednesday/
Next Wednesday night the Drill Hall will be the scene of a joint concert presented by the Glee Clubs of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College. The perform- . ance, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, Notre Dame Glee Club director, will begin at 8:30.
The works that will be performed by the two groups and a full orchestra are Alan Hovhaness’ Magnificat and Giuseppe Verdi’s Te Deum.
In both works there is both the mixed . chorus and soloists. The soloists will be . Barbara Piedmo and Jenia Tashijan, sopranos; Mary Kay Vrancken and ; Nancy Pearson, altos; Rev. Patrick v Maloney, C.S.C., tenor; Francis Loncar. ' and John Oliver, baritones.	-
Te Deum has long been recognized as one of the finest works of the great , z Italian composer of the last century.
On the other hand, Magnificat is a / new work having been presented for the / first time on Jan. 28, 1959. The author // is a native American though his Armen-//'; ian extraction is evident in his music.
- - ‘ " *v- ;
-
University Assists in Diocesan Aged Survey; Professor Kane, Assistants to Direct Project
In cooperation with the Diocese of Ft. Wayne-South Bend, and Diocesan Council of Catholic Women, the University of Notre Danie will aid in the launching of a program to study the problems of the aged in this area. This project, the first of its kind in the United States, is operating through the Catholic Charities of the diocese and the University’s department of sociology, under the direction of Prof. John J. Kane. He is to be assisted by two graduate students, Jack Angus and Sylvester Theis-sen.
Who, what, how? Msgr. John Reed of Ft. Wayne is supervising the study “to determine who the aging are, what they do, and what they need.” Such topics as housing, recreation and leisure time, health, religious and treatment activities will be covered in the sociology research project. The results of this canvass are expected to facilitate the handling of the farreaching and long term problems of the rapidly enlarging aged segment of the Catholic population. Working through parish level surveys, the program will be completed locally sometime this fall, and in the Elkhart and Huntington deaneries before the spring of 1961.
Special training has been given to the volunteer survey-takers, provided by the women’s council, and will be under the
AID Member to Speak On Technical Missions
A lecture of timely interest entitled “Technicians for Christ” will be given by an executive member of the Association for International Development on Tuesday, Dec. 13, in the Student Center amphitheater. The talk will begin at 8 p.m.
Jim Landis, the program director from the AID’S headquarters and training center at Paterson, N. J., will analyze the Communist influence and techniques in the South American countries. He will also indicate what can be done to counteract the Communist movement against Catholicism in Latin America. The need for technicians and advisers with Christian ideals will be stressed.
The Association for International Development, founded in the United States, aims to bring Catholic influence principally through technical assistance and professional advice to areas where lay apostolate is in great demand. The members, working mainly in Mexico and South America, help to develop native leaders in their society.
Before he joined the AID, Landis studied history at Fordham Graduate School and spent some time in Mexico among Indians, working with the Mary-knoll Missionaries.
His lecture will be informal and is accompanied by color slides. All students and faculty members are invited.
10
supervision of Mrs. A. J. Diedrich, chairman of the South Bend deaneries charities committee.
Analysis aids. The sociology department of Notre Dame will aid in the analysis of the assembled information and will work with Timothy F. Ryan, executive secretary of the Catholic Social Service in South Bend. The University’s function in this unique operation has been extensively praised by the diocese’s Catholic Charities and the various other organizations involved in this work.
Further information about the survey and results to be reaped by it can be secured from Prof. Kane or any of his assistants.
IHC to Invite Foreign Students to Chicago
The International Hospitality Center of Chicago invites all international students and visitors to the Holiday Center located in downtown Chicago at 116 South Michigan Ave. from Tuesday, Dec. 20 through Saturday, Dec. 31.
Open each day from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., the Center is operated by the International Hospitality Center of Chicago and its 30 sponsoring organizations which provide year-round services to international students and visitors.
This is the ninth annual Holiday Centex- in Chicago. Last yeax- 519 visitors from 70 countries participated in the activities of the Center.
Students are invited to the Center each day where they can meet new people, read, relax, write letters and enjoy tea, coffee and snacks as the guests of various Chicago organizations.
There are no charges connected with the Center except for bus and subway fares, meals and occasional admission fees which are listed in the program available upon arrival.
Program plans are made to include many of Chicago’s most interesting attractions. Among those included are: the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Morton Arboretum, Adlex- Planetarium, Puppet Opera and Theatre.
Individual housing accommodations must be arranged by wilting directly to a local hotel and stating registration at the Holiday Center.
PIANO RECITAL
Ida Hartman, formerly of Lafayette, Indiana and one time child prodigy, will present a recital at 8 p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. Considered among the better pianists among her contemporaries, Miss Hartman appears as part of an enlarged cultural program begun this year.
WILLIAM COLE
A La Venue de Noel”
To Feature Cole, Pedtke In French Carol Recital!
Featuring William Cole, lyric tenor, f and Daniel H. Pedtke of the music de-1 partment of Notre Dame, at the harpsi-t chord, the music department will pre-1 sent a lecture and recital of early | French music Sunday, Dec. 11, at 3:00 | p.m. in the University Art Gallery. |
Cole, an instructor at the University received his Bacheloi- of Music degree from the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago, a master’s degree from the University of Michigan and a teaching fellowship from the same institution. Supplementing these achieve- 4 ments, he has studied privately undei-1 Barre Hill, Edith Mason, Chase Ba-1 romeo and Richard Miller. Besides his | work as a membex- of the Chicago I chambex- opera company Opera at 8:30, I Cole has appeared nationally on the | Dinah Shore Show, the Joan Biondell I Review while a tenox- soloist with the I Ray Charles Singers of New York. He | was a membex- of Actors Equity Sum-^ nxex- Stock Company fox- two seasons, ; and has appeared in productions of the I Chicago Symphony.	i
yCS to Sponsor Gethsemani Retreat During Exam Break
The Young Christian Students campus chapter has completed plans for the annual Gethsemani closed retreat during semester break. Openings exist for 41 students from the University who 4 wish to make the retreat at the Trappist 1 Abbey 40 miles south of Louisville, Ky. I
An Indiana Motor coach will leave I the Circle at 7:45 a.m. Friday, Jan. 27 I and return before 12 p.m., Jan. 29.	|
Further information is available from I Mike Curran in 128 Zahm or the Cath- I olic Action office in the LaFortune Stu- I dent Center Rathskeller. It is open Mon- I day through Friday from 8:30 to 11:30 | a.m. and 12:30 to 5 p.m.	|
The Scholastic


J-

Install Engineering Honor Society Saturday; Ceremonies to Culminate Three-Year Drive
Three years of preliminary work will come to a successful completion on Saturday, Dec. 10, at the installation ceremonies of the Indiana Gamma Chapter ^pf Tau Beta Pi, the National Engineering Honor Society. These past three years, however, are only the most recent chapter of the continual progress in quality achieved by the College of Engineering at Notre Dame since it became a distinct unit of the University in the year 1897. Much of the credit for the establishment of a Tau Beta Pi Chapter at Notre Dame is due to the present engineering administration. In partic-~ular, Dean H. C. Saxe and Prof. Arthur "Quigley have given their time and effort to assist the members of the Engineering Honor Society in laying the ground work for the new chapter.
High standards. The selection of engineering students to become members of the new chapter proved to be a difficult task. Distinguished scholarship, while the primary requisite for admission, is not the sole criterion. The student must
^have a record of integrity, breadth of interest both inside side engineering, and a desire selfish activity.
During the past week, the
recently
a wide and out-for un-
LUINO DELL’OSSO, GREG GEHRED, ANTON VIERUNG, FRANK JONES First Executive Council of Tau Beta Pi.
selected pledges have worn the polished metal casting of the “bent of a trestle.” The Bent is an enlarged form of the official emblem of Tau Beta Pi.
The installation ceremonies on Saturday will be performed by the vice-president of the National Tau Beta Pi
Council, Arthur Consoer, and the secre-
The Bent initiation following will he
tary-treasurer and editor of magazine, Robert Nagel. The of the pledges, immediately the installation ceremonies,
jointly conducted by members of the three visiting chapters from Purdue, Rose Polytechnical Institute, and the University of Michigan. Following the afternoon of ceremonies, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will speak to the new Chapter at the formal installation banquet.
The current major project of the Honor Society, being conducted as part of the Joint Engineering Council’s evaluation of the Engineering College, is the direction and operation of the phase concerning faculty evaluation.
Turnabout evaluation. A special questionnaire, developed by a committee within the Society, will be distributed among the three upper classes within the Engineering College early next semester. The questionnaires will allow each student to comment on and evaluate five of his engineering professors, using a six-point grading system. The evaluation will be based on such items as lecture presentation, knowledge of subject, fairness in grades and other pertinent points.
These questionnaires, which will be distributed departmentally by Honor Society members, will then be collected, analyzed and evaluated by the Society. A final report will be drafted and included in the Joint Engineering Council’s over-all evaluation.
Responsibility!
Times were when one could move that the Student Senate buy a dairy farm, and the probability of the motion passing would be great. Senators would listen attentively to the arguments for a motion, pass the motion, and leave with the self-satisfied feeling that they had made a decision for the good. No one- ever understood matters well enough to be able to
make any kind of a sound judgement. Such was not the case at the meetings of Nov. 21 and Tuesday night, where the sessions were spent in long discussions of problems facing the Senate.
At the pre-Thanksgiving session John Clark, asking the Senate to concern itself with functional things, upbraided the Senate for its “Ford Foundation ostentations.” Clark urged that the Senate be more responsible in passing motions, especially dance budgets.
Tom Geil, Notre Dame student and national president of NFCCS explained that organization’s “National Academic Program,” and asked the Senate for its moral support of the program here on campus. Much time was spent discussing Mardi Gras allotments. Last year $30,000 was allocated in 20 minutes.
Tuesday night was characterized by a great amount of intelligent debate and disorder. After two hours the meeting was called defunct. There was no quorum present! At this point parliamentary procedure was abandoned, and a motion put through to give the Blue Circle $750 for its annual Christmas party for South Bend orphans.
A quorum was called by Jack Clark when Chris Lund’s motion on Mardi Gras allocations was defeated. This climaxed an hour and a half of energetic debate over what to do with an expected $17,000 Mardi Gras profit.
Don Rice wanted $4,000 for scholarships and $13,000 for an expanded student government program. Chris Lund wanted $8,000 and $9,000 respectively.
The problem of how to spend Mardi Gras profits is complex and many considerations must be kept in mind. Tuesday, these considerations were brought to light. .Next week the Senate will be in a position to make an intelligent judgement concerning the most important decision it makes this year.
SPANISH AMERICA
Professor Lewis Hanke, of the University of Texas will speak on “The Contribution of Bartolome de las Casas,” at St. Mary’s College Dec. 14 at 7:30 p.m.
December 9, 1960
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
MACMILLAN The Screw Tape Letters C. S. Lewis
Public Opinion
Walter Lippman
Cross of Gold James Stephens
Mere Christianity
C. S. Lewis
Dialogue With Death Arthur Koestler
PENGUIN REFERENCE BOOKS
A New Dictionary of Music A New Dictionary of Science A New Dictionary of Quotations
A New Dictionary of Politics Pattern of the Post-War World
SIR WALTER RALEIGH
Protective Pouch Keeps Tobacco
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) • Special Price $5.50
This protective aluminum foil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. The sturdy pouch is triple laminated. Carries flat. Sir Walter Raleigh is choice Kentucky hurley -extra aged! Try it.
*
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
SMELLS GRAND — PACKS RIGHTI
SMOKES SWEET — CAN'T BITEI
BROWN * WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION Ctwo
THE MARK OP QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
12
The Scholastic
I “the moving finger fakes..
(Ed. Note: The folloiving answers were taken from a freshman’s History examination. The reader can easily see that they zvill serve as general answers to any question that can possibly be asked, historical or otherwise. We hope that the Freshmen will recognize this piece as the opportunity that it is, study it carefully and come the time of the History Department’s general inquisition of Freshmen, distinguish themselves as the “excellent” students which they are.)

j In 1094 the European picture seemed quite dull. This was illusory, though, ‘ for during the time of the 11th and 12th j centuries there was a great sweep of j religious fever throughout Europe. Owing largely to the dynastic element in । Christianity people felt like going out | and converting the heathens. In a sense I people became “gung ho” religious. The j crusading spirits ignited Europe with I ^different motives. The adventitious people s of this time were without anything of S importance to use this swell of energy I on, so the Crusades solved this picture. ' Social and economic standards were at low tide in Europe at this time and many wanted to boost their name high in the ; social brackets. Others went because they could thereby cancel their deeds I back home or because they felt that their morals were in bad shape and they A needed to repent. The Crusades branded the hearts of some Western Europeans to go east and observe the Eastern way of life. Some wanted merely to settle down in the Orient and get out of the mess of the feudal system. Kings went on crusades to conquer new lands for 1 themselves. They dreamed of having vast ■ kingdoms to roam in. Some went just to
• get away from home. Altogether, crusading was the thing to do then. It was • like cross-country trips in a trailer today. Fortunately the Church was able to unite these men under a common i goal.
! The Crusades began when the Holy Land was increasingly being eaten up by the Moslem invaders. This started to cause friction on the people going to visit from Europe. The people who went on Peter the Hermit’s crusade were mostly men and women. Later crusades were not as successful as this first one, S however. With each crusade the spiritual motives became more overpowered by selfish motives—mainly want of plunder , and satisfaction for just plain killing.
The Crusades gave the leaders a good excuse to get in a war and overtake more land. Some of them used the battles to better their own standings. Moreover the people were no longer disillusioned with splendor of war with the Arabs. Particularly significant, the failure to regain Jerusalem in the 3rd Crusade
December 9, 1960
showed that the Church didn’t have the power it was throwing around.
The effects of the Crusades can still be seen in Europe by an observant person. As to its religious consequences, authorities are divided. A minority hold that on the religious side it lowered the Church. Most scholars, however, feel that the Crusades made the people of Europe more religious. They had been sitting around doing nothing waiting for heretics to make a heresy and then they believed it. Many who had swayed away from the Faith now returned to it. Eastern religions were going to lose their mysterious shield. European religious life was given more vibration. When the Europeans saw how the people of the Holy Land had to struggle to keep their religion they realized how lucky they were.
Social-wise it was much the same as religious-wise. One scholar insists that the only significant phenomenon is that social life in Europe was stabled a bit. More perceptive observers, however, point out that many of the Eastern customs were brought back and smoothed into Western culture. Europe was drawn closer together with all eyes looking East. For instance Fred the Great of Germany (mid-ninth century) went around with a tiger on a leash, wearing oriental garb—such was the oriental integration and influence in the West. Europe also received a wealth of ideas from the East on such as star gazing. Not the least of the social consequences of the Crusades is related to chivalry, which was then in full bloom. The poetry and love stories of the Moslems contributed to the social aspect of chivalry, whereby women became more than household appliances. Nobles became chivalrous, that is they were always in tournaments and games and singing Romantic songs. Ladies were treated properly and great interest was put on Romantic love. Many new orders sprang up to join.
While it is incontestable that the Crusades really did help the social point, it is harder to estimate their economic results. When the kings went off their kingdoms just seemed to exist, there was no progress made either way. The Cru
sades impoverished the peasants but made them happy (to a certain degree). On the brighter side, a new trade sprung up for the luxuries of the Turks—such as spices and carrots. This drove feudal living out of its shell. People began to come alive. Moreover, the Europeans rose economically because of the inventions, sciences and arts kept alive by the Mohammedans were brought to Europe and exercised. Perhaps the fairest general summary is that the social and economic effects of Europe were also bad results of the Crusades.
The Struggle of Boniface VIII and Philip the Fair
Boniface stepped into office in 1294. At first he received the title of pope under superstition of the way Clement abdicated and then died 5 months later. He assended the throne with suspicion.
The Church being in rough shape, Boniface decided to fix it up. Here lies the origin of Boniface VIII and Philip the Fair: it started over taxation of the clergy. Philip and Edward of English waged taxes on the clergy to get money for war. In addition, Philip needed money to run his dynasty. Now Boniface had already had a dispute with Ed I and was “in shape,” you might say, for Philip. He issued Clericis Laicos in which he stated that anyone who would try to take an upper hand to the clergy would be liable to excommunication. This bull hit Philip in the treasury. Philip then got the clergy in France, by force, to resist against the pope. When Boniface was unable to back up his bull Philip took advantage of him and Boniface was forced to back down. He retracted the bull Clericis Laicos. Sent one out overpowering it. Even though he had rebuked his bull, however, he became very powerful minded and later passed another bull Unam Sanctum. Unam Sanctum said that in order to be saved one had to believe in the pope. Philip’s reaction was to slur Boniface in the eyes of the French nation. He got together a bunch of quotes from context and trumped up charges for tearing Boniface’s reputation. Nogaret brought up the far fetched fact that Boniface denied the immortality of the soul. Moreover he convened the Estates General which tried to break the Church by saying of the unimportance of the pope to the world. (Nogaret was the man who actually did the dirty work but you can rest assured Philip was behind it.)
The result was that Boniface’s sue-cessor un-excommunicated Philip, and in 1305 there started the long and tedious Babylonian Captivity when, for 60 years, the papacy would remain in Avignon under the king’s throne. Thus the people of Europe did not want to listen . to a pope who was under the Freich king.
All told, Boniface modeled Innocent HI in all ways, but it simply did not woak for this was a time when national mon- . archies were coming into view, and Bom- _ face became the low point in Church power.	..
Often the lament goes up from the college graduate that he knows nothing at all about one or the other of the arts; the excuse usually is that he has never been able to pursue them conveniently. Certainly no one from this University can offer that excuse.
Within the last few weeks the Notre Dame concertgoer has had the opportunity to hear music ranging from the Renaissance forms to the present-day idioms. The performances, while by no means brilliant (as certain concerts such as the Richter-Haaser recital have been), have consistently provided everything necessary for the novice concertgoer’s musical education. They have, in fact, been so well planned that almost anyone who attended a majority of the concerts in the area over a period of time could have picked up enough information to equip himself with an intelligent set of musical values and preferences.
The question most frequently asked by a beginner about music is: “On what basis do I form musical values and preferences?” Many different answers will descend on him the moment he asks the question aloud (and usually from people whose strong field is masonry). This flood of advice can easily overwhelm or disgust him. In most cases it is of little value. The hardest thing for a novice at music to accept is that he has a built-in value meter, an instinctive, intuitive and automatic unit within his make-up that will cause him to respond in a unique way to certain things. The degree to which he responds corresponds to the degree of his sensitivity. This is true in all but a few cases.
Because music contains so many elements and because such an aura of specialty is often built up around it by dilettantes and other hobbyists, the average beginner may well distrust his own intuition and become a follower-of-the-critics. This might lead him into the company of those individuals whose biggest interest at a concert is the funny noise the program makes when rattled during a flute solo, or the peculiar tone of the
14
squeak of a rudely opened door during the slow movement of a sonata, or the latest review of a concert in Budapest, about which they know nothing and care less. People of this description should stay away from concerts, they have no idea of what is going on. They should at least avoid coming late; it only makes their stupidity conspicuous.
What then should a beginner use as a guide? Two things are at his immediate disposal: his intuition and the criticisms that may be available. The first will tell him what he likes (this will change as he exposes himself to more music) and the second will tell him two things: (1) how this same music and performance affects a person of greater experience and (2) what the objective standards are as applied to both the work and the performance of the work in question. This last is true if the critic involved is reliable, something the individual can judge for himself.
In any case the beginner should always keep in mind that his values will change and that just because someone else may not agree with him he should not turn aside from what he prefers at the moment for the preferences of another: every person has a different set of responses and will have a different set of values accordingly.
The Saint Mary’s concert series turned up two interesting performances recently. The first was Mozart’s Don Giovanni and the second, Berlioz’ L’Enfance du Christ.	,
Don Giovanni, accepted as a cross between opera buff a (comedy) opera seria (opera of a serious nature) and dubbed a Dramma giocoso by the compose!- himself, is one of the greatest masterpieces in the operatic repertoire and requires an able cast of no less than seven good
JOHN OLIVER:
£ LARGE
singing-actors. Ordinarily it doesn’t far^| too well when out of the hands of aW major opera company. Howevex- this per-^ formance must be counted a success. S
The group is a repertory group (The® Goldovsky Grand Opera Theater) andw theix- director knows both his Mozart and J his singers. The Don Giovanni himself® scored heavily in this cornel’ for he sangB'i as well as he acted. His phrasing was ' excellent and his taste flawless through-^;-out the evening. Both the Donn a AnnajJ and the Donna Elvira managed theix-music well, though the characterization^ of Donna Elvira was the bettex- conceived of the two.
The Leporello mixed just the right F| amount of clumsy comedy with the musi- gf cal demands of his part to bring it off well, though he sounded somewhat tired f.S in the first act. The Don Ottavio, possessed of a really lovely voice, lacked the if flexibility and flail- necessary for thev ® vengeful lover Mozart had in mind, but rj he contributed nicely to the ensembles and especially to the sextet, which was done beautifully in all ways.	; ]
The parts of Zerlina and Masetto each ( require a certain naivete—which is often f 1 replaced by clumsiness as it was here— 5; ? and can hardly succeed in any other way. '1 • The conducting stayed well within Mo- f zart’s intentions and it was interesting ;
to note the differences between Goldovsky’s conducting and that of his as- J; sistant.	g/
Oh yes — the Commendatore should have been more thoroughly buried.
Berlioz’ L’Enfance du Christ, a three-part oratorio telling of the birth of Christ and the Flight into Egypt, gives us a fairly accurate picture of the French romantic’s meaningful idea of what for many of us has gotten to be a commonplace thing — Christmas. The & story is told with a paint brush that can W only wield bright colors and an imagina- || tion that can utilize soloists, a chorus fc and an orchestra in such a way as to K make this old and trodden-on story a S new and refreshing thing.	B
The performance here, undei- the direction of Thomas Scherman, engaged a small New York orchestra and chorus E and involved the presentation of the work as more of a chambex- piece than a con-cei-t hall vehicle. While a large orchestra r and chorus, used with effective lighting t and staging techniques, makes L’Enfance M du Christ a more exciting thing, the K method employed in this instance was | more suitable as regards the hall and the g audience.	f
Mr. Scherman conducted musically, if | a bit disinterestedly, and seemed more | concerned with the lyricism in the work I than the drama in it. All of the soloists ’ sounded a little tired (to be expected in a tour of this kind) but Hugh Thompson i (as Herod and St. Joseph) sounded ex- | hausted.	|
John McCollum sings well and knows | what he is singing, but the high point of | the concert was the portrayal of the < Ishmaelite Father by Ara Berberian. | Irene Jordan annoys me; she sings as if ! Max Baer is holding her by the neck.
Notre Dame began its concert season j with a very fine recital by the Collegium !
(<i
The Scholastic
the sublime TUDITION
An intellectual service of the University of Notre Dame for the constant enrichment of the minds of Notre Dame's diverse family.
WAVES OF THE FUTURE

Contemporary Topics of Education and Demography Discussed in Their Sociological Aspect For Tomorrow’s Patterns of Action
THE SQUEEZE ON CATHOLIC SCHOOLS
by John J. Kane
Neither the past nor present of Catholic education has been free of problems, criticisms and concern. In 1834 a Catholic girls’ school in Charlestown, Massachusetts, was burned to the ground by an irate mob of bigots. Ten years later, a similar fate befell a parochial school and seminary in Philadelphia as a result of protests over reading the Protestant version of the Bible to Catholic students in public schools. A few years ago a publication of the National Education Association, “Public Schools and the Future of America” charged that Catholic schools were divisive and undemocratic. Last year thirty lawsuits were pending in Texas over nuns teaching in public schools. But the Catholic educational system has weathered these serious reverses and research here at Notre Dame has pretty much refuted the silly charge of divisiveness. When sixty-five public school superintendents throughout the nation were asked -if the existence of parochial schools caused interreligious tensions within their communities, eighty-eight percent said, “No.” But future problems and concerns of Catholic schools are ah intra-Catholic matter and demand serious consideration. , In fact, their very survival on the elementary? and secondary level may be at stake.	’	-
Today, one out of every seven students in the United States enrolled in' grammar school and high school is in a Catholic institution. Seven percent of/all college and university students are in Catholic schools. Growth between 1945 and 1957 has been phenomenal: Catholic elementary schools increased 80%; secondary schools, 61%. But the past is nothing compared to what the future will be if population predictions even approximate accuracy. Conservative estimates claim that college enrollments will double by 1973, and if the present' trend for more and. more students to attend colleges continues, enrollments will triple by That year. If American Catholics of the future hope to educate the same proportion of their children in Catholic institutions as they do today, some hard facts must be faced realistically: how will they pay for the buildings, libraries, laboratories, other equipment and teachers’ salaries?
The actual cost of Catholic education nationally is not readily determined but some approximation of it is feasible.
'	'	, . ‘	' j ‘ z ' V - •
The late Cardinal O’Hara took the cost of educating pupils in public elementary and secondary schools in various regions of the country and then multiplied this by the number in Catholic parochial grade and high schools. He estimated that in the year 1956-57 American Catholics have saved'the -U. S. taxpayer, including themselves of course, almost one and a-half billion dollars. While this was not the actual cost to Catholics, largely because of minimum salaries paid to v Nuns, Brothers, priests and lay persons on'these faculties, the ' true cost probably approached a billion dollars. This does not include colleges and universities where relatively higher tuition is paid. Such tuition usually covers only about one-third of the instructional costs. Here the deficit is made up by gifts of alumni, friends, business and industry, and again costs are reduced by a teaching staff of nuns, Brothers, priests and relatively low salaries to lay faculty. When this expense is added to that of Catholic elementary and high schools, the total is staggering.	'
But there is another problem which American Catholics, must face about their school systems. Increased facilities are obviously needed. Efforts to provide them are being made but as costs spiral, there is always the danger that enforced
Dr. John J. Kane, professor of sociology, has headed the department at Notre Dame since 1953. A member of the fac, ulty since 1948, he is a specialist on the family, racial and ethnic group relationships, and interreligious- tensions. He received an AD. from St. JosepKs'College, an MA from Temple, . University, and a PhD. from the University of Pennsylvania, all in Philadelphia; and formerly taught in the Industrial Relations, Institute at St. Joseph’s. Dr. . Kane’s books include , Marriage and the family: a Catholic Approach and Catholic- ~ Protestant Conflicts in the U.S. He has written many, articles . for magazines'and professional journals, and he is a former ''president of the American Catholic Sociology Society. A \
A
cutbacks may seriously impair instruction and the separate facilities of public and Catholic education could become grossly unequal. It would be a tragedy if the price of maintaining a Catholic school system cost children an adequate education.
No matter what the cost of Catholic education is today, these expenses will become greater in the future. This is true for all schools but acutely true for Catholic schools on the elementary and secondary level. The major reason for this is the necessity of employing more and more lay teachers. The National Catholic Welfare Conference in its biennial survey of 1956 stated that in the last ten years lay teachers had increased by 196%. The largest increase occurred in elementary schools, 409%. Actually, in the past there had been relatively few lay persons teaching in parish schools, so the percentage of increase, while startling, reflects the fact that many elementary schools have now added lay teachers. That they will have to add more in the future is a foregone conclusion. Vocations, generally, do not appear to be keeping pace with demand and if schools are to be staffed, the only source is the laity. In 1956 there were 20,989 lay men and women teaching on the elementary and secondary level of Catholic schools. Estimating their average salary at $2700 annually, a dismally low income by today’s standards, total cost was $75,000,000. By now it has well passed that mark.
But costs of Catholic education to parents do not end with payment of tuition and contributions to the church. In some states there are book purchases or book rentals, usually both.
Annual devices money, private
raffles, dinners, photographs and other fund-raising are common. Extracurricular activities likewise cost and Kathryn Douglass found in her study of two schools that boys spent $69.17, girls $22.12 yearly,
only part of which was earned by the students.
Some extracurricular activities such as athletic teams and school bands also tax the resources of Catholics and most institutions have Fathers’ Clubs, Mothers’ Clubs or some similar organization dedicated largely to the raising of money for such equipment. While Catholic students do use the public library, some kind of school library is essential. The expense of building up and maintaining adequate facilities of this_type today is really prohibitive. Finally, in many states Catholic parents watch public school children riding to and from classes in tax-supported buses for which they pay while they
either drive their own youngsters to school or pay for public transportation out of their own pockets.
In summary then, the problem is this. The Catholic birthrate at all social-economic levels except the very lowest exceeds ! that of non-Catholics. Catholics generally have larger fami- i lies, consequently more children to educate, less money with which to do it, and the added cost of a private and/or parochial school to maintain. They face the dismal prospect of an expansion of public education for which they have an# obligation to pay as taxpayers and expansion of the Catholic system for which they want to pay as religious persons. Just how far and how long Catholic resources can be strained to continue the present pattern merits frank and serious consideration. Lutheran, Quaker and Presbyterian schools in some parts of the country folded long ago for this. reason. Can Catholic schools survive?	_	1
Short of outright state' subsidization, which is highly unlikely, certain changes in the Catholic school structure will fast become imperative. Just what form they take may vary from one diocese to another. However, among possible changes may be a reduction of the parochial school to four#
8
I
years with the other four years taken in a public school. Or Catholics may concentrate on the high school and college level, eliminating the grammar school entirely. These are drastic alterations and no decision should be made without thorough research. But whether this is the new look in Catholic education or not, two steps are still essential.
First, prayers for more vocations to the priesthood, Brotherhood and Sisterhood are indicated. Definite efforts should be made , to encourage more young men and women to enter the teaching profession. Mothers, whose children are of school age and who have had the required education, should be given refresher courses to enable them to staff parochial schools and high schools. Second, even if all of these suggestions enjoy modest success, religious education within the Catholic home will have to be stepped up and Newman Clubs extended to public high schools. Until the wave of the future born during the late follies and early fifties reaches an age when it can give its financial support to Catholic education, there will be a serious lag. How serious this will be depends on how seriously American Catholics realize it today.

THE POPULATION PANIC


by Donald N'. Barrett
he cries of impending calamity due to “overpopulation” are rising to an almost irrational pitch. Faith in the automatic, mathematical formula for doom, enunciated, by the “pessimistic parson,” Thomas Malthus, has declined considerably, but a faith in population projections has grown apace. Gaining assurance for our faith and values from what is assumed to be science has not been unusual in America, but in the controversy over the “population explosion” science seems .to be prostituted on all sides.
In a recent issue of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists Charles Darwin plays the popular game of population “scare” projections by saying that in 1000 years the present rates of increase would mean “just about standing room” for the people on the earth’s land surfaces. A widely read picture magazine several months ago preferred the estimate that in 730 years human beings will be “so tightly packed” that each person’s estate will be only one foot in area. But the asserted dangers are not only quantitative, it seems, for, as Julian \ Huxley prophesies, “the quality of the population will without question go down.” Presumably we can now predict the horrors of rising rates of. mental deficiency, disease and other abnormalities, all due to population growth.
On the other side of the controversy we find very few literate and vocal protagonists. This lack of opposition gives rise to the impression that all the factual and scientific arguments
are on the former side. The absence of intellectual vigor on the pait of large numbers who oppose the “population explosion’? thesis derives in part from what Bishop Dwyer of Reno has called “the dangers of orthodoxy.” Too many Christians, and also Catholics, would prefer to “believe” that their position is empirically tenable, rather than give respect and support to thorough research'on the problem. In illustration of this preference to believe, rather than know, we may point to the facts that there are, fewer than five trained Catholic demographers in the United States and also that no Catholic university or agency has sponsored or encouraged an on-going scientific study of population issues. Unfortunately today theology and philosophy tend to be unconvincing in the intellectual marketplace of contemporary problems, so nonChristian “answers” to such questions become powerful and persuasive by default of empirical research.
- €
8
The few Catholic voices which are raised about the population question have often reached only a limited audience and generally have not beencharacterized by a high level of _ professional persuasiveness. In opposing certain family limitation methods a member of the staff of the National Catholic Welfare Conference was provoked into asserting the possibilities ot interplanetary and interstellar travel to drain off the world’s future growing population. Predictably an article
i-
appeared soon afterward in a scientific journal exploring this possibility. Therein we get figures that are overwhelming. At all favorable estimates, for example, it would cost about 9,000 billion dollars per year to take America’s present excess i of births oyer deaths to the nearest inhabitable star. The | trip, by the way, would take only 350 years at an average
speed of 7,000,000 miles per hour. Probably the most yocal of Catholic writers on this issue, a theologian, has been successful in reaching some Catholics. His pamphlet, having sold over 300,000 copies, sensitizes the reader to the moral im-£ plications and importance of certain aspects of population
growth. Since his 1957 doctorate thesis on the population statements of Pius XII and the Japanese problem this theologian has ranged broadly in his writings through the statistical, economic, sociological and political technicalities of the problem. It has become clear that the weakest aspects of this < writing are in these professional areas where only thorough * training can help one avoid the pitfalls of inaccuracy and overgeneralization. To argue, for example, that the present rapid population growth is only temporary due to the slowing of decline in death rates is both, misleading and fallacious in । professional analysis.	.
| • The crucial feature of the current controversy, however, 1 centers on policy decisions about population growth. The loudest, though not necessarily the most reasonable, policy urged upon the United States in its aid to “exploding” countries is family limitation. Since half of the more than 100,000,000 babies born this year will not have_enough to eat, it is argued, the clear answer is to cut this number to more reasonable levels. India, for example, with a population increase of approximately 8,000,000 per year needs over two billion dollars of new capital annually to keep its living standard at its present somewhat low level. In a nation which • is described as “resource poor” in certain minerals (iron, coal)
and which has 75-80% illiteracy and a high proportion of unskilled workers, the prospects for economic improvement are dim indeed. The success of such “scientific” arguments for family limitation can be seen in the extensive birth control program now in operation in India, and especially in the policy of two of its states of paying 40 rupees to men who voluntarily submit to sterilization if they have had three children and lack, means to support more. Closer to home we find that the same group of American population experts have persuaded the public health clinics in Puerto Rico, a predominantly Catholic x • land, to urge both contraception and sterilization. Where the . culture is basically Catholic and yet literacy and training in
the rules of the Church have not been vigorously implemented in the past, the arguments of such health advisers becomes persuasive, as attested by , the statistic that over 19% of the women in Puerto Rico have been voluntarily sterilized. The great need is evident for Catholics to engage intelligently in policy-influencing argument about the whole of Latin America, the fastest growing area of the world. Despite the fact that a contraceptive program has never proven effective in an * underdeveloped country, this is still being vigorously pushed. w Such a program requires a certain literacy, technical intel-
ligence and sympathy which are more often lacking in these countries^ as the current ineffectiveness of the expensive program in India proves. Current opposition to America’s direct. contraceptive aid for such countries may be morally valid, but our, current aid for other purposes permits these countries to
_ Donald N. Barrett, an assistant professor in the sociology 0 department, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1955. His particular interests are criminology and demography (the study ' of population). He has an AH. from Georgetown University, a ' Ph. L. from St. Louis University, and an MA., from the University of Pennsylvania. Formerly on the faculty of LaSalle College, Philadelphia, Mr. Barrett is the author of several -sociological papers, including the much-discussed Changing Catholic Population in the U.S. He.is a member of the American and American, Catholic Sociological, Societies,- the Society for Applied Anthropology, The American Population Assn., and Alpha Pi Omega fraternity.'
reallocate millions in their own money to birth control. Japan -in an intensive population control program has effected a fifty per cent decline in its birth rate in about ten years. This' accomplishment, unique in modern times, has largely been accomplished by abortions, permitted for almost any economic or social reason. By a curious but indicative use of terms an American demographer calls this “nothing short of miraculous,” about 1,400,000 abortions per year.	-
Constructive opposition to endorsement of such policies must be based on rational argument. This, in turn, must be backed by such a depth of professional understanding that there is a compulsion for all to engage in the dialogue. As stated above, theological argument seems to be ineffective in ~ America except as an appeal to the power of the vote by different religious groups. This, however, does not constitute a rational dialogue, for the simple taking of positions on an issue does not fulfill the democratic principle of intelligent citizen participation. We need to be able to understand all important sides, rather than first take a position, then attempt to rationalize it and anathematize the opposition. ,
Two broad levels of questions can be distinguished on the population explosion thesis. The first is fundamental and asks: what are the facts and scientific reasoning on popula- . tion growth? It cannot be the pretense of this short essay to attempt a detailed answer to this question, but certain principles may be briefly proposed. Immediately it becomes dear that protagonists on both sides of the policy question have emphasized selected, supporting data and scientific studies and minimized embarrassing or contrary evidence. The favorite persuasion of pseudo-scientists is to project population trends 250, 500, or 1000 years into the future and thus obtain astronomical numbers, numbing numbers, to which the paralyzed mind presumably has no counter-argument. Yet is is a truism in all science that the more distant in time the event predicted, the less reliable the prediction. No responsible scientist would hazard any credence to projections beyond 50 or 100 years and even these have to be so guarded by stated assumptions that the 100 year projection. becomes almost meaningless. Extremists in the controversy seldom suggest that it is necessary to project in a parallel way the figures on production, food consumption, etc., in order to give the popula- ~ tion projections some real meaning. Yet man must plan for the future and for this he needs projections, or like the one-talent-man in the scriptural parable, life will catch up with him in an uncomfortable way. We cannot bury the population problem in a plethora of daydreams or by wishing it away, or, by simply asserting that “God will provide.” Many thousands, for example, are starving to death each day of lie year in southeast Asia. They demand a solution and the golden webs of hope spun by communism are beginning to look better to them. Africa, both north and south of the Sahara, with so few in the labor force, is beginning to experience the pressure of population upon the means of subsistence. Latin America has more than doubled its population in the last thirty years and due to high fertility and lowering mortality will probably double again in about 25 years, thus far outstripping the countries north of the Rio Grande. In modern times this situation' is unique and compelling of intellectual analysis. It may seem pure journalese to call this an “explosion,” but there is little doubt that there has been a “sudden production of great pressure,” an accepted definition of the term, explosion. The challenging feature of this deadly game of population numbers lies in the principle that total numbers in themselves are meaningless unless, correlated with economic, - political, sociological and biological data. Here is the rub. Scientists have not been able to agree on a formula which / would include all these variables in defining over- or optimum population. There is agreement that the world is not over- , populated, but some nations are considered to be in this condition. Curiously, perhaps, we can say that none of these nations need to remain in this condition, no matter what measures thereof are taken. Using refined index numbers, the United Nations reports that world production of primary commodities (food, etc.) since 1938 has risen 32% (production of manufactured goods 69%), whereas population has risen only 24%. World exports of food, fuels and manufactured .
■ goods have also risen more than population. In the period
1948-56 per capita product rose in India by 13%, in Japan by 55%, in Puerto Rico by 32%, in the United States by 22%. Latin America, Asia’s eastern mainland and potentially Africa are the real sore spots. Nonetheless the conclusion appears clearly that the problem is basically one of distribution. How can two-thirds of the people of the world go from a status of poverty to reasonable levels without revolution and war. Other anomalies appear too, such as the current allegation that Puerto Rico is overpopulated, despite its slow population growth rate (0.8 in 1953-57 period), rising employment levels, hours worked, etc. Israel, however, is seldom considered in the same category, despite its high growth rate in population and its serious economic problems. Finally the “scare” writers emphasize the depletion of agricultural and mineral resources as a major present and future problem. Harrison Brown in The Challenge of Man’s Future and many other scientists are ;by no means so pessimistic. The rising cost of iron and coal deposit exploitation creates pressure on man’s ingenuity to develop such riches as aluminum, one of the world’s most plentiful metals, and radio-active and solar power sources. It seems that if in the period 1850-1950 energy sources could change from 78.8% animal to. 94% mineral, fuels and water power, a similar change or an even faster one can occur in the next century. Thus many are more optimistic about man’s creative potential in exploiting the riches of the earth than the pessimists would lead us to believe.
. The second level of questions on the population explosion thesis may be summarized in the question: what policy best meets the problem? Two principles immediately suggest themselves: 1) since the problem is not completely defined scientifically or otherwise, a policy program cannot be developed with the certain conclusions and effects of a mathematical formula; 2) whatever program is decided upon, it must integrate the complexities of competing demands for attention. In much of the writing today it seems that simple solutions can be found in such policies as birth control or no birth control, in greater or less immigration or emigration, in more or less Mutual Security loans, in the growth of democratic governments. Such simple faiths need to be discouraged in favor of what President Eisenhower has called a many
pronged integrated approach. One of the most powerful I arguments by Catholics has been adduced by the recent state- I ment of the American bishops on “population explosion”, I namely that contraception is based, on a negative principle I which is in direct opposition to the positive values of con- ' ception held by over two-thirds of the world. If contraception were the simple answer, then France should be the most economically and socially stable nation in the world. Actually France has regretted its negative policies under the Napoleonic codes. We have already emphasized the problem today as one of distribution among the nationalistic, face-saving, countries. ♦ Further, it could have been foreseen that Belgium and Holland J may have been conscious of the need for family limitation with their dense populations, but both found that a growing population is manageable when men concentrate on expanded trade and production, food development, etc. . This faith and optimism in the cooperativeness and ingenuity-industry among men characterizes the greatest difference between the two sides of the population controversy. The scientific evidence is not compelling, despite its quantity favoring population restriction and paucity favoring other solutions. Most population analysts, it must be emphasized, wish intelligent discussion of the issues (see “An Inquiry concerning Some Ethical Principles Relating to Human Reproduction” by Lorimer, Bour- । geois-Pichat and Kirk in Social Compass, vol. 4, numbers 5-6). No counter-charges against their “guess-tamates” will resolve | the'issue.	.	\	j
At the present juncture of arguments concerning the con- ; traceptive “pili”, the sending of birth control aid to other I nations and the cross-fire of charges and statistics, the con- | structure reaction can be found in the development of respect- 5 able research, such as the work of Zeegers in the International ’
Catholic Institute for Social Ecclesiastical Research in Geneva _ . . . - _	- - - - - >
and the work of deLeStapis in his recent La limitation des naissance. Importing specialists such as these will not generally aid the Non-Malthusian forces in America, for the simple reason that the professional environment of the controversy here is quite different and alienating to most Europeans. We have the universities, some scientists and many resources among Catholics in America to engage in intelligent argument/but when are we to do it? .
£
0
Contributors to the Last Issue
THE MOVING FINGER
Louis Leon Bernard is an associate professor of European history. A member of the faculty since 1950, he has a B.A. from Tulane University and an M.A. and PhD: from the University of North Carolina. His particular interests are 17th century French History and the French Revolution. He is? co-editor /-with Dr. Theodore Hodges of Readings in European History, author of several articles, and a member of the American Historical Assn, and the Society for French Historical Studies.
Robert Edward Bums has been with the history department since 1957 and was recently promoted to-an assistant professorship. He received I his A.B. from Northeastern University and an AM. from Harvard University. A student of modern Irish history, he has published articles on the Irish penal code and revolutionary movements in recent numbers of the Review of Politics. He is a member of the American'Historical Society.'	,
John Philip Gleason joined the faculty as an American history instructor in 1959 and was lecturer in Christian culture at St. Mary’s College. He took a BS. (Ed.) from the University of Dayton and an M.A. at Notre Dame as recipient of the first' fellowship in the humanities awarded on a grant from the U. S. Steel Foundation. He has contributed to various journals and is a member of the American, Catholic and'Mississippi alley Historical Assns.
, Walter Dennis-Gray, an assistant professor, has' beenajith the _ department since 1954. With a BA.from Gonzaga; University, he '
'	■	,	,	1	'	‘	t
studied at the University of Strasbourg, France, on a Fulbright grant and has MAiand PhD. degrees from Notre Dame. A mem- J ber of the'American and Catholic Historical Assns., he has been a reviewer for Books on Trial and the Catholic Historical Review and is especially interested in 19th century French history.
Rev. Thomas Timothy McAvoy, C.S.C., professor and former department head, has been the: University’s archivist since' 1929 and a faculty member since 1933. With AD. and M.A. degrees from Notre Dame and a PhD. from Columbia University, Father McAvoy is. an authority on U.S. regional and Church history. Editor , of the current Roman Catholicism and the American Way qf Life and co-author of a U. S'. History, he won the > 1957 John Gilmary Shea history prize for his The Great Crisis in American Catholic History, 1895-1900 and has written several regional studies. , He is managing editor of the Review of Politics and a member of many historical societies. ' ,	1	,
- Marshall Smelser is professor and. head of the history department, having joined it in 1947. A specialist in early American history,'he formerly taught at St; Thomas College' and St. Louis University with an AD. from^Quincy College, AM. and PhD. from Harvard University. Mr. Smelser has been a Walgreen lecturer at the University ofChicagoand 'a Forrestal fellow at the U. S, NavaL . Academy. A member of the American Historical Assn, and Ameri- , . can Assn, of University Professors, he has written numerous articles k and several books, including The Congress Founds the Navy. '
I- ‘	x ■■	, v

I
Musicum of Illinois University. Their program (given in Washington Hall on December 2) contained a great variety of the music of the thirteenth through the seventeenth centuries.
Admittedly this is not a program which would be strongly recommended to an ordinary person as musical entertainment. Its intention was rather to give the ordinary person a chance to ^find out what was going on in music in this period of history, and as such it was a total success. The variety (both in mood and in performance requirements) surprised me; the music itself fascinated.
The group is made up of three men and two women, each of whom play a number of instruments and sing. Since a great deal of this music is vocal, a good part of the program was sung, but a large number of different textures and moods of the songs made everything in-J teresting. The instruments the group uses reproduce the sounds originally intended by the composers; all of their instruments are authentic Renaissance pieces.
As far as the actual performance is concerned, each player (or singer) thoroughly enjoyed the music he was performing and succeeded in bringing his own conviction across to the audience as well as the spirit and character of each 1 number. One would think a program of this sort would be quite remote from a college audience, but this one turned into an almost intimate affair.
If this type of good programming is to continue, let’s hope that the same type of audience is there to welcome it. It makes for a better performance on both sides of the proscenium.
Last Sunday the South Bend Symphony presented the second in its series । of concerts, which included the Dvorak Carnival Overture, Berlioz’ Symphonic Fantastique (four movements) and the E flat Piano Concerto of Beethoven with John Browning as soloist. Though I was not able to attend I understand that the soloist was excellent and the Symphony up to its usual standards.
This concert provided an excellent opportunity for the beginning listener to compare the Berlioz of L’Enfance du ! Christ with the Berlioz of Symphonie Fantastique, or perhaps the Beethoven Fifth Piano Concerto with the Third (performed earlier in the year by Glenn Gould). The opportunities are there, for very little more than the price of bus fare.
The combined glee clubs of Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame are presenting two performances of the Verdi Te Deum and the Hovhaness Magnificat this month, the first on the 6th and the second (at
1 Notre Dame in the Drill Hall) on the 14th. Professor Daniel Pedtke of Notre Dame is directing and featured among the soloists is the Reverend Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame music staff. I have only heard some of the rehearsals and can report that it promises to be worth attending. The Hovhaness is a new work and is interesting from a musico-dramatic point of view. The Verdi, of course, is a masterpiece.
December 9, 1960
At the Theaters
Insofar as my eyeballs are again properly focused, allowing me to see the typewriter, it’s time for another infonnative column (if you could call it that).
A strange thing happened to me on . . . Well, never mind. This column is being written Saturday afternoon, and I was unable to contact the Avon about their forthcoming jewel. Maybe I should have tried to contact them later, but a movie theater which closes on Saturday afternoons is pretty bad off anyway. Talk about prime theater days, Saturday is it.
The Colfax is showing some movie labeled “spectacular,” after a fashion. Its name is Esther and the King. Offhand, I am inclined to ask the King of what, since my Bible .isn’t handy and the costuming looks like a loan from The Robe. Richard Egan is in this one, scowling at the camera and making eyes at his co-star, Joan Collins. Of course, who could blame him? There’s still the question of whether or not Miss Collins can act, but hardly anybody except the fussiest will mention it.
The trouble with the movie is that everything in it is borrowed from various and sundry previous plots, movies, and wardrobes. The moths have done a splendid job on Miss Collins’ gowns.
At the Granada, the fare is a little heavier and most probably saner. The movie, Girl of the Night, is based on Dr. Harold Greenwald’s book, “The Call Girl.” Wait, don’t rush off, there’s more to this than meets the eye. First of all, the title role is played very well by Anne Francis as Bobbie, whose talents are extremely well paid. Lloyd Nolan plays a sympathetic psychologist to whom she turns in desperation. (Everybody goes to be analyzed these days.) John Ken- plays her slimy “fiance” who continually fixes her blind dates with the help of Kay Medford, an old hand at this. And so on. The movie is supposed to be an analytical study of this problem, and does a good job of it while maintaining its share of shock moments, all very vivid. Miss Francis goes hither and thither as if blindfolded, led now by Ken*, then by Nolan. At the fadeout it is supposed that she will go to the psychologist’s couch to straighten her life out. In the meantime, though, the movie abounds with not-too-subdued sensationalism, including the self-inflicted demise of one Lisa, who in effect tells a customer not to meddle in her private life or she’ll jump out the window. She does.
“All the thrills of the Southern 500!” scream the blurbs and posters. If Thunder in. Carolina indeed has any thrills for you, it will be the thrill of being bored to death as you never have been bored before. This theme of racing cars; be it stock models, hot rods, or Porsche Carreras; is as dead as the phrase “I Love Lucy.” It was tried before, with name stars of the higher magnitudes. It didn’t attract much. Again a try was made at it, showing a couple of the newer screen Romeos with their shirts unbuttoned or off. Not too many screaming Mimis went for it. Now nobody, least of all Rory Calhoun, can revive it. Just one long, tiresome cliche from the first to the last scene. Even that thing that says “The End” is stereotyped.
Accompanying this gem is another ditty called The Bat. Which leads me to think it may have something to do with those things which hang by their clawy little feet from cave roofs and trees. Bats.
It's at times like this that I get discouraged and think: “Maybe Hollywood isn’t worth saving.” Certainly some of it is worth the effort, but with these fly-by-night independents who make a 60-minute film feature in two week’s time the industry is being crowded with trash. However, I don’t want to seem old-fashioned, and certainly won’t want to be called a philosopher.
There’s always television.
— Tony Wong
15
Just about a month ago Farbi Farbi-stat came to Notre Dame. Amid the suspense of a carefully planned promotional campaign, this little clown like creature had arrived to tell you and the world that the 1961 Mardi Gras was underway.	.
Having done this, it appeared for all practical purposes that Farbi’s mission was finished. That’s at least what I thought. But Mr. Farbistat, a man with a mind of his own, had different ideas. Instead of fading quietly into my file cabinet (Farbi’s base of operations) and allow the ordinary means of communication to herald the advantages
But as yet he had no name.
Rich seemed rather indifferent towards naming the creature, claiming that last year’s character didn’t have one. But being more adept at working with things that have names, I suggested maybe we could think of something novel. So we started to toy with the idea.
Fifteen minutes produced nothing, and I began leaning towards a nameless clown. After a half an hour, Rich, in disgust, flicked his pencil down on the table and yelled, “Farbistat, we’re not getting anywhere, forget about the name.”
FARBI
of the Mardi Gras, he stalled to become somewhat of a symbol for both his creators and those who had helped to make his appearance a success. Rather generally, you might say, this spunky fellow began showing us (the committee) how to make this Mardi Gras the greatest experience to touch this campus.
But before I go too deeply into this assumed mission of Farbi’s, I feel a bit of background on our hero is necessary.
Early in November (I believe it was the seventh, a Tuesday night) this writer, Rich Jalovec and Dave McCann, general chairman and raffle chairman of the Mardi Gras, respectively, met to see what had to be done about the publicity for this year’s raffle.
We all had a few ideas for promotions and even some drawings and sketches of characters. Among these crude caricatures was one drawn by Dick Gemperle, an architect in Badin, of a short splay-footed clown. His bent cone-shaped hat hung over his eyes and all that was visible of his face was a protruding nose and a devilish smile. This, if anything convinced me, if not Rich and Dave too, that this was our character, our clown, the Mardi Gras clown.
“Farbi-what,” I said.
“Farbistat; like some guys use four letter words, but I use Farbistat,” Rich shot back.
“Why not that name?”
“Yeah”; said Dave, “Farbi Farbistat.”	£
Rich in astonishment, admitted, “Yes, that’s it.”
Yes that was it, Farbi was his name. The poem that appeared in the first brochure followed; the spelling out of his name for the campus was conceived a few day later by this writer; and Fr. Boarman’s late entry was only the icing which topped a very well baked cake.
Farbi had accomplished what we three had wanted him to do. He had introduced you to the Mardi Gras and£) in particular to the raffle. Far more than anyone else, we know that a success for the Mardi Gras means a financial success. And since 90% of profits are achieved through the raffle, we realized the importance of distributing, promoting and selling that book of 15 slips of paper. For this Farbi was created, and with this finished we were going to let him die.
But as I mentioned before he wouldn’t The Scholastic^
16
die. My first inclination that maybe this was a little bit bigger than I had expected was when I walked into Room 1-A of the Student Center (the Mardi Gras office) a few days later and was confronted with pictures of Farbi on the glass partition of both doors. I looked around and there sat Greg Weis-Q mantel, executive chairman of this affair, legs propped up on the desk and calmly examining what obviously had been his work.
“What’s this for?” I asked.
“Wasn’t doing anything; so I decided to put him up. Thought he would be noticed more there.”
“Sure,” I said.
Not more than an hour later I ran into two friends in the Huddle, who were frantically wondering where they could get some more pictures of Farbi. It seems their girl’s girl friends back home wanted one, too. The only phrase I could manage was, “Not you too.”
I was becoming amazed how this inanimate, illiterate- non-functioning creature, Farbistat, could so enrapture so many people. But I still wasn’t convinced. I began to watch.
I did notice Rich was saying Farbi-stat more often. Even Dave seemed to M be mentioning Farbi quite a bit. But it took a few more experiences to convince me that this resident of my file cabinet was so important to the success of our Mardi Gras.
One of these occurred to Angelo Mili-tello, the jazz concert chairman. It seems for the better part of three weeks, Ang was hot after Shelly Manne and His Men for a very swingin’ afternoon of jazz. After some super salesman-ship which included a trip to Chicago
December 9, 1960
to see Manne’s agent, he convinced the drummer to fly his group in from California for the two-hour stand in the field house.
But then the unexpected happened. Because of a misunderstanding on the dates of the concert, a triangular track meet had been scheduled for the same afternoon in the field house. Since no other site of equal capacity was available, Ang’s concert looked headed for a financial failure. That evening Ang dropped into my room to tell me of the above troubles. A new sketch of Farbi was lying on my file cabinet and after Ang had said his full he off the cuff remarked, “I wish that stupid clown would do more than just sit there and smile.”
The next morning Fr. Bernard called Ang up to tell him that Herb Jones and Coach Wilson had contacted Indiana and Purdue and they had agreed to switch the meet to Friday night. Now I’m not saying “that stupid clown” had anything to do with this, but it sure was awfully coincidental.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana** Leading Barber Shop
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100*102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BABBEBS	MANICUB1ST
Don Veckerelli, entertainment chairman, on Tom Conneely’s dance was another victim of Farbi’s effectiveness. Among Don’s chores, is the securing of the match books for the dance. Before Farbi had come to the campus Don had the order secured. But one day he stopped me in the Student Center and kind of apologetically wondered if it would be okay to use a picture of you know who on the match book covers. Don canceled the first order and those lucky enough to acquire dance bids will know Farbi’s there each time they light their date’s cigarette.
There are other stories too. Like the aid Bernie Craig, the business manager, and Dave received when we need volunteers from across the Dixie to help with the clerical problems. Or the unlikely success yours truly has in his last minute attempts at photographing such widely scattered subjects as children, profs and committeemen. Or the $1,000 Bernie saved on the printing costs of the raffle books.
(Continued on page 25)
Let us take care of your CHRISTMAS Gin PROMEMS
For the Family Luggage, Leather Goods and the unusual
MICHIGAN at COLFAX
IF THE SOUND OF YOUR HI-FI
infiltrates your neighbors’ rooms "T Make them (and yourself) happy by playing
VANGUARD
&WTURBOW \OPTOMKTRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
Recordings for the Connoisseur Some new releases
THE WEAVERS AT CARNEGIE HALL, Vol. 2
VRS-9075 (mono) & VSD-2069 (stereo)
ODETTA AT CARNEGIE HALL
VRS-9076 (mono) & VSD-2072 (stereo)
ODETTA SINGS CHRISTMAS SPIRITUALS
VRS-9079 (mono) & VSD-2079 (stereo)
RUBIN CLEANERS Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOR $1.10
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
Don’t be caught napping
on your | * Christmas shopping


Come in and see our complete variety of Christmas gift merchandise now. Whether you wish a university enscribed gift, a book, or a novelty present, one-stop here and you’ll find exactly what you want.
If you can’t decide, give the perfect gift—a Bookstore gift certificate so that the recipient may choose his or her own gift.
JOAN BAEZ
VRS-9078 (mono) & VSD-2O77 (stereo)
Send for the Vanguard catalogue of indispensable folksong recordings, featuring Leon Bibb, Alfred Deller, Cisco Houston, Erich Kunz, Paul Robeson, Martha Schlamme, Germaine Montero and others iept U, Vanguard Recording Society Inc.
154 West 14th St, New York 11, N. Y.
SEASON’S GREETINGS FROM NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
18
The Scholastic
ND BASKETBALLERS HOST BOWLING GREEN
Three New Members Direct Falcon Offense
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
It will be a case of youth versus experience when the Irish clash with the Falcons of Bowling Green State University tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 p.m.
The Bowling Green quint has three sophomores in its starting lineup. All five of the Irish starters lettered last season, although only three were slated fas first stringers during the 1959-60 campaign.
The Falcons whipped Hillsdale, 79-45, in their opener and then traveled to Buffalo, New York for a contest with Canisius who trounced them, 70-50. Before coming to South Bend, the Bowling Green team encountered Michigan State and Western Ontario.
Captain and leader. Captain and one a of the foui* returnees for the Falcons is forward Jim Routson, a starter last year who was third in individual scoring. He is relied on to steady the inexperienced Bowling Green team while providing the team a consistent scoring threat.
The other veteran in the starting lineup is forward Bill Reed. Reed, who stands 6-4, was a reserve on last year’s squad but saw considerable action. He £has scored 15 points in this season’s ' first two encounters, and is a reliable rebounder.
The three sophomores have shown exceptional prowess so far this season. Center Nate Thurmond is the tallest
ARMAND REO
Early season surprise
EDDIE SCHNURR
Steady junior guard
man on the team at 6-10. His form is said to resemble that of Wilt “the Stilt” Chamberlain, and the statistics, while they do not quite bear this out, indicate that he will be a definite threat to the Green. Against Hillsdale, Thurmond led the team with 21 points and hauled down 22 rebounds. He added another eleven points and 17 rebounds against Canisius to give him a two-game total of 39 rebounds and 32 points.
Another sophomore, 6-4 Elijah Chapman, can play either guard or forward. He is a fine shot and put in 13 points to aid the Falcon’s cause against Canisius. He is also an aggressive rebounder. Though he customarily starts at guard, Chapman frequently moves to
a forward spot to replace Reed.
The third member of the sophomore trio is guard Pat Haley. A 6-4 sharpshooter, Haley gunned for 20 points against Hillsdale in his first varsity game. Haley is also noted for his fine defense and floor game; he did an outstanding defensive job on Hillsdale’s leading scorer, holding him to a low point total.
More depth. Coach Harold Anderson has two lettermen as his sixth and seventh men. One is 5-10 guard Bobby Dawson, and the other is utility man Jim Zak. Both are slated for considerable duty.
According to Anderson, “We’re a young ball club. This should be a building year for us, but by next season we should have a real fine team. That inexperience will kill us this year.” All five of the Irish starters have played aggressively in the first two contests of the season. In these two games, the Jordanmen trounced Western Illinois, 79-56, and then dumped Evansville, 83-68.
With 6:41 remaining in the first half, Evansville had only been able to tally 18 points, and in the ensuing six minutes before the half they were able to drop in a scant four points, thus trailing SO-22 at the intermission. This is the great lead the Irish had built up before retiring to the locker room at intermission.
Irish aces. Against Western Illinois, forward Ai*mand Reo led the Green with 23 points and 20 rebounds; forward John Dearie had 20 points and 17 rebounds; guard Eddie Schnurr tallied 15 points and gathered in eight rebounds while hitting on five of six from Um field in the first half and playing a great floor game; center John Tully accounted for 11 points and ten rebounds, and Captain Bill Crosby played competently on the floor.
Schnurr was the standout against Evansville, leading the Irish marksmen with 20 points. Reo had 11, and Crosby played a brilliant floor game while scoring nine points.
From here on, however, the schedule gets tougher. After playing Kentucky Wednesday night and Bowling Green tomorrow, the Irish face in succession UCLA, USC, Indiana, Purdue, Hlinois, and Northwestern during the balance of the month.
While the Notre Dame team would probably get the nod on experience over Bowling Green tomorrow, the schedule from that point on is as difficult as any ever played by a Notre Dame basketball squad. The Irish will be attempting to satisfy their home-town partisans for the third game in a row.
Coach John Jordan will start the same regulars for the Irish. Slated to see heavy duty also will be John Matthews, a sophomore guard, and junior center Karl Roesler.
JOHN TULLY
Veteran pivot- man
December 9, 1960
19
ODDS and ENDS
ADONIS: Last Sunday the Green Bay Packers beat their bitter rivals the Chicago Bears 41-13. This was a big development in itself. Bigger yet was the feat of the Pack’s all-purpose back Paul Hornung. Paul, the matinee idol of pro football, tallied 23 points to break the season scoring mark of 138 set by the most famous Packer of them all, Don Hutson. He now has 152 points for the year and could conceivably break the 200 mark in the remaining two games. Hornung's 23 points came on two touchdowns, two field goals and five extra points. Paul showed his benevolence by tossing the football into the stands after his final touchdown. This feat becomes even more noteworthy when one considers the energy Paul expends each game adjusting his shoulder pads. Yes, all this, for a man who once was “only a sophomore” . . .
— o —
UNBELIEVABLE: There were 14 seconds remaining last Sunday in Baltimore when Mr. Quarterback, John Unitas, hit Lenny Moore in the end zone with a TD pass. This play plus the extra point gave the Colts a 15-13 edge over the Lions of Detroit. Then with a scant ten seconds remaining, the Motor City entry roared back on a 70-yard Earl Morrall to Jim Gibbons aerial to pin a 20-15 loss on the Colts and seriously threaten Baltimore’s hope for an unprecedented third straight league title. Two touchdowns within four seconds left most viewers, whether in the stands, on the field or in front of the magic eye of the television set out of breath and wondering just howr much more exciting play-for-play football can get. . . .
— o —
AVANT: Al Avant, No. 35 of Western Illinois, a team the Irish hoops ters beat in their opening game, is no stranger to big time basketball. Al played at Marquette during the 1955-56 season and pumped in 26 points in one meeting with the Jordanmen. His 16 points this year against the Irish indicate he still has the touch and his long jump shots several times drew “oohs” and “aahs” from the partisan Notre Darners. In between college stints Al played sendee ball while fulfilling his military obligation. . . .
AT THE ALTAR: Last Saturday two young women accomplished what college football players have been attempting to do for tiie last three seasons, namely lasso the notorious badmen of the wild west, the McKeever twins. Miss Susan Blackman became Mrs. Marlin McKeever and Miss Judy Primrose became Mrs. Mike McKeever in a double ceremony in Los Angeles.
— o —
IN CONCLUSION: Our industrious prognosticator, W. Cary, finished the football season with a 144-49-7 record, good for 74.6%. With this fine showing he now will attempt to predict the outcome of the upcoming basketball games. . . .
20
JERRY FITZPATRICK Top Irish sprinter
Wilsonmen Begin Drills; Host of Lettermen Bock
Although the season doesn’t begin for two more months, Notre Dame’s indoor track team has been working out daily since late October.
The season’s outlook is bright with at least one letterman at every event, and a host of promising sophomore candidates.
Lost, however, to this year’s squad through graduation are last season’s co-captains Dave Cotten and Tom Reichert, top miler Galen Cawley, Glen Cividin, a pole vaulter, and shot putter Ken Scarbrough.
Heading the list of returnees are a pair of outstanding seniors, Jerry Fitzpatrick, this year’s captain who is a sprinter and broad jumper, and Ron Gregory, one of Notre Dame’s all-time top distance runners.
Juniors Joe Balistrieri and Dick Musial return, along with Fitzpatrick, in the dashes. Senior Jim Sheeler is the top Irish hurdler. Chris Monahan, a senior, and Junior Steve Schwartz will be returnees in the quarter mile; with Monahan and lettermen Terry Jones and Dan Rorke providing depth in the half mile.
Senior Dennis Johnston joins Gregory in the mile; with monogram winner Tom Dempsey heading the two milers. Senior Dick Monjeau will aid in the broad jump; as will Mike Terry in the pole vault. Heading the corps of shot putters is Mike Giacinto, a junior.
Promising sophomores whom Coach Alex Wilson will be counting on are Frank Lucas and Wayne Javurek in the dashes, Jim Mulrooney and Mike Kovac in the hurdles, Bill Yaley in the distance events, Bill Benson in the high jump, Frank Froelke in the pole vault, and Carl Ludecke in the shot put. •
The cindermen open the season on February 4 when they journey to East Lansing, Mich., for the Michigan State Relays.
Soccer Club Finishes Two-Game Campaign
In a recent article Sports Illustrated’s Martin Kane posited soccer as “the fastest growing college sport . . . which is also the world’s favorite team spoil.”
Making good the above statement is Notre Dame’s soccer team. The club is now in its second year of existence*1 and its roster reads like a roll call of the United Nations. Five Latin Americans, two students each from China, Yugoslavia, Germany, and one player each from the Philippines, Holland, Hong Kong, Nigeria, Japan, New York and New Jersey compose the team.
The team competed in two contests this fall, losing to Goshen College and Indiana Tech. Both games were very close, however, and the latter opponent^ had lost only to Michigan State when ) they encountered the Irish. Leading gladiators for Notre Dame this autumn included Josef Eschelle, halfback Bob Chou, goalie Hans Heimans and center Hugo Ryan.
Enthusiasm for the new spoil greatly increased this year. Even with inclement weather, a large crowd turned out for the Indiana Tech contest.
I _________________________ I C4Rr CALLS 'EM [
;l Tonight
DePaul over North Dakota	;
Georgia Tech over SMU	;
St. Louis over Creighton
Tomorrow	j
Ohio State over Army	'"j j
Auburn over Florida State	|
Notre Dame over Bowling Green	I
Bradley over Butler	I
St. Mary’s over California	’
Cincinnati over Seton Hall
Dayton over St. Joseph's (Pa.)
Duke over West Virginia
Holy Cross over Yale	*
Louisville over Xavier
Ohio University over St. Francis
(Pa.)
Marquette over Wisconsin
Miami (Fla.) over Brigham Young
Temple over Navy
Minnesota over Maryland
Wake Forest over Penn State
NYU over UCLA
Purdue over Ball State
Villanova over Toledo
Utah over T.C.U.
Game of the Week
St. John's over Kansas
Upset of the Week
Detroit over Indiana
The Scholastic
KEGLERS' KORNER
Last Sunday, the Notre Dame Bowling Team defeated a lackluster Illinois Tech squad by a point spread of 9-2, to retain their leadership in the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference.
Sophomore Tom Schroeder led the bowlers with a 999 series for five games as he rolled along with games of 185£ 244-194-194-182. He was followed by Captain Dan Halloran with a 925 series, composed of 190-215-174-156-190.
The team scoring for each game follows :
Notre Dame: 887, 988, 882, 853, 914 = 4524.
Illinois Tech: 812, 894, 787, 886, 815 = 4194.
The averages of the Notre Dame team at this point of the season are:
Tom Schroeder ............   192
Bill Lieber ................ 192
Dan Halloran .............   190
Chuck LeRose ............... 181
Mike Bentley ............... 179
Don Dvorak ................. 178
Ted Nekic .................. 175
Team average .........   927
This Sunday, the Notre Dame bowlers journey to Varparaiso, where they will defend their first place standing against the Crusaders. The host Valparaiso team has two top bowlers in Tom Zimmerman, currently knocking them over at a 188 clip, and Ron Knuth, who has been averaging about 185 pins a contest. This is a big match for the Irish, as they must win to stay ahead of second place Loyola which trails by only one point in the standings.
This same Valparaiso team was the one which knocked the Notre Dame Keglers out of title contention last year, downing the men from South Bend, 7-4, in a cnicial match. If the Notre Dame team had won this match they would have advanced to within a single point of DePaul.
The high quality of play which has been shown by the bowling team indicates that the Irish are proving their ability in another fast growing sport.
Swimmers Win Opener; Take Four First Places
Behind the victory of Dave Witchger, Frank Dinger, John McLeod and Bill Cronin in the 400-yard freestyle relay, Notre Dame’s swimmers swept to a 5144 victory over Miami of Ohio in its season opener at the Rockne Memorial a pool on December 2.
' Miami’s great Olympic champion, Bill Mulligan took the 200-yard breaststroke, the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard butterfly.
John Clark, Bill Vasu, Tom Weber, and John McLeod chalked up individual , victories for the Irish. Clark won the :	220-yard freestyle event,	Vasu	the	50,	yard freestyle, McLeod	the	100-yard
, freestyle and Weber the diving com’	petition.
i	December 9, 1960
TIME OUT
Notre Dame’s 1960-61 basketbailers stepped off on the right foot as they triumphed in their two initial encounters of this still young 1960-61 season. In all fairness to the Jordanmen, it can be said that in neither game were they extended and therefore an evaluative judgement of their ability is impossible. In their first contest of the season, Jordan’s five had no trouble in beating their Western Illinois visitors, 79-56. This game was a typical “opening” contest in which play on both sides was sloppy. Indeed the final score was not that pleasing to the Irish fans because of the many mistakes by the Green courtmen. Especially significant was the poor display of passing exhibited against the smaller- visitors. But then again, it’s always hard to look good against outclassed competition. The Irish team played much better in the Evansville mismatch. In this runaway, Notre Dame’s passing was more stable, the shooting was better and again the taller Notre Darners completely dominated the backboards. In controlling the backboards in this game as in the first, seldom did the Green allow the opponents more than one shot as they completely swept the defensive boards.
TEAM EFFORTS
It is difficult to single out any individual in the two Irish successes. All have contributed significantly thus far to the team effort. One man however, must be congratulated for his fine play this season — guard Eddie Schnurr. In Notre Dame’s first two games, Schnurr has scored 15 and 20 points respectively while playing an always steady floor game.
The sudden explosion of Armand Reo is no surprise to those who have been watching this 6'6" junior’s progress during the last two seasons. Reo was always known to have the potential but his shortcoming for the past two seasons was a lack of finesse, causing him to foul quite a bit and thus shorten his playing time. In this year’s two games, Reo has demonstrated that his presence in the lineup will be quite an aid in the rebounding department while his scoring totals of 23 and 11 attest to the fact that the Notre Dame team has one of its most balanced scoring attacks in past years.
Captain Bill Crosby was the most improved player on the team in the second game. Against Western Illinois, Crosby played one of his poorer games as he just wasn’t passing with his usual effectiveness. But his performance against Evansville left nothing to be desired as he set up plays with beautiful passes and then stole the ball on numerous occasions from the opposition.
WHAT ABOUT THE FUTURE
The 1960-61 season has just begun and Notre Dame has faced two of its easier opponents. When the Irish met Kentucky last Wednesday at Lexington, they experienced their first taste of competition. The Bowling Green team that the Jordanmen host on Saturday is no poor group either as the visitors bring an outstanding sophomore prospect in Nate Thurmond. Actually, there is no letup in the Irish schedule from here on out. The Green hoopsters will be meeting such teams as Purdue, Indiana, Illinois and Northwestern in succession. North Carolina, Michigan State, Detroit, Bradley and St. Louis are just a few of the big-name schools the Irish must overcome in their bid for an NCAA berth in March.
NOTRE DAME BAND
Making their appearance at the Notre Dame athletic events again this season is the Notre Dame Band, a hard-working group of 140 strong. Throughout the pigskin season, under the direction of Robert F. O’Brien and drum major Bob Battista, the Band performed with its usual decorum and vitality. The band members added a significant spirit to this decorum and vitality and really worked to present interesting entertainment for the Notre Dame students at each football game.
Under the direction of O’Brien since 1952, the Notre Dame band has been marked by continuous progress since that time. The 1960-61 group is composed of 140 men and of these, only eight are music majors—proving that another 132 men are devoting a lot of time and effort just for the sake of playing in the Band.
A small segment of this band was present at the basketball game last Monday night and their effort was probably disregarded by the majority. Yet, when one takes his mind from the action on the court for a while, he cannot help but appreciate the fine contribution that this band makes at every Notre Dame athletic event.	—J.K.
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE Notre Dame's choice
Shakespeare Nominated For Anniversary Award
William Shakespeare, Notre Dame’s All-American of 1936, has been nominated for the Silver Anniversary AllAmerican squad picked annually by Sports Illustrated. The awards are given to the men who in the last 25 years have distinguished themselves by their accomplishments off the gridiron. The slate of candidates is always an impressive one and designation to it is, in itself, a high honor.
Shakespeare, aside from his status as an All-American on the gridiron, was a decorated veteran in World War II and is a businessman who steadily has advanced from sales trainee to company president.
A relatively unknown player for three years, Bill Shakespeare catapulted into the headlines in the Notre Dame-Ohio State game of November 2, 1935.
In the final quarter Notre Dame scored two touchdowns, but missed both conversions to trail 13-12 with less than a minute to go. With Ohio State only seconds away from a national championship, the reliable Shakespeare threw a nineteen yard touchdown pass for one of the greatest Notre Dame comebacks of all time.
Seven years later Bill Shakespeare was in uniform for another kind of combat. Commissioned a second lieutenant, he fought with the 106th Infantry Division in several major European campaigns.
He joined the Thor Power Tool Company in Aurora, Ill. as a sales trainee following his graduation in 1936. He worked his way up until, in 1957, he was transferred to Thor’s subsidiary, the Cincinnati Rubber Manufacturing Company, as assistant to the president. He was promoted to vice president in 1958 and became president of the firm early this year.
Shakespeare has contributed steadily to the civic and religious life in the communities where he has lived.
22
Irish Sailors Complete Year At Angsten Memorial Regatta
Over Thanksgiving week end the Notre Dame Sailing Team finished its fall season by competing in the Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta. The regatta is a classic sponsored by the Chicago Yacht Club each year during this fall week end.
The competing schools are chosen from all schools in the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association on the basis of an elimination regatta held in each of the Midwest districts. The Ramblers sailed successfully in its elimination regatta three weeks ago at Purdue. Beside the Midwest competing schools, several Eastern schools are invited to attend. This year the United States Coast Guard Academy returned to defend their last year’s championship along with the Merchant Marine Academy, Brown and Georgetown.
Very light and unpredictable winds prevented most of the sailors from using their ability as fully as they might have. The Coast Guard Sailors, a team supported entirely by the school and considered a varsity sport, again showed their superiority however by finishing the week end far ahead of Ohio State, the second place school.
Dan Schuster, Chuck Finnigan and John Zusi skippered for Notre Dame supported by crew, Jim Kuras. Hank Chamberlin and Marty Meyer worked on the dock.
The final scores were as follows: Coast Guard, 309; Ohio State, 263; University of Michigan, 261; Brown, 245; University of Detroit, 218; Wayne, 213; Marquette, 209; Wisconsin, 197; Notre Dame, 173; Wooster, 148; Georgetown, 136; Merchant Marine, 127; Ohio Wesleyan, 122.
The usual meeting will be held this Wednesday at 7:30 in 209 Engineering Building.
Pool Operators Select Horvath As President
At a meeting held during the first week of November, Steve Horvath, pool engineer at Notre Dame, was elected President of the Beach and Pool Operators Association of Indiana.
The Association includes most of the people in the state who have an interest in swimming pools. It includes those whose interest stems from the commercial side; those from the municipal or public side; and those whose interest is from the private or personal side.
This Association helps the people in Indiana with their problems that pertain to swimming pools; problems of a technical, administrative, operational or any other type there may be. The Association will hold its annual meeting at Notre Dame sometime in the spring.
This airplane is actually a flying classroom. The course taught in it is Air Navigation, under real conditions. The students are young men who have been selected as possible future leaders of the Aerospace Team. Graduation after 32 weeks of training will win each of the students the honored silver wings of an Air Force Navigator and an Officers Commission.
For certain young men, this training can open the way to a bright career of executive potential. Right now the Air Force is scoring impressive technological advances in the fields of navigation, guidance and tracking, electronics and radar. And here is where its highly trained and experienced Navigatorswill be expected to take over command positions of increasing responsibility.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet, you must be between 19 and 26/4—single, healthy and intelligent. And you must want to build an exciting, interesting career in the Aerospace Age. If you think you measure up, we’d like to talk to you at the nearest Air Force Recruiting Office. Or clip and mail this coupon.
There's a place for tomorrow's leaders on the * y Aerospace Team. I |
Air Force
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY AVIATION CADET INFORMATION DEPT. SCL012A BOX 7606, WASHINGTON 4, D. C. I am between 19 and 26%, a citizen o the U.S. and a high school graduate witl -----.years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Aviation Cadet program.
NAME_____________ STREET___________ CITY_____________ COUNTY.__________STATE.____
■3
The Scholastic'
Repercussions
(Continued from page 6) praisal of President-elect Kennedy. Nowhere in his letter to Time does he “classify the U. S. as simply a secular society.” How do you attribute this to him in your Commentary in the 11 November, ’60 issue of the Scholastic?
Lt. Joseph L. Schaefer, ’59 • (Ed Note: When Prof. Keegan claimed that one of Mr. Kennedy’s great political assets was his secular — not secularist™ — approach, the implication is that the quality is an asset because the society is receptive, i.e., secular.)
Correction
Editor:
I would like to call to the attention of the students that in the November 08 issue of the Scholastic it was incorrectly reported that for each Mardi Gras raffle book sold a student would receive a $5 commission. Actually each book sells for $7.50 with $5 going to the Mardi Gras and $2.50 to the seller.
I’m sure this was merely an oversight, because in every other respect the staff has been more than willing to help the Mardi Gras towards its goal. Witness of this is the fine story about ^arbi Farbistat in this issue.
James Kaval
Publicity Chairman
More About Rights Editor:
Mr. Smith, in his latest Back Page, continues his defense of State’s Rights by elaborating his hierarchical theory of government. One point intrigues me. ^Ir. Smith speaks of the “articulation of people” as a preparation for their “action in history.” What happens when there is a major flaw in this articulation? What happens when one segment of a society deliberately articulates in such a manner that it purposely excludes another large segment of that society from articulation? In such a case, Mr. Smith’s hierarchical structure cannot exist because there is no proper Bjase upon which a proper stinicture can be erected.
If in one of our states, or in a group of states, there exists a wrongly articulate society in which a large group of people is effectively denied its proper articulation, the federal government must compel that state or states, by direct action if necessary, to establish a form of society which is properly articulated.
David Hudson
B
Guess Who? Editor:
In the past few issues of the Scholastic the initials MEP, (I assume they’re initials) have appeared in the magazine. What significance do they hold? Are they there to fill up space?
(Ed note: We would also like to know who our cash paying mystery advertiser is.)
^December 9, 1960
KEATS
on Life Savers:
“Why not live sweetly?”
from The Dove, line 10
Not this: a student who studios drowsily no matter how much sleep he gets.
This! Perspicacious ... sharp! NoDoz keeps you awake and alert—safety!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word to remember is NoDoz®. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
So to keep perspicacious during study and
exams—and while driving, too— always keep NoDoz in proximity.
1
The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
23
CAC Initiates Annual Day for Senior Class
Under the sponsorship of the Commerce Activities Council, the College of Commerce initiated its annual Senior Day in the Morris Inn yesterday.
With a theme of enhancing the feeling of unity among seniors of the College of Commerce and with the purpose of bringing about a closer relationship of teacher and student, the “day” was planned and directed by Tim Hinchey, commerce senator, and the senior member of the CAC.
Attended by over 100 students and teachers, Commerce Senior Day began with a Mass said by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. in the Alumni Hall Chapel and was followed by breakfast in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. After breakfast, Dean James W. Culliton gave a short talk.
The highlight of the “day” was a panel discussion by a group of business executives from the Indiana Chapter of the Young Presidents Organization, which is made up of men who are relatively young but who have been extremely successful in the management of companies. The topic was “The Free Enterprise System in America.”
The Commerce Activities Council is a coordinating group for all Commerce College Clubs and carries on activities for the Commerce School as a whole, which otherwise could not be carried on individually by any one Club.
Its members are drawn from each Commerce Club including the president and a designated representative.
STUDENT TRAVEL... STUDENTS CAN AFFORD!	40 ITINERARIES featuring: Western & Eastern Europe Scandinavia • Africa South America • Japan round-the-world 54-80 days $825-$2,200
TRAVEL-STUDY PROGRAMS some scholarship assistance available 40-70 days $875-$l,080	SPRING VACATION TRIPS Bermuda • Puerto Rico Hawaii from $195
STUDENT TRAVEL PUBLICATIONS International Student ID Card	$ .50 Hostels & Restaurants Handbook	 1.00 Work, Study, Travel Abroad	 1.00	
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION Educational Travel, Inc., Dept, cn 20 West 38th Street, New York 18, New York OXford 5-5070 “ USNSA s a non-profit organization serving the American student community"	
Dome Boasts New Look, Fine National Reputation
In 1959, John Thurin initiated a “New Look” into the Dome. It met with great success and over the past two years the Dome has gained the reputation of being one of the finest yearbooks in the country.
For the last 50 years the Dome has been rated by the Associated Collegiate Press Rating Service. This rating service, located at the University of Minnesota, rates about 400 college yearbooks and is considered the best rating service in the Midwest. The Dome has received two awards in the last 50 years from A.C.P. The last two years the Dome received the All-American Award, which is the highest rating given to any yearbook.
Last year, for the first time, the Dome was rated by the Columbia Scholastic Press Association, located at Columbia University in New York, which rates all the Ivy League schools. In C.S.P.A. ratings the yearbooks are divided into three classes. The Dome was placed in the top 10 per cent of the first class, scoring 987 points out of a possible 1000. This placed the Dome in the Medalist Class which included only a very few other publications.
24
&
The Scholastic
Back Page
(Continued from page 26) priest as the representative of Christ on earth.
The move toward co-operation between priest and layman can begin in the Catholic colleges and universities of the nation; for it is here that the future leaders of the parish and of country are educated. We, at Notre Dame, as members of the leading American Catholic
university, can be instrumental in effecting a renewal of this co-operation, and thus even a renaissance of our society. The acceptance by each individual — student, professor, priest — of his personal responsibility and right “to bring to his fellow man the blessings intended for him by God,” of a natural commitment to the excellence and perfection which are attained only by the action of a free agent — this acceptance will necessarily bring about
a closer understanding between all individuals and groups concerned. Religious, moral, and intellectual convictions will be strengthened because a sense of mutual respect and charity of clergy and laity (the teachers and the taught) for each other will have been justifiably awakened. It would not be impossible to revive individual responsibility and initiative here, though it would demand much compromise. Notre Dame could be an example to the world that it can be done.
This Grand Tour of Europe can be yours... next summer!
England ... the Continent... touring capital cities, hamlets . . . traveling through beautiful countryside, quaint villages and passing landmarks ... enjoying good fellowship ... laughter, conversation and song! And it’s all yours when you choose one of the American Express 1961 Student Tours of Europe! Groups are small, led by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries cover England, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France. There are 12 departures in all, timed to fit in with your summer vacation; ranging in duration from 47 to 62 days ... by ship leaving New York during June and July... starting as low as $1402.50. And with American Express handling all the details, there’s ample time for full sight-seeing and leisure, too!
Other European Escorted Tours from $776.60 and up. MEMBER: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service or simply mail the coupon.
»	* American Express Travel Service, Sales Division *
® 65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.	®
~ Dear Sir: Please send me literature on Student Tours of Europe □ ® European Escorted Tours—1961 □ J H Name______________________________ R|
J Address ® H City________________Zone_State |
taMKiBHaaiaiiMiisaaaiil
December 9, 1960
Farbi
(Continued from page 17)
Yes, there have been many reasons why I’m convinced about Farbi. And I don’t doubt that our benefactor will assure J. T. Phillips, the carnival chairman, success in his latest venture, a South Bend night for one of the three performances of his gala midway. Nor will he ignore the hopes of Ang for filling the field house to capacity for Manne and His Men. There’s little chance too that Dave won’t receive help in grossing $47,000 on the raffle. Being the most important, this latter item might call for an extra effort by our man. But he’ll do it.
Which brings to mind what just happened last week in the office.
I was telling Dave that the week before Christmas vacation I would circulate a booklet titled “How to sell raffle books.” Dave thought it a good idea, but wondered what I was going to say. I told him in light of my recent conversion to the Farbi cause that I’m just going to tell the students to show a prospective customer the picture of Mr. Farbistat in the student brochure, and then produce the chance books. After that, I’ll say, Farbi will handle the rest.
Dave immediately pounced on the validity of this statement, “You really don’t believe that, do you?”
Just then Rich interrupted our parley, “Where’s some more student brochures?”
After motioning to a box on the opposite side of the room, Dave quizingly remarked, “What do you want more for?”
“Oh, I’m going home this week end and want to show Farbi to the people, before I ask them to buy the chances,” Rich answered as he picked up a handful of brochures.
I turned to Dave, “He believes it.”
DR. N. RZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 305 S. Mchigan	AT 7-5477
25
a case foe, individual action
On the 19th of November the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States issued a statement deploring the rise of what they called “the organizational man” and urging a revival of individual responsibility and initiative in American society. In the words of the statement: “An inordinate demand for benefits, most easily secured by the pressures of organization, has led an evergrowing number of our people to relinquish their rights and to abdicate their responsibilities.” And, first among “the moral causes which have undermined men’s sense of responsibility . . . has been the marked decline in the forces of religious conviction.”
According to the bishops’ statement, “it is the function of religion to teach man his unique dignity as a son of God and brother of Christ.” But, to do so, and to achieve the object of the Church defined by Pope Pius XII (“man, naturally good, imbued, ennobled, and strengthened by the truth and grace of Christ”) a certain rapport must be present between the teachers and the taught — between clergy and laity — based on mutual respect and charity. This rapport is hardly universal today. Anticlericalism is the rule, rather than the exception, in many European and Latin American countries. (It is only necessary to point to the recent Puerto Rican affair to substantiate this.) In the United States we usually find, not active anticlericalism, but rather passive indifference, due partly to the gradual disintegration of mutual respect in the parish and Catholic college and university.
POVERTY IN THE PARISH
Catholic parishioners today tend to allot only one hour a week or less to religion. They relegate to the priests the task of saving their souls, thus avoiding a fundamental area of personal autonomy — that of moral self-development. Their natural desire for salvation, qualified by their lack of “individual responsibility and initiative” to attain it for themselves, causes them “to relinquish- their rights” as free agents moving toward their own perfection. They seek to be spoon-fed into sanctity.
26
This attitude is sometimes fostered by the parish priests, who often emphasize only the material or financial aspects of parochial life — the cost of the new church, the returns from last week’s collection, the need for another statute. Important as these things are, they do not represent the primary object of the Church.
Such a state of affairs inevitably leads to a widening of the gap between the clergy and laity, if only because of the gradual divergence of purpose. The two groups no longer act as one in achieving the goal of the Church, and thus each becomes weak and somewhat beside the point.
Unfortunately, a stronger antipathy towards the clergy is often found, in the American Catholic university. Here the situation differs from that in the parish. The educator-priest must face, besides the problem of aiding in the salvation of souls, the additional problem of educating minds. He may sometimes feel that the two duties are in conflict— that certain knowledge must not be taught; that certain restrictions must be placed on the students foi’ his own and the common good. However, such a policy seems not to encourage what the Amei-ican bishops have described as “a fresh evocation and practice of personal responsibility which can revivify our society and help to stem the seemingly inexorable march toward the automation of human beings and the steady loss of the freedom which is man’s distinctive attribute.”
On the other hand, many Catholic students fail to understand the conflict between the sacred and the profane. They often take refuge behind a shoddy secularism which, at least implicitly, denies any hierarchy of values in human action — any good beyond the temporal. Their objections to the clergy are ordinarily based upon personalities — not policies. As recently happened here, they riot for the wrong reasons. And seeing the inefiicacy of these uncontrolled and unreasoning protests, they lapse into cynical apathy and resentment.
If a man is to fulfill the object of the Church, his natural and supernatural perfection, he must do it himself. Pius XI has said in the “Quadra-gesimo Anno”: “. . . one cannot take
away from individuals and transfer to the community the tasks they are capable of accomplishing by themselves.”^ In the same sense, an individual cannot willingly relinquish those tasks to the community. When a man finds it necessary to join himself to any institution — civil, educational, or religious — in order to achieve goals beyond his individual capacity, he must do so only, as Pope John XXIII stated, “on the condition that each of these institutions re
mains within its own sphere of responsibility; that it be offered to, not imposed upon, the free choice of man's1
kind.” The Holy Father continued, speaking of the individual’s position in the community: “Fully conscious of what is at stake, moved by his apostolic zeal, he then makes a personal engagement with these communities that surround him, the result of a free and justified choice of careful thought about himself, his destiny, and the world.” He must not do good because his temptations are resisted for him; he*' must not know the truth because he has
been taught no error.
LAYMAN AND CLERIC
Religion — in our case, the Catholic Church — is, in the view of the American bishops, the area in which any move against the decline of American society^ must begin. “Deepened religious convictions will bolstei- and reactivate the sense of personal responsibility.” But religious convictions can be deepened only after a closer relation between clergy and laity is re-established. One cannot teach and develop convictions if he is ignored. One cannot learn and apply them if he is untested and unduly restricted.
The rapport, founded upon mutual respect and charity, must be present in^ lay-clerical relations before any positive* action can be undertaken by the entire Church. Such a rapport demands that there be an intelligent, tolerant, and authoritative clergy working in union with an informed, receptive, and critical laity. That clergy will respect the ultimate autonomy of the individual in the sphere of his own perfection; while that laity will respect the authority of the
(Concluded on page 25)
Q
The Scholastic
Oxford
for comfort...quality ...appearance
The rich texturing of fine oxford, the skillful tailoring give the assurance of being well-dressed. Case in point: the Arrow Tabber, the authentic British type improved with self-snap tabs. Your wardrobe is incomplete without this Arrow shirt.
$5.00
cum laude collection by
-ARROW-
oxford ...
at its best
Favored in university circles for its handsome appearance, its true comfort. A classic white oxford from our Cum Laude collection is this Arrow snap-tab collar style with back-button and box pleat.
$5.00
GILBERT'
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
HXESS?
“FIND THE ANSWER, JIM-AND BRING IT BACK"
When Jim Boardman took his B.S. in Electrical Engineering at Colorado State, there was one idea uppermost in his mind. He wanted a job in which he could work his way into management via the engineering route. As he puts it, “I didn’t want to stick with straight engineering all my life.”
After talking to eight other organizations Jim joined The Mountain States Telephone & Telegraph Company. He soon got the kind of action he was looking for.
His first assignment: How best to improve widely scattered rural telephone service all over Colorado—a sticky engineering challenge. He was given a free hand to work out his own procedures. His boss simply said, “Find the answer, Jim—and bring it back.”
Six months later, Jim turned in his recom- 1) mendations. His plan was accepted.
Next stop: Colorado Springs. Here Jim worked out a plan to expand telephone facilities for this burgeoning community. This plan, too, is now in operation.
Today, at 24, Jim has an important role in planning where, how much, and what kind of telephone service is needed in the Denver area.
Here’s how Jim puts it: “We get tough assignments—but we also have the freedom to take hold and do a job. I think the future here is unlimited. If a man wants to do it—it’s there to be done.”
If you’re a guy who can “Find the answer— and bring it back”—you’ll want to get with a company where you have the chance. Visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.	f)
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find.”
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES