Volume 73
April 19. 1940
Number 22
SUNDAY evening at Theatre Doors B o’clock the curtain Open, Sunday will rise on the second University stage production of the school year, when 25 actors and actresses tread the stage of Washington Hall in a presentation of Oliver Goldsmith’s “She Stoops to Conquer.”	(See page 5)
4*
PRECEDING the reg-Swarthout to	ular Notre Dame music
Sing, Monday	week observance by
‘ seven days, Miss Gladys Swarthout will appear in concert recital on Monday evening at South Bend’s Granada Theatre. The University symphony will appear on campus, Monday, April 29. (See page 6)
POLITICAL guns Council Will boom again along the Elect, Tuesday campus front, Tuesday, when Student Council representatives from five colleges—Arts and Letters, Commerce, Law, Science and Engineering—will be elected in daylong balloting in the basement of the Cafeteria.	(See page 7)
❖
THE NOTRE DAME
Outdoor Track track squad, which has ' Season Begins dedicated its season to the memory of the late
John P. Nicholson, opens the outdoor campaign at Bloomington, Ind., tomorrow, at the Indiana Relays. Michigan, Indiana, Illinois will compete in the four-team meet.	(See page 14)
Philosophers convene — L to r., Miss Mary Tharp (Indiana), Alfred Callan, Robert Sullivan. Donald Rath (Indiana); inset. Miss Jean McGrew (Indiana). James baner. ..
Hw wouldyou answer these questions?
Who is the most advertised doctor in the U.S.?
And how, banned from the air, does he still sell his attractively priced “operations” over XERA, “the world’s most powerful broadcasting station”? Here’s the story of the goat-gland medico the authorities are finally after, and how he has made a fabulous fortune by methods the FCC and the American Medical Association would give their collective rightarmtostop.ReadCown-try Doctor Goes to Town, by J. C. Furnas.
How would you get even with a sarcastic boss?
Say you were on a newspaper where three city editors and two managing editors had quit because they couldn’t stand the sarcastic old goat who owned the paper... Could you get even — in print? Read Merrily We Go to Press, by Phil R. Sheridan.
Who made Baseball the “National Game”?
With strictly phony innocence, who foxed a U. S. President into tossing out the first ball of the season, thereby establishing “the great American game”? Who has the greatest reputation in baseball for collecting eccentric players and actually thinks he can lick the Yanks? Read The Old Fox Turns Magnate, by Bob Considine and Shirley Povich.
You have almost learned
to fly and...
in the air you’re a wizard —chandelles are a cinch— with an instructor along. But the way you make landings is sheer suicide. Should they let you try a solo flight? Or make you quit? A story of a flying cadet’slastchance.Growjjd-Shy, by Sparks Hausman.
What are Europe’s newest stunts in war propaganda?
Why did German loudspeakers blast out the Marseillaise to greet the French President when he visited the front? Why did the British bomb the Nazis with tiny bags of coffee? Whose trick is it to send forged or anonymous letters to soldiers, giving them false news about their families? Edmond Taylor, in this week’s Post, tells you how warring nations use lies... and truth!... to fool some of the people all the time. Turn to Propaganda Changes Poisons—page 27.
If you found a diamond ring
and knew if you gave it back you’d be accused of stealing it, what would you do? That was the dilemma facing Big Joe and Uncle Pete, those positive geniuses at doing the wrong thing at the right time! Read Your Mom Was a Lady. A new “Uncle Pete” story hy R. Ross Annett in this week’s Post.
Suppose you were slowly starving to death...
in a lonely ramshackle store, and your only friend was a kid who worshiped you because he thought you really had killed Indians—would you disillusion the boy or invent more stories? Turn to page 9 of your Post for the,curious story of a man with too many memories. Mister Ears, by Eddy Orcutt.
How far can birds travel
without stopping to eat or sleep?
How can birds navigate with mathematical accuracy? What bird commutes each year 11,000 miles from North to South Pole ? And which one hops the Atlantic twice a year ? Read odd factsaboutbirdflightsbyRaymondS.Deck, Pageant in theSky. AND... SHARPSHOOTING AT INSURANCE by Raymond Moley; serials, editorials, poems, cartoons—all in this week’s issue of The Saturday Evening Post. Now on sale.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST Q
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE By JACK WILLMANN
Speaking of Editorials
And who isn’t nowadays? The first paragraph in the editorial column of the U. of Portland Beacon was given over to an apology for an editorial that appeared in a previous issue. Get back in line, you editors, or you’ll be playing tennis in something akin to Badin Bog. And that would disappoint many soft-ball exercisists. (Ed note: John Betz Albert Wilmann’s views are not necessarily his own nor those of the Scholastic.)
Neither Can You
Cliff: “Why so melancholy, old man?”
Joe: “Sunnie rejected me last night.”
Cliff: “Well, buck up; there are others.”
under the influence of an Experimental Psychology class. One serious writer, interested in the means by which O. S. men satisfy the second most powerful human instinct, unearthed these sober statistics on the popularity of the thirstsoothers :
1.	Beer.
2.	Bottled beer.
3.	Beer-on-tap.
4.	Canned beer.
5.	Hydrochloric acid.
6.	Water.
Vanderbilt's Shore Thing
Cheerleading for the Vandys spoiled Dinah Shore’s larynx for operatic singing, but her voice now has a peculiar
quality that makes her a favorite singer of popular ballads. Always pointing for a canary career, this young lady was dragged bodily out of a night club by her father. He thought that her fourteen years made her too young for such a position. Now she is putting her tonal effects on wax, and instead of leading the cheering, she entices nickels from the boys and girls who feed the juke-boxes.
❖
Who Said Depression?
A pan-handler stopped a wealthy-looking man on the street and asked him:
“Can you spare $1.98 for a cup of coffee?”
“$1.98 for a cup of coffee?” asked the surprised victim.
“Yeah,” answered the beggar. ‘‘I’m tired of the cheap coffee they serve in restaurants lately. I want to get me a percolator.”— Urchin.
Joe: “Yes, of course, but I can’t help but feel sorry for the poor girl.”
Don Quixote at Princeton
If the opinion of a certain underworld character is any indication, the best sucker list in the country consists of the names on the Princeton student register. College men are reputedly susceptible to easy money, crack-pot adventure schemes, and beautiful women, but over 100 letters were received on the Nassau campus to this effect:
“If you give me money to get out of a Mexican jail, you will win one third of my fortune and the gratitude of me and my beautiful daughter.”
The letter was signed in full by a Mr. “A.”
❖
Fast But Not Futile
First Officer: “Did you get that fellow’s number?”
Second Ditto: “No, he was going too fast.”
First: “That was a fine looking girl in that car.”
Second: “Wasn’t she?”
—Travelers' Beacon
Real Initiative
Live-wires are the columnists on the Ohio State Lantern and their stuff has a nice tang that sparkles the reader’s eyes. However, those boys are capable of intense academic research, probably
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
IN THE
Aren't We Punny? . . .
The office boy just swooped into the office and yelped at us: “Apples aren’t red, you dope; they’re eaten!” After we dumped the mangled remains into the gutter, we took a mental inventory of what we were thinking about. After adding up the sum total to nothing, we decided that maybe it wasn’t such a bad pun after all, and reminded us that we had already collected a bunch of the world’s worst for this issue, and hid them somewhere in this magazine.
Someone §nce said that a pun is the lowest form of humor. But the success of a pun, come to think of it, depends on the amount of disgusted grunts you hear. The more, the merrier, in other words.
The best we’ve heard in a number of years is about a man who couldn’t stop from cracking a pun in company. One of his irate friends locked him in a room and yelled at him, “I won’t open this door unless you promise never to pull another pun!” Frantically, the punster screamed back at him, “0, pun the door!”
And he never got out.
❖
What Lincoln Meant:
“You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can’t fool all of the people all of the time” . . . they make fools of themselves.
❖
Confucius Say:
The tong is ended, but Manchuria lingers on. The Japs (pleasant Jappies, wot?) are Canton tonight on the old camp-ground, but they insist that it’s just another friendly Shanghai gesture. What is the Korea trouble? The Chinese say, “You’d Buddha scram; do you want tibet your isle against our Great Wall?”
“Wall, wall!” replied Japan. “Who was that rickasaw you with last night?”
“That was no rickasaw; that was my
rice. You fellers are just a crowd of Peiping tongs.”
The orchestra begins “China, China, Harvest Moon.” One of the ladies is discovered playing her mandarin, but it was just a Japanese bandman.
“You’ll have to geisha gen; you’re wong as usual,” says Japan. “Well, we may be sarong, but we think you’re punk,” replies China.
A gong rings, a tong sings and the evening ends as both teams Malay them down to sleeping; is it spelt Pekin or Peiping? And that’s the real dope, at S100 an ounce.
How to Be a Cynic
First of all you must not be goodlooking, thus you can become very morbid because you think that no one thinks that you are attractive. You must sneer at all organizations, except the Knights of Columbus: the Rotary Club, the Elks, the Odd Fellows, the Tuesday Study Club, et al.
You must sneer at the radio, the movies, all magazines that cost less than 25 cents (except the New Yorker and Time), and everything else from which the average person gets enjoyment. You must ridicule sophomores who try nearly as hard as you to appear cynical. You must speak slightingly of all dumb but honest people such as street-car conductors and motormen, barbers, and taxidrivers. And lastly, you must always be careful to lock your door when you are reading the Saturday Evening Post— and liking it.
Memory Book
“ ‘The sweet perfume of your charm haunts me like the hidden blooms of spring. Oh, how my heart pants after you, divine creature of more than human beauty. Your eyes....’
Gee, Yoonus, don’tcha wish ya were livin’ back in the age o’ shivulry? These fresh guys don’t show a goil no respect nowadays.”
CAMPUS OPINION
v
Lyons Hall
April 12, 1940 Editor, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Sir:
Several times now during the last rainy season I have gotten across campus to the carline only to find the trolley disappearing in the mist down Notre Dame avenue. So I pulled up the collar of my raincoat and waited in the rain five minutes until the next trolley coasted in.
Once I managed to squeeze into the policeman’s shack and avoid a dousing, but the other times I absorbed a good soaking. Not a very pleasant prelude to an afternoon in town — and the matter becomes doubly exasperating when you think how quickly and how inexpensively a shelter could he erected.
The shelter need not be large — the familiar three-sided little wooden box railroad type would be satisfactory — and I believe the improvement would be appreciated generally by the campus.
Sincerely,
(Signed) Soaking Wet.
Sorin Sub
April 1, 1940 Editor, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana
I have noticed that from time to time The Scholastic has championed various causes. Sometimes the cause has been “no smut” in literature, art, or in motion pictures.
Now since I second the various causes you advocate, I wonder if you would jump on my band wagon. I’m a radio fan bothered by electric razors. There is no telling what time a Goodman session will be bothered by the awful buzz down the hall or a giant “Sunbeam” upstairs. Right after breakfast when I sit dreaming to the tune of the “Blue Danube” something that sounds like a motor boat disturbs the peace of that stream. It’s not fair.
I’m at the point where I think there ought to be another law — or at least a rule, outlawing ill-timed shavers. They should be given from 7:30 till 8:00 in the morning, 12:30 till 1:00 at noon, and from 6:30 till 7:00 at night. We music lovers are willing to sacrifice those periods, if we can have the rest of the time in peace.
Yours truly,
(Signed) In A. Lather.
Comment: There are two schools of thought on this point. We have at hand a letter from an Alumnite who objects because certain people play their radios while he shaves.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Volume 73
April 19, 1940
Number 22
PLAYERS HOP FROM TRENCH TO TRAVESTY
THE CAST
Sir Charles Marlow________________________John	McGrath
Young Marlow---------------------------William	Mulvey
Squire Hardcastle______________________William	Hickey
George Hastings___________________________Jack	Boyce
Diggory----------------------------George York
Roger____________________________Michael Kiely
Dick Jack	Quinn
Thomas___________________________________David	Fitch
Stingo, landlord of “Three Pigeons”_____________William Scanlon
Slangy---------------------------Dick Houlihan
Jimmy____________________________Michael Kiely
Mat Muggins______.________________Jack Dunlavy
Tom Twist__________________________John Flynn
Aminadab___________________________John Specht
Mrs. Hardcastle--------------------Miss Taafe
Kate Hardcastle_____________Miss Helene Cryan
Constance Neville.__________Miss Jayne Bunch
Maid______________________Miss Margaret Huryn
Pot-boy________________________Walter Brennan
Postillion John Webster
Barmaid_________________Miss DorothyLevendoski
Sleeping man________________________John Wood
Farmer James MeElroy
—Don Heltzel
University Players Present Comedy, She Stoops to Conquer," Sunday
Knights Will Frolic at
Spring Formal Tonight
Knights and fair ladies will gather this evening at the Palais Royale to dance to the music of Jack McLean and
Second Performance to
Be Given Monday Night
At eight o’clock Sunday evening the curtain will rise on the second University stage production of the school year, when 25 actors and actresses tread the stage of Washington Hall in a presentation of Oliver Goldsmith’s 18th century comedy, “She Stoops to Conquer.” A second performance will be given Monday evening at the same time and place.
With snappy, witty dialogue and amusing characters, “She Stoops to Conquer” has been a favorite of playgoers since it first appeared in 1773. A comedy in five acts, the plot deals essentially with Marlow — “one of the most bashful and reserved young fellows in the world” — who goes with a friend to visit the Hardcastles because his father, Sir Charles, has proposed a match between Miss Hardcastle and his son. Losing their way at night they are directed by Tony Lumpkin (Mrs. Hardcastle’s son by a previous marriage) to a nearby
inn, which is really the Hardcastle home. Marlow takes Hardcastle for the landlord and makes violent love to his daughter, under the impression that she is a servant. The plot unwinds when Sir Charles arrives and clears everything up.
The action of the entire play takes place one night (the sub-title of the play is “The Mistake of a Night” and creates comedy situations which are still fresh.
According to .the Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., director of the play, “She Stoops to Conquer” has been presented by most American universities, but this marks the first time for Notre Dame. In making this announcement most collegiate summer theaters promise it as one of their productions. It has been said that the continual popularity of “She Stoops to Conquer” is evidence enough of its worth.
Father Coyle stated that the play and cast were outstanding and that he expects good performances on both evenings.
The cast of “She Stoops to Conquer” follows:
his orchestra. The occasion is the Knights of Columbus Annual Spring Formal. Novelty is the theme of this year’s dance, and General Chairman G e o r g e Morris i s introducing countless new ideas in decorations, favors, reception, and music. .
Guests entering the ball room upon arrival will trek across a built-in drawbridge, and on the way across will look at the walls
George Morris
of a feudal castle constructed by decorations Chairman Jerry Sullivan. Inside, the guests will be greeted by a reception line, and escorted to reserved tables by one of the reception committee members. Traditional at Knights of Columbus dances is the cabaret style,, with tables placed around the dance floor. Candles and flowers will help to brighten the atmosphere at each table. Beautiful drapes will set off the orchestra.
To the dance are invited all sopho-
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE GLEE CLUB — A NOTRE DAME CONTRIBUTION TO MUSIC WEEK
mores, juniors, and seniors as well as freshmen who are members of the K. of C.
The respective committee chairmen are: Joe McNerthney, Joe McKeon, Ed Reidy, Bud Bernard, Walt Cronin, Jerry Sullivan, Jim Fayet, Charles O’Brien, Ray Kelly, Paul Glass, Dan Hushek, Bill Gagan, and John Curran.
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., has consented to extend invitations to the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine guests meeting at St. Mary’s.
Hours of the dance will be from 9 until 12. All students must be in their respective residence halls by 12:30.
—John Patterson
300 Here Tomorrow For
Engineers1 Convention
More than 300 representatives of various midwestern engineering colleges and institutes will meet tomorrow at Notre Dame for the sixth annual convention of the Illinois-Indiana section of the Society for Promotion of Engineering Education.
Delegates are expected from Purdue University, Rose Polytechnic Institute, University of Illinois, Northwestern University, Armour Institute of Technology, Lewis Institute, and the University of Notre Dame. The meeting is open to anyone interested in engineering educational problems, and registartion will take place in the lobby of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. Opportunity for inspection of the Notre Dame laboratories will be afforded.
Rev. J.Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of the University, will welcome the delegates to the campus at .the morning session in the auditorium of the engineering building at 10 o’clock, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-presi
dent, will deliver a short talk on “Education at Notre Dame.”
Other speakers on the morning program will include Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., dean of the Notre Dame college of engineering, and F. G. Seulberger, professor of cooperative education and director of the department of industrial relations at Northwestern University.
This session will end with a business conference and the election of officers and members of the executive committee for the ensuing year. Prof. Walter L. Shilts, present chairman of the organization and assistant dean of the Notre Dame College of Engineering, will preside.
Highlighting the afternoon meeting at 2 o’clock in the engineering auditorium is a talk entitled “You and Research” by Mr. T. A. Boyd, Director of Development, General Motors Cooperation, Detroit, Michigan.
An informal dinner for delegates arriving early has been arranged for Friday evening at the Hotel LaSalle and a luncheon will be served Saturday in the Notre Dame faculty dining hall.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
Applications for the editorships of the Scholastic, the Dome, and Scrip for the schoolyear of 1940-41 should be mailed to the Board of Publications not later than Monday, April 22. The applications may be sent either to the Board of Publications or to the respective faculty advisors, Father Laskowski (Scholastic), Father Charles Carey (Dome), and Father Leo L. Ward (Scrip).
John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.
Chairman of Board of Publ.
Gladys Swarthout Sings at Granada Monday Night
Preceding the regular Notre Dame music week observance by seven days, Miss Gladys Swarthout will appear in concert recital on Monday evening at South Bend’s Granada Theatre. Tickets for Miss Swarthout’s recital may still be available, though a sell-out was indicated by sales early this week. The Masonic Order of South Bend is sponsoring this recital for which ticket prices range from fifty cents to two dollars.
The University symphony orchestra will open music week on the campus the following Monday night, April 29, when it presents a program in Washington Hall. Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, will conduct the orchestra. This program will feature for the first time anywhere a new symphony composed by a member of this year’s senior class, Karl Hunn. Karl is familiar to students as leader of the dance band which bears his name, an orchestra which he organized and has kept together during his years at Notre Dame. Because of this active connection with dance music it should be interesting to see what Karl Hunn is capable of producing in the field of classical music. His symphony is yet without title, but he promises it will have a name by April 29.
On Tuesday evening, April 30, the Notre Dame Glee Club, also directed by Mr. Pedtke, will make its third appearance of the year before campus audiences, in Washington Hall.
Ezio Pinza, basso, will present a recital in the auditorium of South Bend Central High School on Wednesday evening, May 1. Mr. Frank Lloyd, University comptroller, announces that members of all campus music organizations
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
will be provided with tickets for this concert. Admittance to this program is restricted to members of the South Bend Civic Music Association, sponsors of Mr. Pinza’s appearance. Ezio Pinza is known to music lovers everywhere as possessor of one of the world’s finest bass voices, and has been affiliated with the Metropolitan Opera Company for years as bass soloist.
Albert Spaulding, violin virtuoso, and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra will conclude the 1940 music week program with their appearance in the University fieldhouse on Friday evening, May 3. All students will be admitted without charge to this concert. Albert Spaulding, one of the world’s few native American violinists, is, of course, the featured artist of this concert, but one should not overlook the merits of the South Bend Symphony. This organization is now recognized as one of the truly good symphony orchestras of the country.—John Casey
Student Council Elects
From Colleges, Tuesday
Political guns boom again along the campus front, Tuesday, when Student Council representatives from five colleges — Arts and Letters, Commerce, Law, Science, and Engineering — will be elected in day-long balloting in the basement of the Cafeteria.
Retiring Council President Jerry Donovan announced today that Vice-president Clarence Marquardt will govern the new council until October, when a new president will be elected, immediately following the election of representatives from upper-class halls. Under the council constitution Marquardt is not eligible for election to the council presidency.
Donovan also announced that preliminary class elections will begin Monday, April 29, when Sophomores go to the polls; Senior prelims follow, Tuesday, April 30; and Juniors vote Wednesday, May 1. Should but two parties enter slates in any election preliminary balloting will be omitted. Final elections for all classes will take place Tuesday, May 6.
Academy Of Science
The 178th meeting of the Academy of Science was called to order last Monday evening in Room 101, Biology Building. Mr. Robert Gaspar Fishe presented a paper on the “Chemotherapy with Bismuth Vevitamate,” and Mr. Robert Demeter on the “Factors Affecting Osagone Formation with Galactose and Mattose.”
Clinton Worked Up From the Topi
Dipsy Doodler's Opening Night Broke All Records at Glen Island Casino
Most talked about bandleadei- in America today is Larry Clinton, triplethreat star of dance music. Composer of such hit songs as “My Reverie,” “Dipsy Doodle,” “It Took a Million Years,” and most recently “Our Love”; arranger for Glen Gray, Tommy Dorsey, Jimmy Dorsey and others; a maestro of only one year’s standing who today is considered one of the five top bands in the nation — Larry Clinton brings his orchestra to the Senior Ball, in the Memorial gymnasium; Friday, May 3.
Larry Clinton is the “miracle man” of the music business. Talk to any bandleadei- and you’ll hear a repetitious story of the long, tough struggle to get to the top. Not so with Larry Clinton! The day Larry picked up his first baton at
Seniors’ Choice — Larry Clinton
the RCA-Victor recording rooms in Manhattan, his career began to shape. His first releases on black label records became instantaneous best-sellers at the colleges all over the nation. College promenades immediately followed at unheard figures for an untried band.
Larry’s first day in front of his public bandstand at the Glen Island Casino in May 1938 shattered every previous high for that famed nightery. Clinton continued breaking records throughout his three month appearance at Glen Island, and during the fall he continued shattering records on a theatre tour of the East. With his greatest hit song, “My Reverie,” winning favor throughout the country, Larry returned to set a high at the New York Paramount his first day.
When the record company offered Larry a chance to make discs of his own, he accepted — with the result that many name bands were forced to go without Clinton arrangements. Today,, Larry has a rating which is unsurpassed in the colleges and among the dancers in America.
Clinton has this to say about swing: “Protests have been leveled at orchestra leaders during the past few months for introducing swing versions of ‘Martha/ ‘Song of India/ ‘Leiberstraum/ ‘Gavotte/ and ‘My Heart At Thy Sweet Voice.’ The Bach Society petitioned the Federal Communications Commission to bar performance of popular interpretation of Bach from the networks. Recently we received several thousand letters of protest for playing a swing version of several Gilbert and Sullivan melodies.
“As a result, several station managers threatened to cut our band off the air whenever we offered ‘Poor Little Buttercup’ from ‘The Pinafore.’ I believe it’s time an orchestra leader went on record defending the vogue of swinging these melodies.
“One mistake in presentation of classical music today, notwithstanding excessive costs which prohibit attend-dance by over 75% of the public,-is the stuffiness and ill-comfort of the auditoriums in which it is performed. And when it is heard on the air, it is ‘Over the heads’ of a majority of the radio audience.
“If popular orchestras can acquaint the public with the melodies of classical compositions, by setting them to swing tempos, I think it is a good thing. The original melody is not disparaged, and the general public appreciation is broadened. It is a step toward teaching appreciation of the original versions.
“Recently I undertook to rewrite and revise one of the lesser known melodies of Claude Debussy. I composed a set of lyrics and arranged the tune for dancing. Under the name of ‘My Reverie/ this little known Debussy melody won wide acclaim from the public, a public which might normally have never heard the music. Justification for playing these classical melodies in swingtime is best seen by the salient fact of public acceptance.”	%
8
Tre Notre Dame Scholastic
HONORED GUEST
William J. Cameron
Notre Dame Night Was
Observed Coast to Coast
Thousands of Notre Dame men, alumni and friends, joined in a grand reunion last Monday night, by radio, in the celebration of the 17th annual Universal Notre Dame Night. From radio station CKLW in Detroit, Mich., and from many other affiliates of the Mutual network in the United States, a coast-to-coast broadcast of the key program brought to all Notre Dame men the voices of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University and now Auxiliary Bishop of the army and navy diocese; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of the University; William J. Cameron, nationally known speaker of the Ford Motor program; and Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics at the University.
Harry Kelly, Notre Dame alumnus and secretary of the state of Michigan, was master of ceremonies, and introduced the first guest, Bishop O’Hara, who discussed the condition of this chaotic world in which “every man makes his own laws.” Regarding his new work as auxiliary bishop of the army and navy, Bishop O’Hara declared: “There is no room for subjectivism in the army and navy, and there is no room for subjectivism in Notre Dame men— .1 find among the army and navy a right attitude to authority, and this is one of the attitudes of the University of Notre Dame.”
Next, M. C. Kelly introduced Elmer Layden, director of athletics, who discussed the Irish football prospects for the 1940 season. He said that inclement weather has been playing havoc with spring scrimmages, but that Notre Dame would be well-prepared to take on the teams of her “suicide schedule” next fall.
William J. Cameron, nationally-known speaker of the Ford Motor program, voiced a universal Notre Dame appeal. “Notre Dame appeals to every type of American, through its scholastic standards, the quality of its alumni, and its prowess on the football field. Great men morally and physically equipped for the world come from Notre Dame.... True education included with well - trained, well-developed moral character—this is Notre Dame.... Political liberty is not possible without religion. Natural morality can’t prevail in exclusion of religion .... Dictators know they must first attack religion to bring about the undermining of political and religious liberty.”
The Notre Dame glee club, under the direction of Prof. Pedtke, presented two numbers: “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” and “Hike, Notre Dame.” Next, the president of the University, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., addressed the club. He stressed the need of religion combined with a college. “Notre Dame and the host of other church-related colleges and universities are honored, I believe, in being considered as voices crying in a twentieth century wilderness for a return to the Christian concept of education and the true American way of life .... I ask all Notre Dame men tonight to rededicate themselves to the ideals of Alma Mater as symbolized by the statue aloft the Golden Dome.”
(The complete text of Father O'Donnell's address is found on page 11.)
Ninety-two Notre Dame groups in the United States and foreign countries held their meetings simultaneously with the key meeting at Detroit. In Philadelphia,
Pat O'Brien on Campus to Toastmaster 1937 Football Banquet
Pa., the Notre Dame club paid special honor to John H. Neeson, who as president of the Alumni association, inaugurated the first universal Notre Dame night seventeen years ago. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., as special representative of the University, presented an illuminated scroll to Mr. Neeson.... In Chicago, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of Notre Dame, addressing the Chicago alumni of the University, stressed the need of injecting the spirit of Christianity in all activities of everyday life.” He declared that “the cause of world unrest today is selfishness—which is certainly not Christian... No one, dictator or otherwise, can say that Christianity is not successful, because Christianity in government has seldom been tried in modem times.”
—John Powers
Rockne Film Promises
Fine Tribute to Coach
“The producers of ‘The Life of Rockne’ promise that this movie will surpass the most optimistic expectations and will undoubtedly result in one of the finest tributes that has been offered in preserving the memory of Kunte Rockne,” states Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University. Father Cavanaugh and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. recently returned from a two-weeks stay in Hollywood where they viewed the initial scenes of Warner Brother’s screen-ized story of Rockne’s life.
“Director Howard,” said Father Cavanaugh, “told me that before he rolled an inch of film he intended to call together his cast and crew in order to impress them with the fact that they were making more than a movie, that ‘they were fulfilling an obligation to a man who has long stood before the American youth as a symbol of sportsmanship and tough, moral manliness’.”
The “Rockne set” on the Warner Brothers lot is a center of interest and
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
enthusiasm. Both star and stagehand sense the unfolding of a true climatic achievement. Notre Dame football is the constant topic of. conversation and when the discussions become overheated the staff technical advisor is inevitably drawn in to arbitrate.
“Pat O’Brien is an anxious and enthusiastic worker in his portrayal,” remarked Father Cavanaugh. “He has recordings of Rockne’s voice and numerous candid pictures of him which he constantly refers to in his preparation in order to add authenticity to his interpretation.”
O’Brien lost twenty pounds so that he might “fit the role.” He spends three hours a day in the studio make-up shop where every trick of grease paint, mould and wig is used to reproduce an exact living likeness.
“The likeness and interpretation is amazing,” exclaimed Father Burke, in his concurring story of the trip. “Ten minutes after chatting with O’Brien we would sit in on a take and actually be carried away from set reality to the campus life of a decade ago.”
Gale Page will portray Mrs. Rockne and Ronald Reagen has been cast in the role of George Gipp. Other past Notre Dame luminaries that will be portrayed are the late Rev. Julius Nieuw-land, C.S.C., former member of the department of chemistry and discoverer of the process of synthetic rubber; and Rockne’s teammate and friend, Gus Do-rais, present football coach at the University of Detroit.
“I think that the protrayal of the late Father Nieuwland will be one of the outstanding performances in ‘The Life of Rockne’,” said Father Burke. “A German actor named Basserman who scored in -‘Doctor Ehrlich’s Silver Bullet’ is doing a marvelous job.”
Warner Brothers have extended their movie premieres to picture locales more than any other studio in the cinema city. Following this custom, they will bring Hollywood to South Bend next fall to offer the home of Notre Dame an impressive “first night.”
Camera crews are expected to arrive here soon to photograph campus scenes and bits of the varsity’s spring practice.
“But as far as I know,” warned Father Cavanaugh, “there will be no Hollywood holiday here with $5.50 a day jobs as extras for students—contrary to the local grapevine.”—Ed Butler
KNIGHTS’ MAESTRO
Jack McLean
Confraternity Opens Today At St. Mary's
The second college-sponsored Regional Conference of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine is being held again at Saint Mary’s College today, tomorrow and Sunday, at the invitation of Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of the college, and under the patronage of the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne.
I
The Rev. J. H. Conway, superintendent of Fort Wayne and Hammond Catholic Central High schools, is to be honorary chairman, and Sister M. Magda-lita, C.S.C., is general chairman. The theme of this year’s conference is “Mobilizing for Christ in the Confraternity.”
Registration is scheduled to begin at 3:30 o’clock this afternoon, in the Great Hall of the College and at 4:30 o’clock the Religious Discussion Club Institute will hold its first meeting.
Tonight at the general session the Most Rev. Edwin V. O’Hara, D.D., Bishop of Kansas City, Mo., chairman of the episcopal committee on the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine will preside. The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University of Notre Dame, will speak on “Be Go-Givers for Christ,” and Dr. Jerome Derwin, professor of political science of the University of Chicago, will speak on “Living Religion.” Students who will participate in the same sessions are: Betty Edgell, Saint Mary’s College; Alice K. Wagstaff, Nazareth College, Louisville, Ky.;. Robert
Lechnor, Saint Joseph’s College, Collegeville, Ind.; Constance Kretschmer, Saint Mary’s - of - the - Woods College, Saint Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Ind.; and , Paul Butler, of South Bend, Ind.
Tomorrow’s program will open with the Missa Recitata in the Chapel of the Holy Ghost with Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, as celebrant. General sessions will begin at 9:30 o’clock at Saint Angela’s Hall. Miss Miriam Marks, secretary of the national center of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, will preside. A series of eight-minute talks will be followed by practical demonstrations that will cover every phase of school life from pre-school through the 12th grade. The afternoon session will be divided between demonstrations of discussion club procedure for college students and CYO members, and demonstrations of discussion club procedure for parish members. A section on “Lay Participation in Parish Activities” will continue the discussion on this particular subject.
Following a special dinner the general session will be resumed in Saint Angela’s Hall where the Notre Dame Glee Club will sing. Speakers of the evening include: Miss Victoris Heiny, president of the Fort Wayne Deanery Youth Council; The Rev. Godfrey Dickmann, O.S.B., editor of Orate Fratres, Collegeville, Minn.; the Honorable John Craig, Tulsa, Okla.; and the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne.
At the Missa Recitata on Sunday, the Most Rev. Edwin V. O’Hara, D.D., Bishop of Kansas City, Mo., will be celebrant. Three simultaneous sessions will occupy the morning program. The closing general session is called for two o’clock on Sunday afternoon. Bishop Noll will preside. The Confraternity will close with Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto, to be celebrated by Bishop Noll.
Indications are that last year’s record of 1,000 delegates will be exceeded.
Yale Chaplain Lectures Here on "Joan of Arc"
Next Friday, the Rev. T. Lawrence Riggs, chaplain at Yale University, will present a lecture in Washington Hall. Father Riggs, a graduate of both Yale and Harvard and a well-known lecturer, will talk on “Books of Joan of Arc.” The -following evening he will talk on “The Roman Rite.”
Father Riggs is well known in the East as one of the founders of the magazine, Commonweal.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Bernard Longo Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
The Church and the New Society
BY 1891 the new industrialism had piled up a century of problems in the western world. It had split society into two classes, owner and worker. The owners possessed the capital and managed it for their own profit. The worker possessed only the ability to work, reccing so little compensation that for the most part they were in poverty. Indeed, some workers were destitute and created a tremendous problem for Catholic reformers who were interested in their moral welfare. Yet these reformers agreed on only one thing, that the true remedy for social ills was to be found in Christian teaching. They disagreed, according to a contemporary French author, on the manner of applying these teachings. One group said the sufferings of the poor were inevitable, and could be relieved only through the “beneficence of employers and the Christian resignation of employees.” The other group asserted that this suffering was covered by the “misuse of wealth by the rich and could be corrected only by the practice of Christian justice.”
This disagreement made impossible a unified Catholic attack on social evils, and the Industrial Revolution rolled along undisturbed. Pope Leo XIII was aware of this when he issued his encyclical, Rerum Novarum in 1891. He told opposing Catholic groups that they were both right. “He reaffirmed, indeed,” says Monsignor John A. Ryan, “the value of resignation and almsgiving, but insisted first upon the idea of justice.”
Some Catholics thought the Pope had
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
John Patterson Promotion
Rev, C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
turned .Socialist. The idea of “Justice first” was new to them. But for the most part the encyclical marked the “general acceptance of Catholics that industrial questions are also moral and religious questions.” More specifically, employers have since turned away from the idea that the wage of labor should be determined by supply and demand alone. They admit generally that the cost of living should also be a deciding factor.
Forty years after that first great social encyclical, Pope Pius XI, in 1931, issued his Quadragesimo Anno which modernized old terminology, advocated wider distribution of wealth and higher wages, yet added that good wages are not enough. The workers should share to some degree in the “ownership or management of profits.” Planned production, encouraged and supervised by the state should replace cut-throat competition.
Last year the Bishops of the United States met in Washington and discussed the present social order. The result was a pastoral letter which follows the plans of Popes Leo and Pius, and makes a more specific application to social problems in the United States. According to Father Charles P. Bruehl, in his article in the Ave Marva for April 13, 1940, the Bishops meant to please both capital and labor, and succeeded in both cases. For the workers the Bishops advocate a living wage to take priority over profits. In other words an industrialist may not draw profits from his enterprise until he is paying every worker a living wage.
That pronouncement is even more startling when a living wage is defined. It includes a “decent living” for all the worker’s family, together with essential spiritual and cultural needs, and a “saving wage” to meet unemployment, sickness and old age.
The employer is not overlooked in this program; in justice he is given reciprocal rights. The employer may organize too; he may own property; he is entitled to fair returns on his investment; his wage system is declared not necessarily unjust. But he must not use these privileges and rights to dominate labor, but should allow labor a share in ownerships, managements, and profits. Large scale production is all right; so is concentration of capital which it makes necessary. The evils that usually follow from these might be alleviated by wider distribution of ownership, as advocated many times before.
The Bishops’ plan pleased labor but it failed to please communists. The Nation for Feb. 24, 1940, disapproved: “Unlike the Roman Catholic hierarchy we are not in favor of bringing God back into economic life. The phrase sounds too much like pie in the sky.” They mean obviously that the Church usually points to a future goal, and to a future good. That is true. The Church usually does look to the future for a final solution to men’s problem. But the Bishops’ program does not. It demands justice in this world for the workingman, and seeks present improvement of his condition. Communism promises the workingman no more, and certainly gives Jiim far less.—William C. McGowan.
Speaking of Editorials
EVERY day, in almost any type of publication, statistics, surveys and straw polls are giving us interesting information on the public’s position on and attitude towards a variety of topics. But the most vital bit of blanket information that the editor of any one of these publications wishes to learn himself is an answer to the question: “How many subscribers are reading my editorial today?”
The editorial is certainly the one personal cog in any publication. It is'a lusty voice that can wield immeasurable propaganda power—whether that propaganda be commendable or condemnable. It exposes the mind of a publication and presents policy-motivated opinions that are worth consideration. It presents material that, by its very presence, deserves at least evaluation by the reader.
Or am I being ignored?
—Edmund R. Butler
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Educational Frontiers
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, c.s.c.
(Radio Speech delivered in Detroit on Universal Notre Dame Night)
Notre Dame salutes Detroit on this her seventeenth Universal Notre Dame Night. It is fitting that Notre Dame should do this, because of an intimate bond that exists between the “City of the Straits” and our campus, dating back to 1830. In that year, a deputation of Pottawatomie Indians, under the leadership of Chief Pokagon, came to this village to beg of Father Richard the services of a “Blackrobe” to instruct them in the religion of their ancestors at the mission of St. Mary of the Lake, from which came the Notre Dame of today. Accordingly, in 1830, Father Badin arrived in northern Indiana, near the Michigan border, to become the first pastox' at the revived mission of St. Mary of the Lake.
The Detroit of Father Richard’s day was not so far removed from the Detroit of the frontier. Here, in 1701, regardless of the obstacles that the frontier presented, was planted a French culture and refinement. Here was established a settlement that later was to serve as one of the gateways to the old Northwest Territory. The frontier of yesterday is now the metropolitan city of today, popularly known as “F.O.B. Detroit.”
All of you are familiar with the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. It is possible, however, that you may have forgotten an important section, which to me, is the heart of the document. It reads as follows:	‘
“Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and ■the means of education shall forever be encouraged.”
It is not surprising that the frontiersmen insisted on this Christian concept of education. It was to be expected, because the founding fathers before them were religious-minded men. Well did they stress the existence of God and the God-given rights of man and the dignity of the human personality in the historic Declaration of Independence, which contains the philosophy of our government and the true meaning of the American way of life.
It is easy, therefore, for the frontier of the old Northwest, born in the richness of French culture, to adapt itself to the Christian concept of government
and education. Of course, the wild life of the territory gave occasion for certain irregularities. This was to be expected. But what I should like to point out is that the frontiersmen were interested in the essentials of life, and not in its frills or fads. They had no time for such. They were substantial men, courageous and heroic, who had an appreciation of basic principles. They had to be if they were to live, because their day was one of hard living and sacrifice, in contrast with ours of soft living and luxury.
So the old frontier acknowledged the existence of God as a basis for its educational program. Truth is eternal, and must repose in God its source; tx-uth is absolute, fixed and unchangeable; as firm today as yesterday — it is permanent throughout the years. From its Source, the only code of morality follows. And well did the old frontier realize this. Recognizing the importance of religion and morality, what could be more natural than that an emphasis on knowledge should follow. To be sure, there were different forms of religion, but the Christian life was there. And to perpetuate this life, it logically followed that “schools and means of education should be encouraged as being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind.”
But what a change the intexwening years have brought! The old frontier emphasized substance in its educational program; while the new frontier — the modern trend — emphasizes method. Now method is necessary, but an overemphasis on method is disastrous. It was assumed that reasonable progress would follow, but progress based, naturally, on the Christian concept of education — the.American heritage. But through the years a radical change occurred. Time will not permit of a treatment of this. The fact remains, however, that it did occur. And today we have attractive temples of education, with all modern equipment and conveniences, but in them no reference to God ox* religion, and therefore, lacking the American philosophy of education. And then we wonder what is wrong with American life.
Let me answer- that question by giving
you an excerpt from an editorial which recently appeared in an important national magazine:
“Are we today a Christian-minded people? Putting sentiment aside, let us appeal to the facts . . . Christians are a minority in this country. Again, crime flourishes . . . And the largest class of criminals is drawn from the 18-25 year old group . . . Only a minority of our children are receiving an adequate training in Christian belief and in the code regulating Christian living. Our laws not only permit, but in some cases, actually promote divorce, race suicide, and other disorders abhonrent to the principles of Christianity as these were accepted by the Founders of the Republic. The present state of education can be gauged by our public schools, divorced from religion, and by the welcome extended to men who violently attack the Christian belief and morality in our nonCatholic colleges and universities.”
Of course, there are the exceptions, but these exceptions are considered by some as outmoded and old-fashioned. Well, if being old-faslxioned, in the sense of the new frontier, means sacrificing basic truth and the American way of life, then Notre Dame and the host of othex- church-related colleges and universities are honored, I believe, in being considered as voices crying in the twentieth century wilderness for a return to the Christian concept of education and the true American way of life.
Let us get back to an emphasis on God, basic morality and true knowledge, with a proper appreciation of human rights and property rights if the American way is to survive. It is time for all Americans regardless of religious belief or no belief, to insist on the highway of substance in education instead of the subway of method, so that truth may find its rightful place in our educational life. For today, as yesterday, “religion, morality, and knowledge,” in the language of the old Northwest Ordinance, “are necessary to good govexmment and the happiness of mankind.”
From Vincennes, another frontier post of the old Northwest Territory, just ninety-eight years ago, came a band of seven men into the wilderness of North-
(Continued on page 22)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE STUDENT FORUM
Negro Intelligence And Personality
By John Duke Ellis
Most people are interested- in alleged racial differences. They have heard, read, or wondered about any number of __ strange things con-cerning the nature of the Negro as com-|^ pared to the white.
One may wish to aga know whether the H Negro brain is less developed than the white; another has heard that the glands of internal secretion explain racial psychology; another be
lieves that the higher Negro crime rate is caused largely by his nature as a Negro. And so it goes. In each instance differences are attributed to innate nature, rather than to nurture or social experience.
Spencer’s “Evolutionary Lag” theory, which said that the human race broke away from ape-like ancestors at different times and that the Negro was the last to break away, and Gobineau’s theory of a hierarchy of races with the Negro at the bottom, have done much to create the popular conception that the Negro is innately inferior. Although both of these theories have been discredited by scientists, oftentimes we whites like to think this way because it flatters us and gives us an excuse for shirking any responsibility we might have in improving the lot of the Negro. If he is innately inferior, we might believe it useless to try to help him improve himself.
Much use has been made of the group tests given soldiers in the World War army, which tests seemed to show that Caucasoids scored higher than Negroes. However, Kroeber • and other competent authorities have criticized these tests and showed that different social backgrounds could account for the differences. It is now regarded as futile to try to use these army tests to show Caucasoid supremacy. Many individual tests have been given also, in an attempt to determine race differences in intelligence; yet such authorities as Garth, Wallis, Boas, and Klineberg all conclude that no close correlation between intellect and race is shown by these tests.
Popular opinion also has it that there are innate differences between Negroes
and whites in personality qualities other than intelligence. Garth’s recording of the many studies made to determine racial attributes is classic. He finds that the art impulse is about the same in all races; that differences in art products are due chiefly to the cultural level and the materials available. Experimental studies, he found, were able to show no conclusive evidence of racial differences in ability to persist in mental tasks over a period of time; nor were racial differences shown in musical talent; in fact the experimental studies seemed to indicate that “racial personality,” so-called was due to nurture rather than nature.
Perhaps the most complete treatment of the subject is to be found in Columbia University’s Otto Klineberg’s recent book, Race Differences. He made very exhaustive treatment of such things as biochemical and constitutional differences, physique and mentality, developmental differences, physiological differences, the simple psychological functions, intelligence testing, the measurement of non - intellectual traits, race mixture, crime, mental abnormalities, the “fundamental drives,” emotional expression, childhood and adolescence, personality, and primitive mentality. The general conclusion of his book is that there is no scientific proof of racial differences in mentality. This may seeem like a rather negative conclusion, but it has certain very definite and positive implications. Since very careful study and research has shown that there is no proof of the “racial differences” cherished by so many whites, we have no right to assume that they exist. There is no scientific justification for denying a Negro a job or an education because he is a Negro.
Finding no scientific proof for belief in innate racial differences in mentality or other personality qualities, popular opinion might try to justify itself by saying, “But you cannot argue with the facts of history. Look at the record. Nowhere in all history is there any evidence of the Negro producing a really great culture or civilization. If the Negro is the equal of the white, why has he not produced a great and powerful civilization? It seems a simple cause and effect relationship—an inferior Negro producing an inferior culture and a superior white producing a superior culture.” In reply to this last argument we may point out a series of facts. The
Nordics, which Gobinism and “100% American” popular opinion put at the top of the human hierarchy, were fighting each other in a stage of barbarism while the non-Nordic Southern Europeans had one of the world’s great civilizations. If the Nordics were innately superior, why did they not show it at this time? The same argument could have been used before 1853 against the Japanese. But the Japanese have awakened since that date and become a world power. Is it not possible that the Negroes’ day has not yet arrived? Is it not possible that his inferior position is the result of a combination of unfavorable environmental factors: the industrialism, unchristian ethics, and superior military techniques of whites, rather than innate Negro inferiority?
As a corollary of the above conclusions one might well make a practical application and then ask a question. The Communists in the United States are doing their best to call these scientific facts to the attention of the Negro, as they attempt to indoctrinate him with the atheism and revolutionary ideas of the Stalinites. Furthermore, competent observers have said that the progress of Communistic propaganda is aided by the fact that American Negroes generally . regard Catholics as their worst enemies, chiefly on account of our “Jim Crow” restrictions in education, a policy which they contrast with the freedom with which Negroes are admitted to state-financed and Protestant educational systems. The question therefore would seem to be this: Isn’t there some sort of a moral obligation for Catholics to become better acquainted with the scientific facts concerning the nature of Negro intelligence and personality; and following this, to counteract the propaganda of Communism among our Negroes by something more impressive than mere words?
Freshmen Set Precedent
With First Class Dance
The freshman class, traditionally not prominent in the University social activities, breaks into the news by announcing an informal dance for Friday night, May 17, at the Indiana Club. This is the first time that the freshman class has held a dance, and Class President Anthony Maloney is confident of its success. The sale of tickets will be limited to the number of 300, and the price will be one dollar per couple.
The time chosen is an open date in social activities and St. Mary’s girls will be able to attend. The dance will be from 8 to 12 with all students due back ' in the halls at 12:30.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
Flynn Named Prevention Committee Chairman
John H. Klinger, president of the Central States Probation and Parole Conference, announced the appointment this week of Frank T. Flynn, head of the Department of Social Work of the University, as chairman of the Commit-1 tee on Prevention of Crime and Delin-l	quency, a standing committee of the
i	conference which is to be held April 21
* to 25 at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago. The conference includes delegates from eight states in the midwest.
f	Professor Flynn will also be in charge
of the divisional meeting on this subject at the conference, and will preside at the general session on Thursday, April 25, at which time Professor Edwin H. Sutherland, noted criminologist, will i present an elaboration on his paper, “The White Collar Criminal,” which aroused much speculation at the Amer-।	ican Sociological Society’s annual meet-
ing during the Christmas holidays.
Among other members of the committee are the following: Judge J. M. Braude, Municipal Court of Chicago, I Chicago, Bl.; Chief Justice John J.
Sonsteby, Municipal Court of Chicago, Chicago, HL; Mr. Morris G. Caldwell, Director, Division of Corrections, State Department of Public Welfare, Madison, Wis.; Mr. Loren J. Hess, Probation Officer, St. Joseph County Adult Probation Dept., South Bend, Ind.; Professor Ernest W. Burgess, Dept, of Sociology, University of Chicago, Chicago, BL; Mr. H. V. Bastin, Superintendent, Ormsby Village, Anchorage, Ky.; and Mr. Thomas J. Moran, Police Department, St. Louis, Mo.
Invitations For 1940 Commencement Due May I Commencement Invitations of three kinds will be delivered to Seniors about May 1, the Committee on Invitations announced. Contents are practically the same as in preceding years. A picture of the Grotto as frontispiece is followed by a listing of class officers, the Student Council, executive officers of the University, and a print of Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Graduates will be listed alphabetically according ot their respetcive colleges. There is also a review of the Washington Day Program, and several pages are devoted to officers of extra-curricular activities and Senior Ball committees. The Committee on Invitations is composed of Walton Wuebbold, Pat Goff, and Harry Boisvert, who announced that calling cards to be enclosed with invitations can also be ordered through them.
Dr. Philip M. Law
Dr. Law, Mental Hygiene Expert, Joins Faculty
Dr. Philip M. Law, M.D., Chicago medical "authority, is a newcomer to Notre Dame this semester as a lecturer in the Department of Sociology where he is teaching advanced Psychiatric Information, a course in Catholic social psychiatry for the students of social work. He is expected to teach in the newly - created Department of Social Work in the Fall semester.
Dr. Law comes to Notre Dame with teaching experience in the field of mental hygiene. He received his M.D. degree from the University of Illinois college of medicine in 1927 and acted as instructor on the faculty from 1928 to 1934. In 1934 and 1935 he was a Special Resident of Cook County Psychopathic Hospital and since 1935 has been instructor in neuropsychiatry, Loyola University College of Medicine, and in addition has acted as assistant director of Loyola Adult Psychiatric Clinic. In this capacity he has acted as attending psychiatrist for institutions connected with the Chicago archdiocese and for the Catholic Charities of Chicago.
Dr. Law is a member of the Phi Chi Medical Fraternity, a Fellow of the American Medical Association, a member of the American Medical Association, the Illinois, Cook County, and Chicago Medical Societies, the Chicago Societies of Catholic Psychologists of which he is the president, the Illinois Psychiatric Society, and the American Public Health Association.
Frosh Oratory Prelims
Scheduled for April 29
Preliminaries in the annual Freshman Oratorical Contest will be held definitely on Monday, April 29, and the finals on Tuesday, April 30. All those desiring to enter must hand in their names to some member of the department of speech on or before Monday, April 22.
The contest is open to all freshmen students in the University. Orations may be on any subject, but must be original, and must not exceed ten minutes, or approximately 1,000 words in length. The winner receives a ten dollar cash award.
The contest will be under the direction of Professor William J. Coyne of the department of speech.
Dante Room Contains
Centuried Treasures
It is a far cry from Tuscany to Indiana. Two places in the world could probably not be more different. Yet between Florence and Notre Dame there is a vital connecting link in the form of a pensive Italian scholar of the fourteenth century — Dante Aligheri. Dante, as author of The Divine Comedy, has immortalized himself in world literature. Notre Dame’s late Rev. John Augustine Zahm, C.S.C., realizing the importance of Dante, began the collection of what is now probably the best Dante library in Middle Western United States. While in Italy during the latter part of the-last century Father Zahm became intensely interested in Dante, especially in his Divine Comedy. It was then that Father Zahm began sending back to Notre Dame numerous copies of this book, along with many commentaries which he had found in Italian bookshops. To Father Zahm it made no difference what language the book was written in so long as it pertained to The Divine Comedy. Consequently, in Notre Dame’s Dante Library, one finds translations of The Divine Comedy in almost every language — English, French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Portuguese, and others.
On the top floor of the.library building in the northwest corner is the Dante Room. It is here that Notre Dame’s Dante collection is kept. In the middle of the room is a desk behind which the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., usually sits, for the Dante Room and Father Brennan’s office are one and the same place. Double rows of bookcases around the walls hold the 2,800 books of the collection.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THRILLS IN STORE AS IRISH OPEN ANOTHER SEASON
Notre Dame Trackmen Face Michigan, Indiana and Nini In Outdoor Opener
Irish Appear Strong
In Mile Relay Event
Notre Dame’s track squad, which has dedicated its outdoor season to the late Coach John P. Nicholson, who died suddenly on April 2, opens the 1940 outdoor campaign at Bloomington, Indiana, at the Indiana Relays.
Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, and Notre Dame will compete in the four-team affair. Michigan and Indiana loom as the favorites according to pre-meet records, but Illinois and Notre Dame stars will make the event a fight all the way.
Notre Dame strength appears most likely in the mile relay unit of George Schiewe, Ken Collins, Joe Halpin, and Ray Roy which was only two-tenths of a second off the all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 3:22 in winning the Central Collegiate Conference title. •
The two-mile team of Joe Olbrys, Halpin, Roy, and Curtis Hester will probably be a strong favorite. In the half - mile relay Bob Saggau, Bill Buenger, Frank Sheets, and George Schiewe will compete.
Individual entrants will include Saggau and Buenger in the 100; Dave Reidy and Joe Prokop in the low hurdles; Captain Ted Leonas in the high jump; John Dean in the pole vault; Cliff Brosey, Ed Sullivan and Herky Bereolos in the shot put; Brosey and Armand Lopez in the discus; Prokop, Clyde Archer, and Tom Perry in the javelin throw.
Captain Leonas, holder of Notre Dame’s all-time outdoor high jump record, is the only member of the 1940 squad who holds a record. The squad has been drilling under the direction of Bill Mahoney. Joe Halpin and Curt Hestei- ran on all-time record holding relay units. Bill Faymonville, former Irish star, claims the discus standard of 163 feet, 9 inches.
All-time Notre Dame outdoor track records include:
100-YARD DASH—:09.6, Wasson, 1912; Elder, 1929; McCormick, 1931; W. Clifford, 1937-38.	'
120-YD. HIGH HURDLES—: 14.8, Chet Wynne, 1920.
220-YD. DASH—:21.2, Jack Elder, 1929.
220-YD. LOW HURDLES—:23.3, Elser, 1936 (for second in N.C.A.A. meet).
440-YD. DASH—:48.1 Wilson, 1932.
880-YD. RUN—1:51.9, John Francis, 1938 (for second in N.C.A.A. meet).
ONE MILE RUN—4:16.7, Greg Rice, 1939.
l^MILE RUN—6:44, Greg Rice, 1938 (exhibition) .
TWO MILE RUN—9:02.6, Greg Rice.
ONE MILE RELAY—3:17.5, 1938 (Mahoney, Francis, Halpin, Sheehan).
TWO MILE RELAY—7:43, 1938 (Hester, Bernard, Francis, Rice).
FOUR MILE RELAY—17:31.5, (Francis, Donnelly, Szumachowski, Rice).
DISTANCE MEDLEY—10:11.4 (Hester, Sheehan, Francis, Rice) for third in Drake Relays.
POLE VAULT—13 feet, nine inches, 1938, Dan Gibbs.
HIGH JUMP—6 ft., 6% in., 1939, Ted Leonas.
SHOT PUT—51.6 ft, Don Elser, 1934.
BROAD JUMP—24 ft., 9% in., George Meagher, 1935 (for second in Drake Relays).
DISCUS THROW—163 ft., 9 in., Faymonville, 1937.
JAVELIN THROW—202 ft., 7 in.. Gene Oberst, 1925.
BASEBALLERS THR
Coach “Jake” Kline doesn’t know whether or not he should hold practice for his baseball squad before next Tuesday when the Irish meet Western State College here. Not that Coach Kline believes his team is so well advanced that practice is useless or that he feels that the Western State aggregation will be a minor assignment for his squad. But as “Jake,” himself confides, judging from past events, that seems to be the only thing to do.
The reason for all this deduction is this: Due to the continually inclement weather, the Irish actually had less than two weeks outdoor practice for their training period. Yet in the opening game “Jake’s” boys turned in a decisive 6-1 victory, paced by one hit pitching by Norv Hunthausen. And in the second encounter, “Jake’s” lanky right-hander, Rex Ellis, led his mates on the mound and at the plate for a 4 to 1 win, over Chicago.
And, of course, it’s all a sweet mystery to Coach Kline. “We’ve been taking a ribbing about it from everybody. On account of the bad weather, we haven’t had too much time for ‘working out.’ I think I’d even have traded that one-hit win for a southern trip so we could have had more practice.”
OLDTIMERS DRILL FOR
Despite the fact that baseball will be monopolizing the sport headlines, and that Joe Fan will be more inclined toward perusing box scores than toward checking advance notices of his favorite football team, Coach Elmer Layden will * trot out the 1940 edition of his gridiron machine one week from tomorrow against the “Oldtimers” who made up last fall’s varsity. The battle, to be held in Notre Dame Stadium, will afford Coach Layden and his staff an opportunity to observe at first hand the play of next year’s varsity under fire.
The oldtimers, without the aid of a coach, have been working out daily at Cartier Field and plan to display something in the way of fireworks when they take the field on the 27th. The grads will present the 1939 lineup intact, with the exception of Tom Gallagher, junior left tackle, who will be the only regulai* returning to the wars next October. Steve Sitko will handle the signal-calling from quarterback, assisted by Johnny Kelleher. Harry Stevenson and Lou Zon-tini, halfs, along with Joe Thesing at
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
RIVE ON INACTIVITY
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
Coach Kline considers the game Tuesday a definite test for the Irish diamond men. Western State has two powerful pitchers in Overmeyer and Bailey. The former led the Kalamazoo team in defeating Wisconsin’s powerful nine last Monday. Bailey duplicated the same feat • Tuesday with shut-out pitching.
| Wednesday, local baseball fans will I' have the opportunity to watch the Irish tangle with the treacherous Chicago Maroons, in another home game. Coach Kline will make no predictions about this game with the “windy city” boys. Chicago has the reputation of being particularly potent against Notre Dame even when they appear less powerful "against other foes.
These two home tilts and a game with Purdue April 29 will be the only opportunities for viewing the Irish in action in South Bend until the latter part of May. Coach Kline admits being “ribbed” on this point also. However, “Jake” begs that his public understand his “bona fide” actions in regard to the schedule. The occurrence of exams, which are always an unwholesome topic, at a strategic period in relation to the schedules of other institutions has forced the present arrangement.—Tom Poivers
|R BATTLE WITH VARSITY
fullback, will round out a powerful backfield. Opening the holes for these boys will be ex-leader Johnny Kelly and AllAmerican Bud Kerr, ends; Tad Harvey and Frank Albert, tackles; Joe Dey Franco and Chuck Riffle, guards; and .; Johnny McIntyre at center. This club, | working together for three years, should keep Saggau and company pretty busy ' all afternoon.
As it is much too soon to estimate how the varsity will line up next, season, the following men and their positions are merely probabilities: at the flanks will be Johnny O’Brien and Phil Sheridan; Jim Brutz and Paul Lillis will crash theii- former teammates from the tackles; and guards Pete Kelly and Gu-banich, together with Osterman present our “through-the-middle” defense. Bob Hargrave will block, while halfbacks Saggau and Juzwik, together with Captain-elect Milt Peipul, at fullback, will move the ball. It is doubtful as to whether the injured Steve Bagarus, or baseballer Bernie Crimmins, both right halfbacks, will see much action.—All Clark
If it were not for Coach Tom Stanton, of St. Louis University High School, Norv Hunthausen would probably be playing second fiddle in the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra.
When Norv was a member of the St. Louis Prep Frosh grid team his mentor became angry at him for being late for practice every night in the week. He had noticed his booming punts and fancy runs and decided that he had better check up on this excellent prospect. After questioning he learned, to his amazement, that his star gridder was a member of the school orchestra and was required to practice until 4:30 every night. Yes, Norv fiddled while his coach burned!
Stanton convinced the youth that violinists were in abundance but halfbacks, pitchers, and javelin throwers were at a premium. Result — Coach Kline won a pitcher; Professor P e d t k e lost a violinist.
Norv is rated as one of the outstanding students to be graduated from St. Louis Prep. His achievements were not confined to the athletic field. Rated second in his class, scholastically, he was honored with the presidency in his senior year. His athletic activities earned him nine letters.
He played halfback for three years and specialized in kicking and passing. Three
of his punts traveled 75 yards. Javelin throwing and shot putting won him three track letters, and his pitching feats are still neighborhood conversation back in St. Louis. Three of his high school victories were no-hit, no-run, affairs.
He came to Notre Dame in ’36 and enrolled in the Department of Physical Education. Unlike most high school stars, Norv never spoke of his heroic feats. Even today most of the student body have no idea that he is one of the greatest all-around scholars and gentlemen that the city of St. Louis has ever produced.
Coach Kline considers him his number one hurler. A careful worker, Norv never gets excited and is at his best with men on the bases. The outfielders usually have an easy afternoon when
Norv is on the mound.
The Big Leagues are Norv’s goal and therefore he has abandoned football and track. However, he has been prominent in organizing soccer teams and is considered the school’s outstanding soccer player.	•
Although Norv is vice-president of the Senior Class, president of the St. Louis Club, and secretary - treasurer of the Monogram Club he is not the politician
type. His backing was not secured by handshaking and cigar passing but by a simple, friendly and sincere attitude.
Notre Dame students are rooting for Norv to pitch a no-hitter before June, and, judging from his work against Northwestern he may give them something to cheer about.
Jim Curran and Tom Fitzpatrick share a third floor suite with Norv in Walsh.
Statistics: Full name — Norvall Matthew Hunthausen. Age 21, height 5 ft. 10 ins., weight 188 lbs. Home town, St. Louis, Missouri. He will be graduated with honors in June and hopes to be pitching for a major league club within the next few years. After his pitching days are over he probably will settle down to a less strenuous life of teaching.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX
By FRANK AUBREY
It is the night before the big leagues open, and all through the land — not a typewriter is silent. So why should ours be? Everybody who writes for publication, every sports-columnist, every hack writer, every country correspondent, in fact everybody except -Mrs. Roosevelt, has already taken a whack at pre-writing the final Major League standings — which do not go into the hands of the compositor until Sept. 30 or thereabouts. With all this national optimism floating around it’s only natural that some of it should blow in the door of THE SCHOLASTIC. So amid sheets of figures, piles of statistics, and reams of batting averages and passe boxscores — the department devoted to the care and feeding of unadulterated sport’s jargon rolls up its sleeves and climbs out on the limb. Move over, Mr. Carmichael.
You can’t go about these things in an unscientific way, nor can you he too logical either, for Logician Aquinas with all his savvy might theoretically pick Brooklyn to win.. .. What we have done is to rate all the clubs on the basis of four classifications: pitching, catching, infield, and outfield. For instance, the Yankees having undoubtedly the best outfield in the league would rate no. 1, while the Browns, who have what looks to be the weakest, would rate no. 8. After careful study of last year’s batting and fielding averages, players’ ages, rookie prospects, train schedules, and the Farmer’s Almanac we arrived at a set of figures which signify the pennant winning team to be the team with the lowest total, compiled after adding the ratings for infield, outfield, catching, and pitching. The other teams fall into line correspondingly. The story goes something like this —
Cooper, Lanier, and McGee. The rest of the staff—Curt Davis, Wameke, and Weiland, won 47 games last year and may do it again. Cincy’s outfit is no match for Medwick, Slaughter, and Moore or Martin. The Giants have one of best batteries in the league with no. 1 man Banning, catching a rejuvenated Hubbel and Schumacher. With Witek and Whitehead improving the infield, and Rucker coming through in the garden, New York should press the Reds.
Weakness in the box will again keep the Red Sox from threatening the champions, not to mention their inferior catching. Had Yawkey anybody like Buddy Rosar behind the bat, and any two of the 12 man starting staff which the Yanks possess, Boston might win. On paper we figure Detroit’s new set-up with York at first, Greenberg in left, and Tebbetts behind the plate — with Bridges, Rowe, Newsom and the recently-acquired Lynn Nelson, and an experienced Fred Hutchinson to do the pitching — has it over the Beantown entry. Lack of space prevents us from showing minutely just why we chose this limb to crawl out on in preference to any other — but we hope the limb breaks — as far as Brooklyn is concerned — just for a laugh.
National League					
Position	Pitching	Catching	Infield	Outfield	Total
1. St. Louis 				3	2	2	1	8
2. Cincinnati 				 1	3	1	4	9
3. New York 			 2	1	5	2	10
4. Brooklyn 			 4	6	3	5	18
5. Chicago 			 6	5	6	3	20
6. Pittsburgh 				 5	7	4	6	22
7. Boston 				  7	4	7	8	26
8. Philadelphia 			 8	8	8	7	31
	American League				
Position	Pitching	Catching	Infield	Outfield	Total
1. New York 			 1	1	2	1	5
2. Detroit 			 2	4	4	2	12
3. Boston 				 4	5	1	3	13
4. Cleveland 			 3	2	5	7	17
5. Chicago 			 5	7	3	6	21
6. Washington 			 7	3	" . 7	5	22
7. Philadelphia 					 8	6	8	4	26
8. St. Louis 			 6	8	6	8	28
Headquarters for
PALM BEACH SUITS
for College Men
You can stick that in your scrapbook and resurrect it again about the time bets are going down for the World Series. We think you’ll get better* odds on the Yankees by betting right now instead of waiting until Oct. 1 — when National League fans annually go into hiding. In picking the Cards as the intended victims we are cognizant of the slugging percentages, and also the fact that Ray Blades has some fine young pitchers who will win more than they did in 1939, meaning Bob Bowman,
CUSTOM TAILORED TO MEASURE ....
Individually styled and tailored to YOUR measure . . . selection of over four hundred patterns . . . imported materials ... in shetlands, tweeds,	$ / r
worsteds, flannels and gabardines....
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop)
I I5i/2- 117^4 N. Main Street
Max ADLER
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Hagen, Neild To Pace Golfers at Michigan
“If the squad continues to improve as it has during the past ten days, we should have a good team by the opening of May,” the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., University golf coach, announced yesterday. The squad will travel to Ann Arbor, Tuesday, to battle the University of Michigan.
“The opening Purdue match provided a good test for our team.” The Irish coach has not selected a lineup for the Michigan encounter. A large group of players are seeking positions replacing such formidable stars as Captain Tom Sheehan, who set a National Amateur qualifying record of 139 last year; Chuck Bennett, Joe Corcoran and Joe Stulb, all lettermen.
Heading the returning players are Captain Walt Hagen, Jr., son of the noted professional of the same name; Sammy Neild, junior, who last season set a William J. Burke-Notre Dame course record of 68, two under par; Bill Schaller and Phil Donohue, lettermen.
MANHATTAN SHIRTS and PAJAMAS
Are Exclusive in South Bend
SAM’L SPIRO & CO. Official Headquarters for Manhattan Products
George Costello, who barely missed a monogram a year ago, battles such men as Bob Smith, basketball guard, George Schreiber, Bob Bertsch, Bob Centlivre, Milo Wolf, William Wilson and John Carney for positions on the squad.
Despite inclement weather which has hampered play thus far this season, the Notre Dame coach was pleased with the progress of the team so early in the
THEY’RE
SWITCHING
"Manhattan’s the smoothest shirt in town"— so swings the open secret of the classroom grape* vine. And that’s shirt news that’s good news for you, too!
Get into Fashion’s stride with some spanking new Manhattan Shirts designed to give a nifty lift to all your suits. Tailored in top-rank style from eyefilling fabrics. Famed for fit and classic comfort.
SHIRTS • PAJAMAS • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR
year. “The sophomores are coming along well, and some of the juniors look good too. We ought to have some fine golfers the beginning of May—the result of a stiff competitive schedule among the squad members.”—Bill Scanlan
The median education for the U. S. as a whole is completion of the elementary school..	'
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Tennists Face Powerful
Kentucky Team Monday
Notre Dame’s tennis forces will entertain a veteran and powerful Kentucky team here Monday, and from all indications the Irish chances for a winning season rest in this meet. Following yesterday’s opening warm-up match with Wabash, Coach Langford is anxious to see his squad against stiffer competition. “We have prospects for one of the best teams Notre Dame ever had, and I think we hold an even chance against Kentucky, regardless of their jump on us in conditioning,” was the statement issued by Coach Langford.
The Irish squad, with a limited amount of practice and untested mettle, will face a team already advanced in its season’s play, this being Kentucky’s fourth match. Yesterday’s meeting at Wabash was the initial match for the local racket-wielders.
SLUZINGERS RACQUETS (See our assortment)
TENNIS RACQUETS RESTRUNG $1.75 to $8.00
3 Canned Tennis Balls—$ 1.25
RECO Sporting Goods
311 N. MAIN ST. PHONE 4-6731
"Look for the Log Front"
For
Finest Quality STEAKS — CHOPS FRIED CHICKEN SPAGHETTI DINNERS FRESH LAKE FISH
It's
HOWELL'S CAFE
Sandwiches Sodas Sundaes
In regard to past meetings with Kentucky, Coach Langford observed, “They’ve always employed a steady waiting game rather than brilliant driving play. If they are far enough along in conditioning, they may rest the outcome of Monday’s matches. I feel that we will be able to take them. Coach Downing has some veterans to oppose us, but we came close last year and with the strength we’ve added this year, we might come through.”
Because of unsettled weather Coach Langford was unable to run off the proposed intra-squad matches. A final starting lineup for Monday’s matches depends on the showing the players made downstate against Wabash.
In all probability Captain Bill Fay, Jack Joyce, Jack Walsh, and Dan Canale will lead the locals onto the courts with Red Bowler, John Wolfe, Norm Heckler, and Joe Garvey fighting it out for the remaining berths.
The matches will probably be held on the asphalt courts east of the fieldhouse.
Forum Proposes Typing
And Shorthand Courses
An active movement for the establishment of shorthand and typing courses at Notre Dame was initiated last Monday night when the Commerce Forum at its regular meeting voted wholeheartedly to support the measure. John O’Dea, guiding light of the idea outlined the proposed course.
Various conditions would regulate the course. First, it would be without credit; second, it would last 14 weeks with three classes a week; third, classes would be held from 6:40 to 8:00 o’clock p.m.; fourth, the charge for a shorthand course would be five dollars; fifth, instructors would be selected from the South Bend Business College and the South Bend high schools; sixth, the charge for the typing course cannot yet be determined because of the present lack of typewriters.
Mr. O’Dea expressed fear that, first, typewriters could not be obtained the number would be so small that the class would have to be limited to seniors. It was hopefully suggested that the alumni might assist in raising the necessary advance funds for the cash outlay, and students' could repay them by adding a nominal fee to the course for that purpose. “The problem of typewriters,” Mr. O’Dea said, “is the most serious one we have to face, and it is hoped that we may soon find an adequate solution.”
Mr. O’Dea based his argument for this innovation on the fact that he — like hundreds of other Notre Dame students
—had been refused a position due to a deficiency in shorthand and typing. In the modem business world, these abilities seem to be considered prerequisites, similar to the requirement of high school credits to enter college. The course has been proposed before but rejected by faculty members because it was not regarded as worthy of a university curriculum. This objection is hurdled by making it a non-credit course.
Jim Metzler, chairman of the Forum sports committee, announced that plans had been completed for the annual golf tournament, with match play replacing the medal play of previous years. Handicaps will be allotted on the basis of two qualifying rounds which must be completed before next Wednesday. There is a receptacle in the Rockne Memorial for cards.
The Forum is also holding a Communion Breakfast on April 28. Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., chaplain, will celebrate Mass and give a short talk at the breakfast.
Professor Herbert J. Bott concluded Monday’s meeting with an especially interesting lecture on “Reciprocal Trade Agreements.”—Comvay McDevitt
Rockne Memorial News
As Old Sol warms up, thoughts of Notre Dame men turn — among other things — to the outdoors.' Consequently activities of the Rockne Memorial are on the decline.
The current program includes an in-terhall swimming meet, concluded this week, and two. singles handball tournaments. Semifinals have been reached in the students’ tournament, while the priests’ meet got underway this week.
—John E. Lewis
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
College Of Engineering Adds New Equipment
Following a program of expansion inaugurated last fall, the College of Engineering has made many significant additions to its laboratories and library during the current academic year.
Installation of a new $8,000 universal testing machine has been completed within the last few days according to Walter L. Shilts, assistant dean of the engineering school. The new hydraulic type machine has a capacity of 200,000 lbs. and was manufactured by Baldwin-Southwark Corporation of Philadelphia. It will be used primarily for making tensile and compressive tests on various materials employed in engineering construction, especially steel and concrete.
The department of civil engineering has added several smaller pieces of equipment and is now well fitted for making standard tests on structural materials used in industry. For cement testing it is registered by the Cement Reference Laboratory, a unit of the Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C.
Plans are underway for the equipping of a hydraulic laboratory which is expected to be in operation by next fall. Since September approximately 1,000 volumes have been added to the engineering library including reference material for undergraduate work and also general research.
Music Lovers Applaud
Little Symphony Again
The Chicago Little Symphony made a return appearance on the Washington Hall stage Wednesday night. The Little Symphony was well received here last year when they made their debut before Notre Dame music lovers. This 14-piece symphonic group is considered the most remarkable of its kind in the country. The facility in moving such a small unit has enabled the Symphony to travel extensively.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
UNLUCKY IN LOVE?
TRY A FEW
PALM BEACH SUITS
and see the difference. Girls can’t resist a man who’s cool and smart in a Palm Beach White or Evening Formal. Your favorite clothier is featuring 1940’s broader-shouldered models. See them today—and may the best woman win I
• Palm Beach Suits, $16.75. In whites, blues, tans, grays and greens. Washable, of course. Palm Beach Formals (white jacket and black trousers), $18.50. Slacks, $5.00. Goodall Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
3- a -	.
P.ul m ach /
Always look for this label
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Knights Sponsor State
Oratory Contest, May 19
The local council of the Knights of Columbus will conduct a state-wide oratorical contest on Sunday, May 19, for all Columbian Squires and youth clubs under the sponsorship of the K. of C. in Indiana. John F. O’Loughlin is chairman' of the contest; and Ralph Gerra and Raymond Kelly form the remainder of the committee.
George J. O’Brien, director of the Ohio Chamber of Commerce, will be the principal speaker at an initiation banquet to be held in LaPorte, Ind., April 28.
On Tuesday a class of 35 candidates from Notre Dame, Elkhart, and South Bend councils will be initiated into the first degree of the Knights of Columbus.
Round Table, St. Mary's
Forum In Joint Meeting
Last Monday the Notre Dame Round Table and the St. Mary’s Economic Forum held their second joint dinner meeting under the leadership of Professor and Mrs. William Downey. Miss Mary Elizabeth Dunlap was chairman of the evening with Miss Frances Lapp presenting her study of “United States Cooperation in the Pacification of Europe.”
Maintaining that United States nonparticipation in the twenties was a salient factor in the failure of the League of Nations, Miss Lapp stressed the ethical obligation of America to aid Europe and held that the interests of the United States were too vitally entwined with European interests ever to permit the adoption of a United States policy of practical isolation. Strong dissenting opinion was aroused by this point of view and a brisk debate followed the speech with members of both clubs par-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TO
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
ticipating.
Professor Downey concluded the meeting with some pertinent comments on the economic position of the United States in world markets, stressing the numerous economic factors which must be considered in the formulation of our foreign policy.
This week the Round Table is conducting its annual spring membership drive. The membership committee of Don Kralovec, John Duggan, and Ed Bissett is holding interviews of prospective members, who will be presented to the club for consideration at next Monday’s meeting.
Students interested in economics or the political aspect of economic questions are invited to contact members of the membership committee and arrange for interviews. From four to seven seats at the Round Table are expected to be filled on Monday evening.
Washington Hall Movie
Tomorrow Is "Midnight"
Intrigue in Paris when a pretty but financially embarrassed young girl meets a cab driver and then can’t get rid of him, may briefly sum up “Midnight,” tomorrow’s campus theatre feature. Claudette Colbert, Don Ameche, and John Barrymore are starred in this gay comedy about Parisian night life.
NOTRE DAME ....
Souvenirs
Novelties Religious Articles
and
Stationery
Ink
All writing requisites
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
Claudette Colbert, as the girl stranded in Paris with no material goods, but an attractive evening ensemble, meets Don Ameche, the Pepsodent-smile kid, and after using the good-natured cabbie for a single meal ticket, leaves him slightly love-sick. After “crashing” a lively party in the gay sector, Miss Colbert accepts rich man Barrymore’s offer to lure away his wife’s gigolo and thwart the breaking of another home. From there on the situation demands laughs. Of course, Cabbie Ameche appears again to win love-stealer Colbert.
Realists' Meeting
The Realists, undergraduate sociology club will meet oh Monday evening, April 22 at 7:45 o’clock in the faculty lounge of the dining hall. Plans for programs for the remainder of the year will be discussed, and, according to President Frank Schmied, all undergraduate members in sociology will be welcome at the meeting, whether or not they are members at present.
r CAREER
, in Search of Men
tStatistics show a decrease , among practicing dentists in recent years while the fJ ” number of professional y men in other fields has increased. This can largest _ ly be attributed to ad., vanced standards in dental schools.
• The Marquette University Dental School is one of the 18 dental schools of the United States whose diplo-, mas are recognized in all of the states.
' The close relationship of the -'- ' Dental and Medical Schools at Marquette University is - - an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in / / dentistry, write to the Secre- ' tary, Marquette University	'
Dental School, Milwaukee,	'
Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
NEW' T,E!
nE|E shirt-’
NEir SUIT’
OLD HAT-I-TUDr
Spoils the Whole Effect
Yes — it’s your hat that makes the first and biggest impression, so when you’re adding to your Spring wardrobe . . .
LOOK AT A SMART, NEW LEE Water-Bloc* HAT
THE TELESCOPE
Looks smart because it has a natural crease. Worn snapped ’way back. Encircled by a club stripe band. . .	**
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave., New York
t*Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Studies at Kent State University indicate that students from cities are healthier than those from rural areas.
The cost of an education at Harvard University has increased 280 per cent in the last century.
Father Sorin Lived In
Log Chapel Many Years
In the combined back yards of Morrissey Hall and the University library there is a little log chapel. Visitors and freshmen must be told that it is a reproduction of a log chapel in which Father Badin lived while he was missionary to the Indians of this district. They are also told that Father Sorin, founder of Notre Dame, said Mass there for many years. That is- sufficient for visitors, but what about the real story?
The mission was founded at Notre Dame at the request of the Pottawatto-mie Indians. This tribe had been first converted by the Jesuit missionaries, when Father Allouez established a mission a half mile upstream from Niles in 1860. However, in a hundred years, the French and Indian Wars had destroyed this early mission, and from 1759 to 1830 the Indians were without a priest. Strangely enough, their faith persisted throughout this period, and in 1830 Father Gabriel Richard, vicargeneral of the Bishop of Cincinnati, sent Father Badin to minister to them.
Father Badin built the log chapel in 1831, but he evidently did not remain there long, as records state that his successor, Father De Seille, was the first permanent resident missionary. Father De Seille, a strong, healthy, young priest who was a native of Belgium, was very successful in his labors and was fairly idolized by the Indians.
However, Father De Seille was not to last long, for in a short time he became strangely sick, weakened, and died. Sensing his approaching death, he made his last round of the mission, making his farewell to his flock. Arriving back at the log chapel, he was exhausted. With only a few Indian friends around, he dragged himself to the altar of the chapel and with his own hands, administered the Holy Viaticum to himself. He then knelt in prayer, and within a few hours he fell over, dead, at the foot of the altar.
For about a year the log chapel had no priest, until in 1837 Father Pettit, a Frenchman, was placed in charge of the mission. But he was not to live long either. Bad times were in store for the tiny mission, most of whom were Potta-wattomie Indians. Just after Father Pettit took over the mission the govern- I ment passed laws which made it mandatory for these Indians to move west of । the Mississippi into Kansas.
Early in the autum of 1838 the government took possession • of Father Pettit’s house and the log chapel. After the priest had said his last Mass, the
church was stripped and left desolate. Father Pettit accompanied the Indians to Kansas and never returned to Notre Dame. The trip proved too much for him and he died soon afterward.
From this period until the time Father Sorin arrived at Notre Dame, the log chapel had no resident priest. The Indians and the Catholic whites of the district were served intermittently by a priest who came from Chicago.
The original log chapel that Father Badin built was 20 feet wide by 40 feet long. The ground floor was his residence, while the upper floor served as chapel for the congregation. A small frame addition was built onto the chapel to house the family of a half-breed Indian who served as interpreter for the priest.
The log chapel was used by Father Sorin and the priests of the Congregation until 1850. It was then abandoned and remained standing-until 1856 when it was completely destroyed by fire. Of the three priests who preceded Father Sorin; one, Father Badin, is buried underneath the present reproduction, and the other two, Fathers De Seille and Pettit, are buried in the sanctuary of the basement chapel of Sacred Heart Church.—Harry Penrose
COME
DOWN C. O. D.
and look over our large, complete selection of all that's new in
PALM BEACH
suits
slacks
formal jackets
Just take a cab and we will pay on arrival for any Notre Dame student — from school to GILBERT'S store. All other accessories to complete your outfit for any hour of the day — or night.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Valley Club Broadcast
From Campus N.D. Night
As their contribution to the celebration of Universal Notre Danie Night, the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley arranged for a broadcast from the campus studios in the Engineering Building last Monday evening.
- Enrique Arias, president of the La Raza Club, spoke, emphasizing the cosmopolitan nature of the Notre Dame
Lovely Voice Makes Chicago Debut
When you ride the South Shore you can get off at six convenient Chicago stations. The Randolph and Van Buren Street stations are only a whisper away from Michigan and the "Loop."
NEW LOW RATE TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
student body. The president of this year’s graduating class, Harry Boisvert, . told of the sentiment of the student body on this 17th annual celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. The final speaker was Frank Miles, president of Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, who reviewed the activities of the club during the past year. William Scully sang “Jeannie With the Light Brown Hair” and “Hills of Rome,” accompanied by Orville Foster at the piano. The program was arranged and directed by Ray Kelly.
Journalism Students
Hear Detroit Editor
Charles Molz, assistant news editor of the Detroit News, delivered a lecture to the junior class of Notre Dame University Department of Journalism Thursday morning.
In speaking about journalistic jobs after graduation, Mr. Molz stressed the fact that “students should not restrict themselves to the newspaper field.” He pointed out that the trade journals, especially specialized types, were definitely looking for writers with a knowledge of one specific subject.
Of his own work, Molz gave a detailed explanation. Especially interesting was the explanation of the changes that occur from one edition to another.
“The Detroit News puts five different editions on the street each day,” Mr. Molz said. “Since our best-seller is the home edition, the third one printed, we build up to it in our make-up work.”
Molz displayed five different copies of the News’ daily papers to show how the make-up varies between the first and last editions; how stories get bigger between printings. He also showed the make-up editors’ -work sheet, the plan of the front page.—John Murtaugh
Criminology Clinic
Final details are now being completed for the May 2nd trip to the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City by members of the criminology classes taught by Professor Loren J. Hess and Francis T. Flynn. It is emphasized that only students who have had this course or graduate social work students are eligible since this is not an observation tour.
Henry J. Caudill, 123 Dillon, and Hawley Van Swall, 240 Howard, are cochairmen in charge of the trip and full details can be obtained from them. Registration cards will be sent students in Mr. Hess’ first semester class.
Educational Frontiers
(Continued from page 11)
ern Indiana. The group consisted of Father Sorin and six Brothers. They arrived at the mission of St.-Mary-of-the-Lake on a bleak November day of 1842, to carve out of the wilderness a shrine of education dedicated to the Mother of God — Notre Dame. They labored, they sacrificed, and eventually won; and Notre Dame today, with an enrollment of three thousand students from every state of the Union and fourteen foreign countries, stands as a living memorial to their faith, courage, and perseverance. From this historic campus, have gone forth thousands of hei’ sons into the various activities of life, ever-mindful of Notre Dame’s training, which can be termed in the phrase “First things first.” Well did Father Sorin realize the importance of the educational program of the old frontier that “Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged.”
And so tonight, I am happy to report that God has blessed Alma Mater with
Makes you swell WITH PRIDE...
Button into one of our new Arrow fancy shirts . . . and see how your chest expands, how you throw back your shoulders. For the patterns, the pick of the world’s fashion centers, are really something to be proud of. Only $2 and up.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
another successful academic year. Notre Dame was indeed honored by Pius XII in the appointment of its former president, Bishop O’Hara as Auxiliary of the Army and Navy diocese. Moreover, under the direction of a devoted and capable faculty of religious and laymen, all departments of the University are making steady progress. The graduate division is conducting, very quietly, but effectively, important problems in research, and at the same time is training students for their respective positions in life. Since ' last Universal Night, outstanding symposia in philosophy, higher mathematics, physics and bacteriology, brought to the campus renowned scholars. In the undergraduate division, the traditional training of mind and will is
Can Your Shirts Stand A Close-Up?
y^LL shirts at a distance look more or less XV alike, but in a candid close-up Arrow shirts are instantly distinguishable because of their trim, good-looking Arrow collars.
Arrows are precision cut, evenly stitched, and shaped to fit the curve of your neck, with the pattern on the collar points symmetrically balanced.
No unsightly bunching or collar-curling has ever cursed an Arrow shirt. They’re Mitoga shaped to fit and Sanforized-Shrunk... fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Get some new Arrows today, before your next date ... $2 up.
ARROW SHIRTS
being continued as in the past, with proper emphasis on not only how to make a living, but what is more important, in how to live so as to reach the eternal goal of happiness. And last week, what is believed to be the first student intercollegiate conference in philosophy in America was held on the campus. I see in this a future development that will bring together a larger representation of young men and women for an interchange of ideas that should serve to offset certain radical thinking. Time will not permit of a further appreciation of campus activities. Nevertheless, this brief chronicle of campus life is subdued by the deaths of Father' Wenninger and track coach John Nicholson. We miss them from their posts, because by their
devotion to duty they expressed devotion to the University. May they rest in peace!
Within the shadow of the Centennial of the University, therefore, I ask all Notre Dame men tonight to rededicate themselves to the ideals of Alma Mater as symbolized by the statue aloft the Golden Dome, as so beautifully expressed by the renowned G. K. Chesterton, visiting professor at the University in 1933, in his poem “The Arena”:
“I have seen, where a strange country opened its secret plains about me, One great golden dome stand lonely with its golden image, one
Seen afar, in strange fulfilment,
Through the sunlit Indian summer
That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed her with the Sun.”
“Queen of Death and Life undying Those about to live salute thee;
Not the crawlers with the cattle, looking deathward with the swine,
But the shout upon the mountains
Of the men that live forever,
Who are free of all things living but a Child; and He was thine.”
And we must be His!
4rrow Headquarters Presents
New Beauties tor Spring Real Beauties . . . shirts that are absolute tops in style ... A swell collection just arrived.
*2 MAX ADLER MICHIGAX AT WASHINGTON
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DISC-CUSSION
"Your Band of Tomorrow” mebbe, Tommy Reynolds, has made a very ordinary record of two slightly better than ordinary songs: “Moments in the Moonlight” and “If It Weren’t for You.” Sally Richards on both vocals is a little less than ordinary. Tommy will have to find something more original than this present style before he becomes even the band of today. It seems that a guy named Goodman does the same thing much more effectively.
In fact, Goodman does it on “Night and Day” and “Beyond the Moon.” The first needs no build up. It’s one of Cole Porter’s best. The second is a rather tricky but slightly monotonous instrumental by Toots Mondello. Of the two arrangements, I prefer Benny’s of the latter, chiefly because I think that only songs written to be swung should be swung. Those many of you that will disagree with me should love this pairing. And, partial though I am, I can’t really dislike it.
Frankie Carle seems to have reissued his “Sunrise Serenade” as “Lovers Lullaby.” The style is, however, still very much worth your while as a welcome relief from the typical popular song. Gene Krupa has made an excellent recording of it in a manner so restrained it seems hardly Krupa. Its mate is Cab Calloway’s popular “Boog It” (Don’t ask me what it means) with a vocal by Irene Daye. The record is a good buy but the big value lies on A side.
Will Bradley is back with us again this week with a good pair “It’s a Wonderful World” and “Watching the Clock.” I prefer Will’s version of “Wonderful World” to that of its composer, Jan Savitt. Carlotta Dale does the lyrics straight, then Ray McKinley comes in with a little novelty. The second side is a fairly good dance number played as well as one could hope. Carlotta Dale again does the vocal. Watch Will usurp Mr. Reynolds’ self made title. He has the best brass in the country, for my money.
For the best novelty of the week, I pick a pair of songs that certainly aren’t novelties by a group that make no claims to featuring novelties. Anyway, it’s the beautiful Russian number, “Dark Eyes,” and the even more beautiful Spanish number, “Estrellita” by the not so beautiful but very talented Adrian Rollini Trio (Vibraphone, Guitar and Bass). With a little jive, a little straight, and even a little on the mellow side, the Trio gets every possible angle of these two
£



Delicious and
Only Coca-Cola gives you that happy after-sense of complete refreshment. That’s why millions enjoy it every day. It had to be good to get where it is. So, get a Coca-Cola, and get the feel of refreshment.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
The Notre Dame Scholastic
25
HEADSUP! GET UNDER A NEW STETSON!
Balance up your good appearance by choosing America's smartest hat buy . . . Smart heads favor them.
SAM’L SPIRO &CO.
OH YOUR CAMPUS
...you’re bound to see the Stetson “Campus” It rates an “A” with stylewise students. Its lines are clean-cut ...its colors, flattering. Flattering, too, is that felt binding...a new touch.
STETSON HAT
FIVE DOLLARS AND UP
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
numbers. “Estrellita,” in case you’ve forgotten, has been used as a basis for some of our most pouular songs. Try it!
Last and near this week’s top is Tommy Dorsey’s pairing of “Shake Down the Stars” and “Moments in the Moonlight.” Tommy is at his sweet best and Frank Sinatra, who reminds me vaguely of Kenny Sargent, does’ the vocals very nicely. Maybe Mr. Dorsey won’t miss Jack Leonard as much as we all suspected. This record is good in any language—especially that of the so-called ickies or long hairs. If this be corn, I’m all for it.—Bill Geddes
RADIO LOG
The rest of the Commerce school can continue to read Roger Babson or Nation’s Business to find out about economic trends. For our part, we feel that we can gauge business conditions at least in South Bend better, through watching the radio columns of the Tribune than in any other way. To be specific, we state quite decidedly that business is on an upswing. One of the Radio Club’s shows was shelved recently to make way for a commercial show, complete with all the accessories, including that invaluable unit, a sponsor.
Many times in the few years we have been here, suggestions have been made that the students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame cooperate in the production of stage and radio shows.
Unless we choose to produce nothing but shows like the Monogram Absurdities or “Journey’s End,” we must have women in our cast. Then, why not St. Mary’s ? It is the logical place to recruit our feminine players. The criticism that it is impossible to cooperate with the “Rock” is unfounded.
In the past ten days, the Radio Club has put on five 15-minute programs in conjunction with members of the St. Mary’s committee on the Confraternity Conference. The shows were written by two girls, Marjorie Hall and Carthar-ine Condon, and featured the work of the Confraternity. The parts were taken by students from St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. All who heard them proclaimed them a decided success and a worthy precedent to be followed in other shows.
The Log
7:00—Tuesday: Music of the Masters 7:45—Wednesday: Sportscast
9:00—Wednesday: Faculty Talk 4:00—Thursday: Periscope 9:00—Friday: Radio Stage
—Ray Kelly
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
People who have memories, in the sense of remembered experiences, turn to them for pleasure and profit. In a much more real sense the Church draws upon her treasury of experience. Every remembered event is an efficacious means to a fuller participation in the divine life.
The Sunday High Mass admirably serves these combining forms in the nature of man. Its greater solemnity, its more readily recognizable parts, draw him closer to the divine truths it unfolds. According to Pius XI, taking part in the celebration of the sacred mysteries is of greater value in learning the truths of religion than the weightiest sermons. The post-Easter masses, for instance, keep before us the glorified Christ in heaven as the pledge of our own glorification. At the same time they point to Pentecost, the source of our uplifting.
The Mass of the Rogations this Thursday again reminds us that “the earth is the Lord’s and the fulness thereof.” (Psalm 23:1) To the chanting of the Litany of the Saints the procession goes to a designated spot where the priest blesses the fields. Now it is seeding time and the mass that follows invokes God to send an abundant harvest.
Mass Calendar: April 21-27
Sunday, 21—Fourth after Easter. 2d prayer, St. Anselm, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 22—Sts. Soter and Caius, Popes and Martyrs. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 23—St. George, Martyr. Other prayers as yesterday.
Wednesday, 24—St. Fidelis of Sigmaringen, Martyr. Mass: Protexisti (Common of Martyrs in Paschal Time). Prayer proper. Other prayers as on Monday.
Thursday, 25—St. Mark, Evangelist. 2d prayer of the Rogations (in proper of the time). Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Friday, 26—Sts. Cletus and Marcellin-us, Popes and Martyrs. Mass: Sancti tui (Common of Martyrs in Paschal Time), Prayer proper. Other prayers as on Monday.
Saturday, 27—St. Peter Canisius, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common of Doctors) Prayer proper. 2d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
E;
000,ooo
Bott	dose w	maae
Eadt cdl	-rd-
to	sy^ ““
rive yoncox>»^
aPA	or keX Va vrorU-
a.	n „ finest
^one-dice*'
BELL SYSTEM
The Notre Dame Scholastic
27
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3>139S	J. M. S. BUILDING
CDr. 0. Qrundtj
. Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
3HERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA

OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
er
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
16th Century Chained Bible In Library Group
An interesting and valuable display of rare books is on exhibit in the University Library in accordance with the national observance of the 500th anniversary of the invention of printing by Johann Gutenburg. One of the most prized exhibits is a leaf from the Gutenburg Bible printed about 1450, the first book printed from movable type.
Another- biblical exhibit is a chained Bible bound in calf-skin on wooden boards. It was printed in Dutch at Cologne, Germany, in 1565. A wrought iron chain four feet in length is attached to a bent nail on the cover. The chain was used as a precaution against theft, as books were scarce at this time and replacement difficult and expensive.
People used encyclopedias as long ago as 1240, for there is shown a copy of “De Proprietatibus Rerum” written by Bartholomaeus Anglicus, before that time, printed in 1480 and in use four-centuries. This volume is a gift to the University from the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., eminent scientist of Notre Dame.
“One of the most remarkable pictorial chronicles of its kind” is the description of the copy of a first edition of “Liber Chronicarum,” by Paul R. Byrne, University librarian and arranger of the exhibit. This work, generally known as the “Nuremburg Chronicle,” was printed on July 12, 1493, and is a general history from the creation of the world to the reign of the Emperor Maximilian. It contains about 2,000 woodcuts, many of them hand painted.
A Latin Psalter of the 15th century on vellum in Gothic script and a copy of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” are also displayed.
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
PINOCCHIO ALBUM right from the sound of the movie..
J	SOUTH BEND
! X-RAY LABORATORY
I 825 SHERLAND BUILDING 1
> L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. »
|	M.D.	M.D.	|
As a representative of 16th Century printing an edition of the “Chronycle of Englande” and “Descrypcon of Bryt-ane,” complete the exhibit. The work first appeared in London in 1520 as a product of Wyken de Worde, who was previously a foreman in William Cax-ton’s shop. Caxton introduced printing into England in 1477, about 37 years after its invention and was a force in developing the early literature of that country.
A new VICTOR Album wtili the little characters singing their own songs!
"When You Wish Upon a Star” with Jiminy Criekett
’Little Wooden Head” with Gepetto
"Give a Little Whistle” with Jiminy Criekett and Pinocchio
“Hi Diddle Dee Dee” with J. Worthington Eoulfellow and Pinocchio
“l’ie Got Xo Strings” with Pinocchio and the Marionettes
Finale—“Turn on the Old Music Box” and “When You Wish Upon a Star’' — with Pinocchio. Gepetto. Jiminy Criekett and the Chorus
Ami for your further pleasure GLEN MILLER'S brand new recording of "Stardust.” with “My Melancholy Baby” on the other side—a BLUEBIRD record—35c
firs. and U^ose
DENTISTS 430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
A New Boy
They shaved his head and took his hat, His shoes they made him doff;
Next day in class they all flunked flat, He was their English prof.
Pell Mell.
Have you heard ARTIE SHAW an.l his new thirty-one piece band playing:
“Adios, Mariquita Linda” "Frenesi”
Instrumental arrangement on VICTOR at 75 cents
RODIN'S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories
Open Tues.. Thurs. and Sat. Evenings
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONISR LIBRARYMOTHS DAME, LOCAL
Chesterfield goes to bat with the
Liggett & Myers Today’s DEFINITELY MILDER, Cooler-Smoking, Better-Tasting Cigarette Tobacco Co.	.	.
Definitely Milder Cooler-Smoking Better-Tasting
... these are the three good qualities that every smoker wants and every smoker gets in Chesterfield. That’s because Chesterfields are made of the world’s best tobaccos, blended in the right combination.
You cant buy a better cigarette.
"The Yankees," says JOE MCCARTHY, "win cham pionships because' they’re good in the box, at bat and in the field" . . CHESTERFIELDS win more smokers - every day because they're tops for
cooler smoking, better taste and real mildness.
iesterfield