

improv comedy group 
truth, justice or the american way tour 
Washington Hall 
Friday, February 16th 6:30 and 9:30 
doors open 30 min before each show 

tickets on sale February 9th 
$5 student/$10 adult four IDs per person, 1 student ticket per ID 


Eighth of February 2007 
news 04 
DISJOINTED POLICY 
Daric Snyder News editor Daric Snyder explores how Notre Dame doles out punishments and how the university measures up to other institutions on this matter. 
COVER: CAMPUS ELECTION Scholastic Staff Your one-stop election coverage. Read up on the student body presidential candidates and their platforms. 

Culture 21 
A MUSICAL DEBATE Sarah Barrett · Scholastic explores the controversial language in the newest PEMCo musical, "Ragtime." 
THE WRITE STUFF Jennifer Wulf The Notre Dame Literary Festival upholds the tradition of bringing renowned authors in contact with student writers. 

Sports 28 
THE TEAM BEHIND THE TEAMS Megan Teigen From practice to game day, hardworking student managers make Notre Dame athletics possible. 

Hum.or 33 
AN IDIOT'S GUIDE TO WOMEN Mike Healy Our very own DonJuan imparts his knowledge of women to the next generation of pick-up artists. Here's a hint: success does not depend on charm or hygiene. 
2 Campus Chatter. . . . . . . . . .. 21 4 Letter From Abroad . . . . . . . . ·. 24 8 Gipper ................34 Iraq Column .............36 
•148, No. 8 • 8 FEB 2007 
SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In Chief Christopher Meskill 
David Poe11 
Executive Design Editors Julie Ruffin Jana Stewart 
Executive Copy Editor Kate Drossor 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Jessica Farmwald 
News 
Daric Snyder, editor 
Culture 
Sarah Barrett, editor Jennifer Wulf, assislant 
Sports 
Megan Teigen, editor 
Humor 
Mike Healy, editor Joe Latta!, assistant Elisa Suarez, assistant 
Design Emma Daugherty, assistant 
Chris Sebastian, assistant Madison Clark Kathleen Dilenschneider Anne Frazer 
Carolin Hubschor 
Christina Lewis Audrey Marier Jamie Schulte BethAnn Viscoglia 
Ellen Voglrieder 
Photography 
Kristin Keva, editor Juan Muldoon, assistant 
Courtney Sullivan 
Copy Catherine Mapelli 
Business Bryan Lowery, manager 
Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution 
Megan Teigen, manager 
Online 
Michael King, wobmaster 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 

COVER STORY 
NEWS STAFF 
COVER DESIGN 
CHRIS SEBASTIAN 
Disce Quasi Se,11pe1· Vict1wz,s Vive Quasi Cms Mo,-ittm,s 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved, 1, Cut a hole in a box. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46656. Tho girls' bathroom in South is the scariest place on campus. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 6:00 p.m. Monday before t~o issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances, Damn abroad programs; they steal our people, Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date, McAlarney's dooby-ious fate. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. . Advertising rates available on roquesl Amber Bach is a porn star. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
8 FEB 2007 





Is God-Calling You? 
Corne Explore the -Congregation of Holy Cross 
Priests and Brothers 
With an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other discerning men 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C. 

-Din.n.ers 

--• 5:30-7:30pm 

Begins at Log Chapel, Dinner to Follow 


4•·•·:,.•f·•••····

\ ;' '. . 
\Frid~ftie!';~?! 9t1 • .· •····....·...· 
· \. Fr. Moreau CSC 



}i i > 
Friday ':, ., February 23rd 
::{\,::,:; Holy Cross Charism ' and Mission 
;':,,. · F_riday March 2.nd 

; D1scem1ng a Vocation 
(57_4) 631-6385 


vocation. l@nd.edu · ,vocation.nd.edu 

Why the Controversy? 
Cases of marijuana use are not new at Notre 
Dame, but the student reaction is. 
0 n the last day of Freshmen Orientation, the Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., gives his infamous speech to close out the opening mass. Reciting duLac, Poorman makes it clear that drug use or possession is treated as a serious issue at the University of Notre Dame. Further, all freshmen are asked to certify that they have read duLac and agree to abide by it before even setting foot on campus. So why is there so much controversy surrounding sophomore Kyle McAlarney's suspension after being caught in possession of marijuana? The answer is, unfortunately, because he is an athlete. As the point guard for the Fighting Irish basketball team, McAlarney led Notre Dame to an 11-1 record before his suspension. The enthusiasm for men's basketball, which was nonexistent early in the season, was rejuvenated much to the credit of McAlarney's play and Notre Dame's recent good fortune. While many students try to deny that Notre Dame is centered on athletics, it is hard to explain the flagrant defenses in The Observer by students who have never even met McAlarney. Skin deep, the protest was about the policy's harshness, but deep down, it seems driven by the desire to win and remain in the limelight of college athletics. Dozens of drug usage and possession cases are brought before the Office of Residence Life and Housing each semester, but no outright public objection had been brought against the university prior to McAlarney's suspension. This does not necessarily mean that students believed the punishment fit the crime prior to McAlarney, but rather that marijuana usage and possession has never been a big enough issue to warrant a debate for any other student. Once again, this disparity in the student's hostility towards the policy leaves us pondering what is different about this case. McAlarney's case is different in one respect -it has brought national attention to Notre Dame's drug policies. Every media outlet from The New York Times to ESPN has covered the suspension in detail. While some argue that this brings validity to McAlarney's case, it does quite the opposite. Integrity is standing in the face of adversity and upholding one's principles; Notre Dame has integrity. Notre Dame was faced with national criticism over this case but did not fold to the pressures of "letting the kid off the hook." This stubborn resolve to "archaic" standards is a good thing. Imagine what would be said about Notre Dame's integrity had they allowed McAlarney to continue to play. Imagine what would be said about Notre Dame's integrity had they changed their policy when faced with hardship. Notre Dame is strict. It's as common knowledge as the sky is blue. This sternness arises from the vision of being an intellectually and morally enriching institution. IfNotre Dame were to hold itself to a standard below that of the general populace, it would not attain any of these goals. In fact, allowing the severity of duLac's policies to slide according to opinion outside the community would be a detriment to Notre Dame's character and integrity. This moral exactness entwined with academic zeal makes Notre Dame what it is -a place for complete education and maturation. Yes, Notre Dame has lost four games since losing McAlarney, but is basketball worth more than the rigor and reputation of Our Lady's University? 
8 FEB 2007 

Brother, Can You Spare 


a Snow Day? 
oJulie Putnam 
e message streaking across South Bend Super Bowl viewers' elevision screens last Sunday grabbed NotreDame students' ttention almost as much as the Kevin Federline commercial 
-"ALL SOUTH BEND SCHOOLS WILL BE CLOSED DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER TOMORROW." Yet the fire that lit up so many students' eyes and hearts was quickly doused by the frigid reality-Notre Dame simply does not shut down. 
Despite urgent warnings that saturated weather.com and other news sites claiming that more than 30 minutes of skin exposure would result in freezing flesh, Notre Dame Provost Thomas Burish, Executive Vice PresidentJohn Affleck-Graves and Executive Vice President of Business Operations James Lyphout insisted the show must go on. Burish, Affleck-Graves and Lyphout together make the decision of whether the weather effects are detrimental enough to cancel classes. 
All other Michiana and South Bend schools closed their doors Monday, but professors and Darners alike packed on the layers and with heads down, hands stuffed in pockets, fought the minus 22 wind chill factor on a slippery and spine-chilling trek to class Monday morning. "It took me four hours to get here from Chicago," one professor sighed when his hour and a half commute transformed into a sluggish and precarious expedition. 
However, local higher education institutions such as Indiana University, South Bend (IUSB), St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College followed similar reasoning as the Notre Dame administration. Classes continued as usual, despite the plummeting temperatures outside. 
The bitter effects ofthe cold have not just impacted students 
-facilities are wilting under the unusually arctic weather blast. As of 10 a.m. Monday morning, frozen pipes that had burst in the Hesburgh Library caused flood damage and the closure of the entire building. The library was partially reopened six hours later. Subzero temperatures also triggered pipes to rupture in Keough Hall and Dillon Hall, and the basement of the Main Building experienced some flooding this week as well. 
So what does it really take to cancel class? "I thinkwe usually only cancel class if the professors or staff can't get in here," Sister Sue Bruno,_J 4-year rectress of Pasquerilla West, says. 
"It takes a lot to cancel class. The last time I remember was on 9/11." Such sentiments are widespread among administrators. "I've been here 20 years, and only two times come to mind that we closed down the school. And one time the students weren't even back from break yet," a university employee in the Provost office says: 0 
8 FEB 2007 
• • • • • • ......... (§.iScholasticNews 



JOINTED 


Asse1\fsing Notre Dame's disciplinary process and community standards 
0 

Daric Snyder
Sex, drugs and beer. God, country and Notre Dame. It's clear that a great deal is expected of Notre 
Dame students. Not only must students tackle rigorous academics, they must also live up to the standards of a community based on Catholic values. Yet, Notre Dame's traditional values often clash with stereotypical "college culture" seen in popular films like "Animal House" and 
"Old School." With the recent suspension of sophomore basketball player Kyle McAlarney following his December 29 arrest for marijuana possession, students, alumni and others have questioned if Notre Dame's disciplinary philosophy and process are fair and consistent. While university officials are barred from speaking about specific cases of student discipline due to federal privacy laws, there can be some clarification of how Notre Dame addresses student discipline. 
Notre Dame, in its role as an educator, 
feels that its duty extends beyond the walls of the classroom. A quick scan of duLac makes this evident. Bill Kirk, associate vice president of student affairs and residence life, says Notre Dame calls students "to standards and expectations that are not the same -that are higher than the minimum required for just good order." From 

parietals to restrictici.ns on alcohol and drug use, students have to abide by the rules or face consequences. In addition to any legal penalties a student may encounter for violations, theywill have to answer to Notre Dame as well. The university's response can range from. warnings and small fines all the way to suspension and permanent dismissal, depending on the severityofthe action and the nature of the situation. "Every sanction from a verbal warning up until disciplinary suspension for a couple of semesters, the university is hopefully 
· educating through its response," Kirk says. While certain regulations, such as parietals, apply only in residence halls, Notre Dame will hold students accountable for off-campus violations ofthe law and ofuniversity regulations. This watchful eye extends even when school is not in session: Behavior during 
all breaks is subject to disciplinary 
measures. The Office of Residence 
Life and Housing (ResLife) responds 
to each incident with a deliberate, 
judicial process that allows students to 
gather information and argue their case. "[ResLife] considers the facts of each particular case," says Kirk. Though students generally knowwhat to expect when called before ResLife for 
a certain violation, _nothing is set until after the case is heard. Students are also given a few days to collect information to aid their defense. As such, the process may take some time to schedule and resolve, depending on the time ofyear. The disciplinary process is likely to take longer when suspension or dismissal are on the line, considering the higher number of administrators that must participate in the process. 
Holidays and administrative vacations can further extend the process to resolve matters when school is out. Kirk says, 
"The process they go through itself is geared toward being administered during the academic year, although there are opportunities to do that outside of the academic year as well [ ... ] If the university is not in session, it is difficult to bring together the involved parties [ ... ] At the beginning of the semester, frequently there are 


often matters from before the semester." 
· While ResLife tries to resolve matters quickly, the process can take weeks to complete. A ruling can also be reviewed, possibly overturning or lessening the initial decision. The grounds on which a review can occur include the presence ofa procedural flaw and the emergence of new evidence, according to Kirk. Procedural defects are rare but could 
8 FEB 2007 
. . . 
pemiit akoh · others' are. 
. alcohol-Jree 

Small :fine, . , dismissal 
. s, 
citation 
· Disciplinary 

Fines; probation, ·Misdemeanor, up to· Probilti.on, . 
suspension · $5,000 fine, license alcohol 
p9ssih~e· .s1,1spensio:n/jail ~me . 
service, . suspensioil •. · possible 
Suspension, .. Fines, proba ·"1:'disrissal . 

Ftii€:siprobario11, Misdemeane>r,.up to, petniarient · ···:·:·suspension ·· · ··· · · 
suspe,;ision . ·. $5,ooo fille; hiµ time · dismissal ,·. .pci~si~~e . 
ppssible . possible, fir~t offense possible··.· .. 
can be deferred · 
Suspension, · permanent clismissal. · possible · ·: · 
take place if, for example, a student was not provided enough time to gather information that would help them plead their case. .. . 
The severity of Notre Dame's treat­ment ofduLacviolations has always been bemoaned by students. Peers at other universities, even Catholic institutions, often face lighter responses to violations of rules and laws on and off cam­pus. Some schools even generally ignore off-campus legal violations that don't directly impact the col-legecommunity.Atthesametime, Notre Dame's reaction to alcohol violations may appear relatively lax in comparison to violations for drug use or sexual activity. 
DuLac appears to take a lighter stance on driving while intoxicated than on the possession of a small amount of marijuana. Driving while intoxicated will often land students with fines and probation, but stu_dents who 

disciplinary suspension or permanent it's used and abused here on campus dismissal." Kirk acknowle4ges this and other place~," Kirk s.ays. Other disparity :hut does not find .it fair to universities, especially public schools, . stack these violations against each otlier ... often take stances similar to Notre 
"There's a long history of the use of alcohol in this culture, and I think the rules and regulations of the university . have to be considered in light of that history of use of alcohol and the way 
Dame's in response to DUI charges, 
but marijuana use is often treated more 
lightly, resulting in in.ere fines and 
probations. Students hoping for major changes in university policies will probably pick up a diploma · 1ong before duLac's drug and alcohol policies are lessened. No substantial changes or reviews of policy are underway, according to Kirk. While small changes are potentially made each year, ~o large changes have been made since revisions to the alcohol policy in 2002 tightened the on-campus 
i 
z
alcohol policy, outlawing 0 kegs and liquor. 
~ 
0 0 
:i: 

possess marijuana are ''subject to 
en 0 
8 FEB 2007 7 ••••••••• 


Interns must pay their dues, like it or not 

Maggie Condit
Filing, pouring coffee and creating Excel spreadsheets, or sunbathing, sleeping and 
watching "Full House" reruns -what sounds more appealing? Many Notre Dame students are faced with this decision as they plan their summers. The pressure of getting a summer internship runs high at Notre Dame, in the field. By offering assistance in random office assignments or by sitting in on meetings, students can ensure they are getting the most out of their internships. 

Students can also overcome the financial issues that arise from unpaid positions and high housing costs in big cities. The Career Center encourages 
as proven by the hundreds ofstudents ,..,.,,,....,,,,.,,.,,,.,,~~~....,.-,~="""..,,.,.,..,.,,..S"'":'~""""'= who traded their sweats for business suits to attend the 2007 Winter 
Career and Internship Fair last week. One hundred seventy organizations, 328 career opportunities and 473 
recruiters made this fair the largest and most diverse career event in the history of Notre Dame. Before students begin researching these companies, writing their resumes and preparing for interviews, most assess the real value of an internship. Although they can create monetary problems and just plain boredom, summers as the office assistant still prove worthwhile in the eyes ofmany employers. 
At the Notre Dame Career Center, 
Susanne Thorup works as the manager of Internship Development, matching employers and students up for a symbiotic internship. In an email, Thorup and career counselor Anita Rees wrote that internships are the "keys to the undergraduate experience. [Internships] help you compete for great 
real-world experience of an official internship, other companies appreciate applicants who simply show that they have used their summers in a constructive way, rather than just sitting on the couch. Carrie Sweeney, a career fair representative from Starcom Worldwide, stresses the importance of using the summer to "develop the overarching 
skills sets of critical thinking, communication and creativity." She adds that "even if it is not an internship, do something during the summer that is worth talking about in an interview and shows that you've developed your skills for that particular industry." 
Many students also value the internship experience itself more than the paycheck. Sophomore Katie Burns wants to get an internship "in order to narrow down what business field [she] would like to go into when [she is] older." Although students like Burns might make a few too many photocopies this summer, Joanna Galuszka reminds them in her article on the career information Web site Vault.com, that climbing the corporate ladder is not glamorous. 
"At your internship stage of career growth, you are akin to the plankton on the ocean's surface that subsist on dead bacteria and other scum. It's not prestigious, but 

future opportunities, learn what you RISING TO YOUR POTENTIAL Some summer interns find it nevertheless fulfills an important 
like and don't like in the world ofwork, that their duties are less than glamorous. 
and network with professionals that can  
help you leap to the next work experience."  
Hill and Knowlton, a public relations firm,  
listed internship experience, networking  
skills and writing skills as the top three  
qualities in applicants for entry-level  
positions.  
t11  The high regard many employers hold  
~ t3 i==5  for internships can be confusing for students who find themselves in a dull, unpaid position all summer. If this is  

o the case, Hill and Knowlton encourage 1i5 students to take every opportunity during 
_
,_fi: i~:emship to gain expecience 

students to research the numerous scholarships and grants which can help cover these costs. To cut housing costs even more, universities such as NYU, Georgetown, Emory and Columbia offer summer housing in theirresidence halls. Since many companies target their paid internships at upperclassmen, part-time, unpaid internships are solid alternatives for freshmen and sophomores seeking valuable experience while still holding a paying job. 
Although many companies value the function within the overall food 
chain. If you do your grunt work well, you may eventually evolve into a bigger fish," Galuszka writes. 
By utilizing various Career Center and Internet resources, students can find internships that meet their expectations and needs. Even if students find their summer positions to be less than ideal, making the most of the internship will likely prove beneficial in the future. 
8 FEB 2007 
'7, 




ELECTION COVERAGE 
2007 
Wha.t's Inside: 
10 ... Sha.ppell-Andrichik 11 ... Brown-Bra.un 12 ... Coggon-Pa.dberg 13 ... Rivera.-Ka.ne 14 ... Smith-Weiss 15 ... Sta.ff Endorsement 16 ... Judging the Pla.nks 


Helpful Hint: 
Hymenoptera. -n. pl. 
A largeandimportantorder of insects (inch'!,ding the ants, wasps, bees, e!c.}, having four membranous wings (which are,

' 
however, sometimes caducous or absent}; the females have an ovipositor, which may also serve as a sting. -OED.com 






•Nicole Garton
Whenseniors Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andrichik 
assumed their respective 
positions as student body president 
and vice president in April 2006, 
they already had a considerable 
amount ofadministrative experience. 
Shappell had previously served as 
the vice president to then-Student 
Body President Dave Baron, and as 
a sophomore she served as the Badin 
senator, chair ofthe Gender Relations 
Committee and a Sophomore Class 
Council representative. Andrichik 
was likewise no slouch; before being 
elected, he served as junior class 
president as well as sophomore 
class president, with Shappell as his 
campaign manager. 
The Shappell-Andrichik 
administration hit the ground 
running in August after having laid 
the groundwork for their initiatives 
in the spring and summer. \iVhen 
Grab'n'Go opened its doors for the 
year, students were able to choose 

from several new options, including popcorn and pudding. snacks. The College Readership Program, another campaign promise,' launched within the first week ofclasses.In designated locations across campu~, 1,600 copies ofthe Chicago Tribune, The New York Times and USA Today were made available to students, funded by an increase in the Student Activities tuition fee. 
Improvingrelations betweenNotre Dame and South Bend was one of the key issues for Shappell and Andrichik, and they wasted no time in continuing the work started under Baron. Student government hosted the first-ever "Explore South Bend Tour" and the second annual Off­Campus Student Information Fair the day before classes began. The Shappell-Andrichik administration was successful in attaining most of its broader goals such as taking steps to strengthen student-alumni and student-community relations, which Shappell says are "greatly improved on both fronts." · 
According to Shappell, student government's interaction with the Alumni Board was "unprecedented" this year, and though the Student­Alumni receptions held during football weekends did not receive as large a student turnout as hoped, Shappell believes the receptions set a "promising standard" for future relations. 
"Controversial issues such as student evictions and academic freedom demanded our attention over any platform initiatives in the previous administration," Shappell says. The ongoing battle against the Disorderly House Ordinance that enabled landlords to evict students after the first offense was finally resolved -perhaps the hardest­won achievement of the Shappell­Andrichik administration. 
With only two months left in their term, Shappell and Andrichik are still proactive. Two major initiatives still underway include the upcoming Eating Disorders Conference from February 8 to 10 and tl1.e Community Summit on March 2. Following tl1.e success of two previous Eating DisorderWeeks, the inaugural Eating Disorder Conference is an attempt to garner the issue more academic, widespread attention. "By bringing in experts from around the country, we are fostering an environment to discuss both the academic aspects of eating disorders and how we best address them on college campuses. I am excited for the opportunityfor the Notre Dame community to take the lead," Shappell says. 
Similarly, the Community Summit is also an effort to increase dialogue on campus, in this case between students and leaders of the South Bend community. Shappell says, "The event, while framed around the broad theme ofbetter integrating students into the community and the community into local university and college campuses, is primarily to establish. relationships and lines of communication to make future initiatives possible." Never before has there been such a formal gathering of students and community leaders. 
These events reflect the mindset that Shappell and Andrichik adopted at the start oftheir term. Throughout their term, Shappell and Andrichik have responded to students' concerns with dedication and professionalism and took the necessary steps to meet their goals. "We have been fortunate to overcome most challenges in order to achieve the majority ofour goals," Shappell says. "Out of around 3 5 initiatives, we have completed or are in the process of completing around 30 and still have two months left in office," she says. 


Brown (right) and Braun both bring a high level o~ student government experience to their campaign. During this year's administration, presidential candidate Brown has served as the chief executive assistant to Student Body President Lizzi Shappell, in addition to chairing both the Executive Programming Board and the Campus Life Council Task Force on Student Voice and Input. Brown has also held positions on a number of other influential committees, including the Sexual Assault Advisory Committee and the Senate Gender Issues Committee. Braun is currently the Breen-Phillips senator, and during the past year she has served on the Senate Committee on Community Relations and the Senate Committee on Academic Affairs. "I think that one thing that hasn't 
Name: Liz Brown (Right) Class: Junior 
been done effectively this year is getting enough student input to really get the right things going," Brown says. In order to help remedy this problem, Brown­Braun plans to increase accessibility to student government by placing all applications for senate committees online, which they hope will make the application process more user-friendly. Additionally, they want to be more in touch with what students would like their representatives to address. To improve this dialogue, Brown-Braun plans to create an online forum for student input and a "Research Report Series," which would be a monthly survey system designed to gain feedback from the entire student body. 
In addition to focusing on greater accessibility to student government, Brown and Braun have developed an ambitious plan to implement a "community-based curriculum" that they hope will facilitate a more positive relationship between students and South Bend residents. According to Brown, they would like to build 
Major: Political Science & Peace two guys the other day in LaFortune 
Studies and the guy turned to the other Dorm: Cavanaugh guy and said, 'Man, that girl really Hometown: Fort Wayne, IN hymenopteraed that other girl."' 
VICE PRESIDENT IDEAS 
Name: Maris Braun (left) Most Feasible: Domer Dollars in Class: Sophomore ND Stadium and Joyce Center Major: History and Finance Dorm: Breen-Phillips Least Feasible: Student Discount Hometown: Cincinnati, OH 

!S!!!:!!:'i'l foster greater dialogue between students 
Use the word "hymenoptera" in a sentence: "I was passing these 
achievements of Voice, a student 
organization at the Center for Social 
Concerns (CSC) that has focused on increasing community-based curriculum. Though the community-based curriculum is aimed primarily at fostering a better understanding between two disparate groups, they would like to make students more aware of South Bend's local perks as well. Brown-Braun hopes to work with local eateries and merchandisers to organize student discount days and a "Taste of South Bend," in which representatives from local establishments visit campus and advertise to students. 
Perhaps the most audacious part of the Brown-Braun platform has to do with Food Services. Currently, Domer Dollars cannot be used at Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Center, but Brown-Braun aims to change this. After discussions with the Director of Food Services, Dave Prentkowski, Brown and Braun are confident that they can develop a way to make Domer Dollars a valid form of currency at both places. This initiative would be part of a long­range plan to make Domer Dollars legal tender at local establishments, especially the forthcoming Notre Dame "college town," which is still years away from completion. 
Overall, Brown-Braun has engineered a well-researched platform that provides a sense of continuity with the current administration, given Brown's strong ties to Shappell. They pledge to continue student government's emphasis on making social concerns a priority and hope to 
and faculty through the formation of a student-faculty contemporary issues debate series. In the same vein, Brown-Braun wants to work with the university administration_ to make , Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day a university-recognized holiday. Notre Dame is currently among one of only a few American universities that does not officially recognize this federal holiday. 0 





' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · !ilScho/asticCoverStory 

which included getting a student ID
While Scholastic has tried to contact 

So you want a career in writing or media communications? Gain great experience and build a portfolio through courses or print and broadcast media experience right here on campus! Meet and talk to students, staff and faculty who know! Thursday, February 22 6:30-8:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor-Lafortune Sponsored by the Notre Dame Career Center  


• Christopher Meskill
Freshmen Garrett Coggon and Mi­chael Padberg are making a very clear distinction between running for student body president and being in the running for student body president. The pair from Zahm Hall has made no attempt to campaign for the student government position. The lone reminder that they are in fact in the election at all is their simplistic Web site, featuring their slogan and two pictures labeled "Juice" and "Padberg." 
the two, the only response received was the rather snide quote from the movie "Pirates of the Caribbean," "We are currently disinclined to acquiesce with your request." As Barbossa further explains in the movie, "It means 'no."' 
Coggon and Padberg are not the first pair of Zahm freshmen to enter a joke ticket into the election. Two years ago, Will Marra and Pete Harig ran a mock campaign, made famous by their homoerotic remake of Eric Prydz's "Call on Me" music video. The year 
PRESIDENT 

Name: Garrett Coggon Class: Freshman Major: First Year of Studies Dorm: Zahm Hometown: Traverse City, Ml 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Michael Padberg Class: Freshman Major: First Year of Studies Dorm: Zahm Hometown: South Bend IN 
prior, Mark Healy (from Zahm) and Mike Healy (from Keenan Hall) ran a freshman campaign based on having the same last name. 

The paramount joke ~ampaign in recent memory was launched by then-juniors Alec White and Eric Powers in 2005. The White-Powers ticket proclaimed that their height made them the best candidates for the job but had a campaign to back it up -one with over 100 policy changes ranging from changing the Dome from gold to platinum to installing a labyrinth on South Quad, complete with a minotaur. White and Powers accumulated more votes than two serious campaigns. 

The most infamous joke candidacy occurred back in 1972, when Robert Kersten ran for "King of Campus," with his illegal pet cat "UnCandidate" as the vice-presidential candidate. Kersten campaigned by speaking to his "minions" from a window in Walsh Hall and went to all lengths to keep his candidacy alive, 
made up for his vice-presidential feline. Kersten was such a fan favorite that he won the election in a landslide and served as king for more than just one day. 
Unfortunately for Coggon and Padberg, it seems unlikely that they will have the same success as Kersten or White-Powers. For most students voting in this year's election, this article may be the first time they even notice Coggon and Padberg's ticket. For others, it may be the ballot itself. 0 
ScholasticCoverStory!I>··············· 
o Daric Snyder


Freshman Cipriano Rivera may not be involved with student.. government, but he has plenty of leadership experience. Before attending Notre Dame, he spent four years in the Marine Corps, stationed in California. "Leadership can be adapted in various ways, and I think with my experiences I've learned leadership qualities and ways to adapt and deal with people," he says. With sophomore running-mate Catherine Kane, a fellow ROTC student, Rivera hopes to bring a fresh perspective to student government. The Rivera­Kane campaign is focused on enhancing student life by addressing the little things that frustrate students. The duo hopes to win voters with improvements 
Name: Cipriano Rivera Class: Freshman (4 years Marine Corps) 
Major:'Accounting, Arabic, Marines ROTC Dorm: St. Edward's Hall Hometown: Fullerton, CA 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Catherine Kane Class: Sophomore Major: History, A & L Preprofessional, Navy ROTC Dorm: Walsh Family 
to meal plans, free tutoring services, an expanded Domer Dollar system and a new conference centered on current affairs. 
Most students enroll in a 14-meal plan but are unable to fully use it, Rivera and Kane argue. They propose that students should be allowed to "roll over" unused meals from one week to the next, allowing the plan to better suit fluctuations in student schedules. "We're paying for them," Rivera says. "It's our right to have them." In addition, Rivera-Kane wishes to explore the addition of a new meal plan that will offer less meals and more flex points. The campaign has spoken with Food Services, according to Rivera, but Food Services told Rivera that new meal plans or rollover would be difficult to introduce. "We are willing to make compromises, obviously," Kane says. "They don't need to roll over for the whole semester." Rivera-Kane also supports expansion of the Domer Dollar system to more on­campus locations, such as Student Union Board (SUB) movies and all campus vending 
machines. 
In academic matters, Rivera-Kane wants to 
extend free tutoring to all Notre Dame students. Currently, 
Use the word "hymenoptera" in a sentence: "I drank a little too much hymenoptera last night 
and can't remember a thing." 
IDEAS 
Most Feasible: Current Affairs Conferences 
Least Feasible: New Meal Plans and Roll Over 
freshmen can receive free tutoring through the First Year of Studies, but Rivera and Kane believe the system is underutilized. They argue that it would not be difficult to extend the service to all students at a minimal cost to the university. Rivera says they haven't calculated the exact details but will develop a strategy once elected. The platform also includes the introduction of upperclassmen peer advisors. These student advisors from each major would assist underclassmen in picking a major that best suits them. 
Rivera-Kane intends to raise social awareness by creating a new conference focused on current events, namely the ongoing War on Terror, U.S. military action in Iraq and the genocide in Darfur. While they supported the new Eating Disorders Conference, they feel they can create a more relevant conference focused on world events. "We didn't feel that [the Eating Disorders Conference] appealed to the majority of the student body," Rivera says. They would invite prominent scholars and military officials to speak at a weekend conference about conditions "on the ground" and related issues. In addition to the conference, the campaign also desires to increase student involvement in the community. 
Other ideas from the Rivera-Kane camp include increasing accessibility to student government by positioning suggestion boxes in trafficked locations like the LaFortune Student Center and the dining halls. The duo also wants to examine changes to pep rallies, hoping to return student enthusiasm to the events. Rivera and Kane confess that, while many of their ideas haven't been thoroughly researched, they hope to pursue them aggressively if elected. "As long as you're someone who will carry through with what [you] say, that's what's irµportant, and we can do that," Kane says. 0 
Hometown;_ Arlington Heights, IL 



Sarah Barnes
0For candidates Danny Smith and 
Ashley Weiss, further integration 
of technology into student life is the main theme of their campaign. 
The partnership they are working to form with Ruckus Network, Inc., is evidence of this approach. With Ruckus, students would be able to download music and movies for free. Ruckus is available for students using Microsoft Windows and some MP3 players that use Microsoft's PlaysForSure technology. While Ruckus is not available for use with Apple's iPods or Macintosh OS X, Smith says that students who have new Macs with Intel chips could run Windows to access the Ruckus Network. 
PRESIDENT 
Name: Danny Smith 
Class: Junior 
Major: Political Science and Philosophy 
Dorm: Alumni 
Hometown: Washington, DC 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Ashley Weiss 
Class: Junior 
Major: English and Art History 
Dorm: Breen-Phillips 
Hometown: Rochester, NY 

Smith and Weiss also want to see ticket booklets for football seasons put onto studentID cards. Color coding by section and including row and seat number on ID cards will eliminate the need for ticket booklets. Weiss maintains that as well as added convenience, this will be more cost effective for students. "Right now a lost ticket booklet is $210, and a lost ID card is only $30," Smith says. "Putting tickets onto student IDs is on the horizon. We just need to push for it." 
Off-campus Domer Dollars is another convenience Smith and Weiss are working to implement. While Domer Dollars are being considered for use in the future "college town" development, Smith wants to apply them to students' favorite restaurants now. Smith says, "Forming a business relationship with local restaurants would be a great way to build community relations. We wouldn't go to Chili's or Friday's; it's important that it's not a chain. We want to find 
PERSONALITY 
Use the word "hymenoptera" in a sentence: "Did you see that beautiful hymenoptera on the quad today?" 
IDEAS 
Most Feasible: Expanding GRC 
Least Feasible: Fixed Tuition Rate 
something unique to South Bend, like Lula's [Cafe] and Nick's [Patio]." 
While technology is important, Smith and Weiss also want to focus on gender issues at Notre Dame. The first place they want to start is Frosh-0. Smith says, "I think it's important to stress that you need to make your core group offriends in your dorm first. Ifyou are starting to get shoved into situations with the opposite sex and haven't even established your friends yet, you're kind of getting ahead of where you're at." Taking the pressure off meeting someone of the opposite sex, focusing on dorm-to-dorm relations and emphasizing the group aspect of dating are three of their goals for improving gender relations at Notre Dame. 
One of the loftiest goals for Smith and Weiss is to institute a fixed tuition rate for Notre Dame students. Smith and Weiss are optimistic about this proposal since it has already been implemented at other top-tier schools like Harvard University and Princeton University. With a fixed rate, it would be easier for parents and students to plan how to pay for tuition because the threat of an unknown cost would be eliminated. Smith and Weiss realize that this is the biggest hurdle to overcome in their campaign. "Can we say this is going to happen? I thinkit's unfair to say, 'Yes, we will get this done.' But it is something that we will address and bring to the proper venue, which is why we're there," Weiss says. "Our number .one for this initiative is just to create dialogue. We know this can be done in the university.'' 
While Smith and Weiss address an array of issues in their campaign, they believe their goals are attainable. Smith says, "We won't want to run on something that we just can't deliver. We want to run on something, deliver it and give it to the student body. That's really important.''0 


In thinking about the best candidates .. for student body president and vice president, one must look at a combination of important aspects, chief among them a breadth of experience, connections with student government officials, and relevant university administrators and feasibility of platform. Taking these points into careful consideration, Scholastic endorses Elizabeth Brown and Maris Braun as the strongest campaign ticket for the 2006­2007 student government election. Together; Brown and Braun's credentials comprise a very impressive resume of student government involvement. As the chief executive officer to outgoing Student Body President Lizzi Shappell, Brown has been a central figure in developing and .implementing the initiatives of the current administration. In addition to occupying this powerful position and cultivating the much-needed bureaucratic expertise that comes with it, Brown's placement on several influential student government committees has exposed her to a wide array ofcampus issues. Brown's running mate, Braun, complements Brown well, bringing her own depth of experience to the ticket. Only a sophomore, Braun also has the potential to bridge the gap between the next two student government administrations should her tenure with Brown prove successful. Taken as a whole, Brown-Braun represents a platform that is the most promising 
among this year's slate of candidates. Their planned initiatives for increasing involvement in student government and 
· advocating an academic-based approach toward a renewed relationship between Notre Dame students and local residents are both impressive. These points indicate a commitment to challenging long-held assumptions about the apathy of the student body and the cynical perception of students toward the greater South Bend community. Better yet, there is no good reason why strong progress on both of these fronts cannot take place under their administration. Cultivating community relations has been a hallmark ofSha pp ell's agenda ever since she served as vice president to Dave Baron last year, and Brown has been at the center ofthis strategy. 
The rest ofthe Brown-Braun platform is well researched and sensible. It benefits from close contact with the Director of Food Services Dave Prentkowski, whose cooperation will be crucial in implementing the Guest Meal Exchange Program and other initiatives having to do with Domer Dollars. Their platform is bold and rea,listic, and they have chosen to place initiatives that stress better dialogue and increased understanding at the forefront of their platform. 
The Smith-Weiss ticket is a strong first contender, but it ultimately puts too much stock in a platform that focuses on technological innovation. This strategy sounds good on paper, but at the same time, we fail to see why these changes are essential and, moreover, how they would stand to benefit the student 
body as a whole significantly. Ideas like placing the football ticket booklets on student ID cards and implementing the Ruckus network for all students would be more cumbersome to push through the necessary bureaucracies than their net results would be fruitful. Also, Smith-Weiss's pledge to address rising university tuition, while noble in its intentions, would not be a starter in student government debates. Ambitious issues like tuition policies fall under the Board of Trustees, and, unfortunately, we don't see how any student could effect change in this area. We recognize that Smith-Weiss shares several planks with Brown-Braun, such as expanding Domer Dollar use and standardizing academic advising..Still, by virtue oftheir superior experience and more moderate platform, we judge Brown-Braun to be a stronger ticket. 
The Rivera-Kane ticket is a hodgepodge 

of generic initiatives that lack substance and a serious commitment to researching proposed ideas before explicitly advocating them. When pressed in an interview for the feasibility ofbeing able to "roll over" dining hall meals from one week to the next, they admitted that they had faced strict opposition from Food Services, which is not encouraging. Other ideas on their Web site, such as "Community Service Night" and the advocation of "Social Awareness," are already established parts of student life, and the candidates do not elaborate very much on any of their other proposals. As a freshman and a sophomore, Rivera-Kane also lack the necessary experience for a successful 
administration. 
Itis fair to say that the Coggon-Padberg 
ticket is really just a ticket in name only. 
This pair of Zahm freshmen declined 
an interview with Scholastic, and their 
Web site is devoid of any meaningful 
information. Byhistorical standards, this 
ticket must rank at the bottom of the 
barrel even in the category of"humorous," 
which is presumably what these two were 
trying for. 
0 

PLANKS 
Scholastic breaks down the candidates' ideas 
·~~1~7z~;;i·~ilitlilllflli;fi!iifi 
:with-il;>9ds, M;a99S.)C c:if Microsoft'~ riew:Z-1¢.¢:pl~~tJi:i~cidition,, any,int~r.~~~fl4::·
DIS· vVE D PROV DISAP 

\VE D PROVE \VE-r,_ \PPROVE W _.--... _Thisj~ea:i:naj(h~:rricm~ usefuf.whentlieJoiifheralded "follege fown'\. DISAPPROVE ,v£ DISAPPRO ~ _-developlllent actq~(lylhaterializes ~;.years froW:4oi-\W~.•re respansiblein~iig~,/ \NE DISAPPROVE WE DISAP to.wrangle :w,1cltrJafrn9ney. for nc:rw:, >--. ':;/•'•};'f;\(;'.':{tt ••··•· -· : •. ·· _/ ;: ,: ·;> i 
8 FEB2007 








SCHOLASTIC 
CAMPUS CHATTe~ 
DEPT. OF LOCAL EDUCATION 
STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND 
For me, the experience was unlike any other. For them, it was just another night. Last Wednesday evening, I drove down to Ewing Avenue, parked my snow-covered SUV in the last space, and ventured into the infamous PLS stomping ground-the Ewing Cafe. Once inside, I gradually adjusted to the dim lighting and haze ofcigarette smoke as the smooth sounds of 1920s jazz abated the inscrutable gazes that had promptly settled on me. After a quick once-over, I silently negotiated my next move. If I wanted to experience the culture and aesthetic experience of the cafe, I would have to quickly ease my own inhibitions and dissipate theirs. I was clearly a minority within the Ewing community. It is understandable why the faux-hippie PLS crowd enjoys frequenting this unique establishment. Reminiscent of a Prohibition-era speakeasy, the Ewing seems best suited for the gruff, streetwise crowd that Notre Dame students rarely associate with. Don't call it seedy though ... clandestine is much more appropriate. After ordering a dollar Amber Bock and a basket offrog legs, I ventured over to the jukeboxwithKevin, the Wednesday night bartender, and introduced myself to Julie, the co-owner of the fine establishment. I offered her a few of niy past articles, which she later said calmed her fears that I might be "whoring out [her] life as another school project." While she read, I explored the Tiki Bar, the cluttered wall-decor, the bar patrons and the two dozen "Support Our Troops" magnets on the refrigerator door. Spying Julie's 
8 FEB 2007 
subdued smirk and overhearing her sporadic bursts of laughter, I walked around confident that I had been able to mute her fears. 
Finished with the stack ofarticles,Julie grabbed my hand and pulled me over to the bar to introduce me to her friends: Chuck, Mickey andJoe -all bar owners, all with a story. We talked about property taxes and how "South Bend is toast." Julie began quoting Charles Bukowski, saying that her theory on life was contained in his novel "Mockingbird, Wish Me Luck." As it turns out, the theory is more the image of a playground. "You're on the monkey-bars, and you can hang there, and eventually you won't be able to hold yourself up anymore and will fall off. Or, you can keep pushing your arm out there to grab hold of the next bar and keep on ScholasticCulture @·· · · · · · · · · · · 
going until the end," she said. 
As the smoke clouded my eyes, the 
sound of Bruce -the "heavy-hitter" as 
they called him -playing the Galaga 
video arcade filled my head, and my eyes 
narrowed in on the pegboard of colored 
lights that lined the ceiling. "Is anyone 
in your family in the army?" Kevin asked 
me from behind the counter. "No," I said 
sheepishly, eyeing the refrigerator door. 
Conversation coming from all sides of 
me, my mind slid from one question to 
another story. "Did I tell you about my 
bar down in Mexico?" Julie asked. "Well, 
the Tiki Bar over there is the closest I'm 
ever gonna come," she said. 
Four hours later, on my way out the 
door, I was called over to one of the tables, dimly lit by the lamp overhead. As the four men at the table introduced themselves, the tentative notes of the piano bar rang a cheery tune. There was Bruce, "the local inventor," Robin, "the skippie who is there for the heavy-hitters to blame," John, the Notre Dame graduate (class of '76) who "can't get out [of South Bend] fast enough," and Jeff, the "great mechanic with a crack-whore 
mother." 
An hour later I packed up my things 
and headed to the door, past the green 
plaid plastic tablecloths and towards the 
wooden Indian chieftain guarding the 
door. As the double doors swung behind 
me, voices called after me. "Be safe out 
there," "Come back sometime," "Give me 
a call, and we'll chat," they said. "Maybe 
next Wednesday -for frog legs and 
dollar Amber Bocks," was the reply. 
-Sarah Barrett 



21 ••••••••• 
• Sarah Barrett 
T h i s p a s t w e e k e n d , Notre Dame's student-run Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo) debuted its 2007 production, "Ragtime," in celebration of the company's 10th anniversary.. While the performances signified the culmination of months of hard work on one of the most challenging musicals that PEMCo had yet to perform, it also marked the conclusion of an emotionally grueling debate among the Notre Dame black community. The debate began when a group of black students heard about some of the musical's controversial content -the use of "n-----'1 and the 

negative depiction ofblacks, in people that this is where
ABRAC~D~BRA: "Harry Houdini" and the.rest of the PEMCo pfayersactout: :·
particular. Two black student we came from, and we are
· -' · -· 
, < : >
a scenefroni "Ragtimet ·._ . ·: .·.-. · : .. : . , .-. 
groups, Wabruda and Shades of Ebony, came together to discuss their objections to such a production being performed on campus. 
Wabruda Advisor David Moss, Ph.D., headed these discussions. Moss recalls the wide range ofviewpoints held by the black student community. "We saw a full range of expression and experience 
with that discussion, which.I thought was very healthy," Moss says. "You couldn't pigeonhole the black community into one way of responding to the play-it really ranged from 'let's not have it on campus' to 'leave it just the way it is."' 
As the debate went on, the director of "Ragtime," senior Program of Liberal 
••••••••• 22 
Studies major Jack Calcutt was brought into the discussion. Calcutt, surprised by the strong opposition the musical had sparked, did his best to articulate the aesthetic importance of "Ragtime." "We are trying to put on a slice of history for our audience, in its raw form -imperfections, mistakes, problems -so we can see a progression of where we were, where we are now, and then use 


that progression to see where we can go from here," he says. 
The members of Shades of Ebony and Wabruda, however, did not see the production in the same light. They raised objections_ that February is the celebration of Black History Month and that the way "Ragtime" portrays history conjures up the painful negative portrayal of blacks. 
Lead actor and sophomore industrial design major Kyle Carter, an African­American, discusses this reaction. "We don't want to deprive our children ofblack history -specifically talking about the positive times in black history," Carter says. "We need to remember all ofthose brave souls in Mississippi back in the 1960s fight for voting rights -those little insignificant people who stood up and voted in a state where voting would get you killed are leaders, people to be respected. We cannot forget those people. Those are your mother and father, those are your grandparents, and you cannot forget the things they did to get you 
where you are today."· 
Carter was one of the leading advocates for the play at the start of the 
· debate. He said that he would not be part of the production if the racial slurs were removed, as it would falsify history and remove the potency of this scar on black history in the United States. "I wanted to do it to remind 
blessed to be where we are today," Carter says. 
Active Wabruda member and the main voice of objection among the black student community, senior science preprofessional major Frank Duerson felt differently. "It is 2007, and some people just don't need to be subjected to [those racial slurs] anymore," Duerson says. 
"There are just certain words that don't need to be in people's vocabulary, and passed down through 'art.' If you want to bring out a certain message, there are many ways you can do it. There's an easier way to show racial tension in the play without calling people certain naines." 
In discussing this sensitive subject, 
8 FEB 2007 
Duerson brings to mind the terrible not just their own. Perhaps that might legacy of "the n-word" in American help me do the same in life outside the history, both distant and recent. "My theater." parents, my great grandparents, lived In the conclusion ofher choreographer's through this thing, when n-----wasn't note in the playbill, junior political just a word. There were actions that science major and peace studies minor followed this word. There was a reason Andrea Laidman expresses her hopes why families were taken apart and towns for what the cast, crew and audience were segregated. It just scares me that will take from the musical. "Knowing [PEMCo] wants to belittle this as just the members of the cast and watching art. I understand it is art, but it is a bigger them grow both as characters and people problem here than just this play. That gives me hope for the abilities of our is why we attacked this play so hard," generation to truly move forward. Please, Duerson says. first and foremost, enjoy this production 
The attack Duerson speaks of was for its value as a piece ofmusical theatre. 
well received by Calcutt and Director of I ask only that later you consider the Acting and Outreach Anna Mazig, a junior implications of the beautiful theatre you psychology and preprofessional studies are about to watch." 0 
major. Two actions were taken to resolve 
the concerns the community brought 
forth; the first was the amendment 
added to the constitutions of PEMCo, Wabruda and Shades of Ebony, which was also included in the 
playbill given to all audience 
members (see sidebar). 
The second action taken was the formation of the first-ever academic forum to accompany the production and address some of these potent issues. "One of the reasons why we are doing the forum and the preface is because some individuals understand that not everyone at Notre Dame understands the history [of blacks] as much as others do and don't have as much of a grip on it 
[SOULFUL SONGS: "Ragtime" participants sing a musical.
simply because ofwhere they  [:~umberin u~ison: ·  .  . .  .  . .  .  
grew up or what they have  
dealt with in their lives, or  
lack thereof," Mazig says.  
The  experience  of  
sophomore Andrew Reynolds,  
whose character 11ses the  
most racial slurs throughout  
the musical, projects what  
the members of the black  
student community hope  
that the audience will gain  
from the production: feelings  
of empathy for the actors  
on the stage. Reynolds says,  
"Theater has the pleasant  
consequence of forcing its  
cast members to literallywalk a mile in each other's shoes  !A TASTE OF HISTORY: Actors in ;'Ragtime" were dressed in J  
-the shoes of all characters,  iturn-of-the~century.costum~_:>_;_ ~:_L__ _:_  ·.· .·  ·..  ··•···  i  ,,, ___ j  

8 FEB 2007 
ScholasticCulture @· · · · ..·.. 
"History is the present. That's why every generation writes it anew. But what most people think of as histo~y is its end 
product, myth." -E. L. Doctorow, author 
.f t,R' . . '' .
o ·. agtune 
PEMCo; .Shades of Epony a:nd Wabruda stand in.. ·strong alliance against any acts, be if.verbal or through ·~ction, that promote °'r.·display any· forn1 of:racism, sexism or aiiy other discriminatorybeliefs. In signing.~is pledge, I persort.ally hold myself accountable to never take part in any . ofthe afo're:rnentioned actions, thoughts, or speech that degrades ordiscri­minates individuals. Furtherniore, I fully intendto stand against
' . :· --. 
prejudiced acts and slanderous speech, encouragingothers to do the same. 
23 ........ . 
w
c:: 
:::, 
!:::i 
:::, 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u 
If) 



· · ·· · ·· · ·· · ··· @Scholastic Culture 
Letter fr 
Doug Schlarman 
I n the first weeks that I've been out ofthe country, I've learned that it's impossible to adequately prepare for the abroad experience. · I'm writing this letter from an airplane headed to Amsterdam for the weekend; it'll be my first big trip outside of Spain. I'm thrilled to see the Van Gogh Museum, look at the beautiful parks and soak up the environment of a new city and a new country. Still, I haven't quite adjusted myself to the singularities of Toledo, Spain: the language, the currency, the schedule, the living arrangements. My host family has been extremely accommodating with my transition to life abroad, which has involved a lot of questions, perplexed glances and awkward silences. This past week my host family sat down for dinner, and after we began eating, I noticed a grin on my host mother's face. When I asked her why she was smiling, she responded, "Do you like what we're eating? It's conejito." Rabbit. I was eating rabbit. And I have to admit, it really didn't taste that bad. In fact, feasting on Thumper was easy when compared to our group's trip to Madrid, where we ate at "El Museo de Jamon" -"The Museum of Ham." Spaniards seem to love their ham, but Museo deJamon took this to an extreme; every wall was literally covered in hanging legs of cured meat. The stench was ungodly, but we steeled ourselves, and we ate. As Will Farrell so eloquently says in "Anchorman," "When in Rome ... " 
[ '<, · 

'--""'-~~--___.'-----'---'--'--~-~___, in Spanish, and we're expected to write 
The Madrid trip overall was amazing. We went through the Reina Sofia -a modern-art museum filled with paintings by Dali, Picasso and Goya. Nothing can compare with standing face-to-face with "El Guernica," a Picasso piece that is the highlight of the Reina Sofia's collection. I could've stood there for hours, picking out every detail of the painting. 
Notre Dame students don't have to leave Toledo to see amazing art. Every building in the city is hundreds of l. years old, with some dating back to the 13th '."; . century. On o_ur guided f:._ •.. ··· 
1
f h 
.·

tour o t e city on our c:.·""'. .....:.s-'-'---'-~~--,--"'""'-".:.:c,;,:..:..:.:..-'-'-..:..:..c..::..:.=..;.,,:,:~.;...,:,::c::.:c:c...:.:.:..==· 
,. ,<I third day here, our tour• > i 'i guide emphasized how _· -, , new the "Ayunamiento de , ·1\ .5 !oledo" (the city buildin~) ' · , --, 1s. When asked when 1t was actually constructed, the tour guide responded 
"around 1850 or so." Every building is architecturally interesting, from the old brick walls to the tiny bay windows and the tile roofs. Even the bathroom window of our school ­
: La Fundacion Ortega y Gasset -has a gorgeous 
Spain 
The city is remarkably well-preserved, which causes problems when the old comes into contact with the new. It's 
· J nearly impossible for cars to fit through the narrow cobblestone streets that were never designed for real traffic. Every day in these streets is an adventure; one of the students from the University of Minnesota has already been clipped by a car. I'm sure it'll happen to me by the end ofthe semester. 

Unfortunately, in acldition to practicing the language, I'm going to be expected • ••·. -:ErGre90's house iri Toledo Ito take classes. Every class is conducted 
essays and participate in class in Spanish. All of my classes have been interesting so far, especially the Master Painters of Spain, an art history class that involves 
· · · • · · · · · · · · · I
Church outside ofthe Royal Palace in Madrid 
three guided trips through the Prado Art Museum in Madrid. I'll have the opportunity to personally experience more art here than I ever would have in the'Unitec;l States. 
My abroad. experience has just begun, but already I feel like I've had the time ofmy life here. Although I've spent much ofmy time feeling stressed, helpless and lost, I've also made amazing friends and been forced to learn a lot about myself, other cultures and the Spanish language. Sometimes the only way to grow is to be forced ·out of a comfort zone. While I definitely don't feel comfortable here yet, I hope I'm growing in the process. 
, ...~...__~~~~=---=~--'--'""'""""--"-~='-.............__,__-'-'--'-'-'---"-' view (see photo). 
8 FEB2007 ' 



Scho/asticCulture@ • • • • • • • • • • • • ••. 

The Entrepreneurial Spirit 
The Gigot Center aids ~udding collegiate entrepreneurs 
•Andrea Borrego ~
The impending question of what "life after college" entails often weighs heavily on students' minds, especially those of graduating seniors. Recently, students in their best attire crowded into the Joyce Center during the Winter Career and Internship Fair in search of summer and full-time employment. Besides those preparing themselves for life after college, there is another category of students who have discovered the potential in their own ideas and have decided to apply their talent and entrepreneurial skills by establishing their own businesses. Junior English and marketing major Alvin Reynolds is one ofthese select few. He set up his own publishing company in early 2006 -Luapatir Press. Reynolds' mission is to "focus primarily on young authors while bringing authors who don't have the opportunity or exposure into print." After extensive research in printing, patents and marketing, along with Notre Dame faculty guidance, Reynolds faced the challenges of building up his own press after returning to Notre Dame. The work has been worthwhile. "I'm actually pleased at how hard I've had to work to accomplish what I have," Reynolds says. Luapatir Press is now in the process ofpublishing its :first title. With his own publishing company already established and plenty of ideas and expectations for challenging obstacles. Senior political science and Chinese major Dave Hartung attempted to launch a franchise at Notre Dame that focuses on fabric printing, an offshoot of a business he started with a group of friends from Missouri. 
The business, Genius Apparel, has flourished in Missouri, especially after gaining the approval ofthe State Board of Education to become a licensed fundraiser among the schools in Missouri. Hartung sought to bring the business' services to South Bend. Unfortunately, the proposal has not yet passed through the appropriate authorities at Notre Dame. "I'm not too worried, though. Genius Apparel is doing really well right now," he says. "I'm really proud ofwhat they have done." 
Students seeking entrepreneurial opportunities find the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at the Mendoza College of Business to be a great asset. Founded by Notre Dame alumnus Gary Gigot, a member ofthe Mendoza College of Business Advisory Council, the Gigot Center provides students interested in entrepreneurship with resources ranging from undergraduate classes in entrepreneurship to the mentorship of successful businessmen and accredited Notre Dame entrepreneurs known as the Irish Angels. 
The center offers the annual business plan competition, where students submit business plans and receive suggestions and feedbackfrom qualified mentors. "Ourcore is entrepreneurial education, encompassed in the curriculum, competition, activities and our relationship with the Irish Angels," says Dan Buckenmeyer, an assistant director at the Gigot Center who is responsible for marketing. 
The Gigot Center is open to all Notre Dame students, not simply business majors. "If you get a business idea, [the Gigot Center] is a great opportunity to put it to the test, to have real-world, experienced people take a look at it," Buckenmeyer says to all those non­business majors who have thought of entrepreneurial activities. "I would not discourage students if they have an idea 
. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • @ Scho/asticCulture 

The Write Stuff 
The Notre Dame Literary Festival conti11:ues to draw big-name authors to cam.pus 
•Jennifer Wulf 
A n aspiration for many is to one day become a professional writer. For students pursuing that goal, the Notre Dame Literary Festival is a chance to hone their skills. For the rest of the student body, it is a great opportunity to interact with accomplished authors and perhaps to learn a little more about literature. Student Programmer Megan Baker is in charge of organizing the event and has been working on recruiting well-known authors since this past summer. "The greatest thing is that it allows students to access writers," Baker says. Under her direction, the festival lineup was finalized in November and included Dave Eggers, whose memoir, "A Heartbreaking Work ofStaggering Genius," ("AHWSG"), was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 2000. Student Union Board (SUB) Manager Patrick Vassel agreed with Baker, saying, "Offering students the opportunity to engage with some ofthe greatest literary figures ofour time is very rare." 

Renowned authors '"Now you're the meta.phor' means headlining this event is nothing new. Past guests sometimes it. might be self-indulgent to to the festival include Tennessee Williams, gloss over your life with neat narrative, Kurt Vonnegut, Arthur Miller, Joseph Heller, but if done objectively, you can really Gwendolyn Brooks and Ken Kesey. learn something about yourself in the 
At its inception in 1967, the Literary Festival process." began as a tribute to William Faulkner -Megan Baker and followed more of a symposium style in which several Faulkner scholars were bring in several well-respected authors. brought in to speak. The following year, Another great aspect of the festival, the festival took on a more recognizable Baker says, is its ability to accommodate form, and several authors were invited a wide range ofinterests. "You don't have to speak, including acclaimed novelist to read any of their work to go to these Heller, author of "Catch 22." Baker was things and enjoy what they have to say," pleased that this year's event was able to she says. For example, at the student 


......... 26 
literary night on Wednesday, Jan:·31, in anticipation of the festival, many of the students who presented original pieces were not even English.majors. Freshman Mychal Stanley was a,participant_}il the readings and is planning to major in business. However, he. also says "my dream is to get something published." · 
Stanley was excited about the festival, saying, "I'm interested in hearing what real published authqrs have to say and where their ideas come from. One of the hardest things is just :figuring out what to write about." 
FreshmanJohnMinseralsoparticipated in the literary-night re'adings, He plans to major in English and Spanish and aspires to become a professional writer. "I would love to [pursue a writing career]. Thei say when you do what you love, you ne\rer work a day in yourlifethe says. Minser attended the Literary Festival to find out about literary opportunities on campus and to personally interact with the authors. "That's a really valuable thing, especially to people who are just trying to break into the literary;world because it gives you the perspecti,:ye·of someone who's already been there and is doing what you're trying to do" he says. 
Not only was the crowd multifarious, but the authors were as well. "One of the things that I'm most excited about is the diversity ofauthors we have. Every author that's coming has something different to bring, and it's all worthwhile," Vassel says. From Eggers, whose most well-known works are memoirs and biographies, to 
&tJJf;i, ~§'
Nw \£1 ti 
THERAPIST 
SAID 
(POEMS) 
~'Y 
HAL 
SIROWITZ 
'' 

8 FEB 2007 
poet Hal Sirowitz, to Anne Elizabeth Moore, a freelance writer and magazine editor, the lineup of authors represented · · a wide array ofliterature. · Every year, the program is funded and organized bySUB, and they occasionally get help from other groups like the Institute for Latino Studies, which is co-sponsoring the Latina author Lolita Hernandez. Vassel was excited about the 
·.· cqllaboration, saying, "Latino studies is able to let us know who's up and coming among Latino authors." This week, the events of the Literary Festival were available all over campus to students. Most authors contributed with both a writing workshop and a lecture. Attendance ranged from 20 to 500 people, with writing workshops having the fewest · to provide a better teaching environment and, most importantly, personal contact with the authors. "The hallmark of the Literary Festival is giving students the opportunity to interact with authors," Vassel says. While funding and planning were large parts of the Literary Festival operation, perhaps the most important was advertising. For those who could not make it to the festival, it is very doubtful that one could have missed all of the advertisements featuring the quote, "Now you're (he metaphor" -a line from Dave Eggers' "AHWSG." This line holds special significance for the theme ofthis year's Literary Festival, which urges people to view their lives as a story and to look for its meaning. 

ScholasticCulture @ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
Baker explains the theme, saying, "'Now you're the metaphor' means sometimes it might be self-indulgent to gloss over your life with neat narrative, but if done objectively, you can really learn something about yourself in the process." 0 
The Authors 
Notre Dame Literary Festival 2007 
Nathalie Handal 
poet, playwright, director, producer www.nathaliehandal.com 
Lolita Hernandez short story author, poet www.coffeehousepress.org/ autopsyofan enginebio.asp 
Hal Sirowitz poet www.halsirowitz.com 
David Rakoff essayist, humorist www.barclayagency.com/rakoff.html 
Anne Elizabeth Moore 
freelance writer, magazine editor www.anneelizabethmoore.com 
Dave Eggers novelist, essayist, editor, founder of McSweeney's www.mcsweeneys.neVauthorpages/ 




·· · · · ··• · · • · · · · @ScholasticSports 
--ME1$~Ic:iUIL~1$1tIB~@it@:$i, Rt~IRli~I.tf~llii, _c___ 
·--·-··••-'"'···-·--·~~=·~=-... ·-·-· ---.. --:-' .... -.-.J_ .,.t._____ . >~--!-~:'r' . .;~~=::-::::\:::-."";".:-:::.::".:':"':;;'.;..;.:.:.:.::..,.---=.,;;..____:..; __;,_ _______ i,__c____ 
A Coaching Change, A Style Change 
• Christopher Meskill

Everyone is gung-ho for Notre Dame hockey now, but I doubt they have the . rich appreciation for and unique perspective on what has occurred over the , last two years that I have. In my four years ofwriting sports at Notre Dame, ' 
I have had the opportunity to interview both Dave Poulin andJeffJ ackson, the most recent head coaches ofthe Irish hockey team. Both seem to be great people, but the difference in their personalities is drastic, and it is most evident on the ice. 

In the early months ofthe hockey season my freshman year, I caught Poulin at the end ofa mid-week practice to talk about one ofhis standout players that season. He glanced at me, then invited me to sit on the bench and "shoot the breeze." Poulin's personality put me at ease for one ofmy first interviews for the magazine, but I got the sense that he was very relaxed in his practice regimen judging by his demeanor with his players. When I asked about interviewing one of the stars, he bellowed across the ice to call him over. Their playful, back-and-forth banter demonstrated the close relationship Poulin had with his players. Unfortunately, this laid-back 
approach did not produce the needed results. 

Early last September, I walked into the humble hockey office in the Joyce Center looking for an interview for a sidebar on new coaches at Notre Dame. The bulk of the spread was allocated to Charlie Weis, since the student body was eager for a turnaround with the football program, but itwas appropriate to give some coverage to the slumping hockey team's new hire. As I entered Jackson's office, I saw that it was undergoing major architectural renovations, and the presence ofa construction crew made the interview rather difficult. Nonetheless, he greeted me with a stern look and a solid handshake. He answered my questions forthrightly and requested that I emphasize the importance of filling the stands at the home games in my article. When I walked out ofhis office, I knew he was a no-nonsense kind ofguy, but I had no idea how extensive an effect that would have on the hockey team. 
My inclination following the interview was thatJackson would bring Notre Dame hockey to prominence. He certainly had the resume -two national championships, experience as an NHL coach and a few years as the coach ofthe U.S. Junior National 
Team. By his resume alone, Jackson's demand for success and ability to develop young talent was apparent. The only question that remained was ifhe could bring 
that attitude to Notre Dame. 

Jackson's first season as head coach of the Irish was rather turbulent. With a 14-19-4 record and an immediate exit from the CCHA Tournament, it seemed doubtful thatJackson would turn the program around, but he was simply adjusting the mindset of his team. Jackson, like that construction crew, was renovating the program from that first day in September. His first season was the foundation. 
Since the substandard firstyear,Jackson's team looks disciplined and well-coached. From the freshman year team that resembled the Chiefs from "Slap Shot," the Irish have turned into a professional-looking team. In post-game interviews, the players seem to hold themselves accountable for each mistake. The attitude on the Joyce Center rink has evolved -it is no longer a matter of just playing hockey, but a matter ofnot missing any opportunities. As the Irish have climbed atop the college hockey world, the Notre Dame community can be grateful that we didn't miss the opportunity to hire this already legendary coach. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily the views of 
Scholastic. 
David Brown, goaltender for the No. 1 Irish hockey team, was featured in Sports Illustrated's Jan. 27 edition of "Faces in the Crowd." Brown was recognized for his nation-leading winning percentage and 1.72 goals against average. Immediately following this honor, Brown led the Irish to a 4-1 victory and a 2-2 tie in two games with then-No. 7Miami(OH)andwasnamed CCHA Gqaltender of the Week ... 
Ina home match withNo.13 Florida State, the No. 11 Irish men's tennis team held serve with a 5-2 victory. The effort was led by the nation's No. 14-ranked singles player, Stephen Bass, witha6-2, 6-4victoryover YtaiAbougzir and the No. 11 doubles team ofSheeva Parbhu and Ryan Keckley, who cruised to an 8-1 victory in their match ... 
. Women's fencing climbed to the No. 1 spot with a 4-2 showing at the NYU Duals on Jan. 28. The team defeated No. 5 Northwestern 14-13 on a sudden death victory by epeeist Amy 
8 FEB 2007 

Bo··· 
,, . f 
~ 
•I 
'l 
Orlando and lost by the same tally to No. 6 Ohio State. Star freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley went 17-1 on the day ... 
Baseball's Feb. 12 opening night dinner will feature keynote speeches fromJim Leyland, 2006 MLB Manager of the Year, and Craig Counsel!, former Notre Dame standout and current Milwaukee Brewer. In 1992, Counsel! was selected to the All-Atlantic Regional team and was captain and MVP of the Irish baseball team that fell one game short of the College Wodd Series. 


8 FEB 2007 

I[JRJI§H EYE 0 
Katie Carroll 
•Mary Ka:minski 

Senior anthropology major · Katie Carroll recently led the Irish women's swim team to victory against three of four opponents in the Shamrock Invitational. In the process, she broke her own pool record by over 1 0 seconds in the 1,650-yard freestyle with her winning time of 16:27.48, She also finished first in the 200-yard individual medley, second in the 400-yard individual medley, third in the 200-yard butterfly and contributed to four Irish relays, The Irish completed the Shamrock · Invitational with a 7-1 record on the season. 
'¦ 
As a senior with so much talent, what leadership role do you play on the Swimmin~, tilce most varsity 
sports,team? 
takes a lot of fone and energy. What
I feel that I bring a lot of experience. My 
is your favorite stress reliever to help
main focus is to help the freshman 
get you through.the season? 
swimmers adjust to the college life and to It would.have to be getting rest wheneverbe someone they can come to talk to. I think possible, although it isyery rare.

it has paid off -they've adjusted well. . \ 
You have a chance this season to You recently broke your own pool breaklrishHead Coach'Carrie Nixon's record)n the 1,650..;yard freestyle. s9hool recordforAH~Big East honors. What effect do accomplishments .· What would it mean to you to be able like this have .on your training as you · fo accomplish that? · . continue through the season? , It's pretty cool because Carrie is one of the It's definitely a step in the right direction. most decorated-athletes at this uhiversity. It makes me feel that a lot of hard work To break one of hefrec:6fds would 'be has paid off, and it is a good indication pretty neat. of what can happen at the Big East and NCAA Championships. 

• Megan Teigen 
0 n a clear mid-October afternoon, two teams of young men lined up to play some football. Gold helmets gleamed in the sun, and players ran around the field in game jerseys featuring such famous numbers as 10, 7 and 26. After extensive preparation and days ofpractice and play development, it was game time. It was also a bye week for the Fighting Irish. The game was being played at Cartier Field, not Notre Dame Stadium, and the only Notre Dame football players present were there as referees. The annual student manager game, in which the juniors and seniors beat the sophomore managers· 3 0-0 this fall, followed a women's flag football game
~ 
0 as the managers celebrated their lightest 
D. 
II) week of the fall season. As the Irish
u ~ football team took a week off the field,
::i 
0 the student managers -the team behind I (J) u the team -got a chance to step off the 
sidelines and onto the field. 
•.••••••• 30 

NotreDame'sstudentmanagerprogram has been around since Knute Rockne employed students to schedule games and perform other tasks for his football team. While the largest component ofthe program serves the football team, all but twovarsitysportshaveatleastonestudent manager who works behind the scenes to ensure all practices, games and travel run smoothly. "We really do work as a team," junior psychology and marketing major Kristin Keve says. "The football organizati~n, especi:cilly, demands so much attention that it couldn't function without us." 
Student managers at Notre Dame, 
·especially during their junior years, often put in more hours of work than the players and coaches they assist. Junior finance major Tim Flannery estimates that during football season he and the other junior managers spent at least 40 to 50 hours per week preparing for, assisting with, and cleaning up after every practice and game. "Junior ·ye.ar, if you 
do managers, it's essentially all you do," 
Flannery says. "You basically sell your 
soul to the football team." _ 
.Perhaps their best-known responsibility 
is painting the gold helmets' each Monday 
(see photo above), but most of the 
managers' responsibilities are less visible. 
They haul equipment, , keep track of 
playingtimeand.takeattend~ceatmeals. 
During fall camp, when equipment is 
stored in a te1J,t outside ·O'Neill Hall, 
managers pull all-night s4ifts to guard 
the tent. · °' '/: 
''Other tea~s' manag~;:s, stadium 
staff, even players couldn't believe 
some of the stuff we do," junior finance 
major Kim Murphy says. Junior finance 
major .Sarah Lawless agrees_i"lt's hard 
. to prepare anyone to devo~~;;th~t much 
time to something," Lawless says. "It 
was definitely a shock at first." While ·anywhere from 40 to 1.00;'. s_ophomores · participate in the prograni, they play a 
8 FEB 2007 



ScholasticSports@··············· 


FIELDING THE BALL Juniors Pat Starr and Catherine Costanzo help out during warm ups before the Air Force game. 
8 FEB 2007 
limited role, working just once or twice 
a week for a variety of teams. 
At the end ofthe year, the sophomores 
evaluate one another, and only the top 21 continue as student managers.·.~ "The evaluation process is extremely 
competitive," Head Sports Manager Kathy 
Speybroecksays. "It's like 'Survivor."' For 
the remaining 21, the challenges have 
just begun. 
But while the hours are long, so is the 
list of rewards. After three years in the 
program, managers become part of the 
Monogram Club, and for all junior and 
senior managers the university covers 
between 65 percent and 100 percent of 
tuition costs. Not to mention, of course, 
the thrill ofrunning out of the tunnel and 
onto the field to the cheers ofover 80,000 
fans at each home game or being on the 
field for some ofthe most thrilling games 
in college football. Flannery went to the 
Michigan State game this season. "I was 
supposed to record plays," he says. "I was 
trying to write on a piece of paper with 
this little pencil in the torrential rain. But 
when Terrail [Lambert] intercepted that 
pass, I lost it. I can look back and say I was 
on the field and part of that game." 
After their junior football season, 
the managers write a second round 
of evaluations that determine which 
sport each will be assigned to for their 
senior year. Most end up working for a 
sport at the top of their list, doing more 
meaningful work in a business-oriented 
role. Instead of hauling equipment or 
folding towels, they fill out paperwork, order apparel and arrange travel to away games. "For all intents and purposes, most of us end up being assistant-assistant coaches," Murphy says. Speybroeck agrees. "They're my right hand," she says. "To me, they are an extension of the coaching staff' 
While the juniors' time commitment decreases after football season, responsibilities increase. "There's a definite change in the type of tasks they're i;esponsible for," Speybroeck says, which is welcomed by most managers. "A lot of last year was just getting to this point,''. senior manager Bridget Trainor 
:· ' 
says. "I'm glad I was able to get to this position; it's a much better time now." 
Managers must balance classes -they are held to the same academic standards as student-athletes -withwhat amounts to a full-time job. Often, Trainor says, she is there earlier and stays later than 
the coaches she works for. In the process, hmyever, managers develop a close working relationship with coaches and players. "The [men's basketball] team calls me mom,'' Trainor says. "I'm always nagging after them to sign this form or take care of that. They rely on me and respect me, especially on such· a smaU team." 

After so many hours spent behind the scenes, the managers agree it has been worth the commitment. "It's a lot of responsibility, but you get a lot ofrespect," Trainor says. "And it just captures the Notre Dame experience. You get to be part of not only the Notre Dame community but the athletics, too. You get an inside perspective most students never would." 0 
~ 
31 ••••••••• 



WHAT ARE YOU DOING TONIGHT? 
MAY WE MAKE ASUGGESTION? 





HUNGARIAN STATE FOLi< ENSEMBLE 

TUE, FEB 13 AT 7:30 PM THU, FEB 15 AT 7:30 PM FRI, FEB 23 AT 8 PM 
HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
FOR TICKETS CALL 574.631.2800 

~UNIVERSITY OF
DEBARTOLO 

PERFORMING ARTS CENTER WNOTREDAME 






Listening In... 
¦ 
"Thomas Crapper invented the toilet ... you don't 

believe me now, but Google it later, and you'll see." -overheard professor 

¦ 
''You lmow, when I drink, I like to say stuff." -overheard girl at SMC formal 

¦ 
"I have a newfound appreciation for men and their 

privates." -grateful female student 

¦ 
"I would never have sex with someone with a purple stid 


[STD]." -overheard male student 
-
V 
Scho/asticHumodnJ..............
.., 

' . 

Fifty-Eight Years Ago 
Some things never change. Take, for instance, the generalmale opinion ofwomen's skirts-the shorter, thebetter. While the Notre Dame gentle­men of todayget to appreciate micro-minis (with or without leggings), men of yesteryear were not 
so privileged. When designers raise hem lines, Domers raise their eyebrows. Need evidence that men likewomen's skirts as shortas possible? Take anice, long look at the February 11, 1949 issue of 
Scholastic. 

"Christian Dior, t:he Parisian dress designer with t:he whimfor tampering with t:he hem line ofwomen's dresses, planson raisingt:heskirthemsonaUofhisspring creations untilt:hey are 16 inches offt:he ground. This isfour and one-halfinches higher t:han lastyear's New Look. Probably t:his isfurt:herproofthatyou can't keep agood man down, visually at kast." 
So, boys, next time you're wishing that girl in yourcollegeseminarwouldrevealjustanotherinch of thigh, remember that you get a lot more than your grandfathers did, visually at least. 
-Kate Dresser 




\+, .·· ·.· ··· .. ..,.Jf~IJ9!?,~~},';<:m'J:"ea~l enjoying the weather! You now needed to top it off with his special pilsnerJ:i~~ at • · :?:,t"~•"}if;ajg~~-~~ggo~e that·suhi~~~il'ipe~~~~i:~~g.f~9i~wgJJ;~~t~~JJ:~~~!~~~C?!,iiE~~<~~t~~~#,§.9~~·~d~~~'.~~p;~~~ffrt<' . . ageand snow·cotild,preyent nd1culous events around campus;'But .,, JWcewas released allover tlieJriend's previously dry slacks. The you might also suppose that if the library and the rest of the Gipper is unsure whether wetting your own pants or someone schools in a 100-mile radius were closed, an 8:30 a.m. class might else wetting them for you is more embarrassing. Buteitherway, be cancelled too. Well, never lose faith in the determination the Gipp is never ordering a pitcher from that bar again; the last ofkeeping liberal studies majors in the classrooms and off the one was a little too warm for my taste. But the plot thickens. streets. The one who suffered the moistened corduroys missed his alarm Our first story takes place at a lovely dive just south ofcampus for class the next morning. Forgetting that the pants next to his during the first week of classes. A group of friends decided to bed were the ones previously soiled by his buddy, he put them ::.-40:wn pitchers ofbeer (or "courage juice," as my Uncle Filbert on and rushed to class only to find they were still carrying a · '. likes to say) at one of the few tables in the establishment. The little extra water weight from the night before. bar gotso crowded that ourloveable protagonists could not even · ·. getout of their chairs (although you can ·blame that on more Oursecond incident takes place in everyone's favorite place in than just the crowd). Ordinarily, this is not a problem until one the dorm to talk on the phone or tape posters for st:µ:cJ~t council ···ofthe sitting duck's toes would tingle with anxiety (yes, anxiety; campaigns ... or awkwardly make out with:iyo*-tJ{J'i:idmmate's that's it). Unfortunately, Captain Bladderless was experi~ncing 17-year-old.~is~et:'.:,W.~t l~tp.e,f.r~.~4ma,;:p,)y.~?:F:~ the stairwell. such urges. The problem? The,:b:ithroom was a_good 4(ffeet A residentietuf~~ih~§:Jhe9dorm,\1~~fii:;sttccessful (read: very and a few stairs away,· and the spac::e 1n between was solid with · SUCCl!ssful) ~igl?,ffor'dt_iJi,lcing a~._g,ipparei.J,tly saved his shining people -big, drunke~, raging;:'$ex-crazecl people. Luckily, · moment for the nightcaP!M.:i~f{itihttli~.st~iJ,welhfor anoth~i;. we ND men are clever~ so clever, we could make a car run publicJocale, our hei:o·decicl~tfa91t#rv:i)d#dfniemento.q; ·-~#.·,..·· •. on grain alcohol and sunshine. With pitcher in hand, Captain landing: It's sad tb;t~~~~i.tlia.t•K()m~tfeslaitls~~!frtJa11encf .· . Bladderless created a Porta-Potty sans toilet. If h~ pulled the to use the elevato':r'.like·ttue gentlemen. · chair close enough to the table, no one would know..Arid he Anyway, that'will do it for this edition of the Gipper,~ Your 
• 

was right ... for a second. Inspector Gadget unzipped and Gipp sincerely wishes you luck with thafspedal someone on \f:;:.;.;~~;.; . . . . · released his unique draft into the pitcher with perfect Valentine's Day. And ifthe person turns out to be not so special, !:" ~~~~~~-. . ·:·' 'for~;.The,ti;tc~part was passi1:g t~e pitcher y?u can _always pull an R. Kelly and order them a fresh .. ' -~ . · -~ ~ ~-~..:-.c~·-: , .. ··. • , ..und~i;Jhe table to his friend who pitcher of the home brew. _ . , ..·~• . ,, . ~ 
1 
. ..· ,":;--~"~~~~~~~t)ir~~tti~~::.:~;~:f,;sr~fl~jf~i~&~tt~ 
.:}'iC:t\'.:\\::~ · :.. .. ·_: :-\.·· .:·...
.(:), .... E,·. 
:.•'.; .... ,,34 : .··.. :.:;····..'·.·.'.::.•_:,:.'..•,;i.~,i 
-:.~-·__ · _._,··. )~__::::.,. _: -.,­
. H ,-=-· I
Scholastic umor ,i,1 ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • •' 

All\, rol~ot's c.utole to woVl,\,ell\,
sMike Healy
Well friends, my time here is coming to a close. Very soon I will be off to that big h~.mor column in the sky, and I don't want to leave without having made Notre Dame a better place. I was trying to think ofwhat I could leave as my legacy, and I got stuck. I'm not musically inclined, and I don't know much about science. I have a mysterious talent for fixing toilets, but one day there will be machines that can do that far better than any human. Then it hit me; the one thing I'm good at that I could impart to you dear readers as a gift that will keep giving far into the future, when you are still here and I am deep into my life in the "next world" of my parents' basement (and maybe a job at Blockbuster): how to get girls. Whether it's my non-threatening good looks, disarming sense of humor or modest attempts at personal hygiene, picking up chicks has been the one thing I've found myself to be consistently great unusually skilled above average at ffi95-t-i¼.. Jet. some of the time. Now guys, I know what you're thinking: We're at Notre Dame. You all got good SAT scores, have bright futures and have seen "Anchorman" (giving you the jokes to be rip-'-roaringly funny in any situation), but I tell you this right now -to really bring your game to the next level, you have to understand there's more to women than wine, jewelry and · acting like Val Kilmer. That being said, without further ado, I present Mike Healy's Three Rules to Wooing Women. 

I'm dating a girl right now who, when we first met, wanted absolutely nothing to do with me. In fact, sh~ probably still doesn't. What works in my favor is that I have absolutely no fear of being annoying and tryi,ng to ruin her life. Ifyou like a chick, go to her room every day. Ifshe's not there then wait, or better yet, just go down the hallway and find a girl who is home (these tips will probably work for almost any girl). Constantly hound her to do things with you. Ifyou can't think of anything good to do, it doesn't matter. I've pestered my current girlfriend into such "dates" as: going with me to get my hair cut, having an awkward meeting with my academic advisor and coming to meet me out on the quad for something called "Cowboy Friday" (which I actually just made up on the spot ... on a Wednesday). 
f-tfilVe fil RefilottJ ·2su.-p-pLr1 of c;ooot coll\,vev-s.filtLoll\, stfilrtev-s. 
On a recent Thursday, I spent the entire night at Club Fever introducing myself to girls by saying it was one of the best days of my life because I had just found out that my brother was going to go up in the space shuttle next month (yes, he's going to be an astronaut), and guess what, they foved it. Of course this wasn't true. My brother is only 16, and I don't even know the name of the real space 
8 FEB 2007 


shuttle (I just told them the names of the ones from the movie "Armageddon"), but the point is that I had something interesting and novel to open the conversation with, which, as I understand, makes chicks think you're good in bed ... or an interesting person or something, I'm not really sure. The bottom line is that there's one thing in this world that every woman wants to 
go home with: an astronaut's brother. 
(Oh, and to those of you who are thinking, "Wait, why is 
he writing a story about hitting on girls? Didn't he just write 
that he had a girlfriend?" Well, to that I say you should also 
remember that I said she doesn't like me, and now it shouldn't 
be difficult to see why.) 
36VM,bv-filce tvie :Pos.s.~b ~L~tkj of Ffil ~Lu.v-e 
There's way too much ofan emphasis on being cool. Everyone thinks that you have to be well-dressed, say the right things and not have huge sweat stains under your armpits to be successful with girls. I've got news for you: Not everyone is going to be able to be Joe Rogan. Just because you wet your pants at a bar doesn't necessarily mean you should be afraid ofa girl seeing you (in fact, at the very least, it definitely falls under the "interesting conversation starter" rule above). Tell your crush you enjoy Transformers. Wear the same corduroy sports coat out every night. The long and short of it is that ifit doesn't work, it isn't that big ofa loss -it's really tough to try and "act cool" for an .... entire evening and especially through the following morning (oh God, I just realized that my mom is probably going to read this), and, more importantly, if you can hit it off with a chick when you're in one of your embarrassing but genuine "raw" states, then you might really be onto something (or else in some serious and very weird trouble). 
So there you have it, everything I know about women, summed 
up in 84 7 words (now that's more than a little depressing). Ladies, 
sorry if this column wasn't particularly useful for you, but, in 
the interest ofequal opportunity, ifanyone wants to 

.. , __ ._. __ ' 
:,!
' 

•. of affairs•·•h.~s-·. reinaineci,fair!y c6ris~a.nt,} contrad1cts__ tl11s),.,that the war would'pay•..•·· \VfoleZ2 perce~tdisappiove.That's dght, •. •·· 
:·i1foithela~t.th~ee_.~11~ahalfyears:iµ bC>tf •• 'Jar.itself(it;is turrently_cost.ing,taxpayers._, ~frer·-~pe11ding all.ofJa1mary selli11g his ·.·.••.·· \;.:_; :,., i·\1:li~Jraqi.capita~aµd, other:Inajo,r:Gtttes.,\at)iast $2.5billi?i:Per feek);.and .~ve~· tr()op '.'surge''to,the America11public and< ';'~:: \i;,•' f ,Witl,ii1th.enewly'~liberated".. cC>untry,.t;b.~. :.. that the iniVtaryforind\y~apon~_ofriuiss __ cla_iming thafitjs.the:011ly;iray toia"o.id_.·.•. •<>' 

.··••· "failur_e'.' i~Jraq; the-_.people.rernain ._;_·:;._;;:; / uncon{ri~~ed/.'C ··_. • .--> > ._·.. :YC 
ihJ}h1dt·b€Hlndwa11s; 
!~(!,Ii:iltii~1,rir:ill~iil!1[j!~i

_)_}: YdtitHdtb_i'd~behih·cta~sks ·•that•he·.:choosesnottoHsten to .the>,:,,•·· 
'ld~¥t{i,Q~t:J'§J.1b;J&&yi)? ....."~~1t}~t1t.t!~i;;~~~f:.t!: 
. . .. . ... ... . . . .•B11slitl1<1tntt:i911aJs.11ppqrtfoqhe wa_r · 
••;.c• :Jitah-•_·•sf(iHroµth].Q:uf•:rrJ<l{k.S :. r.•ttff1l11tl~~Jr::e~-1h:r::li~J~~.:<;:<): 
·{_.,·-•J}oh.])yl._a:n.,-·?Jyl~~f~.rii9f~aI/'/· itlie.·peop~fie>uld_twanfus_.1:6.succ,eei:l. ·.;,·)'.\'.:. qefo_re ie getofrt [ofJ.there_tA:nol>le . _s.. ,•·_·. hope •for, .aJ?restde11t ;who staker,lhi$-:."}f;:' 
•·· .. wgble .p,r~sWericY ori;_Irai:~11dJost; r ··: ••·.. f paf61y~rn.•-Givyl1_tha.t :rra_q,is"fiiatiqn'.pf:· _<1estrtictioi1 (e11.1pty 'aJ.u111inµn1 ·_tubes that_.•...-.• tliis.wishful.thinkingexh~bits_ ~ stubb.orn._··•·· .•. \M: 
< 

)~hlerican deathsj~--~ne ~~:'ek. Iriiagine : rollecl out a slew of ne~ ~ingers. Vice .,'strategy (troops in the "surge" were. '}) /-;Jotjf?/!1~ ih()ne.\\Tee}ftp.isisTra.q}ii'.i,tf : ?-r.esidyllt Dick."<:h~11ey '.~asciisllllSS5!d ·,.__. already on .their way-to _Iraq before the_,-.·.,.··.'..\ 
't~i~&WJ!:~lji~Ji~Siiic1t!Yi0!!~1iil~~[~t·~1tt~~111J~k!~t::::;:~1:;:,';:f! 
· _nulitafy's invasion·o_flraq, ith:wbeco_llle··..,political_ dea.d_lines that.he: has .already:.. legacy to_thc:: historians•in the hope·that , : _;._ 

tti6it tfie 
·i<NEWLY RE'NOVATE'£J* 
HUDDLE 

in £a!J,0Jdune Student eenwt 
I,--------------------------------------------~~,\ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ with the purchase of a$5 To Go Pizza. 
~Coupon required for 99¢ 2 liter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza.
S~Ja~l'll,'Q Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash · UUI I l irt value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customerJ 1 $ iJII' Only valid at LaFortune Sbarra. Offer expires FebruarY 28, 2007. 

I I Sbarra accepts ~ 
' 
----------------~----------------------------/ 

YOU. 
1 




