

IS HIRING! 

TWO & THREE-YEAR SCH01&•SHIPS AVAl1ABLE 
REQUIREMENTS: 
. Minimum 2.65 GPA (Technical majors -Engineering, Moth, Physics, Architecture, Computer Science) 
. Minimum 3.00 GPA (Non-technical majors -Government, 
Economics, Accounting, Etc.) . Minimum 3.65 freshman GPA (Pre-Med) . Minimum 3.50 sophomore GPA (Pre-Med) ¾ Poss the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (Similar to SAT test) . Successfully complete the Air Force ROTC Physical Fitness Test 4-Run 1 .5 miles (<l 2 min., 01 sec. for men and <l 4 min., 25 sec. for women) +. Be medicollly qualified +. Success rote for qualified ND/St. Mary's applicants is over 90% 

BENEFITS: 
. 
Up to full tuition, all books, standard fees . S1 50 per month during the academic year 

. 
No job search hassles -directly apply your ND education upon graduation 


'$ Active duty entry salary of $25, 000 with guaranteed raises to $43, 000 at year four 
. 30 days of vocation with pay each year 
+ Outstanding opportunities for advanced degrees in Engineering, Low, Medicine upon graduation from ND . Pilot and navigator positions ore expanding rapidly -excellent opportunities to 
fly, regardless of scholarship major 4 Goin valuable experience in the Air Force and increase your marketability 


TO MAKE IT HAPPEN, CALL CAPTAIN RICH HARTER 631-4674 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZ·INE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 14 FOUNDED 1867 FEBRUARY 9, 1995 
Alphabet Soup
3College GPAs have been increas.ing steadily for the last 20 years, and now professors are handing out more A's than ever. Michelle Cox investi­gates the phenomenon of grade inflation. 




Literature LIVE ­
8For 28 years the Sophomore Literary Festival has brought a variety ofauthors, poets and dramatists to Notre Dame. This time a Notre Dame alum is among the guests. 
Raising the Standards
16:otreDameclaimstobeuntouchedbyNCM Pro..positions16and48,butthese regulations are not welcomed by all college athletic recruiters. 


FEATURES 

Catholic Alternatives •Michelle Crouch .................................................................................................................. 6 An Eye-Opening Evening •Amy Greene ................................................................................................................. 7 Bad Boys, but Getting Better · Jake Schaller ......................................................................................................... 14 Murder in the First• Chris Meyers .......................................................................................................................... 20 Profile in Talent •Miranda Sanford ......................................................................................................................... 22 Apache Goddess of Love •Kris Kazlauskas ........................................................................................................... 27 
DEPARTMENTS 

From the Editor ............................................................. 2 . Movie Preview .............. ; ............................................. 21 Campus Watch ............................................................ 12 Conring Distractions ...~ ..'>; ...........................................24 Splinters from the Press Box ......................................13 _ On Other Campuses .................................................... 25 Sports Flashback .......................................................17 Comics ......................................................................... 26 Out of Bounds .............................................................18 Parting Shot ................................................. : ............... 28. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•FEBRUARY 9, 1995 1 

Unfortunately, it's notajoke. And it'salittletooearly for April Fools Day. Ifyou tum to page 12, where we usually run Campus Watch by The Gipper, you'll see a blank page with an explanation that we have been ordered by the Director of Student Activities to publish the identity of the Gipp in all of our subsequent issues. 
Campus Watch was created four years ago, and since then the Gipp has been known for his irreverent humor, his sarcastic wit but most of all for his ears, which manage to pick up all sorts of rumors floating around campus. Tips for the Gipp come from students, faculty and administrators alike, and we make sure we check with other sources before putting anything in print More often than not, the Gipp comes up with tidbits of information that are not worthy offull news stories. Occasionally, however, we will print in Campus Watch confirmed information that no one in the administration is willing to comment on. 
Above all this, however, the Gipp is meant to be funny. His anonymity allows him to poke fun at everyone from Monk Malloy to Lou Holtz. He spares no one, and that is most of his charm. As editor of Scholastic Magazine, I've been approached by friends and acquaintances who tell me that though they usually like the Gipp, he really was mean in what he said about..the cheerleaders ... or the Farley smokers...or Ronald Reagan. My comment to all of these people is the same: "You know, everyone thinks the Gipp is funny until he rips on something that is dear to them. Ifyou read the Gipp and laugh at the things he writes about other people, you had better be able to laugh at the things he writes about · you." 
I guess, however, we've been hitting a little too close to the Main Building. This year's Gipp has not been afraid to comment on those in power. According to Joseph Cassidy, director of student activities, last week's Gipp "was the last nail in the Gipp's coffin." 
Calling Cassidy' s order "censorship" might be going a bit too far. After all, we're still allowed to run the column, we just have to put a name on it But forcing us to identify the Gipp is almost as good as censoring it altogether. It's obvious that writers forced to use their names will not be able to be as frank and honest as an anonymous Gipp. I suppose that is Cassidy's point 

There's not much we can do to change Cassidy's mind. After all, we do receive our funding from the Office of Student Activities. But I think this move sends an interesting message to the student body: "Free speech is fme, as long as it doesn't make ~e administration look bad." 
As the beloved Gipp would say, "Lighten up, Notre Dame." 

Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 
Cover photo by Stan Evans. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a FEBRUARY 9, 1995 



by Michelle Cox 
It all comes down to that slow-motion walk to the mailbox. Students know what they learned in a class, and they have a pretty good idea about the teacher's evaluation of their work. Yet when the grade report arrives, a sudden sense of uncertainty kicks in. The weight that such a small piece of paper can carry never ceases to burden students. The average GPA at Notre Dame is now about 3.25. And statistics suggest that in the last 20 years, Notre Dame students' GPAs have been slowly increasing. "There has definitely been grade inflation over the years," commented FatherJoseph Walter, C.S.C., who has taught chemistry at Notre Dame for almost 40 years. "Years ago, many students would kneel down and bless a professor for a D." According to Walter, grades increased most significantly in the late '60s and early '70s. Not only are students at Notre Dameattaining higher GPAs, but more students are achieving honors as well. In 1976, as a result of students' higher GPAs, the requirements for the various gradua­tion honors were changed. Cum laude honors were increasedfrom 3.25 to 3.40, magna cum laude from 3.50 to 3.60 and summa cum laude from 3.75 to 3.80. Even so, last year 37% of Notre Dame graduates, more than one out of every three, graduated with honors. In contrast, only 22 students failed out last fall. A number of explanations exist which attempt to explain the_ trend of grade inflation. Dr. Kenneftt M. Sayre, a philosophy professor who has been at Notre Dame for 35 years, said he has 

seen "distinct grade inflation -·highergrades given for work that 
is not of better-quality -during [his] time here." Sayre offered 
three possible explanations for this trend. "First, there is more 
widespread relunctance to use grades at all," he explained. "Pro­fessors don't approve ofthe use of grades, and in protest they give out free A's and B's." Sayre continued, "Instructors also tend to grade according to standards they learned in graduate school, where grade inflation is definitely rampant." Finally, an ever­present source of grade inflation is the constant pressure prof es­. sors feel to provide their students with good resumes," according 
to Sayre. 

Another interesting hypothesis for the increase in GPAs links 
grading history to American history. Walter believes grade 
inflation began during the Vietnam War. "Students would come 
in and say 'Professor,Ican'tgetaD. Ifl getaD,Imay get a draft 
call.' Someofthemwouldcomeinintears. Itwasbasicallyaguilt 
trip on the professor," explained Walter. "Within four or five 
years, grades iiJ. general rose at least one point or more because 
students were so afraid about going to war. This happened 
nationally; a lot of schools were much worse than Notre Dame 
about this." 

Professor B yung Cho, an associate professor of management, 
said that professors today still feel pressure to give high grades. 
"There is grade.inflation ~use teachers give high grades in 
order to get good evaluations from students. Students don't care 
what they learn in a course any more. They think the teachers who 
givegood grades are nice guys," he said. "It's all a part oftenure." 
Another factor to take intoaccountis that the gradingsystem has 
"There has definitely been grade injlati,on over the years. Years ago, many students would kneel down and bless a professorfor a D." -FatherJoseph Walter, C.S.C. 
changed over the years. Jerry Marley, associate dean of the College of Engineer­ing, explained that "until 35 years ago, Notre Dame had a scale ofO ~ 100, on which 70% was passing. Then, for a short time, there was a zero-to six-point grading sys­tem." The current system was developed gradually. First, the university established an A, B, C, D, F system in 1963. Then, in 1970, the distinctions of A-and B-were added. At this time, an A was labeled on a student's grade report as outstanding, an A­was excellent, a B was very good, and a B­was simply good. These descriptions were eliminated, however, and the system be­came as it is today in 1988 when the grades of B+, C+ and C-were added. 
Other changes have come, too, over the years. For example, more students attend college today. Statistics from the American Council on Education show that as many as ten million more Americans attend college today than in 1964. As a result, the overall caliber of students is improving, and Notre Dame statistics reflect this trend. Over the past 25 years, both the average SAT score and the high school class rank of incoming Notre Dame freshmen have consistently increased. In 1970, 53% of entering stu­dents were in the top 10% of their high 
Arts & Letters 
Business 
Engineering 
Science 
school class, and the mean SAT score was 1193. In 1994, 79% of entering students were in the top ranking, and the mean SAT score was 1218. 
An interesting trend that appears in every discipline is that the median GPA of stu­dentsconsistently increasesas they getolder. Likewise, as the level of a class becomes higher (from 100-level to 400-level), aver­age grades generally increase. The median term GPA for freshman was 3.133 in the spring of 1994. That number increased to 

3.429 for seniors. Anumber offactors may contribute to this general trend. Jack Pow­ers, an adjunct professor in American stud­ies,explainedthatin his upper-level writing courses he "does not inflate anything, but consciously rewards generously rather than tightly in order to encourage students who absorb the principles." Also, smaller class sizes in upper-level courses allow profes­sors to get to know the students betterand to evaluate them more positively. "Students in upper-level classes take courses in their · majors and therefore do better work," sug­gested Sayre. "And professors tend to assume that older students taking classes in their major deserve better grades. It is easier to give Cs and Ds in intro-courses than in more advanced courses." 
Oneofthemostcomplexissues tied up in the subject of grades is the concern for consistency and fairness. Roger Schmitz, vice president and associate provost, ex­plained that his office is not really involved in setting policies and voicing philosophies about grading. "No central information, except that given in the university hand­book about the four-point calibration, is provided, but the system is universally un-, derstood," he said. ''The Office of the Provost does not moniter grading prac­tices." The university generally allows the individual colleges to monitor grading prac­tices. 
However, individual colleges do not play a very large role in the grading process either. Dian Murray, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, stressed that grading is almost entirely up to instructors, although her office does try to provide information that will help faculty grade fairly ancleffectively. "Workshops through theCollege Fellow' sOffice, reportsto teach­ers about the number of students from their class on thedean'slistand the median GPA in their class, discussions if grading statis­tics look unusual, and conversation be­tween faculty keep this important issue of grades an open topic," said Murray. 
Marley said that 
the College of Engi­
neering usually 
leaves grading phi­
losophies and prac­
tices up to individual 

faculty as well,. ''The c;, 
CollegeofEngineer-{i
=r 
ing does not provide fi any suggested crite-~ o rionforgradingtode-=r i 
Ql
partments," he said. [ He recognized that ~ engineering faculty i are more likely to ~ grade on the curve · [ than professors in ~ other disciplines and 5' ~ that engineering s C: grades are typically ! lower than those l. given in other col-­

4 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 9, 1995 

leges. Heisnotoverly concerned, however, 3.2 with comparing the college and its stu­dents to others in the 3.1 university. "The fac­ulty are aware of the potential harm in in­3 flating grades," he said. As a measure of possible grade infla­2.9 tion, Marley does watch the percentage of engineering stu­
2.8 
dents on the dean's list 

Although the col­2.7 leges themselves do notgetinvolvedin the grading process, de­2.6 partments, some 
more than other others, are another story. Cho said he has received continuous pres­sure from his department to increase his students' grades: "I have recieved letters and people have talked to me asking me to raise my grades. Theysaytheyarenothigh enough. They think higher grades reflect good work, but I worry about what students learn in my course." Cho, though, has refused to change his grades. "I believe in something called academic freedom," he said. "I have been grading since I got here. I do not change my grades, even though they always come to me about it." 
Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year ofStudies, stressed the importance of frequent feedback from teachers to student. "Especially in intro-level courses, it is bet­ter to have more graded assignments than fewer," she said. "It is also important that mid-semestergrades begiven honestly. Stu­dents must know what they're supposed to be doing and then be evaluated on their performance." TheFreshman YearofStud~ ies makes a concerted effort to facilitate academic success offreshmen by keeping close tabs on dropped classes and by offer­ing tutoring and collaborative learning ses­sions in various courses. 
At the center of many students' concerns about grades lies the pressure of getting a job. Students often wonder what emphasis potential employers place on their GPA. 
Ki tty Arnold, director of Career and Place­
ment, reports that some companies do have 
corporate mandates which require a certain 
GPA, usually a 3.0 or higher. "Generally, 
the more technical the major and the poten­
tial job, the more strictly employers look at 
GPA. Itis in technical fields that classroom 
work and performance more directly apply 
to on-job tasks," she explained. Arnold 
emphasized, however, that most fmns. do 
not recruit solely within such strict param­
eters. "Only about 25 of 300 companies 
publicize a GPA requirement," she said. 
Advanced-degreeprograms,however,do 
look more closely at grades. "A person entering graduate school is becoming apart of academia. That student must be able to perform in the classroom," said Arnold. Medical schools especially scrutinize the GPAs of applicants. Walter, who is the chairman of the department of pre-profes­sional Studies, explained that GPA is an important factor in the screening process . for a_medical school candidate. "I'm sure 
that med schools give themselves a cut-off • 
GPA,»he said. "Some schools will riot 
admit a student under a certain GPA, usu­
ally a 3.0 ora 3 .2. Astudentbelowa3.2will 
probably have some difficulty being ac­
cepted, although it's not impossible." 
Potential employers and other types of 
graduate schools may not place as much 
emphasis on a student's GPA, according to Arnold. "Employers expect students to perform well in many and varied arenas," said Arnold. "My profession frowns on absoluteGPAcut-offsandencourageslook­!Eg at the whole person." 

A continuing challenge for employers is finding a way to compare the grades of students from different schools, according to Allen.. In their quest to establish some consistency ,Notre Dame usually fares well. "No employer has ever said that relative to other schools Notre Dame grades too easy." Some companies administer standardized tests in an effort to compare students, and Notre Dame has a high pass rate on such exams. "Grades are simply one indication of a student's abilities; they are not the only orthemostimportantone," Amoldstressed. 
Indeed, there are a variety of factors that continuously affect a student's college ex­perience, including that walk to the mail­box. While grades are important, they are not the most important aspect of an educa­tion. As Dian Murray said, "Sometimes I fear that students are more concerned with final grades than with learning. Students, then, are not as intellectually engaged as they could be. Love of knowledge should drive us. We should be excited about learn­ing for the sake of gaining knowledge and developing talents, not for any ulterior motive,like grades." D 
\ 

"There is grade inflation because teachers give high grades in order to getgood evaluations from students~" -Professor Byung Cho 

Notre Dame. According to a un1vers1ty spokesperson, they have no policy directly relating to gay and lesbian organizations, but their overriding directive is that all 




Catholic Alternatives 
A look at how other Catholic institutions have dealt with homosexual groups on their campuses 
by Michelle Crouch 
Wth theadministration's decision last week to deny Gays· and Lesbians of Notre Dame and SaintMary's(GLND/SMC)accesstomeet at the University Counseling Center, the debate about the recognition of gay and lesbian organizations is heating up once again. And this time it may not just go away. Notre Dame is not alone in its dilemma. In fact, a number of Catholic universities nationwide have already confronted the issue of the recognition of gay and lesbian organizations. Perhaps Notre Dame will oneday follow the example of one ofthese schools. A number of universities have tried to satisfy gay and lesbian students without compromising their religious beliefs by setting up support services for homosexual students. Boston College, the nation's third-largest Catholic university, will not recognizeagaystudentgroup,butlastyear they established a special committee to provide support for gay and lesbian stll­dents, faculty and staff. The 15-member coml!littee includes students, faculty, ad­ministrators and a BC graduate. Although its mission is broadly stated as an effort to help all students better understand their sexuality, the group's particular focus will be encouraging support for homosexuals. The College of the Holy Cross, in Worces­ter, MA, takes a similar approach, provid­ing specialized support to gay students from their campus ministry office. 
Schools that do not recognize homo­sexual groups have different reasons for their action. At St John's University in New York city, the largestCatholic univer­sity in the country, administrators and stu­dentgovernment turned down a request for recognition because of the content of the group's constitution. Auniversity spokes­man told New YorkNewsday that the club could get recognition if it changed its con­stitution to coincide with university beliefs. He did not elaborate except to say that the group's constitution as itstood appeared to suggest proselytizing. 
VillanovaUniversity does not recognize gay and lesbian organizations either, and their reasoning clearly parallels that. of organizations must be reflective ofCatho­lic values and character. Since homo­sexual groups do not meet this critieria, they have received neither recognition nor funding. At this time, no group has enough support to demand the recognition they desire, according to the spokesperson. 
Probably the fiercest clash between a Catholic university and gay and lesbian organizations occurredatGeorgetown Uni­versity. As early as 1979,organizersofthe Gay People of Georgetown University and a similar group at the law school sought "university recognition" that would enable them to use university facilities and to apply for funds to run programs. Georgetown's administration already per­mitted the groups to use classrooms for meetings, but it withheld recognition be­cause of its Catholic affiliation. 
In 1980, the two homosexual organiza­tions sued Georgetown under the District of Columbia's Human Rights Act The act, passed in 1977, bans discrimination on the basis of "sexual orientation.'' (Because neither South Bend nor Indiana have a similar act, GLND/SMC could not follow this route.) 
After a furious seven-year court battle, an appeals court ruled that Georgetown had to provide homosexual organizations the same "tangible benefits" as otherorga-


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II FEBRUARY 9, 1995 
mzatIOns, although 1t did not have to recog­nize them officially. The consent order also said that the university may require the gay organizations and other groups not officially recognized to state on all an­nouncements that their "views are not en­dorsed by Georgetown University." Italso said that Georgetown could not be forced to hosteventsintendedfor anon-university audience, suchas theWashington gaycom­munity, on its grounds. 
Thecourt ruling at Georgetown has been viewed as a precedent-setting compromise that searched for a middle ground between the right to association and religious free­doms. Seven years later, Renee DeVigne, interim dean of student affairs at Georgetown, told The Boston Globe· that the ruling had been implemented without serious incident. 
In 1990, Loyola Marymount in Los An­geles took a similar approach. Although they would not givean organization formal club status, they pledged to allow the group to use the university's "facilities, services and staff." 
Anumber ofschools already accept and officially recognize the existence of gay and lesbian groups. These schools found an opening in Catholic doctrine, which denounces homosexual activity, but urges Catholics to value and respect the indi­vidual homosexual and treat the individual withrespect, friendship andjustice. Schools who officially recognize homosexual or­ganizations include Loyola in Chicago, Loyola in New Orleans, Fordham Univer­sity, the University of St. Louis, Seattle University, the University of San Fran­cisco and the University of Santa Clara. Catholic University of America, which is run by bishops; also recognizes a gay and lesbian student organization: 
Notre Dame is still far from officially recognizing a homosexual group as these schools have. However, it may notbe long before they set up some kind of support service for homosexuals. Sources in the administration who wish to remain anony­mous indicate that the campus minisitry office is contemplating the formulation of asupportgroup similar to the one at Boston College. Asupport service could allow the university to satisfy the individual needs of homosexuals while at the same time re­maining true to its Catholic beliefs. It may be the university's only way to resolve the conflict once and for all. . 




Tell Me a Story 
For nearly three decades, the Sophomore Literary Festival has been bringing America's best storytellers to campus 
by Bridget Bradburn 
Iwondered, can you write a kind of fiction that the reader can't skip, be cause it's so dense with pleasure, so unrelentingly enjoyable, so packed with event" Mark Leyner did indeed create a new styleoffiction writing. Now he should wonder is he can present and defend it before an audienceofNotre Damestudents. After a year of planning and preparation, Notre Dame's 1995 Sophomore Literary Festival kicks off on Saturday, February 11. What began in 1967as a week-long sympo­sium on William Faulkner has evolved into a nationally known celebration of various types of contemporary literary talent This year's festival features five writers: Mark Leyner, Michael Collins, J. Califor­nia Cooper, Sharon Olds and Galway Kinnell. These writersform a diverse group,

i 
d ;i each one embodying a unique perspective
I' 
! and writing style. "This year the authors embrace a wide spectrum of writing. We have MarkLeyner, who is a comic novelist, 
{'
to open the week, and we have Galway Kinnell, who is a Pulitzer Prize winner, on the last night TheFestivalcovers the whole spectrum of writing. The authors are all very different," said Sophomore Literary Festival Chairwoman Allyson Luck. "My expectation is that students will realize that there will be at least one author within the week with whom they can each connect. I can guarantee them that," she continued. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival begins on Saturday night, with a reading by Mark Leyner. ''The cult writer of the MTV gen­eration that wants its language fast, kinetic, juiced ... he throws out every rule ... [and is] distinctive for articulating impossible com­binations of reality that other people grasp at in dreams," wrote Carlin Romero of the Philadelphia Enquirer about Leyner. 
"[Leyner's] writingstylemakesobscure pop culture references in bizarre plot lines 




and in an eclectic fashion that results in a ... form of literature that seems to stray from traditional narrative, yet remains interest­ing, compelling and immensely likable," commented festival comitteemember Tom Moran. 
On Sunday night, The Sophomore Liter­ary Festival hosts writer Michael Collins. A native of Ireland, Collins received both his 
B.A. and his M.A. from the University of Notre Dame. "I feel my works offer an American audience a window into the deep­rooted sense of alienation in which Ireland lives," said Collins of his writing. "As a small nation of emigrants, we live a dual existence: romantics, lovers of music and story, but also a people who commit an almost surreal violence upon ourselves," he continued. 
"I think that all of the authors give to the students a feeling that they can be pub­lished, and they give them a goal to look toward," said Luck. "I think that this is especially so with Michael Collins, since he did graduate from Notre Dame and did get his start as a student in the English depart­ment He really brings it home that students from this university can go out and get published and become professional writ­ers." 
J. California Cooper is thefeatured writer of Monday evening. "Her style is decep­tively simple and direct, and the vale of tears in which her characters reside is never so deep that a rich chuckle at a foolish person's foolishness can not be heard. It is a delight to read her stories," said author Alice Walker of Cooper's work. 
"She encourages you to search into the colors of your own rainbow of life," said festival committee member Paola Ramirez, noting that Cooper has been an inspiration to her. "J. California Cooper reads with a dramatic flair. I'm sure her reading will be unique," Luck noted. 
Sharon Olds will take the stage on Wednesday evening for a reading of her 
· poetry. In praise of Olds, critic David Leavitt has said, "Her best work exhibits a lyrical acuity which is both purifying and redemptive. Sheseesdescriptionasameans to catharsis, and the result is impossible to forget ... Sharon Olds is enormously self­aware; her poetry is remarkable for its can­dor, its eroticism, its power to move." 
"I believe that Sharon Olds has taken the fmnest grasp on reality that anyone possi­bly can, crossing many lines between real-

10 


faculty have to apppreciate the literary tal­ent that exists on this campus," said Kate Hillman, who listened to the auditions. "It is a tradition that the 1995 committee has started and we hope it will continue for many years, just as the festival has." 
As the planning ofthe festival reaches its last hectic days, the excitement and expec­tations of the committee build to a conta­gious enthusiasm. Luck's greatest hope for this year's Festival is that students from all over campus flock to the auditorium. "I hope that people will just try it out for a night, and I'm sure that they'll want to come back. I want people to get a feeling for what writing is and for what literature means." 0 
Sophomore Literary Festival Schedule of Events 
Saturday, February 11 -Mark Leyner 
Sunday, February 12 -Michael Collins 
Monday, February 13---Califomia Cooper 
Tuesday, February 14 -Student Readings 
Wednesday, February 15 -Sharon Olds 
Thursday, February 16-Galway Kinnell 
All events in the Hesburgh Library 
auditorium 


11 


303 Lafortune-631-7569-glpper.1@nd.edu 


The editors of ScholasticMagazinehave been ordered by the Office of Student Activities to reveal in print the identity of the Gipper. Becuase the editors feel that this is a deliberate attempt to destroy the Gipper's ability to report and comment freely on campus events and personalities, they have decided not to run any Campus Watch column this Week. 
Please address comments and questions to: 
Joseph Cassidy Director of Student Activities 315 LaFortune Student Center 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II FEBRUARY 9, 1995 

HOCKEY Calling it a two-game season may be talcing it a bit too far, but the Notre Dame hockey team's pair of games this weekendwithOhioStatecomesclose. After a season full of disappointments and unful­filled expectations, the Irish are looking towards the postseason. The two game series with the Buckeyes will probably de­tennine which team will finish ninth in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association standings. Should the Irish finish behind Ohio State in the tenth and last spot, they would have to play Alaska Fairbanks for the right to play in the conference tournament. 
After defeating Ferris State to complete their first series win of the season, the Irish dropped two straight to Miami ofOhio. In the first game with the Redskins, the Irish trailed 6-1 after two periods, but mounted an inspired rally. Notre Dame managed to cut the lead to 6-4, and then 7-5 before falling 8-5. Junior wing Jamie Morshead and sophomore wing Terry Lorenz netted two goals a piece in the loss. The next night, the Irish staked claim to a1-0 lead,. but Miami took advantage of Irish mistakes to secure a 5-3 triumph. 
Junior Marla Panyl boasted a 41-1 record in the foils last season . . 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports 
February l to February 7 edited by Jake Schaller 
SWIMMING· The Notre Dame women's 
swimming team continues to work magic 
on the road. The Irish destroyed Cleveland 
State (175-72) and the University of Buf­
falo (135-97) at the CSU Natatorium last 
Saturday. With the victories, Notre Dame 
upped its record to 13-1 in dual meet com­
petition, and set a single season victory 
mark. A bit of a youth movementhelped the 
Irishoverthe weekend, with freshmenLinda 
Gallo,Courtney SouthandShellyHotchkiss 
all winning events. 
On the opposite end ofthe spectrum, the 
Notre Damemen's swimming team contin­
ued to flounder. The Irish dropped meets 
both to CSU and the University of Buffalo. 
FENCING Not to be outdone by the 
swimmers, Notre Dame's women's fenc­
ing team set a new all-time winning streak 
this past weekend at a tournament at MIT. 
With easy victories over MIT, NYU and 
Brown,and anail-biting win over Princeton, 
the Irish ran their streak to 46 games. The 
last time the Irish lost was two years ago 
when they fell to Ohio State on February 6, 
1993. The streak was in jeopardy in the 
Princeton match, as the Tigers raced to 
leads of 4-0 and9-5before the Irish rallied 
and secured a 17-15 win. 
Unfortunately for the fencing squad, the 
men continued to stumble. · A loss to NYU . over the weekend· gave the Irish their sec­ond defeat of the season. While the men 
managed three victories to offset the loss,· 
their second setback in two weeks is the 
most for the team since 1983. 
Predicti.ons 

Kennedy's Kall: A recent loss to Arkansas and a close call at Syracuse make the Wildcats vulnerable. The Irish are overdue for a big upset Young, Gotsch and Garrity will have 
· to be sensational inside against Prickett (a former Domer), Riddick and Pope. That still leaves Delk and Rhodes, KU' s biggest weapons. Notre. Dame 77 Kentucky 72 Schaller's Schot: Afterasluggish start, theWildcatspressuredefensecomesalive,disrupting the Irish. Notre Dame gets solid performances from Lamarr Justice and Pat Garrity, but cannot shake the furious Keritucky attack. TheJACC is alive, but Coach Rick Pitino and his 'Cats are too much. Kentucky 84 Notre Dame 68 



BadBoys­But Getting Better 
Though dismissed by the university, the Kinder-Farmer fiasco capped off a chaotic year for the Irish 
by Jake Schaller 
Saturday,OctoberlS, 1988: Eachand everyNotreDamefootball fan across the land rejoiced. On a perfect day, 
with golden helmets shining, an underdog Irish squad of good guys upset a typical brash, trash-talking Miami team. With T­shirts reading Catholics vs. Convicts, fans celebrated a win that put Notre Dame foot­ball back on the map. 
Tuesday, February 1, 1995: Each and 

. every Notre Dame football fan across the land rejoiced once more. The Irish penned a better recruiting class than the 1990 crop that netted Jerome Bettis, Jeff Burris and Aaron Taylor. The normally pessimistic Lou Holtz acknowledged that it was the best in his tenure. After a less than Notre Dame-like season, a class ranked number one by many experts gave Irish followers some positive topics of conversation. Just below the noise caused by talk ofthe recruits that filled dorms, dining halls and every Irish pub across the land, there were sighs of relief. Mine was one of the loudest, "Whew, thank God that's over ...Fornow." While the 1st might be remembered as the day one of the greatest classes of football players signed to play under the Dome, two of its current best were cleared of wrongdo­ing in an incident that occurred last Octo­ber. Robert Farmer and Randy Kinder, two of the brightest rising stars in the Notre Dame galaxy of talent, almost had their chance of shining stripped away. As of the first, no 
criminal charges had been filed and both players were exonerated by the University. The integrity of the players and Notre Dame's program were kept intact 
But despite the relief, something bother­some still lingered. While nothing came of this incident, it reminded many of the other problems that have loomed over the foot­ball program for the past year and a half ­incidents that made Notre Dame look like Miami or Florida State, players without a half a brain. 
Mostrecently,juniorcomerbackstandout Bobby Taylor and senior defensive end 
"As we waitfor the arrival ofour Super Recruits, let's hope that they will help restore Notre Dame's good name both on and offthe gridiron." 
GermaineHoldenweresuspendedforNotre Dame' s Fiesta Bowl appearance for selling their complementary tickets to the South-em Cal game. Earlier in the season, ·the turbulent career of Michael Miller came to an end when he was dismissed by the Uni­versity for his alleged involvement in a phony check scandal. Before the season even started, Miller (the same one) and Tracy Graham were implicated and then cleared of the theft of a large screen televi­sion and a VCR. 
Last year, Farmer (see above) was sus­pended fron:i the team after stealing from 
~HOU 
va · 

the bookstore, and captains Jeff Burris and Bryant Young were f owid living off-cam­pus illegally. Further, there was"thebook," which painted a not-so-nice picture ofIrish football. Thanks to the publicity given to numerous scandals that took place down at Florida State, Notre Dame's problems have gone almost unnoticed nationally; thanks to a timely upset of Michigan last year, the fire 
· "the book" ignited was quelled early on. 
Is there a reason for the apparent increase in the number of problems here, or does Notre Dame now simply fall into the group of many major programs that fill sports sections with wrongdoing? Perhaps "the book" was right in saying that it's not that we break rules that is so bad, but just that we claim we are so pure. If we are impure, who is toblame? We can use the same reasoning that many used for the Seminoles' prob­lems, claiming that, like Bobby Bowden, Lou Holtz can't be expected to follow his players home at night and supervise them. However, wecandemand thatthosecharged withrecruitingplayerstorepresentouruni­versity look not only at the size, speed and ability of the players, but also at their per­sonalities. · 
From what I remember ofthat fall day in 1988, fans wore the bootleg T-shirts with pride not only in the success of their pro­gram, but also the cleanliness of it Notre Dame was truly Golden, and their players showed that good guys can finish first As 
. wewaitwithopenarrnsforthearrivalofour Super Recruits, let's hope that they will helprestoreNotreDame'sgoodnameboth. on and off the gridiron. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 9, 1995 

w·ITJJ ~§ElDD m THe lNTeRNATIONAL I 
G]J STUD8NTORGANl7ATION; ,, [[[] ?~··· § 
w ~ w 

jJ w 
§ . O] I till 
EE1 ~ § ~ ITO 0 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11 
8:00 PM WASHINGTON HALL 
Students: $3 Non-Students: $5 Tickets available at the door and at the LaFortune Information Desk 
Featuring: 

SABOR \ LATINO TROOP ND 
BALLET FOLKLORICO AZUL YORO 
. . 


Once again, there is a battle raging among member schools of the NCM. Thistimethecontroversy stems from new entrance requirements for scholarship athletes, which is collectively called Proposition 16. Although it passed in 1992, it begins to take effect this fall, fore­ing coaches and athletic directors to take a second look at all Prop 16 athletes. This is not the first controversial measure taken by the NCM in the name of aca­demic integrity. In 1986, Proposition 48 set minimum guidelines for all entering fresh­men. To be eligible, they needed a 700 on theSA1)anda2.0 grade point average in 11 "core courses." Athletes who achieved able. What I keep hearing from black kids acrossthiscountryis, 'Don'tsellusshort'"




Ab '

0:-t 7'.e The evidence upholds Walker's opinion: 
the· ' V 
. 
L 
·.
. llTil•t· 
graduation rates have increased and the number of black scholarship athletes has grown also. Itappears thatProp48 has been a success. 
Nevertheless, the NCM did not want to sit on the laurels of its accomplishment It 

. reinforced the standards of Proposition 48 with Proposition 16. Set to take effect this coming school year, it introduces a sliding scale of freshman eligibility. A student-athlete must achieve a 2.5 GPA in 13 core subjects and an SAT score of700, or a 2.0 · GPA with an SAT score of 900. Again, there is a partial qualifier if a recruit fails to reach the new standard. 'Though Prop 16 
neither were declared ineligible ~----------------------, makes the requirements more 
for scholarships. If one require­ment was satisfied, then they would be granted a scholarship, but would not be allowed to par­ticipate in their sport during their freshman year to demonstrate their capability ofmaking grades in college-level classes. 
The reasoning behind the uni­versity presidents' decision was that tightening admission stan­dards would force colleges to re­cruit better student-athletes. Graduation rates of college bas­ketball and football players were an abysmal 33% and 37 .5%, re­

:;;~::~;~: 
tory. 
Criticsarguedthatusingtestscoreswould discriminate against minorities due to in­trinsic cultural biases on the exams, and the gradeswouldputstudentsfrompoorinner­
city schools at an unfair disadvantage. One 
outspoken critic was Temple basketball coach John Chaney .. "Proposition 48 isn't serving the youngsters it is supposed to 
help. It has legislated out of college those who were not dealt a fair hand at an early level of education," said Chaney. 
On the other hand, Dr. Leroy Walker, a member of the Knight Commission on In­tercollegiate Athletics and the first black president of the U.S. Olympic Committee, stated recently in Sports Illustrated that "empirical evidence tells me clearly that the student-athlete will rise to the occasion if the expectations are raised and are reason­

,,. 
NCAA Propositions 
48 and]6 luzve trig-

d h b d 
gere ( Um S OWn 

reactionsfaom coaches and administrators across the country, but 
Notre Dame claims to 
b ,I+, d 



e UnaJJeCte 
by Jeremy-Dixon 
stringent, a student ~ a fresh­man can receive assistance and practice but not play," said Fa­ther E. William Beauchamp, ex­ecutive vice-president of Notre Dame. "ThatseemstomakeProp 16 more fair." 
Despite the controversy sur­rounding Proposition 16, Notre Dame will not be affected by the new requirements, according to the administration. "Proposition 16 won't affect any Notre Dame students or any recruits because we simply do not look at high school students who meet the 

.• _i E!;:::~:E 
well as athletically qualified." And it ap­pears that Notre Dame has stuck to that standard: all of the recently recruited foot­ball players pass the new requirements set by theNCM. 
In response to critics who believe the 
measure .is discriminatory, Beauchamp stated: "I'm not sure if Prop 16 is racially discriminatory in its action, but it has been 
passed with a group of measures which should prevent racial discrimination. We voted against Prop 16 when it first came up two years ago because I wasn't convinced that it was not racially discriminatory." 
The discrimination question is now moot asthepropositiontakeseffectsoon. Itisnow up to the high school athletes and the univer­sities that recruit them to make sure that the rule will have the desired result: to put the student back in student-athlete. D 

16 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 9, 1995 



The Day O.J. Came From LA 
Southern Cal superstar 0. J. Simpson invaded Notre Dame Stadium, leading the Trojans to a 24-7 thumping ofthe Irish 

Editor'snote:lnl995, the name OrenthallamesSimpson signifies the downfall ofan American hero. But in the late 
. 1960s, OJ. Simpson was beginning to attain legendary status as a running back for the University of Southern California. This articlefrom the l 967ScholasticMagazine Football Review tells the story ofSimpson's heroics as his Trojans rolled over the Irish 24-7 on a cool October day in Notre Dame Stadium. Though Simpson only played two years of college football 

The second-half kickoff was fumbled away to the Trojans by Irish reserve fullback Chuck Landolfi. And from this key recovery by Steve Swanson at the N.D. 18, the Trojans whizzed across the goal line in seven plays, Simpson carrying six of them, including a final one-yard dive into the end_zone. Specialist Rikki Aldridge tied the score at 7-7 with only three minutes played in the third period. 
The touchdown signaled the end for the Irish. Poor Notre Dame 
punting kept giving the Trojans the 

for USC, he captured the 
bestpossiblefieldpositionandwhen Heisman Trophy in 1968 BillJaroncykinterceptedHanratty' s bythe mostone-sidedmar­pass and returned it 18 yards to the gin in history. A two-time N.D. 42, Simpson was ready to roll unanimousAll-American, again. he equaled or bettered 19 Sogge misfired on a long pass NCAA, conference, and that Tom O'Leary knocked away USC records. USC went from speedster Earl McCullouch,· unbeaten against Notre gave the ball to Simpson for six, Dame in Simpson's two and then pitched wide-andrather years, alsofinishing ahead poorly-to Simpson who cutout-of the Irish in 1967 as . side the Irish defense and legged it national champions and to the end zone 36 yards away, 
in 1968 with a No. 4 ranking outspeeding Tom Schoen in the fi­(ahead ofNo. 5 Notre Dame). nal burst. The 24-7 loss was the worst for a
Southern California, look Parseghian-coachedN.D. team and ing very much like a the seven interceptions likewise set team that deserves the na­a record. 
tional championship, dashed It started as a war of nerves with Notre Dame's top 10 hopes and a SouthernCaliforniarefusing totake long-standing stadium jinx Sat­the football field first. "I was not urday afternoon with a 24-7 foot­going to take my team onto the field ball victory. first," said [Trojan Coach John] Swift and sure-footed O.J. McKay. "Two years ago, Notre 

Simpson,oneofthe greatestbacks ever to appear in Notre Dame Stadium, and defensive demon Adrian Young, a linebacker born in dear old Erin, paced the terrific Trojans to one of their greatest gridiron victories. 
Simpson was simply too much for the Irish defense in the second half, although time and again he was stopped for little or no gain. But he carried the football 38 times, the most everfora Notre Dame opponent, and gained 150 yards. He has averaged exactly that in five victories.this. season. 
TheTrojan victory was strictly a seond-half performanceagainst aNotre Dame defense that was at its best of the year. Simpson was checked on 41 rushing yards in the first halfand quarterback Steve Sogge completed only five of his 15 passes for a net gain of 57 yards. 
Dame kept our boys waiting on the field in the rain for about 15 minutes before they made their appearance. Then they walloped us, 28-7. 
. "Southern Cal hadn't won at Notre Dame since 1939 and I was getting awfully tired of being reminded of this." 
McKay said that in the second half, when the Trojans scored all their points, he started running O.J. Simpson outside and this was possible because Jim Lawrence 'did an excellent job blocking the ends.' r \ · 
"Simpson was everything we expected," said Parseghian. "He is very tough to contain for 60 minutes., I think we did a good job on him in the first half, but Southern Cal's field position in the second half changed the complexion of the game." . 
17 
ENTERTA1•N'ME 0NT 

THE SOUTH BEND NIGHTLIFE 
CONCERTS you've never been a part of ... 
0 .K., so the Grateful Dead won't be bringing Tired of CJ's, Bridget's, Club 23 and all the usual Notre Dame nightspots? Sick of the theirtravelingcircusanywhereneartheJACC same people, the same bands, and the same beers? Been craving a nice cold this semester. Butdon'tletthatgetyoudown Milwaukee's Best or a really dry martini? Then you might want to consider the -there'll be plenty of otheropportunities to following options as your respite from monotony. see quality live music both at and around • One would imagine that South Bend's version of Cheers is not quite the same as its Notre Dame this semester. Here's just a few: televised namesake. Still, it's hard to pass up the chance to see Misfit Toyz, victims 
Through SUB:  of the deliberate-misspelling syndrome that seems to afflict many a mediocre heavy  
Tracy Chapman @ Stepan March 2  metal band, this Saturday night.  
Widespread Panic @ Stepan March 23  • The Madison Oyster Bar actually is frequented by the occasional group of domers,  
Through WVFI:  and does generally feature some pretty good entertainment. But you have to wonder  
Jerkwater w/Sweep The Leg Johnny  when the bands scheduled for this weekend include Danny and Jake LaBotz and H~  
@The Swamp Feb. 11  Second Cousins.  
Madalines and Streganona w/3 other  •Bysome strange coincidence, according toMichianaNow, Rathskeller, Rock Alley,  
opening bands@Dalloway's March 4  Santino's, Starlight Lounge and Twist'n'Shouts are featuring Live Band this  
Cub w/2 other opening bands@  weekend. Myguess is either that's a warning sign for some low-quality entertainment,  
Dalloway's April 5  or it's a very popular South Bend group we just haven't heard of yet.  
And at the JACC:  • And finally, there's the bar that received Michiana Now 's honorof"Best Country  

Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers March 3 Bar in Southwestern Michigan." Check out Hide-A-Way on Saturday, February 25 ifyou've been itchin' for a good old-fashioned Hog Roast and Poker Run. Yee-haw. 


a weekly traipse 
through the land 
of entertainment 
both here . andbeyond 
by josef evans 
THIS 
WEEK'S 


BEST· 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 9, 1995 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre with The Acting Company present: 

SHE STOOpsIQ ~CONQ1JER 
BY OLIVER GOLDSMITH 
Performed by the juilliard School Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sar., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Resm•ed Seats $14 Studmts and Senior Citizens $10 
Tickers are a,·ailable at the door or in advance at rhe Lafortune Student Center Ticker Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 



Valentine's Day Special 
Couples only in the VIP Lounge Singles only in the Downstairs· Lounge, 

YI.{{patrons wearing sometliing rec{ aimittec{ for $1.00, 
a{{otliers acfmitteafor $3.00. 
525 N. Hill Street -ph. 233-8505 
.. 111 



Murder in the 



by Chris Myers 
E last movie to successfully rporate a prison and a courtroom a was 1993's In the Name of the Father, which was honored with seven Oscar nominations. Two years later it would be a terrifying smprise to see Mur­der in the First (Warner Bros., R) get nominated for much, ifany­thing at all. It's the second film, after The River Wild, to feature Kevin Bacon giv­ing a fine performance in a trite and boring story. The story revolves around Henri Young (Ba­con) in an unsuccessful es­cape from Alcatraz. After being caught, he spends the next three years in the dank, dark "dungeon" of solitary confinement Upon finally being released, Young sees the prisoner who ratted on him, goes berserk and kills him with a spoon. Enter James Stamphill (Christian Slater), the young, inexpe­rienced, yet cocky attorney brought in to defend Young (What, Tom Cruise was busy?)Anyway, Stamphill says it's the system that caused Henri to go crazy after years of being locked up and so begins the story of one man taking on Alcatraz. The central problem with Murder in the First is that director Marc Rocco re­fuses to set a constant tone. At times he plays . to levels of brutal drama, then, sometimes in the very same scene, he'll throw in a few wayward punchlines that seem ludicriously out of place. Attempts 

SecondRate 
to lighten the mood come atall the wrong times, including the courtroom finale, in which the film flounders from A Few Good Men to My Cousin Vinny. What The Shawshank Redemption did so well with the balance of mood, Murder in the First lacks desperately. 
To be honest, the courtroom scenes are where the movie takes a dive. The scenes in prison, where much of Stamphill's in-max -when Young finally takes the stand -is a shameful waste of opportu­nity. Instead of delivering what would have been the most fascinating and heart-, wrenching testimony, we have to settle for him yelling, "I'd rather die then go back there!" That's it. 
Well duh. While graphically showing us the pain and torture he went through, Rocco keeps Young reclusive, never fully 

-------------, letting his emotions show. 
"Incredibly moving and spellbinding entertainment. Brilliantly conceived and directed. Don't miss ii!" 
.Pu Winier, WBAJ RADIO 

"Titis journey into human emotion will leave you breathless. Christian Slater and ·Kevin Bacon burn up the screen in the performances of their careers." 
-.i..me Wolf, JWff WOif's HOUYWOOO 
"Flawless." 
-Jim fel'IIIIIOl1, KM88 (RJX-llJCS(Jj) 
"Powerful." 
-Rex Reed, IIEW YORIC IHISIIIVBI 
"'"""-----' 
In scene after scene, we get dizzying camera shots from ridiculous angles, but never get to see inside the heartandmindofanyofthe film's characters. There's also some sort of romance between Slater and another­attorney, so underdevel­oped I didn't even know it existed until he says, "I knew we had drifted apart" 
In the age of Court TV, Dahmers and Menendezes, we want stories with a dra­matic edge to them. We should go to the movies to getaway from therealityof drab, real-life court cases. Remember Al Pacino yell­ing, "You're out of order! The whole system is out of order!" and J ackNicholson barking, "You can't handle the truth!" It could never happen in real life, but 

terrogation ofYoung is done, are effective if not memorable. But when the action moves before the bench, brace yourself for boredom and confusion. Witnesses appear on and off the stand as if they were sprouting from it, and there's no real sus­pense because we already know what hap­pened. What should be the dramatic cli­that's what's so great about it Murder in the First, loosely based on the true story, reminds us how slow and uninvolving court cases can be. It's stimulating, but not satisfying. High on potential, low on return. This movie had me expecting the OJ. Simpson trial, but settling for the Fox Movie of the Week. Grade -C 
20 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 9, 1995 

In the Mouth ofMadness 

Imagine a novel so overwhelmingly hypnotic, so tremendously horrifying that it paralyzes its audience with fear and turns its most sensible reader insane. New Line Cinema presents John Carpenter's psychological horror film, In the Mouth ofMadness. Sutter Cane (Jurgen Prochnow) is this century's most widely read author. His horror novels have been translated into 18 different languages and they make Stephen King look like a rank amateur. When Cane vanishes just days before he's expected to 
John Trent slowly loses his sanity while searching for. Sutter Cane. 

deliverhis latesimanuscript, hispublisher,played by theAcademy­Award winner, Charleton Heston, hires John Trent (Sam Neill) to investigate his mysterious disappearance. 
With the writer's fans whipped into a public frenzy, Trent believes the case is nothing but an ill-conceived publicity stunt­until he and Cane's editor, Linda Styles (Julie Carmen), travel to New England in search of clues. There they wind up in a town called Hobbs End, a sleepy hamlet that cannot be found on any ordinary map. A. fictional village that exists only in Cane's novels. 
Has the investigation unearthed a fantasy world or has reality blended with the macabre imagination of Sutter Cane? In the Mouth ofMadness opened on February 3. 0 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPE·TITE 
...AND BUDGET 
·•.·. .·. -&UBIDA~.· ·. ·_.· 
. . The Place Where Fresh is rhe'Iasre: 
-• ' !\, 
54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 


Ill 

ent 
Firdshingfive years·on the offensive . line, serdor Michael McGlinn is going to Nashville instead ofthe NFL 

by Miranda C. Sanford 
.Meetingindiv.idualswhopossessdiversetalents on today'.s collegecampusesprovestobeamoredifficulttaskthan many people would like to believe. Unfortunately, workloads and other aspects of daily life limit students' time and ability to branch out into new areas of experiences. Michael McGlinn, a fifth-year senior majoring in video and film production here atNotreDame, is a person many may recognize, but few truly know or appreciate. An excellent musician, a good student and a football player, he represents the cornerstone idea behind a "liberal arts education." Michael grew up in Kansas City, MO, and started playing the guitar when only five years old. His dad had also been a guitarist who took an interest in the folk music of the late 60s -such as Peter, Paul and Maxy-so music always occupied a space in his life. Intriguedby instruments and his dad's talent, he began to teach himselfthe guitar and developed musical skills quickly, especially for such a young child. "I wouldn't label myself an introvert, but while other kids were playing outside, I was inside working on the guitar. I just loved music more than anything else and knew then that it would always be in my life." He performed in public for the first time while in fourth grade at the Missouri State Fair talent show, playing John Denver on the banjo. His music career began. McGlinn's interest in athletics -primarily football-started basically because all of his friends joined sports teams in junior high. He enjoyed football mainly for the camaraderie and compe­tition. Along with football, he continued with music through high 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 9, ·1995 


school and by senior year of high school he was faced with a difficult choice. A friend offered him ajobworking on travel crews for famous country performers and Notre Dame offered him a full athletic scholarship for football. "I never really expected to go to college, especially for football," McGlinn said. "No one in my immediate family went to a major college like Notre Dame." His family always stressed the importance of education, though, and after visiting Notre Dame he decided music would have to wait and he would attend Notre Dame in the fall. After his trip to South Bend, he cancelled the rest of collegiate his visits so he would be free to work on concerts. 
Maintaining his devotion to music proved to beachallenge while 

"I am going to take my music, send it up theflagpole and see who salutes." 
here at Notre Dame. He only focused on one aspect at a time, so the fall was devoted solely to football. "I made a commitment to this school to play football for them as well as I could, and music distracted me. It hurt to put it on the back burner, but I had to for the time being." It even reached the point where Michael did not listen to music during the season because it would distract his concentration. Every spring during his five years here he wrote and performed his original music and every summer developed his network in the country music industry located in Nashville. "I really like country music. It is very real and honest It is the only style (of music) where it is hip to be down-to-earth." 
As for his future career, McGlinn decided he had to take achance and focus on music. Instead of attending the professional football combines, he will be relocating to Nashville -the heart of the country music industry-in May after graduation. "I cannot play football any longer. I am just burned out and if you don't have an interest in something, why do it?" 
Having sentoutdemo tapes to major music labels, he only wants someone to present him with an opportunity in the music business. Mike stated, "I am going to take my music, send it up the flagpole and see who salutes it." This summer he will beopening fora major band at the American Jamboree and, before he leaves campus, he is organizing the first Big Brothers and Big Sisters Benefit. It will be on April 30 in Washington Hall. 
McGlinn's continual performances at CJ's Pub exhibit his impressive talent One aspect of his performance which amazes audiences addresses his vast vocal range, especially considering his considerablebody size. Michaelis able to continueentertaining with energy and zeal all evening with great original songs and favorites of the audience. His acoustic style is very refreshing regardless of whether or not listeners appreciate country music. Michael releases his emotions through his music expressing that "passion if the greatestemotion there is" and music isoneofthebest ways of inciting peoples' passion for life. McGlinn seems to be a man who definitely lives by his beliefs. 0 
BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
0

,,at 10,1 


Open for carryout and delivery only from 4 -1 O p.m. weekdays, 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. **212-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** 115 U.S. 31 Oust north of campus) 
273-3890 

1aun;uttftiidd 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties and banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 261 O Prairie Ave. 
288-3320 
I 
\ 

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" 
We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 





"International Student Organization Festival," Washington 
Hall, Sat., 7:00 Trips: Freshmen class getaway to Chicago, cost is $65, tickets 
at LaFortune info. desk, Feb. 18-19, limited availability. 
On the Silver Screen 
February 1 o -16 

University Park West: 277-7336. "Boys on the Side," R, 1:45, 4:20, 7:00, 9:50. "Nobody's Fool," R, 2:00, 4:40, 7:15, 9:40. "Jerky Boys," R, 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Higher Learning," R, 1:30, 4:10, 6:45, 9:30. "Legends of the Fall," R, 1:30, 4:15, 7:1 o, 9:55. "Billy Madison," PG-13, 1:45, 4:00, 7:00, 9:00. "Pulp Fiction," R, 2:00, 5:15, 8:45. "Before Sunrise," R, 2:10, 4:50, 7:30, 9:45. "Dumb and Dumber," PG-13, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00. "Highlander Ill: The Magician," 9:15. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "The Quick and the Dead," R, M-F 4:45, 7:15, 9:45. Sa-Su 2:00, 4:45, 7:15,9:45. "Housegu·est," PG, M-F 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. Sa-Su 2:15, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 "In the Mouth of Maddness," R, M-F 5:00, 7:30, 10:00. Sa-Su 2:30, 5:00, 7:30,1o. Scottsdale: 259-9096 "Jerky Boys," R, 9:00, 12:30, 2:30, 4:45, 
7:15, 9:15. "Billy Madison," PG-13, 9:00, 11 :30, 1:45, 4:15, 6:45,9:00. "Nobody's Fool," R, 10:00, 2:00, 5:00, 7:30, 
10:00. "Far From Home," PG, 9:30, 12:15, 2:15, 4:30, 6:45. "Highlander Ill: The Magician," PG-13, 9:00. "Legends of the Fall," R, 10:00, 1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 9:50. "Dumb and Dumber," PG, 9:00, 12:00, 2:45, 

. 5:15,7:30,9:45. 
Cinema at the Snlte: 631-7361 "Ed Wood," Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 9:45. ''The Grapes of Wrath," Mon., 7:00 "How Tasty Was My Little Frenchman," Mon. 9:15. "Apropos De Nice," Tues., 7:00. "Yojimbo," Tues., 9:00. 






Coming 

Distractions 
From February 9 -15 
Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
Basketball: ND Women vs. Butler, Pack the JACC JV, Friday, 
7:00.. ND Women vs. Illinois-Chicago, Sunday, 6:00. ND Men vs. Kentucky, Sunday, 1:OO. 
Ice Hockey: ND vs. Ohio St., Friday and Saturday, 7:00. Tennis: ND Men vs. Ohio St., Friday, 3:15. ND Men vs. North Carolina, Sunday, 1:00. Swimming and Diving: ND vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Saturday 
2:00. . Javelin Toss: Meijer is sponsoring its seventh annual javelin toss in front of the store on Saturday at 2:00. The longest throw 
will win a five-minute shopping spree in the meat section. 

Cultural Connection 
Concerts: Robert Atherholt, oboist, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Admission is $5, $2 for students and senior citizens, Sunday, 2:00. 
Lectures and Seminars: "ND's Annual Conference on Entrepreneurship," Saturday at the CCE, To register and/ or for more info, call Tim Fusco at 4-2121, cost is $15 for students. 
-"The German Model," Wolfgang Streeck, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Thurs., 4:15 -"Sophomore Literary Festival," Library Auditorium, Sat.­Thurs., All readings are at 8:00. 
Entertainment: "Black Cultural Arts Festival Comedy Fest," Washington Hall, tickets are $5 for public and $3 for students. Sunday, 8:00. 
24 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FE.BRUARY 9, 1995 


Is That a Pack of Lunch 
Meat in Your Pants? 

. Dedicated Fans Scar Children for Life 
You could search far and wide for the most zealous fans of a sports team, and in the end, you would find yourself at the door ofKurt and Tina Hinton oftherural Nittany Valley in Pennsylvania. According to The Weekly Collegian, the Penn State daily paper, Kurt and Tina have two children, a 4-year-old girl ·named "Nittany," and a 4-month-old boy named "Lions." Despite the fact that the couple never even went to Penn State, the naming does not appear to have been drug induced. Of course, this naming combo works well with other schools. "Howdy 
neighbor! Thishere'smadottaGolden,and datdem there's ma boy Gophers. Wezejist been out shootin' crittahs fo' dinnah. Go 
Minnesota! Y eee-Hawww!" 
. Victoria's Secret Technology at Work 
Two Oregon State professors recently received a grant for studying underwear, according to the Daily Illini, Illinois' stu­dent paper. 
The two are out to dispel the rumor that tree bark underwear is better for pregnant women. In addition, biodegradable under­wear that is made mostly from soy may be explored as a possibility for intermingling 
Wednes ay Happy Hour 
6:no-8:00 $2.00 cover 
d 




[K]@):v7 


lll~ 

·.· :ON 
...--· . 

·Do ·LUB· 
The power to pe yqur bese 
AIIYou Can Eaf. HotWihgs and Euchr~ Journ~y 
by Kris Kazlauskas 
undergarments with dietary staples. The two also plan to unveil their new line of "Melt-Away" briefs, underwear that dis­integrates after one day's usage. "Pass the Fruit of the Looms, I'm starvin' ." 
. Find the Lunchab/es, Baby! 
In the University of Illinois security beat, it was reported that a man was ar­rested after stealing a couple packages of Oscar Mayer lunch meat But it took an observanteyeto solve thisparticularcrime. 
Theclerkclaimedthatthesuspectlooked 

. suspicious, and said that it was thebulgein his spandex pants that tipped him off to a possible case of foul play. The clerk's suspicions were not un­
founded. A thorough police search un-. veiled a large amount ofmeat in the man's pants. Chalk one up for theUrbana police squad. 
In an unrelated incident, a man at an­other store in Illinois was arrested after stealing steaks. The police chased him down in a foot race, but not until he had thrown the steaks into the street Police took pictures of the injured steaks, which had been run over several times, and the . suspect was sentenced to life without pa­role. (What part of this blurb is made up?) 
. Touch My Monkey 
Four victims reported seeing a naked man wandering the stairwell of their apart­ment near the University of Illinois. 
Apparently, the suspect was mearider­ing around butt-naked except for a shirt wrapped around his face and head. This phenomenon hadbeen occurring forabout a week, but nobody thought to report it 
There was no evidence that the man was bothering anybody, but I suspect that he was just a shy guy with a congenital birth defect in which he possesses no sweat glands. He gets hot, therefore he gets naked. I suppose that is equivalent to a_ dog panting. 



Grist for the Mill 
Tl.00 LfBE.1.Al.5 (,.)E..lE. TI\U.­IN& 010 A Wlk.rrttY VAY ••• 


Grist for the Mill 
HE't', 1'HILL/ IJHO'~ THE I DOIJIJ01 
.-----------. 
SIIJCE f.tJ//J}Jl~G TilE. 
MAJotrri> /N BOTl:I HOUSES, 
R£l'V&.,JC.A/'1S /-!AVE "DEVEl.Dl'Et> A 1EAL KNACK FOl 
MA~//Jb OUTRAGEOUS. 
MEAN-5'P llUTEb 
.STATEMEJJTS/ 
~J 
.-----------­
MAK~ 5~E 1:x)ESIJ'T 010 1ol> Leet. FAT 

RICK GREY 
THESE Pf»>6.-l)l0Nt C01':ISER.VATl'JE5 1-\A\/E
POISE. SDHETl-l /1.Jb TJ.lAr, 
THREE YEA~ AGO, I 
(,t)ot>l.J) 1-\A\JE 11!0061-!T 
IM'PO~S leLE ... 
( 

..JUsr 1'.l'ti/)/IJ/,/ IJO ONE R.cALl.V MISS~5 GE.OUE. Busl/,// 

'i'CO t:1))1)i/J1? 01,, \'eAH t SHE NUST ; s~;~l'.e.-!: 
RICK GREY 
YOU'RE. GDfJ/JA 'BE 11lE. R)OOIEsT 
MAI-J 11-J HELL, SMARiA-SS. 


bori ~ lisfen -to /,,i111­
U/11, wArr-Yoo.t ~vyr:. 1"\,\ey're do,;\-loo\L 1:ke -rke. '.\icJl,-,j<l 6L1JD/sMC-c.L.,b.... 

erescmie­
here ... 
o w<:'re flvi. '"'~.,.,e\\ 
' tvb '-_-__-:,_-___-__ ,e,("·· 
26 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II FEBRUARY 9, 1995 


sweetas honey from the hive. ''The people laugh because you have a piece of cheese stuck to your chin." and with those words she gently removed the stray cheese chunk and threw it into the hostile 
blackness of night "Oh Safewalk woman, I am so glad you found me!" and slowly I opened my eyes to look at her. This blue-jacketed beacon of safety 





Apache 

was cherubic in appearance, and I wondered if I hadn't stumbled onto Venus herself. Crowning her silky, black hair was an ornate headdress made ofsquirrel pelts. She held a corncob pipe between 
of 
her lips, had a button· nose, and two eyes as black as coal. Mesmerized, I felt cupid shoot -me somewhere in my lower back under my left kidney. With wonder, I asked, "Who are you?" 
"I am Runs Like a Deer, an Apache princess--but that is not 
odaess 

important Come with me, my child," and with a wave of her arm we were wandered off into the night "Hold my hand. I will protect you," and as I grabbed her hand, I felt her quiet confidence surge through me. From that moment, my obsequiousness to her began, 
and I felt destiny was drawing us together-binding us with the chains of love. Halfway back to my cozy, little nook at Stanford, we bumped 
ove 
A Valentine's tear-jerker 

into a rowdy group from HUGS, the campus organization that pets babies. I wasn't looking for trouble, but the grand dragon of this group recognized me as the kid from the Huddle with the cheese 
by Kris Kazlauskas 

chunk on his chin. "Cheesehead, cheesehead!" they began taunting me and hitting me on the head with a wiffle ball bat Yet, no sooner
Hername was "Runs Like a Deer," and I have no doubt that did they get begin knocking me on the noggin than the Safewalk she was an angel. Angel came to my rescue. You see, as Valentine's Day nears, I find myself thinking "Be gone!" she yelled, and with incredible skill she fought off the 
more and more about the sweet, dainty, Apache princess that rabble-rousers. As she was fending them off, their leader threw me captured my heart last year on February 14th. It is a story imbrued over her shoulder and started to run. Just when it seemed that I with love, and even as I mention her name, Ifeel my heart would be kidnapped and never heard from again, I found strings being played with all of the emotion of King · ·out that nothing ''Runs Like a Deer." With incredible David strumming his lyre. Though the salty tears bounding skill, she pounced on the HUGS delin­stream down my face and onto the keyboard, I quent and rescued me. She carried me the rest of must be strong, and like Peter Cetera, I am the way to Stanford, and from that moment, writing this, "For the Glory of Love." everything changed. Under a magical· 
February 14, 1994-I was sitting in the Michiana sky, we were transfonned from Huddle, enjoying a combo meal from the Safewalker and Safewalkee to young lov­"Bull Pit Grill" and watching women's ers. luge. Irealizedthatitwas nearing 10:00p.m., For three months our souls melted to­and I still needed to go home to finish a gether, and she gave me the name, "Fright­mammoth project for my advanced Lycra ened Lamb." I liked it so much that I now design class. Yet, as I was about to leave, bubble itin on every scantron and write it two Huddle employees began to laugh and on every check. Unfortunately, our bliss point at me. Passive and timid by nature, I was stolen when she was arrested and subse­burst into tears and ran to the nearest tele­quently dismissed .from the university for phone: It was time to call Safewalk. squirrel hunting without a license. She is cur-
I waited near the LaFortune information rently serving time at a correctional facility in desk, curled up in a ball and feeling very self­Albuquerque. Yet, my love her remains as strong conscious. My tumultuous weeping had turned as ever, and in October, ifshe makes parole, we will intoagentlesobbingby then-until thestudentattheinfo be reunited. desklookedatmeandbeganchucklingheartily.Ipanicked,andran So, to all of those lonely bucks and does out there, do not fret Evil quickly mitthedoortofindsolaceattheGrotto. Yet,justwhenl was is out there, and she is stalking the campus. But with the help of a descending the steps, Iran into the Safewalk Angel. The world was touch-tone phone, maybe you can have a safe walk into the arms of distorted through my watery eyes, yet I would recognize that blue love. · \ O windbreaker anywhere. I threw my arms around her and cried until 
I couldn't cry anymore. This is a humor colwnn. These views are not necessarily the "It's okay, my child," she said in a voice that was as smooth and views ofthe editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 
S C H O L A S T I C M· A G A Z I N E ¦ F E B R U A R Y 9 , 1 9 9 5 
27 

. I 

The More Things Change ... 

Though it is a scene from the 1995 Zahm Hall Decade Dance, it looks like it could have been from a 1967 Zahm "Winter Social Mixer." Owen Mccuen in a vintage leisure suit and chains . holds Sara Montrose, in a lovely Mary Tyler Moore hair bob and dress, as they dance the night away. 
Pho'to by Stan Evans 

SC ROLA ST I C MA GA ZIN E II FEB R U A RY 9, 1 9 9 5 

Did you like what you saw in the 1994 Football Review? All pictures printed in the review are available through Scholastic -Allphotos in full color, -·8" by 1 0" glossy print $10. 00 ·Call Scholastic at 631-7569 and give the page number and description of the photo you want. 

Off-campus students pick up your copies of the 1994 Football Review in the Scholastic office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
~5/L/O C./7 
L/./.7/aa 
_L?0EL/-c,' 
/JJc.t5~c77/s 
Z'bc_?' 










