


features 
1(6 Cleaning House 
The lives of the people you see every day 


34 What's Next for Football? 
The new recruits, coaches and speculation 
41 Greeting Friends &Ignoring Everyone Else 

Scholastic's guide to navigating the quad 
42 College! 
A senior's consideration ofwhether these four years were worth it 



sections 
Opinion 4c _ News 7 Culture 13 Cover Story 22 Sports 31 -Hunior 3g 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 

Freshman year I heard about this kid who dressed up as a banana and sat in lectures until he was chased out by a pursuing gorilla. We've all seen some pretty unreasonable things during our tenures at Notre Dame. In fact, I would say that this is one of the most integral parts of an undergraduate education: a nascent awareness of your own ridiculousness. I have passed this class with flying colors. 
I've had my fair share of social disasters, but there's something to be said for even the most mundane ridiculousness on campus: public napping, arbitrary costumes, dorm parties. The closer that I get to graduation, the more certain I am that you cannot show up to work in a giraffe suit just because. Since this is the seniors' last issue as official Scholastic staffers, I would like to take this opportunity to ruminate on the importance of a healthy sense of the absurd. 
And ifl were to try to make a case for Scholastic, I think that's where I would start. I'd like to think that one of the biggest services that we provide is to keep everyone on campus fully aware of how insanely delightful our time here is (see: the Gipper). 
Sure, everyone has their issues with Notre Dame. In answer to these, I would like to turn to one of the sages of Scholastic's past, Mike Healy. In his last humor column, "Don't Stop Me Now," he writes, "We can complain about dorm rules and ResLife and things like that, but ifyou can't have fun making a beer run from D2 to your dorm or frantically trying to hide five bottles ofvodka in five seconds, then you'd never be cool at a state school anyway." 
So this pretty much embodies what I've learned in the past four years: embrace things for what they are, even (sometimes especially) if they don't make that much sense. 
It's been real; it's been fun. It's been really fun. 

Jen Wulf Editor in Chief 
2 j SCHOLASTIC j 4 FEBRUARY 2010 · 


lff:~ 
::}•it•.,;,•.,· 

SOAPBOX 

Disappointment 
An Essay by Courtney Ball 
My favorite childhood story was "The Little Engine That Could." \Vhen I was about six years old I spent the weekend with my grandparents at their cabin in the mountains. There was a small slope right outside of the building where my grandma deemed it appropriate for me to begin my mountain climbing career. I ran full speed at the mound, determined to hurl myself to the top. I almost immediately slipped and fell, sliding to the bottom, stunned by this unexpected defeat. I tried to make my way up once again, this time a bit more cautiously, only to slip once more. After a few more failures, I began to get frustrated and teary-eyed. Then I remembered my favorite book. With renewed vigor I began chanting "I think I can. I think I can" as I slowly made my way up the hill. After what felt like a lifetime of clawing my way through the mud, I reached the top and gleefully announced to my grandmother that I had done it! Covered in mud and bloody scrapes, I had learned that if we are persistent and believe it's possible, we can all be the little engine that could. • Most Notre Dame students carry this "I think I can" mentality; this drive is what got us here in the first place. For some, the belief that we can do anything we set ourselves to has been validated through a long history of successes. For others, we stumble and fall at times, but a belief in ourselves forces us to keep trying until we accomplish our goals. We have to believe that we can do anything to find the motivation to keep going after each setback. This story is not about our successes but about our disappointments. I would not remember the glory of reaching the top of the "mountain" if I had not first failed so many times in the attempt. The disappointment and frustration 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 
I felt are what made the experience memorable. More importantly, however, our disappointments are valuable even when we inevitably approach the mountain whose peak is too high to reach. 
\Ve are told growing up that we can accomplish whatever we set out to do and that our dreams can come true ifwe only try hard enough. I don't yet know if this is true. I do know that very few ofus become the astronaut or the prima ballerina we wanted to be and that most ofus will end up working desk jobs. Maybe our dreams change and we become truly fulfilled by finding a way to make a living so we can form families and comfortable lives with the ones we love. I certainly do not think that is a dream to scoff at. Maybe we realize along the way that we genuinely do not have the necessary talents or drive to get what we once thought we wanted, but find something that suits us better instead. 
We all have that dream job or school or future destination. We have spent the last• several years of our lives doing what we hope is enough to reach our goals. Some of our dreams will come true exactly as we foresaw them. Most of ours will look different than we had hoped. As the realization slowly sets in that I am not going to get that letter of acceptance from my top graduate school or even from any one of my top five choices, it becomes increasingly difficult not to take the rejection personally and feel completely misunderstood. It is painful to put everything that you have into something and still be told that today you are not good enough. You can reassure yourself that at the level of competition at which we find ourselves, the individual who gets that coveted spot we long for may or may not be more qualified tha_n we are. At the end of the day, though, it still feels overwhelming attempting to come to terms with that disappointment after a long history of success. 
What can you do when you realize that all of your efforts, your preparation and your desire were simply not enough? Do you accept that this is perhaps not the path you are intended to travel, if there is in fact such a path at all? Do you try again and possibly fail again and chase a dream which might not ever come true? How do we even know if this was really the mountain we were intended to climb or if we should try our luck at another? When we· are actually confronting our futures and forced to decide where we go from here, it can feel as if we have at one moment both too few and too many choices. 
So the last thing I will ever write for Scholastic is a tribute to all of our disappointments. 
For seniors, if you didn't land your dream job or get into the program you worked so hard for, you will be okay. If you know that the position is truly'right for you, I believe that you will find a way to eventually conquer that mountain. Maybe instead, we will realize that there is another option we never even considered and we will find ourselves facing an entirely different assortment of challenges, disappointments and successes. For underclassmen facing disappointment, whether it be a rejection from an internship, your desired study abroad program or even that test you studied hours for and still failed, remember that there are other options and that this disappointment makes a later, different success possible. It is· all a process and I believe thatin the end we will all see ourselves as little engines that could, even if we couldn't always. 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views a/Scholastic Magazine. 
OPINION 
Iran's Nuclear Threat Does Not·Warrant U.S. 

Military Strike 
-
As Iran gets closer to producing nuclear weapons, it is tempting to consider military strikes against its nuclear facilities. Indeed, John Bolton's recent February 11 editorial in the Wall Street Journal stresses the immediacy of the threat posed by a nuclear Tehran. He argues the now familiar hawkish line that there is no time for diplomatic-overtures with Iran when it is so close to producing a nuclear bomb. While negotiations have failed and Iran's nuclear program continues to progress unabated, a military option should be the furthest thing from Americans' minds at this point. Those who support a military strike believe it is the fastest and easiest way to prevent a nuclear Tehran. Close analysis of the situation, however, indicates a military strike would not be fast, easy or necessarily solve the issue. Intelligence reports indicate Iran has heavily fortified its nuclear facilities, making them very difficult to destroy from the air. Depending on how effective an air campaign would be, the ·united States might have to put troops on the ground in order to completely neutralize the nuclear capabilities. Also, it is unclear whether American · intelligence has located every nuclear facility. But-let's assume all the reactors have been located and American bombs can reach them: What happens when a fully operational nuclear reactor blows up in close proximity to a large urban population? There is a reason Israel's infamous raid on an Iraqi nuclear reactor in 1981 took place before there was any uranium in the facility. Dealing with the n~clear and political fallout would undermine · U.S. political capital across the globe. Aside from physical consequences, one 
Author: James Napier ­
' 
must also question whether Iran's reaction is worth the effort. It is impossible to know precisely how Iranian leadership would respond to an attack, but, rest assured, it would not be pretty and no one would be calling the United States a liberator. Unlike Saddam Hussein, Iran has a variety of ways to strike back against American interests. Militarily, Iran is capable of hitting any target inside Israel with reasonable accuracy. It could also mobilize its intelligence agency and terrorist connections to hit America and her allies. Of particular concern is the possibility that Iran could conduct destabilizing missions in Iraq and Afghanistan when American forces are already stretched to the breaking point. 
Economically, Iran does not pose much of 
a threat, but it may attempt to sabotage oil production in Iraq and the heavy tanker traffic in the Strait of Hormuz: While it is unlikely Iran would be able to hold or blockade the strait for any significant amount of time, the loss or impediment of oil for even a few days could impact a still weak economy. 
It is also certain that an attack would negate any chance the Iranian opposition has at success. Since last summer's rigged elections, Iran has seen huge anti­government protests even though many . protesters have been arrested or murdered in the streets. There is no guarantee that the protests will be successful but they will certainly fail if America attacks Iran. 
Of course, some pundits have argued 
that it doesn't matter what happemf · to the protestors since they may want to pursue nuclear arms just as badly as the current regime. While the protestors may desire nuclear arms, to dismiss them as 
-
-
unimportant is dangerously short sighted, and alienating them now is a good way to ensure more problems in the future. 
Instead of a military strike which would 
. produce dubious results, the United States needs to continue following a more subtle tact. Too often, a line is drawn between peace and war when these are just different policies on one continuous spectrum. Open conflict may carry little attraction, but covert operations and subversive measures are vital to securing American interests. It is a well known secret that the United States has been covertly sabotaging the Iranian nuclear program and has encouraged political opposition. These operations have 
. seen limited success and should be escalated to make life more difficult for the ayatollahs, the religious leaders among the Iranian Shiite Muslim community. Any support for the opposition is particularly beneficial because it maintains pressure on the current government while establishing connections to potential future allies. In addition to covert operations, the 
U.S. must make Iran understand that an unwillingness to negotiate will have consequences. This understanding has been difficult to achieve because both Russia and China, two oflran's biggest trading partners, are hesitant to jeopardize relations with Iran.· But now that Iran has failed to productively respond to the energy swap proposal, both countries have indicated a willingness to impose trade embargoes against Iran. It remains to be seen if embargoes will work with such heavyweights, but isn't the chance of a peaceful resolution worth delaying a military strike that could very well result in a third front? 
The views ofthis author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 

OPINION 

The Story of God 
Marques Camp 
I am an atheist, and I make that declaration neither tepidly nor defiantly. Physical and metaphysical considerations lead me to be­lieve tliat no God, as tl1e concept is roughly defined, exists. 
I may be wrong, but the available evidence leads me to doubt it. In fact, in the eight years I have attended Catholic school, I have become more and more convinced of this conclusion. 
There are many, many others, far more intelligent tlrnn I can ever hope to be, who are convinced I am the one who is mistaken. They are Christians, they are Muslims, they are Jews, they are Hindus. They all believe, as do countless otl1ers, in tl1e existence of beings beyond our immediate experience, omnipotent or othenvise. 
I trust tl1e judgment of these people, because I know that of any­thing they might hold to be true, a belief in the divine strikes them as the most basic and self-evident manifestation of truth. 
But I also trust the judgment of others, far more intelligent than I can ever hope to be, who have come to conclusions much like mine on the nature of the divine. So where is the disconnect? 
God, and to a furtl1er extent, religion, is to be neitl1er scorned nor mocked, as many atheists might have you believe. They are not beliefs of the ignorant, nor have they resulted in any more evil than a world ,vithout them might have. Though in my experience with religion some people of faith, particularly at Notre Dame, have struck me as deterministic automatons tlrnt care more about performing the obligatory rituals rather than grasping the truth it represents, I deeply admire the ones who pursue God genuinely and with passion. 
The universe, 20th century poet Muriel Rukeyser once wrote, is made of stories, not atoms. Ifanything, the story of God, in all incarnations, religions and interpretations, is tl1e greatest story ever told. It is perhaps tl1e most basic, and most immediately identifiable story we have. 
That is not to say that this story must be true, in the sense that God must exist as any being or ultimate cosmic force independent of the reality we construct for ourselves. But truth consists in much more than historical fact. This is where, it seems, we find tl1e real disconnect between believers and non-believers. 
The existence of God, as such, is not the real issue here, though many will have you believe it to be. The story of God is a true story of the universe, but not the only one. 
We must ask not whether God exists, but rather, whether God is true. Does the story give us hope, meaning, inspiration and some sense of what our own existence might ultimately mean? Does our experience and our longing for truth change profoundly whether or not God exists independently of us? 
Ifwe answer tl1ese rhetorical questions as I believe we should, I will venture to say that my opening declaration matters very little. 0 
A Notre Dame Credo 
Lisa Bucior 
I believe in God, the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven and Earth, of all tlrnt is seen and unseen. The sentence may sound trite after repeating it every Sunday morning for over 20 years, but it is, in fact, a fairly powerful statement. I believe tl1ere is indeed a Being who created everything from nothing, and that He (or She, or It or whatever pronoun tl1e Great Spirit pleases) is all powerful, all know­ing and all loving. 
I am neither a theologian nor a philosopher, so being asked to defend God is a little ovenvhelming. Ifsomeone really wants to have a scholarly debate over His existence, he or she should consult tl1e great minds of St. Anselm, St. Aquinas, Immanuel Kant or even Notre Dame professor Alvin Plantinga. Wbat follows here is only a layperson's account of faith. 
I believe tl1ere was more to Creation tlrnn just a few atoms tlrnt happened to be in tl1e right place at tl1e right time. I am not denying the Big Bang Theory (which was developed by a Roman Catholic priest), but I believe the particles had to come from somewhere and that someone intended tl1e result. 
I believe God is necessary for us to act morally. Vi'hen asked, most people say they try to lead ethical lives, which they tl1en judge according to tl1eir own moral code. Yet tl1ere are times when our codes don't agree, a logical impossibility. It makes no sense for an action to be moral for one person yet immoral for another -the word "moral" would have no meaning. There must be a universal moral code, one tl1at could not have been invented by humans but only created by God, · 
Finally, I believe God listens to us and is present in our lives. I have found more answers to cliffict1_lt questions while at the Grotto or alone in my dorm's chapel than anywhere else, and I have wit­nessed too many "everyday miracles" to deny tl1ey exist. 
Just because I believe in God does not mean we have had a perfect relationship. There are times when I have gotten frustrated witl1 Him after seemingly unanswered prayers or a sudden personal tragedy, and I have had discussions witl1 members of Notre Dame's ultra-religious that have made me question why I follow my religion at all. Yet never have I doubted tlrnt God was actually there. I may be angry with Him, but He needs to exist in order for tlrnt to hap­pen. 
So I will continue to go to Mass, recite the Lord's Prayer and skip tl1e turkey sandwiches on Fridays tl1is montl1. IfGod is tl1ere, He deserves a little respect. 0 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I25 FEBRUARY 2010 The views expi·essed in these columns m·e not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 

~ . . 1· 
tr Ie sto1nes we 1ve 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 

major that has about as much marketability in today's economy as 
underwater basket-weaving. Or that poverty studies minor that is only serving to increase the potential ofyour own future impoverishment. But who says being a finance major means you get to charge directly into the Starbucks-gulping, penthouse-living lifestyle? Put down that nicely formatted resume, say "no" to the Career Fair and follow Scholastic's advice on what to do ifyour future seems hopelessly jobless. 
l. Relive the Glory Days. Who says you have to leave Notre Dame after four years? Follow the model of the infamous Law School Imposter: save your student ID, don some of the excessive Notre Dame gear you've piled up over the years and sidle back into Accountancy I. Maybe this time around you'll get an A: 
2. 
Better Homes (and Boxes). Just because you're living in a box doesn't mean that your cardboard home can't have some pizzazz. Interior decorating for the box-living community is an undervalued profession and a chance for you to express all of that pent up creativity you used to channel into PLS seminars. -,,,,,, · 

3. 
Run, Forrest, Run. Since you don't have to worry about sick days or looming budget meetings, take this opportunity to embark on that cross-country charity run or the English Channel swim you've always wanted to do. 

4. 
E! True South Bend Story. Put that Arts and Letters degree to good use by writing a scathing expose on that opera-singing freshman year roommate or on what ResLife is really up to. Send it to the Observer Viewpoint section and add some drama to our lives. · 

5. 
You Got Served. Everyone knows Notre Dame students love to do service. But in case Teach for America is too competitive or saving orphans in Bolivia is too mainstream, work for an offbeat charity. Become a leader in avian-rights advocacy with the Save Mute Swans Organization or channel your laundry woes into being a volunteer curator for the Museum of Odd Socks. (These really do exist.) 


Dining Hall Detox 
Five healthy food swaps that will get you slimmer 
for spring 
Meagan Drapalik
Maybe you're a New Year's resolution keeper and have been eating healthy and working out since January 1st. Or maybe you're like 
Brushing your teeth (with a bottle of
many students, and you've just realized Spring Break is right around the corner and have frantically started munching on carrots and wielding 
Jack) dumbbells. Watch out for these Dining Hall favorites that could stand in the way of a beach-worthy body and keep in mind some of their healthier alternatives. 
(All information according to ND Food Services) 
Holding yourself up during a sloppy 
make out in the corner ofyour dorm 
Food  Calories  Fat  
Granola with  312  4g  
Raisins  
(1 portion)  
Cheerios  188  3g  

party. 

Breakfast 
Lunch 
Food  Calories  Fat  
Spinach ·wrap  274  8g  
Sourdough  220  2g  
Bread  
(2 slices)  

~ 
Puking after epic final stretch ofsaid · 

r::t~
~A 
dorm party.

Dinner 
Food  Calories  Fat  
Hamburger (1 patty)  305  20 g  
Grilled Vegan Burger  106- 4g  

tJs:JJJ 
Dessert 
Food  Calories  Fat  
German  322  18 g  
Chocolate  
Cake (1 slice)  
Orange  150  2g  
Sherbet  
(1 portion)  

/ilrn 
Parietals-proof potty 

bf;c;:_i._Lf 

Side 
Food  Calories  Fat  
Ranch  142  14 g  
Dressing  
(1 oz.)  
Red Wine Vinegar  3  0g  

Washing the shame from your face the next morning. 

25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 


NEWS 
A A• ,.. "·:--.._1 · ­







and , .,,,;:ics$ 
Claire Reising
Agela, a 10-year-old orphan from Latin America and the Caribbean. They plan to infants and find food for their family, find shelter Honduras, had a rare disorder that caused organize service trips to Honduras. and take on the responsibilities of a parent at 14 
' 
er legs to bend inward 70 degrees. With "Last May, a group of students went down, because of circumstances." donations from a children's hospital and an but.this year we're an official, established group When Lakusta was fundraising, he realized orthopedic practice, she underwent surgies in th_e [at Notre Dame]. We're hoping to send students that if he started. a nonprofit organization, he United States thatallowed her to walk. do\\rn again:' Tricia Daly says. could give tax-deductible receipts and· possibly 
Childrensuch as Angela have inspired students Like the Dalys, senior Jeff Lakusta got collect larger donations. Thus began Eyes on to combine their passion for social justice with involved in nonprofit after volunteering abroad. Africa, a non-profit organization that currently their ability to lead, as they· promote non-profit After a medical trip during the summer of sponsoi:s orphanages ·and outreach in South organizations. · _ ... 2007,-he collected donations for Othandweni, an Afri~ . _ and Nainibia and has · expanded to 
Junior Michael• Daly and St. :Mary's senior orphanage outsideJohannesburg. Lakusta says uiiiV!!I'Sities worldwide. Tricia Daly befriended Angela when she lived that in AIDS-ravaged communities, orphans In addition to Lakusta's fundraising at Notre with their family for a year after their father's must often take care ofeach other. Dame, his friends ~t other universities promoted practice donated her surgery. The siblings were "[AIDS] ends up killing both the parents and . · Eyes on Africa on their campuses. Lakusta says in middle school at the time, and since 2003 have the extended family of all these kids," Lakusta their first board meeting consisted of a group spent their vacations volunteering in Honduras. says. "They'll actually end up banding together . of his friends talking over a speaker phone. Last semester, they started a Notre Dame and forming these orphan families, where the Although Eyes on Africa has spread as far as Italy, chapter of Friends of the Orphans (FOTO), a head of the household could be 14 years old. Turkey and Australia, it has kept its grassroots 
. nonprofit organization that sponsors orphanages . They'll have to bottle-feed mentality. ·\. · · 
"It seemed like a joke ai: the time, but -­some of these [methods] have lingered on," Lakusta says. "We're much bigger than 
sitting around tl1e dining room table, but we're still sit:ttn:g around the dining room table.'' . 
Eyes on Africa_. is not ·affiliated with Notre Dame, but'Lakusta says that the ~versity;s'"e~~hasis on servjce has provided·. THE ideal environment for. starting a non-:-profit organization~ "It's cool being in: aii. environment ofpeople who want to make a difference," he 
f The ~gistics ofService 
: . 
When-starting or expanding non­profit organizations, students must address organizational issues, from governmerital paperwcii.-k to Student. Activities Office (SAO) regulations. Michael Daly says tl1e Notre Dame chapter of FOTO is an official student club, and several faculty 
OJ ScH~LASTici;s·FEBRUARY2010 


-----.
' . . . 

we were· going home from the summer and it was just a natural place 
i:o leave it,'' · Larch says. 
Lakusta says it is sometimes difficult to raise money when 
helped them to define their goals, find funding Africa, but most people had and finish the process ofbecoming a club. already donated to the cause through another 
But even with this support, university policies organization. sometimes make it difficult for the cl11b. to plan "People are pretty tired or only willing to e~ents, and Tricia Daly says that following SAO donate so much," Lakusta says. "What's a unique-. procedures can be time-consuming. ·· way to pull in donations for Haiti, especially 
"We had this huge event planned with Red being a student?" Bull and we had 1everything lined up. Two days Determined to contribute to -relief effort, before the event, [SAO] said there's a contract Lakusta partnered with wineries across the nation with Coca-Cola so \ve .can't solicit Red Bull that will donate their proceeds to relief efforts. on campus," Tricia Daly says. "Basically, th~y The fµndraiser will last until the end of April, said ... , 'You're creative; you'll come up with and participating wineries are listed on Eyes on something."' _ . ·. Africa's Web site, eyesonafricafoundation.org. 
-· SeniorJasonLarchandfourotherNotreDame stiidents tried to start a non-profit organization Sustainable Giving namedEnkabi lastyear, after their friend Michael McDonald ('09) returned from a service trip to a · · The students must also ensure that the non­
•Holy Cross schoolin Uganda. They planned to profit organizations· are sustainable, retaining collect donations 0~ PayPal for the school ~here enough people to plan events and enough funds McDonald volunteered, but Larch says they did to support their projects. Lakusta says thatasEyes not have enough time. to complete the months of on Africa spreads .to other states and countries, it paperwork required to start a nonprofit. · is crucial to find people to fill leadership roles at 
· 111.stead, they tried to 'c.reate :in endcwment · eachlocation. ~d;withtliehelpofNotreOameadministrai:ors,. P~ople. in communities that Eyes on ·Africa and the inoneywould be invested iii ascholarship serves often contribute to the · fund for the school. Two._separate donors would organization's double the funds that Enkabi raised, and if efforts. Lakusta the_ -~tudents collected·. $25,000 within ·a. ·year, .·_ says . that once they wohld have enough money to start the . someone who . scholarship fund. Enkabi collected $9,000, and, lived in an after both donors double the funds, they had a · apartment above total of$36,000 to donate. a work site noticed .. "It~s a hard time_ financially," senior Diana .. the volunteers and 1;3:irrero· Zalles; another member ofEnkabi, says. em;il~d Eyes tin "The.economy was going through a rough time Africa ro offer hdp. and we were basically asking for. money. It was · "We · ·received hard to find the ;ight people to gei: donations, but an email with aerial in the end '\Ve ended up· 11,l3king over: $36,000." photos ofus working . \ ·. ·. ·A.Ithough the members of Enkabx decided to . on avehicle," L~ta. . L disband in May 2009, :they donated their °Funds · s~ys---"People sent us . ' to the Ford Foundation, ·to support Ugandan donations and pictures, \ education. and we had inspired 
.'_'Three of the five members were graduating, them to get more , 
NP\-\ orphanag 

NEWS 
involved in the community." 
At the children's homes that FOTO funds and at Holy Family Surgery Center in Honduras, which their father Peter ('82) helped establish, Michael Daly says that the children who are educated there contribute to the homes after they graduate. Two doctors who now work at the site lived in the orphanage as children and were able to attend medical school. 
"It's self-sustainable. All the children give back to the oqihanage at least two. to three years of service," Michael Daly says. 
Reasons to Serve 
Eventhough theirworkcan be complicatedand time-consuming, the students stay motivated by thinking about the children they are supporting. Barrero Zalles says she remembers several stories from McDonald's trip to Uganda. Once students from the Southern Ugandan school where he worked even donated to poorer communities in 
_Northern Uganda. "Despite their poverty, they gave away the few resources they. had and were able to give donations to theNorthernUgandans who were poorer:• she says. · 
. Since Michael and Tricia Daly visit the orphanage in Honduras regularly, they have developed relationships with the children and they see them as brothers and sisters. Tricia Daly says that. the children hold their own Olympic games each summer: Angela used to ,i.ratch the games from her wheelchair, but sixyears after her surgery, she can now participate. . . . · 
-"This suinmer is the first summer I've been .th.er¢ for the Olympic games, arid at· opening ceremonies she was. the lead dancer:' Tricia Daly says. "She's 16 now. It's really cool to watch her grow up and watch her be able to do that" 0 
\ I 
"-[;,, ·1 
,;, l 
'( 
'ttt 
;( i~· \·: 
·,:
..:;:__ 
'l_ 
ff'.i 
I 
.-, . . . ' . •· . . 
, • EBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 

NEWS 
Discovering new people, new questions and new challenges is something every individual must deal with during his or her time at Notre Dame. Because navigating life's maze can be a lonely journey, Campus Ministry has made a conscious effort to lend a hand to Notre Dame students with a new spiritual direction program. "Aspiritual director doesn't tell you what to do," Badin Hall rector and spiritual director Sr. Denise Lyon says. "God is your director. We are only your companions." Though Notre Dame has always offered spiritual guidance to the members of its community, Campus Ministry formalized its Spiritual Direction program three years ago to aid students when program coordinator Tami Schmitz recognized a growing need for religious guidance among the student community. With the support of director Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C., Campus Ministry established the program, developing information pamphlets and Web 
site resources, in addition to offering a silent retreat three times a year. 
Through the help of trained ministers and directors, the Spiritual Direction program aids students in recognizing and understanding the role God plays in their lives, providing them the opportunity to seek out trained spiritual directors. A student can request a spiritual director at any point in the year and usually continues seeing that same director for an hour every three weeks. 
Spiritual directors aim to help students deepen their relationships with Gocl by developing their prayer lives, suggesting scripture passages or praying together, with the goal of understanding where director isn't to tell [students] God's place in their lives, but to help them discover that for themselves. The answers are already inside you. It's just about finding them," Lyon says. 
Junior Chris Gattis, who attended the silent retreat held before the start of spring semester, is well aquainted with the program. During the silent retreats, students meet individually with a spiritual director for 30 minutes every day. "While on the retreat, I came up with a lot of thoughts and feelings that I couldn't necessarily sort out by myself," Gattis says. "My spiritual director gave me feedback on my ideas. They acted as an outside voice in helping to interpret my inner self." 
After spending time in the program, meeting with a director or participating in the Silent Retreat, Schmitz says she saw visible change in the participants. "I see in them a great sense of God's love, and a greater sense of peace and understanding of who they are called to be." Gattis says the Silent Retreat helped him to better seek and listen to God's voice in everyday situations. 

The Spiritual Direction program is especially relevant in the lives of college students because of the exploration and choices occurring during this time in their lives. "College is a time when you're really beginning to explore who you are, your place in the world, and who God is. You're just beginning to embrace an adult faith. It's important to have somebody walk with you in the most important journey of your life," Lyon says. 
"It's a rich opportunity to have someone really listen to what you need, to help you deepen your relationship to God. It's a true gift to a college student," Schmitz says. 0 
God works in each individual's A HELPING HAND. Assistant Director of Campus Ministry for Religious Education and Retreats Father Joseph story. "The role of a spiritual Carey C.S.C., also advises students as a spiritual counselor. 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 

the thin.gs we do 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I13 


--~. ·-·women's 8-Ball 
,.,.~· 

vs. Connecticut 
.// /f}> · Where: Purcell Pavillion @·the JAC)'_./ . ./{·/{ When: Mon. 03/01, ·7~;i,i~·,:>'._ 
/ ./-.:'·!· ·····.···-• // 
What: Watch ther3fa\hh~~/':-;_.,,,_,_. 
"Qwo~e~'~ team p.<;~~e::NcAA 
·~take on No. VQq~necticut.
/ ,.( .... , .... 
"­



CULTURE 

GETTING TO KNOW YOU 
Jen Wulf 
The 24-hour building services staff sees all. They are the chroniclers of unknown shenanigans, they know how well you sort your recyclables, and one day you just might send them pictures of your children. At the Center for Social Concerns, Melisa Wroblewski is working the third shift ­10:00 p.m. to 6:30 a.m. Wroblewski has been an employee at Notre Dame for nine years and has worked in several buildings, including DeBartolo Hall and the Hesburgh Library, but always at night. "I've seen a lot of drunk kids. A lot of drunk kids," she says as she reminisces about run-ins outside of DeBartolo or the annual "stripper run" through the library. As a building services employee, Wroblewski gets a bird's eye view of campus. "[During] commencement cleanup we found a whip in one of the dorm rooms," she says. "We've found blowup dolls. We've found dressers full of women's underwear in men's dorms. We don't know if he was wearing them or if he liked to collect them -we all had bids on what he could have been using them for." Beyond the voyeuristic perks of the job, Wroblewski says she enjoys a completely different campus late at night. "It's just things are so much calmer at night. It's like not so much of the hustle and bustle and you know 
16 ISCHOLASTIC I25 FEBRUARY 2010 
-the running. It just seems like everything just slows down." 
Next door in Siegfried, "Miss Ellen" Gunn opts for a more orthodox timecard, but has also made the job her own ­along with a third floor supply closet. The converted office feels more like a dorm room: a miniature plastic Christmas tree that is two months out of season, magazine clippings of President Barack Obama and an odds and.ends tack-board where I spied a Mother's Day card. "It was one of the assistant rectors," she says. "He felt bad that we had to work on Mother's Day and so when I showed up he had fresh flowers and two handmade cards." 
Gunn has worked on campus for 23 years. She has sung at five students' weddings. She has tailgated, she has road-tripped with rector Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. and has spoken at the annual Siegfried retreat, which she has attended three years running. "I look at my job like this: It was meant to be. And I know my title is custodian, but I've done so much more than a custodian's job," she says. As she tells me about former residents, she smiles and rolls her chair over to the wall montage of their photos. 
"This group of guys right here," she says as she points at a cluster of faces among the hundreds of photos, "this Christmas when I got my Christmas cards, I opened up my Christmas cards and five of these 
young men have babies. They're daddies 
and I remember them when they came in as 
freshmen. I love those guys, I really do." 
Both ladies say that they have strong bonds with their students and are very grateful for their jobs, especially at a university as prestigious as Notre Dame. But that does not mean that there is no room for improvement. "I really feel, I really truly feel that the wages are not right but I thank · God for my job. It could be worse but it 
could be better," Gunn says. 
She cites the students involved with the 
Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) 
as an example o(>'frustrated efforts for 
improve!Ilent. "No;) don't think people are 
being heard," she says. The students made 
several unsuccessful attempts to organize 
workers in the mornings outside of the 
maintenance building. "I would feel so 
sad for the kids. You'll have twenty people 
[staff] to have doughnuts and coffee, and 
then when it's time for the meeting, maybe 
five people would show up. It would be cold, 
it would be really cold and they [student 
organizers] would still be standing there 
faithfully." 
Ultimately, Gunn says low attendance is 
because many workers are nervous about 
organized movements. "We would talk 
amongst ourselves and people were afraid of 
losing their jobs and they didn't want to get 
involved," she says. 
CULTURE 

GETTING TOGETHER 
Claire Kenney 
CLAP is composed ofstudents, workers, faculty members, and community members collaborating to ensure that workers at the university receive a just wage. According to a viewpoint article by senior CLAP member Alicia Quiros Notre Dame pays its workers $9.02, which is 20 cents above the poverty wage for St.Joseph County. But she says that they fall of the "self-sufficiency wage," determined by St. Joseph County Council, $12.90. This figure is somewhat fuzzy, however, and varies depending on how many people'are in the household. CLAP member senior Jenna Knapp says, "Our goal is to build relationships with workers on campus in order to build friendships with those who make our education possible, yet often go unnoticed, and to let workers know that we will join our voices with their own ,vhen abuses happen in the workplace in order to demand that Notre Dame live up to its mission statement." According to CLAP, the low wage that campus staff receive often hinders a comfortable living situation for workers. "For the most part, workers say they do not get paid enough to support their families. It is especially difficult for a single parent to support kids on a minimum wage income," Quiros says. The wage requires some workers to find additional jobs and work long hours. "Multiple workers I know hold more 
than one job and go from eight hours at ND to another cleaning job or the like to make enough to support their families," Quiros says. 
Knapp says the treatment ofworkers is not in line with the Catholic Church's teaching and that the University of Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution, needs to uphold such doctrine. 
"We demand that the University pay a living wage in accordance with Catholic Social teaching," Knapp says. "Throughout the years we have been astounded by the dedication of our workers and appalled by the culture of fear that seems to be instilled in order to cover up worker abuses and the fact that Notre Dame functions as a business rather than as a Catholic university when it comes to worker treatment and fair wages." 
Quiros agrees with Knapp. 
"Clearly stated in Catholic Social Teaching is the principle of the dignity of work and the worker," Quiros says. "Multiple popes, including Pope Benedict XVI, have said that living wages and unions are necessary for the fulfillment of the common good and dignity in our world. Given that we espouse that our university fulfills Catholic Social Teaching, it is extremely frustrating and disheartening to me that we do not live it out in every way on_our ca1npus." 
In 2006, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves released a statement in response to CLAP's efforts. He said that the unive.rsity believed that the compensation package that Notre Dame provides in addition to wages makes Notre Dame "the employer of choice for workers in this region." 
Affleck-Graves also declined the task force proposed by CLAP. He said, "While exchanges between the University administration and various student groups have been informative, in candor, ~he dialogue is appropriately one that regularly occurs between the University's representatives and its formal employee channels." 
In his statement, Affleck-Graves said the communication channels adequately cater to the needs employees have to verbalize their concern. 
He said, "We already have,several channels in place through which employees can bring complaints and concerns." 
Despite these efforts for ad~quate communication, CLAP remains unsatisfied and believes more work needs to be done on campus to ensure the rights of workers. For example, some benefits cannot be used by all workers, such as college financial aid for their children. According to Knapp, Notre Dame emphasizes the need for justice in the world, but there is a need to recognize justice in its own backyard. 
"vVhile Notre Dame sends students all around the world to serve, we too often miss the need to call for justice on our own campus," Knapp says. 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 
CULTURE 





ampu Chat:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF SPEED DATING 
I felt like I was at a middle school dance -girls on one side, guys on the other. Though I fought against it, my roommates convinced me to do something I hoped I would never do: attend Legends' speed dating. 
Five minutes talking to a total stranger. If you're looking to find true love here, you're probably setting yourself up for disappointment. But ifyou're just in search of a fun hour, you are in luck. Surprisingly, conversations were a little more interesting than those from Frosh-O. It's a similar idea, minus the Enrique Iglesias serenading and plus drunk girls. 
I heard the common inquiries (Vn1ere are you from?), the hypothetical situations (If you could compare yourself to one Harry Potter character, who would it be and why?) and the just plain bold questions (Are you a virgin?). 
Two sharply dressed Legends MCs seemed to have forgotten they were hosting speed dating, not their own comedy night. One of them insisted on talking into the microphone throughout the night, only making it more difficult to hear, given the 50 or so conversations already going on. 
Not surprisingly in a room full of Notre Dame students, discussions sometimes veered toward academics. One guy asked, "What's your major in the business school?" Apparently this was offensive, as the young man's simple question was met with, "Wouldn't you like to know! My business is private!" Yeah, 
that's what Bernie Madoff said, too. 
Students flocked to speed dating for various reasons; whether to find that "ring by spring" companion, for Thursday night revelry in the friendly confines of Legends Nightclub or to cross another line off the Notre Dame bucket list. As one guy learned, Legends Speed Dating was in fact the next stop for a couple of ladies who had recently completed the Hesburgh Challenge. Later in the evening, on one of his dates he learned that this achievement was a fraud and should be marked like a Barry Bonds home run record -with an asterisk. The challenge was completed not with a beer on each floor, but with mixed drinks as the girls made their way down the 14 floors (ATTENTION DU LAC: HARD ALCOHOL IN THE LIBRARY!). For all we know, these mixed drinks were nothing but iced tea and lemonade. 
As _he later discovered, these young ladies were from the campus across the street commonly referred to as SMC. He explained that this should not have been a surprise, given both their beauty and inability to sign up on the correct sheet. They had put their names on the gentlemen's list. 
Other conversations surrounded the latest pop culture buzz. Will Favre come back for another year? How will the cast of "Jersey Shore" react to life in Miami for season two? What do you think of the new Apple product launch? One young lady said what millions may have been thinking, but were afraid to actually say, at least to someone they did not know. "The iPad sounds like something a girl needs for her period!" 
All in all, it was an amusing night. Ifyou found an SYR date, a Facebook stalkee or someone who will be putting your 3:30 a.m. messages on the web site Texts From Last Night, congratulations. Ifnot, I hope you at least had an enjoyable and entertaining night at that magical place called Legends. If you missed out, try to attend next time. You won't regret learning what Emily from your theology class thinks about Ronnie's one-punch KO. 0 
-Josh Flynt 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

18 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 · 
CULTURE 

With spring b;~eakarouncl the corne1; it's time to preparefor Jun in the sun (hopefully). c/Jut let's be honest, here: even the beach can get boring after a while. While we all know this is a lie after spending the past two months complaining about the snow and i~y cold ofSouth c/Jend, 8eholastiepresents some trashy reads and good music 
· . .. · · · ~ . ·.. · to tide you oJ:Jer until you return to .Notre <.Dame. · · ·..· · • · 
Jason G'Sel/ Madeline Stone 

....•. ! This Jersey girl (no, not tlie Snooki kind; sorry guys) will soothe you 'outrageous antics that people ha;e come to i · · into a sweet, joy induced daze with her latest album, "Songsfor a Sjnking .i ~xpectfroIIl Ozzy. "I Am ()_zzy" expl?res even the : i 
·· , Ship/' While the title may not seeni appropriate for those whose spring · darkest hours of the incredible lite ofthe Prince . i break plans include a cruise ship,· Smith's quirky style reveals a voice that . ofDarkness, as readers are.give~ a~ inside look at •. I could. remedy the'. effects of a South <Qz~y's stmggles w1t:h:addittior{~rici qep1;~ssion. ·.Ji Bend winter. Don't be surprised if . . . .The autobiography is_-ii~rrated in: atone that . . 

. :~!i!~s::;;r~~~ufeel a sudden urge. ,-,_)::¥;\f!sh:1at~:l/ilt::t~:t:~i!!-~u~it::1i 



"C9lors," her first single from .the ,:·:_; _: •: 1if¢'so ho:riist!y anci directlythat reading thebciok • · j 
fan.afunded album weaves a dream of . . . :·.'."is Hice~havihg a c~sti:ilic~~vet~atfori Withtlie i:ock (I · upbeat jukebox classics that will leave . . .· • · . . stal.''.,Amusing situations ~re s;ori follow~d by i . you:· humming the song for weeks. Fragic events, crea#nfi read {li~t is almost as engagiJ!.g a_s a peiformance by :. i 
After "Can't Say No" tra1_1sports the Prince of.Darkness himself.· 
you to a saloon in the Wild West '. .· '·"'• . /.·•:•i· :-Ju.•st don't forget your Stetson hat . . . _ _ . . I, <· ': _,;::_;: Sc'.:': and Can-Can costume----: ",Terrible ·~•· .· r· --·" ···•····-· · ---.. >:•:./· , · ;. \ .· :f.:::·1 Things,, continues Smith's cabiu::c::t style, packing a vocal pu~ch.. and . 1 :-::y,_;_::..(_;·:::,:_:.-_:;/.:i;,::_::.V}/%i}:.~.·.:.. \:;:-. 
;jJC. a hi11~ c;,f sexual tension. Asuprefue beach listen, "Songs for'.a Sinking ,··h' ,.,-.·: <.,.: .> ..,;: ,:.::·,
/~i)(;~l,:~~;;~;.=~:.:~::~~e-~t.?:::::::::i~~=~::~:_and •· ·· .-~~-:./L):il;;J:~%;\/3:~{~~A~V4~ ~g\g;J,:;S,~~~½~!N~.~J2b~:\•··•·.
~:::::~:~-~;••t•.. .. :.J 
CULTURE 

]Iii Jiui ciid 6ki£ #I ~~ 
Chris Milazzo
Gaping yawns, messy hair, bloodshot eyes. No, this is not Sunday morning after a wild Saturday night. This is 
8:30 a.m. class. Students might grumble about and curse whoever contrived such a class time, but rarely do these students appreciate the process of class assignment. 
Class times and locations -appealing or not -are the responsibility of the University's Office of the Registrar. Many academic decisions, from Dean's list GPA requirements to adding classes, are handled by the Registrar, but none is more important than class assignments. 
Any student who has attempted to register for classes knows the perils of class conflict that can ruin his or her schedule. Imagine trying to prevent every class at the university from conflicting, and you have an idea of the difficulties the registrar and the departments and professors it works with face. 
Dr. Harold Pace, the University Registrar, says this problem is a priority. "Our overall philosophy here is that we think it is so important for the faculty to have teaching space that best fits their style of instruction," he says. To allow for this, the Registrar encourages departments and colleges to use what they call "standard times": classes on Monday, \Vednesday and Friday or Tuesday and Thursday held at regular intervals. Standard times also help students. "[They] spread out the classes so students don't have ... [conflicts] with every course they want to take," he says. 
However, the Registrar does not force professors or departments into certain times. Faculty members complete request forms that allow them to communicate their specific needs. "We let the information come up to us from the departments," Classroom and Reporting Specialist Linda Martellaro says. 

"There's a lot of communication with the colleges that takes place," Assistant Registrar Chris Temple says. Professors build their preferred schedule within their departments, which then submit it to the Registrar. "Once that building the schedule process is done we say, 'Great, we're done, now do we have enough classrooms to fit what we'd like to do?"' 
The Registrar controls 155 classrooms on campus, from which each college receives a certain percentage dictated by its size. Each college ensures that it is only using its prescribed percentage and that the classes are spread out during the standard times. The process, Temple says, is "about two or three months of work for each semester." 
This carefully choreographed dance allows instructors such as Mahan Mizra, a professor in the•Middle Eastern Studies and Classics departments, to create his or her preferred schedule. "So far, I have a,lways gotten the times that I have requested. I requested a 
-roori1 change for one class in the fall and it was granted without any trouble," Mizra says. 
One important variable that the Registrar cannot change is .classroom space. This · responsibility falls {o Executive Vice President John Affleck-GrnJes)'We conduct a periodic strategic"planning process that allows each of the colleges to identify its priorities for the coming years. The resource requests vary from college to college and may include ... construction requests," he says. Although there is no pressing need for new academic space, Affleck-Graves says the university has several projects planned, including "a social sciences building that will house many scholars from the College ofArts and Letters and a multidisciplinary research building." 
Despite all these steps, the process is never easy. "Notre Dame students, being intelligent, being ambitious, make it really hard on us administrators because [they] want to double major, they want to triple minor, but it's to the ... students' credit," Temple says. 




COVER STORY 
Notre Dame family. While neither considers himself against the institution of religion itself, the two feel that strong criticisms of the Church are met with defensiveness rather than open mindedness. "To me, the idea of deciding that religion is wrong or incorrect is just as flawed as believing in it completely. For us to own our own beliefs, we have to reach it ourselves. Community is extremely important in that, but the idea of complacency worries me. Being brought up in the Catholic Church, [though] there are some wonderful aspects, there are also aspects that I don't believe in. How much can you disagree with it? That's what college, and life, is for," Phelan says. "Notre Dame is a time when people should be exploring, asking questions, but there's a stigma [against) asking very contrarian questions. It shouldn't be taboo." 
O'Duffyagrees. "You can question matte;:rs of deepest consequence. Iron sharpens iron. vVe need to have skepticism in order to question any idea that comes our way, and we need to be able to entertain all ideas before you accept or reject them. You can still undergo that process without losing that which makes you, you." 

WhilePhelan does believe thatthe question of theism arises in many conversations across campus, he says that it is a fear of being ousted from the majority of the student body which prevents deeper introspection from taking place. "When you come here, you understand what it's going to be like. I would characterize most people here as traditionally Catholic, but questioning. The problem is that they are worried about coming up with a different answer. To go 
outside the mainstream, you run the risk of 
remaining outside the mainstream," Phelan 
says. "There's some huge benefits to religion 
here on campus as far as the community it 
builds and the feeling of family. You're not 
only distancing yourself from an ideology, 
you're distancing yourself from a community 
... [Questioning is] not okay here. It means 
that you're not part of the standard club." 
Choosing not to believe in God is akin 
to opting not to purchase football tickets, 
according to O'Duffy-both are viewed as 
a clenia) of important Notre Dame traditions 
which are expressed in a unique way at the 
university. "It's such a part of the culture 
here. You say, 'I don't go to the games,' and 
people say that you're not really going for 
the Notre Dame experience," O'Duffy says. 
"You automatically have to explain why." 
Such strong emotional reactions can lead 
to angry arguments rather than productive 
discussions; Phelan says that the stereotypes of atheists as militant aggressors against religion have encouraged tense arguments . and prevented a valuable exchange of ideas -from taking place. "It's not neutral here. It's automatically answer and defend yourself. People say you can question, but that's 
. . f 
only as long as you remain in the Catholic 
community," hesaJfs. "There's not a whole lot 
of time for questioning as much as you want. 
It forces you to explain yourself and defend 
your position, and that's good in some ways, 
but it can also alienate people and radicalize 
positions that you don't hold." 
Shadle says that he has become secure 
enough in his conviction that Goel does not 
exist that he no longer feels the need to defend 
himself against those who hold the contrary 
(and in most cases, majority) position. 
Shadle believes that his experience at Notre 
Dame is different from those who believe in 
God -but certainly not worse. He says that 
atheism has never negatively impacted his 
time in college; instead, it has allowed him 
to find other aspects of the school to connect 
with. "People that find solace in going to 



COVER STORY 
the Grotto, their Notre Dame experi<;Pce is a fundamentally different one than mine is. I find solace in being in the community at football games. . There's community everywhere you go...:_ you don't have to be in a religious setting to find it. Community is just as reassuring no matter where you are." 
Jseeping tbe jfaitb 
As a Catholic university, Notre Dame has two purposes: to promote and act in accordance with the Catholic mission and to provide its students with a full, deep and 
An increase in scientific knowledge also led to Shadle's disillusionment with the Church. "Catholicism seemed like it was providing explanations for things which didn't necessarily need explanations. Less and less of that requires explanation the more science makes its advance, and it just seems to me that we are on a trajectory of full knowledge of how the universe works," he says. 
O'Duffy also cites a heightened sense of 
. -..// 
complete education. Yet in an increasingly ·-'1, 191 would characterize most 
secular world, seeking knowledge while maintainingreligiousfaithcanbeadaunting task. Stereotypes of the intellectual depict a person sitting at an artsy cafe while reading a piece ofmodernistfiction -these stereotypes often do not allow for the same person to leave the cafe for Mass. The two images can be reconciled for some; for others, however, it is a reason to give up faith altogether. 
This disconnect was enough for Shadle to move away from his Catholic upbringing. While he says that he was always doubtful of God's existence, he also notes that as his education levels increased, his belief in religion rapidly declined. At some point, just believing stopped being enough. "I never really bought into the whole 'faith thing.'; I can't accept things that I don't have proof for. Maybe that's a character flaw, but I can't genuinely believe in something that I don't know. So faith isn't really an option, I guess," he says. 
people here as traditionally Catholic, but questioning. The problem is that they are worried about coming up with a different answer. To go outside the mainstream, you run the risk of remaining 
difference," he says. 
For others, the difference is what matters most. Philosophy professor Michael Rea says that there is a pressure to abandon religion as an intellectual -a pressure that is particularly strong among subjects like philosophy and, somewhat ironically, theology. He argues that there are also intellectual difficulties which oppose atheism; . these challenges, however, can go unnoticed by atheists themselves. "I think if you're an atheist and you take an honest look at just your own moral character, you yourself acknowledge your own failings and realize there is nothing like cosmic forgiveness. There are real intellectual difficulties with atheism, and when you look at all of that, I think it's hard to be an atheist," he says 
Rea serves as a counterexample to the conception that the rise of intellectual growth precedes the demise of religion. Rea earned both his Master's and Ph.D. at Notre Dame, wrote three books and published over 3 0 articles -and in spite ofit all, still remains committed to his religion and God. How does Rea reconcile the perceived distance 
outside the mainstream. tll.,11--.,b~tweenlogicand ~a'.th? "~o objections have ;/;)/~ .·dislodged [my religious faith]. I've always .,,:.;· .:/) stayed involved in a church and plugged 
-SOPHOMORE MALCOLM PHELAN"" 
intellectual cur10sity as a catalyst for his transition from Christian to atheist. "I haven't encountered a persuasive argument for God's existence, so the default position for me is skepticism. I live my life as if God doesn't exist. It doesn't make that much of a into a religious community. Some people might say that the reason why that helps is just that it makes you impervious to certain kinds of evidence. But I think that it opens you up to a broader range of evidence and gives you alternative ways of understanding and evaluating counterevidence/' Rea says. "It's sort of like this: If you know a friend 
First to Second Year Retention Rates by Religion and Ethnicity 
-----------------------------••»•••»•-••»------­
100  
.  
98%  . -----­ 
-·  
.  
96%  .  ··  ~...  ·.  ~­ 

94% 
92% 
¦ White Catholic 
90% [J Minority Catholic II White Non-Catholic ~ Minority Non-Catholic 
93/94 95/96 97/98 99/00 01/02 03/04 05/06 07 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I25 




COVER STORY 
really deeply, you will seem impervious to certain types of evidence that might come against them (if, say, they're accused of doing something bad) -not because you've become intellectually soft but because you know that person inside and out. There is evidence against them coming in, but you're in a better position to evaluate that evidence than someone who doesn't know the person, 
difference in your overall assessment." 
®n ;ffloralitp 
One standard attack on atheism is the accusation that atheists cannot live moral lives without the presence of God, and that ultimately life has no meaning without God's existence. Believers point to the famous words from Fyodor Dostoyevsky's The Brothers Karamazov: "Without God, everything is permitted." With no retribution in an afterlife or purpose of life holding an atheist back, some persons of strong faith argue that any action is allowable in the absence of 
fa~h. ­
O'Duffy questioned the relationship between theism and morality when he first came to the realization that he did not believe in God despite his religious upbringing. O'Duffy says that it is the ability to seriously consider these questions that is essential to establishing morality -not religion itself. Phelan, who describes himself as questioning relig1on rather than abandoning it, agrees. "If you encounter a very contemplative agnostic or atheist, the fact is that they've gone 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 
•. ,JiJlll&WBJ.: . 
2007 
1999 1995 
1991 1987 1983 
WwJBt, LA~M1w~t:tt:11tttMW.,,~J,,3ii§\fUMY:.;rfc,\~ 
Religion of Entering First Year Students 

and you also have a lot of evidence that the (j}!;;-­objectors may lack. All of that makes a · t,\t, No objections have 
through and thought about all of this to the 
point that they've come up with a reasonable 
argument for their position, chances are they 
are the kind of people who think about their 
actions and their consequences," Phelan says. 
"People who think about what they are doing 
and contemplate the outcomes of an action 
_,..,,,-__,,,,.,.,. 
/-;/ /~· 
dislodged [my religious faith]. I've always stayed involved 1n a church and plugged into a religious community. Some people might say that the reason why that helps is just that it makes you impervious 
to certain kinds of evidence. But I think that it opens you up to a broader range of 
70% 80% 90% 100% 
morality preceded the Christian faith. "A big evolutionary reason that we have God and religion in the first place is because we like to be comforted. We like to have the idea that we are not alone; whether or not it's true, it's certainly nice to subscribe to that as if it were. There's certainly a comforting aspect of religion, you can't deny that. I just think it's false reassurance," he says. 
He argues, however, that evolution is also the reason why humans have morality independent of God. "Evolutionarily, there's a whole host of reasons why morality is necessary. You look at probably thousands of other species, and you can find the rudiments 
· ofmorality already-look at any animal, and they won't murder their own kind with the exception of a few cases. It's a kind of game theory; if you)-e killing your own species, you're not_g6ing to survive. It's things like that whJ.ch really provide the framework for morality. As humans, we have the ability to 
create a moral code out of that," Shadle says. Though Shadle and O'Duffy both believe that values and greater truths can 
be derived outside of the Church, Rea has 
, ,tl\t1~, found that most arguments of this sort fail. evidence. _j,J,,,__ ;As the author of T¼i-ld Without Design: The /J ),i Ontological Consequences of Naturalism, Rea -MICHAEL REA, PROFESSOR'6F/ writes that ontological naturalism -the 
PHILOSOPHY 
· are often going to be people who treat others well, because they think about the outcomes that their actions have." 
Shadle took a different approach to arrive at the same conclusion, using science and the theory of evolution as evidence that idea that every aspect of existence is a direct product of natural sciences rather than a higher power such as God -cannot account for the development of a moral code for human beings. Instead, Rea says that atheists deny the fundamental beliefs necessary for leading a virtuous life. "I'm someone who thinks that we do need religion to find 




COVER STORY 
grounds for morality -you need GocJ.. In one way, we all arrive at morality by talking to people and consulting our own intuition, and I think atheists and theists alike do this," Rea says. "If the question is, 'How do we arrive at morality?' it's probably the same, broadly speaking, for theists and atheists. If the question is, 'How do we justify morality?' or 'How can I be sure what to do? What's the underpinning for all of this?' I think theists are on better footing than atheists. Ifyou're a theist, you can say the underpinning is divine command, and the reason that my intuitions about morality are reliable is because God designed me, and God designed the faculties through which I engage in moral reasoning. Ifyou're an atheist, I don't see how you could have the sort of underpinning for morality that would enable you to take moral intuition all that seriously." 
"What justifies them in taking the ways they arrive at morality and taking them seriously as timeless, changeless, moral truths? Well, there, I say, nothing," Rea says. 
O'Duffy has heard this claim many times throughout his time at Notre Dame. He says that the stereotypes that accompany the label of atheist often overshadow the person they pertain to; the assumption that atheism means a lack of morality in addition to a lack of faith is one he often encounters as soon as he reveals that he no longer believes in God. "I think a lot of times, people have misconceptions about what an atheist or agnostic is. They can see it as an attack on religion or a person without a moral code, and that can be hard to get past sometimes," O'Duffy says. "One thing that I have to maintain is that the position is not automatically one of attack. Atheism isn't anything at all; it's just an absence of belief. You can't make conclusions on people just because of the label they have." 
The perception that atheism is an attack on God -and by extension morality -is one which Shadle has also experienced. He says that while many of his peers have been receptive to his arguments against religion, their demeanors can change immediately upon hearing that he is an atheist. 
Shadle says that despite such judgments, the beauty of the world is enough to render any further arguments unnecessary. He says that meaning in life is found through human relationships -relationships that exist because of the ability to act morally. "I think we create our own meaning in our lives as we are living it. We find things that we enjoy doing, and we find pleasure and a sense of importance out of that. People have kids and nurture them, and form bonds with others, and that seems to me to be pretty meaningful. I don't think I'm at a loss for not placing any greater importance on life than that," he. says. 
Rea, however, says that true meaning extends beyond a material existence on earth. "For some people, deriving meaning out of life is just a matter of finding something that you enjoy doing, and doing it well, and anybody can do that in principle," he says. "Getting answers for questions like 'Why is it Important that I exist' or 'What sorts of causes can I contribute to that are eternal and of deep, objective value and Significance,' I don't see how atheism can supply you with that." 
"If atheism is right, then struggling for your cause is a lot more like fighting to make sure your football [team] wins next weekend than it is like fighting for Truth and Goodness," Rea says. 


regarding the technical validity of Hitchens' ,, 1/ arguments, Joseph Stanfiel, Assistant Dean "Is religion the problem?" So asks th~ ( / / in the College of Arts and Letters, says that poster for what is being billed as "The God-~,tr what cannot be denied is his ability to fill seats 
DebateatNotreDame,"whichwasproposed liTo be honest, 1 do not find and garner attention for such an important byO'Duffyandhasbeenlargelyco-organized Christopher Hitchens to be · topic. "I think there's some reluctance to with Phelan. The eternal struggle over the embrace Hitchens because I've heard from 
\!Cbe il)ebate ~ _,<.,.­
a profound religious thinker
existence of God has moved to the forefront a lot of academics that they don't consider of the Notre Dame consciousness, with the -and I don't say that just him to be someone with academic standing. announcement of the debate benveen British Altho~gh,.we-were purposefully not looking
because he is an atheist. But,
journalist Christopher Hitchens and political for an academic. If we had the two leading commentator Dinesh D'Souza. that said, 1 do think he gets a figures in the academic world in the debate, D'Souza was named one of the most 
lot of attention. ,fl,;~~.\wewould never be able to fill Leighton Hall," influential conservative thinkers by New _)/,:Y•.1 )he says. Yor!e Times lvlagazine and was a policy analyst // ,,1/,· Rea also noted the importance of the under the Ronald Reagan admi_nistration. -UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT FR.,,.·JOHW "Christopher Hitchens" name in making the He penned the books Life After Death: The JENKINS, C.S.C. debate an event with a projected audience Evidence, What's So Great About Christianity? of over 1000 according to the debate's page and Letters To A Young Conservative, and will new atheists include Richard Dawkins, on Facebook. As the Director of the Center face off against Hitchens as a proponent of author of The God Delusion, and Sam Harris, for Philosophy of Religion, Rea was integral faith and a strong believer in the existence of author of The End of Faith. In spite of the in securing funding for the event -still, God. The two have debated numerous times rising popularity of their published works, he does say that Hitchens is more of an before, including at other college campuses new atheism is still met with uncertainty in everyman thinker than a theological expert. such as the University of Colorado. academic circles; this is particularly evident This, however, is what Rea believes makes Hitchens, best known for his New York in the case ofHitchens, who is not a religious him an ideal speaker for an auditorium of Times best-selling book God Is Not Great, scholar and has therefore faced skepticism college students. "He is an intellectual, but is at the center of what has recently been from those qualified in the field. he is not an expert in the field. But when described as the rise of"new atheism." Such Though there has been skepticism voiced you're pitching things to undergraduates, 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 


COVER STORY 
you know that undergraduates aren't ex~rts in the field," he says. "If experts came in and laid out everything really rigorously, it would be rigorous but people would be snoring and not picking up what they should be picking up. When you bring in folks like Hitchens and D'Souza, you bring in people that you know are going to have arguments that you know have real problems, but that you also know are getting at real issues that are on the minds of a lot of people." 
"Nobody would bring in Hitchens to talk to the philosophy department. But for this purpose, I think he is good," Rea says. 
This name recognition and wide accessibility were essential in deciding who the speakers for the debate would be. Before seeking popular speakers such as D'Souza and Hitchens, O'Duffy first had to receive approval for the actual event. The planning began in a meeting with the Dean's Fellows, a small group of students who work with the Arts and Letters deans about issues pertaining to Notre Dame students. From there, O'Duffy was able to garner support for a project that had failed many times before-Stanfiel haials'o proposed a similar idea but could not develop it fully because of a lack of funding. Added resources, as well as more direct student support, proved to be the deciding factors in helping to get this year's debate off the ground. 
In spite of more vocal advocates for the debate, there have still been detractors who argue that such a discussion should not be taking place at a Catholic university. Stanfiel says that he has encountered fellow faculty members who disapprove of the potential controversies that could accompany the debate, but he maintains that the event will only reinforce Notre Dame's position as one of the leading Catholic universities in the country. "I wouldn't want to antagonize anybody, but I would hope that everybody would see that bringing [Hitchens] to campus is not the same as advocating everything that he says," Stanfiel says. "We really did consider whether this is consistent with the Catholic identity. I think it can take this." 
"We are a university, not a seminary," he says. 
Stanfiel does however recognize that the debate may not be fully welcomed across campus. "I think there are people on the institutional level that might be uncomfortable with the controversy it might generate," he says. "I think Hitchens is an extremely provocative person. Some people thought that bringing him on campus was potentially problematic, but I think it becomes much less so when we bring in his equal. Cases will be made in ways in which they are not usually." 
University President Fr. John Jenkins, 
C.S.C. also says that diverse opinions and questions of faith are integral to practicing true Catholicism; because of this, he understands the importance of having a debate such as this on campus. "The existence of God is something that is arrived at by the application of our reason. By inquiry and argument, we can arrive at the truth. So, serious discussion of this matter, I think, should be encouraged. That's the first thing. The second thing I'd say is that often, discussions about atheism can be as much about what God is as whether God exists," Jenkins says. 
Despite advocating such dialogue, he does not anticipate attending the debate himself -both due to his schedule and his belief that neither Hitchens nor D'Souza have the proper qualifications to serve as the voice of two vastly different perspectives. "To be honest, I do not find Christopher Hitchens to be a profound religious thinker -and I don't say that just because he is an atheist. But, that said, I do think he gets a lot of attention," Jenkins says. 
Phelan says that it is not what is said at the debate that ultimately matters; rather, he believes that the point of having such passionate speakers visit the university is to foster a dialogue between people at all levels of faith. Such discussions can only help a person's sense of purpose in the world, he says, and reinforce the importance of questioning in the face of complacency. "College is for discovering your identity; you need to question it, figure it out. None of this is supposed to convert people ­this is supposed to highlight the questions that we all ask and put them on a platform for all to see," he says. "vVe're not trying to create controversy. The debate promotes discussion, which is what a university and education is for. We want people to come to this and take something from it, whatever that may be. You can't leave an event like this weaker from it." 
O'Duffy hopes that the event will raise dialogue about such important topics throughout the undergraduate community; for him, the popularity of the debate signals that Notre Dame is on the right track. "These are the most important questions you can ask. No matter whether you believe or disbelieve, it's undoubted that religion plays an absolutely integral role in our lives." 

25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 

. 
. 
The Core Counc.il for &a , Lesbian, Bisexual ct, Questioning Stu<lents ·--­
•------+-------'-P..,.__r~ov~i=d~e-=-s___,_i'-'-nformation, ed~ation,_and_r::_e_s_o_ur::_c._e_s,________ 


25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 



SPORTS 
(¦OT 10) 

Matt Formica 
When Brian Kelly arrived at Notre Dame this winter, he became the football team's fourth head coach since 2001. A program that boasts so many legendary coaches -Knute Rockne, Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz among others ­has suddenly set a cruel coaching carousel in motion as it desperately searches for the right man to lead Notre Dame back to football prominence. Too often, however, Notre Dame fans have been duped into believing that a coaching change is a panacea, some sort of magical potion that will cure the problems that have plagued our football teams in recent years and deliver the national championship to our doorstep. Five years ago we found ourselves in a similar situation: Tyrone Willingham had just been fired for not living up to Notre Dame's lofty standards i~ his three seasons as head coach, and Charlie Weis, the "genius" who was sure to turn things around for the Irish, was unveiled as his successor. With all ofhis Super Bowl rings and offensive schemes, he was destined to be the next Notre Dame coaching legend. We all know how that story ended. I write this column not to conjure up painful memories ofyears past or to knock Coach Kelly, but to encourage fans to have 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 20i0 
realistic expectations for the Irish in 2010. Notre Dame -enters the season with an inexperienced quarterback in Dayne Crist and a flawed defense. Even the notorious USC Trojans, a juggernaut of the college football world, succumbed to ine;'{perience last season and failed to earn a BCS berth. It's no secret that Irish fans expect· to play in a BCS bowl every year, but the_se expectations are simply unrealistic. No team in coll;ge football app~ared in a BCS bowl every season in the last decade, and no team should be expected to do so this decade. 
So what should we root for in 2010? In a word, progress. We should root for Crist to become a team leader and. improve his passing accuracy. We should root for the defense to improve its pass coverage and put more pressu_re on the quarterback. We should even root for the punters to avoid those· shanks that became all too common last season. All of these improvements represent important steps the team must take next season, and they will be signs that Kelly and his sta~f have the Irish headed in the right direction. 
Kelly has turned programs around before. When he arrived at Central Michigan University in 2004, he became the head coach ofa team that had won more 
than three games only once in the previous 
four seasons. But in Kelly's third season as 
head coach, he led the Chippewas to the 
MAC Championship with a 9-4 record. 
Similarly, Kelly arrived in Cincinnati-after 
the B_earcats had compiled a mediocre 12­
12 record from 2005-2006. He proceeded 
to rack up the wins, and left Cincinnati 
with a 34-6 overall record in his three 
seasons there. 
There is no reason to believe that Kelly ·and his staff won't help the team improve. But just how far can Kelly take the Irish? . WiU he land us in a respectable bowl game, or are-we-doomed to struggle through a 
difficulttransitionseason?Thatisaquestion 
I'm afraid that neither I nor any supposed 
college football pundit can answer. As the 
snow· begins to melt and college football 
season inches closer, I encourage you to be 
optimistic about Notre Dame's upcoming 
campaign, but I also urge you to be realistic. 
With the departures of the Irish's arguably 
top two offensive players, it is unlikely that 
the Irish will land a BCS berth in 2010. 
So I'd caution against booking a flight to 
Glendale to watch Notre Dame play for the 
National Championship, despite what Lou 
Holtz might tell you. I'm not trying to rain 
on your parade; I ·am merely trying to save 
you money. 
L______________S_P_O_RT_S 
Zach 
! "I'm Hot" by Short track 
SCHIRTZ The Blind Side Too short On drugs My phone
: KaeWun speedskating
Fencing 
Marcel 
! "Eye of the Frenkel : Avatar : Tiger" by Hockey Awesome Interesting My feet Fencing ! Survivor 

Time Travel 
josh Flynt 
February 27) 1980 
irtyyears ago, the No. 1 DePaul basketball team traveled 

o South Bend to take on No. 14 Notre Dame at the ACC 
(now the Purcell Pavilion at the JACC). DePaul coach Ray Meyer, a former ND basketball co-captain, led the Blue Demons to a 25-0 start. The Irish had just come off a tough loss to Marquette, and, hoping for some inspiration, Coach Digger Phelps asked university president Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. to preside for the team's pregame Mass .. In his homily, Hesburgh reminded the players, "Special accomplishments do happen here, because it's Notre Dame." To knock off the nation's top team, the Irish would need to play their best. · 
Junior Kelly Tripucka helped ND get off to a strong start, scoring 12 ofthe team's first 20 points to give the Irish an early lead. The game remained close until DePaul began to pull away with a 12-2 run to start the· sec~nd half. The Irish rallied, however, and junior Tracy Jackson tied the game with 1:08 to play. Neither team scored in the final minute, and the game headed into overtime. With seven seconds left in OT and the Irish down by two, senior Rich Branning nailed a jumper to tie the score. Five minutes were not enough to decide the outcome of this battle between the two midwestern Catholic universities, and the game headed to a second OT. ND junior Orlando Woolridge knocked down two free throws with 39 seconds to play to give the Irish a _76~74 lead. After a couple of last-second misses by the Blue Demons, the Irish had completed the upset. In what many consider the greatest game ever played in the ACC, ND knocked off the un9efeated Blue Demons, and pandemonium ensued. 0 

25 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 

SPORTS 

~ ~~k-f-~M of ~~St 
Josh Flynt and Matt Formica 
ven as former head football coach Charlie · Weis continually secured star recruits for the football team, the team's record indicated ~ nothing 
more th.an mediocrity. How' could such outstanding high school players arrive at Notre Dame and be shown up by supposedly less talented riv_al players whom the Irish had overlooked while on the recruiting trail? Were our players overrated? Did the coaching staff fail to develop them to their full potential? Or were we being outworked by other programs around the country? 
Although Weis and nearly all of his coaches have been jettisoned from South Bend, discovering the answers to. these troubling questions will help the new staff remedy the problem. According to ;Rivals. com, head coach Brian Kelly managed to secure the 14th best recruiting class in the nation ...:....c a~ impressive feat considering the turbulence the program experienced during its four.:game losing streak to end the 2009 season and Weis' .dismissal. .· 
Securing such a talented recruiting class should be viewed as just the beginning ofa long, grueling journey to assure that each player improves as much as he possibly can: Let's now meei: the players who will join Kelly and his new staff in the quest for that elusive BCS-berth: The ·2010 recruiting class is comprised of23 players, including 10 four-star recruits. Five of those recruits -Chris Badger,· Spencer Boyd, Tai-lerJones, Tommy Rees and Lo Wood -enrolled in classes earlier this semester. 
E
Defense· 
Notre Dame's opponents averaged 
·34 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 
4.75 yards per carry and 170.25 rushing . Mike Bakas. The departure of safety Kyle yards per game last season, underscoring McCarthy, who led the Irish in tackles a s_ignificant need ·for the Irish: size to the past two ·seasons, leaves a big void aid its small defensive line. . at strong safety. This will allow Badger The 6-2, 318-pound Louis (Provo, UT)
J!:;;~=::--~:::::-===-=--­
Nix Qacksonville, FL)' to compete for can help address that very playing time. pr9blen{. Nix, a defensive . Badger, who has tackle, recorded .io sacks alre~dy arrived as a junior at· William on campus, 
M. Raines High School. recorded two According to S~out:com, interceptions "He has a tremendous and forced blend of size, strength fumbles and and quickness." Nix led his team in rejected an offer to play tackles during his for Urban Meyer and junior year. the Florida Gators to Danny Spond come to Notre Dame. (Littleton, . CO), Defensive ends Kona who played both Schwenke (Kahuku, quarterback and HI) . and Justin linebacker in high Utopo (Lakewood, school; is one of 
CA) will both look to earn some playing dine and help Notre Dame up its sack total from just 12 in 2009. · 
Pass defense also needs improvement. The Irish allowed 227.5 passing yards per game last season, which ranked 76th 
·. in the nation. Boyd (Cape-Coral, FL), an . early enrollee, ·will compete for playing time-against a group of cornerbacks that did not perform well in 2009. Boyd intercepted six passes and broke up 12 . others. while. making 53 tackles as a high school senior. Wood (Apopka, FL) is another early enrollee cornerback hoping to contribute· defensively. He finished his junior season with five interceptions and four forced fumbles and "understands the game very well," according to Scout.corn's 
Notre Dame's more 
vets·a-tile_____ · recruits. He runs exceptiona,!ly well for ·a player of his size and is expected to end up as a linebacker at the college level. Kendall Moore (Raleigh, NC) is.a powerful inside linebacker who might be best suited to enter the game _in short yardage situations. Moore is . a "very athletic jumbo athlete who _is best in a confined area, especially inside the box, where he can use his quick burs~ to close and attack the ball carrier," Miller Safrit_ of ·Scout.com say~.•-Prince Shembo (Charlotte, NC), _a defensive end ancJ linebacker in high school, gives the coaching staff some flexibility, as his versatility allows the coaching staff to 
.move him·around to fit the team's needs.­
SPORTS 
the roster. The Irish landed three QBs on signing clay, including Andrew Hendrix (Cincinnati, OH) and Rees (Lake Forest, IL). Rees is already enrolled to get a jump on practicing with the team, and Hendrix boasts the strongest arm of the signees. They will likely compete with Luke Massa (Cincinnati, OH) for the backup spot behind Crist. 
While the offensive skill players will certainly help the Irish, these talents are all for nothing without a strong offensive line. Criticized frequently. in 2007, the line showed tremendous improvement in each of the past two seasons and played an important role in Clausen's development as a premier college quarterback. After losing key linemen Sam Young, Paul Duncan and Eric Olsen to graduation, the line will once ain be relatively inexperienced. A trio of line recruits, Christian Lombard (Inverness, IL), Tate Nichols (Walton, KY) and Matt James 
position on the 
depth chart. James 
and Lombard, both 
First Team USA 
Today All-American 
selections, could 
make for a· strong 
left side tackle/guard 
combination 111 the 
future. 
Ultimately, 
ESPN or USA Today projections can determine the collegiate success of a recruit -th~se athletes are 18-year-old students. Much of their development will depend on work ethic, training and coaching. As Kelly begins his tenure at Notre Dame, it's important to remember that he led Cincinnati to back­to-back BCS berths at a university where attracting top recruits was a much larger challenge than it is in South Bend. On paper, some analysts have been critical of this year's recruiting class. But football is not played on paper, and only long hours of practice and conditioning will· tell how these athletes will transition to the field on Saturdays. 
Offense 
In 2009, the Notre Dame offense showed flashes of brilliance. 
30.1 points per game, the team often relied upon the explosive playmaking · · of the NFL-bound duo of Jimmy Clausen and Golden their absence, the Irish will need to fill major holes in the offensive scheme. Under Kelly's spread offense, many 
could fill the void created by Tate's departure. At 6'4", Smith will be one of the biggest offensive options on the team. Jackson is known for his ability to break tackles, turn short 
passes into big gains and be a serious special teams threat. 
Before going down with a shoulder injury last season, sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph emerged as a strong offensive threat. If he remains healthy, he could once again be an important part of the Irish offense. Like 
opportunities 
·-\Q/f Jot\~ end
tight make an impact. ~C::~~~~~~----recruit 
Only time will tell if returning offensive threats will fill these gaps or ifND's 2010 recruiting class will produce a freshman phenom a la Michael Floyd. 
Jones (Gainesville, GA) is an exciting wide receiver who is quick in the open field and a good fit for the spread offense. Jones is skilled at adjusting to poorly thrown passes and is capable of playing both sides of the ball. Compared to Floyd, Jones is a bit 
undersized, but as Tate has shown in recent years, height is not a requirement to excel at the position. 
0 t h e r receivers joining the Irish in 2010 are Austin Co!Hnsworth (Fort Thomas, KY), the son of former NFL receiver and current NBC analyst Cris Collinsworth, Daniel Smith, a product of nearby Clay High . School, and Bennett Jackson (Hazlet, NJ), a speedster who 
players will have Rudolph, ND's lone 
yards 
this season, Alex Welch, hails from Elder High School in Cincinnati, OH: A versatile player with good size, Welch could benefit from working alongside Rudolph. 
On the ground, the Irish have a _lot of depth. Despite missing · four 
games in 2009, running back Armando Allen set a · career high in rushing y a r d s 
and averaged 4.9 
per carry. While Allen and 
fellow senior Robert Hughes 
have taken most of the 
carries, rising sophomore 
Theo Riddick and rising 
junior Jonas Gray are 
also strong options out of 
the backfield. Cameron 
Roberson (Newburry 
Park, CA) was among 
Kelly's targets due to 
his ability to catch the 
ball out of the backfield, and excel in the spread offense system. 
With the departure ofClausen and fifth-. ­year senior Evan Sharpley, Dayne Crist is left as the only scholarship quarterback on 

SPORTS 

Josh Flynt and Matt Formica 
Like a President selecting his Cabinet, a collegefootball coach has the task ofhiring his team ofassistant coaches. Brian Kel61 hasfilled many ofthese positions with colleaguesfrom hisprevious coaching experiences at Cincinnati, CentralMichigan and Grand Valley State. In bothfootball and in govr?rmnent, the success ofa leader can be largely dependent upon his staff Here's a quick look at each ofthe coaches wh01ll Kelly has chosen in the quest to lead the kish back 

TonyAlford (Wide Receivers): Alford joined the Irish prior to the 2009 season when he was hired as the running backs' coach on \Veis' staff. Retained by Kelly, Alford will make a transition to wide receivers, filling the gap created when Rob Ianello took the head coaching position at Akron. Alford will also play an important role in recruiting, another area where Ianello excelled. He is a graduate of Colorado State and, prior to this position shift, his entire 15-year career has been spent working with running backs. 
Kerry Cooks (Outside Linebackers): Cooks joins the Irish after spending the past four seasons as the defensive backs coach at ·wisconsin. Cooks is a University of Iowa graduate, where he was a two-year starter at strong safety, before spending four seasons in the NFL. He also played in the only season of the short-lived XFL. As the Badgers' secondary coach, he helped develop 10 all-Big Ten honorees. Prior to his time at Wisconsin, Cooks coached at his alma mater in Texas, Nimitz High School, before joining the coaching staffs at Kansas State, Western Illinois and Minnesota. 
Mike Denbrock (Tight Ends): Denbrock returns to ND, where he coached tight ends and offensive tackles from 2002-04. He spent the 2009 season as the associate head coach at Indiana State. Joining the Irish staff marks Denbrock's third stint working with Kelly. The two were graduate assistants together at Grand Valley State University, and Denbrock was on Kelly's coaching staff at GVSU from 1992-98. During his previous tenure with the Irish, Denbrock played a significant role in recruiting David Bruton, David Grimes and Maurice Crum and is expected to fill the recruiting void on the West Coa;t. 
Bob Diaco (Defensive Coordinator/Inside Linebackers): Diaco comes to Notre Dame from Cincinnati, where he served in the same 
36 j SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 
to football promimmce: 
position on Coach Kelly's staff A former All-Big Ten.linebacker at Iowa, Diaco has coached for 14 years. He began as a graduate assistant at his alma mater in 1996, before coaching at Western Illinois and Eastern Michigan. He first began working withKellyin2005 atCentralMichigan, before he was hired as linebackers coach and special teams coordinator at Virginia. Diaco led the Bearcats' defense to top-10 rankings in sacks and tackles for loss in 2009. As a Hawkeyes linebacker, Diaco was named team co-.iVIVP and was a finalist for the Butkus Award for the nation's top linebacker, in 1995. 
Mike Elston (Defensive Line): Elston, a former linebacker for the University ofMichigan, arrives at Notre Dame with 11 years ofcoaching experienceattheFBS (formerly Division I-A) level. He has been an important member ofKelly's staff since 2004 and has occupied a variety ofcoaching positions during that time. In 2009, Elston was promoted· to assistant head coach at Cincinnati and also coached the Bearcats' defensive line while coordinating the special teams. 
Tim Hinton (Running Backs): Hinton coached Cincinnati's running backs for five of the last six seasons, during which the Bearcats' rushers emerged as threats both on the ground and th.rough the air. This past season, Hinton's top two running backs combined for an impressive 
6.4 yards per carry average. 1-Iinton stressed the importance of protecting both the ball and the quarterback, as neither RB lost a fumble nor allowed a sack. An Ohio native, Hinton was an accomplished high school football coach in his home state from 1993-2003. 
Paul Longo (Strength and Conditioning): 
Longo has been the strength and conditioning coach for Kelly's teams since 2004. He is known for his grueling exercise program, which has prevented his teams from blowing late leads. Under Longo's direction, Cincinnati recorded a 32-0 record when entering the fourth quarter with a lead. His coaching career has also included stops at Wisconsin, Iowa and Central Michigan. 

Chuck Martin (Defensive Backs): Martin, a former All-AmericansafetyatMillikin University in Illinois, joins the Notre Dame staff after six years as the head coach at Grand Valley State University in Michigan. Martin led GVSU to two NCAA Division II national championships and compiled a 74-7 record during that span, including a 40-game win streak. Martin served as the defensive coordinator under Kelly during GVSU's 2003 national championship season. The Lakers' defense limited its final three playoff opponents to just one field goal apiece that year. 
Charley Molnar (Offensive Coordinator/ Quarterbacks): After serving on his staff at both Central Michigan and Cincinnati, Molnar 
• joins Kelly to take over the offense. With the losses of Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate to the NFL, Molnar will have a difficult task. His 
_resume, however, shows a history of leading potent--o.ff~nsive units. Molnar has developed prolific quarterbacks·and wide receivers such as CMU's Dan LeFevour and .Cincinnati's Mardy Gilyard during his 26-year coaching career. He is a graduate of Lock Haven University in Pennsylvania. 
Ed Warinner (Offensive Line): Warinner comes to Notre Dame from the University of Kansas, where he served as the offensive coordinator during the past three seasons. W1rinner led Kansas' offense to three ofthe most productive years in the school's history. From 2007-09, the Jayhawks posted the three highest yards-per-game averages and the three most prolific passing seasons in the history of Kansas football. Warinner has also coached the offensive lines at Army, Air Force, Kansas and Illinois. An Ohio native, Warinner played football and baseball at Mount Union College from 1979-83.0 

38 i SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 

HUMOR 

Hello lovelies! 
I hope the few fleeting permacloud reprieves have kept the winter blues from rattling the recesses of your delicate little souls. Ifyou're having trouble keeping your chin up and still refuse to believe that the sun-simulating student-incubators at St. Liam's won't adversely affect your future reproductive potential, allow the Gipper to make one simple, good-natured suggestion that's sure to cure even the most dismal February doldrums: other people's shame. 
While none of the characters in the following stories are likely competing in the prestigious Vancouve-r Games this month, their exhibitions of technically flawless execution and sensational sprints at the most opportune ofmoments have earned them their own spot on Old Gipp's podium. 
This first story is a warning to all you off­campusers: If you're going to be benevolent enough to throw a house party, don't expect benevolence in return from your guests ... especially if they're perfect strangers (which, let's face it, is almost always the case). 
It began on a regular weekend night, when our friend The Nice Guy returned to his foreigner-filled home at 3 a.m. His roommates had staged a successful party, and nothing seemed to be too far out of the ordinary: The questionable attire, questionable "dance moves" and· questionable substances spilt on the floor were all to be expected. But when The Nice Guy swung open the door to his roommate's quarters to use the connected bathroom, he found quite a surprise indeed -alove-sick (or perhaps just Natty-inspired) young couple, enjoyi~g the privacy and comfort ofhis roommate's bed. 
This precious moment was adulterated by the fact that neither participating party was actually The Nice Guy's roommate. Concerned, confused and incensed, The Nice Guy and friends demanded that the mysterious visitors be gone and left the two to make themselves presentable enough to journey home. While the male guest scampered out apologetically, his lady friend had found her new abode too agreeable to ~bandon; she was snoozing in peaceful slumber and was not about to be relocated. So, being nice guys, The Nice Guy and roommates decided to let her stay the night and recuperate. 
All was well until the next morning, when the roommates heard their overnight guest hurriedly vacate the premises. The roommate whose room had been occupied-we shall call him The Unfortunate Guy-returned to his quarters to ensure that all was in order. Sitting down on his bed, he noticed that the lady guest had left him a special yellow surprise that was soaking through his sheets -not exactly a "thank you" note. 
He dashed to the kitchen "'.here he discovered the guest's similarly-soaked dress o_n the floor. The Unfortunate Guy also realized that a pair of his sweatpants was missing, along with the third roommate's jacket -with his car keys in the jacket pocket. The mystery mistress had taken off with a whole slew of their beloved possessions, without leaving so much as a phone number. So, all you Domers that have flipped a finger to on-campus housing, be advised: Facilitating states ofdrunken delirium for total strangers might warrant some calamitous consequences . . . and maybe a new set of sheets. 
Our next tale boasts yet another instance of a daring (and timely) escape in the time­honored tradition of the college student's triathlon: the Drink, Doze and Dash. After much beer-bribed persuasion and a few convincing Facebook wall posts, our young friend Frodo decided at long last to pay a visit to an old buddy studying at Notre Dame. He arrived in South Bend in the early evening, and like most Friday nights, this one clearly called for its due share ofmischief. The boys quickly took to tossing back some beverages and before long, a steady state ofintoxication set in. 
It was at this point that young Frodo lost his ability to recount the night's happenings; he was only able to infer what likely occurred after the following events: 
Itwas the morning after. Frodo saw a light. He squinted his eyes. They hurt -a lot ­and so did his head. The late dawn sun was blinding. With much effort he hoisted himself to a sitting position (though he hadn't noticed he was lying down) and looked around. He saw an Etch-A-Sketch. This was odd. Then a SpongeBob SquarePants doll the size of a large rodent. Even stranger. Next a few plastic teacups, an open_ box ofcrayons, a bedazzled tiara and a slightly possessed-looking stuffed animal. Frodo then realized he was in a car -the back seat of a moderately-sized SUV, to be exact. His head had been resting on a car seat, and his cell phone and wallet were nowhere to be found. 
Not bothering to make sense of the -situation, he began to frantically dig through the mess of toddler trinkets in search of his valuables. Just as he was reaching underneath the driver's seat, he heard an alarming sound. His eyes darted to the windshield, through which he detected a garage door. It was moving, slowing sliding upwards, and he knew he had to act quickly. 
Snatching his phone and wallet from the floor, Frodo flung open the car door and jumped out onto the cold ground. Wondering how he knew it was so cold, he looked down: He wasn't wearing any shoes. But at this point, this garage door was dangerously high . Frodo's time had run out, so he took offin a spasmodic, barefooted sprint down the street, managing to stumble into the safety of his friend's house that was luckily just a few doors down. He never did figure out why he climbed into a stranger's car in a stranger's driveway and he never did find his shoes. 
Well, I hope you've learned your lesson, Domers: Lock your cars, lock your bedrooms, and, while you're at it, hang onto your keys­you never know who might take off (or sneak in) when you least expect it. And stay speedy, my young seedlings! When you're messed up and you've messed up, it's survival of the quickest out there. 
Do you believe in miracles?! YES! 
The Gipper 

T;PTH68fPP 
® o 0 o at gipper@nd.edu 
25 FEBRUARY 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I 39 

:'f , Ii,:r i 
I 
! 
HUMOR 
How..to..Gr.eet..Fr..iends..& 
lg.nor.e.. Eue.r..yone.Else 
(_; 
THE FIRST-AND STILLTHE BEST-FLOWCHART OF ITS KIND-TO SUCCESSFULLY DETERMINE WHO YOU HAVE TO SAY "HI" TO ON THE QUAD 
Krishna Surasi 
SORRY, YOU ARE OBLIGATED TO GREET THIS PERSON THE NEXT TIME YOU PASS EACH OTHER. 

No Yes 
Drn THE PERSON ACKNOWLEDGE YOU BACK? 
Yes
~-J 
SMILE AND SAY HI. 
' 
_[No~----------Yi;:es, _ 
,__------Yes 
-------No....,_ 
Start 
QUICKLY LOOK UP THEN LOOK AWAY. DoEs THE PERSON LOOK FAMILIAR? 
I 
_, ,-------''-Yes 
Is ITA GOOD FRIEND?_ 
No 
I
f 
,.. 
OrnYOU MEETWHEN YOU WERE DRUNK? 
... 
' 
VOLVING THE PERSON THAT YOU I NOW SOBERLY REGRET? Tu THHiRS<m ATTI<Acrm? • ... 
t 
,.. .., 
WAS THE LAST TIME YOU HAVE SPOKEN TO THE PER­SON MORE THAN A SEMESTER AGO? 
"'..__,________,_..i., 
0 
! 
I ----------No 
ACT LIKE YOU WERE TALKING ON A HEADSET SO PEOPLE ON THE QUAD 
DON'T REALIZE YOU JUST EMBARRASSED ¦------------------------11. YOURSELF. 
40 I SCHOLASTIC j 25 NOVEMBER 2010 
No
' 
I: 
• C 
t 
PuT HEAD DOWN AND KEEP WALKING, 
I
Yes 
\,~--------_pm YOU MAKE A DECISION rn.:'
,_ 
........... Yes-----11"'11 
CONGRATULATIONS! You ARE NO LON­GER OBLIGATED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THIS PERSON IN PASSING. THEY ARE ESSENTIALLY DEAD TO YOU, THE NEXT TIME YOU ENCOUNTER EACH OTHER IN SOCIAL SETTING, HOWEVER, YOU MUST INTRODUCE YOURSELF WITH THE QUAL­IFIER, "I THINK WE HAVE MET BEFORE" AND THE "OBLIGATION TO. GREET" 
CLOCK WILL RESET, 



HUMOR 

really lived up to my expectations. When I was a much shorter person with less facial hair, I always thought college was going to be just like the movie "Old School." And luckily, it has been exactly like "Old School." Except I've never seen· Snoop Dogg at an off-campus party. And there's never been ; party here called "Mitchapalooza." In fact, I've mei: over 
''.three people on this campus named Mitch, and I can't imagine
~/,,_.~-~=~-=--~ , . 
any of them having 
. ·,,,,...--. . . . . . . . . . . . .·. . . ~--~ 
I~, :.;;::;;;;1,:,./' .··.) 1 a palooza. I'm not 
I ••-c••~,..~':;IJ;;.~"'~· : ....-: ( even sure what a l palooza entails: I l\ 'imagine it's like a i dorm ·party, except 1 the, exact opposite. 
1 
ButNotreDame 'has been a lotlike "Old School" in that there has· been streaking in both. What's. the deal with Not.re Dame and streaking? They won't let 
Dame males think that standing in a public · location like the dinii'.ig hall or North·. :Quad and singing a song fr0m "TheLion 
•King" or Taylor Swift is the highest form ofcomedy?•We did it during Frosh-O,and everyone was like, "Alright guys, thatwill 
. be our go-to joke \Vhen we congregate for the next: four years." So maybe college hasn't been that much like "Old School." Maybe there arebetter 
. things to doiri life thanputz around South Bend.for four years. In the movie "Annie . Hall," Woody Allen says, "Everything our . parents s~id was good is ·bad. Sun, milk, make me wish I were a short neurotic Jew. Because the sun is definitely bad. That's There are many other good things I why we all chose to live in South Bend. learned in college. I know that Zahm is the And red meat is. bad, too·. That's why the worst! I learned that losing is sometimes Catholic Church looks out for us and won't a good thing (like when playing drinking let us eat it on Fridays. · games or when 
,------...-:.::.::..·-----_;,,. -~·-;.
But I think I have to disagree with you want Charlie 
n1!n;tn' ! Woody about college. I've learned so many Weis to get useful things here. One thing I learned was fired). I've the words t0 "I Can Show You the World" learned that on the first day of Frosh-O and now I can when you sing it to large groups of gids. And then I get to know chant, "KEENAN loves LEWIS" if they anyone well are from Lewis. Because that's how human enough,· you beings are supposed to interact. will learn 
Another thing I learned is thatyou really that they are don't have to know what you are talking absolutely about to raise your hand a11d pontificate in insane, but an Arts and Letters class. Remember that that this is time you didn't read and no one else did, actually a . but you still had to parttcipate, so you just good thing because normal people are used some jargon and said you agreed with · pretty boring. .. everyone else? What a great skill to have! I hope I'm not sounding too cynical They do it in Congress all the time. about my college career. ConanO'Brien 
I've also learned that you just have said on his last show, "AllI ask ofyou; to be really loud and people will agree especially young people ... is one. thing.· with'. you.. Whether you are arguing Please don't be cynical." l think I agree about progressive with Conan, mostlybecause he1ooks 
·=----··---,
taxation, the most '1 funny, but: also because he went t~ useful kitchen utensil 'i I Harvard. College was definitely orwhattime to get to ( ... worth it for Conan, except for the Finny's, youjust have fact that he got fired. And even to be loud. ' · though we learned lots of things 
This s_kill will in college; wemight also get fired.. also help me in What a waste oftime! Congress one But actually, getting fired day, especially wouldn't.reallybe that bad. We when all.my fellow could just buy a house south of Congressmen are campus and start afraternity and iri South Bend arid · avoid our families all weekend we are trying. to and hang 011t.with• an old guy figu& out what time named "Blue.'' Maybe we could to·get to• Finny's. even make a movie about it.: . · ·0 
· • 41 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 2010 . 

HUMOR 
Krishna Surasi 
I'man idea man. My ideas may not always actualize, but I never cease to impress myself with how clever I can be. Because I piss creative excellence, I am doubly irritated when my quality of life is lessened because of someone else's bad idea. Now, I'm not saying that I have the solutions to every problem. I can· let bad ideas slide when I can't come up with a better alternative myself (read: airport security), but sometimes I would like to meet the people who came up with the terrible ideas I suffer from on a daily basis and give them some constructive criticism. For instance, anyone who goes to Notre Dame will agree that North Dining Hall makes no sense. The food is spread out between 14 different rooms and some poorly organized islands, ensuring that you need a treasure map just to find the go_ddamn barbeque sauce. Add three levels of seating to the mix and you'll be lucky if you can find your friends before your pasta stir-fry gets cold. If you put vines on the walls and sprinkle in a few temple guards, the place would be perfect to host "Legends of the Hidden Temple" (I hope someone -from SUB is reading this). Alas, my good ideas have distracted me and I digress. North needs to take a page 
•  
..  •~  
...  ~  
.~  ¦  •  > \..  ' )I,. •  ¦ 41  b.  

out pf So-uth's book and add stereotypical 
cultural paraphernalia that corresponds to 
·the type of food in the area. How the hell am I supposed to know where the taco bar is if the room is not covered in sombreros and pifiatas? 
Another awful idea that haunts many ND students is the decision to have marble stairs to some buildings. Sure they look nice and in agreeable weather they pose no problem, but with a little bit ofrain or snow they become spiteful distributors of "eat­sh*t." Standing in front of Nieuwland on a rainy day is like watching a video montage on an episode of "America's Funniest Home " Videos." An even worse idea was to put that metal square on the ground between Sorin and Walsh. I have no idea what purpose it serves, but I doubt that its benefits outweigh the pain it has inflicted on 
42 j SCHOLASTIC 25 FEBRUARY 2010 
countles·s stud0ents who wipe out on it. 
When it comes to my Apple computer, 
I'm as smug as the next Macbook owner. Nevertheless, I cannot fathom why someone thought it was a good idea to disable the volume controls during bootup. I know I was blasting "Bad Romance" in my room last night and never lowered the volume when I shut it down, but at least give me the chance to mute my computer when I turn it on in class and realize that it is about to · play the opening chime at max volume in the quiet classroom I am sitting in, trying not to draw attention to myself because _I am about to do something completely 
unrelated.to the subject being discussed. 
Ladies, you may never have realized it 
before but jokingly making your Facebook 
relationship status as "dating/engaged to" 
one ofyour platonic girlfriends is a bad idea. 
I know I can't be the only guy who has seen 
statuses like this and seriously considered 
the_ possibility that said girls are lesbians. 
So if you are wondering why guys aren't 
asking you out, it could be because that 
profile picture ofyou kissing your "fiancee" 
is a little too convincing. 
My final grievance (for this column, at least) is with whoever decided to make white the default color of underwear. won't go into detail about why I think this 
was a bad idea, but I will say that if I had 
invented underwear the default color 
would be brown. @ 


fruit Jam with tapioca Pearls .flavors: Strawberry, 'Peach, . · Mango, l<iwi, Honeydew 
'Roba Powder with tapioca Pearls 
Jlavors:Green Tea,taro, 
Milk Tea, Chocolate ned©f®S 
NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 

. : . i 
. · ta'fun Ice Cream is located in the Huddle : 
--..____... ___,_,.._,_~-,•~-~-.'. ••~ -.:..•-.--~'---~•---~•_•_·-_, ~ _,_·___ •_---~,.I_.~__...,, __ -_____:_~-""•-•-:• ••••-•L--•M~-,-,w-~­
EXIT INTERVIEW 

Clara Ritger 
Guest artist Tim Hardy ofthe Actors fro7lt the London Stage joins the Fil1ll, Television and Theatre depm;tment this semester as a professor and director of "Natural Selection" and ''As You Like It." He trained and now teaches at the prestigious Royal 
ii Academy ofDramatic Art (RADA) in London. Though a well­
I' 
traveled Brit, Hardy enjoys the simpler, finer aspects of life: watching cricket, experiencing the heart ofdrama and spending time with bis family. 
vVhat attribute do you 111ost ad111ire in another person? 
Kindness. Out of that comes everything else you want: empathy, the ability to understand the true needs ofothers, and, most ofall, humility. That's all a father would ever want. 
i: 
I T,Vhat do you like most aboutyourjob?
'I 
As a director, it's the joy oftaking just words on the page and bringing them to the point where a full house thinks, "Hey, that's fantastic!" As an actor, bringing to life what are just words, but in a new way because we're all unique. 
What is yott1-Jondest 111e11wry? 
Nothing gives me more joy than [remembering] playing with my children. They longed to play the "daddy" games. Throwing all three up and down was such great fun. 
What is the nzost useful piece ofadvice you have received? 
It's a famous one, and a cliche: "Always be true to who you really are." I was told this when I was a student at RADA. They told me, "Don't try and please everyone," which was like life, ifyou think about it. When you want to be everyone's friend, in all reality you please no one. You have to give some people permission not to like you. 
What do yoit think is the biggest barrier to the acting co1111nunity today? 
The cult ofpersonality. Society has become so much about fame rather than who's good. Fame is the modern drug. 
What do you think our generation's mostpressing issue is? 
To keep hold ofwords and not get too visual. Hang on to vocabulary and if anything, try to enlarge it. Britain's whole tradition is written word; it's what we gave to the world. It's as ifwords are boring so we've got to dress them up. I know the opposite is true. 
What is your idea ofa perfect day? . I had it once, almost. I was in a wonderful big theatre in Northern England. We were doing a production of "Doll's House." I really found the character I was playing. It was one of those times you feel so happy about your job. Well anyways, [the cast] went and sat all day in the sun and watched cricket. Thenwe did the show, had a meal and played poker until three in the morning. It was lovely. 
44 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 FEBRUARY 201b 
:::, 0 UJ 
c:i 
z 
f-' t;: 
LL 0 
~ 
I­Q'. 
:::, 0 
0 

You can invite any three figures, living or dead, to a dinner party. Who would they be and why? 
Sir Thomas More, a man who actually died for his principles. Galileo, well, for obvious reasons. And I know this sounds odd, but Hitler. I want to ask, "What was going on in your mind?" I don't understand how such a monster was created. I want to ask, "When you killed six million people, how did you sleep at night?" 
What haveyou aiways wanted to d~rect/do on stage thatyou haven't before? 
As a director, you still have time to do anything. As an actor, ifyou've missed it, it's gone. I wanted to play Henry V. I missed that. 
What isyour biggest worry? 
That I will never workaga'i1z Most people in the business worry that suddenly it will all just stop. "----­
What isyourfavorite quotation? 
You mustn't just do one thing and one thing only in life. There's this quotation, "Who knows of cricket who only cricket knows." You lose touch with what it is you're trying to represent, in theatre, if you're only doing theatre. Don't get too wrapped up in one thing; you've got to have multiple disciplines. 
At what point did you realize that this was it, that you bad to do theatre? 
Sometime when I was at RADA. Some bloke asked me, "Do you want . to play Antonio in 'Twelfth Night'?" And I was at an all-boys school. Originally I said no, but then he told me they'd have "real girls" in the show with us. I was told that I was actually good after the show. So, I went to RADA. I thought, if I can't get into the top drama school, then [drama] is not for me. When I got in, I thought, hey, maybe I'll do this. It's like I tell my students: If you're an addict, you'll know it. I knew it. 0 













