heart chat about this problem.
You’ve taken a lot of kidding about those pretty curls that
aren’t there any more, and even the freshmen admire you for the good sense of humor you’ve managed to keep. But the hairs are still falling thick and fast and—let’s face it—your chances of being elected best looking are growing kind of slim.
Well, listen. Everyone looks better in a hat, especially those of us who don’t have the mops we used to. You look younger and you look sharper. You look like you were dressed—not like you were running across the street for a cup of coffee.
And get this, too. Running around letting your head take all the punishment from wind, rain and sun is just asking for trouble.
Hats are protection, that’s their first function, and you can do yourself a lot of damage forgetting it. You got actinic rays from the sun that dry up your scalp, and wind and rain and snow which take the natural oil out of your hair and can play hob with your sinuses and things. Without a hat, you’re taking chances with your hair, your health and your appearance.
"Wear a Hat - Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!"
These fine hat labels have published this advertisement in the interests of good grooming and good health of American men.
DOBBS	CAVANAGH j KNOX^
BERG^ BYRON® C&K DUNLAP life
Divisions of the Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
The Scholastic.
1
WELCOME. MEN OF NOTRE DAME!
HOME OF HICKEY-FREEMAN AND
EAGLE COLLEGE CLOTHES

GRANAUA.
STREE'f
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Open every evening till 9
AYON.
S
B E R
Sept. 26, 1952
3
There’s something magnetic about men who wear Arrow White Shirts
popular button-down oxford, $4.50.
Editor:
Your readers — young and old — are cordially invited to write me a letter, if they wish to correspond with congenial English-knowing friends in Germany
Every person writing me is at liberty to enclose as many introductory notes as he or she wishes to have correspondents over here to whom I shall pass on the communications.
This service of linking up friendships is in itself voluntary and free of charge, yet an enclosure of international postal reply coupons would be appreciated to cover forwarding postage.
There are a great many well-educated German applicants on my waiting list desirous of making friendly contacts with people living in your country. For every one of your readers, I can find a pen-friend of the same age and educational or social standing.
Please, repeat printing this appeal regularly whenever space' allows and consider this a standing request.
Trusting you will favor me with your kind attention, I remain
Yours Sincerely,
(Miss) Anna-Maria Braun, Internationales Korrespondenz-Buro Munchen 15,
Lindwuimstrasse 126a
ARROW »»------------>►
-SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS_
Mahe GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
^verities
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Editor:
In this great country of ours we, the citizens, possess certain liberties and freedoms granted to us by the Constitution. One of these freedoms is of the utmost importance to every American because it presents us with the opportunity to not only express our desires but to make them a reality. The right to vote might be called an instrument of good government. It is the means by which the populace voices its opinions concerning the domestic administration of the government and its foreign policy making.
It is evident why the right to vote is important to every American, but, for the students of America it is especially important. The role we' play in this forthcoming election may well determine our future. There is no one' on this campus who has the right to gripe after Nov. 4 if he doesn’t exercise' his constitutional right to vote. Also, remember that we have the' moral obligation to vote. So let’s go men, get out and vote come Nov. 4.
Joseph P. Clancy, Vice-President, Academy of Political Science
See page 16 for a partial list of voting laws furnished us by Mr. Clancy. The rest of the states’ voting laws will appear next week.—Editor.
The Scholastic
By Mort Lu by
we feel safe in wagering our very last Willkie button that the girls still aren’t serving any tea.
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . writ on the bulletin board by an English major.
Hall Phone Numbers
Top of the Week
“Books for sale, cheap”. . .
■
“Did You. . . ?”
“Hi ... ah ... ah .. . mumble, mumble.”
“Hi there!”
“Have a nice summer?”
“Yar! You have a nice summer?” “Yar!”
“Well, see ya!”
“Yar!”
Now his name could've been Joe Blotv ... or is it Jim Bloiv ... or mebbe Jim Blue ... or it might even be Sam. . . . Anyhoiv, the next guy that asks me hoiv the summer was, I'm gonna....
It is kind of a silly question when you get right down, to it. The guys who did have a good summer return blackened from the sun and a deep crevice in their shoulders worn in by the strap ,of a golf bag over 1037 miles of country club. The pale-faced boys with ten dollar bills falling from the pockets of their Hickey-Freeman suits, their midsections infested with flab, had a good summer too; they worked in a Milwaukee brewery.
Every once in a while you’ll see some pore little dehydrated creature, who had sweltered away the summer under the dome', wandering about, mumbling, “They told me I’d graduate in August.” There’s another guy who came back on crutches and with seventeen fresh stitches etched across his formerly ele-^nt countenance. It usually isn’t necessary to inquire as to the summertide success of such people. Besides, sometimes they get nasty about it.
■
Drink, Drink
on the east wall of Badin. Of course, it was really only the book line, but somehow it seems to get longer and slower every year. Shrewd veterans of the line are packing light lunches and bringing their sleeping-bags. A couple of commerce majors engaged a freshman in a friendly game of craps last week; before they got half way to the book store they decided to quit school and retire.
Inside it’s like dollar day in Macy’s basement. We know of one ambitious soul who ventured into the Badin bedlam, waved a five dollai- bill above the crowd and started screaming like a banshee, “Elementary Thermodynamics.” After what seemed like a couple of eons of crunching and grinding, the five spot was siezed by a flustered clerk who replaced it with a well worn copy of The Bobsie Twins in Arabia. Inside the covei- there was a sad little inscription. “Me too. I tried to get an Introduction to Sociology.” It was signed simply, “Sam ’27.” We wonder if Sam ever passed Sociology.
■
Any Teo?
We were heart-broken when we heard St. Mary’s wasn’t throwing a Tea Dance' last Sunday afternoon. It has been the custom of Week scribes in the past to spoof these torrid affairs and say singularly mean things. Like, they don’t even serve tea. Introducing our neophytes to the girls next door via a Saturday night dance was a merciful thing, it must be admitted. But it doesn’t have near the drama or bloodtingling excitement of the old Sunday afternoon skirmishes. Although we weren’t among the gallants who toddled across the Dixie that Saturday night,
ALUMNI 			1st floor	500
	2nd floor	501
	3rd floor	502
BADIN 	 			1st floor	370
	3rd floor	371
BREEN-PHILLIPS 			1st floor	695
	2nd floor	696
	3rd floor	697
	4th floor	698
CAVANAUGH 			1st floor	571
	2nd floor	572
	3rd floor	573
	4th floor	574
DILLON 			1st floor	630
	2nd floor	631
	3rd floor	632
FARLEY 			1st floor	448
	2nd floor	449
	3rd floor	450
	4th floor	451
FISHER 			1st floor	431
	2nd floor	432
	3rd floor	433
	4th floor	434
HOWARD 			2nd floor	601
	3rd floor	602
	4th floor	603
LYONS 					1st floor	455
	2nd floor	456
	3rd floor	457
	4th floor	458
MORRISSEY 			1st floor	441
	2nd floor	442
	4th floor	444
	3rd floor	443
SORIN		 				1st	floor	284
	3rd floor	285
ST. EDWARD’S 			1st floor	280
	2nd floor	281
WALSH 				1st floor	373
	2nd floor	374
ZAHM 				1st floor	580
	2nd floor	581
	3rd floor	582
	4th floor	583
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75— One Month, $3.50
Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
Almost everybody thinks the new plastic cups in the rooms are' nifty. In greatest demand are the pretty green ones, as they hardly show the verde stain from your chlorophyll tooth paste, gargle, deodorant, eye wash, and whatever else you happen to have around with chlorophyll in it.
■
The Bog Boa-Constrictor
A near-sighted jet pilot (they’re taking anyone these days) reported that an enormous boa-constrictor was coiled about the N.D. campus and was nibbling
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED — SAVE MORE THAN HALF
This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture WILLIAMS PAINT COMPANY
Phone 6-7346	755 S. Michigan	FREE Delivery
One Block North of Gilbert’s
Sept. 26, 1952
SHOES NEED FIXING? Why Go Downtown?
We’re open 8 to 5 Mon.to Fri. 8 to 12 Sat.
PAUL’S SHOE SHOP Behind Main Bldg.
SEPTEMBER 26
AVON—(through Sept. 27)—Notre Dame’s favorite Ann Blyth appears with “Grandpa” Edmund Gwenn in Sally and Saint Anne, (Legion of Decency rating A-I) a warm, unsophisticated, well-written comedy. Guaranteed to make you forget whatever is ailing you.
COLFAX (through Oct. 1)—The town’s screens seem to be loaded down with Irish brogue. This one has Maureen O’Hara, Barry Fitzgerald, and he-man John Wayne and Victor McLaglen in The Quiet Man (A-2), a fine travelogue and a pretty good movie besides. Includes one of those rousing brawls that are featured in every John Wayne picture. With O’Hara’s hair and Ireland’s sod, this had to be in color.
GRANADA (through Sept. 28)—It’s Gene Kelly (without dancing) vs. the neo-Nazis in The Devil Makes Three (A-2), a spy-thriller that starts slow, ends fast, and includes some good shots of bombed-out Germany. With it is a Wild Bill Elliott Western, Fargo.
PALACE (through Oct. 1)—The management tries to please everybody with this double feature: Abbott & Costello in Lost in Alaska (A-2), and Son of AH Baba (A-2) with Tony Curtis, Piper Laurie, and color.
SEPTEMBER 27
WSBT (960 kilocycles) at 1 p.m.—With the home front glued to the radios, the Fighting Irish seek to straighten the first of ten question marks into an exclamation point as they battle Penn in the season’s opener in Philly.
WASHINGTON HALL—Everyone will be able to recuperate from the game by watching Esther Williams in a bathing suit in color- in Texas Carnival. The bill includes the usual news and cartoon, with shows starting at 6:40 and 8:20.
PALAIS ROYALE—The year’s first Student Senate-sponsored “victory” dance, “Fall Frolic” will open the ND social season from 8:30 till 11:30 with Ted Gallaghan, his ork, and Lola Ameche, a thrush from the Windy City. Price: 90 cents—“the lowest ever!”
SEPTEMBER 29
GRANADA (through Oct. 3)—My Man and I (about a new citizen from Mexico) and Red Snow (about the Red threat in Alaska). At least My Man has Shelley Winters (as a “jaded, wine-swizzling dance hall girl”).
OCTOBER 1
AVON—After a three-day absence, Ann Blyth is back again, this time with Gregory Peck in The World in His Arms (A-l). Annie plays a Russian countess, Peck a sea captain in this salty tale. Lots of good action.
OCTOBER 2
COLFAX (through Oct. 8)—The Big Sky (A-2), taken from the A.B. Guthrie novel, stars Kirk Douglas, with a standout performance by Dewey Martin. It’s a real blood-and-thunder tale of the opening of the - great northwest, complete with more than enough Indians on the warpath. Beautiful scenery between battles.
Nationally Advertised WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ____________ GUARANTEED
\1arviiL
12 6 NO.MICHIGAN ST
Aquinas
Library and BookShop
YOUR
Catholic Shopping Center
in South Bend
110 E. LASALLE ST.
MICROTOMIC
-the Absolutely Uniform drawing pencil
• Absolute uniformity means drawings without "weak spots”-dean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull’s-eye degree stamping on 3 Kiitns nt pencil. At your campus store! J
EBERHARD FABER
TM01 ■**«•
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 September 26, 1952 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage. Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
To Father Hesburgh, Congratulations
We would like to make the very first words in this space this year a welcome to Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., new University President. He has taken on the spiritual, material, and physical leadership of more than 5000 faculty members and students. He is the one man who must answer the question “Which way Notre Dame?” during the next three years. And he will be the symbol of Catholic education in America to many people.
The Scholastic, then, takes this opportunity to respectfully offer Father Hesburgh our congratulations and wish him, and Notre Dame, the best of luck during his term of office.
PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .............  Features
JOHN F. SAND ................... Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Fullback Neil Worden dives over Captain Jack Alessandrini and Tom Seaman as the Irish prepare for the opening encounter with Penn. With the eyes of the Irish followers on Philadelphia tomorrow afternoon, the big question on everyone’s lips will be, “How will Notre Dame fare this year?” And it will have been at least partially answered by the time the smoke of battle has cleared from Franklin Field. The game will mark the opening of Notre Dame’s 64th football season and will be the first engagement of one of the most rugged schedules ever undertaken by a Notre Dame team. This year’s squad has been reputed to be rich in quality but not in quantity so its success will depend largely on the support given it by the student body. (For details of the big game, see page 25.)
—Photo courtesy South Bend Tribune
To the Class of ‘56, Welcome
A welcome and best wishes are also in order for the Class of ’56. If we remember correctly, a Freshman’s first few weeks are rather trying, with everyone trying to advise him and few telling him what he really wants to know.
We feel compelled to inject a little advice and a few thoughts at this point, too. Becoming a Freshman consists of a lot more than leaving home, it represents moving into a whole new way of life. And there are a few things gleaned from three years here that are worth mentioning along with the words of welcome.
First, and most important, the next four years will give you the best opportunity you’ll ever have to live your religion and become a real practicing Catholic in the true sense of the word. Notre Dame presents you with wonderful facilities for prayer coupled with a genuine religious atmosphere, but the rest is up to you. No one will make you pray, for adult religion cannot be fostered under duress. Whether you leave Notre Dame a much better Catholic or a worse one is squarely on your shoulders.
Secondly, don’t let other people form your opinions for you. Whether the subject be St. Mary’s, professors, food, or South Bend, don’t believe everything you hear. Form definite opinions only when they can be backed by personal experience.
And, finally, if you’ll pardon a trite saying, college is what you make it. You’ll make your own decisions from now on, so whether you work hard, have a good time, or both, is your baby. College is much more than classes, and we don’t think you’ll ever regret any social or extra-curricular activities you attempt, unless you attempt too many at one time.
Now we’ll get off our upperclass soapbox. Once again. Freshmen, glad to have you, and good luck.
To All, a Few Questions
The beginning of a new school year is a time for questions, and here, are a few which we hope will be answered favorably during the year:
Will the young-minded hecklers at pep rallies wise up to the fact that nobody considers them comedians except themselves?
Since the Freshmen and Sophomores have been given greater privileges this year, can upperclassmen be so honored?
Will everybody get on the ball and make the Commerce Ball a success, thus insuring repetition of this very desirable event?
And will the rumors of a Student Union materialize into something concrete?
Sept. 26, 1952
MODERN TRIANGLE
A BOY. ..A GIRL...TV
Let’s face it. Living rooms are still in style. But a third party is inching its way in to form a crowd.
And no wonder. Few can resist this miracle that has brought the world and set it down in front of you. Living history, flowing past your eyes. Politics. U. N. sessions. Sports. Spot news. Personalities.
We in the Bell System help to put you in this front-row seat on history. Bell Laboratories research contributed to TV de
velopment. Now our radio-relay systems and coaxial cables carry the images between cities and across the country.
Our part in TV transmission is only one among dozens of activities that keep us in the front line of modem communications. They are all reasons, we believe, why college people should find out what the Bell System has to offer in the way of opportunities.
Why don’t you ask your college placement office about it?
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 1 SEPTEMBER 26, 1952
Top Enrollment Greets New President
Largest Frosh Class Swells Mark to 5400
Another record Freshman class of approximately 1600 students is expected to swell the initial student body under newly appointed University President Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., to a grand total of 5400.
Having already overflowed its assignment of Zahm, St. Edward’s, Breen-Phillips, and Farley Halls, some 70 members of the class have taken up residence in Cavanaugh Hall while others are still waiting to be placed.
The Office of Academic Affairs announces that 5,115 students had already been enrolled for the present school year—4,700 of whom were undergraduates. Over 400 graduate census cards have been processed up to this time, in addition to 317 student envelopes which were not claimed at the end of the registration period.
In succeeding Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who becomes a member of the Provincial Council of the Congregation of Holy Cross and special advisor to the president, Father Hesburgh becomes the fifteenth such person to occupy that post. He vacates the office of Executive Vice-President which he had held for three consecutive years previous to his appointment as President of the University.
A graduate of Gregorian University, Rome, and the Catholic University of America, Father Hesburgh was an auxiliary chaplain at Fort Myer, Va., during World War II. He came to Notre Dame in 1945 to teach religion, and was chaplain of the married veterans attending the University. He was head of the Department of Religion in 1948 for the year preceding his appointment as Executive Vice-President.
Father Hesburgh’s term of office is limited by Canon Law, which states that religious superiors cannot hold office longer than two terms of three years each.
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.
For New President, 1600 Freshmen
First Commerce Ball Bids Ready Monday
Tickets for the first annaul Commerce Ball will go on sale Monday in the lobby of the Dining Hall. The price of the ducats is $4.50.
The Commerce Activities Council has completed plans for the ball, which will be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom on Nov. 7, with Johnny Long and his “Shanty Town” orchestra supplying the music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Chairman Norb Kraft has obtained 2 o’clock permissions from the Prefect of Discipline for students attending the dance. As an additional attraction 600 tickets to the Oklahoma game on the following day have been set aside for Commerce men and their dates. These can be purchased along with the dance bids from Wally Bernard in the Dining Hall lobby.
Dick Harvey is handling the blind date bureau for interseted students, while Bill Unger has charge of room (Continued on page 21)
Water Tower, Other Works, Stud Campus
A welcome sight to the returning students was the silver dome on the northern side of the campus — a new 500,000 gallon capacity water tower towering 182 feet high and 60 feet in diameter, the tank is supplied by three wells. The erection of the tower necessitated the laying of a new system of water mains to supply the new buildings.
Next to the tower and part of the $2,000,000 utility program financed by the Father- John C. Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund is the enlarged powerplant. This building, when finished, will supply the expanded campus with heat and power. Two new steam turbines which make double use of the steam supplied by the coal fired boilers will produce the electricity necessary for the campus. Backing up the boilers are two diesel engines.
The exterior work on the Nieuwland Science Hall is completely finished. The entire building is over 95 per cent completed. The remaining work, the furnishing of the laboratories, is now being done and it is expected that completion work will take about six to eight months. At present the three lecture rooms for chemistry and physics and five other classrooms are in use. Many of the offices in the building have already been occupied.
The I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building is about three quarters on the road to completion. Presently, the interior- masonry work and the partitions are being done. Also, the heating ducts are being installed on the third floor. The building is expected to be completed by May, 1953, and ready for occupancy in the Fall of the same year. A sixth floor will be added to the tower to give WND extra room. The original plans only called for five floors —the fifth floor to be occupied by the “student voice.”
Sept. 26, 1952
9
Many New Faces on Administration, Faculty Greet Students Upon Return to Notre Dame
Returning students observed last week that numerous changes have been made around the University during the past summer — changes in the physical aspect of the campus and in the student regulations being quite noticeable. ■ But a number of changes in the administrative positions were made in addition to the promotion of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., to the presidency of the University.
Changes in the faculty roster included 38 new members- being added and 12 former members returning from leaves of absence, while several resignations were accepted.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., formerly Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs, has been named Vice-President in Charge of Student Welfare.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., succeeds Father Hesburgh as Executive Vice-President.
Dean of the graduate school since 1944, Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., now holds the office formerly occupied by Father Norton.
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., is new Vice-President of the University in Charge of Business Affairs.
Father Beichner Graduate Head
The new dean of the graduate school is Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., who also is Assistant Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs.
Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C., has been replaced as Assistant to the Vice-President in Charge of Student Affairs and Director of Student Welfare by Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C. Father Leahy is remaining on the Notre Dame faculty as a member of the Department of Philosophy.
The new Prefect of Religion is Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., last year’s Acting Vice-President in Charge of Student Welfare.
Working under the new president in his capacity as Religious Superior is Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., who was appointed to the post of Assistant Religious Superior of the Notre Dame community.
Formerly head of the Department of Religion at the University, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., is the new Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. He succeeds Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who was dean since 1943.
Kane Assists Father Sheedy
John J. Kane, former assistant professor of sociology here, will assist
Father Sheedy in the capacity of Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
All publicity of University affairs, except athletics, will henceforth be conducted by James E. Murphy, successor to Raymond J. Donovan, as Director of Public Information here. Mr. Donovan resigned to become Michigan editor of the South Bend Tribune. Murphy is a 1947 graduate of Notre Dame.
Captain Frank P. Luongo, Jr., USN, is the new commander of the Naval ROTC Unit at Notre. Dame. He re-
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C. Second in Command
lieves Commander Raymond Payne, who will continue as executive officer of the campus unit. Captain Luongo will serve as Professor of Naval Science on the University faculty in addition to his duties as the commanding officer. He recently returned from service off Korea.
Robert F. O’Brien has been appointed Band Director and associate professor of music. He replaces H. Lee Hope, who has been granted a one-year leave of absence to study for his doctorate at Indiana University.
Schrantz Temporariiy Replaced
Paul Schrantz, who assists the Prefect of Discipline, was seriously injured in an automobile accident early in August and will not return to his duties until some time in the Spring semester, it is believed. He will be temporarily replaced by Fred Hammer. Mr. Schrantz’s wife, a nurse at the University infirmary for a number of years, was also seriously injured.
The resignation of Dr. Charles C. Price as head of the Chemistry Department was accepted by the University, though he will continue as a professor" of chemistry. He felt the necessity of such an action because of his entrance into active politics as the Democratic nominee for U. S. Representative from the Third District. Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, the administrative head of chemistry, will also serve in the capacity of acting head of the department.
Rev. Gerald B. Phelan resigned as Director of the Mediaeval Institute at the University in order to return to his native Canada where he will join the faculty of St. Michael’s College in Toronto. He came to the University in 1946 to assume the office he held; he also served as head of the Department of Philosophy for several years. His successor has not been selected.
New Hall Rectors Appointed
Another large-scale change was the appointment of new rectors for most of the residence halls. The rectors of the halls are: Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, Alumni; Rev. Richard D. Murphy, Badin; Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, Breen-Phillips; Rev. Thomas F. Cady, Cavanaugh; Rev. John M. Dupuis, Dillon; Rev. Daniel F. Curtin, Farley; Rev. James E. Norton, Fisher; Rev. Charles W. Harris, Howard; Rev. G. Carl Hager, Lyons; Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, Morrissey; Rev. William J. McAuliffe, St. Ed’s; Rev. Albert E. Schlitzer, Sorin; Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, Walsh; and Rev. Paul E. Fry-berger in Zahm Hall.
South Bend Officer Explains Pedestrian Traffic By-Laws
Pedestrian traffic laws in South Bend are strict, and, as such, are enforced. Captain of Traffic Clem F. Hazinski of the City Police Force stresses the importance of observing the following Pedestrian Ordinance Laws:
Jaywalking laws downtown are strictly enforced. Anyone crossing a South Bend street at any point other than an intersection will be assessed a one dollar fine.
The same fine will be given those stopped for stepping from the curb before the walk signal has gone on. The wait blinker means what it says —-“wait.” To assist pedestrians in abiding by this law motorists are lawfully required to yield the right of way to pedestrians who have entered the street on the walk signal. The pedestrian traffic signal light laws are also'-enforced throughout the city.
According to Indiana State Law
10
The Scholastic
47-2036, Bums, hitchhiking is prohibited. This law is effective in the city and on the open road.
Proportionate penalties will be given by the Prefect of Discipline for any civil law violations reported by the police officials.
Top Six ND Cadets Given Army Training
Six of the leading members of last year’s Army ROTC program at Notre Dame sampled a six-week diet of army routine at Fort Belvoir, Va., this summer. The summer training at Fort Belvoir is especially designed for cadets in the engineering field.
Anthony Lapasso, Don Senich, William Beck, Eugene Gribble, Guy Prisco, and Edward McCarthy were the six members of the Notre Dame Engineer Corps to participate in the course. These six men will form the nucleus of this year’s Army ROTC cadet officer program.
The summer camp at Fort Belvoir opened on June 23 for a six-week run. Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., faculty member and rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, was one of some twenty leading educators from universities throughout the United States who visited and inspected the training site during the course of the camp.
Advanced members of ROTC groups are required to attend summer camp to qualify for a commission upon graduation. The regularly appointed time is the summer following the junior year, but some are allowed to’ attend after the senior year.
Majority of Prospective Employers Interview 1953 Grads for Post-Military Service Jobs
“What does an employer think of a man who is going to be in the Armed Forces soon after he receives his degree here?”
That, reports William R. Dooley, placement director of the University, was the number- one question last week as seniors and graduate students began to register for placement assistance during the 1952-53 schoolyear.
“Employers generally are entirely willing to interview any student regardless of his Armed Forces status,” Mr. Dooley said.
“Out of hundreds of employment interviewers who came to the campus last year,” added the placement director, “there weren’t more than a half dozen who told us that they wanted to talk only to men who were free of obligations to the Armed Forces. Most employers now, figuring that the draft and the ROTC units are going to be around for years to come, are projecting their employment of college men two or three years into the future, when these men will be ready to go to work permanently. And the employers are interviewing these men now on the campuses. If a firm can give them three or four months of training in industry before the men join with the Armed Forces, so much the better.	•
“Many alumni who finished here in 1950 are now getting out of seiwice and are seeking jobs,” Mr. Dooley continued. In many cases, they are having a tough time of it because they have to start from scratch in making job contacts and setting up interviews. They,
s.
I’m sure, would advise the 1953 graduates to take advantage of the concentrated, centralized placement service on the campus while they can easily do so.”
Placement registration forms are available in the Placement Bureau, which is in the west wing of the ground floor of the Main Building, as well as in the dean’s office in the Engineering Building, Commerce Building and Science Building and the Economics Office in the Social Science Building. When filled out, they are to be returned to the Placement Bureau. A picture should accompany each registration if possible, but the picture is not obligatory.
Provided by the Placement Bureau with each registration form is a mimeographed explanation of the Bureau’s services and instructions for filling out the form.
The Bureau’s services include: Information, where a large and growing occupational library of books, magazines, directories, company lists, company literature and company application forms are available to students; Counseling. which includes advice on all phases of job-seeking — the student’s day-to-day questions as well as more extensive counseling arranged by appointment; and Employment interviews, which are arranged by the Placement Bureau and conducted on the campus through much of the schoolyear.
“The Placement Bureau was established by the University -to do two things,” Mr. Dooley pointed out. “The first and most important is to help stu-
(Continued on page 31)
NOTRE DAME AIR CADETS
Future Lieutenants
CADET ENGINEERS AT CAMP Key Men in Army ROTC Program'
I
Sept. 26, 1952
11
IS
NFCCS, CSMC, and Religious Conventions Keep Notre Dame Busy All Summer Long
There’s always something doing at Notre Dame, and the summertime is no exception. In addition to eight weeks of summer school, the ND campus is the site of numerous conventions, reunions, and retreats, both large and small.
Biggest events of this past summer convention-wise were the ninth National Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, the Catholic Student Mission Crusade convention, and the First Congress of Religious in the United States.
Most prominent among the smaller doings hereabouts were the Vocation Institute, the Writer’s Conference, and the Institute on Practical Business Problems for Religious Sisterhoods.
The 30th Annual Laymen’s Retreat drew over 1,500 men to the campus for three days of prayer and meditation. Although most of the retreatants were midwesterners, some came from as far off as New York. Conducted by the Holy Cross Mission Band, the retreat began on the evening of Aug. 14, included sermons, conferences, the Way of the Cross, and a candlelight procession, and closed the morning of the 17th with a communion breakfast.
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C., WITH NFCCS COMMITTEE
They Ran One of ND's Three Big Summer Congresses
Right on the heels of the Laymen's Retreat came the CSMC convention, a bi-annual event at ND. Second only in size to the Democratic and Republican conventions, the Mission meet was attended by about 3,000 delegates, most of them high school students. The four-day affair, which began Aug. 21, included among its speakers such notables as Archbishop Carl Alter of Cincinnati, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, and Bishop Raymond Lane, Maryknoll superior general.
The week-long NFCCS Congress, preceded by a Student Government Presidents’ Conference, was the summer’s last major event, held Aug. 28-Sept. 8. Over 600 students from Catholic colleges throughout the nation were on hand to plan the Federation’s activities for the coming year, to determine matters of policy involving the Federation’s 20,000 member students, and to elect this year’s national officers.
The local NFCCS Council and the Fort Wayne Region were hosts to the Congress. Headed by Senior John O’Connell, the Congress committee included Notre Dame men Don Carbone, Jack Fink, Marsh Desmond, Harry Hadlock, Bruce Fox, Frank Donovan, Larry Corbett, Jim O’Shea, Tom Godfrey, Joe
Conwell, Jack Lawless, and Ron Mealey, among others.
This was the first time the NFCCS Congress has been held at Notre Dame.
Another- first for ND was the Congress of Religious. Called by the' Vatican, the convention brought together-some 2,000 priests, Brothers and Nuns to discuss, among other subjects, the adaptation of religious life to the modern world.
Archbishop John O’Hara of Philadelphia and the Apostolic Delegate, Msgr. Cicognani, addressed the gathering, presided over by Msgr. Larraona, who came' from the Vatican as the Pope’s personal representative.
Revised ND Student Manual Is Distributed
The Notre Dame Student Manual, which is intended as a guide book for student conduct, has been revised and enlarged with the advent of the present semester. Included in its pages are the several changes in the regulations governing the Notre Dame student body.
Of chief interest to the underclassmen is the liberalization of the rule concerning midnight permissions. Henceforth freshmen may be absent from their halls after 10:00 p.m. until midnight two nights a week unless they take a week-end. Also sophomores may take as many midnights as is consistent with their class work. Previously, freshmen were allowed only one midnight permission per week and sophomores only two.
Another fact of special note in the current manual is the clarification by diagram of the South Bend area designated as out of bounds for Notre Dame students. Hitherto, this area had been defined rather vaguely and, consequently, was often misunderstood by some students.
Among other improvements in this year’s manual are an explicit statement of the “triple cut” rule and a precise explanation of the various functions, duties, and jurisdictions of the Vice-President in Charge of Student Affairs and the Prefect of Discipline. The necessary academic and disciplinary regulations, expected norms of conduct, and subsequent penalties for the transgressions of same are likewise outlined in a clear, concise manner.
In addition, the manual furnishes much pertinent information about the operation of the Library, Rockne Memorial, Morris Inn, and several of the extra - curricular organizations and clubs on campus, including the Student Council, Blue Circle, YCS, NFCCS, and the Monogram Club.
12
The Scholastic
Wide Acclaim Given Latest Gurian Book
The latest of Doctor Waldemar Gurian’s books for the Committee on International Relations, Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism, which was published by the University of Notre Dame Press this past summer, has been receiving “rave” reviews.
The Chicago Tribune calls it a “highly valuable and instructive work, which is at once scholarly and unpretentious.”
The Washington Post says it is a “painstakingly documented analysis.”
The Commonweal describes it as “a brief, clear and cogent analysis of both the theoretical and practical aspects of Leninism-Stalinism. Dr. Gurian avoids any detailed analysis of pre-Leninist Marxism on the reasonable ground that it has little relation to present reality. ... It is the best brief treatment, and the briefest good treatment, of Bolshevism now available to the American public.”
Professor Gurian, who teaches Political Science at Notre Dame, is an internationally recognized authority on Soviet Russia. He is chairman of the Committee on International Relations and editor of the quarterly Review of Politics.
His Bolshevism is the second of the Committee’s books published this past summer, the other being Christian Democracy in Italy and France, by Mario Einaudi and Frangois Goguel. It is the first complete account in English of the most significant and promising development in Europe’s post-war political life.
The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, Reality was the first of Prof. Gurian’s publications for the Committee. Widely acclaimed, it sold out in a little over a year and is now out of print.
The Committee’s fourth book, published in 1951, is Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Ferdinand A. Hermens, also a Political Science Professor at Notre Dame. It, too, has won widespread critical acclaim for its analysis of the tragic effects of proportional representation since the end of the first World War.
Five more of the Committee’s books are being prepared for Fall, Winter and Spring publication by the University Press. They are: The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-1951, by M. A. Fitzsimons; PanSlavism, by Hans Kohn; Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, by Stephen Kertesz; The Social Ethic of German Protestantism: 1848-1933, by W. 0. Shanahan; and The Catholic Church in World Affairs, edited by Waldemar Gurian and M. A. Fitzsimons.
FATHER MURPHY GREETS IKE
GOP Comes to Notre Dame
Eisenhower Applauds ND in Campus Speech
Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, Notre Dame’s nominee at last year’s mock Republican convention, visited the Notre Dame campus on Monday, Sept. 15, before delivering a scheduled campaign speech in South Bend.
Welcomed to the campus by the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University and a crowd of 2,000 students and faculty members, the Republican presidential candidate saluted Notre Dame as a truly great American institution “dedicated to teaching those spiritual values and moral responsibilities” which are the basis of our heritage of freedom.
With Mrs. Eisenhower at his side, Eisenhower addressed himself particularly to the Freshman class, which began registration that day. He deplored the “philosophy of sophisticated cynicism” which makes the size of a man’s pocketbook the criterion of success.
Rather, Eisenhower told the incoming students to “prepare yourselves during these next four years not so much to serve yourselves, but to serve others, for you will find that in serving others you will have .the fullest possible life.”
Following his brief address, in a meeting with Head Football Coach Frank Leahy at the Rockne Memorial, Eisenhower paid tribute to Rockne and recalled how he played against Notre Dame’s 1913 team. “Actually, I sat on the bench,” Eisenhower said with a
Fr. Hesburgh Speaks At 80th Opening Mass
While other universities throughout the land were busily engaged in rush week and other opening year ceremonies the men of Notre Dame began their school year by attending a Solemn High Mass in honor of the Holy Ghost.
Highlighting the 80th such ceremony in Sacred Heart church was a sermon by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., newly appointed President of the University.
Gives Freshman Mission
Previously, Father Hesburgh had spoken to the Freshmen at their mission imbuing them with the spirit of Notre Dame and warning them of the pitfalls of which they as Freshmen must be especially aware.
Consequently, Father Hesburgh was able to come straight to the point in his sermon on Sunday and aimed it not only at the students but at the faculty as well.
The new president dwelt briefly upon our European heritage and the cultural strains derived from this heritage.
Drawing from some of Toynbee’s ideas, he warned of the dual evils — physical and spiritual—that menace civilizations. He compared Father Sorin’s struggle and eventual success in founding Notre Dame with the tri-.jimph of the pioneers in erecting this nation.
Fight Spiritual Evil
However, Father Hesburgh pointed out that spiritual evil too must be combated; and he asked if we, as members of a nation, are better in the eyes of God for all our physical assets. He deplored the lack of wisdom, in the world today — “true Catholic wisdom in which men have the common sense tc live lives ordered to purity and peace, not the material, professional wisdom dispensed at so many of our schools today.”
In this respect he directed his sermon at the faculty imploring them to be wise and to impart this wisdom to their students.
grin, “but I remember quite well, what happened.” . -
During his half-hour visit on campus, the General was given a reception which was attended by University officials, members of the board of trustees, deans of the colleges and other distinguished guests.	•
Sept. 26, 1952
Purposes of the New Student Activity Fund
By TOM REEDY, Student Senate President
Throughout the years, the Student Councils of the University of Notre Dame have been traditionally almost powerless — a mere debating society wrapped up with its own knowledge of parliamentary procedure and self importance and generally held in contempt by the Student Body. This admittedly is a deplorable condition — a state of affairs of which no one is proud. The primary factor underlying the ineffectiveness and lack of action of the Councils of the past has been fundamentally a lack of finances — absence of the cold cash needed to back up and lend weight to our legislation.
In the past, the Student Councils of Notre Dame have nevei' had a steady permanent source of income, but have had to gouge the students at the Victory Dances to derive the revenue to cover all their expenses. Thus, the dance-goers, a minority group, were actually footing the entire financial burden alone. Meanwhile, when a truly worthy request for funds was brought to the Council, it was impossible to act since we did not have the financial means available to do so.
Last May it was decided to abolish the existing inadequacies and establish a Student Activity Fund giving the new Student Senate (formerly Student Council) the much needed “power of the purse.” The plan of initiating the Student Activities Fund was to collect a small but equal sum from each student at registration. We considered the 97% response excellent.
This year with the financial means we will be able to support many worthy undertakings ■which we previously have been unable to handle and to better the activities we have regularly sponsored.
Some of the projects and activities the Senate intends to sponsor this year are:
1. Reduction of the Saturday night Dance Price: Last year’s admission fee was $2.00 per couple. Now that we don’t have to depend upon these dances as a source of revenue, we can change our policy towards them and reduce prices considerably. (Tomorrow night’s Fall Frolic price is only 90c a couple) . 2. Student Small Loan Fund: We have long needed a no-interest, studentrun small loan bureau where any student could borrow from $10 to $25. With the capital we now possess — this very probably will become a reality.
3.	Class Activities: The classes have never had their own treasuries and thus have been unable to sponsor much in the way of class activities. The Class Presidents have been informed that their individual classes are entitled to a Senate-sponsored (everything free) picnic for the asking at any time this Fall or next Spring.
4.	Student Union: Notre Dame will soon have its own Student Union in the form of a reconverted on-campus building. A full release will be forthcoming at a later date. The plans and furnishings, however, will come from the students themselves.
5.	Non Varsity Sports: In the past, we have had to consistently turn down requests for expense money from the gymnasts, sailing club, Bengal Bout boxers and wrestling and bowling squads all of whom represent Notre Dame in inter-collegiate competition. Now we — together with the University— will be able to co-sponsor these teams.
6.	Blue Circle Expenses: The Blue Circle which has just completed the very successful Freshman Orientation Program, needs money to operate.
7.	Hall Activities: Each hall will be given a grant proportionate to its size with which to sponsor hall activities and projects as the hall residents (through their president and council) see fit. Such items as mixers, banquets and hall decoration will be paid in part from this grant.
8.	Delegations: Many clubs and organizations require travel expenses to permit their delegates to attend meetings and congresses at which they represent Notre Dame.
9.	Sundry Items: The cost of awards to inter-hall football and basketball champs, establishing of free “Movie Classic” series of great films and such projects as projected “flash cards” for the cheering section all require money.
10.	Routine Operating Expenses: Finally our clerical, and publicity expenses must be met.
Frankly, this is an experiment. Nothing like it has ever been tried before. It could be a great success or a miserable flop. Glowing promises and good intentions are always a far cry from reality. Realization of the success of this program can only come through hard work and the cooperation of the entire student body. It’s up to YOU.
Thespian Group Sets First Show Tryouts for Monday
Comedy of Errors, by William Shakespeare, has been selected as the first in a series of four productions for the University Theatre for the coming school year.
Work on the play will begin Monday, with two periods of tryouts scheduled.
Strictly a farce, it is a story of mistaken identity involving a cast of approximately 50 characters. All roles are open, and they include at least ten good male parts and five principal female parts.
Opening date for the comedy has been set for Thursday, Oct. 23. It will run through Sunday, Oct. 26.
The year will wind up with the now annual student musical. The two remaining plays will be chosen from a list including The Cocktail Party, The Lady’s Not for Burning, The Mad Woman of Chaillot, The Importance of Being Earnest, Room Service, See Hozv They Run, Father Malachy’s Miracle, Six Characters in Search of an Author.
Right now, however, it’s a Comedy of Errors, universally recognized as one of Shakespeare’s best works. The tryouts will be held in Washington Hall beginning at 4 p.m. Monday afternoon and at 7:30 p.m. that evening.
All persons who are interested in participating in the work of the University Theatre are asked to attend.
Those interested in the activities of the St. Genesius Society, the newly-formed university dramatic club, may contact Mr. Casey of the Speech Department.
Student Activity Cards
Last week new Student Activity Cards were distributed to all students who registered with the Student Senate and paid a one dollar student activities fee. The new activity cards, when signed by the owner, entitle him to special reduced rates for all activities sponsored by the Student Senate. Those owning cards will be admitted to the first Student Senate dance tomorrow night for ninety cents instead of the regular $2.00 fee.
Those few who have not yet paid may still do so by contacting Jim Richards in 375 Dillon Hall. Anyone who paid but did not receive his card, either in his mailbox or in the dining hall, should also see Mr. Richards.
—Tom Reedy
14
The Scholastic
The Xevv President: 1 Study in
Confidence
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., newly appointed president of the University of Notre Dame, radiates confidence in his new job in a quiet, soft-spoken sort of way. He explains the Notre Dame situation like this:
“Certainly, I pull the strings, but it’s the strings I pull who do the work. Notre Dame couldn’t go on without this basic teamwork.
“True confidence in this type of work comes from the wonderful priests and laymen with whom the president is associated. They do the day-by-day job and carry the burden.
“We gain confidence not only from outside friends of the university who offer their advice and financial help,
but from all those who keep us in their prayers.”
Predecessor Will Be Assistant
Probably the biggest factor in Father Hesburgh’s confidence stems from the presence of his predecessor, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who has been appointed his special assistant.
“If I can do half as well as Father Cavanaugh, I’ll settle for that,” said Father- Hesburgh. “One’ of the biggest helps of all is having him around.”
Father Hesburgh was born in Syracuse May 25, 1917, and was reared in a moderately well-to-do family. He is the only one of his immediate family in the clergy, although he has learned
that a relative "was a bishop in Europe about 100 years ago.
Father Duffy Ignites the Spark
The spark that sent Father Hesburgh to Notre Dame to study for the priesthood, was fanned into a flame in 1928 when Rev. Thomas Duffy, C.S.C., of Notre Dame came to Fr. Hesburgh’s native Syracuse, N. Y., with a home mission band. The new Notre Dame president corresponded with Fr. Duffy frequently after that and gives him much credit for influencing his course of life. Father Hesburgh believes that he “probably wanted to be a priest all my life.”
Father Hesburgh is of Belgian and (Continued on page 31)
Sept. 26, 1952

St. Joseph County Braces Itself for Late Registering Spurt; Other States' Laws Quoted
The St. Joseph County Voters-Regis-tration Center will conduct numerous sub-stations to withstand the expected last-minute spurt of registering on Oct. 3, 4, and 6.
Three sub-stations accessible to Notre Dame students will be located at the following: Webster School, Clay Township Fire Station, and the Maple Lane School.
Officers in the Registration Centei' office have reported that any South Bend resident may register at any registration station whether it be in South Bend or Mishawaka. Those desiring to register prior to Oct. 3 may do so in the basement of the County Court House on Main Street.
To be eligible to vote in South Bend on Nov. 4, a person must be: a natural born or naturalized citizen of the United States; 21 on or before Nov. 4; a resident of the state of Indiana for a -period of 6 months; a resident of the township for 60 days; and a resident of the precinct for a period of 30 days.
Deadline for registration is midnight, Oct. 6. For the actual balloting on Nov. 4, a voting machine will be available on campus as in previous years.
The following information is made available by the Academy of Political Science and the Scholastic for the benefit of those who will be eligible to vote on Nov. 4:
Absentee voting is prohibited to citizens of Florida, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina.
Residents of Oregon must request a ballot in writing from the City, County, or Town Clerk or County Auditor before Oct. 2, and then submit same before Nov. 4. Residents of Arizona, Wyoming, Washington, Utah, and New Hampshire must make their petition to the County Recorder anytime after Sept. 30 and return the ballot to the same address by election day.
Idaho residents may obtain their ballots from the County Auditor or Couns ty Clerk at any time, but deadline for ballot submittal there is Nov. 1.
Arkansas and Kentucky residents must request a ballot from the City, County, or Town Clerk and return ballots in duplicate before Oct. 23.
Ballots must be requested by Illinois residents from the County Clerk (in Chicago, Board of Election Commissioners) by Oct. 27, and Colorado residents have until Oct. 29. Both states permit ballots to be submitted right until election day.
Connecticut and Michigan must apply for ballots from City or Town
Clerk before Oct. 30. While Michigan residents have until election day to nave theii' ballots properly recognized, those in Connecticut must submit ballots before Nov. 1.
Regulations for remaining states’ balloting procedures will appear in the Scholastic next week.
New Student Senate Initiates Lower Price at Fall Frolic
Initiating the schoolyear’s social activities, the Student Senate is sponsoring the “Fall Frolic” tomorrow night at the Palais Royale. Ted Gallagher’s orchestra will provide the music at this first dance of the Fall Season.
As an added attraction, the Student Senate has announced that guest soloist for the evening will be Lola Ameche from Chicago.
Dance co-chairmen Floyd Blair and Carl Eck have announced that bus transportation to and from St. Mary’s has been procured and will be available for tomorrow night.
Dance time is 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. and admission charge is the new Student Senate price of 90 cents a couple plus student activity card. A “no flower” rule has been adopted for this dance.
SENIOR BALL CO-CHAIRMEN
The Senior Class is determined that its Senior Ball shall be the best a graduating class has ever attended here at Notre Dame. In order that this be accomplished, capable, efficient, and industrious co-chairmen must be selected as soon as possible.
The Ball is still far in the future, but past experience has shown that such a dance requires a great deal of planning, and the more time that is allowed the better will be the results. In view of this, all those who are interested in being considered for Senior Ball co-chairman are requested to personally contact any of the class officers before Saturday, October 4. The selection of the co-chairmen will then be made by an impartial committee or a democratic election, the exact method to be determined in the near future.
The Senior Class officers: Kerwin Fulton, 247 Alumni Bill Gaudreau, 225 Walsh Dave McElvain, 248 Dillon Dave Fox, 421 Walsh
Superior Turns First Soil For New C.S.C. Seminary
Ground breaking ceremonies at Holy Cross Seminary on Wednesday, Sept. 12, marked the beginning of construction of a new building providing additional facilities for seminarians studying for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Rev. Harold W. Riley, C.S.C., Superior of the seminary, turned the first spadeful of dirt in the presence of the other members of the seminary faculty and more than 150 student seminarians.
In a brief speech, Father Riley stated that “this building is the fulfillment of a dream of 25 years. The expansion was made necessary by the increasing number of vocations for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross,” he said.
Scheduled for completion in January, 1953, the new pre-fabricated building will house a gymnasium, six classrooms and a laboratory for the use of the seminarians.	,
Known as St. Aloysius Seminary in its early days, the institution has been educating young men for the priesthood for more than one hundred years.
Quota Figure Fills NROTC; Capt. Luongo Welcomed
A quota figure of 385 Notre Dame NROTC students jammed the Navy Drill Hall this year for the regular and contract NROTC program. The group includes one hundred ten freshmen contract students and thirty-five freshmen regular students.
The Notre Dame NROTC has also announced that eleven sophomore and four junioi- contract students have gained the regular status through examination last December.
Captain Luongo, Jr., is the new addition to the NROTC staff of Notre Dame. It is his first experience on a job of this nature and he has indicated that he was surprised at the enthusiasm shown by the freshmen for the NROTC program. Capt. Luongo also mentioned that he was impressed with the “high caliber of the students enrolled in the NROTC” and that he is “sure that, if they pursue their course until commissioned, they will prove to be the highest type of Naval officers, as Notre Dame men of the past have been.”
Lt. G. E. Valenti, Jr., Lt. B. G. Smith, Lt. A. G. Lachmann, and Lt. E. N. Heacock are also new additions to the Notre Dame NROTC staff.
The Scholastic
&
-
The pictures on this and the following pages represent part of the $1,200,000 art gift given to the University of Notre Dame by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, late wife of the deceased founder of the Fisher Body Company, Detroit, Michigan.
The prize collection, which is housed in Notre' Dame’s Wightman Memorial Art Galleries, consists of seventeen paintings and three tapestries. The paintings range in price up to $150,000, while' the tapestries are valued at $30,000.
Many Famous Artists
Four of the old paintings have been evaluated by art critics at $100,000 or more. Among this group are “Portrait of a Woman,” by the famed Italian artist, Antonio Pollaiuolo; “Aime, Lady Townsend,” by George' Romney, a noted English historical and portrait painter of the late eighteenth century; and “Le Bouton de Rose,” by Francois Boucher, self-taught French artist of the eighteenth century, who is remembered as a famed historical genre painter. The most highly-prized of these four paint
ings is “Portrait of a Woman,” by Bart Vaneto.
Jean March Nattier, French painter who is remembered for his paintings of ladies of the court of Louis XV, is represented in the Notre Dame gift collection by two of his leading works. The Nattier paintings in the collection are “Marquise de Torcy” and “Portrait of a Lady.”
Two works of Mme. Elizabeth Vigee Lebrun, well-known French painter of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, who painted twenty paintings of Marie Antoinette, also are in the collection. These include “Portrait of Marguerite Baudard de Saint-James, Marquise de Puysequr,” and “Portrait of Henri Cabou Playing the Violin,”
A Large Collection of “Madonnas”
Four of the other originals in the Fisher collection are “Madonna and Child and St. John,” by Raffaellino del Arbo, sixteenth century master; “Portrait of St. Catherine,” by Bernardino Luini, an imitator and follower of Leonardo da Vinci; “Madonna and Child” by Di Sandro; and “Marquis de Torcy,”
Sept. 26, 1952
17
“Portrait of a Woman,' by Bart
Vaneto,
s
$
evaluated by many art critics at $100,000 or more, and considered to be the most highly-prized painting in the Fisher collection. Right is Antonio Pollaiuolo’s “Portrait of a Woman.’’
?!
S.A*.

£4; aw,


Photographs of the many rare paintings and tapestries in the $1,200,000 Fisher prize collection are used through the courtesy of Notre Dame’s Wightman Memorial Art Galleries and the Notre Dame “Alumnus.’’
by Louis artist who
Tocque, eighteenth century painted Empress Elizabeth.
The other five masterpieces in the collection are “Madame de La Micho-diere as the Reader,” by Frederic Jean Schall; “Madonna and Child,” by Giam Petrini, Italian pupil of Strozzi, whose career was devoted largely to historical subjects; “Second Madonna,” by Lambert Sustermann, sixteenth century pupil of Mabuse; “Madonna,” the work of Quentin Massys, famed fifteenth century religious artist; and Romney’s “Portrait of Master Clitherow.”
The three tapestries included in the gift collection are all of Anthony and Cleopatra. The tapestries are “Anthony Receiving Cleopatra’s Gifts of
on His Return
Money for His Anny
From His Parthian Expedition,” “The Death of Cleopatra,” and “Anthony Drawn Into the Mausoleum, Where He Dies in the Arms of Cleopatra.”
Mrs. Fisher’s Second Gift
The gift of valuable paintings is the second large donation by the late Mrs. Fisher to Notre Dame in two years. In December, 1949, it was announced that Mrs. Fisher, whose late husband was a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, had given $1,000,000 for the erection of a new student residence hall and for a revolving student loan fund.	:_+|.
In acknowledging the Fisher Art* gift
at the time of its presentation last Spring—some weeks before the death of Mrs. Fisher, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh said:
“Words cannot properly express the deep and lasting gratitude of the University of Notre Dame for the continuing interest in the University of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, which is reflected in this second most generous gift to Notre Dame. The fine old paintings and tapestries included in Mrs. Fisher’s gift collection, which will greatly enrich the University art galleries, will serve to remind future generations of the part played by Mrs. Fisher, and that of her beloved husband, in the development of Notre Dame.”
'•
18
The Scholastic
“Marquis de Torcy,”
by Louis Tocque,
18th cen-
painter of the
the the
artist Empress
century painted beth.
18th who Eliza-
*x*Ar'
of in
Portrait of Clitherow” by Romney, one most valuable collection.
Master
George
One of three tapestries, “A n-thony Receiving Cleopatra’s gifts of Money for His Army on His Return from His Parthian Expedition.”

‘Anne, Lady Townsend,’ by Romney. He was a noted English historical
and portrait tury.
ROTC Unit Receives New Assignment
The Army ROTC unit of the University of Notre Dame has been chosen by the Department of the Army to be one of twenty-five major- schools to participate in the new Branch General ROTC program.
This program will replace last year’s engineer corps, which met with such outstanding success. The new Branch General will offer a broader training with special emphasis placed on the development of strong leadership qualities. This plan departs from the traditional specialized training and presents a portal through which a student from any academic field may join the ROTC.
The selection of the branch of service upon graduation depends on the student’s academic background, class standing, personal desires, and the needs of the services.
Leading army authorities believe that this new type of training will increase the effectiveness of the graduate and therefore his usefulness to the army is heightened.
A favorable reaction by officers, national officers, and the students themselves will result in the adoption of the Branch- General program by the 285 other schools participating in the Army ROTC.
Notre Dame has been honored by its selection, since the unit has’ been in operation for only one year. Factors in Notre Dame’s choice were last year’s success, the large student body, and the representative cross-section found here.
Publish Collected Addresses Of Late Father Cavanaugh
The words of one of the greatest orators and educators of the first quarter of the twentieth century come to life again in “The Conquest of Life,” just published by St. Anthony Guild Press of Paterson, New Jersey.
The volume contains the notable lectures, addresses and conferences of the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame from 1905 to 1919, a scholar of national distinction.
Addresses published in the volume were collected and edited by Father John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., who has written a biographical sketch of the noted scholar and an appraisal of him as an orator and writer.	.
In these lectures the Notre Dame educator re-examines the comparative
20
worth of religious and of secular education. He re-states enduring issues of culture and conscience in familiar contemporary terms and offers to the individual reader inspiration and guidance in the cultivation of a sturdy moral character and aid in solving life’s basic problems.
After reading the book in manuscript form the late Fulton Oursler remarked, “Few, if any, writers in America today can equal Father Cavanaugh in beauty of diction and brilliance of style. In his writing nobility of thought is wedded to beauty of expression — a combination hard to beat.”-
Sleep, Larger Off-Campus List Prompt Hour Switch
Another of the many changes at Notre Dame this semester is the 30-minute shift in class schedules. According to Rev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs, a two-fold reason prompted the adoption of the new schedule.
First of the two was the fact that after the long daily hours of study, classwork, and sports last year, the student needed more sleep than he was getting. The University recognized this fact and the extra half hour was granted.
Another reason was that with the larger number of off-campus students this year- an 8 a.m. class would not have permitted these men to attend Mass. Now, however, many of them will take advantage of the 8 o’clock Mass in Dillon Hall. The temptation of the dormitory students to sleep until class time will not be as great, school officials believe. More, it is hoped, will attend the daily services and receive Communion.
Plans are being devised whereby the labs and classes can close at 5 p.m. in the second semester.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Sept. 29—Dedication of St. Michael, Archangel.
Tuesday, Sept. 30—Feast of St. Jerome.
Wednesday, Oct. 1—Feast of St. Remigius.
Thursday, Oct. 2—Feast of Holy Angel Guardians.
Friday, Oct. 3—Feast of St. Therese.
Saturday, Oct. 4—Feast of St. Francis of Assisi.
Set Dec. 13 as Date Of Navy Examination
The Navy announced recently that the seventh nation-wide competitive examination for its College Training Program has been scheduled for Dec. 13, 1952, and will be open to high school seniors and college students between the ages of 17 and 21. Successful candidates will be given a four-year college education at government expense and will be commissioned as officers of the Navy or Marine Corps upon graduation.
The program and its quotas have been assigned to each state and territory on the basis of its high school population. The Navy expects to enter about 2,000 students in the program commencing with the Fall term of college, 1953.
Students selected by these competitive examinations will be assigned to the 52 Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps units which are located in various universities and colleges in the United States. If accepted by the col- r lege, they will be appointed Midshipmen, U.S.N.R., and will have their tuition, books, and normal fees paid for by the Government. In addition they will receive pay at the rate of $50 a month for the four-yeai’ period. Upon graduation they may be commissioned as officers in the Regular Navy, or Marine Corps and required to serve on active duty for three years.
Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., in the Office of Military Information, is acting as the Navy’s local representative and will be pleased to provide specific information about the program, including the time and place of the competitive examination, the method of making application, and the specific age and scholastic qualifications.
The Office of Military Information is located in the basement East wing of the Main Building. Office hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 12 noon daily. Phone extension 494.
Cadet Selection Team Here
An Air Force aviation cadet selection team will visit the campus next week to explain the aviation cadet program to interested students.
A film on Korean combat will be shown on Monday night at 7:30 in the Engineering Building Auditorium.
On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday the team will be available for interviews from 10:00 to 5:00 o’clock. The site for the interviews will be announced by special bulletins.
Men who meet the minimum requirements may take qualification tests and physicals without obligation.
The Scholastic
Discuss Navy Trip, Decoration Weekend
Plans for the student trip to Cleveland were discussed in detail Monday evening at the first Student Senate meeting of the year. The possibility of offering two trips to the students was presented by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Student Welfare, and Student Senate Moderator.
Besides the regular 2-day trip planned, Father Norton said an economy trip of one day might be made if enough students would support it. The second trip, costing only about $15, would leave Notre Dame early Saturday morning, see the game, and leave Cleveland later in the evening.
Arrangements are being completed for the regular trip, which will offer transportation on the team train, two box lunches on the train, and lodging in the Cleveland Armory for two nights for about $35.
A poll will be conducted by the Blue Circle through the hall night-check, to determine the popularity of the economy trip.
“Decoration Weekend” this year will be for the Oklahoma game, Nov. 8, the Senate decided. Plans for the weekend are being handled by the Blue Circle’s Welcoming Committee.
The Committee requested that the decorations this year be completed by Friday evening before the game, to
allow more of the alumni and weekend visitors to see the colorful exhibits.
Led by new President Tom Reedy, the Senate also considered plans for the Victory dances, the Oct. 14 Hall elections, the Senior trip to East Lansing, and the Sophomore Cotillion budget.
The Senate was informed of $4447 in its treasury, received in the $1 Student Government fee, which was collected at registration. Both Father Norton and President Reedy stressed the importance of this greatly-increased income, and advised the Senate to use it as wisely as possible for the good of the student body.
Tentative plans for the fund include contribution towards a future Student Union Building-, and a student loan fund.
Jim Richards, Junior Class President, was elected Senate Secretary, and Tom Field, Arts and Letters member of the Senate was appointed Charity Chest Manager for the coming year.
Blue Circle Throws Frosh Picnic Tomorrow Afternoon
Blue Circle orientation of freshmen will continue with the Freshman Picnic at Potawatamie Park tomorrow afternoon from 1 to 6 o’clock.
Chairman Joe Madigan expects between 400 ND men and 200 to 250 girls, mostly from St. Mary’s College, to load the busses which will depart
from the Circle and from across the Dixie at about 12:45 and 1 pjn.
A game program has been planned and the usual picnic refreshments are on the menu.
Tickets for the picnic are being sold by the rectors of the freshman halls. Cost of the ducats is 75 cents.
Last Saturday the first ND - St. Mary’s social affair of the season was held with 450 freshmen attending a mixer in the newly decorated recreation room at St- Mary’s College from 7:30 to 10:30 pjn.
Ping-pong and dancing to juke box music provided the entertainment. Members of the Junior class at St. Maxey’s were hostesses, with the Blue Circle assisting.
A Sophomore Mixer wall be held at St. Mary’s College on Oct. 4.
Commerce Ball
(Continued from page 9) reservations and decorations. These services may be obtained when the dance ticket is purchased. Corsages will be banned at the semi-formal affair.
Other members of the dance committee are Bob Kosydar, who will apply his talents to the business end, and Ernie Bartell, doing the publicity work.
The newly organized Commerce Activities Council began planning the ball early last March after a survey which showed an overwhelming desire for a Commerce Ball was made. The Council hopes that the dance will become an annual affair with future Commerce men.
Success Story at First St. Mary's Dance
FRESHMAN MEETS MATCH ACROSS THE HIGHWAY
Last Saturday Night, The Meeting, The Greeting, and The Dance
Sept. 26, 1952
21
Forward . . . March. . .
Once over lightly means, as far as we can tell, a single, swift, nearly comprehensive view of something or other. And that is the intention of this column. The something or other ■will change, of course, every week; in fact, it will often change within the column and sometimes within a single paragraph. After all, there’s just so much that can be said about some subjects. Our editor tells us that he would like this vast and sprawling space to treat the vast and sprawling business of entertainment, and he said, “You know, books and things.” So, “books and things” it is, lads, with the accent on the “things” (Who said “St. Mary’s?”).
By the way, the “we” in this column is literal, not editorial and if you don’t believe us look at the signatures. All three of the hoodlums are equally irresponsible and share the blame for what is written. So now you know.
■
Books. . .
Our first quick glance at the' pocketbook stand in Walgreen’s raised the thought that a lot of the common herd (that doesn’t include us college boys, you understand) are getting faked into buying good literature under the guise of mild pornography. The covers of such recently published pocket-size books as Sister Carrie, All the King’s Men, Cakes and Ale and Point of No Return seem to indicate that once a book has sold on what is between the covers, it sells on what the publishers can make us imagine is between the covers. The above are really fine books traveling in a Spillane disguise of bosomy front covers and intriguing back page blurbs, and it is a bit amusing to think of all the rough and tumble Spillane men finding much to their chagrin that they’re reading some high class stuff. Don’t bother looking, lads, they don’t put it in italics in these books.
■
. . . And Things
Aardvark von Seed, our foreign correspondent, has consented to let us quote a few excerpts from his recent travel book, So You’re Going to St. Mary’s. This, we hope, will answer some of the questions so many have been asking.
What should one wear to SMC this season? Aardvark reports that the usual rules prevail. These are: never look cool on a hot day (sport shirts are ta
boo, especially on Sunday) or comfortable at any time. Those sensitive damsels across the way are shocked to see any lad without a clean shirt and tie to cover his manly chest. Remember, too, that one should always bring a pencil to help his date sign out.
How should I act? Mr. von Seed says that at all times when in Le Mans Hall one should cultivate a pained look, as though he were uncomfortable. If the' good Sisters see a boy comfortable, they raise the temperature' another twenty degrees, and as the regular flyboys know, it’s hot enough as is (we refer, of course', to atmospheric conditions). When away from the stronghold, one should look at his watch every few minutes, just for effect. There is really no need to watch the time, for about two hours before one’s date is due back at school, she will raise a lady-like shriek and head for the nearest bus stop. Follow her and have the correct change ready. It’s all one can do.
Thank you and goodnight, Mr. Seed.,
For Peasants Only. . .
“Gad,” one of us muttered, “What’s this puny thing?”
“A radio,” the other two chorused back, showing their intelligence.
“What challenge does it offer?” the first demanded. “Why it only has two dials. My television set has at least 56.” Then muttering something about the backwardness of Sub Sorinia, he flaked out on the upper sack.
The' rest of us, being naturally curious, decided to give this radio thing a try. This invention amazed us.
Seriously though, it’s somewhat of an experience to listen to good drama on the radio again. During the' summer we, like most others probably did, turned on the television set and stretched out on the floor with a cool bottle of brew.
We grew familiar with the techniques of audio-visual entertainment. It’s a fine art; we don’t deny this. We just realize that there are still a few worthwhile radio shows.
Listen to a good radio drama some night instead of sacking out early or toddling down to Jeer’s with the boys. Listen for the different inflections the actors have to use to put their story across. Notice how effectively they portray the situation and experience without props or setting.
Remember, you’re in college now, lads, and you are supposed to be able to use your intelligence. Try it sometime. It’s different anyhow.
■
Halt. . . One, Two. . .
After having gone through six, we find that semesters hit hard and fast. With mingled feelings we are looking forward to: the first crowded pep rally with, perhaps, a blazing bon fire . . . watching the little kids from N.D. race old ladies for seats on the N.I.T. . . . the Sophomore Cotillion ... a victorious football season featuring “The Taming of the' Men(?)” from Michigan State • . . the first rip-roaring western in Washington Hall . . . Sunday mornings on the Sorin porch, and applauding the bevies of beautiful belles passing by (tradition, of course) . . . crunching through the snow on a frostbitten night, bound for a nearby zoo . . . the return of Pogo to the South Bend Trib. (we hope) . . . mid-semester exams with the traditional parentbound pink slips . . . listening to election returns in the wee hours on oui* battery radio . . . showing off to football weekend visitors . . . the exotic night life on the SMC porch . . . and livin’, Brother, just livin’.—Gerry Voit, Walt Werner, Jack Dilenschneider.
Notify Local AF ROTC Group Of Central Command Shift
The Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps unit at Notre Dame University became a part of the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., the world’s largest educational institution, on August 1 with the formal transfer of the program from Continental Air Command.
A new national headquarters of the AF ROTC is being opened in Montgomery, Ala., the site of Maxwell Air Force Base.
The transfer, involving AF ROTC units of more than 145,000 students at 188 colleges and universities throughout this country, in Puerto Rico and Hawaii, was announced by Air Force Headquarters at Washington.
“The change consolidates and centralizes the control of the program,” the announcement said, “and makes possible more direct supervision of the activities of Air Force ROTC units at the 188 participating institutions.
“The transfer also brings under one command the complementary missions of the 1 Air University and the Air Force ROTC.
‘.‘Both programs are mainly con- , cerned with military education and
(Continued on page 31)
22
The Scholastic
Delay WND Opening Until Early October
Due to extensive engineering changes being introduced at WND, the campus radio station has been forced to postpone its scheduled starting date of Sept. 15 to a date early in October. These changes are expected to improve the reception in all of the halls previously covered by WND, and to bring in the new Fisher Hall and all of the old halls which, because of technical difficulties, could not receive the station.
WND was visited by the FCC last Spring and was asked to make certain minor technical changes in their wiring of the campus. While making these changes it was decided to correct many of the inefficiencies that were left in the system when it was originally put into operation, and to connect Fisher, Zahm, and other halls not now served. Briefly, the major improvements will be to correct mismatched wiring and to feed power lines into each hall where only one is fed now.
At the same time, Ted Byrne, WND’s chief engineer, has improved the studio equipment to better the fidelity of the signal, so that music, in particular, will be transmitted more faithfully.
When WND returns to the air, it will be on a different frequency, lower on the dial where there is less interference from local radio stations, and with different call letters yet to be decided. Best bet on the new call letters at this time seems to be either WNDU (for Notre Dame University) or WNDL (for Notre Dame du Lac).
This year, WND will be back with their United Press news service on teletype and the Thesaurus transcription service, as well as all the other improvements in programming that were inaugurated last year. But it is very doubtful that the St. Mary’s transmitter will be in operation as last year’s experiment didn’t prove to be too successful.
WND put up a booth at the freshman mixer last Sunday night to tell the freshmen about the activities of the station and to open the door for those interested in taking a part in the workings of the station. The equipment on display drew quite a few to the booth and about 75 new men showed up for the meeting Monday night in the Law Building.
By next week, the whole program schedule for the coming year and all the new appointments in the station will be completed for the opening day of operations.
. . . And Printing What We Find
So starts a brand new column, with a purpose which is older than the hills —namely, just to fill up a little space with chatter. Since this is the preamble, we should state right now that the aims of this column are none. It is not intended to be a humor column, nor will it compete with the meaty issues taken up by The Back Page. No crusading will be done here; all the fiery blasts and sweet orchids will appear on the editorial page.
In this spot each week you might find gossip, little personal items about different people which are worth mentioning, humorous or human-interest bits from other college publications, an occasional light historical piece on a happening at N.D. in the good old days, and maybe something from our mail bag. In short you might see just about anything here. To illustrate that last point, next week this space will feature our nomination for the saddest story of the year, an event which actually happened to a Naval Academy Midshipman.
You can be in on this, too. If anything happens to you that you think
Sa Me . . .
“Things are going to be different this semester—I’m really going to hit the books.”
other people would get a kick out of, let us know. If you get engaged, break your arm, win a prize, get a 50-yard line seat at a football game, or have four extra tickets to the Oklahoma game, let us know. Or if you just want to get your name in the magazine to show that little cousin who thinks that Notre Dame is a great place, maybe we can fix you up here.
Since we have some space left, we’ll finish off this column with a sad story junior grade which will serve as a preliminary to next week’s tale of woe. We can’t vouch for this story personally, but it was told to us by a very trustworthy friend, so we’ll vouch for the veracity of the following.
The story takes place in Miami, and concerns a young gentleman who went out on a particular night to one of these never-ending parties. The party did not break up till about five in the morning and, since his date lived about as far away from him as she could get and still be a Miamian, he did not get home till about 7 a.m.
By this time he was completely (Continued on page 30)
Sept. 26, 1952
23

With metal slip-on cap. Hooded point. Colors: Black, Blue. Green and Red.
Start off school in a breeze with one of these smart new Parker
Parfcer “21” Deluxe
Parker “21” Custom
A luxurious pen with solid engraving on metal cap and clip. 4 colors
$5.75	$7.50
12K rolled gold plate cap and clip-only gold capped pen near the price
$10.00
21’s. Smart stringbetter writing features seldom offered at even twice the price.
Cope. 1952 by The Parker Pea Company
Writing’s/un with the New “21”! You glide through schoolwork on a super-smooth point of Octanium, the wonderful new 8-metal alloy. Ink is specially metered to prevent skips and blots.
What’s more, the “21” stores more ink in a new-type reservoir which you can see through. And Parker’s exclusive, full-length hooded point protects against smudgy fingers. Choose your new Parker “21” for school now!
Also seo the economy pen value of the yeor...PARKETTE—$3.50
24
The Scholastic..
Irish Tackle Penn in *52 Grid Debut
Irish Varsity Whips Frosh 46-0 in Final Scrimmage
Last Saturday afternoon Notre Dame’s varsity mopped up the stadium floor with green-shirted freshmen in an expected 46-0 trouncing over Coach Dick Cotter’s hopefuls. This scrimmage, the last full-time workout for the Irish, proved that while Frank Leahy’s lads have the talent to defeat Penn’s Quakers tomorrow, they will lack reserve strength.
The Frosh squad, which at times looked bigger than the varsity had only a few days to practice before the encounter, and thus went through Penn’s single-wing formation with the crudeness that will not be found when the Quakers swing into action tomorrow.
Defensive Line Looks Strong
Defensively the Irish looked good, holding the Frosh to three hard earned first downs. Especially outstanding against the oncoming freshmen was Captain Jack Alessandrini and guard Tom Seaman, both incidentally the only two seniors in the starting alignment. Alessandrini also accounted for two of his squad’s 46 points when he tackled a bewildered young back in the end zone for a safety. Minutes later he charged over the middle of the line to block a Frosh punt.
Offensively it was halfback John Lattner roaring for the first three
(Continued on page 28)
TOM CAREY
Paces varsity over Frosh
Coaches Leahy and Munger Ready Charges For Crucial Battle in Philadelphia Tomorrow
BY BILL NOONAN
The 64th edition of Notre Dame’s Figthting Irish will be unveiled in Franklin Field, Philadelphia tomorrow afternoon before an estimated capacity crowd of 78,000 people. Playing host to the Leahymen will be the Red and Blue of the University of Pennsylvania. It will be only the third meeting between the two schools, the Irish having won both previous engagements by sizeable margins back in the early thirties.
Things are different in 1952. This time the Irish encounter really a rugged customer in the Quakers. Rated by most as best in the Ivy league and by many as best in the entire East, the
EDDIE BELL
All-American prospect faces Irish
Quakers, after a mediocre 5-4 record in ’51, are out to garner national ranking. A victory over Notre Dame in this important intersectional clash would skyrocket them into the pigskin limelight.
Last season Coach George Munger placed the emphasis on defense. His 1951 club held its last seven opponents
BILL DEUBER
Brother of former Penn star
completely in check in the second half, but this fall, with the help of last year’s crack freshman squad, Munger plans to step up his touchdown making. The Quakers will break away a little from Penn tradition and include one or more variations of the “T” formation in their basic single wing attack.
This year’s backfield crop should pack more punch than last year’s group, especially if Walt Hynoski, 167 pound sophomore tailback' and last season's frosh team standout, comes through as expected. He is tabbed as a natural by those down Philadelphia way. Hynoski, however, has the rugged task of displacing two reliable veterans before he can vault into a starting role. Glenn Adams, injured most of last year, is fit and ready to go as is his capable fillin, Chet Cornog, who played the tailback spot during Adam’s absence in ’51. Senior Bill Deuber follows in the footsteps of his brother, Bob, former Penn Star, as first team wingback. He is
Sept. 26, 1952
25
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offense) PENNSYLVANIA NOTRE DAME
Moses .......  LE	   Penza
Evans (LT ...................... Murphy Haggerty	.... LG . Seaman
Shanafelt	.... C .... Schrader
Hovery ------- RG	Alessand’i c.
Bushek ....... RT	Bush
Bell ........  RE	   O’Neil
Binkoski......QB ...Guglielmi
Adams ....... LHB	  Heap
Deuber_______RHB ---- Lattner
Zimmer ....... FB	  Worden
KICKOFF TIME: 2:00 EDT
backed up by 170 lb. junior, George Bosseler. Ed Binkowski, another junior gets the call at the blocking back post with sophomore ace, Jim Manley, a bone crushing 220 pounder ready to step in when needed. Fullback is well taken care of in the person of husky 218 lb. Don Zimmer. Joe Varatis is his sub. The Red and Blue are deep in fast stepping backfield reserves, any of which might break loose if given the chance.
Evans, Bell, Rated Penn's Best
Pennsylvania’s main strength last year lay in the line and the losses by graduation are few in number. Only linebacker Gerry McKinley’s departure might be felt. The double-duty linemen, Captain Bob Evans at tackle and end Ed Bell are' definite threats for All-American honors. Evans, tipping the scales at 215, is rated by Penn line coach, Rae Crowther as the best tackle in collegiate football, while the rangy, 195 pound Bell is the key target for
JOE HEAP
Fastest Irish back set to run
the tailback’s passes as well as a rugged operative on defense. Bell’s offensive wingmate will more than likely be John Moses, 180 pound senior. Norm Wilde and Jim Kahl serve' as offensive replacements while Norm Boudreau takes over for Moses on defense.
The tackles will be' one of Penn’s strongest spots. Besides the cat-like Evans, Munger has two highly touted sophomores, John Gurski at 225 and Howard Jackson at 216, to work with. Joe Bushek, however, will open the game at the other offensive tackle post.
RALPH GUGLIELMI
Directs ND attack tomorrow
A junior, he weighs in at 210. Heading the list at guard is Stew Haggerty 6'2", 180 pound junior. His running mate will be Dave Hovey, a senior. Vince Metallo is also in the picture.
NEIL WORDEN “Bull" hopes to use his horns
Charlie Assiff and Jim Seeley both at 200 plus, are slated to take over when the opposition has the ball. Jack Shanafelt is the starting center nominee with Jim Quinn as his likely replacement. George Trautman, 215 and Dick Shafer, sophomores, team with the veteran, Zimmer to give the Quakers a solid linebacking trio. Carl Sempier is scheduled to boot the extra points.
Quakers Hope for Grid Prominence
This mixture of solid veterans and sparkling newcomers gives Penn an outfit that will have to be reckoned with by all who oppose them. Stepping away from Ivy league conservatism, Pennsylvania is out to give the East a team that will be recognized as a nation-wide power. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 P.M. EDT on the Franklin Field turf, Frank Leahy’s 1952 Fighting Irish will try to shatter the Quaker’s dreams.
Whether the youthful Notre Darners will accomplish this feat depends to a great extent on how well the shoes of Messrs. Toneff, Ostrowski and Mut-scheller can be filled on the offensive forward wall. The Irish backfield is strong, and graduation losses here are not too serious due to the' return of many of last season’s stalwarts. Ralph Guglielmi, who sparked the Greenshirts’ victory over Southern California in last year’s finale will direct an all veteran backfield. Joe Heap, the New Orleans speedster and two-platooner John Lattner will get the nod at the halfbacks while Neil “Bull” Worden will again operate in the fullback slot from which he led all Irish scorers last fall. Lattner, probably Notre Dame’s biggest threat, was selected by many pre-season prognosticators as All-American timber. Backing up this quartet will be diminu-
(Continued on page 28)
JOHN LATTNER
Double-duty halfback among the best
26
The Scholastic
Texas, Trojans Win; Serve Warning to ND
Tomorrow the Irish open their 1952 season against Penn at Philadelphia, and if their opponents’ score from previous games indicate anything Frank Leahy’s forces are in for a tough road ahead.
Texas, whom the Irish will face in their second game of the season, bowled over Louisiana State, 35-14 at Baton Rouge. The Longhorns uncovered a ground attack which accounted for four touchdowns and proved too much for L.S.U. to handle. The able T.U. forces were led by Quarterback Jimmy Jones who scored two touchdowns and passed for another. One of L.S.U.’s two touchdowns came when former Notre Dame halfback Jerry Marchand bucked over from the two.
Southern Cal served ample warning that they’re not to be trifled with by overpowering Washington State, 35 to 7 at the coliseum, thus giving Notre Dame fans something to worry about. The Trojans travel to South Bend to close the Irish home season November 29. Southern Cal broke the game wide open in the third period with three touchdowns and from there on completely overwhelmed the hapless, but still fighting Cougars, who were considered to have their strongest team in 22 years. Jess Hill’s Trojans scored in every period but the fourth to place themselves as a major threat to the Pacific Coast Conference title.
Tennis Tourney Underway; Wally Clarke Gains Top Spot
The annual campus tennis tourna-I	ment started last Saturday on the
I	campus tennis courts. The tournament
is open to all students with the excep-I tion of tennis monogram winners. This year 85 men took to the courts for the first day’s play. By Sunday there will be only 16 players remaining in the tourney. It will require about two more weeks to finish the tourney.
|	Wally Clarke of San Francisco, who
won the tournament last year is favored to retain his title. His top contenders are Don Kennedy, Ron Maz-
I	i	zoli, Dave Cohen, Pete Caruso, Frank
f	:	Lynch, Tom Prendergast, and Ray Tier-
»	i	ney. Two of the top players have al-
t	ready been beaten. Mazzoli was beaten
i	by sophomore Dick Schmitt, 6-3, 7-5,
i	and transfer student Tim Murphy beat
5	Frank Lynch 6-3, 7-5. Ray Tierney,
another of the top eight has been eliminated by default.
Sept. 26, 1952
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.. 1952 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 27 Penn a* Philadelphia	
Oct.	4 Texas at Austin
Oct.	11 Pittsburgh at N. D.
Oct.	18 Purdue at Lafayette
Oct.	25 No. Carolina at N. D.
Nov.	1 Navy at Cleveland
Nov.	8 Oklahoma at N. D.
Nov.	15 Michigan S. at Lansing
Nov.	22 Iowa at Iowa City
Nov.	29 So. California at N. D.
CAPTAIN JACK
“Captain Jack” will lead the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame in 1952. “Captain Jack” is Jack Alessandrini, veteran linebacker from Charleston, W.
CAPT. JACK ALESSANDRINI Mainstay in Irish defensive wall
Va., who called defensive signals a year ago, and is captain of this year’s Notre Dame eleven.
Alessandrini will probably see some double duty this season. Besides resuming his backing up position “Captain Jack” is also slated to see service at the offensive right guard spot, and is currently alternating there with Menil Mavraides.
Alessandrini, a 197-pounder, also may do some punting for Notre Dame. Johnny Lattner, all-purpose halfback, will be the number one Irish punter though, but “Captain Jack” will be backing him up with the same dependability he uses to back up the defensive line.
Returning Vet Aces Bolster Cinder Squad
Notre Dame’s cross-country team, sparked by the return of several' outstanding veterans once again shows promise of a successful season. Harry Snyder, captain and number two man, Jack Alexander, leading point producer, George Helfenstein and John O’Conner comprise the varsity contingent. AU but Alexander are seniors.
Daly, Squires ineligible
Two outstanding freshmen not eligible for varsity competition under NCAA ruling are Jim Daly from New York and Bill Squires from Boston.
Coach Alex Wilson plans to select three additional men who prove themselves proficient in running the hill and dale distance. The competition is keen among Al Schoeng, Bob English, Dick O’Keefe, Bill Richardson, BiU Lenihan, Dick DeSchriver and Jim Hemon.
The squad will exhibit its wares against Wheaton in the opener on October 4. Although the schedule is not complete, the next meet is almost certain to be with Marquette on October 25 while highly rated Michigan State will be met on November 1. Both are home tests. Comprising the remainder of the known schedule is the Indiana State meet on November 7 at Indianapolis, the Central Collegiates November 15 at Chicago, and the National Championships on November 24. The majority of the meets are run on a four-mile basis.
Football Ducats Still Remain For Majority of Irish Games
Notre Dame Ticket Manager Robert Cahill has stated that he has received numerous calls, wires and letters in the past couple of weeks asking if it is possible to buy tickets for any Notre Dame home games. While the Oklahoma game at Notre Dame scheduled for Nov. 8, sold out on August 12, Cahill is of the belief that a good many people have the erroneous impression that all Notre Dame games are sellouts.
Announcements were made on the early sellouts of the following three games away from home, Pennsylvania, Sept. 27, Texas, Oct. 4, and Michigan State, Nov. 15, but Cahill recently stressed that tickets still remain for the following three games being played in the Notre Dame stadium: Pittsburgh, Oct. 11; North Carolina, Oct. 25, and Southern California, Nov. 29.
27
jam Franklin Field in the city of
FRANK LEAHY
Heading his 10th season
By Jack Sand
Leahy After 400th Irish Win
It’s almost kickoff time' for tomorrow’s curtain raiser with Penn’s cocky Quakers. Among the 78,000 wildeyed fans who are expected to “Brotherly Love” will be one spectator, if we may call him that, who wants Notre Dame to win this inaugural contest more than anyone else. He is none other than the Irish coach himself, Frank Leahy, who hopes that tomorrow will not only bring his gridders their first victory of the season, but also Notre Dame’s 400th football triumph since the school began throwing the' pigskin around back in 1887. In the 63 seasons preceding the start of the current campaign, the Irish have won 399 games, lost 83 and tied 32. Exclusive of ties, this amounts to a winning percentage of .882.
Pessimism Reigns High, But Not Supreme
Bothered by injuries, a small squad, and general inexperience', Coach Leahy has a definite right to maintain his pessimistic outlook toward tomorrow’s game ... a game' incidentally, which will open the most formidable schedule ever attempted by a Notre Dame club. Perhaps the question may arise; just why did the Irish ever attempt such a suicide assignment, if they knew in advance that today’s picking’s would be so small. In a recent interview Leahy answered this question by stating that the schedule was compiled two or three years ago when no one ever had the slightest notion that the squad would reach the low ebb of having only 40 to 45 men fit for action.
Discounting the fact of graduation, the Irish have lost many footballers in this span of a few years, through serious injuries, failures in meeting the school’s requirements, and most recently the dropping of the Freshmen eligibility rule. In this stretch of bad luck, we could name many such victims as Bill Gaudreau, Bob Kelly, Vince Meschievitz and Jim Dunlay, all of whom were lost through injuries; others like' Frank Epstein, who was drafted by Uncle Sam, and former Irish ballcarriers Jerry Marchand and Ralph Paolone who have left for greener pastures.
Powerful Linebacking Trio
With the return of sophomore Dan Shannon to top physical condition the Irish can now boast of having one of the toughest linebacking combinations in the country. Flanking Shannon to the right is another soph, powerful Dick Szymanski, with Capt. Jack Alessandrini anchoring down the middle of the defensive wall. All three iron men might well get a shot at offensive duties, which brings us to the question mark of just how well the offensive line, will shape up. The only holdover on the forward wall with any worthwhile amount of playing time is senior guard, Tom Seaman, who, with a little cooperation from his mates may make things rough for Penn. If not, watch for a young man named Ralph Guglielmi to unlimber his previously sore right arm.
Prediction of the Week
The last time the Irish bumped heads with Penn at Franklin Field was in 1930. The Quakers left the field with all the' bumps that day as they were annihilated 60-20.
Tomorrow’s game should be a bit different though, with the Irish getting the 20, and Penn only 14.
ND vs. Penn
(Continued from page 25) tive Tom Carey at quarter, Fran Pa-terra and Paul Reynolds at the halves, and Tom McHugh at full.
The offensive line is Coach Leahy’s biggest worry. Don Penza and Bob O’Neil will open at the ends though excenter Art Hunter is expected to see extensive action if his injuries mend. Walt Cabral is also a candidate, both offensively and defensively. At the tackle posts, double monogram winner, Tom Murphy will start next to Penza on the left side while Joe Bush gets the call at right tackle. Two other starting possibilities at the tackles are Fred Poehler, and Frank Varrichione. The guards look like Notre' Dame’s strongest line spots with steady Tom Seaman at left guard and Captain Jack Alessandrini on the right side. Alessandrini will double on defense' as center linebacker. Jim Schrader will take over Hunter’s old center post.
The defensive platoon will find Fred Mangialardi and Bob O’Neil or Walt Cabral at the ends, Sam Palumbo and Bob Ready at the tackles with Jack Lee' at the center guard spot. Dick Szymanski will back up the' right side while Dan Shannon covers the left. In between, will be Captain Alessandrini. Jack Whelan will play defensive left half and Lattner, right half. Gene Car-rabine and Paul Reynolds will in all likelihood, share the safety position. Dave Flood will also see considerable defensive action.
It’s a big one tomorrow, but only the first of ten, tough, big ones for the Irish in 1952.
Varsity-Frosh Scrimmage (Continued from page 25) touchdowns, one on a 35-yard end sweep, another on a 50-yard pass play from quarterback Tom Carey, and the third on a two-yard buck through the middle. Carey, along with Ralph Guglielmi, and later Don Bucci engineered the varsity to all seven touchdowns.
In the second half the Irish varsity let loose every available back as Dave • Flood, Gene Carrabine, and Jack Whelan all rambled for paydirt. Flood’s was the longest gallop as he grabbed a short Frosh kickoff at midfield and raced 50 yards for the score. The final tally came when Carey fired a 35-yard aerial to end Don Penza who went 20 more for the TD.
The extra-point kicking department served notice that it wasn’t ready for the season’s opener tomorrow as they booted only two through the uprights in seven attempts, with Minnie Mav-raides having the dubious distinction of doing so.
28
The Scholastic
1952 Numerical Roster
University of Notre Dame
NO.	NAME		POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOMETOWN	HIGH SCHOOL	CLASS
2	^Careyj Thomas F			QB QB	19	5-10	175	Chicago, III.			Mt. Carmel 			 Soph.
3	•Gugliehni, Ralph V				19	6-0	180	Columbus, Ohio 			Grandview 			 Soph.
4	Rucct Donald . ... 					QB QB	19	64)	180	Youngstown, Ohio Davenport, la. .		East			 Soph.
5	Martin, Robert L				20	6-2	185		St. Ambrose	Jr.
								
7	Buczkiewicz, Edward 		QB	21	6-0	177	Chicago, III. 			Weber 			 Sr.
8	Bigelow, James 		QB	18	5-11	170	Glenshaw, Pa.			Shaler 			 Soph.
9	Galvin, Patrick J			 •Paterra, Francis F. 		QB HB	18 20	6-0	185	Detroit, Mich	_	.. „	Cath. Central „ -	—Soph.
10				5-11	190	McKeesport, Pa. ...	Tech	Jr.
								
14		HB	19	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.	Fenwick 			 Jr.
		HB	19	6-1	185	Passaic, N. J	-		 . . Pope Pius Xn 		
16	Morrissey, Rockne J. 		HB	20	5-9	165		-—Purcell	~	Jr-
								
17		HB	21	5-11	180	Miami, Fla.		Miami 			 Sr.
18		HB	19	6-0	180	Springfield, Ill.	Cathedral Prep 			 Soph.
19	Getschow, Lee £					HB	20	6-0	175	Kenilworth, 111. —		New Trier			Sr.
20	•Carrabine, Eugene P			HB	19	6-1	178		Emerson					Soph.
								
24	Joseph, Robert 				HB	21	5-9	165	Martins Ferry, O. .		Martins Ferry 				 Jr.
28	Sarna, Edward 						HB	22	5-11	175	South River, N. J.		South River			Jr.
29	Galardo, Armando 		HB	20	5-10	170	Watertown, N. Y.		Immaculate Heart 				 Jr.
30	McHugh, Thomas L					FB	20	6-1	190	Toledo, Ohio			Central Catholic			Jr.
32	‘•Flood, David M. 		HB	24	5-10	185		Langley 	  —		 Sr.
								
33	•Shannon, Daniel J. 		FB	19	6-0	190	Chicago, 111. 			Mt. Carmel 	—		 Soph.
42	*FTeapJ Joseph L. -	—		HB	20	5-11	175	Covington, La. 	 Teaneck, N. J. 			Holy Cross (New Orleans} Soph.	
44	Arrix, Robert J. 		FB	19	5-10	188			Peddie (Hightstown) —	_ Soph.
45	Rigali, Robert J			HB	20	5-8	172	Oak Park, III. 			Fenwick 	—		 Jr.
48	•Worden, Neil J			FB	21	5-11	185	Milwaukee, Wis. —		Pulaski 				 Jr.
52	•Szymanski, Richard F. 		C	19	6-2	210	Toledo, Ohio 			Libbey 	—		 Soph.
53	•Schrader, James L. 		C	20	6-2	206	Carnegie, Pa.			Scott Twp. 				Jr.
54	Nowack, Arthur C			C	21	6-1	208	Rochester, N. Y. _			Aquinas Inst. ——		Jr.
56	Cook, Edward J. 		C	19	6-1	210	Philadelphia, Pa. _.		S.E. Catholic			Soph.
60	•Varrichione, Frank J	_				T-G	20	6-0	207 198	Natick, Mass. 			Natick 	—		 Soph.
62	•Seaman, Thomas J			G	22	5-11		Canton, Ohio 			Lincoln 	—		 Sr.
63	Frasor, Richard 				G-C	19	5-11	190	Blue Island, Ill. —		Mt. Carmel	—		 Soph.
65	•Lee, Jack 		G	20	5-11	190	Medford, Mass. —			Malden Catholic —			 Soph.
66	Robst, Paul K			G	20	5-11	195		St. George 	—		Jr.
								
67	•Palumbo, Samuel 		G	20	6-0	195	Cleveland, Ohio —		Collinwood 			 Soph.
68	•Alessandrini, Jack (c) 		G	21	5-11	197	Charleston, W. Va.		Catholic	—		—		Sr.
69	•Bardash, Virgil 		G-T	22	6-0	206	Gary, Ind.			Horace Mann 			 Sr.
70	••Kelly, Robert J. 		T	21	6-2	203	Duluth, Minn. 			Catholic			Sr.
71	Taylor, Robert H. 		T	20	6-2	200	Pekin, Ill. 			Pekin 				 Soph.
73	•Bush, Joseph R. 		T	20	6-3	206	Oak Park, Ill. 			St. Ambrose (Davenport)	Jr.	
74	•Ready, Robert 		T	20	6-3	208	Lowell, Mass.			Lowell 			 Soph.
75	Pasquesi, Anthony L. 					T	19	6-4	. 212	Chicago, Ill. 			St. Philip 			 Soph.
76	•Poehler, Frederick 		T	22	6-4	210	Jackson, Mich. 		Jackson —————————————		 Jr.
78	••Murphy, Thnmns F. . ...		-		T	22	6-1	210	Chicago, Ill.			St. George 			 Sr.
79	fWeithman, James C. 		T	22	6-0	190	Bucyrus, Ohio 			Bucyrus 			 Sr.
80	f*Hunter, Arthur 		E	19	6-3	221	Akron, Ohio			St. Vincent			Jr-
81	Kohanowich, Albert 		E	22	6-1	189	Hempstead, N. Y. _		Hempstead 	—		 Sr.
82	•O’Neil, Robert 		E	21	6-2	195	Bridgeville, Pa. 			Lincoln 	—		 Sr.
83	•Penza, Donald 		E	20	6-1	200	Kenosha, Wis. 			St. Catherine (Racine)		 Jr.
85	•Mavraides, Menil 		E	19	6-1	205	Lowell, Mass. 			Lowell .	—		 Jr.
86	•Mangialardi, Fred 		E	19	6-1	195	Chicago, Hl. 			St. Philip 			 Jr.
88	•Cabral, Walter K. . 		E	20	6-3	205	Honolulu, Hawaii _		_St. Louis	—		Soph. 	Soph.
90	Matz, Paul A			E	19	6-1	191	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Cannel 			
	• Indicates Monogram Winner, f Monogram	winner in	1950	but not	1951.			
t* Won monogram as first string center in 1951 — switched to end in 1952.
Sept. 26, 1952
29
Navy to Interview Seniors on Oct. 6
Lieutenant Ely Sires of the Chicago Office of Naval Procurement will interview senior and graduate students who are interested in the Navy’s Officer Candidate Program in the Faculty Lounge, Main Building, on Monday, Oct. 6, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Men who will receive a bachelor’s degree by January 1953 are eligible, as are others with such a degree. For unrestricted line and staff corps commissions men must be between 19 and 27 years old. Restricted line (specialists) are accepted up to 33 years. The mathematics requirement has been dropped and only a bachelor’s degree is now prerequisite for eligibility.
Ensign or Lieutenant (junior grade) commissions are granted at the conclusion of a 16-week course at the Navy’s Officer Candidate School, Newport, R. I. Members of reserve units and veterans are eligible to apply, as are men with draft deferred classifications. It is urged that men apply within 120 days of graduation to insure ample time for completion of processing.
Applicants may indicate their choice of duty. In addition to general line, applications are designed for aeronautical, supply and civil engineer corps, and restricted line in aerological duties, naval intelligence, communications, ordnance, electrical engineering, photographic interpretation, and electronics. Graduate students and seniors are urged to talk to Lieutenant Sires while he is on the campus, and secure more detailed information and preliminary applications.
Plan 4 Entrance Exams For Law School Here
The Law School Admission Test, required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of November 15, 1952, February 21, April 25, and August 8, 1953.	.
A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take either the November or the February test, if possible.
The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational
Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a Bulletin of Information.
Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J.
Completed applications must be received at least ten days before the desired testing date.
Another Extensive Campaign Planned for Debate Team
Plans for another extensive year to include 200 to 250 debates and several major tournament competitions have been announced for the Notre Dame debate society for the 1952-53 season by Leonard Sommer, coach of the debating team.
Tournament participation, notably in the National Competitions to be held the last week of April and the Purdue Tournament on November 14 and 15, will also include the First Annual Notre Dame Invitational Tournament. The Notre Dame Tournament, the first of its kind and magnitude to be held on home grounds, is set for the second week of March.
Most debates the nation over will use the national debating topic of the year, which concerns the question of the need and advisability of Federal enactment of a compulsory fair employment practices law.
“Yeah, I’m a big basketball star out at Notre Dame."
ND Library Acquires Valuable New Books
The University Library has announced that it is to receive two sets of the 54-volume Great Books of the Western World, regarded by the publishers as the largest and perhaps the most significant publishing venture of the twentieth century.
The set, produced jointly by Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc., and the University of Chicago, contains 443 works by 74 different authors.
The key to the set is a new reference work—the two-volume Synopticon — so called because it provides orderly access to the topics which are the great themes of Western thought. It is the result of more than seven years’ work by more than 100 scholars. With it, a reader can trace the discussion of any idea through all the authors in the set. It is considered by the publishers as a third basic reference work along with the dictionary and the encyclopedia.
Director of the library, Victor A. ' Shaefer, who replaced Paul Byrne last spring, formerly served as the assistant director of the University of Michigan library. Mr. Byrne, presently convalescing from a leg injury, is to be director of the new art gallery when the Fine Arts Building is completed.
The replacement of Miss Josephine Meagher by Miss Mary Britt in the Engineering library has also been announced.	,
There are departmental libraries, besides the Main Library, scattered about the campus. The Law Library, located in the Law Building, is for the exclusive use of law students. The Engineering Building houses the engineering and metallurgy libraries, the biology and architecture libraries are housed in their respective buildings, and the science library — which serves mathematics, physics and chemistry — will be located in the new Science Building.
Beating the Bush (Continued from page 23) bushed, envisioning quite a few hours sleep, and he tiptoed through the house, trying not to awaken anybody. About half-way through the living room he was suddenly confronted by his father, completely dressed. Said father was going golfing and, slightly surprised that his son was up so early, pre-emptorily “invited” his son to join him. So our hero’s much-needed sleep was further delayed by 18 holes of golf.
And, the' way we heard it, he’s been tired ever since.—Bob Finney
30
The Scholastic
I
New President
(Continued from page 15)
Irish ancestry, third generation Belgian on his father’s side. His father, Theodore Bernard Hesburgh recently retired after 25 years as manager of the Syracuse branch of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company.
The parents of his mother, the former Ann Murphy, were both born in G»junty Wexford, Ireland.
t
President’s Brother at Notre Dame
The new Notre Dame president has three married sisters and a young brother, James Lawrence, who “avoids me' like poison.”
Father Hesburgh admits that he has had little chance to get acquainted with his brother, inasmuch as he left home the year’ he' was born. But there is another reason.
James Lawrence will be a sophomore this year in the university of which his big brother is president and he wants no one to think that favoritism is being shown him. On a naval ROTC cruise during the past summer months, James is taking a business administration course in the college of commerce'.
Father Hesburgh, who has always been intensely interested in youth work and Christian marriage principles, thinks that he can find an outlet for his life’s work as the administrative head of one of the country’s most influential Catholic universities.
Between 1934—1949
And Father Hesburgh is well-trained for the job. After- refusing a scholarship at Niagara University in New York, he came' to Notre Dame in 1934 to begin his studies. Three years later he was sent by the Congregation of Holy Cross to Gregorian University in Rome' to study philosophy and theology.
Father Hesburgh obtained a degree in philosophy at Gregorian University in 1939, but the Axis blitzkrieg drove him out of the country. He returned to the United States where he studied theology three years at Holy Cross College. He was ordained at Notre Dame in 1943 and was sent back to Washington, where he obtained his doctorate in theology at Catholic University in 1945.
In 1945 Father Hesburgh returned to Notre Dame to teach religion and has been here since'. He was chaplain of Vetville from 1946 and in 1948 was made director of Farley Hall and head of the religion department. In 1949 he was advanced to executive vice-president and held that job until his appointment as president.
During World War II the congregation declined to release Father Hesburgh for service in the armed forces as a chaplain, although he served as auxiliary chaplain at Fort Meyer, Va.
He also did extensive writing for the USO. More than 2,000,000 copies of his series of religious books called “Contact” were distributed to service personnel.
Father Hesburgh was chaplain at the National Training School for Boys, a federal reform school in Washington, in 1944.
Father Hesburgh believes he has one final help in his job.
“There must be a special providence that watches over Notre Dame,” he says. “Good things happen to the University, and no one really knows the reason why. But it’s been like that since Father Sorin founded Notre Dame.”
Vetville Council Releases Plans for Coming Semester
Vetville mayor T. J. Bergan has released plans for the forthcoming year after the Vetville Council officially opened the school year last Sunday with a general business meeting called to discuss the immediate problems facing the community.
The council has already begun plans for exterior decoration, having recently shingled most of the units, and expect to complete the job in the near future.
The most pressing problem at the moment concerns the education of the many children who are presently being taught at local city parish schools. It is hoped that within the next year, arrangements can be made for the children to be taught at a University school.
All registrations for the Vet Rec Hall should be made through Father Norton’s office. Arrangements have been made in the Rec Hall for the use of a coffee urn, phonograph and loud
RENT A NEW ROYAL or SMITH-CORONA
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER SC oo Per Month
Rental Can Be Applied Toward Purchase Price
OFFICE ENGINEERS, Inc. 116 South Michigan St.	Phone 3-3118
speaking system. A small fee is to be paid for the use of these new additions.
A chaplain has recently been assigned to the community by the University. Those interested in baby-sitting at Vetville homes are asked to contact the new chaplain.
Mrs. Kathleen Hudson, editor of the Vetville Gazette, announced plans for a potluck dinner within the next month to welcome the thirty-three new families that have joined the Vetville ranks.
AROTC Shift
(Continued from page 22) training of Air Force officers or potential officers. The Air University has professional educators to assist in curriculum development and supervision and has complete technical and professional facilities available for Air Force ROTC use. Continental Air Command will continue to administer activities of Reserve personnel.”
interview Seniors
(Continued from page 11) dents and alumni with regard to seeking and getting the jobs that are right for them. The second function is to provide for employers a single, centralized point of employment contact with Notre Dame.
“One’s job is vastly important. Few things in life are more important than that a man, especially a college man, get the job that is right for him. His achievement and happiness in life and the achievement and happiness of his family, may very well depend on the employment start that he makes — no matter whether that start be right after he graduates or after Armed Forces service. The Placement Bureau is here to help in that whole process.”
Sept. 26, 1952
51
Freshman Ed Santos Wins Farley Ping-Pong Tourney
Ed Santos, of Colombia, South America, combined a steady hand and a quick eye to win the first ping-pong tournament held in Farley Hall this year.
Ralph Fickling was the victim, going down to defeat three games to one in the finals at the hand of the hardhitting “Sanch.”
Santos won the first game, a close one, 21-19. Fickling came back strong to take the second encounter 21-11, but went down swinging in the last two 21-16, and 21-19.
In the semi-finals, Santos had to go five games to defeat Jack Bower, a consistent returner, 3-2. Fickling had an easier time, defeating Bob Rigby 3-0 in his semi-final match.
The tournament was open to all Farley Hall Freshmen, with an entrance fee of 25 cents being charged in order
Look! Another man switched to Kentucky Club— the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Dept. 39
to buy some much needed ping-pong equipment for the three tables in the Farley basement.
The field of the tournament was comparatively small, with only sixteen players entering. More tournaments are planned for the coming year, with all Farley men eligible to enter.
Placement Group Elects Dooley Vice-President
Mr. William R. Dooley, placement director at the University of Notre Dame, was elected Vice-President of the Midwest College Placement Association at its annual conference in Cincinnati last Friday. He will take office on January 1 and serve through 1953.
Other officers elected were H. C. Goehring, placement coordinator’ for the University of Wisconsin, as president; and Mary Kruel, of the University of
Minnesota placement office, as secretary-treasurer.
The Association is composed of the placement executives of the colleges and universities in the Midwest and of the employment representatives of business and industry who regularly recruit new employees in these schools.
A native of LaSalle, Illinois, and a 1926 Notre Dame graduate, Mr. Dooley has served as placement director at the University since 1950. Previously he had been managing editor of the Alum-mis and for sixteen years was assistant alumni secretary.
Cotillion Committee Appoints McIntosh General Chairman
Sophomore weekend plans took another rapid step toward completion Tuesday night when Thomas McIntosh was assigned the general chairmanship of the Oct. 25 weekend.
Included in the plans for the weekend of festivities, besides the annual Cotillion, are a pep rally, the North Carolina-Notre Dame football game, a victory dance and a Communion breakfast.
Jimmy “dancing shoes” Palmer, coast-to-coast television star, has been chosen to provide music for the dance. Frosting for the weekend cake of entertainment will be the appearance of Jerry Mured’s “Harmonicats,” of “Peg of My Heart” fame.
Other committee heads named at the Tuesday meeting were Gordon Goete-mann and Manuel Villazon, who will correlate the decorations for the dance. Financial chairman will be James Barry, while Richard Malesardi heads the ticket committee.
Publicity is being handled by James Hesburgh and bids and favors are under the jurisdiction of John O’Meara.
Ed Dargis will be the entertainment chairman, and room accommodations will be obtained by John Weithers. Miscellaneous details are to be checked by James O’Shea.
[health I SPOT I ^HOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
32
The Scholastic
Reading Program Enrollment Nears 60-Student Maximum
Guidance Director E. R. Quinn and Richard E. Willemin, counselor in charge of the Notre Dame reading program, have announced that 45 students have already registered for the course, which will be offered to a maximum of 60 students. However, the program will be enlarged to accommodate additional students if the enrollment requires such.
The course features tachistoscopic training and reading rate acceleration, both of which will increase the reading rate of the average person.
At the freshman level, approximately 280-350 words are ordinarily read. This can be increased to 600 words a minute, and in exceptional cases a larger increase is possible.
After the series of diagnostic lessons 20 additional lessons will be given for one hour per day, two or three days weekly. The nominal charge is $10 for 20 lessons.
Father Carey Assumes Post As New Religious Prefect
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., has assumed the position of Prefect of Religion, which was formerly held by Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C. Father Carey’s duties will include editing the religious bulletin.	.
The new prefect will be assisted by Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., and Rev. Robert Fagan, C.S.C., in helping students with their problems.
Father Grimm’s replacement was necessitated by his appointment as Assistant Religious Superior of Notre Dame.
October devotions will be held every weekday, beginning Wednesday, Oct. 1, in Our Lady’s chapel in Sacred Heart Church. The devotions will consist of adoration from 4:30 until 5:30 p.m., when there will be recitation of the rosary and benediction.
First Friday adoration will be handled by the Third Order of St. Francis, whose members will canvass the various halls for volunteers.
NFCCS Regional Meeting
Nazareth College near Kalamazoo will be the scene Sunday of the first NFCCS regional council meeting of the year. Notre Dame will be represented by Senior Delegate Marshall Desmond, Junior Delegates Frank Donovan, Joe Conwell, Don Carbone, John O’Connell, Tom Nourie, Harry Hadlock, and Ron Mealey.
Prior to the regional meeting, the ND group will speak to the Nazareth College freshmen on the structure, purposes, and activities of NFCCS.
39 years of teaching experience!
Over a million delighted pupils! No other studio can match this record!
Studios Air-Conditioned
120 E. WAYNE Above Copp Music Shop 10 A. M. to 10 P. M.
Copr. 1952—Arthur	Inc.

DANCE LESSONS COST LESS AT
ARTHUR MURRAY'S
BECAUSE YOU LEARN FASTER!
No wonder The Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is recognized as the finest, most thorough, and inexpensive method in the country. The whole secret is in Arthur Murray’s basic discovery, "The Magic Step To Popularity.” This is the key step to all dances, and even a beginner can learn it in one lesson. And, because there is only this one master step to learn, you need fewer lessons and thus save time and money. Come in now and have a free trial lesson while 2 for 1 rates are in effect.
CALL 2-3339 NOW ARTHUR MURRAY
, WK i
£
“A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 for the U. S. Air Forces.
“Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week.
“If you feel you are one of the men we are looking for, write me. Your inquiry will be held in strictest confidence, of course.’
* Walter Tydon, widely known aviation engineer and aircraft designer and veteran of 25 years in aviation, is Chief Engineer of Fairchild’s Aircraft Division. ■
M ENCINE INI ElEHMt COimiTION
FAIRCHILD rfiwtaADiuiiion
HAGERSTOWN. MARYLAND
Sept. 26, 1952
53
By Paul Zalecki
consensus was that it would be better to wait until this year. At the time there were too many other matters under consideration.
Well, it is early in the year now; the Senate as of yet has not launched any other major programs. Perhaps something could be done.
Now that the first harassing week of registering, setting up camp, and getting re-orientated is over, we can settle back a little between classes to see' what this year might have in store for the troops. It could prove interesting.
Fall, of course, means football, and the team starts off tomorrow afternoon against a fairly tough opponent. Its outcome, as reported by the inimitable Joe Boland, should give some hint of how all our summertime prognostications about the team will hold up under pressure.
Commerce Dance Looks Good
Turning the spotlight away from football for the moment, one of the big improvements around here this fall promises to be the Commerce Dance. It has a lot to offer: a name band, Johnny Long; a good weekend, the Oklahoma game; and a chance to do some stepping out in the first semester, instead of waiting for the traditional Spring dances.
The dance should not offer any real competition for the Cotillion and it could liven up these early months a lot. Bids for the affair probably will be as scarce as Michigan State' tickets in no time. It is hard to see how the dance will lose money, but if it should the new Student Government should be' able to cover the loss.
What with all the talk and sarcastic comments about the Council last year, the new Senate set-up has shown that it can be effective. A sizeable bank account of dollar donations collected at registration certainly gives the Senate enough funds to operate. Of course there are many uses for the money and it may have to be spread fairly thin.
Senate Has Funds Now
Finances always have been one of the Council’s main problems in past years. Now, with this situation eased somewhat, it might be' different. Perhaps the new Senate and Cabinet can do something really constructive, unless they piddle around with little matters and bog down in a lot of talk.
Last year there was plenty of campus comment about the Honor System, and for a time it was the big issue. The' Council even discussed it with the president and vice-presidents of the University. Eventually, however, interest died down and the issue silently faded away.
This year, in place of undertaking
such controversial subjects, it might be wiser for the Senate to tackle something different, something that the campus could use. A Student Union Building is a good example. There is certainly no disagreement about its usefulness. All it takes to get one' is money. Possibly a little donation from the now affluent Student Senate could get a student-sponsored drive started.
Student Union, a Tough Project
Of course, such a project demands time and work. The Senate has a lot of other things to -worry about, like the Victory Dances and the Dining Hall lines . . . and there is also the problem of redecorating the Student Government offices.
We do not know the current opinion of the Administration about a Student Union, but it appears that they would like to see one at Notre Dame. In recent years we have seen the construction of an inn, a dormitory, and two new class buildings. A Union Building would make a fine addition to the campus. In all probability a good one would' be self-supporting, to say the least.
The past Council last year discussed the possibility of a student-directed campaign to obtain a Union, but the
20" DISCOUNT For Notre Dame Men SAVE on Cleaning and Pressing
Suits .............    $1.00	Sports Coats .........  52c
Topcoats ..............$1.00	Pants ................  52c
Raincoats .............$1.00	Sweaters ............   52c
Shirts Laundered — 3 for 65c
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. Jefferson	1st Corner Across the River
-----On the Bus Line------
Advice for Some Freshmen Stars
In closing, it might be worthwhile to offer a few words of friendly advice to some members of the freshman class. We realize that in many ways life on the' Notre Dame campus may be somewhat strange to them, and that it may take a little time to get adjusted. For a student a few months out of high school, college life may be a considerable change.
Notre Dame, however, is not high school, and it definitely is not the place to be wearing high school letters. They do not belong. They impress neither the coaches nor the other students.
One of the’ more universally accepted traditions at ND has been that the only letters that belong here are Notre Dame monograms. So here is hoping that all the high school Leroy Lettermen store theirs away and start acting like Notre Dame men.
Keep the faith.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
34
The Scholastic
This chap represents thousands of young, red-blooded sons of great American families. He is ready to stand on his own, to carry his share of responsibility. He is preparing for a bright future and desires to train further toward his success. He wants peace, security, and a full life for his family and home. If need be, he is ready to defend his rights and his country. When called on to serve in defense of American liberties, he will be fully trained and equipped to fly and fight with the U. S. Air Force.
This is what he will do—
Today’s college man will plan to stay in school and graduate if at all possible. If he is faced with early entrance into military service and possesses at least two years of college, he will enlist as an Aviation Cadet in the U. S. Air Force and choose between becoming a Pilot or Aircraft Observer. After a year of the world’s best instruction and training, he will graduate into a real man-sized job and wear the
wings of America’s finest flying fraternity.
Commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the U. S. Air Force, he will begin earning nearly $5300 a year. His future will be unlimited!
How he qualifies—
He is between the ages of 19 and 26 years, unmarried and in good physical condition, especially his eyes, ears, heart and teeth. After he has graduated from a recognized university or college, or has earned at least two years of college credits, he is eligible to enter the Aviation Cadet Training Program and will receive immediate processing for assignment to training. By sending for an Aviation Cadet application now, this Most Important Young Man in America Today will help bring about a peaceful tomorrow.
WHERE To Get More Details :
Visit your nearest U. S. Air Force Base or write direct ]
to Aviation Cadot, Hoadquartors, U. S. Air Forco, ' Washington 25, D. C	'
Sept. 26, 1952
35
CHESTERFIELD
FIRST PREMIUM
DUALITY CIGARETH
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
ktKTg-size
LIGGETT t MYERS TOBACCO CO.
LIGGETT £ MYERS TOBACCO CO.
ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR CHESTERFIELD
EITHER WAY YOU
LIKE EM
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
OF BETTER QUALITY &
OTHER KING-SIZE
CIGARETTE
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY



BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfield the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else.
BOTH are much mildei* with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization — no unpleasant after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs very little more.
Buy CHESTERFIELD./^^^^r
Copyright 1752, Liggett & Mtees ToiaccO Co.