
You can't give YOUR KID BROTHER a better gift than
THE CATHOLIC EOT
•	published by the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame
•	named best magazine in the Catholic youth field by official judges of the Catholic Press Association
$050 A a year
Edited especially for boys between 11 and 15.	48 pages every
month — packed with stories, sports, hobby articles, comics, puzzles, and features that make your boy thoroughly Catholic and Apostolic.
THE MAGAZINE BOYS WANT
I_______________________________
THE CATHOLIC BOY
Notre Dame, Indiana	Q 1 yr. —$2.50
□ 2 yrs.—$4.50
PLEASE SEND THE CATHOLIC BOY TO □ 3 yrs.—$6.50
BOY’S NAME
ADDRESS
CITY	ZONE	STATE
□	SEND GIFT CARD 1
DONOR’S NAME
□	PAYMENT ENCLOSED <. ADDRESS
IN AMOUNT OF $....... .......................................
CITY	ZONE STATE
2
The Scholastic

On campus ... he wears a dreamv Van Heusen Centurv
J	.
shirt, with the revolutionary new soft collar that wont wrinkle ever. Tailored of fine broadcloth in white or colors ... with ocean pearl buttons.
Regular or spread collar.
$3.95, $4.95
For the smartest in neckwear . .. smartly-dressed college men always choose V an Heusen ties.
All center stitched with nylon for neater knotting.
$1.00, $2.50
PHILLIPS JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1, N. Y
During study hours ... he gets comfortable in Van Heusen pajamas ... with the exclusive Flexibelt wraist that won’t let them slip, slop or slide.
$3.95 and up
he wears
Van Heusen REG. T M. day and night!
Your Trip Home Is
IN THE BAG BY TRAIN!
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
NO WEATHER OR TRAFFIC delays to make you miss holidates . . . when you go home by safe, dependable train. It’s a headstart on vacation fun, traveling with friends in roomy comfort with swell dining car meals!
IT’S A GIFT! If you and two frihnds go home and return together . . . Group .Coach Plan tickets save you each up to 25% of the regular round-trip coach fares. Or a^group of 25 or more can each save up to 28 %! Head home in the skme direction at tfie same time. After the holidays, return separately if yog wish on this largef’ Group Coach Plan.
EASTERN RAILROADS
3
Dec. 12, 1952

I I *
f
AN INVITATION TO CHRISTMAS DINNER
The Ladies of Notre Dame, composed of the wives of the faculty members and staff employees of the University, are again this year extending a cordial invitation to all students remaining here during the Christmas holidays to spend Christmas day with a Notre Dame family.
To facilitate necessary arrangements, those students who wish to receive such Christmas invitations are asked to register as soon as possible at the Placement Bureau, Main Building, ground floor, west wing.

Editor:
I think you have been saying entirely too much about the doings of Sorin and Walsh Halls. It might be . wise to articulate on those places which are of the most interest to a large majority of your readers: name-
ly, Kintz Hall.
There is always something going on at Kintz Hall, such as dinners, dances, fencing, target shooting, riots, boxing, wrestling, football, and many other exciting things. We have perhaps the biggest, most modern, and most crowded hall in the country: two rooms, four boys, and one television set. Kintz Hall is one of the closest to the Caf, as it is only about a mile and a half away, in the direction of the stadium.
As you can see, Kintz Hall is a great
source of interest, and should be given the best news coverage possible. I should think by now you realize what wonderful stories you have been missing; stories that would probably raise
your sales by 150 per cent.
David Goodfellow Publicity Agent Kintz Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
BROOKS BROTHERS' EVENING WEAR is distinctive and correct
Brooks Brothers have long been authorities on evening wear clothing and accessories. Favored by undergraduates are our "346” dinner jackets, which are tailored on our own patterns of fine worsteds of our own selection...with shawl collar or peak lapel...and may be worn with the assurance that they are correct in every detail.
Our "346” Dinner Jackets and Trousers, $ 100
ESTABUSHH) 1«1*
^Itns f’umishmgs, ^ats
74 E. MADISON ST„ NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON * LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
The Scholastic J
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Nary a soul in the 12 o’clock chow line . . .
The Strong, Wise, Hand of the Law
This story may have gathered a cobweb or two since the Southern Cal weekend, but as lots of professors we know will tell you, — the older the story, the better.
The Badin Bog stalwarts were at it again. Visitors and old hands alike were being amazed by their polished display of touch football. Back and forth, across the Bog they raced; thrilling pass plays, soul-stirring ground maneuvers. Suddenly the huge figure of an officer of
the law appeared. An official badge sparkled from the breast of his navy reject overcoat, and there was the thunder of authority in his voice.
“Stop,” he boomed.
“We wuz only engaging in a little bogball, already,” said the suave spokesman of the athletes.
“Stop playing ball,” repeated the Law. “Why, officer?” somebody ventured.
“You’ll ruin the grass,” he said simply.
Now far be it from us to question the fertility of Badin Bog’s soil. But if Spring finds that fine ball field transformed into a grassy plain, we will personally bestow the Croix de Vigiro upon this highly imaginative soul’s chest.
Give Us the Good Old Days
There used to be, in days gone by, a crumbly little shack on the Western perimeter of the Circle. The purpose of this structure was to shield the students from the horrors of the Indiana elements as they waited for a convenient, modern, safe, economical NIT bus. True, it was a wretched little place, made of splintered old wood and held together only by the shivering prayers of those within. But it did manage to shred the wind into less potent blasts
and give some sort of an illusion of warmth.
There now stands a Frank Lloyd Wright-like structure where the old relic used to be. It has a nice little office where the watchman can sit in modern comfort and observe his duties; but for those poor souls who must
wait for the bus there is only the most meager sort of shelter. A thin slab of plywood, supported by some naked poles, is supposed to protect you from the elements. It really doesn’t. It only makes you wonder when the rumor about a new shelter house will cease to be a rumor. Brrrrrr.
Rabbit Punch
This is more old stuff, but poignant enough to merit a goodly portion of the WEEK, we think.
Nobody wondered why the Student Senate threw a Victory Dance after the SC game. Like most Senate dances it was successful and crowded. But a lot
of people left the Palais that night wondering if the Senate had thrown a dance or a carnival sideshow.
There were four lovely people there from a local dance studio who showed
that they knew
how to dance. Later these people, assisted by natty Johnny (Dinner Winner) Dee judged a frenzied perform-ance of the “Bunny Hop.”
For the uninformed, the Bunny Hop is a kind of dance done to the accompaniment of a song
which is also called the Bunny Hop.
During the more demure passages of the tune the boy and girl hold hands and sashay about, doing nothing in
particular. Suddenly the band plays a forcible “BOP. BOP. BOP.” At this time the -couple is supposed to go bounding around the dance floor in earnest imitation of an Oryctolagus cunimlus (that’s Webster for rabbit). This procedure is then repeated until exhaustion.
After some thirty minutes the less nimble Bunny Hoppers were weeded out and a prize was awarded. The losers, who were well lathered with perspiration by this time, walked dolefully into the crowd. Don Gels was kind enough to play some dance music again, and those drolls who couldn’t do the Bunny Hop finally got to dance.
It is our humble conviction that most people go to dances to dance. If the Senate wants to entertain and give contests, let them do it with discretion. An hour sliced right out of the middle of the dance for such carrying-on pleases only professional Bunny Hoppers and publicity people from the local dance studios.
Bottom of the Week
. . . it’s really too bad that you, like everyone else, have an 11:30 class.
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
• PIZZA * SPAGHETTI
Every day but Sunday
* CHICKEN a la cacciatore
Saturday Only
You’re always welcome at .. .
ROCCO’S
537 N. St. Louis On the Bus Line.
^EUROPE=^s _
STUDENT TOUWS.-
Bicycle, Motor, Study and Adventure Tours for as little as 9475 (50 days INCL Steamer)
ODYSSEY TOVES: All-year 65 Day Tours for those interested ie re than the conventional travel pro-m. Save as much as 20% by going ■season ... from 9575.
ZLATIN AMERICA^
Whether It’s MEXICO or AU. Latin America, investigate SITA’s unique "off-the-beaten-track” programs ... as little as 90 for an 8-Oay Tour hi Mexico. 9995-91975 tor 30-70 Day Tour of ALL South America.
ADIEW ^MOUND WKlEMg THE WORLD
Steamer, combination steamer-air trips to the Far East and Around
St Mort SftniLtn
the World at prices can-parable to shorter trips. 67 days from 91750.
Dec. 12, 1952
5
Till
DECEMBER 12
COLFAX (through Dec. 17)—Screened four times in the last 31 years and copied in dozens of othei' pictures, Prisoner of Zenda (A-l) is back again, this time with Stewart Granger as the prince and his bouncy double, James Mason as one of the villains, and Deborah Kerr as (who else?) the lovely princess. You can see, and probably have seen an earlier version on television; if not, you haven’t missed much.
PALACE (through Dec. 18)—Under the Red Sea (A-l) may be 90 per cent under water but it’s far from being al] wet. An excellent documentary on marine life, it proves that fish are fascinating. If fish aren’t enough, there are some tense moments and a mermaid (with legs) to change the scenery a bit. As part of the price of admission, you’ll have to sit through a mellerdrammer called Sudden Fear (A-2), in which Irony and Coincidence team up with Good to conquer Evil in the End.
DECEMBER 13
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:20, 6:40 & 8:30 p.m.) — Four showings may be necessary to please everyone who wants to laugh at Clifton Webb or leer at Ginger Rogers in Dreamboat. A two-level comedy, it’s both a farce and a satire on television.
AVON (four days)—Another oldie, Les Miserable.? (A-2) has been reincarnated but not resuscitated. The latest film version of Victor’ Hugo’s tale about Jean Valjean, who steals a loaf of bread but “goes straight,” only to be hounded for years by a cop, sticks close to the book but sags heavily in the middle.
DECEMBER 14
WASHINGTON HALL (two nights!)—The annual Christmas concert of the Glee Club will, we’re sure, be at least as excellent as ever. What’s amazing is that the warblers will give out on two nights instead of the usual one, thus considerably reducing the number of frustrated music-lovers on campus. Dan Pedtke will reach for his tuning fork at 8 p.m.
STATE (two days)—Two old Christmas favorites, The Miracle on 34th Street and Holiday Affair. Especially recommended for the humbug set.
RIVER PARK (three days)—Those campus Californians who have not been home since Summer and can’t hold out another week can get an antiquated glimpse of their paradise from California Conquest (A-l), an occasionally trite but fast-paced fact-and-fancy tale of prestatehood days. If you get thirsty, you might enjoy the co-pic, Blue Lagoon.
GRANADA (three days)—The Black Castle (A-2) has alligators, Boris Karloff, a leopard, Lon Chaney, Jr., and assorted other sinister characters. If that isn’t enough, the other feature concerns Tromba, the Tiger Man. The two pics may set evolution back a few eons, but they should be lively.	•
DECEMBER 17
ST. ANGELA’S HALL, SMC (curtain: 8 p.m.)—J. Robert Dietz has brought good theater west of the Dixie, as the Cornells and Hayes of St. Mary’s, along with a few imports from ND through the new reciprocal trade agreement, offer Ecce Stella, a play about the first Christmas.
WASHINGTON HALL—The Notre Dame Concert Band gets the last crack at culturizing us before the holidays.
Authoritative
International
Studies
n 1! is i< in
Bolshevism:
An Introduction to * Soviet Communism
by Waldemar Gurian
“. . . highly valuable . . . instructive . . . scholarly.”—Chicago Tribune.
“. . . a painstakingly documented analysis.”—Washington Post.
“. . . the best brief treatment, and the briefest good treatment, of
Bolshevism”—Commonweal $3.25
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy
by Ferdinand A. Hermens
The tragic effects of proportional representation between 1918 and 1950 is the main theme of this important volume. It shows the decisive role this voting system played in the fall
of many European democracies______
$4.00
>s
*
Illi III j mi
Christian Democracy In Italy and France * by Mario Einaudi
and Francois Goguel
This analysis of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP in France is the first complete account in English of the most significant and promising development in . Europe’s post-war political life. $4.UU
The Review of Politics
A Quarterly
Walter Lippmann—I regard the REVIEW OF POLITICS as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.
Canon Bernard I Bell—The REVIEW OF POLITICS is, in these days of confused political thinking, an exceedingly useful journal.
$4.00 a yean $1.25 single copy.
IB II II II it II ill tn III 111 in
* “America,” the National Catholic Weekly Review, lists these two books among the “Five Best Global Front” books published in the second half of 1952
The Scholastic
i;
f.
Vol. 94 December 12, 1952 No. 11
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO .................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ................Features
JOHN F.	SAND ..................Sports
WILLIAM	F. NOONAN ....Ass't. Sports
THOMAS	C. MURPHY .........Advertising
WILLIAM	KERWIN ............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine. . Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray ‘ Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ash-t>a“gh, Lou Baurjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski. Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Nbtre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Dave Thornton, Len Prosperi, and Bill Roche argue their case before Judge Peak in one of the many dry runs student lawyers must go through on their way to the bar. For the story of Notre Dame’s Law School see page 15.—Photo by Bob Huddleston.
Student Center: Pro and Con
Why hasn’t the Scholastic spoken editorially about the proposed Student Center in the old Science Building? We’ve been asked that question a number of times lately, and the answer is that, frankly, we just haven’t known what to say about it. So let’s analyze the situation from ear-to-the-ground approach, and see if the arguments on both sides heard about the campus can be organized and capsuled.
Proponents argue this way: This Center would supply a definite need—it would provide many things which are now lacking. It would be a place to entertain parents and girls, it would provide meeting rooms, TV sets, film projection space and game rooms which are now lacking or, at best, inadequate.
It would not sidetrack plans for a future Student Union, but that building is years away and nothing will be accomplished toward it by sitting beside a wishing well. A Student Union will cost two million dollars at least, and even if $100,000 could be set aside each year, it would take 20 years to realize that amount. A bird in the hand . . .
The Administration has gone out of its way, and taken on a lot- of work for itself, to provide something strictly for the students, they argue. He who summarily returns a gift will almost surely be left off next year’s shopping list.
Opponents reply that the Center will not add enough to _present facilities to justify the $20,000 expenditure which it entails. They want to know who is going to use it. Who wants to walk clear across campus to play cards or to sit in an easy chair? What kind of dance can be held on such a small floor? As for the other facilities, we have them now, and the Center will just centralize them. And there are many other functions that the building can perform for which it is better suited.
If the Student Center becomes a reality, they continue, all thoughts and plans of building a real Student Union will vanish. It would be much better to use the $20,000 as the beginning of a Union fund, adding to it by any means possible till enough is on hand to build. If the necessary funds are unobtainable, why couldn’t the Union be built with a loan and then operated at a profit until the loan is liquidated? This has worked well at other Universities, notably Michigan State. No one would mind the profit motive in this case.
A conclusion? Our primary purpose in this case is to provoke thought, not to influence it. We feel strongly, however, that the Senate should call for a vote by the student body on this issue. Representative government is fine, but the Student Center involves an expenditure of $20,000 of, at least potentially, student funds. Because of this and because every student is directly concerned, every student should be allowed to voice his opinion before any final decisions are made. Such a vote could be taken very easily by the hall councils.
To avoid being accused of hedging, we’ll have to say that, from practical considerations, we would vote for the Center. Let’s face it, lads, there are many things this University needs more than a two million dollar Student Union, and it will be many years before such a building takes shape. We think that in the meantime it is illogical to fail to increase student facilities—at least physically, if you’ll admit nothing else—when the chance is offered.
However, repeating for emphasis, think about it and make your own decision. Let’s hope the Senate will give proper consideration to your opinion when the time comes.
Dec. 12, 1952
J 1 I ' 4 J :ll , 1 pi
' i
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 11
DECEMBER 12, 1952
Christmas Concert Opens Sunday Night ------0-
New Selections Stud Warblers1 Repertoire
Notre Dame’s nationally acclaimed Glee Club will present its annual Campus Christmas Concert on Sunday and Monday nights in Washington Hall. The curtain will rise at 8 o’clock.
Because the conceit; usually draws larger-than-capacity crowds, Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of Student Affairs, suggested that a two-night performance be given. It is believed that the 750-seat hall will be filled both nights.
Many new selections will be sung by the 80-man chorus. These will range from religious to humorous songs, and from Negro spirituals to the seasonal carols. Mr. Daniel Pedtke, director of the Glee Club, will conduct the vocalists.
Among the numbers on the program are the Ave Maria, by Vittoria; Handel’s Hallelujah Chorus from The Messiah; The Glory Road, a Negro spiritual; and the Glee Club’s own arrangement of Stephen Foster’s Beautiful Dreamer.
Five soloists will render various melodies. Tenor John Noland will sing Jesu Bambino, by Yon. Noland is a veteran of three years with the organization. Gene Gorski, a baritone, supported by the chorus, will present O Holy Night, and a solo, Vision Fugitive, by Massanet.
The lively cadence count song, Duckworth Chant, is Gene Fanning’s solo; Dan Coleman, another baritone, will sing The Two Grenadiers, a Schumann melody.
Richard Casper, the warblers’ pianist, will play Liszt’s The Rakocszy March.
Another number to be presented is the finale from the opera The Meistersingers, which will have a dual piano
Dec. 12, 1952
THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB
Two-Night Performances by 80-Man Chorus
accompaniment. The opera is a Wagner composition.
A group of traditional carols will be presented as the concert draws to a close. The Fred Waring arrangement of ’Twas the Night Before Christmas, annually a favorite in the concert, is among the group. Among others will be Fum, Fum, Fum; Silent Night; and The First Noel. The Glee Club, which ordinarily sings in four-part harmony, will sing part of the final group of numbers in eight-part chorus.
All students and faculty members are invited to attend the concert. Tickets are not required.
Last night the Glee Clubbers appeared on a radio program in Indianapolis. They presented Christmas numbers on the half-hour program, which was the kickoff for the Indianapolis Businessmen’s Association’s series of Yuletide shows. Both the governor of Indiana and the mayor of Indianapolis spoke on the program.
Senate Reports Student Center Contest Logging
At the Student Senate meeting Tuesday night, reports were presented on the Student Trip to Cleveland for the Navy game; progress of the contest for the Student Center; and plans for the election of new Senators were referred to the Blue Circle for formulation.
The Student Trip was a financial success, with $310 profit being realized. The Senate commended Hugh Braun and his committee for their efforts.
With $5,000 set as the Student Center boxed goods contest goal, a report was made that only $450 had been collected. In an effort to spur sales to reach the goal a number of projects like jingles on WNDU, dining hall public address announcements, additional advertising posters, and other such things will be instituted. Selection of the winning contestants will be made Sunday night at the Glee Club Christmas Concert in Washington Hall.
Editorial
Sour Grapes From California Vineyards
An ND fan from the land of the Rose Bowl got his Irish up the other day and sent us some sports columns clipped from the Los Angeles dailies. It seems that a few gentlemen (a common term, whether deserved or not) of the press, taking their cue from the Trojan coaching staff, have denounced Notre Dame’s so-called “sucker shift” as a “violation of the spirit of the game.” It is, they 1'uefully admit, quite legal.
Now, considering ourselves at least as unprejudiced as these observers, we must point out to them the paragraph in the rule book that says the object of the game is to win, according to the rules, of course. If games could be won by brawn alone, then (were it not for academic requirements) we could confidently field a team of 11 gorillas. But the Irish have proven that a bit of brain work is a necessary ingredient to victory. The shift from the T to the box is just that and nothing more. Who has a greater right to use the “Notre Dame box”? The argument against it is silly, illogical, sour, and “old hat.”
Possibly these west-coast sportswriters realize this. Perhaps that’s why one (name withheld for his mother’s sake) dug deeply into the muck to manufacture these mud pies. Any former Trojan gridder who played against the Irish will tell you, says he, “about the promiscuous use of fists” (he neglects to say whose), or that “the most effective open-field block used by Notre Dame is the chest grip, a maneuver in which the blocker grabs the jersey of his man ...” This same sports editor also reports that the Irish rooters “filled the air with a deafening din every time [italics ours] USC started calling signals.” From this, our fiend [typographical errors ours], draws three possible conclusions: the Trojans are either extremely patient to bear such wrongs, too poor to drop ND from their schedule, or “the worst losers in the world.”
Since the Trojan coaches have been toasting the Irish for the last two weeks with vinegar wine, we doubt the first conclusion; from what we’ve seen and heard of the'University of Southern California, it is not particularly poor; from the accounts of the games as reported in the campus paper, The Daily Trojan, the USC students are certainly not poor losers. We would offer a fourth conclusion: that maybe a few sportswriters are the poor losers.
This writer in question suggests that “Notre Dame remains on the Trojan schedule because financial considerations outweigh any desires to put together a fall program devoted to elevating contests with fair-minded, sportsman-like opponents.” We feel that both USC and ND are and always have been fair-minded and sportsman-like. We wonder that such a noble spirit hasn’t yet entered all the sportswriters.
Symposium Discusses Russian Enmity Topic
“Which is the Enemy—Soviet Communism or Russian Imperialism?” was the general topic of a symposium held in the Law Building yesterday under the sponsorship of the Committee on International Relations.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, served as the chairman of the symposium. Three sessions, featuring noted speakers in the field of international relations, appeared on the program.
N. S. Timasheff of Fordham University, opened the morning session with a talk on “The Difference Between Tsarist and 'Soviet Policies.” He was followed by Michael Pap of the Notre Dame faculty, who used “The Ukranian Problem” as his theme.
Two Harvard representatives were the attraction on the afternoon program. “The Moslems and the Soviet Union” was the topic covered by Richard E. Pipes of the Russian Research Center- of Harvard University, and Wiktor Weintraub spoke on “Soviet Cultural Imperialism in Poland.”
Frederick Barghoorn of Yale University concluded the symposium by presenting the problems of “Nationalism in the Soviet Union” at the 8:15 p.m. session. Discussion periods under the direction of Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Notre Dame faculty followed the morning and afternoon sessions.
Absence of Irish Confetti Assures Early Vacation
The Irish confetti didn’t fly, and the grass wasn’t unnecessarily trampled, and thus a promise was fulfilled. This was the unsaid which was implied by a bulletin from the Office of the Prefect of Discipline dated Dec. 1.
The bulletin made official Father Hesburgh’s promise to dismiss classes a day early for the Christmas holidays. The promise had previously come after the Oklahoma victory and the display of spirit on the part of the student body at that game.
The extra day of pardon means that the Christmas vacation will begin at the conclusion of the 11:30 a.m. class on Friday, Dec. 19. The usual preholiday “triple cuts” will go into effect at the 12:30 class on Wednesday, Dec. 17.
The Scholastic
10
Radio, TV Comedian Joe E. Brown Enthralls Dinner Audience With Wit, Wisdom and WiH
By PETE CONNOLLY
Blending an air of seriousness and humor, toastmaster Joe E. Brown captivated an audience of more than 1,000 persons at the 33rd Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet for the 1952 Notre Dame football team on Thursday, Dec. 4.
Nationally famous as a radio and television comedian, Joe acted in introducing a speakers’ program headed by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. One of the colorful parts of the group paying tribute to the Irish football players, Brown’s warm and flowing personality quickly set his listeners at ease and kept the banquet moving at a fast pace.	,
Representing the absent University president, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., was Father Joyce, who, after lavishing great praise on the 1952 Notre Dame players, went on to say that “It is no wonder that many of us will remember it as one of the greatest teams in Notre Dame history.”
Also highlighting the personality-studded speakers’ platform were Matty • Bell, athletic director • of Southern Methodist University; Bernie Crimmins, head football coach at Indiana University; Bill Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis News; and Edward W. (Moose) Krause, Notre Dame athletic director.
Following Father Joyce’s speech, Krause introduced members of the
team, coaching staff, and the retiring Notre Dame captain, Jack Alessandrini. After Alessandrini had turned over the Irish grid leadership to end Don Penza of Kenosha, Wis., emcee Joe E. Brown took the mike once again to provide the audience with a wide variety of colorful humor.
For Joe, a veteran entertainer for troops during World War II, this was his second appearance on the Notre Dame campus. After complimenting the Irish on theii- grid success, Joe reminded each member of the team that “as a Notre Dame player you are someone important, and people, particularly children, will keep their eyes on you. Never forget the obligation you have to those youngsters.”
Joe is a resident of Los Angeles, but takes an immense pleasure in the great amount of traveling which brings him in contact with many personalities and new friends. Included among a variety of positions which Joe has, at one time or another, held, are an acrobat, movie star, comical singer, professional baseball player and manager, and dozens of other theatrical jobs. One of the two civilians to hold the Bronze Star, the other being his late friend, Ernie Pyle, Joe is a world war entertainer and veteran of more than 200,000 air miles in military transport alone.
Joe’s well-timed and appropriate remarks during his handling of the football dinner will not be forgotten quick
ly by those in attendance. Perhaps the best explanation for his immediate audience charm wherever he may he can best be seen in Joe’s own words that “You have to be satisfied with whatever you happen to be doing, and be pleased with whoever is around you.”
In concluding the program, Notre Dame monograms were awarded to 32 members of the 1952 Notre Dame squad. Sophomore end Paul Matz, Junior fullback Tom McHugh and Senior end Ed Kohanowich were the only three men of the 32 who had not received letters before. Those receiving the letters are as follows: quarterbacks: Tom Carey, Chicago; Ralph Guglielmi, Columbus, Ohio. Halfbacks: Frank Pa-terra, McKeesport, Pa.; John Lattner, Chicago; Jack Whelan, Miami, Fla.; Paul Reynolds, Springfield, Ill.; Gene Carrabine, Gary, Ind.; Dave Flood, Pittsburgh; Joe Heap, New Orleans.
Fullbacks awarded monograms were: Neil Worden, Milwaukee, Wis.; Tom McHugh, Toledo, Ohio; Dan Shannon, Chicago. Ends: Art Hunter, Akron, Ohio; Al Kohanowich, Hempstead, N. Y.; Bob O’Neil, Bridgeville, Pa.; Don Penza, Kenosha, Wis.; Fred Mangialar-di, Chicago; Paul Matz, Chicago.
Tackles receiving monograms included: Joe Bush, Oak Park, Ill.; Bob Ready, Lowell, Mass.; Fred Poehler, Jackson, Mich.; Tom Murphy, Chicago; James Weithman, Bucyrus, Ohio; Frank Varrichione, Natick, Mass. Guards: Jack Lee, Medford, Mass.; Sam Palumbo, Cleveland, Ohio; . Jack Alessandrini, Charleston, W. Va.; Virgil Bardash, Gary, Ind.; Tom Seaman, Canton, Ohio; Menil Mavraides, Lowell, Mass. Centers: Dick Szymanski, Toledo, and Jim Schrader, Carnegie, Pa.
JOE E. BROWN SIGNS PROGRAM, CONGRATULATES CAPTAIN-ELECT PENZA. Famous Comedian Captivates Sell-out Crowd at Football Banquet
Dec. 12, 1952
11
Sophomore Carl Gunderson Captures Finals Of 66th Annual Breen Oratorical Contest
Sophomore Carl Gunderson, of Mishawaka, Ind., captured the Breen Medal for oratory by winning- the final round of the sixty-sixth annual Breen Oratorical Contest held Tuesday evening in the Law Auditorium on campus. Gunderson, a two-year veteran of the Notre Dame debate squad, had for his topic “The Forest for the Trees.”
Capturing second place with his oratorical topic of “Why a Good Catholic Makes a Good Citizen” was Arlen Haffner of Fort Wayne, Ind. Third place honors were awarded to Jerre Lloyd of Lake Charles, La., who spoke on “My Inheritance.”
In all, seven finalists of an original field of 30 aspirants competed for the coveted Breen Medal, an annual award to the winner of the contest. The award, which a student is permitted to win but once, was established in 1866 by the late Honorable William P. Breen, prominent Fort Wayne, Ind., jurist.
Judges in the contest included William Eisen, Head of the Notre Dame Department of Speech; Jerome Fallon, Director of Radio; and Michael Casey, assistant director of the University Theatre. The Breen Contest was under the supervision of Professor Leonard
BREEN ORATORICAL CONTEST FINALISTS
"The Forest for the Trees” wins for Corl Gunderson (fourth from left).
Sommer, Director of Forensics. Don Dowden acted as host to the estimated crowd of 250 persons attending.
Each oration necessitated originality, and was delivered without the use of notes. Decisions of the three judges were affected by the use of the speaker’s single total effect on the audience as the main criterion. In detail, contestants were judged by their thought, composition and delivery. Included in points under these three topics were interest, originality, development of ideas, unity, coherence, grammar and climax.
Other finalists in the contest included Joseph Blackman of Benson, N. C., who spoke on “The Declaration of Independence,” and John Corcoran, C.S.C., Chicago, Ill., whose topic was “The Lay Apostolate.”
Speaking on “Shadow of Substance” was Richard St. John of Seattle, Washington, while John Swart of Grand Rapids, Mich., speaking on the somewhat original topic of “2012,” rounded out the list of speakers for the evening’s competition.
William P. Breen, for whom the annual oratorical contest is named, was an 1877 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, and the first president
of the University’s Associate Board of Trustees. A generous benefactor of Notre Dame, Breen provided an endowment of .$200,000 for the Notre Dame Speech Department at the time of his death. One of the University’s newer residence buildings, Breen-Phil-fc lips Hall, was named for Breen and his brother-in-law, Frank B. Phillips, also of Fort Wayne, Ind.
Secretarial Choir Director Announces Spring Concert
Dr. Charles A. Biondo, director of the Secretarial Choir, has announced that plans for a concert in the early Spring are being completed.
The concert is to be centered around a cycle by Brahms for women’s voices. The instrumentation for the cycle is for two horns and a harp. Popular numbers planned for presentation are Stardust and When Day Is Done. Send Forth Thy Spirit has been chosen as the opening selection.
Featured numbers on the program will be piano solos by Dick Casper, soprano solos by Miss Major and Miss Chung, and a vocal trio. The choir is to be assisted by members of the orchestra.
ROTC Units Plan for Military Ball Jan. 9
The first concentrated social effort on the part of all three ROTC units on campus — the Army, Naval, and Air Cadet Clubs — will come to the surface in the form of a Military Ball on Jan. 9 at the Palais Royale.
Blue Barron and his orchestra wall serenade the cadets, middies and their dates at the downtown spot from 9 to 1.
Three chairmen, one to represent each unit, have been appointed: Tony Lapaza, Army; Roger Zoellner, Navy; and Vince Raymond, Air Force.
Each unit will have its own royalty at the dance since the queens of the ball will be the dates of the three chairmen.
Bids are $4. Ticket sales have already begun, and the 500 bids, which may be purchased from Mark McCabe, 116 Fisher, Bill Conroy, 339 Alumni, and Ray Korsen, 208 Walsh, are going fast, it is reported.
The dance is open only to members of' the ROTC units. Dress is formal— that is — uniforms must be worn, and corsages will not be permitted.
Car permissions and 2 o’clocks have -»been granted, in addition to transportation provided from St. Mary’s to the Palais. The time of arrival must be before 10 p.m., and the time of departure is optional after midnight.
A blind date bureau has been set up. Those wishing blind dates should con
The Scholastic
12
tact the chairmen — Jim McIntyre, Dick Lix, and Dick Harvey.
Other committees and their chairmen include: finance — Andy Walsh, Jim Hutchinson, and Mark McCabe; decorations—Carl Eck, Bob Straley, and Tom Stahl; publicity — Bill Gaudreau, Jim Butler, and Jack Mooney; and transportation — Pat Riley, P. Gunning, and John Bryan.
All personnel of the three units have been invited to the dance.
Mardi Gras Books To Be Given Monday
Contest books for the annual Mardi Gras student festival will be distributed to the halls on Monday and Tuesday. Books, will be made available to off-campus students Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in the lobby of the Dining Hall from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
A dance to be held on Feb. 13 at the Palais Royale, featuring a name band, will initiate the schedule of festive events for the week. The program calls for a minstrel show on Saturday, Feb. 14, in Washington Hall, while the carnival will open that night in the Drill Hall. Washington Hall will be the scene of a jazz convert on Sunday afternoon, Feb. 15, with the carnival to continue on the nights of the 16th, 17th, and 18th.
A six-man committee, headed by General Chairman Brian Kelly, will manage the Mardi Gras. Dave McElvain will handle publicity, while Gene Howley and Jim Noonan head the dance and carnival arrangements respectively. Dick Rogers will conduct the contest, while Jim Britt will handle the finances.
For the winners of the contest, an imposing list of awards is offered. A 1953 Mercury will be the first prize, while a Chevrolet convertible is the reward to the student winner. A large screen TV set and a portable radio are second prizes. The winners will be announced on Wednesday night, the final night of the carnival.
The entire proceeds of the carnival, contest, and other events will be turned over to Father Hesburgh for use in equipping the new Student Center. Proposed plans for a film projection room, game room, record library, kitchen, snack bar, dance room and meeting rooms are entirely dependent upon the success of the Mardi Gras, and it is hoped that all students will back the project in order to assure full success.
Books of tickets cost $7.50, but students need only turn in $5 with each book. They may keep the other $2.50 or accept five free tickets as their commission.
One in Seven ND Students Defrays Expenses With Jobs From Bird-Catcher to Life Guard
One out of seven undergraduate students at Notre Dame is working his way through college. Seven hundred students work an average of twelve hours each week and earn up to 25% of their tuition, according to the latest figures on student employment at the University. Business and industrial organizations in nearby South Bend also employ a number of students in a variety of full and part-time jobs.
Giving men an opportunity to work for their education has been a tradition at Notre Dame for more than a hundred years. In 1845 the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., Founder of Notre Dame, wrote that “in order to extend to every individual of good will the invaluable benefit of a sound and complete education, the University will allow young men, unable to do it otherwise, to pay for their schooling with their own labor.” Generations of students have been working their way through Notre Dame ever since.
The student jobs range from operating motion picture projectors to hunting bird specimens for the biology department. Many students serve as night watchmen in the fifty buildings on the campus, as editors and photographers of student publications, as campus mailcarriers, and as life-guards in the swimming pool.
REAR: BRETT, ROGERS, McELVAIN; FRONT: HOWLEY, KELLEY, NOONAN.
Their Objective—A Bigger and Better Mardi Gras.
More than a hundred students are employed as waiters, busboys and dishwashers in the University Dining Hall. Others work part-time as secretaries and correctors for members of the faculty and as clerks and typists in the University’s many academic and administrative offices.
In spite of the high level of student employment, there are always more applicants than there are jobs on the campus each year at Notre Dame. Students are selected for campus employment on the basis of .character, conduct, financial need, and scholastic achievement, according to F. E. Freeman, supervisor of student employment. “A breach of discipline or a marked drop in academic standing will disqualify a student for employment,” Freeman added.
Students who need further financial assistance to complete their education at Notre Dame may apply to the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Educational Fund. The $250,000 revolving student loan fund was established in 1950 by the late Mrs. Fred J. Fisher of Detroit “to present an opportunity for the young man who is willing to work for his education.”
In two years the Fisher loan fund has helped 280 Notre Dame students toward graduation.
Dec. 12, 1952
13
National Science Foundation Discloses Plan To Give 500 One-Year Graduate Fellowships
The National Science Foundation has recently announced its second graduate fellowship program for the academic year 1953-54. Fellowships will be awarded for graduate study in the biological, engineering, mathematical, medical, and physical sciences. These fellowships are limited to citizens of the United States.
More than five hundred Fellows will be selected for a year- of graduate study. Selections are made solely on the basis of ability. The majority of the awards will go to graduate students seeking masters or doctors degrees in science, although a limited number of awards will be made to postdoctoral applicants.
Graduating college seniors in the sciences who desire to enter graduate school are encouraged to apply for the awards.
The three-part rating system for pre-doctoral Fellows will consist of test scores of scientific aptitude and achievement, academic records, and recommendations regarding each individual’s merit. Postdoctoral applicants will not be required to take the examinations.
The stipends for predoctoral Fellows range from $1400 to $1800; the stipend for postdoctoi-al Fellows is $3400. In
GEN. BUTLER CONGRATULATES COL. COLLINS ND Grad Receives Bronze Star
addition, tuition and certain- required fees will be paid by the Foundation. Limited allowances will be provided for dependents and for travel to a Fellow’s graduate institution. The tenure of a fellowship is for one year and can be arranged to begin at any time after June 1, but must not normally be later than the beginning of the academic year at the institution of the Fellow’s choice.
Applications for the current National Science Foundation fellowship awards may be obtained from the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, Washington 25, D. C. The Fellowship office is assisting the Foundation in the screening and evaluation of fellowship applicants.
Completed applications must be returned by Jan. 5, 1953. Applicants for predoctoral fellowships will be required to take certain parts of the Graduate Record Examination which will be administered at selected centers in the United States on Jan. 30-31, 1953.
Applicants will be rated by Fellowship Boards established by the National Academy of Sciences—National Research Council. Final selection of Fellows will be made by the National Science Foundation.
Prom Heads Appoint Committee Chairmen
The Junior Prom committee chairmen and their committees were announced this week by Phil Bolin and Mickey Moran, co-chairmen of the Prom.
They are as follows: Business Manager, Eugene Howley; Decorations, John Reidy; Tickets, Jack Rosshirt, chairman, Bill Meyer, John Sexton and Bob Farnbauch; Publicity, Jack Sand, chairman, Tom Dinan, Bob Chickey and Pat Carrico; Hotel Rooms, Bill Woodward, chairman, Bob Patterson and Jim Bauley; Entertainment, John Ryan, chairman, Tom Hayes his assistant; and the Communion breakfast will be headed by Ron Mazzioli with Dick Cobb serving as his assistant.
All of these men were chosen from the letters of application that were received by the co-chairmen.
Bolin and Moran indicated that there are still several minor committees to be chosen, and also more men will be added to some of the committees in the near future.
The date of the Prom has been set for Friday evening, April 24. All other arrangements are uncertain at present.
ND Alumnus Receives Bronze Star in Japan
Notre Dame graduate Colonel Elmer J. Collins of the United States Army has recently received the Bronze Star for outstanding performance of duty while serving the past two years as chemical officer with the Japan Logistic Command and Army Forces, Fai-East Headquarters, Yokohama.
Colonel Collins, born in Wisconsin on May 3, 1902, is a graduate of the 1923 Notre Dame class, and a conferred Chemical Engineer. In 1942, he received the captain’s rank, and in 1948 was made a major.
During the recent ceremony at which Col. Collins received the award of the Bronze Star, Brigadier General F. B. Butler, deputy chief of staff, AFFE, offered his congratulations.
At the present time, Col. Collins is returning to State-side duty from Japan and is accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Julie Collins, formerly of 304 South Scott street, in South Bend, Ind.
The Colonel presently makes his home at 129 East Ninth street in Holland, Mich., and is a graduate of Holland High school before his attendance at Notre Dame.
The Scholastic
I'.
f
JI
AUAioui
The Notre Dame Law School
By BOB HAINE
Dean O’Meara re-
Law School isn’t better known around
education obtained Law School,” said
problem with the undergraduate students of Notre Dame. The problem is to better acquaint undergraduates with
the value of a legal at the Notre Dame Dean O’Meara.
The problem that
the spacious law many off-campus Bend.
the Notre Dame *
of midnight oil in library or in the rooms around South
It’s strange that
If one could believe everything he heard these past few years he might imagine the Notre Dame Law School to be a home fox’ cigar-smoking, briefcase-carrying zoot-suiters that paxade to and fro between the cafeteria coffee countex- and the Law Building countless times a day. Only last year Scholastic portrayed a character named “Leroy Lawskool” on a poxtion of its cover—a questionable tribute to the studious young men who burn gallons
campus than it for a long time, outgrowth of a
is—it’s been around The Law School, an course in law estab
lished at the University in 1869, is the oldest Catholic law school in the United States. In the reorganization of the University in 1905, the Depaxtment of Law was given the status of a college, and since has enjoyed steady growth. Its membership in the Association of American Law Schools and the high ranking it has obtained from the Council on Legal Education of theAmexncan Bax- Association stand as a testimonial to the many achievements of the Notre Dame Law School through "the years.
Joseph O’Meara, Jr., Dean of the Law School, expressed the situation perfectly. “We have a public relations
ferred to is rapidly being solved by the law students themselves through the activity of the Student Law Association, an organization designed not only to aid law students, but also to extend knowledge of the Law School and its functions to Notre Dame undergraduates. (The Association greatly resembles the Student Senate set-up that represents the undergrad members of the University.) Through the Association the members of the Law School are formed into a well-knit
Dec. 12, 1952
Association officers (I. to r.) Fisher, Murray, Murphy, Roche, Burke and Lally.
body; all students in the Law School are members of the Student Law Association and can capitalize on the fact that the Association is the liaison between the law faculty and the pivotal point of social and extra-curricular activity in the Law School.
An Active Association
The Association’s yearly program is a varied one. It includes such activities as the Moot Court Competition, legal reference service, sponsoring freshman refresher courses, communion breakfasts and a senior banquet, a Law Ball each semester, securing guest speakers and arranging for placement service for law graduates. But the organization of a Pre-Law Club during the present semester is perhaps the outstanding program that the Association offers the Notre Dame undergraduates. Through it the undergraduate can gain access to many of the other functions rhat the Association directs. Besides opening up many Law School activities to the Undergraduate, the newly organized club offers an excellent counseling service to the Notre Dame undergraduate interested in entering the legal profession.
If you happen to visit the Law School, you’ll find that the “Leroy Lawskool” analysis is a lot of tommyrot— life in the Law School just .isn’t as easy as some would make it. The
program is a thorough one — the Law School recognizes a responsibility to its students to impart the know-how a man must have to practice law and practice it successfully in any State in the Union. In order to accomplish their desires, the law faculty employs the case method of study — by the study, com
Editor Joe MacKrell (with phone) and staff direct the Notre Dame Lawyer.
parison and discussion of selected cases the principles of law are considered with reference to both their history and their application in contemporary practice.
A Thorough Testing System
A student in the law program will find his work in Law School vastly different than any he faced while taking undergraduate work. The most noticeable changes occur in the types of exams and the study methods, for no longer is a law student faced with “pop” quizzes and regular weekly or monthly exams. In Law School, a student’s entire grade is based on a 100 pei- cent final taken at the end of each semester. Any law student would tell you that preparation for such a testing system couldn’t be of the “cramming” type. Only by day-to-day briefing of class work and a systematized set of notes can a law student manage to pass “the big one” that so thoroughly tests his progress.
To co-ordinate such an extensive program and make the labor a little more inviting to the student, the Notre Dame Law School is fortunate in having a capable faculty so constituted as to preserve a proper balance between professors devoting themselves entirely to teaching and research, and instructors who are also engaged in the active practice of law. Notre Dame enlists its faculty from graduates of the country’s foremost law schools, including—
16
The Scholastic
among others—the Universities of Buffalo, Chicago, Columbia, George Washington, Harvard, Indiana, New York, Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, St. John’s and Yale. The selected faculty includes men with special training and experience in the fields of patent law, taxation and so on. For many years the faculty of the Law School has been active in the publication of many texts and casebooks and in preparing research articles for leading law reviews.
Individual Help Is Available
Law students themselves will tell you that the student-professor relationship is a fine one at the Law School since the limited enrollment in the Law School makes for small classes and closer and more personal relationship between students and professors. In a student’s first year he is assigned a special faculty advisor and the help gained from the advisor, as well as the many professors, is perhaps a unique thing in most law schools.
Nor is the Law School content with the many successes it has achieved. Both Dean O’Meara and the faculty are striving hard to assure themselves that everything possible is done to assure that graduates of the Notre Dame Law School are technically competent. “The Holy Father,” said Dean O’Meara, “has spoken approvingly of the policy of continuous adaptation. In accord
ance with this 'vise counsel the LawSchool is re-examining its curriculum and its standards to see whether and what measures may be taken to further-increase its usefulness and to better prepare its graduates for the tasks and opportunities that lie ahead.” For the Dean and the faculty, good intentions will not suffice.
Forensic and Writing Opportunities
In the Notre Dame Law School chances for personal development are numerous. Two of the activities in particular, the Lawyer and moot court competition, offer the opportunity to increase both writing and forensic ability. The prominence of both activities has made them, in the course of their development, nationally know-n.
The Notre Dame Lawyer was founded in 1925, is wholly student edited and reaches lawyers, public officials, and scholars throughout the country. The quarterly contains lead articles by outstanding authorities in the legal profession; a book review section; a note section and coverage of recent important decisions. The latter two sections are written by the student staff and give them excellent training in writing and doing the research necessary in preparation of note and case work. Membership on the Laivyer staff is considered a distinct honor—one must maintain a general 85 per cent average.
Joseph O’Meara, Jr., newly appointed
Dean of Notre Dame’s Law School.
In Moot Court competition, each man is given the opportunity in his freshman year to prepare briefs and argue his case before an appellate court. Competition in the freshman division prepares the freshman for future competition in the Dean’s Competition, a division open only to Juniors and Seniors who are eligible. The winners are judged on their written brief, oral presentation and ability to answer (Continued on page 30)
Lawyers in action!
Seniors participate in the
two-hour practice court
session held weekly.
Dec. 12, 1952
17
Who’s Who
A committee composed of represen- eluded in the 1952-1953 edition of tatives of 14 campus organizations has Who’s Who in American Colleges and selected 31 students who will be in- Universities. The students were named
on the basis of campus leadership and activity.
Among those listed were: Ernest Bartell, Student Senate Commerce senator and publicity chairman of the Commerce Ball; T. J. Bergan, mayor of Vetville and Student Senate member; Floyd Blair, vice-president of the Student Senate and Junior Class president (1951-1952); Jack Bradshaw, vicepresident of the Blue Circle and president of the Indianapolis Club (1951’52); Hug’h Braun, president of the YCS (1951-’52) and chairman of the student trip; Ernie Buckley, chairman of the Blue Circle and member of the Student Senate; Leo Cahalan, business manager of the Juggler and member of the Wranglers.
Others included were: John Castel-
Jack Alessandrini	T. J. Bergan	Floyd Blair	Jack Bradshaw	Hugh Braun
18
The Scholastic
lani, freshman basketball coach; Lou Cavanaugh, Blue Circle and Economic Round Table member; Joe Con yell, intercollegiate oratorical champion and regional forensic chairman for the NFCCS; Al DeCrane, national singles debate champion, WNDU’s discussion moderator, and president of the debate team; Jack Alessandrini, varsity football captain; John Elson, editor- of the Juggler and president of the Bookmen; Tom Field, A.B. Senator in the Student Senate and secretary of the YCS (1950-’51); Bob Finney, editor of Scholastic, member of the selection committee, Concert and Lecture Series, and winner of the General Electric engineering scholarship; Kerwin Fulton, president of the Senior Class and the Commerce Forum and a member of the
Student Senate.
Also named were Bill Gaudreau, vice-president of the Senior Class, president of the Monogram Club, Blue Circle member, and Freshman Class treasurer (1949-’5O) ; Dave Fox, Senior-Class treasurer and president of the Finance Club; Francis Hennigan, NFCCS national officer and member of the Wranglers and Bookmen; John Houck, president of the YCS and member of the debate team; Jim Hutchinson, treasurer of the Student Senate and vice-president of the Junior Class (1951-’52); Bill Kilminster, K. of C. deputy grand knight and member of the Blue Circle.
There were also: Art Lewis, secretary-treasurer of the Blue Circle and treasurer of A.S.M.E.; Jim Noonan,
member of the Blue Circle and Student Senate; James Poat, founder of the Book Exchange and Campus Press; Tom Reedy, president of the student Senate and member of the Blue Circle; William Roche, president of the Student Law Association, Moot Court finalist (1951-’52), Natural Law Institute committee, and Notre Dame Law Review; Paul Rupp, Grand Knight of the K. of C., and promoter of the Bengal Bouts (1952); Kenneth Stead, editor of the- Technical Review and member of the Engineering Advisory-Board; Norbert Kraft, editor of the Commerce News, president, Commerce Activities Council, and chairman, Commerce Ball Committee; Bill Ryan, station master of WNDU.
All are pictured here but Bartell.
Ernie Buckley	Leo Cahalan	John Castellani	Lou Cavanaugh	Joe Conwell
Jim Hutchinson
Dec. 12, 1952
19'
JOHNNY PAYS A CALL
One of Three Visits WNDU
Philip Morris' Johnny. Appears on WNDU
WNDU’s smallest visitor to date was interviewed by Bill Ryan yesterday afternoon on the “Daily Express” show at 4:30. The famous Johnny, Philip Morris’ bellboy, told the listeners all about his size, and the nature of his work with the company that made him famous.
There are three Johnnies in the employ of Philip Morris. They all have about the same voice, and are of the same general size, around four feet tall and 70 pounds in weight, soaking wet. The three of them tour the country making promotional and public relations visits to radio stations, department stores, and tobacco counters.
The present tour of Notre Dame’s particular Johnny will keep him in Indiana through most of this month.
You have to see Johnny to believe that he could actually be so small and still so famous. Bom of normally sized parents Johnny never grew above his father’s belt line. He has no reason for this phenomenon, nor for his abnormally high voice. Both of these characteristics, of course, make him ideal for his present job. This job, he says, keeps him so busy that he has never had time to think about getting married or establishing a permanent residence.
After his present tour of midwestern States, Johnny will return to New York to prepare for another tour. Before then, however, you may be seeing him giving that famous bell-boy call in the drugstore in your home town.
Dr. Bartholomew Will Conduct Washington
Tour for ND and St. Mary's Students Jan. 29
By LARRY BREHL
Shortly after the Christmas vacation, Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, head of the Department of Political Science, and a group of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College students will embark upon the annual tour of Washington, D. C., and the surrounding country. The trip will last from Jan. 29 to Feb. 4, the between semesters period.
Doctor Bartholomew, who has been conducting the trip since its inception a number of years ago, recently announced the all-expense price of §117, only slightly increased since last year. Further details will be released after Christmas. He said that a number of students have already registered for the tour, while others have indicated their intentions of going. The trip is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students, and administration employees of the University.
Several changes and additions have been made in the plans for the trip. One of these is a switch of hotel accomodations; the group will stay at the DuPont Plaza, the newest hotel in Washington. Doctor Bartholomew believes that the hotel’s location will be convenient for the trippers, being near the various embassies and the home of Walter Trohan. Each year the group has been entertained at the Trohan home.
Due to the transferral from the Library of Congress of the original documents of the Constitution, the Declaration of Independence, and the Bill of Rights, a special trip will be made to their new repository, the Archives Building. The removal will be made immediately prior to the new year.
The National Gallery of Art has been selected as another stop for the tourists. Here are displayed numerous famous paintings, pieces of sculpture, and other artistic creations.
Last year the trippers were conveyed by train to Baltimore, where they boarded a Bay Line steamship for an overnight trip down Chesapeake Bay to Norfolk, Va. But this year, because of the changes in itinerary, it has been possible to arrange that the vessel will be boarded at Washington for a longer journey down the Bay, lasting overnight.
After arriving at Norfolk the following morning, the trippers will go to the Mariner’s Museum where relics and souvenirs of seafaring occurrences are assembled. However, this will be only for a brief stop on the way to Williamsburg, one of the several towns in his
toric Tidewater Virginia which are listed on the trip’s agenda.
In the quaint city, restored by means of funds supplied by the Rockefellerfamily, buildings which are reportedly exact replicas of the Colonial homes will be inspected. The people of this town even dress in clothes from the Colonial period. Lunch will be eaten at Williamsburg Lodge.
During the same day Jamestown, the first settlement made by the English in America, and Yorktown, where the English surrendered and ended the Revolutionary War, will be visited before the return to the' Capital.
Alexandria and Mount Vernon, both in Virginia, are scheduled stops for the group, though on a different day.
Since the primary object of the tour is to acquaint the trippers with the workings of the United States government, from the legislative to the judicial bodies, the group will observe sessions of both Houses of Congress, com-
LIFE SAVING COURSE OFFERED
The official Red Cross Senior Life Saving Course will be conducted at the swimming pool of the Knute Rockne Memorial commencing on Jan. 7 at 7 p.m.
All candidates for the course, taught annually at Notre Dame, are asked to report to the pool at the above date.
mittee hearings, watch the Supreme Court in action, and see a number of governmental departments.
On the social side, the tourists will attend an embassy reception (as yet the selection of one has not been made), and spend an evening at the Trohan home. Mr. Trohan, a graduate of Notre Dame, and the Chicago Tribune’s representative in Washington, usually entertains prominent guests, giving the trippers a personal contact with persons close to the Washington scene.
Sightseeing tours will take in, besides the points already mentioned, Arlington Cemetery, the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials, the Library of Congress, various museums, parks, gardens, and a number of other places.
Information on, and arrangements for the trip may be obtained by contacting Doctor Bartholomew in his office in room 230 of the Social Science Building, or by calling extension 354.
20
The Scholastic
Jp
Student Center Planning Reaches Advanced Stage; Senate Expects Spring Semester Use
By VAL CHUN
Publicity Chairman, Student Senate
It all began on Oct. 10 at the Pitt rally when guest speaker of the evening and Notre Dame president Fathei-Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., in the prelude to his talk announced that the Administration was turning over for student usage as a Student Union the Old Science Building.
In this announcement, it was stipulated clearly that this project to convert the building to a Student Union was to be entirely student-sponsored and when completed, to be student-run. The Administration is to assist in making all the necessary structural changes, but the rest — planning, revising, designing and decorating — is to be undertaken by the students.
The Student Senate accepted this and immediately drew up plans and committees to study and to effectuate the proposed conversion.
A report to the students of the activities thus far is therefore in order.
Plans as to what is to be housed in the Center, as the Senate designated its title to be, were discussed and formulated in committee meetings.
17,600 Sq. Ft. Available
The Architecture Department, according to the wish of Father Hesburgh that this project be entirely student-sponsored, volunteered its services and will design the building according to the Senate Committee’s specifications. The first task, that of mapping the heretofore blueprintless building has enhanced the possibilities seen by the Committee.
According to the advanced student architects who are working on a competitive basis to submit the best design, there is available 17,600 square feet of area on the first and second floors. As it is seen now, the large lounge, the proposed center of the Recreation Building, will be 45 by 60 feet. According to Professor R. J. Schultz, who is directing the architects, the possibilities of the Science Building are far-reaching.
The architects are in the second phase of the project — that of designing the building. This is expected to be completed before the Christmas holidays.
Results of the mapping of the building point out clearly the abundance of space available.	'
To be drawn in on the designs are
specifications made up by the Senate Committee; and among these is the main lounge with an instilled hotel effect. The area would be easily converted into a dance floor for dances accommodating up to 100 couples.
Already in the building is a lecture room which will be converted into a projection room. It is to be used also as a TV room for big events — namely championship boxing matches and the like. The much-needed meeting rooms will be provided for in the Center. Two rooms of a lounge nature and two in classroom style are specified. Also called for are record library and record listening rooms, soundproof debate exhibit room, and possibly a bookstore rooms, a coffee bar, amateur darkroom, which will handle current, popular, and classical books. Offices for many of the campus organizations will also be housed in the Center.
Judge Plans After Vacation
The color schemes and the decoration of the building will be worked on aftei* the holidays and a judging of the plans submitted by the students will follow.
Workable drawings from these designs will be made. By this time the building will be cleared off and the equipment (already started) and structural changes will be in process.
It is hoped that the Center will be ready for use in the beginning of the second semester.
Concomitant with the planning and designing by the architects, the matter of finances is being studied by the Committee. Vetville responded immediately when the wives of Vetville promised to donate baked goods for a contest to raise funds for furnishings for the Student Center.
The Bakery Goods contest tickets, handled by the Hall Council system, were put on sale three weeks ago and are being sold at 25 cents per, or five tickets for a dollar. The goal hoped to be realized has been set at $5000.
Select Winners Sunday
To the ten winners who will be picked at the annual Christmas Concert of the Glee Club on Sunday, Vetville will deliver a package of baked goods every week until the end of May. The three halls selling the most tickets will receive and divide among themselves 114 cakes.
Things are beginning to look alive.
The conception of the building is getting bolder on the architects’ drawing boards and the ticket sales are gaining momentum. But drive by the studentsis still imperative and needed; and the: final realization of success is dependent on student attitude. In the words of Student Senate president Tom Reedy: “This is the most extensive and worthy project ever undertaken by the students of Notre Dame. Its success hinges on the wholehearted cooperation and active support of every student.”
All available funds, Reedy further pointed out, derived from the Senate •will be turned over to the Center.
Brian Kelley, general chairman of the Mardi Gras, has announced that the proceeds gained from the forthcoming Mardi Gras in February will also be turned over to the Center..
St. Mary's Girls Stage Yule Play Wednesday
Under the direction of Mr. J. Robert Dietz, St. Mary’s College will present a two-part presentation of Ecce Stella on Wednesday at 8 p.m. The play, which will be given in St. Angela’s Hall, combines the religious and farce element in an adaptation from two Mediaeval Christmas stories. •
Notre Dame men Jerry Godwin, Tom Wageman and Larry Tarpey have been assigned to play the male leads, while,-the female lead roles will be handled", by four St. Mary’s lasses. Cast in . these headline roles will be Nancy O’Hearn, Dorothy Theil, Mary Renier, and Mary Lou Cooke.
Mr. Dietz has announced that the-theme of the play will be adapted from The Second Shepherd’s Play and The-Adoration of the Magi. Tickets are-presently available at St. Mary’s College.	.
SMC GIRLS MODS. PLAY COSTUMES
Religion and Farce
Dec. 12, 1952
2r
Centering Our Thoughts . . .
We ran into Tom Reedy, President of the Student Senate, in front of our hall the othei- day.
“How’re things goin’, Tom?” we asked.
“If you fellows aren’t too busy, I’ll show you how they’re goin’,” came his unexpected reply.
Naturally we were curious, so we chorused, “Lead on, Mr. Reedy.”
The adventure led us to the interior of the old Science Hall and Tom’s pet project, the proposed Student Center. All we saw was a blank, inglorious structure. Rumor had it that the old hall was supposed to be turned into some glamorous spot, but one look and we were suspicious.
“What’s the straight scoop on this project, Tom?”
“Well, men, it’s like this. Use your imagination a little and visualize this old museum as a lounge, with soft lights, deep easy chairs, a few murals on the walls, and carpeting on the floor. Why you could, even roll the carpets back and hold a dance in here.”
“That sounds like a good start, Tom, but what about the rest of the space,” we wanted to know.
He led us off to the right into a series of old class rooms. One old physics demonstration class had seats in tiers like those of the Biology Amphitheater where we had our Hygiene lectures. It’s a perfect spot for a TV and film projection center.
There were more rooms on the other side of the museum which Tom said could be converted into record libraries and phonograph booths, regular meeting rooms for the campus clubs, reading rooms, card and game rooms, and the like. *
We thought we were learning something, so we asked, “What about the balcony, you should be able to put that to good use?”
Tom had a ready answer. “We’re going to put tables around the balcony, with a coffee bar and kitchen out in that south alcove. That will fit in perfectly for any dances we hold here.
There are more rooms up there for pianos, private parties, a debaters’ room, exhibit rooms, and a chess ’n’ checkers room.”
At last we saw a flaw. “Just how do you propose to accomplish all these changes, Tom, by magic?”
“That’s a good question, fellows,” he answered, “but it does have a reasonable answer. The school is paying for the structural changes whereas we have to do the decorating and furnishing. Right now we’re running a bakery goods contest. We figured it would be more worthwhile to give the students five tickets for $1.00 on a cake every week from now until June, instead of asking each one to just contribute the buck. I think we can all spare that much since it is for our comfort and pride.”
The contest ends Sunday night at the Glee Club Concert, lads. ’Nuff said; we’ll leave the rest up to you. Let’s make that $-5,000 mark.
On Sale Monday . . .
From his cubbyhole deep in Sorin’s depths John Elson, editor of the Juggler, reports that the first issue of the student literary magazine should hit the newsstands by Monday. It will contain, among many other bits of fiction and essay, a science-fiction story called “The Air is Green,” by John Hellman, a somewhat incomprehensible but erudite essay by Milt Fisk, a number of very good book reviews, an innocuous short story by J. Dilenschneider (who is Dilenschneider?), and an essay on T. S. Eliot by Mr. Elson, himself. More appreciated abroad than at home, the Juggler expects no rush of literary minded students to the Caf. cigar counter. Indeed, such a rush would put tears of gratitude into the eyes of business manager Leo Cahalan, a very emotional man.
“If a student doesn’t find something he likes in the 80 pages, then he must be a stranger at Notre Dame,” Mr. Cahalan would have said had he thought about it (but he didn’t, so we said it for him). And we add that one would be hard pressed to find any college magazine of comparable quality. From what we have seen, the essay by Elson and Hellman’s story are the top pieces in a publication outstanding for all around excellence. On sale Monday — a quarter.
Histrionic Ability . . .
There have been two good plays put on by the University Theater and both featured fine acting, but for the best acting of the year when the chips were down and time was short, we can
see no man more worthy of praise than Frank (stop the clock, ref, I’m hurt) Varrichione. We hope to see him in next year’s productions.
Dear Santa . . .
We won’t be around in next week’s issue, so we’d like to tell you our Christmas wishes now. The things at the top of our list are: our long promised shelter house at the circle ... no snow on the highways until we get home ... a paint job for Father Sorin . . . unlimited cuts next semester . . . midnight lights for Friday and Sunday as well as Saturday . . . speed limit signs on Notre Dame Avenue ... a new floor in the drill hall ... a new drill hall to cover the new floor ... a seat on the train home ... a Saint Mary’s bus that leaves town at 8 p.m. (’cause 8:30 doesn’t mean 8:35 any more, does it flyboys?) ... and a happy Christmas for everyone concerned with Notre Dame, including the Administration and faculty, the students and help, and the little boy in the fourth grade who listens to our games on the radio.—Gerry Voit, Walt Werner, Jack Dilenschneider.
ff IDE Mike Chatter
This week—The Beggar’s Column ...
Any organization that is as much in the light and is as large as WNDU is bound to be charged with “unfairness” many times. And possibly some of this is justified, but we do try to be as impartial toward other activities and the students as a whole as humanly possible. The main trouble is, that even with 70 or more staff members, we aren’t able to keep up with everything that goes on around the campus. Our News Department has only six men on it, and with that few working members, and some of them only doing announcing, we can’t give the air time that is deserved to every campus activity. We just don’t know about most of them.
Some of the spots on the station for campus activities are paid spots, so naturally get preferential treatment. We have to support ourselves. And some particularly worthwhile activities, as the Notre Dame Blood Drive last Spring, are given free “public service” spots. But the news shows are open equally to all comers. Andy Hernon, our News Editor, tells me that he is crying for campus news. If your organization is having a meeting or some activity, just drop up to the studios
22
The Scholastic
and leave a note in Andy’s mail basket, or drop a postcard to Andy, in care of WNDU, or even just pick up the phone and call the station at Ext. 661. We’ll be glad to include it in our regularnews casts.
The same holds true with our personnel situation, too. The staff of the station is by no means a clique. Any student who has a genuine interest in working at WNDU has only to drop in to the studios any afternoon and tell us. In the case of announcers, auditions are necessary for obvious reasons. And it is a little difficult to set up an audition under conditions that are as fair as possible to all the candidates. For one thing, they must be held at a time when the station is off the air, and the least number of other activities are being carried on around the campus so that everyone will have an equal chance to take them. But when an audition is (Continued on page -31)
Srad cNotes
Final plans for the graduate students’ basketball league have now been completed, and this is the way it looks. Games will be played at the Rock at 4:50 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. A referee and scorekeeper will be provided for each game. Team entries must be submitted to Bob Shaver, extension 212 (Biology), by the team captain no later than Monday, Dec. 15. League play will begin Jan. 6, 1953. Schedules will be distributed to the team captains on Dec. 18, 1952.
Team entries received to date are Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Math. Beginning this year, a trophy will be presented to the winning team at the end of the season. This trophy will be inscribed with the name of the winning team and will be kept by that department or division until next year. Therefore, get your team formed, men, and join the competition. Remember, the deadline is DECEMBER 15.
With this column, the Graduate Student Association will suspend activities until after the Christmas season. During January, we will sponsor an important panel discussion on evolution. Also in January, the results of the election of officers will be announced. Your ballot will be sent to you within the next few days.
The executive council takes this opportunity to extend to all of you our very best -wishes for a happy and pleasant Christmas.—The Secretary.
Although perhaps invading territory heretofore reserved for Jack Sand and his able crew, this column feels that it cannot escape without commenting on the past football season. So having received the green light from our- illustrious and genial sports editor, we wish to pay tribute to the 1952 edition of the Fighting Irish.
That this was not just another team was more than evident. Truly, it ranks with the all-time Irish grid elevens, and its exploits will long be remembered. Its stirring upsets of the nation’s grid giants and the courage it displayed in defeat as -well as in victory stamp it as one of the most remarkable squads in the history of football. Never has a better example been given of what constitutes the Spirit of Notre Dame.
A Team of Character
When most of us were in knee pants, we already had become steeped in the legends of Gipp, Rockne, and the Four Horsemen. The magic name, “The Spirit of Notre Dame,” was largely
Sa Jlalp Ma . . *
Don’t be silly—of course your suit will fit me.
responsible for our coming here. And it is through the unconquerable spirit of such teams as this year’s grid squad that we will be able to leave ND with an even fuller appreciation of it.
After watching Notre Dame football for three or four years, it is only natural for one to take the spectacular in stride. However, even the most cynical senior must have experienced a complete rejuvenation at the fantastic heroics of this year’s team.
For, it was essentially a team of character ... a team that never quit ... a team that never knew when it was licked ... a team that became more courageous as the going got tougher ... a team that refused to be awed by the laurels of its opponents but which only fought harder as the odds became greater ... a team that never lost faith in itself through thick and thin ... a team that came through in the end when no one else thought they could possibly come through.
(Continued on page 31)
Dec. 12, 1952
23
Aptitude Test Results Show 1,327 Freshmen Maintain Standards Set in Past Two Years
Mr. Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Testing and Guidance, announced this week that some 1,327 freshmen labored through the two-day aptitude exams administered on the opening school days of this semester.
‘‘The freshman group this year remains on an achievement level equal to the classes of the past two years,” stated Mr. Quinn, after his department had completed its survey of the results.
Notre Dame’s standards, classed as a whole, rank some six points higher than the national level, and in some fields, such as science, range up to 15 points higher than normal.
The Testing Department now has the norms of some 4,300 students, including the freshmen from 1948 to 1952, on file to provide the school with a student sampling that is both adequate and significant for future testing purposes. Placement and guidance are the primary uses of this compilation of test results.
The 1,327 freshmen who took these placement tests were members of the following colleges: Arts and Letters, 328 (including 29 Physical Education and 39 General Program members); Commerce, 370 (including 60 business administrators); Engineering, 419, and Science, 210.
Members of the College of Science not only excelled in their chosen field, according to Mr. Quinn, but led the class in the English tests, which proved quite surprising to the Arts and Letters group. The engineers shone brightly in the section of mathematics.
The test scores measured the student’s scholastic aptitude (his ability to succeed at the college level of study), knowledge of the mechanics of English, and achievement in the areas
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Dec. 15—Octave of of the Immaculate Conception.
Tuesday, Dec. 16—Feast of St.
Eusebius, Bishop and Martyr. Wednesday, Dec. 17 — Ember Wednesday of Advent.
Thursday, Dec. 18—Thursday of the third week of Advent.
Friday, Dec. 19—Ember Friday of Advent.
Saturday, Dec. 20—Ember Saturday of Advent.
Sunday, Dec. 21—Fourth Sunday of Advent.	.
of social studies, natural sciences, and mathematics.
An important aspect of the exams shows the individual’s ability as compared with his achievements, and if there is a discrepancy, why it occurs. The interests, strengths, and weaknesses are all indicated to the testee by easily comprehended graphs.
All off-campus freshmen are urged to pick up their test results at the office of the Department of Testing and Guidance on the ground floor of the Main Building before the Christmas vacation begins.
ND Men Cast in Presbyterian Players' Show in South Bend
The Presbyterian Players will present their final three performances of The Willoiv and I Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday evenings at 8.15 o’clock in the Lippincott room of the First Presbyterian Church, South Bend. This presentation of John Patrick’s emotional drama has received a favorable review in the South Bend Tribune, and should be of interest to many campus theatre-goers.
Representing Notre Dame in the cast are: Mr. Leonard F. Sommer of the Department of Speech, a veteran Player; Prof. Raymond V. Pence, making his debut in the theatre group; and Richard Simons, a student at the University, who handles two roles in the Play.
This play marks the seventh Presbyterian Players’ production in which Mr. Sommer has appeared. Parts he has previously played include, among others: Pope Innocent III in Cappon-socchie; Beverly in The Man Who Came to Dinner; King Louis XIV in Vagabond King; Mr. Burgess in Candida; and Lord Sorrington in I Killed the Count.
New 'Cap and Gown1 Names Francis Editor
Cap and Gown, a bulletin published by the Lay Faculty Club of the University of Notre Dame, has recently undergone a renovation to further faculty interest in the publication.
Prof. E. K. Francis, Ph.D., associate professor of sociology, has been named editor, while Prof. Frank O’Malley, M.A., prof, of English will act as associate editor. These appointments were announced by John J. Broderick, assistant dean of the' College of Law and
president of the Lay Faculty Club-
The Cap and Gown, concerned with the promotion of faculty unity and cooperation, has a tentative publication appearance of four issues yearly, with the first of this year's publications having already been distributed among club members at no charge.
The newly styled Cap and Gown, other than containing a new format, is larger in size than previous issues. The chief business with which the bulletin devotes itself is faculty news, involving faculty promotions, publications, and social and personal activities.
Oak Ridge NowTaking '53 Enrollment Bids
Applications are now being accepted for enrollment in the 1953-54 session of the Oak Ridge School of Reactoi-Technology which begins Sept. 14,1953.
Students are selected from one of two categories: recent graduates from universities; and sponsored technical staff members from industry and governmental agencies.
Students who have a graduate or undergraduate degree in engineering or one of the physical sciences, or who will have attained such a degree by September of 1953, and who have “special interest, unusual ability, and aptitude to engage in applied nuclear science and engineering,” are invited to apply for enrollment.
The Oak Ridge School of Reactor Technology is supported by the United States Atomic Energy Commission, and is located at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, a large reactor development center with a setting of facilities and staff wherein students have a maximum opportunity to study classified technology and the latest reactor designs.
All students must be citizens of the United States, and each appointment is made contingent upon the satisfactory completion of an AEC security investigation prior to Sept. 14, 1953. Students will have the status of studentemployees of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory during the 12-month training period and will be paid a stipend of $285 pei- month, plus a cost of living increase which is expected to be approved by appropriate Federal agencies prior to September, 1953.
Further information and application forms are available from Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, Department of Chemistry; or from the Oak Ridge School of Reactor Technology, Post Office Box P, Oak Ridge, Tenn.
Notre Dame students should request application form A; and must submit same on or before March 1, 1953.
24
The Scholastic
Marquette Faces Irish Tomorrow Night
Name Penza Captain Of '53 Irish Gridders
ND Basketeers Out to Keep Record Clean; Loyola Five Invades Fieldhouse Wednesday
Notre Dame captains are selected for their all-around character and ability and that is just the reason why Don Penza, a junior offensive end from Kenosha, Wis., was named to lead the 1953 Fighting Irish. Penza accepted the Irish shillelagh from this season’s captain Jack Alessandrini at the 33rd annual football testimonial banquet held last Thursday evening at 7 p.m. in the east dining hall.
Penza, a 6-foot, 1-inch 200-pounder, who came into his own this season after winning a monogram last year when he saw a limited amount of service behind Jim Mutscheller, caught 11 passes this season for 164 yards. He started all 10 games at his offensive left end spot and was instrumental in paving the way for numerous breakaway runs by the Irish backs. Penza’s
By BOB FROLICHER
Notre Dame’s hard-driving eagers round out their third week of basketball before Christmas vacation with an away-home assignment against Marquette and Loyola on December 13 and 17 respectively.
When the Irish travel up to battle the Hilltoppers on the Milwaukee Arena
specialty was making diving shoe-string catches of very low passes.
Penza also has the distinction of becoming the third end in five years to be awarded the captainship. AllAmerican Leon Hard; was a co-captain in 1949, while Jim Mutscheller was the leader in 1951.
court, tomorrow night they will face a veteran squad of four seniors and one sophomore. Hilltoper Coach Tex Winter has a bright outlook on the future of the team banked heavily on the return of eight lettermen, plus an experienced JV squad of returnees. Four of the eight monogram winners are seniors, four sophomores.
The Hilltoppers opened their season by losing to three Big Ten teams which as expected displayed the power of Marquette’s rough 24-game schedule. Five contests in the first two weeks also is expected to present a severe test for Winter’s quintet.
Marquette Headed for Rough Season
’52 CAPT. J. ALESSANDRINI PRESENTS SHILLELAGH TO ’53 CAPT. DON PENZA.
New Irish Captain Hopes for a National Championship Title Come Next Season.
Center Russ Wittberger, a 6’ 6” sophomore will spark the Hilltopper attack. Last year as a freshman Wittberger scored a total of 297 points to take team high scoring honors. Wittberger will be backed up by four veteran seniors. The forward posts are held down by Dick Schwab and Pete Basarich. The forwards together netted 217 points last season and are expected to add much balance to the Hilltopper squad. Guards Charlie Dunn and Glenn Sievers are another pair of veterans. Bob Van Vooren, sophomore sensational guard is constantly pressing for a starting berth.
Next Wednesday the Jordanmen will meet a green, but always tough Loyola squad when the Irish tangle with the Ramblers here at Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Sigwards Paces Ramblers
Coach George Ireland, in his second year at the north side university, places all hopes on Capt. Elwood Sigwards, a 6’ 4” senior forward and the only experienced man on the squad. Sigwards who was a regular or sixth man for the past two campaigns is the only senior
Dec. 12, 1952
25
on the starting five. The other forward is a 6’ sophomore Art Schalk. Dick Clark at 6’ 6” will start at the pivot spot.
Two juniors, Jack Egan and Bob Collins will be’ starting at the guard positions. Although both saw action last year, they were used only sparingly. The Rambler attack is built around a balanced scoring offense. Capt. Sigwards tallied 44 points in the Ramblers’ first two games and is followed closely behind by Collins, Egan and Schalk.
Irish Open Seoson with Two Wins
The Irish opened their current basketball schedule on the home court with successive and impressive wins over Creighton and Indiana, 80-59 and 71-70 respectively.
After starting slowly Notre Dame bounced back in the second half to rally and defeat the Creighton Blue Jays in their opening game 80-59. The Irish spotted the Blue Jays the lead for seven minutes before a surge' by guard Joe Bertrand and center Capt. “Gooch” Lewinski put Jordan’s boys ahead to stay.
Control of the backboards by Lewinski and forward Dick Rosenthal, along with a fast break that began clicking in the second half kept the contest from being much tighter. ’ Having two games under their belt began telling for the Blue Jays as they completely overpowered the Irish early in the game. However, reserve strength and the Irish second half splurge were too much for Creighton.
Jordan’s boys were led by Capt. Lewinski and reserve guard John Reynolds. Lewinski shone on both offense
PETE BASARICH
Faces Irish for Second Time
and defense. He poured in 11 points in the second half for a total of 17 and team scoring honors and held the Blue Jay’s ace center Elton Tuttle to 18 points. Tuttle who just a few days previous broke a Loyola gym record by potting 38 points, was high scorer for the evening. Reynolds’ excellent floor play and constant hustling greatly impressed Coach Jordan into the possibility of a starting berth. He netted 10 points. Bertrand and Rosen
thal tied for second honors with 13 apiece. Thirteen players saw action.
Stephess Shot Edges Hoosiers
A driving layup shot by Junior Stephens with but seconds remaining was all the Irish needed to down a highly regarded Indiana five 71-70 and chalk up victory number two. The contest was a see-saw battle which saw the Hoosiers score 42 of their 70 points in the second half, trying desperately to overcome a 13 point deficit the Irish held on them at half time.
It was Lewinski again along with Stephens who sparked the Irish to their second straight win. Lewinski scored a total of 28 points for an individual show. He also held center Don Schlundt to 23 points, allowing him only eight in the first half. Lewinski and guard Jim Gibbons both fouled out late in the game.
The new foul ruling set the stage for the Irish victory. After Hoosier Jim DeaKyne missed both free throws with 10 seconds left to play, Stephens took the throw in from Reynolds and drove down for the winning basket, eluding two Indiana players in the process.
Lewinski helped the Irish cause in the second quarter, taking flashy passes from Stephens and Rosenthal to pot 15 of Notre Dame’s 25 points in this period. Forward Rosenthal followed behind Lewinski’s individual scoring show netting 12 points, while' Hoosier guard Bob Leonard followed Schlundt with 13 points.
This was the Irish’s first win over Indiana since 1946. The Hoosiers had previously beaten Notre Dame the last five times the two teams met.
INDIANA’S DICK FARLEY (311 SETS SIGHTS ON HOOP AGAINST IRISH
Hoosier scoring attempts nullified as Jordanmen pull out 71-70 last second thriller
26
The Scholastic
CAPT. “GOOTCH” AND COACH
Lewinski, Jordan eyes winning season
CAPTAIN "GOOTCH"
A standing ovation was awarded Norbert (Gootch) Lewinski last Saturday night as the lanky Irish captain trudged benchward after the referee’s whistle had indicated his fifth personal foul. The ovation was a well-deserved one because the senior center had given his greatest performance in his three-year hardwood career at NotreDame by pumping 28 points through • the cords in the incredible 71-70 Irish victory over Indiana. Lewinski’s exhibition ranks with Dan Bagley’s 31 point effort in the St. Louis upset two seasons ago as highlights of fieldhouse history.
It was Junior Stephens’ last-second sensational drive-in that gave ND the triumph, but it was Lewinski’s uncanny deadliness in the second and third periods that paced the Irish when they needed it most.
This coming through when it counts and all-around steadiness and hard play is why “Captain Gootch” leads the men of Jordan in 1952-53. Lewinski has held down the starting center post the past two years for the Irish except for a brief interval last season. As a sophomore, he tallied 239 points and last year- hit for 213 markers.
In his very first varsity game in 1950, Lewinski tallied 19 points to lead a veteran Irish team to a 67-44 win over Franklin College.
The 6’5” Chicagoan’s specialty is his picture-like hook shot which he spins up from the keyhole with either hand. He has this shot down pat to a point where he seldom misses it unless he has an unusually off night. His one-hander is also a shot that makes the Irish captain a constant scoring threat.
Irish Wrestling Club Boasts Seven Victors
Competition in this year’s interhall wrestling rivalry came to a close last week with winners in seven out of nine divisions being announced.
The winners, as announced by Thomas Fallon, University physical education instructor, are: 123-lb. class, Bob Gordon, a sophomore from Morrissey; 130-lb. class, Frank Cunningham, a sophomore from Morrissey; 137-Ib. class, Dick Anton, a senior from Dillon; 147-Ib. class, John Munner, a freshman from Zahm; 157-Ib. class, Joe Belfiore, a sophomore from Howard; heavyweight class, Joe Marquet, a junior from Alumni; unlimited class, Tom Armstrong, a sophomore from Lyons.
Because of schedule conflictions two divisional championships were not decided until last Wednesday. They were fought between John Gavin-Bill Stanley, of the 167-lb. class, and Ed Sarna-Joe Clarke of the 177-lb. class.
Mr. Fallon, who doubles as faculty advisor to the Wrestling Club, further-related that these winners would represent the Wrestling Club of Notre Dame in the club’s activities for this season. The club has three meets with wrestling squads of other schools scheduled and several more are under consideration.
The club will open its intercollegiate competition tomorrow at Normal, Ill., with Illinois Normal State Teachers. Home meets with Wheaton College, Jan. 17, and University of Chicago, Feb. 14, are the only other definitely scheduled events.
Pitt Club Testimonial Dinner Honors ND Penn Gridders
The Pittsburgh Club honored Western Pennsylvania members of this year’s Notre Dame varsity football squad last night at a testimonial dinner- at the Ramble Inn.
Wally Ziemba, center coach for the “Irish,” was the guest speaker for the event. Members of the team who were guests of the Pittsburghers were: Bob O’Neil, Dave Flood, Jim Bigelow, Jim Schrader, Fran Paterra and Carl Trail.
At this dinner definite plans were announced for a formal Christmas dance to be held in conjunction with the alumni from the Pittsburgh area. This affair will be held at the University Club in Pittsburgh on Dec. 26.
Other plans of the Pittsburgh club include special trains at Christmas for those living in the Pittsburgh area. The special trains will leave on Friday, Dec. 19.
Lattner Selected on All Ten Major All-America's
Notre Dame’s Johnny Lattner is the All-American of All-Americans, being the only unanimous selection on all 10 of the major teams picked this year. Only one team behind the Irish junior was Billy Vessels of Oklahoma, Jack Scarbath, of Maryland, and Don Moomaw, of UCLA, each making nine of the teams.
The following five All-grid teams picked Lattner on both their first string offensive and defensive units: United Press, Chicago Tribune players All-American, Colliers, All-American Board and the Sporting News. The remaining five All-American teams of the Associated Press, International News Service, Look, New York Netos, and NEA selected Lattner on the defensive team.
Besides these 10 major All-American squads, Extension Magazine named Lattner to its All-Catholic All-American team. The sparkling two-way performer of the Irish was also presented with the Maxwell Memorial Trophy given to the outstanding football player in the nation.
Lattner, everybody’s All-American, and the most heralded Irish star since Leon Hart, was selected as the Maxwell Trophy winner- for his all-around play. The 6-foot, 1-inch 190-pounder from Chicago averaged 42 minutes of playing time in each game for Notre Dame, gaining 734 yards in 148 carries, and scoring five touchdowns. As safety man, he ran back seven punts for 117 yards and intercepted four passes. Lattner also punted 64 times for a 36.5 average, caught 17 passes and recovered three fumbles.
JOHNNY LATTNER
Everybody’s All-American
Dec. 12, 1952
By Jack Sand
JUNIOR STEPHENS
His Shot Did It
Fighting Irish Cagers Parallel Gridders
When forward Dick Rosenthal quipped “we’re gonna win this one tonight” just before the start of last Saturday’s thriller, the stage was set for the Irish hoopsters to go out and demonstrate exactly the same attitude that prevailed in the football team all season long . . . which leads us to think that Jordan’s fighting cagers can be compared to the grid greats in almost every respect.
First of all they face, as did the football team, one of the roughest schedules in the nation. Eighteen of the 22 teams played are ranked within the top 50. Secondly the Irish squad is handicapped by the same lack of overall manpower that hampered Leahy’s greenshirts. A third and final reason can be summed up from the address given by Father* Joyce at the football banquet when he said, “We at Notre Dame like to win; we shall always play to win.” Despite the fact that the Irish blew a 13-point halftime lead, they proved
this saying to be true when they came back in the last few seconds to win.
Irish Rooting Section Incomparable
Believe it or not, there were some Indiana rooters in the fieldhouse last Saturday night when Junior Stephens provided an “Ozark Ike” finish ■with his last second layup, but over the never-ending drone of that famous Irish cheering section one would have never known it. Some hoarse and choking observer said it wasn’t quite as bad as the St. Louis thriller in 1950 when Dan Bagley’s 31 points and the constant roar of the crowd aided in a 77-70 triumph. Last year, after the Irish outpointed DePaul 76-70, it looked as if the Blue Demons weren’t going to return to the fieldhouse this season. We’re wondering if the Hoosiers aren’t thinking the same thing.
What About Basketball Predictions
Unlike picking football winners basketball predicting is a bit more risky, since comparative scores, home court advantages, and just plain off-on nights tend to throw a monkey-wrench into the oddmaker’s machine. Take tomorrow night’s game with Marquette for instance. If you suddenly get the bright idea to go on last season’s scores you would find that the Irish drubbed Marquette 74-56 on the latter’s home court, while the Hilltoppers reversed the count 57-50 on the Irish home grounds.
Tomorrow night, according to “Cagey Charlie” the Sporting News basketball swami, Marquette is supposed to beat the Irish by three points. Personally, we' tend to disagree with “Charlie” and look for the Jordanmen to capture their third straight, 72-58.
Trojan Staff Prove Themselves more Than “Suckers”
A final word about the recent controversy over the so-called Notre Dame “sucker shift” was uttered by a man from Chicago in a letter to the Chicago Daily News when he declared, “it seems some people can’t stand the thought of Notre Dame fielding another football champion.” Think this statement over all you misguided sportsmen of the Pacific Coast and amend your contradictions by seeing that ND’s shift is no more illegal or unethical than sending out a decoy pass receiver or using the trap play.
Interhall Basketball Loops in Full Swing
With forty teams competing in two leagues, this year’s Interhall Basketball program is already in full swing. Only recognized campus clubs and the various student halls are allowed to enter. An afternoon league comprises both hall and club teams, while only hall teams are allowed to compete in the night league. There are seven brackets in the afternoon league and three in the evening league.
Under the leadership of Ernie Szekely, a full round of games has been completed, and second round games have begun. The league opened on Dec. 1 and will run until Dec. 18, and then play will be resumed again after the Christmas holidays. No results are available as yet, for the team standings are not disclosed until all three rounds have been completed. Two forfeited games automatically drops a team from the league. The schedule for the coming week is:
Afternoon League
Dec. 12—Kentucky vs. LaRaza; Milwaukee vs. Lyons; Air Cadets vs. W. Virginia.
Dec. 15—Metropolitan vs. Generation; Akron vs. Howard; K. of C. vs. Buffalo.
Dec. 16 — Toledo vs. Pittsburgh; * Chemists vs. Rock River Valley.
Dec. 17—Cincinnati vs. Kansas City; Accounting vs. St. Louis.
Dec. 18—Indianapolis vs. New England; Erie vs. Italian; Nebraska vs. Law.
(Afternoon games begin at 3:35, 4:15, and 4.50)
Evening League
Dec. 12—Walsh vs. Alumni; Badin vs. Zahm 2.
Dec. 16—Howard vs. Morrissey; Dillon vs. Lyons.
(Evening games begin at 7 and 7:45)
Six Sooners Dominate Irish All-Opponent Dream Teams
Oklahoma dominated Notre Dame’s all-opponent team picked by the Fighting Irish players after the season with no less than six Sooners being honored. For the first time offensive and defensive teams were selected. Eight schools were represented on the two teams.
The two teams: Offensive—Ends, Bernie Flowers, Purdue, and Tom Stol-handske, Texas; tackles, Bob Evans, Penn, and Ed Rowland, Oklahoma; guards, Elmer Willhoite, So. Cal., and Harley Sewell, Texas; center, Tom Catlin, Oklahoma; quarterback, Ed Crow-
28
The Scholastic
der, Oklahoma; backs, Billy Reynolds, Pitt, Billy Vessels, Oklahoma, and Buck McPhail, Oklahoma.
Defensive—Ends, John Gurski, Navy, and Jim Wojciehowski, Purdue; tackles, Bob Van Doren, So. Cal., and Rowland; guards, Willhoite and Sewell; linebackers, Catlin, and Dick Tamburo, Michigan State, Earl Heninger, Purdue, and Tony Correnti, Navy (latter three tied for second linebacking spot); halfbacks, John Raster, Navy, and Carl Allison, Oklahoma; safety, Jim Sears, So. Cal.
Fencers Open Jan. 17 Against Northwestern
:	By BOB O’MALLEY
The varsity fencers, under the able !	tutelage of Coach Walter Langford, are
l	dueling one another daily in then- prac-
/ tice quarters in the Old Gym as they j anticipate a tough opening match with Northwestern Jan. 17, 1953. A gruel-i ing 14-meet schedule is on the docket j	and Coach Langford is striving hard to
5	whip his athletes into shape for the
j coming season. He is blessed with an able assistant in the person of Brian Duff, a graduated ace from last year’s squad.
'll
Mooney Captains Squad
Capt. John Mooney, a dashing senior from Cleveland, heads a list of five returning lettermen. These include Dave McBride, Pat Mulrooney, Jim Hurley, all seniors, and the lone junior, Rod Duff. On the debit side is the loss of nine men from last season but these five, together’ with a host of other fine performers, are expected to come close to equaling the 9-2 record hung up in 1952.
This year’s slate calls for junkets to Detroit, Columbus, Cleveland, East Lansing, Iowa City and possibly some lesser journeys. Big Ten teams will provide most of the competition while other prospective opponents include the universities of Chicago, Detroit, and Cincinnati.
Despite the absence of last year’s stars through graduation the feeling is that this squad will have to be reckoned with in every match and should pull under the wire with a successful campaign.
The final big test will be the nationals at Philadelphia in which Notre Dame is represented by a man in each division. Capt. Mooney heads the foil division, with McBride' and Rod Duff, a brother of Brian, holding forth in the epee division. Seniors Hurley and Mulrooney are the chief operators with the sabres.
Dec. 12, 1952
Second Annual Novice Boxing Tournament Finals Tomorrow Night; Semifinals Today
All eyes are on the fieldhouse this afternoon and tomorrow night, as the season’s preview of the 1953 Bengal Bouts goes into the semifinal and final rounds. The second annual Novice Tournament will be decided this afternoon at 4:30 in the Boxing Room, and at 7:00 tomorrow night in the big ring in the Fieldhouse.
This year’s Novice Bouts have brought out some amazingly good fighters ... a marked improvement over last year’s opening. The opening round bouts on Tuesday and Wednesday showed quite a few boys with a lot of talent in their fists. Particularly promising is Pete Kucharczuk, who de-cisioned a battling Mike Demoreville in the 156-pound clash on Tuesday, in a toe-to-toe slugfest that had the whole room of spectators on their feet. Kucharczuk, an off-campus student, is stocky and tough. He doesn’t move around much, but no one can stand and take his punches for very long.
Kucharczuk’s opposite is a heavy-
VARSITY BASKETBALL ADMISSIONS
Students will be admitted to varsity basketball games upon presentation of Identification Cards at Gymnasium entrances. The football portion of the ID-Athletic card MUST BE REMOVED AND DESTROYED before presentation for admission to basketball or other sports.
All seats except those in the NORTH BALCONY will be held for students until 7:30 P.M. Space not utilized by the student body at that hour will be offered as General Admission in the Boxoffice at the West Entrance, priced at $1.00. No General Admission tickets will be sold in advance.
There will be a freshman intra-squad game preliminary to all varsity contests at 6:40 P.M. The West Entrance will be open at 6:30. Other doors will be open by 7:00 P.M. To facilitate admission, please use the following entrances: Farley, Breen-Phillips, Vetville—NORTH DOOR. All other halls and off-campus, WEST DOOR.
weight, Gideon Jarvis, from Badin Hall. While no slouch with his fists, Jarvis shines on his ability to move around his opponent and hit him from every angle, a novelty for heavyweight boxers in this part of the country.
Another promising fighter is Milton McAngus, the brother of last year’s 148-pound Bengal king, Alex McAngus. Milton is fighting his way through the 178-pound class, so students won’t see another brother against brother bout this year.
Other fighters to watch among this year’s novices are Jack Flynn, of Howard Hall, and Charles Wilson of Dillon who decisioned their opponents in the 148-pound clashes in the opening rounds of the tournament; John Massa of Cavanaugh in the heavy-weight division, and Jack Mooney and Boris Melhoff in the 156-pound matches.
The 156-pounders and the heavyweights are drawing the most attention in this year’s tourney, with eight aspirants in the former and ten fighting it out for the heavyweight crown. Many of these look like excellent Bengal Bouts material, in spite of their lack of ring experience. In all, 46 fighters entered the bouts.
The fighters in the tournament were:
124-pound class: Paul P. John, Spider McVeigh.
132-pound class: F. Nunery, E. Olea, J. J. Smith.
140-pound class: Joe Sassano, Dan Caren, Floyd Boerban, G. Noonan, J. P. Curry.
148-pound class: R. Halfele, Andy Conao, Orlando Gonzales, John Flynn, Larry O’Mara, Jim Waller.
156-pound class: Bob Haidenger, Bill Dunham, Gordon Heinrich, Jack Libert, Hugh Wilson, Boris Mehoff, Mike Demoreville, Pete Kucharczuk.
161-pound class: Ronald Lynch, Chuck Mears, Frank Catalano, Louis Marlin.
178-pound class: Bill Brisick, Albert Driesbach, Tom Murray, Milton McAngus, Tom Meglen.
Heavyweights: Ed Lewis, John Hopp, Leon Dulion, Gideon Jarvis, J. Darago, J. Massa, Dick Leach, Tom Cribbs, Hugh Bray, Ted Cook.
Lady Judge Advises Caution in Marriage
•'Many young people marry for love of love, rather than for love of an individual,” a woman Municipal Court Judge declared in an article in a recent issue of The Sign, a national Catholic magazine. The article, written by Judge Geraldine F. Macelwane of Toledo, a mother and an authority on family relations, is entitled “How to Choose a Mate.”
“From the ranks of those who marry for love of love,” Mrs. Macelwane asserts, “come so many of those hapless persons who ask the divorce courts to mend their mistakes.
“Teen-agers must be made to understand that their early years should not be frittered away in careless association with supei-ficial companions. This is important, for eight out of ten in an average group of young people eventually marry,” Mrs. Macelwane continued. “I think that a proper respect for each other is a guide that will lead the young through the dangers of theii’ early years. . . . Respect is essential in married life and it must be given completely and whole-heartedly ...”
“The word 'unselfishness’ is important,” the author says, “for I have come to the conclusion, after much experience in the divorce courts, that a marriage based on love of love, is, in reality, bom of selfishness in one or both parties.
“Another pitfall is false pride. A girl may select a young man because he is a splendid dresser, a free spender, a good dancer, or a clever entertainer. In the man’s case, he may have chosen the girl because of her lovely appearance and her popularity with other young men. But once they are married, she becomes, the most possessive individual he has ever known and shows complete disinterest in home management.
“A sense of humor and ability to take many hard knocks are priceless qualities in any home. Besides these, the couple should have similar racial, religious and cultural backgrounds.”
Chicago Foreign Student Holiday Center Set Up
A Foreign Students’ Holiday Center-will be operated in Chicago for foreign students from any colleges who will be in that city during the Christmas vacation. It will be open from Dec. 20-31.
The Center will be in the YWCA, which is in a central location, at 59 East Monroe street.
It is intended as a place where students can meet friends, hear of current activities such as concerts, exhibits, or tours, have refreshments, and be reached by families who would like to entertain them.
Further information may be had by writing to the Institute of International Education, 116 South Michigan Ave., Chicago 3, Ill.
Notre Dame Law School
(Continued from page 17)
questions—the three winners in the senior division receive cash awards and represent Notre Dame in the National finals. Notre Dame, in four years of participation, has won the regional championship at Chicago twice and appeared in the New York City finals both times.
Good Lawyers Needed
Although the work involved in Law School seems tremendous, the student who endeavors to find his place in the fine placement service set up with the legal world has a great asset in the co-operation of Notre Dame’s law alumni. With alumni aid Notre Dame graduates obtain interviews that will lead them to positions in the legal field.
The undergraduates? Notre Dame’s Law School will continue to be interested in them. Said Dean O’Meara: “A big welcome at the Law School awaits all Notre Dame men who are interested in studying law. The nation needs good lawyers. Lawyers, more than any other occupational group, have moulded the past which has brought our country to leadership in a troubled world. As they have moulded the past, so too will they mould the future. The nation needs good lawyers and the Notre Dame Law School aims to give the nation good lawyers in increasing numbers.”
GEORGE DAVIS STUDIOS
106 W. Monroe Dial 7-1517
10 a. m. to 10 p. m.
Lowest Rates In Town
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform
DRAWING PENCIL
•Absolute uniformity meins drawings without “weak spots’’-dean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distin-
guishod by bull's-eye degree stamping on 3 sidesot pencil. At your campus store! J
EBERHARD
FABER
30
The Scholastic

WNDU Mike Chatter
(Continued from page 23) scheduled, usually four times a year, we try to notify all the students, and then they are opened to everyone. We just held auditions Monday, and will probably hold the next ones at the beginning of next semester. I’ll have it in this column when I know the exact date.
As far as other positions on the staff are concerned, all you have to do to fill one is come up and tell us you are interested. We can always use more interested personnel. —Bryan Coughlin
The Other Side
(Continued from page 23)
We seniors saw some great football in four years at Notre Dame. We saw the amazing rout of Tulane by the ’49 powerhouse, followed by an undefeated season, a national championship, and a gigantic welcome celebration after the triumphal return of the champs from their final game at SMU.
Then there was the last-ditch win over North Carolina in ’50 followed by the streak-shattering upset at the hands of Purdue. And who could forget the classic struggle the ’50 team put up against Michigan State before bowing 36-33? And finally there was the aerial battle with SMU last year.
But we really hadn’t seen anything yet. It all started off last September with an innocuous tie with Penn, an upset over powerful Texas, and a heartbreaking loss to Pittsburgh. The sportswriters said we just didn’t have it. And with a murderous schedule still facing us, things looked pretty dark. But then we began to roll. Mighty Purdue fell. North Carolina and Navy toppled by the wayside. Next came the biggest conquest of all, the splendid Sooners of Oklahoma in the greatest game most of us had ever seen. Our fortunes reached their lowest ebb at Michigan State the following week when we dropped a game that by all rights we
DAVID KEMPLER
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers Welcomes Notre Dame Students to come in and visit with us. We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . . We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
should have won. But, undismayed, the team came back even stronger against Iowa, and finally the Southern Cal upset was ice cream atop the peaches.
Of the four teams we saw in action, the ’49 team was unquestionably the greatest. But like Frank Leahy, we admire the ’52 team most and it is the
nitedair lines
COMPARE THE FARE AND YOU'LL GO BY AIR
FLY UNITED
BN HOME FOR THS
HOLIDAYS
Leave after your last class—
IH A FEW HOURS
South Bend: for reservations, call 2-1401 or an author-
ized travel agent.
71
, -Am
“A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 for the U. S. Air Forces.
“Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week.
“If you feel you are one of the men we are looking for, write me. Your inquiry will be held in strictest confidence,
* Walter Tydon, widely known aviation engineer and aircraft designer and veteran of 25 years in aviation, is Chief Engineer of Fairchild's Aircraft Division.
■■ ENCINE INO IIOPLME C0IP0MTI0N lAI RCHILD
HAGERSTOWN. MARYLAND
one we’ll remember longest. For it was more than a team. It has already become a living legend.
The ’52 team did more than show the nation how to play football. In winning courageously against insurmountable odds, it has shown it how to live.
—Tom Foote
Dec. 12, 1952
31
5555555ra3J55555S&533J2355JZ355335J5J35S55555733335555555SS5555535SE5S33535S555335535555&S3Si
Announcing Notre Dame Night featuring
Ralph Flanagan and His Orchestra
at
FRANK DAILEY'S MEADOWBROOK
ROUTE 23 CEDAR GROVE, NEW JERSEY
SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 27th
DANCING 7:30 to 2:30
Make your reservations now with:
Jack Gelson, 414 Walsh Hall Tom O’Connell, 275 Dillon Hall
2S032S22222222a!YS22222222222S2222222Si222222222222222222i22222222222J2SS22SS2222222222222222222222S
Danforth Foundation Grants Fellowships
The Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Mo., invites applications for the second series of Graduate Fellowships for college seniors and recent graduates. Type of students wanted are those who are preparing themselves for a career of college teaching, and are planning to enter graduate school in September, 1953, for their first year of graduate study.
The Foundation welcomes applicants from the fields of natural sciences, social sciences, humanities and other fields of specialization to be found in the undergraduate college.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, has named Mr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner as liaison officer to work with the Foundation on the selection of candidates. These appointments are primarily “a relationship of encouragement,” carrying a promise of financial aid within prescribed conditions as there may be need.
-Alfi
director” or “directress” billfolds
*DI RECTRESS"iu gieamiag Cow* * £ bida,...... ▼ 9
Others to $ 10
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
Personal leather goods by Rolfs are always appreciated. The -Director” for him—or— the “Directress?1 for her—both have features galore. There's the secret pocket, registration against loss, spare key pockets and removable pass and photo-enclosures. Both billfolds are slim, smartly styled.
“DIRECTOR” in £ e smooth Cowhide. 9
Outers to $ 35
Han
Rintzsch
Shop
Students with or without financial need are invited to apply. All Danforth fellows will participate in the annual Danforth Foundation Conference on Teaching, to be held at Camp Miniwanca in Michigan next 'September.
Qualifications of the candidate as listed in the announcement from the Foundation are: evidence of superior intellectual ability in college record; good health and emotional stability; outgoing personality and the concern for people, essential for successful teaching.
Other qualifications required are: choice of vocation of teaching as form of Christian service; and a deep religious conviction and a growing religious perspective.
Nominations from Notre Dame are limited to two students. Students wishing further information should contact Mr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, 125 Social Science Building.
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75— One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana's Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
32
The Scholastic
ND Statistics Brighten Student Draft Plans
Cheer up, men; things may not be as bad as they seem, at least in regard to the draft situation.
This problem is uppermost in the minds of many college students today, yet it is inclined to be rather overrated.
For instance, University statistics show that only eight students were drafted out of a total of 147 who withdrew from this school during the academic year 1951-52. To date this semester, 40 students have voluntarily withdrawn from Notre Dame, four for reasons of health, and seven disciplinary cases. Of this number only six have been drafted thus far.
It is necessary that a student inform his local draft board of his academic status twice during the year. At the end of the academic yeai- a copy of his grades should be forwarded to the board from his school and the student must also declare his intention to return to school. Then, at the beginning of the following semester, he must notify his local board, through the dean of his college, that he has actually returned to school as a full-time student.
Navy Administers Test Tomorrow for 'Regulars'
Prospective midshipmen are reminded that the Navy College Aptitude Test foi- NROTC “Regular” scholarshipswill be given tomorrow in the Engineering Auditorium, beginning at 8:30 a.m. and lasting until approximately 12:20 p.m.
Mr. Edward R. Quinn of the Department of Testing and Guidance, who will supervise the examination, has announced that any overflow of examinees will be accommodated in the Law Auditorium.
Only those students who present a ticket of admission from the Naval Examining Section will be allowed to take this test.
Air Force Wants Graduates, Seniors for Weather Officers
New opportunities for men with scientific or technical interests to enter the United States Air Force for the for appointment in the Air Force as weather officers were announced recently.
College graduates, or seniors who will graduate this June, may now apply for appointment in the Air Force as second lieutenants and receive government-paid weather training at one of eight nationally known colleges and
universities. Upon completion of their training, they will receive assignments in the USAF Air Weather Service as weather officers.
Requirements include: a baccalaureate degree with credit for one year
of college physics and mathematics through integral calculus. Qualified graduates or seniors should write to Headquarters, Air Weather Service, Washington 25, D. C., for the required application forms.
"An introduction
to learning"
says J. HILLIS MILLER
President, University of Florida
"The Reader’s Digest is an introduction to learning. Its variety, brevity, intellectual stimulation, selective mental diet, and good humor whet the appetite for more of the same. It leads to larger fields for browsing and deeper cerebration."
To busy students and educators, The Reader’s Digest brings each month a sweep of information which otherwise could be obtained only through days and weeks of painstaking research. Selecting' and condensing the most significant material from hundreds of periodicals, The Reader’s Digest provides the widest collection of facts with the greatest economy of effort.
★ ★ *
In December Reader’s Digest, you’ll be interested in A Bible for the 20th Century—story of the new Revised Standard Version of the Bible; What You Should Know About Your Eyes—a report on eye care and the commoner eye diseases; England Prepares to Crown a Queen—the $300,000,000 preparations for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.
Dec. 12, 1952
By Paul Zalecki
Four years of college and then what— the service, a position in industry or "business, graduate school. Even now when we have a fair idea of what we would like to do afterwards, it is not easy to be sure'. Yet whatever our plans for the future, we have come to Notre Dame to prepare for them, so that eventually we can graduate, an ■engineer, an accountant, a lawyer, or perhaps just a bachelor of arts. It is our decision, and we have made it, often at a considerable expense and sacrifice.
In a very real sense college is but a transitional period, a time of intense development. All too often we cannot accurately judge now if it is a success •or not. 'The test of whether we' have profited from a university education, paradoxically, will not come till later, when we have graduated and put what we have learned to use.
Later Professional Success
The practical consideration of our later professional success is not the whole story of college. If all we want from four years at Notre Dame is to "be a proficient accountant or engineer, we are wasting our time, not only because we are missing the rich benefits that are available here, but also, in a more practical sense, because business and industry themselves want more than mere accountants and engineers. They want educated men who can think, command respect, and assume responsibility. And we' like to think that college helps to develop such qualities.
Somewhat along the same line, an article in a recent issue of the General Electric Review dealt with the question of education and engineering. It contained some interesting observations about the role of the engineer in society. In a technological civilization such as ours it is a grave' danger to produce scientists and engineers who rise to positions of leadership because of their special training, but who yet do not recognize their responsibilities as citizens.
The' most vital problems of today are not technical but human. To grasp their complexity a person needs an understanding of such fields as history, economics, and government. To create a hydrogen bomb, for example, is one thing, but to use it intelligently—if destruction can be used intelligently— is much different, and more important.
To cite a practical example of how college can help us in this respect, the Committee on International Relations yesterday sponsored a discussion, “Which is the Enemy: Soviet Communism or Russian Imperialism?” Such talks given by men who are authorities in the field offer an excellent opportunity to obtain a sounder understanding of one of the most serious crises facing us today— an understanding which progresses beyond the common-place reaction of “Those dirty Russians,” and arrives at a realization of basic issues.
There is more to education, however, than just developing good members of society. It has anothei’ important, but often overlooked—and somewhat selfish —aspect. It helps us to enjoy living. Life would be dull indeed if all we could do with any efficiency would be to balance an account, brief a case, or use a slide rule. We would be uninteresting both to ourselves and to others.
Education should assist us in getting along without people; it should develop our interests and ideas so that we are not bored by being alone. As the article in the Review brings out, if it is difficult for us to be by ourselves, we can scarcely expect others to regard us as interesting. A University training should give us an understanding of literature, philosophy, and the fine arts. It should provide the rudiments of a liberal education.
Importance of Liberal Education
In emphasizing the importance of a liberal education, some have taken the extreme view that even the College of Arts and Letters today is too specialized. They will maintain that undergraduate studies should be directed solely at developing a man’s intellect and teaching him how to think. That the schools of today are failing in their function, however, is debatable. Consideration must be given to the tremendous task they face: the training not only of educated men, but of specialists.
In addition to professional training, one of the most important benefits which we can derive from a college education, then, is a norm of values by which we can order and direct our lives, interpret the dilemmas of life, and enjoy the rich rewards of our cultural heritage.	,
One more point. Just because college offers such advantages does not mean that we shall obtain them merely by our physical presence here. We have to work at it. Indeed, we are obliged to do so. There is nothing more distorted than an uneducated college graduate who undeservingly enjoys the prestige and position associated with his background, unless it be an educated one who does nothing.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
HEALTH
SPOT
SHOES
Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
date/

to fly home via
NORTHWEST
AIRLINES
Finest double-deck Stratocruisers coast to coast. Also low-cost Air Coach.
Call nearest Northwest Airlines office or your travel agent.
34
The Scholastic

FELICES NAVIDADES
No matter how you
say it
Arrow Gifts mean
BUON NATALE
‘VOq
Arrow shirts.................$3.95	up
Arrow sports shirts.......3.95 up
Arrow ties....................1.00	up
Arrow handkerchiefs .......35$	up
Arrow undershorts.........1.45 up
Arrow undershirts ........1.00	up
------------------------>>	I
SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
THE ROSE BOWL.
NATIONAL
DISGRACE
Riots_ballyhoo_carousing . . . paid amateurs. That’s the Rose Bowl where everything goes except tight, classy loot-ball. Read about the Rose Bowl scandal that made Pitt give up big time football... what happened when visiting Rose Bowl warriors raided Rita Hayworth’s bedroom . . . how the entire backfield of a west coast team ended up in jail. Don’t miss this startling full expose of the game branded “the most insidious influence in American football.”
Read January
£&quta£
Now on sale
‘W&o&Med'lt
a'J'tee Steetco*?
OR
That Stuff in the Ballot Box Ain't Hay
Once there was a Senior who faced a Financial Impasse. He was. in a word, Broke— due to heavy extra-curricular Operating Expenses. He was discussing with his roommate ways and means of climbing back Aboard the Cold Standard. “Simple,” said the roommate, “just tap the Male Parent for an Ad-
.-ance.” “Don’t be Dull,” answered Our Hero, “I’m already four months ahead on my allowance. And besides, the Head of the Clan is in a Crim Mood. He Dropped a Bundle on the election results.” “Oh-ho.” said his sidekick, “listen. . . .” Our Boy listened. Twenty minutes later he steamed into the Western Union office, his brain-cells bulging with Strategy, and dispatched a vital message. To wit: ‘‘Dear Dad—Went broke backing Stevenson. Know you’ll understand. Like father, like son. Please wire me fifty. Urgent. Love.”
The cash arrived within the hour. By Western Union money order. Our Boy is now working for a Practical Cause—campaigning for presidential elections every year instead of every four.
The moral? Simply this—when you’re Prospecting for Pesos, there’s no more productive probe than a Telegram. Saves time, saves wear and tear, saves answering embarrassing questions. Try it—and don’t overlook Telegrams for Detailing Dates, Spreading Smooth Talk, Making an Impression. You’ll be surprised what words via Western Union can do for you.
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
Dec. 12, 1952
35
FIRST PREMIUM
QUALITY CIGARETTE
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
LIGGETT 4 MYERS TOBACCO CO
/ n q J'S"
KING-SIZE
GAF^ETTE^
|O
■ hr

V v.
LIGGETT i MYERS TOBACCO CO.
’(NJ >0'
Copyright 1952. liccm & Mtcu Tobacco Co.
