In This Store For Men
You Are Always A Guest
Before You Are
A Customer
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
LETTERS
Editor:
Reference: Letter to the Editor, March 7, Dining Hall employees, the Blue Circle.
The cheap attempt at piety in the Blue Circle’s letter in reference to Name Withheld should be deplored by every thinking Notre Dame man. To the Scholastic’s outside readers, the mistaken impression may go forth that the Blue Circle casts the motes from all eyes hereabout. This impression reflects a falsity more monstrous than whatever implications might have been found in the letter in question.
While the Blue Circle was looking down its anonymous blue nose at the Scholastic and burning with a hard, blue flame for the proletariat in the dining hall, it failed to see the same egotistical air of self-superiority apparent in Meet the Missus, wherein the equally hard-working campus maids were burlesqued. The Blue Circle has not seen fit to burn with either a hard or a blue flame over this equally egregious attack.
Nor, one might mention, has the Blue Circle seen fit to change its name to something less aristocratic. Since it has decided to embrace the cause of the exploited, it should cease giving the impression that it is la creme de la creme of campus cliques. It might, while it is ■ about it, come out from under the cloak ■ of anonymity by which its individuals I have been hidden from the common cry j of curs, and walk among us undisguised.
Joe Wilcox
His genius gave wings to words
Sir:
Congratulations to the “Blue Circle” which so avidly displayed its ratiocinative mettle in last week’s “Letters to the I	Editor.” Seldom do we note a hand
I strong enough to wield a lash over the I middle-class American back.
H. Smith Keel
P.S. Who are they?
Scholastic’s Associate Editor Keel and Feature Editor Wilcox tvrite as private ND citizens and not as editors. For a more approving appraisal of the Blue Circle, see story on Page 26.—Editor.
It was an historic moment. Alexander Graham Bell’s telephone had just spoken its first words—"Air. Watson, come here, I want you!”
That evening in Boston—March 10, 1876—Dr. Bell’s crude instrument transmitted his voice only to the next room. But out of it was destined to come a whole new era—the era of quick, easy nation-wide telephony, of radio telephony in all its varied forms, of talking pictures, voice and music reproduction systems and electrical aids for the hard of hearing. Few inventions have played a greater part in shaping the w'orld we live in!
Since 1877—just one year after Bell’s long experimentation was crowned with success—it has been Western Electric’s privilege'to help carry forward his great idea which gave wings to words. In that year Western Electric made its first telephone. More than 45,000,000 have followed it—over4,000,000 of them in 1S>46 alone.
Today, from coast to coast, in factories, offices, distributing houses and central office installation crews, there are more than 110,000 Western Electric workers. Imbued with the Bell System spirit of service, they are helping to provide equipment in record quantities to meet telephone needs far beyond any envisioned by die inventor.
This year marks the 100th Anniversary of Bell’s birth in Edinburgh, Scotland, on March 3,1847. From early youth, he was keenly interested in aiding the hard of hearing. He became a teacher of "visible speech” when 18 years old.
This work led to experiments with "telegraphing" sound, out cf which, in 1876, came his greatest invention —the telephone.
Dr. Bell was a great humanitarian as well as u great scientist. His accomplishments—in aiding the deaf, in communications, in aviation and other fields—were outstanding. His rich life—which had an incalculably great influence on the world—came to an end on August 2, 1922.
Dear Sir:
As one who is concerned that principles of morality should apply in politics as well as in any other branch of human activity, and as one who believes that we must look to Catholics who believe in this to put it into practice, I watched (Continued on page 29)
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL 60 SYSTEM SINCE 1882
3
4
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
We have never gotten around to acknowledging publicly Mr. Frank O’Malley as the source of the term “Notre Doters.” We don’t know whether he cares or not, but he is the man we stole our title from.
Terse communiques from the dining hall reveal research being carried on by Ziggy and his crew of pSeudocoqui. They
then carefully removes his glasses to shave the swaddled shavee.
❖
What has happened to the Humanist? After- plowing through two editions of good grey rhetoric we practically fell on our faces when we hit the week before last’s frothy poll. It sounded as if Fronrath and Burn’s grape juice fermented in the interim!
Comprehensive Examination
All majors in Economics due to graduate June 1, 1947 are hereby notified to appear for the qualifying Comprehensive Written Examination to be held in Room 109. Social Science Building, at 1:15 p. m.. Thursday. April 24. 1947.
All candidates are urged to review their general Economics Principles and also the material in all required courses, except Statistics. '
JOHN H. SHEEHAN Head. Dept, of Economics
are searching for the secret to a meatless weiner for Lenten menus. We were talking about this recently with a Sinatra-loving, tuxedo-wearing, communist stooge on campus. “Ha,” he said, “they certainly won’t have far to go to get such a hot dog.” We leaped to the breach. “What’s the matter with you,” we said, “are you against the American Way of Life, and that grand, traditional old Notre Dame Way of doing things?” He pawed the ground with his toe. Seeing that he was weakening, we whipped Little Orphan Annie from our vest pocket and quoted, “ ‘If you will observe, it doesn’t take a man of giant mold to make a giant shadow on the wall. And he who in our daily sight seems but a figure mean and small, outlined in fame’s illusive life, may stalk a silhouette sublime, across the canvas of his time’.” “Go on,” he said, “my heart is being touched.” We continued, “Leaping Lizards!” “Gar,” the Sinatra-loving tuxedowearing, communist stooge said, “I’ve never thought of it in that way!” “We thought not,” we said, “don’t you know that if you want an abuse corrected here, all you have to do is have a friend that writes a column or editorials for the Scholastic mention it in the magazine? Immediately the University leaps to investigate and correct the mistake.”
His eyes welled with tears, and he dropped to one knee. Our logic had overwhelmed him.
We quote the Feb. 15 New Yorker: “The University of Naples was closed after a group of students who had failed in their examinations beat the hell out of their professor.” Hmmmm! A word to the 'vise (they say), should be sufficient.
♦
There is a barber in town who seems to be a nice gentleman, but who has a quirk more than a little appalling to the customer. He finishes cutting the hair,
5
Typing Done
TERM PAPERS. MANUSCRIPTS, PRECIS
Typing done, ten cents per page (double space). Carbon copies, one cent each. Paper furnished.
W. J. AUSSEL. 315 Badin
FOR BILLFOLDS
Choose from our selections by
BUXTON
PRINCE GARDNER
ROLFS
3.50 to 20.00
Plus Tax
HansXrintzsch
138 N. Michigan
RADIOS
’47-35
N. D. Medals, $2.25
Gifts
Stationery
Toilet Articles
Book Store
Badin Hall
6
COLLEGE PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
v..........	..................
JUST THINKIN'.. .
Rumor has it that some of the ex-swabbies have taken a cue from the miners; they’re grumbling about port-hole-to-porthole pay ... wonder why they say, when a man’s engaged, that the lucky woman ... is the girl’s mother . . . we read in the papers that juvenile delinquency is increasing . . . you know what juvenile delinquents are, they’re the kids that get 50,000 on those tough pinball machines . . . but then, people who live in stone houses shouldn’t throw glasses.
Scene: Walgreen's Corner
Science majors: “You girls wouldn’t like to go out with us, would you?”
Law students: “Would you girls like to go out with us?”
Commerce men: “Where do we go, you lucky girls?”
❖
Another one of Notre Dame’s sons has made the grade. John “Agony” Agnone, one of Notre Dame’s hardest hitting little halfbacks, has been made head back-field coach of St. Bonaventure. Ex-ND coach Hugh Devore once said that Johnny knew more about the T-formation than any player he’s ever coached; now, he’s giving John a chance to prove it by making him his assistant.
Hats off and best wishes from Notre Dame to a sure-fire combination, Coaches Devore and Agnone.
♦
ON FOREIGN FIELDS ...
There seems to be quite a row between Canisius and Long Island University regarding a riot and a bad demonstration of unsportsmanlike conduct on the part of Buffalo fans and Canisius on their home court a month ago.
Throughout the game, Buffalo fans hurled racial insults at the L.I.U. players, play on the court became rougher and rougher, and the game finally ended in a riot when the Canisius squad rushed onto the floor, followed by the fans, and attacked the L.I.U. players and coaches. Police finally broke up the riot.
Three weeks later, L.I.U. beat Canisius in a quiet game in the Garden.
L.I.U. students are quite riled up over the affair and are demanding their authorities decree that an L.I.U. team shall
; ; = = r ■■
never again participate in sports in Buffalo.
All in all, it’s a pretty sad situation. One thing is plain, however, it’s time we Catholics threw overboard our shortsighted bigotry. We are always crying the loudest against racial and religious persecution. When are we going to begin practicing ichat we preach?
4>
As long as the Sports Dept, missed it last week, we recommend today that some award for the Biggest Heart on the Campus be made to Ernie McCullough, anchor man of the ND mile relay team, who picked up the dropped baton in the meet with Michigan State and ran his legs off trying to make up the 50 yard advantage that the Spartans had gained. McCullough not being Frank Merriwell, didn’t quite make it.
♦
Vets at this same Michigan State are being given a hard time by the VA, which is attempting to dock all its wards at the college for cuts, cuts at the school being unlimited. Needless to say, our sympathies lie with the refugees at East Lansing.
♦
OTHER SPORT NEWS
In our best singing commercial style we ask, “Have you perused the periodical shelf in the Caf lately?"—For those who haven’t, one of the more pertinent news items (now that the Kentucky Derby is around the corner) is a racing form, “Nationally known for picking long shots.”—A safe wager is that after this column appears, the newest addition will be yanked from the shelves.
♦
NO COMMENT DEPT.
Georgetown gets Hal McIntyre . . . Purdue has Frankie Carle . . . Michigan hires Claude Thornhill . . . Elliot Lawrence holds forth at Michigan State . . . Glenn Gray at Temple . . . Virginia Tech’s doubleheader, Sonny Dunham and Johnny Long . . . Notre Dame? (Harlan Hogan).
♦
Meet the Missus closed last Friday as it had played all week,' SRO. The performers well deserved the tremendous hand they received every night. A fine cast, good plot, and a great score com-
^eek
- -......  -	- - By John A. O'Connor
Fan me with a brick! What’s the U. S. Army coming to? When we left, it was regimented hell, crummy food, pickin’ up butts, Saturday inspections and organized demoralization. Now’ the Washington sirens are piping sweeter songs. Here’s the latest lure, which came by way of Bob Uhl’s mailbox. The Army has finally decided that the mess hall should assume “a new aura of dignity as the dining hall. Mess Sergeants will be referred to as Dining Hall Stewards, and the cook now answers to the dignified title of Chef.” Noze what we want to know is the dignified word for ulcers? The circular goes on, “To train these specialists (to ruin your stomach), a new type of school has been started. Selected individuals who meet high prerequisites (Ha!) are selected and assigned to work under the guidance of chefs in hotels and famous restaurants which are noted for serving good food. Such hotels as the Waldorf-Astoria, Lexington, Astor, Belmont-Plaza (no mention of ND’s caf) have agreed to help the Army (somebody had better help the enlisted men) in this program!”
❖
Some sharp character has made the following rich observation concerning this clipping from the South Bend Trib-zme, March 3, “In England the wolf became extinct in the reign of Henry VIII; in France and Germany it still exists.” To which said character adds:
bined to make it a successful production. Our only comment—Give us more.
♦
Dean Manion’s boys will be green with envy when they hear that each Senior at LSU’s Law School is presented by underclassmen with a Homburg and a cane to “add to his dignity and appearance.” These are taken to classes the first few weeks of school and used thereafter at Law School dances and parties.
♦
We’ve just heard about the swabbie (ex) who took his sailboat downtown for a ride on the Hoffmann elevator because he wanted to go down with his ship.
♦
The way that studes fell out for Louie Budenz’s oration in the Drill Hall Sunday, you’d have thought that the title of his talk was I Choose Fordham.
“Obviously this condition has been prolonged by the U. S. Army of Occupation.”
❖
Monday will be St. Patrick’s Day, and except for a few whiskey tenors down at Sweeney’s, it may well go by, like the recent Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, unhonored and unsung. Just what have the Irish to croon about? Take a look! Irish monks converted Europe. Irish laborers built the American railroads. Irish soldiers formed the bulk of Washington’s revolutionary Army. Irish whiskey is the best in the world. Irish girls the prettiest. Irish homes are. the happiest. The Irish invented the Superman myth and the death fast. Ireland can boast of Brian Boru, O’Connell, Mac-Swiney & Collins, O’Connor & Goldblatt, Guinness’ Stout, Barry Fitzgerald, Zalej-ski, and Maureen O’Hara. Irish generals (MacArthur and Eisenh O’Wer) won this latest fracas. The Irish are the smartest people in the world. Next to the Jews.
♦
A United Press news release last week disclosed that the U. S. Army will ship home any “War Department female in Germany who has a baby without authorization.” This applies to American women, wives of officers or workers in Germany. The “unauthorized pregnancies” directive makes it pretty plain how far the Army can go in running people’s lives.
♦
There’s bound to be a decline in library traffic now. Reason? As this stuff went to press Miss Ruth Ann Reed had turned in her resignation. Many heads are bowed in grief.
♦
This coming weekend ought to be great for Irish music on the air. Merrill, Melton and Phil Spitalny’s lassies have Irish programs lined up for Sunday, and Monday night. Christopher Lynch tops it off with his “throbbing throat’s long, low melodious moan,” a solid half hour of the best in Irish warbling by the young Celt.
♦
George Strohmeyer, ND’s loquacious All-America center, has taken a job at Walgreens’. When asked about his job the Texan replied: “I’m a married man now. Gotta work. Workin’s all right, but lovin’s better.”
tee** UQiatest •X^TUNES
Linda
I Tip My Hat My Last Goodbye Sonata
A Garden in the Bain
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
tyuMH Ute	.
THE DOTHE DfifB€ SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
John Defant, Editor ASSOCIATE EDITORS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
REWRITE
Bob Stock Ed Snyder Joe Boyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clemens, Editor
Shaun McDermott, Associate Editor
Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley George McCarthy
John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan
Tom Murray Phil Shea
John Waters
SPORTS STAFF Joe Cheney, Editor Pete Brown, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander
John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF Joe Wilcox, Editor Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O’Connor Jerry dwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO STAFF
John Brogan, Editor Joe Haller John Koewler Gene Reynolds Gene Lorence Bob Gawne
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 12. M. B. Harlrn: Bengal Bouts. Page 21, by Gene Lorence, John Brogan, and Gene Reynolds; pictorial feature. Pages 14, 15. 16, by John Koewler; Page 9, by Press Service.
COVER
By John Swain.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
___________________________Faculty Advisor
Bob Kopf  _________________Business Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation Manager M. E. Varga_________________________Advertising
aauuimiitiuilllllllalliulllminiiiaiuiuaiiuanaiaiuaiuuillliliafnam
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building. Notre Dame, Indiana.
8
Religion and Life
With Lent well under way and the Church preparing for Easter, this is a very logical time to re-examine our approach to the practice of our religion. We have heard it said that Notre Dame offers the finest religious opportunities of any university in the country. And in a certain sense it does. The number and convenience of daily Masses, the numerous chapels, the Grotto, the Holy Communion and Confession facilities offered here cannot be equalled, and certainly we have cause to be grateful for all of these.
Yet in everyday student life, on weekends in nearby cities, in our ordinary dealings with the rest of the world, Notre Dame men are becoming more and more mere Sunday Catholics. We do not connect the principles of our religion with our day-to-day living. Our faith is not a living, all-embracing thing. Why?
One reason is that the students’ approach to religion is disembodied. Two ideals are held up—live a good religious life and make a success in the business you enter after graduation. Two ideals, two compartments, no connection. Sunday sermons should show the tie-up between religion and student life.
Man does not go to God in a vacuum tube. A good student is a man who sees the purpose of his education as the complete and integral development of his personality. He will be a complete person by taking advantage of every opportunity student life offers to learn how to serve mankind for the glory of God. The law student who studies loopholes in the tax law, the Commerce man who studies how to make a fortune at the expense of his employees is not completing his personality. He is warping it. Classes cut, study time spent in the sack are other examples of a pygmy mentality.
To really complete our personalities we must do an honest job of preparing for classes, doing outside reading, working out at the Rock. If all these things are done well, we can offer them at the Offertory of the Mass, because we are giving the gift God most desires—living completely the life He has willed for us. At Communion time we can ask for the graces necessary to enable us to do a good job in our student lives.
But most students see the Mass only as an occasion for receiving the graces
of Holy Communion — for taking, not giving. If you don’t believe this, attend a daily Mass in one of the residence halls and watch the influx of students into the chapel at Communion time. When the priest begins Mass, perhaps five oi’ six students are present. When he turns from the altar to distribute Holy Communion, nearly the whole chapel is filled. It’s all take and no give.
And Notre Dame’s approach to the layman’s spiritual life is weak. What does the Mass mean to most students? For the answer, look around you at your fellow students at Mass on Sunday. Not one in five has a Missal to follow the priest at the altar. It is not, of course, impossible to hear Mass profitably without a Missal. But it is certainly difficult without a feeling of active participation. Our High Mass on Sunday is sung by seminarians, not by students. Recitative Masses, in which all share actively, are completely neglected. No effort is made to bring to life the beauty and strength of the liturgy.
A strong faith is a faith that is lived, that is intimately connected with a man’s daily life. The world has need of men who will bring this unity of religion and life into its Wall Street, its United Auto Workers, its General Motors, its Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, its National Broadcasting Company, its Chicago Sun, its Collier’s. The task of every Catholic university is to help each student forge in his life the link between practice and principle, between the world and the Word, between mankind and God.
It’s something for both administration and students to stop and consider.
.	—Robert L. Reynolds
Eighty-year-old Scholastic takes this opportunity to add its congratulations and best wishes to those being heaped daily on its colleague, the South Bend Tribune, which celebrated its seventyfifth birthday on March 9. In 1872 when A. B. Miller and Elmer Crockett pooled their money and resources and set up headquarters in the original Tribune building, Scholastic was a healthy, though somewhat subdued, youngster of five years. Tradition has it that Messrs. Miller and Crockett, deeply impressed by Scholastic’s age and excellence, sought the advice of its contemporary editor and his cohorts, which of course, was willingly supplied. Need we comment that this influence can be recognized even today?—Frank Keenan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88. NO. 19	MARCH 14. 1947	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
16 Bengal Finalists Fight Monday
Conrad Cardinal von Preysing (left) bishop of New York who presided at a Feb. 16, attended by 4.500 persons.
and Francis Cardinal Spellman, Arch-solemn Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral,
CARDINAL VON PREYSING TO ADDRESS STUDENT BODY AT CONVOCATION WED.
By JOHN WATERS
His Eminence, Cardinal Conrad von Preysing, Archbishop of Berlin, Germany, will address the student body at a convocation in the Drill Hall, Mar. 19, at 10:15 a.m. There will be no 10:00 or 11:00 o’clock classes.
The Cardinal’s itinerary includes an address at St. Mary’s at 11:15 a.m., lunch there, return to Notre Dame in the afternoon for a tour of the University and dinner in the Faculty Dining
Hall at 6:00 p.m.
Other dignitaries on the campus will be the Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte, D.D., Archbishop of Indianapolis; Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind.; Most Rev. John G. Bennett, D.D., of Lafayette, Ind.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University has appointed a committee headed by the Rev. Joseph A.
(Continued on Page 33)
Battle for Eight Univ. Championships
By PETE BROWN
Monday night at 8:00 p. m. in the Fieldhouse, jabs, uppercuts and haymakers will start to fly freely as the 16 Bengal Bout finalists pair off to decide the champions in eight divisions ranging from 127-lbs. to heavyweight. .
Three former champs were upset in the preliminaries which took place this past week. Bob Satti fell before Bob Conaty, Walt Evans dethroned Bob Lee, and Jim Sullivan downed Frank De-bitetto. There was a mixup in the Satti-Conaty fight. At the end of the bout, Satti was given the nod by the judges, but after a recount it was discovered that Conaty had scored more points.
Summary of preliminary bouts:
Monday Evening
127-lb.—Bob Phillips vs. Tom King. Phillips outpointed King in the last two rounds to take the decision. Jim Sullivan vs. Bob Weber. A dull fight in which Sullivan was awarded the decision.
145-lb.—Pat Wagner vs. Jim Smith. Smith was the aggressor all the way. He took the decision. Walt Evans vs. Jim King. Evans worked a strong right hand uppercut to take the decision. Bob Satti vs. Bob Conaty. Satti took the first round, but was floored twice in the second. Conaty was awarded the decision.
155-lb.—Bill Hopke vs. Sars Quigley. Another slow fight. Hopke took the decision. Don Fidler vs. Jim Driscoll. Fidler went down three times in the first, once for nine and twice for no count. Driscoll awarded the bout by a TKO in 1:52 of the first round. Jim Brennan vs. Merritt Hoaglund. Brennan downed Hoaglund once in each round to take the decision.
Tuesday Evening
127-lb.—Tony Ortiz vs. Frank Debitet-to. Debitetto won the fight by a TKO in
(Continued on Page 25)
9
NOTRE DAME TO AWARD LAETARE MEDAL SUN. TO 'DISTINGUISHED LAY CATHOLIC
By JAMES JOHN
Next Sunday Notre Dame will award its greatest honor—the Laetare Medal— to a “lay-Catholic,” who is, according to the citation accompanying the medal in 1913, “distinguished in a meritorious field of beneficent endeavor.” With each passing year the Laetare Medal, through its association with the most illustrious and deserving Catholics of the age, has gained added prestige and fame, until now the reception of this medal is recognized as the highest honor attainable by a member of the American Catholic laity. Authors, scientists, journalists, military men, diplomats, philanthropists, statesmen, lawyers, orators, doctors, all have been honored by this award. The new medalist to be named will be the 65th.
The origin of the practice of awarding the Laetare Medal has a very interesting history. It got its inspiration from a papal tradition antedating the middle of the 11th century, whereby the Pope blesses a golden rose on each Laetare Sunday and presents it, if there is a worthy recipient, to some distinguished personage, usually a member of a royal family. Early in the year 1883 at an informal gathering of the faculty James F. Edwards, a young professor and later librarian at Notre Dame, suggested that Notre Dame take the lead in encouraging our Catholic laity to continue and to increase their efforts in the development of the arts and sciences by giving public recognition to work of outstanding merit. The time-honored papal custom was set forth as an example to be followed.
Adopted In 1883
This proposal immediately caught the fancy of Father Sorin and Father Thomas E. Walsh, then president of the University, and it was adopted in the same year. The honor took the form of an annual award and derived its name from the fact that it was intended that the medal should be bestowed each Laetare Sunday. The spirit of this decision has continued to the present day although it was found more practical to make the announcement of the award on Laetare Sunday with the actual presentation following at a date convenient to the recipient.
The process by which the medalist is determined is a careful one. The University of Notre Dame Committee of Award, made up of ten members of the faculty headed by the president of the University, makes the actual selection. A committee on nominations, meeting
10
twice a year, appraises names submitted in the intervals between meetings and makes recommendations to the Committee of Award. This body, in a series of meetings at which the merits of the various candidates are discussed, narrows the available names to three and then, after careful investigation, takes a final vote.
The criteria for weighing the merits of prospective nominees have been very aptly set forth by Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., who as a student in 1906 wrote an account of the medalist of that year: “Professional success is all right, but more than this she (Notre Dame) looks to in the man on whom she confers the Laetare Medal. In the first place, the winner of this honor must be a man of signal personal worth, of unusual force of character, a powerful influence for good in the community in which he lives. He must be a Catholic who knows and loves his religion, carrying it with him through the details of his daily life to the honor of himself and the Church. He must be a man whose efforts have benefited his fellow-man in some large way, by private work or civic usefulness; in fine, a man and a Catholic who needs no such honor to keep his memory alive in the hearts of his grateful fellows.”
Recognizes Distinguished Service
The medal itself is made of a heavy gold piece a little larger than a dollar. It depends from a bar on which is inscribed “Laetare Medal.” One side of the medal is decorated with words to the effect, “Presented by the University of Notre Dame to---------, in Recognition of Distinguished Services Rendered to the American Catholic Public,’-’ along with symbolism appropriate to the occupation of the individual recipient. The obverse side bears the legend, “Magna est Veritas, et Praevalebit,” (Truth is mighty and it shall prevail).
By coincidence both the first and last medalists have been historians. John Gil-mary Shea, author of the monumental work History of the Catholic Church in the United States, got the award in 1883, and Carlton J. H. Hayes, convert to Catholicism, renowned professor of history at Columbia University, and wartime ambassador to Spain, received the medal last year. Of the 16 living medalists the earliest is Agnes Repplier, one of America’s greatest essayists, now nearing 90, who was honored in 1911. The youngest man to get the medal was Richard Reid, journalist and editor, who at
40 received it in 1936. On the other hand, Patrick Donahoe, founder of the Boston ■ Pilot and winner in 1893, had to wait until he was 83.
Others of unusual merit among the renowned assemblage are Augustin Daly, dramatic producer, 1894; General William S. Rosecrans, 1896; Dr. John B. Murphy, famous Chicago surgeon, 1902; Edward Douglas White, senator and chief justice of the United States Supreme Court, 1914; James J. Walsh, physician and author, 1916; Albert Francis Zahm, former professor’ at Notre Dame, pioneer in the field of aeronautics, and now head of the Guggenheim foundation for aeronautics at the Congressional Library, 1925; and John McCormack, internationally famous Irish tenor, 1933. Josephine Van Dyke Brownson, 1939, was the daughter of a previous medalist, Henry Brownson, 1892, and the granddaughter of one who would undoubtedly have been the first medalist had he lived, Orestes Brownson—greatest American convert of the 19th century.
West Coasters Book Wild Rodeo for May
There wasn’t a suntan in the crowd last week when the boys from California got together over- a few “cokes” to plan their forthcoming Spring Festival. Bemoaning the Indiana weather, the clubmen cheerily looked forward to the beautiful month of May, at which time a Wild West Rodeo is tentatively booked.
The proposed Rodeo, complete with bucking broncos, ropin’, ridin’, and maybe even injuns, is the promotion scheme of new club president Bill Vangen. Livestock for the show, plus cowboy and va-quero outfits, will come from the Rancho Vangen at Bell, California. Some club members are accomplished in various Western arts: Louie Polk plays the guitar, Joe Helwig has bulldogged calves, and Jack Painter has bowlegged calves. John Glaab plans on riding a steer and Stan Stone will milk a wild cow.
Of course the Californians intend to rope the Texans and Oklahomans in on the rodeo so that the event will be a guaranteed campus success. A barefoot delegation will approach friendly Texans on the matter in the near future.
The meeting finally broke up when the leaders of two opposing factions almost came to slaps. The tussle was over who would be brought from Hollywood as queen of the Rodeo. One side favored Marie McDonald and the other Marilyn Maxwell, and since no decision could be reached, the whole idea was junked.
—John A. O’Connor.
'Coddling No Answer1 Warning By Gurian
Any appeasement of Soviet Russia at the Moscow Conference will “not result in peace, but most likely in war,” Dr. Waldemar Gurian warned in an address at the Knights of Columbus Forum, on March 10.
Dr Gurian emphasized that the Soviets “will misundertand continuous concessions by the Western democracies as proof of revolutionary situations in those countries which they must exploit.” A point eventually would be reached, he added, where “war would be unavoidable.”
Soviet mentality, based as it is on suspicion and mistrust of other nations, is such, that even revealing American atomic bomb secrets to Russia “would in no way help to win Russia’s good will,” he asserted. Such a gesture of goodwill, he said, would be regarded by the Soviet Government “as proof of a softening and decay of the United States.”
Dr. Gurian continued, in part, as follows :
“The United States today is obliged to help maintain a world order that excludes further advances of Communist influence. But our defensive against Communism must be supported by an offensive which drives back Soviet influence from territories that Soviet Russian bayonets dominate. This offensive will not be satisfied with negative action, such as espionage or counter-espionage, against Communist influence and encroachments. Anti-Communist measures must be based on a positive policy, and the backbone of that policy is social justice for all men.”
Dr. Gurian said he doubted that there would be war with Soviet Russia if the Western democracies, particularly the United States, took a firm stand against further concessions to the Soviet Government. The Soviets, he declared, realize that economically Russia is in no fit condition at present to fight a successful war. For this reason it is hoped the Soviets “will make some concessions themselves to the democracies, once they have realized that their present stubborn policies are not successful and are apt to lead to war” he added. Such concessions would be made by the Soviet Government, he said, to gain economic assistance that only the United States and other Western democracies can extend.
“On the other hand, I do not think there will be peace with the Soviet Union if one means by peace harmonius relations based on the acceptance of common ideals,” he continued. “The Soviet regime as such is based upon distrust of
all other powers. Therefore, it will always remain necessary to watch carefully all actions of the present Soviet Government.”
Change NSO Forum to Friday, March 21
By SHAUN McDEHMOTT
Originally scheduled for next Thursday night, the first in a series of student forums on the proposed National Student Organization will be held on Friday, March 21, at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Topic of the forum: the advantages of the NSO.
With Communist participation and attempt to control the new group a foregone conclusion, campus proponents of the NSO insist that it is imperative that Catholics abandon their policy of social isolation, which has so far consisted of criticizing various movements but offering no strong positive program of their own. According to Bob Uhl, key man in organizing an NSO unit here, active participation by all student groups of the nation is necessary to guarantee a democratic body which will voice the problems and views of students. Without Catholic activity, the NSO will probably degenerate into a Communist “front,” which could be used to advance Red principles in the name of all the nation’s students, it is claimed. To prevent this eventuality, Uhl has stated, Notre Dame should send delegates to the constitutional convention this summer, and there present a definite program, and set down definite principles which must be accepted by the organization before Notre Dame commits its support.
The forum will be attended by delegates from all the campus clubs of Notre Dame and of St. -Mary’s. Vincent Hogan, delegate to the Prague congress last summer will present a brief history of the student movement. Following Hogan, Martin McLaughlin, also a delegate to the Prague congress, will speak in favor of the NSO, while Al Sommers, a delegate to the Chicago congress last December, will speak against the proposed organization. A discussion, open to all students, will then be held. Chairman of the forum will be Jerry Feeney, and Mr. Louis Radelet will act as parliamentarian.
Regular Weekly Concerts THE BEST IN CLASSICAL RECORDINGS Cavanaugh Reading Room Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday 4:15-5:15 P.M. All Students and Faculty Invited
Army Opens Officer Ranks to Graduates
By EX-SERGEANT JOE WILCOX
(The following is based on a release from the War Department, with the inimitable Wilcox touch added.—Editor).
Frustrated ex-Army officers longing for the peace, security, and power of their former homes in the Army can have it all back upon graduation. The lonesome ex-looies, captains, majors, et al., are eligible after graduation, to get the bar back on the shoulder and, inversely, the shoulder back on the officers club bar again.
Applications are being taken for Regular Army commissions in the Army Air Forces for all commissioned Air Corps Officers who will graduate before July 15. Veterans previously commissioned in Judge Advocate General, Medical Corps, Veterinary Corps, or Chaplain Corps and who are now taking graduate work at a university and will complete such work prior to July 15, may apply. In ground arms and other technical divisions, as well as administrative services, other than those mentioned, applications will be considered from those former officers who will be less than 28 years old on July 15 and who were originally commissioned after July 15, 1944.
Over-sanguinity is not advised, however, because appointment of ex-officers will be made only after all possible vacancies have been filled by suitable applicants under the current integration program, whatever that may be. Announcement of the lucky people will be made around September 1947. - ■ • -
Those interested in applying for their former ambrosia and nectar should write to their old friend, the Adjutant General, Attention AGSO-R, Washington 25, D. C., prior to April 15, 1947. Proper application forms must be completed and returned to the Adjutant General on or before June 1, 1947. Roving examination boards will examine applicants between now and June.
Letters requesting application forms should contain the following information: College or university of enrollment; Date of Graduation; Degree to be conferred; Date of birth; Date entered on active (commissioned) service; Choice of Arm or service; Names of all previous immediate commanding or supervising officers (at least three); Address at which applicant can be reached during the 45 days following graduation.
Look homeward, angel!
11
BUDENZ BLASTS COMMUNIST INTRIGUES, ASKS END OF APPEASEMENT PROBLEM
ND Sponsors Summer Session In Mexico
As a contribution toward better inter-
“Is it not time for the United States to end its past and present policy of appeasement toward Russia? Is it not time that we begin to distinguish between the Communists as a fifth column activity and the legitimate political parties under a democracy? Is it not time for the United States to stand up for an effective peace contributing religious principles and justice regarding the rights of small nations?”
Thus, with these three damning questions Louis F. Budenz, former managing editor of the Daily Worker who returned to the Catholic faith last year, summed up his case against the Communist party in America and America’s relations with Russia last Sunday afternoon in the Navy Drill Hall.
Budenz’ lecture, the first of the annual Aquinas Library series, and titled “In Two Camps,” was attended by a capacity crowd of about 4,000.
His talk was built around a biting, factual indictment of Soviet foreign policy and the Red intrigues in the United States today. Budenz related how Marxism and Leninism have destroyed the Communist intellect by the erasure of all moral standards; how the U.S.S.R. aims at world domination just as the Nazis before it. Basing his argument on ten years of intimate contact with the Communist party here, Budenz charged that the Kremlin is using the Party as a Quisling fifth column which uses illegal
LOUIS F. BUDENZ ... three damning questions.
methods whenever and wherever it sees fit in pursuing its aims in this country and all the countries of the world.
The first goal of these Quislings, as related by the former Communist, is the total destruction of the American democratic form of government which is directly opposed to the Russian totalitarian ideology. Their second aim is the liquidation of the Catholic Church which blocks the Reds’ sights in the spiritual realm.
Budenz further gave a revealing picture of Soviet underground conspiracy in the United States. He likened the Party to a submarine, with only its periscope above water and the rest of it working underneath. Dynamically outlining the pattern of Communist progress in America, Budenz showed how their operations are being directed solely by Red authorities in the Kremlin. He revealed the names and aliases of many Party members with their respective connections to the Soviet Union, the American government, and to each other—a vast and tangled knot of conspirators.
In speaking of his reconversion to Catholicism, Budenz analogized his transition with the similar experience of St. Augustine, who regained the faith after nine years of his mother’s prayers. The speaker credited his return to the intercession of the Blessed Virgin and the influence of Msgr. Fulton Sheen.
—Phil Shea
American understanding and as a special service to those interested in the study of the Romance languages and literatures or the culture and civilization of the Latin American states, the University of Notre Dame will sponsor this year a summer session in Mexico. This will be carried out in conjunction with Mexico City College, an American-type institution founded in 1940 to give American university work to students from the United States who wish to study in the foreign atmosphere.
The Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico will run for nine weeks from June 23 to August 22. Nine semester hours of credit may be offered for transcript to the student’s record here at the University. While it is expected that students attending the special session will give major emphasis to the study of Spanish or the literature of Spain and Spanish America, classes for credit will also be available in French, Portuguese, English, Education, Economics, Political Science, Sociology, Philosophy, Fine Arts, and possibly in a few of the other-fields mentioned in the catalogue. Most of the courses will be taught in English, some will be taught only in Spanish, and many may be had in either English or Spanish, at the option of the student. The complete facilities and faculty of Mexico City College will be at the disposal of the Notre Dame group. In addition, side trips outside of Mexico City will be offered to the group at the amazingly low rate of $1.50 and $2.00.
Tuition for the Summer Session in Mexico is $80.00. Room and board in private homes may be had for $18.00 per week and higher, and no student may live in a place not previously approved by the authorities of the college. Transportation to and from Mexico is to be arranged individually (public transportation may be had for $65.00 round trip and higher, depending upon the mode of travel).
Veterans may attend the session on the G.I. Bill of Rights. A self-contained Veterans Administration unit is now in operation in Mexico City to expedite the affairs of veterans in that country.
The Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico is open to all N.D. students, graduates, and former students, as well as to certain other persons. The group while in Mexico will be under the personal supervision of Professor* Walter M. Langford, head of the N.D. Department of Modern Languages, who is to serve as Director and who is prepared to handle all inquiries.
12
K.C. to Hold Three Functions Next Week
Activities for the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus for the coming week include a corporate Communion Breakfast on Sunday, a general council meeting on Tuesday, and a first degree initiation on Thursday evening, Grand Knight James Sullivan announced.
The last two will take place in the council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall. All will feature the beginning of an expanded membership drive which will continue for the next month and a half with the goal of bringing more than 100 new members into the council.
Chairman Bob Schmid of the Communion Breakfast has arranged for a three-council affair with the Notre Dame Council joining with groups from South Bend and Mishawaka to honor Bishopelect Lawrence M. Graner, C.S.C., and the work done in connection with the Bengal Bouts. Father Graner will be the chief speaker at the breakfast, which will begin at 9:00 a.m. in the West Dining hall following the celebration of the Mass by the council chaplain, Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., at 8:00 a.m. in Dillon Hall chapel.
Preceding the St. Patrick day finals of the Bengal Bouts by one day, this Sunday gathering will also be a means of honoring those men who have worked to make the bouts successful. Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., Chairman of the Bouts, will give a recap of work already done and a preview of what the final bouts will produce in the line of high
THIS WEEK WITH THE STUDENT COUNCIL
The following business was discussed by the Student Council at its weekly meeting held last Monday night:
1.	Introduced John Bonnot, representative from Farley Hall.
2.	Heard motion by Larry Turnei- to have all hall representatives canvass their halls to poll student preference for next year’s football trip.
3.	Heard motion by John O’Connor to have report of Student Council meetings posted in all halls by representatives and to have mimeograph suggestion sheets made to enable students to turn in complaints and suggestions to the hall representatives. This motion made and approved to better insure relationship between the Student Council and the student body.
4.	Motion made and approved to have glass-enclosed, standing announcement board placed in lobby of dining hall to publicize notices of all weekly campus events.
5.	Motion made and approved to hold one open Student Council meeting per month so that the student body may attend. This month’s meeting will be held in Washington Hall on the 24th of March pending the Prefect of Discipline’s approval.
6.	Louis Streer was appointed chairman of a committee to investigate the present food situation and to make recommendations as to whether the variety of meals could be changed and to determine if more palatable preparations could be served. The committee will also determine if it will be possible to publish a weekly menu in advance. John Bonnot and Jim Simons are the other committee members. John Noonan
grade boxing and as a source of aid to the Bengal Missions.
Tuesday evening at 7:30, at the regular meeting of the council, a final report on the Bengal Bouts will be given to the members and the final plans for the K. of C. Spring Formal will be announced. Other work that will be on the schedule includes a report on the membership drive and a discussion of the program being carried out by the family life group. An entertainment program has been arranged by the lecturer to complete the meeting.
For the first time in many years, the Notre Dame council will present its own first degree initiation. Conducted by the officers of the council, this initiation will take place in the council chambers at 7:30 p.m. next Thursday. This initiation will consist of a small group of candidates and will be the forerunner of many more to be carried through during the remainder of the semester. The publication of a complete calendar for the coming two months of the more important council activities has been published and has been made available to all members through the Casey Neivs and the council bulletin board. Major exemplifications, social functions and other activities can there be found.
New Exits for Halls
Installed on the doors of Cavanaugh and Zahm Halls, and soon to be on all hall entrances, are new fixtures enabling doors to be opened from the inside at any time of day or night. Similar to the one way exits in theaters, they are being attached in compliance with a new fire law.
Turner, Tearney Named KC Spring Formal Heads
Grand Knight James Sullivan has announced the appointment of Larry Turner and Tom Tearney as co-chairmen of the Knights of Columbus Spring Formal to be held at the Palais Royale on April 18th.
, The co-chairmen announced that, following a traditional K. of C. policy of affording the Notre Dame students good entertainment as evidenced by the Bengal Bouts and the K. of C. Vaudeville, the dance will be open to all students, and the price of the bids wil be the lowest of any major dance on the campus this semester.
Griff Williams Orchestra Signed for Junior Prom
Working in conjunction with Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., newly appointed director of student activities, co-chairman George Sullivan announced this week that Griff Williams and his orchestra have been signed for the Junior Prom, which will be held on May 2 in the Rockne Memorial.
A nationally-known orchestra, Williams has recently been playing the hotel circuit in Chicago, and is now at the Empire Room of the Palmer House.
While the price of the bid has not yet been announced, they will be placed on sale before Easter, and will be available to both Juniors and Seniors.
Bridge Tourney Enters 2nd Round; 64 Competing
Sponsored by the Student Council and under the supervision of Bob Shaw, a bridge elimination tournament is in the second round of play, and already a few teams are standing out. Of the 64 squads that entered the contest which started last Thursday, three are definitely expected to finish high. They are: team no. 12, Paxton-Regan; team no. 39, Tom Look-S'haw; and team no. 60, Shadley-Fitzharris. Also prominent in the running is the McCullough-Suarez combination which defeated another strong group, Bairley-Conlisk.
Two sets of brothers, John and Carl Look, and Donald and John MacDonald, are in the tournament and scheduled to play each other; an event which should put quite a strain on inter-family relations. Football players evidently make bridge experts as witness the presence of the Johnny Lujack-Coy McGee twosome.	-
The matches will continue until Easter. The winners will receive plaques and prizes, paid for by a 25 cent registration fee from each team.
—Verne Francis Kelley.
13
In the Senior Class from South of the Border are, left to right, Steve (Sebastian) Company, Panama; Francisco Pinto, Ecuador; Alfredo Smith, Cuba; Arturo Castro, Cuba; Jose Andrade, Ecuador.
Cosmopolitan
The four graduate Chinese, accompanied by Wilson L. Chung, undergraduate in Mechanical Engineering, arrived in San Francisco early in January, two weeks after they left China, each with a scholarship tucked under his arm, a speaking vocabulary of about 290 English words, and a prayer of thanks to Notre Dame.
Mr. Chiao, one of the two Catholics in the group, is here studying the American system of education and working for his doctor’s degree in Western History. Already having received his Master’s in Chinese History at the Catholic University of Pieping, he feels that one must know not only his own country, but other countries as well, if world peace and the United Nations are ever to emerge from the dream stage.
Chinese Captured by Japs
By CHARLES CARROLL CARTER
Whether you say, “Nee Ho Ma!” “Comment ga va?”, or the usual “Hi, pal,” just about any salutation is appropriate in view of the many nationalities and foreign citizens to be found on campus. Dedicated to teaching universal knowledge, Notre Dame might easily qualify as an international settlement. Twenty-one nations, including France, Germany, Poland, and Hungary have sent 67 of their countrymen to advance in wisdom and knowledge at Notre Dame. In the fullest sense of the word, Notre Dame is a Catholic university.
From the longest unfortified border in the world, Canada has sent many students to Indiana for higher learning. Montreal, Quebec, and Toronto are well represented here by nine Canadians, besides Newfoundlander “Eskimo” Jim Greene.
Hailing from India’s sunny clime, the land of the flowing Hart, Schaffner, and Marx bedsheet, jewel-laden princes, and veiled bobby-soxers, comes Mahesh Govind of India, the sole Hindu at Notre Dame. You won’t see him strolling about the campus clad like Mahatma Gandhi, since he has resigned himself to the more conventional but less comfortable Western attire. At present he lives in town, takes part-time classes in graduate engineering, and works at Bendix.
Another part of the Orient, Tegal, Java, is the home of Henry Linn, now a resident of the ancient, exclusive Sorin Sub. Two young priests studying here
are from the Philippines, and at the end of January four Chinese arrived from Tiensin and Peiping and have practically set up a branch of the China Inn at 139 Lyons Hall.
The present economic situation in the Orient is chaotic, and the political status of many of the eastern countries hangs in the balance between western democracy and Russian communism. But men like Joseph Chiao, (rhymes with “now”) graduate student in Western History, Kuo-Chu Ho, working for his Master’s in Physics, and David S. H. Mai and Sing-Tuh Voong, both graduate students in Chemistry, do much to increase hope that Eastern Countries, particularly China, will emerge from the cataclysm of war and economic chaos, and help to advance world progress as they have done in the past.
Quiet, scholarly David Mai, like Sing-Tuh Voong, is studying advanced Chemistry. A graduate of the National University of Peiping, he served as a research assistant for several years and later worked at the Chinese Institute of Chemistry. Mr. Ho, like the others, had heard about Notre Dame from priests while he was in college. In December, 1943, while trying to escape into Free China, he was captured by the Japs, who then occupied Northern China. The Japs tied his arms behind his back, strung him up by the wrists from the rafters of a hut, and left him there until he was cut down by friends. A few years ago, his brother received his doctorate from Princeton. But like all Chinese here, he finds English easy to read but hard to speak because of the odd meanings of our slang expressions.
Wilson Chung, youngest and most
Brothers from that heavenly place, Managua, Nicaragua, Noel and Luis Pallais.
14
SVotre ^ame
Americanized of all the Orientals at Notre Dame, whose brother was graduated from here and now works at Studebaker, was blessed by a quirk of fate when his sweetheart, Marie Catherine Lu, whom he met at Peiping U., happened to be on the same ship and followed him to within a mile of Notre Dame. She is now a sophomore at St. Mary’s.
Two Philippine priests, the Rev. Patricio Monis and the Rev. Francisco Cruces, now enrolled in the Graduate School, came to Notre Dame this semester on the advice of Jose Hernandez, N.D. graduate and head of the Department of English at Santo Thomas, in order to study Catholic youth work. Upon returning to the Philippines this spring, they will try to establish a much-needed social and reading center for school children and to organize athletic activities—a large order in the war-torn Philippines.
Officers of the Latin American La Raza Club: Seated, left to right. Ramiro Samaniego. Ecuador (President); Jose de Rojas. Cuba (Treasurer); Francisco Salido, Mexico (Secretary); Eric Rey de Castro. Peru (Subsecretary). Standing. Jaime Pinto, Ecuador (Vice President).
Frenchman YCS Leader
Dapper, natty, continental Claude Julien of Paris, National Leader of the Young Christian Students, largest Catholic Action organization of its kind in France, came here at the beginning of January upon the invitation of Notre Dame and the granting of a scholarship by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. M. Julien will complete his studies for a Master’s degree in Political Science.
One of eleven children, M. Julien was educated in his native Southern France at Toulouse College, later at the Sorbonne. In 1942 he joined a resistance movement of university students operating throughout France. Espionage, the acquisition of information for the R.A.F. and American bombers, and destruction of transportation lines were the order of
Seen in the library are graduate students, left to right Przemyslaw J. Mroczkowski, Poland; Claude Julien, France; Gerard F. Schmidt
Germany.
the day. His work was primarily concerned with writing for and helping to edit the resistance Cahiers du Temoi-gnage Chretien, now the most significant Catholic newspaper in France, with a circulation of almost a third of a million. Last summer, he met Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., when the latter was in France. Father Putz suggested that he come to Notre Dame, and M. Julien jumped at the chance. He crossed on the Ile-de-France and arrived here just prior to the beginning of the January semester. After he has received his degree, about two years hence, he will return to his battered country, hoping to help in its rebuilding. He also hopes to join Georges Bidault’s MRP, significant and extensive French Christian party.
“John the Pole,” seldom known by his
official name, Przemyslaw J. Mroczkowski, is the only student from Poland now within the shadow of the Dome. John already has his Master’s degree, both in English and in French, from the University of Cracow, and, with a scholarship from Notre Dame plus aid from the Kosciuszko Foundation in New York, he is here striving for his doctorate in English. Usually he can be found knee deep in material in the recesses of the library’s stacks, gathering facts and assembling his dissertation on Chesterton and the Middle Ages. When he returns to Poland this spring, he will rejoin his wife and family and begin to organize the Department of English at the Catholic University of Lublin. He will be a valuable asset to that most destitute of European countries whose material foundations of culture have been reduced to almost absolute nothingness. At the moment he is conducting a book drive for his future English Department.
In December of last year, Gerard Francis Schmidt sailed from Italy, and came to the United States to make this country his home, as did our forbears. Gerard Schmidt left Munich in 1937 when things in his country were shaping up contrary to his ideals. Soon after, his family followed him in slow succession, one by one, and took up residence in France. As his father was a college professor and had given him considerable instruction at home in teaching, Gerard was able to qualify as a German teacher
15
Tropical fish fanciers Miguel Sastre and Sebastian Company look at a few of their prizes.
Proprietors of Notre Dame's China Inn, left to right, Kuo-Chu Ho, Peiping; Wilson L. Chung, Tientsin; Joseph Ming-Shun Chaio. Hopie; Seated, David Shu-Huai Mai, Kanshu.
while working for his degree at the famed Sorbonne.
Scorning the blindly nationalistic philosophy of “my country, right or wrong,” Gerard joined the French army as an infantryman with his younger brother. Nearly 10,000 other volunteers did likewise. They were sent to North Africa for training but the Nazis, flushed with victory over Poland, turned on France; in six weeks it was all over for the Third Republic. The ensuing pro-Nazi Vichy government put all of these anti-Nazi volunteers into camps in South Morocco and compelled them to work on construc-. tion crews in the desert. Later, Gerard was able to get out of this semi-slave labor camp; for* a short time he attended the University of Algiers. In the Fall of 1942, soon after the Americans landed in North Africa, he began to work with an American foreign relief organization. Two years later he joined the British Army and was sent to Italy where he continued helping displaced persons and refugees.
Erect, meticulous, and soft spoken with a British accent, Gerard Schmidt was honorably discharged from the British Army four months before he came to the States. Instrumental in his coming to this country was Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s most active disciple of international good will.
Managua, Nicaragu, is that heavenly place where you can ask any senorita for a leetle embrace and buy a hacienda
16
practically free. But Noel and Luis Pal-lais, brother residents of radio’s current Utopia, and sons of Nicaragua’s ambassador to Peru, left their delightful home town for Notre Dame’s engineering department. Why the atmosphere of “coffee and bananas and a temperature hot” was traded for mystery balls, frankfurts, and zero is hard to ascertain, but like all good things, education has its price.
One of the first Ecuadorians to tread Notre Dame’s campus was John Moeller, who was lured north by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, when he was touring South America a few years ago. John took back more than a sheepskin; besides the usual parchment he departed with the most, valuable fixture in Father Cavanaugh’s office—namely, his secretary, Rosemary Sheridan. Ecuadorians on campus at present number 11.
Notre Dame is a family tradition with Eric de Castro, of Peru, whose father came to N.D. The elder Rey de Castro married a St. Mary’s girl the day after he was graduated in 1921. Jose Andrade, senior engineer from Ecuador, has two sisters at St. Mary’s academy. Francis Salido’s mother and father both came from Mexico to be educated in the United States.
The La Raza Club, campus organization of Latin Americans, is probably the best organized as well as the most active club on campus. With 45 members repre-"'
senting 13 countries, La Raza is headed by Ramiro Sananiego, senior chemical engineer from Ecuador. “Sam” holds meetings with the other officers in the temporary Pan-American Legation at
Recovering from an appendectomy in the infirmary is Rev. Francisco - Cruces, one of two Philippine priests on campus.
281 Dillon, at least once a week. But meeting or no meeting, within those four walls there are always enough to get up two or three chess matches, besides those who just drop in to look over the daily dated bulletin board. Near the shortwave radio that pipes up the latest tunes from the vicinity of the equator, “Oswald” Arroyo can usually be found beating it out with the maracas, while Frank Pinto gives it the Xaviei- Cugat touch with the timbales.
La Raza, with bi-lingual Father William Cunningham, C.S.C., as chaplain, boasts an added membership of a dozen senoritas on the distaff side of the Dixie. Spring social plans include a dance in April and a get-away-from-the-book-and-relax picnic in May.
Nearly all of the Latins have shortwave or trans-oceanic radios to bring the throbbing South American tempos to singing-ad ridden Indiana. Two, Steve Company and Mike Sastre of 151 Cavanaugh claim distinction as N.D.’s only breeders of tropical fish.
All but a very few of the Spanish speaking Notre Dame men are engineers. Engineering in South America, particularly in the less developed areas, promises a lush field. S'outh American industry, especially in the field of textiles, lags behind the development of U. S. industry, leaves inviting doors open for ambitious young engineers.
For most of the South Americans, even airmail takes five days, and, since they are so far from home, they usually spend vacations with North American classmates. Choice among American cities for holiday seasons is cosmopolitan New York.
With the addition of its new Mediaeval Institute, new biology laboratories, and other proposed scholastic ventures, Notre Dame will probably draw more foreign students than ever before. The University’s fame, already far-flung, will spread farther abroad than ever. Perhaps Notre Dame will one day claim the waning distinction of the tottering British empire; the sun will never set on a Notre Dame graduate.
ENGLISH AND JOURNALISM MAJORS
All students who wish to begin their major in either English or Journalism should confer with the head of that department and secure written permission from him to be presented at the time of preregistration in April.
Vets Club Proposes 5 Changes to Council
By ED SNYDER
The Veterans Club this week called for the Student Council to be returned to the students by submitting five proposals for amendments to the revised council constitution.
“There is a general lack of interest in any student organization, and to alleviate this lack of interest, the student should be entitled to participate,” was the opinion expressed by President Hank Keel in his “proposals” letter, presented to the council Monday night.
As its first proposal, the club requested an amendment to open the elections of the council’s committee to the entire student body. It was further proposed that elections be held once each semester instead of annually and that elections be held two weeks before examinations so that the new council would be ready for office at the start of the new semester.
In conclusion the letter asked that 30 pel' cent of the residents in each hall be the minimum number of voters necessary to elect a council member, and that representatives from the various colleges of the University be dropped unless they are duly elected.
By its action, the club became the first to submit proposals for amendments to the new constitution.
In another letter to the council, also submitted Monday, Keel requested office space on the campus for the club. He also sought a schedule of activities that are slated for the post-Lenten season. He concluded the second letter by asking that the council consider the Vet’s Club in a single category, “because/’ said Keel, “we are the largest club on the campus.”
At its meeting, the Student Council held a reading of the letters, but took no action on them.
"The Family and Liturgy" Third in Lecture Series
Father John Fitzsimons will give an address on “The Family and the Liturgy” as the third in the current series of lectures being sponsored by the Liturgy Club. This lecture will be held on Thursday evening, March 20, at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Building auditorium.
Father Fitzsimons comes to Notre Dame from the Archdiocese of Liverpool, England, where he has been the Director of Catholic Action from 194146, as well as the founder and editor of the Young Christian Workers’ Priests’ Bulletin. Father Fitzsimons joined Mr.
Paul McGuire in the co-authorship of Restoring All Things (Sheed and Ward, 1939), and was a contributor to Essays In Reconstruction (Sheed and Ward, 1946).
Father Fitzsimons received his M.A. from the University of Oxford and studied at the Catholic University of Lille, France. He is returning to England this summer to take up a national post with the Young Christian Workers’ movement.—Phil Shea
400 Enthusiasts Hear Duo-Piano Concert
Forsaking the more rugged Bengal Bouts preliminaries last Monday, an audience of 400 students, faculty members, and their friends attended a duo-piano recital -by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, F.A.G.O., and Father John D. Gallagher, C.S.C. Mr. Pedtke, head of the Music Department, prefaced the concert with a brief history and analysis of the suite in music.
A reversal of the trend towards elaborate polyphonic music, which in the 16th century expanded to as many as 32 voices, the suite consists of adaptations of common folk tunes and dances. It is characterized by a variety of tempo and rhythm patterns. This suite is similar to the play form, said Mr. Pedtke, in that it has exposition, variation and a conclusion. Mr. Pedtke terminated his remarks with a brief allusion to famous duo- . piano teams and confided his hope that this concert would produce another team.
The Sonata No. 7 in D major by Franz Joseph Haydn was presented flawlessly as the first part of the program. Father Gallagher played the first piano part as originally written by Haydn and Mr. Pedtke brilliantly executed the second part, arranged by Claude Murphree, which strengthens tonality and occasionally adds embellishments.
Next on the program was the Suite for Two Pianos, Opus 15, by Anton S. Arensky in 3 movements, a Romance, Valse and a Polonaise. The light, fluid nuances of the Valse, as well as the dynamic percussions of the full-bodied, martial Polonaise brought appreciative response from the audience. The new team pleased the students by two encores, the Cradle Song of Alexander MacFayden and the lusty Dance Negre of George F. Boyle. It was evident that Mr. Pedtke’s hoped for team had arrived.
The third concert will feature the oboe of Ralph Thorson, pre-med student, who will perform works by Bach and Rimsky-Krosakov. The concert will take place approximately in 3 weeks.
—John P. Reiner
17
Net Squad Defeats Marquette, 73 to 68
By PETE BROWN
All that remains for the basketball squad this year are the testimonial banquet given for them by the Villagers Club and the long patient wait while their monogram sweaters are being knitted. They finished their playing season last Saturday- night by defeating Marquette, 73-68.
The game was another rough and tumble affair along the general pattern of those on which the team built its reputation this year. Seven men were benched for five personals. This list included Frannie Curran, Leo Barnhorst and Jim O’Halloran of Notre Dame. John Kelly playing the gentleman in his last collegiate appearance for the Irish, was the only member of the starting quintet who had less than foul- personals called against him. He drew only two calls.
After holding a 31-29 edge at the end of the first half, the Irish built up a lead to 58-39 at the half-way point in the final period. Marquette regained its balance and pulled within three points with one minute to play, but their drive did not last. The Hilltoppers’ Gene Berce led the individual scoring for the evening with 24 points. John Brennan clinched the Irish season scoring title by contributing 20 points on five baskets and ten free throws.
It was the first time since 1943 that . the Irish had been able to beat the Hilltoppers on their own floor, and was victory number 32 for Notre Dame in the series which has seen 44 games played.
Notre Dame finished their season with an .816 batting average on their 20 wins and four defeats. This percentage is the best turned in by an Irish squad since the ’43 edition, the last of the late George Keogan’s quintets, ended their season with 18 wins and two defeats for a .900 average.
With the 73 points scored in their final bow, the team closed out with 1,572 points. This total is 331 points better than the highest previous total by an Irish quintet. The previous record was held by the 1945 outfit. It also marked the ninth time in Notre Dame basketball history that a team has topped the 1,000 mark.
Fencing Team Loses to Wildcats, 15-12
For the second time within the past two weeks the Notre Dame fencing team fell victim to the Northwestern Wildcats, the second defeat coming on March 4 at Evanston where the Irish succumbed 1512. Though greatly weakened by the loss of their two top performers Mike Di-
18
BENGAL EINALS
ARCH WARD, TRIBUNE SPORTS EDITOR, NAMED HONORARY BENGALS REFEREE
By PETE BROWN
Bengal Bout Promoter Christy Walsh last week announced the acceptance of the committee’s invitation as Honorary Referee by Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune.
A history of Mr. Ward is synonymous with the history of American sports during the last two decades. He was either directly responsible or one of the founders of the annual Golden Gloves Tournament, the All-Star Baseball and Football games, the All-America Conference, and numerous other snorts spectacles staged now or originally founded by the Tribune.	'
Back in the Twenties after the state of Illinois legalized boxing, he saw his brain child, the Golden Gloves get their start. Under his direction during the last 20 years, he has seen the tournament develop into a national and then an international sports event.
Each year the champions of his tournament, who represent all the states west of the Alleghanies, battle the New York champs, who come from the eastern seaboard states, for the intercity championships of America’s two largest cities. Prior’ to the war his champions battled the European amateur boxing champs for international titles. But this went the way of every other international event when Hitler put his Mein Kampf into practice.
Next in line of his promotion was the All-Star Baseball game. The first game played in Chicago in 1933 was run by the Tribune, but shortly after-wards the
Cicco and Al Ortiz, who were declared ineligible for athletic competition because of scholastic deficiencies, Melton’s swordsmen kept themselves in the match most of the way until the Cats surged ahead to victory in the twenty-fifth bout of the match.
Individual scoring for Notre Dame went as follows: Burns, Witucki, Sthlos-ser, Bosler, and Gross each took two out of three bouts while Gonzalez scored two out of eight. Gonzalez is now the only member of the squad who has had previous experience. Coach Herb Melton has high hopes for future Notre Dame fencing as most of his present squad is composed of freshmen and sophomores.
I
i I
two major leagues took control of th< spectacle, and have staged it ever since
The All-Star Football game is the an nual season opener for football. It i played in Chicago’s Soldier’s Field laf in August, and has seldom drawn les than 100,000 people except the two year during the war when it was played ii Dyche Stadium, Evanston. Through th efforts of Mr. Ward, the best colleg football players in the country ar brought to Chicago to play the chare pions of the National Pro League.
The latest of his long line of fertil ideas got its inception in the All-Americ Pro Football Conference, which finishe its first season last year. Other promt tions of his sports department are bow ing and fly casting tournaments, a fre golf school, and a swimming meet.
co rf .ri in
cu
to
Ill en so in w:
H Wl bi of
Attended Notre Dame
Mr. Ward came to Notre Dame
as
student in 1919. He was a member c the Scholastic staff and served as pul licity director for Rockne. It was du: ing this time that Notre Dame gre-from “a small college in Indiana” to or of America’s leading universities wit one of America’s best football team Although he did not receive his degre he was accepted as a member of tt Alumni Association in 1931.
He is a familiar figure on the campu having covered many Notre Dame foot ball games in the past years for the Trit une. During all his activities he foun time several years ago to author a boa about Frank Leahy.
Another feature of the St. Patrick' Day evening will be four midget boxir matches featuring a few of the young e male generation of Dogpatch. Each p- i will fight two one-minute rounds. T.i matches are strictly exhibition, so thcr will be no decisions.
The young gentlemen null be in t.n ring to demonstrate what they havi learned from Father* Lange’s physi. i culture school. Father Lange works w tl the young Dogpatch residents several times a week teaching them box . ig, wrestling, swimming, weight lifting and other activities which go to makt J strong body.
5

1
1
Jc is fo S] P* k gi PC th C< h ti: bi of
Si
bi la at to P< w la fr U
D M of lr M R oi g:
PATKICIS’S DAY
RMOUR RELAYS FACE IRISH SATURDAY {SURRENDER C.C. TITLE TO MICH STATE
By JIM HOWARD
It
e n
i t
b
5:
Notre Dame will still be trying to recover their winning form tomorrow afternoon when they take part in the Armour Tech Relays in Chicago. Schools from eleven states and over- 700 indi-
; ridual entries will make the task a diffi-' cult one.
h
1
r
B
c
e
I

1
I;
Several Big Nine schools are expected to participate, but to date top-ranking Illinois has not signified its intention of entering, making the task of the Irish somewhat simpler. Ohio State, runner-up in the Big Nine indoor championship, will not take part either. If all of Coach Handy’s men are back in shape this week, N.D. should make a very strong bid for the Relay crown. Their nemesis of the past two weeks, Michigan State, will again be out to jinx the Irish. If John Smith, captain of the local squad is in shape, he should corner some points for the spikesters. Bad luck, plus the Spartans, have plagued Notre Dame the past two weeks. Bill Leonard seems to be missing mile victories by scant margins, and Jim Murphy, the pint-sized power plant, finished completely out of the money in the two mile at the Central Collegiates last Saturday. He must have had one of those off days, because the time of 9:43.9 is well within his capabilities. Bill Tully has been forced out of first place by Dianetti of Michigan State in both of the past two half-miles.
Spartans Capture Indoor Title
Notre Dame surrendered the Central Collegiate Indoor title to Michigan State last Saturday in the Spartan fieldhouse at East Lansing, Michigan. The Ii-ish took second in the contest scoring 38% points to 54 for Michigan State. N.D. has won 14 of the 20 meets held, and until last week had prevented the Spartans from gaining the title for a period of 13 years.
Three events were won by Notre Dame: the 300 yard run, in which Dave Murphy established a new meet record of :31.7, the shot put, won by George Sullivan, and the mile relay, run by Ernie McCullough, Leonard, Steve Provost, and Ray Sobota. Murphy’s race was a close one, with Schepers and Swain of Michigan State forcing him all the way. Sul
livan’s toss of 49'-9%" was his best of the current season. Luke Higgins also scored in the shot, taking third place. The mile relay squad proved they could have won from the Spartans two weeks ago if it had not been for a faulty baton pass.
Two Contests Remain
Jack Hunter captured second place in the broad jump, gaining two points for the local cause. In the mile run Leonard took third position, running under 4:20, for his best performance of the year. Frazier Thompson continued to improve as he cornered fifth in the 75 yard dash. Now that he is rounding into shape, Thompson is expected to add to the overall strength of the Irish. Third and fifth places respectively in the 440 went to Sobota and McCullough. Cornie Styers came up with his usual strong finish to place fourth in the two-mile. Tully took second, and Larry Keenan fifth in the 880. Keenan’s performances are eclipsing each other every week.
In the pole vault, Ray Struble tied for fourth with Naveau of Michigan Normal.
The Irish failed to score in three events. Smith’s loss in the hurdles was noticeable to an extreme degree as N.D. ran completely out of the money in both the 75 yard high and low barriers. No one from Notre Dame placed in the high jump, the major* weak spot of the team.
Two indoor contests remain after tomorrow, the Purdue Relays on March 22, and the Chicago Relays on March 29.
Fencers to Meet Culver Academy in Fieldhouse
The fencing match with Cincinnati University which was to have been staged here tomorrow night has been cancelled, because of transportation difficulties of that school. The next engagement will not be held until March 15 when the Culver Military Academy team will be met in the fieldhouse.
157 Men Turn Out for Diamond Practice
By DAVE WARNER
The fieldhouse has taken on the appearance of an over-crowded Catalina Island as baseball practice swung into its third week with the infielders and outfielders reporting after Coach Jake Kline had taken a gratifying week’s look at the fifty-four battery men turnout.
Kline took another look at the complete squad turnout of one hundred and seventy-seven candidates and promptly split his practice sessions into two divisions. One group is working out every afternoon while the other group puts in three nights a week. So far the squad has confined the drills to limbering-up exercises, lobbing the ball around, and a few laps around the track. Kline wants to be sure he overlooks no talent before they move out to Cartier Field where the axe will really begin to fall.
Among many other’ promising prospects who have reported to Kline were the following monogram men: John Creevey, Dick Smullen, Walt Mahannah, “Wicks” Sheehan, “Red” Carlin, Ray Petrzelka, Jim McGurk, George Schneider, Ben Kozlik, “Huck” Klein, Frank Cisczon, Gene Lavery, Buster Hiller, Neil Kelley, and “Jumbo” Mayo who led the squad in batting last season with a very convincing .417.
Vet Club to Sponsor Golf Tourney In May
Notre Dame golf enthusiasts will have an opportunity to compete in handicap matches and a handicap tournament to be sponsored by the Veterans Club, it was announced this week by President Hank Keel.
Keel reports that John P. Turley, professor of Latin, has been named director of the program.
According to Mr. Turley, all golfers, save members of the varsity team, will be eligible for competition, and he estimates this number of eligibles to be dose to 800. Within the next few weeks a general meeting of those interested will be arranged. Once the weather breaks the contestants will have to make the rounds of the local course and present their score cards so that handicaps may be established.
A series of weekend competitions are planned, ending with a handicap tournament in several flights to be staged in .May. To the tourney winners will go handsome trophies.
Mr. Turley urges those interested to be on hand for the general meeting which will be announced in the near future.—Ed Snyder
19
Congratulations to Father Thomas J. Brennan, Christy Walsh and the Knights of Columbus on their successful promotion of the 16th annual Bengal Bouts tournament. Big crowds were on hand for the prelims and semi-finals and a sell-out is expected for Monday night’s finals. Don’t miss ’em!
Mike Hines and Art McGrath are doing a remarkable job of announcing without an amplifying system. Mike’s “The last and final bout of the evening” brings a chuckle from the crowd.
Russ Skall, who won a slugging match with Jim Leary Tuesday night, looks like Leahy material . . . built well with strong muscular legs. Need a guard, F rank?
Whoever matched Bill Hopke with Bob Wagner, the glee club singer with a smil-;ng left hook, Tuesday night after Hopke had fought and won Monday night should have considered that he not only fought the night before but that he also lives in Farley Hall. It takes enough energy to walk back and forth to chow let alone fight on two successive nights.
Tony Ortiz, of Long Island, New York, figuratively carried Frank Debitetto around the ring throughout the first round before his shoulder went out of joint.
Hail) Doherty and John Yonaker are the busiest seconds of the tourney. John’s loud, “Give ’em the ol’ one-two,” can be heard in Mac’s equipment room. Harp’s jitter-bug routine in the corner is something to watch.
Invitations Turned Down . . .
Paul Schafly’s only comment after- he had been slugged by Dick Cotter Tuesday night was “Woo . . . woo . . . woo . . .1” Cotter scored a TKO not a KO as announced in 1 minute of the second round. Notre Dame’s basketball team received an invitation to both the National Invitation Tourney and the National Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament last weekend but the board in control of athletics turned down both offers. Wisconsin accepted in our place. The National Invitation Tourney will be played at Madison Square Garden in New York City on March 15, 17, 19, and 24. The National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament is divided into two regionals; The Eastern Regionals will be played at Madison Square Garden on March 22 and 24 while the Western Regionals are scheduled for Kansas City on March 21 and 22. No comment was
few
 By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
forthcoming from the board but it is a policy here at Notre Dame to avoid postseason games. Let’s just say that the policy was upheld!
Spring Practice Starts Monday . . .
Cartier Field will be the scene for newsreel cameras, out of town reporters, and rolling helmets Monday afternoon as Coach Frank dons sweat suit and cap, climbs the tower, and chants directions over a mike to next season’s Irish representatives. This year’s coaching staff remains the same with the exception of Marty Brill, who left after the Southern Cal game last year to go into business on the west coast.
Many of last year’s stars will not be in uniform this season. Bob Skoglund has signed with the Green Bay Packers, John Mastrangelo with the Pittsburgh Steelers, Jim Mello with the Boston Yankees, Jerry Co whig with the Los Angeles Rams, Fred Rovai with the Chicago Cardinals, and Vince Scott with Buffalo. Bob McBride was graduated last January along with Tom Potter and both are coaching in Chicago. Luke Higgins hasn’t signed as yet but he expects to play under Paul Brown in Cleveland. The Washington Redskins are hot on the trail of Paul Limont but Paul would like to hook on as an assistant college coach. Jack Zilly is still undecided but his last offer from the Los Angeles Rams was very tempting. Speaking of football players, George Tobin’s wife has him wearing in his spare time. Just an “eager weaver,” eh George!”
Basketball Issue Next Friday .. .
Coming out next Friday will be a 44-page issue devoted to Coach Krause’s hardwood squad with a resume of all games, action shots, individual pictures and biographies of the whole squad, complete statistics, monogram winners, AllOpponent team, and a large squad picture.
Breezy-P Top Saints. Battle Howard Next
By BUZZ WRIGHT and JOE DOYLE
Breen-Phillips are champs of the East! The lads from “Breezy P” proved their mettle in a thrilling playoff game in which they stopped the St. Ed’s Saints, 33-31.Now they will clash with unbeaten Howard in a two-out of three game ser
ies in the fieldhouse after the Bengal bouts.
St. Edward’s had deadlocked B-P for first place in the Eastern Division during the regular league race, but lost out in the playoff game. The Saints were ahead at the half, 17-16, and held that slim lead until the last quarter. Then Rudy Schaefer and Leon Hart paced a rally that put the B-P five in front to stay. St. Ed’s fought back to a close margin but Coach Vince Scott’s boys froze the ball during the final two minutes to prevent scoring. B-P had beaten the Saints in league play but found an improved team in the final battle.
Unbeaten Howard, coached by John Petillo, have already finished the regular-season and are waiting eagerly for the fieldhouse battles. Howard is also possessor of a practice game win over South Bend Central Catholic while the latter was preparing for the local sectional tourney.
All other action during the past week involved the playoff battle for a spot in the' Club League’s four-team double elimination tournament. The Rebels earned the remaining position by walloping the Philadelphia quintet, 46-28, after the Quakers had ousted the Law Club, 38-33. The K. of C., Aesculapians, and Kentucky are the other three qualifiers. First round encounters will pit the KC’s against the Blue Grass boys and the Rebels versus the Aesculapians. These games xvill also be played in the fieldhouse, but no definite date has been set as yet.
There is also a possibility that the club and interhall champions will meet to determine the best cage outfit on the campus, besides, of course, “Moose” Krause’s great Fighting Irish.
ACTION IN THE BENGALS — Tom -King (right, top left) takes a blow from Bob Phillips; Phillips won the decision. Bob Satti (left, top right), a Bengal champion last year, lost a close decision to Robert Conaty. Bill Hopke (left, center left) won the nod over Sarsfield Quigley. Center right, another shot of the Hopke-Quigley fight. The cameraman catches Walter Evans (left, bottom left) being lifted off the floor by James King; Evans took the decision. Jim Brennan and Merritt Hoaglund trade punches in close; Brennan won by the decision route.
20
Rouf
Handsome and highly durable. For outdoors . . . for lounging indoors, it can’t be topped. Tailored with care. In several shades . . . covert, natural and brown.

faNui
Conluroy Jacket

«1695 „
Wer
Corduroy Slacks
PLEATED AND ZIPPERED
ON THE CORNER...MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
22

By BILL SLAVICS
Less than two weeks ago up in Madison Square Garden a steady-playing, unspectacular sub center calmly broke up a virtually knotted score in the last few minutes of the game with a clean bucket and a follow-up plus a free throw. Thus Notre Dame trotted off with a four-point margin over the traditional eastern rival—N. Y. U. And in those five points alone, lanky John Foley earned his fare to Notre Dame from Worcester, Mass.
Big John has been in the relief role most of the year, ready to step into Brennan’s slot whenever needed, and when Brennan’s illness made him needed at N. Y. U. John was there with plenty to sop the Violets.
Back in Worcester, Foley looped ’em in three years at St. John’s High, going to the finals of the New England Catholic Tourney in ’40 and ’41, making the All-New England Catholic team both years, and then captaining his team to the New England Catholic Championship in ’42, and copping the Most Valuable
Player Award. Foley was a leader in fast company then too, playing alongside Bob Curran, Holy Cross guard during Moose Krause’s tenure there, and against the high-scoring Jack Allen, now of Rhode Island U. Foley didn’t limit himself entirely to the hoop game though, captaining his baseball team during his senior year and chucking seven inning one-hit relief job on one occasion, besides performing at end on the grid team.
But there is a “mult-big” gap between his days at St. John’s under All-American gridder Joe Delaney and the ’46-’47 Irish cage campaign.
That’s right. Foley was no exception, and soon found himself with General Patton’s army in the ETO, as he says: “ducking as much as I could, I guess.” Foley saw combat for two months east of the Rhine across from Dusseldorf in the Ruhr pocket, and when the war ended there he was “Pfc-ing” in Czechoslovakia. Then John was redeployed to
the Pacific just in time to .see the end of the war there, and the end of his third year in the Infantry.
So, except that his 23rd birthday comes off next Friday, that he is majoring in accounting and rooming with Joe Sig-naigo, and that his floor prefect says that “he is a nice guy with a good sense of humor, one of the most popular guys on the floor, AND makes his Mass checks EVERY week,” that just about covers long, lanky, and promising John Patrick Foley.
ST. PATS SHINDIG!!
B'jabbers and b'ghona. it's behoovin' ivry son of an Irish colleen t'be dustin' ahf his green tie and daey pipe! *Tis only wan week till the g-r-reat St Pathrick's daey. and the Hibernians are givin' a shindig, t'be sure! James Devaney. Desmond Beilly. and Eugene Burke, a good C.S.C. faether. are invitin' ivryman to eat com beef and cabbage and sing with thim at 6 pun. March 16. in the Oliver hoteL Y'git y'r tickits at the cashier's disk in the hoteL and they cahst ye ahi o' $2. But may the shnakes dishturb y'r shleep if that scares ye away.
23
im nwnan/st
JAMES BOMS 1	EROIBA1B
Ecualiry of opportunity for all people, regardless of race, color, or creed is a cardinal principle of American democra-cv. This tenet Ionically excludes intolerance and discrimination from the Amer
ican scene, or so one " omc think. How ever, the Amer-'ran people traditionally have been committed to Anglo-Saxon su-
periority	to the degree that the
were devoted to the Teutonic
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Eogardus—Dr. M. Mittermayer OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
For 25 per cent Discount on all Garments Cleaned and Pressed
Bring this Coupon in exchange for your Student Identification Card to
BERT CLEANERS AND DYERS
222 W. WASHINGTON 3-HOUR SERVICE PHONE 3-5488
— PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT —
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT
at
CLEMENTS GRILL
514 East LaSalle
STEAKS — CHOPS
SPECIAL LENTEN DISHES ON WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS
superiority myth. This race dogmatism evidences itself in the character of our immigration laws, the discriminatory practices against the Southern Negro, and the general intolerance toward both the Negro and Jew.
That race problems do exist cannot be denied nor can the task of finding solutions to them be shirked. The students who responded last week conceded these facts. They offered several, varied solutions, the character of which seemed to depend on the individual's background and experience.
Expediency prompted a few zealous students to advocate inter-marriage as a swift and all-effective means of settling racial difficulties. They admitted, however, that certain definite obstacles prevented this sure-fire method from being activated at the present time. In reality, these obstacles are the very roots of the entire problem. However, to substantiate this as being a successful means of
achieving a solution, these students pointed to the mass amalgamation taking place in the Hawaiian Islands and the subsequent disappearance of racial piejudice.
The middle of the road group were more cautious and discerning. Their solution seemed to lie in a long range program designed to raise the educational and social level of minority groups. This proposal was most clearly expressed in a letter from Bill Pfaff, a liberal Southerner:
“Pressure from the North, as seems to be the currently popular solution, will do absolutely nothing but foster the KKK and get a lot of people, colored and white, shot up. It will not help the Negro’s position; I am personally convinced of that. The only solution I can see as being possible at all is an evolutionary one. In this respect, the situation is far more hopeful than one would expect. I have seen some examples of this evolution in the time that I have lived in the South. In Columbus, Ga., the “Negroes will sit from back to front, white from front to back” signs have disappeared since 1942, although the custom remains. In Miami, the custom, itself, is very often ignored. It seems to me that as education and’ sectional wealth increases, segregation and hate will disappear. We can, however, do something to help things along. We should work, first of all, to bring white and colored educational standards up as high as possible. Ignorance is the biggest reason for the white’s dislike of the colored race. The fact that colored professional men in the South are highly respected helps prove this.”
A number of students believe that education offers the most effective means of overcoming racial prejudices and intolerance. They argue that young children are naturally tolerant and unaware of racial and national differences. Under adult influence their attitudes are warped into intolerance and overawareness of race differences. They follow the example of their elders and adopt a distrust for those unlike themselves. Present educational means are not capable of preventing the young from being s? influenced. In fact, in a study of It'' high school texts in the fields of geogi s phy, civics and biology, and a few co lege texts in sociology and economics. : was found that 105 (66%) use the wm “race” where “nationality” or “people is meant. Thirty-two books (20%) certain teachings of "racial"’ superior! </ These books are currently in use in Ter as, Virginia, St. Louis. Boston, and Ne York. These students demand an era I -cation of such fallacious teaching practices and believe that education plam>
along the lines of the inter-racial approach with open discussion and honest consideration of the problems can make great progress toward eliminating racial frictions and discriminations.
A minority group pointed to a psychological remedy, namely, freedom from fear. In any country, every legal decision that upholds equal citizenship rights without regard to race or color, every labor decision that lessens the terror of being laid off and gives a man selfrespect in his employment, every arrangement that secures the small farmer against losing his acres to the bank— all these and many more can free people from fear. They need not look for scapegoats of another race or nationality.
Evidences of tendencies toward Klux-ism and Columbianism are not completely missing from the campus scene. There are students who advocate as a solution a mass deportation of “undesirable” minorities to their’ respective homelands. A few others favor retaining the status-quo, that is, continuing a policy of strict segregation and suppression and keeping the Jew and Negro and Japanese in their “place.”
Next week’s question is: “Do you think that some form of socialism is an inevit-
able consequence of a capitalistic system? If so, can you point to any evidence that socialism is increasing in America?”
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 9)
14 seconds of the second, when Ortiz dislocated his shoulder.
155-lb.—Larry Raville vs. Dick McGoldrick. McGoldrick took the decision in three slow rounds. Bob Wagner vs. Bill Hopke. Hopke went down for a nine count in the first. Wagner led the rest of the way to take the decision.
165-lb.—Terry Brennan vs. Pat Mulvihill. Brennan won the battle in 43 seconds of the second by a KO. Jerry Sauve vs. Jim Carroll. Sauve jabbed his way to a lead in the first. Carroll came to life and used Sauve’s face for a punching bag in the second and third to take the decision.
175-lb.—Paul Schafly vs. Dick Cotter. A short right by Cotter in the second round sent Schafly to the canvas for a nine count. Immediately aftei- this the referee stopped the bout when Schafly went down again. Cottei- took the fight in one minute of the second. Dick Gorman vs. Tom Clemente. In the closest and most hard fought bout of the evening,
Gorman took the split decision.
Heavyweight—Jim Leary vs. Russ Skall. Skall’s better condition showed in his forcing type of fighting as he took the decision.
Wednesday Evening
145-lb.—Tom Balenti vs. Jim Smith. Balenti jabbed his way to a decision. Walter Evans vs. Bob Lee. Lee takes first two rounds, but Evans came back strong in the third to floor him and take the decision.
155-lb.Art Seltzer vs. Dick McGoldrick. McGoldrick won the fight by a TKO in 1:32 of the second round.
13-5-lb.—Dante Mercurio vs. Russ VanKeuren. VanKeuren took the decision in a fast fight. Bob Henebry vs. Bob Pas-quarella. Pasquarella floored Henebry twice in the first. The referee stopped the fight in 33 seconds of the first and awarded the fight to Pasquarella by a TKO. Rudy DiTrapano vs. Mike Conly. Conly took the decision in a wrestling match.
127-lb.—Frank Debitetto vs. Jim Sullivan. Sullivan took a unamimous decision from the defending champ. Bob Phillips vs. Dick Greenwell. Greenwell took the fight by a TKO in 1:23 of the second round after downing Phillips for a nine count.
25
THE BLUE CIRCLE
The Blue Circle was first organized in the year 1922. It was made an honorary society at that time, and its job was to preserve and promote traditions and customs at Notre Dame. It remained active until 1933, and was then unheard of until its reorganization in the Fall of 1946. The Blue Circle is a subsidiary organization of the Student Council, and as such, is responsible to that body. Father Cavanaugh, President of the University, and Mr. John V. Hinkel, now Director of Public Information, are both former members of the Blue Circle in its early days at the University.
Since its active reorganization by the Student Council last November, the Blue Circle has taken an active part in promoting and reestablishing Notre Dame traditions and customs. Last semester the Blue Circle:
1.	Organized and planned the football rallies.
2.	Sponsored the hall decorations and promoted a cheer contest.
3.	Prepared the Southern California weekend program, and decorated the Drill Hall for the victory dance.
4.	Organized the student body to meet the team after the Army game.
5.	Assisted the Student Council in class elections.
6.	Distributed copies of songs and cheers.
This semester, a detailed program is being formulated to return to Notre Dame all of its traditions and customs. The following are the key points of this plan:
1.	A Freshman Orientation to introduce all new students to Notre Dame’s songs, cheers, and way of life.
2.	The adoption of an Alma Mater song.	'
3.	The placing of a 24-hour candle in the Grotto in memory of the Notre Dame war dead.
4.	The organization of a Hospitality Committee to meet all visiting teams and special visitors. Included here are plans to welcome the Army team in the Fall.
5.	Reserving the purchase of Notre Dame rings to upperclassmen.
6.	Planning campus-wide Mass and Communion on March 19, the feast of St. Joseph, for the fathers of Notre Dame men.
7.	Recommending to the Student Council that the Blue Circle be investigated to determine the usefulness of the organization.
*	The Blue Circle
26
Headquarters
for
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Pick out colorful yarns. Mix 8 parts rayon and 2 parts aralac.	■
Weave into wonderful patterns, cut skillfully and add wrinkle-	j
resistant lining. Stitch.	•
The result is our finished prescription for Spring fever—an ARROW SPRING TONIC tie which works even better than i sulphur and molasses.
Rush down to see us today—have your prescription filled?	j
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER . . . MICHIGAN a WASHINGTON
-------- ARROW nrc- B
And your fancy lightly turns to thoughts a little less than 100% platonic ...
And you cut your favorite classes and take sulphur and molasses . ..
You obviously need an Arrow Spring Tonic!
Made of challis (rhymes with valley). Don’t dally, take one small dollar down to your favorite Arrow store and pick out a honey for your money!
_____________________, I
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
aim OMR...MKMM I *•**
New Courses Offered for Religion Minors
Rev. R. G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., Acting Head of the Department of Religion, has announced a new program in the College of Arts and Letters, for advanced undergraduates who may wish to adopt Religion as a major subject.
The introduction of twelve new courses in Theology for the layman will also make a Religion minor available for students interested in obtaining a deeper knowledge of Catholic thought. The course is directed toward the development of better informed young Catholic leaders in the various professions.
The University of Notre Dame is hopeful that this new course will make a substantial contribution to the present encouraging movement of the Church towards a more thorough understanding of the place of theology in the layman’s world. The subject matter of the course includes all the branches of Sacred Science that may be useful, to the lay student: Christian Dogma and Morals, Sacred Scripture, modern problems in Apologetics, Ascetical Theology and the Liturgy of the Church.
But the distinctive work of the course will be to present the great Christian realities in the context of tradition and the history of Christian doctrine and spirituality. This historical approach will offer the student an important field of knowledge often neglected in the popular presentation of Catholic truth.
The new curriculum will be offered for the first time in the Summer School of this coming June.
Chemists Elect Officers After War Lapse of Club
Staging a revival after five years of dormancy occasioned by the war, the Chemists’ Club elected officers in its second meeting of the semester. Bill Koch was voted into the presidency, followed by Bill Holton as vice-president, and Pat J. O’Connor as secretary-treasurer. The honorary position of member-at-large was given to Jack Goosens.
Fortified by the tradition of twenty years as one of the leading scientific organizations on the campus, an excellent turnout, and a well stocked treasury, the Club plans to put several projects into action. Foremost on the agenda is a get-together party for all members. Plans are also being made to have a representation from the group at the Student Meeting in Indianapolis late in April This Meetiiig is sponsored by the Indiana Section of the American Chemical Society and serves to promote activities among the college groups in the state.
27
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at the
>14141% 1(1411
MiCHiANAS A\O5T PALATIAL BALLROOM
COMING —Duke Ellington
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to .any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.

Dr. Downey to Speak on Peron, Argentina
“Peron and Argentina,” a subject about which most Americans are greatly interested at the present time, will be the subject of a lecture by Professor Thomas E. Downey, Ph.D., in the Law Auditorium, Tuesday evening, March 18. In the lecture, which is sponsored by the Department of History, Notre Dame students and their friends will have an opportunity to hear some of the reasons why Peron has achieved his hold on the people of Argentina and why he is such a stormy problem for American diplomatists, radio commentators and columnists.
Professor Downey brings to his subject a deep understanding of South American history, based upon many years of study. He holds the Doctorate in Philosophy in Hispanic’ American History from the University of California, where he was a pupil of Dr. Herbert Eugene Bolton, America’s most outstanding historian of Latin America. He has held the Harrison Mills Traveling Fellowship in International Relations from that University, which enabled him to study extensively the history of Latin America. At the present time he offers classes in the Department of History on Central and South America and next year will offer a course on the History of Spain in the Graduate School.
Most citizens of the United States know little about the background and development of Argentina. Unlike several of the Latin American countries, her population is ninety-seven percent European—a higher percentage than even the United States. The country is Catholic, having a concordat with the Church by which the president of the country must be Catholic. Her notion of civil rights is derived not from English Common Law but from the legal traditions of southern Europe. During the recent war the position of Argentine and her thirteen millions of people became very important in international affairs and particularly in her relations with the United States. Further, the diplomatic relations between the United States and Argentina, during and since the 1944 election of Juan Domingo Peron as President, have been a cause of spirited controversy in the halls of Congress. Peron has inaugurated a new deal and has won the support of the laboring classes in Argentina, but has excited the antagonism of certain minorities. Dr. Downey will endeavor to give his audience a clear picture of the complicated factors behind the Peron regime in Argentina.
LETTERS
(Continued from page 3)
the recent election of officers to the Vets Club with interest. I felt that here would be an example of true Christian democracy in action. Instead:
a)	Neither party offered a worked out program; merely a collection of good intentions. Prowess in the athletic field does not necessarily mean ability to act as a political representative.
b)	Less than half of the total veterans qualified to vote by paying the affiliation fee.
c)	Less than one-eighth of the total number of veterans actually voted.
d)	Before the election day the affiliation fee stood at $1; round about the election day it dropped to 50c. One wonders why.
e)	There was no secret ballot.
f)	Votes were solicited close to the voting table.
g)	Some men voted who were not veterans.
h)	The votes cast up to midday were counted at midday, and the results discreetly advertised in certain quarters.
In your issue dated January 10, 1947, you carried an editorial “The Vet Wonders.” Might I suggest that you now publish an editorial, preferably written by one of your Associate Editors, cap
tioned “The Honest Man Wonders.” A Disillusioned Student of Morals, J. Fitzsimmons, 141 Sorin Hall Disillusioned student Fitsimmons obviously is referring to Associate Editors Keel and Keenan, ivho are also Vet Club officers.—Editor
Tokyo, Japan, 21 Feb., 1947 Notre Dame Men:
A good many of you have seen action and taken part in the occupation in this theater. You have seen the utter destruction and desolation of cities and peoples along with the total economic collapse. Doubtless you have thought, rightly, that here was a people who had brought ruin upon themselves through their own evil actions; that furthermore, any attempt on your pai-t to relieve their suffering would be too feeble to matter. However, once conquered, Japan must not turn into a country of slow and helpless death.
The United States is doing its share to prevent starvation in Japan. It is, naturally, impossible to bring food and clothing to certain groups, even in large cities. High prices and poverty don’t mix well.
Such is the case of a band of Jesuit Priests and Japanese Catholic students at Sophia University, Tokyo. The University is in ruins. The priests are cold,
hungry, and without academic supplies. The laymen and students are colder and hungrier. Nothing would help them more than a few boxes of serviceable clothing.
In the Name of Our Lord, won’t you give Him one more gift in this Lenten season?
You may address any packages to: Father Kell, Sophia University, Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Does Tribophile Donald T. Edwards not know he was showing deep ignorance last week?
That very- newspaper he clasps so lovingly to his bosom has aided and abetted the cause of Communism by its blind defense of Pre-Rooseveltian capitalism. This sick, unnatural system has given America her slum-ridden cities, subdecency family incomes, housing shortage, labor without dignity; the very evils upon which Communism feeds. . . .
The Chicago Tribune is so lacking in intellectual honesty that it recently dropped a daily straw vote feature because the Chicago mayorality candidate it supports was losing. This candidate is a party stooge that Col. McCormick has put up in a try for control over Chicago; he already controls the statehouse in Springfield. . . .
Jim Cunningham, Off-Campus
PARKER-WINTERROWD, alert to all the special needs in styling and high quality, offers to “Notre Dame” men fabrics especially suited for college wear and after graduation.
We specialize in making beautiful lounge and university models from a very complete showing of flannels, gabardines, coverts, shetlands, etc.
OUR ADLER-ROCHESTER ready-to-wear suits, top coats, and slacks arriving daily.
PARKER -WINTERROWD, Inc.
II5J4-I I7i/2 North Main St.	Phone 3-6118	North of the Oliver Hotel
29
YOU for 3 months!
In the middle 1800's, the University of Notre Dame was on the point of being sold for its debts.
THEN CAME FOOTBALL:
Notre Dame, before Gus Dorais poured that infamous forward pass into the breadbasket of Knute Rockne, had a much different complexion than it has. today. For instance:
At one time the University was in the State of Michigan (fagged Farleyites claim things haven’t changed much). And, every time there was an increase of one hundred students at the University there was an official holiday.
❖
MEAT FOR THE PROFESSORS:
Last Thursday, station WND’s weekly “Meet the Professor” radio show got its face washed. The program, usually as drab as a tombstone, sounded like a veterans convention. The reason: producer Bob Hartman rounded up five ex-GI’s and an English prof, told them to show up at 4:30 p.m., Thursday, at the Washington hall studio, got more than he expected. Professor- Ryan of the English department quizzed Bill Duggan, Batavia, N. Y.; Phil Shea, Manhasset, N. Y.; George Bresnahan, Holyoke, Mass.; Jack Zilly, Southington, Conn.; and Ernie Zalejski, South Bend; on what they, after having been in Uncle Sam’s livery for several years, thought about college life. The answers he got were punctuated with corny humor, army slang, rickety war stories and cracks about St. Mary’s. Nevertheless, campus listeners ate it up. If producer Hartmann can keep this combination “Information Please—It Pays to Be Ignorant” show up to last week’s par, he will no doubt ring a bell in a few ears otherwise glued to the adventures of Superman.
❖
ANY IRISH IN YOU, CHUM?
Are you a pedigreed Irishman? Got papers to prove it?
Art Coughlan, Philly Club president, has been wheeling himself around the campus the past week trying to spot a few green-blooded, shillelagh-toting natives of the Emerald Isle who have talent (quite an order, indeed). At first glance, you’d think Art was a little daffy, but he really has all of his marbles. What he is really after is talent—anybody who can sing, dance, yodel or produce laughs—
for this year’s campus celebration of Universal Notre Dame Nignt.
According to Art, he wants the cooperation of every club on the campus to make this, the 24th annual Universal Notre Dame Night, one of the top entertainment features of the school year. From the look of his tentative plans, it will be. On April 14th in the Notre Dame drill hall, the Philly Club hopes to floor a slam-bang conglomeration of talent, including singers, dancers, bands, orches-
. That one drop of Irish blood always comes out in Roscoe on St. Patrick's Day!"
tras, speakers (very few of these, they say) with Ziggy Czarobski “acting” as master of ceremonies. Besides this lineup, two campus orchestras are being tempted to play dinner music in both wings of the dining hall while cupboardkeeper Ford dishes up a “special” dinner.
You’ll agree that this is a big order, and it cannot be carried out without liberal cooperation from all of the clubs. Already, the Rebels and Washington Club have offered their assistance. If you have any ideas, or your club has the punch to get behind the bandwagon and start pushing, just drop in and see either Jack Dempsey, 333 Alumni; Jim
1
hi

HMUNTffD >T
THE MARLIN FIREARMS COMPANY
fit* 6tn Sita WO
Headquarters
for
CRLB^RT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
30
You’re the man most likely to
Succeed
Girls cut in on man! Why? Look at that Van Heusen Shirt! Famous Van Heusen collar styling sends your Eye-Q zooming. Figure-fit tailoring emphasizes the athlete in you. Style, comfort, plus magic sewmanship and Sanforized, laboratory-tested fabrics to give you many semesters of economical wear. Graduate to Van Heusen today! Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y., makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Shirts.
... in Van Heusen Shirts and ties • •
Ifs Adler s for
VAN HEUSEN
M T« CORNER... MKNI6NI ( MSNN6RM
Masterson, 149 Alumni; Father McDowell, 3rd Floor Alumni; or contact either Art Coughlan or Joe Simon, who both live off-campus.
*
SHAKE HANDS WITH ROSCOE:
From under the deft pen of Lou Louro walks a new character into campus life. Just for the record we shall call him Roscoe. Now and then he will appear in this column flaunting the veneer of the campus “wheel,” hiding a lion’s boldness. Roscoe will be a realist, too. For, he will place himself in the leading role of all those little dramas that occur so frequently in the classrooms, in the residence halls and on weekends. We only hope he will not be campused by an unappreciative editor.
Roscoe’s papa, Lou Louro, is a native of Akron, Ohio, is an Arts and Letters student here at Notre Dame. He relates that Roscoe was born during a “dry” history lecture.
♦
DRIZZLES AND SNIFFLES:
The Rockne Memorial and Engineering building have been placed “off limits” to the clubs. Hereafter, the only space available for meetings will be in the cubby-holed Law building. If the PD closes that one, the clubs may soon have to start pitching tents. . . . The ROCHESTER Club prayed the Stations of the Cross in a body before their last meeting. According to Dick Klee, club members have a stag party in store for them over the Easter interim. . . . On Tuesday, the BOSTON Club met, devoured several gallons of coke, disbanded, decided to try the same thing again next month. ... The PHILADELPHIA Club will meet again on the 18th of March in the Engineering building providing they can overcome the aforementioned veto. . . . Leo J. Vitter informs us that the FLYING IRISH are not to be misconstrued for the AERO Club. In Leo’s words “the Aero Club is composed entirely of aeronautical engineer majors, whereas the Flying Irish are a mixture of past, present and would-be pilots.” Incidentally, George Conway is now chairman of the Aero’s, with Bill McCormick in the vice-chairman’s seat. Bill Baska still holds the stick in the Flying Irish aggregation.
4
SIX SHEETS TO THE WIND:
Lent or no Lent there was more activity in the clubs last week than in weeks past. Here’s a quick recap of what happened:
The Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club elected officers at their last meeting, named Bob Schellenberg of Arlington, Va., to replace Myles Quail as president; balloted in Donley Stocking
31
also of Arlington to replace Joe Piedmont as vice-president; handed Charles Carroll Carter of Bethesda, Md., the secretary post; gave Dick Nesline of Washington, D. C., the keys to the treasury. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., longtime resident of the Nation’s Capitol, and Mr. and Mrs. John V. Hinkle, University publicity head and his wife, both former residents of the District, were made honorary members.
The Notre Dame Bookmen Club is beating the bushes for members again this semester. Any student interested should contact Don Lueck of 252 Cavanaugh Hall.
Not to be denied any new members either, the Wranglers are back wrangling
for new blood in their outfit. However, to become one of their select few you must join by application and interview. A. A. Somers, Jr., 408 Morrissey, can be contacted for further information.
The Anthracite Club, an organization composed of students within 75 miles radius of Wilkes-Barre or Scranton, Pa., held their first meeting yesterday; hope to get more members at their next meeting.
The Central New York Club, composed of students living in or near Syracuse, N. Y., is also holding a membership drive. Jim Kelly, publicity chief, announces that they will fly home Easter. Anyone interested in this flight should contact him in Lyons hall.
POSTSCRIPT: The MET Club jumped ahead of the campus club pack on Monday, became the first club to approve Notre Dame’s participation in ths National Students’ Organization. At th? same meeting, Jerry O’Reilly, clul prexy, announced tentative plans for a post-Lenten dance, a tennis and a golf tournament. . . . The CENTRAL NEW YORK Club rubber-stamped the NSO proposal on Tuesday. . . . The CHICAGO Club did the same on Wednesday, also elected their representatives. Jack McKeon reports the Windy City boys will hold their annual Easter dance again this year. . . . Wednesday evening, the INTER-RACIAL Club heard Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., speak on “Negro Co-
^^167 7& GENERAL ELECTRIC
TAX AUTHORITY
The Story of DONALD MILLHAM
UNION ’27
THE average man who stews over the filing of his annual tax return is apt to shake his head quizzically over Donald L. Millham.
While he was in charge of General Electric tax accounting, Don used to file more than 500 returns a year—and like it.
Although he has a new job today—the difficult and important one of Comptroller
Don maintains an active interest in corporate taxation and is still considered the company’s tax authority.
A career in corporate taxation problems is, Don admits, short on glamour, long on hard and diligent work. A dozen years ago he had about as much trouble as anyone in understanding the technical language of tax statements. But when an opportunity opened in tax accounting, he took the offer and learned the complexities of his job as he worked at it.
By meeting the challenges of an exacting and constantly expanding field of endeavor, Donald Millham had made for himself a useful and important career that has held his interest.
Next to schools and ths U.S. Government, General Electric employs more college engineering graduates than any other organization.	J
To help pay his way through Union College, Don worked for General Electric during summer vacations, operating a drill press.
Today, the General Electric Comptroller, he maintains his interest in corporate taxation, in which he became the company’s expert.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
32
operatives.” . . . There will be a meeting of the IOWA Club on March 30th at 7:30 p.m. in Eoom 1 of the Law building. Committees for a dance will be named; all members are urged to attend.
CARDINAL VON PREYSING
(Continued from Page 9)
Kehoe, C.S.C., director of Student Activities, to make arrangements for the Cardinal’s visit to the University.
Cardinal von Preysing, who arrived in the United States by plane on Feb. 13, is visiting this country for the purpose of thanking the American people for their generous contributions of food, clothing, and medicines to his war-stricken people. Accompanying him during his visit is the Rev. Bernard Schwerdtfeger, his private secretary, and the Rev. Paul F. Tanner, Assistant General Secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference at Washington, D. C.
Cardinal von Preysing has had an interesting career. It began in a castle, included diplomatic seiwice, Rome, the holy priesthood, a bishopric and then in 1946 it reached its climax, when he received the Red Hat at the same time as Cardinals Stritch of Chicago, Spellman of New York, Glennon of St. Louis, Mooney of Detroit, and others from other sections of the globe.
Renounced Career
Konrad von Preysing renounced a » brilliant worldly career at the age of 28. He gave up all the privileges and luxuries that go with a titled name and a high place among the diplomats of his country. He chose to become a priest.
The future cardinal was born on August 30,1880, in Castle Kronwinkel, nearMunich, Bavaria. He was the fourth of eleven children in a family of the ancient nobility, and his early education was received at home, under the direction of his devoutly Catholic parents.
Having decided upon the legal profession as his life’s work, he studied at the Universities of Munich and Wuerzburg and took his law degrees with honors. After four years in the practice of law, he was sent to Rome as secretary to the Bavarian embassy to the Italian government. This began his career in the diplomatic service.
Rome made a deep and lasting impression on the young diplomat. The impression was so deep and so lasting that it induced him to abandon all his splendid prospects of a brilliant career in the world and to’ study for the holy priesthood. In May, 1908, he joined his brothers Albert and Joseph as students of the Jesuits at the Canisianum, theological department of the University of Inns
bruck, Tyrol. Four years later Konrad von Preysing was ordained.
Having been appointed secretary to Cardinal Bettinger of Munich, Father von Preysing went with His Eminence to the conclave which elected Benedict XV in 1914. When Cardinal Bettinger died, his secretary became preacher at the Church of St. Paul in Munich. His success in this work was such that in 1921 he was appointed orator at the Munich cathedral. There he was confessor not only to the native Bavarians of the parish, but also to many Italians, Frenchmen and Britons living in Munich.
While in the Bavarian capital Father von Preysing met one who was to have much to do with his future, Msgr. Eugenio Pacelli, at the time apostolic nuncio to Bavaria. When the Pope-to-be was transferred from Munich to Berlin, he invited the cathedral preacher to attend the presentation of credentials in the capital of the Reich.
It was Msgr. Pacelli who recommended to Pope Pius XI that Konrad von Preysing be made Bishop of Eichstaett, Bavaria. The appointment was made Sept. 13, 1932. After three years at the head of the ancient Diocese of Eichstaett, Bishop von Preysing was transferred to Berlin, the diocese of which had been erected six years earlier, in 1929.
Break Precedent
An indication of what was to come and of the weight of Bishop von Preysing’s opposition to the then ascendant Nazi regime lay in the fact that, breaking an ancient precedent, the German government of the day refused to send a representative to the enthronement ceremonies of Berlin’s new bishop.
Indeed, it is probable that the transfer from Eichstaett to Berlin was due at least in part to Bishop von Preysing’s “firm leadership in condemning totalitarianism, racism, and kindred aberrations.”
In Berlin, the cardinal-to-be became a rallying figure in the struggle of the Catholic Church against its Nazi oppressors. He spoke out against the restrictions which the Hitler regime placed on religious education, against the slanderous “immorality” trials concocted with religious as the victims, and against the whole pagan philosophical basis of# Nazism.
A London paper stated that Bishop von Preysing’s pastoral letter, was without precedent “because of its strong condemnation of Nazism in stronger terms than anyone had used in Germany before.” -
When the war came, the Bishop of Berlin kept on fighting, in the face of tightened totalitarianism controls. The
pastoral he issued on Dec. 12, 1942, won him acclaim on the floor of the Senate of the United States, as well as from Catholic, Protestant and Jewish spokesmen in this country. In this letter he denounced the injustices of the dictatorial state and its false racial and minority doctrines.
As Bishop of Berlin, Konrad von Preysing had opportunities for close contact with the Allied officials who maintain control council headquarters in the capital. When he was named one of the 32 new Cardinals of the Church in December, 1945, the French authorities provided him with air transportation to Rome, and the American military government provided a plane for his return journey, after receiving the Red Hat in 1946.
The appointment of Berlin’s bishop to the College of Cardinals was generally interpreted as a recognition by the Holy See of the forthright and courageous stand he had taken in defense of the Church all during the Nazi regime.
33
Found — on Campus MAN'S RING
★
See Miss Luzny Students’ Accounts Office
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1913
Feb. 15: With victories over such power fives as Rose Poly, Wabash and Earlham behind them, the Varsity cage team has laid full claim to the State Championship. Only a 47 to 13 defeat in Denison’s “match box” gym and a 40 to 7 setback at Michigan Agricultural, where steel girders across the roof prevent long shots, mar a perfect record. . . . Mar. 22: Accustomed celebrations on St. Patrick’s day had to be curtailed this year because the feast fell within Holy Week. It was a bitter disappointment for the Irish, but they showed real sacrifice and offered it up for the Poor Souls in Purgatory. . . . Apr. 26: A wild pitch gave the Earlham nine a run in the first inning, but the Varsity went on to take a 24 to 1 decision. . . . May 10: Mr. William McKinley, Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives, displayed a real Irish tongue at last Monday’s meeting of the Chicago Club. Interest in his address ran so high that nobody counted the number of hours he talked. . . . Oct. 11: Last week tribute was paid to the greatest football player in Notre Dame his- , tory, Louis J. Salmon. . . . Oct. 18: In warming up for the Army game, the football team downed Ohio Northern, 87 to 0. ... Nov. 1: A startled sports world watched N.D. crush Army, 35 to 13. The only man in the country to predict victory for the Irish was the coach of Ohio Northern.
You Card! .
He won first place in the bridge tournament, so naturally he wrote home and told his folks he was getting honors at Notre Dame.—The Dummy
❖
That's Stretching It
When Notre Dame scientists were conducting their early experiments in synthetic rubber, little did they know that our dining hall staff would finally complete the work.—Don Lee
❖
Let's Not Be Bitter
I went over to the office of the Director of Studies last month and accidentally found out my marks for the Spring semester of 1945—four weeks before the rest of the student body.
—The Terror of Lyons
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT
The crowd thought him a rugged brute ’Til in a Bengal bout,
He took a roundhouse on the snoot That quickly knocked him out.
—Attentive Abie
Hope Not	'
They finally opened Edison’s desk after fifteen years—hope it doesnt take that long for the Huddle.—T. J., Jr., Lyons
❖
We Get the Point
It appears that the efforts of this year’s fencing team have been foiled.
—Charlie Baiers, Off-Campus
No Wonder
The Reception Committee of the Blue Circle has inaugurated a new policy of showing visiting teams around the campus before games. No wonder St. Louis U. looked so tired the other night.
—John McKinley, Cav.
❖
From a Romanticist—
Lipstick is something that gives added flavor to an old pastime.
Peebee, Morrissey ♦
From a Realist—
One-armed drivers are headed for church; Some will walk down the aisle
—Others will be carried.
❖
Send or deliver contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
34
Ihi Pont Digest
Hems of Interest to Students of Science and Engineering
1
3
The Synthesis of Nylon
Chemists of original nylon research team honor memory of Dr. Carothers at the dedication. They are: J. W. Hill, Ph. D., M. I. T. *28; H. B. Dykstra, Ph. D. Ohio State ’27; G. J. Berchet, Ph. D. Colorado '29; J. E, Kirby, Ph. D. Iowa State *29; E. W. Spanagel, Ph. D. McGill *33; D. D. Coffman, Ph. D. Illinois *30; and F. J. Van Natta, Ph. D. Michigan *28. Dr. Carothers received his Ph. D. from Illinois in 1924.
Recently the Nylon Research Laboratory near Wilmington was dedicated as "The Carothers Research Laboratory,” in honor of the late Wallace Hume Carothers and his classical researches on the structure of polymers, the mechanism of polymerization, and the invention of nylon.
In 1928, a group of chemists under Carothers began a study of polycondensation which led eventually to the discovery of nylon. The project was part of a program of fundamental research to discover scientific facts which might be of eventual value in laying a foundation for applied research.
As the first point of attack, they chose the condensation of dibasic acids with glycols and reaction materials which would preclude the formation of rings. They obtained linear polymers of molecular weights between 2300 and 5000.
Molecular Weights Increased
After two years, a significant advance in linear polymer preparation was achieved. Through the use of the molecular still, it was possible to obtain materials of molecular weights between 10,000 and 25,000, which, when molten, could be drawn into filaments.
More important, the cooled superpolyester filaments could be further drawn into fibers several times their
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P.M. CST, on NBC
original length and thereby acquired luster, tensile strength, elasticity, pliability, and toughness much greater than the initial polymer. In contrast with ordinary textile fibers, their tensile strength was unchanged by wetting.
The striking properties of the fibers aroused the hope of finding a commercial fiber from some type of linear superpolymer. Investigation showed, however, that fibers from the polyesters were too-low melting and too soluble for textile purposes. Mixed polyesterpolyamides were also not of interest in this category.
Research on Fibers
The possibility of a commercial fiber development seemed remote, but the intuition that frequently accompanies research genius prevailed, and Carothers was encouraged to direct his research on superpolymers specifically toward spinnable fibers. A polyamide from 9-aminonanoic acid gave a fiber of 195°C. melting point, equal in strength to silk, and clearly indicated the possibility of obtaining a material for fibers of commercial utility.
In 1935, the superpolymer from hexamethylene diamine and adipic acid was first synthesized. It melted at 263CC., was insoluble in common solvents,
. Dr. Wallace Hume Carothers
1896-1937, was the first organic chemist in industry to be elected to the National Academy of Sciences. During his short scientific career he made contributions that have greatly enriched American life.
tough, elastic and had the best balance of properties and manufacturing costs of any of the polyamides then known.
A third period of research covered commercial development. The task was enormous, and to reduce to a minimum the "time between the test tube and the counter” a large force of some of the most competent chemists, physicists, chemical and mechanical engineers available was assigned to the project. The story of the manufacture of nylon will be told next month.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
Where would I be located?
Openings for technical graduates may exist in any one of the 35 Du Pont research laboratories or 83 manufacturing plants. Every effort is made to place men in positions for which they are best suited and in the section of the country which they prefer. Write for new booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
*£S.U.S.P*T.Off-BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
35
r
r 3
MSI TO SEE


>™>PESTERFIELD
RIGHT COMBINATION * WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS • PROPERLY AGED
Copyright 1947, Jjccrrr & Mms Tobacco Co.