NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ TWO HEROES or the . AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
WASHINGTON AND LAEAYETTE.
PAR NOBILE ERATRUN.
qJKZZESTA dies agitur nostrum celebranda per orbem,
(9^7 Totaque ketifero resonat Respublica cantu, Et gratos cupiunt cives expromere sensus.
Cur Nostr^e Dominle gaud ent con centibus cedes? Cur flores etiam in campo ridere videntur? . Omnia cur liquidas reboant campana per auras? Undique cur cessat labor? Indulgere quieti Cur juvenes properant? Cur, exundante caterva, Discurrunt celerique pila contendere gaudent?— Natio magna viro magno nunc debita solvit. , Si Washingtonem merito donamus honore, Atque novo Patrem Patrice veneramur in orbe, Nonne decet tandem nos Washingtonis amicum, Et belli socium, et pacis memorare s'odalem?
Floret immensis opibus superba.
Gens, regit smvas marium procellas, Ac fere in totum dominatur ingens Anglia mundum.
Qum quidem naves rapidas ubique Mittit, ut qumstus habeant Britanni, . Nomen extendant patrim ferantque.* -	Jura colonis.
Scilicet gentes faciet beatas , Dura lex fortesve animos tyrannus! Liberos cives peperit regendi ' jEqua potestas.
Quid fuit bello Revolutionis .	-
Justius? Num quis Patrle Parente' -Clarior vixit, populove nostro ’ >	.'
Natio major?	:
Num pater, quando minitantur hostes, -Filios unquam dubitat tueri? \	’
An domum, uxorem, per aquas, per ignes, ,	Protegit armis?	.
Jura quum sanm rationis Angli . Denegant, turmas coeiint pararitque,.
Nil uisi bellumsuperest colonis: ~ •
.	'	: . . ‘‘Aiea jacta est!"	.	.
' v Gharta declarat. nimios labpres. ■	'
; ‘ c Civium:etfraudes domini molestas:. , Unde amor vitae socios Deusque . .....
Quam dm inter nos furiosa belli
Smviit pestis, gladiique labes
Integram late maculavit atro Sanguine terram!
' Num duces Anglos superavit unus Vir bonus, fortis, patiens, et artis Bellicm compos? Validosne solus	"
Obruit hostes?
Absit!'Hie.magnum meruit triumphum, Cujus et nomen colimus quotannis, Ac pia famam juvenes senesque
Voce salutant.	•
Num tuam laudem in dubium vocamus, Magne Washington?—Minime profecto: Quam tameh tecum1 merito reposcat
Gallicus Heros. ’
Hic vir hic est, qui,patria relicta, Nobilis natu, miseris amicus Civibus, miles generosus hisce ■	- Adpulit oris.
. ‘ Hie vir hie est,'quern Patrle Parenti
' . Vidimus semper socium fidelem, Qui suo nostras habuit sacras in . Pectore partes.	.
Hie vir, excellens genius colonis . Factus, hie fortis simul et modestus
Dux, Duel summo retulit supremos
. . . : - , Laudis honores. .
7 . Quid quod infensas acies repellat
.	. ,7 .. Victor, et tandem capiat peritus
. Oepidum, et cogat subitum Britannos
~T v ; Fcedus inire?
Perpetua Tredecim Status quum pace fruuntur, ' " Ndstraque jam veteri terra soluta jugo est, Publica Libertas tota regione nitescat, .
/ ’Et sacer inflammet pectora Legis amor. . ’ ‘ • “Crescas ut prosis,’’ aliisque, Columbia, regnis
.	, jEternai Pacis munera grata feras.	;
O utinam nostrm jungatur Gallia genti,	;
Ut mundum placida prosperitate juvent. ,	.
Non statuam dabimus jam WASHiNGTONis amico, • 'TT Sed; referet, moresorbisuterque Viri. j ' U’- \ Vfk ,	, J..;; -	. k;	'	- J
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
j	Lafayette—the Man*
h	____
i • EUGENE A. DELANEY.
NE by one the great nations of the chaotic world have settled into their foreordained places. They ^struggle, they grow; for awhile they flourish, then they
wane and pass on to the silent rest of their ancestors. We look backward to the paths of these mighty powers. Some have come as far as our own day; others, the more illustrious perhaps, found death in the very heart of their splendor. But we look not only upon the progress and expansion of a people; the mighty forces of the nation’s heart attract us. Here are the moral influences that' struggle to shape the destiny of empires. The good and the bad in man ever strive toward their own ends. Sometimes the arm of might weighs heavily upon the heart of right. The weak go down before the strong. The soldier, the statesman and the man work for the accomplishment of their different endeavors. Butin the ranks of these leaders, we first look for the man, with his strength of intellect, his grandeur of soul, his purity of heart. Among these giants of human force, we place Lafayette.
Gilbert Motier, Marquis de Lafayette, was born at Auvergne, France, Sept. 6, 1757. His early years were devoted to the study and training that eminently fitted him for the successful career of his eventful life. The loss of " his parents seems not to have turned his young mind from the thoughts of entering upon the duties of. life; for at the age of 19, we find the untried boy directing his efforts toward the ■ struggling American, colonies.. It was only after extreme vigilance and difficulties that . he succeeded in getting to our coast. At the close of our struggle he. returned to France where he engaged actively in the various duties - of state. His hearty interest in the affairs of society and state placed him in a precarious position among the ever-fluctuating tides of his fiery-natured countrymen. Lafayette’s fair character placed him pre-eminently as an arbiter among the struggling masses. He recognized his duty to society,, and examplified his principles by the practice, of his con-
bring forth,; in a clearer light, Lafayettes loyalty to worthy, principles and his living victions. He was thrown into prison, and interest in ■humanity. 'During the wild delirium kept* in long and close confinement, despite -of the French; Revolution, when riot seized-
- x r i- ’	• -.IT A- n 11 T\r upon the best mirids of the'-State,when men?
* Oration-delivered m Washington Hall, Lafayette T	.	. ;	’	. --1 , ’ :
Cay, Get. 19,1898. . '	; • grew frenzied, and women changed^ to-wild,
the efforts of his friends who worked earnestly for the release of the prisoner. He finally regained his freedom, and again devoted him-.1 self to the duties of his different, offices, and . . more closely endeared himself to the affections of his family and friends.- He died in Paris, in	<
1834, at the age of 76.	.	.
The life of this valiant young5 Frenchman abounds in unparalleled examples of honor . and bravery. He appeared in public life at a- -time when the great political convulsions of -. his own »country were rife, and we wonder at his coming forth unscathed from surrounding filth. When a rich and influential family would have made future success a certainty for the . young nobleman, he rather chose to risk his comfort among our little band of patriots. \ ~ -Fortune, education, and the frivolities of the gay chivalry of France had for him less ' attraction than the determined struggle, of . the American arms. “At the first news of ~ , the quarrel,” he said, “ my heart was enrolled in it,” arid the simplicity of his words is worthy of their force. His great heart, indeed, throbbed in unison with the hearts of • all oppressed; with the slave in his efforts to throw off the fetters, with the lowly in their striving . after brighter and better things. We need not review the career of-Lafayette in America. We . know his name much as we know the nariie of Washington; and the confidence that the great general had in his young officer is sufficient proof of Lafayette’s worth. We need not consider his success-in battle, or his sharing the vicissitudes of our ill-kept camps;, we need: . not remember his timely retreats; but we must know that for us he gave up the charms of his youth. For us he sacrificed his money and his blood. He came to us when our arms ' despaired of success. He fought for our free- ‘ dom, not as an adventurer but as a man. When the struggle was over, he left our shores with ~ .. his sense of honor gratified, his noble character t bearing its usual high-mindedness, and his thoughts far above any greed for personal gain. - :
In France, the public life of Lafayette was < characterized by the dignity and propriety and deep discretion of the man. True, the . venom of calumny was ever ready to assail a fair name; but a rigid trial could not fail to; . .
•	-	X
''	'I
120	' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	i
murderous beasts, the great powers of Lafayette were ever directed toward the good. He might have become a leader of the mad throng; he rather chose to be its victim. Through the whole course of riot and murder he stood as a sentinel of justice. He never shrank from responsibility. Surely it required a strong man to oppose the dominant mind of Bonaparte: Lafayette refused to vote for-Bonaparte’s lifeconsulship. When all Europe trembled at the name of Bonaparte, when proud England herself feared lest she should find the invader at her doors, here, was one man, himself a child of revolution, to oppose an injustice, no matter how strong its advocate be. Here was a man to appear before the unscrupulous maker of crowns, a man to rise up against the tyranny of Napoleon and say: “ I will not.” Perhaps it is hard for us to measure this force of will, but Napoleon found more resistance in this stern man than he found in an armed foe. Belching cannon and leveled bayonets might be overcome, but Lafayette and the principles for which he lived could not be overcome.
The fine and cultured mind of Lafayette was brought to its grandeur without that sacrifice of soul which, in the tumultuous days of his career, was so common among the men of strength. Though not ardently a religious man, he kept his sentiments in profoundest regard for everything that is holy. His faith was earnest and his temperament submissive.
. The faith of a man we know to be a great element in the control of his character. So intimately connected are faith and morals that the destruction of one is often the ruin of the other; the triumph of one, the other’s glory. We are not surprised to find in the career of Lafayette an attack upon his faith. A few years after his death, a vigorous bigotry ascribed to him a statement wholly out of keeping with the calm judgment of the man. It was said that he, during, a visit to America, warned the friends of our government against the encroachments of the Catholic clergy: He was reported to have said: “If ever the liberties of this country are destroyed, it will be by the subtlety of Roman-Catholic priests.” This statement, ridiculous as it is in our day, needs refutation only in justice to the memory of Lafayette. He was never guilty of such’ inconsistency. A most rigorous investigation of ’ witnesses-and a most rigid discussion of the facts relating to the calumny, not only prove the falsity of the accusation, but they bring more clearly before us the piety of the patriot.
Lafayette looked upon his faith and its minis- ? ters as influences of liberty and morality, and he J and his family were in constant companionship s with the clergy. The weakness of the evidence | relating to this charge is characteristic of the | malice and blindness of bigotry. The enthusi- | astic workers in their attack upon the ancient S faith seem to have left discretion to the mercy | of their,intolerance. Wild and bold conclusions | were constructed upon the weakest of pre 2 mises. Much importance was attached to the | evidence of an (so-called) apostate priest. We J know the value and honor of the statements J of the these unprincipled parasites., Again, it | was said that Lafayette on the occasion of a’ | visit with Washington to Boston, gave expres- • j sion to his apprehensions for our national	|
safety from Romish influence. It has been	|
clearly proved that the two men never visited Boston together. But the memoirs of Lafayette % seem most conclusive in their proof against | these absurd accusations. Publicly, before the | French Chambers, he objected to the expul- | sion of Irish monks who were making their | home at Melleray, in France. He said, on the | floor of the French Chamber of Deputies, to | his fellow-legislators: “You will not have need I of all these precautions, and the Trappists ,| of Melleray will not be more dangerous for I you than are the Jesuits of Georgetown to | the United States.” How can we reconcile f the arguments of bigots with these words of | Lafayette? Though the mooted question was | vigorously assailed and its champions put to | a humiliating flight, we shall not be surprised I if the old bigotry is revived. But we are	g
prepared to resent the slightest attack that g might detract from the true character of 1 Lafayette, as we shall scorn whatever might 1 tarnish the glory of the holy dispensers of - J law, and liberty, and charity.	1
Thus we find in the character of Lafayette 1 a trait of nobility, a gentleness, yet a power, a II submission, yet a calm deterniination. He did 1 not create an empire nor did he sweep mighty 8 hosts over victorious fields, but he belongs to J that galaxy of heroes who love their fellow- S man. We do not picture our hero as a mighty W warrior hurling his javelins. We do not see in S him the thunder-god, fierce and terrible amid 3 his destructive bolts; but at the thought of S Lafayette, there comes a vision of truth and S candor; of charity and loyalty. We pause in S our victorious march among our sister nations J to revere the name of a messenger of good- 2 ness; we honor Lafayette—the man.	1|

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lafayette. *
'	ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, IQOO. .
heard the cry of Freedom in the night, ’ And looking far, within a gloom of grief, - ■ (3 ejJCo® From care-throned France, saw Freedom seeking light;
On her fair brow alone the olive leaf;
And though he yearned to find that peace held sway, When right was sought he ne’er recoiled from war;
His courage helmed his course through every fray, And conscience was his only guiding star.
Though England’s arms made native hearts to pause, . When loud the bell of independence tolled, Though grim despair frowned sternly on our cause, His heart in that dark struggle was enrolled.
Then, with that zeal that ever marked his kin, He sought our shore, pursued across the sea, And bravely in the thick of battles’ din, He fought and helped us win our liberty.
Vain goal of man, ambition's height, he loathed;
To rise o’er men, he came not from afar;
’Twas not vile gain in all its colors clothed That lured him to the cares and toil of war, But ’twas a deep, disinterested love
Of man for man, that love He bade us hold, ■■ That, like a star of heaven far above
The things of night, excels the love of gold.
When all-reclaiming Time his great heart stilled, He too his fathers’ common pillow pressed;
His memory found the hearts his valor thrilled, His native land its own drew to its breast.
O France, ’tis thine to guard that hallowed dust That' lies at rest with thee in slumber deep;
Watch o’er him, ours from thee, lain to thy trust, . Guard well the couch, O France, of his long sleep.
O land he loved e’en as his native land, With thee he. shared his own, his country’s strength; -
Thrice happy in the bounty of his hand!
. Renew his name within thy heart at length.
In justice, let that name be ever near
That helped to place thee high among the free;
And, as to France his very dust is dear, . So be his memory still more dear to thee.
* Poem read in Washington Hall, Oct. 19, 1898.
121
Lafayette—the Statesman. *
LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99.
HE world needs great men; men that force themselves above the crowd to become teachers and leaders; men in whose character or achievement there is a voice
’ that appeals to us, in whom we see ourselves as we wish to be.
Yet we must not judge a man of a former age by the standard that obtains in this. To see him in his true relation to his fellows, in his proper connection with events, in his legitimate place in history, we must look at him through the lens of Time. He is always easily found, for time levels only mediocre men.
An inclination to the short-sighted judgment that unduly exalts a man because he is near us and of us, is natural; for it is natural to believe credulously in great men. We wish to have our heroes part of us, and we as earnestly desire to be part of our heroes; but in strict justice no great man is foreign to us.
As Emerson says, “ able men do not care in what a man is able, so only that he be able; ” but there are men whose peculiar ability makes them especially helpful to us of the present day. In working out the destiny of America, the soldier and the statesman are essential. The first to secure and .maintain if need be by force, the safety and welfare of a great people; the second to make the government of that people sound, strong and just. Here' the great men of the past do us a distinct service. We learn by example. Therefore, before our future warriors we set the career of Warren, of Greene of Washington, the soldier. Before our future destiny shapers we place the names of Hamilton, Jefferson and Lafayette, the -statesman.
True, the brave Frenchman’s fame as a genius of statecraft rests principally upon his labors in behalf of his own land; but what he did for us in the great international arena, entitles him to our loving admiration. If he had not been acquainted with political affairs and had exercised no influence upon the history of nations, his spotless integrity and pure character alone would have won him a place in the hearts of all good men. Carlyle calls him the “Hero of
* Oration delivered in Washington Hall, Lafayette Day, Oct. 19, 1898.-	/ .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
122
two Worlds,” and we find that he carr.ied into his brilliant public life the admirable qualities that characterized him as a man.
At a time when France was a monarchy, and when from across the Atlantic came the rattle of revolutionarj7 muskets at Lexington and Concord, it was almost impossible - to secure from a royalist government aid to carry on war against another government of the same order. Yet Lafayette’s genius procured for us in the palaces of Europe, substantial assistance. It was then that Benjamin Franklin, shrewd judge of men, astonished and delighted with Lafayette’s success, wrote toWashington praising the statesmanship, which, on the part of his colleague, had marked the negotiations. Nor was this all. At the close of the War of Independence, Spain refused to accept our minister accredited to Madrid. Again did Lafayette volunteer his aid, and he succeeded where our other statesmen had failed.
His noble efforts in behalf of the Republicans of France during tbe blood-stained days of the French Revolution form the one bright page in that terrible history. Although he was encompassed with foes, and a false step meant ruin, he never faltered. Through every obstacle that stood in his way, Lafayette cut a path over which Right and Justice followed. The murdering, pillaging hordes of young anarchy were no- more formidable to him than the vanishing remnant of the aristocracy. Opposed to unnecessary bloodshed, he would recommend force against either of these classes if peaceful persuasion was unavailing. His constant aim was to secure the greatest good to the greatest number; and the cause of liherty in all lands owes him a debt of honor and gratitude.	.
. His was the voice that, during the aristocratic Convocation of Notables, rang in no uncertain tones for a States-General in which the Commons might be represented. His was the pen that- wrote the ablest state papers during the Assembly. He was the spokesman of the famous fourth deputation which wrung from Louis XVL permission to hold a States-General. His was the master-mind that conceived and executed the Declaration of Rights, which stands in the annals of the world with our own Declaration of Independence.
The sheer force of his intellect; the strength of his character, the power of his will achieved for France what armed millions had failed to secure. Was not a man of ;such:partsrof such results, a statesman? They tell us a statesman
is one skilled in the art of government. What point in the intricate machinery of statecraft did Lafayette not understand—and, understanding, fail to use wisely and to the best advantage? In conducting state affairs his perfect knowledge of his subject was supplemented by a skilful diplomacy,—diplomacy that stood him and his cause in good stead at times when forceful resistance was for the moment impractical.
If he had not that provident regard for the future which constitutes some men’s claim to the title of statesman, he had that which served as well. He was prepared for any emergency that arose, whether he foresaw it or not. He had that rare quality of keen, instant perception of the vital point in a crisis, and then, in the words of Napoleon, “he threw himself against the weakest spot in the enemy’s line.” When compromise was inexpedient, and it became necessary to act, the striking force at his command quelled even the boldest. His ability to think and to act quickly, his readiness in debate, his power of concentration, his physical and moral fearlessness, gave him an equipment wonderful in its strength and diversity.
Our Congress recognized the ability of the man, and voted him three resolutions of thanks, in every case commenting, with the highest praise, upon his statesmanship. The National Assembly of France extended this honor to . him twice. President Jefferson offered to him, the highest gift then in the power of our Chief Magistrate — the governorship of the newly-acquired territory of Louisiana.
Lafayette could .be depended upon abso- •. lutely. Carlyle says “that of all the men'of France, Lafayette alone had a theory of life and the right mind to conform thereto.” His aims were those of a-single-hearted patriot, liberal or conservative as best served his country. He consistently advocated Republican principles, . popular representation, trial by jury, religious toleration, gradual emancipation of slaves, cessation of arbitrary imprisonment, freedom of the press; abolition of titles of nobility and suppression of privileged . orders. ,
With such sentiments ever animating him, and with the undeniable power and inclination to put them into concrete form in the laws of his people, Lafayette'has written his own verdict. And when we read deep into the history of his time, and see the result of his- j work both on France and oiir own country, j we say, “ Lafayette was a great statesman.” j
NOTRE DAME
Lafayette.
A Reverie.
FRANK EARLE HERING, LITT. B., ’98.
SN other days when Homer span
His tales of great Achilles’ might And how Ulysse’s cohorts ran The streets of Troy that fateful night, Until Mars paled from very fright; When Hector struggled, prince and man, To ward from Priam’s house the fight, While guilty Paris shunned the fight And languished in the turquoise light Of Helen’s eyes; then heroes vied Their hearts oak-girt with manly pride,— To serve the principles of Right;— And men were true and brave and tried In other days when Homer span His tales of great Achilles’ might.
In -other days when men shall sing The deeds and fame of Lafayette, The tale, will have a mythic ring, For men forget,—yes, men forget; And when some far-off age shall set, He, like Achilles, shall appear To grace another time and sphere;
But Liberty will never let ‘ Years moss the name that men revere;
And Right and Truth shall triumph yet In other days when men shall sing ' The deeds and fame of Lafayette.
Lafayette—The Soldier.*
JOH.N F. FENNESSEY, ’99.
ALOR and chivalry always appeal to the heart. The deeds of Achilles still live, although the dust of three thousand years has fallen upon his
grave. We have known from childhood the feats of the Cid, of Alexander, of Roland; yet we too often overlook those that are nearer and should be dearer to us.
When we look down the Ions’ line of military geniuses we find that they have been animated by one of two passions,—either a selfish love of conquest or an ardent love of country. We know the men of the former stamp,—
|	*. Oration delivered in. Washington Hall, Lafayette
Day, Oct. 19, 1898..	.
SCHOLASTIC.	J23
Bonaparte, Alexander and the Caesars; .men ; Jr L’ । admired for their colossal achievements, but . . pitied for the stains upon their souls—the stains .of blood spilt to. enhance their own • ; : glory. Among the. latter Lafayette stands A pre-eminent. We know of his generosity and r ’ self-sacrifice, his perseverance and ardor. -
Rarely has one man been enrolled as a . * leader under the flags of two countries, yet , Lafayette had this honor. When an oppressed , ’ nation cried out for help, he lent , a helping '	.•
hand to a sister-country, America, and in after - . . days he placed himself at the head of the armies of his own country. He was noble as. a J man; he was skilled as a statesman; he was.	- ;
brave as a soldier.	... :	' --
There were but two fields open to La.fa-yette: either to enter the court and flatter by . the throne, or seek the camp and fight in , the trenches. He chose the better part, and rejected the career of a sycophant with disgust.
He followed up naturally the careers that fiis / ancestors had led before him. His grandfather	-
had fallen on the battlefield, and his father fell at Minden never to rise again, o
It is easy to offer a service when it costs . nothing. It is to be valued, thrice valued, when a kindness bears no advantage for the one that performs it. With Lafayette the greatest self- ■ sacrifice was shown when he left his country " to aid America. No-motives, of interest actu- . ated him; he was a soldier fighting for the .. weak against the strong. Like a soldier he cast all into the balance—money, love, reputation *	'
and life. When the brave of a down-trodden • nation called out to the brave of all time, a -chord in the heart of Lafayette was touched, ’ and he sprang forward to answer the appeal. .
When Lafayette was only fifteen years of age	•
he was commissioned a captain of dragoons, -having thus early evinced evidences of military talent. This appointment was only the fore- . ‘ runner of greater honors. When he was nine- ' . teen he resolved to leave France and.come ‘ ' to America where he might aid her in.her struggle for freedom. He cast behind him the '	.	'
allurements of the most brilliant court of .L Europe, and sailed away to the bleak discom- ; J A. . forts of the snow-clad trenches of Valley Forge. J / J;-.
He came here upon a vessel which he . had fitted out from his- private purse after Franklin had tried. to'dissuade him from his ,	:
project. Against the advice of Franklin, the entreaties of his wife and the authorityof " J .J?’ the king he left France. He was pursued	'
by the royal officers and the vessels of Erig-i , - ; ..
£
124	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
land. When he arrived he was without friends, unable to speak the language of the country, but in his bosom beat the heart of an uncomplaining soldier. His only request was that he should be granted two favors as a reward for his sacrifices of time, money and reputation: “ I wish to be allowed to serve as a volunteer, and I wish to serve at my own expense.”
Congress immediately made him a majorgeneral and he was attached to Washington’s staff. It was merely an empty honor, and it did 'not satisfy Lafayette; but before he was placed in active command his courage at Brandywine caused him to be wounded. While he was riding over the battle-field he met Washington. Although he was wounded, he aided Washington in checking the flight, until loss of blood compelled him to halt to have his wound attended to. While his wound prevented his active sharing in the war at this time, he spent his confinement planning attacks for France to make in order to divert England’s attention. As soon as he was able to move, although his wound was unhealed, he joined the army. He then attached himself to Greene, and aided in an attack upon a part of Cornwallis’ army. For his bravery at this attack he was given the command of a division in Virginia. Afterwards he shared the privations of Valley Forge without complaint, adopting the dress and manners of the Americans, and thus completely winning to himself all whom he met. During all this time he continued in his efforts to join France and America. Success at last crowned his efforts, and France declared herself an ally of the United States.	'	'
Soon afterward he took part in the affair at - Barren Hill, and saved the flower of Washington’s army from almost certain destruction by his coolness and skill. Soon after the battle of Monmouth took place. At the request of Lee, to surrender the command to him, Lafayette generously acceded. Through the vacillation of Lee, victory was turned into defeat, and the fruits of, Lafayette’s labor were lost. , In 1779 he wished to return to France for a'visit. His visit was merely an excuse to • again aid America. His entire time was spent in gaining friends and assistance for the strug-. gling republic. Upon, his return he entered into a brilliant series of successes which are too many to mention in detail.. It is sufficient to say that- he but carried on his line of glorious achievements —the achievements of a' man,'patriot arid soldier. He . was with
Washington till the close of the war, and the action of Yorktown was a fitting crown to his brilliant military career in America.
After the close of the war he returned to his native country where he remained in peace until the outbreak of the Revolution. The people were seeking a leader, and they naturally turned to Lafayette. For a time he stayed the onrush of the outbreak, and conciliated both the people and the nobles. His work was to be all in vain. During the second year of the uprising a fierce encounter took place on the Champs de Mars. Again the brave Lafayette quelled the insurrection, but the king would not support,, him and the monarchy was doomed.
When war broke out with Austria he was one of the three commanders. Here he was in power when the news of the turmoil in the Assembly and the insult to the'king were brought to him. He attempted to save the royal family, but his attempt was frustrated. Then the height of the storm came. The Bourbon dynasty was crushed forever, and the entire government was changed. Lafayette, true to his principles, refused to acknowledge the state of affairs. He was declared a traitor, and his military career was closed when he was treacherously thrown into prison by the Austrians,— a career more like romance than reality, the story of a valorous man without fear and without reproach.
When Napoleon was at the zenith of his power he demanded Lafayette’s release. Reluctantly Austria gave him freedom. Broken in health, he was unbroken in spirit. Grateful to Nepoleon, he could not sanction his principles, and so refused his offers of honors, and retired from public life to die in obscurity.
Lafayette still lives! Such men are not born merely for. the hour; they live for all time. His fame will resist the attrition of envy; his , glory will defy the tarnish of time.-To mankind he will always be the same noble hero, the same lover of liberty, law and equality. His work can not be overestimated. When all was dark and gloomy to the revolutionists his presence was the first glimmer of success through the storm clouds of adversity. Without his assistance America might still bow beneath English power. Without the example of the United States the whole southern continent would be ruled bySpain, the last vestige of whose power in America is now gone forever. Such are the effects of Lafayette’s labor! All hail .to>him—soldier, statesman, man! . \
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lafayette and the French Revolution.
PAUL J. RAGAN.
O estimate properly the work of ?	gsgal Lafayette during the French Revo-
lution we must study the conditions of the government and people of France at that time. It will be remembered that during the administration of Richelieu and also during the earlier part of the reign of Louis XIV., France rose steadily in power and possessions. At the close of the Thirty Years’ war she was at the summit of her greatness.
Then came the turning-point. The court and nobility, proud of their conquests, forgot that it requires as much diplomacy and statesmanship to hold a high position as it does to gain it. More attention was given to luxury and splendor than to affairs of state. The king set an example of licentiousness and pride that -was followed all too well by his weak and flattering nobles. In matters of etiquette, style and extravagant social display, the French government outclassed all others. The people prided themselves on their high standing; and this short-lived arrogance helped to lay firmer the foundations for the great crisis to follow.
While the splendor and glitter of the French court was being heralded throughout all the higher circles of society in Europe, the lifeblood of the nation was ebbing drop by drop.
. The polish of that courteous government drew heavily on the national treasury; unjust and unequal taxation was imposed on the common people, and in the administration, corruption prevailed. Literature and art fell from their high place and accepted the menial office of heaping flattery on a haughty monarch. Such was the condition of France at the death of Louis XIV.
During the reign of his successor the nation continued in its downward course. The king and his court, following their predecessors in extravagance and licentiousness, wrung the last franc from the peasants by severe taxation. Long and bloody wars were carried on merely to gratify the ambition of the king and some of his idle courtiers. The common people eventually grew tired of this; and thus when this monarch died and left the fhrone to his . grandson, France presented the awful spectacle of twenty millions of overtaxed, impoverished and oppressed peasants rising against five millions of proud, licentious nobles. To make
125
matters worse, this latter class owned two-thirds of the land of France, while the common class of people owned only one-third. .
Louis XVL, an amiable, generous young man . of twenty, found himself at the head of this revolting nation. For one so young it was an awful position; and Louis, weak, wavering and without mental capacity, was, of all men, most powerless to restore order. His treasury was nearly two hundred millions of dollars in debt; his counsellors were heartless, ambitious men, and his people, starved and taxed to an insane . madness, had taken arms against him. The . few honorable nobles that tried to build up the country were banished at the suggestion of their baser brethren. Voltaire and Rousseau were fast sowing seeds of discontent and. disbelief, while Robespierre, "Mirabeau, Dantan and Marat, with their anarchical societies, had battered down all foundations of peace and order. Revolution and anarchy were the ruling powers.
At this critical period, Lafayette began to play his part in that terrific tragedy. His was one noble character in a caste of many villains. His career in the American Revolution served as a prologue to the part he sustained in his own country, and, as we might expect, he appeared on the scene thoroughly infused with republican principles. He wished to see France enjoy a liberty and government similar to that he helped to establish on the other side of the Atlantic. Yet he understood that the conditions then existing in France would not reasonably permit of the same steps being taken there that were taken in America. In . all his actions he adhered strictly to the principles set forth in the “Rights of Man,” for he realized that the king and nobility as well as the people had rights that should be respected. The measures of peremptorily dethroning Louis, suggested by leaders of the revolutionary party, were too violent to find -favor with him. His. patriotism led him to adopt milder though equally strenuous efforts for bringing about the desired end; his plan was to convert France into a constitutional monarchy. . _
Few persons were conservative enough to uphold him in this plan, and he was forced , to choose between the royalists and the revo--lutionists. The latter promised nothing but chaos and disorder, and Lafayette looked only to the best interests of his country, and took side with the king. In doing this; however, . he did not turn his back on the people. =None
SCHOLASTIC.
126	NOTRE DAME
worked more earnestly for their benefit than he, and the majority of them knew it; for this reason there was great rejoicing when he was made commander of the National Guard. In this capacity he had some very unpleasant duties to perform. Many times he was forced to open fire on persons that he knew to be fighting for a just cause, only not fighting in the proper manner. He was obliged to turn guns on the mob to repress pillage, bloodshed and murder. His services here were of a very different nature from those rendered in America, and they were appreciated with diffificulty. Here, his worth as a soldier and commander could easily be measured by his bravery and accomplishments while on the field. In France, though head of the National Guard, he fought no battles where army was matched against army. They were rather contests between military organizations and mob disorders in which the militia were victorious. We can not say that his services were entirely those of a soldier nor those of a statesman. He played the part of a mediator between the king and the people. He held one party at bay and kept the other safe in its dominion. What Robespierre, Mirabeau and other radical revolutionists might have accom-plished, if they were not held in check by Lafayette, would be hard to imagine. We can only conjecture what course they would have taken by judging from their actions during the “Reign of Terror.” On the other hand, it is certain that the king and his party would have fled and abandoned everything, if he were not hindered from doing so by the commander of his Guards. Lafayette was the mainstay of his country, placed between two equally dangerous forces.
Lafayette’s one grand mistake was that he put too much confidence in the royal party. He trusted that the National Assemblies would act conscientiously and resolve upon the best methods of saving their country. Time and again he held out this hope before the uneasy multitude, and so gained their submission to the king. After.the “Insurrection of Women,” when Louis was brought from Versailles to Paris, Lafayette had won for him the good graces of all France; and at the Champs de Mars, when the king and the commander of the National Guards swore to defend the constitution, there was not a .happier people in Europe that day ,than the French. This condition was only temporary. No sooner did Louis and his court find themselves secure for
a moment, than they relapsed into their old faults. Lafayette’s counsel was disregarded and soon the whole nation was provoked to take up arms again. Had Lafayette cast aside all allegiance to his king at this time, and assumed the administration of France himself, the story of the French Revolution would be told in different words. As it was he was between two fires; what he gained on one side was lost on the other. A timorous king could easily tumble down what his commander labored hard to build.
The American Revolution brought out Lafayette’s energy and bravery; the French Revolution showed his pure patriotism. He might easily have placed himself at the head of a strong party, established a republic and secured for himself the president’s chair. This he never thought of; from his actions all through that troublesome period we can easily infei' that personally he was the most disinterested man in the struggle. The king’s rights to the king, and the people’s rights to the people, seems to have been his motto. The king would have been powerless against him if he had organized a party; so would Mirabeau and Robespierre have been. Lafayette organized no party because he himself had nothing to gain. He joined the king’s party because his convictions told him that it was the right one.
Of Lafayette’s work during the close of this memorable contest little can be said. The peculiar circumstances in which he was placed make it impossible to judge his services as they should be judged. He was hampered and held in check by powers stronger than his own. When he died at his quiet home at La Grange, in 1834, he was the most unassuming and least noticeable of any man in France. In him perished the unnamed saver of his country.
America’s Debt to France.
SHERMAN STEELE, ’97.
ITH a natural pride in our country’s brave fight for its independence, we are liable to give all the credit for the victory to our own patriots, and
to underestimate the aid given us by France. As a matter of fact, it was the alliance with France, and the material , assistance rendered
us by that country, that stopped the course of disasters, and carried the. American cause to
complete and joyful victory.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
From the beginning of our war, the sympathies of the French were with us, and as individuals they gave us much aid; but I shall not speak in detail of the many ways in which the French helped us, of the heroic assistance given by Lafayette, nor of the sentiment toward America that caused Maurepas, the French minister,to remark: “It is fortunate for the king that Lafayette did not take it into his head to strip Versailles of its furniture to send ” to his dear America, as his majesty would have been unable to refuse it.” All this unofficial aid and kind feeling calls forth our gratitude to individuals rather than to the nation. In this paper I wish to speak of our debt to France as a nation for her alliance with the American States; the alliance that made pos-. sible the defeat of Cornwallis and the triumph of the American Cause.
To appreciate what the French alliance meant for us, one need but consider the condition of affairs before the arrival of the French aid. In 1780 our war for independence had nearly worn itself out. It had become evident that even America, with the justice of her cause and the patriotism of her sons, could not indefinitely keep an army in operation without money with which to support it. The patriots were not fighting for pay, but pay was necessary to their staying in the field. The men were deserting in large numbers; many of the officers were forced to resign to go to the support of their families, and the organization of the army was becoming wretchedly defective. Mr. Madison wrote of the condition: “How a total dissolution of the army can be prevented in the course of the winter (1780-81) is, for any resources now in prospect, utterly inexplicable.” This hopeless condition of the army affected the whole people; many despaired of ultimate victory, and not a few insisted that the fight should be abandoned.
The war had virtually failed in its purpose. We were logically the aggressors, for we were striving to expel the forces of Great Britain. Yet the American army had become so inferior to that of England that Washington could not carry on an aggressive campaign, nor meet the enemy in decisive engagements but had to content himself with harassing them with little more than guerilla attacks.
Apart from her advantage on land England possessed in .her fleets a power against which America was utterly unable to compete. This naval power alone would insure to Eng-'■ land finals victory. The Colonies comprised
127
but a narrow strip of land along the coast. Cutting this territory into many divisions ran streams and estuaries up which the British fleets could sail, and prevent a destruction of their own land forces by appearing like another army upon the flank of an attacking party. It was the realization of this great naval advantage, as well as the weakness of his army, that led Washington seriously to consider the plan of taking his forces to the mountains of Virginia and there to make the final stand, a last fight for the cause he loved.
In 1780 England had powerful forces both in New York and Virginia, and a large fleet • floating supreme upon the seas. It was necessary to make an aggressive campaign against one or the other of these armies. But to make , an aggressive campaign three things were necessary. With them final victory was within reach, without them defeat stared in the face the cause of American Independence. These • three things were sound money, a better army, and a strong fleet. All three were wanting, and America was powerless to obtain any one of them. But in this our hour of dire need France came to our aid. She advanced twenty-five million francs; she sent us six thousand soldiers—the pick of her army, among them the flower of her nobility,—and a fleet large enough to rid our seas of every boat flying the British flag.
With the arrival of this expedition all was changed. Washington no longer thought of hiding his army in the mountains of Virginia, but he began to plan an aggressive campaign, ' and determined to move against the forces of Cornwallis in the South.	-
This campaign against Cornwallis forms the last great scene of the American Revolution. The part borne in it by the French was natu- ’ rally a prominent one. Lafayette led the first expedition and held Cornwallis in check until joined by the allied armies under Washington and Rochambeau. Proudly upon the Chesapeake, under command of De Grasse, rode twenty-two battle-ships, of France. This fleet did its share of destruction; and, most important of all, it prevented the British squadron from bringing its promised aid to the enemy. The necessity of a fleet was here demonstrated. For at Yorktown the fleet was essential to the success of even the allied armies; it was to the Americans “ the apparition of a new hope risen from the sea.”.
- History tells us of that glorious fight at Yorktown—how “victory twined double gar-
128
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lands around the banners of France and America,” how the armies of the two nations fought side by side and stained with their mingled blood the land of the new Republic. Jefferson wrote of it: “If in the minds of any the motives of gratitude to our good allies were not sufficiently apparent, the part they have borne in this action must amply evince them.” Congress resolved that a monument should be erected at Yorktown adorned with emblems of the alliance between the United States and His Most Christian Majesty, the King of France. This monument has never . been erected; but let us trust that in its place there will ever exist in the hearts of the American people a just appreciation of the conduct of the French upon the field of Yorktown.
The debt we owe to France can scarcely be overestimated. It is a debt of gratitude for her alliance with us at the time of our greatest need; gratitude to her for givingus the means wherewith the army of Corwallis was defeated, and the war for our independence brought to a successful end.
There is a tendency, I know, to detract from France’s generosity to us by insisting that she was prompted by selfish motives. It matters little what prompted the giving of the aid, the truth remains that the aid was given. As a matter of fact, however, there has never been an alliance so markedly prompted by generous impulse as France’s alliance with America. France had no interest in America and no desire for possessions therein. For her, America was associated with war against her power and persecutions against her faith; yet when America appealed for aid, France turned not a deaf ear. The extremity of the colonists was such that France could have demanded great concessions, and America would have .paid any price for succor. Not long before when seeking aid Congress had offered important grants to Spain. Nor were precedents of such demands wanting. England in return, for her assistance to the United Provinces in their war with Spain, had made it a condition that all her expenses be paid, and had held the cities and fortresses of Holland until the condition had been fulfilled. .	•	.
Had the French alliance been a cold move of- diplomacy.. against England, the circumstances would not have been what they were; cold diplomacy would have taken advantage of. our position, and would have looked to reimbursement if not tc aggrandizement. France
did neither. She replenished our empty coffers ; supplied our impoverished soldiers, and took nothing in return. She sent us an army and	;
a fleet, and bore the expense of both. She	j
sought not an acre of ground nor asked for	|
a cent of money. She avowed that the essential and only end of the alliance was the	|
independence of the American States, and	j
she sent her noblest sons to shed their blood	i
and die for that sacred cause. We should	:
4
scorn to detract from what France did for us 1 by assigning selfish and ulterior motives to 1 her noble deeds. Let us rather gladly acknowledge the debt, and recognize in France’s aid to us the generous gift of a generous people, a loving contribution to the cause of liberty from a nation that owed us nothing, against whom we had fought,—two generations before our Revolution.
Lafayette in Virginia.
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98.

ROM the moment I first heard the name of America I loved her; and from the moment I heard of her struggle. for liberty, I was inflamed with the desire of shedding my blood for her
cause; and the moments that may be expended in her service, wherever they may occur, or in whatever part of the world I may be, shall be considered as the happiest of my existence.” {Lofaytite to President Laurens.') '
In a state that we shall always remember as the “ mother of presidents,” Lafayette, to whom we are indebted more than history may show, won his greatest military laurels. In Virginia this “man of two worlds” fought over the. ground that today marks the scene of the two most important.events in our history: at the one,our country really took its birth; and at the other, the unity of our states was forever settled—Yorktown and Appomattox.
The first time we hear of Lafayette in Virginia is; from a letter written to his wife from Petersburg, Va., July 17, 1777, shortly after his arrival in America. He writes: “I am now eight days’journey from Philadelphia in the beautiful state of Virginia.” It was not, however, until the year 1781 that Lafayette began his famous Virginia campaign.
Early in the year. 1781, Arnold, the traitor, led. an ^expedition . into Virginia. Everyone knows the story of this raid. Murders, rapine,

ROTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
129
and all possible crime marked his path; and property to the value of $10,000,000 Was destroyed. In a short time he was reinforced by 3000 men under General Phillips, who superseded Arnold in command; but the two together continued the work of destruction. Lafayette was then ordered to Virginia to take charge of the troops collected for her protection and to prevent the junction of Phillips with Lord Cornwallis. Eagerly did Lafayette enter upon his duties. In Baltimore he signed a contract with certain merchants, binding himself for the sum of 2000 guineas, to be disposed of in clothing for his soldiers. Quickly gathering his troops in Virginia, Lafayette hastened to Richmond, which was in danger of falling into . the hands of 'the British. Here he was joined by Baron Steuben with his regulars and General Nelson ’ with a division of the Virginia militia. Lafayette’s entire force now numbered 1000 regulars, 2000 ‘ militia and 60 dragoons.. The British force under Phillips was larger.
On the 29th of April Phillips and Arnold appeared at Manchester on the south side of the James, within sight of Richmond. The next day Phillips, who had expected an easy victory at the Virginia metropolis, was greatly astonished when he learned that Lafayette was in possession of the city. So great was the .anger of the British general at being deprived
and the gallant young Frenchman knowing? of an easy booty, that he swore to crush the - this, determined, in spite of the odds. against. ?
Marquis at once; but he received such a bloody repulse in an attempt to cross the river that he hastily retreated. Lafayette watched the enemy closely and harassed them at every opportunity.	'	-
In a letter written to Washington by Lafayette about this time, the reader might easily be led to think that he was reading'the history of the civil war. For instance: “This intelligence made me apprehensive that the enemy •intended to manoeuvre me out of Richmond .... I marched towards Petersburg, and intended to have established a communication over the Appomattox and James rivers.”
Before the death of General Phillips, May 13, 178J, he and Lafayette began a correspondence relative to the exchange of. prisoners. 1 After the death of Phillips, Arnold endeav-bred to continue the negotiations. Lafayette . shrank from any communication; with the traitor,who had sent a letter, under a flag of
The ever vigilant?Lafayette -watched .the? truce.. The Marquis told the officer# in. charge enemy closely. While < he was not. strong of,the.truce that if “any other English officer enough to. attack, he harassed them continu-should . honor ;him with t.a letter, , he would ally. Cornwallis sent out an expedition funder,
always be happy to give the officerevery testimony of esteem.”	. - ~
Lord Cornwallis then took charge of the British forces in Virginia. He had 8000 well-, armed, well-drilled men; Lafayette had about?;; half as-many, three-fourths of whom were raw. militia.. Cornwallis,, one of the ablest generals; of his day, tried in every possible way to cap?? ture . the-. Marquis, but Lafayette was top shrevyd for, the wiley Lord, and succeeded in escaping from every trap. So continuously,? was Lafayette marching back and forth over?; the country around the James river, that he ??-said in a letter to Washington: “This country ?, is as .familiar to me as Tappan and Bergen.” /., Here again the reader of the history of- Lafa- . yette meets the names of cities, rivers, arid places, that over three-quarters of a century -later were comprised in the bloodiest arena, of. ; the civil war—Chicahomony river, Fredericks-..' burg, Orange Court House, North Ann river, . and Mettapony Church.	.	. . •
Lord Cornwallis received a reinforcement from New York at Westover,’and once more? tried to capture Lafayette and his ‘ troops: “The boy can not escape me,” he wrote in an intercepted letter; “and,” says a.historian, “all?? those who knew the .situation thought the? same.” All eyes were then turned to the . struggle between Lafayette and Cornwallis;
him, to triumph. Lafayette’s greatest trouble, was to keep his military stores out of the? . enemy’s hands. 'The truth is best shown from one of his letters: “The enemy have 500,: mounted men; this force makes it difficult for us to reconnoitre.”	.	.	;;
General Wayne was then coming from- Pennsylvania with reinforcements for Lafayette?.? Cornwallis determined to prevent the junction ? of Wayne with Lafayette. : Then . began fthd race northward between the British and Amer- , icans, but Lafayette increased the distance?'; between them every day, and Cornwallis, see- ? ing the “boy” had defeated him, gave up the. chase.	. c:: .?
Cornwallis then turned his attention to other and easier projects; but let it be said that .the crimes the British troops were wont to commit ? under Phillips and Arnold were not allowed to stain the British flag; under Lord Cornwallis.
9-

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
.	Colonel Tarleton to capture the assembly of
Virginia, then at session in Charlottesville; but before Tarleton arrived there Laftyette had ’•	enabled the assembly to escape.
In a short time Lafayette made a junction . with Gen. Wayne. His force was yet weak as . compared to the British; but with the reinforcements he received he became bolder, and then camped within, a few miles of the enemy. Lafayette had moved his military stores to Old Albemarle Court House. Cornwallis commanded the road leading to Albemarle, and he expected to capture the stores without a struggle; but what must have been his disap, pointment when, on the 15th of June, he found the “boy” securely intrenched before him. Lafayette had opened a shorter road to Albemarle during the night, and thus saved his military stores. After this reverse Cornwallis never again referred to the Marquis as the “boy.” The records of the Revolutionary war do not show any more skilful manoeuvres than those of Lafayette in the vicinity of Albemarle and Old Court House. ■
Cornwallis then marched toward Richmond, and thence to Williamsburg. At New Kent Court House Lafayette defeated the British in a severe skirmish. From Williamsburg Cornwallis retired toward Portsmouth. Near James>	. town, however, Cornwallis, on the 6th of June,
entrapped Lafayette; but owing to the skill of General Wayne, who led the attack on the English, Lafayette was saved from a seri.	ous defeat. Cornwallis entrenched himself at
*	Portsmouth; and all Lafayette could do then
was to watch the British General and keep him from retreating into North Carolina, where it was thought Cornwallis intended to go. The spies of Lafayette surrounded Cornwallis, ’ and everything that transpired in the British camp was known to the Marquis.
. Sir Henry Clinton ordered Cornwallis to fortify himself at some convenient coast town, so that Cornwallis could aid Clinton, if necessary, in saving New York. Lafayette knew this, and he immediately made known the plans of the enemy to Washington. Thus it was that the “Father of his Country” gave up the idea of taking New York, and conceived a plan of capturing Cornwallis instead.
The plan of capturing Cornwallis was kept " the greatest secret. Washington made it appear that he was preparing to attack New York, while in fact the whole American army crossed the Hudson,-August 19, 1781, on its a way to Virginia^ Lafayette did everything to
cut off a possible retreat of Cornwallis into N. Carolina before Washington should arrive.
On the 29th of August the Count de Grasse • with the French fleet arrived in the Chesapeake. Lafayette by his indefatigable efforts had Cornwallis then practically blockaded by sea and land. Here the Count de Grasse and the Marquis St. Sinton urged Lafayette to ■ undertake the capture of Cornwallis: “It is right,” said they to Lafayette, “that you 'who have had all the difficulties of the campaign should be rewarded with the glory of its successful termination.”
Lafayette believed the capture of Cornwallis would free America, and did not wish to run any risks with the wiley Briton in order to obtain personal glory. He was fighting for liberty, and he preferred to sacrifice everything for it; and thus he awaited the arrival of his master, Washington, and the Count de Rochambeau.
Washington, Rochambeau, and the Chevalier de Cliastelleux, joined Lafayette on Sept. 14 at the latter’s camp at Williamsburg. They immediately proceeded to Hampton, where, in concert with the Count de Grasse, on board the Ville de Paris, a siege of Yorktown was planned.
Count de Grasse, hearing that an English fleet was about to sail for the relief of Cornwallis, determined to sail out of the bay, preferring to meet the British bn the open sea. ‘Washington was greatly dismayed at this, fearing that, the British might gain a naval success, and thus aid Cornwallis to escape. Washington put his trust in the Marquis, and sent him to prevail upon the Count to stay, and in this Lafayette succeeded
On the 25th of September all of Washington’s troops arrived; and on the 28th the allies moved forward in four columns toward Yorktown, and thus the siege began. On the 7th of October an American division under Lafayette, and a French division under the Baron de Viomesnil carried two redoubts. Every American knows the history of Yorktown and the part, Lafayette played in it; and no heart in America beat with a deeper joy than Lafayette’s, when, on the 19th of October ' 1781, the British army under Lord Cornwallis stacked arms. -	.
' Lafayette loved freedom and justice, and he offered all he had in the cause of liberty. .May we not rightly say with his biographer, “We know that America could not have done without Washington, arid we feel that Washington could not Have spared Lafayette.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lafayette’s Commission.
RAYMOND O’MALLEY, ’98.
HILE Washington was quieting the discontent of the half-starved, half-naked army in camp, and thwarting the designs of the plotters for the supreme command, and bearing up under the
weight of countless woes and cares, he was learning to love Lafayette as a real hero. In spite of his earnest and repeated protests to Congress, that body that had been so often deceived in bestowing commissions on foreigners, refused to give Lafayette any other than the honorary commission it had granted him. Lafayette wished only a chance to earn his rank. .
He began his military service for the American cause in the battle of Brandywine. He was at Washington’s side in the beginning of the fiffht. His eagerness to be where the the battle was fiercest gained him a position in the centre division of the three that were to oppose Cornwallis’ great force. The latter, after a march of seventeen miles, succeeded in fording the stream, and came up on the other side; Lord Howe then forced a passage of the river opposite the American forces.
On coming in sight of the Americans Cornwallis at once formed his line and advanced to the attack. The three divisions opposed him fiercely. The British after much hard fighting forced the right wing to yield, then the left, and at last concentrated all their force* on the central division. It bore up bravely, wavered, rallied again and again and finally gave way before the whole fire of the enemy. With all the strength of a hero capable of anything but the impossible, Lafayette fought and tried to rally his comrades. He was struck in the leg by a ball, but was assisted to his horse and continued riding for twelve miles, trying in vain to rally his men in every possible way, and at length fainted from loss of blood. He was carried to Bethlehem to lie inactive and longing for further service.
Lafayette’s conduct in the battle of Brandywine, though it did not cause Congress to -invest him with authority corresponding to the honarary commission of Major-General, that it had given him, confirmed Washington in the high opinion he had of his ability and worth. The Marquis endured the inactivity of hospital life while weakness prevented him from returning to the camp; but his^longing for
active duty brought him to the field sooner than his condition warranted. He consented, however, on Washington’s urgent demand to remain at headquarters until his wound should be healed. Obedience in a matter of this sort even to a man whom he respected above alL others was less pleasant to Lafayette than; service in the cause for which he lived. Fin-, ally he was permitted to join an expedition commanded by General Greene sent to oppose Lord Cornwallis in New Jersey.
The wound which the Marquis described: in a letter to his wife as a trifle was not yet. healed sufficiently to permit him to wear his' boot; yet it did not deter him from starting at once with General Greene.	. *
Greene on coming into New Jersey found . Cornwallis strongly intrenched on Gloucester Point and reinforced by troops from New York. Lafayette was unwilling to withdraw even' before Cornwallis without a show of strength. He was given a small company to reconnoitre the enemy’s picket with authority to make an attack. He was discovered by the -enemy after he had spent the day in examining the situation. In avoiding a company of dragoons sent out to take him, he met a picket of four hundred Hessians. With his company of three hundred he set upon them with such force that, they were compelled to run. They turned only when aid came up to them. The augmented., company was as completely overthrown as the Hessians had been. The British were pursued until darkness covered them; the Americans returned to camp with but one man killed'.
After this new proof of Lafayette’s ability ' Washington again asked Congress to give the Marquis an appointment. Congress in -this, as. in .nearly every instance, at last agreed to ‘ Washington’s opinion and quickly passed, the following resolution: “ Resolved, That General. Washington be informed it is highly agreeable to. Congress that the Marquis de Lafayette be appointed to the commission of a division; in the continental army.” .
Washington, who knew Lafayette had merited this honor, was pleased that it had finally come' to him. The Marquis, who had made so many sacrifices and struggled in spite of the dis-: appointment Congress had-so often caused .him by its refusal of. the commission, was highly, gratified. If Congress had not delayed so long? Lafayette’s military . name would have been ; greater. Washington publicly invested him with his rank and gave him command of the-division of Virginia troops.	.- E
I32
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lafayette at Barren Hill.
JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99.
N the spring of the year 1778, after the trials and hardships of the rigorous winter at Valley Forge, Washington found his ranks greatly thinned, his men weak and scarcely fit for
service, and without provisions or clothing. He knew that under such conditions he could
not attack the British, and also that it was . the proximity of the enemy, and on reviewing
improbable that they would assail him; yet he never relaxed his vigilance in observing their actions.
In May he discovered indications that the British were preparing to evacuate Philadelphia and to join forces with Gates at New York. Not able to make a general assault on so superior a force, yet unwilling to appear inattentive to their movements, Washington detached Lafayette with a picked band of two thousand ragged patriots—the very flower of the American army—to cross the Schuylkill and harass the rear of the British army, and if possible to prevent it from pillaging and laying waste the lands along its line of march. Washington warned Lafayette to take every possible precaution and especially to avoid any permanent stand.
Lafayette crossed the river and took up a , position for the night at Barren Hill, about midway between Philadelphia , and Valley Forge. He immediately stationed pickets oh all the roads leading to Philadelphia.
Despite his precautions, however, General Howe, the commander of the British, forces in Philadelphia, learned of Lafayette’s movement. He determined to surround the little band quietly and to compel Lafayette to surrender, knowing that this would be a severe blow to Washington. Accordingly Howe sent General Grant accompanied by Sir William Erskine,' on May, 19, with five thousand troops toward Barren Hill. By a.circuitous route they arrived in the rear of Lafayette and took a position on
a hill commanding Matson’s Ford, the direct dishonor he ordered a hot pursuit; but Lafa-road to Valley Forge. The line of pickets yette had crossed the river and gained the Lafayette had sent to guard this approach had . heights on the opposite bank. He was greeted changed their position without his order dr with shouts of joy at Valley Forge and warmly knowledge.	..	; praised by Washington, who had watched the
" ' . Meanwhile General Grey with another strong' whole: manoeuvre through glasses'and to whom : division took control of the only other avail-: the complete destruction of the little band able ford; directly in front of Lafayette’s'right and its violant commander against such fearful flank? General Howe himself; was to mhrch odds seemed inevitable;	,
straight to Barren Hill with the main column and to commence the attack.	-
So carefully had this manoeuvre been planned, and so confident was General Howe of its success, that he bad prepared a banquet in honor of the victory, and sent invitations to a number of persons of high position in Philadelphia, promising to introduce them to the Marquis de la Lafayette. However, on the morning of the twentieth of May, when the rising sun put to flight the mists overhanging the river, Lafayette for the first time discovered
his position found that he was hemmed in on -all sides by-a large and powerful army.
The surprise was complete. Total defeat or the surrender of his little band stared him in the face. Yet the indomitable courage of the Frenchman did not forsake him. His calmness and decision in so gi£at a danger won the admiration of his men . and at the same time it served as an inspiration. He ordered them to prepare for action. Calmly surveying the situation, and observing the three strong divisions advancing against him, he resolved to retreat by Matson’s Ford. Here it was that Lafayette displayed his skill as a strategist.. Carefully .manoeuvring his men, he formed false heads of columns and sent them through' the frees toward Grant’s forces, as if to attack them. Grant immediately halted his division and prepared for the struggle, so causing the delay Lafayette so earnestly desired. He then ordered the body of his force to flee' noiselessly under cover of the woods, past the hill on which the enemy were stationed and on to the ford. As he saw his rear escape, he gradually, withdrew his few men in perfect order, and hastened as soon as he could without causing suspicion of the stratagem, to the main force now safe at the ford.
A troop of British cavalry had observed the retreat from a neighboring hill, and reported it to Grant; but he, thinking it only a small detachment, ordered an attack on Barren Hill. Here he found only the remains of Lafayette’s bivouac; Chagrined and fearing
*

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Nation’s G-uest.
FRANK O’SHAUGHNESSY, I9OO.
AEAYETTE’S career in America ended with the fall of Yorktown. When England asked for peace he was in France preparing' another expedition for the aid of Washington. His
heart rebounded with gladness when he learned that the end had come, and his cheering words were the first tidings of joy that came to the warworn patriots. When quiet had settled upon the colonies, he longed to return and bid farewell to his old companions in arms and to Washington. He sailed from Havre in July, 1784, and reached New York on the 4th of August. The guard of honor that met him as he left the ship was composed of officers of the Revolution, dressed in the uniform that had been long cast aside, but resumed for the occasion. The bells of the city mingling their joyous peals with the roar of cannon rang out the welcome. The streets through which his carriage was drawn were thronged with people, and the air resounded with their cheers. New York to honor him cast aside all business, and the days of his visit were one continuous festival. From New York he went to Philadelphia where he received a welcome equal to the first. Old Liberty Bell gave no sweeter tone since its patriotic baptism than its welcome to America’s friend; but it was to visit Washington that Lafayette had come, and, hastening his departure, he proceeded to Mount Vernon. The meeting between him and Washington was that of son and father. In this retreat amid the Virginia woods the days were spent in happiness. Arm in arm they walked along the shaded pathways and lived over again the trying scenes of the war. What passed between them is not recorded because it was their souls that spoke. The time passed quickly, and Lafayette could stay no longer. He journeyed to Boston where he was met by the Governor and officers of state. The city lamps were relighted in his honor the first time since the close of the war. Here he. joined in the anniversary celebration of the surrender of Corn-' wallis’.' He then visited through the New England States and returned to Boston, whence he sailed to Yorktown to revisit the scene of his last and greatest military achievement. At Richmond, he was met by Major-Gen’s. Wayne St. Clair and Irwin, Washington joined him
there and together they returned to Mt.Vernon/ .. -When he felt'he must go back to France, . . .
Washington accompanied him to Annapolis; A ; there they parted, and tears stood in the.eyes of each as the hand clasp was broken, for hoth \ felt that it was to be their last farewell. Maryland and Virginia conferred citizenship ..upon him and his male heirs, Congress in session at Trenton, New Jersey, appointed a committee of . one member from each state to receive and take leave of him in their name. On Christ- . ~	«
mas day, 1784, he sailed from-New York. His sword that had helped to win freedom for . ' ’ America was not yet sheathed, but that has - ‘ not to do with this narrative. In 1824 .when he felt the weight of his declining years, he wished to see again his beloved America. .	’
When it became known to the people that' Lafayette was to return, there was universal- • joy throughout the country. President Monroe placed at his disposal a frigate to convey him .. across the Atlantic, but he modestly declined the offer; and, with his son and secretary, took passage on a merchantman, July the. 1st. He reached New York, Sunday, August the 15th, and not ^wishing to disturb the sabbath remained on Staten Island as the guest ' of Vice-President Tompkins. The following . day he prepared to enter New York. .	.	.
The harbor was filled with vessels decorated . with the flags of all nations, and moving •	-
among this brilliant flotilla was the Chancellor Livingstone, the. vessel chosen. to carry the nation’s guest. As a compliment to Lafayette the vessel was severely plain, decorated only . with the American flag and the flag of New-York. Castle Garden was thronged with : ’ people, and as the convoy neared the shore , the cannon’s roar, was drowned by the shouts of welcome that burst from the assembled thousands. Among the delegation that was', to receive him were several old officers of the ' Revolution who had fought by his side. When he appeared, they disregarded all formality, . and rushed forward and embraced him. The escort led him to the carriage drawn by four . ' white horses, and his triumph began. Occa- '	*
sionally an old comrade in arms would press; . through the . crowd and grasp his hand with emotion so deep that it found expression only. . in tears. As he passed through the streets the 7; : word Welcome!. was taken up and shouted in unison by two hundred thousand voices. 7'p7?.<,':
From New York to Boston he travelled by \ . carriage, accompanied by. an escort of horse- < * men,; who at .night bore lighted torches. /
i34
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
They travelled until twelve o’clock each night and along the way watch fires were blazing on every hilltop. The bells from the country church spires announced his coining. Boston receivedhim as it had received no other man. The city was ablaze with glory. When he . returned to New York the enthusiasm was greater than on his coming. In Castle Garden an illumination was given in his honor. When he had taken his seat a curtain opened and a massive transparency representing La Grange was exposed, beneath it the words: “This is his home.”
He journeyed through all the states of the Union, and was amazed at their marvellous progress. Nine new states had been added since his former visit, and what had been an unbroken wilderness was now a land of plenty, with spreading fields of grain and splendid cities. He witnessed the presidential campaign of Adams, Jackson, Clay and Crawford, which was probably one of the most warmly contested in our history. What impressed him most was the harmony that followed at its close.
Congress bestowed upon him a gift of two hundred thousand dollars to repay the debt of the Revolution, and its first act on reassembling was one of public welcome. A committee of twenty-four members was appointed to wait upon him and invite him to visit Congress. On the appointed day he entered the hall, and the members rose to receive him. Speaker Clay delivered the address of welcome,, and after Lafayette responded, Congress adjourned.
The speaker descended from his chair and gave his hand affectionately to the honored ‘ guest. The members gathered around and one by one shook his hand. The proceedings in the Senate were equally impressive. •
Perhaps the most pathetic incident of his tour was his visit to the tomb of Washington. He sailed down the Potomac, and as he neared the hallowed spot the guns of Fort Washington announced his coming. He and the party were conducted to the tomb by three nephews of Washington. He entered alone, and the guns thundering anew announced that Lafayette had done homage to the ashes of Washington. When he emerged his eyes were overflowing with tears. He then led his son and secretary in, and by a. sign indicated the coffin of his illustrious friend. They were so deeply aiffected by . his silent grief that they embraced him and'joined their tears* with his.
.. - It- was during this visit- that the . fiftieth anniversary of the. battle of Bunker Hill was
celebrated, and it was his honor to lay the corner-stone of the monument erected to the memory of the patriots. Daniel Webster was the orator of the occasion, and before he had done he turned, to Lafayette:
“Fortunate, fortunate man!” said the speaker, “ with what measure of devotion will you not thank God for the circumstances of your extraordinary life! You are connected with both hemispheres and with two generations. You will account it an instance of good fortune, sir, that you crossed the seas to visit us at a time which enables you to be‘ present at this solemnity. You see where Warren fell, and where Parker, Gardner, McCleary, Moore and other early patriots fell with him. Those who survived that day, and whose lives have been prolonged to the present hour are now around you. Behold! they now stretch forth their feeble arms to embrace you.
“Behold! they raise their trembling voices to invoke the blessing of God on you and yours forever. Monument and eulogy belong to the dead. Illustrious as are youi' merits, yet far, oh! very far distant be the day when any inscription shall bear your name or any tongue pronounce its eulogy.”	.
In South Carolina he laid the stone on the grave of his friend and comrade Baron DeKalb.
His last public reception in America was at the house of President Adams on September 6th. On the following day the President in the presence of a large concourse of citizens, made the farewell address in the name of the American people and the government:
“We and our children in life and.after death shall claim you for our own,” he said: “You are ours by that more than patriotic self| devotion with which you flew to the aid of our fathers at the crisis of their fate; ours by that long series of years you have cherished us, in your regard; ours by that unshaken sentiment of gratitude, for your services which, is a precious portion of our inheritance; ours by that tie of love stronger than death which has linked your name for the endless ages of time with the name of Washington.” "
The vessel that was. to convey him home was the Brandywine, named after the battle in which he shed his first blood for America. This compliment he deemed one of the highest paid to him.-America , saw him no more. The ovation he had recieved was all. that a grateful people'could give; and never again shall an alien, receive the'welcome that was. given to Lafayette, . : - ’ A .	' .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Lafayette—The Diplomatist.
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99.
HATEVER is most brilliant in the lives of great men often casts a shadow over their other qualities, as the
moon dims and darkens the stars. One does
not think of Michael Angelo as a sonneteer, oi' remember Rossetti as a painter. We read Cmsar’s own accounts of his battles, and forget that he was a litterateur. We talk of Napoleon as the great military genius of modern times, yet the hero of Austerlitz never desired that posterity should read his name in letters of blood. He trusted that he would be remembered as a lawgiver.
To the people of the western world Lafayette will always be the general, cool, daring, beloved by his men, respected by his enemies. We depict him as a youthful hero, fighting for the rights of strangers and ever in the thickest of the fray. There is another phase of his career, however, too little known among Americans. He was not only a warrrior, but a diplomatist of a high order. It is the purpose of this short article, not to enumerate even the more important of his diplomatic labors, but rather to show by a few instances that he was a statesman of no mean ability; that in the most trying situations he never sacrificed his idea of the right to threats, or to what was harder for him to resist—the personal claims of gratitude. O	a
When Lafayette rose from his seat in the Assembly of Notables and denounced the government for its lack of justice, he showed that he was as willing and powerful in arousing the spirit of liberty as he was in championing it. There was nothing for a selfish soul to gain by such an action. Here among his peers, the nobles of France, and before the younger brother of the king he expressed opinions, the wisdom of which was shown by what afterward transpired, but which few would have dared to avow at that time and place. .	-
There were others in France who -longed for a constitutional monarchy as ardently as Lafayette, but he was the grandest figure in the struggle. His high conception .of what France should be was fully vindicated that gay fourteenth of July on the Champs de Mars, but no form of government could long hold . together those revolutionary factions and their •' faithless king. Lafayette, before and after this
transitory pageant, conducted himself in a man- ' /J ner that won admiration even from the enemies : - U of his country. Long opposed by-the nobles, and at last reviled even by the peopleTo whonr■< he had devoted his life, he stood resolute before intimidation, and • firmly declined to * receive from the people whatever honors ’ seemed better suited to others. •.	r
The hardest trial came last.-. Freed from the . dungeons of Olmutz and offered high honors j . by Napoleon, he remained steadfast to'-his idea of duty, and opposed the usurper Napo- / : leon as he had opposed a tumultuous-mob and ; a foolish king.	, \
We can never fully appreciate Lafayette’s ... self-sacrificing spirit, or his devotion to the \ i cause of individual liberty, if we'consider him, only as a great general. Time has shown'the , justice of his opinions on questions of state and although they may have in part originated , with others, it was he who had the courage; of ‘ . his convictions, and was a mightv force alike in quelling anarchy and crushing despotism. ,
Lafayette at Monmouth. .
LOUIS ,C. M. REED, I9OO.
HE world is haughty, selfish and unkind. If the weak man falls, it. extends not to him an assisting hand. He either rises again byhis
own strength, or he is brushed aside and.dies But while the world is cruel and ungracious, while it ignores and tramples upon the-weak in their struggle for existence, it seldom fails to recognize and esteem true worth. In its harsh, unsympathetic nature is woven a respect for merit, and though merit be enshrouded in', the garb of modesty it is not forever suffered to go unnoticed. But often, when the man of -worth has gone from this world, when his merit .. has been recognized and passed upon, society .. becomes passive, and in the great ceaseless , tumult of life, the hero often nears the chasm< . of oblivion.
But the world can not always forget the man . 3 of worth. Time can not blot out his name, though the test of years may dim, to some extent, the memory of his- name. It slumbers, yet it lives; and at times that;sluing' bering respect and veneration is awakened to activity. ~	-	-- A
To-day the voices of Americans are lifted A to assert anew the world’s undying respect for . <
136
NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
true worth. They are extolling the deeds of a man whose character was the embodiment of all that- goes to make up .true worth. They are honoring the name of Lafayette.
The life of Lafayette is familiar to us all. The schodl-boy knows how America’s great benefactor left his home, his family and his fortune to take up the cause of American liberty; how he heroically braved the privations and uproar of sanguinary war, and sheathed his sword only when the longing for freedom was gratified. We never tire of reflecting upon the undaunted bravery, the generosity and nobility of soul, the spirit of self-sacrifice and the simple modesty that characterized Lafayette in all his actions. At the famous battle of Monmouth, June 28, 1778, the splendid traits of his character were fully brought forth. From the very beginning to the end of that awful conflict, Lafa-o	1
yette showed himself to be a great man and a great soldier. Just prior to the engagement, he displayed the generosity and magnanimity of his soul in gracefully surrendering to General Lee the command of the American forces which had been conferred upon him by Washington after Lee had refused to accept it; but he was not looking solely for advancement and personal distinction, and the real issue of ‘ the struggle was ever before his mind. WTith the best feelings he immediately started with Lee through the heavily wooded country near " Monmouth, and when they met the enemy at Freehold, near Monmouth Court House, the French commander proved that the interests of the Americans were nearest his heart.
When Lee, who was supported by about five thousand men, upon whose bravery he could trust to an unlimited extent, ordered a retreat before any advantage had been gained on ' either side, Lafayette, ever awake to the country’s interests, and realizing that a retreat meant death to the American troops, hastily dispatched a messenger to Washington telling him of. the shameful, conduct of Lee, and informing him of the imminent need of his presence. Then desperately he tried to bring order out of universal confusion that followed, ~ and when he saw that his efforts were, fruitless (being himself ordered by Lee to retreat toward Freehold) he struggled nobly to save .the army from total annihilation. But the effect
of Lee’s, cowardly order was instantaneous;
and over the wooded brokem country fled the he was an American patriot in the truest sense f panic-stricten soldiers, many of them perishing of the word.	;
. as they passed over the narrow /causeway . . From the beginning, of history; the man that
across a broad morass, while others were struck down by the intense heat and trampled to death:
Lafayette’s hasty message to Washington had the desired effect, and the treacherous Lee and the fleeing soldiers were soon face to face with the great commander-in-chief. Under his stern command the weary army turned back to the scene of carnage, and Lafayette once more nobly faced the blazing cannon and the tempest of bullets that raged about him. But darkness came on, the fighting ceased, and the wearied patriots lay down upon their arms and slumbered until dawn. Washington and Lafayette slept side by side- under the wide-spreading oak, while all about them were strewn the bodies of slain patriots. And in the silence of that night the wearied enemy stole silently away, and the morning light brought disappointment to the American troops, for they had hoped to rout the enemy that day. •
In the great struggle at Monmouth Lafayette had been incessantly active. Nothing appeared to weary or intimidate him, and he met the deadly assaults of his pursuers with a remarkable display of composure. The prudence, courage and skill that he exercised during the day brought forth universal praise, and the tenderness with which he nursed the wounded on the field of battle only goes to show more plainly the gentleness of his nature. He passed unscathed through the fierce rage of that battle and through many other struggles, and he lived to see the sunshine of liberty arise over the land. In the little cemetery near the convent of Petit Piepus in France repose , the bones of him that was our benefactor, and though many years have passed since they laid him to rest, he has not been forgotten, nor will he be forgotten,^ for the world never forgets true worth.	.
American Patriotism.
THOMAS J. DILLON, IQOO.
HE lesson of patriotism taught by the life and works of Lafayette, is such as to make him an almost perfect model for young Americans to
imitate. His name deserves to be inseparably linked with those of pun greatest heroes, for
4
frOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
worked and struggled for those that spoke his language and lived in . his country has been crowned with the highest possible honor; the greatest poets have sung his prais.es, and the greatest artists and sculptors have made their masterpieces depict his triumphs.
If every one were a patriot there surely would be little left to wish for; but nevertheless, there is something higher than patriotism. To fight for the welfare of persons living within certain confines is noble; but to fight that justice may be done to man irrespective of where he lives or what tongue he speaks, is more than patriotism. This is what Lafayette did.
Like everything else that is good, American patriotism has its imitations, and some are very sorry imitations indeed.
There are, in this free land, persons that are under the impression that, given a vindictive vocabulary, a public office, and free use of a newspaper, the result is patriotism. This brand of patriot is so plainly false that a small child should not be deceived by it. Yet it is much Sused, and it was very prevalent just before our late war. From every available place anathema was hurled against our enemies. The dramatic attitude of this patriot was photographed and scattered broadcast; but when war was declared a deep silence surrounded this hero, and his voice was heard no more, until he raised a cry for an investigation of the war department. Here is another kind of patriot. This one goes to the front and distinguishes himself for the sole purpose of worming himself into the hearts of the voters, so that he may be elected upon his return home; and if he has told his stirring adventures to a sufficient number of war-correspondents, his desire is almost certain to be gratified. It is strange but true that a great many persons believe that if a man has plenty of animal courage, he has every other qualification necessary to make a perfect mind.
The man that goes to war in.hopes that his action wilFmake good campaign material, risks his life more or less, but so does that man that goes out on the road and robs his fellowman; they both risk their lives for their own interests. The man that has political: aspirations may. incidentally do some good, but he is no more of a patriot than he who sought another’s . goods. .	'	.	'
There is still more false patriotism, that needs discouragement, as it gives persons of
will find a great many credits on their page of . other nationalities, the opinion that we are a the great book?
T3r.
collection of conceited asses. Take your citi- . zen that, has Jived for the last twenty .years, and owns large amounts'of personal property, ' and let him go to Europe, and he immediately becomes saturated with the idea that he is. a typical American, and that he must make the > fact known; nothing is done correctly unless it ?; is done in the American manner. This is the , kind of a man that will sell his vote to two parties and then not vote. This man will also rage like a lunatic because he has to change five-cents to pay the war tax on a telegram.
Anybody that knows anything of Lafayette’s . ?' career, will have very little difficulty in under- ■ standing what true patriotism is. It is not an ‘ inordinate greed to hold a public office and dole out good for a large number of dollars per diem; on the contrary, the fact that a man • is mayor of a large city is generally consid- , ered good evidence that that man is not a patriot, and in some cases not even a lawabiding citizen, and recent investigations tend \ to strengthen this opinion.
What America needs today is honest men with minds of their own and the courage to cling to their opinions until they are shown to , be wrong. Because some delegates meet and declare that such and such a thing is beneficial, \ is no proof that it is so; and because a man’s . father belonged to a certain party is no reason	.
why that man should support that .party.	,
There are a great number of persons who should avoid the. ballot-box as a proximate occasion of sin.	'
If a man believes that a certain measure is '	.
not good, Jet him vote , against it, irrespective ’ of party lines; let him take off his coat and * work against it until he is.blue in the face;: but when he finds that .the majority differs'with < him and the measure is adopted, then let him • , put on his coat and join the majority} and help them to be successful.	;
The man that quietly, acts for his country’s good is a patriot, although 'he may not be so . blatant as some that are now before the public, and his country.will appreciate him very much . ’ about twenty years from now,, when .it is paying more pensions, than there; were soldiers tin _ j : the war.	'	"
Let every young man starting out in life, and J *- • every old man that has not sinned beyond •. redemption—if they can draw no lessons from: . : J our own heroes—let them imitate as well as they are able the dife of Lafayette, and they dT'V'-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wjwwschoiw
Notre Dame, October 32, 189S.
JBublisijcto rfirrs 5aturtoan touring Ecrm ®tnic at S. Sni&crsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $i.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
SHERMAN STEELE, ’97; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98; RAYMOND O’MALLEY,’98; F. HENRY WURZER, ’98;
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99; JOHN J. DOWD, ’99;
EUGENE A. DELANEY,’99; EDMUND C. BROWN, ’99;
JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99; MAT. A. SCHUMACHER, ’99;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, ’99;
JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99; LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99; LOUIS C. M. REED, 1900; FRANK O'SHAUGHNESSY,1900; THOMAS J. DILLON, 1900; ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, I9OO.
F. X. MCCOLLUM,	\
H. P. BARRY,	(	Reporters.
HENRY S. FINK,	J
—In erecting a monument to Lafayette, our country is building for herself a memorial finer than any sculptor’s chisel could design, and more lasting than the hardest marble. We are showing to the world at large that the American, rough, ready and practical as he may be in ordinary life, has, nevertheless, a generous gratitude, and a just appreciation, of true worth. We have been designated as a money loving people, a nation whose ideal was wealth, power and worldly influence. Now let the finger of scorn point elsewhere. Let the inhabitants of all countries open their eyes and direct their gaze toward Paris; and when in 1900 the veil is laid aside from the Lafayette monument, the mist of delusion will be cleared away, and at the tomb of her honored hero
• they will see our dear old Columbia as she really is—a nation, giving to every man according to his worth and merit.
—Two weeks ago today we defeated Illinois, last Saturday we defeated M. A. G., and today we are going to de—— no, wait a minute* * we are going to—well, play Michigan. The
Scholastic had well-nigh forgotten that its rula is to avoid extremes. So great is our confi-dence in the issue of today’s game that we almost told our friends what the score will be, and thus came nearly depriving them of the pleasant anxiety of waiting till the game is over to celebrate the victory. It may be that ’we have stood around the side lines too much; or perhaps we have looked with a somewhat biassed judgment on its work this last week, but be that as it may, somehow or other we got a presentiment that the Varsity is going to get the big end of the bargain, if any is offered With the exception of Farley, who has a bad ankle, our men are all in good condition. Today’s contest is our hardest game this season, and, so far as we can see, it will be Michigan’s hardest, too. All we can say to you, men of the Varsity, is “Remember your good work at Champaign, and also, remember the boys at home.”
—While great preparations were being made in the various departments of the university to do homage to the memory of Lafayette, and while word was brought that all schools and educational institutes would celebrate one day in his honor, the Board of Editors came together and decided that they, too, would share in this laudable enterprise. Plans were proposed and discussed as to -how we might best show our appreciation of what the noble Frenchman did in our behalf, and also pay him a tribute of respect. It was finally suggested to publish a special edition of the Scholastic dedicated to our hero, and dealing with his life and character. From all corners of the sanctum came voices of approval, and the plan was adopted. j The editors immediately began hard work, j each one determined that we would not be ; wanting in making our small tribute , as good	j
as our abilities could afford. Here, then, we	=
.present to you, dear readers, our Lafayette | Scholastic. We have labored conscientiously j on it, and, naturally enough, take a pride in I offering you our work. ' There may be many j errors in it; but we lay no claims to per- | fection. We undertook this task as a tribute | to the memory of him to whom it is dedicated, | and, now that the work is done, we do ourselves | the justice to feel satisfied, and trust to. your | ndulgence for a just appreciation of our I endeavors.	t
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
139
Archbishop Ireland, representative of the Catholics of America on the Lafayette Memorial commission, has worked so earnestly and faithfully in stirring up Catholic schools to do their share in this enterprise, that we deem it highly fitting to present his picture in our Lafayette Scholastic. It was on the occasion of his visit here at the opening of the school year, that he interested the students of Notre Dame in the Lafayette Day project. The Americanism of the Archbishop of St. Paul is unquestionable; his Catholicity beyond dispute. Hence we are proud of him as our representative on this commission, and feel confident that under his leadership the Catholics will do their just share -in this noble work of paying tribute where tribute belongs. Archbishop Ireland has long been before the American public a true citizen, and a firm patriot. His recent address at the Auditorium in Chicago on occasion of the Peace Jubilee was brimful of the convictions that he has held throughout his career. The venerable prelate was frequently applauded by his immense audience for his patriotism and the forceful eloquence of his remarks.
Archbishop Ireland.
ARCHBISHOP IRELAND.
Concerning Lafayette Day.
Of. the Lafayette Memorial exercises last Wednesday evening little need be said. The program announced for that occasion was carried out' in a manner satisfactory to all. The text of the orations will be found in the columns of this issue. As regards their delivery, Messrs. Delaney, Weadock and Fennessey are to be complimented for their careful training and successful efforts on the stage. They did. themselves- much credit.. Mr. J. McGinnis read
a beautiful Latin poem; Mr. St. J. O’Sullivan delivered a verse of his own composition, that appears in this publication. The declamation of Mr. McCollum was well rendered.^ Mr McCollum is perfectly at home on the stage, his gestures are graceful and his voice well cultivated.
. The Orchestra made its first appearance in Washington Hall this year. Owing to the illness of Professor Preston, Mr. Francis Dukette has
mm
i4°	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
£
charge of this organization. From the showing made by his musicians last Wednesday we would infer that he is an able director. Perhaps the most pleasing number on the program was the difficult violin solo rendered by Mr. M. J. McCormack. He has appeared on our stage many times and his playing never fails to please the audience. Mr. Dukette, as accompanist, ably assisted him, for he is one of the best accompanists that Notre Dame ever had. Both gentlemen are skilled musicians. The choruses “America” and “Columbia, Gem of the Ocean,” were sung by the audience with much enthusiasm. The band songs would have called forth at the opening accompanied .the rendition of these_ numbers. All in all the exercises were appropriate and well carried, out.	.
Letters Regarding; the Lafayette . Memorial
The Scholastic has a few letters in its possession regarding the Lafayette celebration, which we think, may be of interest to our readers. In this issue, therefore, we take pleasure in publishing three, of these letters. The first is one written to Honl Alex. H. Revell, Vice-President of the Lafayette Memorial Association, by President McKinley. It
reads as follows:	.	;
.. . Executive Mansion, Washington
September, 17. 1898.
My Dear Sir:
..Your' letter written in behalf of the Lafayette Memorial Commission has greatly interested me, and I have read with much satisfaction the plans already outlined. .	.	,___.	.	,	.
for-the proposed monument to the memory of a "great; Universal, Exposition of Paris, when the whole world soldier and patriot. - ;	..	-	<" represented,in the capital city of France will listen to
; The undertaking is one in whidh, I am sure, it will be the story of Lafayette.and America’s struggle for liberty, considered a privilege to:participate, and. the idea thatW, and-will applaud the noble gratitude of the Repubic the students in. the .schools, , collegesarid; universities of ; the West to her sister Republic of Europe. ’ shalf take a prominent part in this tribute will not only .vepture to say that the most beautiful incident of the ■ be. of.vast educational value as one of the most important .’ ^Universal Exposition of 1900, the incident most surely epochs in history, but will keep prominently before them	leading to union and friendship between	the two great
■ the inspiration of a high ideal, of devotion to great.princi-	republics of the world, will be the solemn	dedication of
pies and of the public recognition paid to lofty purposes,	the Lafayette monument, on, America’s own natal day,
- General Lafayette was but a young: man when he . in the Picpus cemetery of Paris.
■	..	-• •	. Respectfully yours,
Ji (signed) John Ireland,.
' y } Archbishop of St. Paul.
espoused the cause of; liberty and independence, over
coming well-nigh insurmountable obstacles to do so. It ■ is altogether fitting, therefore, that the youth of America should have apart in this testimonial to his-goodness and greatness. :	\	. . . . .,
I; am glad to note that your Committee has fixed a „ date .when our people, in every,part of the country, may testify their interest in this proposed monument and their determination that the movement already begun shall.achieve the'greatest success. • W • : . '
.	Very?sincerely .yours,;.	‘ »
7 ; -	; < s - -- 7-iWlLLIAM'-McKlNLEY.- J.
• The: second letter:is’ dnerwritt^
J. Thompson, Secretary of the Association, by Archbishop Ireland. It was written in reply to an inquiry about ^how Catholic schools and colleges would be interested in favor of the Lafayette Memorial project. The following is the text: .	'
St. Paul, Minn., Sept. 23, 1898. Mr. Robert Thompson, Secretary, Lafayette Memorial Commission,'
Dear Sir:
Chicago, Ill.
I beg leave to make reply to your inquiry how best the interest of Catholic colleges and parochial schools may be awakened in favor of the Lafayette Memorial project, and their-co-operation obtained in the due observance of -Lafayette Day. .	.
All you need do, I assure you, is.to make your purposes known either through the public press, or through special circulars, to the Catholic colleges and parochial schools; and Catholic educational institutions, I am certain, will be most prompt in lending aid to honor the chivalrous friend of American independence, General Lafayette, and in their zeal and practical efforts towards that end they will be surpassed by no other class of' similar institutions in’the country. ■	.	. ■ -
It is well to teach the youth of America the study of . never-dying gratitude to our country’s friends. Gratitude is the virtue of generous and great people. Too often in the history of nations does the tribute of gratitude remain unpaid. This should never be allowed to be said of America.	.
Lafayette and the soldiers of France who accompanied him across the Atlantic.gave to America in the days of her sore, need, aid without which, indeed, we'may in all historic truth say, American independence could not
have .been won’, ■
We owe' to our country’s honor to give, as centuries go by, undeniable evidence of our gratitude to France. -In no. more gracious manner can'this be done than in
.erecting an' American monument, the tribute of the school children.:of America over the grave of Lafayette. ..Ilie happy occasion to erect such a monument is the
The last letter, we publish is one written by Secretary Thompson to Father Morrissey bn receipt of the program fbr Lafayette Day at Notre [Dame: 5 ’.
.	' - .	.	:	; : Chicago, Oct 8, 1898. . ■
Rev. A. Morrissey, - ?	7	, ■ . : ■	.
. President," Notre Dame University, 7	■ , ,
■ /	. • f	Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir: ...	l
•’Permit iis to-th'ank‘..ypu for-ybur-kind favor of October :
NOTRE DAME . SCHOLASTIC,
A:
7, also to express to you our gratification for the prompt and patriotic attitude displayed by you and your well-known Institution. We feel sure that the Catholic support to this patriotic movement will be one of its most notable features.
Again thanking you for your support, and begging to acknowledge receipt of draft of program, which we consider thoroughly appropriate, we remain,	. ’
Respectfully yours,
The Lafayette Memorial Commission. •
By Robert J. Thompson, Secretary.
Notre Dame, 53; Michigan .Agricultural College, 0.
. Last Saturday the team representing the Michigan Agricultural College lined up on our gridiron against the Varsity. As the score would indicate, they .were no match for our men in skill or capacity to put up a hard game. It may be said, too, in behalf of the visitors that they were a trifle lighter than our men; In one respect, however, they are equal to any team in the West, and that is, they play a good, clean game. Though it was evident from start, to finish that they were matched against a team vastly superior to them, they fought
bravely until the last “down” was called. b	-	.	.	.	. . ..
■ The game was very much one-sided, but for- fifteen-yard-line. I..ns made twelve through all that it was interesting to the spectators for tackle, then. Farley carried the ball, over for two reasons —the first reason is’that it. was the second touchdown, and Fleming kicked, the first match game to be played on the home Soal- Score, 12-0. . During .the .rest-,of. the grounds this season. The second reason is because M. A. C. played Ann Arbor the Wednesday before and the U. of M. men piled up a score of 39-0. We will line-up, against Ann Arbor today. The Notre Dame rooters were anxious on this account to see our men score more points than Ann Arbor did. In the first half it looked as though we would be disap-
. In the second half, however, the. play was very: much different. M. A. C. never gpt,her pointed, for when time was called our team had hands on the ball except to kick itio£t,;bur: secured only twelve points. In the second half, men played yvdh. much more force ■ and quick-1, however, they took a brace that gladdened ness,.and that, at what piled up the big the hearts of the “ rooters.” The backs rushed against,M. A. C.’s line as. though they meant,
business, while Mullen and the “Tiger Lilly” added, a few more tallies to their dist of long-runs. Our line was in good form, and was able to.push the opposing men at. will; thus .in The thirty minutes that made up. the second half,
the Varsity scored forty-one points, making a
Fleming kicked eight’ and-left the ball a foot from the line. Mona'	han ^ent oyer for touch down; Fleming missed
total score of 53-O. i	_
. goals’out of nine trials which is certainly a 1	...
good record, for bur quarter-back. The ball. g°al- Score, 17-0 was put in play at three o’clock and this is.	’ rr
what happened
AFTER THE KICK-OFF. :	, - ~\
Fleming sent the ball forty-five yards, and it .7 was brought back ten. On their first.down M. . A. C. made ten yards around the end. In .the L -? next play they tried McNulty, but he showed no hospitality. Bennet got through the Jine -in the next play and downed the quarter-back with the. ball in his arms. M. A. C. punted - , twenty-four yards, and Fleming got the ball outside the lines. When the oval was carried . in, Farley made six around left end and ; Mullen twenty-five around the other end. .’Ball.’. ‘ * was fumbled,in the next play, but Eggeman ■_ grabbed it and advanced, four yards.. The tan- , dem was good for nine yards, and “Studie” was able , for twelve more., Monahan and Mullen made four and a half, and then- Lins carried Kuppler the remaining , six yards-for., the first touchdown. Fleming kicked goal,, . Score, 6-0. .	. .	--A*
The kick-off of thirty-five yards went through -Fortin’s arms to Fleming,; who re- : ' turned eight. The first, down resulted . in .no: • gain, but Monahan got through tackle.forfour-in the . second, .and on the third the “Tiger Lilly” dodged left end for thirty-eight. Small
gains through the line brought the ball to the

. half the ball was pushed, up and down the field by short end rushes and gains through the.Jine, but neither team, was able to score.
It looked as though-our team was not goingTo . 1 make many points against the sturdy husband-
' men. .	,	?	■	.	1	- A .. -
i *
score.. .	. ,	...	-	-■ . * \
-	‘ Z	?	......	-	•	'	A, , .-i
Eggeman stopped, the first, kick-off at twelve yards from, the centre of the field.. Mullen made seven around right end. A quarter-back: kick advanced the ball twenty yards where bur men. got it on downs a few seconds later. Farley skirted left end for thirty-five; Lins went through right tackle for .thirteen, more,*

On a kick-off of twenty-five yards Fleming-came back thirty-five. / Notre' Dame\gotTten

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
yards for off-side on the next play, and then a place kick from the thirty-five yard line having failed, Mullen secured the ball behind the visitors’ line for. the fourth touchdown Fleming’s goal made the score 23-0.
Ball was kicked off twenty-eight yards and Fleming returned it thirteen. Monahan made five through tackle; Mullen eight around the end; Farley ten around left end; Monahan seven, and then Lins went through the line for’ thirty-four, leaving the oval a yard from the line. Kuppler and Monahan pushed it over; Fleming kicked goal, and the score was 29-0.
Kuppler caught the ball on the next kick-off and returned it twelve yards. Short gains through the line in rapid succession brought the ball to the twenty-yard line, Farley made, the first seventeen and Monahan the other three. Fleming sent the ball between the posts. Score, 35-0.
M. A. C. sent the pigskin thirty yards to Fleming who regained five. In three downs Farley and Mullen made thirty-two. Lins tore off eight more, Farley twenty, • Kuppler ten, Mullen seven, and in the next play Lins crossed the line. Fleming’s kick was good. Score, 41-0. ■ . Mullen caught the ball on the twenty-five yard line and brought it back seventeen. Lins found a hole for ten through the left side of the line, and Kuppler galloped through the right side for fourteen. Farley went ten around left end, and then a minute later went around the same way, jumping over one man and dodging another until he had gone thirty-eight yards and placed the ball fairly behind the posts. Fleming kicked goal. Score, 47-0..
M. A. C. kicked thirty^five yards. Farley caught the ball and covered twenty-one before he was downed. Mullen, Monahan, Lins and . Kuppler carried it to the forty-five yard line, and then the “Tiger Lilly,” with another of his long runs laid the ball behind the posts for the last touchdown. Fleming kept up his good work by kicking goal. Score, 53-0. . Time up.
The Line-up:
Notre Dame " Mullen (Capt.)
Right End . Right Tackle Right Guard Centre ’ Left Guard
Left Tackle
Fortin Murray . Eggeman \ Bennet
. McNulty .•
Farley , - Fleming ..
Lins ;	'
" Kuppler
Monahan.; :
. Left End, : Quarter. Back Left Half-Back Right: Half-Back c- Full Back ,
M; A. C. Dietz
. Parks . Vanderstolp McLauth Skinner ■ Coons . Tower
■ .Baker (Capt.) ■.Westcott
Russell -
■ : Wolf '
--- -- .	,	. . -	.	.	. Lundy, ..
r Umpire, Studebaker, C; A. C.; Referee, Fitch, M. A.C
30 min. halves.-	/-■-'-’vj,'. ’ /
Our Friends.
—The Right Reverend Bishop Rademacher of Fort Wayne, and Right Reverend Bishop P. J. Hurth of Dacca, East Bengal, India, called on Father Morrissey this week. The latter gentleman, an old student and professor of Notre Dame, will preach to the student body to-morrow morning. It is seldom that our pulpit is graced by-a prelate from the far distant and historic land of India, arid we may expect something in the way of a treat. Before his ’election to the episcopate he was President of Saint Edward’s College at Austin, Texas.
—W. W. Fitzpatrick (B. S., ’98) and Joseph Rowan one of last year’s students, are both attending the University of Pennsylvania medical school.	.
—Mr. Harry H. Hoover one of last years students is attending the University of Illinois. He is keeping up his work in track athletics, and will undoubtedly he heard of in the Intercollegiate Meet this year.
—Another one of last year’s students has joined the ranks of the benedicts. Word comes from Lebanon, Ky., that Mr. Richard Spalding was married to Miss Nettie Lyddam of Owensboro, Sept. 28. The young couple has our best wishes.	.
—Mr. Patrick Murphy of Chebanse, Illinois, accompanied by his brother William, called on his son James of Sorin- Hall, last Sunday. With them were Messrs. J, Kerrins and H. Bruns of Chebanse, and Mr. J. Kerrins of Wilson, Ill.
—Father Maurice J. Dorney (LL. D., ’95) pastor of St. Gabriel’s Church, Chicago, called on friends at the University last Wednesday. He always makes the time pass pleasantly for those around him, and we hope he will favor us with another visit soon.
—Mr. Jeremiah G. Fennessey, of Boston, came this way to visit his son John of Sorin Hall. He was quarter-master of the Ninth Massachusetts in the recent war, and was with the men at the battles of. Santiago and El Caney. He has many interesting stories to tell of the exciting incidents that occurred in those days.	...
—Harry M. Jewett (C. E., ’90), ourHamous sprinter, made a short calk at his Aiwa Mater during the early part of the week. “Hal” was at one time the holder of the world’s record for the hundred yard dash, and is perhaps as well known as any of our alumni. During the late war he was one of the gunners on board the auxiliary cruiser Yosemite. 'We are glad to learn that he is doing well in his business at Detroit, Michj	T .	■ .

NOTRE
A Note about Football.
On Thursday Mr. Hering received a letter from an old Notre Dame student now attending the University of Michigan. He wrote concerning our game and the way Michigan students are looking at it. From the text of his letter, it would seem that the Ann Arbor men are looking for a good hard struggle today. Great anxiety prevails among football circles regarding the out-come of the struggle, and many critics have already awarded our boys the victory. There are those at the big Wolverine University that have money to wager on their favorites. Not a few of the shekels have been, laid on Notre Dame. Some of the enthusiasts have even ventured to wager two to one that our men will prevent their opponents from scoring. This should be encouraging to our boys. Where they are thus feared before their appearance they should not disappoint their backers by proving that their fears were ungrounded. Much the same spirit prevails here; and one can frequently hear averments that Notre Dame will return with a new ball for our trophy room. However, we are not assured of victory. It will be a close, hard game, and the team that wins will have to work hard. The Times - Herald, in its yesterday edition, says that Notre Dame has attracted the attention and respect of all western coaches, and that outsiders may expect to hear from her before the season closes.
St. Edward's Field Sports.
On last Saturday, while the Varsity were buckling on their armor for the victory that followed, the Mullens and Farleys of the future were engaged in their Annual Field Day. For an afternoon the little fellows of St. Edward’s Hall laid aside their football paraphernalia' and showed an admiring audience that they are as fast on the track as they-are on the gridiron. The closely-contested races .were run to the gratification of the contestants and to the complete satisfaction of the privileged spectators. Each athlete had. a host of enthusiastic admirers to coach and encourage him; and when all was over every competitor and all his friends firmly believed that in every case the best man had won. '	.
The course was laid on; the green behind the Hall, and over the smooth track the young
SCHOLASTIC. .	' r43<;;B^
athletes travelled at a pace surprisingly: fast;; ;^ When the age of the contestants is remembered some of the time made is remarkable. And the best of it all is that the winners in the; - v ; / games occupy, - in many instances, the , same ;C ■ position in their classes. It is this rational > combination of work and play which makes ?. the students of St. Edward’s Hall the happy, ' . - > contented boys they are.	. ;
Brother Leander was the judge, and even ' - . the earnest partisans of rival runners did not question a decision he made. Mr. P. J. Cor- *	' . ■ _
coran saw that in the starts no over-anxious .. sprintergot away before his fellows. Mr. L. T. :	'
Weadock and Mr. Alfred J. Dupefier assisted • Brother Leander at the tape. Brother Cajetan ; . was Master of Ceremonies, and his difficult " duties were performed without an error. Itis: no easy task to control a Field Day in which : \ are entered four-score youngsters with strong ; lungs, and with widely-different ideas of the -	.
fitness of things’.? Yet’ the good Brother . very patiently unravelled Gordian7 knots and . smoothed out every difficulty in a manner . . eminently satisfactory to all. The credit for ; ; • the rapidity with which the events were run off is all his, and the^-Minims are extremely for- : ' tunate in having at the head of their athletics '	■
such a man as Bro; Cajetan. Perhaps the athlete . ' -whose work won most praise is R. Williams, -who rode the mile on a muddy track in 3.20.' .	. .
Masters W. Fogarty, Willie McBride and W. Blanchfield were also conspicuously good. - .
All in all, the Field Day of ’98 marks another . pleasant day in the athletic history of the	,.
Minims, and on Saturday evening, when Bro. ‘ Cajetan awarded the well-earned prizes in the . pretty reading-room of St. E'dward’s Hall, he .	.
gave them teas capable'a band of young ,	.
athletes as one would wish to see. The :	_■ ?
summaries are:;—	\	:
First running race: 1st, W. Blanchfield; 2d, > T. Butler.	:	*'■:
Second running race: 1st, P. M’cBride; 2d, ,	?
J.. Bernero.	.	:
Third running race: rst, H. Rocheford; 2d, .	> .
C. McNamee. .	. . f ;
Fourth running race: 1st; E. McGeeney; 2d, :\ ? F. McIver.	.;	•	\ \	?
Fifth running race: 1st, P. McNamee; 2d,	•:
E. Kelly. /	~
First three-leggedrace: 1st, Strong and Wies.
Second three-legged race: 1st, P. Bortell? : ? ■2d, Bernero. -	■ \<\;
■ Third three-legged race: ;ist,;Shipley and
McBride.? ; ■'v

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
U4
Fourth three-legged race:, ist, W. McBride; 2d, Seymour.
First sack race: ist, W. Hall; 2d, G. McCarthy.	’
Second sack race: ist, L. McBride; 2d, A.
Shields.	c
Third sack race: ist, F. Fogarty; 2d, B.
Houser.	-.	. .	•
Fourth sack race: ist, C. McFarland; 2d, F. Frain.
First hurdles: ist, R. Williams; 2d, J.
Lawton.
Second hurdles: ist, J. Abercrombie; 2d, T.
Comerford.	•
Third hurdles: ist, McMaster; 2d, L. Harf.
Fourth hurdles: ist* C. Fuchs; 2d, C. McNamee.
First bicycle race: ist,.R. Williams; 2d, G.
Wilde. .	.
Second bicycle race: ist, P. McBride: 2d, A. Fuchs.
Third bi cycle .race: ist, F. Fogarty; 2d, J.
McGeeney. .	.
Fourth bicycle race: ist, E. McGeeney; 2d, C. Schonlan. ...
Tricycle . race : ist, W. McBride ; 2d, C. Connelly.
'	Louis T. Weadock.
The Lafayette Carriage.
Owing to the kindness of Mr. Clem, Studebaker, a special feature was. added, to our Lafayette day exercises.. At half-past one in the afternoon the carriage made expressly for
Lafayette, and the one that carried him from Albany to Buffalo, was brought put to the. University grounds to be viewed . by the students.	. .
This coach was made by the United States government especially for the. use of Lafayette, during his stay in America in. 1824 and 1825. Though very quaint and cumbersome looking, now, there can be little doubt-that if was what we would term a “swell turn-out,” when it made the famous trip to Buffalo. The vehicle has folding steps, a hood, the sides1 of which
are curtainless, lined with blue diagonal cloth, a narrow box, with side doors opening toward the front and slung on heavy leather straps. The wheels are much heavier than those used
< on coaches and the back ones are exceedingly high. At the time of the New Era Exposition, at St. Joseph, Mo., when the great main building was. destroyed by fire, the. Lafayette carriage was the only article on exhibition saved from the flames. It was due to the efforts of Captain Crawford and . a band of Apache Indians that it was preserved. This coach, now: the property of Studebaker Bros., was. built in 1824 by John Ouelet, a coachmaker, with shops at No. 30 Gay street, Baltimore. '	<