A new idea, in smoking...
>aleni refreshes your taste

Created by R. J. Reynold?* Tobacco Company
Smoke Salem .. . smoke refreshed
mehtholfresh

rich Tobacco taste ostmodern filter
Salem is a new idea in smoking—yousmoke refreshed. Salem refreshes your taste the way a bright, clear spring day refreshes you! You get Springtime freshness in every puff! The freshest taste in cigarettes flows through Salem’s pure white filter... rich tobacco taste with a new surprise softness and menthol-fresh comfort. Smoke Salem ... you’ll love ’em!
FOR THE HOLIDAYS!
THE COMFORTABLE NEW IVY TUXEDO
$42.50
you’]] enjoy cveiy social function that calls for “black tie” more in your own new Ivy tux. You’ll look tall and trim—the natural shoulders with less padding are more comfortable—the shawl collar more flattering. The Ivy trousers fit better—look smarter. And the new fabric is practically weightless —holds its press, resists wrinkles. Get your own new Ivy League model Tuxedo—the very latest style, at the Campus Shop now —be ready for the holidays ahead!
FREE CHRISTMAS GIFT WRAPPING
On the campus — Notre Dame
December 6, 1957
3
OnCampm
Max Shulman
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
WHAT TO DO TILL THE PSYCHIATRIST COMES
Once upon a time at the University of Virginia there was a coed named, oddly enough, Virginia University who was handsome and kindly and intelligent and ingeniously constructed and majoring in psychology. Virginia went steady with a young man on campus named, oddly enough, Oddly Enough who was supple and fair and lithe and animated and majoring in phys ed.
Virginia and Oddly enjoyed a romance that was as idyllic as a summer day, as placid as a millpond. Never did they fight—never, never, never! —because Virginia, who was majoring in psychology, did not believe in fighting. “Fighting,” she often said, “settles nothing. The scientific way is to look for the cause of friction.”
So whenever she and Oddly were on the verge of a quarrel, she used to whip out a series of ink blot tests and they would discover the true underlying cause of their dispute and deal with it in an enlightened, dispassionate manner. Then, the irritant removed, their romance would resume its tranquil, serene, unruffled course.
After six months of this sedate liaison, Oddly was so bored he could spit. He loved Virginia well enough, but he also believed that people in love ought to fight now and then.
“It opens the pores,” he said. “And besides, it’s so much fun making up afterwards.”
But Virginia would not be provoked into a quarrel. One night Oddly tried very hard. “Hey,” he said to her, “your hair looks like a bat’s nest and your ears look like last year’s turnips and your face looks like a pan of worms and as for your head, I’ve seen better heads on newel posts.”
“My goodness, we’re hostile tonight!” said Virginia cheerfully and
* * *
And you too, gentle readers, will smoke happily ever after, once you try Marlboro, the cigarette that gives you such a lot to like—including, we earnestly hope, this column.
whipped 120 Rorschach cards out of her reticule. “Come,” she said, “let us examine your psychic apparatus.”
Oddly tried again. “ Who makes your clothes?” he sneered. “Bethlehem Steel?”
“Hmm,” said Virginia thoughtfully and lit a cigarette. “This sounds like an anxiety neurosis with totemism, anagogic trauma, and a belt in the back.”
“I hate you,” said Oddly. “I hate your looks and your clothes and your toenails and your relatives and the cigarettes you smoke.”
“Now, hold on, buster!” cried Virginia, her eyes crackling, her color mounting, her nostrils aflame. “Just keep a civil tongue in your stupid head when you talk about Marlboro! Nobody’s knocking that filter, that flavor, that flip-top box while there’s breath in my body! It’s a great cigarette, it’s a doozy, it’s a dilly, it’s a bear—and anybody who says a word against it gets this!”
By “this” Virginia meant a series of combinations to the head and liver, which she now delivered to Oddly and turned on her heel and stormed away.
W War	*
Oddly brought her down with a flying tackle. “I love you,” he said.
“And Marlboro?” said she.
“And Marlboro,” said he.
And they kissed and plaited love knots in one another’s hair and were married at Whitsun and smoked happily ever after.	© 1957, Max shuimin
THE NEW EDDIE’S lining Room &Lonnge WHERE DINING IS TREATED AS THE PLEASURE IT WAS INTENDED TO BE
MORE ROOM FOR PARTIES TOO , 1345 N. IRONWOOD
Just a few minutes from campus
labiclt Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOODNOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLNWAY WEST
3-Minute Pizza Pies PIZZA BURGERS
CARRY OUT ORDERS Eve’s Drive In SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD. OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 A.M. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the I I Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
4
The Scholastic
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
COVER BOX Richard O’Brien's Madonna appears on the cover of the SCHOLASTIC to begin the season of Advent and to commemorate Our Lady’s Immaculate Conception. This is the last regular issue of the SCHOLASTIC before Christmas. The football review is next week’s issue. Therefore at this time the entire staff wishes to express the hope that the Administration, the faculty, and the students and their families will enjoy the many benefits of this Holy Season.
Club Presidents:
Six Cardinal Bus-loads of students can tell you how quick, pleasant, and economical their trips home were Thanksgiving. Why not give your club members the same advantage Christmas? Call or write for rates.
CtMtitul HuAei, Hue.
John W. Birk, charter agent 158 Alumni Hall
Formulated for a man's hair and scalp.
Conditions while it cleans. 1.25 Dies lai
PLASTIC!
SHULTON
New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
December 6, 1957
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 December 6, 1957 No. 9
Disco Quasi Semper Victims* Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HE$ IN CLASS!
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
KEEP ALERT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee, keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
35 tablets i to handy tin 4
«9c
NQQOZ
A WA KE NERS
V
r ®
Rave a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with SITA Unbelievable Low Cost ® Europe
60	from $585
Orient
43-65 Days	from $998
Many lours include college credit
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
Year
k 332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
aRRWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS ............... News	Editor
HARRY McKEE .................   Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY ................. Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ____________ Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS .................. Photography
LORAN SHEFFER  Business Manager MIKE KURAS...............Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN .......... Circulation	Manager
TOM BANCHOFF .............. Assistant	News
WALT RUDGE ................ Assistant	News
JIM YOCH ...................Assistant	News
STEVE ROAKE ............... Assistant	Copy
JIM SCHUH _________________ Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS .............Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT ..............Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ............ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH .............. Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON ............. Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso, Mike Dudgeon, Ron Dvorak, Geremy Kaye, Bob Maruyama, Bob Messinger, Gil Paprocki, Ed Plunkett, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Dave Samudio, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Chris Watters, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers. Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Bob Pruett.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre >Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6, Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9, Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17; No. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14, Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
Printers
Travel by Train means low fares...no cares!
GROUP ECONOMY FARES*
save you and two or more of your friends 25% on round-trip coach tickets. (*Except for local trips that originate and terminate between New York and Washington and points east of
COACH PARTY FARES save each person in your group of 25 or more 28% of regular round-trip fare.
Special for Married Students
Use The Family Fare Plan— wives ride one way free.
WONDERFUL FUN FOK EVERYONE Have a "party" while you travel! Enjoy fine food... delightful refreshments_ happy talk. Avoid worry about traffic congestion, highway hazards, and weather conditions.
Ask your local ticket or travel agent NOW about these great money-saving plans.
EASTERN RAILROADS
6
The Scholastic
the thirst
* by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
and the thrill
Escape proudly presents, in the original manuscript, Walsh Hall’s monumental version of The Pride and the Passion, to be photographed in vague' vision and stereotyped sound. Starring: Sylvester Pseudoguy as himself, the in* telligent, handsome, Jaguar owner and , barrel tapper; Casper Commerceman also as himself, the also handsome, brave leader of the undaunted band of senior’ picnic goers; and Marcia Marysbelle as herself, Casper’s beautiful, useless, but I constant companion. 1
A We of Walsh Hall wish to dedicate this artifact to the august editor of the Scholastic, without whose kind and able assistance this printing would be impossible, and to Student Government who contributed absolutely nothing to this undertaking.
The year is 1957, the raging battle between professor and student has taken * its toll. The month is May. The blazing Hoosier sun is burning the campus. Actual fighting is at a relative standstill. The week end has begun.
As the picture opens Sylvester is seen ' driving his Jaguar into the Circle. He steps out amidst a few of Casper’s men. f They are cheering the return of the Glee Club. Some turn and casually eye the “Indiana University” sticker’ on his windshield. One of them spits out his bubble-gum. The scorn can be felt in the j sweltering air. Sylvester approaches him. He opens another pack of bubble • gum.
“Take me to your leader.”
The man says nothing — he has too much gum in his mouth. He merely motions for Sylvester to follow. As they k walk through the campus, men are seen playing mumble-de-peg on the lawns. । Some of the seniors are lounging about the steps. They’re cutting paper dolls out of their senior essays.’ Others are staring at the blazing Hoosier sun.
They’ve blind dates and are trying to go blind. Both men enter the hall and go to Casper’s headquarters. He and Marcia are playing charades. “I’m Sylvester of Tap A Keg. Here are my papers. We’ve heard that you have a large barrel of beer, and wish to use it for oui’ fraternity seminar. It is a part of our battle against professors and scholasticism.”
Marcia takes the papers because Casper can’t read. She examines them, and while handing them back, simultaneously falls somewhat in love with Sylvester. Casper returns to carving stoppers for his home-brew bottles.
“We need that barrel for our senior picnic. But it doesn’t matter. It’s fallen into some kinda’ hole.”
“An excavation.”
“It’s fallen into an excavation, and we can’t get it out.”
Sylvester offers to drag it out with his car and tow rope.
For the next twenty minutes all of Casper’s men, but mainly Casper’s girl, are seen struggling with the barrel of beer. It’s finally salvaged. After five more minutes of Marcia doing absolutely nothing, but doing this aesthetically, Casper tells Sylvester that he must now drive the beer to their picnic. Sylvester begins to argue, but Casper flashes his Blue Circle button. Sylvester agrees. Marcia falls more deeply in love with him. (We do not feel it necessary to give any reason for this love. Remember, this is like Hollywood.) With ten more minutes of struggling and grunting, the barrel is finally secured in the trunk of the Jaguar. Sylvester settles himself behind the wheel. Marcia straightens her unmussed hair, rearranges her blazer, and slips demurely into the bucket seat. Casper perches himself on the hood ornament, still carving bottle stoppers.
With the entire crew running behind them, the pilgrimage begins. (This is a fairly uneventful part, unless you’re a cross-country buff, and is shown only to provide time to buy some popcorn.)
The running and riding about the colorful Indiana countryside takes another half-hour of the movie. This is filled with many eventful moments. They heroically straggle to push the car up many steep hills and dangerously ford the turbulent St. Joe River. By this time Marcia is completely in love with Sylvester and Casper is extremely jealous. The jealousy is manifested by the violent way he now carves the bottle tops. Sylvester also has mortal combat with one of Casper’s men. Sylvester beats him at an Indian wrestle.
They finally reach the dunes. Sylvester taps the keg and beseeches Marcia not to partake of the initial struggle for the beer.	.
“They’re too thirsty. It’ll be dangerous.”
She knows that Casper will be a part of the straggle. He’s always thirsty. She is tom between her love for Sylvester and her- loyalty for Casper. The tension mounts. She finally decides that in this one battle she must remain true to the cause.
When the picnic is over Marcia and Casper are seen standing together. They have been wounded. She has two broken finger nails and his quaffing arm is sprained. As the sun sets over’ a san-quine landscape, the background music reaches h piercing crescendo, then stops. The silence is loaded with emotion. Sylvester realizes that he has lost and in the last scene is seen motoring back to his fraternity brothers. The background music softly returns and The End spreads itself .majestically over the screen. "
December 6, 1957
7
Men in the know
know true from false
College grads employed in science earn more than the grads in Government service.
False. Surveys show that 38% of the grads in Government work were in the S5,000 and above range: only 26% of those in science shared this income status. At S7,500 and above, Government employed grads scored 2 to 1 over scientists.	i
Over 75% of U.S. college grads enter professions or reach top management in business.
True. In fact the percentage is closer to 84% 1 Census reports indicate that employment with the greatest prestige and income is overwhelmingly held by college grads. Some men without a college education make the grade, almost all college grads do.
Jockey brand briefs are tailored from 13 separate pieces.
True. Only Jockey brand briefs are scientifically designed and tailored to fit the male figure trimly and comfortably. 13 separate pieces are expertly sewn together to achieve this perfect fit
Men on the go ■ ® *QU underwear BRAND "
made only by
UNHEALTHY HUMOR
Editor:
The Scholastic’s “Thanksgiving” n cover shouldn’t represent humor at Notre Dame. The art work is admittedly funny, *■ but the caption “thanks” is out of place.
Humor has an important place in student life, but cynicism is one of its weakest and most unhealthy forms. Let’s ; direct our laughtei- to the unexpected and > the incongruous, and leave the bitterness to those who can think of nothing better. N
Joseph G. Kneuer 308 Alumni.
QUALIFIED
Editor:	4
With reference to John Glavin’s editorial entitled “Apathy” may I offer you, provided I am eligible, my services.
I am a graduate student in the Department of Economics. I have had no . practical experience in the unearthing of news for any type of publication what- -soever. If, however, your need is as great as your article would imply, I am prepared to serve on your magazine in any capacity, however humble.
I am a graduate of a British Univer-	J
sity, and have served for several years	I
overseas with the British Army. I have some knowledge of French and German, I as well as Economics. For several years I I taught Business Education in Scotland, and later taught English in Canada. I expect to be at Notre Dame for several years.
John C. O’Brien	'
1024 Leeper
South Bend, Ind.
Editor’s Note: On several occasions in the past few weeks the SCHOLASTIC has received letters from its readers ' which were not signed. In many cases the editors felt both that the writer * wanted his letter printed and that we wanted to use the letter. The letters unfortunately were not signed. In the past the SCHOLASTIC has tried to make ' it a policy only to print letters which were signed. On the request of the writer the name will be withheld from print. But please sign your letters.
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR
Rasmussen Men’s Shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
The Scholastic
1
SamfutA Scute
MARDI GRAS FESTIVAL TO AWARD CADILLAC
Ball Opens Weekend Of Pre-Len+en Frolic
A 1958 Cadillac has been announced as the first prize of the nationwide contest held for the Mardi Gras.
The week end, introduced by a gala ball on Feb. 14, will be followed by three nights of festivities in the midst of a New Orleans-like casino and will climax on Feb. 18 with the announcing of the winner of the contest.
The Mardi Gras provides the whole student body with its only opportunity to back, all together, a fund raising campaign on campus. The goal of the Mardi Gras this year is $40,000, most of which is expected to come from the contest. The grand prize is the two-door Cadillac and, as in past years, there will be a student car awarded. These cars will be exhibited on campus soon.
BOOK DISTRIBUTION
The contest books will be distributed throughout the campus by the hall presidents on Dec. 16. This will give the students the chance to take the books home at Christmas. The books will be collected three times: after the Christmas vacation, after the finals, and one week before the Mardi Gras. The col
THE GRAND PRIZE
Cadillac to be awarded at Mardi Gras
lection dates will be the same at St. Mary’s. Prizes will be awarded to the highest halls.
The money earned by the Mardi Gras will be spent in three major areas: the LaFortune Student Center, the campus Charity Chest, and Moreau Seminary.
MONEY USE
The Student Center has incurred many expenses, such as the reupholstering of the furniture and the refinishing of the floors, which were not totally eliminated by last year’s Mardi Gras. In addition, an equipment fund is going to be established for the purchasing of equipment such as a complete new public address system for the whole LaFortune Student Center.
Some of the money will go to the campus Charity Chest, which is a blanket charity from which the University draws its contributions for the different charities that solicit the campus, such as the South Bend United Fund and the foreign missions.
This year’ the Mardi Gras has taken on another charity, Moreau Seminary. A portion of the earnings will go to the Moreau Seminary building fund, for the new seminary that is being built on the campus for the training of young men for the Holy Cross order.
Alumni Voting Names Association Directors
Eight University of Notre Dame graduates have been nominated to serve as directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association for three-year terms beginning in January, according to an announcement today by executive secretary, James E. Armstrong.
Four of the candidates will be elected to fill vacancies on the Association’s twelve-man board of directors in nationwide balloting which will close Jan. 1. Notre Dame’s 27,000 graduates are organized in 165 local alumni clubs from coast-to-coast and overseas.
The nominees include John P. Dempsey, ’49, municipal bond depai-tment manager, Kidder, Peabody and Co., Philadelphia, Pa.; Peter J. Kernan, Jr., ’49, staff associate and secretary of the operations committee, Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn, Mich.; Donnelly P. McDonald, Jr., ’47, treasurer, Peoples Trust and Savings Co., Fort Wayne, Ind.; and John C. O’Connor, ’39, Indianapolis, Ind., attorney.
Also nominated were: Charles E. Rohr, ’30, Cleveland, O., restaurant operator; James H. Sheils, ’35, general partner, McManus and Walker, New York City brokerage firm; Joseph R. Stewart, ’22, associate general counsel, Kansas City Life Insurance Co., Kansas City, Mo.; and Christopher M. Verbiest, ’20, president, C. M. Verbiest and Associates, Detroit, Mich., insurance agency.
The four winning candidates will be installed at a meeting of Notre Dame’s alumni board of directors, Jan. 24 and 25. J. Patrick Canny, general attorney for the Erie Railroad, Cleveland, O., is current president of the Association.
POLIO SHOT
The last of the Salk polio shots will be administered this Monday night at the Infirmary from 6:30 to 8 p.m., according to William McCullough, chairman of the polio vaccine committee. Only those students ' who took advantage of the campus program last year are eligible for these final shots. Those students whose names are omitted from the lists on the hall bulletin boards should report to the Blue Circle office' Monday between 3:30 and 5 p.m.
December 6, 1957
Players, Inc. Scheduled for Washington Hall As Second Concert, Lecture Presentation
The second of the Concert and Lecture Series presentations will be a double performance by the Players, Inc., on Jan. 10 and 11 in Washington Hall.
“Romeo and Juliet” will be presented by the Players on Jan. 10 at 8:15 and the following night at the same time the group will present “The Taming of the Shrew.”
Tickets for the two productions will go on sale starting Jan. 8 at the Washington Hall box office. They will be on
‘TAMING OF THE SHREW’
Coming in January
sale the rest of the week until curtain time on Saturday night. The box office will be open each day from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m.
The price of admission for each performance is $.75 and $1 for balcony and orchestra seats, respectively. This price is for all students, members of the faculty, and employees of the University. The price for others is $1 and $1.50.
Orders may be phoned in to the box office. The extension number is 606.
“Taming of the Shrew,” the well-known story of Petruchio’s determination to mould a suitable wife out of the fiery Kate, is one of the funniest and most frequently produced of Shakespeare’s comedies. It has served some of the greatest stars in the theatre and inspired a smash Broadway musical and
CENTER CLOSED
The LaFortune Student Center will be closed today and tomorrow because of the Student Union Conference which is being held there. It will be reopened for student use on Sunday.
subsequent film, “Kiss, Me Kate?’ Gino Conforti and Joanne Ellspermann will play Petruchio and Kate. They will be supported by a veteran cast under the direction of Leo Brady.
“Romeo and Juliet,” the tragic story of “stay-crossed” lovers, is probably the most popular and beloved of all Shakespeare’s plays. It is played all over the world regularly and has been filmed twice. Last season it was played in America by the Old Vic and has even been the inspiration for a current Broadway musical. David Rounds and Dolores Viola will play the title roles with J. Robert Diety directing.
One of the finest touring attractions in the field today, Players, Incorporated, has steadily grown and matured in the eight years of travelling that have taken it from one end of the country to another. Twice, this remarkable aggregation of young actors has played in the battlefields of Korea and three times they have played for the Defense Department in Europe.
The members of the company are former students of the speech and drama department of The Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., noted for the many Broadway hits which have originated from the University Theatre. The C. U. drama department is under the direction of The Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., one of the most prominent figures in the American theatre today.
Class Officers Choose Junior Prom Chairman
Hugh Murphy was named general chairman of the 1958 Junior Prom, according to a recent announcement by Junior Class President Mark Shields. Shields and the remaining class officers had conducted extensive interviews before naming Murphy and the other Prom committee chairmen.
Bob Daily was chosen business manager for the formal affair which has been scheduled for May 9. Pat Gorman will head up the entertainment committee while Bill Whaley was chosen as chairman of the decorations committee. Bill McFarland has charge of publicity.
The appointment of the chairmen for the tickets, lodging, Communion Breakfast, and dinner dance committees will be made soon, Shields reported.
Information concerning the ticket and lodging arrangements will be announced at a special Junior Class meeting just before Christmas.
Fr. O'Brien Writes 'Giants of the Faith'
Six outstanding figures in Catholic history, all of them converts, are the subjects of Giants of the Faith, a new book by the Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University of Notre Dame.	:
A leader in the American convert movement Father O’Brien portrays in popular style the lives, work and significance of a half-dozen men “whose conversions changed the world.” They are Saint Paul, “the greatest missionary of all time”; Saint Augustine, “probably the most influential Christian thinker after St. Paul”; Cardinal Newman, a mighty figure of nineteenth century England; G. K. Chesterton, the celebrated • British author and critic; Orestes Brownson, nineteenth century editor and controversialist; and Isaac Hecker, founder of the Paulist Fathers.
“The earnest searcher for divine truth,” Father O’Brien writes in the preface to his new volume, “will find that many of the difficulties, obscurities and road blocks which confront him were encountered likewise by these six pilgrims; they turned those road blocks into steppingstones and thus show him that he, too, can accomplish the same feat.”
Giants of the Faith, the Catholic Family Book Club selection for Decem- , ber, is the latest of more than 20 books written by Father O’Brien, many of them . v dealing with converts and convertmaking.
Notre Dame Awarded Health Institute Grants
The National Institutes of Health has awarded grants totaling $142,930 to support scientific research at Notre Dame announced Francis X. Bradley, assistant dean in charge of research at the Graduate School.
The largest grant of $97,913 was earmarked for the purpose of germ free animal equipment at the University’s ' Lobund Institute, Bradley said. A , $25,000 grant will support the research '*’* of Dr. Thomas G. Ward, associate director of the Institute, on “Characterization of Agents of the Common Cold.”
The NIH also awarded a grant of $10,041 to support Dr. Charles Brambel’s ' biochemistry research dealing with blood coagulation inhibitors such as heparin.
A fourth grant of $5,882 by the National Institutes of Health will underwrite research on “Differentiation of the Salamander Hypomere” by Dr. Cyril V. Finnegan of the biology department. >
A $4,094 grant was awarded for research on “Aminoacid and Protein Metal " Complexes” being conducted by Dr. James V. Quagliano and The Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C.
10
The Scholastic
DON GLASSER	LOIS COSTELLO
)	Bandleader and vocalist to perform at Engineers’ Ball
Don Glasser and his Orchesfra to Present
'Music Smooth as Glass' for Engineers' Ball
Don Glasser and his orchestra will present their “music smooth as glass” for the dancing pleasure of the engineers and their dates at their “Rodeo” Ball on Jan. 31.
Glasser and his orchestra have played their distinctive style of music in a great many top-flight ballrooms and hotels throughout the country. Some of the places where they have appeared are the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago, the Casa Loma in St. Louis, Mo., and the Hotel Deshler- Wallick in Columbus, Ohio.
MUSICIANS
Several of the musicians who were formerly featured with Glasser’s crew are now making a name for themselves with other bands. One in particular, Don Eisaman, who for sometime handled the first trumpet assignments for Glasser, is now with Hal Mclntryre’s group.
The band features a smooth sax section backed by the soft tones of muted trombones and trumpets. It presents the danceable sound that has been the trademark of such orchestras as Guy Lombardo and Sammy Kaye.
VOCALIST
The featured vocalist of the band is Miss Lois Costello, a former student of St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods College in Terre Haute, Ind. In her musical career she has sung with such well-known bands as Will Back, Victor Lombardo, Ray Pearl, and currently with Glasser and his musical aggregation. Her vivacity, charm, and enthusiasm for her music have
December 6, 1957
earned her the title of “Miss Energy.” All these qualities have helped make her one of the better vocalists gracing the musical circles today.
Bids for the dance will go on sale immediately after the Christmas vacation, Chairman Bob Norris announced. The price of the bids will be $4 per couple. Accommodations for the dates of the engineers may be purchased with the dance bids.
Plans are being made to provide an enjoyable week end for the “Western Dudes” and their dates.
Glee Club Plans to Present Christmas Concert Dec. 15
The annual Christmas concert of the Notre Dame Glee Club will be held Dec. 15 in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. An entirely new program, along with the traditional Christmas carols will be presented.
Included in the new program will be a repertory of Gilbert and Sullivan. This section of the program will serve as a replacement for the “Song of the Free” which was a featured part of last year’s program.
The members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will combine with the St. Mary’s College Glee Club to present Handel’s “Messiah.” The performance will be given at St. Mary’s, Monday, and at Notre Dame on Dec. 16 and is under the direction of Miss Mary Williams of St. Mary’s.
Student Senate Asks Changes in Cut Policy
A prolonged debate on a proposal to the University administration to change the present class cut policy for seniors desiring off-campus job interviews was the highlight of the Nov. 20 Student Senate meeting.
Joe Knott drew up the proposal which was unanimously approved after many of the confusing clauses in the bill were explained. In essence, the proposal asks that the University grant the same number of excused cuts as credit hours to seniors who wish to take off-campus job interviews; these cuts would be in addition to the present unexcused quota allowed each student.
Knott explained that the new proposal is a compromise between the present administration policy on interview cuts and the liberal policy that was in effect up until a short time ago.
The request of the finance committee to buy Sophomore Cotillion decorations brought much controversy. John Dewes asked that the Senate appropriate $90 for the materials which the Senate could rent at a low price to future dances at the school. Immediate argument arose over the possible use if any, of this material. The appropriation was approved 18-6, after much debate.
Another proposal that encountered heated debate was the finance committee’s request to pay $23 to the Northern Indiana Bus Co. for damages that the student body inflicted on one of their buses when they met the football team returning from Oklahoma.
Tom Cahill maintained that such an action would establish a bad precedent. It was then revealed that an officer of the senate had promised the bus company reimbursement on damages. Because of this fact, the Senate had little choice but to approve the request.
An amendment to the constitution, unanimously approved at the meeting, shortened the period of time newly elected freshmen senators must wait before being permitted to vote. The amendment provided for a four week orientation period instead of the present seven week period.
NSA CONVENTION
St. Mary’s College will be host to the fall convention of Ohio-Indiana region of the National Students Association this week end. The convention opens with . registration tonight and will continue through Sunday. Among the speakers will be Bob Kiley, national student governments vice-chairman of the Association and a graduate of Notre Dame.
11 ‘
Father Walsh Observes Golden Anniversary With Celebration of Solemn High Mass Dec. 21
The Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., former president of the University of Notre Dame, will observe the fiftieth anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood with the celebration of a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Dec. 21 at 9 a.m.
Assisting the Holy Cross priest at the altar on his golden jubilee will be The Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., deacon, and The Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., subdeacon. The Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province, will head a group of more than 100 priests expected to attend the rites. Music for the jubilee Mass will be provided by the Moreau Seminary Choir.
Father Walsh, who was president of Notre Dame from 1922 to 1928, will be honored by his fellow-priests at a dinner in Corby Hall that evening. On Dec. 29 he will celebrate a second jubilee Mass at St. Thomas Aquinas Church in Chicago. Father Walsh’s special guests at that time will be his four brothers and sisters, David, Joseph, Ella and Elizabeth, who live in Chicago.
Born May 14, 1882, in Chicago, Father Walsh is a 1903 Notre Dame graduate. He was also educated at Columbia, the Johns Hopkins University and the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., the latter awarding him a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1907. He was ordained in Washington on Dec. 21, 1907, and shortly afterward joined the Notre Dame history faculty.
Father Walsh was named vice-president of the University in 1912, a post he was to hold for ten years except
Annual Christmas Party Set For Caroling in South Bend
The annual Christmas caroling party will be held next Friday night with girls from St. Mary’s College and the Holy Cross Central School of Nursing taking part.
Buses will leave the circle at 6:45 p.m. for those students with dates and at 7:15 for those without. Tickets will be sold in the residence halls this week. The price is $.25.
Following the caroling, there will be a mixer in the Student Center starting at 9 p.m. There will be refreshments for all, and dance music provided.
John Riley, chairman of the Blue Circle committee which is sponsoring the affair, urges everyone to be prompt because the buses will leave oh time. Everyone has to have a ticket to board the 20 buses that will be available.
during World War I. He was decorated for his combat duty as an infantry chaplain in France.
Appointed president of Notre Dame on July 7, 1922, Father Walsh launched the University’s first extensive building program since before the turn of the
FATHER MATT WALSH
Celebrates anniversary of ordination
century. His administration was highlighted by the construction of the University Dining Hall and Howard, Lyons, and Morrissey residence halls. The Notre Dame student body and faculty doubled in size during the same six-year period.
In 1928, when Father Walsh completed his presidential term, limited to six years by canon law, he resumed his career as one of Notre Dame’s great teachers of history. From 1929 to 1933 he also served as vice-provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He continued as an active member of the faculty until 1947 and has been living in retirement since that time.
The University of Notre Dame awarded Father Walsh an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on August 4, 1953. He was cited at that time as “a president of this University during whose administration the faculty and student body was doubled, and the first extensive building program achieved; a professor of history whose extraordinary gift for dramatizing the political and military movements of Western Europe and America, and incarnating historic leaders long gone to dust, endeared him to thousands of students and inspired not a few of them with a lasting love and interest for the ‘essence of the past.’ ”
CORRECTION
In the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC an article was published describing the construction of Frankie’s "Manhole” by members of the department of architecture. The names of John and Frank McCann, who assisted in the construction, and Ivan Osorio and Steve Dragos, who provided the art work, were omitted from the story. The SCHOLASTIC apologizes for this error.
Universi+y Awarded
Math Institute Grant
Notre Dame has been awarded a 1 ‘ $77,300 grant from the National Science Foundation to support its 1958 Summer s Institute for High School Teachers of Mathematics, Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the University’s mathematics department, announced recently.
Nearly 200 teachers are expected to enroll in Notre Dame’s six-week summer institute program beginning June 19, Dr. Ross said. He explained that the , NSF grant will underwrite the tuition, subsistence, - dependents’ allotments and travel expenses of approximately half of I the students depending on individual ■ needs and requirements.
A total of 108 summer teacher train- ‘ ing institutes in science and mathematics will be held at 104 colleges and universities next summer under National Science Foundation sponsorship. Approximately 5,000 high school and 250 college teachers will benefit from the nationwide $5,340,000 program.	*
The campus institutes “are in step with current plans for strengthening and * the training of scientists in the United States,” Dr. Alan Waterman, director of the National Science Foundation, said recently in announcing the over-all program. “Good science teachers are apt ’ to be the first to stimulate an interest in science among our young people in * secondary schools. But if instruction is not stimulating and contains outdated concepts, it tends to weaken youths’ motivations toward careers,” he said.
According to Professor Ross, the ob- * jectives of the Notre Dame mathematics institute are to give the participating x teachers a deeper appreciation of the . basic ideas of modern mathematics and to strengthen their capacity for motivating able students to consider careers.
The sessions are also geared to bring the high school teachers into contact ( with perminent mathematicians on the * institute staff with a view to stimulat- -ing their interest in the field and increasing their prestige professionally.
12
The Scholastic
Alumni Clubs to Observe Annual Communion Day
The twentieth annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday will be ob-Ij, served by most of the University’s 165 * alumni clubs in this country and overseas this Sunday, according to an an, nouncement by James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Inaugurated in 1938 by the Notre Dame Club of New York City, the annual event stresses the importance of 1 religion to good citizenship. Local ob-| servances consist of group attendance , ; at Mass by Notre Dame alumni followed 1 by a Communion Breakfast.
( This year’s event coincides with the j Feast of the Immaculate Conception, under which title Our Lady has been designated patroness of the United “ States. According to Armstrong, the ' theme of Universal Notre Dame Com-I munion Sunday this year will be the special relationship of alumni to Our Lady through their alma mater, the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes and the Confraternity of the Immaculate Con* ception whose headquarters are on the campus.
Notre Dame is currently making plans for the centennial observance next year of the Virgin Mary’s apparition at Lourdes, France. The Vatican recently j granted special indulgences to those who *• visit the campus replica of the Lourdes grotto during the centennial year beginning Feb. 11, 1958.
Faculty Club Presents . Screen Masterpieces
Presenting film masterpieces from all countries is the purpose of the newly-founded Faculty Film Club under the leadership of Professor Rufus Rauch. It will present new and old films, from silent pictures of the early years to the modern technicolor films.
Showings will be divided into two sessions, always on Sundays. In the after, noon a showing will be held for the entire University community. Then, that evening, a showing exclusively for the faculty and their guests will be pre-■ sented. After this showing, an informal discussion will be held.
* The first film in this year’s series was , Charles Dickens’ Great Expectations, presented in cooperation with the Department of English, especially for literature students.
Ij > The next film will be Sir Lawrence 1 Olivier’s Henry V, a technicolor version | f of Shakespeare’s play, which will be I presented this Sunday in two afternoon i	features besides the evening showing for
i	the faculty.
December 6, 1957
Engineer Council Asks For Honor Fraternity
An engineering honor society to be set up within the Engineering College and having membership in the national honor society, Tau Beta Pi, has been proposed by the Joint Engineering Council under the direction of its chairman, Tom Fogarty.
The proposed society would exist as a local honor society within the Engineering College for a minimum of two years. This two-year period is simply a novice period required as a signification of good intent before petition can be made towards membership in Tau Beta Pi. Tau Beta Pi was chosen as the honor fraternity because it offers the greatest advantages both for undergraduate and graduate students of an engineering college.
The constitution drafted by the Council during the 1956-57 school year has been designed to meet the requirements of both the University and Tau Beta Pi.
Membership in the national honor fraternity will help the student when applying for employment and for further study. For this reason Tau Beta Pi has prestige value for its members.
In addition to the academic requirements that are stated in the constitution every student desiring admission into the society must submit a non-technical paper on some assigned topic.
Activities of the society are not specifically stated in the constitution although a definite number of meetings are required. Projects of the society may differ in successive years so as to allow more freedom in selection of activities.	-
‘Juggler' Sets Publication Of Winter Issue for Dec. 16
Jim McDonald, editor of the Juggler, has announced that the winter- issue of the magazine will be out Dec. 16.
The issue will be composed entirely of essays written by graduates of the class of ’57.
McDonald also stated that the Juggler wishes to set up a junior board of editors, composed of freshmen, sophomores, and juniors. Their function will be to assist the current board of editors and to learn the mechanics of the magazine. This junior board will take over the Juggler next year.
Those interested in this board should send their applications to The Juggler, 431 Walsh Hall. The application should give the student’s name, campus address, college, and major, together with his reason for wanting to join the junior board. No letters will be accepted aftei-Dec. 15.
A ‘TAMBURITZAN’
The first presentation of the Concert and Lecture Series gets underway tonight with the appearance of the “Tamburitzans” in Washington Hal! at 8:15 p.m. The “Tamburitzans” are a group of undergraduate students from Duquesne University. This is their twentieth anniversary year and the second time they have appeared at Notre Dame. Tickets will be on sale at the box office until curtain time.
Debaters Tie for First In Novice Tournament
Notre Dame’s freshman debaters tied for first place in the novice tournament held at Bradley University on Nov. 2122. Notre Dame was one of 80 teams represented at the tournament.
Guy Powers and Jay Whitney, arguing for the affirmative, won two and lost two. Bill Hanley and Dick Whearty representing the negative, won four and lost none. Powers for his performance in extemporaneous speaking received one of the two superior ratings.
At the Purdue national tournament on Nov. 21 and 22, the Notre Dame debaters took third place. There were 19 teams from schools all over the nation represented at the tournament. On the affirmative, Bob Dempsey and Jack Martzel won two and lost two. John Sullivan and Gerry Goudreau, arguing for the negative, also won two and lost two.
In the period before Christmas the debaters will be very active. Eight novice debaters will represent Notre Dame at Butler University tomorrow. A National Tournament will be held in Pittsburgh next Friday and Saturday. Over the same week end the University of Illinois Tournament will be held at the Navy Pier in Chicago.
13
14
The Scholastic

ALL-AMERICAN
. . . in Jest by
BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
The time of the year is upon us when football season comes to a close. Fans start putting away their racoon coats, pennants, and hip flasks for another year, and begin looking for the AllAmerican picks. We decided to add to the picks of the Associated Press, United Press, and the other services and give you our idea of an All-American team. Our team differs slightly in that we do not base our selections on the “most this-or-that,” or the “best so-and-so.” We’ve scoured the nation trying to find the average dolt who, through circumstance or other means, makes his mark on the sports world and should be recognized along with the immortals for his achievements.
QUARTERBACK: “Macaroni Legs” Golantz from Possum Hollow Teachers College, Possum Hollow, Penn.
“Macaroni Legs” was a triple threat ... to his own team. He couldn’t run, kick or pass, but had one quality which made him an asset to his squad. He was the best pants-slapper in the league, and his “Let’s go, fellas,” was inspiring to all . . . besides, he was the coach’s son.
RIGHT HALFBACK: Waldo Nurd from Podunk School of Music, Whistlestop, Colo.
Waldo started his career as a member of the band and finally got his big chance to star on the gridiron when the whole backfield was expelled for making “White Lightning” in the Chemistry Lab. Waldo took the ball on the opening kickoff, ran 77 yards for the touchdown, down the ramp and never came back. He is now the object of a state-wide search.
FULLBACK: Rocky Rolls from the Underwater Service Academy, Gurglegurgle, Miss.
Rocky thought that the fans were admiring his appetite when they kept yell
ing, “Rocky’s out to lunch!” Thinking that conditioning was unnecessary, Rocky never bothered to work out, and instead drank, smoked, and kept late hours. Rocky was buried three days after the first game.
LEFT HALFBACK: “Irish” Bob Boznowski from Whistling Kettle Polytech, Clodville, S. D.
A fine scoring back who, after scoring his only touchdown of the year, wondered why everyone was yelling, “Rah, rah, Plotnitz!” He learned later that he was wearing Plotnitz’s jersey with Plotnitz’s number on it.
CENTER: Ezio Gambini from Boon Dock College, South Armpit, Ind.
Gambini is best known for the first and last play of his college career. During an involved and lengthy backfield shift, Gambini became dizzy from looking through his legs at his teammates upside down, fell over, and drew an offsides penalty.
RIGHT END: Melvin Rumbag from Delirious State, Tinkling Springs, Ark.
Melvin was known as the man who could catch anything, and proved this point when he caught the measles the night before the big conference game, putting his whole team in quarantine.
RIGHT TACKLE: “Cuddles” Blas-novich from West Cheddar College, Bundling, Me.
“Cuddles” will go down in the annals of fame in the West Cheddar memories, as the only man in the history of the school who, when the team left for their first away-from-home-game, missed the bus.
RIGHT GUARD: Ardis Swill from East Earlap Abnormal, Left Field, N. J.
Opponents ran 13 consecutive touchdowns through Swill’s position in the big game for the conference championship. Swill is now majoring in Physics.
LEFT GUARD: Manney “Jugbottom” 1 Vorquat from Missouri Industrial Col- I lege, West Posthole, Mo.	|
In the Missouri Industrial-Johnsville | Home for the Aged game, “Jugbottom” | made the outstanding tackle of the after- | noon. Running from his guard position, I he scampered 45 yards to catch and | tackle the ball carrier, felling him with 1 such force that he caused a fumble. It £ was unfortunate that the ball carrier was the referee.	|
LEFT TACKLE: Stanislaus Casmire 4 O’Flynn from Drolenheim A & M, J Brownbag, Ky.	?
Pre-season picks by the sports writers .1 had O’Flynn on every All-American ?• team in the country. Everyone was J" anxiously awaiting the first game when $ they could see 0'Flynn’s vicious blocking and tackling. However, the night before . the first game, O’Flynn dropped a ■; bowling ball on his foot, and was out for the remainder of the season.	(
LEFT END: Orlando “Sticky Fin- -gers” Schlump from C.B.C. (Crumbly j Barber College), Shavenclean, Conn.
Orlando received his nickname as a _ youth when he was caught stealing jaw- t breakers from the corner grocery store. ( Known as a fine crashing end because he | was always crashing fraternity parties, » weddings and bar mitzvahs, Schlump f gained distinction by having his uni- \ form and number retired upon the com- | pletion of his football career at C.B.C. | He hadn’t had it washed in four seasons.
MASCOT: Here’s something new in ; All-American picks, a first by Bob and Ger. Nobody remembers the animal friends that help the morale of the team, and the cute and cuddly creatures are often overlooked. We have picked as “Mascot of the Year” Steam Tunnel University’s pet, Boris. Boris is a dark grey sewer rat, eight inches tall and 13 inches long (not counting his tail). At every game, Boris puts on his turtleneck sweater, lights up a cigar, and spends his time snapping at the fans in the end zone.
There you have it ... In Jest’s AllAmerican. Perhaps they are not the 1 boys who make the headlines, but we feel that their accomplishments deserve some recognition, and along with this honor, consideration in the “Buffoon of the Year” Award contest.
16
The Scholastic
Mustangs Play Host to Irish In Cotton Bowl In Season's Finale at Dallas Tomorrow
Southern Methodist University’s surprising Mustangs, showing a respectable 3-3 record in the unpredictable Southwest Conference after pre-season ratings put them deep in the second division, host Notre Dame tomorrow afternoon in the Cotton Bowl at Dallas. With upwards of 50,000 expected to be on hand, the Irish will battle a team that holds victories over Texas, Arkansas, and Baylor and a scoreless tie with Georgia Tech. Over-all, the Mustangs have a 4-4-1 slate for the 1957 season. The game will conclude the football season for both Notre Dame and Southern Methodist.
Eight times the two teams have met on the gridiron, with Notre Dame holding a six to two advantage though only one of these games was won by more than a three touchdown margin. That was in 1953 when the Irish vanquished the Mustangs, 40-14. All the other games in the series have been very close. The first contest between the two intersectional rivals was in 1930, when the Irish duly celebrated the opening of their new stadium by winning in the closing minutes, 20-14. The next game took place in 1939 when only an extra point book meant the difference in a 20-19 win for Notre Dame. The series was revived in 1949, when Kyle Rote almost single-handedly broke the ND winning string. The final tally in that game was in favor of Notre Dame,
LON SLAUGHTER
SMU Halfback
December 6, 1957
27-20. Two years later the score was reserved, with the Mustangs winning 27-20. In that game, Fred Benners, passing from a spread formation, completed 22 passes and four touchdowns. In 1954 and 1955, Notre Dame defeated the Mustangs by scores of 26-14 and 17-0, respectively. In 1956, SMU turned back the Irish at Dallas, 19-13, to start Notre Dame off with a defeat in its worst football season in history.
Leading the Mustangs tomorrow will be Don Meredith, sophomore passing stylist, who is already rated one of the
Help Fight TB
Buy Christmas Seals
finest quarterbacks in the country. At 6-3 and 186 pounds, Meredith is a prime passing threat, especially from the spread formation, an alignment that has been very popular with Southern Methodist in recent years. Meredith’s completion record for the season is a fantastic 64 out of 87 for a .736 percentage.
Seniors Lon Slaughter and Charlie Jackson will start at halfback for SMU. Slaughter was the Mustangs most dependable ground gainer last year in Southern Methodist’s victory over Notre Dame. The 177-pound right halfback lugged the ball for a total of 71 yards in last season's opener against ND. Jackson is an always present open-field threat and is also a very capable pass catcher. He was the leading scorer for the Ponies last season with 30 points.
Starting at fullback Saturday for the Mustangs will be Wayne Slankard, who, like Jackson, has also been used considerably as a pass receiver. Slankard is a junior who worked his way into the starting backfield in the last game of 1956 for SMU.
Willard Dewveall, the fastest man on the Pony’s team, is their starting left end. Dewveall is also one of their big-
Sew
gest players, standing 6-4 and weighing 212 pounds. In 1956, as a junior, he caught seven passes for a net gain of 145 yards. His mate at right end tomorrow will be Bill Dunn, a junior this year who only saw 60 minutes of playing action last season.
At right tackle will be Lee Yokum, a 6-2, 217-pound junior. Though not on the starting eleven for the Mustangs in 1956, Yokum this year has proved to be one of the host team’s most dependable performers. He has size, unusual speed and the Southern Methodist coaches rate him as one of the most aggressive men on the squad. Paired at left tackle with Yokum is Jerry Cornelison, a 206-pound senior letter-winner. He is rated one of the Southwesf Conference’s top tackles. Cornelison stands 6-3 and is very agile for a lineman.
Operating at left guard for the Ponies tomorrow will be Gariy Weber, a rather small (192 pounds) senior veteran. Weber’s forte is defense where he accounted for 47 tackles in 1956 while playing for the Mustangs second unit. Tom Koenig, 6-1, 190 pounds, will get the call Saturday for the starting right guard post. As a sophomore last year, Koenig got in more playing time than any other soph and has been a stalwart in the line this year for the Mustangs. In SMU’s 19-13 win over the Irish last season, Koenig led his team in tackles.
Jerry Sharrock, 200-pound junior, is the Mustangs center. Sharrock is a transfer student and beat out three other formidable contenders to gain the starting center berth.
DON MEREDITH
Mustang Threat
Team Balance Gives Notre Dame Harriers First National Cross Country Championship
The Notre Dame cross country team walked off with team honors in the NCAA cross country championships Monday, November 18 in East Lansing, Mich., with 121 points. This is the first time the Irish have won the nationals.
Although the first Irish placer was the 19th man to cross the finish line, the Irish depth gave them five men in the top 45, which was good enough to take the title. No other team was able to field a squad that had the depth the Irish did.
The key to Notre Dame’s victory, according to Coach Alex Wilson, was the fact that Vic Dillon, the team’s number six man moved up to number four among the Irish finishers. He said this showed the importance of the whole team in the victory.
Ed Monnelly paced the Irish harriers with his 19th place finish, good for 14th place in the team standings. All those runners who represented schools that did not field a full team of five competitors were dropped in the compiling of team points. So, Monnelly, who was 19th among all the runners, was 14th among those who represented full teams. His time was 20:18 for the four mile course.
Dave Cotton was the second Notre Dame finisher, placing 25th in the race and 19th in the team standings with a time of 20:27. Team Captain Dale VandenBerg was 32nd and 24th in 20:35. Vic Dillon’s time of 20:46 was good for 35th and 27th places, and Mike Haverty was 45th and 37th with a time of 20:54.
NCAA CHAMPIONS
Coach Wilson surrounded by members of victorious squad.
These five gave the Irish their winning point total of 121.
Other Notre Dame finishers were John Burns 61st and 50th with a time of 21:14 and Galen Cawley 84th and 69th in 21:43. Notre Dame ran the maximum of seven competitors, of which only the first five finishers count in the team score.
The closest team to Notre Dame was Michigan State with 127 points. The Spartans had just won the IC4A Meet in New York the previous weekend and were running on their own course in the NCAA Meet since they were the host school. They were also two-year defending champions. Their first three men beat Monnelly across the finish line, but all five of the Irish runners finished before the Michigan State fourth man. This proved the importance of the Irish depth.
Houston with 131 points was four points behind the Spartans, and Syracuse was fourth with 140 points. Kansas and Western Michigan rounded out the top six finishers.
Max Truex, the Southern California distance star, won the meet in the record time of 19:12.3. John Macy and Jerry Smart, both of Houston, trailed him across the finish line. Leonard Edelen from Minnesota, the Big Ten champion, placed fourth, and Crawford Kennedy of Michigan State, the winner" of the 1957 IC4A Meet, was fifth.
Coach Wilson commented that the first mile of the four mile course was run
exceptionally slow and that the boys picked up after this and ran a very fast second mile. He said that some of the boys had trouble keeping up with this rapid step-up in the pace and dropped far back.	:
“All the boys ran well. Of course, you have to run well to win the na- , tionals. The unusual way the race was run (the slow first mile and the fast second) helped us because of our team depth.
“The field in general strength was the best that has ever been in the nationals. 1 There were more good teams this year | and not any outstanding one like there < was last year when Michigan State was ' definitely the best. Kansas, Houston, , and Michigan State were all good teams. It was a very rough meet all the way.” Coach Wilson went on to summarize the season. “Considering that Michigan State was the only team to beat us all year (in a dual meet and in the IC4A Meet), our season was the best we could have expected.”
Looking toward the future, Wilson commented, “These seven boys that ran at East Lansing should make us strong in the distances next spring, but four of them graduate in June. This means a rather poor outlook for next fall.” Monnelly, VandenBerg, Dillon, and Burns are the graduating seniors.
Ma+men Beat Findlay In First Meet of Year
Notre Dame’s wrestling team opened their season successfully by winning the first meet of the season against Findlay College of Ohio, last Tuesday afternoon in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The Irish matmen won five matches, lost three * and tied one in winning 18-11. Three points are scored for a decision, five for a pin, and two apiece for a tie.
Coach Fallon stated that he was well satisfied with the team’s showing; everyone worked hard, and the men as a whole showed very well, he added. ’
In the 123 lb. class, Jerry Sachsel (ND) decisioned Frank Sedlak 6-2. 130 lb. Bill Shuschak (F) decisioned Chuck Day, 5-1. In the 137 lb. division Jim Rankin (ND) decisioned Buel Messer 11-2. Notre Dame Captain Bob Pivonka scored the only pin of the afternoon over Don Bedingfield in the 147 lb. match. Findlay’s Bill Flannagan decisioned Bill Moore 7-3 at 157, while. Joe Budek (ND) tied Ed Jordan 2-2. Buck O’Conner of the Irish tired his opponent to the point where the referee gave him a technical fall. In the heavy- i weight class, Chuck Henzy (ND) giving away 25 lbs. to his opponent, lost a close decision to Russ Miller, 3-2.



Cagers Journey To Wisconsin Tomorrow;
Clash With Nebraska, Marquette Next Week
Notre Dame’s basketball team, after ■) opening their season successfully last Tuesday night, make their first road ap-► pearance of the year tomorrow night when they meet the Wisconsin Badgers at Madison. The Irish will return home . next Monday night to face Nebraska before traveling to Milwaukee to take r on Marquette a week from tomorrow.
Coach Johnny Jordan’s men picked up r their first win of the season last Tuesday by downing a slightly taller but slower St. Ambrose team, 82-63. The game was never in doubt after the Irish pulled away from a slim 20-17 lead mid-4 way in the first half and opened up a fifteen point margin at halftime, 47-32. 4 Tom Hawkins, who last year as a sophomore set a single season scoring record for the cagers, took game honors with 28 points on eleven baskets and six of nine free throws. Co-Captains Bob Devine and John McCarthy trailed him with 19 and 17. Center Bernie Brennan topped the Bees with 18.
The Irish attack functioned best dur! ing the last six minutes of the first half when the starting team of Hawkins, Devine, McCarthy, Tom Reinhart, and Gene Duffy poured in 17 points to give the Irish their comfortable halftime , edge.
With seven minutes to go in the game the Irish owned a twenty-five point lead, 76-51, and Coach Jordan started substituting freely. He used eleven players in all.
The Badgers lose only one man from , their top ten players of last year and have sophomore prospects good enough A so that three sophomores have shots at [ starting berths. The only veterans slated ' for starting spots are forward Bob [ Litzow (6-2), last year’s leading scorer 1 with 355 points, and guard Brian Kulas (	(6-5), second high man with 211 points.
। Possibly the best of the sophs is John ; L, Stack (6-7). He is running ahead of , ’ letterman Ray Gross, also 6-7, at the .	center position.
j The other- two first year varsity men :	at starting spots for the Badgers are
Fred Clow (6-4) at forward and Bob f Serbiak (6-1) at guard. Other returning f, squad members include Glen Borland ,	(6-1), Walter Holt (6-0), and Dave
L Leichtfuss (6-3). Foster’s only loss from last year’s 5-17 squad is Johnny DeMerit, who signed a bonus last summer to play baseball for the Milwaukee Braves. .
I Last year- the Irish handed the Badr gers a 75-55 setback at Madison.
I Nebraska’s Cornhuskers also have i practically their whole squad back from 1 last season. Gone is the leading scorer
! December 6, 1957	.
Rex Ekwall, but the next five leading men from last year’s team return. Gary Reimers (5-10), Don Smidt (6-4), Ron Parsons (6-8), Jim Kubacki (5-10), and Lyle Nannen (6-3) combined for 43 points a game last year and are all back to try to better the Huskers’ 11-12 record of last season.
Parsons and Smidt will man the front line along with Bob Mayo, a 6-7 sophomore from Brooklyn while Reimers, Kubacki, and Nannen are all fighting for the top guard positions. Top Husker sophomores include Wilson Fitzpatrick (6-3), Wayne Hester (6-1), Jack Johnson (6-3), Bill Lundholm (6-0), George Raver (6-0), and Herschell Turner (6-2).
Notre Dame did not meet Nebraska last year.
The game at Marquette next Saturday pits the Irish against practically the same team they defeated twice last year. Coach Jack Nagle has eight lettermen, including his top three scorers, returning.
Top man in the Hilltoppers’ offense will be Mike Moran (6-8), last year’s leading scorer with 470 points in 25 games for an average of close to 19 points a game. Moran was also second in rebounds.
At forwards will be lettermen John Glaser (6-4) and Jim McCoy (6-0). Glaser was second in scoring with 351 points and led the team in rebounds, grabbing off 256. McCoy was third in scoring, hitting most of his points from the outside.
The starting guards will probably be two sophomores, Jim Kollar (6-0) and Ron Dibelius (6-0). Kollar’s best shot is from the outside, and he is noted for his speed. Dibelius topped the freshmen in scoring last year after becoming the first player in Wisconsin high school basketball history to be named to the All-State team four straight seasons.
Top sophomores are Walt Mangham (6-3), who two years ago set the national high school high jump record of 6-9%, Jim Kersten (6-4), and Pete Hall (6-1).
Tuesday, December 17, the Irish will entertain Loyola of Chicago in the Fieldhouse and will journey to East Lansing to meet Michigan State the following Saturday. The Spartans put an end to Notre Dame’s NCAA title hopes last year with an 85-83 victory in the quarter-finals.
Next, the Irish compete in the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis, meeting Purdue and Indiana on successive nights, December 27 and 28. The last game of 1957 will be New Year’s Eve at Northwestern.	■
TYLER S PICKS OF THE WEEK TONIGHT: Utah over Baylor Cincinnati over Indiana State Southern California over Oklahoma UCLA over St. Mary’s (Cal.) California over San Jose State Steubenville over Mount St. Mary’s TOMORROW: Louisville over Alabama LaSalle over Albright Iowa over Arizona Dayton over Ball State
Utah over Baylor	:
Ohio State over Butler	'
North Carolina over Clemson Illinois over DePaul Canisius over Detroit West Virginia over Furman Kansas over Northwestern Indiana over Kansas State Fordham over Maryland
Miami (Ohio) over Bowling Green Navy over Penn Michigan over Nebraska St. Louis over N. Mex. A & M Notre Dame over Wisconsin UCLA over Oklahoma North Carolina St. over Penn St. Regis over Colorado St. Seton Hall over Roanoke St. John’s over St. Joseph’s (Pa.) Santa Clara over Fresno St. Kentucky over Temple NYU over Syracuse USF over West Texas St. St. Bonaventure over Wichita Yale over Connecticut
MONDAY: Notre Dame over Nebraska Bradley over Arizona Connecticut over N. Hampshire Kansas State over Purdue Kentucky over Maryland Seattle over Portland State Duquesne over St. Francis (Pa.) Memphis State over Texas A & M Wisconsin over Washington
(St. Louis)
TUESDAY: Dartmouth over Vermont Fordham over Yale
Villanova over Loyola (Md.) DePaul over Bowling Green N. Carolina over Geo. Washington; North Carolina St. over Clemson
TYLER’S BOWL PICKS
ROSE BOWL
Ohio State over Oregon COTTON BOWL Navy over Rice
SUGAR BOWL
Texas over Mississippi
ORANGE BOWL
Oklahoma over Duke
GATOR BOWL Texas A & M over Tennessee
19
IRISH SMASH TROJANS
I
Prendergast Makes the Catch	(
Stickles All Alone
20
The Scholastic
Fencing Outlook Good Despite Tough Schedule
After a very successful season last year, Notre Dame’s fencing team again has a bright outlook for 1958. Head “ coach Walter Langford has several of last year’s big winners back along with * some promising newcomers.
The most serious problems facing Coach Langford is rebuilding the foil and sabre divisions, which lost five seniors. Big winners in the foil last year ’ were Pierre du Vair and Joe Blazina, who recorded 36 and 25 victories respectively. Both have now graduated as has Art Price, a 20-bout winner in the sabre division. The biggest loss of all, however, was last year’s co-captain, Dick Hemmerle. Hemmerle compiled a - record of 84 wins and only 18 losses in three years of competition in the epee *< division. This was the highest number of victories for an individual in Notre Dame history. He went on to finish second in the NCAA tournament.
Injuries and illness have caused the .. loss of one of this year’s co-captains, Joe Klein, and senior Terry Laughlin. Klein, in the sabre division, and Laughlin in the epee, both won twenty or more bouts 1 last year.
Despite these losses, the outlook is still biaght. Junior John Lauerman heads the foil division and is backed by juniors Chuck Duggan, John Shields, Ted Bares and Tom George. Two very promising sophomores in this section are Jim Russomano and Gerry Johnson, both of whom are from New Jersey.
Perhaps the weakest division is the sabre. Hurt by the loss of Klein, only co-captain Dick Fagon and Gerry Meyer have much experience. Returning juniors are Tom Green, Tom Lee, Klaus Muller! 4 Bergh, and Charles Petrungaro. Green j	also saw some action in the foil division
।	last year, but will most likely stick to
| the sabre. Last year’s sabremen won 76 and lost 59.
j The only 20-bout winner returning for action is senior Ron Farrow who com-
1 petes in the epee. Although hurt by _ ' the ■ losses of ’ Hemmerle and .Laughlin, ; ■
; Coach Langford expects this division to : be the strongest. It won 102 bouts last ' year while dropping only 33. Other returning veterans are senior John Kearns ' and juniors Jim Jock, Dan Clancy and Jim Brogan. Brogan also saw a little ' action in the foil last year.
। This year’s schedule, which starts on January tenth at home against Detroit, has primarily the same opponents against which last year’s squad posted a 14 and 1 record. Wisconsin, which spoiled last ; year’s perfect season, is expected, along ! * with Illinois, to give the roughest com> petition. The Air Force Academy, a ! newcomer to the schedule, should also , prove rugged.
December 6, 1957
TIME OUT
All of the early season upsets give every indication that this will be an outstanding year for college basketball fans. Six or seven teams have clubs that are capable of taking the NCAA crown but it is doubtful that any club will be able to complete the season undefeated. Here for youi* approval or disapproval are my preseason rankings of the top teams of the country.
1.	BRADLEY—Their first ten ball players are back from last year’s NIT championship team. They might get some trouble from St. Louis in their* own Missouri Valley Conference.
2.	KENTUCKY—Adolph Rupp lost only one starter from last year’s 23-5 quintet. Also have three possible All-Americans in Johnny Cox, Vern Hatton and Ed Beck.
3.	NORTH CAROLINA—Many claim that the loss of Lennie Rosen-bluth through graduation and Joe Quigg via a broken leg might hurt. We think not.
4.	KANSAS—"Wilt will again cany the load but doesn’t have the same team around him that he had last year. Might have trouble winning the BIG EIGHT because Kansas St. is a sleeper.
5.	SEATTLE—Johnny Castellani, former Irish assistant, has a powerhouse led by Elgin Baylor.
6.	SAN FRANCISCO—Rates right along with Seattle as the best on the West Coast.
7.	NOTRE DAME—The Irish are on their way to becoming a pow*er on the court also. Coach John Jordan may have what is the best squad in the school’s history.
8.	MICHIGAN STATE—Our choice to win the BIG TEN crow*n and a return trip to the NCAA.
9.	TEMPLE—Guy Rogers and a veteran team spell best in the East.
10.	ST. BONAVENTURE—This one is a real sleeper and while they probably wrill not be ranked this high, they bear watching dui*ing the coming season.
Of course, everyone has their list of All-American choices and while all of this is just pure speculation, we will go along with the panic. Here are the players whom we think are the best in the country but not necessarily in this order.
WILT CHAMBERLAIN—Destined to be the greatest ball player the game has ever knowm.
ELGIN BAYLOR—The main reason w*hy Castellani is smiling at Seattle.
GUY ROGERS—The best ball handler in the college game today.
TOM HAWKINS—Just w*atch the Notre Dame junior during the season and you •will see w-hy.
JOHNNY COX—Adolph Rupp never fails to turn out an All-American at Kentucky.
JOHN GREEN—The junior from Michigan State is the key to Spartan success.
BARNEY- CABLE—The big reason why Bradley will end up on top.
JOHN LEE—And old Eli to win the IVY crown.
TOMMY KEARNS—If he picks up the slack due to the loss of Rosen-bluth, the Tarheel streak of 32 straight could get longer and longer.
TEMPLE TUCKER—The big reason why Rice will replace SMU as the champs in the Southwest.
BACK TO FOOTBALL
Tomorrows our Fighting Irish complete their great season against SMU in the Cotton Bowl. Anyone could have got tremendous odds against the locals finishing with a 7-3 record. But they did it. If Terry Brennan doesn’t get COACH OF THE YEAR, then someone has goofed. We don’t have to tell you where many people think they will finish next year.
As for tomorrow, it looks like a free scoring affair. The heat maybother the Irish but from here it looks like Notre Dame 27, So. Methodist 21.
—M. F.
Engagement
Jot Vour
Christmas
DIAMOND rings
HEATHER $350.00
Also to $2475
Wedding Ring $12.50
Rings enlarged to show details Prices include Federal Tax
You are assured of finest quality, beauty and value when you choose a Keepsake Diamond Ring.
Always Easy Credit
121 W. Washington
1QUI0S LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
Geographic Clubs Announce Holiday Plans; Campus Groups Schedule Dinners, Dances
A full schedule of holiday social plans heads the calendar of Notre Dame’s geographic clubs for the coming Christmas vacation. Clubs from coast to coast have planned activities for the vacation period.
Right in the swing of things is the California Club with its annual studentalumni Christmas dance to be held at the Huntington-Sheraton Hotel in Pasadena on Dec. 28. There will be dancing to the music of Muzzy Marcellino. Bids are $3.50.
Capital District Club members have been invited by their local alumni to a formal dance and cocktail party at the American Locomotive Club in Schenectady, N. Y., on Dec. 27.
The student members of the Central Pennsylvania Club will be attending a dinner party given by their local alumni at the Sunny Hanna Country Club in Johnstown, Pa. The definite date will be announced later.
In Kansas City on Dec. 26 the Kansas City Club will be having its annual student-alumni Christmas dinner-dance at the President Hotel. Bids are $13.
December 26 will also see the Chicago Club hold its dance at the Merchandise Mart M & M Club. Featured will be Ralph Marterie and his orchestra. Favors will also be distributed.
The officers of the Harrisburg Club will announce its holiday plans to its members at a later date. ■
The Trinkaus Manor in Utica, N. Y., will be the scene of the Mohawk Valley Club’s cocktail party and dance on Dec. 27.
The Nebraska Club will be dancing to
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
GENDGLS Sorplis Store
“The store with the two dummies in front”
PARKAS — HEAVY SHOES AND BOOTS FOR WINTER
512 S. MICH. ST. AT 7-6277
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Monday of the week of insertion.
HELP WANTED
WANTED—Two students to catalog and tvrap books, 10 to 20 hours weekly, until Christmas vacation. Will pay weekly, 95c an hour. Phone University Press. Ext. 416.
ROOMS FOR RENT
SINGLE room for rent within easy walking distance of campus. 813 East Angela Blvd. (4 houses off Notre Dame) CE 4-6927.
PERSONALS
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY to Kay Bellows. May we have a multitude of them. Love. — L.S.
the music of Jimmy Pliillips at the Town House Hotel in Omaha on Dec. 27. The door prize will be an autographed Notre Dame football. Bids are $4.	*
The Nutmeg State Club will also have its dance on Dec. 27 at the Chase Country Club in Waterbury, Conn. Music will be that of Francis Define and his orchestra. Tickets are $5.
On Dec. 30 at the Merrion Tribute House in Merrion, Pa., the Philadelphia Club will have its holiday dance in connection with the alumni. Bids are $5.
For Rochester Club members there will be a joint student-alumni dance on Dec. 28 at the University Club. Preceeding the dance the junior members of the club will honor the senior members and their guests with a cocktail party. Tickets are $5.
Then for Rochester Club members and guests only, an ice skating party will be held in Scottsville, N. Y., at the Blue Pond Farms. A definite date is yet to be set.
The Houston alumni of the Texas Club will have a formal dance and cocktail party at the Houston Club on Dec. 27. All students of the surrounding area will be admitted free. Tickets are $7.50 per person.
Those students living in Dallas and San Antonio will receive a personal invitation from the presidents of their various alumni clubs in regards to their holiday festivities.
The Chase Club of the Chase Hotel will be the scene of the St. Louis Club Christmas dance on Dec. 27.
The Tri-County New Jersey Club will also have a combined student-alumni 4 dance on Dec. 28 at the Colonial Country Club in Colonia, N. J. Door prizes will be given. Bids are $5.
Two Christmas parties and dances will be given by the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club in connection with the alumni. Members will be notified as to the exact dates.	*
Youngstown Club members may attend the dance given by their alumni on Dec. 28 in the Idora Park Ballroom. Harry George and his orchestra will supply the music. Bids are $3.25 ad- ' vance and $3.75 at the door.
“Manhattan Sleighride” is the name * of the Metropolitan Club Christmas dance. The formal will be held in the Biltmore Hotel grand ballroom on Dec.
27. Dancing will be to the music of the Barry Brothers. Bids are $6.	>
The Fort Wayne alumni and students will have their dance at the Post 47 *♦ Legion Hall on Dec. 27. Woodie Neff and his orchestra will play. Bids are $3.50.
22
The Scholastic
: Christmas Program Planned I By Concert Band for Dec. 17
The Notre Dame Concert Band will present its annual Christinas concert on Dec. 17 at 8:15 pan. in Washington Hall.
1 In addition to standard Christmas num-h hers, the program will consist of light :	music on a variety of themes.
The religious character of the season । will be expressed in Three Chorale Preludes by Bach. In a Latin American vein the band will play Sambalita and > Begin the Beguine. Other selections will include You are My Lucky Star, Gypsy > Love Song, and Juba Dance, a Negro folksong.	F avorite Christmas songs
| and carols '."ill also be presented.
I According to Robert J. O’Brien, band 4 director, this year’s concert band promises to be “one of the best in a long | time.”
Il	Band officers this year* are: Mike Voel-
I ler, president; Jim Gray, vice-president;
Ralph Capasso, secretary; Pat Hogan, ! social chairman; and Ron Thyen, alumni I coordinator.
i Grad Student Lounge to Open !4 In LaFortune Student Center
Notre Dame graduate students will , soon have a lounge of their own in the I LaFortune Student Center. The exact date of the opening will be announced '* on the Grad Pad.
Anyone interested in joining the Grad!	uate Student Association’s intramural
;	basketball team should contact Jack
Ryan in 353 Nieuwland Science Hall.
Francis X. Bradley, assistant dean of the graduate school, addressed the first regular meeting of the GSA in October. His topic was “The Uses of Research in
* the University.” At the business meeting which followed the talk, committees
, * were formed to supervise the Mardi Gras
1 booth, social events, Communion Breakfasts, and the annual Grad Student Retreat.
Frosh Elections to Pick Holl Officers Thursday
The annual freshman elections, in which the hall presidents, senators and council members are elected, will be held this Thursday. Balloting will be from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6:30 p.m. in each of the freshman halls.
In order to be eligible for* nomination a student must have a satisfactory disciplinary record and have received no “pink slips.” To receive a nomination he must have the approval of his rector and the signatures of 25 of his hallmates.
Nomination forms may be picked up at the Student Senate office in the Student Center. They must be turned in by 6 p.m. on Monday to Vick Clesi, 205 Walsh.
“Meet Your Candidate Night” will be held in each hall on either Monday or Tuesday. The preferential balloting system will be used in the freshmen balloting.
Scientists
RESEARCH
IN AERONAUTICS
Pushing forward the frontiers of flight
NCAA For over forty years the nation’s research organization devoted to the generation of scientific knowledge essential to assure American leadership in Aeronautics.
NCAA The research team-engineer, scientist and technician— a concentration of knowledge and skills working cooperatively to solve research’s challenging problems.
NCAA Offers unexcelled research facilities, a stimulating professional environment, and a challenging assignment for:
Dance Chairmen Announced For Senior Ball in the Spring
Senior Ball General Chairman Bob Duffy and the officers of the Senior Class have announced the committee chairmanships for the May 16 Ball.
The chairmen and their committees are: Jim Keough, business; Joe McCue, Communion Breakfast; Pat Kane and Bill Schafer, decorations; B. J. Wilhelms, entertainment; Bill Leininger, reservations; John McMahon publicity; Jack Flanagan, refreshments; Bob Massman, tickets; and Stan Lorens, dinner dance.
Duffy also appointed Bob McHale as his executive chair-man for the ball.
The decorations committee, according to Duffy, plans to turn the Navy Drill Hall into something completely new for the formal dance. He said present plans call for the relocation of the band stand and different levels for the dance floor. An all-out effort is being made to obtain the best available band.
Engineers
Going to CHICAGO?
visit the
Clark theatre
College Student Price 50c at all times
Just present your student identification card at the Clark Theatre box office, 11 N. Clark
December 6, 1957
Engineers and Scientists
CHEMICAL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
ENG. PHYSICS AERONAUTICAL METALLURGICAL
CHEMISTS PHYSICISTS MATHEMATICIANS
N A C A, LEWIS FLIGHT PROPULSION LABORATORY Cleveland 11, Ohio N A C A also operates other research centers at Langley Field Virginia;
Moffett Field, California and Edwards, California.
See representative Dr. Melvin Gerstein on campns9 December 9 and 1O9 1957
See your placement office for interview appointment.
NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS
HOTtl
.TIMES square
Z3th ST. WEST OF BROADWAY
1000 rooms with radio $4 and MUZAK from
HOTELS in NEW YORK
KNICKERBOCKER
45!h ST. EAST OF BROADWAY 400 fine rooms with rodio
JU-2-4200
from
TELEVISION AIR-CONDITIONED Other Harris Hotels
mwaysw CINCINNATI, Metropole Broadway Kemper Lane
c-oost \\ ExecuHve OHIcer-	MIAMI BEACH, Sovereign
I ..I II	HOTEL METROPOLE, Gnctnnah, Ohio nr-rn/MT c . M/	u 4 ।
. ittl J)	ALBERT HARRIS. President	DETROIT, Fort Wayne Hotel
ARTHUR H. FRIEDMAN, Managing Director COLUMBUS, Brood-tincoln
PROBLEM:
How to get home for Vacation?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines fast Mainliners!
Save valuable vacation time by flying fast, dependable United Air Lines Mainliners. Radar-equipped for smoother flights, greater on-time reliability. Convenient schedules, including luxurious Red Carpet* Service. Call United or your travel agent.
♦Red Carpet is a service mark owned and used by United Air Lines, Inc.
LA-4-69OO
Fr. Connolly Studies Science, Philosophy
The Rev. Frederick G. Connolly, associate professor of religion at Notre Dame, is the author of Science Versus Philosophy, a new book published recently by the Philosophical Library, New York City.
In the volume, Father Connolly describes the relationship between science and philosophy in ancient, mediaeval and modern times. The problem today, he writes, is whether science is a field of knowledge distinct from philosophy and, if sc, where lies the boundary between them.
Thomistic philosopher, Jacques Ma ri-tain, he points out, maintains that science is a field of knowledge distinct from philosophy. Other groups of Thomistic philosophers “disagree heartily” on several aspects of the problem, Father Connolly notes. “It is indeed unfortunate that this conflict still remains unresolved,” he says.
Catholic intellectual life will have little impact upon the American scene as long as Catholic intellectuals can come to no agreement on the problem of modern times, Father Connolly contends.
“This is the age of science and no school of thought that is unable to fit this modem development into the system of ideas that it presents to the world, and to do this in a clear and convincing manner, can expect much attention, let alone gain much influence,” he asserts.
Father Connolly, a native of St. John, New Brunswick, Canada, has been a Notre Dame faculty member since 1948. From 1932 to 1948 he taught philosophy and theology at St. Joseph’s Major Seminary, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
Detroit Planner to Present Metropolitan Design Lecture
Thomas B. Brademus will deliver the ninth in a series of ten lectures on urban planning at 8 p.m. tonight in the engineering auditorium. Brademus, who is senior city planner of the city of Detroit, will speak on “Metropolitan Planning.”
The last lecture in the series will be delivered on Jan. 10, at which time Charles A. Blessing, director of planning for Detroit, will speak on “A Comprehensive Planning Program for a Large American City.”
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy: Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
24
The Scholastic
YCS Scheduled to Sponsor Annual Advent Symposium
The annual YCS sponsored Symposium will be presented Saturday, and Sunday.
The symposium will begin
Advent tonight,
in the
Engineering papers on
Problems, late,”
Auditorium tonight with ‘The Student and World “The Intellectual Aposto-
Liturgy,” and “Leadership.
The symposium will be carried through tomorrow afternoon with workshops on “National and Intellectual Problems,” “The Intellectual Apostolate,” “Student Government,” and “The Liturgical Apostolate.”
Saturday’s speaker is the Rev. Walter Ong, S.J., a member of the English department of St. Louis University. Father Ong will speak on “Catholic Universities and the Intellectual Apostolate.”
The speaker at the Communion Breakfast Sunday morning will be Lloyd Davis, executive director of the Chicago Inter-Racial Council. Davis will speak on “The Student and World Problems.”
South Bend Civic Theatre
PRESENTS
The Glass Menagerie
by TENNESSEE WILLIAMS
December 5 and 7
Progress Club 601 west coifax
Tickets $1.50, call CE 4-7924
Tickets at door
Important announcement
for the graduating E E. and M. E.
A JACK & HEINTZ REPRESENTATIVE
3
WILL BE ON CAMPUS

J
MONDAY, DECEMBER 9
Check your Placement Office NOW for complete
S
information concerning
interview time and place
I
JACK & HEINTZ:
An internationally known designer and manufacturer of electric systems and components for aircraft and missiles; also a leader in the development of customized electric motors to meet special industrial and commercial needs.
OPENINGS:
Excellent opportunities now open to electrical and mechanical engineers in:
TRAINING:
52-week rotational program to acquaint engineers with all J&H operations . . . engineering, manufacturing, sales and service.

SUBSIDIZED ADVANCED STUDY:
Jack & Heintz pays for study toward advanced degrees which can be won at such nationally known technical schools as the Case Institute of Technology and Fenn College, both within a few miles of Jack & Heintz.
&
s
RESEARCH
MANUFACTURING
DESIGN
• SALES
DEVELOPMENT
• FIELD SERVICE
SPECIAL OPPORTUNITIES:
J&H also has need for a limited number of men with majors in aeronautics, industrial engineering, engineering administration, accounting and industrial management.

ACT NOW! Contact your Placement
Office for a Jack & Heintz interview!
£
.December 6, 1957
25

Rack P<uf&
what is a teacher?
by MICHAEL KENNEDY	,
This is a question that we must ask ourselves, not only because some of us will become teachers in high schools and colleges in the future, but also in order to understand the kind of relationship that exists or should exist between teachei’ and student. What must a teacher be before his students — what should his attitude towards them be? We can only look at the problem from our own point of view as students trying to acquire maturity and perhaps a little wisdom with which to approach God and man.	'
Because a teacher is an artist with a very special material to work with he must have a special attitude towards the integrity of this material, the human personalities under his care, as well as something to express in it. What distinguishes a really great teacher from the plentiful scholars who have a large store of knowledge and perhaps even the ability to express it intelligently? I think the first and rarest attribute is love for his students; not only willingness and respect, but love. Students can get then- facts and theories, their culture, from many teachers; indeed, if they have the will they can get culture from books without the help or interference of other agents. But only teaching with love can make them wise, and if they can glean a measure of wisdom from the other, loveless offerings then it is only through their own unguided efforts.
The question should be asked, of course — what is a student? This has been discussed quite often and the answer should be well known. But it is doubtful whether any teacher can love students who are not really students — who, instead of enthusiasm for learning, have only the desire to learn as little as possible while fulfilling the requirements for a degree. There must be love on both sides: on the part of the student, not only love and respect for the teacher, but, more basically, love of wisdom. That this is not always present in the
26
modern student is, perhaps, not entirely his fault. Where education is merely “a wan attempt to prolong adolescence” directed not towards wisdom but towards the acquirement of the paper symbols of intellectual accomplishment, grades and degrees, then there is not much stimulus for real enthusiasm. Perhaps mistrust and dislike of it is a more natural response in such a situation. It may be that the same loveless scholars are to blame. It seems that they created grades and degrees in large part to insure the preservation of their positions among the elite of intellectual society, and now the degrees are necessary to any man before he can teach in college or even in most high schools. Unfortunately the receipt of a BA or an MA or a PhD is not a guarantee of wisdom and certainly not of love. What would education be like if grades and degrees were abolished? Entirely undisciplined? Not necessarily, for all the students who come to college, and it is a very large number, only to acquire the symbols that society demands of them would not come if there weren’t any. The only means of judging a man’s wisdom would be the only valid means, his words and actions, and it would make no difference whether he acquired it from a great teachei’ or from his own experience.
The ideal situation might have been possible once: the combination of love and wisdom in a man makes him inevitably a teacher — his wisdom attracts learners around him and by love he calls forth their enthusiasm and puts them in a state of mind to become wise because he is wise. Plato tells us that Socrates did so, and perhaps the great universities of the Middle Ages were built around such men. Even now there are some, but they are hampered by the system forced upon them, and we cannot now come to them as children eager to become men.
I had one such teacher in high school — everybody seems to have one or a
few great teachers to whom they have responded sometime during their education. He was a very strange looking , man, hardly five feet tall, but with a bulldog expression that made him big, and he loved us in his own fierce way. Some of the ideas and opinions that he tried to communicate to us I have since found to be wrong or inapplicable, but I am sure that we were all a little wiser for the time that we spent under him.
The scholarly writer should be a teacher too, but this rarely happens today. The writer of history and criticism is remote from his reader — he is concerned with scholarship and fact <■ and demonstrative clarity. But what value does precision have by itself without love or beauty? The great Victorian Thomas Carlyle wrote a long history of the French Revolution through which he loves and respects his reader, and in the end when he says his farewell you are sorry to put the book down because in the reading it has become a wise old 4 friend. It is true that a few of his facts or emphases may be imprecise or out of favor, but it is also probably true that an equally long work by many a modern historian would be totally devoid of beauty and unendurable to all but the professional.	4
Teaching is creation and an art — perhaps the greatest, most awful, most often’ profaned of the arts — because the artist’s material is not canvas and paint or words, but it is his own human 1 kind that he shapes and determines, not characters in a novel but real lives. It must be that those who pretend to teach, who dare to teach, without love for their students or awe for their own art, do not realize the full responsibility or consequence of their position. Scholars who 1 can make their living in no other way than by teaching in a university and do * so only for that reason are not really teachers. They have no wise song to sing except to themselves.
The Scholastic.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
PAY
1
3
MAR
PAY
1
3
APR
Get your new Ivy League Tuxedo now for the holidays ahead—and all of the formal campus occasions to come—and pay for it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in February, one-third in March and the balance in April. Buy whatever you need now and use this convenient charge account, designed for the man who lives on a budget. Naturally, there is no carrying charge at the Campus Shop. Use your charge account tomorrow!
DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!
On the Campus — Notre Dame
3 ways to say Merry Christmas
GIVE L&M~ CHESTERFIELD - OASIS TO EVERY SMOKER ON YOUR LIST ©Uggett & Myers Tobacco Company