For all occasions you9re correctly dressed in a
SUIT of GREY FLANNEL
Tailored exclusively for	M
Michael Stern of Rochester. Neu$i*oriv H.
869M
NtW is WU1
PERKMNCALS
We at Spiro's like to suggest flannels because of their basic all-purpose usefulness ... their distinctiveness ... their air of impeccable correctness. Especially the way Michaels-Stern tailors them for us from Worumbo's superb flannel and finished with that fine needlework which is a Michael-Stern tradition. Come in. and see the well-groomed you, in a suit of rich, grey flannel.

SIH SPIRO 4 CO.
Q 3
Nov. 16,1951
3
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
M.E.’s AT DU PONT [2] Challenging variety of problems solved by research and development engineers
As a student of mechanical engineering, do you look forward to a future in research, development, plant engineering or production supervision?
In the Digest this month, we’d like to discuss the ample outlet Du Pont offers your talents in these fields.
Let’s talk about research and de-velopmenttogether because they often overlap indistinguishably. Both these fields deal with mechanisms for making products. In some cases, original equipment is designed for a new product. In others, machinery used in making existing products is improved to provide better quality at lower cost.
This design and development work may call for studies of the vibration of
J. D. McHugh, B.S.M.E., Rochester '50 (center), consults with D. B. Berlien, B.S.M.E., Purdue ’36 (right), and J. F. Crawley, Jr., M.S.Ch.E. '47, V.P.I., on installation of equipment in the field.
machine elements, equipment, structural members and structures. Or there may be need for application of electronics, instrumentation, operation of test equipment and testing of experimental machines. In much of this activity there is close cooperation with other engineers, participation in group conferences, joint analysis of data, and issuance of recommendations.
Du Pont research and development engineers keep informed of developments through technical, trade and patent literature, seminars and lectures. Exceptional facilities for these are provided.
Here are some examples, specific and general, of the problems that confront Du Pont research and development engineers:
1.	Develop and design high-speed slitting equipment for thin films. Involved are unwind and wind-up tension regulation, alignment of web travel and cutting-knife selection, combined in a machine easy to service.
2.	Design equipment to operate at pressures up to 45,000 p.s.i. This is insurance against the time when processes may be developed that will operate in this range.
As pressures are increased, design problems for moderate pressures are magnified. Typical are stress-fatigue of metals, design of vessel closures and line joints, valves and packing for reciprocating compressors and centrifugal pumps, packing glands forstirred autoclaves, etc.
3.	Design, installation and testing of large air-conditioning systems necessary in the manufacture of certain products. In one plant, water is used at the rate of 50 million gallons daily, current at 25,000 kw. per hour, and air at 5.5 million C.F.M.
These three examples, selected from
Albert Band, B.S.M.E., M.I.T. '50 (right), and Rane Curl, M.I.T. ’51 (summer worker), develop controls for chemical equipment.
R. T. Bradshaw, B.S.M.E. ’46, M.S. ’47, Queens U., Ireland, and J.D. McHugh, B.S. M.E., check theoretical calculations.
literally hundreds, can only hint at the breadth and variety of the problems that are constantly arising.
One of the strongest pieces of evidence that mechanical engineering is of major significance in the Du Pont Company is the existence of the Wilmington Shops. They represent an investment of over $3,500,000 and cover an area of 300,000 sq. ft., including a foundry and pattern shop. They employ over 800 men and have a potential output in volume of work in excess of $6,000,000 a year.
The size and diversity of this operation are justified only because the work of mechanical engineers is an important factor in Du Pont operations.
NEXT MONTH—Opportunities in plant engineering and product supervision will be discussed in the third article in this series, "M.E.’s at Du Pont.” Watch for it!
Send for your copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate." Describes opportunities for men and women with many types of training. Address: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative—Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
4
The Scholastic
1
By Jack Hynes
or watching two waltzing heavyweights in a ten-rounder on the newly-acquired TV set (Mrs. Munz is an alumna). And there were those who just sat idly by, as we did, munching our donuts and bashing down our cider (they cut their drinks) glad that the beflles have come up with something to kill the usually dull Friday nights in South Bend.
Top of the Week
The newly-fallen white stuff has brought a lot of early season hurlers out on campus, but . . .
■
Wintergreen for President
Our freshme'n brethren elected their class officers yesterday after a campaign week which seemed to be lacking the usual pre-election day fire and brimstone.
There was little or no soap-box oratory, no torchlight parade's, no one tried to set fire to St. Ed’s and we heard none of the grandiloquent and impossible promises that are perennially made by electioneering subversives. Could it be that wd have here a trend toward conservatism, or has the younger crowd gone Republican?
At any rate, our orchid of the week to the victors and let’s hope that they don’t waste any time in purchasing their monogrammed briefcases, rules on parliame'ntary procedure and NoDoze pills for the weekly Student Council meetings they will be attending. Get in there, lads, and organize!
D
Tar the Tar Heels
There is no need to recall to mind the bitted humbling the Irishmen received last week at East Lansing; but despite the fact that we will be said to have gone rah-rah, we feel there may be a need to speak of the sudden lack of in-te'rest and spirit which has taken hold on the campus.
Vaughan, Duke Ellington and Nat “King” Cole to longhairs) had the SRO sign swinging in the bre'eze outside the Palace as they rocked the house inside with two two-hour shows on Thursday eve last.
And around the corner- in the Palais tomorrow night you can bet your blue suede shoes that the same thing will happen, and dven more so, as George Shearing titillates the Baldwin and Billy Eckstine groans soulfully for all the vacation time habitues of Bop City and the Blue Note.
And. oh yes, all you Grand Ole Opry and Aragon Ballroom fans will be glad to note that Tiny Hill and his cornbailers and Wayne King and his nine electric guitars and mute'd trumpets will be appearing elsewhere in town.
■
And No Tea
Last Friday night marked the arrival of another “first” on the- SMC social roster for the current season. An informal-type soiree in the LeMans “rec” room (donated in 1929 by the American Society of Subway Engineers) was held from 7:30 until the old lights blinked at 10:00.
Admission was by ticket only, and scalpers on this side of the Dixie carried on a lively trade with all the campus flies (we got a complimentary from a friend on the inside).
The gay assemblage amused them-selve's with ping-pong, bridge, dancing,
Bottom of the Week
. . . observers look for a no-snowballthrowing edict shortly.
STUDENTS
OVER THE HOLIDAYS
RENT A NEW CAR
Phone . . .
3-2197 or
3-7182
INDIANA AUTO TRUCK RENTAL SERVICE
117 West LaSalle Across from Hotel Hoffman
All we’ll say is that Notre Dame men have never been known as fair-weather followers when it comes to backing their team—let’s not start now.
■
In Passing
Senior—“There are some thirty-odd profs in the AB department.”
Sophomore—“So I’ve noticed.”
■
What — No Guy Lombardo?
Local devotees of progressive music (the question is, in which direction is it progressing?) had an opportunity to be “real gone” all ovet the place this week as the Palace Theater and the Palais Royale played host to as “rooney” a selection of musical artists as has come through Test Town in a long while.
Sarah, Duke and Nat (Sarah
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Nov. 16,1951
5
CalentCar
NOVEMBER 17
CHAPEL HILL—The Irish try to hit the victory trail again as they take on North Carolina’s Tar Heels in a series which stands 2-0 in favor of ND. Game time is 1 p.m. CST.
DRILL HALL—The away game victory dance moves to a new location with a new atmosphere for this week only. This one is called the “Bargain Dance” with the entrance fee set at the new low'price of only $1 (and ninety-eight cents) per couple and the attire is strictly casual.
AVON (through Nov. 20)—You Never Can Tell (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) is a comedy fantasy about a murdered dog who comes back to earth (as a human) in an attempt to find the person who poisoned him and sent him off to “dog purgatory.” Dick Powell plays the ex-dog who leads a man’s life as a private eye and Joyce Holden, his champion filly upstairs, likewise comes down to earth with him and becomes his girl Friday. There are a lot of laughs to this one, and there are a lot of oldies that are milked for all they’re worth. With this unusual plot, though, the pix could have been a whole lot better than it is.
WASHINGTON HALL—At War With the Army starring Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis.
NOVEMBER 21
WASHINGTON HALL—Loretta Young in Half Angel.
AVON (indefinite run)—Too Young to Kiss (A-l) stars June Allyson and Van Johnson in a pleasant little musical that would ordinarily be considered above average. But in comparison with the top grade musicals that have been coming out of Hollywood lately, this one is just so-so.
-	NOVEMBER 22
COLFAX (held over to Nev. 27)—An American in Paris, one of the finest musicals in recent years; starring Gene Kelly and newcomer Leslie Caron.
PALACE (through Nov. 28)—Saturday's Hero (A-2) is an excellent picture portraying the evils that exist today in college football. John Derek is the young high school star who is swamped with oifers from higher institutions of “learning,” accepts a top bid and finally is made painfully aware of the futility of hypocrisy of high pressure football. Donna Reed and Sydney Blackmer round out the top players. This film is so good you won’t even mind the co-feature Sunny Side of the Street (A-l) which is mostly one vocal after another by such singers as Frankie Laine, Billy Daniels and Toni Arden.
GRANADA (through Nov. 28)—Errol Flynn is a rugged sea captain who spends most of his time running around New Orleans in Adventures of Captain Fabian (B). If you’re a Flynn fan by any chance, and if you’re extremely gullible when it comes to swallowing flimsy plots, then you may be able to sit through this one- If you happen to be a deep sea diver, you may be able to stand seeing one of your partners in trade perform his chores in The Sea Hornet, with Rod Cameron and Adele Mara.
NOVEMBER 27
STATE (through Nov. 29)—If you like opera and ballet, if you enjoyed seeing the Red Shoes, then you don’t want to miss Tales of Hoffman. Written, produced and directed by the same team which did Red Shoes, Tales of Hoffman also has Moira Shearer as its ballerina. It is strictly an art film. Special student rates of §1 will be in effect duirng the three-day run and there will be only two shows daily, at 2:30 and at 8:30 p.m. All seats are reserved.
Throw Away //]
NICOTINE

Switch to
MEDICO
PIPES
brown—in Medico


Box of ’ 10 filters—10*
Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw it away, with the nicotine, juices, flakes and tars it has trapped. Insert fresh filter for cooler, cleaner, dryer, sweeter smoking. Imported Briar.
NEW: MEDICO CREST-$3.00
Medico's Finest! Rich Burgundy finish,
MEDICO V.F.Q. — $2.00 MEDICO MEDALIST—$1.50
Wide variety of styles and sizes.
Write S. M. Frank t Co., N. Y., for Booklet G
MEDICO CIGARETTE HOLDERS-
6
The Scholastic
11
<’<
J
j £
'i
The Notre Dame
Vol. 93 November 16, 1951
No. 10
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE..................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY.....................Sports WILLIAM J. LONDO.........Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER........Photography LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
C. B. FARMER..........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER........Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN..............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT.........Faculty Moderator
Yes, They Still Play Football . . .
They always said that Notre Dame was a football school, that Notre Dame had to win. that the students and alumni would commit mass suicide if Notre Dame ever lost a game. But for all these attributed qualities, Notre Dame exhibits an attitude that is greatly different from her collegiate brethren, and in direct contrast to many of them, when they lose a football game.
When Notre Dame loses a football game you never hear of a “Goodby Coach” campaign starting—instead the students stand outside the dressing room, or meet the team when they return from the trip, and cheer the coach. You never hear a “They’re no good” tag put on the team—you hear “They’ll bounce back next week.”
And that goes for the Michigan State game, too. Nobody committed suicide— they were too busy meeting the train which brought the team back.
No. future foes, don’t get your hopes up. They are still playing football at Notre Dame, and the student body is still behind that football team, and they will stay behind it while quite a few more victory strings are started—and finished.
As Frank Leahy has said many times, “We’ll show up on Saturday.” Yes, the team and the students will show up for many Saturdays to come, and we’ll bet you 20 to one, and half your money back when you lose, that most of those will be sad days for everybody but the Irish.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This week’s cover picture is reminiscent of the ink-blot test where you try to guess what a certain oddshaped blob represents. Some would say that the picture is simply a few people watching television, and they would be right. Others would say that it’s a picture of some people watching television over at the video room of Le-Mans Hall. They are even more correct. But top honors go to the man who recognizes the scene as signifying the various facilities thrown open to all in the latest “noble experiment,” the Friday night mixer. Before the affair, it is rumored, each girl was issued a deck of cards and three pingpong balls; at any rate, they entertained royally, as the story on page 22 will show. We still don’t know, however, who won the fight.—Cover photo by Tom Fleck.
Nov. 16,1951
We Have Red Blood, Too
Without a doubt most of us around here have red blood. This isn’t what you’d call an earth-shaking announcement until you realize that somebody actually doubts the fact.
In a recent issue of Time magazine, the letters column carried a note from a gent who referred to himself as a “red-blooded American” and therefore couldn’t condone sending an American ambassador to the Vatican. This sort of thing we consider unnecessary7, unfair and just a little foolish. .
The controversy over the President’s appointment of General Clark as Ambassador to the Vatican has waned with his temporary7 retraction of same. We don’t intend stirring up anything that will cause anymore outbursts. But the sort of insinuation by our “red-blooded” friend does no good to either side.
The old story7 of divided allegiance to the Pope and to the Republic is one you don’t hear too often anymore—until something like this comes up. Then the usual clouded issues arise and some bigot is sure to impugn the loyalty of American Catholics.
It hardly7 seems necessary to point out that American Catholics have lived up to their faith and still served the United States in the best tradition of this country. Certainly there are red-blooded American Caholics. And few American Catholics have ever been troubled by any thoughts of divided allegiance.
Why then, the old hue and cry about this sort of thing? Arguments like this create misunderstanding and bitterness and solve no problems. They create dissension at a time when total unity7 is needed for what lies before us all—Catholic, Protestant, Jew—in the years immediately ahead.
Those outside the Church who entertain doubts on this subject ought to check with the non-Catholics (and there are a lot of them) who work, study and teach on this campus. They will vouch for the fact that red-blooded Americans, of all faiths, represent the proper end-product of this University.
7
THE MEETING’S UPSTAIRS
What happens to a high-flying enemy bomber when it meets the newest anti-aircraft guided missile shouldn’t happen to a low-flying duck.
Radar “eyes” and electronic “brains” make sure the meeting takes place. They guide the pilotless missile to within lethal range of the plane, then explode it.
This teaming of intricate tracking and com
puting devices was made possible by teaming of another sort. The electronic control system was developed for Army Ordnance by the Bell Telephone Laboratories and the Western Electric Company, close-working research and manufacturing units of the Bell System.
It’s just one of the many important military projects being entrusted to the Bell System.

BELL TELEPHONE
8
The Scholastic
Notre Dame jSehollasItue
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 10
NOVEMBER 16. 1951
Engineers Ball at Indiana Club Tonight
MISS BILLY JEAN EILERS
Two Reasons Why It Is
Fortunate Few Frolic At St.Mary’s Cotillion
The merry-go-round of Saint Mary’s social festivities reaches one of its higher points tonight when an expected crowd of 85 couples will swing to the music of Ted Galligan and his ensemble at the annual Sophomore Cotillion.
A tint of Shake'spearean atmosphere will dominate the scene with the inclusion of “As You Like It” as the theme for the occasion, which is to be held in the formidable Louis XIV ballroom from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m.
Sue Whalen, chairman of the dance, has announced that the dre'ss will be semi-formal with the corsage situation on an optional basis. Bids are $3, paid by the girls.
The refreshment committee, under the chairmanship of Mary Ann Gardner, will provide cookies and punch for all.
Joan Heffering and Carol Eichehscher have transformed the ballroom into a Shakespearean type to blend with the central theme of the dance, as co-chairmen of the decorations committee'.
‘‘The Loveliest Night of the Year.”
Extending the welcome mat, Liz Kiley and Mary Lee Bladel will comprise the hostess committee.
Other committee chairme’n are Janet Lex, in charge of bids; Liz Gowan, band arrangements; and Lorraine Nigro will handle the finances.
A temporary stand-still faced the Saint Mary’s belles when their original theme met with mechanical opposition. They resorted to the more accommodating position in choosing “As You Like It” as their theme when it was learned that the ND Engineers had chosen the same title for their dance tonight—“The Loveliest Night of the Year.”
STUDENT COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for the next meeting of the Student Council, which is to be held Monday at 7:15 p.m. in Room 100 Law Building, will feature a discussion on student government by the Councilmen and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University.
The Dance Constitution is also included on the meeting agenda.
Hull's LeHermen Play At Affair From 9 to I
Tonight will be the “Loveliest Night of the Year” for some 200-plus engineers and their dates, as they dance to the music of Gene Hull and his Letter-men at South Bend’s Indiana Club from 9 until 1. This evening, at the Engineers’ biggest social event of the school year the principles of Archimedes and the Laws of Thermodynamics will be replaced by beauty and romance, and the world of physical science will be forsaken for a world of fantasy.
Reigning as “queens for a night” at the Engineers’ Ball will be Miss Billie Jean Eilers, of Cincinnati, and Miss Eileen Cottrell, of Detroit. Miss Eilers, a graduate of Marian College, Indianapolis, will be escorted by Pete Skerrett, while Miss Cottrell, a freshman, at the University of Detroit, will be the date of Roger O’Hara.
Skerrett and O’Hara have acted in the capacity of co-chairmen of the Ball, the third annual formal production by the College of Engineering. Skerrett, who comes from Rochester, N. Y., is a Senior in aeronautical engineering. O’Hara, also a Senior, hails from Buffalo, N. Y., and is a student in the Department of Metallurgy.
The two co-chairmen, together with their dates, will lead the grand march during the course of the evening. Tonight’s agenda will also include a “dynamic suspension” dance contest, at which time seven couples, each representing one of the engineering departments, will compete for a grand prize.
Included in the plans for the weekend is tomorrow evening’s Student Council dance, which is under the sponsorship of the Engineers’ Ball committee.
Assisting the co-chairmen are: Dick Novitsky, tickets; Joe Scherer, programs; John Urbain. personnel; Phil Meyer and Dick Hardin, publicity; and Dick Schoenfelder, decorations. Bob DeLine was in charge of the date bureau.
Nov. 16,1951
9
New Yearbook, Earls Says, Is Far on Way; If All Goes Well, Will Publish 'Dome’ in May
“The 1952 Dome is progressing well toward its ultimate completion next Spring,” reports Ray Earls, this year’s editor of the annual.
The Dome will be distributed to every student at the end of May. Cost of the publication is included in the regular fees of the University. Extra copies will be available upon request at a cost of $8 each.
A change of printing firms caused a minor snag at the beginning of the semester, slowing down the preparation of the yearbook for a short time. Mossberg Printers of South Bend received this year’s contract. Due to their being a small company, a new system of preparation had to be used—a number of dummy pages had to be turned in during a certain time interval, whereas the entire layout formerly was submitted to the printers at one time during the Spring and printed shortly before distribution. But the Staff is now used to the new system.
Theme: The Notre Dame Man
This year’s theme depicts the scenes observed around the University, but radically departs from the past publications in showing the product of Notre Dame, the MAN, in regard to his place
EDITOR EARLS AND MODERATOR DEFANT The Notre Dame Man, a Fresh Approach
in the world, his religious training, and his religious and secular future.
The cover will be of dark blue background with gold reproduction of the University seal in the center.
The introductory pages will contain eight three-color art pages and a number of black-and-white photographic pages. Frank O’Malley has written all the introductory copy, his many original ideas furnishing the Dome with a fresh approach.
The art work has been done by Alden Balmer, a professional artist with the Indiana Engraving Co., South Bend. Mr. Bob Lehman, of the same company, has aided in the preparation of the yearbook by working overtime often.
People, Sports, Activities
The organization of the book is the same — being divided into three main sections: the University section, which contains the faculty, Seniors, and hall pictures; the Athletic division, consisting of all sports; and the Activities part, including the campus clubs, geographical organizations, and social functions.
The Halls will be grouped according to classes, with class officers pictured at the beginning of each class section.
The minor sports in the athletic program -will be given a larger spread than in former years, when they have been overshadowed to a great extent by the major sports.
All Seniors have had their pictures taken, but the Staff plans to have the professors and priests photographed in the near future. The business staff asks that the fullest cooperation possible be extended in order to facilitate matters.
Seek Snaps of Students
An innovation is the plan to have a number of the 344 pages devoted to miscellaneous pictures of goings-on about the campus, taken by any student in the University. A request will be made at a later date for any interesting and unusual snapshots.
Another new feature is the Photography Index, where every student’s name will be printed with the numbers of the pages on which he appears in a photograph.
The attempt is being made to replace much of the writing which has appeared in former Domes, with more and better pictures in order to create more interest.
The recipients of the Dome Awards— given annually to four Seniors for contributions to the student body, the University, and for academic ability—will be chosen soon by a committee selected by Earls.
The Dome staff this year is being supervised by John Defant, director of publications; Robert Phillips, associate editor; Frank Link, managing editor; George Hammer, who makes arrangements for pictures, distributions, etc., as business manager; Francis Meaney, in charge of the sports presentation; Louis Bourjaily, halls editor; and Thomas Schoen, who has charge of the Activities section.
Ernest Buckley as Index Manager compiles that portion of the book indicated by his title, and John Kinville, the photography editor, is in charge of the pictorial work.
A Senior journalism major, Earls was hails editor of last year’s Dome, and was selected by Dale Francis, director of publications last year as 1952 editor, a position he feels highly honored to hold.
It had been the established custom to appoint an experienced Junior as editor, so that his assistance might be available to the following year’s staff. Furthermore, in previous years the Dome has usually been published after graduation, making a Senior editor inadvisable.
Although the work on the Dome requires most of the staff’s free time, they consider it well worth the sacrifice.
The Scholastic
10
Council to Pick 30 Men for 'Who's Who'
The Blue Circle submitted the names of 67 students who were nominated for membership in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities, to the Student Council at the meeting last Monday night. Each Council member was given a list of the names and will have cast his vote before the meeting next Monday, when the names of the winning candidates will be known.
These nominees passed the screening of all candidates by the Sophomore and Junior members of the Blue Circle. Of the final 67 students, a maximum number of 30 may be chosen. Two alternates may also be selected. The Council may, however, approve a lesser number of candidates for membership than allowed.
The Blue Circle believes that the students whose names were submitted on the list were very representative of the qualities desired for membership in Who’s Who.
Due to the excellent response on the part of the student body in nominating-worthy candidates, the Blue Circle did not consider it necessary to ask for nominations from the Deans of the various College, and the presidents of the campus clubs, as had been planned.
Corrections lists Hear Pro! O’Brien Laud ND Program
Notre Dame Sociology Professor Hugh P. O’Brien appeared recently in Minneapolis as guest lecturer at the University of Minnesota’s Institute on Probation and Parole.
Professoi- O’Brien’s talks were directed “toward a rationale of probation and parole, with specific emphasis upon the nature and function of authority in correctional case work, and the generic and specific aspects of probation and parole, as they reflect necessary modifications from generic social work concepts.”
Sponsored annually by the U. of M., the institute is designed to aid workers in the Minnesota correctional field, officers in youth correctional administration, and administrators of penal and correctional institutions.
The Notre Dame criminology instructor also appeared on a twin-city television program, where he was questioned about Notre Dame’s program in correctional administration, which was identified as a “pioneer university program designed for correctional training.”
Duroselle. Kertesz Lead Iranian Discussion In First NFCCS Round Table Forum Nov. 20
Next Tuesday the first in a series of monthly round table discussions will be conducted by the local branch of the NFCCS. Scheduled to commence at 7:30 p.m., the meeting will originate from Room 100 of the Law Building.
At this inaugural gathering, a panel consisting of two prominent members of the Notre Dame faculty, Dr. Jean-Baptiste Duroselle and Dr. Stephen Kertesz, and five ND students will consider “What are the political and economic effects on the world resulting from the nationalization of Iranian oil?”
Chairman for Tuesday night’s discussion will be Wrangler President Ed Goerner. Other students on the panel include Bill Dempsey, Bill Fraser, Guy Emanuele, and Bill Lewis, all of whom are members of the student Political Science Academy.
Professor Duroselle, a newcomer to the Notre Dame scene, is the Dean of Ai-ts and Letters at the University of Saarbrucken. Currently engaged in an exchange lecturer-teacher agreement with Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science, he is at Notre Dame under the auspices of the Rockefeller Foundation-sponsored Committee on International Affairs. Pro
MARSHALL DESMOND, BILL FAGAN, DICK HARVEY “. . . the Nationalization of Iranian Oil”
fessor Duroselle obtained his undergraduate degree at the Sorbonne in Paris in 1939, and received his Doctor of History from the University of Paris ten years later.
At the Ecole Normale Superiere, a school for superior students, Professor Duroselle served for four years as assistant under the French expert Pierre Renouvin. He is considered by most French scholars to be an outstanding expert on political science, continental and diplomatic history.
Professor Kertesz, a teacher in the Department of Political Science, has long been prominent in the activities of the Committee on International Affairs. The former Hungarian ambassador recently led a discussion here on campus concerning the New Russian Empire.
Tuesday evening’s seminar is slated to commence with a five-minute constructive talk by each member of the panel. Following a 20-minute panel discussion, the floor will be thrown open by the chairman for audience participation.
Appointed by the NFCCS to direct the proceedings of these monthly townmeeting style seminars for the remainder of the school year are Dick
Nov. 16,1951
11
Harvey, Bill Fagan,.and Marshall Desmond.
The discussions, while hoping to encourage more campus groups to actively participate in the educational life of the University, are designed to enable students and faculty to discourse upon timely subjects of a somewhat controversial nature.
The NFCCS student seminar committee has announced that the question which will be open for discussion at the December meeting will be “How can American business speed economics abroad?”
Gene Hull Plays for Chi Club Holiday Dance in Windy City
The Chicago Club’s annual Thanksgiving Dance, under the co-chairmanship of Don Finn and Elmer Layden, will be held Wednesday at the Sheraton Hotel in Chicago. Music will be provided by Gene Hull’s 15-piece orchestra.
Current plans call for the election of a queen during the dance, which will last from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Tickets may be purchased from a representative in each hall or in the lobby of the Dining Hall after dinner and supper. The ducats are $3.50 per couple and will cost $4 at the dance.
Fr. Norton, Coach Jordan Speak at NROTC Breakfast
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, and Johnny Jordan, head basketball coach at Notre Dame, will be the principal speakers at the Freshman NROTC Communion Breakfast Nov. 18.
By limiting the breakfast to Freshmen only, it was possible to obtain the Faculty Dining Room. Following tradition, the Mass will be held at Dillon Hall.
Members of the committee in charge of the breakfast are: Jon A. Baker, Jack Coughlin, Frank A. Gerard, Robert Roney, and Harold Willenborg.
Placement News
Dr. R. R. Ralston of the General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., will interview Ph.D. Chemistry graduates for 1952 on Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 19 and 20. Also on Monday other G-E representatives will interview Engineering candidates for their organization.
Mr. R. W. Moller from the Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Company, Fort Worth, Texas, will interview engineering graduates of 1952 for his company.
12
Berens Awarded $150 In Burkan Competition
Mark Berens is the winner of the first prize of $150 in the 1951 Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition at Notre Dame, Law Dean Clarence Manion announced. Berens’ prize-winning paper is entitled “Capital Gains Taxation of Copyrights.”
MARK BERENS
For Lawyer, First Honors
Berens received his Bachelor of Science in Accounting, Magna cum Laude, from Notre Dame in 1950; and the degree of Juris Doctor, Magna cum Laude, here in 1951.
While at law school he was the Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer (a quarterly law review), as well as the national chairman of the National Conference of Law Reviews, in 1950-51, and authored six published articles in the Laivyer and the Tax Digest.
Berens was the recipient of the Hoynes Award, presented by Notre Dame to the law student with the highest average in his class. He also received the Bureau of National Affairs “Law Week” Award, which is presented to the law student who compiles the highest average during his senior year.
He is at present attending the University of Chicago, under a full Research Fellowship, where he is working for a Doctor of Laws degree, majoring in taxation.
Gov. Luther W. Youngdahl of Minnesota, and Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minneapolis, have personally congratulated Berens upon his achievement in winning first prize in the competition.
This Competition is sponsored annually by the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers in memory of the Society’s first general counsel, who died in 1936. It is designed to stimulate interest in the field of copyright law.
First and second prizes of $150 and	L
$50 are offered in each of the leading	$
law schools throughout the nation.	t
After all prize-winning essays have	,1
been received from participating law	j'
schools, a panel of judges selects the	I
outstanding essay for a National Prize.
NRO Officer Warns Of Submarine Threat
Soviet Russia conceivably could de-feat the United States should a third World War develop solely by building and maintaining a superior submarine fleet, according to Commander Sigmund A. Bobczynski, USN, Executive Officer of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps at Notre Dame.
Commander Bobczynski, who served aboard submarines in the Pacific during World War II, told members of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Chemical Engineers that following the last war the Russians acquired German naval scientists, German submarine factories and a fleet of 120 type 21 snorkel submarines.
He said that anti-submarine warfare has been our Navy’s chief concern since the war and that the need of progress in this type of warfare is “very great.”
The Notre Dame naval officer emphasized that during World War II United States submarines accounted Z1 for the destruction or damage of 65 per cent of Japan’s maritime fleet.
Commander Bobczynski hastened to point out that the German submarine * offensive in the Atlantic was almost ■ as effective as our own in the Pacific, i and that “two or three times, the Germans almost won the war in Europe by sinking our supply ships for Britain i and the continent faster than we could ■ build them.”	$
Should the United States be driven	:
from Europe by the Soviet, according	f
to Commander Bobczynski, it would be =’ necessary to transport an army across the Atlantic to re-take the continent.
A superior submarine force might pre- , vent the United States from transport-
-ing such an army.	|
Commander Bobczynski told the No- * tre Dame engineers that the United | States is a maritime nation every bit as much as Japan. If an enemy power | could cripple our fleet and merchant 3 marine as we did to the Japanese, we B might be forced to seek “some kind £ of peace,” he declared.	S
The Scholastic S
Council Gets General ! Plans for Mardi Gras
:	General plans for the 1952 Mardi
Gras festival were set last Monday | i	night by the Student Council. The
I Council for the most part approved the p extensive plans submitted last we'ek by 5	Jerry Kelley.
However, it deferred the choosing of ,	a general chairman to a special meeting
later in the we'ek. At the Monday meet-k" ing, five men, including Kelley, were ;	nominated for the post; any other nom-
j inations were to be brought up at the 1	special session.
A surprise to the Council repre'senta-tives was the resignation of Al DeCrane, NFCCS senior delegate. DeCrane ‘ • announced that for personal reasons he was dropping both his Council and * NFCCS posts. Paul Zalecki, junior delegate, temporarily assumed his position on the Council until a new senior dele:	gate is appointed.
Ed Noonan of the Blue Circle re' ported favorably on a conference he and George Sweet, Senior class president, ’ had had with Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, <	c.s.c., executive vice- president. The
i three of them had discussed a proposed President’s Board which would be composed of Student Council officers, class officers, and leaders of certain other ac’ tivitie's. The Board is intended to provide closer unity between the administration and the student body.
Another meeting reported on was one which Jim Mannion, Council vice-president, had with the hall presidents. Man
nion reported that he had reminded the presidents of their personal responsibility toward the members of their own hall. Also he encouraged all students to report to their representatives any gripes or sugge’stions for improvement they have.
A suggestion was made to the Council by Tom Reedy, Secretary, that it attempt to get special student rates on the South Shore for weekend trips. He? pointed out that several other universities have obtained similar privileges on routes ■which they use a great deal. At the suggestion of Jim Garvin, the matter was referred to the Chicago Club whose members use the train most frequently.
'Old Heidelberg' Production Slated for Campus Dec. 10-15
Mr. Leonard F. Sommer, director of the University Theater’s newest production, Old Heidelberg, announced that the play would be performed on the afternoon of Dec. 10, and the evenings of Dec. 11, 12, and 13. Curtain is at 8:30 pan.
Tickets may be obtained in the lobby of the Dining Hall at the noon and evening meals and will be distributed, free of charge, to everyone. Ticket distribution will begin on Dec. 5 and will continue until the supply is exhausted.
Music for the production and the background chorus will be under’ the auspices of the Notre Dame Glee Club, Mr. Daniel F. Pedtke, director. The* music will be from Sigmund Romberg’s Student Prince.
Rally, Voting Machine Add Authenticity to Frosh Polls
A successful rally and an official voting machine imported from downtown South Bend produced an atmosphere of tense political activity and “watchful waiting” for hopeful Freshman candidates in the elections for Class officers yesterday.
Ballots were cast in the basement of the Dining Hall during lunch hours.
The rally was held Wednesday, at which time the various Parties introduced their respective! platforms and made plans for yesterday’s election.
The tickets of candidates were presented as follows: President, James F. Norton; vice-president, John Fitzgerald; secretary, Richard Williams; and treasurer, John P. Plessington.
The second ticket was composed of Joseph Sassano, Ralph Gugliemi, Paul Reynolds, and John Queenan, running for the respective offices. Maurice Reidy, Joseph McGlynn, Jack Stephens, and Hal Cray comprised the third group.
The last Party ticket offered Jim O’Shea, Kevin O’Donnell, Don Totten and Michael Fox.
Lany Mullins was the lone independent presidential candidate, and Bill Byrne and Charles Gorney ran as independents for the vice-presidential slot.
The elected president and vice-president will automatically become members of the Student Council. All four elected officers will work in conjunction with the Hall Representatives and the Hall Rectors in supervising Social, Religious, and Athletic affairs.
Move to the Rear of the Bus, Please!
Nov. 16,1951
13
New Campus Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Is Active in Missionary Work
By JOHN CORRIGAN
Last weekend four ND men went to Chicago, accompanied by Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C. They stayed up half the night, like most other big city weekenders, but in the process they weren’t trying to drown themselves inwardly. Instead they were attending lectures and comparing notes.
The occasion was the Ninth National Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, lasting from Nov. 7 to 11 at the Sheraton Hotel.
This fancy title probably doesn’t mean much to the average Notre Darner. However, to about 100 men on campus it has a vast significance. These are the students who have joined the Notre Dame chapter of the CCD (Confraternity of Christian Doctrine). They realized that many problems were being settled and new ideas presented at this Congress. That is why it was decided to send representatives up from school.
The local group of the CCD was formed last Spring for the purpose of spreading the Catholic faith to the members of the Church attending public high schools in town.
In South Bend, where approximately 40 per cent of the population is Catholic, only about 30 per cent of the'
CCD BRAIN TRUST
They Say You Can Change the World
Catholic students attend Catholic schools. There was a great need for this organization.
Results Were Amazing
Bill Motzel was appointed chairman of the group, and he was entrusted with the job of getting it organized both here and downtown. In what may seem like a long time to the reader, but a very short time in the eyes of the people who know the many problems faced, the CCD has actually started to teach students in just four school-months time.
Early this year a little article was inserted in the Scholastic calling for volunteers to teach these classes. The results were amazing. About 90 men signed up at that time and stragglers have been joining up to the present time. Here was a true indication that Notre Dame students take their religion seriously.
Membership in the CCD is open to all members of the student body. There are no dues or fees and no regular meetings. It is just a question of being trained a little for the job and then doing it.
The men were split up into four groups, the Adult Inquiry group, the
High school teachers, the Chapin Street missionaries, and the research committee.
The Adult group, under the chairmanship of Andy Walsh, was an addition to the original plan. Upon investigation of conditions downtown, Motzel, with the aid and helpful guidance of Monsignor Sabo, head of the South Bend Deanery, decided that there were a great many adults who needed and who would welcome instruction.
This particular group, however, holds discussions rather than classes. The teacher presents the topic and perhaps gives a short talk on it; then there is open discussion and questioning guided by the Notre Dame volunteers.
The mysteries of the Rosary are taken one by one and explained with reference to the Scriptures, and then anything else that comes up will be discussed. For example, when explaining the Annunciation a very likely question will concern angels. This topic would then be explained to the fullest. No logical order is followed in the meetings, but the framework of the mysteries forms the syllabus.
Start Second Adult Group
The first adult group was formed at Our Lady of Hungary parish with Al Rafferty leading the discussion. Just this week, Jim Reid and Mike Dolan met with the Holy Name Society of St. Augustine’s parish to start a group there. More parishes will get the help from the CCD in future weeks.
Hal Tompkins, chairman-of the High School teachers is busy setting up a syllabus to teach Christian Doctrine through the virtues, using the scriptures as a source. The teachings of Christ and St. Paul on charity, for example, will be quoted, and then the charitable acts of Christ -will be used as examples, in an effort to teach the high school students to live their religion.
Our Lady of Hungary parish was also the scene of the first high school class. Marty Brennan and John Wathen have taken over this class. Ed Horton moderates meetings of the Young People’s Club at St. Augustine’s. Both Holy Cross parish and St. Joseph’s parish will have classes within the next two weeks.
Weekly Mission Class
With the full cooperation and unlimited help of Rev. Vincent Thilman, pastor of St. Augustine’s, Dan Reardon has been working on the' establishment of a weekly mission class on Chapin Street. There are two places under consideration as likely spots to hold
14
The Scholastic

these meetings, and it is hoped that they will be started very shortly.
More problems face this group than perhaps any of the others.
The fourth committee, devoted to the task of gathering reference lists and •material to help the teachers prepare their classes, has done some of its work. However, due to the lack of men interested in this phase of the program, the ambitious schedule originally planned for the group has been curtailed. If anyone is interested in this work, he may contact John Corrigan in 528 Dillon Hall.
This committee hoped to have a complete list of books, with page references to the interesting sections, plus all the lectures given during the year, typed and placed on file by the end of the year. In this way the CCD next year-will have plenty of material to work with.
New Methods Sought
This then is the background of the men who went up to Chicago last weekend. They wanted to learn new methods of organizing the unit and the classes and of training the teachers, and find out if improvements could be made in the syllabus.
The representatives came back with many ideas on new methods.
One thing that was noted was the fact that Notre Dame is one of the few college chapters of the CCD that is attempting to teach adults. This, and all the rest of the classes have been made possible only by the cooperation of Monsignor Sabo in setting up
LISTEN TO WJVA
Tuesday, Nov. 20, at 2:45 p.m. The program is called The Christian Family.
the parishes and in securing the help of the different pastors. Another important personality without whom little could have been accomplished is the moderator of the campus CCD, Father Simonitsch.
Pope Pius XII sent a message to the meeting of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine last week. In it he quoted from the Bible: “The harvest indeed is great, but the laborers are few; pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he send laborers into his harvest.”
The CCD is part of the answer to that prayer. This organization can become an important course in the cocurriculum of any Notre Dame student.
Student Council Inaugurates New System For Auditing Finances of All Campus Clubs
A system for the auditing of the funds of campus clubs has been set up by the Blue Circle under the auspices of the Student Council. Ernest W. Buckley has charge of the auditing.
The auditing Committee was formed in the spring semester of 1951, but the plan was not put into execution until the present semester.
The American Trust Co. has been designated as the central bank at which all monies are being deposited. Each club has a special checking account, a regular feature of that bank. In such an account a book of checks is purchased and no additional charge is made.
Under the audit plan the Auditing Committee will purchase the checkbooks and stamp and issue them to the individual clubs. The Student Council has assumed an $80 liability for the checkbooks issued to the committee. When a club joins the system it must pay for the checkbook and a rubber-stamp.
Stamps and Indices
Rubber stamps have been secured for each of the clubs and will be kept by the Auditing Committee to insure that they will not -be lost. A card index has
AUDITING COMMITTEE
They Don’t Exactly Hold the Purse Strings, But . . .
been set up for all clubs registered under the system. Three cards must be signed by the president and vice-president of the club and stamped by the Audit Committee chairman. Two will go to the bank and one will be filed by the committee.
All checkbooks, pass books, deposit slips and registration cards must bear the stamp of the individual club. This is done to assure the bank of proper identification under the code name of C.C.N.D. (Campus Clubs of Notre Dame). Instead of being spread through the alphabetical files of the bank, all checks will be placed under the heading, C.C.N.D.
The books of all clubs will be audited quarterly. There will probably be only one audit, this semester, since the process of registration is incomplete. A profit and loss statement will be submitted each quarter by all clubs. The Audit Committee will then check the profit and loss statements with the bank statements and return all cancelled checks to the individual clubs. All clubs will be allowed to keep a $5 petty cash fund.
The Auditing plan is designed to help the clubs keep their finances straight and is not a limitation in any way of
Nov. 16,1951
15
the club’s right to spend their own money. Neither is it any kind of a pool from which all clubs will draw. Each has its own individual account and handles its own funds.
The plan is designed to assist the clubs in keeping track of their funds from year to year despite changes of officers, 'and to provide them with an orderly system of accounting. In past years a few clubs have lost their books or spent more money than they had. The committee ivill work in the interests of the clubs.
A meeting of the Auditing Committee and the officers of campus clubs was held early in October. About 30 of the heads of the 80-odd organizations failed to attend the meeting and register their clubs.
Chairman Buckley requests that all clubs that have not registered with the committee contact him immediately in 283 Dillon. Those clubs who fail to do this will face suspension.
Al McGinnis, Joe Giovannini, and Joe Madigan are assisting Buckley on the committee.
Campus Movies Announced
Beginning with tomorrow’s At War With the Army, six movies will be presented at the' Washington Hall Cinema during the next four weeks, according to a list just released by the Student Affairs office.
Tomorrow’s feature, a Dean Martin-Jerry Lewis farce, will be shown along with newsre'el and cartoon, at 3, 6:40, and 8.40 p.m.
The bill Wednesday night. Thanksgiving eve, calls for Half Angel, with Loretta Young. Performances will be at 6:40 and 8:25.
Barbara Stanwyck and Clark Gable co-star in To Please a Lady Nov. 24 (6:40 and 8:40), and Mario Lanza will be seen and heard as The Great Caruso Dec. 1 (1:30, 6:40, and 9).
Tea for Two is scheduled for Dec. 7 (6:40 and 8.45), with Copper Canyon planned for the following day (2, 6:40 and 8:30).
Court Prelims Begin; '50 Champs Eye Final
The Notre Dame Moot Court swung into full activity this week as preliminary arguments for the Law School’s annual Dean’s Award competition were completed and last year’s winners added thd finishing touches to their briefs in preparation for national competition.
Seven courts were in operation Tuesday and Wednesday nights and found
active participants in 49 students and faculty members of the University, aided by seven prominent attorneys from South Bend. The latter joined with a faculty member and a student to make up the trio of judges on the bench of each court.
These lawyers we're William A. Ho-sinki, George M. Eichler, Milton A. Johnson, John W. Pfaff, John W. Montgomery, Leo P. Reider, and Gerald A. Kamm.
The winning teams, plus the winner
KOREAN CLOTHING COLLECTION
During Thanksgiving week, Nov. 18-25, the spiritual works committee of the local Knights of Columbus will canvass the rooms for clothing to be given to Koreans, the expellees of Europe and the destitute in the Near and Far East. Details of the collection will be announced later in the Religious Bulletin.
of a postponed eighth court, will begin the quarter finals De'c. 17.
Meanwhile, E. Milton Farley III, Joseph C. Spalding, and R. Emmet Fitzgerald, Seniors in the College of Law, made final plans for the National Moot Court Competition starting Nov. 29 and 30 in Chicago. Farley and Spalding were the winners of last year’s Dean’s Award; Fitzgerald was runner-up and will aid the others as counsel-on-the-brief.
They will tangle with seven teams from the Seventh Judicial Circuit; the' first opponent being Chicago-Kent Law school, which won in this circuit last year. Notre Dame was second and both went to the finals in New York, as will this year’s winner and runnerup.
The finals will start Dec. 13 with 22 teams participating from the 11 circuits.
Thd case being adjudicated concerns the rights of a person testifying before a Congressional Investigating Committee, with special emphasis on the TV and radio angles of the proceedings. Notre Dame will argue for the respondent, the United States in this case.
However, after the first arguments a team may be required to change sides, so it has to be prepared for both situations.
Each team has 35 minutes to present its arguments and to answer the questions of the judges. The winner will compete in at least three arguments in Chicago and four or five in New York City.—Carl Eiberger
Best in Entertainment Lures Mobs Weekly
With the year 1934 a new feature was added to the University’s recreation program. Since that time this means of entertainment has assumed a commanding position among Notre Dame’s most honored traditions.
Both weekend and holiday eve, year after year, the huge and ever-growing crowds have stormed the doors of venerable old Washington Hall to witness this spectacle—to laugh at it, scoff at it, applaud it, heckle it, but above all to be entertained by that time-honored form of free amusement known to all as the Saturday night movies.
Since the first presentation, back in the days before the soundtrack when records were used, the movies today in Washington Hall attract an average of 1300 students—three showings a day.
The films are obtained on a regular rental basis from the stocks offered to the area by the leading film producers. The reason for no “first runs” is that the films are from secondary stocks of shows that have already been presented by the commercial movie houses throughout the district.
Selections from the available shows are made by. Brother Robert, curator of Washington Hall, with the approval primarily of the Office of Student Affairs. The individual films are selected from available stock on their artistic merit and entertainment value, at the same time complying with the demands of good taste and propriety.
Catholic Players Do Encore In 2-Night Stand Dec. 5-6
The Catholic Players, travelling dramatists who played to a packed house at Notre Dame last year with their presentation of Macbeth and Arms and the Man, will return to the University as a feature of the Concert and Lecture Series for a two day stand, Dec. 5 and 6, at Washington Hall. Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night will be Wednesday night’s offering, and The School for Wives by Moliere -will be presented the following evening.
Tickets may be purchased from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. Nov. 28-30, and Dec. 3-4 at either the Washington Hall ticket office or in the Dining Hall lobby. All seats will be reserved.
General admission price is $1 and student tickets are 60 cents. Both a ticket and a student ID card will be required for the admission of each student.
16
The Scholastic
1
'f
Chinese Ambassador Talks at Law Confab
Dr. Hu Shih, former Chinese Ambassador to the United States, has accepted an invitation to speak at the fifth anniversary convocation of the Natural Law Institute, to be held De'c. 14 and 15 in the College of Law at the University of Notre Dame.
The two-day program of the Natural - Law Institute proper, which is expected to attract legal experts from all parts of the United States, ■will be devoted to the Natural Law philosophy in the nonChristian tradition.
Speakers are being procured from leading non-Christian sects of the world. It was previously announced that one of the leading speakers will be Dr. Solomon B. Freehof, of Pittsburgh, Pa., nationally prominent Jewish rabbi. Other speakers will be announced in the near future.
Dr. Hu Shih, a native of Shanghai, was named to serve as Chinese Ambassador to the United States from 1938 to 1942 during the Chinese-Japanese conflict. After retiring from the diplomatic service, he served as President of the National Peking University from 1946 to 1949. He is currently a Fellow of the Princeton University Library and Curator of the Gest Oriental Library at Princeton.
Father of Chinese Renaissance
Dr. Hu Shih is best known in China and abroad as the father of the Chinese literary renaissance. It was during his post-graduate days at Cornell and Columbia universitie’s, while studying in America on a Boxer Indemnity Scholarship, that he began to debate with his Chinese friends about the future of Chinese literature.
During this period he also began to formulate: his own views on the Chinese literary renaissance, which in essence consists of the use of the living spoken tongue of the vast majority of the Chinese people to replace the de'ad classical language both as a medium of literary and poetic composition.
Dr. Hu Shih is the author of many books in Chinese, including a volume of History of Chinese Philosophy, History of the Living Literature of China, and four series of his Selected Essays.
The anniversary convocation of the Natural Law Institute also will be highlighted by a return of speakers of the four prior Institutes who will participate in panel discussions with the public. This innovation in the proceedings will be held Dec. 11, 12 and 13.
Aims of the Notre Dame Natural Law Institute include a better and more general public understanding, appreciation and observance of the Natural Law, along with recognition and acceptance of the Natural Law by the nations and pe'ople of the world.
Pre-Registration Underway, To Continue Till Wednesday
Pre-registration for courses in the second semester for the 1951-52 academic year, which began yesterday, will continue through next Wednesday, Nov. 21.
Students should report to their deans on the day assigned. There is a §10 fee imposed on students who register after the close of the specified registration period.
The registration periods for the different colleges are being announced as follows: Arts and Letters, as notified by letter; Commerce, as notified by letter; Law, Engineering, and Physical Education, as announced in class and on the respective bulletin boards.
Since students obligate themselves to take the courses for which they preregister, they should consult the current academic bulletins of their colleges and such instructions as posted by their deans to avoid later difficulties.
Students interested in working for a teacher’s certificate should consult Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner. Head of the Department of Education, Room 125, Social Science Building, for information concerning the course requirements for the various states.
Liberal Arts Cornerstone Ceremonies Set for Nov. 23
Cornerstone ceremonies for the new I. A. O’Shaughnessy LibeTal and Fine Arts Building are to be conducted next Friday at 1:30 p.m.
All students in the College of Arts and Letters will be dismissed from class for the ceremonies.
Following the playing of the! Star Spangled Banner, Father Hesburgh, C.S.C., master of ceremonies, will introduce Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, donor of the new building.
His address will be followed by a brief talk by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the! University.
The Board of Trustees, as well as the University vice-presidents and Student Council members, will be present for the blessing and actual laying of the corne'rstone.
The proceedings are expected to last approximately 30 minutes.
Civil Service Exams Given Highway Engineer Trainees
The U.S. Civil Service Commission has announced a highway engineer trainee examination for filling jobs paying §3,100 and §3,825 a year.
The highway engifineer trainee program offers an opportunity to qualified persons to participate in special training programs in the Bureau of Public Roads and to become acquainted with the work of the bureau.
To qualify, all applicants must pass a written test. Applicants for jobs paying §3,100 per year must have completed three-fourths of the total number of credits required for the bachelor’s degree in civil engineering; and applicants for jobs paying §3,825 per year must have completed at least a four-year professional civil engineering curriculum, or have had four years of professional civil engineering experience, or show a combination of such education and experience.
Applications will be accepted from college students who expect to complete the required amount of study by Sept. 30, 1952.	.
Further information and application forms may be obtained from most firstand second-class post offices, from Civil Service regional offices, or from the Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Applications will be accepted by the Commission’s Washington office until February 5, 1952.
Geography Experts to Discuss 'Stratigraphy of Oklahoma*
“Stratigraphy of Oklahoma” will be the subject of a talk by Robert H. Dott, director of the Oklahoma Geographical Survey, before the Notre Dame Geology Club Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Main Building.
Mr. Dott will base his discussion, of the importance of the rocks of Oklahoma to the mineral industry in the United States, on a large number of Kodachrome slides of rock outcropings in the state.	.
The stratigraphy of Oklahoma is important to all the mid-continental belt, for similar conditions existed over much of the area east of the Rocky Mountains in the geologic past. Mr. Dott will discuss formations from the granite basement to recent river deposits, bringing out the advance in knowledge regarding many of the strata.'
New facts have been brought to light, and new conceptions of their relationship to one another and to oil, gas and other mineral concentrations have been developed.
17
Nov. 16,1951
MY
Meet
the
Press
£ i


a
t

$
Fifty hours ago the page which you are now reading was a blank sheet of paper being fed into the grippers of a rumbling printing press. A few short hours before that, this story lay, a mass of cold type, “locked-up” in forms in the composing room. Going back further to last Monday, your copy of this week’s Scholastic existed merely as a stack of typewritten papers in the office of Ave Maria Press.
Every week your Scholastic, as well as many other publications, travels the long and interesting journey from editor’s copy to finished magazine through the modern facilities of Ave Maria Press. For over eighty years, the “Ave” has been printing huge volumes of publications for the University and the Congregation of Holy Cross.
A one story, cream, brick-and-lime-stone building, Ave Maria Press occupies a site behind the Power Plant and the Firehouse, overlooking the now frigid waters of St. Joseph’s Lake. With
Text by JOE IMBRIACO Photos by AL MUTH
its modern presses and technical facilities, the “Ave” is the home not only of Scholastic, but also of the national Catholic family magazine, The Ave Maria, these two alone having a circulation of over 60,000 a week.
The growth of the Press has closely paralleled that of Notre Dame. Twenty-four years after the first classes were held at the University, Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founded The Ave Maria, a family magazine devoted to spreading devotion to the Blessed Virgin. To print the magazine Father Sorin established Ave Maria Press in 1865, whose first holne was a two-story building fashioned of marl brick made by the Brothers of Holy Cross.
This L-shaped building running North-South behind the Main Building between the Convent and Father Lange’s Gym, deteriorated rapidly but remained for sixty years the home of Ave Maria Press. In 1940 the present modern building was erected, “way out” on the east side of St. Joseph’s Lake.
Advanced Technical Facilities
The “Ave” proudly boasts now of the most advanced technical facilities. The battery of presses includes a Kelly automatic, a Goss Magazine, three Miehle and three jobbing presses. Together* with five intertypes, two folders and two trimmers, the Press can handle a large volume of letterpress printing.
A tour through the plant is filled with
interesting guide and barr, C.S.C. transforms
scenes, especially when the interpreter is Brother Fin-To follow the procedure that a stack of edited copy into
the finished magazine, let’s trace the
18
The Scholastic

Preparing the Copy
.1
Frank Guenferf
pages are “locked
Making Up the Magazine
‘Scholastic” Goes to Press
steps required for running off the 7,000 copies of the Notre Dame Scholastic each week.
up” in this steel frame, forming a rigid plate of type. They comprise the “first form.”
a “chase.” The 16
Seven-thirty Monday morning: Most of the edited copy is in the office of the “Ave.” Making allowances for late stories, the copy goes into the Composing Room late Monday, or early Tuesday morning. Lining the walls are five large, clacking, Rube Goldberg-like affairs called “intertype machines.” Running through the center of the room are a number of bdnch-like imposing “stones” on which the “floor” work is done. The smell of printers’ ink meets you as you watch the rattling intertype machines set up in “galleys” the type for next Friday’s stories. The galleys are oblong trays in which the type for the story is set up, line by line.
Once the story has been set up in long columns of type, it is brought to the proof press which runs off one proof— the first “galley proof.” This proof goes back to the Reading Room where the proofreader examines it for errors. The proofreader then sends the corrected or “cleaned” galley proof back to the Composing Room where the corrections are made in the set-up type.
Late Tuesday: The make-up men have begun their important task of “making up” the pages of the magazine from the long galley forms to page size. The Scholastic editors have, by this time, supplied the fioor-man with a “dummy” of the magazine, which shows the location of all articles and pictures on their respective pages. When a page is made-up, a second proof—the “page proof”— is run off and checked again for errors.
The “floor” man places 16 made-up pages within a large steel frame called
A “TECHNICAL REVIEW” LOCKUP
and Brother Fernand, C.S.C., Working On the Press Form
Wednesday Morning: The “locked-up job” is rolled into the Press Room for the actual printing. Opening the door which separates the Composing from the Press room, the roar of operating presses drowns out most conversation. The presses are scattered across a creosoted wood-block floor in this high-ceilinged part of Ave Maria Press. Some of the presses may be idle, which means that they are being' made
ready for the next publication to' go on; if so, you see the pressmen adjusting the machine and cleaning the rollers. You smell the sharp odor of a kerosenelike ink solvent.
Once the locked-up job is set into the press, the rollers inked and the paper feed set. the switch is thrown and, at the rate of 2000 an hour, what were large, 36" x 48", blank sheets of paper flip from the other end with the impression of 16 pages of the Scholastic on one side of the sheet.
Thursday Morning: The same process occurs for the remaining 16 pages.
Friday Morning: These large sheets are sent to the folder and then to the
A COUPLE OF HANDY MACHINES TO HAVE AROUND
LEFT: The Gang Stitcher, Which Attaches the Covers; RIGHT: a Goss Press, Which Emits 32 Folded Pages at a Clip.
THREE CHECKS AT THE “AVE,” TOO
All Proofs Are Reread Thoroughly to Find and Correct Every Possible Error
s
bindery whfere covers are attached and the magazine stapled and trimmed.
The Final Step
1
I i
All that remains to be done is to deliver the finished Scholastic to you on Friday afternoon, as was this copy delivered to you today.
Slightly less than a ton of paper and ink was handled, and an equal amount of ingot metal used in the process. That is the reason why printers and pressmen acquire a rugged physique.
The steps in printing are virtually the same for all publications, except that
1
8
JOE GUENTERT	GENE GUENTERT
“Pop,” a Fifty-year Printer ... His Son Intertyping the Story
when photographs are needed, Ave Maria Press employs the facilities of four engraving companies to make the zinc and copper plates.
The Scholastic itself represents a minute fraction of the total volume of publications at the “Ave.” The Ave Maria magazine is the Press’ largest printing job, with a weekly circulation of over 50,000, yet even this represents only about one-fourth of the volume of work done. Printing The Ave Maria is virtually an automatic process with a Goss Magazine Press. Paper is fed in from 60" rolls at one end and emerges a thirty-two page folded maga
BROTHERS HNBARR & SABINUS, C.S.C. The Office: “Operation Deadline!”
The Scholastic
zine, needing but to be covered, stapled “ and trimmed before being shipped out £ to subscribers all over the world.	&
Besides the Reading, Composing, and Press rooms, the Ave plant contains a * storage room in which rolls of paper stock, each averaging 1300 lbs, are piled up to the ceiling like huge logs. Other storage space is in the basement, where type is melted and recast into lead ingots for the intertypes. In the Mailing room, two addressing machines spe'ed the dispatching and sacking of the many thousands of magazines each week across the country. Temperature and humidity control, necessary for fine printing, are thermostatically regulated.
An Imposing List
Besides The Ave Maria and the Scho- 4 Lastic, the Press is the printer of the Notre Dame Alumnus, the Juggler, Notre Dame Magazine, the University Bulletins, and the Technical Review.
The Review of Politics, The American Midland Naturalist, the Nieuwland and Reilly Lecture Series, and Lobund Reports are other professional journals printed.
In addition, the Press furnishes the University Departments with their office forms and mailing pieces, and is also thd printer for the University of Notre Dame Press’ textbook, monograph, and symposium publications.
The Associate of St. -Joseph, Brothers of Holy Cross, Vocational Digest, Du-jarie Press publications, Religious Bulletin mailing edition, and the Mission Band's News Letter just about complete the list. The “Ave,” too, as publisher, has its own imposing list of book and pamphlet publications.
20
Directors and Staff
Ave Maria Press has the unique distinction of being the only major activity on campus that is not directly operated by the University Administration. It was set up to serve the Congregation’s printing needs and also those of the University. It has its own Board of Directors: Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, c.s.c., and Rev. Felix D. Duffey, c.s.c., Editor and Associate Editor, respectively, of the weekly Ave Maria; Brother Alcuin, C.S.C., Business managed; Brother Duncan, c.s.c., Treasurer; and Brother Sabinus, C.S.C., superintendent of printing and production, charter member of the Michiana Printing House Craftsmens’ Club, and printing- apprentice trainer for the Veterans’ Administration.
The staff includes three Associate Editors, Fathers Thomas A. Lahey, c.s.c., Thomas E. Burke, C.s.c., and James F. McElhone, c.s.c., and two Sisters, twenty-eight Brothers, and fifteeh employed lay personnel. In addition, there are also nine Brothers canvassing throughout the nation in the interest of The Ave Maria magazine.
'Porgy and Bess' First In WND Opera Series
A complete opera will be presented every Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. over WND, Program Director Tom Knott announced this week. Last Sunday inaugurated the new programming innovation as George Gershwin’s Porgy and Bess was presented.
The opera has been scheduled both in an effort to present an interesting and listenable Sunday evening’ show and to increase the amount of classical music scheduled over WND, Knott explained.
The campus station was also preparing this week for its final ‘open house” of the year, a gala affair planned particularly with the advertisers in mind, to be held the day of the Iowa game, Nov. 24.
Station Manager Bill Ryan announces that while everyone will be welcome, there will be a special exhibit planned honoring the station’s advertisers.
According to Ted Byrne, technical •chief, Studio B is nearing completion after a bit of remodeling work, and it should be in operation before the “open house” program. The newly-arranged studio will have two turntables, loudspeakers and earphone hook-ups, and automatic cut-off attachments when the announcer is on the air.
It will be run completely by the announcer and should cut down a number of the engineering faults which have plagued the campus station this year.
Plans are also being made by the student voice with Scholastic advertising manager Ron Zier to conduct a joint poll of the student body to discover statistical material on campus buying, reading, and listening habits.
Commercemen Steal Away for Excursion
Under- cover of early-morning darkness, according to reliable sources, several students were spied deserting the campus Monday.
Immediate investigation revealed that the party consisted of 28 students and five faculty members, bound for the annual field trip of the Commerce Forum. They boarded a special bus at 4:30 a.m. Monday and returned to the University late Tuesday evening.
The morning of the first day was devoted to a visit to the Gerity plant, home of the “Dishmaster” dishwasher. The various processes of the plating industry were explained to the students by the factory staff.
A luncheon at the Lenawee Country Club was followed by the introduction of the various plant officials. The Forum members were given an opportunity to question the executives regarding their duties in the operations of the industry.
That evening the students joined the Case Institute of Cleveland in a banquet at the Deai’born Inn in Detroit.
Tuesday was spent on a tom- of the Pontiac Division of the General Motors Corporation, in Pontiac, Mich.
Mass Schedule
Monday, Nov. 19—Feast of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, Colls. 2. •
Tuesday, Nov. 20—Feast of St. Felix of Valois.
Wednesday, Nov. 21—Feast of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Thursday, Nov. 22—Feast of St. Cecilia.
Friday, Nov. 23—Feast of St. Clement I.
Saturday, Nov. 24—Feast of St. John of the Cross.
Sunday, Nov. 25—Last Sunday after Pentecost, Colls. 2.
Monday, Nev. 26—Feast of St. Sylvester.
Tuesday, Nov. 27—Mass of the Season.	.
Wednesday, Nov. 28—Mass of the Season.
Thursday, Nov. 29—Feast of the Vigil of St. Andrew.
Friday, Nov. 30—Feast of St. Andrew.
Saturday, Dec. 1—Votive Mass of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Glee Club Presents First Concert Nov. 25
The 1951 version of the Notre Dame Glee Club will make its debut in Chicago Nov. 25 at 3:15 p.m. when it presents a well-selected program to the Illinois Athletic Club. Another' performance will be given on the afternoon of the 26th to the National 4-H Congress of the International Harvester Company.
The 36 members of the Glee Club plan to leave Nov. 25 at noon and return that Monday night. Accommodations have been made for them to stay at the Knickerbocker Hotel in Chicago.
Soloists for this program will be pianist James C. Etling, who will play Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody; John Noland, tenor, singing Addio, a Neapolitan folk-song; and Gene Fanning, baritone, singing My Hero.
The program for the performance on the 25th will consist of:
Lacrymoset by Mozart from the Requiem Hallelujah Chorus by Handel
Regina Coeli from Cavellaria Rusti-cana by Mascagni
Negro Spirituals De Animals and.
Swing Low, Sweet Chariot
Service Medley of Anchors Aweigh, Marine’s Hymn, and Air Force Song
College Medley: selection of ten college songs, including ND Victory March
Similar performances will be given, on the evening of Dec. 6, at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago, to the National Conference of Christians and Jews, and Dec. 9 in Hammond, Ind.
21
Nov. 16, 1951


The belles of St. Mary’s. Wonder what they’ll be' like? This is a long walk to make on such a sloppy night. And dark. Too dark. Can’t see the puddles ’til you’re out of them. Don’t know why I cut the pep rally for this. Oh, well, might have a better chance to find out the score than at those tea dances. Huh, big deal, those tea dances. St. Mary’s- > tea dance, tea dance-St. Mary’s. You’d think that’s the way it was around here. No one without the other. So how many tea dances do they have?
Two! Two dances for all that talk. G How do you suppose I’ll find a girl with I only two dances? Ten to one odds, it said. Their throw in those Seniors. . . . Big guns, all of them. Cynics. ‘Me go to a tea dance? You crazy?’ For a bunch of cynical upperclassmen, they sure manage to lower theinselves i enough to take over the whole thing. Don’t give a darn, either. Just spoil things for everyone else. Ten to one? Thirty to one’s more likg it. Yellow light blinking. Oh, well, it’s early yet. Wonder why there were only two dances. Maybe they’re burned about that Lambert business. But then, if that , were so they wouldn’t have this deal tonight.
Ah, they probably can’t leave us alone. Wonder when that light’s gonna change? Still, it ought to be interesting, if only the big wheels stay at the rally a while. At least I hope it is, though some of the boys are still willing to let them go fly their brooms. But I’m pretty magnanimous that way. Give ’em a break, I always say. These new innovations should go over good. Having it on the night of a pep rally sure wont. This slipping and sliding in the slush doesn’t either. The old feet
§
Leave It to the Girls

Text by John Slavick Photos by Tom Fleck
THE FORTUNATE ONES
For Them, Parties in the Clubhouse . . .
L
of cold. When’s that
are getting kind
quite
There’s something’ that
No,
some innovating.
thanks, I’ll just look around for myself if I may. Whew, there’s one’ that bit
May-Well
might as well. My singing’s not as bad as my card playing.
Oh, oh, they’ve stopped singing, be they saw us coming. Food?
at the door, could stand

. . AND FAR OUTNUMBERING THEM, THE LESS FORTUNATE BUT EVER-WILLING For Them, the Sportsman’s Life . . . Bridge and Ping-pong in the Rec Room.
light gonna change? Must’ve been standing here for five minutes already. -Think of the driver all the time. Don’t bother with the lousy pedestrian. Look at thd spots on those shoes. Least if I were wearing a suit something would look good. This sweater. . . .
Say do you happen to know when that light changes? I’ve been stariding here for—What? It doesn’t change? You cross when you’ve got the chance? Naw, ha, ha, I’ve! only been here a second. I was just wondering. Well, that’s what I call putting a foot in the old mouth. He must’ve thought this was my first time. Well, here we go. And wouldn’t you know it, a hostess right
the dust. Gee, this looks like quite an affair. Talk about madhouses. What’s everyone doing? Can’t see any dancing going on, for all the noise. Oh, yeah, over in the comer. That looks like’ a phonograph, but I’ll be darned if I can hear it. Hi, Don. What do you think? No, it isn’t, not as bad as those tea dances anyhow? Yeah, I suppose we
let’s grab some. Hmmf, look’s like some guys come here just to eat. They must be the cynical ones. Just listen to them. ‘Who’s been diluting this stuff?’ ‘Donuts kind of greasy, too.’ ‘I swear that one’s on her twelfth.’ Those are the kind of guys that spoil it for everyone else. I hear they call ’em Lamber-tians around here. Well, look at that.
Pingpong, yet. Say, there’s a couple of pretty nice ones near the table!. Time to shed the wallflower act and make a bid. I’ll be darned. Is this doll actually talking to me? Things are beginning to look up. Say, what are the lights blinking on and off for? Don’t tell me it’s time to go. Oh, oh, here comes another one.
Yes ma’am, I know it’s time to leave. I was just going. Well, that wasn’t bad think of the little mixer? Oh, did you thing of the little mixer? Oh, did you really? Just met her, you say? No. I didn’t do badly myself, if I do say so. As a matter of fact, I got a date for the Victory Dance next Saturday. Wdll, that’s the breaks of the game. There goes St. Mary’s, slowly sinking in the West. Yeah, I had fun. Think you’ll be going back? You know, I probably will myself.
WORDS AND MUSIC
For Some, “I’ve Been Working on the Railroad” . . . for Othe rs, “Stardust” . . . for All, a Bit of Everything . . . Mostly Good.
COLLEGE LALAII
•“Do you ever get homesick?”
“Yes, that’s why I left home.” ■
Prof: “What three words are used most by college students?”
Student: “I don’t know.”
Prof: “That’s correct.”
■
A watch repairer can fix any temporary difficulties, but a priest is needed for the repair of eternal-breakdowns.
■
The terse biography of the threetime divorcee who had wed a millionaire, an actor, a preacher, and finally an undertaker: “One for the money, two for the show, three to get ready, and four to go.”
■
A bore is a man who talks about himself when you want to talk about yourself.
■
A Lucifer cake was her worst cooking experience. She used an angel food recipe, but it fell.
■
Professor: A textbook wired for sound. ■
A bunch of germs were hitting it up In the bronchial saloon.
Two bugs on the end of the larynx were jazzing a rag-time tune.
While back of the teeth in a solo game
Sat dangerous Dan Kerchoo,
And watching his pluse was his light of lovd,
The Lady that’s known as Flu.
Prof: “If there are any morons in this class will they please stand up?”
A long pause and then a lone student slowly rose to his feet.
Prof: “What? Do you consider yourself a moron?”
Student: “Well, not exactly, sir, but I hate to se'e you standing up there all . by yourself.”
The little chap was sitting on the curb with a cigarette in his mouth and a flask in his hand when an elderly lady came up to him.
“Sonny, why aren’t you in school?” she asked.
“Lady, I’m only three.”
■
A faith healer ran into his old friend Max and asked him how things were going.
“Not so good,” was the pained reply. “My brother is very sick.”
“Your brother isn’t sick” contradicted the faith healer, “he only thinks he’s sick. Remember that, he only thinks he’s sick.”
Two months later they met again and the faith healer asked Max, “How’s your brother now?”
“Worse,” groaned Max. “He thinks he’s dead.”
■
Sign in baker’s shop window:
“Pies like mother used to make—30 ceiits.”
“Pies like mother used to think she made—60 cents.”
■
He: “The desert stretched out on all sides of me. I raised my rifle; it went off with a crack, and there ahe'ad of me lay a dead bear.”
Sweet Thing: “How long had it been dead?”
ENGLISH ESSENTIALS
Juniors and Seniors who have not yet passed the Freshman English “Essentials” examination may take the exam Monday, Nov. 19, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Rooms 250 and 254 Main Building. Please have your ID cards with you.
“Mother: Papa, Robert’s teacher says he ought to have an encyclopedia.”
“Papa: Let him walk to school like I did.”
■
“You are always -wishing for what you haven't got.”
“Well, what else can one wish for?”
■
Sunday School Teacher: “Lot was warned to take his wife and flee out of the city, and she was turned into a . pillar of salt.”
“Little Boy: “Please, teacher, what happened to the flea?”
■
The eager relatives gathered for the reading of the will. It contained one sentence: “Being of sound mind, I spent every cent I had.” ■
Real Estate Agent: “Now here’s a house without a flaw7.”
Harvard grad: “What on earth do you walk on?” ■
“What happened to your finger?” “Oh, I was downtown getting some
cigarettes yesterday and some clumsy fool stepped on my hand.”
■
“For- $4000, I’ll endorse your cigarettes," said the movie queen.
“$4000! I’ll see you inhale first,” replied the agent.
■
He only drinks to calm himself.
His steadiness to improve.
Last night he got so steady, He couldn’t even move.
■
Then there’s the one about the observant fellow who remarked to his girl: “Your stockings are rather wrinkled.”
“You brute,” exclamied the girl, “I have no stockings on!”
■
A group of prohibitionists looking for evidence of the advantages of the total abstinence were told of an old man of 102 who had never touched a drop of liquor. They rushed to his home for a statement. After propping him up in bed and guiding his feeble hand along the dotted line, they heard a violent disturbance from the next room—furniture being broken, dishes being smashed, an<J the shuffling of feet.
“Good heavens, what’s that?”
“Oh,” whispered the old man as he sank exhaustedly into his pillow, “that’s Pa, drunk again.”
■
The gunman rushed into the saloon waving and shooting his gun and yelling: “All you dirty crumbs scram outa here.”
All the patrons left except one mild-looking man who remained at the bar drinking.
“Well,” barked the gunman.
“Goodness,” observed the mild one, “There certainly were a lot 'of them, weren’t there?”
■
An asylum patient, who had been certified cured was saying goodbye to the director of the institution. “And what are you going to do when you get out into the world?” asked the director.
“Well,” said the patient, “I have passed my bar examinations, so I may practice law. I have also had quite a bit of experience in college dramatics, so I might try acting.”
He paused for a moment, deep in thought. “Then, on the other hand,” he continued, “I may be a teakettle.”
■
Girl: “My dad takes things apart to see why they don’t go.”
Boy: “So what?”
Girl: “So you’d better go.”
■
George Washington: “Yes, father, I cannot tell a lie. I cut your sherry.”
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
North Carolina Host to Irish Tomorrow
Notre Dame Attempts to Hit Comeback Trail After Defeat By Spartans—Leahy's Worst
By ROGER FERNANDES
A PASS TO HEAP (42) BROKEN UP On Their First Play From Scrimmage
Tomorrow Notre Dame’s young Irish, hoping to rebound from the stunning defeat by Michigan State, will meet the North Carolina Tar Heels at Chapel Hill, N. C. It will be the first appearance in that area of a Notre Dame team.
The situation at Chapel Hill this year has been much like the one here at Notre Dame. The Tar Heels are trying to make a comeback from last year’s disastrous season (the worst under Coach Snavely with three wins, five losses and two ties) with a young, inexperienced squad.
More than half of the men on their ’51 rostei* are sophomores and freshmen. But the North Carolinians have twenty-five returning lettermen, sixteeen of whom played more or less regularly on either offense or defense. Most of the sophomores on the team were members of the state co-championship freshman team of last year.
But when the ’-51 campaign records are compared the cold statistics show that the Tar Heels have not fared as well as ND. The Irish have won five out of seven outings while North Carolina has triumphed only twice while dropping six, the last four in a row.
Three of their six defeats, however, have been to such high ranking ball clubs as Tennessee, Maryland, and Texas. The Tar Heels opened their season with a 21-0 victory over North Carolina State. They finished the next two games on the shoit end of the score to Georgia 16-28 and to Texas 20-45.
North Carolina bounced back to take South Carolina 21-6 before starting their current four-game skid. Unbeaten Maryland edged them 14-7 and then neighboring Wake Forest administered a 39-7 beating. Top ranking Tennessee white-washed them 27-0 and last Saturday Virginia vanquished the
BARRETT (37) CHURNS THROUGH SMALL HOLE . . . IRISH TACKLERS PURSUE DOROW (47)
Irish Too Green for Green and White
Nov. 16,1951
COACH SNAVELY AND TACKLE KUHN
Beaten Two Times in Ty/o Years in Hard Fought Battles
Tar Heels for the second consecutive year as they handed out a 34-14 whipping.
Notre Dame and North Carolina have met twice previously. Two years ago in Yankee Stadium, the Irish broke loose in the final half to score 36 points for a 42-6 rout of the plucky rebels. Last season Leahy’s lads slipped past the Tar Heels in the ND opener 14-7 .on the strength of two scoring passes from Bob Williams to Jim Mutscheller.
Blocking Gets Attention
So far this Fall the fancy punting of Buddy Wallace has been the strong
est weapon. His fine kicks helped to hold down the score in the Tennessee defeat.
North Carolina’s offense hasn’t been functioning very smoothly and this past week Coach Snavely has been trying to improve his running and passing attack. Offensive blocking has received most of the attention.
The defensive platoon, led by Captain Joe Dudeck, has proved plenty tough. Dudeck, a two-year letter-winner, is a rugged and vicious 195-pound guard, who is a strong candidate for All- -American honors this year. Other returning stars from last season’s NC
squad are tackles Dalton Ruffin and Bill Kuhn, ends Danny Walser and Bill O’Brien, and backs Bob Gantt, Ernie Liberati, Wallace, Chalmers Port and Dick Wiess.
Weiss and Wallace are the top scorers for the Blue and White. Weiss is also the Tar Heels’ work horse when it comes to carrying the ball. Other top runners are Gantt and fullback John Gaylord.
Tailback Frank Wissman is the top passer with a completion percentage of well over 50 per cent. His favorite targets are the versatile Wallace, Skeet Hesmer, and Jeff Newton.
Leahy’s Worst Defeat
Last Saturday, Michigan State’s sparkling Spartans made their big bid for the National Collegiate Championship as they smashed Notre Dame’s bewildered gridders 35-0. It was the worst defeat suffered by the Irish since they were routed 48-0 by Army back in 1945 and the worst ever experienced by a Leahy-coached team.
Last weekend’s encounter at East Lansing was touted by many as the game of the year. It may well have been the game that made Michigan State the National Champs of ’51. On their very first play of the contest the Spartans sent Dick Panin through the middle of the Irish for 88 yards and a touchdown.
Captain Bob Carey added the first of five straight successful conversions. They scored another before the period ended and then added single TD’s in each of the next three quarters.
CAROLINA BACK BOB GANTT
High Stepping and Hard Running Specialist
JOE DUDECK
Has Proved Plenty Tough
The Scholastic
Cage Squad Shapes Up for Coming Season; Johnny Jordan Expects Good Year on Court
By BOB FROLICHER
“We have the nucleus of a good basketball team.” That is what JohnnyJordan, basketball coach, had to say of the 1951-52 hoopsters.
For five weeks the Irish have been practicing under the watchful guidance of Coach Jordan and his assistant, Johnny Dee, attempting to form a winning combination for the coming cage season. Two quintets have been working together for the most pai-t. The first includes Norb “Gootch” Lewinski, Leroy Leslie, Joe Bertrand, Entee Shine, and Don Strasser, while Jack •Neumayer, Bill Sullivan, Dick Rosenthal, Gerry McCloskey, and Jim Gibbons form the other.
At the start of the practice routine daily twenty minute scrimmages were held, but they now have been lengthened to forty minutes. Practice also includes warming up shots and spending a half hour a day on the half court offense and defense drills.
Notre Dame intends to employ the fast break and single pivot with the addition of some double pivot plays. The aforementioned quintet of Lewinski, Bertrand, Leslie, Shine, and Strasser execute the fast break exceptionally well. Jordan will use the shifting man to man defense.
Standouts in practice have been Bertrand, Leslie, Shine and Jack Stephens. Jack is a Freshman who has shown well in practice and un
IRISH SQUAD IN PRE-SEASON SCRIMMAGE “We Have the Nucleus of a Good Basketball Team”
doubtedly will see a great deal of action with the varsity this year.
One asset to the team this year will be the great depth behind the starting five. The Irish have more reserves than Notre Dame has had in recent years, mainly because of the returning lettermen and because of the good freshman group from last year.
However, the Irish face one of the toughest schedules in Notre Dame history. They play a total of twenty-six games, only nine of which are on their home court. Prior to this year twenty-four had been the most games an Irish team had played. The opening game of the year, Saturday, December 1, will pit the Irish against a new foe in St. Thomas of St. Paul, Minn. The game will be played in the Twin Cities.
The following Tuesday Wabash will be the opponent for the first home game of the season. December 8 will see Jordan’s squad invade Madison, Wisconsin to play the always rugged Badgers. Year after year the Wiscon-sin-ND game has been one of the best on the Irish card.
Because of the numerous road trips Jordan stated, “We’ll have to have the breaks and make use of them, which means we’ll have to win the close ones.” St. Louis, Kentucky, Louisville, NYU, Indiana, and Purdue are the Irish’s toughest opponents this season.
Mr. Jordan sums it up this way: “With what is back from last year, the good material and some good prospects the team shows great promise. But it’s the same as football. We have a lot of untried Sophomores and only the games will tell the story.”
LEWINSKI AND ROSENTHAL (19)
One of the Toughest Schedules
BERTRAND AND STRASSER (9) Good Starters and Good Reserves
Nov. 16,1951
27

Mutscheller Breaks Record; Worden Leads Irish Attack
About the only bright spot in an otherwise dim day for Notre Dame last Saturday was that Captain Jim Mutscheller, right end, broke one of the
career pass-catching records of former Irish All-American Leon Hart. Against the Spartans, Mutscheller caught his 50th pass. Hart, in four years, caught 49. Hart still leads Mutscheller in yards gained through pass receptions with a total of 751 compared to Mutscheller’s
JIM MUTSCHELLER
Grabbed His 50th Saturday
640. Mutscheller still has three games in which to gain that total of 111 yards, however.
The rest of the statistics picture remained about the same. John Lattner-retained his lead in the rushing department with an average of 6.4 yards in 22 carries. Neil Worden continues to hold the top spot in total yards gained by rushing with 448 yards in 118 carries—an average per try of 3.8 yards.
In only one department did the Irish keep up the pace set earlier in the season, that of recovering opponents’ fumbles. Notre Dame recovered two of three Spartan bobbles, and for the season have recovered 18 out of 28 times that their opponents have fumbled. Lattner and linebacker Dan Shannon have each recovered three.
While the Irish defensive performance against Michigan State was the least effective of the season, they still have held their season’s opponents to an average gain on the ground of only 2.9 yards per play.
Splinters fromtiffiressbox
By Jack Varley
Where’s the Spirit?
“I don’t know, they just don’t seem to have the spirit that we had. That was about the deadest Notre Dame pep rally I ever attended,” an old grad told u§ after the Indiana rally. On the other side of the fence, students were quoted as saying there was more spirit for that particular “rouser” than any they had seen in four years with the exception of last year’s Michigan State affair. So for some reason what the students thought was an outstanding display of spirit was looked upon by old grads as a flop. And, we don’t think that it was just an example of an oldster bragging “our days and ours were much better than your days and yours” because too many alumni have commented on the lack of spirit of the Notre Dame student.
If there is a difference in the quality of spirit, and we think there is, there must be some reason for it. One answer is that the students don’t know their team; they don’t have the feeling that the squad that charges into the stadium four times a year is theirs ... as it should be. The possible reason for this is that the vast majority of the student body gets to see this team but about five times a year (the four home games and the Old Timer affair in the Spring).
Open Practice Several Times a Week
So, we have this suggestion—open practice a couple of days a week f or the student body. It would have a two-fold effect in that it would allow students to get a closer glimpse of their team and it would cut out the griping that exists about the closed practices.
Of course it might entail difficulties. The most obvious one is that the scouts of future opponents might be able to sneak in and preview the plays. This danger could be eliminated by simply allowing no one in without an ID card.
Students watching might distract the players; might make them nervous. That’s rather doubtful for the students could be kept a reasonable distance from the players and after all, it’s never been charged that a Notre Dame team was crowd shy.
Two or three days a week of open practice would still allow several days a week for the coaching staff to cover- any business with the team and not have an audience. The difficulties that might be caused would certainly be well worth while if the student body came to feel that the team was theirs and was really representative of them.
Snavely Gives a Recommendation
Coach Carl Snavely of the North Carolina Tar Heels when he was at Cornell was contacted by the authorities at Boston College back in 1939 to recommend to them a new head coach. Snavely recommended a young man who was then line coach at Fordham and upon this recommendation the athletic board at Boston College chose this man, Frank Leahy, as their new coach. So this Saturday Snavely will see his team meet, for the third year in a row, an eleven coached by the man whom he aided in obtaining his first head coaching job. ’
Prediction of the Week
However, tomorrow the two coaches will be all business and despite the Tar Heels’ poor season record Snavely will probably field a team that will give Leahy’s Irish some very rough competition. In their two previous meetings North Carolina was the underdog and both times forced Notre Dame to hustle for their wins. Tomorrow should be no exception as Leahy and his team win their sixth game of the 1951 season . . . 27-12.
28
The Scholastic
Three Future Foes Ground Into the Turf
By BILL NOONAN
While the hopes of the Fighting Irish were being ground into the turf at East Lansing last Saturday, the three remaining opponents on the Notre Dame _ schedule had their own share of troubles. North Carolina, Iowa, and mighty ■	Southern California all swallowed the
|	bitter pill of defeat.
I For USC, it was the first loss to a collegiate team this season as Stanford’s undefeated Indians ripped off a 27-20 triumph in a spectacular affair j. held in the Los Angeles Coliseum. The 1	setback derailed the Trojan Rose Bowl
.	express and gives Stanford the inside
lane in the neck and neck race to sniff the roses. The big thorn in the Southern Cal side was Bob Mathias of Olympic fame. His 96 yard scamper early in the fourth quarter fired his teammates up just when they needed it most, b and his plunge from the one with seven minutes remaining, tied the score at 2020. A few moments later, Stanford intercepted a Frank Gifford pass and with time running out, halfback Harry
Irish Cross-Country Squad In CCC, NCAA Met Finals
Coach Alex Wilson takes his Notre Dame cross country squad to Kalamazoo tomorrow afternoon to participate in the Central Collegiate Conference finals at Western Michigan College.
Paced by their freshman ace, Jack Alexander and Senior-Captain Ben Almaguer, the Irish hope to be one of the top contenders for the conference title. The Blue and Gold harriers have placed second for the last two years in the CCC finals, and three years ago, won the event.
Last year it was Marquette who edged the thinclads, 55-57, while Western Michigan, Michigan Normal, Drake and Butler followed in that order.- The Fighting Irish have already met the Marquette runners this season in a triangular affair. Wisconsin won, with 33 points, while Notre Dame edged Marquette, 44-49.
Michigan State topped the Notre Dame runners last week on a mushy snow-covered course at East Lansing, 26-29. Alexander finished out in front of three Spartans to win in the time of 20:37.6.
Completing the Notre Dame seven-
Nov. 16,1951
Hugasian lunged over for the clinching marker.
The Trojans had overcome a 7-0 halftime deficit, and when SC’s Carmichael recovered Gary Kerkorian’s fumble in the end zone, putting the men of Troy in front 20-13, the situation looked well in hand. But, the Stanford redmen were not to be denied. Frank Gifford heading for All-American honors played his usual fine game and scored the first Trojan touchdown.
Meanwhile, unbeaten Illinois strengthened its bid to be the Big Ten representative in the same New Year’s Day classic as it ran through and passed over bewildered Iowa 40 to 13. The Hawkeyes, who meet the Irish in the home finale November 24, were never in the contest. The throwing of Tommy O’Connell, the catching of Joe Vernas-co, and the running of All-American Johnny Karras, coupled with a defense set up to halt Iowa’s big ground-gaining threat, Bill Reichardt, spelled victory for the Illini.
This week’s ND foe, North Carolina fell before a stampeding Virginia eleven by the score of 34 to 14. It was all Cavalier right from the very beginning with quarterback Rufus Barkley sparking the attack. 1951 has been a dismal year for the Tarheels.
man squad are Conrad Tetrault, Bob Feiler, John O’Connor, Harry Snyder, and George Helfetastein. Only one other meet is left on the Irish schedule following the CCC finals, that the NCAA finals at Michigan State on Nov. 26.
Irish Bees Meet Spartans In Final Season Appearance
Notre Dame’s B squad will be seeking its first win of the year when it meets Michigan State’s reserves this afternoon on Cartier Field. The game will mark the final appearance of the Irish Bees this season.
The Irish have lost two and tied one so far, salvaging a 7-7 deadlock with Purdue’s second stringers. Illinois and Tennessee have handed the reserves their two defeats. The Illini dropped ND in the opening game of the year, 14-7, while Tennessee routed the Irish two weeks ago, 38-6.
This afternoon’s encounter was to have been the second game between the Spartans and Notre Dame Bees. However last Friday’s contest was postponed because of the early November snows.
Halfback Bob Joseph, quarterback
Tom Martin, and lineman Steve Gamo-la, Art Nowack, and Pat Galvin have sparked the team in the earlier games and are expected to carry the load against the Spartans today.
Pitt's Perticone High For Kampus Keglers
By JACK SAND
As the Kampus Keglers swung into their second week of bowling, only five of the thirty-six teams still remained undefeated in competition play. Leading the. Blue League with 6 and 0 records are Buffalo and the American Chemical Society, while the Detroit, Chicago, and A.S.M.E. clubs are! all knotted up with identical records in the Gold loop.
Pacing the Detroiters to a clean sweep over the Minnesota club last week was Jerry Ledwidge, who rolled the season’s highest score, a rousing 232, and a total three-game series of 540. Jim Shannon and Dick Ryal also splattered the pins with regularity to aid Ledwidge for the winners.
Hanging on to the lead along with the Motor City boys were the Me'chanical Engineers who shut out the Cleveland Club in gaining four more league points, to boost their season’s total to eight. Clutch bowling has been the key to the rise of the Engineers, since Walt Landry and Bob Rich are the team’s leading keglers with averages of 151 and 142 respectively.
In the two top “Blue” encounters the Buffalo Club scored three straight over Central New York, with Jerry McCabe’s series of 490 leading the way. Jim O’Brien and George Klee, both with 155 averages, teamed up with McCabe to give the upstate New Yorkers a hold on first place along with the American Chemical Society.
The chemists, who bowled over the Aesculapians in thre'e contests, were paced by Neal Murphy’s 497 series with his high game being 188.
Among- the notable performances in last week’s roll-offs was Bill Londo’s 542 series, which put him on top of the league in that department. Londo’s high game of 227, paced the Generation Club to a two out of three win over a favored Pittsburgh Club.
The following keglers who hold the top five positions in the league are:
(1) Justine Perticone, Pittsburgh ....173 (2) Frank Inazzario, Youngstown -171 (3) Neal Murphy, Amet. Chem. Soc. 168
(4)	Bill Londo, Generation ------167
(5)	Jerry Ledwidge, Detroit -----.167
29
Chess Men Slate Tourney, Plan Match With Indiana
Extensive activities for the year, including a match with the University of Indiana, are on the Chess Club’s agenda for its Thursday night meeting.
An open tournament, including the usual ladder tournament, is scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, Dec. 15 and 16.
Probable team members at the top of the ladder at present are Hatfield, Du-
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
—White button-down oxford, soft roll to the collar. Popular as a holiday with the fellows and the gals.
the	RANGE
—Fine white broadcloth, widespread collar. Sharpest shirt on the quadrangles this year. Drop in and see our..complete line of fine Manhattan men’s apparel.
wyk Conscious
Street Floor — Men’s Shop
praw, Langlois, Teoli and Carosino. In order to rise on the ladder, a member can challenge any one of two rungs above him.
The match with Indiana is as yet unscheduled.
Engineers Scale Down Price Of Saturday's Victory Dance
Tomorrow evening is “cut rate” night at the Notre Dame Drill Hall when the Student Council presents its eighth Victory Dance of the season. Tickets for the dance, which is under the Sponsorship of the Engineer’s Ball committee, will go on sale at the special price (for one night only) of $1.98 per couple.
Round and square dancing will be in vogue for the Engineers’ “Bargain Dance.” Gene Hull and his musical group will play for regular dancing, while a square-dance caller will direct those who are advocates of the “do-si-do.” Jack Urbain and Joe Scherer, co-chairmen for Saturday night’s affair, have announced that sweaters and skirts, jeans and plaid skirts will be the prevailing fashion for all those attending, including the band.
GE Program Trains College Grads for Apparatus Sales
Faced with shortage of engineers, the General Electric Company’s Apparatus Sales Division has established a training program for non-engineering college graduates, designed to qualify them for sales assignment not requiring intensive engineering background.
The program will prepare liberal arts or business administration college graduates for a career in sales of electrical apparatus products.
The program consists of a nine-week intensified course in basic electricity, a 12-month assignment on the company’s Test Course, and two years of specialized training.
Trainees under the program attend classes eight hours a day for nine weeks, during which they study magnetism, instruments, D.C. motors and generators, transformers, alternators, induction motors, and A.C. controls. Laboratory work complements the classroom study.
Upon completion of this schooling, the trainees enter the company’s Test Course for several three-month assignments, during which they run tests on various apparatus products of the company.
Following this, they receive specialized sales training in one of the company’s product or industrial sales organizations, and then go to General Electric apparatus sales offices throughout the country.
Inquiries about this “Industrial Sales Training” program can be made by writing the GE Apparatus Sales Division, Schenectady 5, N. Y.
English Prof Lectures Here
In Reilly Chemistry Series
Sir John E. Lennard-Jones, professor of chemistry at Cambridge University, England, is at Notre Dame this week as a speaker in the Peter C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry.
Professor Lennard-Jones will speak Monday to students and faculty members in the Department of Chemistry on “Modern Theories of Molecular Structure.” He also delivered his Notre Dame addresses today and Wednesday.
The Reilly Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame were established by a gift from Peter C. Reilly, president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Ind. Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame.
30
The Scholastic
Dr. J. J. Kane Delivers First 'Sociology Period' Lecture
Dr. John J. Kane gave the first lecture in a series presented by the Sociology Department in Room 250 Main Building this morning. His topic, “Protestant-Catholic Tensions” has appeared in the American Sociological Review and has been lately the subject of nationwide attention.
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, c.s.c., is directing the project, which consists of a series of lectures entitled, “Sociology Periods.” Each lecture will be a 30-minute talk followed by a 20-minute discussion period. The sessions are being held late in the morning so that students will not have to leave their halls in the evening.
If the new letcure plan proves popular, future "Sociology Periods” will present outside speakers, advanced graduate i'esearchers, and members of the faculty. The days and hours of these talks will vary so as to permit as many as possible to attend.
NO SCHOLASTIC NOV. 23 . . . NEWS, SPORTS MEETINGS
Because of the Thanksgiving holiday, there will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next Friday, Nov. 23.
The next meeting of the news and sports staffs will be held Tuesday, Nov. 20, at the usual time and place.
Famed Flyer Roscoe Turner Speaks at Aero Club Banquet
Mr. Roscoe Turner will speak at the forthcoming Aero Banquet to be held at the LaSalle Hotel Wednesday evening.
A well known figure in aviation for many years, Mr. Turner learned to fly during the first World War, and has logged over 10,000 hours since that time. He has established many transcontinental speed records and is a three-time winner of the Thompson Trophy National Air Races in 1934, 1938 and 1939.
As commander of an American air crew, he led his group to a second place in the MacRobertson International Air Races from London to Melbourne, Australia, in 1934.
Mr. Turner has also been active on the business side of the aviation world, where he owned, operated, or managed a number of outstanding air lines.
At present Mr. Turner is president of the Roscoe Turner Aeronautical Corporation of Indianapolis.
NEW!
RAILROADING
Nationally Advertised.
WATCHES DIAMONDS
-tlariHL /■MEEoixaxav
126 NO. MICHIGAN ST
New enlarged edition of 384 pages—new layout ideas, new track diagrams, new landscaping effects, new wiring effects. The most complete BIG little book on the hobby of Model Railroading. On sale at all news-stands, or send 35^ to Model Builder, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10,N.Y.
Nov. 16,1951
button down, Winsocki, button down!
"VanHeusen Oxfords REG. T. M.
... and it’s away you go looking casual.. . feeling comfortable in your new Van Heusen button-down Oxford. Soft, long-wearing fabric ... freedom tailoring ... traditional college smartness. Only Van Heusen Oxfords
give you all these!
$4.50
Van Heusen “the world’s smartest” shirts Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERTS
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Debaters in Debut With Two Exhibitions
Notre Dame debaters are eliminating one lap of their 1951-52 grind, which includes ove'r 15,000 miles travelling, in undertaking more than seven encounters this month.
Mr. Leonard F. Sommer, Director and Coach of the University Debate Te'am, has announced that two exhibition debates were staged for the Ardmore School and the St. Matthew’s Parent Teacher’s Associations Nov. 13.
Yesterday, the “first string,” composed of Bill Dempsey and Al De Crane, played host to Oxford University here at the University in Washington Hall at 7:30, and the “second string” including Don Dowden and Bill Hank, opposed Bradley University at Peoria, Ill.
Twelve members of the team will participate in the annual Bradley Invitational Tournament at Peoria today, and an e'xhibition debate will follow at the Lion’s Club in Lakeville, Ind., Nov. 27.
Hiram College of Hiram, Ohio, will be the scene of two debates on Nov. 23, and the University of Illinois, Chicago Extension, will provide the opposition at Navy Pier in Chicago Dec. 1. The following day, a Split-Team affair, (one man from e'ach side), will take place there.
Mr. Sommer indicated that a total of 36 men will be employed in the various debates, and that each member of the team will make at least four public appearances.
Thd season will end in April with the National Intercollegiate Championships at West Point.
Zalecki and Desmond New NFCCS Heads
Elected by the NFCCS campus council at its meeting this week as new Senior Deelgate was Paul Zalecki. Zalecki, a Junior history major, has been serving on the council since the beginning of the summer as junior delegate. The new Junior delegate will be Marshall Desmond, a Sophomore, who has been working with the NFCCS as chairman of the newly-formed Town-Meeting discussions.
This shuffling of positions was occasioned by the resignation of Al DeCrane as senior delegate. DeCrane expressed regret as leaving the council but said he must for personal reasons. His successor will assume office next week, subject to approval by the Student Council, on which he will sit.
Also at thd meeting, Tom Nourie, head of the Apostolic Chapter, an-
32
The Scholastic
announced that his group will begin a campaign to encourage the sale of missals in the halls next week. Booths will be set up outside the chapels and will . be open during morning Mass. Also, representatives of the four participat-8 ing clubs—YCS, the Third Order, the , Liturgical Life, and the Knights of Co-’1	lumbus—will visit individual rooms.
Bill Motzel, head of Notre Dame’s new CCD group, asked that his organization be allowed to drop from the _ Apostolic Chapter, because CCD by its very nature works off campus and could I not assist the chapte'r in its program. | However, his group will have a repre-‘ sentative on the NFCCS council because ’ it is directly concerned with one phase of NFCCS activity.
, Motzel also reported that some re'pre-sentatives had attended the CCD Na.	tional Congress in Chicago and had
"	received several helpful hints on the
best methods of catechism instruction.
Speech Dept. Forms Experimental Theater
The Department of Speech of the University is forming a dramatic organization known as the “Experimental Theater.” The first meeting of the new . group will be held Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. * - in Washington Hall. It will be under ! the direction of Mr. John H. Tumpane. ; Mr. William T. Eisen, head of the ' Department of Speech, stated that the project would fill a long-standing need for creative, dramatic activity and an . outlet for such activity. This need thus far has been only partially satisfied by the University Theater due to the necessary limitation of the number and kinds . of plays which that organization can produce.
. • The purpose of the organization will ’ be to train students in all phase's of * dramatic production, and it is thought that it will serve as a kind of “farm club” to the parent University Theater.
. ’ The Experimental Theater will plan to do occasional plays with definitely - j limited audience appeal and one'-act » plays of original meaning. Meetings will be held every two weeks and a play will be presented at each meeting. Most H of the plays will be one-act productions, but occasionally, a part of a three-act play will be given.
The audience will be composed of members of the organization, and any interested parties that may care to attend.
Mr. Eisen emphasized that the organization is definitely not for actors exclusively, but for all students interested in any phase of dramatic production.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-56C1
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
^BUSHtP*8'8'
BROOKS BROTHERS' EVENING WEAR is traditionally correct
Brooks Brothers have long been authorities on evening wear clothing and accessories. Favored by undergraduates are our "346” dinner jackets, which are tailored on our own patterns of fine worsteds of our own selection... and, like all our clothing,-may be worn with the assurance ' that they are correct in every detail.
In addition we have an excellent selection of clothing and furnishings for sport and daytime wear, designed for today’s undergraduates.
ESTABLISHED 1118
l^en’5 Furnishings, ^Shoes
7+ E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Nov. 16,1951
33
~the l$ack
---------------------By Bill Riley
The Nov. 5 issue of Time magazine took a few pages off from its business of chronicling the events of the world to look seriously at the younger generation. Its conclusions were various: the younger generation are grave, fatalistic, conventional, gregarious, confused in morals, expecting disappointment, wanting a faith. Of them it could be more accurately said that they will serve, rather than that they will be served.
Time’s analysis seems to me to be good. But the first thought that I had after reading it is that the qualities Time applies to the younger generation apply to the older generation and the middle generation (if there is one) as well. It seems to me that Time, in attempting to describe the temper of the younger generation, has described the feelings of the greater part of the world today.
I would like to talk about the younger generation, as such, for a bit. Not as a spokesman, or anything like that, just as a member and at the same time, an observer.
The predominant fact about the younger generation, it seems to me, is that it is a waiting generation. It is waiting for the truth, even though to state it so baldly is to sound high-flown and impractical. It is waiting for a place on which to stand, a firm set of values with which it can measure what is happening.
A Suspiciously High Clay Content
It is a generation without heroes because, for the most part, this is a world without heroes. Most of the heroes of youth in the glittering twenties were glittering heroes; with the shine rubbed off, they seem to be made with a suspiciously high clay content around the feet.
The heroes of the twenties started out by being good men in their own right. They were then deified by publicity men, and by the press in general. What has happened is that a reaction has set in. Having created a sort of pseudo-superman, we now start looking for flaws. And, since heroes are human and therefore fallible, we find then, the fault was not in creating heroes, but in creating heroes who had only the superficial attributes of heroism — physical
strength, power over many people, personal magnetism.
It is a generation which is interested in security for two reasons, first, be
cause it fails to find spiritual security, and therefore substitutes material security; second, because no one can show it anything better to aim at. Youth
conquering the	.
■IwiW the^Avorla
is not interested in
...	.^ .	. , ,, ,. , _j.	v/hen it says: The fact that it
world, because it sincerely doubts rthati FT rm	. .. . ,.
..	...	. , ,, > tK-WU,. I Ir vhasHiot found (a faith)—that it isn’t
it could do much better IwiW the^worla	. '	. ' . .	.
.,	,	even sure	where to	look—is	less sig-
once it	was conquered. Everyone must .„ j ,,	„	,	, ,,
.	.	. . , ,	,	,	T., , mficant than the fact that it feels the
have a place on which to stand., Most incn , ,	...	„	,,	...
..mnVj Q mneed to believe. Time there substi-generatipnUsettles?	, -	...
- ..	?	tutes a lack for a positive answer,
of today’s younger g_________	_
for any solid place, whether it be on
top of a mountain, or inside a cave. ,	,	...	,	,	,
. . qnqtpwAat you believe, but that you be-
A	„ ■ T T. PERIODS k*^lieve, and shows quite nicely how
A rataksm Concerning Utopias
lt is a fatalistic generation because it is impressed with the seeming inevitability of a certain amount of tragedy in this world. It is not a Utopiaseeking youth, because it has seen too many attempts for Utopia end up hellishly.	'
FOREIGN STUDENTS
Foreign students who intend to remain in the Notre Dame vicinity during the Christmas holidays may arrange to be guests of the Brotherhood Association in St. Joseph, Mich. Further details may be obtained by writing to:
Miss Lorette White, 1218 State Street, St. Joseph, Mich.
It is a generation which grasps for happiness, as if it were a scarce commodity, like cigarettes or liquor during a war. And once grasped, happiness is clung to, squeezed dry. Perhaps the younger generation is fatalistic because they have been misled by those who have manufactured and publicized commodity-happiness.
The younger generation is not completely confused in morals.
At least this particular segment, which goes to Notre Dame, isn’t. Its most difficult moral problem is retaining the clearly-informed precepts in the face of the confusions of secularism. Intellectually, it seldom falters in its sure grasp of the truth. In action, it fails frequently.
Is It Querulous to Be Nauseated?
The younger generation is not, it seems to me, particularly querulous, unless it be querulous to get a little nauseated at secularism. Most of the “massive gripe” which Time talks about is a solidly-grounded gripe, founded on a sure sense of something wrong. It seems querulous only because most of those who are articulate have nothing better to suggest in place of life as it is. They see that there is something wrong, but don’t know just exactly what, or what can be done.
7
The younger generation is by the kind of emotionalized
plagued semi-in-
tellectualism that is demonstrated by
says in effect that what is important is
youth’s confusion is compounded.
Serious Goofing-Off
The younger generation is not, I think, as grave as Time says. It is a frittering generation, not like its parents, but seriously frittering, waiting for someone to show it something more important than frittering. It goofs off not because it is fashionable to goof off, but because there doesn’t seem to be any real reason for working.
It is a conventional generation because conventionality is easier, less trying, than unconventionality. Generally even its unconventionality is conventional, because, again, that is the pleasanter kind.
Impatience With Sham, and Trivia
The younger generation is a generation impatient with superficiality, with sham. It is also impatient with detail, and wants to get down to what is generally called, in serious conversation, “basic things.” And when it does get to them, it sidesteps them, or, sometimes, sees them and forgets them.
It is a generation which in many ways is in despair with the world. And perhaps that is good, because it will begin to look for its answers away from the world. It is not a self-confident generation, except in trivialities. It is a generation which realizes its failings, but does not know just how to correct them. Usually, it tries to forget them.
It is a generation that is looking for a place on which to stand. And so is the older generation, and the middle generation (again, if there is one.)
34
The Scholastic
^■ogUjoU tyoMcaAi .
Here's your chance to prove that you too are an expert in rating football games. All you have to do is to mark in your favorite predictions in the space provided and leave them at the designated points before noon of the Saturday on which the game is to be played. What could be simpler? The makers of Medico ’ V. F. Q. pipes will award a Smoker’s Set containing two pipes (as pictured) each week to the winner of our contest..
DIRE C TIO NS—Please circle the ten teams that you think will come out on top. Also indicate your prediction as to the score of each game. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be awarded. To facilitate judging please use the form below. Only University of Notre Dame students are eligible.

i 4’ f	—		SbtGp	/Hank at Ute eAuMle.					
		FOOTBALL FORECAST —	Games of November 24fh	
1 J A		NAME Notre Dame 	 Tennessee 	 Stanford 			 Purdue			 Dartmouth 	 Michigan 	 S. M .U	 Colgate	 Southern Cal	.. Duke		ADDRESS Iowa 	 Kentucky		 California 	 Indiana 	 Princeton —	 Ohio State	 Baylor	 Holy Cross 		 U. C. L. A			 North Carolina 			
		NAME OF LAST WEEK'S WINNER	— BILL McLAIN, 336 Zahm Hall	
	Nov. 16, 1951			35
ALS DIVISION
UNIVERSITY
NOTRE DANE
See GLORIA DeHAVEN starring in "FRIENDLY A 20th Century-Fox Production-Color by Jechni^^
THE BIGGEST PLUS IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
LIBRARY IND
After-taste
—added to the world’s most famous ABCs-
Always Milder fetter Tasting pooler Smoking
CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste."
From the report of a well-known research organization
Always BuyCHESTERFIELD
Copinpit 19'1 Lgcitt5 Num Tomcco Co.