THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAS
709
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
John V.
Hinkel,
N
VOL, XVfc
MARCH 23, 1928
No. 23
1872
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1928
J. F. Mahoney
William Bernard
Craig
Garber
J- F. Mahoney, Cyril j. Mullen, Arthur Stenius, 'John Bergan,
David Saxon George McNally
John DeRoulet Raymond Drymalski
Leo McIntyre, Richard Parrish Richard Elfers,
- - - The Week The College Parade Music and Drama - - Club Editor
Editor-iw-Chief Business Manager
ADVERTISING
J. T. Bonner, - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H. J. Noon, - Local Circulation Mgr.
D. M. Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	h. O’Bryan
C. M. Ashman	e. J. Carun
W. E. Burchill
NEWS
R. W. Munz
George A. Kiener
Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,
- - - News Editor I, Asst. News Editor Literary Editor >	- - Sports Editor




Arthur Stenius John Bergan.... Cyril Mullen .....
the SCHOLASTIC to publlehed weekly •* the Unto«nd‘r
oddreMed to THE SCHOLASTIC or to room, W ot 4M H°m»ey nm..____
The Week.....................
Next Week’s Events......... Music and Drama............ The Campus Clubs........... The College Parade ..........
The Editor’s Page ............. Hobnails.....................
Incident, Traveler’s Song.... Zebras, April in Hell........ On the Eve of Twenty-One..... No More Tea.................. Cowboy’s Night Song.......... Admonition .................. Mary’s Evening Song.......... Brownson Wins Interhall Meet Other Sport News.............
..Allan-a~Dale...........
..Jack Mullen............
..Murray Young ..........
..Richard Elpers ........
..John de Roulet.........
..Jackson J. Hay.........
.....Frank Connolly......
Norman Johnson, C.S.C ..J. V. Hinkel...........
... 710
.. .... 711
... 714
... 719 ... 720 ...721
... 722 ... 723 ... 724
... 725
... 726
... 726
... 727
... 727 ... 728 729-732
_	AeervtMes for maUino ot optcial rat,
‘"‘"‘“•'2^^______________________________________________-
Ite Unfam in Notre Dome Pubfatiens Deserve the Petronaje of All Notre Dane Men

710
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK

The Knights of Columbus begin a snappy advertising program for their dance through the medium of posters designed to arrest attention and arouse curiosity. The most startling thing about the recent posters is a beauteous gal with red hair, and the question, “Is she going?” Say we, “If she’s going, so are we.”
We have been urged, but not too strongly, to devote a section of this page to a review of the movies for the week. The idea, apart from the fact that it would fill considerable space, (which, after all, is the primary con-cem,) is fetching, and we are moved to ac-'cept. We have not seen any of the pictures current on view, but we believe that the same custard pies are being thrown; that the candle is still burning in the window for the erring daughter and wandering son; that the mortgage on the Old Homestead is once more about to be foreclosed; that the conceited young blade is being brought to grief, poverty, and the realization of his folly after about two hours of supreme eminence in sports and drawing-room accomplishments; that the pretty young divorcee is learning what a swell guy her first (or second, as the case may be) husband was as compared to the new one, whose nuptial glitter is begins ning to’ tarnish; that the honeymooners are still being involved in absurd tangles in alleged farces; that the curly-haired cowboy is outriding fire and flood while the adoring Eastern girl clings precariously to the rear of the saddle, and bounces about in a manner most unbecoming; in short, that the same old hokum is still with us, and ever will be, with the exception of some few minor changes in titles and casts. In our opinion there have been but two good pictures since Januaiy 1, Seventh Heaven and The Circus.
By way of contrast, we had two one-act plays produced in Washington Hall Saturday. The audience preserved a respectful silence during the performance, something that has been absent during most of the
movies shown in the venerable building. Possibly these facts prove something. We doubt it. Research and experience have led us to believe that facts can be made to prove any thing.
Notre Dame places two men on the AllWestern basketball team, and elects two captains for next year. From the standpoint of news value, the second item is the more important, because ,to paraphrase a stock journalistic axiom, if Notre Dame does NOT earn some places on an all-star team, that is news.
Three members of the Wranglers, Messrs.
Houlihan, Williams and McShane, rode three hundred miles last week to engage in a debate. Mr. McShane, when interviewed, said, “No decision was given, but they (antecedent unknown) were so kind as to say that we gave the best arguments.” Mr. McShane, popular* campus figure, was so modest as to say that his side of the particular subject almost always won. To see a man in the public eye possessed of such a retiring disposition is eminently gratifying.
- If you note a strange luster in the eyes of
certain of the boys, you will know that the golf season is about to open, and that Charlie Totten, the Brothers Wozniak, Marion Heffernan et al are polishing their clubs and gazing with rapt looks toward the Erskine course. If, as is announced, the University •builds a golf course across the road, it mil mean fewer cuts in the Wednesday afternoon classes to get in eighteen holes before supper, or dinner, if you read Vanity Fair. Our enjoyment of the game is circumscribed by inability to keep on the course, although we do manage to get around the Studebaker course (nine holes) in something like 84.
The signboard in front of the Granada Theatre, Temple of Art, makes a contribution to the English language: “Dedicated to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh in recognation of heroic exploits.”	—J.F.M.
r
$$❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ ❖ ❖ * <. <. 4 .;. .j,	... # <j, *
NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS
< $	.>4 $
❖
Friday, March 23—Brunswick N’ght, Washington Hall—8:00 R. M.
Via Crucis—Sacred Heart Church—7:00 P. M.
Saturday — Movies — Washington Hall — 6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Sunday — Masses — Sacred Heart Church — 6:00, 7:00 and 8:30 A. M.—Students’—10:15 A. M.,— Parish Mass.
Benediction—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Monday—Meeting of the Scribblers, election of new members—Hoynes Hall—8:00 P. M.
Neo Scholastics—Lemmonier Library — 2:15 P. M.
Tuesday—The Monogram Absurdities — Washington Hall—8:00 P. M.
Meeting of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus-Walsh Hall—8:00 P. M.
Prom, despite much publicity to the contrary, is thus far the most successful dance sponsored by juniors of the University; and . our Ball, shall be the Senior Ball of the University of Notre Dame? Boost the Ball!”
President John F. Frederick announced at the meeting that very attractive favors had been purchased from the Josten Company, Wisconsin. These favors, the management of the company has assured Frederick and the members of the favors committee, will not be sold to any other college dance group until after May 15.
The Palais Royale ballroom has been engaged for the dance, which will take place the evening of May 11. The music committee is now corresponding with George Olsen, Paul Whiteman, Roger Wolfe Kahn, and Ben Bierne in an effort to secure one of the country's chief orchestras for the affair.
Wednesday—Monogram Absurdities — Washington Hall—8:00 P. M.
Meeting of the Neo-Scholastic Society—Lemmonier Library—2:15 P. M.
Benediction—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Thursday—Concert, featuring Irene Pavoloska, Ruth Ray and Walter Wheatley of the Chicago Civic' Opera Company—Washington Hall—8:00 P. M.
Recital, under the auspices of the University’s .School of Music—Recital Hall, at the rear of Washington Hall—8:15 P. M.
Friday—Via Crucis—Sacred Heart Church—7:00 P. M.
Movies—Washington Hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M. Saturday—Monogram Absurdities — Washington Hall—8:00 P. M.	'
---------*--------- •
SENIOR BALL PLANS PROGRESS
“Boost the Ball!” This alliterative expression was the keynote of the talk given by James Shocknessy, general chairman, Monday evening, March 19, at 6:30 P. M. before the seventy men comprising the 1928 Senior Ball committees. The meeting was held in the south room of Lemmonier Library.
.. “The Senior Ball of 1928 must be the greatest in the history of the University,” declared Shocknessy. “We, through our four , years, have been eminently successful with - our class dances. Our Cotillion was one of the best ever held at the University; our
“SANTA MARIA” SHORT-STORY CONTEST CLOSES MARCH 26
The Santa, Maria’s short-story contest closes March 26, at 5:00 P. M. All manuscripts, which arrive after this time and date will not be considered.
The close of the contest originally was set at March 21, but, due to numerous requests for an extension of time, the closing date has been advanced to the twenty-sixth. All manuscripts should be sent to either Professor Paul Fenlon, Sorin Hall, or Leo R. Me-Intyre, Box 73, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The stories of the three winners will appear in “The Celebrities’ Number,” of The Santa Maria,—off the press late in April,— which shall contain articles by such celebrities as Willa Cather, U. S. Senator David I. Walsh, Knute Rockne, Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Father Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C. Father Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., O. O. McIntyre, A. R. Erskine and others. A picture of each of the three successful authors will appear with his story.
The judges of the contest are McCready Huston, noted short-story writer and novelist; Father J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., head of the University’s English department; and Paul Fenlon, professor of the short story at the University. The final decision of the judges will be rendered on or before April 4.
712
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
“FATHER DEVERS’ NIGHT” OBSERVED
“Father Devers’ Night,” a smoker-luncheon held in the faculty dining room of the University Dining Halls, Wednesday even-
ing, March 14, under the
JOHN A. DEVERS, C.S.C.
auspices of the East-Penn Club and Badin Hall, proved a signal success. The affair, — whose purpose was to welcome back formally to the U niversity Father John A. Devers, C.S.C., rectoi’ of Badin Hall, who had been confined
to his home in Scranton, Pa.,
for several months as the result of a serious
illness,—was attended by close to one hundred men, members of the East-Penn Club and residents of Badin Hall.	'
Leo R. McIntyre, the East-Penn Club’s president, was the toastmaster of the evening. The club’s honorary president, Father Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., assistant prefect of discipline and rector of Morrissey Hall at the University, subsequent to an introduction by McIntyre, delivered with his characteristic forcefulness the address of welcome.
The toastmaster introduced the following guests to the gathering: Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former provincial of the Holy Cross Order, the Order’s present assistant superior general, and one of America’s paramount poets; Father J. Hugh O’-Donnel, C.S.C., the University's prefect of discipline; Father James H. Gallagan, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall and chaplain of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus; Father Edward Finnigan, C.S.C., pastor of the Sacred Heart Church; Father Dominic Cannon, C.S.C., professor of Physics at the University; Brother Irenaeus, C.S.C. All these men, intimate friends of Father Devers,
acknowledged the toastmaster’s introduction with witty, laconic talks, the kernel of which was the commendation of John A. Devers, C.S.C., a reverent priest, an affable man, a true friend and a great teller of stories. Charles Phillips and Father Collentine, who had accepted invitations to attend the affair, were unable to do so because of sickness.
These talks were all interspersed with musical selections by Eastman’s Collegians, a clever orchestra composed of “Big Bad Bill” Eastman, “Pat” Mangon, “Ted” Strong, J. R. Wood, George Pope, and Hilary Berringer. Farmer and Rahaim, a blackface comedy team consisting of Paul Farmer and Fred J. Rahaim, between talks, presented a humorous skit in which Farmer excelled in banjo strumming and Rahaim in torrid toddling.
When the men present had finished with their luncheon, which followed directly the talks by the guests of the evening, Father John A. Devers, C.S.C., the guest of honor, was introduced to the assemblage by the toastmaster. Father Devers, in his address, “I’m Mighty Glad to be Back Again at Notre Dame,” praised the East-Penn Club for the excellence of its dance at Christmas, thanked the speakers for their most gracious remarks, thanked the East-Pennites and the Badinites for their demonstration of affection, declared that he was mighty glad to be back again at Notre Dame, narrated several side-splitting jokes and sat down.
“Bill” Eastman’s orchestra struck up “Fer He’s a Jolly Good Fellow,” and “Father Devers’ Night” was history.
The committee, responsible for the success of the affair, was as follows:
Leo R. McIntyre, Joseph F. Manning-, A. J. Ran-savage, John F. McMahon, John F. Leitzinger, Lawrence P. Weniger, Andrew J. Boyle, Thomas F. Farrell, Christie D. Shull, Frank A.. McManus, John J. O’Donnell, Joseph F. O’Hora, William H. Moran, Robert A. Mulhall, Thomas A. McMahon, Nicholas D. Maureillo, John L. Nanovic, William E. Burchill, John V. Hinkel, William H. Burns Petei- J. Casterline, Joseph A. McHugh, Thomas J. Quigley, John E. Boland, Charles P. O’Malley, Robert A. Golden, James B. Gallagher, James W. Cullen, Michael J. Yanulewicz, John G. Prendergast, Edward Cunningham, Charles Koenig, Arthur Lesch, Francis Crowe, Thomas Kelly.
w':''
-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
713
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PRODUCES TWO ONE-ACT PAYS
Two plays, one historical, and one Biblical in character, were the productions offered by the University Theatre in Washington Hall last Saturday evening.
The first, “The Good Man,” treated of an episode in the life of Abraham Lincoln, the time being Good Friday on the night he was assassinated. Albert
Charles Phillips
Doyle’s impersonation of the Emancipator stood out in a cast whose work was generally good. The play was written by Orville Murch, a member of Professor Charles Phillips’
Playwriting class. The cast:
Mrs. Lincoln------- Senator Sumner _ Secretary Stanton Senator Welles — Tad Lincoln-------- President Lincoln
Miss Helen Shank ___John Car roll ___William Schuh -William Kearney ___Frank Broch ___Albert Doyle
The second play, “A Sign and a Wonder,” by Murray Young, who is also a member of the Playwriting course, is probably the best that has so far been produced by the Uni. versity Theatre, because of both its artistic and its dramatic qualities. The raising of the son of the Widow of Naim furnished the basis for the plot. John Cavanaugh gave an excellent performance as Zermes, the cynical brother of the widow; the other members of the cast acted with skill and sincerity. The cast: ■
Zermes_______________
The Widow of Naim____
Jarim, her son________ Naggee, a neighbor___ Aram, another neighbor Melea, a boy_________
-John Cavanaugh _Mrs. Nora Byers __Frank Creadon _John Leddy .Harry Merdyinski _Roscoe Bonjean
.Saturday’s performance should be particularly encouraging to the members of University Theatre Executive Committee. With each new production, the quality of the plays increases, the acting is more finished, and the audience is more disposed to civilized, intelligent conduct.	'
TICKETS FOR LAWYERS’ BALL IN DEMAND
Despite the fact that tickets for the annual Lawyers’ Ball went on sale but a few days before the Scholastic went to press it was found that over half of the elusive tickets for the annual social event to be held at the Palais Royale, April 20, had been sold. William Dailey, general chairman of the Ball, in announcing this pointed out that the number of tickets for the dance is strictly limited to one for each lawyer in the College of Law, ’ plus one extra one which each lawyer may secure for a friend if he so desires.
Ed McClarnon, who has charge of the ticket distribution, outlined the method whereby a student in any college of the university except the law college may get a ticket. Boiled down it is: “Ask your lawyer.” If not “your lawyer” then any lawyer that you happen to know. “Many fellows come to the members of the committee personally” said McClarnon, “and ask to be given a bid. But the committee can do very little. Each law student is entitled to an extra bid and has the sole right to choose the person whom he will have as recipient of that bid. The number of tickets is limited. Those wishing to go to the dance should first see some friend of theirs who happens to be in the law school.” '
The invitations to the Ball are in keeping with, but different from the summons used last year. It is believed that this year’s invitation will prove even more popular than the one that caused such a great deal of comment last season. These will be delivered to the campus today (Friday) and will be distributed immediately. The invitations to the now traditional Law affair have, in the past, been highly original and have always been popular among the ones lucky enough to secure tickets.	•
The music committee has announced that it will follow out the near-tradition of having a Negro band for the affair. Those who heard the band imported last season regard this as a triumph. This year the Palais Royale will be the scene of the ball.
§
J $

714
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ST. MARY’S HEARS GLEE CLUB
Last Sunday evening at St. Mary’s, the Glee Club was heard in a concert which found the Club at its full strength for the first time this year. With members, running to almost seventy in number, placed, or better, packed together upon the none too large platform, a splendid program was given, but those who found their places in the audience readily recognized that quantity did not readily make for quality, for that close harmony and perfect modulation which have characterized the formal appearances of the Glee Club in the past months lacked noticeably. Such a statement, however, should in no way be construed to mean that the concert was not highly successful, for the program was as graciously received as any which has been given during the year, and one may be assured that the Club is ever welcome in concert at St. Mary’s. Program:
Motet—“Emitte Spiritum” ....Schuetky-Singenbei’ger
Second Mass—“Gloria” ...................Gounod
The Glee Club. After “Mother Goose”. “ ’Twas The Pool’ Old Man” ..............Lake
Part Songs— “An Evening Lullaby” ....................Shaw
(Tenor Solo, Mr. Kopecky)
“Song of the Volga Boatman” ............Bantock
The Glee Club.
“Humoresque”— “Italian Salad” ........................Gence
(In the form of a finale to an Italian opera for tenor solo)
Mr. Hatreed and chorus. ■
'	The Glee Club.
“Glee Club Trio”—Messrs. Staudt, Donovan and Wendland.
INTERMISSION
Part songs— “A Sea Song”.........................Gaines
“Autumn. Woods” .....................Gaines
(Tenor solo, Mr. Kopecky) “There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea”....Lake The Glee Club. Banjo artists—Messrs. Staudt and Donovan.
Part songs— “Swingin’ Vine”   .....................Grosvenor
(Baritone solo, Mr. Wagnerl
“Loch Lomond” ..........................Forsyth
(Tenor solo, Mr. Kopecky)
“Hike, Notre Dame” .......;...........Casasanta
“Down the Line” .......................Casasanta
“Victory March" ...........................Shea
The Glee Club.
SCRIBBLERS ARRANGE CONTEST
Final arrangements for the short story I contest to be sponsored by the Scribblers \ under the patronage of the Board of Publi-	’
cations were completed at the weekly meet- i ing of the literary society held Monday even- J ing. John T. Cullinan has been named chair- j man of the committee and with him will be ‘	|
associated Cyril Mullen and Murray Young.
The short story contest opens tomorrow morning, Saturday, March 24, and will close | April 20. A first prize of twenty dollars in | gold and a second prize of ten dollars in gold	I
will be awarded to the two stories, rated	|
first and secondly respectively by the judges. |
The rules arranged by the committee to | govern the contest’s procedure follows:	?
1.	The short story contest will be open to | all undergraduates of the University.	!
2.	All short stories must confine themselves 1 to a minimum and maximum length of 1500	1
words and 4000 words respectively.	1
3.	Stories are to be submitted in triplicate j form, typed or in ink.	•
4.	The stories shall be accompanied by a i sealed envelope containing the name of the ( author and the title of his story.	§
5.	All manuscripts shall be submitted be- s fore midnight, April 20, to John T. Cullinan, '1 chairman, 107 Sorin hall.	4
6.	Upon receipt of the stories, they will | be submitted to three judges for a semi-final elimination.	|
7.	When this semi-final report has been re- 1 ceived by the committee, the best stories se- j lected will be forwarded to three judges, | whose decision shall be final.	|
8.	The prize-winning stories will receive publication in the Scholastic.
Judges for the contest, according to the committee, have not been selected, but it is expected they will be announced within the 3 next two weeks. The competition, as ar- ® ranged by the Scribblers’ offers an opportunity for all undergraduate writers to display » their powers and talents. If plans materialize, the final judges of the contest will be nationally known literary men. For this « reason, students are urged to contribute their « best products to increase the literary prestige ■ w of the University.	W
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
715
4.	4.
♦ CAMPUS PERSONALITIES ❖
The old boy scout adage about a “good turn daily” finds its working out in Good Turn Dailey, dean emeritus of campus prom-
inents. Bill has been chosen to act as general chairman of the annual Lawyers’ Ball by Cyp Sporl and those on the inside are all agog with the information that makes them aver that this year’s edition, of the law ball will be the best ever. That’s a lot to say,
WILLIAM DAILEY. General but Dailey is just that Chairman of Lawyers' Ball ■	.
type of a man that makes the belief seem possible as well as probable.
Bill served as a member of the Students’
Activities Council for three years and during that time was a leader in that group, serving as S.A.C. dance committee chairman. In his junior year he was chosen as Junior Class president and his term was marked by a very efficient administration. He also has the dis
tinction of being the last remnant of the committee which put on the famous Freshman Frolic and in his second year he was responsible to a large extent in making the Sophomore Cotillion the success it was. On top of all this Dailey is one of the honor students among the senior law class, and in addition is a member of the editorial staff of The Notre Dame Lawyer.
Dailey is an outstanding student and along with all his activities the lawyers recognize this. Here’s an incident that proves the point: After the Senior Absurdities held last week two junior lawyers got into a severe argument on the legal aspects of the case. The debate grew hot. There was no longer a hope to settle it among themselves. Then by common consent they decided to submit it to a referee,—and sought out—Bill Dailey!
--------$-----—
JUNIORS ATTENTION
Orders for senior* pins will be taken until ' April 1. After that date the books will be
closed, not to be reopened until the latter part of May when the pins will be delivered. A deposit of $5 .must accompany each order.
The pins may be ha.d in either white or yellow gold. The white gold pins cost one dollar more than do the yellow gold.
The general design of the pins is different from the 1928 order. The monogram is raised in gold on the shield and there are approximately 24 small pearls encrusting the badge and 16 on the guard.
Orders will be taken until April 1 by the following men:
Lawrence Moore, 411 Badin; Charles Colton, 135 Corby; Bud Markey, 410 Badin; Manford Vezie, 427 Lyons; Robert Tyler, 412 Walsh.
“ABSURDITIES” NEXT WEEK
The Monogram Club’s annual “Absurdities” will be given March 27, 28 and 31 at 8:00 P. M. in Washington Hall. Reservations for any or for all of the three performances of the show may be made by calling the Notre Dame telephone operator, giving one’s name and the number and kind of tickets desired.
TRADE JOURNAL PRAISES
UNIVERSITY DINING HALLS
The Pioneer, organ of the U. S. Slicing Machine Company, contains in its “Spring Issue” an interesting article apropos of the University Dining Halls. The article, entitled “Noon at Notre Dame,” describes the celerity with which the two thousand men eating in the Halls are fed three times a day. Robert H. Borland, the Halls’ manager, comes in for his share of the praise. “The efficiency,” writes The Pioneer, “with which his organization functions most calmly when in action under the peak load, is silent testimony to his ability as an executive.”
--------*-------
TICKETS FOR K. C. FORMAL ON SALE
John W. Dorgan, chairman of the ticket committee for the K. C. spring formal, to be held April 27, announces that tickets went on sale Wednesday evening, March 21. Tickets may be purchased from the following men: Dan Cannon, Harry McKeown, John Leahy, Bai*t McHugh, Bob Cooney and Fred Rahaim.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
716
♦ ' OUR CONTRIBUTORS *
<5* *♦• ❖ 4* 4* ❖ ❖	4
The literary section of the Scholastic this week is made up of the nine poems given the highest rating in the recent Scribbler Poetry Contest. The judges’ selections were made in this order:
Professor Charles Phillips—1. On the Eve of Tiventy-One, Richard Elpers; 2. Zebras, Murray Young; 3. Corvboy’s Night Song to His Herd, Jackson J. Hay; 4. Traveler’s Song, Jack Mullen; 5. Hands, Frank Connolly.	,
Father Leo Ward, C.S.C.—1. No More Tea, John de Roulet; 2. Incident, Jack Mullen; 3. Mary’s Evening Song, Norman Johnson, C. S. C.; 4. Traveler’s Song, Jack Mullen; 5. April in Hell, Murray Young.
Mr. Vincent Engels—1. Zebras; Murray Young; 2. Incident, Jack Mullen; 3. Simple Bitterness, Richard Elpers; 4. No More Tea, John de Roulet; 5. Admonition, Frank Connolly. '
The prizes were awarded on the point system, a first place counting five points, second place four points, etc. According to this method, as you probably remember, Jack Mullen won first prize, Murray Young second prize, and Richard Elpers third prize.
Jack Mullen, Murray Young, Richard Elpers, John de Roulet, and Frank Connolly are known to readers of the Scholastic through their previously published work, in fact, several of the prize-winning poems have already appeared in these pages. Norman Johnson and Jackson J. Hay are new names, Mr. Johnson being a seminarian of the order and Hay a freshman in the College of Commerce.	—r.c.e.
INTER-CLUB INDOOR LEAGUE
FORMED BY CHICAGO CLUB
An indoor baseball league whose teams i will represent the various state and city clubs on the campus is the latest project of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame. Invitations have already been sent to other organizations on the campus requesting that they enter teams in the competition. A trophy, to be donated by the Chicago
Club, will be awarded to the team having 1 the best record at the end of the season. y The Chicago Club will not compete in
the inter-club schedule. According to	3
President Dick Halpin, the members feel	I
that it would be unfair for the group to	1
pick its team from four hundred members	1
while other clubs will be forced to choose	|
from much smaller memberships. Instead,	1
the Chicago Club will also form an intra-	|
club circuit composed of Chicagoans repre-	1
senting each of the halls on the campus. . | A set of yules will be drawn up by the	|
Physical Education Department, which de-	I
partment will also furnish the necessary	|
balls and bats. Rev. E. Vincent Mooney,	|
C.S.C., will draw up a schedule as soon as	I
all entries have been made. The last day	|
for entries is March 30, and play will begin	|
on Sunday morning, April 15. The win-	.5
ners in the two leagues will play for the silver trophy.
MARCH ISSUE OF ALUMNUS
FEATURES CHICAGO N. D. CLUB
The March issue of the Adumwus dedicated to the Notre Dame Club of Chicago appeared early in the week, and as usual Jim Armstrong has turned out anothei' very creditable number. The feature story deals with the Chicago organization of Notre Dame graduates and with the work this group is doing. It relates the organization of the club, describes some of its more prominent members, and discusses the constructive educational measui;es which the “Notre Dame Club” has undertaken in cooperation with the University.
The March issue is made up of several interesting articles. Such titles as the following attract the reader’s eye: “The Poetry of Professor Phillips,” “Universal Notre Dame Night,” an excellent editorial, and “Lent, from a Catholic Viewpoint” by Byron Kanaley. “Softly” a poem of rare beauty and no little charm, by Mr. Norbert Engels would alone make the March Alumnus worth reading. The other contributions, however, are all interesting and well written.
Joe McNamara’s Athletic Department is efficiently handled.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	.j. <. <• .> * ...	*
❖ MUSIC AND DRAMA ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	.j. <•.;....
In the concert which is to be presented next Thursday evening in Washington hall, Father Carey, chairman of the concert committee, has secured, without doubt, the outstanding musical presentation of the year, for the appearance of any one of the three artists who are to be heard on March 29 might readily be placed under the category of exceptional musical events. The three who will be heard in concert are Irene Pavloska, mezzo-soprano of the Chicago Civic Opera; Ruth Ray, violinist, and Walter Wheatley, tenor, who has just recently completed a highly successful European tour. Both Miss Pavloska and Mr. Wheatley, beside their operatic work, have appeared numerous times in concert, while Miss Ray is a virtuoso whose fame has gained in great strides since her debut in New York some nine years ago. Since then she has appeared a number of times with the New York Philharmonic, Chicago, Minneapolis and Baltimore Symphony Orchestras, so that one may readily understand why conservative critics have stated that the American concert stage has no more interesting woman violinist that Ruth Ray. Truly, Thursday evening we are to >be given a concert which only folly will ■ permit one to miss. ——
' Another week-end is secure in the grip of good entertainment, for next Friday and Saturday, March 30 and 31, “Broadway,” that highly successful drama dealing with the phase of cabaret life which is missed and misconstrued by the patrons who are concerned only with the carrying out of that phrase “eat, drink and be merry,” is presented at the Oliver Theater. “Broadway” is a play whose action is as swift and alive as that found in any of the advertised “thrillers,” but the audience is given this action unadulterated with that ! insipid bit of guess work which is omnipresent in the proverbial “hair-raising, goose-flesh producing” mystery play of | today. Climax after* climax is thrown be
’» n - -
fore the audience, yet each high point is above the preceding one, and only the ■ sparkling bits of humor give those watching the play relaxation sufficient to fully enjoy the entire production. Ask anyone who has already seen “Broadway” if they have forgotten “Personality” as he dashes into the cabaret proper for the next number with the usual “Every night’s the first night.” Ask him if he will ever forget.
STUDENT DEAD IN AUTO CRASH
Charles Casey, of Portland; Oregon, a junior, was killed, and Charles J. Kennedy, Robert Eggeman, and Albert G. Frishee were injured Wednesday night when a car driven by Kennedy struck a South Bend car and caromed off into two other machines at Prairie Avenue and Chapin Street. Casey had lived in Lyons hall. The other injuries were not serious.	■
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO HOLD FORMAL DANCE
Notre Dame Council, Number 1477, Knights of Columbus, will hold a formal dance Friday evening, April 27, at the Palais Royale, it has been announced by Grand Knight Howard V. Phalin of the Council. Peter Edward McKeown is general chairman.
Robert E. Kirby, chairman of the music committee, states that the Benson “Blue Jackets” orchestra, under the famous “John-’ ny” Mullaney, has been secured for the formal. This is the same orchestra that, Saint Patrick’s night, March 17, played at the Trianon ballroom, Chicago.
The chairman of programs, William P. Dowdall, avers that very attractive favors have been selected for the affair. Philip F. Quinn, chairman of arrangements, declares the formal this year will be limited to four hundred couples. Each member of the Council’s 650 members, as in. previous years, will be allowed to invite one person in additioii to his girl friend, outside the Council, to the affair. This means that the procrastinating members of the CouncT—who put off the purchase of their ticket to the “last minute, __will be out of luck this.year as a result of the committee’s decision to limit the affair to four hundred couples.
718
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROBATION STUDENTS RECEIVE LOW GRADES
Many students matriculating at Notre Dame have not the mental equipment required of undergraduates.
That is the conclusion of the Rev. Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., director of studies, after comparing the grades of 400 probation and 1600 non-probation students in the colleges of Arts and Letters and Commerce. The survey covers the grades for the first semester of the current school year.
The statistics compiled by the director of studies are overwhelmingly in favor of the non-probation students. Of the grades between 95 and 100, 698 were received by students not on' probation, as contrasted with 15 high grades achieved by probation students.
The amazing contrast between the two groups is fully as pronounced throughout the list of grades received. Whereas, fully 523 of the grades of the 400 students on probation were below 70, but 409 of the grades of the 1600 non-probation undergraduates fell so low.
The number of grades below 70 received by the men on probation is especially surprising in view, of the fact that such students are dismissed from the University if they fail to pass—during the succeeding quarter—two-thirds of the number of hours they are carrying.
A study in contrast is provided by a scrutiny of the remaining grades of the two groups. The grades follow: 90 to 94 —probation, 71, non-probation, 1472; 85 to 89—probation, 161, non-probation, 1882; 80 to 85—probation, 307, non-probation, 1999; 70 to 79, 965, non-probation, 2458.
-------c.-------
MODERN LANGUAGE DEPARTMENT WILL HOLD DINNER
On Tuesday, March 27, at 6:30 P. M., the members of the Modern Language department of the University will meet for a din-■ ner in the faculty dining room. The dinner will be followed by a business meeting.
LAW COLLEGE HOLDS “HOYNES ■ NIGHT”	•
Wednesday night was the date of the an- ; nual Hoynes Night in the College of Law, ac- ■ cording to Cyprian Sporl, president of the law club. Judge Kavanaugh of Chicago, Rev. ■ John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University of Notre Dame, and Col. William J. Hoynes, LL.D., dean emeritus of the Hoynes College of Law, were the prin- i cipal speakers.
Dean Thomas A. Konop, Professors Ed- i win A. Frederickson, Clarence P. Manion, Judge Dudley Goodall Wooten, James F. , Kirby, and Elton E. Richter joined with	;
the students to honor Col. Hoynes. In ad-	■
dition to these men, a group of prominent at- , torneys in Northern Indiana who studied under Col. Hoynes in the “good old days” when < the College of Law was housed in half of	'
Sorin hall were back to pay their respects	j
to the old master and to tell the present stu- j dents stories of the Colonel and his method j of making successful barristers.	’
The president of the law club will act as $ chairman and the program followed the i form of other Hoynes Nights. This included ; music and eats. Each year the law students j hold Hoynes Night in honor of the man who j for many years was the dean, and is now ; dean emeritus of the law school that has j since been named in his honor. Once each । year they meet with this grand character ' that is almost as much a part of Notre Dame j as the Dome itself.	!
—’—	j
SCHOOL OF MUSIC TO HOLD RECITAL ■
The School of Music at the University	;
will hold a recital Thursday evening, March 29, in the Recital Hall, located on । the second floor of the Music Building. <
The recital, to be given by the advanced members of the School, will consist of vo- : cal, piano and violin selections, both classical and modern. Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the School of Music, announces that it will be the first time the School ever < officially presented a program of this km •	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
719
THE CAMPUS CLUBS
CHICAGO CLUB
Reservations for the Easter Formal Dance which the Chicago club is holding on Monday, April 9, this . year in the Gold and Balloon Rooms of the Congress Hotel should be made as soon as possible with Dick Halpin, president of the club, in 213 Lyons Hall.
In making ■ table reservations the number of couples expected in the party for which space is reserved should be given. Reservations will not be held after eleven o’clock on the night of the dance.
Ten teams are entered in the Chicago club’s baseball tournament for club members. The teams, with their managers and. captains, are Lyons, Rategan, manager—Reynolds, captain; Morrissey, Scales, manager—Griffin, captain; Howard, Leahy, manager —Hellmuth, captain; Badin, Trotter, manager— Casey, captain; Walsh, McLaughlin, manager—Hab-
erkorn, captain; Sorin-Corby, Cronin, manager— Dowdall, captain; Brownson-Carroll, McShane, manager—Jans, captain; Sophomore, Houlihan, manager —Kolski, captain; Freshman, Hanlon, manager— Leahy, captain; Day Dogs, Lyons, manager—Fiedler, captain.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held in Science Hall Monday evening, March 15. Two senior science students presented papers. William E. Mahin in his “Theory of Photography” treated in a lengthy manner the history, theory and some of the latest discoveries in the field of photography. The making and purpose of photographic films, as well as the uses of developers and fixers, were given particular attention. John Franklin gave a talk on “Absorption in • the Alimentary Tract.” Starting at the mouth, Mr. Franklin showed what happened to the different types of foods in the process of digestion, and traced the products of digestion to their ultimate consumption in metabolism.
The members of the Academy were invited to attend the lecture of Dr. B. B. Turner on “The Chemistry of Life, Growth and Cancer," as guests of the American Chemical Society.
WISCONSIN CLUB
The Wisconsin club met Monday night in the Law Building for the purpose of making arrangements for the Easter dance sponsored by the club and which will be held in Milwaukee, April 10. President Lamboley made the following committee appointments:
' General chairman, James Rank; music, Frank Holdkampf; arrangements, Paul Brust; reception, Fred Miller; patrons, Jean L. Bauer; programs, , Hilmer Boehme; tickets, John Voss and publicity, Earl Lamboley.
FORT WAYNE CLUB
President Edmund Bresnahan called a special meeting last Tuesday evening at which time the members were infoi-med of the arrangements being made for the Easter Ball. Robert Eggeman, chairman of the dance, reported that the plans were practically completed and announced the date as April ninth at the Anthony Hotel. Members are requested to purchase their tickets as soon as possible from Louis Niezer. Anyone else who lives in the vicinity of Fort Wayne is invited and if desirous of going should get in touch with either John R. Murphy or Louis Niezer. Robert Eggeman is being assisted in the arrangements of the dance by Fred Schoppman and Art Miller.
UNIVERSITY BAND
The University Band held a smoker Friday evening in the faculty dining room. John Robinson, president of the organization acted as toastmaster.
The principal speakers of the evening included Pat Manion, Howard V. Phalin and Joseph Casa-santa. The latter in his speech commended the band on its great cooperation during the year. He also presented each member- of the band with a watch charm symbolic of membership in the body.
Paul Wendland was appointed chairman for the formal dinner dance to be given in the early part of May.
CINCINNATI CLUB
The Cincinnati Club held its initial banquet of the year, Tuesday evening, March 20, in the Joan Tea Room, South Bend.
Following a delicious meal the toastmaster Joseph Kinneary, introduced Professor Charles Phillips of the department of English at the University. Mr. Phillips gave a very interesting talk on “The Religious and Historical Background of Cincinnati.” Tho other speaker of the evening, Peter Edward McKeown, Lecturer of the local Knights, delivered an inspiring address on the necessity of club unity.
VILLAGERS CLUB
The annual Easter Dance of the Villagers club will be held on Wednesday, April 11, in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend, from 9 to 12, it was announced at the last meeting of the Villagers held on Monday evening at the Morningside club. This date will enable many of the students to attend as they return to school from their respective vacations qn that date, school reopening on that morning. If present plans are carried out the dance this year will surpass any other dance ever attempted by the club. The next meeting of the club will not take place until May 7, at this time final plans will be arranged for the club's “Spring Formal."
720	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

| THE COLLEGE PARADE
By Cyril J. Mullen
From The Daily Texan, of the University of Texas, Austin:
“Revenue from oil royalties of the University went over the $8,000,000 mark Tuesday when $115,168 was received from four of the major producing companies operating on University lands. This money makes up the permanent fund of the University.”
It is to be regretted that the founders of Notre Dame did not pick a more profitable site for the erection of the University. The only two natural assets in northern Indiana are the Indiana moon and the interesting climate, both of which have received a great deal of free advertising, but as yet, have not been capitalized.
The Daily Northwestern lists the formal dances to be held during two weeks: “Sigma Alpha Iota, Kappa Delta, Delta Gamma, ' Belta Sigma Omicron, Zelta Tau Alpha, Kappa Sigma Tau, Phi Mu Delta, Delta Tau Delta, Phi Beta, Delta Omicron.” Well, that’s nothing. Notre Dame Juniors had' a formal a few weeks ago themselves.
From the Blarney Stone of the Michigan State Neros: “A statement was recently issued by Knute Rockne that a football coach should not take the place of the Sunday school teacher. Moral values in character building should be taught in Sunday School, and not on the football field, says the famous coach. This statement seems sound to us . . . But the position taken by Rockne has its drawbacks. We fear that without the idealistic atmosphere, some backfield men will start down the field and attempt to practice deceit by mis-leading the opponents as ■to which way he will run. That wouldn’t be nice.”
'	—«—
Another professor, this time one at the University of New York, is adding .volume to the eternal braying and ponderous ear-waggihg identified with all vivisection of our alleged modern youth. The professor opens
by complacently patting himself upon the back because he predicted the passing of the flapper. He should, I think, congratulate j himself even more, because he is quite alone in his discovery. After a few lines of soli- s tary admiration of his own gifts as a seer, j Professor Birder continues: “The flapper,... J surprised her elders by changing over night ; from the uproarious, self-willed, and unac- ; countable person to the supposedly sedate, • soft-toned young woman of today who is wise beyond her years.” May I venture that j Dr. Birder’s microscope is slightly out of focus? But again he goes prophet, writing: “We should, however, be prepared for other ; charges. Perhaps in a year or two the cigar-	;
ettes of the flapper will have given away to	!
the pipe or cigar of the adult male ...”	<
Another paragraph of blah in its vai-ious shades and degrees, leading up to this stun- i ning climax: “. . . nothing is certain in this	;
uncertain world except the everlasting	i
changeability of the younger female generation.”	;
To sum it up, here are three of the Professors more striking revelations:
(a)	The flapper of two years ago has changed into an entirely new species of fauna-	•
(b)	The flapper will probably improve her tastes in tobacco.	•	,
(c)	Things are uncertain and things change.
At the Jerusalem Temple, according to The Tulane Hullabaloo, Dr. W. B. Riley, President of the World’s Christian Fundamentalist Association will oppose Charles Smith, President of the American Associa- '• tion foi’ the Advancement of Atheism on the following subjects: “Resolved that Evolu- , tion is a fake philosophy;” and “Resolved ; that Evolution should be taught as a science J in tax supported schools." The prices range ; from $1.00 to $2.50—not exorbitant at all, I s think. You would pay higher than that for : a more ordinary comedy ip New York or ,	।
Chicago.	;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
721

*M>
; THE EDITOR’S PAGE

■ POETRY IN OUR TRADITION
“Poetry is in the tradition of Notre Dame.” Speer Strahan and Father Charles L. O’Donnell in 1917 wrote this sentence into the foreword of their little book, “Notre Dame Verse,” the first collection of its kind to be published. They pointed to the influence of such former professors as Eliot Ryder, Arthur Stace, Charles Warren Stoddard, Maurice Francis Egan, and Austin O’Malley, and by -their own contributions did much to make worthy their aim: “to exhibit something historically characteristic of Notre Dame.”
The Poetry Number of the Scholastic this year undertakes this same purpose, with the confidence of its editors that in the field of poetry at least, the tradition of Notre Dame has lost none of its reverence. The Scribblers, supplementing the work of the professors that have followed Stoddard and Egan and the others, have proved in their annual poetry contests an enduring encouragement for the campus writers that have succeeded to the pens of Strahan, Father O’Donnell and their fellows. The poems published in this number are those that were named by the three judges in selecting the five most meritorious entries in the recent contest for 1928.
The choice of these nine poems as the best of the works submitted would be no guarantee of their worth, were it not foi* the unusually large number of contributions and the assurance of the judges that the material from which the awards were made was of the highest quality ever produced on the campus. That the quality of Notre Dame composition maintains a high standard is indicated by the comment of an American journalist in Paris, who, on receipt of- a Scribbler Anthology last year, wrote back, “Why, you are turning out literature at NotreDame.”
Basically, however, it is not necessary that these poems should have received the authoritative praises that were given them. Apart
from their quality, there is enough satisfaction in the certainty that they are “something historically characteristic of Notre Dame,” that they are as integral an element of the spirit of the place as football and the Dome. They have an authentic'place here; “Poetry is in the tradition of Notre Dame.”
—R.C.E.
THE EXCELLENCE OF THE UNIVERSITY ORCHESTRA _ The eight hundred or so faculty members, students, townspeople, and friends who crowded Washington Hall to capacity last Saturday evening to witness the Fifth Production of the University Theatre, were pleasantly surprised and delighted at the excellent musical program rendered by Mr. Joseph Casasanta’s twelve-piece University Orchestra. The audience without exception gave richly deserved applause to this musical organization, whose superb rendition of difficult musical scores, both classical and modern, proved a distinct and a valuable adjunct to the two plays presented by the Theatre.
Few, if any, of the fortunate spectators present, realized that such an excellent student orchestra could exist, not only on the Notre Dame campus, but on any’other college or university campus for1 that matter. Few, if any, thought that such a splendid 'and versatile musical organization could be possible outside of professional orchestra ranks. Few, if any, doubted that the tremendous success and almost instantaneous favor of the University Theatre productions was greatly enhanced by the splendid music.
Organized three months, practising but the same number of times each week, and with freshmen composing one-half the personnel, it is without the slightest doubt, one of the finest groups to represent Notre Dame in any kind of endeavor. Pursuing the quiet tenor of its ways under the inspiring directorship of Mr. Casasanta, it has forged rapidly to the front as a worth while musical organization.	—J.V.H.
722	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WINTER WISH
I have wished for a feathered courier, To dispatch on a far-winged quest, To carry a heart-born message, To a white door looking West, Where firs loom tall like sentinels, And a broad green slopes away
To caress the road that, ivinding, Skirts the azure of the bay. .
Beneath the portal she will find it, In the cool of eventide,
When the cares of day are ended, And hope and love abide.
She will then unfold it, And reading, tenderly recall A kiss turned gold by firelight, And the silence over all.
—ATTACHE
ACH, DU LIEBER AUGUSTIN TO THE RESCUE Herr Alan von Dale: Ich binn sehen where du bist on der Wacht for eine Frau, oder Fraeulein, for ge-holpen sie mit Der Hobnails, onct alreaty, like die Shelby von der Line.
Nichts kommei1 Auchs mit such ge-foolishings. Cobblings by die wimmens binn monkeyshines. Ich binn ein gutes Shumacher and wollen peg in Der Hobnails pnd petch up dei1 Klodhoppers wenn du bist sick, drunk, oder gone de-fisching.
Well, es wehr shust pout genough by diesen time.	—DER COBBLER.
TO YOU
Hair as black as a raven’s wing;
Features cut for a cameo ring;
Lips as red as the best of blood, Always seem to be in bud.
That I loved you I will admit;
I love you yet but have lost hope.
My nerve to tell you would not permit;
I hate you now and hope you choke.
—R.F.J.D.M’M.
BUT CLEO GOT STUNG IN THE END
Friend Allan: Nick Bottom with his fustian utterances is just another glaring reason why we' 20th century femmes entirely ignore leap year. Men may kill the thing they love but we don’t choose to go to quite that much trouble—they’re not worth it. The conceited bombastic male must ever seek his , paragon on, as the poor fool thinks—his equall But since the time and the example of the matchless Cleo, we’ve been kidding them along] Strange to relate we don’t hate men, we merely tolerate them!
' ' ■	—BALTIMORE LASSIE. ■
SIMPLIFIED BRIDGE RULES (Via The Border Cities Star)
1.	Pick up your cards as dealt. You will be ready to bid ahead of the others.
2.	If your- hand is rotten, mention it. It will guide your1 partner in his bid and play.
3.	If your partner bids first don’t hesitate to raise. He has to play it.
4.	Never hurry. Try several cards on a trick until you are sure which one you prefer.
5,	Occasionally ask what is trump. It will show you'are interested in the game.
6.	Don’t show lack of interest when you are a dummy. Help your partner1 with your suggestions.
7.	Walk around the table when you are dummy and look at the other hands. Tell them what cards are good and how many tricks they can take if they play right.
8.	Talk about other subjects during the game. It makes good fellowship.
9.	Feel free to criticise your partner. He will do much better as a result.
10.	Always trump your partner’s cards. Never take a chance.
11.	Don’t try to remember the rules. It is too confusing.
12.	If it is a money game always stop when you are ahead. It will leave a lasting impression and folks will remember you.
13.	Always explain your plays, particularly when set. It shows your card knowledge.
14.	Disagree with established rules and conventions. People will know you a person of independent mind.
15.	Eat chocolates, caramels or other adhesive candy while playing; it keeps the cards from skidding.	—b. M. H.
MOOD	'
I am weary of bright, gay faces, .And sharp,.cold laughter in the drawing room.
I, long for the dark and silent places,	;
To feel the wind stir slowly in the gloom.
I hunger for the night’s sad crying,	'i
To see the moon’s tvhite lips silver the leaves ■ $ That pale before her passion and turn sighing To watch her. dance among the grain’s sheaves.
My heavy heart is sick with happy things ~ And weary of the glad song of the lark.
I long to sense the beat of night’s .soft wings J And feel the poignant sorrow of the dark. ; -,fl _______________________________the luckless lad. , Weather Report—The young men’s fancies are all lightly turning to thoughts of love.
•............. —allan-a-dale.	rsS
j|

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
723
LITERARY


'le^
Incident
INTO the silence of a broken house
x You bring your laughter, and your merry singing Startles the shadows, reprimands a mouse, Breaks the long circle of a bat’s dark winging.
You leave; from your remote and ivory tower Floats the low voice of some beloved one, calling, And at the house I hea/r, within the hour, The crash of yet another timber falling.
Travelers’ Song
J WILL go to far lands
1 And in strange lands, be free. You will stay at home and Think of me.
Over golden mountains And horizons, I will go. In a kitchen you will Sit and. sew.
0
it
I will count the purple birds Flying to the sun.
You will count the stitches One by one.
You zvill be quite happy With simple things to do.
I will wish that I could Be with you.
—JACK mullen;


&
■W

724
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*■
>1^^
t
Zebras
KA y days and ni9hts like zebras pass Sometimes I think that they tvill sing, . Before a dim distorted glass Or do some strange, exotic thing,
That seeks to catch the striped file And hold them there a little while.
Or bring upon their slender backs A loveliness this land so lacks.
They never run or jump or leap, But move as steadily as sheep.
But always with impersonal eyes They move beneath the empty skies;
Yet in them there must always be An element of oddity.
And tvith a slots unbroken tr.ead, (So curiously garmented,)
As from far lands they come and go—’ Dim Africa or Mexico.
Monotonously mark the beat Of Time benetith their tiny feet.
A pril in Hell
pERSEPHONE comes back to hell
-* And brings with her the spring, And everywhere the nightingales, (Who sinned) begin to sing.
An April mist lies in her hair, Cool flowers in her hand.
She brings a quickening breath to stir This hot and static lend.
n
With dewy feet she runs along
The avenues of fire
Enkindling some to shining dreams, . And some to old desire.
She runs by all the burnt facades, And cindered parks of hell;
Among these black obsceneties A little shy gazelle.



And all along the smoky street, Doivn to the burning sea,
Parched throats send up a frantic shout, “Welcome, Persephone!"
.M

—MURRAY YOUNG.


£
■ $
A3 :	.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

On The Eve of Twenty-One
1\T0T once again in all the time to come Shall I be ever as I am tonight.
Not once again find liberation from
The condemnation of tomorrow’s light.
1
To petrify my feelings, to grow fat, To be at odds with those I move among, To chafe at duties—age means all of that! Is there no way to be forever young?
For I could never learn to trick my friends, Or sham a solemn pose, or rear a son. Which seem to me to be the petty ends That men pursue when youth is dead and done.
I know that some of you trill say of me That I am weak. No, I am only wise, For I am old and, cool enough to see The joys of youth while youth still lights my eyes.
And'I have kept the words I have been told .By old men’s lips that trembled as they said, “You will not prize your youth till you are bld, Nor be so free again till you are dead.’’
Already I am one with all the sad
Old men who say, their wistful eyes all dim' At sight of some small, careless, happy lad, “O life, to be forever young, like him!”
—RICHARD ELFERS.
726
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC



■f
No More Tea
T* HERE'S no more tea in the samovar;
■* The cups stand empty on the cloth; A white rose droops in a slender vase, And a petal falls like a dying moth. .
' £ • '74 ■ i
You’ve dropped your glove from your slim, rvhite hand;
It lies like a dead bird on the floor.
How can you smile and say “good-bye”
When we will have tea no more?	.
—JOHN DE ROULET
The Cowboy’s Night Song to the Herd
LAY down, doggies, Don't hold your heads so high;
For the little yippin’ coyote, Is someivhere standing nigh.
Lay down, bunkie,
On your saddle rest your head; For I’ll watch all the critters, While you are playing dead.
Sleep tight, doggies, , While I sit my sleepy steed;
Now don’t get restless noways;
And start a “grand stampede.”
Get up, doggies,
The sky is turning grey;
Crop the grass that’s near you, And we’ll be on the way.
Get up, bunkie,
Get out and dust your tick;
While the cook yells, “Come and get it or ., I’ll, throw it in the crick.”


—JACKSON J. HAY.
r -	’

.7 - ri Sy Mrf.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
727
<s •
Admonition
"\fOU must not say that Romance now is dead, 1 And fill your nights and days with senseless grieving. You must not say that Chivalry has fled And lose your faith in life and cease believing.
Foi theie is more to life than struggle merely, And bitterness is not the only cup we quaff; Clean friends we have and those who. love us dearly, Images and dreams and the God-given laugh. And there are hands as fair as Marian’s were, And bosoms white and dear and red lips curving.
. You are mistaken and grievously you, err
To think that you will quit your honor-serving.
We are too blind for visions blind and mean;
They shall see Beauty bare whose souls are clean.
—FRANK CONNOLLY.
3

?h:

Mary's Evening Song
LULLABY, lullaby, go to rest,
Sleep little Babe upon my breast; Father’s in heaven, journeying far, Lighting the moon and lighting the star. Sleep little Babe, and close your eyes Father is watching You from the skies.
Lullaby, Baby, sleep.
Lullaby, lullaby, Baby sleep, Father is watching His little Sheep.
Father has planned-with strange device Rearing His Lamb for the sacrifice;
Planning with love for You and me A sword for me,—for You a tree.
Lullaby, Baby, sleep.
—NORMAN JOHNSON,C.S C.
' in ;
‘.M'-r,

£

728
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
: SPORT NEWS
Brownson 1928 Interhall Indoor Track Champs
Captures Closely Contested Meet in Brilliant Fashion Hard Pressed by Sophomore and Freshman
In one of the best regulated and most closely contested track meets ever recorded in Interhall annals, Brownson hall captured the initial honors in the finals of the annual Interhall Indoor Track competitions staged last Saturday afternoon in the gymnasium. The final tabulations gave the Brownsonites a well-merited foui’ and one-half point triumph over the Sophomore hall aggregation, which together with Freshman, battled the ultimate winners to a close finish in practically every event on the afternoon’s program. The final scores for the seven halls participating in the meet are as follows: Brownson, 38; Sophomore, 33 1-2; Freshman, 22 1-2; Carroll, 16; Howard, 16; Morrissey, 3; and Lyons, 3. Sorin, Corby, Badin, Walsh and Off-Campus either failed to place men in the finals, or were not represented at all in the meet.
Overwhelming superiority in both hurdle events in which they took six out of seven possible places for a total of 17 points, proved the foundation for the success of the Brownsonites. The 60 yard high hurdles in particular, was productive of tallies, the Tent-Citians making a clean sweep of every place awarded. First places in the mile team race, the broad jump and the high jump also helped to swell the Brownson total.
The meet was featured by the performances of John O’Brien of Brownson; Paul O’Connor of Sophomore; James Biggins of Howard, and Alfred Grisanti of Freshman, besides several others. O’Brien was the highpoint man, and also the individual star of the meet. His first in the 60 yard high hurdles, tie for first in the 65 yard low hurdles, second in the broad jump,1 and
tie for fourth in the high jump, gave him a total of 12 1-2 points, which was three and one-half more than his nearest competitor, O’Connor, who earned the initial decision in the 60 yard dash, and was deadlocked with O’Bryan for first honors in the 65 yard- low hurdle event. Biggins captured a first in the mile run and a second in the 880 for a total of eight points, while Grisanti with a first in the quarter mile and a third in the 60 yard dash was only one point behind him.
Perhaps the outstanding race of the afternoon was the thrilling duel between the two leading point-scorers, O’Brien and O’Connor, in the 65 yard low hurdles. Both' got off to a good start, topped each successive timber in unison, and raced the last few yards to the tape in a deadlock in the exceptionally fast time of 7 4-5 seconds.
Consistent and commendable performances were also turned in by the following men: McConnville of Carroll, who raced the 880 in 2 minutes 6 2-5 seconds; Vailie of Freshman, who broad jumped 20 feet 2 1-2 inches; Reiman of Brownson, who cleared the bar in the high jump at 5 feet 9 inches; and Walsh of Sophomore, who tossed the shot 40 feet, 3 1-2 inches
Sophomore Hall relay quartets carried off major honors in the four relay events run off, with Carroll extending them in every race. The Two-year men captured the mile relay in 3 minutes 44 3-5 seconds, and then came back a little later to take the three-quarter mile affair in 2 minutes 28 2-5 seconds. In the two mile relay the Paste-board Palace representatives were outclassed by the Carroll contingent who
he notre dame scholastic
turned in a time of 9 minutes 1 5-1 o seconds.
The Brownsonites outstepped the field in the mile team race to win in 4 minutes 50 2-5 seconds.
The summaries of the meet follow:
. 60 Yard High Hurdles—O’Brien, Brownson, first; Weisbacher, Brownson, second; Duncan, Brownson third. Time—8 2-5 sec.	-	*
880 Yard Run—McConville, Carroll, first; Biggins, Howard, second; Moran, Sophomore, third; Mulflur Brownson, fourth. Time—2 min., 6 2-5 sec. ’
Mile Run—Biggins, Howard, first; Daugherty, Lyons, second; Robinson, Brownson, third; Cavanaugh, Carroll, fourth. Time—4 min., 50 2-5 sec.
Broad Jump—Bailie, Freshman, 20 ft., 2 1-2 in., first; O’Brien, Brownson, 20 ft., 2 in., second; Reiman, Brownson, 20 ft., 1 1-2 in., third; Eggleston, Freshman, 19 ft., 9 in., fourth.
Pole Vault—Leahy, Howard, 10 ft., 9 in., first; Cronin, Freshman, and Gavin, Freshman, 10 ft., 6 in., tied for second; Slattery, Freshman, 10 ft., fourth.
Mile Relay—Sophomore, first; Carroll, second; Freshman, third; Howard, fourth. Time—3 min., 44 1-5 sec.	,
Mile Team Race—Brownson, first; Howard, second. Time—4 min., 50 2-5 sec.
Two Mile Relay—Carroll, first; Sophomore, second; Brownson, third. Time—9 min., 1 5-10 sec.
Three-Quarter Mile Relay—Sophomore, first; Carroll, second; Morrissey, third. Time—2 min., 28 2-5 sec.
60 Yard Dash—O’Connor, Sophomore, first; Anderson, Carroll, second; Grisanti Freshman, third; Hardaker, Sophomore, fourth. Time—7 sec.
65 Yard Low Hurdles—O’Connor, Sophomore, and O’Brien, Brownson, first; Duncan, Brownson, third; Weisbacher, Brownson, fourth. Time— 7 4-5 sec.
440 Yard Run—Grisanti, Freshman, first; Gallagher, Sophomore, second; Anderson, Carroll, third; Shay, Sophomore, fourth. Time—55 2-5 sec.
High Jump—Reiman, Brownson, 5 ft., 9 in., first; Hoffman, Freshman, and Hardaker, Sophomore, 5 ft., 7 in., tied for second; O’Brien, Brownson, and Duncan, Brownson, 5 ft., 5 in., tied for fourth. .
Shot Put—Walsh, Sophomore, 40 ft., 3 1-2 in., first; Sweeney, Morrissey, 38 ft., 6 1-2 in., second, Herwitt, Brownson, 36 ft., 8 1-2 in., third; McMan-mon, Freshman, 36 ft., 3 1-2 in., foui'th.
baseball men await outdoor . practice
Coach Mills’ baseball squad has been working out daily in the gym patiently waiting for the spasms of warm spring
weather to change to constancy. Nothing oi any consequence can be accomplished’ until they, get out-of-doors and less than L°oWeeks remain before they open the 1928 diamond season at Fort Benning, Georgia, on April third.
Bray, Jachym, and Colerick, the accomplished basketball trio, have exchanged their gum-shoes for spikes and have added considerable power to the lineup. Niemiec, the other veteran, has resumed his position on the hot corner permanently, as the injury to his knee is not as serious as had been suspected.
Before the trip south can even be contemplated, Coach Mills has still to select a suitable set of gardeners. Some fourteen contenders have their bids in and equal abilities of all concerned are making the choice a difficult one.
The pitchers are slowly but surely rounding into form, and are giving the Blue and Gold mentor but little worry, as the flingers who will represent Notre Dame on the mound this year are as capable a lot as can be found in any university. The fight for the catching assignment is still being merrily waged with Law, Mason, Lordi, Krembs, and Mahoney rated about a par with each other at this writing.
R. P. D.
. CROWE AND SMITH AS 1927-1928 ALL-WESTERN
For the fourth consecutive year Notre Dame basketball players have been signally honoreed by receiving berths on the Official All-Western cage quintet selected at the. close of each session by Fred Young, prominent basketball official and authority. Frank Crowe, forward, and Ed Smith, guard, were the Blue and Gold performers honored this year. Together with Bennie Oosterbann,, of Michigan, forward; “Stretch” Murphy of Purdue, center; and Harry Kemmer, also of Purdue, guard, they constitute the first All-Western team recently released by Mr. Young. By a singular coincidence, Crowe and Kenner were teammates for three years on the Jefferson High School combination of Lafayette, Indiana.
730
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The achevements of Crowe and Smith in making the selections are made the more remarkable and praiseworthy by the fact that each was playing his first season as a regular on the Notre Dame five. Crowe was a brilliant substitute on last year’s Western Champion Blue and Gold varsity, while Smith performed on the Notre Dame hardwood for the first time during the season just concluded.
Mr. Young had the following to say of each. Concerning Crowe he remarked that “he is a magnificent ball-handler and is a superb dribbler that would fit nicely with Oosterbann.” “Smith,” according to Mr. Young,” did not hake his high school team but he developed into a marvelous guard under George Keogan . . . and not only was a tower of strength defensively but a great machine in himself. He averaged ten points per game.”
Honorable mention was accorded by Mr. Young to the following, Notre Dame players: Captain Joe Jachym, forward; John Colerick and Al Hamilton, centers; and Jim Bray and Clarence Donovan, guards.
Notre Dame players who have made AllWestern first teams since Coach Keogan assumed the cage reins five years ago are: Captain Noble Kizer, 1924-1925; Johnny Ny-ikos and Louis Conroy, 1925-1926 and 19261927; Frank Crowe and Ed Smith, 19271928. Clem Crowe, Ray Dahman, and Vince McNally also received All-Western recognition during the same period but not as members of first teams'.
SPRING FOOTBALL UNDER WAY
Approximately 250 candidates for the 1928 edition of the Rockmen have been cavorting around the practice fields for the • past week or so, getting into condition and keeping their hands in at the game that next fall may not find them soft, and the art of handling the pigskin a lost one. So far nothing but light workouts have been indulged in, the backs doing a little blocking and running and the linemen rehearsing the fundamentals of offensive and de
fensive play. Later the schedule calls for ’ tackling, light scrimmages, and perhaps a few real tussles.
To facilitate the coaching work, and also give the graduating monogram men actual experience, the squad has been split up into thirteen or fourteen teams, each under the direction of a letterman and the whole under the all-seeing eye of Rockne himself. Divided into groups according to position, each man is given individual attention, his weak departments built up, and his strong points further stressed. This system of intensive training will make the fall coaching much easier—both fr coaches and men—as the time spent now will save that much time later on.
Rockne is faced with the task of building up,an almost entirely new line as the greater part of last year’s forward wall will be lost through graduation. With the regulars, Captain Miller and Leppig b^ck, and the monogram men, Ransavage, Moynihan, and McGrath ready for service, this \ task becomes easier, but nevertheless it is : still a formidable one. In backfield mate- ; rial Coach Rockne is more fortunate. From ; last year’s aggregation Niemiec, Collins, Elder, Chevigny, Dew, Morrisey, and ' Brady remain, these men representing ,■ every position in the backfield. With these ■' veterans as a nucleus, everything points to s a strong team and a most successful season.	J
The freshman material too has been | giving a fine account of itself, many poten- | tial varsity men being found in the ranks of the first-year men. The frosh backs especially have been of high calibre and J several yearling linemen have also shown -I exceptional promise. Taking all things into consideration they measure up well g to the high standards set by the frosh of previous years.	J
With the bustle and activity of spring a training still two weeks short of its finish || line the progress made has been encourag- .3 ing and the fall prospects immeasurably brightened by the fine showing of the J| squad.	'	J. H. Z.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
730
The achievements of Crowe and Smith in making; the selections are made the more remarkable and praiseworthy by the fact that each was playing his first season as a regular on the Notre Dame five. Crowe was a brilliant substitute on last year’s Western Champion Blue and Gold varsity, while Smith performed on the Notre Dame hardwood for the first time during the season just concluded.
Mr. Young had the following to say of each. Concerning Crowe he remarked that “he is a magnificent ball-handler and is a superb dribbler that would fit nicely with Oosterbann.” “Smith,” according to Mr. Young,” did not hake his high school team but he developed into a marvelous guard under George Keogan . . . and not only was a tower of strength defensively but a great machine in himself. He averaged ten points per game.”
Honorable mention was accorded by Mr. Young to the following, Notre Dame players: Captain Joe Jachym, forward; John Colerick and Al Hamilton, centers; and Jim Bray and Clarence Donovan, guards.
Notre Dame players who have made AllWestern first teams since Coach Keogan assumed the cage reins five years ago are: Captain Noble Kizer, 1924-1925; Johnny Ny-ikos and Louis Conroy, 1925-1926 and 1926-1927; Frank Crowe and Ed Smith, 1927-1928. Clem Crowe, Ray Dahman, and Vince McNally also received All-Western recognition during the same period but not as members of first teams'. ■---------------------------
SPRING FOOTBALL UNDER WAY
Approximately 250 candidates for the 1928 edition of the Rockmen have been cavorting around the practice fields for the • past week or so, getting into condition and keeping their hands in at the game that next fall may not find them soft, and the art of handling the pigskin a lost one. So far nothing but light workouts have been indulged in, the backs doing a little blocking and running and the linemen rehearsing the fundamentals of offensive and de
fensive play. Later the schedule calls for ' tackling, light scrimmages, and perhaps a few real tussles.
To facilitate the coaching work, and also give the graduating monogram men actual experience, the squad has been split up into thirteen or fourteen teams, each under the direction of a letterman and the whole under the all-seeing eye of Rockne himself. Divided into groups according to position, each man is given individual attention, his weak departments built up, and his strong points further stressed. This system of intensive training will make the fall coaching much easier—both fr coaches and men—as the time spent now will save that much time later on.
Rockne is faced with the task of building up.an almost entirely new line as the greater part of last year’s forward wall will be lost through graduation. With the regulars, Captain Miller and Leppig b^ck. and the monogram men, Ransavage, Moynihan, and McGrath ready for service, this task becomes easier, but nevertheless it is still a formidable one. In backfield material Coach Rockne is more fortunate. From last year’s aggregation Niemiec, Collins, Elder, Chevigny, Dew, Morrisey, and Brady remain, these men representing every position in the backfield. With these veterans as a nucleus, everything points to a strong team and a most successful season.
The freshman material too has been giving a fine account of itself, many potential varsity men being found in the ranks of the first-year men. The frosh backs especially have been of high calibre and several yearling linemen have also shown exceptional promise. Taking all things into consideration they measure up well to the high standards set by the frosh of previous years.
With the bustle and activity of spring training still two weeks short of its finish line the progress made has been encouraging and the fall prospects immeasurably brightened by the fine showing of the squad.	1	J. H. Z.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ELDER TIES WORLD’S 75 YARD RECORD AT ILLINOIS RELAYS
Notre Dame’s most likely-looking Olympic prospect, Jack Eldei' the fleet Kentuckian, proved that he was worthy of such consideration to be one of the representatives of this country at Amsterdam next summer, when he tied the world’s record for the 75 yard dash at the Eleventh Annual Illinois Relays held in Urbana last Saturday. The record for the distance, 7 2-5 seconds, was established by Hany Russell, Cornell’s great sprinter in 1926.
Grady, Kansas State’s track ace battled the winner all the way, only to fall victim at the tape by little more than a foot to Elder’s marvelous reserve power. The Blue and Gold sprinter was off to a flying start, and gradually gathered momentum as he sped towards the tape for a beautiful driving finish. The race was easily the outstanding event on the day’s program.
Tom Bov, Notre Dame’s star pole-vaulter, also showed up exceptioanlly well during the games, tieing with Heintzer of Illinois, Glaser of Marquette, English of Missouri, and McAtee of Michigan State for second honors in his event at 12 feet 9 inches. Droegemuel-ler of Northwestern won the pole vault with a leap of 13 feet 3-4 inches, a new carnival record.
MILE RELAY TEAM FOURTH
Notre Dame’s sterling mile relay quartet, Stephen, Kelly, McGauley, and Abbott, running in the order named, although finishing fourth, were only 7-10 of a second out of second place and but 3-10 of a second from third honors. The Iowa four won the race in 3 min. 24 5-10 sec., another carnival record, with Illinois finishing second, and Northwestern third. Seven other collegiate relay teams failed to place.
Other Blue and Gold trackmen whose performances were particularly commendable, were Captain Joe Griffin in the hurdles, and , Ed McGauley in the 300 yard dash. Both reached the semi-finals over strong fields in their respective events before being eliminated.
FRESHMEN INFIELDERS CUT
From over one hundred candidates, Father E. Vincent Mooney, head coach, has selected three complete yearling infields for practice at present. Besides infielders he has retained all pitchers, catchers and outfielder’s. It is expected that when several men who were members of Freshman Varsity football and basketball teams report, they will make a strong bid for places on the squad.
Daily practice will continue at 12:30 in the Gym, and whenever the weather permits the team will work outdoors. It is too early to predict the calibre of the team as yet, but from the enthusiasm shown and the number of candidates who have reported, prospects for a creditable team are plainly evident. •	d. d. h.
--------.5-------
CROWE AND JACHYM ELECTED 1928-1929 LEADERS
At the Villagers’ Civic Testimonial Banquet in honor of Coach George Keogan and the 1927-28 Blue and Gold basketball team last Tuesday evening, two captains were elected to lead the 1928-29 quintet. Frank Crowe, All-Western forward the past season, and a junior in the Commerce school at the University, was elected to share the honor with Joseph Jachym, 1927-28 leader and a junior in the College of Arts and .Letters. The customary first ballot gave each man an equal share of the ten votes cast, and when two extra ballots failed to break the deadlock, Coach Keogan, after a short consultation with Coach Rockne, announced that both men' would serve as alternate captains during the next season.
The unusual election climaxed one of the most successful athletic banquets in the history of the University. A representative array of guests renowned in civic, fraternal, journalistic, and athletic circles assembled to do honor to a Notre Dame coach and a Notre Dame basketball team second to none in the country.
Under the capable direction of Burton Toepp, president of the Villagers, and Francis Jones, treasurer, the affair was a complete success. T. Galvin acted as toastmaster.
732
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	|
J
Immediately following the -election of the twin captains, Coach Keogan announced the names of the ten members of the varsity who would receive monograms for theii’ services during the past campaign. He also declared that class numerals were awarded to every member of the freshman squad.
All the monogram men as well as the reserves will return next year. A number of Freshmen also have displayed prominence during the sea-
V vherever you go—on campus ground — at football game — in snappy roadster—no matter what , outdoor activity—there you will see Sawyer’s Slickers — the unfailing choice of collegiate style setters throughout the country. Distinctively cut, Sawyer’s Slickers not only look well but give absolute protection against rain,sleet arid snow.
CAPTAIN-ELECT JACHYM son just closed and will make a bid for next year’s varsity. The winners of the awards were: Captain Joe Jachym, Frank Crowe, Bob Hamilton,
Sawyer’s Slickers are obtainable at men’s stores, haberdashers anddepartmentstores.
Get yours—TODAY:
H. M. SAWYER & SONS EAST CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS (MAKERS OF GENUINE OILED CLOTHING SINCE 1840)
CAPTAIN-ELECT CROWE 'Clarence Donovan, Ed Smith, Bob Newbold, Joe McCarthy, | Jim Bray, John Colerick, Tim Moynihan and Student Man- | ager John D. Igoe.	1
3