UM cp far H/iiA efaa/uMU
D. '
tastes good —like a cigarette should!
FINER FILTER!
THEY TASTE
SO GOOD!
FINER FLAVOR!
AND DRAW SO EASY!
<•'-*- r- i,.
H. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C
F I N
DRAW ING/




WINSTON
is fun to smoke!
Easy-drawing, smoothsmoking, good-tasting—that’s Winston! And that’s what it takes to get all the fun of smoking.
■ College smokers know why Winston changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This filter’ cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. And Winston’s finer filter works so effectively that the flavor really gets through to you.
Try a pack of easy-drawing Winstons. See for yourself why so many college men and women are getting together on this cigarette. Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!
KING SIZE TOO!


DISTINCTIVE . . . AND
IVY LEAGUE
OXFORD CLOTH SHIRTS
by WILSON BROS.
4.95
IVY LEAGUE”
SPORT COATS BY
CRICKETEER
32.50 and 34.50
Uie
Authentic Ivy League Styling . . . button-down collar with the added button in the back for neat appearance. In white and flattering solid tones.
in the deep, dark tones so popular now, as well as the medium and lighter shades, with handsome flecks of color woven into the fabric. Perfect with solid color shades.
^GILBERT'S
Feb. 1st, Mar. 1st., Apr. 1st No Carrying Charge.
WIN IH STODIMB MllfflR
To be given to some N.D. Man by Wilson Bros., and Gilbert's Campus Shop. Come in for details.
“IYY LEAGUE”
Open a
Junior Executive Charge Account
Pay one-third on Feb. 1st., March 1st., and April 1st. No Carrying charge.
Perfectly tailored by Daroff of fine Botany flannels in the natural look of ivy league styling. In Charcoal grey, Charcoal brown or lamp black.
BOTHY “500” Tailored by DIROFF
$65.00
Home of Wilson Brothers Sportswear
^GILBERTS
^(^ampu^^hog^
SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
'J
4
The Scholastic
jmpormkt notice to seniors
• MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Representatives of
INTERVIEWS
Division of United Aircraft Corporation will be here for
... regardless of military status ... who are graduating in:
• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
• AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING
HAMILTON STANDARD
Thursday, November 17
For 35 years the name Hamilton Standard has symbolized the world's finest aircraft propellers for both piston and turbine engines. Now it stands, too, for the finest in a growing line of jet aircraft equipment such as:
•	JET FUEL CONTROLS (electronic and hydro>mechanical)
•	JET TURBINE STARTERS (pneumatic and combustion)
•	HYDRAULIC PUMPS (variable displacement)
•	AIRCRAFT AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEMS
Many Hamilton Standard engineers have won international recognition for their contributions to aeronautical science. The same opportunities await young engineers who join our growing organization today. After a brief training and orientation program at high starting salary, you can advance steadily in one of our many fields of engineer-ing activity—the one most suited to your desires and talents.
Our modern plant is ideally located at Bradley Field, the main air terminal, only 15 miles from both Hartford, Conn, and Springfield, Mass.


STAN DARD
Division of United Aircraft Coro
WINDSOR LOCKS CONNECTICUT
November 11, 1955
...THE TASTE IS GREAT! «
2X11 the pleasure comes thru in Filter Tip Tareyton. You get the full, rich taste of Tareyton’s quality tobaccos in a filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier...and it’s the only filter cigarette with a genuine cork tip.
Tareyton’s filter is pearl-gray because it contains Activated
Charcoal for real filtration. Activated Charcoal is used to purify air, water, foods and beverages, sb you can appreciate its importance in a filter cigarette.
Yes, Filter Tip Tareyton is the filter cigarette that really filters, that you can really taste...and the taste is great! tipTAREYTON
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
e-
«
The Scholastic

^»y William M. Malloy
entry submits
fraternal corrections
I have IT from reliable sources that Mr. Peter Caruso has been recently spending most of his time in The Huddle ^^ating orange slices and being rather loud. Further, he raises the devil with the juke box and has on occasions thrown his empty paper cup high into the air. Wise up Pete, you have a good thing here at Notre Dame, don’t ruin it. The whole campus is wondering when you will grow up.
Tom Wageman eats too many hot
beef sandwiches.
And now an open letter to my room-
mate:
Dear Bob McGeary,
If my information is correct you have a lot of cleaning up to do in your life. Please don’t leave your dirty socks on my radiator. Do you think it’s fair to shave every morning at 8 o’clock when you know I have an 8:30 class? Also it’s only common courtesy to wash the jing off the tub when you are finished faking your bath . . . and don’t give me the argument that the tub is square. And leave my Kleenex and tooth paste alone. You have a good roommate, don’t ruin him. The whole campus is wondering when you will grow up. Hoping you will spend less time listening to police calls, I remain,
—Wm. M. M.
Now for a quick look across the local scene.
I a Lyons Hall: A certain D.M. in Room W16 has inky fingers from a leaky Ester-j brook.
| Flash: Who is having a certain who | down for what special weekend?
I Farley Hall: Rumor has it that Tom Ekrich and his roommate can’t make a go of it.
Dillon Hall: Rumor has it that Peter Foy bought a used car and can’t make | a go of it.
J. Off Campus: Rumor has it that Dave f West’s landlady wants a new roomer, H i.e., Dave West must make a go of it.
St. Mary's College for Women: Liz
Jarboe was caught visiting Mary Jo Tucker after visiting hours last Tuesday.
And now an open letter to a very special friend at Duquesne University:
Dear Mary Ellen,
Don’t!
Yours unless you do,
—Wm. M. M.
P.S. Please don’t.
And now to answer some letters.
Dear W. M. M.
I am a small child living with my uncle and his wife who is my mother. My problem is my uncle. After causing the death of my father by hiding his heart medicine and scaring him with voo-doo dolls (this column is getting away from me) he took over his fireman’s pension of six dollars a month which he gambles and spends on dope. He beats mother everytime the Angelus rings and forces me to work fixing railroad ties. His favorite pasttime is butting his cigarettes on my forehead. What can be done?
Sincerely,
Discouraged, East Overshoe, Ohio.
Dear Little Discouraged,
Try to get positive about this thing. You know, there is a lot of good in people. My philosophy of life is that there is some good in people. People are good if you give them a chance. Good people. People.
Did you ever stop to think that you may not be perfect? Analyze yourself, look into your heart and try to see what makes your uncle hate you. Then start improving. Be good. Do good. Do a lot of good. I like people.
Dear Wm. M. M.,
Should I go steady?
Sincerely,
Mary	Runofthemill, Ind.
Dear Mary,
In your case I would say yes.
Dear Wm. M. M.,
Can you hook a No. 704 oscillating condenser* with a hydraulic cam belt to a ratio-regulating piston controlled by about a 43 to a 46 trigger valve synchronizer?
Sincerely,
Wondering Eatingstring, Ark.
Dear Wondering,
Well, it depends. Some people should and some people shouldn’t. Try to see it as others see it. God is good. Look into your heart. Try.
Dear Wm. M. M.,
I pray every night that I will be on the “$64,000 Question” and answer all the questions real good and win. But I never do. Does this mean there is no God?
Sincerely,
Lotta Esophagus Corby Hall
Dear Lotta,
On the contrary: Norman Vincent Peale would say no.
I ansiver that: the “$64,000 Question” is a virtue of the impractical intellect. Now the philosopher divides the virtues .into speculative—as wisdom and science, moral, as temperance and justice, practical, as art and prudence and impractical as the “£64,000 Question” and smoking. But just as prudence works for the good of the doer, smoking works for the good of the tobacco company and the death of the smoker. And that should be enough to answer the question.
Reply to Objection No. 1: It would seem that filter tips (cum adhaerendo filterus tipus) change the creature in that the proper amount of tars is reduced by half. It is a mistake of material logic to assume that if one will die of cancer- at forty from smoking regular cigarettes that one will live to eighty by smoking filter tips. Usually the habitus compels the smoker to smoke twice the number of filter cigarettes, ergo he will die at forty anyhow.
November 11, 1955
7
Darn, Those AB Boys!
Editor:
First, the O’Shaughnessy Building (which was needed), then a $65,000 addition for sculpturing, and now the “boys” in AB have their own little magazine known as the Notre Dame Scholastic. Gentlemen, need I remind you this is a university? There are some students who happen to attend the other colleges — engineers, commerce men, and scientists. Couldn’t you try, just a little bit, to give them the type magazine they could ENJOY again?
Paul Leitzinger 163 Dillon
P.S. Your' cover this week stunk again, as did Malloy’s Entree. Your editorials weren’t too hot either, but they’re never expected to be.
#
The Statistical Approach
Editor:
Having the good fortune to room with a Notre Dame graduate, I have become a second-hand reader of your Scholastic, finding myself eagerly a-waiting each copy. This month I was grossly disappointed, not only with your university, but also with the Scholastic for designing to write upon a subject fit only for Freud.
Notre Dame’s peculiar and painfully obvious approach to their dating problem confounds me. Has the dignity of courtship fallen so low, or animal desires risen so high, to reduce the gentle art of dating to the whims of the student IBM? Clearly, though, Notre Dame bears not the total blemish. Perhaps it is that St. Mary’s students and St. Joseph’s nurses are something less than * genuine ladies. Surely no lady, whatsoever her location be, would offer willingly such banalities as her major subject, her reading habits, and an outrageously biased self-description.
I surmise then, that after all eligibles have tossed their better judgment and (Continued on page 36)

INVENTORY Entree ........................    7
Repercussion ...........  .....\.	8
View ...„.l..................      9
Campus Scene .................... 11
Folio .....................       15
At a Glance ...................   22
Showcase ......................   24
Irish Scene .................     27
Time Out......................    30
Back Page ....................    38
NOTRE DAME PRESS
The Notre Dome	$
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Nov. 11,1955
No. 6
presents
Our Land and Our Lady
by Daniel Sargent
Back in print ... a book explaining the important role of the Blessed Virgin in American History'. Mr. Sargent interprets early beginnings— the Spanish, French and English who first dedicated their colonies in America to Our Lady—the missionaries and explorers who accepted apparent failure and martyrdom in Our Lady’s name—and the later history of Catholicism in this country in terms of Our Blessed Mother. The story of missionary' beginnings, strivings. failures and the ultimate paradox of success is told with profound spirituality.	a.
November 12	**
AT THE BOOKSTORE
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
King-size steak dinners every Tuesday and Thursday, $1.25 deliciously yours at . . .
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor ED JOYCE......................Copy Editor
BOB KAUFMAN ....................Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ...........Assistant News
DAVE THOMPSON..............Assistant News
JAMES McDONALD ........Assistant Newt (J JIM O’BRIEN ...............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN...................Art Editor
KEN WOODWARD.............Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, James Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, J°^r4R McMahon, Joe Mocarski, Bob Plante, Terry^i Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
DAVE DAVIN ..................Sports Editor
JOHN GLAVIN..............Assistant'Sport,
JOE NORTON.................Assistant Sports SPORTS STAFF: Jack Barthel, Andy Carnazola, Paul ’ D’Amore, Pat DeFoe, Dick Donovan, Bob Early, Joe Foreman, Jim Goethals, John Grady, Russ Hopkins, Jim Langford, Fred Lavin, Ray Lescher, Brian Moran, Vince Naimoli, Bob Parnell, Jim Reiher, Ed Rhorback, Jim Short, Carl Skiff, Dick Sofranko.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffer^^
D*RWTURB0W ^OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -----
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces"
--- EYES EXAMINED -------
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at -the. University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
on THE COVER Artist Michael “Mischa” Skop does a sensitive sketch of the mas^. ter sculptor, Ivan Mestrovic, with whon® he has been studying over a period of years.
g
The Scholastic

senate
I went to my first Student Senate meeting last Monday night—Pat McCartan, WSND station manager, was there too. Both of us had come at the invitation of various members of the Senate who indicated that perhaps we would . _see something worth passing on to the student body. We • ^did, to say the least.
> What we saw was a great exercise in the art of Christian ? patience. Both McCartan and myself agreed that if we had •.	to sit through even so much as one whole session we would
j	go charging out of it babbling incoherently to ourselves. I
I used to wonder why Senate President Tom Crehan used to ' come back to the hall Monday nights so completely ex,	hausted—I know now, he’s been nursing the Senate through
i	7	0	0
! the worst plague of senatoritis in years (“senatoritis” being j the habitual practice of expostulating eloquently on things ) irrelevant).
| This is not to say that most of the senators are so afflicted i	—as a matter of fact, the number of the “diseased” ones is
j few, but lord, how they are in evidence! Backed up by what ; little they know of parliamentary procedure, they seem to ! take great pleasure in “standing alone” against the new and really constructive legislation the rest of the body is patiently trying to act upon.
“Standing alone” are really the right words for it too. On two issues (while I was there) President Crehan called for the usual “aye”-“nay” voice vote. The “ayes” so clearly had it on both scores that Crehan had rapped his gavel I ^and begun on the next order of business when one individ;	ual, known well to the Senate but nameless here, exercised
g	his “parliamentary right” and called for a show of hands.
Hamstrung, Crehan called for a show of hands — issue passed, by a four to one margin in one instance.
At another point, the same individual stood up and read off some sort of motion just as the body was at last prepared to pass the much-discussed (three and one-half hours of Senate floor time) budget. Crehan, as calmly as possible under the circumstances, declared him out of order. “I appeal the decision of the chair,” declared the 1955 Senate protagonist. After ten minutes of banaling around he with-Adrew his motion.
This fellow isn’t the only nuisance, however. There are others who crane around absently or whisper constantly to
I their neighbor and then ply the chairman with “points of information” just as the issue comes to a head. Worse even than the calls for information are the times when they finally realize that perhaps this is a worthwhile point being discussed and that perhaps they should go down on record as I' having said something about it. Inanities and repetition invariably follow at great length.
In spite of life’s little problems, the Senate appears to | be thinking in the most expansive terms in its history — H —long-term loans, capital investments, and the like are be-L'«Loming more material every day. Hats off to the Senate f for the job they’re doing—thank the Lord I don’t have to do it the way they’re doing it.—J.A.	_	.
court
y^S we go to press the Student Activities Court opens its /Y chambers for the first time this year. Facing an initial docket of some 35 cases, the Court is in the position of being judged as well as judging. For upon this first showing de-
. pends the future prestige of the Court, insofar as we are concerned.
It was way back in our freshman year that the whole concept of student government at Notre Dame was overhauled. Out of a haphazard, hit-or-miss type of meddling in campus affairs evolved the present setup: a student government founded and modeled after the U. S. Constitution’s precept of triple-branch rule.	’
Now we feel that the legislative and executive phases have been pretty well handled by our past and present student government. Both branches are at least in active operation. But the judicial branch, in the past, has left much to be desired. Each year much ballyhoo has accompanied the selection and appointment of a justice or justices who were to don the robes of the Student Court. With the exception of hearing one or two cases, concerning which little or no information was made available to Joe Student, these Courts did nothing. The non-existent Court files will bear this out.
We believe that in order to accomplish what previous Courts have failed to do, i.e., prosecute, judge, and enforce decisions, there are loopholes and sore spots that must be eliminated.
First, there is the matter of the Court’s jurisdiction. What, specifically, comes under the power of the Court? Where is the line drawn between student violations which the Court is empowered to decide and those which remain the prerogatives of the Administration? We propose that, in the immediate future, a code of laws and regulations be drafted by the Court in conjunction with the Student Senate for promulgation among the student body.
Secondly, cooperation must be given willingly by both the students and the Administration. Students can do their part by recognizing the Court for what we hope it will be: an active, respected force working from the judicial standpoint for a better student government. This factor must also be recognized by the Administration. Especially at the grass roots of University supervision—in the residence halls— there must be no intervention by members of rhe Administration in the case of student violations which clearly come under the Court’s jurisdiction. If such cooperation is not forthcoming then the Court and all its components will become only so many figureheads in a crippled campus government.
Lastly, fines and penalties imposed bv the Court must stick. A Court whose sentences are merely toothless words meted out by its justices will be hopelessly hamstrung from the moment its first penalty is found to be susceptible to evasion, just for the asking.	,
Recently a student court at a large state university slapped a stiff fine on a fraternity some of whose members were found guilty of disorderly conduct during a football game. We don’t say that Notre Dame student government should encroach upon Administrative discipline, but we do . think that this is a good time for the students to begin cleaning up what rightfully belongs in their own backyard,—P.L.
November 11, 1955
9
1
How About Your Future?
REVERE COPPER AND BRASS
INCORPORATED
. . . representatives will be on your campus November 21 and 22 to describe the employment opportunities open in the Chicago, Detroit, Baltimore, Rome (N. Y.), New Bedford (Mass.), and Los Angeles areas.
Full Time Employment for Seniors Summer Employment for Junior and Sophomore Engineering Majors
Mechanical Engineers Metallurgical Engineers Chemical Engineers Civil Engineers Industrial Engineers Safety-F.P. Engineers Architectural Engineers
Accounting Majors
Business Administration Majors Marketing Majors (Sales) Personnel Administration Majors Industrial Psychology Majors Industrial Management Majors Industrial Education Majors
. . . in the fields of Plant Engineering and Machine Design, Tool & Die Design and Estimating Engineering, Lubrication Engineering, Technical Advisory Service (Sales Engineering), Motion and Time Study, Safety and Fire Protection Engineering, Industrial and Revere Ware Sales (engineers or non-engineers), Accounting, and Personnel.
Contact your University Placement Office for further information and for your copy of "WHY REVERE...?"
Visit Revere's fabricating plants through the medium of film in full color and sound—a picture depicting the high points in the processes of rolling, extrusion, and drawing. To be followed by a question and answer period relative to employment opportunities and personnel policies.
Time: 4:00 P.M., Monday, November 21
Place: Audio-Visual Center, Administration Bldg.
Revere knows its A-B-C’S Aluminum - Brass - Copper
10
The Scholastic
&Uftpui SdUtt
.COMMERCE MARKET RISES; DANCE SPECULATION HIGH
Ska rd a Entertains 'Ticker Tape Ball* Businessmen On 'Wall Street' Amidst Center Stock Exchange
Strictly a business atmosphere will dominate the Student Center tonight as 350 Commerce men and their dates dance to the music of Jack Skarda and his orchestra at the “Ticker Tape Ball.”
The “Notre Dame Stock Exchange” will be swamped in actual ticker tape as well as a back drop copy of the New York Stock Exchange with its actual dealings.
Miss Margaret Murphy, escorted by 9 Dance Chairman Jerry Higgins, will reign as queen of the Ball. Miss Murphy, from Kansas City, Mo., is a senior at St. Teresa’s College. She is a philosophy and theology major and was recently named to the Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. She will be crowned by Dr. James Culliton, the new Dean of the College of Commerce. The department heads of the college will also be present.
_ With this dance, Jack Skarda and his newly formed 17-piece orchestra will make its first appearance on the campus to play for the Commerce men and their dates.
Skarda, who formerly played with Woody Herman, has appeared in the Hollywood Bowl and the Palladium Ballroom. *
Favors for the dance will be something new and unique, completely different from the usual type. Car permissions will be granted from noon Fri-Aday till 2 a.m. Saturday. Corsages will w not be permitted.
j Saturday morning, the girls will be | the guests of the Commerce men at classes. This will be followed by the j telecast of the Notre Dame-North Caro-i lina football game in the Navy Drill
Hall.
Ed Pistey and his orchestra will provide entertainment for the usual Victory Dance that nite. The dance will be held from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Drill L Hall.	<
The weekend will come to a close with | a Communion breakfast in the Morris I Inn after a special 8:00 Mass in the I Pangborn Chapel. Guest speakers for
the breakfast will be the Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., rector of Pangborn Hall; Rev. Jerome E. Wilson, C.S.C., vice president in charge of business affairs; and Professor Thomas Bergin, dean of the Business Administration School.
Assisting Jerry Higgins, the general chairmen are: Don Walz, business manager; Jerry Gatto, entertainment; Luke Brennan, tickets; Dick Gorman, Communion Breakfast; Bob Duffy, decorations; Gerry Pastula, hotel accommodations; and Bob Hilger, publicity.
Essay Topic Announced By Academic Committee
“The Catholic College Graduate in the World” is the topic of the essay contest sponsored by the Academic Committee of the Student Senate, Richard Clark, academic commissioner, announced this week.
Prizes of $25, $15 and $10 will be awarded to the essays judged best by members of the Academic Committee and Paul LaFreniere, associate editor of the Scholastic. In addition, five prizes of $5 each will be awarded for honorable mention. The Scholastic will publish the winning entry.
The contest is open to all undergraduates at Notre Dame, with the exception of Student Senate personnel and members of the Scholastic staff. Entries must be typed and are not to exceed 1,000 words. Contestants should enclose on a separate sheet of paper, their name, address and year. All entries must be mailed to the Essay Contest Chairman, 323 Walsh Hall, by midnight, November 30. Entries will be judged on the basis of originality of ideas and clarity of expression.
“The contest is offered to stimulate thought on the question of the role the graduate of a Catholic college should play in the world,” Clark declared. Assisting Clark on the committee are William Sullivan, Steve Rogers and Jack Crutcher.
MARGARET MURPHY
Crowned with 'Ticker Tope’.
Law School Names Moot Court Winners
Ronald F. Mealey and Edward F. Broderick, Jr., captured first place in the annual Moot Court Competition of the Notre Dame Law School held Oct. 25. Second place winners were William P. Fagan and Edward J. Griffin.
The two winning contestants will represent the Law School in the regional round of the National Moot Court Competition to be held in Chicago Nov. 17-19. In addition, they received the Clarence E. Manion Award, established in 1950 by Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the Law School. Connected with the Manion Award were other cash awards given to the first and second place teams by the Notre Dame Law Association.
The court which heard the final arguments of a hypothetical case was composed of: Hon. Tom C. Clark, associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States; Hon. Potter Stewart, judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; and Hon. W. Lynn Parkinson, judge of the United States District Court for the northern district of Indiana. No final decision was rendered- upon this unprecedented case, which involved an alleged violation of the Clayton Act. Edward F. Broderick, Jr., and William P. Fagan argued the case for the petitioner; while Edward J. Griffin (Continued on page 35)
11
November 11, 1955
University Names Prof. Murphy PFA Head; Frs. Simonitsch, Cady to Head Departments
The appointment of Prof. Thomas T. Murphy as director of Notre Dame’s Program for Administrators was announced last week by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president of aca-
FATHER CADY
New Classics . . .
demic affairs. Murphy succeeds Dr. James W. Culliton wrho recently was named Dean of the College of Commerce.
Father Moore also announced the appointments of Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C.., as head of the religion department and Rev. Thomas F. Cady as head of the department of classics. Both had been serving as acting department
SPRING MUSICAL
Any student wishing to submit a manuscript or musical score for the annual Spring Musical should have it in by Dec. 1, Father Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theater, announced recently. This is to enable the theater staff to give each score the attention that it deserves, and to prepare the ones selected for production by spring.
The annual Spring Musical is written, staged, and directed entirely by students in conjunction with the University Theater. In the event that a manuscript is not selected for production, it may still be used by the Theater Workshop in its work.
12
heads.
Murphy, a specialist in business finance, has been a faculty member in the College of Commerce since 1946. He had been on the teaching staff of the Program for Administrators since its inception in 1952. A native of Boston, he holds degrees from Boston University and is a candidate for a doctorate at Notre Dame. He is also a graduate of the Naval War College and is a lieutenant commander in the Navy Reserve. Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty, he taught at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., and at Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich. He is a member of the American Economic Association, the American Finance Association and a former vice-president of the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences.
Father Simonitsch, a Notre Dame faculty member since 1941, was awarded a Ph.D. in religious education by the Catholic University of America in 1951. From 1946-48 he headed the religion department. He has also served as assistant prefect of religion, chaplain of Notre Dame’s Vetville, and chaplain to the Navy and Marine trainees on the campus during World War II. A native of Moorhead, Minn., Father Simonitsch was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1940. He is a member of the American Theology Society.
Father Cady has been teaching Latin and Greek at Notre Dame since 1951. Born in Brighton, Mass., he was graduated from Notre Dame in 1941 and received a master’s degree in classics in 1950 from Johns Hopkins University,
PROF. MURPHY . . . PFA . . .
FATHER SIMONITSCH . . . Religion heads.
Baltimore, Md. Father Cady was ordained on June 10, 1945. In addition to his teaching he also serves as rector of Pangborn Hall.
WSND Officials Initiate New Training Program
The WSND training program moved into high gear last week, following the initial meeting which was conducted by Station Managei- Pat McCartan and Public Relations Director Bob Simkins.
The program consists of five weekly lectures given by the station’s depart-^ ment heads in their respective fields. Tuesday, Oct. 25, Program Director Jerry Hornback spoke about the qualities of good programming and Chief Engineer Charles Casale’s talk concerned the technical end of radio broadcasting. . Tuesday, Business Manager Fred Corkill ; spoke about financing a radio station, including sales and expenses, and Traffic Manager Jerry Slater discussed program schedules and logs.
Hornback also announced that a new^ program, “Insights Into Music,” will™ feature commentaries on recorded classical and light classical music on Tuesdays at 10 p.m. Written by Joseph Joyce, Jr., and narrated by Hugh Camp- ■ bell, “Insights Into Music” is an attempt j to instill a greater knowledge and ap- | preciation of fine music among the j undergraduates on the Notre Dame cam- | pus.	|
A new production department has also ? been established, under the direction of Al Riley, and will be concerned with® producing new shows for the station, while assisting in the production of those j already on the air.	|
The Scholastic
£
*ND Paticipates in Education Week Program; Open Houses, Tours Top Local Observance
Virologist Named to Notre Dame Faculty
by JOE HEIMOSKI
Notre Dame participated in American Education Week, Nov. 6-12, by sponsor-'ing a series of public events underscoring the theme for this year’s national observance, “Schools—Your Investment in America.”
The week-long program began Sunday with tours, conducted by members of the Blue Circle, of the University’s principal buildings. Open house was held Wednesday night by the various colleges and the Lobund Institute. Special labo-iratory sessions were held in the Biology Building and the Engineering Building, as well as Nieuwland Science Hall.
In the College of Commerce, guests were able to observe the Foremanship Development Program in operation. At O’Shaughnessy Hall, visitors toured the galleries and heard a recorded presentation by Rev. John E. Walsh, on “Liberal Education at Notre Dame.”
“Our Educational Heritage” was the .subject of a special American Education Week program presented by WN-DU-TV Wednesday night. Among those participating were Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College; Dr. Alex Jardine, superintendent of schools for South Bend; and Dr. John Young, school superintendent for the city of Mishawaka.
Tonight, at 7:45 p.m. the aims of ’education will be discussed by a group of faculty members and graduate students in Room 104, O’Shaughnessy Hall. The discussion will be led by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., and will be based on
FROSH MIXERS
This Sunday-, the freshman Round Robin Parties will continue as follows:
! A mixer will be held in the Student Center from 2 to 5 p.m. for Zahm Hall. Daughters of Isabella and St. Joseph’s Nurses will be present.
Breen-Phillips Hall will hold a mixer in St. Mary’s College clubhouse from 2:30 to 5 p.m.
Freshmen from Farley Hall will journey to St. Mary’s Academy for a party from 2 to 5 p.m. Buses leave at 1:30 p.m.
. Tickets for all freshman round ■ robin parties are sold by the hall councils.
The Aims of Education and other Essays by Alfred North Whitehead.
Throughout the week, the Notre Dame Library presented an exhibit of books, documents, letters and maps highlighting the history and development of the University as an educational institution.
Also in connection with the observance of American Education Week were talks before local service clubs by two University vice presidents and the dean of the College of Commerce. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs addressed the Lions Club Wednesday at the Hotel Hoffman. Also speaking Wednesday was Dean Emeritus James E. McCarthy, who addressed the Rotary Club luncheon at the Oliver Hotel. Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs, spoke before the Kiwanis Club at the La Salle Hotel Thursday.
Dr. Bernard Kohlbrenner, was chairman of the campus observance. Assisting in the responsibilities connected with the program was a committee composed of: Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.; Lawrence H. Baldinger; Edmund A. Smith; Ronald E. Rich; James E. Armstrong; James Murphy; Bernard Barth; and Jerome A. Fallon.
The purpose behind American Education Week is to make people more education conscious, and to highlight the steady progress made in education. Notre Dame’s participation in the program of this area was to show the public a representation of the advancements made in higher education.
Prof. O'Malley Speaks To Chicago Club Nov. 13
Prof. Francis J. O’Malley, noted member of the English Department of the University, will speak on “Today’s Catholic Writers” at a lecture to be held by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in the Sheraton Hotel, Nov. 13. It will begin at 2 p.m.
This is the second in a series of informal lectures being held by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. The program was instituted to fill a long need for intellectual activity in the club calendar.
Prof. O’Malley has long been noted as an outstanding commentator on English and American literature. He has been a member of the staff at the University since his graduation in 1932.
Club members and the public are invited.
Dr. Thomas G. Ward, an outstanding virologist and an authority on the common cold, has been appointed to the Notre Dame faculty and to the research staff of the University’s Lobund Institute, it was announced last week by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs. Dr. .Ward, who will have the academic rank'of professor, will assume his new duties January 1, 1956. Since 1941, with the exception of the war years, he has been a faculty member at Johns Hopkins University.
Dr. Ward is co-discoverer of the APC group of viruses which are responsible for a large proportion of the acute febrile respiratory diseases of a non-bacter-ial origin. He is especially well-known for his work with the influenza virus,
DR. THOMAS WARD Named to Lobund staff.
mumps virus and the viruses of the common cold. He was a member of a research team which developed and recently tested on human volunteers a virus vaccine which holds promise of preventing certain upper respiratory infections.
At Notre Dame Dr. Ward will join a group of research scientists, led by Prof. James A. Reyniers, founder and director of the Lobund Institute, who-have developed the germ-free animal as a unique tool in medical research.
A native of Athens, La., Dr. Ward received his medical degree from Baylor University in 1935 and the degree of Doctor’ of Public Health from Johns Hopkins University in 1941. Dr. Ward is married and the father of three children.
November 11, 1955
i
- 13
University Theater to Open Season Thursday As Curtain Rises on Comedy, 'The Alchemist'
Student Senate OK's ■ Big Autumn Budget !
The University Theater will launch another year of dramatic presentation when the curtain goes up on its initial performance, The Alchemist, in Washington Hall at 8:30 p.m. Thursday. The play, which runs through Sunday, Nov. 20, serves as one of the highlights of the 1955 Festival of the Arts.
The University Theater box office, in Washington Hall, is open from Nov. 11
DIRECTOR SYBURG INSTRUCTS ACTOR
Swindlers and shady people.
may also be secured at the box office.
The play, a comedy by Ben Jonson, concerns the plotting and counterplotting of a trio of swindlers, the Alchemist, his assistants, and a female accomplice. Together the three of them put across several shady deals in which they fleece innocent, though stupid, people. Eventually they begin scheming among themselves, and their misdeeds become their undoing-.
The title role of “Subtle” will be played by Joe Kelly. His fellow chiselers are Reginald Bain as “Face,” the Alchemist’s assistant, and Louise Warnicke of St. Mary’s as “Dol Common.”
Those cast in supporting roles include Jerry Dodge, John Kent, Jim Cremins, Charles Armbruster, Jim O’Donoghue, Gary Gates, George Hahn, Phil Donahue, Frances Cappabianca, Tom Brady, Jim Cooney, Kevin Solon, and Michael Sophy. Bob Moran is the stage manager, while John Caster is chief electrician. Stage carpentry will be handled by Terry Nieulandt, while publicity and tickets sales 'will be taken care of by Business Manager George O’Donnell.
Annual Dance Spotlights Athletes Nov. 19; Sands' Music Sets Mood at Monogram Ball
The main item of business at the past two Senate meetings was the approval J of a budget for the fiscal period of S Oct. 1 to Jan. 31, 1956. At a special j budgetary meeting on Nov. 3, the Senate ? discussed the budget and made a few minor alterations in it.
Actual passage of the budget was delayed until last Monday. After almost ; two hours of discussion in regard to the ’ budget, it was finally approved by the majority of the Senate.	S
The only change which actually affect- ? ed the final totals was the suspension j of $150 for payment of National Stxi- J dents Association dues pending an in- ' vestigation of various national students associations. Several other changes were made in the budget but merely offset one ; another.	f
The final estimate of expenses for this semester is $14,295. A total income of $11,245 is anticipated for the same period.
Tom Crehan, Senate president, also announced several appointments last Monday. Completion of the Judical Court was made with the appointments of Tom Falcinelli, senior from Fisher,
(Continued on page 34)
to 19 from 2 to 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 to 9 p.m. Rates for students are $1 for orchestra and 75c for balcony. These are special rates for students. All seats are reserved and sold on a first-come, first-serve basis. Season tickets
Dr. Hermans Speaks Today About Holland Underground
Dr. Hans Hermans will speak on “Underground Publicity in Holland During the German Occupation” at 4 p.m. this afternoon in the Soviet Center on the second floor of the Library.
The third and final lecture of Dr. Hermans’ talks, “Modern Propaganda” will be given Tuesday at 4 p.m. in Room 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall. The first lecture of the series, given last Wednesday, was “The Post Wai; Dutch Empire.”
Dr. Hermans was a journalist in the Netherlands for ten years preceding World War II.
Recently he held the post of Government Information Officer to Curacao in the Netherland Antilles.
14 .
The annual Monogram Ball will be held next Saturday evening, Nov. 19, in the Drill Hall from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m. The music will be furnished by Carl Sands, his piano and his orchestra.
Along with his music Sands will feature Rosemarie Larson, George Cool, and the Sandmen Trio. Sands has played many leading theaters, hotels and night clubs.
The dance, being sponsored jointly by the Monogram Club and the Student Senate, will carry the theme of “Varsity Drag.” The decorations are being planned in accordance with the theme.
The purpose of the ball is to honor Notre Dame’s athletes of all varsity sports. All students are invited.
The dance which takes place on the evening of the Iowa game, the last home game of the Irish this year, will offer door prizes. Five autographed footballs are to be given away. Refreshments will be sold.
Pat Logan and Dick O’Keefe of the Monogram club are in charge of the event. O’Keefe’s date will reign as queen
over the ball.
Bids for the dance are priced at
$2 per couple, and will go on sale in ■ the University Dining Hall, Nov. 16^-and 17. Also students will be able to J buy tickets from a Monogram represen- t tative in their halls.	g
ROSEMARIE LARSON
To vocalize at Monogram Ball. !
0
The Scholastic ?
Ivan Mestrovic has come a long way since his childhood in the little village of Otavice in the Dalmatian Alps. Then, as a boy, he was satisfied and content to tend his family’s flocks on the rugged mountain countryside. Now, having been recently appointed to the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, the 72-year old Mestrovic is, and has been for some time, recognized as one of the truly great patriots and artists of his age.
Mestrovic was born in the little Croatian town of Vrpolje (which is contained within the present day
November 11, 1955
15
LEFT—Study for Christ at Jacob's well.
BELOW—Fragments of Madonna and Child.
s

I
I f
Yugoslavia) on August 15, 1883. In his early youth, the budding artist watched his father carving, and was soon carving his own figures from wood and the native limestone. From his mother, a deeply religious woman, Mes-trovic learned the religious poems and ballads of his Croatian ancestors.
Mestrovic’s sculpture, to be sure, is contemporary, but it is also glowingly related to classical and pre-classical sculpture. His works in stone, wood, clay, plaster, marble, and bronze can be found in museums, private collections, parks, and churches from Belgrade to Chicago.
As a lad of 16, Mestrovic began his formal studies at the Vienna Academy
Life-size wood carving—“Thinking of the Past’’
of Fine Arts. Even at that early formative period in his life he was recognized as one of the more promising of , the new personalities in the field of sculpture, and between the ages of 19 and 31 Mestrovic was represented in 25 exhibitions in Europe.
With the advent of World War I, when the Croatian and 'Serbian nationalists were faced with the prospect of immediate arrest, Mestrovic fled to Italy. Here during the war years he was instrumental in forming the Yugoslav Committee, whose purpose was fulfilled at the conclusion of the war with the creation of the new nation of Yugoslavia.
It was at this period in Mestrovic’s
life that his path began to cross those of two of his countrymen: the present Yugoslavian dictator, Marshall Tito, and Aloysius Cardinal Stepinac, who has recently been “exiled” by Tito to the village of Krasic after serving five years of a 16-year prison term for alleged pro-Nazi activities.	£
In the period immediately following the first World War, Josip Broz Tito, ! who had been a war- prisoner of the Imperial Russian Army, was freed by the victorious Bolsheviks, but remained in Russia to serve as an officer in the Russian Communist Army. Cardinal Stepinac was at this time a second lieutenant in the Yugoslav Volunteer Corps and I had been recently awarded the highest military decoration of the Serbian Army.
Following the creation of the newA Yugoslavia, Mestrovic held the post of" rector of the Academy of Art at Zagreb, where	continued on page 18
i !
I
The .Scholastic |f
16
Festival Program
(all films will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium)
FRIDAY, NOV. 18
2-5—7-9 P.M.—Sculpture exhibit, art gallery.
8:30 P.M.—The Alchemist, Washington Hall.
SUNDAY, NOV. 13
3 P.M.—Reception for Professor and Madame Mestrovic in Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy Building.
TUESDAY, NOV. 15
2-5—7-9 P.M.—Sculpture exhibit, art gallery.
4:30 P.M.—Feature Film Bicycle Thief; short film classic: Great Ballerina.
8 P.M.—Concert by The Fine Arts Quarter, Student Center.
THURSDAY, NOV. 17
2-5—7-9 P.M.—Sculpture exhibit, art gallery.
4:30 P.M.—Feature Film The Battleship Potemkin; short film classic: The Gospel in Stone.
8:30 P.M.—The Alchemist, Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, NOV. 19 4:30-5-30 P.M.—Sculpture exhibit, art gallery. 8:30 P.M.—The Alchemist, Washington Hall.
LEFT—The artist surveys his work.
TOP—St. Anthony. MIDDLE—Atlantide. BOTTOM—Peter Watts.
MONDAY, NOV. 14
2-5—7-9 P.M.—Mestrovic sculpture exhibit in art gallery of O’Shaughnessy Building.
3:30 P.M.—Feature Film: The Earrings of Madame de ... in. Engineering Auditorium. Short film classics: Rodin and Composers in Clay.
8 P.M.—Talk by Peter Watts on “Christian Sculpture.”
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16
, 2-5—7-9 P.M.—Sculpture exhibit, art gallery.
4:30 P.M.—Panel discussion on “Ben Jonson and the Elizabethan Drama,” room 104 O’Shaughnessy Building.
8:30 P.M.—Opening performance of The Alchemist, by Ben Jonson, in Washington Hall.
THE LARGEST DISPLAY of the works of Ivan Mestrovic ever shown anywhere will be the feature attraction of the 1955 Festival of the Arts, presented annually by the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters, under the supervision of Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College.
The famed Croatian sculptor, a recent appointee to the Notre Dame faculty, will be honored by a reception and a week-long exhibition of over sixty of his outstanding works.
The Festival will commence on Sunday, November 13, with a reception for Mestrovic in the Great Hall of the O’Shaughnessy Building of Liberal and Fine Arts, and will conclude on Saturday evening, November 19, with performance of The Alchemist, a comedy by Ben Jonson.	-
The exhibition of Mestrovic will be on display every day of the week in the Art Gallery of the O’Shaughnessy Building during the duration of the Festival - and beyond that up until January 31. His art, which is outstandingly Christian, will be presented in a variety of mediums, including clay, bronze, marble, plaster, wood, and stone.. Many of the artist’s remarkable reliefs will be shown, in addition to the beautiful portraits of the Madonna and the Christ child.
Professor R. N. Krakusin of Colgate University, a friend of Mestrovic, is on hand to direct the setting-up of the exhibit. He was assisted by three of Prof. Mestrovic’s graduate sculpture students, Mike Skop, Ted Golubic, and Alf Svendson.
On Monday night, Peter Watts, a young English sculptor, will talk on Christian sculpture in the Student Center. Watts, like Mestrovic, deals primarily with religious subjects and is also a writer of some note, having been on the editorial staff of The Weekly Review, the journal founded by Belloc and Chesterton. Watts has recently finished work on his third set of the Stations of the Cross, the last one for the Trappist Monastery at Gethsemani, Ky.
On Tuesday evening there will be a recital in the Student Center by the Fine Arts Quartet. Their program will consist of three selections: Mozart’s Quartet in D major, K.575; Bartok’s Quartet No. 5; and Beethoven’s Quartet in C minor, Op. 18, No. 4.
On Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday afternoons a series of modern classical
November 11, 1955
17
short and feature length films will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium. Included among the feature films which may be seen are: The Earrings of Madame de , Bicycle Thief, and The Battleship Potemkin.
On Wednesday afternoon, as a prelude to the opening performance of The Alchemist, there will be a panel discussion on “Ben Jonson and the Elizabethan Drama” in room 104 of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
Rounding out the Festival activities
Continutd from page 16
Cardinal Stepinac was appointed archbishop in 1937, as the storm clouds of war began to threaten all of Europe.
Mestrovic- was imprisoned by the Nazi puppet government of Yugoslavia in the early days of World Wai- II, mainly because he was such an outspoken and vociferous critic of Nazism. Cardinal Stepinac was allowed to remain free, although he was no more than barely tolerated by the Nazis.
As the end of the war approached Tito seized the opportunity to make the move for which he had been preparing for more than 20 years. He headed a resistance group which successfully grabbed the reins of the Yugoslavian government after the Nazis had been ousted, while Mestrovic, who had been released from prison through the intervention of the Vatican, resumed his career in Rome.
Mestrovic at this time longed to return to his native Yugoslavia to rejoin his old and dear friend Cardinal Stepinac and do battle against the oppressive Communist influence of Tito. However, it was soon clearly apparent that Tito would not allow Cardinal Stepinac, the
will be the performance of The Alchemist, an Elizabethan comedy by Ben Jonson, which will begin on Wednesday evening, Nov. 16, and will continue through Saturday.
Stan Skrocki is the general chairman of the Festival. Also working under the direction of Skrocki and Mr. Fred Beckman, the faculty advisor, are the following men: Fred Christian (art work), Bob O’Malley and Jack Bure (Publicity), John Meagher (Discussions), and Leland Croghan (Movies).
religious leader, or Mestrovic, their cultural inspiration, to actively exercise their considerable influence among this courageous and traditionally Catholic people.
Cardinal Stepinac remained of necessity (only to ran afoul of Tito’s regime and become imprisoned) while Mestrovic was forced to flee in 1947 to the United States, from where he could better continue his sculpture and serve as a beacon light of hope for the Communist-dominated Yugoslavians.
What, precisely, is the essence of Ivan Mestrovic’s great works of art? The American Institute of Architects, in presenting the Professor with theii- Fine Arts Medal for 1955, accorded him the following citation: “From your shepherd boyhood in the Dalmatian Alps to your mature achievements in Europe and America, you have held steadfastly to the conviction that art is the most profound expression of man’s spiritual nature. Never forgetting the lessons learned from the past, with a devout respect for the integrity of materials, you have constantly aspired to a simpler more direct form of expression—a form understandable by men of all races, all creeds, of all time.”
left—Isis
□nd Horus
BELOW—Madonna and Child
18
“ZAxe! two! three! four! five ! six!” And a wild cheer breaks from the throats of the assembled men of Walsh lining the second floor corridor. They are hailing the return of Walsh’s • own Golden Boy, George Wilson, who .rides, in true hero fashion, on the somewhat less brawny shoulders of his cheer-Aing classmates.
The welcoming committee deposits George in front of a gaily decorated grandstand, streaming with “Irish confetti” and signs of the times. A brief ceremony follows. At the direction of Chairman Tom McIntire, Master of Ceremonies, Joe Wolfe reads a short eulogy: “For service . . . above and beyond the call . . . Walsh Hall’s highest award, the Late-Tally medal.” Wild ^.cheers shake the sturdy walls of Walsh, "followed by “Wilson, spell it out” and “He’s a man.” Then, the inevitable cries of “Speech . . . speech!”
Had there been a Penn cheering section present, they might have said, with some meaning, “Who’s he?”. Who is George Wilson to be accorded the greatest reception for a single Notre Dame man in many a year? Many great players—Americans, Backs of the Week, Players of the Year—aftei- the finest game in their career, have returned to Aa reception frigid in comparison: “Nice ^game, Ralph,” “Great game, Johnny,” etc. Who indeed is George Wilson, who played four minutes last year; who seldom gets in for more than a few plays, who caught a pass in the end zone against the tired and discouraged Penn defenders, for a meaningless addition to an overwhelming- score?
George Wilson is not just an individual—reserve end on the 1955 football team; he is a symbol. As George Wilson stood on the improvised grandIPstand, a trunk with a rug thrown over it, listening to the cheers pour over him, tasting a joy that few Notre Dame men
hero's welcome
by JIM O’BRIEN
will know, the reserves, the scrubs, the “minute men”, the “rinks”, the cannon fodder; these stood with him on that rug-draped trunk. It was crowded on that trunk, and a good thing that the crowd was generous with its cheers, because there are ten “rinks” for every star; for every first stringer, four or five men standing in his shadow.
Maybe George Wilson, standing on a trunk in Walsh Hall with his classmates jammed around him, also represented an idea; the ordinary man’s simplification of the theory of democracy: ‘every guy has a chance, not always an equal chance, but at least a chance.’ From this simplification comes the great principle of American Sport and sportsmanship: ‘Root for the underdog’.
George was the underdog, and he came through. He renewed an ideal; he justified a faith. And so the crowd cheered generously.
* * *
The men crowded in the hallway of second floor, Walsh Hall, quiet, expectant, as George shuffled his feet and glanced around.
“Uh . . .” (The familiar preface and a cheer.) “I don’t know what to say
Heavy hero rides high.
. . .” (More cheers and laughter. The spirit was running high in Walsh.)
“. . . The happiest moment of my life . . .” (A joke; a laugh. An anecdote; a big laugh. Comments from the crowd.)
“What did you do after the game, George?” (Big laugh.)
“Went home to bed.” (Roar) “There were a few parties . . . ’(cries of yeah, yeah . . .) “And I went to a few, but I went home at 12, so I could go to Mass and Communion Sunday morning.” (The hall is quickly silent, a little surprised.) “I wanted to thank God for what He had done for me; for the chance He gave me. It’s not that I’m a good guy or anything (a few smiles. The crowd understands.) but I thought I owed Him something.”
George Wilson wound up the speech, grinned, and stepped off the trunk into his now gaily decorated room as the men of Walsh cheered again; this time more thoughtfully. Possibly thinking that the cheer had more meaning. The cheer: “He’s a man. He’s a man. He’s a Notre Dame Man. Wilson! Wilson! Wilson!
November 11, 1955 !
19
Departure.
I §
WITH THE WEATHER simulating the lash of sea spray over the weekend past, Sophomore Cotillion-goers could not help but be impressed with the realism of the theme: “Autumn Flagship.” From the first cold drops which slashed the bonfire gathering to the cold mist enshrouding the Sunday farewells, shuddering bodies huddled ’round the flame of undamped spirits. Nor could the lash of wintry winds cool the red hot gridders, who sank unwary Navy ’neath the undulating turf.
The cold weekend has given way to others, but warm memories remain of moments seized from Nestor’s grasp.
Queen.
Joke.
At a C/lancc
AVON
Count Three and Pray (plays through Monday); A-2; color; V. Heflin-J. Woodward—Even Sherlock Holmes would have difficulty figuring out this title. It’s the formula used by Van Heflin, here playing a repentant sinner turned preacher in the post-Civil War South, for resisting his temptations. Besides this problem he has to deal with a young tomboy who smokes cigars and lives in his parsonage, and a local storekeeper who fears the parson’s influence.
A Guy Named Joe (Tuesday through Friday); MGM; G. Cooper-P. Goddard— a reissue.
Man With the Gun (tonight through Thursday); United; R. Mitchum-J. Sterling —Robert Mitchum is the “man with the gun,” hired by the citizens of Sheridan City to free their town from the power of a landowner who has hired gunmen to enforce his rule. Mitchum undergoes a complete change in his character before the movie ends. This change is not at all believable and Mitchum at no time has any warmth in his personality.
GRANADA
Trial (closing date not yet set); A-2; Republic; G. Ford-D. McGuire—A dramatic portrayal of the problems of race prejudice and organized Communism. A young Mexican boy is accused of murder in a town having a violent dislike for Mexicans. Glenn Ford, a young law professor, takes his case, but then the Communists decide to make the boy a cause. Ford realizes that the Communists want a dead martyr, not an acquitted youth, and is able to get the boy a prison term instead. The story isn’t always clearly told, but does produce a lot of excitement. Some good performances and one excellent one, by Arthur Kennedy, who plays the Communist lawyer.
of hand for a while, but don’t worry, f •they catch him. Cult of the Cobra;
A-2; Universal; F. Domergue-R. Long— | This is not quite up to the high standards of its co-feature, but the pair pro- | vide a way to spend the eve of Armistice | Day.	I
To Catch a Thief (Sunday through | Tuesday) ; A-2; Paramount; VistaVis- | ion; color; C. Grant-G. Kelly—This is not the best movie Grace Kelly has made, W but very entertaining. Cary Grant is an international jewel thief who has reformed, but who has a hard time i making the police believe this when a series of jewel robberies, performed exactly as he used to do, breaks out on the French Riviera. With Grace’s help he succeeds in proving his innocence. Beautiful scenery, beautiful Grace. The Living Swamp, a Walt Disney produc- A tion will also be shown. Typical excellence.
Glass Slipper (Wednesday only) ; A-l; MGM; color; L. Caron-M.' Wilding— Believe it or not, this is the story of Cinderella. It is beautifully done, and Miss Caron uses her opportunities for dancing very well.
Ulysses (Thursday through Saturday); A-2; Paramount; color; K. Doug-las-S. Mangano—A very ambitious pro- A duction, too ambitious, in fact. The writers for the movie version seem to have lost sight of Homer, and after all, it’s his story. Apparently aimed at the younger set; much younger. Man With a Million; A-l; British; G. Peck-J. Griffiths—In this instance the film with second billing is far better than the number one movie. This is the story of an American in London, broke, who suddenly finds himself in possession of a million pound note. What he does with W it and the things that befall him are hilarious; well worth the admission price.
PALACE
The Night of the Hunter (tonight through Monday) ; B; United; R. MitchumS. Winters—This rather brutal film has Robert Mitchum playing a mad parson who justifies his crimes by his religion. He is searching for the loot hidden by a former cellmate (since hanged), and to find it marries his “friend’s” wife.
Devil Goddess; A-l; Columbia; J. Weissmuller-A. Stevens—Johnny Weismuller leads an expedition into the jungle to rescue a missing scientist. They succeed, but it’s not worth the trouble.
Naked Street (Tuesday through next Saturday) ; A-2; Universal; F. Granger-A. Quinn—This is another movie that shows that crime does not pay. Anthony Quinn is a big-time gangster. He gets a small punk, Farley Granger, out of trouble. But Granger won’t stay in line so he frames him to the electric chair. Quinn then gets his. It was about time. Top of the World; B; Universal; D. Robertson-F. Lovejoy —Frank Lovejoy is the commanding officer of an Air Force base in Alaska who falls for a girl working in a nearby nightspot. But she turns out to be the former wife of one of Lovejoy’s pilots. Husband and wife are finally reunited and Lovejoy settles for someone else.
RIVER PARK
Revenge of the Creature (tonight and tomorrow); A-l; Universal; J. Agar-L. Nelson—This is the story of something who is part man and part fish. He gets out
STATE
Five Guns West (tonight and tomorrow) ; color; J. Lund-D. Malone— Five convicted murderers are released by the Confederate government in order , that they may “get” a traitor to the ; Confederate side and the money he was paid. They get him. Two Guns and a * : Badge; A-l; Allied; W. Morris-B. Garland—This is about a crook who is mistaken for a good guy, and so turns into a good guy. These two shows provide a rather gunny evening.
The Last Command (Sunday through Tuesday); A-l; Republic; color; S. Hay-den-A. M. Alberghetti—The battle of the Alamo is here depicted more realistically than has been done before. Jim Bowie here plays a much greater part than the history books tell us, but every W film needs a hero. An Annapolis Story; A-l; Allied; color; J. Derek-D. Lynn—
22
The Scholastic
A couple of brothers after the same girl against a background of the Naval Academy and Korea.
THEATRE
St. Angela’s Hall, St. Mary’s. Heartbreak House, by G. Bernard Shaw. Tonight and tomorrow, 8:40 p.m. Admission, $1.00.
LECTURES
Political Science — “Defense of the Free World,” by Thomas K. Finletter, former secretary of the Air Force. Central High School, Tuesday, 8. p.m. This is the second in the South Bend-Mishawaka International Relations Council series for the 1955-56 year.
“Modern Propaganda” by Dr. Hans Herman, journalist in Holland during World War II, 104 O’Shaughnessy, 4 p.m. Date tentatively set for Thursday.
RADIO — TV HIGHLIGHTS
WSND—Tomorrow: Notre Dame vs. North Carolina, 12:30. Sunday: Hour of the Crucified, 11:30; Sunday Show-• case, 2 p.m.; B.B.C. Presents, 7 p.m.; The World This Week, 8 p.m.; Letters from Home, 8:30. Monday: College Concert of Marches, 7:15. Tuesday: Mr. Chairman, 7:15; Kampus Kwiz, 8:30. Wednesday: Let’s Get Going, 7:15. Thursday: Focus, 8:30 p.m. Daily: Jill Corey, 10:30 p.m.
Showtime (Sunday at 9 p.m., weekdays at 1:30) will present Miss Liberty Sunday, Desert Song Monday, Roberta Tuesday, The Red Mill Wednesday, Eileen Thursday, and Lady in the Dark Friday.
WNDU—Tomorrow: N.D. vs. North Carolina, 1:30; Saturday Night Dancing Party, 7:45-10:30, 11 to midnight. Sunday: Campus Quiz, 4 p.m.; Sacred Heart Program, 8:15 p.m. Daily: Out of the Sack, 6 to 7:45 a.m.; Paul Harvey, noon; Concert Miniatures, 1:30 p.m.; Martin Block Show, 2 p.m. Monday: Voice of Firestone, 7:30 p.m. Tuesday: Life is A Worth Living, 7:30 p.m. Tuesday-Thursday: Music Box, 9 p.m.
WNDU-TV — Tonight: Cavalcade of Sports (Boxing), 9. p.m. Tomorrow: Perry Como Show, 7 p.m.; George Gobel, 9 p.m.; Your Hit Parade, 9:30 p.m. Sunday: Meet the Press, 5 p.m.; Alcoa Hour, 8 p.m. Monday: Producer’s Showcase, “Dateline Two” (color); Filmed Highlights N.D. vs. North Carolina, 8:30 p.m. Tuesday: The Chevy Show, with Bob Hope, 7 p.m.; Eddie Cantor W Show, 9:30. Wednesday: Screen Director’s Playhouse, 7 p.m.; Greatest Pro Football Highlights, 10:30 p.m. Thursday: Ford Theatre, 8:30 p.m.
November 11, 1955
A COMET has raced across the campus literary scene; one of doubtful brilliance and short life. I have reference, of course, to the undercover mimeograph publication, the Thursday Throwback.
For the information of the privileged many who were not included on the mailing list of the highly exclusive Throwback, a short description is in order.
The Thursday Throwback was published irregularly and, anonymously; mimeographed and mailed to a small group in which the Scholastic newsroom was a graciously included member. It consisted of two pages of critical comment on various aspects of campus life, and the predominating slant was humorous.
This is the first publication of its kind to appear at Notre Dame, at least for some time.
This is a very surprising thing, not that it should appear, but that it had not appeared long before this time. I would expect that this might be the most natural thing in the world to find at a college, where students are supposed to learn the truth, and to judge what they see around them by the standards they have learned. Ideally, they are free to say what they like, without fear of offending someone, or of giving scandal. They need only to respect troth. However, on the practical level there are many difficulties.
For example, the Scholastic, though a weekly publication by and for the students of Notre Dame, is also an official publication in that it receives University sanction. Because of this, it is representative of the University, not only to the student body, but to a highly critical outside audience of over 3000, most of whom are acutely conscious of a standard which they feel a Catholic publication ought to maintain.
For this reason, the critical freedom of the Scholastic is sharply curtailed, as is that of the Dome, ox the Juggler within its limited format.
However, these critical restrictions do not restrict an amateur, anonymously published sheet, whose circulation is limited to the University proper. Thus, the publishers have a tremendous opportunity for pointed critical comment. Such a publication would provide outlet and training for serious critical writing, as well as to stimulate awareness of needed changes and reforms.
It is true that in many schools, the publications of this type have become
flash in the pan
critically insignificant, mere outpourings-of scurrility and dirty jokes; the college “humor” magazine, so-called. But this is neither necessary nor to be expected.
The sad aspect of the present situation is that with all these opportunities, with virtually no restrictions and with a wealth of material at their command, the publishers of the Thursday Throwback were apparently unable to take advantage of these things.
The writing for the most part was good, to the point, and orderly, if not brilliant. To the point, that is, when there was a point to be made. Generally, the subject matter was entirely lacking, or at least, subject matter worthy of critical consideration.
The poorest feature of the sheet was the approach, or tone, or point of view. Instead of a challenging and pointed attack, the publishers were content with a childish, even rather silly collection of humorous insults directed mainly at the Scholastic editorials, the Religious Bulletins and topics which had been dealt with by the old WEEK to the point of utter boredom for years and years.
The approach might have been considered “clever” for a high school staff putting out its first paper, but for college level thinking, subject matter and approach, the Throwback doesn’t even make the ratings.
This must be the result of pure lack of effort on the part of the staff. Since they did go to the trouble to publish three issues, I must conclude that it was just for the thrill of seeing their names in a masthead (“cleverly” disguised, of course.) or to be able to say in a bull session, “Confidentially fellows, I’m the managing editoi- of the famous Thursday Throwback”
As far as the necessity for keeping the names and sources secret is concerned, the elaborate precautions were hardly necessary. The content was as innocent as that of a child’s primer. The indications are that the staff and editors, with their phony masthead, were just playing at being daring.
So, while commending the idea and the initiative of the publishers of the Thursday Throwback, I must lament the initial failure of a good idea due to lack of mature manpower. Although this article might stimulate publication of another issue, the Thursday. Throwback as I have seen it must inevitably fold for lack of interest. I wish it had been a better try.—Jim O'Brien
23
SluMMGte
what collitch did for me
by JOE NORTON
Iwas sittin’ on the curb starin’ up at the skyscrapers, jeez they’re amazin’, when some clown walkin’ by flicks the ashes off his cigar and the wind carries them right into my eyes. I was mad of course, but bein’ a mild-mannered guy, I didn’t say nothin’. I just watched the guy go up the street and when he threw the butt away, I got up and went over to it. (I had to hurry because some bum was tryna beat me to it.) I picked up the butt, nonchalantly of course, but it was still a degradin’ thing for me to do—me, Louie Gasparini, a collitch Man!
Collitch! I been sittin’ here thinkin’ about it since I picked up the butt. Man, I’ll never forget them days! I remember the day my old man said to me, “Louie,” he said, “Louie, I want you to finish high school this year ’cause I’m gonna send you to collitch. I want you to amount to somethin’.” Jeez, was I impressed; my old man, Pasquale Gasparini, a bookie, wantin’ me to go to collitch. From that day on I quit hangin’ around the pool room on Sixth Avenue. (Well, three days a week anyhow.)
Man, did I make a big hit with the boys! Nick Alfano said to me, “Louie, will ya write to me on that fancy collitch writin’ paper, huh? Will ya?” “Sure I will Nick,” I said; “I’ll write everybody fancy letters.” Nick could hardly read, but it made him feel good to get letters.
I finally finished high school, and the next year I went to collitch. Good old Southeastern U.! What a collitch! It had buildings covered with real ivy, a football team with red and white suits, and broads, man, you shoulda seen the broads! This was just the place I’d been lookin’ for!	.
24
For awhile I had to room in a dorma-torey with a Swede kid from the Midwest. He had a pitcher on his dresser of a pale lookin’ dame with stringy white hair, and he’d sit and stare at it for an hour every night before he’d go to bed. Jeez, I couldn’t see it. He didn’t give me no trouble, though. Come to think of it, I didn’t see much of him at all, ’cause I never spent much of my time in the dorm. It didn’t take me long to get to know the ropes of the place, and man, after a week, I knew all the best lookin’ broads on the campus, and they knew me—personally!
After a couple of months the fraternities came around to talk to us freshmen. That was for me—fraternity life! Man, that was real collitch! I joined
Joseph A. Norton, erstwhile assistant sports editor and Junior out of Pang-born, has opened his literary veins to bring SHOWCASE this insight into “collitch” life. Appearing originally in Rockford, Illinois, Joseph A. Norton has followed a winding path of minor destruction to the Journalism Department at Notre Dame. He expects to continue his work in Journalism unless a sudden degeneration of the legal profession turns his interest in that direction.
up with the Beta Kappa Gammas because they had the nicest house. The old man was real proud about me joinin’ a frat and he-was glad to shell out the loot for my rent at the house. “Louie
is gonna amount to somethin’,” he used to say.
Man, it was a great life; never a dull minute!
I never did get a chance to write to Nick of any fancy stationery. He wasn’t too happy about it neither; and now that I think about it, I feel kinda bad. Nick’s got a good job with the city now. 10 Classes were a snap compared to high school, they never took attendance; and whenever a test came up, I’d slip one of the smart guys in the house a coupla bucks and he’d take it for me. That was another advantage of fraternity life!
After awhile the old man gave me a car; he was that proud of me. I really didn’t need one ’cause all the broads I 0 went with had cars. But havin’ my own was all right too—I could take out the broads who didn’t have cars. My car was a yellow Merc convertible, and man, would that bomb go! One day we were out in the country and we saw a farmer on a tractor ahead of us on the road. I stepped on the gas and blew the horn, and we forced the old buzzard off the road, and he turned over. Ha! Ha!—the crazy pranks us collitch boys fih used to pull.
I passed all my courses (well, enough to get me by) for three years, and by the time I got to be a senior- I was in real good shape. Man, I knew all the angles! Whenever the boys ran short of booze at a dance or somethin’, they always knew who to come to for more. I always had a few extra fifths around and they were welcome to it—at a good cut to me of course?
It ain’t hard for a smart guy to make money in collitch, and I could see some real big dough just lyin’ around waitin’ to be taken. Besides sellin’ liquor. I decided to follow in the old man’s footsteps; (he’d be proud I thought) and I started makin’ book on the football games. Everything was goin’ along fine and I was cleanin’ up until I got greedy and tried to get myself an edge on the odds. I propositioned two halfbacks to narrow the -point spread in the game with Y.U. The honest slobs turned me in to the board and I got thrown 'out of school. Jeez, what a lousy break!
The old man was pretty broken up about it too.
Since then I been tryna get a decent job, but I ain’t had no luck. People just don’t appreciate a collitch guy any more!
Hey, here comes my brother Angelo in his garbage wagon! Maybe I can a mooch a meal off him. I’ll see ya, huh. ™
Hey Ange! Ange! wait a minute! Hell, I guess he didn’t see me.
The Scholastic
She liked the choir.
promise between Hinduism and Mohammedanism. The Sikh sect was founded by Nanak Shah, a Hindu influenced by Mohammedan writing. It embodies human brotherhood and monotheism.
On All Saints Day, Miss Singh attended her first Catholic service. It was the nine o’clock Mass at Sacred Heart. “Mano” was greatly impressed by the beautiful music and chants of the Moreau Choir.
The Notre Dame stadium also impressed her. “The closest thing we have to compare to your football is our field-hockey,” said Miss Singh.
The University of Delhi where Mano received her degree, is similiar to Notre Dame in that they each have a departmental examination set up. But, there the similarity ends, because The University of Delhi’s colleges are very often in different cities many miles apart.
While in New York, attending Sarah
Another facet of entertainment, radio, is not as organized in India as it is here in America. “The many different languages and dialects spoken plus the fact that it is not commercialized are the reasons,” explained Mano.
This past summer found Miss Singh working as a secretary in the United Nations. Through the lectures she attended and the practical experience gained from her job at the U.N., Mano feels the United Nations is a wonderful aid in bettering relations among countries.
The World University Service, for which Mano is a traveling secretary, is a student-to-student organization aimed at giving the initial thrust to many programs of student aid. “It is not outright giving aid to students, but rather a sharing to give students needed opportunities.” •
The World University Service provides a “kickoff” to many worthy projects with initial monetary and personal backing. The local governments and organizations then pick up-the ball and see the projects through to completion.
sikh sightseer
arr-lHis is the first all male campus
I I have visited,” said “Mano” smiling in anticipation. “Mano” is the nickname of Miss Manoranjna Singh who 'visited Notre Dame last week on behalf of the World University Service.
Miss Singh impressed all who met her with her charm and personality. She was dressed in an Indian Sari, a toga type ensemble which is the national dress of India.
Finding a newspaper was first on Miss Singh’s agenda. She wanted to find out whether Princess Margaret would break up with Peter Townsend. After reading of Margaret’s decision, 'Mano said thoughtfully, “I think she is right. It must have been very hard for her to choose, though.”
Miss Singh, who was bom and raised in India, studied at the University of Delhi and at Sarah Lawrence College in New York while working for her B.S. in Education.
She was taught by Catholic nuns in the first and second grades. The nuns slipped up a little though, for when “Mano” came to Notre Dame she didn’t know it was a Catholic institution.
Notre Dame’s visitor from India is a member of the Sikh religious sect. “Mano” describes her religion as a com-
by BOB TAYLOR
Lawrence college, Mano attended a telecast of the “Steve Allen” show. Like any woman would, she noticed the unruly and haphazard appearance of the studio. “It’s awfully complex and piecemeal,” Miss Singh commented.
Foreign students pose
Such a project was the Delhi Health Center. It was started by the W. U. S. at the cost of $10,000. The government of India then provided funds for the completion of this center and has since founded many others throughout India.
If the opinions of her escorts are any standard for judgment, this charming representative was a credit to her native India and to the W. U. S. Miss Singh impressed her hearers with a strong awareness of student needs in India and other countries and proved the common bond of friendship and co-operation among students.
with visitor from Indio.
November 11, 1955
Detroit Edison Co.
ELECTRICAL POWER
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering Planning for Growth Purchasing Sales
Electrical - Mechanical
ENGINEERS
•RESERVE YOUR APPOINTMENT TIME AT PLACEMENT OFFICE TO SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE
Wed., Nov. 16
NEXT VACATION:
Tate a thrilling TWA trip to -faraway places I
Imagine! For just $91 down, you can visit 11 fascinating European countries! Other tours feature Bombay, Cairo! Take 20 months to pay with TWA's "Time Pay Plan''!
What a wonderful way to see the world. You travel to European cities or exotic lands in the Middle or Far East. And, you can study from 2 to 6 weeks at an accredited foreign university. Specialize in a subject such as literature, music, art—arrange your travel-study tour to include as many cities as you wish. Full college credit for those who want it.
Best of all, TWA’s “Time Pay Plan” includes hotel expenses and
other costs as well as your roundtrip fare on TWA’s famous Constellation fleet Start planning your trip by mailing the coupon today!
nutf woeiD AiniMts
USS. • tUUOH • SHSCS • AU4
I am interested in:
Tours Abroad	□
"Time Pay Plan’’ □ Tours in U.S.A.	□
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours Department CM, 380 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.
Dear Sir: Please send me information on your 1956 Travel-Study Tours.
Special Itinerary to _______________________□ cities & countries
UNITED
Spend your vacation at home, not getting there!
FLY UNITED AIR LINES
Home is just a few short hours away when you fly United, and service includes deluxe DC-7s — world’s fastest airliners.
SAVE MONEY, TOO!
1st Class Mainliner fares are comparable to traveling by rail with berth, but you get full-course mealtime service at no extra cost. And there’s no tipping aloft!
South Bend: for reservations, call 2-1401 or an authorized travel agent.
Nationally Advertired Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Name.
Position.
Address.
City_________State^——^—Phene.
26
The Scholastic
fhu&k Scene
IRISH TACKLE TAR HEELS TOMORROW
Captain from Chapel Hill.
Detroit and ASME Clubs Leading Kampus Keglers
The Detroit Club currently leads all Kampus Keglers with twelve wins and ka 2% game edge over the Texas Club.
The Knights of Columbus and the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club are tied for third in the 8:30 Thursday division. The high average in this division is held by Tony Rocco with 185.
In the 8:45 Sunday division, after only one week of competition, Old College leads with a 3-0 record. Tied for second with 2 wins and 1 loss each are the Nothing Five, the Texas Club, the Villagers Club, and the Rinky Dinks. Bo-.rany of the Nebraska Club is the individual leader with a 162 average.
A close race involving seven teams has developed in the division rolling at 8:30 Wednesday. The Toledo and Cleveland Clubs are setting the pace with 7 wins and 2 losses. Tied for third at 6-3 are the Marketing Club and ACS, followed by the Delaware Valley Club, the Milwaukee Club, and the Chemical Engineers, each with 5 wins against 4 defeats. Hummer of the Cleveland Club is high pin man with 181. - -
' ASME leads among teams rolling at 6:45 Thursday with an 8-1 record, giving them a two game edge over the Met
ED SUTTON
Two touchdowns last week.
Club “B” and the Civil Engineers. De-bot, with a 167 average, is the individual leader in this division.
St. Ed's Heads East Loop; Dillon, Alumni Tied in West
St. Ed’s leads the Eastern League with a 3-0 record as Interhall Football moves into its fourth week of play.
In the Western League, Alumni and Dillon are tied for the lead, each with two wins and a tie. The two teams battled to a 6-6 deadlock two weeks ago. A playoff will be necessary in the event both teams go undefeated.
Last week, led by Ray Miller, Bill Thees, Bill Maddux, and Sam Rizzo, Dillon whipped Walsh 20-0. Alumni kept the pace as Jerry Ryan and Bob Costello led the seniors to a 7-0 win over Howard. In other games, Off-Campus edged Breen-Phillips 6-0, and Zahm beat Farley 7-0.
Each team in both leagues will play every other team at least once during the seven-week season. League champs will then square off in early December for the campus title.
As in the past, both leagues are under the supervision of Dominic Napolitano. This year “Nappy” has a student assistant, Vince Dooley, a junior.
Veteran Carolina Club Host in Kenan Stadium by BOB EARLY
Notre Dame, spirited after amassing striking victories over Purdue, Navy, and Pennsylvania, moves to Kenan Stadium at Chapel Hill to battle the hapless Tar Heels of North Carolina. Nearly 44,000 fans are expected to fill the beautiful southern stadium for the seventh annual meeting of these two teams.
To date the Tar Heels have what can, at best, be called a mediocre record. They have won but two of seven games in filling the toughest schedule in the school’s history.
At the beginning of the season it looked like the Tar Heel ram would pull a few surprises as Oklahoma just squeezed by them 13 to 6. The following week they hammered North Carolina State, but then the schedule caught up with them and they were beaten badly
JIM MENSE . Passed the test.
November 11, 1955
27
KEN KELLER
Veteran Tar Heel.
by Georgia, Maryland, Wake Forest, and Tennessee before beating South Carolina last week.
North Carolina has been greatly aided this year by an abundant crop of promising sophomores which provide the depth that has been lacking in the past. Twenty-eight sophs in all are on the squad of 54.
In the backfield a lot of speed has been held over from last year’s team in the persons of Ken Keller, Ed Sutton, and Don Lear. Keller running from the left half spot is not a power runner but more of the seatback type. He is an excellent broken field runner.
Working the other half, Sutton is an able running mate of Keller’s. Last year he led the team in rushing with an 11.2 average. Being the biggest back on the team he has good power and drives hard; the workhorse of the Tar Heel backfield. Last week against South Carolina, Sutton exploded for two touchdowns. The number three halfback on the team is sophomore Howard Williams, a converted fullback. In his first running attempt from this new position he ran 45 yards.
Lear fills gap well
One of the biggest surprises on this year’s team is Don Lear, the fullback. He has filled the hole left by Don Klochak, last year’s bread and butter man. Very effective on the tough third down situations he amassed a 9.1 rushing average in the first two games this year.
The quarterbacking is pretty evenly divided between two sophomores, Dave Reed and Buddy Sasser. They also alternated on last year’s frosh squad. Sasser, the smaller of the two, is a good runner, a smart Hunker, and the best
runner and signal caller, but his main asset is a powerful throwing arm. He will probably start.
The blue and white line is strong at the ends but is very weak in the middle. John Jones, top tackle on the team last year, has been switched to guard to help plug the weak spot there. The other guard spot is played by Bill Koman who is a letterman but saw only limited action in ’54. Depth is a serious problem here as no one has been able to fill the number three guard spot.
George Stavnitski and Jim Jones have both seen action at center this year. Stavnitski started at the beginning of the season, but, due to the fine defensive play of Jones, has lost the starting nod of late. In the Maryland game Jones intercepted a pass and ran it back 41 yards for a touchdown, becoming one of the four Tar Heel linemen to score a touchdown this year.
The tackles are very strong. Led by Captain Roland Perdue, an all ACC choice last year, North Carolina’s tackles are among the best in the South. Perdue is fast and an excellent blocker. At the left tackle will be Jack Maultsby,
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS NORTH CAROLINA NOTRE DAME Frye ___________ LE .... Prendergast
Maultsby ..... LT......... Nicula
Setzer ....... LG ..... Bisceglia
Jones ........ C ..........Mense
Koman _________  RG.....McMullan
Perdue (C) .... RT (C) .... Lemek
Payne ......... Rz	  Scannell
Sasser ........ Q3	  Hornung
Keller ......... LH	    Studer
Sutton ......... RH	  Morse
Valex _________  F3	   Schaefer
Kickoff—1 p.m. CST
an ex-marine who is working on his third letter. At 222 pounds he is easily the bulwark of the Tar Heel defensive line. Another man to watch is junior John Bilich, who plays behind Perdue. A letterman, he is a very able substitute in the Carolina forward wall.
Probably the strongest position on the team is at end. Paced by one of the country’s outstanding pass receivers, Will Frye, the Tar Heels always are a passing threat. Besides being the leading pass catcher, Frye is also the leading defensive end. Twice this year he has recovered fumbles in the end zone for touchdowns. He also does the punting.
At the other end is lanky Buddy Payne. Probably the fastest lineman on the team, he ranks as the outstanding sophomore prospect. He is very strong and a stalwart on defense. Other let-
JACK MAULTSBY
Biggest Carolina lineman.
termen at end include Norman Lane, and Larry Muschamp.
Last week the Irish waltzed by Penn’s Quakers, 46-14, in a game full of early surprises. Soph Halfback Frank Riepl scared everyone, including the Irish, with a 108-yard, opening kickoff return.
But Notre Dame weathered the storing in agreeable fashion even with two regulars on the bench, because of injuries. Tackle Wayne Edmonds was still favoring some pulled tendons and Halfback Aubrey Lewis had a bad knee. Both men were injured in the Navy game.
Tomorrow marks the twelfth game as
(Continued on Page 30)
IRISH PENN ACTION
Morse through a leaky defense.
28
The Scholastic
Veterans Battle Large Turnout of Hopefuls As Wrestlers Prepare for Tough Schedule
by JIM MERZ
Every afternoon about 50 muscle-men invade the mats at the Rockne Memorial, timbering up for a crack at the new-born Varsity Wrestling squad. None of the weight classes have been clinched so far, and Coach Tom Fallon hopes for a larger talent turn-out, especially in the heavier’ classes.
Buddy Day holds an upper hand in the 123-pound class, with a bag of tricks gathered from last year’s wresting club. But John Palumbo is pushing his way up ^through the ranks, and plans to give Buddy a struggle for the starting assignment.
Soph Bob Pivonka leads the 130-pound class, with a year of freshman wrestling and football behind him. Bob snatched fourth place mat laurels in the state of Colorado as a high school senior.
Team Captain Returns
| The man to watch in the 135-pound class is a fast and furious fighter named George Oser.
Team captain Terry Crowley returns to the Notre Dame arena with a sparkling record from last year, and promises to better his slate in the 147-pound class. Right behind Terry stands another veteran on the club, Pat Williamson.
The 157-pound class is still wide open, with a bevy of hopefuls battling to ^tart. Chuck Henzy may get the nod 'from Coach Fallon through his ex-
Sailing Team Edges Purdue; Qualify for Angsten Regatta
Last weekend, at Lafayette, Indiana, the Notre Dame Sailing Club won a close decision over the University of Purdue. This victory qualified the club compete in the Tinune Angsten Memorial Regatta at Chicago during the Thanksgiving weekend. Trailing Purdue after Saturday’s races, the Irish pulled even on Sunday and went on to win in a raceoff. The final scores were Notre Dame-66, Purdue-65, Indiana-49.
The home meet scheduled for the 5th of November was cancelled, because of bad weather and was not re-scheduled.
Previous to this, Notre Dame placed fourth in a field of eight teams at Ohio ^State on Oct. 22 and 23.
The skippers in the club are Bernardo D’Almeida, Ron Meissner, and Lou Morgan.
perience, while Mike Gleason, a twelve-Jetter man in high school, is close behind, Othei- contenders for this class are: Marty Angelino and Joe Belfiore, who switched from boxing.
Although the 167-pound class is packed with potential, three years of Irish mat experience favor Senior John Gavin for a starting berth.
Jack Armstrong, the Spartan from Spartanburg, N. C., rates high in the 177-pound class. Another veteran from last year’s club, Junior Dick Ruddy can also trip his opponents at this weight.
Rounding off the squad, Heavyweight Bob Salvino returns for another year of active duty.
Spicuzza Aids Fallon
An added factor for Irish success this year is the capable assistance of Bob Spicuzza in coaching the squad. Bob won State Champ honors in wrestling at the University of Wisconsin, and is now studying for his Master’s degree in education. Under his eye, more attention can be placed on the individual.
With a huge return from last year, Coach Fallon looks to the future with a note of optimism. “This year the competition for starting assignments is keener than ever,” he states, “and the boys are whipping themselves into top condition.”
However, the coming schedule affords formidable opposition for the Irish. Navy-Pier and Northern Illinois, new additions to the schedule, rank just one step below the Big Ten.
Freshman workouts begin this Sunday, and Coach Fallon hopes to dis-covei- a good supply of raw material at this meeting. Anyone interested should meet at the Rockne Memorial at 10 a.m. Coach Fallon also announced an intramural wrestling tournament, which will begin near the end of November.
The schedule:
Dec. 3 Illinois Tech, away.
Dec. 13 Findlay College, home.
Jan. 7 Navy-Pier, home.
Jan. 14 U. of Miami of Ohio, home.
J an. 28 U. of Chicago, away.
Feb. 4 No. Illinois State Teachers
College at DeKalb, away.
Feb. 11 W. Illinois State College, away.
Feb. 18 E. Ill. State College, home.
Feb. 29 Marquette University, away.
Mar. 4 Wheaton College, away.
Marquette Sets Sights On Harriers' Win Streak
Notre Dame’s cross-country team, fresh from a victory in the Indiana College meet, face the Marquette harriers tomorrow in Milwaukee.
Coach Alex Wilson expresses his belief that Marquette has a fairly strong squad. The Warriors soundly beat Wheaton and Western Michigan and dropped one point decision to a strong Iowa team.
Coach Wilson will take a nine man squad to Milwaukee, included are: Capt. Jim Daly, Bill Squires, AI Dale Vandenberg, Ed Monnelly, Bob Huertz, and Vic Dillon.	■
Bill Squires and Co. will be looking for their seventh straight meet win excluding last week’s ICC victory.
Squires led the Irish last week finishing 21 seconds ahead of Tony Pentine of second place Indiana.
BILL SQUIRES
Big man on squad.
Tom Linnemeier of Indiana was third, Capt. Jim Daly of Notre Dame fourth, and Ed Monnelly, a promising young sophomore from Notre Dame, fifth. Two other Irish runners John Michno and Neil Wallace, placed sixth and ninth respectively.
On October 29, the N.D. harriers defeated the Quantico Marines and the Chicago Track Club in a meet on the golf course, 33-48-48. It was the Irish’s second win over Chicago.
As was expected, ex-Kansas great Wes Santee romped home ahead of everybody in 20:08.3., but no other Quantico men could get low enough to offset the middleplacing Irish.
Former N.D. runner Jack Gits came in eighteenth for Quantico.
November 11, 1955
29

This is the time of year when odds givers and prognosticators start suffering setbacks, heart attacks and maybe even bankruptcy. I imagine many such prophets turned noticeably green around the gills last Saturday when they heard the beginning of the Irish-Penn game. Mostly everybody knows about that game, at least anybody who has an . interest in football. But then, everything is not quite as cut and dried as it might appear.
Notre Dame went to Philadelphia knowing they would line up against a team that had not won a game in 19 outings; a team that was around 40 points underdog, and the Irish felt cocky. And can you blame them? I can’t. Although the
Quakers threw a big scare into them in just 19 seconds.
I can’t lay all the blame of cockiness at the team’s door. Usually, around Notre Dame before a game, the students assemble for a pep rally. It’s a lot of holler and noise that amounts to, “Go crazy, Irish. We’re behind you all the way.
JIM MORSE
Win, lose or draw, you’re our team.” Was there a rally last week? No. Signs appeared saying: "Alas, Poor Quakers. Mass and Communion on Saturday for the team.” I’m not saying anything about that last part. It’s
a fine thing to know we are a Catholic school and are asking God to give the team that little boost during the game.
But the Blue Circle, who organizes the rallies, didn’t think Penn a worthy opponent, it seems. The lack of a rally implied Penn’s vulnerability, which luckily turned out true. But there were many surprised men on campus for a little while last Saturday.
If the students are going to back the team, let them do it all the way, the right way. Regardless of the opponent, he seems to rise to the occasion when the Irish hit town. And I’ve said that before.
*****
The Penn game had many standouts—Don Schaefer, “Old Reliable,” Paul Hornung, Jim Mense, Pat Bisceglia, and right down the line. Together, they turned in a total of 513 yards total offense, the season high to date. And this averages down to 6.3 yards per play, including intercepted passes. Halfback Jim Morse was one man whose personal rushing total was only seven yards shy of the whole Quaker output. He gained 110 yards in 18 carries for a 6.1 average, caught one pass for 24 yards and scored a touchdown. This brings his total -to 5.2 yards for the season, pretty good for any halfback.
Morse is typical of the current aggregation’s desire to win, to stretch out the proof that they can take the field with any team in the country. All in all, Morse is one whale of a player. He has learned some of the defensive skills and has rounded into a definite team asset. His desire showed itself when he came back from an early season sprained ankle to nail down his old job, more solidly than ever.
Physically, he’s not exceptional. But the thing that counts, desire, is there in extra amounts. Time and again he ripped through the Penn defense, and Navy and Purdue, etc., to show the men in the different colored uniforms that this is Notre Dame, who has not yet learned how to lose.
*****
Tomorrow the team goes back East, this time to the land of cotton and peanuts. North Carolina could get lucky, like they almost did with Oklahoma. But I’ll take the Irish to run the Tar Heels'through the gin, and crack their shells, 35-6.—D. D.
Tar Heels, Iowa Win; Stanford Tips So. Cal.
While the Irish were running through Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Iowa both showed offensive and defensive strength in impressive victories last Saturday. Southern California rounded out the remaining Notre Dame opponents by being upset by Stanford. (^
North Carolina acted as an offensive power for the first time this season in a stunning 32 to 14 upset victory over South Carolina. Buddy Sassei' scored three times and Ed Sutton twice to lead the Tarheels to their second victory of the season.
Iowa, led by the running of Eddie Vincent and the passing of Jerry Reichow, rolled to a 26 to 0 victory over Minne-sota. Vincent scored twice, passed for* another, and gained 90 yards in 14 carries. Reichow completed eight of ten passes good for 105 yards. In their best showing of the year, Iowa ground out a total of 416 yards offensively while their defense held the Gophers singlewing attack in complete check.
Southern California proved vulnerable to a Stanford passing attack by John Brodie and fell to the Indians 28 to 20,. their third loss in eight games. Brodie^ threw three scoring passes and fullback Bill Tar returned an intercepted pass 55 yards for the Stanford scores. Don Hall, Jon Arnett, and Gordon Duvall scored for the Trojans on short plunges.
ND-North Carolina
(Continued from page 28) a starter for Jim Mense. He took over as center last year during the Penn-^ game after Dick Szymanski was in^ jured.
Now Mense leads the team in minutes played. It’s Mense that Hornung follows straight up the middle on sneaks, and the same Mense who spends so much time on the opposing signal-caller’s back.
DAVIN’S PICKS OF THE WEEK Army over Penn Colorado over Nebraska Duke over So. Carolina Auburn over Georgia Michigan over Indiana Ohio State over Iowa Maryland over Clemson Miami (Fla.) over Bucknell Michigan State over Minnesota Navy over Columbia Purdue over Northwestern Oklahoma over Iowa State Texas Christian over Texas Texas A & M over Rice Boston College over Boston U. West Virginia over Pittsburgh
Percentage to date—.586 (Including five ties.)
30
The Scholastic
•Frosh Coach Landry Optimistic About Squad; 'Lack of Experience—Our Biggest Concern'
by BOB PARNELL
The future success of a college grid team depends solely upon the ability of freshmen teams to adequately fill the ^gaps created by graduation. Here at ^Totre Dame, the entire freshman football program is formulated in view of this fact.
In the words of frosh Coach, Jack Landry, “the whole purpose of freshman football is to train the boys in the basic fundamentals of Notre Dame football, so that they •will be better prepared to accept the challenge of making the varsity the following fall.”
£ At no time do they engage in intercollegiate competition, but are strictly confined to a training program that will enable them “to carry on the Notre Dame tradition in years to come.”
Coach Landry, a former* Irish fullback and graduate of the class of ’50, is serving in his first season as freshman mentor.
Landry says, “the team is fast and big. Probably their lack of experience £s our biggest concern at present. But the potential and a love of the game is there. That’s important. Sure they make mistakes, but they’re freshmen and we expect them to make mistakes, so that they’ll learn to correct them now as freshmen.
“This year the chief work of the freshmen team has been to scrimmage against the varsity while using the plays to be used by the opposition of ^that particular week-end. So, while benefiting the varsity, the freshmen are also gaining in experience.”
Backfield Looks ‘Good’
To date “the backfield has looked good.” Coach Landry mentioned among the quarterback candidates: Bob Williams, Norm Odyniev, Dick Selcer and Mike Dugan. All have displayed skill in handling the split-T and are apt at passing, “which has been an important requisite of Notre Dame quarterbacks ^f the past.”
The halfback department is composed of both big, hard-driving backs and small swift runners, while the fullbacks all tip the scales at 200 or* better and are predominantly power runners. Jim Colosimo, a former Eveleth, Minn., high school star at quarterback, has been shifted to full and is now among the leading candidates. Nick Pietrosante and Don Costa, two eastern footballers, end Ron Toth of East Cleveland, 0., J^ave also impressed Landry with their bbility to crack the line with power plunges.
The forward wall is big and aggres
sive. Landry estimates our freshman ends to be “good receivers and probably more valuable defensively than on offensive blocking.”
The right ends include: Neill Seaman of Bridgewood, Pa., Gary Myers of Spokane, Wash., and Bob Wetocka of Minneapolis, Minn., the biggest of the group weighing in at over 220 pounds. Angelo Mosca of Waltham, Mass., Dick Royer of Cincinnati, O., and Frank Geremia of Sacramento, Calif, are all trying to make the grade at left end.
Nagurski On Squad
Among the linemen is tackle Bronko Nagurski, Jr., son of the famous Minnesota All-American regarded by many as the greatest football player* of all time. Young Nagurski was sidelined in the earlier part of the year with a dislocated elbow, but according to Coach Landry, “he’s coming along all right now.”
Other leading prospects at the tackle position are: Don Lawrence of Cleveland, O., Joe King of Ludlow, Ky., and Paul Douds of Corieopolis, Pa. Among the competing linemen for guard berths are Allan Ecuyer of New Orleans, La., Dick Tolenko of Cleveland, O., Jim Schaaf of Erie, Pa., and Dick Phelan of Wilmette, Ill. This group comprises both physical prowess and football skill and might very well provide the varsity with adequate replacements for such senior linemen as Ray Lemek, Pat Bis-ceglia, and Wayne Edmonds.
At the Center position Kevin Burke of Richland, Wash., Gerry Knippenberg of Maywood, Wis., Dick Beschen of Philadelphia, Pa., and Chuck Puntillo • of East Chicago, Ill., are the strong contenders.
Use Rotation System
When asked to comment on the ability of his individual players, Coach Landry replied, “To date we have been rotating the players during practice rather* than forming a first team, second team and so on, in order to get a better evaluation of each player.’
“So it is difficult at present to judge the ballplayers in their particular abilities since there are so many of them to judge, and more often than not circumstance situations make it even more difficult to estimate a man’s talent.
“Undoubtedly some will stick as first string replacements or even as regulars on next year’s squad, but just who they are and how they will fit into the picture will not be known until the spring practice session.”
Schaefer Takes Over Irish Scoring Parade
Fullback Don Schaefer took over the scoring leadership last Saturday as he tallied two touchdowns and kicked four extra points. Schaefer’s 33 points give him a twelve point lead over Paul Hornung. Aubrey Lewis, Jim Morse and Gene Kapish are tied for third with 18 points each.
Schaefer continues to lead the team in rushing. The burly All-American candidate carried the ball 20 times against Penn for a total of 114 yards. He now has amassed a total of 501 yards in 117 carries, an average of 4.3 yards per carry. Hornung and Morse follow Schaefer. Hornung has carried the ball 70 times for 328 yards and a 4.7 average,
DON SCHAEFER
Scoring, rushing pacesetter.
while Morse has made 318 yards in 61 trips for a 5.2 average. The shifty halfback also had a good Saturday afternoon against Penn as he ran for 110 yards in 18 carries.
Morse also leads in pass catching. He has caught seven passes for 116 yards; Kapish and Schaefer have each caught six, three of the big end’s catches being for touchdowns.
Last Saturday, Hornung attempted ten passes and completed six. The Irish Junior has now thrown 64 times and found his target 29 times. He has had five intercepted but seven have gone for touchdowns.
Scoring for seven games:
PLAYER
Schaefer --------- Hornung----------- Lewis ------------ Morse------------- Kapish ---------------------
Prendergast-----------------
Studer --------------------- Reynolds-------------------- Fitzgerald------------------ Wilson ---------------------
TO	PAT	FG	PTS.
4	15	0	33
3	0	1	21
3	0	0	18
3	0	0	18
3	0	0	18
2	0	0	12
i	0	0	6
i	0	0	6
i	0	0	6
i	0	0	6
November 11, 1955
31
I CONQUERED MY
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
in one
You can really dance after the first lesson!
When you can swing out on the floor and dance expertly, you, too, will feel proud—not inferior any more! Arthur Murray himself had a complex in his youth—and overcame it by becoming an expert dancer. And today experts trained by him will help get rid of any “I.C.” that hinders you—in society or in business.
In just a few hours your “dated” dancing will be transformed—you’ll know the latest steps—you’ll be a popular partner. Don’t wait. Phone CE 2-3339 or come right to the studio for a Free 15-minute dance analysis.
at Arthur ""W1
Copr. 1948-Arthur Murray Inc.
। Free
1 DANCE I BOOK
Please send me the new 64-page “Mur-ray-Go-Rcund” with all its helpful hints on dancing and information about the Arthur Murray Studies. its parties, etc. I understand if I send this coupon in promptly I will also receive a certificate good for 2 FREE introductory dance lessons!
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne, South Bend, Ind.
Ph. CE 2-3339
Pangborn Dedication® j Scheduled for Nov. 19	I
Pangborn Hall, Notre Dame’s newly	j
constructed residence hall, will be dedi-	fl
cated on Nov. 19. At 8:30 a.m. the	jl
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,	i|
University president, will celebrate a	j
Mass in the hall chapel. Following th^* ; Mass, Bishop Loras Lane of Dubuque, la., will bless the building.	i
Bishop Lane, a 1932 Notre Dame commerce graduate, is the president of Loras College in Dubuque and an auxiliary bishop in the Archdiocese of Dubuque.	|
Pangborn Hall was constructed at a cost of $800,000. It is the gift of ‘ Thomas and John Pangborn of Hagers-^ town, Md., who operate the Pangborr^ Corp., a manufacturer of blast cleaning and dust control equipment. The donation was made through the Pang-bom Foundation which, besides the gift of this hall, has made numerous grants since 1945 for charitable, reli- । gious, scientific and educational pur- I poses.
The Pangborns, along with the members of the science and engineering Advisory Council of which Thoma^l > Pangborn is a member, will attend the dedication ceremonies.
Located between Fisher Hall and the P Rockne Memorial, Pangborn Hall pro-	I
vides residence for 221 juniors in 114 I rooms. It also has a chapel, television r, and visitors’ lounges.	I
The architectural firm of Holabird,	|
Root, and Burgee of Chicago designed the new buff brick building while the construction was done by Peter Schu^ macher and Sons of South Bend.
and 2 STUDIO LESSONS
TUTORING SERVICE
Name-------------------------------Phone____________
Street----------------------------------------------
City---------------------------Zone------State______
«S)
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
The University through the Student Advisory Office maintains a tutoring service for those students who feel they need extra help to understand and pass their courses.
Tutors must be on the Dean’s List or have a 90 average and permission of their professor in order to teach. Those interested should apply at the Advisory Office, 140 Main Building. Undergraduates receive $1.50 per hour; graduates, $2.
According to Dr. Edmund Burke, the advisor, the tutoring service is unique since both tutor and student must see the student’s professor,, discover.-the difficulty, and follow, a plan of improvement over a period of time.
This service is primarily for freshmen, but upper classmen are by no means excluded.
32
The Scholastic
•NYU Law Scholarships Available to ND Seniors
Outstanding college seniors have been invited to participate in New York University’s 1955-56 Root-Tilden Scholarship competition by Dean Russell D. Niles of NYU School of Law.
Twenty scholarships are available, W each one valued at $2,300 per year. They are awarded on a one-year basis but are renewable for each of the succeeding two years of law school.
The scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic achievement, participation in extra-curricular activities, and interest in public service. The competition is restricted to unmarried male students between the ages of 20 and 28. A An applicant must have a college degree or be scheduled to receive one by September 1, 1956.
The 20 scholarships are awarded annually on a regional competitive basis, with two allocated to each of the ten federal judicial circuits. An applicant may apply either from the state in which he lives or the state in which his college is located.
Application can be made by writing Ato Dean Russell D. Niles, New York University Law Center, New York 3, N. Y.
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY Manufacturing and Distribution of Communications Equipment
BEU TELEPHONE LABORATORIES
Research and Development
ASSOCIATED OPERATING TELEPHONE COMPANIES Local and toll service within their territories throughout the country	<
» LONG LINES DEPARTMENT-A.T. & T. CO.
Long distance telephone and related services
ALSO
SANDIA CORPORATION (operated by Western Electric Co. for Atomic Energy Commission) Applied research, development and design on ordnance phases of atomic weapons.
Cramming for Exams?
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics A/so for Seniors in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office
On the main floor • Administration Building
INTERVIEWS on NOVEMBER 21-22
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black cof* fee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid«afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cob* webs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
»»»-35c	a g«c
Dorms) 60 tablets—
N0[)0Z
AWA KENERS
SAFE AS COFFEE
Joe Nabicht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty "Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.15
FISH, STEAKS, CHOPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
p:
minus UNUBYui INK SHF
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So.'Bend
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
November 11, 1955
33
... and get a better shave! Old Spice Pre-Electric Shave Lotion sets up your bead!—tunes up your shaver. Stops dragging, dogging and over-heating. The new, non-oily lubricant, “Isophyl”,* prepares the skin for easy gliding... lubricates the shaver cutting edges for greatest efficiency.	100 No federal tax
J.	♦Trade Mark
SHULTON New York • Toronto
YCS Members Hold • Communion Breakfast
Seventy Young Christian Students attended their fh’st annual Communion Breakfast in the basement lounge of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Building on Nov. 1. The breakfast was preceded by a recitative Mass offered by the Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., in the Morrissey A Hall chapel.
In his talk at the breakfast, Gerard Pottebaum, YCS president, pointed out the direction the YCS has been taking during the last two years.
“After rebuilding strong groups on the college basis, the YCS is heading toward more solid ground and will soon realize more successful services like the B-X and Campus Press,” Pottebaum said.	V
Following Pottebaum’s talk, the section heads gave brief reviews of their groups’ work this year. Phil Bohnert, head of the science section explained the new orientation program for pre-med students that the pre-med group worked out. The groups in the engineering section, headed by Jim Massey, are planning a student advisory council system for engineers. Reports were also given by Pete Foy, head of the AB section;^ Jim Driscoll, head of the commerce section; Jim Reidy, head of the sophomore section, and Frank Feigl, head of the freshman section.
This is the second year that the YCS has been functioning with college groups in the Junior and Senior €338563, and hall groups in the Freshman and Sophomore Classes. Since last year, the YCS has grown from nine to 16 groups, with six to ten students in each group. a
Senate
(Continued from page 14)
and Conrad Conway, junior from Dillon, to the court. A court clerk, Don Carmelite of Walsh, was also appointed.
Membership to a special investigating committee which will study present and possible national student affiliations was also announced. John Cusack, Dillon senator, was named committee chair-A man. He will be assisted in his investi-^ gations by Jim Hughes, Farley senator, and Jerry Murphy, Senate treasurer.
Appointments to various Senate Committees were made from among the newly elected senators. Serving on Bill Warren’s finance committee will be: George Blake, Don Carlin, Bill Bradley, and Jerry Slater.
Named to the policy committee of which Pete Campbell is the chairman were: Tom Swope, John Cusack, John Bure, Jim Hughes, and Bud Toepp. Ot£ the rules committee, chairman Jerry Massey will now be assisted by Mike
The Scholastic
34
Kiley, John Reichert, and Joe Ryan.
The student welfare committee under chairman John Gschwind has had its membership increased by the appointments of: Dave Kelsey, Vince Campbell, Tom Lopina, Joe Harrison, Pete De Vito, and Dick Myer. ■
Crehan also announced the reappointment of Jerry Hornback as student Insurance representative.
Moot Court Winners
(Continued from page 11) and Ronald F. Mealey argued the case for the respondent.
As to the importance of the Moot Court, Justice Clark said that he “believes that contests of this type are most helpful for preparing young men in practice; for the closer a law man is to practice, the closer he is to success.” Justice Clark added that, “This was one of the best if not the best presented and mannered Moot Courts I have heard in the country.” He then congratulated the Notre Dame Law School and its dean for preparing the participants so splendidly.
BOOKSTORE
on the Campus
SHEAFFER’S ^snorkelpens
FOR RENT: Two Single Rooms, especially furnished for students. Excellent location. Reasonable rates. Call CE-3-4703.
SPECIAL SALE!
NOTRE DAME 100 Years
Regularly $4.00
Now $1.29
Wonderful Christmas gifts for all Notre Dame Fans
Mail Orders Accepted Include 25^ Postage
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE SECOND FLOOR NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
cl a ,	writing value! Give these fine
Sheaffer’s Snorkel Pens at great savings. Come in today.
SHOP EARLY AT	.
BOOKSTORE
on the Campus
November 11, 1955
Repercussion
(Continued from page 8) decorum to the sober sanctity of the Notre Dame campus, the misguided Social Commission (all mature seniors, I doubt) will, to their carefully guarded, confidential files descend, and there, under the shadow of the Golden Dome, ruthlessly hurl some poor pristine lover of Paul into the beguiling embrace of a secret disciple of Kinsey. More like a fumble factory than a particle of higher learning, the all-powerful and all-knowing Social Commission will decide the fate of the greater undergraduate bodies of three outstanding universities.
In attempting to improve upon the immutable laws of the heavens, the Social Commission has cast the niceties of social intercourse, the privacy of human desires, and the purity of love into the hands of slide-rule artists and statisticians.
It is my unfortunate lot to present the Summa Cum Luncheon award to the Notre Dame Social Commission with honorable mention given to St. Mary’s
College and St. Joseph’s School Nursing.
of
Campbell Hall
Ens USN USS Chilton APA
38
FPO, New York, N. Y.
YCS - ENGINEERS’ SYMPOSIUM
Next Tuesday the Engineering group of the YCS will sponsor the first of a series of symposiums dealing with Engineering Education. This first meeting, considering the goal of an engineering education, will be held at 7:30 p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall.
At the present time, a faculty committee is making a study of the program of the College of Engineering and it is in conjunction with this study that the YCS is holding these conferences.	-
/
1
What you should know about International Business Machines

$
International Business Machines Corporation is one of America’s leading engineering, manufacturing and selling organizations, serving business, industry, government, science and education.

You’ll be joining a company with a 41-year record of growth, stable employment, and one of the lowest employee turnover records in the country.
$

m EMM PRODUCER OF |	ELECTRONIC DATA
I ■	IBII PROCESSING MACHINES,
1	■	ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS,
1	AND ELECTRONIC
^B ■ W IB TIME EQUIPMENT.
®
‘ OFFERS
EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES TO ^niorS and
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FOR MID-VEAR GRADUATES ONLY
NOVEMBER 15

£
K
&



Excellent salary and employee benefit program with life-long advantages for you and your family.
Complete initial training in each of the employment classifications listed.
Your future will be as big as you make it, with ad-• vancement entirely on merit.
Liberal Arts • Business Accounting * Engineering Mathematics .....

Sales
CALL YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR APPOINTMENT, TODAY I
H you ■ ..nnoc ctend inter/ie writu for more information to Byron N. Luther International Business Machines Corporation
590 Madison Ave., New fork 22, N. Y.
Sales and Service Offices in Principal Cities throughout the U S.
Physics« Mechanical Electrical Engineering Physics (with Electronics)
Defense Field Engineering
36
The Scholastic
hrkerWinterrawd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS US’A-HZ’A No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Why Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. reads The Reader’s Digest
CkARSH. OTTAWA
I am told that the Digest is now published in 12 languages, and bought each month by more than 18 million people. By strengthening understanding among individuals, the Digest helps people of many different nations to share their experiences and ideals. That is why I, for one, read the Digest —and why I believe it helps create the conditions of tcorld peace which we all seek.”— From a statement in November Reader's Digest by the U.S. Representative to the United Nations.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrawd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115’/2-117’/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult my campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 308 Pangborn
In November Reader’s Digest don’t miss:
26-PAGE CONDENSATION FROM $3.50 BEST-SELLER: “CAPTAIN DREYFUS.” ‘"The Dreyfus Affair,” in which France branded an innocent man a traitor, is perhaps the most celebrated miscarriage of justice in modern times. Here—in all its relentless drama—is the story of the hysteria-ridden case that placed a man, a nation and the very concept of justice itself on trial.
THE MAKING OF A WEST POINTER. A visit to the United States Military Academy, where “they give you a million-dollar education free—and jam it down your throat nickel by nickel.”
WHY WOMEN ACT THAT WAY. They are clumsy at pitching and running (their bones aren’t built like men’s). But they stand cold better than men; hear better, too—and change their minds just half as often! Scientific facts behind female behavior.
SEVEN WONDERS OF ENGINEERING. Dazzling look !?
at America’s seven greatest man-made triumphs. |
Get November Reader’s Digest | at your newsstand today—only 25t j 38 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading J magazines and current books, condensed to save your time, g
November 11, 1955
37
Roch Pa^
by Curt Matthews
education, culture plus entertainment
tCWTT ITHOUT CONTINUED READING, no man can be educated in 1955. He may be trained for a job, disciplined to passive citizenship, thoroughly lectured at, socially ‘adjusted,’ kind to animals, an honest man, and all sorts of desirable things. But he cannot be educated—let alone cultured or civilized—and he will miss his full self-realization. He will also miss a lot of fun.” These are the words of Dr. Frank C. Baxter, University of Southern California.
If they seem familiar, they should, for they appeared not long ago in one of the Religious Bulletins. It’s 'a statement that makes a pretty solid point, I think.
It’s surprising how little reading today is prompted solely by pleasure or curiosity. Most of us don’t get beyond the Book of the Month selections and a few weekly magazines. And 1’11 bet a good number don’t get that far. It used to be when you read a good book you were supplied with conversation material for a couple of weeks. If it was a well-written or controversial book chances were, more of the people you knew had read it too. You could discuss the pros and cons of the book because everyone knew what everyone else was talking about.
Times have changed. Now when you read a book you have to wait until they make a movie out of it before you’re on even terms with most people. You don’t have to read much to establish yourself as an “intellectual” in most social circles today.
I guess we’re all familiar with the reasons for this situation. Television with Ed Sullivan, “The $64,000 Question,” and the Dodger-Giant game; movies, with VistaVision, stereophonic sound, Monroe and Russell; and radio, going places and doing things with you
know who, have all helped make life a little less literary.
Now I don’t propose we abolish television, movies, and radio and all rush out and spend all our off-duty hours systematically exhausting the material in the local library. But I do, however, think we could work a little more good reading in with these other forms of diversion and all be a little better off for our efforts. Dr. Baxter thinks there’s a possibility we may even become educated, civilized and cultured.
A lot of us excuse ourselves from extra-curricular reading with that old moan that goes: “I haven’t got time to wade through War and Peace or the Churchill Memoirs.” But it’s hardly a valid excuse in the light of a little applied arithmetic. Say you spend just one of the twenty-four hours in every day reading something for your own information and pleasure (and I can assure you it will be a pleasure). If you read 30 or 35 pages in an hour then you can read a 250-page book every week. It’s as simple as that. No sweat, no strain, and you’ve done something.
Some may say there’s as much enjoyment to be had sitting through a well-done filmed version on the same book—and with even less sweat and strain. I don’t think that’s true and I’ll tell you why. There are several reasons.
First, when you read a book you’re doing something actively—when you sit through a movie or listen to a radio show you’re doing something—but it’s passive. Passive entertainment can never measure up completely to active entertainment. You can’t get as much real enjoyment out of watching a professional football game as you can out of playing a game of touch football on your own front lawn. Watching will never replace doing. There’s a feeling of accomplishment when you close the last page in a book that isn’t present
when the lights go on and the show is over.
Secondly, the movie or television version of a story is necessarily sketchy and superficial compared to the book. It can’t convey all the little subtleties, inferences, sensitivities, shades and reflections that a piece of literature can transmit without the limitations im-^ posed by time, commercials, codes, oi™ box-offices. The book always gives you a deeper, fuller, more artistically developed story.
Which brings us right up to the third reason why I think books are better entertainers than films or radios. Because the book gives us the fuller treatment and we are able to get a deeper appreciation of somebody else’s view, the book version will stick with us_ longer than the filmed or aired version^) It remains with us a point of reference and comparison as we continue to read —and live. It gives us something to think about. Usually films or television or radio shows are too shallowly done to make any real lasting impressions on us.
I could also mention the difference between mass entertainment and personal entertainment. The author writes his book only for those who are interested enough to sit down and make an effort to read it—he deals with his audienc^ one at a time. The movie on the other hand is directed to anyone who has the price of a ticket and is ■willing to spend it. The book audience is more selective; therefore, the author can make it a more personal thing.
This is not to imply that movies have no place, or at most a secondary place, in the entertainment picture. There are lots of times when all of us feel that to look at another page of printed matter will surely make us violently il^ That’s when the passive entertainmeiW should come in. But let’s not exaggerate its usefulness.
38
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
ALL ABOUT TOBACCO .INCLUDING SEVERAL REASONS WRI
Edgeworth Never Bites Toir Ton Jie
Some brands give you shorts and bits which bum like tinderfast and hot
4^
Others give you fine-cut shreds — good for cigarettes, but not so good for pipes.
Only Edgeworth gives you slow-burning “chunks'' made for pipes and pipes alone
Edgeworths Way with White Bmley Has Never Been Equalled
Yom true tobacco expert will tell you that white hurleys are the world's coolest smoking tobaccos. Edgeworth is a blend of white hurleys only— aged like fine wine, tor years. Of course, other tobaccos use white burley too—but nobody ver has found out just how to blend and process tobacco to give it the even-burning, cool-smoking character that Edgeworth “Ready-Rubbed’ has maintained.
WAat “Ready-Rubbed” Means to Yom Smoking Pleasure
Old time smokers knew the secret of cool, even burning. They carefully
This Amazing Punch Means Cooler Smoking!
Forgotten in tackle-box—Edgeworth Still Fresn One fisherman friend of ours left an unopened Edgeworth pouch in his tackle box for a year. When he found it the tobacco was still moist and cool smoking.
“hand-rubbed” their tobacco until it crumbled into chunks of just the right size. Now Edgeworth does all this for you before the tobacco is packaged. An ingenious exclusive process ‘ ‘ready-rubs’ ’ Edge worth into chunks that pack right in your pipe, giving you a cool, leisurely smoke with never a touch of tongue bite.
YOU’RE SMARTER SMOKING
Edgeworth
Edgeworth tobacco leaves our plant with just the right moisture content for a cool, uo-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be thar way when you open it, because only Edgeworth has the Seal-Pak pouch. Sealed air and-water tight, it promises you fresher to-nacco than any other type of ,<ocKRt oack. No bulky corners in your wcket either.
FOR A COOL MIXTURE
TRY HOLIDAY
A 'custom" blend of five tobaccos selected for mildness and aroma. The. only mixture in the Seal-Pak pouch.
tobacco for only $i.Ou The pipe is fine, band-rubbed importer! onat with genuine hard rubber bit . carbonized bowl fot coaler smoking If your dealei is unable to supply you, use this handy ordei blank.
Name _ ___ Address—__
AT YOUR DEALER'S
Get this guaranteed ’Oide London' Pipe { and two full - size pouches ot Edgeworth I
I
i I
AMERICA'S FINEST PIPE TOBACCO FOR OVER HALF A CENTURY j
City.State---------- rAuil with Si.00 tc "OUe Landon.'- Lares Z Brother Conipony, tne., Bichmor.a Va.
Utjer Good Only ir. IJ o n.	GlA- 1 *
YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
king size
© Liggett & M™ Tobacco Co.
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
1.	SUPERIOR FILTER Only L&M gives you the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white... all white... pure white!

’W

LIGGETT £ MYERS TOBACCO CO
2.	SUPERIOR TASTE L&Ms superior taste conies from superior tobaccos — especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are richer, tastier ... and light and mild.


Smoke, America’s Best Filter Cigarette