i
KEEP YOUR INDIVIDUALITY
IN CAMPUS SHOP
CLOTHES ...
Because the Campus Shop offers you so many nationally famous makes of suits, topcoats and haberdashery, you can enjoy the finest quality, tailoring, and basic design ... in your own personal variation. Why don’t you come in soon . . . you’ll find your favorite style with the tailoring-touch you like.
On the Campus—Notre Dame,

y i
+ PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE
*
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JULY

PAY ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST

CHARGE IT, THE

CAMPUS SHOP WAY
r



Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. Get whatever you need, when you need it, and charge it on your account, the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . one-third in August. Naturally, there is no interest or carrying charge.

^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
K February 13, 1959
s
OnC^<R WShuhian
(By the Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, ' "Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
POVERTY CAN BE FUN
It is no disgrace to be poor. It is an error, but it is no disgrace.
So if your purse is empty, do not skulk and brood and hide your head in shame. Stand tall. Admit your poverty. Admit it freely and frankly and all kinds of good things will happen to you. Take, for instance, the case of Blossom Sigafoos.
Blossom, an impecunious freshman at an Eastern girls college, was smart as a whip, and round as a dumpling, and scarcely a day went by when she didn’t get invited to a party weekend at one of the nearby mens schools. But Blossom never accepted. She did not have the rail fare; she did not have the clothes. Weekend after weekend, while her classmates went frolicking, Blossom sat alone, saved from utter dispair only by her pack of Marlboros, for even an exchequer as slim as Blossom’s can afford the joys of Marlboro—joys far beyond their paltry price: rich, mellow tobaccos, lovingly cured and carefully packed; a new improved filter that works like a charm. Croesus himself could not buy a better cigarette!
However, Marlboro’s most passionate admirers—among whose number I am paid to count myself—would not claim that Marlboro can entirely replace love and romance, and Blossom grew steadily
moroser.
Then one day came a phone call from an intelligent sophomore named Tom O’Shanter at a nearby mens college. “Blossom,” said Tom, “I want you to come down next week for the barley festival, and I won’t take no for an answer.”
“No,” said Blossom.
“Foolish girl,” said Tom
gently. “I know why you refuse me. It is because you are poor, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” said Blossom.
“I will send you a railroad ticket,” said Tom. “Also a small salami in case you get hungry on the train.”
The makers of filter-tip Marlboro, who bring you this column, are also the makers of non-iilter Philip Morris, who also bring you this column. Whichever you choose, you’re right.
“But I have nothing to wear,” said Blossom.
Tom replied, “I’ll send you one suit of cashmere, two gowns of lace, three slacks of velvet, four shoes of calf, five socks of nylons, and a partridge in a pear tree.”
“That is most kind,” said Blossom, “but I fear I cannot dance and enjoy myself while back home my poor lame brother Tiny Tim lies abed.”
“Send him to Mayo Brothers and put it on my tab,” said Tom.
“You are terribly decent,” said Blossom, “but I cannot come to your party because all the other girls at the party will be from rich, distinguished families and my father is but a humble woodcutter.”
“I will buy him Yosemite,” said Tom.
“You have a great heart,” said Blossom. “Hold the phone while I ask our wise and kindly old Dean of Women whether it is proper for me to accept all these gifts.”
She went forthwith and asked the Dean of Women, and the Dean of Women laid her wise and kindly old hand on Blossom’s cheek and said, “Child, let not false pride rob you of happiness. Accept these gifts from Tom.”
“Lord love you, Wise and Kindly,”
breathed Blossom, dropping grateful tears into the Dean’s reticule. “I must run and tell Tom.”
“Yes, run, child,” said the Dean, a smile wrinkling her wise and kindly old eyes. “And ask him has he got an older brother.”
*	01958, Max Shulman
Scholastic Editors:	•'
“Commentary” in the January 23 issue of Scholastic carried an article entitled “Freedom of the Press?” We wish to clarify a few errors in this article.
No one representing the Static staff of St. Mary’s College called the SchoLASTIC office or any of its writers con-r cerning the Catholic viewpoint on the Marie Torre case. No “mandate” was 4 received by any of the editors or members of the staff to write an editorial or any other type of story about the case. The Static staff does not receive “man- \ dates” to write nor is it under any other coercion in its publication.
We agree that college seniors who have anywhere from four to fourteen ♦ years of Catholic education behind them ought to have the ability to arrive at* a Catholic view without reference to the clergy. However, when a Catholic view 1 is needed which we recognize to be beyond present knowledge, we certainly^, would not seek it through the channels of your magazine!	*
Myra Hunter,
Editor of Static 1 Marilyn Manion,
Associate Editor '
Ed. Note: Allow us to offer our most^ abject apologies. A girl did call, identifying herself as the editor of the Static, i but we neglected to check her veracity. Sorry.
MARDI GRAS
RAFFLE WINNERS
Mt
1959 LINCOLN
won by	4
Mary A. Finan, 3116 W. 61st St., j Chicago, Illinois
—o—
1959 CHEVROLET IMPALA .
won by Joseph Krajacic, 202 St. Ed’s> ( 3237 Franklin, Highland, Ind.
—o—
WARDROBE
won by Lywda Scheer, 512 LeMahs Hall, St. Mary’s College >
The Scholastic
CALENDAR
f
¥
>	TODAY
8:00 p.m.—First session of the symposium on the Impact of Immigration on American Catholicism in the Law Auditorium. Saul ' D. Alinsky, Rev. Rollins Lambert, and Rev. Gilbert Carroll, discussing “Roman Catholicism and the American Way of Life.”
8:15 p.m.—The Concert and Lecture ’Series presents Andres Segovia at Washington Hall.
SATURDAY
•	9:30 a.m.—Second session of the sympo-
sium on the Impact of Immigration on s’ American Catholicism in the Law Auditorium. Judge Juvenal Marchisio, Very Rev.
*	Msgr. Wycislo and Rev. Colman Barry discussing “Complications of Language and Tradition.”
1:00 p.m.—Tryouts for the University * Theater’s production of The Boy Friend in the Washington Hall Lounge.
2:00 p.m.—Final session of the symposium on American Catholicism in the Law Audi-•;orium. The Very Rev. James Shannon, Dr. Willard E. Wight, and Dr. Vincent De Santis discussing “The More Permanent Aspects of the Immigration Problem.”
*	8:30 p.m.—The University Theater pre-
, sents Murder in the Cathedral in Washington Hall.
- ^Ticket sales today and every day next week,
►
3:30-8:30 at the Washington Hall box office. Students, faculty, and personnel: $1.00 orchestra and $.75 balcony.
7:45 p.m.—Basketball: Notre Dame vs. Kentucky at the Chicago Stadium. Broadcast by WSND and WNDU radio.
SUNDAY
’ 3:30 and 8:30 p.m.—The movie, Diary of , a Country Priest, showing to the members i of the Faculty Film club in the Engineering | Auditorium. Open to members only.
7:30 p.m.—Grad Student mixer in the Graduate Student Lounge of the Student I Center.
't	MONDAY
j 8:00 p.m.—Basketball: Notre Dame vs. Butler on WSND.
TUESDAY
8:00 p.m.—The Physics Club meeting in 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Mr. James Schultz will speak on “Trends in Magnetic ^Core Memories.”
8:00 p.m.—Graduate Student meeting in the Graduate Student Lounge of the Student Center.
,	WEDNESDAY
7:30 p.m.—The third lecture of the MarI riage Institute in the Engineering Auditorium. Rev. Meloche will speak on “Sanity •and Sex.”
THURSDAY
1:30 p.m.—Dr. S. C. Sufrin speaking on ' “Wages and Employment Theory Without Tears,” in Washington Hall as part of the I Cardinal O’Hara Lecture Series. Cancelled I cuts.
R 8:30 p.m.—The University Theater pre* sents Murder in the Cathedral at Washing] ton Hall.
| February 13, 1959
A PLEASURE CRUISE: Last Saturday night, Joe Geary, news editor of WSND, read an editorial concerning the flagrant abuse of official privilege by certain members of the Mardi Gras Committee. The facts of the situation are as follows: the 1959 Lincoln which was raffled off at the Mardi Gras sailed into Chicago recently on a pleasure cruise under the guidance of several Mardi Gras Committee members. This trip was unauthorized and since then, we are informed, punitive action has been taken to remedy the abuse.
Earlier this year we were talking with the General Chairman about the seemingly unlimited use of the two Mardi Gras cars by committee members. The possibility that this privilege might be abused has existed for years; as a matter of fact, minor abuses have occurred in previous years. That no preventative measure was taken certainly reveals poor judgment or carelessness not only on the part of the chairman but also on the part of the Student Senate which authorizes Mardi Gras activities.
With regard to the “sensational” revelation by Geary, we are sorry that such a method was necessary but perhaps it was the only way the situation could have received enough publicity to be remedied. Anyway, now that something is being done, let’s be thankful that no serious damage to the students or the automobile occurred during their unauthorized pleasure trip.
MARDI GRAS: Congratulations to all those concerned with any phase of the staging of the Mardi Gras. Regardless of the financial success, the Mardi Gras was, from the student point of view, definitely the best in the past few years. The dance in the New Dining Hall was excellent. It showed the possibility of holding larger dances on campus without the inconvenience of peering about range-finders, sitting on the most utilitarian of temporary chairs, and waltzing on concrete. Let us hope the possibility becomes a reality during the coming spring social season. The carnival was most distinguished by the ingenuity manifested in the selection of witty themes and original games — especially in such booths as the “Club Castro,” the Aesculapians’ filmed horse races, and the St. Mary’s “hooping the ducks” (although we know that one Jane Stilwill and many other young ladies felt compassion for the poor ducks).
POLITICS: We were glad to see the administration approve the Senate’s proposal concerning the formation of campus political clubs. This should help combat the political apathy which exists among the students. Such a step is a credit to the University, to the perseverance of the Student Senate, and to the leadership of those who have campaigned for such an organization during the past years.
MOVIES: In the last issue of the Scholastic, comment was made concerning the good behavior- of the students during the Washington Hall movies. It was definitely premature. The following night the movie had to be stopped because of the conduct of the juvenile audience.
WALKS: Perhaps it is just the early arrival of the spring monsoon season and again perhaps it is just a year of freak weather; but at any rate the campus, last week, must have been a miniature of the world when Noah debarked from the Ark. It seems that the concentration of water is proportional to the importance of the arterial on which it lies. Much, however, in the past has been done to alleviate this; but it has not been up to coping with the situation. Although something has been . done on the campus, nothing has been done to make the way from Angela Blvd, to the campus anything less than a hazard for both motor and pedestrian traffic. The Scholastic on March 15, 1957, printed an editorial suggesting a remedy for the situation featuring the blacktopping of the sidewalks and Notre Dame Avenue and the proper lighting of the entrance; but the power of the press was nil — nothing was done. Perhaps, with the University embarking upon a new and ambitious plan for the physical development of the campus, some funds might he allocated to develop a few of the bourgeois amenities usually found in progressive urban centers.
LATE NEWS ITEM: At the invitation of the department of religion, Father John M. Oesterreicher, director of the Institute of Judaeo-Christian Studies, Seton Hall University, will speak on “A Catholic Looks at Martin Buber,” on Thursday, February 19, at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
—S.&S.
5
OOMS MTS
6REHESTMIS
GRAND CANYON
SUITE
pHklOt.cNit JffMkHC’
SING
ALONG
WITH
BOTCH
JOHWYS
GREAIEST HITSWF
JOHflYMAMS
CHANCES ARE • TWELFTH OF NEVER NOT FOR ME TO SAY • WILD IS THE WIND COME TO ME - WONDERFUL. WONDERFUL
PLUS 6 OTHERS
KOSTELANETZ
MdMsOfchMtoa
MARTIN PINZA
SOUTH PACIFIC
ANY SIX
of these superb 12" | High-Fidelity)
COLUMBIA and EPIC RECORDS
REX HARRISON JULIE ANDREWS LADY
ROMANTIC MUSIC OF
RACHMANINOFF

FRANKIE LAINE
Onginai Broadway Cast
, MOZART is REQUIEM


MS1MBTQ OUM
64000) JAZZ|
Albert Schweitzer BACH Tocata.Adagio । andftguenCItoor Fugue n A Manor : Fantasa and Fugue | mGMnor I
if you join the Columbia @ Record Club now — and agree to purchase only 5 selections during the coming 12 months
★ You receive ANY 6 of these 12" records for only $3.98
★ Your only obligation as a member is to purchase five selections from the more than 200 high-fidelity Columbia and Epic records to be offered in the coming 12 months
★ In addition, after purchasing only five records you receive a 12" Columbia or Epic Bonus record of your choice free for every two selections you buy
it You enroll in any one of the four Club Divisions: Classical; Listening and Dancing; Broadway, Movies, Television and Musical Comedies; Jazz
★ Each month the Club’s staff of musical experts selects outstanding recordings from every field of music... music that desen/es a place in any well-planned library. These selections are fully described in the Club Magazine, which you receive free each month
A- You may accept or reject the selection for your Division, take any of the other records offered, or take NO record in any particular month
★ You may discontinue membership at any time after purchasing five records from the Club
★ The records you want are mailed and billed to you at the regular list price of $3.98 (Classical Selections, $4.98), plus small mailing charge
★ Mail coupon—without money—to receive your six records
ROY HAMILTON
YOU’LL NEVER WALK ALONE
MSM: wuua rm M* Miaaof smu Manus BOWZFni: Miona or nu Kuauronmu
SCMMR: suae muwn KUAOrSXY: ouau su» SINKS: uunn uk>
THE OESERTSONG
urn BH-MKin OM
SC H U BERT* “UNFINISHED” SYMPHONY MENDELSSOHN: MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAN
MUKlfM* IKK. OMMOY
4
SEND NO MONEY — Mail coupon to receive 6 records for $3.98
COLUMBIA ® RECORD CLUB, Dept. 287-2 TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA
I accept your offer and have indicated at the right the six records I wish to receive for $3.98, plus small mailing charge. Enroll me in the following Division oi the Club:
(check one hex only)
□ Classical □ Lisfeaing and Danciag □ Jazz □ Broadway, Movies, Television and Musical Ccnaedies
I agree to purchase five selections from the more than 200 to be offered during the coming 12 months, at regular list price plus small mailing charge. For every two additional selections I accept, I am to receive a 12" Columbia or Epic Bonus record of my choice FREE
CIRCLE THE NUMBERS OF THE 6 RECORDS YOU WANT -
MOMS* •• ••••onnnoonnnooonwounnoonnennnnnn.nnnnnnnnnene (Please Print)
Address.....................................................
City...................................ZONE......State.........
CANADA: Prices slightly higher, address 11-13 Soho St., Toronto 2B If you wish to have tills membership credited to an established Columbia or Epic record dealer, authorized to accept subscriptions, please fill in the following:
Dealer's Nmne............................................
Dealer's Address......................................213
© Columbia Records Sales Corp.. 1959	‘
^“Columbia.” £, “Epie,” © Marcos Reg.
I. Polly Bergen
Party’s Over, But Not For Me, My Melancholy Baby—9 more
5. 'S Marvelous
Ray Conniff and Orch. Xs Time Goes By, Where or When, etc.
7. Frankie Laine Jezebel, High Noon, Jealousy. 9 more
10.	Schweitzer—Bach ■ Includes 3 major Bach organ compositions
II.	Johnny Mathis’ Greatest Hits
No Love, Chances Are, Twelfth of Never, I Look at You, 8 more
12.	Grote: Grand Canyon This vivid musical painting has become an American classic
13.	Doris Day’s
Greatest Hits
Doris sings 12 hits — Love Me or Leave Me, It’s Magic, Que Sera
14.	South Pacific
Mary Martin and Ezio Pinza star in this original Broadway Cast recording
IS.	Sina Alona With Mitch Miller
You Are My Sunshine, Sweet Violets, Don’t Fence Me In — 16 favorites in all
16.	Schubert:Unfinished Symphony; Mendelssohn: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Philadelphia Orchestra, Ormandy, cond.
17.	Desert Sona Romberg’s operetta is still a joy to hear
18.	Beethoven: Emperor Concerto
Casadesus, piano; New York Philharmonic, Mitropoulos, cond.
19.	Eddy Duchin Story Duchin plays The Man I Love, April Showers, Am I Bluet, 12 more
20.	Dvorak: New World Symphony
Philadelphia Orchestra, Ormandy. cond.
21.	$64,000 Jazz
13 Jazz Greats performing Honeysuckle Rose, Perdido, etc.
22.	Mozart: Reaaiem New York Philharmonic, Walter, cond.
26.	Tchaikovsky: Nutcracker Suite; Ravel: Bolero, etc.
Philadelphia Orchestra, Ormandy, cond.
27.	Benny Goodman Let’s Dance, Sing Sing Sing.Avalon.Moonglow —11 swing classics
28.	Romantie Musie of Rachmaninoff
Andre Kostelanetz and his Orchestra play this haunting music
29.	Roy Hamilton The “Big Voice” sings Unchained Melody, Ebb Tide, I Believe, 9 more
30.	Tchaikovsky: Swan Lake Ballet Suite
Philadelphia Orchestra, Ormandy. cond.
34. Elliniton at Newport Newport Jazz Festival Suite, Jeep's Blues, etc.
38.	The Hymnal
Norman Luboff Choir sings 12 beloved hymns — Let Him In, Sweet Hour of Prayer, etc.
39.	Firebird Suite:
Romeo and Juliet
Two colorful scores — performed by Bernstein and N.Y. Philharmonic
44. Pop Hit Party I A dozen hit tunes per- J formed by 12 pop art- I ists — Day, Mathis, ! Laine, Bennett, etc. I
46. Erroll Garner— |
Paris Impressions I Moulin Rouge, I Love a Paris, Left Bank Swing | —8 numbers in all ■
48.	My Fair Lady ■ Original cast recording I with Rex Harrison and “ Julie Andrews	I
49.	Waltzes of Strauss a
and Tchaikovsky I Philadelphia Orches- _ tra, Ormandy, cond. I 51. Front Row Center | September Song, House I of Flowers, Bewitched, | April in Paris, 9 more I 60. Musie of Victor I
Herbert — Faith ■ Dream Girl, A Kiss in I the Dark, Gypsy Love ■ Song, 9 more	I
61.	Rossini: William .
Tell Overture, etc. I Six stirring overtures । and marches	I
62.	Frank Sinatra a A dozen songs — Blue | Skies. The Nearness of a You, Mean to Me, etc. I 	"i’j
The Scholastic
Scholastic
'Dim*
* Vol. 100 February 13, 1959 No. 13
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre name, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK *
Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH...... ' WALT RUDGE________
JIM YOCH............ | '’TEDDY THOMPSON. X PETER HASBROOK.. I CONRAD SUSKI......
BOB FANCHER......... I DAVE SOMMER....... I ROY RUBELI........ A BOB MARUYAMA......
■ CHAS RIECK......... 1 I ' FRANK DUDA.....
___News
..Copy .Features ..Sports
Editor Editor Editor Editor
.Business Manager ___Circulation ___Photography • ___Photography ___Assistant News ___Assistant Copy ___Assistant Copy .Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features
CHUCK MILLER. * TOM ROSE_______ BOB SCHAEFER.. I BOB HORN_______
.Assistant Features _Assistant Sports __Assistant Sports ..Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, , Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade Clarke, Bill Flaherty, Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.

♦ SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Jim Lee, Pat O’Connor, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
4
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
grading system
In addition to the usual shrieks and moans of hope and despair at marking time have come a number of comments on the new grading system. Notre Dame’s somewhat unusual six point system is new and, as with anything new, it has been met with disparaging opposition. The opposition, we feel, has neglected to consider the most obvious and important aspect of the system; it is so new and untested that a value judgment cannot and should not yet be made. At this time there is no statistical analysis of the new system, but even if there were, a final judgment could hardly be made after one semester. The system must be viewed over a period of at least two or three years before any valid judgment can be made.
The new grading system was instituted to achieve a more objective classification of students into general areas of excellence rather than to split numerical hairs among students. By the time a student reaches college he has already survived academic screening; in other words, college students are, at least theoretically, the top slice of high school students. With this basis, it is more likely that the “top slice” should naturally divide into fewer categories than an unselected group. Most universities hold this theory and operate on a point system. Notre Dame is attempting to align itself with the marking system prevalent at this time.	.
An obvious objection occurs: if Notre Dame is making its system uniform, why did it select a six point system rather than the usual four point standard? The six point system does not claim to delineate those within the same area. However, it does claim to distinguish the very superior students. A common objection to the new system is that teachers refuse to give sixes. The plain fact is that they are not supposed to give sixes except to the super scholar. With grade transcripts under the new system, an explanation of the six point system is given in terms of equating the numbers to letters of the alphabet. Six and five equal A, four is equal to B, three equals C, two and one equal D, and zero equals F. When this transposition is understood, we believe, it is evident that sixes should be given only to the top students.
As far as we can determine, there are three main criticisms of the new system that should be clarified. First, there is the objection that the new marking system “pushes everyone in the middle.” Second, there is real injustice if someone with a “high” grade is given the same mark as someone with a ‘^low” grade. Third, it’s going to be very difficult to make honors.
With regard to the first objection, let us note that most people are “in the middle” of any group no matter what the criterion. True, under the new system, more people will be classed together; but, in considering that this is already a selected group, it is logical that more people are closer in talent and achievement, that more people should be classed in a few general areas. Also, over an expanse of time, the relatively better student will receive more fours and fives and will raise his average from, say, 3.6 to 3.7 and so forth. The scale will also work in reverse for the poorer student.
This consideration leads to the second criticism: After three or four semesters the “high” grades and the “low” grades should pretty well balance and in only very, few cases of exceptional luck will a student have attained an average non-representa-tive of his ability.	.
Lastly, it is going to be more difficult attaining honors if sixes are reserved for exceptional work. This is no accident but a calculated result of the new system. The administration felt that too many students were graduating with honors and as a result are toughening the general requirements for an honors average (i.e., now one must attain the equivalent of 88 instead of 85 to graduate with honors).
Speaking with Father Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president of academic affairs, impressed upon us the paramount importance of “psychological acclimatization” to the new system. When the present freshmen are seniors, the student acclimatization will be complete. A much more difficult and, in some cases, an almost impossible task will be the re-education of the faculty. Many of them have spent the better part of their lives with a numerical system and will not change. Some will still be “good markers” and others will remain “poor markers” despite any change in marking system, administration, or government. There will always be individual approaches to the marking system despite the express University policy toward the value of each particular grade. Another instance of individual misunderstanding will occur when the teacher uses another marking system during the year and then transposes the grades at the end of the year. Actually, there is enough correlation of the numerical to the point system that any real difficulty should be eliminated.
At this stage there are only a very few general conclusions that can be reached. As we have stated and re-iterated, the new system cannot yet be judged validly. The six point syrtem was selected to distinguish the scholars; from the numerous complaints about the comparative scarcity of sixes (which may very well prove entirely false) it appears that the teachers have accepted the changeover in this respect. However, until both students and faculty learn to consider the six point system as an attempt to separate and distinguish students in general areas of achievement rather than in any numerical order and to distinguish the outstanding from the superior, there will not be total acceptance of the new system.—RS.
7
February 13, 1959
Have a WORLD of FUN!
B
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
AMe&Europt
60	«w* $645
V 0r/eat Jtt^fS45	$998
I Many toon JnduOa
etUB l*^lAlso low-cost trips to Mexico 169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and ■	Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
2Mi Year
OUR COVER: Having “stayed up late o’ nights trying to figure out an insoluble maze” for the Jan. 16 issue, and failing miserably, Tom McGee selected something a bit more artistic for this endeavor.
Using a purple motif to portray the solemnity of the drama, Tom has added a contemporary note in the modernistic design of the nameplate. This is his third cover for the SCHOLASTIC. The first one was the Indiana weather cover which could well become apropos within the next few weeks.
/MOUs
CEDEHE
□□□BEE BSQBDQ
BEBEBE QEQEHD
SUE EEDEE DBB
ED □DEDE SEDO □DEEB
EEE
H|
□Ed£J
S „
EEE EBE BEEBE BEBHEQ 0EDEBE □BEEBE DEdEBa EBEags msaBBS
*
k 332 St. Micbifn Aw. ■KXHmf 4, MA 7-2557
tflMSNVTODX
KGDL KROSSWORD No. 14
ACROSS
1. Esther Williams’ afterglow
7. Pat on an act
13.	The gays who made it
14.	Kind of gal who mana it the hard way
16.	Guy who’ll make it in May
16.	Put in front of
17.	It’susuallyright on top of you
18.	Low kind of heel
19.	Guided
21. Letter for crewmen?
23. It’s human
26. Does she give you your lumps?
29.	River that sounds like love
30.	That drivel you hand her
31.	One way to meet expenses
32.	Face the____: Kools are cooler
33.	You and me, kid
34.	Middle of a kiss
35.	Kind of pot or session
37. Tear jerker
40. Soldier boys
43. Rockefeller hangout
45. Opposite of de starboard
47.	Get through
48.	Real cool
49.	Kind of walker
50.	Assessment for being a bad lad?
DOWN
1. Cummerbund
2.	Half of pleasure
3.	Fontanne’s youth
4.	Friend from Paris
6. Remember: Kools are ______fresh
6.	“This Gun For_______”
7.	Dance of the 30’s
8.	Bottle hitters
9.	It’s not quite ample
10.	Spetializing in digs
11.	& there somebody________1
12.	Peroxided
20. Twitches
22.	Hoop-motivated dances
23.	Cheer-leader talk
24.1 love Latin
25. It’s almost as cool as a Kool
27.	Sort of elope
28.	This is the thing
32. Big-date duds
35.	Sayonara folks
36.	Lighted, Koolly
37.	you try Kools, you’U stay with ’em
38.	Favorite Russian word at U-N.
39.	They go around with ends
40.	Navy mascot
41.	My foolish friend
42.	Heil of a river
44. Plural of 34 Across
46. Kind of pal
K®L
SWITCH FROM
KGDL
• As coal and dean as a breath of fresh air.
• Finest leaf tobacco and the world's moat thoroughly tested filter!
your throat refreshed!
Qmeiicds Most- Meshing Cgatelle
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER I
The Scholastic
14
TJ*
L
I >
■ a child’s garden
¥
of toadstools
by CHARLES BOWEN
t I have been requested (entreated might come closer) not to present any-i thing of a highly intellectual nature so soon after the midyear debacle. This
* comes as something of a disappointment, since I had prepared a complete critique of the cosmos for this week, but perhaps it belongs on some subsequent Back Page
• anyway. There are plenty of small but important items that come sailing onto
* my desk every week, only to settle fatly into the slime along with the ashtrays, banjo picks, and volumes of Henry James. I have pulled a few out and .
. scraped them off, and with my apologies for the lack of organization, here they
T are:
* * * v
The public is invited to the South Bend Airport next Thursday to witness the departure of Brother Sententious for the foreign missions. The occasion promises to be more than ordinarily inter* esting, because Brother Sententious has absolutely no intention of going. He ‘ claims he is being railroaded because he kept playing Billy Graham records
* over the loudspeakei- in the Bookstore.
* * *
At the height of last month’s snow-I *■ storm, a half-frozen man was found | wandering around the shores of Lake Marian. He claimed, to the astonishment of one and all, to be Capt. Sir Rob' ert Huddleston-Fewkes, K.C.B., of the Royal Navy. According to Sir Robert, he was in command of the British atomic , submarine, H.M.S. Unspeakable, and ’ couldn’t remember a thing since setting out from Baffin Land in the general direction of the polar ice cap. He is now in the Infirmary, under treatment with monkey vaccine, and would like it awfully if some student who is fond of Darwin would come in and read to him a afternoons.
* * *
Hilarity was the order of the day as senior engineers gathered for tea last if Friday. Duane Runcible gave a report I on “How to Convert Your Slide Rule 1 Into a Doorstop,” and members of the I faculty, with many a lighthearted jest, 1 distributed copies of “You and Your Na] tional Guard.”
i February 13, 1959
I have been asked by the Senate Commission for Levelheadedness and Right Thinking to publish an official denial of a rumor that has been spreading perniciously during the last few weeks. No matter1 what anybody says, when the holy water in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church freezes solid, knocking on it three times is not a guarantee of seven years’ good luck.
* * *
(The following is excerpted from the record review section of Hawg & Hominy, The Hillbillys’ Home Companion. I wonder if it looks familiar to you, too, or is it just my imagination?)
“AH SHOULDA KNEW HIT WAS OVER WHEN YEW FLANG ME DOWN THE WELL,” by Otey Gaptooth and the Skonk Skinners — At last I have found a steel guitarist who is both a musician and a technician. (Otey is employed part-time at the Pellagra Point Garage.) This smacks of a Utopia, a Paradise, a phagocytic exudite! I wondered when they were going to wise up. I said as much to Hank Williams when I met him in Chattanooga the other day. He had lost a little weight, and was slightly green in the face, but aside from his knee breeches he was Hank Williams all right. I defy time, space, heaven, and earth to contradict me! Otey’s ElectroTone drizzles obligato magnificently. I don’t expect anyone else to have attained this profound insight, so I am quite prepared for your puny disagreement.'Hah! I sneer! En Garde! Swoosh! Snicksnick! Too quick for you, eh? Perhaps you didn’t realize you were dealing with the greatest swordsman in all France! Poor fools! As far as I am concerned, you are autonomously, or unanimously, or something ending in -mously, a bunch of — of — Oh, where is that Roget? — a bunch of deciduous bituminates.” (There follow several paragraphs of highly significant punctuation marks.)
* * *
Those who missed the Library’s exciting display on the history of dandruff last fall will be delighted to know that it is being repeated as part of a series which will include The Chilblain Story, The Saga of the Hangnail, and the Ac-neid.
Miss Desiree Fulp, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Nimrod Fulp of West Warburton, Ohio, was seriously injured last Friday night after leaving the Mardi Gras when she sat down without remembering to remove the champagne glasses she had smuggled out of the dance in her hoopskirt. The members of the refreshment committee, who had to pay 50c each for the glasses, expressed disappointment that they could not have witnessed the incident.
* * *
Quote of the week: (An anonymous professor in the College of Commerce) “I never flunk graduating seniors — if I flunk ’em, they don’t graduate.”
* * *
Speaking of seniors, our informant in the Placement office asks me to assure my classmates that reports about the scarcity of jobs are greatly exaggerated. Openings for scientists and engineers exist all over the country, from Fraser, Col., to New Carlisle, Ind., and Caribou, Me. Nor are AB students neglected, in spite of reports. The Acme Door-to-Door Sales Co. (Slogan: Our frontier is the American threshold, also Salary is a Fool’s Paradise) is interviewing philosophy majors right now. There are even some jobs that haven’t been applied for. Puce County, Ark., has been in the market for a migratory bird commissioner for a month now with no takers.
* * *
It was announced today that the complete works of Simeon Prawl have been placed on the Index. This came as a surprise to Ignatius Sweeney, president of the Simeon Prawl Club, and he has suspended meetings until somebody figures something out. There is talk of replacing the old group with a new one dedicated to the study and discussion of A. J. Cronin.
* * *
Joanie O’Bryan has given me a quarter to say something about her in this column. Since she is the first to make this gesture, it occurred to me that I ought to say something nice. I have been thinking about it all day and have asked everyone I know. If anybody has anything nice to say about Joanie O’Bryan, will they contact this column immediately?
9
4
i
A
v
4

Well-seasoned, ready to serve
-Americas second, largest telephone system,/
GENERAL
SYSTEM
GENERAL
Dishing up telephones in the right place at the right time is the sort of catering service Gen Tel specializes in.
As servants to over 3% million telephone subscribers, we strive to make communications so dependable that no one need ever give his phone a second thought.
And, in the growing communities we serve, our job is to enable more people to communicate with one another.
Indeed, Gen Tel is determined to give its growing "family” nothing but the best. That’s why we never cease in our efforts to develop new products and services that will make the telephone still more convenient, economical and useful.
Knowing how vital the telephone is in modern American life, Gen Tel “invests ahead” in new plant and equipment to make sure that our telephone system will be equal to whatever task it is called upon to perform.
TELEPHONE
The Scholastic

ROCKET MAN VON BRAUN NAMED ‘PATRIOT’

Satellite Boss Speaks At Award Ceremony
The man responsible for the launching of the Free World’s first scientific earth satellite, Dr. Werner von Braun, will be presented with the annual “Patriot of the Year” award.
This award will be given a week from tonight during the traditional Washington day exercises in the Navy Drill Hall.
The Patriotism Award was established in 1954 to honor “the outstanding patriot of the year who exemplifies the ideals of justice, personal integrity, and service to country.” Dr. von Braun is the sixth recipient, by a large plurality, in a vote by the senior class.
Other winners include J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, Gen. Curtis LeMay, Senator John Kennedy, and Robert Kennedy.
The award will be presented by John Hayward, senior class president. After receiving the award, Dr. Von Braun will make a short address.
Following the acceptance speech, senior class Vice-President, Mark Shields, in accordance with tradition, will present a United States flag to the University. Accepting the flag will be Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University. Father
DR. WERNER VON BRAUN
Director of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency
Joyce will deliver a speech afterwards.
Dr. von Braun was boi-n and educated in Germany. He earned his bachelor’s degree at the age of 20 at the University of Berlin and received his doctorate in physics from the same institution two years later.
In 1932 he was employed by the Ordnance Department of the German government. Until 1937 he worked on the forerunners of the V-2.
He became technical director of the Peenemunde Rocket Center* in 1937, where the V-2 was developed. In the closing months of World War II he led more than 100 of his fellow scientists to the West and surrendered to the Allied Powers.
Under contract with the U.S. Army Ordnance Corps, he came to the U.S. in 1945. His first work was on high altitude firings of captured V-2 rockets at White Sands, New Mexico, Proving Grounds. In 1950 the development center for* Army rockets and ballistic missiles was established at the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Ala. Dr. von Braun was appointed director of development operations.	.
Five years later he and 102 of his colleagues and their families received American citizenship.
When the Army’s long range ballistic missile activity was shifted from Redstone Arsenal to the newly-formed Army
Ballistic Missile Agency, Dr., von Braun continued as director. Major development projects under his direction include weaponization of the 200-mile Redstone ballistic missile, development of the Jupiter IRBM and the new Pershing solid-propellant Ballistic Missile which will eventually replace the Redstone.
His Development Operations Division was responsible for the Jupiter C Reentry Test Missile and the launching of the Explorer I. Other assigned projects include two or three earth satellites and one or two lunar probes. The Jupiter and Jupiter C will be employed in these undertakings.
Prior to the Drill Hall ceremonies, the seniors will assemble in the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m. according to college. From there they will proceed to the Drill Hall itself at 8 p.m.
’58 Grants, Gifts Total Exceeds Three Million
The University of Notre Dame received a total of $3,020,052 in gifts and grants during 1958. This report was made by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, and a past president of the University.
This amount was the largest in the twelve-year history of the Foundation except for 1956 and 1957 when Notre Dame received installments of a $3,074,500 Ford Foundation grant.
According to the report, gifts totaling $721,180 were earmarked for faculty development at Notre Dame. The ten-year goal, as a part of the $66,600,000 development program which was launched last year, is $27,000,000 in endowments.
By 1967 Notre Dame also hopes to acquire $18,600,000 for new buildings, $11,000,000 for research, and $5,000,000 for student aid and special administrative purposes.
The over-all 1958 total, Father Cavanaugh said, includes $695,620 from Notre Dame alumni, $1,323,384 from non-alum-ni sources including 453 corporations and foundations, and $992,987 in research grants and fellowships exclusive of corporation supported research.	•
The parents of Notre Dame students contributed $246,490 last year, nearly 2^ times more than in 1957. More than' 1,200 parents participated in the development program, an increase of approximately 20% over the previous year.
Corporation and foundation gifts totaled $769,923. This figure includes sponsored research and fellowships as well as unrestricted gifts. Of all the contributions, 334 were for $1,000 or more; but over 11,000 gifts were for $25 or less.
11
February 13, 1959
N.D. Accepts Bowl Invitation for TV Contest; Georgetown or Princeton Possible Opposition
Notre Dame enters another field of “varsity” competition soon when a Notre Dame team competes for honors on the nationally televised program The G. E. College Boivl. The program, which was very popular for many years on the radio, is now seen on Sunday afternoons at 4 p.m. over WSBT, the local CBS affiliate.
Notre Dame has been asked to appeal1 on the program Sunday, March 8, when they will face Georgetown, the current champion, or Princeton or Tulane, Georgetown’s opposition for the next few weeks. There is a possibility that because of ties, the appearance might be delayed. The University’s team will travel to one of these schools for the first program, and should they win, succeeding programs would be telecast live from Washington Hall. The first opponent meeting the Notre Dame squad on campus would be Barnard College for Women.
The Notre Dame team was chosen by
Father Hesburgh Names Three Council Members
The appointment of three new members to advisory councils at the University was announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
William C. Schmitt, of Portland, Ore., and Paul J. Cushing of Oakland, Calif., have accepted membership on the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. Attorney James T. Finlen, of Butte, Mont., and Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., will serve on the Law School’s advisory council.
Schmitt received a civil engineering degree from Notre Dame in 1910. During his undergraduate years he was a member of the varsity football and track teams. He became president of the Schmitt Steel Co. in 1921 and is now chairman of the board. He was elected to a three-year term on the board of directors of the Alumni Association in 1951. In the Foundation’s nationwide organization, he is the Oregan state governor.
Cushing is a 1931 Notre Dame civil engineering graduate. He formerly served as chief engineer of the Hydraulic Dredging Co. at Oakland and has been its president since 1939. He has been honored as a Knight of Malta for his leadership in Catholic affairs in northern California. He is a member of the board of directors of the Alumni Association.
Finlen was educated at the. University of San Francisco and the Georgetown University Law School. He has served as western general counsel of the Anaconda Company and as president of the F. and S. Contracting Co. and the Fairmont Co. He has also been a member of the Montana state legislature.
an interviewing board consisting of the deans of the A.B. and Science schools and Father John Walsh, C.S.C., head of the education department and coach of the team.
Members of the team are Thomas Banchoff, junior mathematics major; John Bellairs, senior English major; Andrew Connelly, senior English major; Phillips Gibson, general program; and Brian Moran, senior mathematics major. All are active in the Wranglers, and Banchoff and Gibson are on the Juggler board. Bellairs also writes the Escape page for the Scholastic. The members of the team were chosen for their general knowledge and ability to recall factual information rapidly.
Four of the members will appear* on the program with one alternate in reserve. Bob Erler is manager of the team.
At the present time the team is going through a series of practices to increase their speed at answering questions of all sorts. To do this, they are working under simulated conditions such as contests with a sparring team on closed circuit television.
In addition to these practices, each member is endeavoring to study up on a certain field. Brian Moran, who is on the school bridge team, is working on sports and card games. Connelly is working on theater and the arts, and Banchoff, who is on the debate team, is particularly interested in current events.
The program itself is produced by General Electric and is moderated by Allan Ludden. It tests competing teams on the basis of rapid recall of facts, first pitting one team against the other, and then offering a more complicated bonus question for each correct answer.
The winning team receives a $1,500 scholarship every week it appears, and the losing squad receives a $500 scholarship.
Presently the team practices three times a week, but will add more practices as the target date draws nearer. Members of the team have been advised by the producers to read the New York Times, Time, Newsweek, the Saturday Review, and other periodicals in preparation for the program.
Northwestern, the first champion, which was defeated by Georgetown two weeks ago, took the whole idea to heart. They hung the coach in effigy aftei* theii* defeat.
$50 PLEASE
All students planning to return to the University next fall are asked to report to the Office of Students' Accounts the week of March 2-6. A deposit of $50 will be required at this time. This office will be open daily 8:30 to noon and 1:30 to 4:30 p.m.
Concert Series Stars Segovia, Guitar, 8:15
Andres Segovia will highlight the 1958-1959 Concert and Lecture Series tonight -with his inimitable Spanish guitar stylizing. His visit to Washing- * ton Hall at 8:15 p.m. will give Notre Dame a chance to see a musician acclaimed in many countries as “the world’s greatest guitarist.”	4
Segovia’s past is as colorful as the man himself. After studying the piano, violin, and cello without much enthusiasm, he was introduced to the guitar, Spain’s national instrument, at the age
of ten. This he practiced with such vigor that by the time he was 14, he was prepared to give his first concert appearance in Granada. Since then, his characteristic style and manner have entertained people all over the world.
In the 30 years since he made his debut in the United States in 1929, ■* Segovia has brought the guitar from a , reputation and existence quite obscure to a point, at the present time, where it enjoys its rightful prestige among the -string instruments. In fact, Segovia’s ( first Town Hall recital was described by The New York Herald-Tribune as “very likely the first, and one of the most engrossing recitals of music that j has ever taken place in a New York concert hall.”
Segovia annually tours Europe and ’ South America in addition to his tours here. Numerous transcriptions have also been made featuring his guitar artistry.
Andres Segovia’s concert tonight will be an entertainment treat. His manner and music are incomparable, and it is this which dictated Robert Coleman to 4 write in the New York Daily Mirror: “There is only one Segovia. He is above and beyond imitation. He is unique. He is one of the glories of our time.”
—Dave Otte
12
The Scholastic
m Brambel Discovers Blood-clotting Technique; . Synthetic Serotonin Seems Bleeding Answer
Dr. Charles E. Brambel, of the chemistry department, has discovered a * new technique for treating unclotting wounds. This treatment will give new 5 hope to hemophiliacs (or bleeders, as they are commonly called) as well as to victims of severe cuts and persons un-। t dergoing extensive surgery.
Dr. Brambel has found that injections
» ----------------------------------------
Two-Day Symposium Explores 'American Catholicism* Topic
The impact of immigration on American Catholicism will be explored at a symposium to be held at the University * tonight at 8 p.m. and tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. The sessions, scheduled for the Law Auditorium, will be a continuation of an earlier symposium on “Roman w Catholicism and the American Way of Life.” The history department and the Faculty Seminar in American Civilization are sponsoring the two-day program.
“The Immigrant and the City” will be discussed by three Chicagoans at the opening session. The three are Saul D. Alinsky, co-founder of the Back of the f Yards Neighborhood Council; Rev. Rollins Lambert of St. Dorothy’s Church;
, and Rev. Gilbert Carroll, coordinator of the Cardinal’s Committee for the Spanish Speaking.
Discussing the “Complications of Language and Tradition,” at the second session will be Judge Juvenal Mar-chisio, chairman of the Committee on * Italian Migration; the Very Rev. Msgr. . Wyscislo, assistant director of the Cath-i olic Relief Services; and the Rev. Colman Barry, O.S.B., St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn.
Topic for the last session will be “The j More Permanent Aspects of the Immi-\ gration Problem.” Participating will be > The Very Rev. James Shannon, pres’ ident of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.; Dr. Willard E. Wight of Georgia , Institute of Technology; and Dr. Vincent De Santis, associate professor at Notre Dame.
f	MED SCHOOL EXAM
| The Bulletins of Information i for the Medical College Admission Test in May are now avail' able in the office of the dean of the college of science, room 248, Nieuwland Science Hall.
a The MCA Test, required of applicants by almost every medical '	college throughout the country,
will be given on May 2, 1959. “	Candidates for admission to med?	ical school in the fall of 1959
J	or 1960 are advised to take this
Itest. Another test will be administered on October 31, 1959.
of synthetic serotonin, a substance found naturally in the blood of a healthy person, will greatly encourage clotting of open wounds. Therefore it will prevent excessive loss of blood due to surgery, injury or exposure to radiation. The production of natural serotonin, normally manufactured by special cells in the intestinal tract, is not sufficient to encourage clotting in hemophiliacs or persons exposed to heavy doses of radiation.
In his research, which he has conducted under the auspices of the Research and Development Command of the United States Army’s Surgeon General Department, Dr. Brambel has experimented with over 1,000 laboratory rats.
He first subjected one group of these rats to lethal doses of radiation, and after about five days he cut off approximately 1% inches of their tails. Every rat in this group soon died from loss of blood. He then exposed a second group to equal doses of radiation, but about 15 minutes before cutting off their tails, he injected them with synthetic serotonin. The results proved very striking. Not only was the amount of blood lost only about 25% as much as in the first group, but also none of the rats to receive serotonin died as a result of external bleeding.
However, Dr. Brambel insists that the problem has not yet been completely solved. His injections so far have had no effect on internal bleeding which is another effect of excessive exposure to radiation. He added that he will shortly begin research to discover a way to stop these internal hemorrhages also.
While many experiments with human beings have revealed that synthetic serotonin has few dangerous side effects, it will probably be a long time before it is approved for general medical use. When it has been thoroughly tested and perfected, however, it seems sure to save many lives — not only of radiation victims but also of severely injured persons or victims of the dreaded disease, hemophilia.
Lenten Program Begins With James Cunningham
With the general theme of “Catholic Social and Educational Thought” this year’s Lenten Lecture Series will begin with a talk by James V. Cunningham, head of Chicago’s urban redevelopment program.
The talk which will open the YCS series next Thursday will be entitled “Problems of Urban Redevelopment.” Mr. Cunningham will illustrate his talk with slides.
John J. Fitzgerald, Ph.D., a graduate of Louvain in Belgium and a member of Notre Dame philosophy department, will discuss “Science and Catholicism” on March 5.
Q. P. ^ca^pia
He...
Between Semesters
The end and the beginning of two semesters were musically saluted at Notre Dame by means of an 84-year-old organ and a 21-year-old tenor. The ages of both the organ and the tenor were highly evident.
THE ORGANIST
To organize first, I must subscribe to that theory held by many campus musicians: Sacred Heart’s Derrick and Felgemaker should be relegated quickly to a glass museum in the Main Building, where it could be played annually for that select group that fancies the historical instrument rather than the musical one.	'
Michael Anthony Loris’ program almost ran the complete gamut of history, and for the most part, Michael Anthony played well. The Bach a minor prelude and fugue (from the eight little preludes and fugues) displayed a good technique in spite of a lack of phrasing. Brahms’ notoriously famous “Rose” chorale suffered from a singularly Baroque approach which resulted in no use of the expression pedal so necessary to Romantic music. It did display the 8' Melodia stop on the Great manual, on which it incorrectly ended. St. Clotilde’s blind Jean Langlais was represented twice, slowly, and with one reed which amazingly enough was in tune. Guilmant’s Symphonic Scherzo had its technical hazards which prompted a rather uncertain tempo, and was further lessened musically by a soft cipher which insisted on wheezing away during the concert. Yes, the organ is old.
THE TENOR
John Thomas displayed a singularly clear-cut rich tenor voice for the Alliance Francais at their annual St. Mary’s meeting. Thomas the tenor has ceased to swallow, and I’m glad, because his voice has much to give.
The two offerings, appropriately French, were quite contrasting. Gabriel Faure’s Reve d’amour, a folk-song-like ditty, was sung with just the right dash of complacency which is demanded of the pre-Debussy school. Cesar Franck’s rarely-heard La, Procession (originally for orchestra) was grandly delivered. It tells (if my French served me well enough) of the Corpus Christi procession, and Thomas told triumphantly, his voice soaring at once to religious cres-cendi and spiralling down to marooncolored low tones which were truly magnificent. This voice I want to hear much more of.
13
WBB
February 13, 1959
Job facts from Du Pont

YOUR INTERESTS, SPECIAL ABILITIES ARE IMPORTANT WHEN DU PONT MAKES YOUR FIRST JOB ASSIGNMENT
4
BENEFIT PROGRAM MEANS ADDED INCOME
by A. F. Hartford, Jr.
DuPont personnel representative
Don’t forget tbe “extras” of an employee benefit program when you compare the job offers and salaries of different companies. At DuPont, these extras mean added income that doesn’t always meet die eye. They include life insurance, group hospitalization and surgical coverage, accident and health insurance, pension plan and paid vacation.
In addition, die Company sponsors a thrift plan. After two years of service, for every dollar you invest in U. S. Savings Bonds the Company sets aside 25 cents for the purchase of common stock in your name. Roughly, 60,000 of our employees are now participating in this plan.
If you have specific questions on DuPont benefits,, just send them to me. I’ll be happy to try to answer diem. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Room 12421 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
14
PERSONALIZED TRAINING RELATES TO POLICY OF PROMOTION FROM WITHIN
Where do your interests lie? What courses have you taken? What are your special abilities? DuPont tries to match these factors with available openings to determine your first assignment within the Company.
Once the assignment is made, the Company helps you apply your knowledge to a problem right away, you learn by doing and by consulting with your supervisor and others working on various phases of the same project
Your performance on the job is evaluated periodically to assist you in knowing where you stand in the eyes of your management And, as you might guess, DuPont’s personalized training is closely related to its promotion policy. Practically all promotional opportunities are filled by advancement from within the Company.
It is especially important for the college student to know that management authority at Du Pont is decentralized through many departments into small groups—small enough so that the new man’s capabilities can be recognized. This type of organization, plus the Company’s steady growth, produces many opportunities.
SEND FOR INFORMATION BOOKLET
Booklets about the kinds of technical jobs at DuPont are yours for the asking. Subjects include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation and industrial engineering; technical sales, business adminis
tration, research and development. For a copy of one of these booklets write to DuPont, 12421 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MOVIE AVAILABLE FOR A.S.M.E. MEETINGS

Just what does a mechanical engineer do at DuPont? Whether your chosen field is research, development, design, production supervision or plant engineering, you’ll find many of the answers to this question in the informative film, Mechanical Engineering at DuPont.
From start to finish, this film has been prepared with the young engineer in mind. Its express purpose is to show him where he fits into the picture—what kind of assignments he will be called upon to handle in the chemical industry.
This is a realistic on-the-job film, without frills and falderal. No professional actors appear in it All photography was done right in DuPont plants and laboratories, and everyone you will see in it is a working DuPont engineer.
If you would like to learn in considerable detail what mechanical engineers do in the chemical industry, arrange to see this DuPont film. Mechanical Engineering at DuPont is available at no cost for A.S.M.E. chapter meetings, fraternity house and dormitory showings. Write to Room 12421 Nemours Building, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Wilmington 98, Delaware.
♦

*


The Scholastic
t Original Research
•* Rains National Recognition i ■
)	by Charles Taisdn
The Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture has appointed Mr. Ernest Brandl to its committee for the preservation of the data on historical American buildings. He is particularly interested in early American cathedral architecture j and its connotations for the Christian student. Mr. Brandl feels that architectural students can appre-date and create in the present only if they see their relation to the past. He has realized a philosophy A of architecture and his lectures on this subject attract professors and students of other departments. j
A unique project has been undertaken by Pro-fessoi* Ernest Brandl of the architecture school in conjunction with the students of his architectural w research and architectural history seminars. The ! project, never before attempted at this or any other university, has become acknowledged on a national । level. It involves reconstructing the designs and dimensions of old buildings, some of which no longer । exist, from scraps and bits of information ferreted
Mr. Ernest Brandl and Architecture Students
Student drawing of ND’s baroque altar
out of archives and libraries by painstaking and original.research.
Professor Brandl, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1951 after several years in England, lived in Vienna before the war where he was a consultant for the Viennese city government nad vice-president of the Society for International Architectural Studies. After participating in the underground movement for two years, Brandl was forced to flee the country. Besides his duties as a Notre Dame professor, he is now a member of a seven-man national committee set up by the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture to record “historic and significant” examples of architectural achievement.
Perhaps the most interesting project of the group is the work done on the baroque altar in the Lady chapel of Sacred Heart Church. The altar was always believed to be the work of the famous baroque artist Bernini (1598-1680) or one of his pupils. According to the Scholastic issue of Feb. 25, 1888, “Father Sorin went to see it and tried four times to buy it, but the price was exceedingly high and he left Rome without hope of securing the treasure. Later he wrote and added to his offer. . .”
Along with his students, Brandl examined the altar and came to some most startling discoveries. The altar is not the work of Bernini, his pupils, or of the seventeenth century. It was most likely constructed by Lorenzo Matielli, an Italian who lived in Vienna, and most likely was made between the years 1720 to 1730. Some features of the altar are definitely of Bernini’s school, but his influence pervaded the whole of baroque architecture of that era. Priceless as it would be if it were a genuine Bernini, it still remains a valuable and beautiful piece of art, the only example of its kind in the United States which belongs to a religious group.
Another favorite project of Professor Brandl and his students is the reconstruction of famous old buildings in the United States which have long since been destroyed. Typical of this work was the reconstruction of designs and plans for old St. Mary’s Cathedral in Chicago. This structure, which was built in the 1850’s, was destroyed in the great Chicago fire in 1871. From bits of information in literature of the times, and from a few old photographs, one of them a blown-up section of a panoramic view of Chicago, the researchers were able to get a good idea of what the old Cathedral looked like. Then student Ted Amberg happened across an unidentified photo in a New York library, a photo which turned out to be a picture of old St. Mary’s Cathedral. From this information, the students were able to draw detailed plans of the old Church which will be submitted, along with some of their other work to the “Historic American Building Survey” of the U. S. Department of the Interior.
Professor Brandl feels that his work is giving his students an opportunity “to see their work, not as an isolated thing, but as part of an almost timeless development.” Not only this, he said, but “simultaneously we are serving the public interest by preserving the measurements of these structures.”	■ .
In particular Professor Brandl is interested in his work on churches. “It is of utmost importance at a Catholic university,” he said, “for students to be familiarized with, the great religious buildings of the past. The more humble examples of early Catholic church architecture should not be forgotten.” *	'
February 13, 1959
15
THE SENATE...


There are two main tenets that should he at the base of all student government activities. These are that the activity be worthy of student interest and participation, and secondly that the activity be one that can affect
a substantial number of students. Both of these tenets are behind our second semester planning.
Our object has been to put a premium on new functions and ideas, and simultaneously to try to cut away much of the wasted time and effort that has been expended in past years. For this reason there are fewer Saturday night social functions in the LaFortune Student Center. In the past these functions have often lost $150-3250 an evening. To replace them the social commission is adopting a new program.
On approximately five Sunday afternoons during Lent, there will be lectures and demonstrations in the Student Center and the Art Gallery. These will be on such things as modern music, and modern painting. Both students and faculty will take part in these lectures.
Additionally, the Kingston Trio will appeal* here on March 13. Their concert will be in the Fieldhouse. A Left-Bank Party, complete with folk singer, is planned for early April. After Lent, of course, the Senate will resume on a smaller scale, the regular Saturday night dances with live music. During Lent the Student Center will have a number of week end open-house functions with recorded music.
If proper arrangements can be made, Notre Dame will host either the Harlem Globe-Trotters, or a professional basketball exhibition in the Fieldhouse. In May, the Garrity Golf Fund will bring another golf exhibition to the campus. These functions are being carried on under the auspices of the newly created student affairs commission. The commission is also going to add a magazine rack with approximately thirty magazines to the lobby of the Student Center. The commission, too, is trying to work out ways to help smaller clubs on campus carry on more extensive programs.
During the second semester, the activities of the academic commission will be increased. The Student Forum, which has proved successful, will be continued, perhaps more frequently. The work of the commission will also center in at least two other areas — honor societies and improvement of studentfaculty relations. The work in this field has not been so extensive as could be desired, and it is hoped that the second semester will witness an upswing. Plans are still being considered for a series of faculty-student luncheons and smokers.
The Senate for next semester, will try to concentrate on matters directly affecting student welfare. In past years the Senate has often fallen into the vice of too much self-examination. The result has been that the organization was more concerned with how to be efficient, rather than on what to do.
Second Semester
by Denny Shaul
This over-emphasis on form has, it is hoped., been ended. Now the Senate will concentrate on specific matters of student con- *' cern.
One of the main programs of the second Semester will * center around the question of pei-manent hall residence. At present, a Senate committee is working out what it hopes -will * be a feasible plan of hall preference. The next step will be a full-scale information campaign on the advantages and disadvantages of the system. It is hoped that with the cooperation of WSND and the Scholastic the information campaign will be intensive enough to enable the student body to vote , sometime in the spring on whether they approve the system.
The University Review committee is due to report back to the Senate in February. It is hoped that they will be able at that time to inform the Senate on whether the project is feasible, and whether or not an issue of the Review can be expected this semester. The University Review, you will recall, is the critical newspaper that as proposed, would be an intellectual review, discussing both campus, and wider than campus, i issues.
Partially as a result of the investigations of the campus « clubs, the Senate will pass a new student organization policy. The policy will attempt a closer regulation of both on and off campus financial activities of clubs. Its aim will also be to aid smaller clubs in planning and implementing activities. The policy will be fixed with enough “teeth” so that the clubs will be penalized heavily, if they do not comply with the new 4; regulations.
The Senate also plans to submit a new student insurance proposal to the local council. The plan would be modelled after similar ones already in effect at Dartmouth and Yale. Its ob- * ject is to protect the student’s educational future in the event of the death of his parent or guardian. For a small fee per year, the student is insured against the loss of his educational opportunity. If the parent or guardian dies while the student *■ is in school, the insurer pays for the student’s remaining years in college.
The Senate will also try to work in cooperation with the administration to determine a new method to pick the editor of the Scholastic. It is hoped that some students will be I voting representatives on the board that picks the new editor. At present, students are merely represented on the boards . although, in the recent past, the editor was chosen by the former editor and approved by the administration.
No matter how hard one tries, it is impossible to do away with consideration of the form of the organization entirely. Thus the Senate will consider. adopting three new policies: one on a new policy for the Student Center, anothei* on a policy for the Mardi Gras Charity Chest, and a third on the Mardi Gras itself. Then, of course, there is the actual alloca- 4 tion of Mardi Gras Funds. The emphasis here is on charity, the Student Center, and a scholarship fund. It is likely that the Senate will set up a scholarship fund for a Negro student this year.	' -	’	_	1
New projects, of course, will be adcfed by the week. Our hope is that we do not fall into a concentration on self. Most of all, we hope we do not stagnate. And there are at least two good signs — the Senate is doing away with plaques for itself, and I have stopped capitalizing student government.
16
- The Scholastic
by Bob Ghelardi
This play by T. S. Eliot has been described as coterie literature—meant for a select group. It was in fact written for the “Canterbury Festival,” 1935, and since then has been a favorite with American undergraduates:
St. Thomas Beckett portrayed by The play is a ritualized Rev. Peter Sweisgood, O.S.B. drama of sin and redemption, in which all the components of strain and emotion are externalized. It is based on the murder of Thomas Beckett, Archbishop of Canterbury in the twelfth century. Thomas has been persecuted by his erstwhile friend Henry II for opposing the royal wishes after he has been appointed archbishop by the king. He returns to Canterbury after seven years* exile and is murdered by the king’s henchmen. This story is given symbolic value by Eliot; it is made to symbolize the antagonism between the profane and the divine, between the sinful and the ideal, and, most deeply, between the mystic opposites, action and suffering. Thomas finds, by a series of temptations, that his greatest flaw is his very desire for the glory of martyrdom. His struggle to expunge the flaw is followed, on a highly symbolic level, by a chorus of women of Canterbury, who vicariously share his inner anguish and are purged of their sins by sharing mystically in Thomas’ resolution of the antagonism between action and suffering. This is accomplished through complete surrender to the Divine Will. The element of sin and “pure action” is represented by four knights who kill Thomas. Symbolic extensions of the theme are rife through the play.
The method of presenting the conflict is not “direct imitation,” that is, the characters are not realistic. They are intended, by rhythmical, swaying incantations, to achieve a kind of direct symbolic communion with the spiritual world, the world of the soul. The particular events of the play are not significant in themselves, but only for what they symbolize.
Naturally such theater is beyond most modern people. To be successful with a modem audience this play must be pre
sented with great virtuosity; all the symbolism must be made to shine through; there must be an atmosphere of intense suggestion. The University Theater, wittingly or unwittingly, seems to have attempted an alternative approach. The performance seems to emphasize the melodrama and slur over the complicated symbolism. The theme is still intelligible enough to make an interesting evening, for one can still pick one’s way through the plot; but the complex overtones are missing. The play has been made extremely dramatic. Thus those parts of the play which do have a dramatic interest are well done, especially the scene in which Thomas is tempted by four incarnate visions — of pleasure, power, intrigue, and immortality. The first temptor (pleasure) is gracefully and seductively played by Robert Love; the second (power) is more than adequately portentous as played by Neil Ball; the third (intrigue), played by John Smith, is delightfully petty and self-confident; the last (immortality), played by John Toth, is suitably obsequious and confidential. These temptations
Murder in a Cathedral
must be made dramatically attractive, given tangible appeal — and they are.
The group of four knights, representing sin and uncontrolled action, are also necessarily dramatic, and well done, especially in their final appearance to rationalize themselves out of the guilt of the murder of Thomas Beckett. This scene is aimed at the modern audience — the assassins take the audience into theii’ confidence, implicating it in their guilt, and then excuse themselves. Some rather sardonic satire here, shockingly amusing, and excellently played by Gerald Broderick, Dave Barret, James Cooney, and Dave McDonald.
The hero of the play seems caught between ritualistic expression and straight drama and can’t seem to make up his mind. At times he is rather vociferous, but shifts into pure incantation at others, especially in the death scene. Thomas (played by Rev. Peter Sweisgood, O.S.B.) seems often selfconscious and inflexible. One wishes that he would either play the drama wholeheartedly with a full range of verbal expression, or else ritualize his portrayal, as the verse seems to call for, subdue his voice and use his body a little more expressively.
What he says does not call so much for verbal emphasis as for a sustained, ritualized, suggestive atmosphere. Undue “expression” and verbal emphasis draw attention from the complicated symbolism in the verse. Less personality and more care with the meanings seem to be called for in many of the parts.
The chorus of the women of Canterbury is a good example of gratuitous dramatizing. Their high-pitched voices, exaggerated attitudes, and insistence on their own personalities distract from the significance of their lines. The effect of the lines about the “white flat face of Death,” spine-chilling in the reading, is largely lost in the wanderings and verbal expostulation of the women. This should have been intoned, softly and mournfully. These performances should have been more strictly controlled, rendered less dramatically and more ritually, especially in the voices. The girls* efforts at expression go for nothing; the lines count.
The set designed by Mr. Gilbert Rathbun was, as usual simple, appropriate, and suggestive. The costumes were ably designed by Joe McArdle, and, in the case of the temptors particularly effective. In fact, the glittering color, the austere lines of the set, and the lights seem to emphasize the febrile intensity of the whole play.
The play, for all its thematic and stylistic complications, is well worth a night out.
February 13, 1959
17
A Critique:
Student Government
by Dennis Shaul
Mr. Shaul presents here the first in a series of Scholastic articles on campus organizations. This series will deal with the histories, purposes, and actual contributions of these organizations to the University community. The SCHOLASTIC feels that campus student societies should be an integral part of the individual member’s education as well as advantageous to the rest of the student body. This series will enable Scholastic readers to evaluate these organizations.
In general the articles will be written by members in the organization who are well-acquainted with and interested in their subject. We ask our readers to submit any criticisms or comments about the articles.
The history of Notre Dame’s student government is, in one way, much like the history of many human institutions. Its record is neither entirely one of solid achievement, nor one of total failure. It has had its good moments and its poor- ones. Surely its cardinal sin has been to forget that it is but a part of the University, a part dedicated totally to student welfare, and one always responsible to the students particularly, and the University as a whole. Thus, critics of student government are justified in claiming that it has not always been representative. Far too often, the organization itself, the form of the group, has been the group’s prime concern. Too often the Senate has spent a year in arguing what it would do if it were better than it is. Now, we hope, we are entering into a new era, a time when our concern is over “matter” rather than “form” and our obligation is to expand our functions into new fields.
But it is too early to tell whether student government is becoming more responsible. In this article I shall attempt to tell you why we came to be, some things about our past, and what we did during the last semester.
To begin with, anyone in student government should admit that the actual area of “government” is small. It is true that over the years we have gained authority in certain spheres. This growth, and our right to this limited authority, is natural in one sense. There are some things, generally things meant to be run for the benefit of the student body, that are most effectively controlled by students. The most immediate exampie of course, is the social field. But, this is not the sole example, nor should it be the only concern of student government.
Student government came to be because students felt the need to be represented. This was not a notion restricted to the Notre Dame student body. All over the nation in the years immediately after the war, a similar movement occurred on other college campuses. Mainly, it occurred because the growing student body could not feel so close to the faculty or administration as it had in the past. Students felt the need for an organization, a center, to which they could make known their feelings and their needs. They felt the need for an organization, a focus, for implementing student programs. In short, student government came to be because the student body felt that it needed an organization to represent it to the fa- :
culty and the administration, and to other universities, and < because the student body felt that it needed an instrument to plan and co-ordinate some activities that would be entirely 4 student-run.
In the early post-war years, this function was performed at Notre Dame by a student council. While this organization was not too effective, it did represent the University in na- >> tional organizations, and it proved useful enough to plan social activities. In 1952, the system was changed to what ' essentially is the system we have today. A student body president was elected by the campus as a whole. Elections 4 were held for both senators and hall presidents.
It is hard foi- me, involved as closely as I am, to give an objective appraisal of our activities over those years. Our progress has been good, but our dreams, and sometimes, I fear, X* our illusions, have been better. Like every other student government, we have been affllicted with student-leaderitis, which 1 is the student equivalent of political demagoguery.
It is difficult for those in student government to keep per- * spective. Being in student government is not a way of life, but only a secondary and minor object as compared to . the pi-ime purpose of being a student. To use the term “student leader” is to bring to mind two questions — leaders of whom? * and to what? Those in student government are really two things, at best; they are “student-servers” and “studentshapers.”
The first object of student government should be to serve * the student. One question should always be, “how can we make life here better?” In part we can answer it by saying, “Make it more livable,” and because this is a partial answer, our purpose is in part to sponsor dances, mixers, and other social functions. But there is another question we should answer too: “Is there any way that students can help to make students here better students and better men?”	.
Because the answer to this last question is “yes,” I believe we have a truly worthwhile purpose, one greater than just being a social agent. Student government should do all that it can to foster the intellectual, spiritual, and cultural advancement of the students. This is a justification for our having academic and spiritual commissions. It is the reason J why we should concern ourselves with questions such as the honor system and permanent hall residence.
Essentially these. idealistic goals of student government realize that the University is a unity. There is no real division that should exist between the student, faculty, and administration. The work of these three is the same, their com- 4 mitment is the same, to build better students, and in doing so to build a better Notre Dame. Much harm has been done to student government and more importantly to the students as a whole by the agitator, the demagogue, who regards student government as a forum from which he can rally students and attack the administration. It is to be hoped that this type “student-leader” has had his day.
Much harm, too, is done to student government by the J young man who regards student government as a political game, a place to train for the future political wars. Student government is far removed from any likeness at all to real politics. Our object is not to train young men for future political service, but to use than to serve their fellow students.
The Scholastic ।
At this point, perhaps the question to ask is, “Has student 1 government been successful?” I am hardly the man to answer the question. But to give an opinion, it is safest to say no and yes. It is not successful in that it has not even come close to reaching the ideals I outlined above. It will be a long time before it does. It is successful in that if it has substantially benefited the majority of students who went to school here in '4 the past few years; it has represented them successfully to a ' degree both on and off the campus.
> Perhaps a better guide to use in weighing the merits of the organization is the Scholastic. At our inception, the * Scholastic hoped for great things. Since then, it has not been so hopeful. Two years ago, a rather sarcastic article was printed on our achievements. Last year, we often went unnoticed. This year we have received few frontal assaults, but a back-page writer characterized senators as “rascals.”
In the past, WSND has sometimes taken us to task. Mainly, we have been charged with doing nothing, or doing too little. As late as the campus club investigation, we received a blast and early in the fall we received quite a barrage.
• Many, in fact probably most, of these criticisms were justified. After each of these criticisms, the student government ♦ has taken steps to correct the situation. Sometimes the criticisms have been recurrent, because the problem has re-occurred. The sensible criticism has been well-received and appreciated. But to criticize by merely stating that student government has done nothing, or to call the senators “rascals,” is to be merely negative. Those who criticize us for doing r nothing, ought to show us what needs to be done.
What has student government done during the past semester? The senate’s two major pieces of legislation — the resolution on partisan political groups and the resolution on the Foreign Student Leadership Project were approved by the Local Council. The resolution on partisan political groups is explained in an accompanying article. The FSLP resolution . means that the Senate will finance a foreign student on this campus for one year. It is hoped that he will benefit from the time spent here and that the other foreign students on this campus will benefit by his presence. This project is worked in conjunction with the University administration and the National Student Association.
Additionally, the new student forums have attracted large, interested crowds. This new project has met with real accept-। ► ance from both the student body and the faculty. The academic commission made beginnings in such fields as the honor i society and student-faculty relations. Their activity was some-I what handicapped by the necessity of getting the forum off * to a good start.	•
The new student affairs commission has been very active. I The house committee working on the LaFortune Student Center approved and allocated funds for the painting of the Stu-I dent Center. This commission also ran the fall decorations week end and the big screen telecasts.
Socially, it was a good semester. The two new Universitywide dances were well attended. It is generally conceded that they were better dances than the old college dances. Additionally the social commission ran six victory dances, the postgame coffee hours, and the Christmas parties. All of these r were very successful.
■ The spiritual commission in January sponsored the Byzantine Rite Mass and the appearance of Father Titus Craney k	during the Church Unity Octave. Earlier the commission had
*	sponsored serving classes, the October Grotto devotion, and
the Advent Lecture Series.
Things that student government has directed or under> written are almost too numerous to mention. Most important of the things in this category is the Mardi Gras. When funds ! are allocated, about $10,000 be designated for the Student Center. It is hoped that the Center fund will be kept at this ’ figure yearly. Nearly $12,000 of the Mardi Gras funds will be turned over this year to the student body scholarship fund, set up last year by the Senate. More freshmen and upperclassmen will be substantially aided by this project. Full tuition scholarships will be given to entering freshmen. The remainder of the Mardi Gras Funds will be allocated by the
February 13, 1959
Senate’s Charity Chest Committee. Dozens of worthwhile charities are aided by these funds.	x
Some of the Senate’s achievements seem almost silly in retrospect. Certainly the furor over the Bookstore seems unimportant, and even though the Sorin Porch Band issue wm more worthy, it no longer seems as vital. Some of the functions such as the buses at Christmas and Thanksgiving, the football telegrams to the team, the newly published Student Activities Handbook, and the Christmas Carolling Party seem pretty routine. Routine, too, is probably the word for our financial underwritings of the Blue Circle, the Hall President’s Council, the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, the Third Order of Saint Francis, the House Committee; but these are important aspects of campus life and it is important that Student Government never regard them as mere routine. Neither should it consider our membership in and support of the National Federation of Catholic College Students and National Student Association routine in the same light.
The activities of Student Government in the past semester do, I think, justify its existence. But it is more our commitment to the future, our belief that we have a purpose, and a% place to serve, that justify our existence. Our belief in ourselves is essentially a belief in the ability and seriousness of the student. In this is our strength.
AT THE GALLERY _
an exhibition of	_
MODERN MASTER DRAWINGS, WATBt COLORS, AND COLLAGES
loaned from die collection of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Randall Shapiro February 8 to March 8, 1959
1 to 5 P.M. Doily
SCHEDULE
Commentaries on Modern Music by the Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., and Mr. James Bastien, Sunday, February 15 at 3 P.M.
Informal Discussion on Modern Art conducted by Mr. Shapiro, Tuesday, February 24 at 8 PJf.
The exhibition features works by Chagall, Klee, Feininger, Kokoschka, Beckmann, Miro, Matisse, Weber, Lipschitz, Braque, and Kandinsky
r

A Campus-to-Career Case History
Bill Burns (far right) reviews a plan for expanding Syracuse's toll-free calling area with some fellow supervisors.
He wanted more than “just an engineering job”
William G. Burns majored in Civil Engineering at Union College. But he had his own ideas about his engineering future. “I wanted a job with a ‘growth’ company,” he says, “where I could develop and move ahead as a member of management”
Bill found his ‘growth’ company—and his management opportunity. On graduating in June, 1954, he started work with the New "York Telephone Company.
Six months of training and job assignments in Albany familiarized him with the Plant Commercial, Accounting and Traffic functions of the telephone busi-'ness. Then came 18 months as engineer in the Long Range Planning Group. In ^October, 1956, he was promoted to Supervising Engineer.
Bill was transferred to Syracuse in
August, 1958, as Supervising EngineerFundamental Plans, with a staff of four engineers and two clerks. In this job, he studies and forecasts the future telephone needs of customers in a 4800-square-mile area, planning from three to 20 years ahead. He then co-ordinates the development of plans to meet future needs with the various engineering groups involved. Bill calls it “management engineering.”	.
Bill is married, has three youngsters and owns his own home. “A man has to build his own security,” he says, “and finding the right place to do it can be mighty important. Choosing a Bell Telephone career was the best decision I ever made. I don’t know where an ambitious young fellow can find more or better chances to move ahead in management.”
Many young men, with degrees in the sciences, arts, engineering or business, are finding interesting and.rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. Look into career opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
■KU.
TBLBPHONB COMPANIBS
20
The Scholastic
SfiMii Pki^
CAGERS FACE DEFENDING NCAA CHAMPIONS
k Irish Meet Kentucky In Stadium Tomorrow
> Notre Dame’s resurging basketball squad will be out to add prestige to its comeback as the Irish take on topranked Kentucky tomorrow night in the Chicago Stadium.
Kentucky has dropped only two games thus far this season, while defeating such strong teams at St. Louis, 76-57, 4 and West Virginia, 97-91.
The Wildcats are led by their AllAmerican candidate Johnny Cox, a 6-4 forward who has averaged 18 points >- per game thus far this season. Another valuable member of the squad is Bill Lickert, a 6-3 former high school AllAmerican. Lickert, a sophomore who » plays either guard or forward, has averaged 13 points per game. Pivot man in Kentucky’s offense is 6-7 Don Mills whose rebounding has been outstanding * this season.
On Monday night Notre Dame will ' travel to Indianapolis to take on Butler.
The Irish suffered a close defeat at the » hands of Butler earlier in the season, losing by two points, 62-60, but with the upturn of Irish fortunes they will be favored to avenge the defeat.
Last Saturday and Monday the Irish won both games of a short eastern road * trip as they romped over Canisius, of , Buffalo, 76-59, and downed the Cadets of West Point, 76-60.
Mickey Bekelja, a junior in his first starting role, was the sparkplug for
Notre Dame in the Canisius game Saturday night. Bekelja headed a second half counter-attack by the Irish, dumping in three quick baskets to put down the only serious Canisius threat of the game. Bekelja’s contributions, plus a bucket by Tom Hawkins, raised the Notre Dame quintet from a 45-44 margin to a 53-44 advantage. In the last three minutes of the game the Irish took complete command as they scored 13 points while blanking Canisius and won going away. Hawkins scored 32 points in the contest while Mike Graney hit for 17 and Bekelja for 13.
The Irish outscored Army 39-26 in the second half last Monday afternoon to insure the win.
With a 4-9 record on January 17, the Irish started their comeback by defeating Loyola, 88-61. Then followed a 85-75 victory ovei- Illinois January 24 in the Chicago Stadium. The next week end Notre Dame lost a close game to Xavier of Cincinnati, 73-71, but redeemed themselves with a 72-70 conquest of St. John’s on February 2. Then followed the two victories of last week end.
In the Illinois game the Illini never held the lead as Hawkins, Graney, and Gene Duffy all came through with outstanding performances. Hawkins hit for 25 points before fouling out late in the game; Graney pulled down 26 rebounds in addition to dropping 19 points through the hoop; and Duffy again put on one of his precision ball-control displays while adding 17 points to the team total.
Returning to the Stadium the following week, they lost a close contest to Xavier. Trailing by 20 points in the second half, the Irish rallied and fell just two points short as time ran out on them. Hawkins and sophomore cen-tei’ John Tully shared scoring honors with 22 points apiece.
Nationally ranked St. John’s was the next Irish victim as the Redmen met disaster in their trip to the Notre Dame campus, losing a hard-fought game to the ND quintet. Leading by eleven points at the half, Notre Dame had to fight off a sustained St. John’s rally in the second half as Tom Hawkins scored 22 of his 30 points in this period.
Coach John Jordan attributes the recent success of the team to many factors, chief among them being the improvement of the team’s scoring punch. With all members of the unit able to score, the opposition is prevented from ganging up on Hawkins, and the entire team benefits. Graney’s scoring has also been a big factor in the upsurge, Jordan says. Commenting on this point, the coach said, “When Graney scores, we usually win.” This statement is borne out by the Xavier game in which Graney failed to break into the scoring column.
Jordan has also been pleased and impressed by the playing of sophomores Tully, Bill Crosby, and Bill Noonan. He feels they have demonstrated that they are good ball players.
On Tom Hawkins’ performance in the St. John’s game, Jordan said, “It was one of his greatest games and a performance he is capable of in any game.”
MIKE GRANEY	JOHN TULLY	TOM HAWKINS
Tall and rugged Irish front line leads the team’s comeback effort
February 13/ 1959
TIME OUT
Following the two-point victory over St. John’s a week ago Monday night, Greg Rogers, Scholastic feature writer, was able to talk to Alan Seiden in the St. John’s dressing room. Here is what the 5-9 senior co-captain of the Redmen had to say.
“We used a zone defense in the first half and were able to bottle up Tom Hawkins fairly effectively. (Hawkins had eight points at the half.) But we weren’t able to stop Tom Reinhart’s jump shots. They really hurt us. We had, our defense geared to stop Hawkins, but Reinhai-t’s points kept us behind during the first half.
Then in the second half we came out in a man-to-man defense to keep Reinhart from scoring, and we did just that. But Hawkins got hot and pulled Notre Dame eight or ten points in front. So we went back into the zone, but we couldn’t catch up.”
When asked about the tremendous ovation the fans gave the Irish midway in the second half, Seiden replied, “I have never heard anything like it in my life. There was more noise than we hear in Madison Square Garden where we have 5,000-6,000 students concentrated in one section.
“The fans are so close to you here that the noise goes right through you. At the Garden, the noise goes up, but here it rebounds back and forth across the court. I thought I could hear each individual voice, the fans were so close to us.
THE STUNNING OVATION
“Our whole team was numb all during the cheering. I don’t know how I scored. (He scored three baskets to keep the game from becoming a runaway.) We could only go through the motions out there. We were just numb.”
Seiden said he felt bottled up during the game although he scored 27 points. He said that he scored his points in spurts and had trouble scoring consistently throughout the game. (It looked from here as though he did a pretty good job of scoring though.)
In remarking about the three-game Western tour, Seiden said that Notre Dame was as good a team as they have faced but that St. Louis and Bradley were just as good. “On the basis of the way they played against us, I don’t see how Notre Dame could have lost ten games. They played very well.” The biggest difference between the teams in the Midwest and those in the East is the height and size of the frontliners.
“Notre Dame especially was really tough under the boards weight-wise. When Mike Graney went up, there was nobody to contend with him. We don’t face as powerful rebounders in the East. And Notre Dame is typical of the teams we faced in the Midwest.”
MICHIGAN STATE RELAYS
The most noteworthy performance turned in by a Notre Dame trackman at the Michigan State Relays last Saturday was Ron Gregory’s anchor mile in the distance medley relay. Gregory’s 4:13.4 mile is the best indoor time he has ever had in competition, and only the 4:12.8 of Oklahoma’s Gail Hodgson was better at the Relays. The open mile was won in 4:18.1.
Gregory ran a very methodical race. He saved his spurt for the end and gradually passed runner after runner until he had advanced the Irish from fifth place to second. He sprinted away from the third place runner at the finish but still trailed Hodgson by a good 15 yards.
The Relays’ most exciting event; was the university mile relay in which Pitt’s Mel Barnwell put the Panthers far in front with a :47.8 lead-off quarter. But Ohio State’s fantastic Glenn Davis provided the biggest thrill of the night. Anchoring for the Bucks, he took the baton a distant third, trailing the numbers one and two men by about 30 yards. At the end of the first 300 yards, he was within five yards of the leaders. He gave everything he had in a heart-pulling finish but couldn’t quite overtake the two men in front of him. Davis’ time — :47.2!
TYLER JR. IS HAPPY
Tyler Jr. is chuckling a little over his last performance. He picked all three of the Notre Dame games correctly, and for the first time this year he didn’t miss one Big Ten game. — T.T.
NotreJDame 72...
St. John’s 70
by Bob Schaefer
St. John’s University invaded the Fieldhouse to face the Irish on February 2 for the final game of a three-game Midwestern swing. The Redmen, of Brooklyn, N.Y., carried a twelve won, one loss record and a national ranking " of fifth best in the country west with them. But after 40 minutes of thrilling action, Notre Dame had dealt the St. John’s squad its third straight loss, 7270.
Hot shooting by Tom Reinhart in the first half and a tremendous 22-point , second half performance by Tom Hawkins proved too much for the Easterners.
St. John’s jumped to an early 6-3 lead, but the Irish quickly went out in front, 7-6, and were not headed again. The Johnnies could manage only a 15-15 tie later in the half.
With 9:28 left in the opening period the Redmen pulled to within one point at 21-20. Then John Tully, Mike Graney, and Hawkins tossed in five straight baskets without a return for a 31-20 Irish lead. At the half it was Notre Dame 35, St. John’s 28.
Tony Jackson sparked a second half comeback by St. John’s, but the Irish « pulled away each time the Johnnies got close. Jackson hit six straight baskets to start the second half and added four more before the end of the game, but he had to yield the game’s individual starring honors to Notre Dame’s All-American Tom Hawkins.
Hawkins, during a stretch of about eleven minutes midway in the second half, poured 20 points through the hoop. 4 He scored all 13 points the Irish gathered in one eight-minute span.
Hawkins’ spree gave the Irish a 68-60 lead with just over five minutes to go in the game. From that point on the Irish eagers could hit for only one basket, that by Graney on a tap-in. St. John’s kept scoring regularly and pulled to within one point, 71-70, with 2:50 left in the contest.
At that point Irish Coach Johnny Jordan had his squad go into a stall. Notre Dame successfully froze the ball until Bob Bradtke attempted a jump shot from the free throw line with 28 seconds left. The shot was no good and went out of ' bounds, but the Irish retained possession of the ball.
On the pass in Bradtke was fouled de- ( liberately and made one of the two foul shots.
St. Johns’ got the ball with 15 seconds left and fired up a shot. Little Gene « Duffy came up with the rebound for Notre Dame and ran out the clock.
For the night Hawkins finished with 30 points and 25 rebounds, one of his greatest games. Graney had 16 points and 15 rebounds. Reinhart tossed in 18 points.
For St. John’s, Alan Seiden hit for 27 points and Jackson had 24.
The Scholastic
22
Indoor Track Season Will Begin Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s track team will open its home indoor season in the Fieldhouse on February 14 against Marquette University. The Marquette meet is the first of two consecutive indooi- dual meets for the Irish, the second being against Purdue on February 19 in the Fieldhouse.
Coach Alex Wilson has a squad of 22 men, including ten sophomores. Wilson stated that the Marquette meet should be our most interesting meet. Their squad, like the Irish, has many sophomores, and this meet will test the potential of each squad. Wilson said that he does know the Marquette team is strong in the middle distances, the 440-and 880-yard runs.
The hurdles are one of Notre Dame’s strongest events. Here, the Irish will feature senior Captain Steve Dornbach, who has tied the Fieldhouse record for the 60-yard low hurdles. Dornbach also runs the 75-yard high and low hurdles.
Gerry Fitzpatrick, a sophomore who holds the Fieldhouse record for freshmen in the 60-yard dash, will lead the Irish sprinters. Senior Pete Salsich is another featured Irish sprinter.
In the quarter-mile event, sophomores Bay Batkowski, Frank Hemphill, and Jim Sheeler will run for the Irish. Chris Monahan and Dan Borke, both sophomores, lead the Irish in the half-mile event. Sophomore Eon Gregory, having already set the Fieldhouse mile record, will participate in that event as will senior Mike Haverty.
Sophomore Dick Monjeau will high-jump and broad-jump for the Irish while juniors Tom Beichert and Glen Cividin are featured in the pole vault.
Wilson stated that the February 19 meeting with the Boilermakers of Purdue should be a good hard test for the Irish. The Boilermakers have a great spi-inter in Captain Eon Etherton, who is also effective in the middle distances. Bill Enicks is Purdue’s top miler and distance man.
Jim Johnston, last year’s National Collegiate Champion, is Purdue’s top polevaulter. His best vault is 14 feet, eight inches. Purdue also boasts a fine shotputter in David Edelman.
On Saturday, February 7, the Irish traveled to East Lansing for the Michigan State Belays.
In a feature event, Mel Barnwell of Pittsburgh University, set an American indoor record in beating Glenn Davis of Ohio State, holder of two world records, in the 300-yard dash. Barnwell was clocked in 30 seconds flat..
Hayes Jones of Eastern Michigan College won both the 75-yard high and low hurdles. His time in the low hurdles was :08.5 which ties the American record for this event.
In the distance medley relay, the Notre Dame entry of Borke, Batkowski, Galen Cawley, and Gregory placed second behind Oklahoma. Borke and Batkowski led off with half- and. quarter-
An Amazing Australian by Tim Carroll
If any of you would have attended the foreign student get-together last September, one husky fellow with a light rosy complexion, dressed in English tweeds, would have probably caught your eye among the crowd of swarthy South Americans.
While the rest were standing in close circles discussing their summer escapades in confidential tones of Spanish, this boy had picked up a cup of coffee and was nonchalantly mixing cream and sugar into it.
With precision he added the ingredients to suit his taste. He gave the liquid a swirl with the spoon and lifted the cup for a trial sip. The expression on his face changed from one of expectancy to utter amazement. He looked wonder-ingly at the cup, put it down, and with an accent upstaging Alec Guinness’ said, “Gad, that’s not tea.”
Since September the bewildered boy has learned to drink coffee, but he claims it will never replace tea. As strong in his convictions as he is in his self-discipline, Jim McCann, a freshman at Notre Dame, is one of Australia’s outstanding young track men. On a four-year scholarship, he is religious about practice and never misses a work-out.
Jim believes that only strict adherence to training rules will make a really great runner. Track Coach Alex Wilson, who was instrumental in getting McCann to come here, is pleased with his attitude and says, “It’s amazing the amount of work he does.”
Jim was born in a small town outside Sydney in 1939. He went to the high school operated by St. Joseph’s College, a leading Catholic institution in Australia. There the Marist Brothers taught the three B’s in advanced stages and added a fourth — racing.
In his senior year Jim broke three Australian high school records and won an All-Conference title. His 100-yard dash record of :09.5 is an exceptional feat in itself. His time in the 220-yard dash was :21.3. He topped the 120-yard high hurdles in :14.7. And he posted a mark of 25 feet, seven inches in the broad jump.
He won an Honor Blazer, equivalent to our monograms, as wing on the school’s rugby team; he also bowled (pitched) on the cricket team. Jim modestly says this is not at all unusual in
mile runs. Cawley took the baton, ran a good three-quarters, and gave the baton to Gregory in fifth place.
Gregory ran a 4:13.4 mile, second only to the 4:12.8 turned in by Gail Hodgson who anchored the winning Sooner quartet, in bringing the Irish home in second place.
Dave Cotton placed sixth in the two-mile run while Fitzpatrick came in sixth in the 75-yard dash with a time of :07.5.
Australia because everybody plays three or four sports.
“The biggest problem facing athletics in Australia today,” he states, “is lack of spectators. Everyone is out playing some game himself and doesn’t want to watch someone else doing the same thing.”
Jim was good enough to represent Australia in the British Empire Games at Cardiff, Wales, last summer. Although Australia placed second, the experience matured him as a runner and gave him a chance to spread the glory of Australia. The only thing closer to Jim’s heart than competition is his country. His nationalism reflects itself in all his conversation. He doesn’t like anyone’s considering Australia primitive, uncivilized, or backward. As an ambassador of good will, he has been able to set many straight on the matter, but he dislikes the countless silly questions he still hears about kangaroos, boomerangs, and aborigines.
He insists that Australia is not English but has a true character of its own. When asked his nationality he quickly answers “Australian” although both his parents are from Ireland.
He may be “Australian,” but his Irish parentage shines through in his face and disposition. He has clear blue eyes, and his hair is flecked with premature grey, which adds distinction to his 5-10, 172-pound frame.
He has a ready wit but is independent to the point of stubbornness. He has adjusted easily to college routine but has found his surroundings very different from those at home.
“The most difficult thing to get accustomed to,” he said, “is the switch in seasons. Our summer is at its peak now, and soon fall sports will be starting up.
“The most similar thing is the theater. American movies sound right to me. All the decent movies shown in Sydney are American films.”
He is anxious to return home, but unless he attends the Olympic trials in the spring of 1960 he won’t see Australia until his four years are completed. He is intense in his desire to bring hone a diploma, but he claims that the press in Sydney has criticized him for accepting an athletic scholarship.
They have no scholarship system in the universities there, and they consider this merely another form of professionalism, an indirect way of getting paid for running. They accuse Jim of being a “shamateur.” Jim’s only comment on the subject is that the Australian journalists are really “top-flight” and that they thought up a beauty this time.
His good-natured smile and wit never leave him, however intense his aims may be. Ask Jim anytime what the population of Sydney is, and he’ll reply, “three s million, not counting kangaroos, boomerangs, or aborigines.”'
23
febnutry 13, 1959
THINGS YOU SHOULD	D A CP/VC 18142 SOUTH
KNOW ABOUT THE NEW	■> V V W W bend ave.
Our unique and new restaurant on S. B. Avenue features entirely new and different Italian foods (also your favorite American dishes). We also specialize in seafoods. Our new turquoise room is available for PRIVATE PARTIES. Phone CE 4-7224
ELECTRICAL * MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
NORDEN LABORATORIES
Norden Division—United Aircraft Corp.
...will be on campus
February 19 (Thursday)
To Meet Graduating Electrical & Mechanical Engineers Interested in Research & Development Engineering (UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED)
Please Arrange in Advance Through Your Placement Office for Your Convenient Appointment with Norden Representatives
2 YEARS WITH NORDEN LABS CAN BE WORTH
« TO YOUR PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT!
Whether you aim for specialization in an advanced phase of electronics—or wish to obtain a broad background essential for creative systems engineering—you will find an exceptional combination of factors leading to rapid professional development at Norden...
Fencers1 Skein Broken; Triangular Meet Next
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame I fencing team travels to Chicago to meet ' Wayne State and the University of Chicago in a triangular meet. The Irish 4'<> will be out to make their season record 10-1.	:
On Friday, February 6, the Irish had ; their 25-match victory streak broken by I-the Air Force Academy. The closely con- i tested meet was won by the Falcons, | 1 14-13.	J
The match was close until the latter * stages. With the score tied at 9-9, the ? Falcons took four straight points to as-	f
sume a seemingly insurmountable lead.	!
However, the Irish battled back to tie * t the score at 13-13. Then the Falcons won j the last bout to cinch the victoiy.	'
Coach Walter Langford had this to | say in regard to the match: “This was one of the most thrilling meets in recent | ( years. It indicates, along with the Notre Dame win of 15-12 last year, that an- ; other outstanding opponent has joined I' Wisconsin and Illinois as the only schools > to give our fencers much trouble in the p last decade. We are looking forward to J a long and rugged series with the Fai- Y cons in the years to come.”
The meet marked the first appearance of any Notre Dame team at the Air Force Academy.	‘
. On Saturday, February 7, the fencers started a new streak by beating Iowa, 19-8, and crushing Indiana, 24-3, at the Iowa Fieldhouse in Iowa City. Outstanding strength in the foil told the story of the double win. The foilmen won 17 of 18 matches. In the saber, the Irish were almost as proficient, winning 15 of 18. J Three men won five matches each, Jim Russomano in foil, Joe Klein and Tom Lee in saber.	a
On Saturday, January 31, the swords- ] 1 men beat Buffalo and Indiana Tech by . \ identical scores of 16-11. The wins were the 24th and 25th in a row for the ) fencers.	!
■ Flexibility of Assignment ■ Working in Small RAD Groups ■ Pioneering Nature of the Work ■ Close Contact with Management
This Partial List Indicates the Breadth of R&D Opportunities:
Missile & Aircraft Guidance; Re-Entry Attitude Control Problems; Radar & Communications; Inertial & Stellar-Inertial Navigation; Data-Handling A Navigation-Stabilization Systems; Bomb-Director Systems; and other specialized electronic areas
Descriptive Brochure Available upon Request
NORDEN LABORATORIES
121 Westmoreland Avenue • White Plains, New York
Locations in Westchester County, Near York and Fairfield County, Connecticut—both easily accessible to midtown Manhattan
White Plains, New York	Stamford, Connecticut
JOE KLEIN Top mon in the sabre
The Scholastic
24
Campus Bowlers Break Three League Records
Despite a lay-off of two weeks during , semester examinations and holidays, the campus Keglers proved themselves to be > । in top shape again this week as several leagues recorded new high scores.
i Led by Jerry Albers’ 688 series, highest rolled on the Notre Dame Alleys I this year, the St. Louis Club held onto its lead in the Kampus Kegler White ' * league. The hottest team of the week was the Detroit Club “A” team. Led by John Curran, who shot a new high game and high series for the Kampus Kegler Red league, the Motor City boys regained first place while rolling a high : \. team game of 1,001 and high team series of 2,874.
Y A special salute goes to Tom Hagan who, when told that the only way to P make this column was to bag a 230 game, did just that the following night. I think he did it just for spite. Also congratulations to Jim Miller who finally received his long-awaited triplicate badge amidst a cheering crowd and a poetic presentation speech by his team captain.
CLASSIC
LaSalle Hotel ................44-12
Project Construction .........40-16
* Stan Pecora, 192-233-205-630; Maury LaFere, 170-214-241-625; Tom Jablonski, 206-209-190-605; Ted Nekic, 239; Bill Dowdall, 232; Dan Halloran, 224-216; Jim Mark, 210; Ray Grubbe, 208; Denny Panozzo, 207; Don Dvorak, 206; Dick Kwlak, 205; Frank Prantil, 203; Frank Mullen, 203; Jim Flannery, 202.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 193; Ray k Grubbe, 188; Pat Heenan, 181.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—RED
Detroit Club “A”.............42-14
Holy Rollers ..............40%-15%
John Curran, 175-202-267-644; Earl Mossner, 169-224-170-563; Pat Heenan, h 205; Denny Leo, 204.
Averages: John Curran, 177; Earl Mossner, 176; Pat Heenan, 174; Jerry Cangiano, 174.
WSND will broadcast three more * away basketball games this season. ( The Kentucky game will be covered by Tim Ryan and Dick Ciccone from * Chicago Stadium on February 14.
On the following Monday, February 16, Mike Ahern and Tim Ryan will be in Indianapolis at the Butler Fieldhouse to broadcast the Notre ' Dame-Butler game.
The final regularly scheduled re. mote broadcast of the season will ' be handled by Mike Ahern and Bill Isherwood on February 24 from Milwaukee when the Irish battle Marquette.
TYLER JR.’S BASKETBALL PICKS
TOMORROW
Akron U. over Oberlin Auburn over LSU St. Bonaventure over Detroit Holy Cross over St. Francis, N.Y. Indiana over Minnesota
Iowa over Wisconsin
Kans. State over Oklahoma State Kentucky over Notre Dame Marquette over Louisville North Carolina over Loyola Michigan State over Michigan North Carolina State over Md. Northwestern over Purdue
MONDAY
Notre Dame over Butler Mississippi State over Georgia Illinois over Wisconsin
Purdue over Indiana
Michigan State over Northwestern St. Louis over Bradley
Xavier over Western Kentucky
LAST ISSUE
Eleven right, three wrong, 79 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE 41 right, twelve wrong, 77 per cent
HAVE BUSES . . .
WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SHUMAN, Campus Bep.
263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
UMA
TWO EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS
KAMPUS KEGLERS—WHITE
St. Louis Club ...............40-16
Frisbees .....................36-20
Jerry Albers, 188-245-255-688; Joe Rocco, 215-192-171-578; Tom Hagan, 230; M. Kubiak, 222; Fred Hoey, 204.
Averages: Fred Hoey, 172; Jerry Albers, 166; Bob Krinner, 163.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—BLUE
North-West Motor Service .....42-14
Detroit Club “B”..............36-20
Fred Kleiderer, 211-194-178-583; Ray Grubbe, 178-216-173-567; Joe Torter, 234; Tom Glavin, 205; Fred Vida, 204; Dan Crossen, 202; Dave Calnon, 200.
Averages: Ray Grubbe, 183; Tom Jablonski, 182; Fred Vida, 180.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—YELLOW
Cleveland Club “B” ___________35-21
Cleveland Club “A” ___________33-23
Jim Flannery, 146-180-236-562; Frank Prantil, 214-190-155-559; John Rizner, 206; Roger Roelie,.202.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 191; Jim Flannery, 177; Frank Mullen, 171.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—GREEN
Strikers .....................34-18
Padres .......................32-16
Fr. Shea, 219-149-182-550; Fr. Brennan, 211-190-120-521; Ed Rohrbach, 220; Frank Araneta, 206.
Averages: Fr. Shea, 178; Fr. Baxter, 166; John Burns, 162.
Ed Silliman
tfafe
European Art & Music Program
40 days Study Tour through 8 countries. 10 day study session on Art, Music and History in Vienna 7 days relaxation in Salzkammergut mountain area. 9 European Festivals. Tour emphasis on art and music.
Sailing: SS Ryndam, June 28. Return flight: SAS Air Line. Application deadline: April 15. All inclusive price: $1235.
Salzburg Study Tour
13 days of lectures and seminars. 28 days Study Tour through 6 countries. Faculty of University of Salzburg invites scholars and students from Europe and US to discuss: "EUROPE: THINKING, CREATING AND GROWING", from a Christian point of view. Salzburg Festival included.
Sailing: SS Ryndam, June 28. Application deadline: April 15. All inclusive price: $890.
Pleas* return this coupon for free brochure.
The INSTITUTE of EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 E. Wacker Dr., Chicago 1
Check program irritnsM in:
_______Salzburg Study Tour
Art-Music Program
name	
address	
city	zone
February 13, 1959
Sailing Team Holds Seminar; Opening Session Wednesday
The Notre Dame sailing team’s annual seminar will begin next Wednesday, February 18, at 7:30 p.m. in Nieuwland Science Hall. The purpose of this first session is to acquaint the student with the sailing team and other sailing opportunities offered at Notre Dame.
After the first session, the seminar will be divided into two groups. The first group will be for those who wish to learn the fundamentals of sailing methods and nomenclature. The second group will be for those who have had previous sailing experience and would like to familiarize themselves with sailboat i-acing and its intricacies. The second meeting will be February 25.
CELANESE INTERVIEWING
ON CAMPUS
February 19
For dates and arrangements, see your
Placement Director
Where chemistry means business ... there's more room to grow
In the past few years Celanese’ wide ranging operations in chemicals and plastics, as well as in chemical fibers, have broadened into new areas, and this forward looking, diversified company foresees an even greater range of products, markets, and interests coming tomorrow from today’s scientific research and development, engineering and production skills.
You needn’t be “slotted” at Celanese. There’s plenty of room for you to grow—not only room and opportunity, but encouragement to grow. For only with individual growth will this vigorous young company be able to meet its great, diverse tasks of tomorrow.
Wherever your technical interests lie—in chemicals, plastics, or textiles—there are opportunities for chemists, physicists, and engineers of all kinds—in research and development, in manufacturing, in technical service, in marketing.
CORPORATION OF AMERICA
Matmen at Northwestern. Wheaton Tourney Next
Tomorrow the Northwestern wrestling team hosts the Irish matmen coached by Tom Fallon. The Notre Dame wrestlers are looking forward to a tough meet. According to Fallon, Big Ten teams have always been dangerous, but he says the Irish have a chance if they come through with a top performance.
On the 20th and 21st of February, Coach Fallon will lead his grapplers into the Wheaton Tournament in Wheaton, Ill. “Last year we managed to finish fourth in team scoring,” said Fallon. “This year we will be meeting some of the finest teams in the Midwest and some of the opponents will be contenders for national honors, but we should do well.”
Athletic Director Edward W. Krause plans to send out a questionnaire to the student body in an attempt to ascertain the students’ preference as to the time of Satur- ’ day home basketball games.
The survey will be conducted sometime next week, and each stu- ? dent will be asked to decide whether 1 he prefers Saturday home basketball games to be played in the afternoon . or evening. Mr. Krause and the SCHOLASTIC request the students’ cooperation in this attempt to make * times of these games more convenient.
Swimmers Fall to Ohio U.; Meet Western Michigan Here
Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. the 4 ^ Irish swimming team will meet West- i ern Michigan University. Western Mich- I igan has already beaten Detroit Uni- I versity while Notre Dame has lost to -< I Detroit. Notre Dame’s record thus far I is one tie and three losses.	’
Last Saturday the Irish were defeated at the Rockne Memorial pool by Ohio i University. The score was 48 to 38, and two pool records were set. Ohio set the records, took five individual firsts, and also won the 400-yard freestyle relay. For Notre Dame, Co-Captain Tom Lon-drigan won the 220-yard freestyle event ' with a time of 2:21.4. Jim Garrity finished first in the 200-yard backstroke ’’ event with a time of 2:21.6.
In the 200-yard breaststroke George May finished first with a time of 2:39.8. The 400-yard medley relay team of Garrity, May, Tom Haske, and Gene Witch-ger also scored a victory for the Irish.
Stanford Leads Cagers In Intermural Leagues
The Interhall basketball season is progressing rapidly. Stanford White, holders of a 4-0 slate, is out in front. B-P Green, Keenan White, Lyons Red, and Stanford Blue all have 3-0 records. Howard White is a challenger to the league leaders.
Interclub basketball, subdivided into six leagues, is nearing the half-way mark of the season. In the first league the Detroit club and the Met club are tied for first with 3-0 records. In the second league, a 3-0 slate has the Columbus club in the number one slot. The third league is headed by the Physical Education Majors and the Philadelphia club, both holders of 3-0 records.
The Knights of Columbus team, with a 3-0 slate, is holding down the number one spot in the fourth league. The fifth league has the Monogram club on top, but the Army ROTC unit is a challenger.
The Chicagoclub, Kentucky club, and the Washington Black squads are all strong contenders in the final league which, due to a late start, will be the last Interclub league to finish the season.
26
The Scholastic
i

Political Academy Starts Task of Forming Groups
Last Wednesday evening the first step toward the formation of partisan political clubs on campus was made as the Academy of Political Science met to choose leaders for the newly formed organizations.
. The formation of political clubs was allowed under a ruling of the Univer-> sity Council made at the end of last semester. The new clubs will be allowed to conduct campus activities but will not ' be affiliated with national political or-, ganizations. This, however, will not hinder their work in any way as both parties will gladly send out informa-• tion to Notre Dame’s political clubs.
1 The new clubs will be headed by * juniors or sophomores. A committee of 'P from five to ten undergraduates will be
i >
chosen to draw up constitutions for each club. These constitutions are expected to be submitted to the Student Senate about March 1.
Choices for positions on these clubs will be made by a committee of seniors from the Academy of Political Science and other organizations. In considering candidates for jobs, emphasis is being placed on underclassmen who have indicated an interest in partisan clubs.
When the preliminaries are out of the way, students will be invited to join the political club of their choice.
The formation of political clubs has been endorsed by the Student Senate for some time. Paul M. Butler, Democrat National Chairman, also came out for their formation on a visit here last year.
It is hoped these clubs will increase in membership and activity with the upcoming political battles and conventions in 1960.
UNCOLN ON TAPE
As part of the Lincoln Sesquicen-tennial, the History and English Departments are presenting two taped programs on “Lincoln and the Civil War.”
The first program will be Charles Laughton’s adaptation of Stephen Vincent Benet’s “John Brown’s Body," starring Judith Anderson, Raymond Massey, and Tyrone Power. It will be held next Thursday.
Carl Sandburg reading from his own collected works — “A Lincoln Album,” is the second program. The date will be a week from next Thursday, February 26.
Both tapes will be heard at 7:15 p.m. in the Audio-Visual Center which was formerly the Old Huddle.
Syracuse Prof. Gives Speech on Economics
? Dr. Sidney C. Sufrin, professor of economics at Syracuse University and director of the Business and Economic ♦ Research Center there, will give the first talk of this year’s Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series in Washington Hall next Thursday at 1:30 p.m. Cancelled cuts k will be available to the students attending the series. The lecture’s topic will ■be “Wages and Employment-Theory Without Tears.” Sufrin will also conduct a seminar among faculty members of the department of business organiza-* tion and management and address the college’s Labor-Management club.
The cancelled cut tickets will be avail-i able in the Commerce Building’s lobby from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. Monday and Wednesday, and from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday and Thursday.
Other speakers in the lecture series will be M. S. Szymczak, March 16, a veteran member of the board of governors , of the Federal Reserve System, Washington; Dr. James J. O’Leary, April 16, director of economic research for the Life Insurance Association of America, , New York; Dr. Raymond W. Goldsmith, May 5, professor of economics at New York University and a research specialist with the National Bureau of Economic Research.
The annual lecture series in Notre Dame’s commerce school was established in 1949 in honor of His Eminence John Cardinal O’Hara, C.S.C., Archbishop of Philadelphia. The Pennsylvania prelate served as president of Notre Dame from 1934 to 1939 and was the first dean of the College of Commerce. He was elevated to the College of Cardinals last December. The talks are being handled by the student, commerce activities council in conjunction with the commerce faculty committee.
February 13, 1959
Rally 'round boys and

INDIANA BEU BEU TELEPHONE laboratories
WESTERN electric long LINES DEPT.
look 'em over!
SANDIA CORP*
Other Associated Bell telephone Compan.es
Here's real opportunity, men.	—
Come and see us. We're always glad to "talk shop" with you.
Check with your placement officer NOW.
OUR REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS
FEBRUARY 24-25
J. PAUL Sheedy,* hair specialist, says: "Gives your hair a neat, healthy ape-earance! ”
•oflSl So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, H.Y.
Just a little bit of Wildroot and.-WOW!
St. Mary's Selected as Site For Session of YCS Groups
Delegates from the YCS groups at St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer and Marian College in Indianapolis will attend a Study Day at St. Mary’s Club House on Feb. 22. The meeting is to discuss the problems of a university community.
Anyone interested in attending should inquire for further details at the YCS office.
The schedule for the day is as follows: 9:30 a.m. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., the YCS chaplain, will speak on “The History and Ideology of YCS.”
11 a.m.	Missa Recitata.
1 p.m.	Dr. Robert Perillat, a pro-
fessor of philosophy at St. Mary’s, speaks on “Problems of Education.”
3 p.m. Rev. Thomas Heath, O.P., who has just returned from Lebanon, will discuss “Love and International Affairs.”
There will be discussions after each talk and visitors from YCS National Headquarters in Chicago are expected.
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne	CE 2-3339
Forty-two Teams Slated j For Annual Tournament ,
Forty-two teams are currently expected to attend the Seventh Annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament which is to be held in the LaFortune ( Student Center on March 6 and 7.	■
Slated for competition in the six pre- j liminary rounds are teams from all four of the service academies; Morehouse College, an all-Negro college from Atlanta, Georgia; Augustana, last year’s winner of the tournament and former national champions; and Northwestern University, the present national champions.	;
Participants vieing for the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy will come from the entire United States. The teams will come from as far away as 4 Florida and Utah, and as close as Chicago and Notre Dame.	^,i
The finals, to be held in the Engineering Auditorium at 3 p.m. on March 7, 1959, will feature the best teams debating the question, “Resolved: Continued । Nuclear Development Should be Prohib-	’
ited by International Agreement.”	*
According to Tom Banchoff, general chairman for the tournament, “students interested in debate on the campus will ' be treated to one of the finest debate ex- ' hibitions this year when they attend the finals.”
Yesterday, a Notre Dame debating team went to Northwestern University ' to compete in the Owen L. Coon debate tournament. They are competing against / 250 other debaters.
The group will participate in eight preliminary and a possible four final rounds. Each school will debate an equal number of affirmative and negative rounds on the national intercollegiate 4., topic.
US 5th Army General Meets Fr. Hesburgh on Recent Visit
The Notre Dame Army ROTC unit was recently visited by Major General Joseph Harper, United States Fifth *1 Army Deputy Commander. General , Harper, who served in Manila immediately before receiving his present assignment, conferred with Rev. Theodore * M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and other school officials.
The general also made a tour of the campus to familiarize himself with the facilities of the Notre Dame Army ROTC unit.
Another Army ROTC event took place last week end when 39 MS III cadets traveled to the US Army Armor = Center at Fort Knox, Ky. Leaving at 3 a.m. on Friday-morning, the group remained at the post until noon Saturday. While there, they witnessed an impres- , sive Armor Mobile Forces Firepower Demonstration.
Traveling by bus, the group was * accompanied by Capt. Michael Fucci. Col. Edwin Grenelle, PMS&T, Maj, James Huddleston, and- Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., went to Fort Knox by plane.
The Scholastic
28
' Senate Approves Budget After Heavy Debate: Student Government to Operate $2000 in Blacli
% Beginning then* season of penance early, the Student Senate suffered t through three hours of debate last Monday night before finally approving a budget which foresees student government in the black by over $2,000 at the । start of the fall semester.
Wasting little time, the senators un-k sheathed then* paring knives almost im-। mediately and attempted to trim the Blue I Circle’s $534 budget. Lyons Hall Senator John Clark moved to cut $100 from ' their budget, alloted to the Hall Residence committee. There seemed to be heavy suport for this move until Tom Cahill, head of the student affairs com] mission, explained away the mystery. 1 Originated by the Blue Circle, the per" manent hall residence committee has , three members from its parent organization, several from the Senate, and sev-। eral from the hall presidents’ council. Of course, any interested student is free , to join the committee. The members hope to draw up a plan which will be accept-। able to all students. It is not necessarily the final plan. This plan will then be presented to the student body for a vote in the last week before Eastei* vacation * to detennine whether they are generally for or against the idea of permanent 1 hall residence.
Cahill reminded the senators of Father Hesburgh’s reaction each year at the Student Leaders’ Banquet when the question of permanent hall residence came up. He asked the students present how many were for and how many were against the proposition. Always the • count has been against the move. Cahill feels that this is due to ignorance of the issues and feels that the main job of the committee will be the education of H the student body in the pros and cons of permanent hall residence.
Tired as they were, the senators stayed awake for a few extra minutes to pass unanimously George McAndrews’ motion mandating the student welfare committee under Jack O’Brien , to investigate, in conjunction with the office of academic affairs, the cost of receiving transcripts from the University. According to McAndrews, the prices seem out of line with the costs involved and the charges made by similar institutions. Problems arise when some government agencies require five copies of . the student’s transcript and those who apply for scholarships for advanced study are generally required to present more than one copy at $2 apiece, the costs add up.
The academic commission, under the apparently overworked Mike Halpin, drew criticism for failing to present ’ their budget to the finance committee. For many weeks the Senate has been critical of this commission for failing to follow through on certain projects. What is most disappointing is that activity in the academic sphere was to be the main
concern of the student government this year.
Another disappointment has been the apparent failure of hall councils to assume the positions of leadership student leaders had foreseen for them. This, too, was a major objective for student government for the year.
Carl Mangold, chairman of the hall presidents’ council, denied that this resulted from a grave lack of effort on the part of the council. In a vitriolic exchange initiated by Senate Treasurer Bill Scheckler, Mangold defended his group, saying that the activities have purposely been directed at the separate halls and thus do not draw campus-wide attention. He then asked Scheckler where he had received his information that the council meetings were little more than occasions for self-congratulation among the members. Scheckler hinted at two or three hall presidents, naming Pete Huber of Pangbom as one.
In his report, President Dennis Shaul announced the appointment of Tom Cahill, Tom Plofchan, Bruce Babbitt, and Bill Scheckler to the administration committee which is investigating the whole realm of student affairs, including the offices of Dean of Students and Prefect of Religion.—Jim Byrne.
I BEST BOOK BUYS In................
ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS FICTION GOVERNMENT & POLITICS HISTORY HUMOR LANGUAGE LITERATURE MATHEMATICS & SCIENCE MYTHOLOGY PHILOSOPHY POETRY RELIGION PHYSICS & ASTRONOMY
Save Time and Money Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-the-campus
EUROPE
Dublia to the boa Cvtaie; Africa to Swadaa. You’re accompsuried—*ot herded jroaad Cefr lege group*. Abo shorter tripe $724-$13SB. EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadeaa, CaL
NOW!
big discounts for students and faculty
SHERATON HOTELS
witka ShentM Student or Faculty I.D. card
Here’s how to cut your travel expenses. Sheraton Hotels have special low rates for students, faculty, and all other college personnel during weekends, vacations, and summer. Rates even lower with two or more people in the same room. Group rates are also available for clubs, teams, and other organizations.
Arrangements may be made for credit privileges at Sheraton Hotels. The Sheraton StudentFaculty Plan is good at all 48 Sheraton Hotels in 39 cities in the-U. S. A. and in Canada.
You must present your I.D. card when you register at the hotel to be eligible for these special discounts.
fiat yaw ShentM LD. card fraas
JIM CRISMAN (Student Rep.)
Notre Dame Scholastic
Room 325, Walsh Hall Notre Dame, Indiana Phone: CEntral 4-9011 Code No. 83
29
February 13, 1959
mnos LIKUYai INK SHOP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
MORE MANPOWER!
Several positions on the SCHOLASTIC news staff have recently become vacant. Any freshman wishing to work on the University’s student weekly is cordially invited to try out for the staff.
Interested students are asked to contact Ron Blubaugh on Wednesday evening between 7 and 7:15 at the SCHOLASTIC office over the north end of the huddle.
<*> ybneHban JBpress W5Q StudentTouts of Europe
Wherever, whenever, however you travel, your best assurance of the finest service is American Express! On American Express Student Tours of Europe you’ll be escorted on exciting itineraries covering such fascinating countries as England ... Belgium ... Germany ... Austria — Switzerland — Italy... The Rivieras . . . and France. And you’ll have ample free time and lots of individual leisure to really live life abroad!
7 Student Toors of Earape . . . featuring distinguished leaders from prominent colleges as tour conductors . . . 40 to 62 days — by sea and by air____________$1397 and up.
4 Educational Student Tours of Europe ... with experienced escorts — by sea — 44 to 57 days ... $872 and up.
•tfcer European Tours AvndaMe .. . from 14 days . . . $672 and up. Mse, Toors to Handa, Berarada, Heike, West Mes and Bawau.
You can always Travel Now—Pay Later when you go American Express!
Member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service ... or simply mail the handy coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE * 65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e/o Travel Sala Division	*
•	Yes! Please send me complete information	•
•	about 1959 Student Tours of Europe!	*
•	Name....................................... •
•	Address....•............................... X
X City...................Zone....State........ *
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH MEKME0KSTRmEKOnB-$PENDABLE EVERYWHERE aw raw im cmhbbhk mbkm expoess wmu-woe coent cmb
University Receives $ 11,903	,
Rom Student Loan Program	j
Under the National Defense Student Loan Program, Notre Dame has re-	l tv
ceived $11,903. The University will con- | । tribute an additional one-ninth to this amount.	I1
By provisions of the act, Notre Dame will select the recipients of the loans.	y
The conditions are that the borrower be a full-time undergraduate or graduate	J
student; in real need of the amount of his loan and that he be capable of main- i taining good standing in his course of 41/ study.	1
Special consideration will be given to students with a superior academic background who express a desire to teach in elementary or secondary schools and whose academic backgrounds indicate superior capacity or preparation in science,	\
mathematics, engineering, or a modem foreign language.	4
A maximum amount of $1,000 in one year and $5,000 in four years may be : lent to one student. In practice, the total will be determined by the amount available and the number of applicants. J
The borrower must sign a note for his e loan, evidencing his obligation and agree- i ing to interest and repayment terms established by Notre Dame.	-
According to the law a co-signer is ♦'/ required for those under 21. Repay- . ment must begin one year after the borrower ceases to be a full-time student , and must be completed within ten years. r No interest on the loan may accrue prior to the beginning of the repayment schedule and interest thereafter is to be । paid at the rate of three per cent. In : case of death or permanent and total disability the obligation to repay is cancelled.	(
The National Defense Education Act contains a further provision that up to , 50 per cent of the loan (plus interest) ' may be cancelled in the event the bor- ; rower becomes a full-time teacher in a public elementary or scondary school. a Such cancellation is to be at the rate of ~ ten per cent a year up to five years.
Any sums distributed as loans will be under the direction of the University. < Notre Dame will be responsible for not only arranging, but collecting the loans as well.
Students interested in knowing more about the NDSLP and in making application for a loan, should consult the Director of Student Aid, Room 217, in the Main Building.	it
PARENTS COMING?
Campus room reservations for graduation week will be sold Sunday night, March 1. There	*
will be 280 rooms available in	I
campus residence halls and 17	4]
rooms in the Morris Inn. Students will be notified by letter as to the time and place reservations ■ may be made.	I
The Scholastic
Campus News Briefs
DIAMONDS . JEWELRY
t
Eleven seniors received Army and Air Force commissions during semesters at a ceremony in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
Air Force commissions were presented to Franz Scheuermann, Westfield, N. J.; Robert Waters, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Frank Freidhoff, III, Johnstown, Pa.; John Treacy and John Ledden, both from South Bend.
The following received Army commissions: Dennis Crowley, Chicago, Ill.; George Pogue, Pelham, N.Y.; John Einhorn, Bloomington, Hl.; Petre Kress, Rochester, N.Y.; Alphonse Van Besien, Kansas City, Mo.; and Arthur Blakeslee, Jr., South Bend.
Dr. S. L. Lamia, internationally known recognized authority on fundamental problems in virus research gave the annual Nieuwland Lectures for the University’s department of biology last week.
His three lectures on “Viruses and Cellular Heredity,” were held in the auditorium of the Biology Building.
A prominent Colombian educator, Franz Von Hildebrand, on his way to the InterAmerican Educator’s program sponsored by the Carnegie Corp, and the International Education Institute, recently visited the University campus. Von Hildebrand, secretary general and co-founder of the University of the Andes in Bogota, was received by Father Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, who is a member of the Institute of International Education board of directors.
“The indifference and apathy of most Catholics in seeking converts to their Church must be replaced by a nationwide “shoe leather apostolate,” according to Rev. John A. O’Brien, director of the Bureau of Convert Research at the University.
“Our laity make the least effort of any Christian group to win adherents,” Father O’Brien reports. “Only 28% of our people make any effort in their entire lifetime as compared with 59% of our non-Catholic brethren.”
Father O’Brien expresses his views in “Wisconsin’s Operation Doorbell Gets Results,” an article in the January issue of Extension.
Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus announced the election last week of Jerry McGlynn as the Knight of the Semester. McGlynn is a junior finance major from St. Louis and has been a member of the K. of C. since his freshman year. He is presently the Warden of the Council.
The Knight of the Semester Award is given each semester to a member of the campus council who has done outstanding work for Columbianism in the council.
Conscious goals “not just to get along, but to survive,” were stressed by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame at the mid-year graduation exercises at the University of Michigan.
Addressing 1,500 mid-year graduates in Hill Auditorium at Ann Arbor, Father Hesburgh pointed out that the uneducated, pas
sive point of view was only possible in a world less full of tensions.
“Today,” he said, “we face a situation that demands education and the fruits of the educated point of view.”
“There is no substitute for excellence,” he continued. “There is no easy way to achieve that which is worthwhile and first rate.”
Representatives of industry, labor, and government addressed the seventh annual Union-Management Conference sponsored by the University’s economics department.
More than 500 midwestern industrial officials and union leaders attended the conference sessions whose theme was “Contract Experience Under Economic Stress.” The sessions, which were held in Washington Hall between semesters, were under the general direction of Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference founder and chairman.
Specific issues discussed included health insurance coverage during layoffs and the impact of recession on the prevalence of work stoppages.
“The yeast of Catholic apostolic activity is working in Cuba,” declares Dale Francis in the January 31 issue of Ave Maria.
Francis, who spent several years in Cuba engaged in apostolic work, explains that a Catholic action group was started as early as 1931 at the University of Havana. This “ ‘militant Catholic Action’ has become a powerful force in Cuban intellectual and spiritual life,” he continues, “and there is reason to believe it will eventually show its power in helping to establish a just political order.”
Representatives of industry, labor, and government will address the seventh annual Union-Management Conference, sponsored by the University’s economics department, on Feb. 27, in Washington Hall. The conference will begin at 9:30 a.m.
Principal speakers at the sessions will be Howard M. Dirks, vice-president of the Carrier Corp., Syracuse, N.Y., who will discuss “Some Causes and Consequences of Plant Migration”; Joseph W. Childs, vice-president of the United Rubber Workers, AFL-CIO, Akron, Ohio, “How Serious Has Been the Recession?”; and George E. Strong, general counsel of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C., “Arbitration under Economic Stress.”
TRYOUTS FOR MUSICALS
Tryouts for the University Theatre spring musical, “The Boy Friend,” will be held tomorrow and next Saturday at 1:00 p.m. in the Washington Hall Lounge. Students interested in singing, dancing, or acting are cordially invited to try out. A notice is posted in the rear of Washington Hall for those who wish to sign up for a specific time.
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin ' Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE jEWtsLER
104 N. Main St.	JALS. Wg.
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed bp contacting Peter Hasbrook at the Uaivenity Ikas Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badm Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A ntiximum of three lines is necessary and aU advertising Mat be presented by Sunday night preceding pubEcntaa.
SERVICES
Enjoy an Irish Terrier Puppy. Same brand aa At Notre Dame Football team mascot. TheoafirJoae money can buy. Where else can you get six IO twelve years of devotion loyalty and companioa-ship but from one of Kelley’s Irish Terriers. ~ Shipped express or by air express. Write KeBey’a Kennel, Huntley, Illinois. Prices from 475 to $130.
PLACEMENT INTHMEWS
CELANESE CORP. OF AMERICA—AU Seniors, February 19, see page 24.	.	.
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CORP.—AU Semens aa* Graduate Students, February 25 & 26, see page 32. :
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COAll Sestiors, February 24 & 25, see page 25.	_v‘.
NORDEN LABORATORIES—Electrical & Mechau*-^. ical Engineers, February 19, see page 26. ■ ’ .

February 13, 1959
t
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN ENGINEERING,
PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
The Douglas Aircraft Company
INVITES YOU TO
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
February 25 and 26
Find out about the interesting positions, assistance in furthering your education and outstanding promotion opportunities with the world’s leading manufacturer of aircraft and missiles. Get facts on living conditions, research facilities and opportunities to advance professionally at Douglas facilities located in California, Florida, Oklahoma, North Carolina and New Mexico.
Reserve your career decision until you have talked with the Douglas representative. It may be the most important interview of your life.
SEE YOUR DIRECTOR OF PLACEMENT FOR YOUR INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT
REV. A. L. MELOCHE Delivers talk on "Sanity and Sex"
preferred ^CHICAGO
BUSINESSMEN EXECUTIVES FAMILIES
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton—preferred by the family, and business executives for downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates — guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
Rates fro*i.
THE NEW
HAMILTON
20 SOUTH DEARBORN HOTEL IN KANSAS CITY ITS THE BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
Father Meloche to Give Third Marriage Lecture
The third of six lectures in the Marriage Institute series will be conducted by the Reverend Arthur L. Meloche next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. His lecture will be on “Sanity and Sex.”
Father Meloche is a prominent spiritual director in Canada. He graduated from the University of Western Ontario with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1937. On June 7, 1941 he was ordained for the diocese of London, Canada.
For the past eleven years, he has been Spiritual Director of the Holy Family Retreat House for laymen and more recently the Director of Family Life in London, Canada. In these positions he is a frequent Retreat Master and Cana Conductor. At the moment he is a lecturer at the University of Detroit on Marriage Theology and conducts a weekly broadcast over Windsor station, CKLW, on Family Life. Father Meloche was recently appointed Chairman of the Family Life Committee for Canada.
Fr. Louis Putz Prepares Student Apostle Retreat
YCS is holding the third in its series of five retreats over this week end. It will be given by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C. His theme will be “Lent and the Student Apostolate.”
For those interested in attending future retreats, there will be two more this year: one, by Rev. Robert J. Nogo-sek, C.S.C., who takes as his topic “The Mass and the Mystery of Easter” on March 21 and 22; and the final retreat to be held on May 2 and 3 on “Hope and World Responsibility’ by Rev. John Maguire, C.S.C.
Anyone interested should sign up in the YCS office. A- ticket is $2.50 to cover the cost of the two meals and room for the night.

32
The Scholastic
U Music Till Noon
4 j
The following is a schedule of album music that will be aired on WSND’s morning music program, “Music Till Noon.” A new schedule will appear each week to add to your listening enjoyment.
MONDAY, FEB. 16
9:00 “Buddy Cole Plays Cole Porter”
9:30 “International Vibrations,”
Ray Martin
10:00 “Starlight Serenade,” Morton Gould 10:30 “With Strings Attached,” Wild Bill Davison
11:00 “Music from South Pacific,” Les Baxter
11:30 “All Time Top Twelve,” Ted Heath TUESDAY, FEB. 17
9:00 “Songs of the Fabulous Fifties,” Roger Williams
9:30 “French Sax,” Frank Pourcel 10:00 “Jackie Gleason Plays Music to
Change Her Mind”
10:30 “For Young Moderns in Love,” Sam Donahue
11:00 “Percy Faith Plays Music from Kismet”
11:30 “A Band is Bom,” Billy May WEDNESDAY, FEB. 18
9:00 “Night Sounds,” Joe Bushkin
9:30 “The Gilded Hawk,” Coleman Hawkins
10:00 “London After Dark,” Norrie Paramour
10:30 “Moods in Music,” Clebanoff Strings 11:00 “Percy Faith Plays Music from My
Fair Lady”
11:30 “Les & Larry Elgart”
THURSDAY, FEB. 19
9:00 “Joe Fingers Carr Goes Continental” 9:30 “Dutch Sax,” Dolf Van Der Lin
10:00 “Jackie Gleason Plays Music to Remember Her By”
10:30 “April in Paris,” Victor Young 11:00 “Percy Faith Plays Music from the
Most Happy Fellow”
11:30 “Let’s Get Away From it All,” Ray Ellis
FRIDAY, FEB. 20
9:00 “Piano Style of Nat King Cole” 9:30 “Out of This World,” Sam Taylor 10:00 “Honeymoon in Paris,” Frank Pourcel
10:30 “Crescent City,” Paul Weston 11:00 “Percy Faith Plays Music from Lil
Abner”
11:30 “Sounds of the Great Bands,” Glenn Gray
Dorsey Orchestra Leads Off May Junior Prom Week End
The Junior Prom week end of May 13 will be led off by the great Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra conducted by Lee Castle. The 16-piece band will feature female vocalist, Jan Winters, and will play under the theme of “Night and Day.”
The Prom will be held Friday May 1, beginning at 9 p.m. AH attending juniors will be granted 2 a.m. permissions. It will be followed by a Saturday night dinner-dance at the South Bend Country Club with starting time at 7 p.m. A Sunday morning Communion Breakfast will bring the big week end to a
close.
»kWTURB0W
\OPTOMKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES ________ _ ■ 207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777

Gendel's Surplus Sales Brasso, BOTC Collar Insignia You Save Everyday at (SENDEE'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
Valentine’s day is the time to deflate super-egos, let down your hair, unstuff shirts or, if you're the gentle type, wax sentimental. In any case, we make it easy to do something, for our gift and card departments have a world of fun and favors you may select for this sweetheart of the day.
“Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
February 13, 1959
33	■
Back PcUfe
a modern threat
by MICHAEL E. PHENNER
to leadership
Today, it is fashionable to condemn the “organization man,” the organization itself, and everything it stands for. Like most extreme positions, sometimes elected as the current intellectual fad of the “common man,” it is a position literally complete in error.
On the contrary, there is an important, if not, an essential role for the student to play on the extracurricular and co-curricular levels of the academic community.
Admittedly, there are some student organizations that are abortions of the role of the university. And they are rightly condemned. Unfortunately, we are too often content to dismiss the entire category because of a minority evil.
In order to form a valid judgment about an organization, it is imperative that we take a close look at the stated purposes. The purpose of any worthwhile student organization must complement the academic role of the university.
The right kind of student organization must, in the final analysis, have as its objective the fulfillment of a higher, social responsibility within the over-all limits of the objectives of the university. By social responsibility, I do not refer to the initiation of dances and the like. Rather, this higher social responsibility is the duty that every student has to contribute to the growth and development of the academic community. By way of example, surely this is the only valid purpose of a student government.
It seems to me that there can be little question that the student has a responsibility to take part in such work—when possible. The student is a member of the university, and therefore shares in the responsibility to improve the academic community. This does not mean that the student must participate in all of the campus organizations, nor does it necessarily mean that he should take part in even one.
Unquestionably, the student’s first responsibility is to do everything he can to be a good student. For some, this is a full-time job, and for them, participation in organizational work is ill-advised. But this is not the case for most college students.
I suggest that the majority of students, after completing required assignments, doing a reasonable amount of connected readings, and attending occasional lectures and concerts, have a vast number of hours which could be used in a better, more constructive way. It is physically and mentally impossible to spend sixteen hours a day in formal study. I am not suggesting that stu
34
dents simply “do something” to keep busy. Rather, it seems to me that students have a very real responsibility to participate in those activities which assist in the development of the academic community and in their own formation. Constant criticism of the university over “coffee in the huddle” is not a particularly constructive way of life.
There is a great deal to say for student work connected with the role of the Catholic layman in society. It is sometimes referred to as the “apostolate of the layman,” and it simply means that all Catholics have a duty to participate in the universal mission of the Church. In short, it is the infusion of Christian principles into the society.
It seems more than just a little absurd to suggest that students have plenty of time in later life to become involved'in the work of the Catholic layman. Unfortunately, it is a lame and naked excuse for apathy. The simple fact of the matter is that the majority of American Catholic college graduates do not participate in the mission of the Church as Catholic laymen. Rather, they are content to fall into the horror of American culture which dictates the eight-hour day of work, and the four-hour evennig and entire week end of television gazing. I do not think that Monsignor Ellis and Father Cavanaugh, among others, are suffering from an optical illusion when they see a dearth of Catholic leadership in America. On the contrary, they see — all too vividly — the sterility of American society.
Thus, it seems to me that it is necessary for the student to become actively engaged in his role as a Catholic layman while in college. If the only role of such activity were to prepare the student for similar work on a larger scale in later life, then it would be well worth the effort. But this is not the case.
The activities that students can and should participate in while in college have important effects that fulfill real needs. By way of example, look for. a moment at some concrete accomplishments of the National Federation of Catholic College Students (NFCCS):	.
— the administration of a scholarship program worth well over $200,000.
— in ten years, the collection of over $5 million in aid and relief for foreign students studying in foreign countries.
— the administration of a European travel program through which many students have educational tours at rates impossible on an individual basis.
I use the Federation as an example only because of my close personal con
nection with it. Surely, it has a great number of defects. Not a small number of them are the result of a massive and often unduly complicated organization. Some of it could be stripped away, but a certain amount of unavoidable administrative waste would still be found. Once again, it is a case of taking s</me bad with a great deal of good.
The point is relatively simple. Student organizations, devoted to the improvement of the academic community and the imparting to students of a dynamic sense of social, apostolic responsibility are highly valuable ends in themselves.
There is still another important effect of the worthwhile organization’s work. That is, the effect on the student who participates. First, the student experiences the realization of personal responsibility. He is relied upon for the fulfillment of an important task, and has to do it within the rigorous limits of an academic schedule. Second, the student is given the opportunity to develop the essential abilities of effective writing and speaking. And they are abilities of which all too few college graduates can boast. And the student is forced, by experience, to learn the difficult lessons of dealing with other people.
Third, and essential, the student realizes valuable experience in the meaning of leadership. It may simply be the lesson of making tough decisions at the cost of popularity and at the personal expense of emotion and acquaintance. Whatever it means, leadership is a lesson that can only be learned by experience, and it is a lesson known by relatively few Americans.
Fourth, and perhaps most important, the student who participates in the worthwhile organization is, in a very real way, discarding the normal student position — that of apathetic and sterile disregard for personal responsibility. Rather than fall into the heresy of a culture that frowns on righteous leadership, the student who participates works to make the academic community a better one. And though he probably fails to change the world in any significant way, he certainly is a better man because of his efforts.
Thus, a closer view of the facts reveals that the right kind of student organization contributes a great deal to the academic community and to the education of the student himself. Perhaps it would be well for us to consider these facts before joining in the present antiorganization “kick” of the would-be intellectuals. .
The Scholastic
Great buy! the trim-fitting ARROW Glen
It’s the shirt with the standout choice in collars — the regular button-down, or permanent stay Arrow Glen. Exclusive Mitoga® tailoring carries through the trim, tapered look from collar to waist to cuff. “Sanforized” broadcloth or oxford in stripes, checks, solids. $4.00 up. Cluetti Peabody & Co.}Inc.
ARROW—
—first in fashion
Look your best...
the ARROW way
Nothing could be smoother than a Mitoga^-tapered Arrow shirt. And we’ve got ’em by the dozens in a broad range of collar styles and colors. Plus the newest stripes and checks. Pxj us a visit.
'GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS	^7 ^13
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend	.
- . - -	■ - :	- ■ ■ ■ ; ' ;
They said it couldrtt • be done...
They said, nobody could d© it but—
L&M is
Low
taste to it
*
in tar
with,
rvt settle for one without the other! 1
©1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company
IiOM is kindest to your taste” says James Amess. “There are two good reasons why I know you’ll like ’em. They’re truly low in tar, with more exciting taste than you’ll find in any other cigarette.”
LOW TAR: IfM’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke... makes L&M truly low in tar.
MORE TASTE: IfM’s rich mixture of slow burning tobaccos brings you more exciting taste than any other cigarette.
Live Modern... change to modern L‘M