o
3
9
s
c. >
0 0 t
_V(.
o°o&

Vr-'C': WO


fewS
'Pr>rz-—i
-P<S

o
V
c
0
v,c

The famous Rose Bowl Seats 95,000 people.
Yet it would take
More than ten Rose Bowls
To hold
All the parents
And merchants
And farmers
And everyday people In all walks of life Who are
Bell System stockholders.
About 975,000 people—including 200,000 telephone employeesHave invested
A part of their savings In the telephone business.
It’s their money
That helps make possible
This country’s
Top-notch telephone service— A service vital to our National defense effort.



05^5^



pfe^O;



‘ii

&
ibr
ww
<7

POPULAR
with
COLLEGE MEN

White Oxford Cloth
ROLL COLLAR SHIRTS
Regularly $3.95
BUTTON-DOWN style shirt in soft, comfortable white oxford cloth, with the wanted widespread roll collar and French cuffs. A shirt for new comfort as well as style, destined to remain a favorite of college men. Sizes 14 to 17.
^GILBERT'S
OPEN EVERY EVENING until 9:00
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN ST.
Review
3
Look ... and feel... your beat in a smartly tailored
SHRADMOOR TUXEDO
Correct in every detail... and only
39.50
Shradmoor Tuxedos are tailored to give you the comfort of a business suit, yet, detailed for correct formal appearance. Sizes for ALL men . . . even you who wear EXTRA long. Adler fitted . . . your assurance of a smooth, perfectly-groomed appearance.
New “Tony Martin” Single breasted Tux . . . 65.00
Varsity Town Full Dress Suits or Tuxedos . . . 58.00
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
fora
SUCCESSFUL SEASON
We are proud of Notre Dame
We too are receiving plaudits for the excellence of our
•	ALUMINUM WINDOWS
•	THERMOPANE
•	STORE FRONT DESIGNS
•	VITROLITE BATHS
•	GLASS and GLAZING
•	CUSTOM MIRRORS
We will gladly help you with any of your Glass or Paint Problems.
INTERSTATE
Glass and Paint Co., Inc.
South Bend
4-1164	4-1164

Football j
YOU PAY
NO MORE
for Dance
Lessons at
• You actually save money because you learn the new dances in a fraction of the usual time.

f k
DANCE AFTER ONLY ONE LESSON
Arthur Murray’s amazing Magic Step gives you the shortcut to mastery’ of all the new steps! His talented experts quickly bring out your natural grace and sense of rhythm — make you fun to dance with and a pleasure to watch.
With the prestige of Arthur Murray behind you, you step out with new confidence ... to new popularity.
See what Arthur Murray offers you. Come in or phone 2-3339.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE, SOUTH BEND Call 2-3,339 for a FREE Trial Lesson Today.
Review
6
I k WO sklis TMSt
Burt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll (the college man's staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.
Range—fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread collar. Made by "Manhattan,” which means perfect fit.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of "Manhattan” shirts, ties, / underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs. |
Vol. 92 December 8. 1950 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52...............    News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52....Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51...........Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52................ Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52.....Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51....Photography LEON GARDNER, '52......._Librarian M. A. ALEXANDER...........Advertising WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51......Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '52____________Circulation JAMES ROGERS '51.........Circulation
DALE FRANCIS____________Faculty Moderator
;	Member of Catholic School Press Association. AsI	sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national
:	advertising by National .Advertising Service, Inc.,
i 420 Madison Asenue. New A'ork City.
1	3 he SciiohstiC is published weekly during the
' school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the L'nivetsitv of Notre Dame. Ad-
; dress all manusctipts to the Editot. Box 185. Notre I Dame. Indiana.
Contributors to Football Issue
News Staff: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Valentine Chun, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Robert Finney, Thomas Godfrey, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, William Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Paul Zalecki, Ronald Zier.
Sports Staff; Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust, Joe Straub.
Photography Staff: Gorden Brick-son, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., and Jerry Sheehan.
Feature Staff: Larry McDermott and Dan Brennan.
8
IN tin summri. kiovu’.o ( .ixs.inth'j' inidhbd tin i'im Nolit l),nn< footb.dd num would me't withmb.it 1 m » w m i, >lk >.i id the 11 m- w mum- str- a k w .is In mud t< > bi t .i k But tin w a 11>-m- i'll <>r, <!, ,ii t.. i • Nmiix spun* wiittis. I.ms. lov.il student* would ha\e nothin'-! to do with si.< h t ilk.	Illi n .mi w .is rome to be m no.it .is , \ < r noth inn i ould stop us
L \LL\ notlmir ■ onio \\ , wt bi .m u. sm. . but that didn't stop us. \\ hat tin pioplu is had not b- < n ai>l. to tmndl w.o tin wax di lent was to be ,i< i < pn d at Noto Dame A\ hetln i w< lost, won o: t’i tlior was -uu thm- that o maim d lotM.int tl’.toimhout tin st a*on
T
■ I wa' 'pint liisf.o: oi d\’nu ,dt'i th- Putdue d< hat it irow No ti am m the lountrx i ould !ia\i aski d mi eir af i siippoit
SW hLLIXG m \obmn . tin spun oi tin student bod\ was almost unbrlte\abb But the students dum t thmk so It was mr] oh som< thin” e.\pe< ted of Nott i Daim mtn If we < ould m 11 ami bi pomd o| tin u .m w in n the\ wm w mntne. we < ould do the s.mn w hen the uomu was iouhh.
l l LRE tlun. looking n.n k on it. wa< a season to rememlx i
T
Too 'Maisch’ for Rebels
By FRANK RONNENBERG, ’52
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 30.—Today, under a boiling hot sun that drove the thermometer upwards of 75 degrees, a fighting Notre Dame football team successfully stifled North Carolina’s bid for gridiron fame. It was a tremendously keyed up team that Carl Snavely brought to South Bend but sparked by the brilliant passing of Bob Williams, the Irish forced the Tarheels to capitulate by a score of 14-7.
The closeness of the score cannot even approximate the closeness of the struggle. Notre Dame Stadium shook undei" the impact of 56,500 wildly cheering fans who were talking upset for the major portion of the game.
It was all Irish in the opening minutes thanks to a bad case of jitters suffered by the boys from Chapel Hill. The Irish kicked off to open the game and Carolina end Tom Higgins promptly fumbled the ball. Paul Burns fell on it for the Irish and they were first and ten on the Tarheel 23. However, a clipping penalty forced the Irish to punt and Carolina took over on their own 20-yard line. Then, on the first play from scrimmage, wingback Bud Wallace let the pass from center elude him and Bob Toneff fell on it for Notre Dame on the Tarheel ten. On fourth down, with three yards to go, Bob Williams passed to Jim Mutscheller in the end zone. Joe Caprara
Mutscheller grabs pass from Williams (9) to score first Irish touchdown of season.
kicked the extra point and after two minutes and 40 seconds, the Irish led, 7-0.
Notre Dame started again a few moments later after a Carolina punt had put them back to their own 14. Bill Barrett took a pitchout from Bob Williams, cut back and raced 52 yards to the Carolina 32. It looked like another day in the country for the Irish but the optimism was short lived. Carolina held, took over on downs and the punting duel began. When the air finally cleared the Irish found themselves back on their own 25. Williams promptly filled the air with passes and on the strength of five completions, Notre Dame drove to the Tarheel 20-yard line. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, Dick Bunting of North Carolina was on the receiving end of Williams’ sixth pass and the Irish were stymied for the third time. An interception of a Hayes pass by Bill Gay closed out Carolina’s only threat to Notre Dame’s lead and the half ended soon after.
There was an aura of expectancy about the crowd as the second half opened. The Irish ground attack, with the exception of Barrett’s run, had failed to materialize and the Tarheels appeared late in the half to be getting the range of Williams’ passes. In addition, Carolina’s case of nerves was over and their
offense was becoming more formidable. The second half looked like a tough haul for the Irish. It was.
The Tarheels made their first drive early in the third quarter. Starting deep in his own territory, Bunting carried to the Irish 49 in two plays. After Hayes completed a pass to the 33, he circled the Irish left end to the 9, then burst through the middle to the one. That is as far as the Tarheels got that trip though. After two plunges failed
CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, Oct. 1
Dick Hackenberg
Twenty million people across the nation refused to believe their eyes. Football history was in the making on their television screens. Then, before the greatest assemblage ever to watch a grid contest, the Irish pulled it out.
to crack the hai'd charging Notre Dame line a fourth down desperation pass was intercepted by Burns. Burns took off like a scared jackrabbit and ran the ball out to the Tarheel 48.
The ball changed hands several times and then Carolina struck again. With Hayes and Cooke leading the charge, they stormed to the Notre Dame 20-yard line in five plays. Two plays later Bud Wallace circled right end for a touchdown and Sherman tied the score with a perfect placement.
The crowd slowly recovered from their stunned surprise and sat back to watch, certain that Notre Dame would now come roaring back. Such was not the case; Carolina wouldn’t let them. They continued to drive and fight and carry the attack to the Irish.
Late in the fourth period, Notre Dame started moving. Williams passed to Landry for 15 yards and then passed again to Landry over the center of the line. The Irish had a first down on the North Carolina 36-yard line, but there were only two minutes and 40 seconds to go. Williams again faded to pass and this time he hit Jim Mutscheller in the end zone for the ■winning score.
The clock ran out on North Carolina, and Notre Dame, scoring early and scoring late, had run its string to 39.
12
Football
Boilermakers End It All 28-11
By JIM BRISLIN, ’52
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 7.—Modern football’s longest unbeaten streak was brought to a sudden close this afternoon when Purdue brought mighty Notre Dame to its knees for the first time in 40 games. More than 56,000 unbelieving fans huddled in the Stadium and watched the Boilermakers give the Irish a 28-14 walloping in a game that ended in a driving rain.
The Boilermakers, who held a 21-0 half-time lead, weathered a late Notre Dame rally to record their first victory over the Irish since 1933. The final score represents the worst defeat absorbed by a Leahy-coached Notre Dame team. A 32-20 loss to Michigan in 1942 was the previous high. That game was the last Notre Dame defeat on home soil until the Boilermakers turned the trick.
The last time the Irish were defeated previously was by the Great Lakes service team, 39-7, on Dec. 1, 1945. Since then Leahy’s Legions amassed the greatest record, in modern football by rolling through 39 consecutive games without a loss. Only ties with Army in 1946 and Southern California in 1948 marred an otherwise perfect record. This was only the fourth loss absorbed by a Leahy-coached team in eight seasons under the Golden Dome.
The Purdue victory was no fluke. The Boilermakers were in command throughout, and the 56,748 fans huddled in the
CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, Oct. 8
Jack Clarke
In Dublin town the flags droop at halfmast. The wail of the banshee echoes mournfully across Killarney’s lakes and dells. Hearts are heavy where the River Shannon flows and men speak in awed whispers of the worst disaster to afflict the Irish since the great potato famine.
After avoiding defeat for 39 straight games Notre Dame, most westerly bastion of the Emerald Isle, lost to Purdue here Saturday.
Stadium realized early that they were going to witness the impossible. The whole team was up, but the main factor in the upset was the passing and field generalship of quarterback Dale Samuels. The 161-pound Sophomore from Chicago gained 158 yards through the
air and handled the green Purdue team like a master.
Veteran fullback John Kerestes and halfback Neil Schmidt picked up 81 and 80 yards, respectively, through the once iron-clad Irish forward wall.
A hard-rushing Purdue line and alert pass defenders made this afternoon one of the poorest Bob Williams had ever experienced. The Baltimore lad completed seven passes in 22 tries for a net gain of only 46 yards.
Purdue got off to a 7-0 lead in the first quarter. An exchange of punts gave the Boilermakers the ball on the Notre Dame 49. Schmidt carried to a first down on the 32, and a Samuels pass was ruled complete on the two on interference. Kerestes went over from there and Samuels converted.
The Irish couldn’t get out of theii' own territory in the second quarter, and Purdue scored twice as the game began to give indications of turning into a rout.
After one of Notre Dame’s patented goal line stands stopped the visitors on the seven, Williams punted out of bounds on the Irish 42. A Samuels to Schmidt pass put the ball on the six, and Kerestes went over on two carries foi* his second touchdown of the afternoon. With eight minutes remaining of the period, Samuels converted to make it 14-0.
. Notre Dame failed to move, and Purdue took ovei- on downs at midfield. Kerestes and Schmidt cracked to a first down on the 39. An offside penalty set them back to the 44.
After a pitchout to Schmidt gained 14, Samuels tossed to the halfback and Purdue romped off the field with a 21-0 lead as the half ended.
The Notre Dame team that took the field to start the second half may not have been one of the greatest to ever represent the University, but they were one of the fightingest. Outplayed in every department throughout the first half, they came back strong. They outfought the boys from Lafayette, and came awfully close to a win.
As the third period opened, Cotter recovered a Purdue fumble on the 12. Barrett and Gay moved to the three, where Landry failed to gain. On fourth down, Williams passed to Mutscheller for the x'D. Caprara converted making it 21-7.
Purdue was fighting, too. After an exchange of punts, Barrett’s fumble was recovered by Montgomery on the 18. Six plays later the Boilermakers were on the one, but Samuels was stopped a foot short and Kerestes lost two as the Trish took over.
Another punt exchange gave Notre Dame possession on their 27. Purdue was penalized to the 43 for unnecessary roughness and Barrett legged it to the visitors’ 23. Three plays carried to the ten. Petitbon went over left tackle for the score; Caprara converted.
It was not to be, however. Samuels completed a third down pass to Maccioli on the Irish 45, and he went all the way to wrap it up, 28-14.
After the game, as Coach Holcomb was bombarded with well-wishers, his players leaped over benches and shouted at the top of their lungs.
The coach kept saying, “It’s wonderful, wonderful. I’ll feel better in three or four hours. Right now I honestly don’t know how I feel. I didn’t think we could do it. I just hoped.”
Diminutive Dale Samuels said, “We could have licked the whole state of Texas today. The whole week long I had a feeling we were going to win. We were up for this game.”
Groom, Mutscheller, Burns (64) move in on Boilermaker back.
Review
13
.'-."SI
■'B .w
‘
■
Text by KEN THOREN, ’51, Scholastic Editor Jp|.


Coach Leahy confers with Coach Bill Earley (above left) before sending Bob Williams into play. Leahy looks pensive as minutes run out (above right). After the Purdue defeat the Coach is surrounded by reporters in equipment part of locker room.

Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 7.—Notre Dame’s dressing room that had echoed with whoops and hollers the past four 1 years was silent a little before five tonight.
The few intruders in the equipment room talked in whispers. When Coach Frank Leahy walked in they seemed reti-cent about asking questions. The coacldgi apparently understood for he spoke first. W
“Gentlemen, we lost to a better team ’ than we were today. But if we had to lose I am glad it was to a time-honored foe like Purdue. That Purdue team was great. They didn’t make any mistakes . . . offensively, they were superb.” '
Leahy peered dejectedly at the coffee he was holding and waited for questions.
How about the breaks?
“The breaks usually go that is most alert. We have lost to a team that was ours.”
to the team no alibis; we better than
Characteristically, Leahy put the blame on himself. “We were outcoached,” he said.
And next week?
“I haven’t thought about that yet, but one thing is certain—we’ll show up.”
Coach Leahy turned and walked down the locker room aisle. He stopped and spoke to his players as he went. The only noise in the room was made by the hiss of showers. Chuck Feigl came up to the coach, tried to talk, then broke down.

riau&fisrassse&ae
Irish Fell
‘os by JIM McLAUGHLIN, ?51, Photo Editor
buck up Captain Jerry Groom (center bottom) some words of encouragement after the loss.
cause the . win—had
Herb Jones try to father also offers
Irish—the Irish who fight to lost today.
Julius Tucker and while (above) his
The players were all silent as they towelled themselves but their red-rimmed eyes said a lot more than theii" words could ever express. You could see they were more exhausted mentally than physically.
Bob Williams looked stunned. His face . was gaunt and expressionless. He beg-^ged off with, “What can I say? What is there to say?”
Though the locker room was quiet, several thousand loyal students stood outside in a cold, drizzling rain, cheering and yelling for Leahy and the team.
The coach went out and the crowd hushed. “Men, a lot of people will be watching how we take this adversity.
“It’s a real test of real men to be able to lose like champions.” The crowd roared, “We’re behind you, coach.”
( Then they started chanting for the 'players. As each one came out the locker room door he was lifted aloft and earned part way back to the campus. The band was playing and the students kept up their loyal cheering. Over in Purdue’s dressing room there was a celebration of a different type going on.
But in Notre Dame’s quarters there was no noise. The few remaining players dressed slowly, as if it was a chore. Everything was sort of sad in there be-
A huge crowd of loyal ND students waited for their team in a cold, drizzling rain. They show Bob Williams (above and below) that defeat doesn't damnen s»mK
Brothers John and Richey Petitbon sparked teams in ND and NORD games.
Tulane Toppled 13-9
By BILL LONDO, ’53
a perfect strike to John Petitbon. Dashing John, performing before his home town neighbors, turned on his speed and romped the distance to the score. Joe Caprara added the tying point.
Looking for the first time this season like the Iiish of past years, Notre Dame forged into the lead in the second period when they rolled 67 yards to tally what proved to be the winning marker. Williams mixed his plays beautifully, using passes to Mutscheller and Petitbon as crucial ground gainers. The grand finale came on a handoff to Del Gander. "Goose” spun ten yards up the middle and dove into paydirt.
After the intermission the men from New Orleans battered the Irish forward wall again and again, but they could not push across the tying score. Meanwhile,
New Orleans, La., Oct. 14.—The brilliant right arm of All-American Bob Williams was hotter than the broiling New Orleans sun today, as the Irish skipper calmed a tempestuous Tulane Green Wave and guided Notre Danie’s victory ship, wrecked by the Purdue holocaust a week before, to a heartrending 13-9 win.
Almost 75,(1(10 sweltering fans, including 400 Irish student trippers, jammed the huge Sugar Bowl to watch the Baltimore Bullet pass Notre Dame to its sixth straight triumph over the Louisianians.
It wa- a bruising battle, this last in the current series between the pupils of two of America’s top football professors, Frank Leahy and Henry Frnka. Notre Dame’s Bill Barrett had to be carried from the field in the first half and he was followed to the sidelines by a parade of injured from both sides.
Tulane whetted the appetite of its upset hungry rooters when it took the opening kickoff and in five plays marched (53 yards for a touchdown. The main appetizer was a 34-yard pass from Joe Ernst to Ellsworth Kingery which carried to Notre Dame's four, George Kinek cut around the Irish flank to score from there.
This only served to rile up the temper of Leahy’s lads, who, to the delight of their pleading fellow students, rushed to tie the count at seven all. Two Williams aerials ate up most of the 80 yards the Irish marched.
The first was a 23-yard heave to Jim Mutscheller who made a leaping catch on Notre Dame’s 42. After a smash at the rugged Wave line failed, the Irish field general calmly faded and pitched
16
L i
NEW YORK TIMES. Oct. 15
ND beat Tulane. 13 to 9. today, but the brains, the driving legs, and the passing arm of quarterback Bob Williams was all that saved the Irish from another Saturday of defeat.
Notre Dame could muster only one sustained drive in the final 30 minutes, a third quarter scoring bid engineered with a double quarterback, Williams and John Mazur, under the center.
This attack sputtered to a halt and then the Wave launched one of their own which almost snatched victory from the Irish warriors. Kinek, a great Greenie halfback all afternoon, broke away for 48 yards to the Notre Dame 10-yard line. The Tulane speedster was
finally shoved out of bounds by Bill Gay’s last second lunge. Two plays later Captain Jerry Groom spiked the threat by pouncing on a fumble.
The fired-up Southerners dropped Williams behind his own goal line to give Tulane its last two points and trim the Irish lead to 13-9. Only the Baltimore Beauty’s booming punts kept the Wave away from Notre Dame’s goal the rest of the way.
Leahy’s running attack was completely stymied by the Wave. Tulane’s line led by tackles Paul Lea and Don Joyce, and bulwarked by massive Jerome Hel-luin, throttled the Irish ground game to a meager 34 yards, while the Greenie backs ripped for 224 yards behind their savage blocking.
The superb line play only made the exploits of Williams all the more remarkable. Bob was rushed badly throughout the game and at one point had to be helped from the field after a vicious tackle by the 280-pound Helluin. Yet, Williams completed 16 out of 35 passes for 225 yards and had a punting average of nearly 43 yards.
Although Tulane’s forward wall was tremendous, Notre Dame had its heroes up front, too. Captain Groom played what was perhaps his outstanding game. He backed up the line as only Groom can do, called defensive signals shrewdly, and played the entire game on offense. Two Sophomores, Jim Dunlay and Bob Kelly, were especially effective, as was Groom’s line backing cohort, Byron Boji.
By winning, Notre Dame proved its ability to bounce back from defeat, something an Irish eleven had not been called upon to do for five years.

Spirited Seniors are full of enthusiasm as the special train hurtles southward.
DIXIE INVASION!
Over the centuries many have been awed by the yearly flight southward for lush Gulf Stream climes of drove upon drove of Canadian geese. However, this year as in every year, there was an equally awe-inspiring migration from Notre Dame, but one which did not receive the glory of the goose. The student trip.
This year’s hegira was to New Orleans, Deauville on the Delta, where the toppling of Tulane and the city’s Creole charm made for a memorable week end. The move, made in the native element of fam's familiaris, the day coach, also will go down in history. However, the geese get to stay longer.
Wide and brightly lighted Canal Street war. waiting to welcome the 336 trippers.
Dixie-bound men (above left) play bridge and sightsee. After the 21-hour trip the rooters arrive at the N’Orleans station (above right). Some of the ND spirit is transplanted to the Crescent City (below left) over the weekend. Hushed, but happy, men return.

Indiana Surprises
Irish 20-7


Bloomington, Ind., Oct. 21.—A victory-starved crowd of 34,000 Indiana partisans went crazy in the packed confines of Memorial Stadium this afternoon, as Clyde Smith’s not-so-humble Hoosiers rose up and smacked down the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, 20-7. It was the first Indiana victory in the series since 1906.
From early in the first quarter, the Hoosiers left little doubt that they intended to win this game. Van Ooyen kicked off for Indiana, and Landry of Notre Dame carried to the Irish 33. In three plays the hard-charging Indiana line pushed the Notre Darners back to the 31. Then Bob Williams kicked. Hoosier Gedman took the ball on his own 20-yard line, cut to the left and started down the sideline. Vicious Indiana blocking cleared a lane for him, and he made it all the way to the Notre Dame 19.
For a short time it looked as if the Irish would stiffen and hold. Three plays gained only five yards. Lou D’Achille, a stumpy will-o’-the-wisp who baffled the Notre Dame line all day with his elusive pass-on-the-run method of play, was knocked down back on the 24 yard marker. However, an off-side penalty against the Irish gave the Hoosiers another chance, with fourth and a half-yard to go on the Irish 11 yard line. Again Gedman was a key man in the Hoosier success story. He picked up two yards to the Irish nine for a first down. First
1
By BILL RILEY, ’52
and goal. Gedman cracked right tackle for one yard. Then D’Achille faked to Robertson hitting the middle, faded and rifled a pass to Luft for a touchdown. D’Achille failed to convert and Indiana led, 6-0.
The next time the Hoosiers got the ball, they started another touchdown drive. This time it was South Bend’s Bobby Robertson who combined with D’Achille made the Hoosiers roll downfield. Two Robertson runs gained two first downs for- the Hoosiers after other backs failed to make the necessary distance. Then D’Achille, who had brought Indiana from their own 20 to the Irish 40 in six plays, faded to pass.
It was a typical D’Achille pass play. With the Notre Dame defensive backfield uncertain whether he was going to pass or run, Lou would stop, plant his feet and flip a pass to an uncovered receiver. This time it was Gedman, and he went all the way to the Irish 26.
Then Gedman went for six to the 20. Tussie gained one through the middle. Again D’Achille, who was a Beaver Falls, Pa., high school teammate of Irish end Jim Mutscheller, passed. Robertson took the heave to the Irish 1-5 for a first-and-
ten. In two carries the South Bend speedster, who never looked greater than he did today, was over. This time D’Achille split the posts, and the score was Indiana, 13; Notre Dame, 0.
The second half started out as if they were showing movies of the opening of the game. On the second play the Hoosiers scored. Vince Meschievitz kicked off to Robertson who caught the ball on the . J. ten and carried it to the Indiana 17. Then on a quick-opening straight overguard play, Robertson churned through the middle of the line, veered to his right when he got into the secondary, aimed for the sidelines, and outraced all Irish defenders, going 83 yards for a touchdown. D’Achille converted, and the Hoosiers had a big 20 point lead.
Immediately after this spectacular running performance on the part of Bobby Robertson the Irish fought back. Pe-titbon fumbled on the first series of ,. downs after the kick-off, but the Notre Dame line smothered D’Achille for two huge losses as he tried to pass. After Robertson kicked into the end zone, Notre Dame began to function.
Williams passed to Gander for 19 yards to the 39, but was hurt on the
CHARLES BARTLETT
Chicago Tribune
And then, kiddies, on the 4th Saturday of the daffy 1950 football season Indiana’s Hoosiers reared back and beat the mighty Notre Danies. There was no fooling about it either. The score was 20-7.
play. John Mazur replaced him. Mazur proved right then his ability in a tight spot. Calling a screen pass, John hit Del Gander, who rambled to the Hoosier 39 for a fii-st down. Then Mazur- threw an orthodox heave to Jim Mutscheller on the Indiana 25; Mutscheller caught the ball on the dead run and picked up seven more yards before he was pulled down. It was Notre Dame’s ball first and ten on the Hoosier 18.
Gander picked up four. Mazur’s pass, intended for Gander, was incomplete. Gander moved into the middle of the line for six—or almost. Williams came back in, ran a quarterback sneak into the center for one and a first-and-ten. Then Gander hit the middle of the line again, this time for eight yards and a touchdown. Joe Caprara converted to make the score 20-7.
Football
Quarterback Mazur spots his target and gets set to pass from behind his own goal line as teammates block Spartan tacklers.
X. Spartans Win 36-83 Thriller
A.
South Bend, Ind., Oct. 28.—Striving as it has never done before to live up to the accolade “Fighting Irish,” a heroic but undermanned Notre Dame team succumbed before an overpowering Michigan State eleven. The final score showed a 36-33 Spartan victory, but this difference would have been as meaningless as previous advantages proved to be, had the length of the game either been abbreviated or extended. A bipartisan crowd of 57,886 saw as close and as hard fought a game as has ever-graced the local gridiron.
Brought to fever pitch by three days of incessant cheering, begging, and pleading from the student body the Irish opened the scoring with a 19-yard pass from John Mazur to Jim Mutscheller. The Gridiron Goliath from Michigan refused to be pestered by this impudent tally, and immediately threatened to turn the game into a rout with three touchdowns of its own. Runs of 15 and seven yards by Vince Pisano and Sonny Grandelius and two extra points by Bob Carey put the Spartans ahead, 14-6.
The Notre Dame offense was hurled back to its one-yard line after receiving the kickoff, and on fourth down a Williams punt was blocked in the end zone. The ball scooted across the field parallel to the goal line before Doug Weaver pounced upon it to give the Greenies a two-touchdown advantage. The Irish quickly recovered as John Petitbon climaxed an 85-yard drive with a five-yard
Review
By JACK ECONOMOU, ’52
plunge. Thus, with less than 16 minutes having expired, 33 points had been tallied as the teams played themselves into exhaustion. The rest of the second period was scoreless as State defended its 20-13 lead.
Shortly after the start of the second half, the game’s deciding points were to be scored. Bob Carey, standout Spartan end, kicked a 39-yard field goal at a difficult angle. Revitalized and spurred on by the never-ending pleas of its fans, the Irish roared back for two tallies which put them into the lead. Williams and Mutscheller collaborated for both scores and a 26-23 Notre Dame advantage.
This lead was also short-lived, as the Spartans scored two touchdowns of their own to complete their scoring. Long drives were climaxed by short plunges by Grandelius and Don McAuliffe to give the Michiganders a 10-point lead. With minutes left John Mazur hit Jerry Marchand for a touchdown which again rekindled Irish hopes. Father Time put a damper on any hope of a quick ND tally, however, as the game ended with a Spartan victory.
In every other respect, morally, statistically, and courageously, it was a
Notre Dame victory. State’s 341 yards total offense was dwarfed by the Irish count of 526. John Petitbon stole individual honors from Grandelius and Pisano as he scooted 1.71 yards in 10 tries before being carried off the field in a state of complete exhaustion.
Had the Irish won, however, the victory would have been a students’ triumph. Seldom has a student body roused itself and its team to such a high psychological pitch. Early in the week spontaneous banners, leaflets, and posters proclaimed trouble for Michigan State. Friday was a day of incessant cheering as Notre Dame men flocked around the team dressing room in the afternoon, and transformed night into day with a huge torchlight procession that evening. After an outdoor pep rally, climaxed by a huge bonfire, hundreds of students marched downtown to continue its appeal for victory on the streets of South Bend.
A casual observer in Northern Indiana on that Saturday afternoon would have sworn that the thunder was being shaken down from the skies. For three solid hours the cheers, appeals, and clamour filled the huge bowl as the Irish squad, seemingly crushed by the Spartan machine, was revived from defeat by the roars of the crowd. As the final gun went off, the student body paid homage to its heroic team by cheering at high pitch for five minutes. Then the men of Notre Dame filed out chanting “Go Irish—Beat Navy.”
... ~	19.
Bakke, Groom shake hands after game.
Cleveland, Ohio, Nov. 4.—The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame found the Middies of Navy and the mud of Municipal Stadium rough competition as they were forced to come from behind twice to squeeze a 19-10 victory out of Coach Eddie Erdelatz’s valiant Midshipman eleven. A crowd of 71,074, shivering from the icy blasts of rain and snow from nearby Lake Erie, watched as the running of fullback Jack Landry and the passing of quarterback Bob Williams spelled the difference between the two teams.
Navy drew first blood on a pass interception. early in the second quarter. On the second play of the second quarter
Wet Navy Sinks
By JACK VARLEY, ’52 Assistant Sports Editor
guard Paul Burns recovered a Navy fumble on the Irish six. But two plays later a Williams pass was intercepted by Tar halfback Bill Powers on the 20 from which he returned it to the three. Powers picked up two yards in two attempts and then quarterback Bob Zastrow piled over the center for the remaining yard and the score. Fullback Roger Drew’s conversion attempt was good and the Middies led, 7-0.	’
Late in the same quarter, halfback Dave Flood intercepted a Zastrow pass on the Irish 36. Then, Landry exploded through the center of the Middie line and wasn’t stopped until he was forced out of bounds on the Tar ten-yard line. Halfback Jerry Marchand and Landry both knocked at Navy’s forward wall, but couldn’t find an opening so Williams tried a pass to end Chester Ostrowski which was good for five yards. On the next play Williams passed to halfback Bill Gay in the end zone for the touchdown. Fullback Joe Caprara kicked the extra point and the half ended in a 7-7 deadlock.
The second half opened with Drew kicking off for Navy. Notre Dame took the ball on its own 20, but could not move it any farther than the 26. Williams got off a low kick that Powers took on the Navy 35 and returned to the 43. Then Powers and Halfback Frank Hauff combined to drive to the Tars’ 48. Zastrow passed to Powers for 19 yards and a first down on the Notre Dame 33. Another run by Powers and an offside
penalty against the Irish placed the ball on the 24. Hauff picked up another first down on the 14. Three plays later Zastrow’s pass from the 12 was knocked down and Drew came in to attempt a field goal. Kicking from the 19, his attempt was good and the Middies again went into the lead, this time, 10-7.
Navy kicked off. Flood caught the ball on the five and returned it to the 24. Landry carried the ball three times and picked up 12 yards and a first down on the Irish 36. Two plays later Williams tossed to end Jim Mutscheller for another first down and Frank Leahy’s lads were on the move. Landry, halfback Murray Johnson, and halfback Dick Cotter combined to drive to the Tars’ 30. Williams passed to Ostrowski for seven yards. Johnson lost two, but Landry picked up these two and 12 more two plays later to place the ball on the 11. Williams tossed a pass to Ostrowski who caught it on the five, and then another one for the score. Caprara’s boot was bad, but the Irish were once again out in front.
Early in the last quarter Notre Dame put the game on ice when Groom bolted through the line to block Quarterback Bob Cameron’s punt. Wiethman recovered for the Irish on the Middie 17. Landry carried the ball for nine yardsz three yards and then bolted through the center for the remaining five yards and the score. Again Caprara missed the conversion to make the final score read Notre Dame 19, Navy 10.
Irish converge on Hauff (22) as he reaches for Zastrow pass.
Alert Dave Flood (32) breaks up Navy pass in Irish end zone.
20
Football
John Petitbon fights Panthers for ball. Reynolds of Pitt gets good blocking as he roars through a hole in the Irish line.
Pitt Loses 18-7 Air Battle
By FRAN MEANEY, ’54
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 11.—This afternoon, in the final home appearance of the year, the Irish terrier handily tamed the Pittsburgh panther for an 18-7 victory in chilly, snow-swept Notre Dame Stadium.
A capacity homecoming crowd of 56,966 looked on as the Notre Dame crew combined air power with ground strength to down the stubborn Pennsylvanians. Midway through the first half Bob Williams gunned two scoring passes to give the Irish a 12-0 edge at intermission. And, when Pitt rallied late in the third period with a TD aerial to pull within five points of a tie, Notre Dame launched her longest drive of the day to ice the game on Jack Landry’s line plunge.
The game produced a plentiful supply of aerials as the two teams made a total of 47 pass attempts. By connecting on 13 out of 21 attempted passes, All-American Bob Williams smashed another all-time Notre Dame record by raising his collegiate completion total to 172, thus eclipsing the old mark of 169 set by Angelo Bertelli. Pittsburgh tried only a half dozen passes in the initial half; but, when stymied on the ground by the Irish defensive line—which allowed a mere 20 yards for the entire game, the truearmed Bob Bestwick went aloft to complete 16 out of 19 post-intermission thrusts for 212 yards and a touchdown.
Neither team could get a sustained drive under* way until near the end of the opening period. After Notre Dame took over a Pitt punt on her own 30-
yard line, Williams sneaked for seven yards and followed with a flip to left end Ostrowski for a first down on the 48. Petitbon sliced off left tackle into Panther territory, and on the next play caught a Williams pass for 16 yards more. Slanting through left guard, Dick Cotter moved seven yards to the Pitt 25. Landry gained the 20 on two line smashes. A Williams-Cotter pass and a yard loss by Landry put the ball on the 15. Williams faded and went for the distance, but Bill Reynolds leaped in front of Petitbon at the last moment to bat the ball away. Notre Dame was not to be denied, however, and a fourth down bullet found Mutscheller on the two, from where he bulled across the last stripe.
On the first play from scrimmage after the ensuing kickoff, Pitt fumbled and Bill Gay recovered for Notre Dame on the Panther 38. The 26 was reached in six plays. Then Landry snared a Williams toss in the deep left flat for* 10 yards and a first down. The All-American quarterback threw again following an Irish offside penalty and hit Ostrowski on the 12. Wasting no time, Williams pitched to Petitbon in the right corner of the end zone for the tally.
Meanwhile, the Panthers were not standing idly by. Twice in the second period they roared deep into Irish territory, but a penalty nullified a scoring pass and Groom & Co. halted the second drive on the five.
Eight plays were all the Panthers needed when they finally registered, their
lone score in the third period on a 70-yard march. Sparked by Bestwick passes of 10, 8 and 22 yards, Coach Len Casanova’s boys reached the ND 28. Bob Kelly tackled fullback Capp for a loss, but a pass-lateral from Bestwick to War-riner to. Sichko netted 15 yards. Right end Nick De Rosa cut over the middle and slid to his knees in the end zone, but still managed to gather, in Bestwick’s lob for the TD. The PAT attempt was wide but an Irish offside gave Nick Bolkovac another chance which he made good.
Notre Dame bounced back with her best effort of the day. Dick Cotter, the game’s leading ground gainer, sped from the ND 19 behind a double flanker to the right for 11 yards. Four downs and a 15-yard Irish penalty later, the ball rested on the 35. With second and 18, a Williams-Ostrowski quickie clicked for eight yards as the third frame ended. Again the Chicago Junior latched onto a Williams heave, this time to the Pitt 43 for a first down. Notre Dame pushed to the 25 and then Landry boomed through left tackle for 22 yards to the three. Two plays later Landry climaxed the 81-yard offensive by crashing through center for the final Irish six-pointer. Ed Whelan missed the PAT as had Joe Caprara the earlier attempts.
Refusing to fold, Pitt filled the air* with passes. On the last play of the game, Bestwick threw, from the ND 49 to Warriner, who went all the way to the seven before Tom Carter hauled him down.
Review
21
Irish Eke Out a Tie
By JACK POWERS, ’52 News Editor
Iowa City, la., Nov. 18.—Once again this year the Fighting Irish had to come from behind, this time to tie the Iowa Hawkeyes, 14-14. Notre Dame trailed 14-0 at the end of the first quarter after Iowa intercepted two of Bob Williams’ passes and turned them into touchdowns.
The Irish made certain of at least a .500 mark for the season this afternoon, with four wins and three defeats already in the book. The game also marked the first tie in the nine-game series with Iowa. Notre Dame has taken the last five. It was the first tie game the Irish have played since 1948, when they tied Southern California 14-14 in the last minute of play.
The difference between deadlock and defeat today was Sophomore Vince Meschievitz who kicked both extra points. It was the first time this year that the Chicago kick-off artist was called upon to deliver the PAT. Meschievitz, a 19-year-old end, was heralded earlier as a great line prospect. He broke into the big time today with two perfect kicks that saved the game.
First of the Hawkeye breaks came early in the first period when Bob Lage intercepted a deflected Williams pass on the Notre Dame 23-yard line. Iowa gained a first down in four plays and then halfback Don Commack took the ball for 13 yards and a touchdown with less than three minutes of the game
Vince Meschievitz kicks the fourteenth point
gone. Fullback Reichardt made the conversion.
A few minutes later Iowa stopped a Notre Dame drive with another interception. Guard Austin Turner grabbed a Williams pass on the ND 42 and brought it to the 20. Irish defensive star John Helwig momentarily halted this threat when he intercepted Glenn Drahn’s short pass on the 16. But again, on the third down, the Hawkeyes grabbed another Williams pass. Guard Joe Paulsen took this one and was pulled down on the Notre Dame 27-yard line. Six plays later halfback Charlie Wilson made a fine catch of a Drahn pass and went ten yards for the second score. Bill Reichardt again converted, making it 14-0.
In the second quarter, John Mazur took over at quarterback for the Irish and sparked them on a 63-yard, sevenplay touchdown drive. Jack Landry set up this first ND score with a 43-yard run to the Iowa 20. The next three downs netted the Irish only three yards, but on the fourth Mazur passed to Petit-bon on the six for a first down.
Petitbon on the next play went over left tackle to the three, and then went wide around right end to score. Meschievitz then kicked liis first extra point. The score stood that way at half-time, 14-7.
Late in the period, Notre Dame took
to save the Irish from another defeat.
Hawkeye chills Barrett with stiff arm.
the ball on their own 20 and went 80 yards for the tying TD in 20 plays. The Irish moved to the midfield' stripe on two Williams passes to Petitbon and Ostrowski. Another throw to John Petitbon was good for 12 yards. On four
CHICAGO DAILY NEWS, Nov. 19 Howard Roberts
Notre Dame spotted an alert Iowa football team two touchdowns in the first quarter, but refused to concede defeat, surging back to earn a 14-14 tie in a furiously fought game before 52,863 in Iowa stadium.
rushing plays Landry and Petitbon moved the ball to the 17, and Williams jump-passed to Chet Ostrowski on the 11.
Petitbon and Landry then carried the ball to the one on three plays. The score came when Williams went over on a quarterback ' sneak. Meschievitz converted to tie the score at 14-14 and that’s how it stayed.
In the fourth quarter, both defenses tightened up. The game ended with Iowa in possession just over the 50-yard line in Notre Dame territory. Rather than chance an interception, the Hawkeyes settled for a tie, letting the clock run out. The Irish received a scare near the end of the game when Schwarzengruber tackled Billy Barrett on the one-yard line and drove him into the end zone. The ball was ruled dead on the one, however, and Williams punted on the next play.
Notre Dame led in rushing with 216 yards gained to the Hawkeyes’ 119. The Irish completed nine passes out of 20; Iowa completed four out of 17 attempted. The Irish were penalized 77 yards, the Hawkeyes, 25.
22
Football
r
4 Trojans Cop Rough Battle, 9-7
Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 2. — Notre Dame’s 1950 football squad closed out a disastrous season here today by falling before the battling Trojans of Southern California, 9-7. The loss was the fourth of the campaign for the Irish, making them the fourth team in 62 years of Irish football to lose that many games in a single season.
Head Coach Frank Leahy was confined to his bed with the flu in his Long Beach, Ind., home and Assistant Coach Bernie Crimmins took charge of the team in his absence. But it’s doubtful if the presence of the great Notre Dame mentor, could have helped his team today. Notre Dame’s thin line was hit hard by injuries as the game progressed. Halfback John Petitbon was carried unconscious from the field early in the second period after catching a pass from Williams to set up the lone Irish touchdown. Before the game was over, he was followed to the sidelines by Dave Flood, Bill Barrett, Bill Whiteside, Murray Johnson, Fred Wallner, Bill Flynn, Jerry Groom and Bob Williams. With their attack shot to pieces, the Irish were unable to muster any appreciable show of offensive strength in the second half.
In the statistics battle, the visitors led all the way. Southern Cal managed to register one first down against the Irish’s 13. Notre Dame led in rushing, 145 to 70, and in passing, 104 to 4. Even in penalties the Irish were ahead, losing 110 yards for rules infractions to SC’s 51.
But today, as in most of the games this season, the luck of the Irish deserted
By JACK MEANEY, ’52
Sports Editor
Notre Dame. A runback of a kickoff, the first time that’s been done to the Irish in 14 years, gave the Trojans their first touchdown. The winning two points came as the result of a blocked kick which rolled over the goal line and out of the end zone for a safety.
The Irish scored their touchdown on a 54-yard march early in the second period. John Petitbon started it by ripping off ten yards from his own 46 to the Trojans’ 44. A Williams to Barrett pass picked up five more after which Barrett plunged for three to the 36. In three smashes, Landry carried all the way to the SC 22. Williams went for a first down on a quarterback sneak to the 19. After Barrett lost a yard, Williams pitched to Petitbon racing down the sidelines and the fleet Irish back was hit with a savage tackle on the one, knocking him unconscious and putting him out of the game for the rest of the day. On the next play, Williams sneaked over for the touchdown. Vince Meschievitz kicked the extra point and it was 7-0, Notre Dame.
Southern Cal’s touchdown came as easy as Notre Dame’s came hard. Meschievitz kicked off for the Irish but his first boot went out of bounds. His second try went straight down the middle to Jim Sears on the six-yard line.
Sears, one of a flock of backs, cut up the center
swift Trojan of the field,
veered to his left at the 15 and bolted through a pocket in the Irish defense. After that it was a race down the sidelines with none of the Green Shirts able to stop the 94-yard touchdown run. Frank Gilford converted to tie the score at 7-7.
Southern Cal’s winning two points came in the third period. The battered Irish offensive had been stopped by the charging' Cal line consistently when Bob Williams was forced to punt from deep in his own territory. Guard Paul McMurtry crashed through the Irish defense to block Williams’ kick, the ball bouncing off his chest and rolling out of the field of play behind the ND goal. The safety made the score 9-7 and that was all the men of Troy needed. .
After that, the Irish had a hard time getting out of their own territory. They got a break with four minutes left when a poor punt gave them possession on the Trojan 36. Plunges by Landry and a pass interference put the ball on the’ 21, but the Trojans roared up and held the Irish for three downs. With fourth down coming up and ten to go for a first down, the Irish elected to try for a field goal. Vince Meschievitz kicked from the 26 but it wasn’t even close. That was the last chance for the Irish.
. For Notre Dame, Capt. Jerry Groom ended his playing career as did Bob Williams and 13 other Irish Seniors. The victory for the Trojans was their seventh in the series, as against 13 losses, and their first over the Irish since 1939.
John Petitbon goes for ten yards as the Irish spring a surprise ag ainst Trojans by shifting from the T into the old Notre Dame box.


"ORANK LEAHY, head coach of the Irish, was born in
O'Neill, Neb.. Aug. 27, 1908, but spent most of his youth in Winner, S. D. As a Junior he played guard on ND's undefeated national championship team of 1929.
After graduation in 1931 Frank spent the next eight years as line coach at Georgetown, Michigan State and Fordham. He went to Boston College as head coach in 1939 and won 2(1 of 22 games. When Elmer Layden resigned in 1941, Frank returned to Notre Dame as head coach.	.
His first team at Notre Dame won eight games and tied one and Leahy was named Coach of the Year. In the next two years Notre Dame won 16 games, tied two and lost three; they were National Champions in 1943.
In 1944 Frank entered the Navy and spent 19 months as a recreational officer with the Pacific Submarine Command. He was discharged Nov. 15, 1945 with the rank of lieutenant and returned to ND in January of 1946.
In the next four years the Irish did not lose a game, although they were tied twice. They won three National Championships. Seven Irish teams under Leahy won 60 games, tied five and lost three, enjoying five undefeated seasons. Frank rates the 1949 team as the best he has ever coached. Although this year’s team has suffered as many losses as the seven previous teams, Frank considers his greatest thrill as a coach “the display of loyalty by the student body during the 1950 season.”
As he finishes his 20th year of coaching Frank Leahy’s plans are to remain at Notre Dame, “as long as I can honestly feel that I am rendering Notre Dame a helpful service. I owe Notre Dame a debt of gratitude that could never be repaid.”
Frank married Florence Reilly of Brooklyn, N. Y., July 4, 1935, and they have four boys and two girls; a seventh child is expected next Spring.
TpDWARD WALTER KRAUSE was born in Chicago, February 2, 1913. While he. was attending de LaSalle high school he was nick-named “Moose” by his coach, Norman Barry, because, “I was the biggest and slowest man on the squad.” The name stuck and, though many Notre Dame All-Americans have since been called it. Krause was the original “Moose.”
While at Notre Dame he received All-American and All-Midwest football honors in 1931, '32, and '33. In basketball, too, he was All-American for three years, setting school records for scoring in a single game, in a single season and in a three-season period. He also won a monogram in track. Because of his accomplishments he was presented with a trophy by the student body; he is the only Notre Dame player to be so honored.
After graduation he coached for five years at St. Mary’s College, Vfinona, Minn., before going to Holy Cross as line coach. In 1942 he returned to Notre Dame as line coach and, when George Keogan died that winter, Ed also took over the coaching of basketball.
During the war he spent two years in the Marines, serving in the Philippines and the Solomons. He returned to Notre Dame in 1946 as Leahy’s assistant. His greatest thrill as a coach came that year when Leahy became ill and “Moose" coached the team to a victory over Southern California, clinching national honors. He also resumed his duties as basketball coach and Assistant Director of Athletics. In 1949 he became Director.
His plans for the future are to remain at Notre Dame as Athletic Director and coach the basketball team to a “great year.” He says, “We have a young team and one that may be a surprise to all our opponents.”
He was married August 27, 1938 to Elizabeth Linden of Chicago and they have three children: Eddie. Jr., 10: Mary, 5: and Philip, 6 months.
26
Football
Notre Dame’s Coaching Staff
Call the roll. Crimmins, Druze, Earley, McArdle, McBride and Ziemba. Little-known, practicaly unknown names, outside Notre Dame. Yet these men are all-important factors in the production of a representative Notre Dame team.
Take Bernie Crimmins. Bernie's from Louisville, Ky., played football at Notre Dame in 1939, 1940 at fullback, a very good one. In the fall of 1941 Bernie Crimmins was switched to guard. The result is a tribute to the wisdom and spirit of both Leahy and Crimmins. Leahy’s team went undefeated, Crimmins gained all-American honors at a position with which he was completely unfamiliar.
Crimmins is back with the backfield now, but as a coach. Affable, tall, lighthaired, Bernie is as good a public relations man on the road as he is a Coach on Cartier Field. He’s the man in the press box on Saturdays, picking holes in opponent’s defenses, relaying tip-offs to the bench. It’s an important job, and Bernie Crimmins does it well.
Smilin’ John Druze is a friendly tall rugged guy who first met Frank Leahy
when the latter was coaching the line at Fordham. Johnny was Captain of the far-famed "Seven Blocks of Granite’’, moulded by Leahy for Jim Crowley. John knows end-play, and operates in the Leahy system under twin roles of diagnostician and teacher. Constantly on the alert for errors in execution, when he finds one, John turns into a patient, though firm pedant of wing play.
If there’s any doubts of John’s ability as a developer of ends, take a look at the record. Leon Hart, Bill Wightkin, Martin, Zilly, these are known around and about as pretty fair ends.
One of the West Virginia Earleys, blond-haired Bill, belongs to a family that has turned out good football players almost like Mr. and Mrs. DiMaggio bred fine basebailers. Fred, a younger brother, was an extra-point specialist during '43, '46, and ’47. They say that a still younger Earley is burning up the league around Parkersburg.
Bill is a backfield coach. Run down the list of backs who have worn the Irish blue and gold since 1946—it’s a galaxy of All-Americans—let’s just
name a couple—Lu jack, Sitko, Williams, and Panelli. Bill has done a good job.
And then there's Joe McArdle. Short, auburn-topped, tough, Coach Joe likes to train tough, mean g'ads. Also trained by Leahy at Fordham Joe took a crack at the business world before settling into coaching. Like every other member of the staff, he saw service in the last war. In every sense of the word. Mac doesn’t let the niceties of etiquette interfere with the coaching of guards.
Bob McBride is a tough tackle coach, who played hi.- last year of football for Frank Leahy in 1946, came back to Notre Dame after a brief stint as mentor at Mt. Carmel in Chicago. He likes to mix it with the big Irish tackles, and goes far to prove statement that tackles are the smartest men on a football team.
This has been a tough year for Wally Ziemba. The big (6',6") center coach is another who likes to do his coaching by example. Unfortunately Wally has been unable to take on much coaching this fall, due to illness. He should be back next year.—Bill Riley. '52
Coach Leahy's assistant coaches, "the best in the nation," are John Druze, Bill Earley, Bob McBride, Bernie Crimmins, Joe McArdle.
Captain
Jerry Groom
JEROME P. GROOM . . .The hard-hitting captain of the Fighting Irish and candidate for All-American didn’t plan on coming to ND until his Senior year in high school. Jerry had set his mind on going to Iowa U., but was so greatly impressed by the spirit of the ND team and the coaching staff that he decided ND was for him. “The luck of the Irish” shows again . . . contrary to a recently ventured opinion that the “T” formation is outmoded, Jerry believes that teams are now specializing on sound defenses against it. He points out that the two-platoon system is a manifestation of this defense theory. . . . The Senior Commerce major who backs up the center of the Irish line so savagely, thinks that Helluin of Tulane was the best opposing player he came up against this year. . . . Grandelius and Robertson of MSC and Indiana respectively were the best backs Notre Dame faced this season. . . . Jerry who lives in Des Moines, la., is not particularly interested in playing pro ball upon his graduation in June. He would also pass-up a coaching career in order to take a position in the business world. However, he is 1A in the draft ... he has a great number of hobbies which range from hunting and fishing to reading western novels. . . . Jerry believes a great number of bad breaks hindered further Irish success this season. . . . “The spirit at the school is terrific . . . the best I’ve seen in my four years out here,” he says. “I thought I had seen everything when the students greeted the team after the SMU game last year, but this year’s Purdue affair was the greatest I have ever seen.”
28
Football
VIRGIL J. BARDASH . . . Gary, Indiana . . . like many others, Virge lists his first game for Notre Dame as his most memorable athletic event ... he is a Sophomore in the College of Commerce and plans to major in marketing. . . . in high school Virge, who plays tackle, fulfilled the lienman’s dream when he caught a blocked pass and ran 54 yards for a touchdown . . . after graduation he would “like to play pro ball for a while and then go into some
business, in marketing maybe." Tulane down in New Orleans .
. his toughest game this year came against

WILLIAM C. BARRETT . . . River Forest, Ill. ... a hard-running halfback, Bill was a victim of the injury jinx which hit the Irish this year and was forced to the sidelines for part of the season. He’ll be making his bid for AllAmerican honors next year ... a mixture of coaching and business are his plans after graduation, and right now he’s a Commerce Junior majoring in Business Administration. . . . Bill lists scoring the winning touchdown against SMU last year as his biggest sports thrill, and names the Mustangs’ Kyle Rote as the best player he has faced.
JAMES J. BARTLETT . . . played ball under the tutelage of his dad while attending high school in his home town of Cincinnati, Ohio. . . . The Junior center enjoys playing bridge ... he is majoring in Business Administration. . . . Jim doesn’t wish to play pro ball after graduation, but hopes to go to law school ... his most thrilling game occurred during his high school days when Hamilton tied Cincinnati Elder 6-6. . . . Jim believes that Helluin of Tulane is
has faced . .
the best lineman he
is
BYRON B. BOJI . . . Commerce Junior, majoring in Business Administration. . . . “I’m going to be a livestock farmer and raise pigs and cows after graduation” . . . this from a Chicago native . . . duck-hunting and fishing are By’s favorite hobbies . . . the opposition sees him in the linebacker's spot, and he prefers defense to offense because “You’re more on your own” . . . Most effective formation against the Irish this year? “It’s a toss-up between the T and single wing” . . . won a position on the High School All-America while’ a Senior at Austin High in Chicago . . .
PAUL E. BURNS . . . from Athens, Pa., and a Junior in Commerce, Paul is a guard that likes to—and does—play offense and defense ... his biggest athletic thrill: his pass interception in the Carolina game. . . . Paul picks this year’s Tulane game as the toughest, thinks the single wing worked best against us ... he added: “put something in about the student body—the way they’re behind us. Win, lose, or draw, I’d rather play for Notre Dame” . . .
Review
29
JOHN L. BUSH . . . a Junior from Davenport, la., Jack made his mark this year as a defensive halfback ... he prefers playing defense; in fact, his reason: “I like to smash 'em.” . . . Jack’s a Philosophy Major and wants a job in advertising when he graduates . . . most thrilling game for Jack was the Old Timers' clash last Spring . . . he’s the middle man of three Irish Bush brothers, Mike played here in ’44 and ’45, roommate Joe is a Frosh tackle . . .
JOSEPH A. CAPRARA . . . fullback and extra point specialist. . . . Joe is a resident of Turtle Creek, Pa., the same hometown as Leon Hart, last year's Heisman winner ... a Physical Education major, Joe would like to “get a coaching job somewhere after graduation” ... his biggest thrill was being accepted at Notre Dame. . . . Joe favors offensive rather than defensive play . . . he also considers the single wing formation to be the most effective against Notre Dame . . .
RICHARD A. COTTER . . . Austin, Minn. . . . Dick is a philosophy major who thinks all his games for Notre Dame have been equally thrilling ... he is a Senior now and plans to study law at ND after graduation . . . this halfback would rather play offense than defense ... in his spare time he likes to pursue his hobby of reading the Greek classics ... he lists Michigan State’s
single wing as the best offense used against ND, and considers Grandelius
best back he has faced . . fat and philosophize . . .
the
get
. one of his ambitions after graduation is to
JAMES F. DUNLAY . . . Jim played a lot of tackle this year and is Sophomore, with two big years of football ahead of him ... he is
only a taking
Mechanical Engineering, and plans to practice his profession in Pittsburgh, Pa., after graduation from Notre Dame ... a product of Oakmont, Pa. . . . this year's North Carolina game, “My first game for ND,” was Jim’s choice of his most thrilling game, and his biggest single thrill in sports was starting the same game . . . main hobby? “Collecting classical records” . . .
FRANK B. EPSTEIN . . . Chicago, Ill. . . . though a guard on this year's team, this Sophomore played halfback his Senior year in high school. . . . Frank says, “I guess my most thrilling game came in high school against Schurz, when I caught a pass, and ran for a touchdown. We won that game 13-0 ... he is in Commerce with Business Administration as his major, but he would like to coach when finished with college. . . . Frank thinks that one of the greatest thrills that happened to him was making Notre Dame’s team . . . in his opinion the single wing has been most effective against ND this year . . .
30
Football
CHARLES FEIGL ... is a Physical Education major in his Senior year. He plans to coach after graduation ... a Chicago lad, Chuck especially remembers the Tilden-Calumet high school game when he intercepted a pass and scored for Tilden . . . his hobbies are reading and sports, with swimming and baseball as the top two ... in Chuck's opinion, the most effective formations against Notre Dame this year have been the seven-man line defensively and offensively, the single wing, "because we’re not used to seeing it as much as the T” ... he plays center . . .
DAVID M. FLOOD . . . this halfback from Pittsburgh, Pa., considers playing for Coach Frank Leahy his biggest thrill at Notre Dame ... a Junior majoring in Physical Education, Dave is planning to play pro ball after graduation and then get a coaching job ... he is noted for his speed and likes to play both offense and defense . . . tops among his football memories is catching the opening kickoff for this year's Navy game ... his toughest game was against Michigan State ... he considers the single wing as having been most effective against Notre Dame this year . . .
WILLIAM J. FLYNN . . . Bill switched to tackle this year after three years at end ... he is a Senior in the Mechanical Engineering course . . . collecting classical and semi-classical records is his hobby . . . the Gary, Ind., lineman hopes to go into coaching after graduation ... he thinks MSC’s single wing formation was the best against ND and their Grandelius the best back ... he also believes Holdash of North Carolina the best opposing player. . . . Bill prefers to play defense and considers this year’s Tulane game his toughest contest . . .
FIDEL J. GANDER ... a Chicago Junior, Del made a name for himself this season with his fine showing in the Indiana and Michigan State games ... a Commerce major, he hopes to go into some kind of business after graduation . . . Del likes playing offense, has played both halfback and fullback ... his biggest athletic thrill was just playing in an ND uniform, but he’s especially proud of that winning TD against Tulane. . . . Del thinks the Irish coaching staff is tops, and commented “I really appreciate the student body’s spirit” . . .
WILLIAM T. GAY . . . Chicago, Ill., Senior plans to play pro ball after graduation although he feels that the war will probably force him to alter his plans. ... “I like offense and defense,” he says, “but naturally a back likes offense better’’ . . . his most thrilling game was the 1948 USC game. . . . Bill is a Business Ad major who believes that Kyle Rote is the best player he ever opposed . . . the most effective formation against ND he thinks has been the “T” ... his toughest game was against SMU in 1949.
Review
31
z
JAMES H. HAMBY . . . a Walsh Hall Junior, Jim hails from Caruthersville, Mo., played center on the 1950 squad ... he named two Michigan State boys as the best individual ND opponents: tackle Don Coleman and halfback Ev Grandelius . . . Jim stated that the most thrilling game he ever played in was the 1949 clash with Southern Methodist . . . for the toughest, though, he picks the 1950 Old Timers’ game right here in Notre Dame Stadium ... a Journalism major, Jim isn’t sure about his plans after graduation ... he prefers playing defense, likes to read in his spare time . . .
JOHN F. HELWIG . . . Senior line-backer from Los Angeles, Calif., thinks that Art Weiner of North Carolina, is the best lineman he has ever faced . . . he likes reading mystery stories ... as for plans after graduation he is “kind of indefinite, but I’ve already taken my physical for the Army.” John is a Marketing major and believes his greatest thrill at ND has been playing on the ream. . . . John holds the ND record for the shot put with a throw of 54’4” indoors and 53’6” outdoors . . . John would rather play defense than offense ...
WILLIAM P. HIGGINS . . . another Chicago contribution to Irish football . . . Senior in the College of Arts and Letters, an English major. . . . Bill is going to enter Law school here after he graduates next Spring . . . next to playing his guard position, he lists reading as his favorite avocation. . . . Bill thinks that the single wing was the most effective formation against ND this year, and that the Michigan State game was the toughest game of the season ...
MURRAY E. JOHNSON . . . stepping into a vacant halfback position in the dark days of this season, “Swede" proved his worth as a top-notch groundgainer ... a Sophomore Commerce major, he’d like to play some pro ball and then go into business. . . . Murray says that Spring practice is rougher than ■ the regular season, but thinks the Michigan State battle was the year’s toughest game . . . Vince Pisano of MSC and Carolina’s line-backer, Irv Holdash, get his nod as ND’s toughest opponents ... a citizen of Pittsburgh, Pa., Murray played high school ball for Gary’s Horace Mann . . .

FRANK A. JOHNSTON . . . Chicago man says “no pro ball for me: I’d like to go right into coaching” ... he got his biggest athletic thrill starting the Indiana game in place of the injured Paul Burns ... he goes for pinochle in a big way and his Badin Hall residence is usually the scene of a hotly-contested game . . . the Junior guard is majoring in Physical Education. . . . Frank, who also answers to the name “Blacky,” thinks the best opposing lineman was John Considine of Purdue ... he- believes the ND spirit is tops . . .
32
Football
RAYMOND JONARDI . . . a Senior who doesn’t wish to play pro ball upon graduation is majoring in Mechanical Engineering. . . . Ray’s favorite hobby is reading. . . . Dale Samuels of Purdue is the best back he faced and the Purdue game was the toughest game he was ever in. . . . Ray resides in Pleasant Hills, Pa. ... his biggest athletic thrill was the first game he played for ND . . . he’s hoping to get a job with an engineering firm after graduation . . . he’d rather play defense and thinks the “T” has been most effective against ND.
ROBERT J. KAPISH . . . his most thrilling game was playing for Barberton when they defeated Massilon, 26-12, to win the Ohio high school state championship in 1947 ... a Junior in Business Administration this year, he plans to enter the business field after leaving ND. . . . Bob prefers to play end on offense because he enjoys blocking ... in his leisure time he likes to follow sports items and clippings ... his biggest thrill at Notre Dame was getting into the Tulane game of 1949 ... in his opinion the single wing has been the most effective offense against ND ...	•
ROBERT J. KELLY . . . Duluth, Minn. . . . Sophomore Bob says that his biggest thrill in sports is “Just being able to play for ND” ... his most thrilling game was the Old Timers’ Game last Spring, playing “against all those big wheels” . . . College of Commerce, Business Administration major, and plans to go into the furniture business after he leaves Notre Dame. . . . Irv Holdash of North Carolina and Ev Grandelius and Vince Pisano of Michigan State were the best players the Irish faced this year, according to Kelly . . . likes to golf and “putt around in my jalopy” in his spare time . . .
JOHN W. LANDRY ... is a Physical Education major . . . the Senior fullback from Rochester, N. Y., would like to play pro ball or coach after graduation. . . . Jack received his biggest athletic thrill when he scored the winning touchdown against Northwestern in 1948 . . . Jerry Faske of Iowa is the toughest back he has faced while he considers Tom Novak of Nebraska the best opposing lineman. . . . Jack would rather play offense and says “I’ve always played mostly offense” . . . his favorite hobby is skiing . . .
GERALD H. MARCHAND ... of Baton Rouge, La. . . . likes to hunt and fish . . . the Sophomore halfback picks the MSG game as his most exciting and says his biggest thrill has been scoring his first touchdown against MSC . . . Gerry plans to do some coaching after he graduates from ND ... a Physical Education major, he considers John Kerestes of Purdue the best opposing back he has faced ... he thinks the “T” has been the toughest formation for ND to stop . . . Gerry thinks “offense is a lot more fun for a back” . . .
Review
33
JOHN E. MAZUR ... a Badin Hall Junior, John's passing makes him look like a sure thing as another top ND quarterback ... he names the Michigan State game as his biggest athletic thrill, thinks Spartan back Ev Grandelius was the best opposing player the Irish faced this year .... a Phy Ed major, John is a product of Plymouth, Pa., is undecided about the future . . . like most quarterbacks, he’d rather play offense. . . . John thinks the MSC tussle was the toughest he’s been in and adds, “The team really appreciated the spirit after the Purdue game and before Michigan State” . . .
WILLIAM LEO McKILLIP . . . playing his last year of football in an Irish uniform. Leo says that just coining to Notre Dame was his biggest thrill and adds “The school spirit is really great” . . . he's majoring in Phy Ed and would like to coach after graduation . . . Leo comes from McCook. Neb.: likes to hunt when he gets the chance ... he thinks this year's Tulane game was toughest . . . MSC’s single wing formation is his choice as the best system used against ND . . . our best individual opponents, he says, were Kyle Rote of SMU and Irv Holdash of North Carolina . . .
THOMAS MURPHY . . . this Sophomore tackle from Chicago, Ill., considers starting for Notre Dame against Michigan State as his biggest athletic thrill. . . . Tom is in A.B. and plans to major in economics and then study Law ... he says he’d “like to play pro ball after graduation, if possible, and then go into Law” . . . his most thrilling game came in high school when his team lost to Fenwick 7-13. . . . Tom thinks that the best opposing back he saw this year was Grandelius from Michigan State, and he lists the single wing as the most effective offense against Notre Dame this season . . .
JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER ... no one has to go into fits of explanation about this Irish end whose pass-catching average speaks for itself ... a Commerce major, Jim comes from Beaver Falls, Pa., is undecided about his future career ... he names last year’s game with Southern Methodist the most thrilling game he s been in, but thinks that this year’s battle with the Spartans was the toughest . . . surprisingly enough, Jim would rather play defense . . . “the greatest part of Notre Dame’s victories,” he commented, “are the result of the school spirit” . . .
CHESTER C. OSTROWSKI . . . Chicago, Ill. . . . usually seen streaking out from his end position to pull down a Bob Williams pass . . . Chet prefers offense to defense. “I like to get that ball” ... he is a Junior History major, College of Arts and Letters ... if he isn’t drafted he’d like to play some pro football after graduation and then teach History. But modest Chet says, “You have to be plenty good to play pro ball these days, though” . . . considers Grandelius of Michigan State and Holdash of North Carolina the best players that the Irish faced this year .
34
Football
RALPH N. PAOLONE :. . New Castle, Pa. ... a Sophomore halfback, Ralph is in Commerce and intends to major in Business Administration . . . his most memorable game came in high school when his school played Farrel High from New Castle. Both were undefeated till then, and his team won 32-0 . . . as the best players he came up against, Ralph lists two high school stars, Rocko Cahio, Cornell’s first string quarterback, and Ed Modzieleski, a tackle for Maryland this year ... he thinks that “playing for Notre Dame is a great honor and something really worth working for” . . .
JOHN E. PETITBON . . . already established as a defensive star, John came into his own as a ball-carrier this year . . . hails from New Orleans and spent the week before the North Carolina game convincing his teammates that all rebels are not enemies ... a Foreign Marketing major in the College of Commerce, Petitbon is a Junior, with one more big season of football ahead of him .	. one of the few full-time players in the two-platoon system, he’d
rather carry the ball than play defense ... he names the Michigan State game as this year’s toughest . . .
THOMAS SEAMAN . . . another Soph Commerce major, Tom is a 20-year-old guard ... he comes from Canton, Ohio, and Lincoln High School ... he captained Lincoln’s football squad in his Senior year, was named to the Ohio All-State team ... he thinks the Tulane game was a tough one . . . Tom showed his stuff this year on defense, playing middle guard in the five-man line . . . undecided as of now about the future, he wants, though, to raise a family of ten kids . . .
EUGENE F. SMITH . . . this Senior halfback likes to play baseball and cards . . . he calls LaCrosse, Wis., home . . . the single-wing as personified by MSC gave ND the most trouble he thinks. “They were a great ball club" . . . Gene believes that Joyce of Tulane and Grandelius of MSC were the best players he faced this year and that the Tulane contest was the toughest ... as for the future, Gene plans to enter law school at Wisconsin University. . . . His most memorable ND experience was Father Brennan, Sr.’s, logic class . . .
ROBERT TONEFF . . . Notre Dame’s answer to the off-tackle smash, Big Bob is noted for the amount of time he spends in the opposition’s backfield... he is a Junior majoring in Physical Education, and plans a coaching career “after a little pro ball” . . . Bob comes from Barberton, Ohio, and collaborated with Bob Kapish to lead Barberton High to the state championship in 1947 — the 1949 SMU game rates as Bob’s most thrilling game, but he says this year's Tulane game was the toughest he’s ever played in . . .
Review
35
j
FREDERICK W. WALLNER . . . won his third monogram at guard this year . . . Fred says his biggest athletic thrill was beating SMU last year . . . calls Greenfield, Mass., home ... an Arts and Letters Senior, majoring in education ... he says that the Tulane game was the toughest this year, and lists Tulane’s Jerome Helluin as the best lineman to face ND . . . one of Sorin’s foremost pinochle sharks . . . parting comment: “We were inexperienced this year, and started a little late, but they should have a great team next year ...
JAMES C. WEITHMAN . . . Sophomore tackle from Bucyrus, Ohio, believes his greatest football thrill was recovering a blocked punt in the Navy game which set up the final Irish touchdown ... a Physical Education major, Jim plans to go into coaching and teaching after graduation . . . the most thrilling game he has participated in was the Purdue game because it was “the first one I played in for Notre Dame” ... he considers Don Coleman, Michigan State tackle, to be the toughest player he has faced . . . he’d rather play defense . . .
WILLIAM A. WHITESIDE . . . Bill is a Senior majoring in Finance and plans to enter the Law School of Pennsylvania U. upon graduation . . . the quarterback considers Kyle Rote the best player he has faced and Ed Bagdon of MSC the best opposing lineman ... he enjoys collecting jazz records. . . . Bill resides in Philadelphia, Pa. ... he is “grateful that my playing for Notre Dame has satisfied a lifelong wish of my father" he feels he is “better suited for defense" and thinks SMU’s double-wing gave ND the most trouble . . .
ROBERT A. WILLIAMS . . . the most famous name in college football, Bob is a two-year All-American and one of the few triple-threat backs in the game today . . . best known for his passing and punting last year, he established himself as a breakaway runner this season . . . hails from Baltimore, Md. . . . a Senior Speech major, Bob plans a career in radio or television after leaving Notre Dame ... he received his biggest sports thrill when he scored a touchdown in the Michigan State game in 1949 . . . Bob rates Lynn Chadnois, Michigan State’s 1949 star, as the best player he has ever faced . . .
■I
ANTHONY J. ZAMBROSKI ... is a Physical Education major who considers the 1950 Tulane game to have been his toughest while at ND . . . likes to dance, swim and wrestle ... he doesn’t want to play pro ball . . . calls Erie, Pa., home . . . Tony believes that the best back he has faced is Grandelius of MSC and the best lineman Beletic of Purdue . . . the Junior guard lives in Alumni Hall . . . believes rhat the single-wing has been most effective against the Irish . . . he’d rather play defense.
■I'
36
Football
Operation Pressbox
By BILL RILEY, ’52
Add the reams of newspaper clippings about Notre Dame athletics to the bundles of magazine features dealing with the same subject. Divide by the “name” of Notre Dame which makes it a natural for news-space. The sizeable quotient remaining represents the Notre Dame Sports Publicity Office, headed by a lanky, amiable guy by the name of Charlie Callahan.
There are many facets to the business of getting good publicity, as Chas, would be only too glad to tell you; but for most of the year, Charlie is too busy with the actual practice to find a chunk of time big enough to go into the theory.
The whole business of publicity comes to a head when at 1:30 of a football Saturday afternoon a conservatively-dressed man carrying a beat-up looking portable typewriter takes the long walk up the black-iron steps into the Notre Dame press box. The box itself is a huge affair, seating well over 300 writers, with almost twenty booths used for radio, TV and photogs. 'The man with the portable could be anyone from Jesse Abramson of the New York Jotirnal-American to Sid Ziff from the Los Angeles Mirror. And for him, a great deal of time and trouble has been expended.
When Mr. Football Writer sits down he will see before him a) a program; b) line-ups (first, second and third strings, both offensive and defensive) and, some times a dope book.
After the game — within six minutes — Mr. Football Writer has receiv- . ed the following material from the statisticians and mimeograph crew that work for Notre Dame. He gets: a sum
mary of team statistics; a summary of individual statistics, e.g., Petitbon carried 7 times for 3-5 yards, an average of 5 yards per try; he also gets a substitution and scoring summary, a statement from Coach Leahy about the game, a report from Hughie Burns, the trainer, on injuries, and sometimes, a repeat on the “If” story that was distributed before the game.
The “If” story is Callahan’s special pet. It contains such material as “If Notre Dame wins today, it will be the fourteenth victory for the Irish in this particular series, compared to six for opponents.” Every possible contingency that the office staff can think of is stuck into this story, and if Mr. FW has a mental lapse, all he has to do is pick up the “If” story. It practically writes his lead for him.
That’s Operation Press-box. Before it can be effected, a long week of 16 hourdays has been spent making arrangements. Which is where Miss Mills is the key figure. From over a thousand requests for press box space each year, Maura has to weed out those who deserve space . . . and just as important, where that space is to be. Then there are several hundred tickets to be mailed.
Aside from the actual press box preparations, there are many other sides to this business of publicity. Notre Dame fans are always with us. Someone once said: “God must love Notre Dame fans; he made so many of them.” Joe Fan in Oskaloosa wants to know the names and addresses of the 1904 team, also, who was the high-scorer on the Irish that year. Another- guy writes a gripe about
Reporters stand for National Anthem.
Notre Dame playing dirty football. To every letter goes an answer. Sometimes, especially during the heavy work of the home football season, the replies are delayed. But every letter is eventually answered.
All these features are only secondary to the main purpose of the sports publicity office, however. That could be de-, fined as: getting publicity . . . good publicity . . . for Irish athletic teams. .
And Charles Martin Callahan, the man in charge of the sports publicity office, achieves this end more often than he misses it. Far more often. Callahan has an ability to turn a cynical newsman into an interested participant in the Notre Dame way. And even when the sportswriter is an anti-Notre Damer, he leaves the campus feeling that his has been a trip worthwhile, both enjoyable and fact-filled.
Students assemble material
for working press before game.
Sports writers consider ND press box one of country's best.
Review
37
Sue Shea is met by John Hastings at train. After brief chat they go to pep rally, first big event on week's agenda. The couple has a wor
Football Weekend Date
Photos by CHARLES F. MLRPHY. ’51
There are many football weekends at Notre Dame. All are big. There are also many dances at Notre Dame but no weekend combines so well the features of both as does that of the Sophomore Cotillion. At least, that was the feeling of several hundred happy member.- of the Class of ’53 this year. And, in particular, of John Hastings, from Marietta, Ohio, and Sue Shea, from Springfield, Ohio.
Their weekend started Friday as Sue stepped off the train and went on through the pep rally in the lammed fieldhouse with the crowd cheering, and on to the formal Cotillion that night. Saturday the high point was the game with Pitt. Sitting in the special section, the couple rooted the team on to its 19-7 win. There was a Victory Dance that night and on Sunday all dance-goers attended Mass together. The rest of the day was spent rehashing the weekend until it was time for Sue to leave. She said it had all been wonderful and she had never been happier. John said the same thing—then silently added: and I've never been broker.
John's date spots a friend and
talks John into buying a
souveni
An autograph from John Petitbon pleases Miss Shea muchly. On Saturday the couple went to the Victory Dance. Sl.-^
derful time at formal Cotillion. Then, after a late night, they are read y for a hotdog and a gander at hall decorations before the big game.
pennant. After entering the stadium, John and Sue loudly root their team on to a 19-7 win over the Panthers of Pittsburgh.
iy morning they leave Sacred Heart Church after attending Mass. Breakfast is next and finally Sue's leavetaking. A great weekend!

1950 Notre Dame Football Roster							
NAME	POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOME TOWN	HIGH SCHOOL	CLASS
Alessandrini. James Francis 	'.			C	19	5-11	198	Charleston. W. Va.		Charleston	Cath		.. Soph.
Banicki. Frederick F. 		„				T	18	5-10	190	Chicago. Ill				— Leo 	-			 Jr-
Bardash. Virgil Julian 				T	19	6-0	210	Garv, Ind			Horace Mann 	—	....Soph.
*Barrett. William Carlin 					HB	20	5-8	180	Chicago. Ill			  Fenwick				....... Jr.
^Bartlett. Janies J. 				C	20	6-3	202	Cincinnati. Ohio ..		Elder			-		 Jr.
Benson. Robert Allen ....								E	20	6-5	195	Omaha. Neb			Creighton Prep 	—	. Soph.
*Boji. Brvon Allen 							G	19	5-11	198			 Austin		-			 Jr.
Buczkiewicz. Eduard George 					HB	19	6-0	182	Chicago. Ill. 					Weber 	-		Soph.
*Burns. Paul Eugene 		  -	G	20	6-2	208	Athens, Pa			  Athens							....... Jr.
Bush. John Laurence					HB	20	6-0	190			St. Ambrose 		....... Jr.
Caprara. Joseph A. 				_			FB	20	6-0	192	Turtle Creek. Pa. ..		Turtle	Creek 			 Jr.
Carter. Daniel Janies 				G	19	6-1	200	Chicago. Ill. 						 St. George 				. Soph.
Carter. Thomas Leslie 		„			_	HB	23	5-11	173	Los Angeles, Calif.		Cathedral				 Sr.
*’Colter. Richard .Adrian 			HB	22	6-1	180	Austin. Minn			St.	Augustine 				Sr.
Daut. John Donald 							T	19	6-1	205	Hempstead. N. Y. ..		Hempstead					 Jr-
David. Joseph B. 		    -	HB	19			New Orleans. La.		St.	Stanislaus 				....Soph.
Dolmetsch. Robert Emerv 					E	20	6-2	195	Chicago. Ill			Leo 			 Jr.
Doud. Charles O’Rcillv 					T	18	6-2	202	Oxnard. Calif			Villanova	(Ojai. Calif.)...	. Soph.
Dunlay. Janies F. 						T	18	6-2	205	Oakmont, Pa			Oakmont			. Soph.
Emerick. Louis Edward 	 „				E	20	6-2	210	Albanv. N. Y			  Schuvler			Soph.
Epstein. Frank Bertell 	  ..			G	18	5-8	205	Chicago. Ill			  Senn	—	Soph.
Feigl. Charles 				C	21	6-1	200	Chicago. Ill. 							 St. George 			 Sr.
Flood. David Michael 		HB	21	5-10	185	Pittsburgh. Pa			Langley		—		 Jr-
Flvnn. David Michael 		C	19	6-3	195	Garv. Ind. 				—	Horace Mann 		. Soph.
-^Flvnn. William James -	..	  _	T	23	6-2	197	Garv. Ind				Horace Alann 				 Sr.
French. William Patrick 	  „		E	19	6-2	195	Murphysboro. Ill.		Afurphysboro		-		Soph.
*Gander. Fidel John 		 	„	FB	20	6-1	190			Aft.	Carmel 			 Jr.
Gaudreau. William Lucien 		FB	20	6-1	190	Baltimore. Md			  Lovola				Soph.
**Gav. William Theodore				QB	19	6-1	178	Chicago, III	—	—	 Tilden	Tech 			 Sr.
Getschow. Lee Ernest 				HB	22	5-11	175	Kenilworth. Ill			 New	Trier (Winnetka) ....	. Soph.
**Groom. Jerome Paul (Captain) 		HB	18	6-0	177	Des Moines, Iowa ...		Dowling 				 Sr.
eHambv. James Harold ...		... 	 ..	c	21	6-3	215	Caruthersville. Alo.			Caruthersville				..... Jr.
*Helwig. John Frank 				C	19	6-1	200	Los Angeles. Calif.		Aft. Cannel 			 Sr.
Higgins. William Patrick 		E	22	6-2	194	Chicago. Ill			Fenwick 				..... Sr.
Hoxev. William Arthur 		 ... 		G	23	5-11	180	Lake Placid. N. Y. .		Lake	Placid 			 Jr.
Jonardi. Ravmond 				HB	24	5-10	175	Pittsburgh. Pa			Baldwin 				 Sr.
Johnson. Afurrav Ellis 	 		E	21	6-2	188	Gary Ind. 				Horace	Afann 		Soph.
Johnston.-Frank Anthony 		HB	19	6-2	195	Chicago, III			Leo					...... Jr.
Kapish. Robert John 		G	20	5-8	184	Barberton. Ohio 				Barberton 			 Jr.
Kellv. Robert James -		E	20	6-0	187	Duluth. Minn			Cathedral				. Soph.
Koch. David Anthony 	_			... .	E	19	6-2	200	Wayzata, Minn			Wayzata			..... Jr.
**Landry. John Warren								E	20	6-2	190	Rochester, N. Y			—	Aquinas Inst			 Sr.
Marchand. Gerald Huev 				FB	24	6-1	180	Baton Rouge. La. ...		—	Catholic 			Soph.
^Afazur. John Edward 							FB	19	5-8	190	Plymouth Pa			Plymouth			
*McKillip. William Leo 					QB	20	6-1	190	McCook. Neb			McCook					 Sr.
Meschievitz. Vincent Alexius 		HB	21	5-10	175	Chicago. Ill. 				Mt.	Carmel 		Soph.
Modak. Daniel 					E	19	6-4	215	Campbell. Ohio 			—	Afemorial 		..... Jr.
Murphv. Thomas 							T	23	6-1	205	Chicago. Ill			St. George 		Soph.
*MutschelIer. James Francis							T	19	6-1	210	Beaver Falls, Pa			Beaver	Falls 		— Jr.
^Ostrowski. Chester Casmir 			E	20	6-1	194	Chicago. Ill				Weber —		..... Jr.
Paolone. Ralph Norman 			HB	19	6-0	195	New Castle. Pa			—	New Castle 		. Soph.
-Perrv. Arthur R. 				G	19	5-11	198	Davenoort. Iowa 			St. Ambrose 			 Jr.
*Pctitbon. John Ellis							HB	19	5-11	190	New Orleans, La. ...		Jesuit						 Jr.
Seaman. Thomas 					G	20	5-11	200	Canton. Ohio _				Lincoln 					Soph.
Smith. Eugene Francis 			HB	20	5-9	170	LaCrosse. Wis			Aquinas					—	— Sr.
Spieler. William Joseph 				G	18	6-0	195	Denver. Colo. .—			Holy Family 		Soph.
Stroud. Clarke ... 		G	19	6-1	200	Casper. Wvo				Casper .. 			
*Toneff. Robert 					T	20	6-1	235	Barberton. Ohio 			Barberton			— Jr.
**Wallner. Frederick Williams 			d	22	6-2	212	Greenfield. Mass			Greenfield 				— Sr.
Weithman. James Carl 				T	20	6-1	195	Bucvrus. Ohio 			Bucvrus 			Soph.
Whelan. Edward James 		FB	18	6-0	190	Savannah. Ga	_			 Benedictine 				Soph.
Whelan. John DeLan 		 	 ..	HB	19 '	5-11	180	Afiami, Fla.			 Afiami ..			
Whiteside. William A. 				OB	21	5-10	172	Philadelphia. Pa			LaSalle 	—	..... Sr.
■^Williams. Robert Allen 		Ob	20	6-1	185	Baltimore. Md			Loyola 						 Sr.
Wise. John Thomas . 		OB	19	6-2	185	Cleveland. Ohio 			 . Cath. Latin 				
Wolniak, Leonard A. 		HB	19	5-11	175	Chicago, Ill				Morgan Park 			Soph.
Zambroski. Anthony John 				G	20	5-11	196	Erie, Pa. 			Catholic 			..... Jr.
Zancha. John D. 		T	20	5-10	195	Chicago, Ill. 					St. George 				 Jr.
* DENOTES MONOGRAMS AVON.							
40
Football
Notre Damp’s Fighting Irish Team of 1950
First Row: Bob Williams, John Mazur, Jim Mutscheller, John Helwig, Fred Wallner, Bill Gay, Capt. Jerry Groom, Bill Barrett, Byron Boji, Leo McKillip, Bob Kapish, Dan Modale, Lee Getschow, Ray Jonardi; Second Row: Joe Caprara, Gerry Marchand, Ed Smith, Bill Vernasco, Bill French, Bill Whiteside, Gene Smith, Ralph Paolone, Tony Zam-broski, Jim'Bartlett, Jack Bush, Chuck Feigl, Joe David, Murray Johnson; Third Row: Bob Dolmetsch, Jim Weithman, Ed Buczkiewicz, Bob Kelly, Jack Wise, Tom Murphy, Frank Epstein, Bill Spieler, Fred Banicki, Clarke Stroud, Vince Meschievitz, Art Perry, Len Wolniak; Fourth Row: Dick Cotter, Tom Carter, Bill Higgins, Lou Emerick, Dave Koch, Jack Daut, Bob Benson, Dan Casey, Ernie Knapick, Jack Alessandrini, Bill Gaudreau, Dave Flynn, Bill Flynn, Charlie Doud; Fifth Row: Bob Raymond (Mgr.), Jack Whelan, Tom Seaman, Virgil Bardash, Jim Hamby, Ed Whelan, Paul Burns, Bill Hovey, John Petitbon, Del Gander, Dan Carter; Sixth Row: Al Guarnieri (^Mgr.), Matt O'Donnell (Mgr.), Bob Tone#, Dave Flood, Frank Johnston; Missing: Chet Ostrowski, Jack Landry, and Jim Dunlay.—Photo by Bruce Harlan.
The Thundershakers
By W ALT COLLINS, ’51
Associate Editor
The Irish score! The point is kicked!
On the edge of the field seven blue-sweatered cheer leaders go through a series of frantic antics and fantastic gyrations to the deafening roar of the student body. In section 30 of the stands, the Notre Dame marching band balance their instruments and the Victory March blares through the afternoon.
Gradually the students join in with the music and the cheerleaders wave their arms, marking time for the singers. There is joy in Mudville after all.
The Notre Dame marching band and the cheer leaders are as much a part of every football game as the team, the officials, or the crowd. They are part of the “color” of the football afternoon.
This year’s band, under the baton of H. Lee Hope and the drum majoring of Dave O’Learv of Manson, Iowa, is composed of 103 uniformed men. The musical organization played for all four home games. In addition when the team took off for New Orleans and Tulane, and again for Cleveland and Navy, the band packed up and went along.
President of the 19-50 band is William MacMillan, of Dayton, Ohio. O’Leary combines the art of high-stepping with the science of vice-presidenting. Secre
Head yell leader Dick Herrle breaks onto field followed by spirited squad members.
tary of the organization is Jim Doyle, of Nunda, N. Y. Jack McVey, of St. Louis, Mo., is the band’s social chairman.
For its half-time shows, the band this year had an eye on the omnipresent TV cameras. Their shows were based on three fundamentals. The first of these was precision marching; the sceond was a waltz step; and the third a swing step. Working from these bases, the band presented timely and colorful entertainment while the Leahy lads were in the locker room.
Down on the sidelines, the cheer leaders, seven strong, were led through their stuff by Dick Herrle, of Brooklyn, N. Y.
Like the band, the cheerleaders traveled to New Orleans and to Cleveland. These men were the public custodians of the favorite Shannon View Mike I, the Irish terrier that mascots the Irish gridmen.
Under Herrle’s direction were six men: Jack Wenning, of Cleveland, Ohio; Jack McGlinn, of Reading, Pa.; Mike Perino, of Deer Grove, HL; Neil Vas-concellos, of Honolulu, Hawaii; Dan Marsalek, of Bay Village, Ohio; and Mike Dolan, of Yazoo City, Miss.
The cheerleaders this year boasted for the first time in their history a constitution approved by the Student Council.
Drum major Dave O'Leary signals band.
Nor were the actual games the only field of endeavor for these hearty-throated men.
They appeared at each of the pep rallies and at the team sendoffs. Their stentorian “Irish! Spell it out” was a password for student roof-lifting. These were the men who had the major role in “shaking down the thunder” from the skies and the rafters.
And so, at half-time in the Notre Dame Stadium, the blue-coated band members marched on to the playing field, led by the strutting of Dave O’Leary in white. They spread out into the formations of the day and played the songs of the day. And just before the second half of play was resumed, the band faced the ND stands and played the Victory March.
Also . at half-time, the cheerleaders set up Mike’s hurdles and took him through his paces. They led the students in the Victory March. They instigated a preparatory Drum Yell to inspire the Irish as they warmed up for the second half of battle.
Then the band and the cheerleaders —indispensible cogs in the Irish “machine” which includes every student, rooter, and subway alumnus the country over—settled down to do their job.

42
Football
No Headlines • • • Just Headaches
Notre Dame’s football team got its share of newsprint this past season. Williams received the sportswriters’ tributes. Leahy was the target of their criticism. Jones and Cahill just got headaches, and plenty of them, but they didn’t make the front pages.
Managing an athletic office isn’t the kind of work which lends itself to game write-ups and feature stories. To a reporter who’s looking for the best in collegiate forward passers, the man who sits behind a desk with airline schedules and hotel accommodations in his hands just isn’t ‘-hot copy.” But All-American Bob Williams wouldn’t have been able to capture the heart of New Orleans without the work of Herbert E. Jones, Notre Dame’s Business Manager of Athletics.
Jones Arranges Trips
Herb Jones is the man responsible for arranging the far-flung trips taken by this year’s Fighting Irish, the man who sees that Leahy’s Lads have hotel space for their* away games, get enough steaks under their belts, and get to the stadiums. If the club isn’t on the road, he has to take care of the home arrangements, providing for stadium attendants, parking lot employees, program vendors, concession operators, first-aid attendants. His office handles the equipment demands made by the green shirted wrecking crew. For all of this he may “cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame” and direct the photographers to Cartier Field where the photogenic lads hold forth.
But Herb Jones isn’t alone in his anonymity. In a small basement office Ticket Manager M. Robert Cahill quiet-
By AL LAPORTE, ’51
Feature Editor
ly, swiftly and efficiently supervises the distribution of those priceless ducats to Notre Dame games. He, like his compatriot on the first floor, begins football work in July. Application blanks go out to alumni, season box holders, students, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Fan. They pour back in to the tune of requests for 500,000 tickets. Notre Dame has only 300,000 to sell. That’s enough for a 14-man staff, working well into the night in the hot summer months, to fill. All of Notre Dame’s home games were sellouts this fall; all but the USC away games were capacity affairs.
The problem of allocating 222 50-yard line seats for the stadium among some 500,000 people isn’t the easiest thing in the world to do. There are always the fans who “just won’t settle for anything off midfield” and the others who “always sit on the 50, but always!” Maybe a tricky single wing is tough to contain, but its quarterback doesn’t write nasty letters because you stopped his spinners.
It seems incongruous that the man who handles 300,000 tickets couldn’t set aside one a game for himself, but Bob Cahill not only doesn’t use one of his pasteboards, he had time to see but 15 minutes aggregate of the home games from the stands! Saturday afternoon the Ticket Manager* stays in the box office, tending to any complications which
may arise in the seating. It was while he waited in the office during the Michigan State game that a long distance call came through from Cleveland to Coach Leahy. Bob finally persuaded the party to let him relay the message since Sir Francis was occupied at the time with a third quarter touchdown drive. The caller, a rabid Notre Dame fan, began to explain a “surefire play,” one he could see had to work. Bob went back to his tickets, thankful not all the people were TV viewers.
Both From Dixon, Ill.
Assisting “Mr. 4.80” is that temporary staff of 14, a corps which is decimated as the season progresses until only a handful remain at the last whistle. When the bulk of this crew leaves, Mrs. Charles Miller, the office supervisor and Mr. Cahill’s “left hand,” retires for another year. This season the head man will undergo an amputation, for his “right hand,” secretary Joan Hitchner, retires permanently to be married.
Both of these unheralded Irishmen are from the same town, Dixon, Illinois. Both are graduates of Notre Dame, Mr. Jones receiving his bachelor’s degree in 1927 and Mr. Cahill his in 1934.
Now the “Gold dust Twins” from Dixon can relax a bit. The 1950 season is in the books. The sportswriters still slipping around the campus are interested only in details for the post mortem, and they won’t find them in the Business or Ticket Managers’ offices. But soon the grind starts again. Next year is just around the corner, and that kickoff for the opening game isn’t too far away . . .
Business Manager Herb Jones does one of his myriad chores.
M. Robert Cahill, Ticket Manager, dictates to Joan Hitchner.
R e v i e w
43
Jacks - of - all - Trades
Senior Managers Mimt Be Diplomats. Mother Hens and Quartermasters
Football is biff business. And at Notre Dame one of the key factors in that business is the Student Managers Association, seldom praised, seldom rewarded, but never failing to maintain its part in the production of a team.
With a membership of close to 50 men from all classes, the Association demands steady and sincere performance from its workers, who handle every varsity sport on campus. Each year its ranks are pared, until there remain only seven Juniors, who are groomed to succeed their Senior colleagues.
$
Of the seven Seniors, three have charge of the managerial end of this gridiron of enterprise. Their sundry duties range from serving as sub-assistant coaches to sorting laundry. Except for the other four Seniors, who share the burdens in the other sports, every member of the Association works under their supervision. These three, in turn, assist Business Manager Herb Jones and Equipment Superintendent John McAllister.
Heading this triumvirate is a marketing major from Warren, Ohio, Al Guar-nieri. As Senior manager, Al must of necessity be a jack-of-all-trades. His major headache is to make certain that everything—from tees to trains—comes off as scheduled.
By DON CARBONE, ’53
Notre Dame, he pecks out reams of messages concerning all kinds of arrangements. One of his major responsibilities in this line is that of having cuts cancelled for the traveling squad, lest anyone receive an “FA” on his report of grades.
A “football quartermaster” is a fit title for the other Associate Manager, Bob Raymond, a Biz Ad major from Oak Park, Ill. Bob is a combination haberdasher and between-games water boy. As equipment manager, he must1 see that each player is neatly and nattily outfitted front cleats to headgear. For some away games, he packs as many as 20 trunks full of equipment.
The oddest part of Bob’s job is his trusteeship over the team’s special watersupply. When the squad travels, it may take along 18 cases—106 half-gallons— of tested water, to prevent any ailments which often arise from strange and impure water. This ND H.,0 must be served at every meal and placed in every room.
Although toting the water bucket on the field is usually the trainers’ task, the managers handle the scoreboard, as well as the balls, tees, oranges, spare cleats, and adhesive tape reserves at games. During practice sessions, they are frequently called upon to assist the coaches by taking notes and tabulating statistics.
The center of all this managerial activity is a little cubicle consisting of three desks and two typewriters and located in the fieldhouse. In spite of its size, the office serves as an adequate headquarters with the exception of weekly pre-game meetings of the entire Association, when the two or three layers of managers produce a somewhat crowded effect.
Firm Has a Warehouse
So much like a business firm is the Association that it even has a warehouse. Otherwise known as the equipment room, this distribution center is situated next to the dressing room beneath the stadium stands.
The firm of Guarnieri, O’Donnell, and Raymond, birthplace of many a business executive, even sends its agents into the field. Each of the seven Junior- members accompanies the team on one of its trips, thus gaining the experience necessary for replacing the Senior managers when they graduate.
This closely-knit organization, headed by three Commerce students from Dillon Hall, has experience in the handling of men and material as its chief reward for helping to build and maintain the “Fighting Irish.”
Diplomacy a Prerequisite
Playing the part of a diplomat is another must. Every week he becomes a dike to withstand the waves of newsmen, autograph-hunters, spies, and various non-entities that regularly descend upon the team.
When away-from-home games approach, Al helps Mr. Jones with the itinerary, keeps account of class cuts for the team, and distributes train or plane tickets to the players.
The major part of personnel work is handled by Associate Manager Matt O’Donnell. Matt, a Portsmouth, N. H., lad, finds excellent experience for his Business Administration course in his position as “mother hen” to the players and assistant managers. He must see that everyone shows up at the right time, and that no one is left behind on a trip. In addition to shepherding the team, he assigns the miscellaneous tasks to his fellow managers.
Although Matt makes a good-looking secretary, he must rely on his typewritertalents to please his cohorts. Undoubtedly the letter-writing champion of
Managers (I to r) Matt O'Donnell, A! Guarnieri, and Bob Raymond store equipment.
44
Football
Keeper of the Stadium
BY JOHN H. JANOWSKI, ’51 Associate Editor
“One buzz means I have to go to the Main Office. Two buzzes mean I have to go to the Personnel Office. Three buzzes mean I have to go to the shop.”
Joseph Dierickx, custodian of the Notre Dame Stadium, explains that this buzzer system is the reason he hasn’t seen a Notre Dame home football game in six years. Even though he’s in the ' Stadium every football Saturday, Joe is just too busy to see the Fighting Irish in action. “There’s a lot of work to be done during a football game,” he remarks and its usually Joe Dierickx who does the work.
Joe has been in charge of the upkeep and maintenance of the Notre Dame Stadium for twenty years, as long as both of them have been at the University.
He was born in Antwerp, Belgium in ,	1885 and came to the United States 44
' years ago. At that time he hadn’t thought about taking care of a stadium and didn’t even know about Notre Dame. He was an acrobat and strong man in show business then, performing before audiences in Europe, Mexico, and the United States. For 16 years Joe toured the vaudeville and circus circuits from coast to coast with such companies as Haggenbeck & Wallace and Ringling-Bros., Barnum & Bailey.
A railroad accident near Gary, Ind., in 1918 killed Joe’s brother and partner and left him with a bad leg. From then on, the tights and spotlights were but pleasant memories.
Joe went to Bethlehem, Pa., and worked in the Bethlehem steel mill. After- four years there, he moved to South Bend, Ind., and took a job with the Studebaker Corp., which he held for 12 years. When the job of custodian of the Notre Dame Stadium was opened by the University, Joe left the inside factory work he disliked so much and applied for the caretaker’s post. He’s been at ND ever since.
In 20 years Joe has become a landmark of the University, especially to the players and coaches of the football team who perform on Saturday afternoons in his Stadium. His office and shop are located underneath the North section. It looks like a museum, a pictorial “hall of fame” for Notre Dame athletes. Every wall is covered with over a thousand pictures, autographs, signs, schedules, pennants, megaphones and mementoes of all sorts. They bring back memories of other* Fighting Irish football seasons—
when Elmer Layden led the Gallic legions, when Bill Shakespeare and Milt Piepul blasted through opponents’ lines, when the “Springfield Rifle,” Angelo Bertelli, broke into banners in every paper across the country and began that now fabulous string of ND T-formation, All-American quarterbacks.
Since taking care of the Stadium is a big, year-around job, Joe supervises a crew of several men who attend to every need of the more than 56,000-seat structure and its environs. The seats, boards and braces, are painted every four years by the crew in the Summer. Other-things, in and around the Stadium, such as refreshment counters, the press box, hand rails, and folding chairs for the box seats require more frequent paintings.
Joe’s crew also cares for the green, carpet-smooth turf that covers the entire Stadium field. Every year it is seeded and given a top dressing of fresh, black dirt. “Re-sodding,” says Joe, “brings in too many weeds and we have enough trouble with weeds as it is.”
As the football season rolls around each Fall, Joe Dierickx’s work doubles and begins to pay dividends. A protective canvas tarpaulin is stretched out by 15 men over the playing field every Wednesday before a home game. At 6 a.m. on Saturday mornings when the Fighting Irish play at home, Joe and his crew check the weather and start rolling up the canvas and getting things shipshape. After the gridiron tussle, Joe has to clean up and haul away truckloads of refuse and debris. An interesting observation about the crowds by Joe is “there are fewer whiskey bottles now when the crowds are the biggest we’ve had than there were back in the thirty’s when they averaged about 25,000.”
-Toe says his toughest season was in 1949, when the heavy snowfall before the Southern California game called for volunteer helpers to help clear the Stadium. The 1950 season he called easy, because it was finished early.
Besides his custodian’s position, Joe trains and cares for the two Irish terrier mascots of Notre Dame, Shannon Mike and his recently acquired wife, Pat. He learned how to train animals during his circus days and takes a great pride in the ND mascots.
. When Joe isn’t working with his inevitable pipe in his mouth, he likes to talk about his family. He was married in Elkton, Md. in 1918 and is the father
of six children—four boys and two girls.	j
This year Joe had an extra job be-	j
sides the usual ND Stadium duties. He	|
travelled to Cleveland, Ohio the Wed-	j
nesday before the Navy game and was	j
in charge of preparing the Municipal	!
Stadium for the game. He took his first	I
vacation two years ago when he trav-	!
elled to Los Angeles, Calif, to see the	i
ND-Southern California contest.
There are a million and one things he can readily recall about his job, but there goes that buzzer again and Joe Dierickx is gone, helping to make the Notre Dame Stadium one of the most beautiful and well organized in the nation.
Review
45



WE Dare THEM AU!
Philip Mouris l ■>
bn„d ,o
(■■I             — — '' " ■—
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!

1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
&

&
■i.
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but PHILIP MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for 'yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
46
WO CIGARETTE
hangover
J~— MM, SMOK.NO

'^PHILIP MORRIS
Football
Give LEATHER fer CHRISTMAS
Complete collection of
Men’s and Ladies’ Luggage
Gift Items:
•	Billfolds
•	Traveling Clocks
•	Pipes
•	Cigarette Cases
HANS - RINTZSCH
Luggage Shop 138 N. Michigan St.
A Study In Arrow Shirt-o-logy
*3.65 up
ROSE & KATZ for ARROW
A Campus-favorite collar styles .. . made as only Arrow can make ’em.
B Every shirt Sanforized-Labeled . . . less than 1% shrinkage! Long wearing fabrics.
C Mitoga tailored . .. cut with easy tapering from shoulder to waist ... no waistline bunching!
D Extra durable buttons firmly anchored on.
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Rvse s Katz I X. AO* MEN AND I ^LyCUNG MEN main at colfax
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
Choose your ARROW SHIRTS from the complete selection in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor
noimmoirs
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Review
it's easy! . .. it's fun! ... the GEORGE DAVIS way.
i Alice and
\ George Davis
Prepare now for this season’s fun! You’ll enjoy the congenial atmosphere of South Bend’s largest and most beautiful dance studio. Come in . . . or call
3-8229
Special rates for Notre Dame men.
A BOOK
is a Good Gift
and a better gift for friends of Notre Dame men is a book by someone at Notre Dame. Aquinas has several titles that they'll wrap and mail for you. Get your order in now in plenty of time for Christmas.
“The Fresh and Open Sky." Richard Sullivan.
“Concerning Mary Ann." Fr. Leo Ward.
“Bond of Being," James Anderson.
“A Fountain in Kentucky." John F.
Nims.
“Reclamation of Independence."
Willis Nutting.
“Road to Damascus," Fr. John O'Brien, Willis Nutting.
“Reproachfully Yours," Lucile Has-ley.
“Where I Found Christ," Fr. John O'Brien, Edward Dodson, Dale Francis, Lucile Hasley.
“Idea Men of Today." Vincent Smith.
"Testing the Spirit," Fr. Felix Duffey.
. “Notre Dame." Fr. Arthur Hope.
Order these books by your Notre Dame neighbors now from
AQUINAS BOOK STORE
110 East LaSalle St.
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan & Washington
‘'South Bend’s Largest Dance Studios”
South Bend	106 W. Monroe at Michigan	Dial 3-8229
Elkhart	215/2 So. Main St.	Dial 2-4333
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Jewelers to
Notre Dome
for more than 25 years.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
48
Football
AT INDIANA TYPESETTING CORPORATION
211 SERVICE CO U R T • SOUTH BEND 1, INDIANA
. The Passionist Fathers Ask You to Leave Everything for
a While • • • Th anti ^llunk Aloni 1/Mti Sani
Have you made a retreat recently?
Why not take time out from your work and the temptations of the street, to go to a quiet place and he alone with God? Leave everything.for awhile — to rest and think about your soul.
For information concerning WEEK-END RETREATS for men conducted by the Passionist Fathers contact the Father Retreat Director at the monastery in your locality.
St. Gabriel Monastery Boston 35. Mass.
Lady of Sorrows Monastery West Springfield. Mass.
Immaculate Conception Monastery Jamaica 3, L. I.. N. Y.
St. Paul Monastery Pittsburgh 3. Penn.
Holy Cross Monastery Mt. Adams Cincinnati 2. Ohio
St. Paul Monastery Detroit 23. Mich.
Mater Dolorosa Monastery Sierra Madre. Calif.
Christ the King Betreat Citrus Heights Sacramento. Calif.
Review
49
The class of the class prom . . . that’s Van Hensen Dress shirts. Snowy white pique fronts. French cuffs, fine handkerchief-cloth bodies—all tailored with that extra magic of Van Heusen sewmanship. Van Tux in two collar-attached models—wide-spread and regular. Van Dress is neckband only. Best insurance for keeping off the stag line—Van Heusen Formal Favorites.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size.
9 Van Heusen hw
”the worlds smartest” OULU IO
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
It’s ADLER’S
for Van Heusen
Rich New Colortones
in Distinctive
SPORT COATS
$45
A smart array of handsome new fall Sport Coats featuring the popular colortones. Style and fit are exemplified in these creations ... for luxurious ease slip into one of these Sport Coats.
Parker - Winterrowd
115/2 - 117/2 North Main St.
Second Floor
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
50
Football

with
Dant
^9 Irish 4ft "szM
SPECIAL
OFFER
The All.ty
TWO Rolli

Fil
"> a/
w^ther
620 -120 -price of ONE
•W • 116
2	rolls	127	Ansco	Plenachrome		Originally .... $ .80	NOW $ .40
2	rolls	620	Ansco	Plenachrome		.90	.45
2	rolls	120	Ansco	Plenachrome		.90	.45
2	rolls	616	Ansco	Plenachrome		...	1.10	.55
2	rolls	116	Ansco	Plenachrome		...	1.10	.55
Mail
your order to
South Bend
'439
p6oto
South Bend