THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	SEPTEMBER 17, 1943	NO. 10

• Vaudeville Tonight
S G. E. Show Here
9 Camel Caravan Coming
S Midshipmen Graduate
# Crushing Grid Schedule
S Michigan Named Toughest
LYONS' ARCH EMPTY AFTER MIDSHIPMEN GRADUATE
BY BILL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
TOP OF THE WEEK
- Fourteen buttons. . .
PERENNIAL EVENT
Scholastics would call these headlines a logical relation, but we call them a coincidence: Colossal War Show Opens This Week, featuring many types of blimps, and light and medium tanks. . . St. Mary’s Welcomes More Than 300.
When you come to think of it, this man-power shortage isn’t so bad. Just think how much fun it will be to watch St. Mary’s and St. Pat’s fight over us. But it’s so sad, though; St. Mary’s has been trying for such a long time. For green Freshmen we offer a cave canemt According to the catalogue, St. Mary’s was “founded on a bluff”—overlooking the beautiful St. Joseph River. Hence, proceed at own risk. However, there is a well-founded rumor that we are in for a very pleasant winter.
BRILLIANT MOMENTS
The optimist deluxe who thought the rain would blow over in a week. . . Add embarrassing moments of the week, one and two: Ack-Ack of Company A, Navy V-12, was really making with the mush on the South Shore last week— until he found out she was 31 years old! Also Soph Tarleton who dropped the collection basket at the 9:00 Mass last Sunday. It took him at least ten minutes to pick up all the pennies. . . . P. S.: We have received word from usually reliable sources that there definitely will be no calisthenics on the morning of December 25. Convulsions are in order. , -
V-12 DANCE
It seems that all operations for the -V-12 dance are moving ahead with schedule. The engineers almost had a duck fit when they learned that the dance might be held the same - week-end as theirs. However, the date for the .V-12 occasion has definitely been set for October 9. Other details are forthcoming. But it is known that a special detail will be on guard duty that night to prevent any'crashing or staggirig by female interlopers. It’s an old tradition that we hate to break After all, what’s a dance without wall-flowers?	•
COURTESY PLUS
We have had frequent opportunity to marvel at the general good humor which pervades both the Purchasing Office and personnel. In fact, it (the humor) is rivaled only by the diversity of information elicited by that genial group for the local general welfare. “Keep Posted” is the watchword of the establishment. And so, last week when one young man, weary and wild-eyed, barged in asking where he could find the local draft board, what do you think happens? The young lady at the desk ups, and without a moment’s hesitation, cries into the next room: “Richard, show the gentleman here to the Carpenter Shop!” We just stood there and marveled, honestly.
SATURDAY DATE
Big event Saturday night was CAS’s jump into big time in the cooperative social field with a blow-out at the Progress Club complete with . band. Civilians mixed with servicemen and S.B. gals from north, south, east and west sides pitched in as partners.
Only flaw was “I’m just looking around” boys who created a stag line Hitler would have had a hard time penetrating with ten panzer divisions. When approached by a hostess these parolees from the mater’s apron string would either do a double retreat or give out with the, “I’m lookin’ for Hedy Lamarr” stuff. The latter boys were usually the type who’ve been frowning all their lives and now look like something a steamroller rolled over. . Best times were reported by the lads who grabbed the nearest girl before every dance set and danced. Some of the Rock’s early arrivals showed up and spent most of the evening being cut in upon. If St. Mary’s can’t compete girl for girl with any college in the nation this dept, would like to hear about it. .
Psychology students who are interested in studying the irrational should watch the buses load up about 11:45 "some Saturday night. Two. chiefs had to put on a flying wedge before an orderly system of entrance could be set up last week.	■	.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK:
And only ten minutes between classes and the obstacle course!	-
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole________Managing	Editor
Bill Carey..............Sports	Editor
Dick Ames......;........Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer.........Admin.	Editor
John Mattmiller...........Circulation
Charles Renaud.....Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey...Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week..........fWm.	Talbot and
(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters...Bill Waddington v_7 fl- A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
-	(D. Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
N.R.O.T.C______H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina Marines _______Lou	Riepenhoff
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising. by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school . year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.	-	,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79	SEPTEMBER, 17, 1943
I
Talent Parades Tonight
All-Campus Vaudeville at 8:15 p.m.
This past week has seen the assembling and polishing of eleven acts which will unfold this evening in Washington Hall at 8:15. And Marine Dave Curtin, perennial man of mirth, is firmly of the belief that this evening’s entertainment will rank high in the annals of that venerable institution of thespian enterprise. Try-outs were held on Monday and Tuesday evenings, and only the best has been retained for the finals this evening. All the artists are undergraduates of the University, and are drawn from the V-12, Marine, and civilian groups.
Victory-Cavaliers to Play
In addition to the vaudeville acts, the entire 16-piece Victory Cavaliers, well known student orchestra, will be on hand to accompany the performers, and to add a bit of their own inimitable renditions to the spice of the program. The band, now under the capable direction of John Boyle, promises an interesting contribution of three special arrangements that should meet with the hearty approval of the audience.
Due to the fact that the show is somewhat lengthy, no encores will be permitted, regardless of the applause. This arrangement is necessary because the service units have but a limited amount of time at their disposal.
The judges for the occasion, as announced last week, are Mr. J. Earl Redden, Mr. Joseph F. Donahue, and Mr. William Richardson, all of South Bend. The prizes for the winners have been donated by the University Entertainment Committee, under the direction of Father Eugene Burke, and Father James Connerton. The All-Campus Vaudeville Show is a campus activity sponsored by the Knights of Columbus Council of Notre Dame.
Winners of the Vaudeville Show will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
Acts Kept Secret
The nature of the acts is still being kept a secret by those in charge. Rumors have been rife, but are to be taken lightly. Indeed, little if any credence is to be paid to them.. However, it is known that Father Forrestal, genial rector of Sorin, gave permission to an itinerant group from St. Ed’s. hall, to practice a high wire act in Sorin’s vaulted corridors. Furthermore, another group was detected with manuscript headed for the pump house in the rear of Moreau Seminary. When they returned rather late and roused the watchman, that irritated gentleman was quickly placated when one of the group produced six fresh eggs from the hat of the bewildered symbol of law and order who immediately went off in search of a slice of ham and pleasant thoughts of an appetizing breakfast.
But these are only rumors. Nothing short of an eyewitness to the escapades should be adequate. And that can be attained only by being present this evening when the show begins at 8:15, for which no admission will be charged.
Engineers' Ball to Rival
Extinct Class Dances
Cotillions, Proms, and Balls—with all their trimmings—are out for the duration. But the Engineers are planning a week-end that should rival the best of them. They will stage a Ball on Oct. 1, the eve of the Georgia Tech game. The students of all colleges—the Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors—have been invited.
Johnny Boyle and his Cavaliers, 12 pieces and two singers, will dish out the rhythm. The dance will be held at the Progress Club, 601 W. Colfax, from 9:30 until 1:00. Two o’clock permissions have been granted to ball-goers.
The tickets, §4.40 (tax included), not only admit the holder to the dance, but also provide two seats at the Tech game. A special section of the stadium will be reserved for the ball-goers.
To further bring back the flavor of old times, Chairman Snyder has emphasized the fact that St. Mary’s is back. He is making arrangements for the girls to be allowed to go. In most quarters this fact. is regarded as assuring the dance success.
Because of the O.P.A. regulations on dry cleaning, the dance will be informal.
William Snyder is general chairman of the Ball. Chairmen of the various committees include: Joseph Fieweger, music; Earl Englert, assisted by Augustus Legeay, arrangements; Robert Kohl, assisted by Leo Lardie, publicity; Ray Smith, assisted by Jack McKenna, tickets; and William Johnson, patrons. ..
3 -
Campus News
Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen Speaks Before 3,000;
Advocates Social Unity, Christian Peace
BY JIM SCHAEFFER
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen spoke to University students, Naval trainees, and guests this past week in the Navy Drill Hall on two subjects of timely importance: “The Burden of the Western World,” and “Men of Good Will.”
Speaking to more than 1500 each night, Msgr. Sheen in his first address traced the history of Russian, German, and Japanese contact with the Western World. He outlined the failure of the Western nations to impai*t to these countries the Christian concepts underlying our civilization.
To this failure he attributed the rise of atheistic communism, of Nazism, and of. Shintoism, all implemented with the material progress of Western Civilization but lacking its Christian motives.
He pointed out the occasions on which he believed that the opportunity for this great mission were present, and how the Western World in each case failed to convert these nations to a Christian way of life. When Peter the Great visited the Western World in 1702, determined to introduce European culture into Russia, the Christian world was in a great upheaval. He returned to make Russia over but was so scandalized by the Christian turmoil that he took only the material civilization to adapt to Russia’s progress. Msgr. Sheen emphasized that after this war we must give Russia some of the spiritual impulse of the Western World.
Japan sent a commission into the Western World, which reported that Christianity was the root of Western progress. Japan was prone to conversion, and asked for enlightenment. Msgr. Sheen pointed out that instead of Christian missionaries we sent Darwinism and other doctrines. We destroyed their faith in Christian tendency before it had taken root. The Japanese reverted back to their Emperor-worship religion, Shintoism. .
Similiarly, when. Germany’s pagan militarism was crushed in World War I, encouragement of the Christian Culture might have ended the strain of barbarism which had persisted in Germany since the Romans had first identified it on
4	' Z- - " ' /
their maps. But instead of giving Germany a way of life grounded in the principles of Christian philosophy, our leaders thought of other things and Germany was allowed to disintegrate. Msgr. Sheen related that Marshall Foch had told him that Prussian militarism would march against the world again within twenty years because of failure to crush this Prussianism.
In concluding his first talk Msgr. Sheen pointed out that the success of Western civilization has come from a deep-rooted Christianity, and that it is the burden of the Western World to bring a recognition of these fundamental concepts to other nations.
Branding today’s war a struggle between believers and dis-believers in God, Msgr. Sheen, in his second and last address, pleaded for unity of all men of good will.
“To save the Christian world we need not a unity for religious purposes but unity for social purposes. We need not a fusion of all churches into one, but a collaboration between all upholders of the natural law whether Protestant, Jew, or Catholic, for a preservation of a moral economic and political order,” declared Msgr. Sheen.
“The four freedoms are not worth fighting for as they stand,” continued Msgr. Sheen, “but only in their fullest implication. They are not ultimates but we must see something beyond them. Freedom of worship is nothing unless we have a God to worship. Freedom from want is nothing unless we can treat abundance as rational men and not as animals.”
He stated that up until 200 years ago man was concerned with God and theology. He then became an economic man, measured by money. But now he has become a political man, a creature of the supreme state.
“We are at war today against the idea of the omnipotent state,” concluded Msgr. Sheen. “We oppose complete subjection of man to the power of the state.” Our common enemy must be ■ opposed by a common effort, by a uniting of all men of good will for the salvation
. of a real moral order.”	;
G. E. "House of Magic"
At Drill Hall Tonight
Tonight at 8:15 the General Electric Company will put on its “House of Magic” show in the Navy Drill Hall. This show, which is one of four now touring the country, has been running since 1933, when it was one of the most popular features of the Chicago World’s Fair.	.
Mr. C. Edward Gluesing, who will conduct the display, is a magician and sleight-of-hand artist of no mean ability. He has been in charge of the show for the last few years.
As new discoveries and developments come from the company’s laboratories at Schenectady, N. Y., they are added to the show, so it is as up to date as can be.
Much of what is regarded today as “magic” will some day be standard conveniences for all to enjoy.
All students and servicemen are invited to attend this show.
Third Class of Midshipmen
to Graduate Wednesday
On Wednesday, Sept. 22, at 11 o’clock, the third class of Midshipmen will receive their commissions and be graduated at ceremonies to be held in the Navy Drill Hall on the campus. The class will number almost 1,100 and will ' leave immediately after the ceremonies to take up their new assignments.
Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, will deliver the Invocation. Captain H. P. Burnett will then introduce the speaker of the day, Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs, chief of Navy Personnel, Washington, D. C. The’ pres, entation of diplomas will be-made by Captain E. A. Lofquist, chief of staff of the Ninth Naval District. Both the Midshipmen’s band and the Captain Burnett Choir will likewise take part in the ceremonies. The distinguished visitors present will include Rev. Robert M. Selle, of St. Paul’s Memorial Methodist Church, South Bend, who will give the benediction. Capt. J. R. Barry, U.S.N., will also be on the platform.
. In conjunction with graduation ceremonies, the Midshipmen’s Hop will be held on Sept. 20, in the Palais Royal. The name of the band has not yet been -revealed.	.
A farewell party for Captain. Burnett is scheduled for this evening in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel; it is sponsored by the Officers’ Club. All officers and their wives , have been invited.	.
Selected Hostesses at Service Center;
Volunteer Workers Find Trainees are Shy
BY AL LESMEZ
Each weekend finds the Service Center crowded with entertainment-hungry service men, seeking relaxation and enjoyment. In their all-out effort to provide entertainment, the citizens of South Bend, the Red Cross Canteen, the Senior Hostesses, Cadettes, and Dance Hostesses, along with many others, donate time, money, food, and good will.
Naturally, amid the fun of their- gay surroundings, the Service men never stop to wonder just what goes on behind the scenes in preparation for such surroundings. The care and work that go into the Center are relatively unknown to them.
The Dance Hostesses and the Cadettes, for example, are not there just by chance; nor is it merely a pleasant accident that most of them are intelligent, excellent companions. There are planned reasons for this.
Any girl wishing to become a Cadette or a Dance Hostess must file an application giving her age, education, three character references, and her telephone number. This application is passed on by a committee, and if the vote is favorable, the girl must pledge a definite amount of time to the Center. This time varies for Cadettes and Dance Hostesses. As a matter of fact, the Cadettes, vary in quite a few respects from the Dance Hostesses.
A Cadette must pledge about four to five hours every weekend, must be at least a high school graduate, over 18 years old, and have the ability to act as junior hostess.
A Dance Hostess must pledge three dances per month, must be at least 16 years, old, and if under 18, must be attending high school. . .
The fulfillment of these pledges is a serious thing with the Center. They require a substitute if the girl cannot keep her schedule of attendance, and if such a substitute is not provided, the girl is automatically dropped from the list of volunteers. Other girls who are waiting for a chance to .join are then given the opportunity.	'
There are 750 Dance Hostesses, and 160 Cadettes. The Cadettes seem to be the chosen group of the organization, since they are a part of the personnel, many of them being college graduates, or college students. Their duties are those of junior hostesses, each donating about five and one-half hours on Saturday, and four and one-half hours on Sunday.
This is accomplished by having the Cadettes separated into four regiments of 40 each, and alternating their “on duty” time.	....
The Dance Hostesses are on call only for dances, whereas the Cadettes work during the whole week. Because of the selectiveness employed in picking of these South Bend girls, it has been decided by the Senior Hostesses and officers of the Center that no unescorted girl, unless she is a member of the Center’s staff, will be allowed to enter this service men’s “playground.”
But all is not quite as rosy as pictured. There are complications which shadoweven the brightest of, pictures. Problems arise -which must be met with the finesse of a diplomat. Such a problem is the embarrassing conclusion that the service men, at least the average, are shy. They simply will 'not walk up to a Cadettte or a Dance Hostess and introduce themselves, or ask the girls to try a whirl on the floor with them. Yet the girls love to dance;
The problem of the shy service man has brought attempts from various sources to stimulate friendliness among the groups of military men, strategically huddled together for protection, and the waiting lines of girls. But so far nothing has worked. The Center asks anyone who has a suggestion for breaking down this wall of timidity to please offer it in the name of the war effort. Is it perhaps, that the marching men of South Bend don’t dance? Even here the Center comes through with its usual assistance.
A citizen of South Bend has donated her Saturday evenings from 7 to 8 to teach the service men the fundamentals in ballroom dancing. In short, there should be no reason at all for girls standing alone on the dance floor, listening to the music go to waste.
New War Worker Class
Opens with Large Enrollment
Fall classes of the Engineering, Science, and Management War Training classes opened this past week with a large enrollment from Indiana and nearby Michigan. New courses were offered in Office supervision, industrial psychology, applied descriptive geometry, and basic engineering design;
While there is no university credit attached to these classes, they are taught in the main by by members of the faculty. On completion of the course certificates are given to those who attended the classes regularly and completed the classroom assignments satisfactorily.
The courses, sponsored by the War Man Power Commission, through the U. S. Office of Education and Notre Dame, have trained hundreds of defense workers in the South Bend area for better jobs. The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., is in charge of the program at Notre Dame, one of the 79 colleges and universities throughout the country participating in the plan.
Sowa, '30, Develops New Formula for Fabric Protection
Recent news events have'disclosed that Frank J. Sowa, ’30, has developed a new formula for protecting fabrics from mildew, fungus, etc., and which he named “Puratized Process.”
The process, according to news dispatches, has been developed into six variations and is resulting in mildewproof rubber life rafts, boots, mosquito netting, etc., now being used by the United States armed forces in combating hardships in all parts of the world, and the peacetime possibilities are unlimited after the Axis have been defeated and wartime laboratories are once more shifted to a peacetime basis.
Sowa received his Master’s degree at Notre Dame in 1931 and his Ph.D. here in 1933.
<£• ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ $ ♦ ❖ SATURDAY CO-HOP ❖ ❖ CAS's second Co-Hop will come off
Saturday night in the Progress club. ♦ ❖ Civilians and servicemen are wel- ♦
come- and any other N. D. man who ♦ $ has 35c. Hostesses and refreshments ♦J> are included and Johnny Boyle's ♦ ❖ band will start the smooth stuff at * ❖ 8 o'clock.	♦
$ . ♦
<	5
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
By Jim Schaeffer
The gold stars on Notre Dame’s flag now number sixty with the report of the death of Lt. Arthur J. Chadwick, ’36, of Amityville, New York. Lt. Chadwick was killed July 21st in the invasion of
Sicily. While at Notre Dame, Lt. Chadwick, a B.S.C., participated in Freshman Football and Baseball.
Wearing five decorations and a veteran of twenty-five missions over Germany and Hitler-occupied Europe, 1st. Lt. Joseph P. Carr, ex ’40, is back in this country after many thrilling experiences as a navigator of a battle-scarred Flying Fortress. Lt. Carr, a native of Gary, Indiana, left Notre Dame at the beginning of his senior year in order to join the Army Air Corps.
After eleven months of service in the toughest aerial theatre in the world, Lt. Carr is the proud possessor’ of the Distinguished Flying Cross, The Air Medal, and three Oak Leaf Clusters, each being the equivalent of another Air Medal. Among the many missions on which he participated was the May 17th Yank daylight raid over the Nazi U-boat base at Lorient. This was the raid that was to give the Nazis a bitter foretaste of what was to come from American air might. He made four raids over St. Nazaire, besides three over Lorient, and others against Kiel, Hamm, Brennen. Wilhelmshaven, and Rotterdam. It "was over St. Nazaire that the lieutenant went through his toughest raid. One engine of the Fort was set afire by flak and a few minutes later another was set afire by a Focke-Wulf. The fire crept back toward the fuel tanks and the plane escaped immediate death only by shooting down six enemy fighters. The crew
was ordered to stand by to bail out and the plane descended toward the Bay of Biscay. As the men were getting ready to crash land in the water they happened to notice one of their 2,000 pound bombs stuck in the bomb bay. After several excruciating moments the bombardier pried the bomb loose, almost going down with it. The fire went out and the plane limped back to its base on two engines.
Two of Notre Dame’s graduates are serving as chaplains. Rev. Speer Strahan, ’17, a well known Catholic poet and a former professor of English at the Catholic University of America, was
"Camel Caravan" Here
Monday at Navy Drill Hall
If you hear the noise of wild cheering and applause from the Navy Drill Hall on Sept. 20, it’s not because the war is over, or that the paymaster has decreed an extra month’s pay. The real reason is that the Camel Caravan has stopped there to give a , typical Broadway show free of charge for the entire personnel.
Girls, music and comedy are in this merry melange which the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company is sponsoring to bring smiles of joy to those in the services.
Dashing, delightful and daring is the dancing of Florence Robinson, a powerful attraction on this star-filled show. Her feet have more sense in them than many people have in their heads.
Harmony in. beauty and voice is supplied by the vocalizing Morgan Sisters,
Camel Caravan Coming Again
celebrating Mass at Pearl Harbor when the Jap attack came. During the next few hours Father Strahan braved the successive Jap attacks and gave the sacraments to hundreds of wounded soldiers.
Father John Duffey, ’23, was McArthur’s chief chaplain in the Phil-lipines. He was awarded the Purple Heart for being wounded in action. He became famous for accompanying his men into front line action. No word has been received from Father Duffey since the Fall of the Phillipines; it is not known if he is a prisoner of the Japs or if he escaped to Allied terrtiory.
a trio which will make your pulses beat faster when they go into action.
Comedy relief comes from Clyde Hager, funny to look at and even funnier to hear as he verbally caricatures a pitchman. You listen to Clyde and get a stitch in your side from laughing so hard.
Charlie Masters is a man with a drum and he’ll drum up your interest when he manipulates his sticks. He’s a solid sender whose every beat is a treat that can’t be beat.
Michael, Harmon, handsome baritone, is master of ceremonies for the star-spangled Camel Caravan and music is supplied by Bobby Kuhn and his Rhythm Boys.
When the show comes to a glorious finale there’s an additional attraction with’ everyone in the audience getting free Camels from professional models known as the Camelettes.
6
CLUBS
Poor Club Reporter Has Many Complaints
(Ed’s note: Several subscribers to the SCHOLASTIC have criticized rather harshly the short articles on club activities which are printed each week. It has been said that the articles are dry, stereotyped, and unentertaining. Withozit affirming or denying the truth of these statements, the staff prints the follozving paragraphs; and its purpose in doing so is to elicit sympathy for the reporters who have to deal zvith this sort of story zveek after week).
On the third Wednesday before last, Sept. 7, (the reporter is informed later by some irate club member that it was the 8th) at about 13 minutes after seven in the evening, the Fraternal Organization of Obsolete Laplanders held a meeting here on campus. (Every week it’s “here on campus.” Why don’t they get out and see the world?) This meeting was held in one of our best buildings, and the F.O.O.L.s meet there every week. It was a good meeting.
(At this point the sweating reporter determines to work in some color or bust.) Brilliant dashes of gold sun-dusk flung themselves in gala array about the noble head of Johnny Q. Student as he read a nice paper of unparalleled beauty, entitled “Life with Our Insect .Friends in the Upper Congo,” a subject in which the club has recently taken a good deal of interest, and which is a very good subject, and on which many fine books have been written—and things.
Then the faculty moderator got up and said that the F.O.O.L.S were the best club on campus, and when it was put to a vote everyone agreed with him. Refreshments were served. Everybody said very intelligent things. Everybody was very conscious that they said very intelligent things. At nine-thirty the boys began to get lonesome for their rooms again. At nine thirty-one everyone went home.
The next meeting will probably be next week. (And I’ll have to cover the thing I suppose) A membership drive is scheduled. Anyone can join if he can fulfill a few simple requirements: he must be over seven feet tall; he must be 38 or over; he must have read all of Tolstoy and Homer in the Greek; he must have a written permission signed by both his mother and his sweetheart; he must agree to vote at all times that the
F.O.O.L.s are the best Notre Dame club; he must have a drag with someone in the dining hall.
That’s all.
La Raza Club to Sponsor
Campus Chess Tournament
Miquel Villa, chairman of the sports committee of the La Raza club, announced at the last meeting that the organization would sponsor a chess tournament, to be held in the near future.
Anyone on campus, whether civilian or trainee, is eligible to enter the tourney, and is urged to do so. Three prizes, as yet unchosen, will be awarded to the winners. As in last year’s match, the chess players of La Raza will offer stiff competition to all comers.
Featured in the coming tournament will be Romana, winner of last year’s contest, and also Lovenzo, Romagusa, Samuel Munoz, Gabriel Molina and Jose Cardenas, who were given honorable mention. Two new-comers to the club, Raul Castro and Miguel Villa, will make their first attempts with these old hands.
The prizes will be exhibited in the Caf candy counter by the end of this week. Any students who are interested in joining the contest should leave their names and addresses with either one. of the following club members: Lovenzo Romagusa, 310 St. Edward’s; Raul Castro, 7 Sorin. The date has been set for sometime next week, so it is imperative that entries be made as soon as possible. Contestants will be notified of the exact date at the time of entry.
E. R. T. Admits Members;
Chas. Pickard Gives Paper
At the Economic Round Table meeting held Wednesday at the Blake Gardens, a paper was presented by Charles Pickard of New London, Conn., on the United States foreign policy. Al Vor-span presided as chairman of the discussion that followed the paper.
Eight new members were formally accepted into the club. They are James Gallagher and David Sisson, both V-12 trainees; Leo Ouillette, Harry Gilligan, Walter Carlson, James Gower and Joseph Visina, all NROTC members; and Marine Bruce Sumner.
The paper for the previous .meeting, presented by Charles Montrie, was based on Post-War Business in the United States.
Photo Exhibit at Tribune
Building in South Bend
Some of the finest photographs ever assembled for the general public, may be seen in the lobby of the Tribztne business office tomorrow, under the sponsorship of the South Bend Camera Club and the Tribztne: The exhibition, part of the fourth annual traveling salon of Popular Photography magazine of Chicago, contains photographs selected as the best in their respective field. The closing date for this splendid showing is Sept. 27.
In the salon there are many black-and-white prints which won highest honors against intemation competition. The exhibit has been widely acclaimed on its tour thus far, and should be of particular value to the many amateur photographers of Notre Dame. Even those not directly interested in photography will find an afternoon spent in viewing this exhibit an enjoyable one.
O'Dea on Foreign Policy;
Wants a Better League
Jim O’Dea, secretary, presented a paper to the Wranglers Thursday on the United States’ foreign policy. He stressed the fact that America must not again deny her responsibility as the world’s greatest democracy. He called for a British-American alliance, a revivified League of Nations with sufficient power to enforce its decisions, and a Court of International Law for the purpose of judging disputes between nations.
Papers presented at previous meetings include: Coal Strikes and the Connelly Act by John Mack; The Peace to Come with Japan, Henry Adam; and The Associated Press Club, William Lawless, president.
Navy Bond Figures
According to figures released by Lieut. Paul Sprinz, Navy public relations officer, trainees on the campus are putting a good bit of their pay into War Bonds. The total monthly sales amount to $52,276.
Within the various units, 98.6% of the Midshipmen are subscribing 15.3% of their pay, NROTC men are buying to the extent of 21.7%, the Marines, 25.3%, and the V-12 trainees, 32.3% of their Pay.
Summed up, it appears that the Navy is betting on themselves.
7
Notre Dame Sports
Fighting Irish Face Crushing Schedule;
10 Big Games in Line for Husky Squad
BY BILL CAREY
As Coach- Frank Leahy whips his bulky Irish squad into competitive condition the misty form of a skulking Panther is already materializing on the horizon. A week hence the Fighting Irish will entrain for the smoky city and inaugurate the 1943 gridiron season against Pittsburgh.
The Irish this fall are confronted by a schedule as stiff as any they have ever encountered. The ten game card is brimming with intersectional and traditional rivals. As ever, each will be at its peak, eager to knock off the big, green jerseyed team. Seven of the clubs on the list figure prominently in prognostications for the mythical national championship. These schools enjoy the wealth of service material—the pick of the nation. Four of the clubs, Army, Navy, Iowa Pre-Flight and Great Lakes are military strongholds. Their lineups include former greats of collegiate and professional football. Powerhouses last fall, they have further been strengthened by new recruits. The Michigan Wolverine that upset the Irish victory ’■/■agon in ’42 is favored to emerge from the ’43 gridiron wars as the mightiest of the mighty. Wisconsin, and Minnesota have both contributed graciously to the Crisler cause. Georgia Tech with its service tie-up and its abundance of football engineers will be one of the toughest clubs in the Southland. Bill Alexander’s boys, their hunger heightened by the taste of Notre Dame blood last fall, will be greedy to repeat their triumph. Other Big Nine schools have made the plight of Lynn Waldorf a happy one indeed. His Northwestern material is the best in years. The exact condition of football prowess at Pittsburgh has been carefully shrouded in secrecy. Clark Shaughnessy, the old master of the “T” formation, is a man of mystery. Just what he plans to throw at Frank Leahy’s boys is a matter of conjecture. Next Saturday evening will reveal the answer to that riddle. Ray Eliot of Illinois and Harry Stuhldreher of Wisconsin are both nursing younger and inexperienced units. These clubs, however, abound in natural talent that should reach its full
potentialities about mid-season when they face Notre Dame. Both are scrappy outfits, capable of outfighting and out-scoring a more experienced and more confident opponent.
Frank Leahy may justly frown when he passes his eyes over the list. No single hurdle stands far above the rest. All are tough—the best football teams in the nation.
Coaches McKeever and Leahy
What the Notre Dame record will be Thanksgiving evening is a matter for Merlin and his tribe of crystal bailers. No one can honestly make a prediction. An eleven that could run through that schedule undefeated—or even with a single loss—would undoubtedly be the National Champion. Only a wonder team could make a clean sweep. An eleven that has a winning season against such opposition will be an outstanding club. On paper Notre Dame should. lose at least three of its contests this fall. Only time is the unerring swami. Let’s at least reserve our judgment until we see the boys under fire at Pitt.
Coach Frank Leahy has encountered many difficulties since he called out the fall grid practice on the third of September. The great majority of his grid-
ders are Navy and Marine trainees subject to Navy eligibility and discipline. The scholastic strain and heavy class schedules have made it possible for some to attend practice only irregularly. Sessions are brief—an hour and a half if the coaches are lucky. Sometimes it is impossible to get the prospective first club working together at one time.
Contrary to public opinion this Irish eleven will be made up predominantly of Notre Dame players. On a squad of 52 there are but eight footballers who have had experience at other schools. The transfer players are handicapped by the difficulty of mastering the intricate “T” formation. Even at this late date in practice a great amount of time is spent in perfecting backfield timing and line assignments.
Roster Boasts Many Familiar Names
Notre Dame this fall will field an eleven that will be a typical Fighting Irish team. It may be a shade lighter than last year’s edition, but should just be so much the faster. The attack will be sharper and more pointed. Missing perhaps will be the bone crushing power of a Clatt or a Cowhig, but in their place will be two quartets of featherfooted backs all' capable of going the whole TD distance. Don’t be surprised to see a wide open offense that will shake off more lengthy pay dirt gallops.
The starting unit will be a veteran one with but two sophomores as likely members. Jules Rykovich and Joe Sig-naigo have fine chances of answering the whistle. The other nine stalwarts all wore the Blue and Gold last year and saw considerable action. Only slightly inferior in ability is a second string club. Many of this group, however, are untested Sophomores who have yet to win their spurs in collegiate competition. How they come through will be answered only at game time. Deeper than this Coach Leahy may have troubles at center and tackle. At present he is looking to some promising 17-year-old freshmen for the answer.
The first backfield that has worked together in scrimmages to date possesses speed, deception, versatility and power. Angie Bertelli at quarter. should play the best ball of his meteoric career. His six point bombs should find their mark many times. Bert, however, will leave Notre Dame after the Navy game for further Marine training at Parris Island. The loss of college football’s best passer will be sorely felt. At the halves Creighton Miller and Jules Rykovich should tear off yardage in sizeable chunks. The running of Miller in the open field is a thing of beauty. The fastest man on the team, Creightie will
stand out. Jim Mello at fullback will be in the starting lineup for Notre Dame in the opening game for the second straight year. Mello has the strength to rip through a line and the agility that pays off in scores when he’s loose. John Lujak, though not a starter, is an out-outstanding sophomore. He can run, pass, kick, block and tackle exceptionally well. John will alternate at quarter and half’ until Bert leaves, and then step into the important and roomy cleats of the Springfield Rifle. A second quartet includes Frank Dancewicz, talented and promising sophomore at quarter; Bob Kelly, a rugged, thick-set speedster from Leo High, at right half; Ray Davis, a shifty transfer from the University of Idaho, at left; and Freshman Bob Hanlon, another Leo alumnus at fullback. George Terlep, Bob Palladino, Vic Kulbitski and Freddie Earley compose a third unit.
Of this group Bob Kelly, Angelo Ber-telli, John Lujack and Creighton Miller are dangerous punters. Kelly and Miller have been skying some mighty efforts in their attempt to cinch the punting assignment. Kelly doubles in brass by his ability to power out long kick-offs. Angie Bertelli is still tops at another of his specialties—the points after touchdown.
The line is heavy and rugged. Paul Limont and John Yonakor are likely starters at the ends. Both are equally adept at snatching passes and turning wide sweeps in on the tackles. Yonakor is the biggest regular on the squad stretching some 220 pounds out over a six foot, four inches frame.
Jack Zilly is a continual threat to step into a starting role. A fine all round end, the NROTC trainee will play a great deal of ball for .Notre Dame. Mark To-dorovich, Ray Kuffel, Gerry Ford, Jim Flanagan and Ed Trumper are daily battling to win an alternate’s berth.
Veterans Jim White and Ziggie Czar-obski are fixtures at tackle. Both of these heavy set juniors have the weight and aggressiveness to halt sorties through their sector. Czarobski has been outstanding in scrimmages of late. John Adams, who won the Hering Award for the most improved player in the practice sessions last spring, should use his massive bulk to good advantage. Opposite him freshman Pete Berezney may win the nod over his fellow classmen George Sullivan and George Cibula. Jim Tharp, originally destined for second string is at present ineligible.
Captain Pat Filley leads a rugged group of guards to battle. Hampered by a knee injury in ’42, it is hoped that Pat will be available for action, at least
until he leaves for Parris Island at the end of October. Joe Signaigo, agile and rough native of Tennessee, will probably win the nod on the right side of the center. Bud' Meter, Gasper Urban, John Perko and Verlie Abrams are four boys who could readily step into a regular spot.	'
Herb Coleman and Frank Szymanski will carry the load at the pivot spot.
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
A week from tomorrow we can begin to sing the praises of the “Fighting Irish.” It’s been an anxious wait for
many of the regular N. D. students and transfer service students, and we hope that Notre Dame football will be as interesting to the new men as it is to us. For some mysterious reason we are moved
; to jump from our - seats and cheer when
Bill Waddington the Blue and Gold” first take the field (Though oftentimes they wear Kelly green). There’s something more than the sight of an array of spirited gridders before our eyes; maybe it’s the Notre Dame spirit that perpetuates itself in the mind of the onlookers. Anyway, with-the Victory March booming out, we can hail another football season with renewed fervor come a week and a day.
We were of the opinion that most of ‘ the nation’s sports experts wouldn’t stick their necks out in predicting national or even sectional champions with conditions as scrambled as they are. Proving the exception to our rule, however, we overheard a broadcast that gave the accumulated poll of the scribes and, giving it to you straight, this is what they thought: East—Army; South—Georgia Tech; Midwest — Michigan; West — Washington State and U. S. C. We’ll admit that there are a lot of loopholes to be taken into account, and we can’t justify them. We’ll just have to sit back and await the final standings on or about Dec. 1.
Each Tuesday afternoon at 4:15 over WSBT the announcer braces himself, the red light flashes, and “This is the Notre Dame Sportscast...comes over the airlane. Conducted by two genial personalities, Bill Boss and Tony Earley, they seem to have carded some interest
Both are naval V-5 Aviation reservists and boast one year of experience. Coleman stood out last year backing up the line after he replaced the injured Wally Ziemba.
We have a team and a good one. What the other clubs have often will not be discovered till we meet them on the gridiron. Let’s wait and see, before we talk about records.
ing anecdotes that are appealing to John Q. Sportsfan. -
Passing the Buck
Last December, Vince “Commissioner” Commissa graduated from the phy ed school, after heading the interhall football setup. Following his departure, his younger brother Nick entered interhall athletic activities in a big way. Nick is presently putting in time daily in charge of the .swimming pool at the Rockne Memorial; he was the lad who saw to it that the baseball courts next to Zahm were modeled for play, and he got the interhall league going. Now he’s scheduled to be boss of the interhall basketball league. The amazing thing is that he’s only a second semester freshman, but out to pass up his brother’s record in a big way.
Once again we have the football season, and with it the scolding ribald writings of “Bearskin.” To those who know nothing of this personage, he is the author of a commentary printed in the Friday editions of the South Bend Tribune. There comes a time in every student’s life when he tries to deduce the real person behind the mystic remorseless lines. This journalistic pessimist has never revealed his identity to any of the nublic, in fact, only the publisher of the Tribune is said to be “in the know” since he receives Bearskin’s copy. Even Jim Costin denies all queries as far as being on the inside is concerned. We do know that “Rock” was the originator, but the present day author is suggested as Fathers McGinn. Brennan, or Burke, Athletic Custodian McAllister. “Scrap” Young, Coaches Leahy or McKeever, and it was also attributed to Joe Petritz before he left. Anyway, your guess is as good as ours, probably better. Maybe you can figure out the guy’s style and definitely trace it back to some campus character. All things being considered, we ought to hear from him a week from this afternoon in the South Bend Tribune.
9
Zahmbies Splash Their Way to Functional Swim Title
By Al Bisbee
The Marines can swim too, the Navy boys found out, as Zahm Hall, winning a total of 51 points, splashed through to
victory last Sat-urday in the functional swimming meet at St. Joseph’s Lake.
Walsh Hall, with 24 points,
ran a p o o r second, while Alumni collected 17 to
come in third. Cavanaugh, Brownson, and Dillon, severely handicapped by a shortage of men, totaled 5, 3, and 2 points, respectively. The Chilians had only 2 representatives.
The afternoon was graced with typical Indiana weather—cold and wind. And the water itself was even more frigid. In the heat of their enthusiasm and exertion, however, the contestants didn’t seem to mind.
This was functional swimming competition, not just an ordinary meet. Basically, the same feats were performed as in phy.- ed. swimming class. Endurance and technique events, along with the speed contests, provided scope for varied abilities. Entrants were limited to two events and the relay. The meet was run off in an efficient and orderly manner by Ensign Jablonski, assisted by several Navy chiefs.
Event No. 1, the 50-yard swim and rescue, was taken by Webb and Erkins from Walsh Hall.
Zahm won the underwater swim through the efforts of Sumner and Schuette, who distanced out far beyond the raft from the end of the pier.
The elimination support swim was copped by Alumni, represented in this event by Hynes and Symond. A ten-foot pole had to be held above the head while the entrant treaded water.
In the 75-yard shirt tow swim, Simmons and Watson gave Zahm another triumph.
Simmons, Story, Sumner, and Schuette cinched the meet for Zahm in the jumper relay, with. four laps from shore to raft.
The various halls were represented as follows: Zahm: Johnson, Neiman, Opela, Schuette, Simmons, Story, Sumner, Voss, and Watson.
Walsh: Champion, Erkins, Forman, Mulhern, Webb and Witucki.
Alumni: Adams, Baxter, Dieck, Hill, Hynes, Joyce, Hemmleran, Marbach, Symond and Toddy.
Cavanaugh: Clark, McKay, Moody and Olmstead.
Brownson: Haas and O’Neil.
Dillon: Bisbee, Klinger, Lansing and Lopker.
Irish Netmen Overwhelm Western Michigan
By Dan Reardon
Saturday afternoon, Sept. 11, the Notre Dame tennis squad completely routed the racquet wielders of Western Michigan, 9-0.
Set to face a powerful opponent, the Irish were startled by the change that had come over these “fire-balls” of the preceding week.
In complete command throughout, the hard hitting Blue and Gold team won every match. In fact the fellows from Kalamazoo failed to win a set in either the singles or the doubles.
The summary of the singles:
1.	Charlie Samson (ND) beat Staake, (WM), 6-1, 6-2.
2.	Bob Faught (ND), beat Riepma (WM) 6-1, 6-4.
3.	Ed Capro (ND), beat Wyngarden (WM) 6-1, 6-0.
4.	Bob Paddock (ND) beat Loomis of (WM). 6-3, 6-2:
5.	Jim Griffin (ND) beat Mouzy (WM) 6-2, 6-0.
6.	Tom Herbert (ND) beat Cummings (WM) 6-1, 6-0.
The doubles:
1.	Charlie Samson and Bob Faught of N. D. beat Riepma and Wyngarden, W. M., 6-1, 6-2.
2.	Ed Capro and Jim Griffin, N. D., beat Staake and Loomis, W. M., 6-1, 6-1.
3.	Tom Herbert and Bill Talbot, N. D., beat Muzy and Cummings, W. M., 12-10, 6-4.
The Notre Dame - N. D. Midshipmen game, scheduled for Sunday, Sept. 12, was cancelled because of the “Indiana” weather conditions.
Students and Trainees Rank Michigan No. I Opponent
By Al Lesmez
A recent poll was taken over the campus to determine which of Notre Dame’s opponents, in the opinion of the students and trainees, will be the toughest to defeat in the coming season. Michigan seems to be the pre-season choice as the biggest stumbling block on the Irish schedule. The service teams shared second place.
Midshipman Tony Maloney, V-7, The Bronx, New York City: “I think Navy will be the team to beat, with Michigan right in there, of course. The fact that Navy has more spirit than most schools, plus the fact that she has an increased reserve of material including Castlebury of Georgia Tech, will do the trick.”
Tom Kelly, Senior in Chemistry, Elizabeth, Pa.: “I’ll say Michigan. They’re always good and tough. They showed us some good football last season, and now it will be our turn. This will be one game we want to win since beating a team like Michigan is something to talk about. Those boys can play football also.”
John P. Krin, Marine, Lakewood, N.J.: “I pick Michigan because they have the mostest and the bestest football players of any college in the country. In fact, they are going to beat Notre Dame.”
Larry Wood, ROTC, New- Britain,
The 75-yard speed support swim was won by Watson and Simmons of Zahm. Two-man teams each carried a pole above their heads for 75 yards.
Zahm, represented by Voss and Neiman, tied Hynes and Toddy of Alumni for first place in the shirtrtail life-saving event. They tied and inflated their uniforms with air as life preservers.
Opela and Johnson pulled through with another victory for Zahm in the tug-of-war with a wooden pole.;
Zahm took.first in the 75-yard elementary backstroke. Story and Sumner were the winning combination.
Courts Busied by Varsity and Interhall
10
Conn.: “Great Lakes seems to have a good team and I’m betting on that game to be a good game.”
John Kerrigan, Freshman, Civilian from Hamden, Conn.: “Michigan. They have most of their players returning, and they have a lot of other great players from other colleges.”
Virgil Shuayer, Marine, Ironton, Minnesota: “Michigan because it has acquired the better part of Minnesota and Wisconsin power. Furthermore-Michigan won’t lose any because of any of the boys going. Great Lakes will undoubtedly be strong too.”
Bob Lyons, V-12, Falls Village, Conn.: “The Seahawks have much more chance to win than we. However, if we can get as good a team as we had last year, we should not run into any “Wisconsins” this year.
Bill Carnahan, Sophomore in Pre-Med, Civilian, Highland Park, Ill.: “If we cross our fingers and hope that Castle-bury and company forget to bring their winged shoes, I think we can narrow it down to Great Lakes. I’ll pick Great Lakes as our tightest game and our most spirited victory.”
Neil McManus, Senior in Chern. Engineering, Civilian: “The Michigan game looks like it will be the top tilt. The Ann Arbor boys have the material to give us plenty of fight. That will be some game.”
Midshipman David J. Shamp, Bryan, Ohio: “Michigan, since they haven’t lost many of their old players and they have some good players from Wisconsin to strengthen their reserves.”
Hank Slamin, ROTO, Winnetka, Illinois : “Michigan has so many of their old team back and so many good new men that that will be the team to beat.”
Tournament to Decide Interhall Softball Champ
By Alex Bisbee
With the interhall softball season nearing a climax, we find Frankie Curran’s team out in front. Bonicelli has pitched-the Dillon outfit to four wins and no losses and these boys have their eye on the interhall medals which will be awarded the winning club at the close of the season. Close behind, with three wins and one loss come the St. Ed’s Angels, with Linihan as their mound-man. The standings to date are as follows:
. ,	WON LOST
. Curran’s team from Dillon.... 4	0
St. Ed’s Angels  ________.'____...... 3	1
Co. .A ........................,_____ 2	1
Zahmbies ...........................	2	2
St. Ed’s Devils ....................  1	1
Co I ............................  1	1	2
Co. B ...................•________... 0	3
Dillon R. A. C.’s ..................  0	3
Ticket Distribution Plan for Football Games Announced
Mr. Herbert E. Jones, business manager of the Athletic Association, announced last week the plan of ticket distribution for the football games this fall.
Herbert E. Iones
en you come
urg>
(fame ( or on any other oc-
Civilian students who have already turned in their Athletic Certificate to the A.A. office will receive by mail the coupon necessary to exchange for their football ticket. Those civilians who have not as yet turned in'their certificates should do so as soon as possible.
Because of the unusual situation of the semester ending in the middle of a football season there will be but two athletic contests at the stadium before the end of October. In November an athletic coupon book with checks for the Iowa Seahawk gridiron tilt and some ten basketball contests will be issued.
Seniors and Juniors will exchange their coupons for seat tickets on the Monday of each home game week, at Gate 14 of the Stadium. This is the main entrance facing the tennis courts. Sophomores and Freshmen ■will obtain their ducats on Tuesday. The windows will be open only from 12:30 p.m. till 2:00 p.m. on the days heretofore specified.
Arrangements are" being made for Navy V-12 and Marine Trainees to purchase their tickets for the student section at‘the low price of 55 cents. Their attendance is purely optional. It is expected that the tickets will be sold on Monday and Tuesday nights of the game week, probably by student managers who are in residence at the hall. Further details will be announced on hall bulletin boards. .	.
casion J come
to the rendezvous
o
ante
folks . . .
a HOTEL PITTSBURGHER
Jos. F. Duddy, Mgr.
Interhall Football Program
Is Left up to the Students
By John McKeon
Will interhall football be played this fall? The answer will be found in the number of fellows who dispay a genuine interest. If sufficient numbers report, leagues will be formed and schedules drawn up.
The time element and the heavy array of class hours carried by most of the students present doubt as to whether the program can be carried on as in the past. Ever since the start of Interhall athletics the coaches have made sure that their charges were in proper shape to play. This necessitates practice, and practice takes time. Those interested are requested to talk it over in the halls. If a team can be formed, they are asked to send a representative to Mr. Scannel at the Rockne Memorial. He will post notices to discover student reaction.
No one knows exactly when Interhall competition started, but the Scholastic of 1909 carried an article about it. Sports of all types were common at Notre Dame, and in the 90’s the lads used to enjoy the Track and Field meet that was held on Founder’s Day. The first recognized Interhall football team was the Brownson outfit in 1892. Interhall athletics grew with the University. As more and more residence halls sprouted up, the spirit of competition became greater. Keen hall pride was prominent, and there was no better outlet for this than in athletic competition. At one time or another this interest slackened, but it has. always come back stronger than ever. .
Interhall athletics are for the students. Many good players have come from the ranks to go on and win fame as varsity
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
men. Two outstanding examples were Jack Elder and Nordy Hoffman. However, that is not the purpose. Interhall is for those fellows who do not think that they can make good as varsity material, but who do want to participate in sports just the same. It is for fellows who love the game and want erexcise.
When the time comes to line up against the other halls the boys are usually in good shape, as the training is severe. The equipment is the very best. The supply room has a special department for interhall football, and when the championship game is played in the Stadium, the boys - are given varsity game suits. The training schedule calls for five practices a week, and to be eligible for game competition a man must attend at least three during the week. The coaching is handled by the personnel of the Physical Education department. The officiating is handled by members of the Athletic Association.
Gold footballs are awarded to the two top teams and a trophy is presented to the winning hall.
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Physical Education Department of the University, is directly responsible for the success of the extensive Interhall program. Under his guidance the Notre Dame campus athletic system has been in the past one of the finest in the nation.
The future of Interhall football is in the balance. Students who express a desire for it will bring it to life. It is a strong Notre Dame tradition which should not die.
To CHICAGO--and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any . line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.	.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO.BEND R. R.
Interhall Tennis Struggles
Through Weather Difficulties
Inter-hall tennis has been temporarily brought to a halt by adverse weather conditions. It has been announced by Coach Walter Langford that a new schedule has been arranged and will be put to work as soon as possible.
jrlotoers of distinction
For

DANCES
At
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO.
114 South Michigan St.
Reasonably Priced Corsages W
Flowers Also Wired
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
12
INTRODUCING
By Al Lesmez
Williams the Florist
Pants Shirts N. D. Blankets
It was a hard job cornering husky Pat Filley in his third floor room in Cavanaugh. With the football season opener just one week away, Captain Filley is one of the busiest men on campus.
FOR YOUR DATE
Sonneborn's Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue South Bend, Ind.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
business and social SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS 51.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Patrick Filley. Captain
On January 26, 1923, Patrick Joseph Filley was born in South Bend, Indiana. Naturally, at that early age, he did not have any idea that someday he would captain a Notre Dame , team, but judging from the way he put. on muscle and weight in his first few years, he must have at least suspected it.
While at Central High school in South Bend, Pat captained the wrestling team and won the state wrestling championship three years in a row. He found time for football when he was not wrestling, and was chosen as all-state guard during his senior year.
In September 1940, Pat entered Notre Dame and started a course in physical education. Soon he began to add to his fine high school reputation as real football material. This year he ■ leads the guard detachment, and will be one of the real threats in our line.
When time lies heavy on Pat’s hands, there is nothing he’d rather do than take out his sports’ scrap book and tinker with it. He has made this quite a hobby, and the clippings that make up the book would give anyone a full afternoon bf entertainment.
Pat also likes recordings of popular music, especially if they are in the hot tempo of Harry James. When questioned closely, he confesses that-he likes reading murder stories by Edgar Allen Poe.
Corsages
FLOWERS WIRED
Williams the Florist
West of the Oliver Hotel Phone 3-5149

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
N. D. Jewelry
e
Ladies Miniature
Notre Dame Rings Ready for Christmas
.Order Now!
•
Official Navy Stationery Toilet Articles Supplies
13
Now a senior in Phy-Ed, Pat says that his favorite subjects have ' been those dealing with science. He hopes this liking for scientific subjects will be of help to him in the Marines. He leaves right after his October graduation for Parris Island where he will get his preliminary training. Pat hopes to become a paratrooper while in the service, and is look
ing forward to a few years of pro football after the war.
“Georgia Tech will undoubtedly be our toughest game, with Michigan ranking a close second,” says Captain Filley, “for these schools not only have most of their old players returning, but also are reinforced with good material from other schools.”
Pat is bothered by a bad knee, a carry over from an injury sustained in his high school playing days. Chipped car-tileges demand constant treatment from “Scrap,” but the trouble seems to have cleared and Pat will definitely be out there leading a proven Notre Dame line in what promises to be a really exciting season.
“WHY DON’T YOU GET HEP TO PARKER QUINK, JIMMY? IT HAS SOLV-X IN IT TO PROTECT METAL AND RUBBER AND KEEPS PENS CLEAN!”
GOSH—ON THE FRITZ AGAIN! BET I CAN’T GET A NEW PEN. EVEN REPAIR
PARTS ARE SCARCE!"
Euntain pens rationed!


"DEDUCED drastically by government order, first-choice brands of fountain pens are becoming scarce. Repair parts, too, are war casualties!
So give your pen real war-■ time protection with brilliant, smooth-writing Parker Quink, containing solv-x.
Solv-x ends most pen troubles by removing the causes.
It flushes away the gum and sediment left by inferior inks. It prevents the corrosion of metal parts and deterioration of rubber caused by highly acid inks.
Parker Quink with solv-x is ideal for steel pens, too! The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, and Toronto, Canada.
SOLV-X Im,
1. Protects rubber... lengthens ths life of sac or diaphragm.
2. Dissolves sediment and gum left by other inks. Cleans your pen as it writes.
3. Prevents clogging of feed.
4. Safeguards base metal parts... prevents corrosion.
5. Assures quick starting and even flow.
: FOR v. • • — MAIL "Micro-film Black."New Parker Quink in "Micro-film Black" photographs perfectly! Quink comes in 7 permanent colors: Micro-film Black, Blue-Black, Royal Blue, Green, Violet, Brown, Red. 2 washable colors: Black, Blue, 15 f 25 c and up.	■
'	MAKE YOUR DOLLARS FIGHT—BUY WAR BONDS NOW!
PARKER QuZzrAr
THE ONLY INK CONTAINING SOLV-X
Copr. 1943 by.	.
The Parker Pen Company
14
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Campus Golf Tourney Starts
By Joe Fahey
Rev. George L. .Holderith, C.S.C., who has been in charge of the golfing activities on the campus for many years, has organized the first golf tournament of the summer semester. The tournament, a 72-hole affair for the William J. Burke trophy, will resume Sunday. The winner will have his name engraved on the handsome silver plaque that adorns the wall of the golf shop.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
Play was scheduled to start Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 11 and 12, and finish on the following week-end. Though Saturday’s play went on as scheduled, rain prevented Sunday’s play, which was postponed until next Sunday. All attending the University were eligible for competition. At the tee Saturday afternoon 15 contestants were ready to swing through their first 18 holes. The final results will be published in next week’s Scholastic, with a complete story of the tournament.
Baseball Batting Averages
The Athletic Association released the complete batting averages for the Summer baseball nine of Coach Jake Kline that copped the flag in seven out of 12 contests. The statistics are as follows:
	AT BAT	HITS	PCT.
Team		....424	141	.333
Fahey				.... 1	1	1.000
Sortal 			.... 5	3.	.600
Klein 			.... -42	19	.450
Kranda 		..„ 51	23	.450
Ellpsermann	.. 8	3	.375
Sheehan 		.... 47	17	.371
Manarik 		.... 37	13	.351
Scarpelli 			.... 49	15	- .306
Bertelli 			.... 21	6	.286
Mason 			.... 39	.11	.282
Phillip 		.... 25	• 7	.280
Mayo 		.... 36	10	.278
T. Carlin ....	.... 4	. 1	.250
J. Carlin		.... 24	6	.250
-Rayl 	1.	.... 9	2 .	.222
Martin 		.... . 6	1	.166
Zieminski ....	.... 20	3	.150
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend. Ind-
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tei. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind-
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
. L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, MJ).
15
"Up Periscope”.. "Stand By to Surface.” A long range U. S. submarine comes up out of the sea ...on go the blowers... out come the cigarettes. Flash of white packages in the sunlight.. .familiar white CHESTERFIELDS
ITS CHESTERFIEL
FOR MILDNESS AND TASTE
. . . and when it’s a smoke YOU want . . . try Chesterfield. They’re made for YOUR pleasure. Here you get the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, the right blend skillfully rolled into the
clean white cigarette that really Satisfies,
YOU CAN’T BUY A BETTER CIGARETTE
Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.