
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
MARCH 16, 1945
NO. 1
Gardiner H. Shaw, 1945 Laetare Medalist
Dean Pound to Lecture
Dean Emeritus Roscoe Pound of the Harvard Law school began a series of lectures here this week on The Law of Individual Rights, Its Origin and Development.
Presented under the auspices of the Notre Dame College of Law, Dean Pound returns for the fourth consecutive year to lecture at the University. The series opens tonight at 8:00 in the auditorium of the Law building. The remaining lectures will take place on the evenings of the 17th, 23rd, and 24th at the same time in the Law Auditorium. These lectures are open to the public and special invitations have been sent to the South Bend Bar Association and to South Bend attorneys. Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, will preside at each lecture of the series.
Dean of the Harvard Law school from 1916 to 1936, Dean Pound is widely known as a jurist, author, teacher, and lecturer. Author of many legal and philosophical books, he has also contributed extensively to law journals and government publications. The Notre Dame Lawyer, University quarterly publication, has published many of his lectures.
Slater Receives Award
Bernard J. Slater, University of Notre Dame architecture student, has been awarded first prize in an annual national competition sponsored by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design.
Mr. Slater won the award in the Spier-ing prize competition for his design of a “Community Roll of Honor,” a nine hour sketch problem. He also took half mention in the Murchison prize competition for his work, “An Administration Building and a Toll Gate for a Bridge.”
Joseph Lang, also in the school of architecture at this University, received second prize for his entry in the Murchison group, and Wilson Chang and John Marietta received half mentions. Other half mentions were won by Thomas Cul-yer and Jose Cardenas.
Father O'Donnell Names 63rd Laetare Medal Winner
Laetare Medalist of 1945 is Gardiner Howland Shaw, it was announced last Sunday by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Mr. Shaw, diplomat and recognized authority in the field of social welfare, recently resigned his office of assistant secretary of state.
Gardiner Shaw, 1945 Laetare Medalist r
“The University of Notre Dame is happy to announce,” said Father O’Donnell, “that the Laetare Medal for 1945 is awarded to Gardiner Howland Shaw, a diplomat who has served our country with distinction in many capacities, particularly as assistant secretary of state. Despite the demands of a busy career, Mr. Shaw has always found time to bi-ing solace and comfort to the poor and afflicted, and especially to the under
privileged boy. He has shared his rare gifts of mind and heart with both the mighty and the weak. In an age of selfishness and greed, the University chooses to honor a true apostle of selflessness and generosity. It is a pleasure to welcome Mr. Shaw to the select circle of distinguished men and women upon whom Notre Dame has bestowed her most cherished award.”
Highest honor bestowed on American Catholics, the Laetare Medal has been awarded annually since 1883 to an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. Firty-nine men and 14 women have now been awarded the honor as a recognition of merit and an incentive to greater achievement.
Mr. Shaw, 63rd recipient of the medal, is a native of Boston, Mass., and a graduate of Harvard University. An authority on Near-East affairs, because of his experience there as a member of the United States diplomatic corps, Mr. Shaw is also widely known for his work in the field of social welfare.
His diplomatic career began in 1917 when he was made assistant to the Counselor for the United States Department of State. Then, in 1919 he went abroad to serve as third secretary to the American Peace Commission in Paris; in 1920 he became executive assistant to the Secretary of State; and in 1921 served as second secretary to the Embassy in Turkey. After attending the Lausanne Conference in 19.23, he was appointed American delegate to Angora, Turkey in 1924. The same year he was appointed first secretary of the Embassy in Constantinople. From 1926 to 1930 he held the post of Chief of the Division of NearEast Affairs in the Department of State, and then became counsel to the American Embassy, Stamboul.
While in foreign service in Turkey, Mr. Shaw was active in the movement to improve deplorable conditions in the penal institutions in that country. His interest in penology continued, until today he (Continued on page'22)
3
^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
EDITORIAL
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	- Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT -	-	- Managing Editor
JAMES REGAN -	-	-	- Sports Editor
AL KUENZLI -	-	- Advertising Manager
RALPH HAYMAN -	- Circulation Manager
BOB O'TOOLE -	-	-	- Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER - WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE -	-	- The College Parade
ART WAGNER -	-	-	- Swabbie's Log
FRANK GUIDO -	-	-	- Photography
REV, CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
THIS IS YOUR MAGAZINE
The SCHOLASTIC is the only campus news weekly at Notre Dame, published by and for the students. On its staff are men from every branch of the service, plus an adequate number of civilians, thus insuring complete coverage of all University and service activities.
Life at Notre Dame, in these days, is so complex, so diverse, so sprawling—and you are so busy—that no individual can possibly keep himself properly informed on the activities about him.
Yet you want to know, and need to know, what is going on about you. And this is the task that the SCHOLASTIC assumes, and promises to do thoroughly, that you may be kept informed on many fronts—the administrative personnel and regulations, class matters, navy curriculum and discipline, social activities, local news, scuttlebutt, and gossip. All these elements combine to assure you a full share in the new life about you.
To all those interested the SCHOLASTIC offers a semester’s subscription for the nominal fee of one dollar. Within the next day or two, a SCHOLASTIC representative wil call on you. Fill in the blank below, in this complimentary issue. The magazine will be delivered to your room every Friday evening, beginning with the issue of March 23.
You need the SCHOLASTIC; it is your magazine.
—THE EDITORS
eep up on Notre Dame News—subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC
for yourself or your friends in the service,
$ 1.00 for March-July semester
Name.
Address.
। CLIP BLANK AND MAIL TO PUBLICAT IONS OFFICE —NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
I_______________._______________________________________1
4
A
"Fighting Lady," Thrilling Flat-top Epic .
is Work of Notre Dame Graduate
The man responsible for the screen script of “Fighting Lady”—Hollywood’s greatest documentary war - film and thrilling Naval epic of a flat-top and crew’s valiant stand in the S. Pacific— is a man from Notre Dame.
It was at Notre Dame just nine years ago that 20th Century-Fox writer, Eu-
1
Eugene Ling
gene Ling, got his start. As an art student, Ling was much too busy painting pictures for liberal arts courses to think seriously of ever becoming a writer. But somehow he got interested enough in the Annual William Mitchell Playwriter's Atvard, and found time, to peck out an entry and submit it.
Oat of the Shadows was Ling’s first attempt; “corny and amateurish,” he calls it now. Instead of living up to his glowing hopes of carrying off the topprize, the play paced a runner-up. Like most young authors easily discouraged at the first try, Ling most probably would have gone on with his planned career as commercial artist, if a good friend on campus hadn’t intervened. As it turned out, English professor Richard Sullivan not only boosted Alumnus-Ling with kind words when they were most needed, but as the writer puts it now, “just about jabbed me with a hypodermic needle full of printer’s ink!”
On campus Ling is best remembered as a golfer who, on occasion, experienced some little difficulty with wood shots. His
intimates included other ’37 men—Carroll, Maloney, Burns, Hardhart, Mc-Keating, the Huiskings, and the Waldrons. All frequented the famous “Donahue Chophouse,” a name facetiously applied to the residence of Joe Donahue, Jr., a classmate, now deceased, in South Bend. “They ate so much and so often,” recalls Joe Donahue, Sr., “that after their graduation, two grocery stores in the neighborhood went out of business.” Like many other Notre Dame men, Ling discovered the long path through the woods to St. Mary’s, where he met Miss Betty Coston and romance. They were married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame by Father Charles Carey in September, 1941, and are now the parents of two sons—James Benjamin, and Michael. The Lings now make their home in Brentwood, suburb of Los Angeles.
Immediately upon graduation from the university in 1937, Eugene Ling’s name joined other reporters on the payroll of the Chicago Tribune. Two and a half years later, he was slamming out copy for the Cleveland News. After 11 months there, a better offer came along and the Netos' prize reporter took a job with a theater chain doing advertising and publicity. It was shortly after that that Ling, now a crack publicist with Fox West Coast Theaters—got his big chance. Transferred to Hollywood, he submitted his first scenario to a studio. Twentieth Century-Fox pronounced it a “pip” and almost before Ling could write its tagline, he had signed a long-term contract.
In less than two years, Ling has set an enviable record at 20th Century-Fox. Three months collaboration with the Navy and the result was Academy Award worthy—“Fighting Lady.” Using invaluable material garnered from police reporting on the Chicago Tribune, he has written two prison-escape thrillers—Roger Tuohy, Gangster, based on a true case-history at the state prison in Joliet, HL, and Within These Walls, now in production and starring Thomas Mitchell, Mary Anderson and B. S. Fully.
The boy who set out to be a painter at Notre Dame with the class of ’37 turned out to win his ambition aftei* all. For writer Eugene Ling is still painting at 20th Century-Fox — painting with words.
Editor’s Note: The SCHOLASTIC is indebted to Miss Patsy Schmidt of 20th-Century-Fox Publicity Department for the material in the story above.
New Reading Room in Cavanaugh Hall
Through the cooperation of the University Administration, the rector of Cavanaugh Hall, and the chaplains, a reading room has been opened in the Cavanaugh Hall Recreation Room. The room will be open evenings from 7:00 until 9:00, except Saturdays, and will be entirely under student supervision for the student body.	.
As a nucleus, over 1000 volumes have been transferred from the Chaplain offices to the Reading Room. Books now available include philosophy, theology, apologetics, history, biography, literary criticism, novels, spiritual reading, sociology, present and post-war problems, and several other categories. A number of current periodicals have also been obtained.
The success of the Reading Room will depend upon the cooperation of the student body. The greater number of books in the Reading Room have been gifts of present and former students to the Chaplains’ circulating libraries. Entrance to the Reading Room is through the south door of Cavanaugh (nearest the Old Gym) and to the left down stairs.
Priests Bound for India
Rev. Joseph F. Voorde, C.S.C., has been granted passage and will leave soon for India and a missionary assignment. He left South Bend this week and will be accompanied by Rev. James P. McGarvey, C.S.C. Both are veterans of the mission work in India and Father Voorde has already spent seven years in India and Father McGarvey eight. Both priests were at Notre Dame previous to their departure.
WRITERS WANTED
The SCHOLASTIC invites all those interested in writing for the magazine to report to the Editorial Offices, located in basement of Cavanaugh Hall, on Sunday evening (March 18). The Editorial Offices are open from 7:30 to 9:00 pan.. Sunday through Tuesday of each week. At Sunday's meeting, prospective writers will be interviewed and given assignments.
—The Editors -
5
NROTC Absorbs Many as V-12 is Reduced;
Notre Dame Continues its Navy Program
Since its earliest inception back in August, 1941, the Naval Station at Notre Dame has undergone a constant evolution as to the size, purpose and distribution of the various units. Beginning with the pioneer, semi-civilian NROTC unit; gradual additions, subtractions, and alterations have been performed involving the institution and amalgamation of an indoctrination school, a midshipman school, a Marine detachment, and a Navy V-12 unit; in that order. This, the new spring semester, sees an entirely new arrangement as to the relative distribution of the various groups on campus.
The V-12 unit has again continued along the lines of gradual reduction and last semester’s 840 man unit has contributed generous portions of its manpower to numerous other advanced training stations until it has shrunk to a shadow of its former numerical self. 150 men moved on to midshipman, pre-midshipman, and supply schools; over 100 more were absorbed into the NROTC unit; others moved to base hospitals, preflight schools and civil engineering schools. Finally, scholastic and disciplinary difficulties resulted in the nomination of another large group of trainees for graduate work at Great Lakes or the San Francisco Receiving Ship. The after
math of all these detractions is a compact 440 man V-12 unit all housed in Dillon Hall. Alumni Hall, long the citadel of V-12s on campus has been turned over to joint occupation by civilian students and the NROTC cadets.
The V-12 unit now comprises only five companies and constitutes the remnants of what was once an 1800 man organization. The first deck of Dillon will be occupied by deck officer candidates, the second and half of the third deck by engineers; and the remainder of the third by the pre-meds.
Partially offsetting the V-12 reduction is the substantial increase in the NROTC unit. In spite of the graduation of 85 new ensigns on Feb. 25, the “Walsh Halseys” have grown so that they have now overflowed into the upper levels of Alumni Hall. Most of the new cadets come from the local V-12 contingent and a grand total of 150 new additions have sounded the clarion call for an overall increase in the size of the NROTC, throughout the nation.
The Midshipman school, which has been turning out over 3,000 ensigns per year since November, 1942, will continue the same as before with a new class having begun the toil toward the half
inch of gold on March 12.
Salts and civies, brought together by the random alchemy of the Navy’s vast integrating mechanism, forget their past distinctions and become, first and above all, men of Notre Dame; infused with the spirit of the school and united by the strong, unwritten bonds of Notre Dame men.
This is a naval station but it has a unique decorum. The traditions are our traditions, the teams are our teams, and our allegiance to the navy is improved and enhanced because it becomes an allegiance in terms of Notre Dame.
—Gene Diamond
Am. Chem. Society Meets
The 191st meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society will be held on Wednesday, March 21, at 8:00 p.m. in room 213, Chemistry hall.
The speaker will be Dr. Lawrence M. Henderson, supervisor of research for the Pure Oil Company. Dr. Henderson, who is one of the outstanding petroleum chemists of America, will speak on “Petroleum—A Challenge to Chemists.” Dr. Henderson will discuss many of the advances in petroleum chemistry of the past few years and point out how they are potentially capable of much greater development and diversification.
Dr. Henderson received his undergraduate training in chemistry at St. Olaf’s College and was awarded the Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of Chicago in 1916. During the first world war, he was with the Chemical Warfare Service. Later he served on the chemistry staff of the University of Minnesota and the research division of the Atlantic Refining Company. He has been supervisor of research for the Pure Oil Company since 1933.
Fifty Receive Degrees at Winter Graduation Here
Fifty students received degrees from the University of Notre Dame at the first graduation of this year, held Feb. 28, in Washington Hall. Forty - two seniors and eight graduates were honored.
Professor Henry C. Staunton delivered the address to the graduates. Mr. Staunton rapped some of the modern educational trends. He said, “Not all that is called education today, is truly so; instead, the advancing movement is propaganda.”
The parents and friends of the graduates gathered that afternoon in the Rockne Memorial lounge in a new feature of University graduations.
6
790 Middies Graduate
Graduation exercises were held in the Navy Drill Hall as the eighth class of Midshipmen received their commissions at this University.
The exercises began, before an audience of parents and friends numbering approximately 2,000 as the entire regiment marched in. The Midshipman band played the national anthem, after which, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered a brief invocation.
The introductory remarks were made by Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, commanding officer, and Comm. Maxwell F. White, Med. Corp., USNR, presented the address to the graduates.
A number of Navy airs were sung by the Midshipman’s choir, and immediately following, the presentation of awards was made.
The ceremonies were climaxed with the presentation of diplomas and commissions and the administration of the oath of office to the 790 Midshipmen.
Benediction was offered by Rev. Charles T. Baillie and the graduation exercises closed with the Midshipman’s band playing “Anchors Aweigh.”
Earlier in the week, a series of graduation events led up toward the graduation exercises. The Midshipman’s Ball was held at the Servicemen’s Center when the Middies were entertained by the music of Bud Simpson and his orchestra.
Baccalaureate exercises were also held Sunday morning in the Navy Drill Hall and Comm. Robert Olton, Che. USN, delivered the address. The lightei' touch was added Sunday evening with the “Happy Hour,” as the Middies put on entertainment with talent from within their own group.
Adam Walsh Signs to
Coach Cleveland Rams
Adam Walsh became the second member of last year’s football coaching staff to leave Notre Dame within three weeks when it was announced Wednesday that Walsh had signed a five-year contract to coach the Cleveland Rams of the National Professional Football league.
Walsh, who was captain of the 1924 Notre Dame team, came to Notre Dame last summer as line coach. He was on leave of absence as director of athletics and head football coach from Bowdoin University. According to the release, Walsh had a friendly understanding with the presidents of both Notre Dame and Bowdoin in severing his college connections.
Manion Addresses Group
Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law, addressed the group at “men’s night” meeting of the Mishawaka Women’s club recently.
Dean Manion spoke on the government’s plans for post war employment. “We are drugged with the prospect of 60,000,000 postwar jobs to be provided through the encouragement of little business men engaged in private enterprise.”
He revealed the weaknesses of many
Dean Clarence E. Manion
of the proposals as in the question, “How many of these new and inexperienced ‘little businessmen’ will dare to take the financial and criminal risks that go with hiring an employee under the maze of constantly increasing laws and regulations?”
Recently in the week, Dean Manion also spoke before the Te Deum Forum of Springfield, Ill. on the Religion of Freedom.
He is also scheduled to appear in a debate, in Saginaw, Mich., on March 19, where he will take the negative side of the argument, “Military Training.”
Enrollment for Spring
Semester Announced
The total student enrollment fox- the Spring Semester will be about 1770, according to preliminary count—this figure does not include 1100 men in the naval reserve midshipmen’s school.
After the opening of the spring semester on March 5, the student body divides into approximately 790 civilian undergraduates, 36 graduate students, 30 law students, 436 V-12 trainees, 318 of the NROTC, and 151 Religious. By years, there are about 360 freshmen, 22 sophomores, 94 juniors, and 71 seniors.
Beginning this semester the Graduate
School is offering a new degree—Master of Science and Education—which terminates with the master’s degree. It differentiates particularly from standard degrees in that it requires no dissertation or foreign language.
The Department of Political Science is now offering a major in Public Administration. The object of this course is a preparation of students for administrative civic positions.
The spring semester’s schedule, according to the 1945 catalogue, has been presented as.
April 28, Saturday: Latest date for midsemester report of lower-grade students.
May 7, Monday: Preregistration for courses in the summer semester.
June 18 to 23, Monday to Saturday: Semester examinations for all students.
June 22, Friday: Convocation of the faculty and the conferring of degrees at 8:00 p.m.—Brian Maloney
St. Patrick Honored as "Scholastic" Dons Green
The green of old Irelaand this week adorns the cover of the Scholastic honoring St. Patrick, patron saint of Ireland, whose feast day is tomorrow, March 17.
Long a day of joy to the sons of Eire, at the home of the “Fighting Irish” tomorrow no organized celebration has been planned because of the exigencies of the war-time accelerated schedule. But this Saturday night will not be an ordinary one for the true sons who' wear the green, for in their hearts they will be thinking of that Emerald Isle and reaffirming their claim to a “little bit of Ireland.”
So if you hear girls being called colleens and a bit of the Irish accent being used—remember, it’s St. Patrick’s Day.
Ronzani Named Backfield
Coach by Hugh Devore
Gene Ronzani, former Marquette University and Chicago Bears football star, has been appointed backfield coach of the Irish, according to an announcement made Wednesday by Hugh Devore, acting director of athletics, Ronzani will assume his new duties on March 20, when Notre Dame opens its spring football drills.
Captain of the 1932 Marquette eleven, and one of the two nine lettermen in the school’s history, Ronzani joined the Chicago Bears organization after a brilliant collegiate career. After playing with the Bears for eight years, he became head coach of the Newark Bears, farm team in the American Association. Last year he returned to active play with the Chicago team.
7
Notre Dome Band to Give Outdoor Concerts
By OCTAVE EMOND •
Organization of the Notre Dame Band for the spring semester of 1945 has been progressing rapidly during the past week under the guidance of Mr. H. Lee Hope, director. This present organization succeeds one of the most popular and successful units in the history of the school.
Although many members of last semester’s unit have departed from the University, several of the more outstanding musicians have returned, thus providing an experienced core around which Mr. Hope will endeavor to mold another efficient organization.
A tentative and ambitious schedule has been worked out which will provide plenty of activity for the musicians. Included in this schedule are several conceits to be presented in Washington Hall for the students and their friends, another public conceit, in the Navy Drill Hall for which there has been much demand, and several outdoor conceits during the latter part of the semester.
Personnel replacements are progressing satisfactorily, and anyone interested in joining this organization is requested to see Mr. Hope during the daily practice sessions at 5:15 every evening, Monday through Friday (excepting one evening each week, which varies, when the Navy men of the unit are granted liberty). The band rehearses in the band room on the ground floor of Washington Hall.
Faculty Men Write Essays
The Quest for Political Unity in World History is the title of an important volume of essays recently issued by the American Historical Association, from the Government Printing Office. Edited by Stanley Pargellis, librarian of the Newberry Library, the book includes articles on the many varied aspects of political unity, by scholars and historians from all over the country; Midwesterners among them are Rufus W. Rauch and Waldemar Gurian of the University of Notre Dame and Quincy Wright of the University of Chicago.
8
Campus Hours
Office of Director of Studies: 9-11 a.m.. 2-4 p.m., Sat. — mornings only.
Prefect of Discipline — 9-11 a.m., 2-4 p.m.
Library — Weekdays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 10 to 12 a.m.
Post Office — Weekdays, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday, 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Rockne — Weekdays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., 7:15 to 9:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 10 to 12 a.m.
V-12 Office — 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Huddle — Weekdays, 8 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 1 pan.; Sunday, 4 to 8 p.m.
”Caf" — 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. (except 2-3 daily).
Navy Small Stores — Monday, Wednesday and Friday, 8:30 to 11 a.m., 12:30 to 3 p.m.
Bookstore — Weekdays, 8:30 to 5:30 pan.; Saturday, 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Orpheus Society Holds
First Meeting of Term
The members of the Orpheus Society held the first meeting of the semester last Tuesday in the Music Hall. Mr. Daniel Pedtke, head of the music department and faculty adviser of this organization played at the piano a Haydn Trio, and later he delivered a performance of a Polka and Fugue from the same composer. Following the rendition of these numbers Mr. Pedtke gave additional explanation of the themes and features of the works.
Besides the members of the club, several students from Moreau Seminary, priests, and Brothers of Holy Cross attended the meeting, and many of the new Notre Dame men presented application for membership. Luis Beltranena, society vice-president, acted as chairman and requested the committee in charge of framing the new constitution to complete and present its results as soon as possible.	,
After a short deliberation a program for next Tuesday, March 20, was planned to include the Symphony in G from Mozart and excerpts from Richard Strauss’ Tone Poems.
Middle Class of 890
Begins 4 Months1 Work
The Notre Dame naval reserve midshipman school received 890 new men last Monday bringing the total number of midshipmen stationed here to approximately 1150.
Upon their arrival the men began drawing bedding and other items and were assigned quarters in Morrissey, Lyons and Howard Halls. Badin Hall is occupied by the Fourth Battalion which has been here for about one month. The earlier part of the week was spent drawing books, filling out forms and other duties connected with the beginning of their four month course which will terminate with the commissioning of those who successfully complete the course here.
This large class will be commissioned in July of this year and the smaller class of approximately 260 will be commissioned in early June. These classes will be the ninth and tenth classes to be commissioned at Notre Dame since the midshipman school has been located here.
ASM Hears Dietert
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals held their March meeting here this week.
At the technical session, held in the auditorium of the Engineering building, Mr. Harry Dietert addressed the group on “Spectrometric Analysis of Metallurgical Materials.”
Mr. Dietert is a graduate of Iowa State College, with a master’s degree from the University of Illinois. His industrial connections have included Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, the United States Radiator Corporation, and his own company in Detroit. His principal field of work in research, in development, and as a consultant, has been along lines of foundry control.
The discussion will cover the practical requirements of equipment for spectrometric analysis, the subject of,standards, sampling, room layouts for a spectrometric laboratory, film and plate processing equipment, comparator-densitometer, and calculating boards.
Dillon Hall to Have Statue
In keeping with the observance of March 17, comes the announcement from the University art' department that a statue of St. Patrick, now being made, will be placed in one of the niches of Dillon Hall. So far as is known, this is the only statue of the patron of Ireland on the campus of the “Fighting Irish.” The work is being executed by Father John Bednar of the University faculty.
"The Dining Hall Line Has Its Perils";
A True Tale of Navy Courage
“Yippee! Wahoo! Let’s go!” shout the V-12s as they elbow themselves in through the door of the chow hall. They rush madly toward the steam table, if some innocent bystander' is in the way, he is of course trampled underfoot. The reason for this burst of energy isn’t hard to understand. The swabbies know the food is not going to be to their liking, that isn’t what interests them; they feel that chow time is a recreation period wherein they can show off their talents.
Take for instance the man who is never satisfied to eat in his proper place when the other platoon goes in first. He sidles up to the fellow in front of him, and begins to tell a joke. As he tells it, he keeps edging around until he has executed a 180° arc. He then pulls the punch line in his joke; the other fellow laughs and doesn’t notice that he has been jockeyed out of position.
Platoon leaders are said to know quite a bit about “chow chiseling.” They have been seen to start at the end of a line, and have worked up so fast that they have even beaten company commanders in. They usually come up to a man, slap him on the back, and say ’’Well, well, if it isn’t my old buddy Tom.” And before Tom can even recoil a step, they continue. “Nice to have seen you. But I’ve got to go up and see that man about his dogs.” This takes place during the brief period necessary to blink an eye; platoon leaders know that they have a responsible position, and then- time is not to be wasted.
STUDENT COUNCIL SETS ELECTION DATES
Wednesday and Thursday, March 2122, will be the dates of the Student Council elections for the Spring semester, Frank Linehan, election committee chairman announced this week. Mr. Linehan was appointed to supervise the elections by Council President Robert Riordan.
The method of electing hall representatives will follow the customary plan with floor representatives being selected on Wednesday night and the hall representative being elected from the floor representatives on Thursday night. Ballots will be distributed by the committee and collected and tabulated by the prefects and rectors.
Some changes have been found necessary in the constitution submitted to the University foi' approval last semester.
In the course of an hour, all the men finally make the trip through the line. There are signs everywhere telling them to ask for additional helpings, and so they will accept two pieces of cake. They do this in order to keep Ziggy happy; they know that he will burst into tears if they are not kind to him.
The V-12s then carry their trays over to the tables and sit down. They eat their food gingerly because, they are not quite certain what is underneath the gravy. It is a common occurence to see meat that was butchered only a few minutes previous, attempt to move around and get circulation started. If a man does not have presence of mind to grab his knife and stab several times, he is likely to go hungry.
As the meal proceeds, the men become used to these battle conditions. They grow cordial, they start spinning those sea stories that they have learned from Two Years Before the Mast. Very often an old salt will be spinning for all he is worth until he says something funny. The youth sitting next to him, with his mouth crammed full of food, will then let out a guffaw of laughter, and a deluge of potatoes, meat, etc. envelops the others across the table. The youth smiles nervously and says that he had better go to class now. With that, he picks up his tray and runs out before he can be grabbed and taught etiquette.
—Joe Breslaw
These changes have not been approved as yet, but if approved would provide for one representative from the V-12 unit and the NROTC unit and a representative from the Villagers. Another change eliminated the election of class officers and student council officers because of their impracticability under the present conditions of the student body.
Another provision added to the constitution was for three members of the retiring council to hold seats on the succeeding council. The three officers are to fill these seats except in case one or more are unable to do so, in which case the outgoing council will select its own members to fill the vacancies. This proposal was made with the end in mind of providing some kind of continuity of policy in the council.
Lieut. Beatty Leaves N.D.
Lieutenant Shelton L. Beatty, attached to the V-12 unit as course officer since June of 1943 has been informed by Captain Barry, the commanding officer that he is to be detached from his duties here and to report to Washington for reassignment. Lieut. Beatty is presently awaiting the arrival of Lieut. Bowman, present executive officer of the V-12 unit at Illinois College, who is to replace him as course officer.
During his assignment here, Lieut. Beatty was of great aid to all trainees as academic counselor and has been commended by the faculty for his complete and harmonious cooperation with the academic administration of the University. His duties as education officer included the regulation of trainee class schedules to comply with Navy requirements, the reassignment of trainees to advanced training at midshipman schools, medical schools, or other advanced schools; and the administration of the second semester screening tests.
Lieut. Beatty received his A.B. degree from Tennessee University and his M.A. from Cornell University. He also did later graduate work at the University of California. Before entering the Navy in May, 1943, he served on the faculty of Grinnel University in Iowa as dean of personal administration and lecturer in the department of English.
Lieut. Beatty is married and his wife is also a former member of the Grinnell College faculty. Mrs. Beatty, who received her degree in political science from Washington University has lectured before various women’s clubs in South Bend.
The present executive staff consists of a five officer group headed by Lieut. Commander Clarke Olney as executive officer.
V-12 Beasts Average
The scholarly attainment of the 436 men in the V-12 Unit at the University • came to light, last week, with the report from the Director of Studies on recent examinations.
Of the 436 men in the unit, 201 attained an average of 85% or better. This mark is sufficient to admit nearly half of the unit to honor rating.
Top man in the V-12 program was Donald R. Griffin, a freshman pre-med student, hailing from Kalamazoo, Mich., who attained an average of 97.1. Seaman Griffin entered Notre Dame last July. He was top man scholastically in his high school class of 90 members when he graduated last June.
9
COLLEGE PARADE
.... By E. F. Gillespie
dance. Coeds called for their dates, paid the bills, did the cutting, acted as escorts for the male members on the campus, and even favored the men with elaborate corsages. To further confuse matters men also were admitted stag without charge.
—University Daily Kansan
WALGREEN'S
If little Red Riding Hood lived today, The.modern girl would scorn her.
She had to meet only one wolf, Not one on every corner.
—The New Rochelle Tatler
ATTENTION. GEORGE!
University of Minnesota students addicted to the life giving amber fluid— beer to you—have a fight on their hands. Various organizations in Minneapolis are urging the city council to forbid the sale of the beverage in the university area. The reformists claim beer is intoxicating and damaging to health and morals, although they deny any instances of rowdiness on the part of students. The Gophers feel these groups could do no more worthwhile work by trying to relieve the intolerable housing situation at Minneapolis of the problem of “where to eat” on the campus.
?????
A recent issue of the Charter of Mount Saint Mary College, Hooksett, N. H., came out with this headline: Recent Guild Meeting Gives Bii-th to Future Projects.
We sincerely hope that no complications have developed.
❖
O.D.T.
After receiving a request from the Office of Defense Transportation, the Indiana University Student Council unanimously voted to cancel the Easter vacation.
The ban will have no effect at Notre Dame. ’Tis rumored that all classes scheduled for Easter Sunday have been cancelled. Said a spokesman for the South Shore: “We will have an extra car ready for the annual Easter parade excursion across the northern Indiana sand dunes.”
❖ JOKE?
Sailor: “Hello!”
Girl:
Sailor: “Oh well.”
❖ .
RED CROSS
March is Red Cross month; campuses all over the country are participating in this yearly campaign. Ohio State campus leaders have erected a large replica of a bottle used for storing plasma which
is blocked in with red paint as the students meet the quota. Northwestern is featuring an exhibit which depicts some of the many services performed by the Red" Cross. College students are anxious to back the Red Cross which is doing so much for the American soldiers.
BIG BLOW!
At the close of the Northwestern basketball season, Dutch Lonborg, “Cat” coach, chose George Ratterman, stellar Irish forward, as a member of the Northwestern all-opponent team. Also nominated by Lonborg for his dream team were guards Mickey McGuire of Great Lakes and Illinois’ Kirk, Ohio State’s forward, Don Grate, and center, Arnold Risen.
ODDS AND ENDS
Les Horvath, last season’s Ohio State All-American, is now a page in the Ohio House of Representatives.
Purdue hoopsters elected big Paul Hoffman as their outstanding player of the year and Myrwin “Red” Anderson as their captain for next season.
EASY MONEY
Mr. Eliot Norton, drama critic and professor at the Boston University School of Journalism, has an excellent opportunity to make some easy money. Mr. Norton severely rapped Mae West’s play, “Catherine the Great.” Buxom Mae defiantly lashed back, “I will gladly give Mr. Norton $50,000 if he can write the proper type of play for me. Here is his chance to demonstrate his creative writing ability, if he has any.”
—Boston U. News
TOUGH!
He tilted
Her lovely head
Toward him
And bent over her expectant mouth,
He gazed
Intently at hex-
For a moment
Then said,
“I’ll have to pull that tooth out.”
—Ball State News
❖
UTOPIA
Everything was backwards at a recent dance at the University of Kansas. An all female stag line accentuated the backward theme of the Jay Jane Vice Versa
V-12 Bulletin Outlines
Future Plans for Program
The period of rapid expansion of the officer strength of the navy is now drawing to a close according to a recent V-12 Bulletin.
Beginning this semester a large proportion of the V-12 trainees will be transferred to the NROTC where they will be permitted to finish the full eightterm course in college before qualifying for a commission. The transfer will also permit the navy men to choose their major.
The total of V-12 students transferred into the Notre Dame unit of NROTC this semester is 169, of which 103 were in the Notre Dame V-12 unit and 66 transferred here from other colleges.
Congress recently authorized an expansion of'NROTC which involves the plan for the transition of Navy V-12 to the NROTC. Before the war, NROTC supplemented the Naval Academy in providing men with a complete college education for commissioning, and it was kept intact during the war in conjunction with the V-12 program in order that at the proper time it could be expanded to meet the continuing wartime and postwar needs of the navy. Henceforth, any input into the V-12 program will be exclusively for NROTC, the recent V-12 bulletin states.
V-12 trainees excepted in the transition plan include those in their first or second term, pre-medicals and advanced engineers. Students transferring from V-12 to NROTC will remain in the unit to which they are now attached, and the only exceptions are made by the Bureau of Naval Personnel. Those who were not transferred for the present term will be involved in the Summer term transition.
The NROTC expansion program is based on the easing of the critical demands for large numbers of officers, and was authorized by Congress because of the effectiveness of the RO before and during the early stages of the war.
An Irishman who was very fond of his intelligent nephew, wrote the youngster when he heard that he had entered a seminary: “I hope that I may live long enough to hear you preach my funeral sermon.”—Bits Out of Life	.
10
ST. PATRICK'S DAY PREDICTIONS
1.	A bath for Clashmore Mike.
2.	A green banana for breakfast.
HOME IN INDIANA
Well here we are, after a nice long vacation, back amongst the raindrops, or snowflakes but certainly amongst one of the two. The schedule for this semester is rain on M-W-F and snow on T-T-S. Sunday is St. Mary’s Day and, offhand, we would say that is a good day for a hurricane.
LOVE ON THE RUN
The vacation was short, Pete Berezeny boarded the Pacemaker, arrived in New York, stepped onto the platform in Grand Central, kissed his folks, shook hands with his girl, boarded the train and headed back for school. His girl was in Buffalo before Pete let go of her hand.
CURFEW COMEDY
Jimmy Byrnes thought he was putting something over on the public, but we at Notre Dame know Mr. McAuliffe just sent him the rule book. The curfew struck the New Yorkers rather hard and Jim Kennedy was none too pleased with the Chicago version but South Bend was unaffected. South Bend is as isolated as Maine and Vermont in 1936 and not even Byrnes could excite, arouse or infuriate its residents. In fact Local 41652, better known as the Bartender’s Union (Phil
South Bend 1778: Huny, George, a stirrup cup and we’re off to get in before midnight.
. . . By Harry Walters and John Power
Martin, Pres.), looked at the curfew optimistically and said “This will be a boom for business. . . . No one in South Beend has ever been out later than 11 p.m. since the night Alexis Coquillard paddled his canoe up the St. Joe.”
THE ETERNAL CONFLICT
Whew—registration day is over and we still haven’t recovered. Ever since that Monday when we emerged from that little piece of Iwo Jima called the Main Building we’ve been wearing that sorry worn out “I Got My Class Cards But Lost My Right Am” look.
On Registration Day all Notre Dame was just one series of lines. Lines for certifications, lines for class cards, lines for laundry cards, lines for A.A. books, lines for meal books, and lines for just plain books. Phil Luppi, Zahm Hall’s gift to Sorin, got on one line just to be one of the boys and before he knew what had happened, he had signed up to erase blackboards in the Engineering building.
Brother “Five Dollar Late Fee” came out of hiding once again to extract retribution from the tardy registrants. Lou Barsotti tried to explain that when Georges had closed for the curfew, he had been locked in, but the good Brother was firm. As a result of the argument one piece of Mr. Morgenthau’s green paper with a life-like portrait of Mr. Lincoln was contributed by Lou to the University’s “Gild the Dome” fund.
Well registration is over, but it will take us four months to regain our health and then we have to do it again. There’s no future in it.
❖
YOUTH ON THE CAMPUS
Francis Joseph Kent, third semester Senior of Chicago, Ill. and Holy Cross, Ind., truly the “last of the Mohicans,” a holdover from the “good old days” of Saturday night steaks. Strictly a “Con” man, earning his spending money selling radiators and sinks to first semester Freshmen. Claims to have been at Notre Dame so long that it was he who introduced Father Sorin to the Potawatomi Indians. A well known man about St. Mary’s, spends his time defending the Rocks against Tom McCaughey. Might get the sheepskin this semester, but is making no predictions. Favorite topic of conversation is “My Rebecca.”
❖
WANDERLUST
With the thought of transferring colleges last week, we left St. Mary’s and investigated Rosary and Mundelein up Chicago way. Sat in on a math class at Mundelein and looked at figures until our heads were in a whirl. Wandered out to River Forest to Rosary and all we can say is that there were more Notre Dame lads on Rosary’s campus than you could find in “100 Years at St. Mary’s.” (2nd Edition)
Columnists Note—We in no way wish to cast any reflections on the 10 or 15 girls who have been at St. Mary’s for 100 years or more. We realize they will graduate in June and besides some of them don’t look a day over 75.
There’s also the story about the Irish Charges, Bob Lewis and Gene Austin who, while visiting Mary Schaefer et al. mistakenly wandered into Rosary’s smoker and who, a few seconds later were seen flying out the same door at the same time followed closely by “The Great Stone Face” more commonly known as “The Dean.”
But we don’t talk about that. ... we were with them.	-
♦
SIGN OF THE TIMES
Alumni Hall: “Civilian Reservation Restricted.”
Twenty-eight years on the Boilermaker coaching bench, eleven championship teams is Ward “Piggy” Lambert’s., record in basketball to date at Purdue. But recently another milestone was reached and another record set as the five-hundredth game of the Lambert-coached Boilermaker team rolled off the assembly line.—Associated Collegiate Press.
II
Clothed in a century of tradition enriched by the legends of Sorin, Corby, Rockne, Gipp and the Four Horsemen, the University extends to all new students an invitation to enter into campus life and become, in the truest sense of the word, citizens of Notre Dame. To the newcomer, is offered citizenship in a municipality quite unique—a municipality permeated with a spirit of democratic fellowship and dedicated to the principles of Catholic learning.
Sprawling over 1700 acres on which are built 48 buildings housing everything from a barber shop to a fire department, Notre Dame is truly a city in itself. The hub of the University is the large T-shaped main quadrangle from which extends numerous side courts. Four major divisions, the Midshipmen School, V-12 unit, NROTC, and civilians, form the student body which is housed in the school’s 12 residence halls.
A great modern power plant supplies the heat for the campus and pumps water from St. Joseph Lake for plumbing. Pipelines for both the heating and plumbing systems along with electric circuits run through lighted tunnels which wind two and a half miles under the campus.
Trainees and civilians alike eat in the Notre Dame dining halls, amid a noisy, factory-like atmosphere through which 4,000 men pass three times a day. Between the two huge modern gothic halls, a pleasant cafeteria and soda fountain minister to the needs of hungry professors and visitors and to those students who are unable to satisfy their appetite in the beanery.
Badin hall, directly in front of the dining hall, houses the calling headquar-teis for laundry seekers and for those leaving or picking up dry cleaning. In Badin hall is also located the book store, college store par - excellence, handling every staple of school work from the lowly two cent pencil to the expensive text book. Here also may be bought numerous toilet articles as well as Notre Dame rings, jewelry, and greeting cards for all occasions. Whether it be a souvenir for the girl back home or a pleasant bit of conversation, the book store, under the experienced management of Brothers Meinrad, Conan and Canisius, is always standing by to oblige.
Although primarily a place for study, ‘ Notre Dame offers the student excellent facilities for physical development. Outstanding among these is the Rockne . Memorial, a modern, well designed and well lighted building devoted to student athletics. One of the main features of the building is the standard swimming
Notre Dame—A Cit
pool, in the central part of the structure. Above the pool is a large gymnasium for interhall basketball and gym classes. In the wings flanking the central part of the buildings are a general apparatus room and a room for corrective work. The “Rock,” as the memorial is familiarly called here on campus, also contains 12 courts for handball and squash, a room for boxing, a room for wrestling, and one which serves as headquarters for the University Golf Course. The foyer of the building, with its impressive display of athletic awards, serves as the monument proper to Coach Rockne.
By James F McCarthy
These are but a few of the landmarks with which the new student will become familiar in the course of a few short weeks. The process of orientation should be a rapid one, especially if a proper lespect is shown for those long established customs which have become part of Notre Dame’s daily routine. For example:
It is customary to greet those encountered on the campus, even though you do not know their names, and to tip your hat to religious members of the faculty.
All stand reverently during the playing of the “Victory March,” official Uni-
48 Buildings on a 1700 Acre Camp.j
12
lity In Itself
thy
,rks
)me I
lort ।
>uld
•per I ;ab-
lart
ex-
mn-i do
our Ity.
lay-Jni-
versity anthem. Likewise, the entire campus stands at respectful attention during the raising and lowering of the flag each day. Hats should be doffed in both instances, weather permitting.
The front steps of the Administration Building are used by no student until the day of his graduation. Nor does anyone smoke cigarettes in front of the Admin-istiation Building.
Private student devotions at the Grotto a?e spontaneous, and have hallowed the spot past all description.
The middle aisle in Sacred Heart Church at the 10:10 mass is reserved for
ampvJ
guests and escorts. And all visitors to the campus at any time are accorded a respectful deference.
Uniformed men, in marching formation, are always given the right of way, even in congested areas.
The Notre Dame monogram is the sole emblem of athletic achievement honored and worn on the campus.
The various creeds and nationalities which make up the student body creates neither barriers nor cliques. The matter of family finance is likewise astonishingly unimportant. Precedence or distinction at Notre Dame comes only through personal merit and achievement.
This is but a brief glimpse of Notre Dame life—a dynamic way of life in which all newcomers to the Campus of Our Lady are invited to play a vital part.
Glee Club to Present
Kankakee Concert
Members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will appear in Kankakee, Ill., on a program sponsored by the Chambei- of Commerce of that city on April 17. Rehearsals for this semester began this week under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the music department.
The organization of last semester’s club was expanded to include the members of the V-12 Glee Club, and the fusion of the two groups worked out so well that Mr. Pedtke has decided to continue the present arrangement throughout the spring semester.
Personnel of the club last semester exceeded 90 men, many of the navy men have moved on this semester to new stations, while many of the civilians have been taken into the armed service or have graduated. Tryouts for those interested in joining the club were held early this week, as advertised on the hall bulletin boards. Director Pedtke has announced that additional auditions would be held next week, on Monday and Tuesday, March 19 and 20, from one o’clock until four o’clock in the afternoon in his office, Room 1 of the Music Hall.
Soldier Writes History
Lieut. Edward A. Fischer, Notre Dame ’37, who was the first officer to ride the full length of the Ledo-Burma road, has been assigned to write the history of the northern combat area command in the Burma campaign.
Lieut. Fischer reached Kunming in China, a day ahead of the first convoy of 3000 men and 113 vehicles to use the road. Not a man or a vehicle was lost enroute, although the convoy* met with Japanese artillery fire and the annoyance of snipers.
Moore Heads ROTC
The largest wartime class to enter the ranks of the Notre Dame Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps unit was enrolled this semester. 102 of the 163 newly enrolled men were transferred from the Notre Dame V-12 Unit. The remainder comprise those who came to Notre Dame from V-12 Units elsewhere. Of the new men 65 have three semesters of V-12 be-
William W. Moore
hind them, and will enter the “RO” as second semester Third Class men. The other 95 new men have had only V-12 basic training, and will enter as first semester Third Class men. The newcomers comprise half of the Unit’s present strength.
Beginning with this class, the Navy is returning to the policy of eight semesters in the NROTC course. The men will likewise be permitted to major in courses of their own choosing, subject to approval by Naval authorities.
Another large class is expected to enter the Unit on July 1, which will swell the corps to almost 450 men.
New Battalion Organization
The battalion organization of the N.R. O.T.C. for the new semester was announced last week by Commander H. B. Butcher, executive officer of the Unit. New Battalion Commander is William W. Moore, eighth-semester senior majoring in mechanical engineering. His staff includes H. B- Payne, A. L. Anderson, Jr., T. E. Nolan, and J. P. Gooley.
The Color Guard includes G. D. Murphy, R. Sadler, J. A. Cassidy, and D. J. Scully. Commanders of the four companies in the Unit are. J. A. Lauck, T. , M. Cunningham, R. D. Luke, and J. B. Caron. R. F. Blessing was named commander of the elaborate Drum and Bugle Corps.-
13
K- Al
every week day in the Boxing Room under the North stand of the Old Gym. All those who wish to enter competition are advised to present themselves to the men in charge and to begin training immediately so as to be in the best possible con-
"Bengal Bouts" Announced for April 20;
"Scholastic" Again to Promote Charity Affair
The 14th Annual University Boxing Championships, known popularly as the “Bengal Bouts,” will be decided April 20th. The Bengals, a Scholastic promotion, are a charity affair, proceeds of which have gone in the past two years to support the activities of the South Bend Servicemen’s Center, as local beneficiary.
The history of the Bengal Bouts is a colorful one, featuring heated competition on the part of the hundreds of men who have helped to make the show a growing success. Started in 1930 by the Student Activities Council, the Bouts were taken over by the Scholastic in 1932 and have been the outstanding intramural event each year since that time.
All students enrolled in the University are eligible to enter the championships, and classification in eight weight divisions from 120 pounds to heavyweight insures even competition. An average of 70 contestants has turned out each year to drill under the supervision of members of the staff of the physical education department. This year’s workouts will be conducted by Navy Specialists Durdock and Houghton and A. J. Buono of the Physical Education Department. Of the 50 men who entered last year’s bouts, five members of the Marine contingent fought their way to the finals, with four civilians, four seamen and one NROTC student representing the other groups on the campus. The 1944 bouts
“Sharpening up the old eye"
were the first in which service organizations were represented, and the support given the contestants by other members of their units added greatly to the color of the show.
Some of the foremost personalities of the pugilistic world have appeared in the bouts in the past 13 years. Max Marek, one of the few men ever to beat Joe Louis, and a Notre Dame man, refereed the encounters many years ago. Others have been Jack Elder, former chairman of the Illinois state boxing commission and also a Notre Dame graduate, Billy Conn, former light heavyweight champion of the world, Danno O’Mahoney, one time world’s wrestling champion, Arthur Donovan, outstanding referee, and Barney Ross, who first appeared many years ago as honorary referee and returned last year in that capacity shortly after his discharge from the Marines.
CONTESTANTS
Report at the Boxing Room—below the North stands in the Old Gym— Monday, March 19. Workouts will be held daily from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.
Civilians must procure a slip certifying eligibility from Dr. McMeel at the infirmary.
Workouts for the bouts will begin next
Monday, March 19, and will be held
dition for the actual fighting. Civilians must procure a slip of eligibility from Dr. McMeel at the Infirmary.
Preliminaries will be held during the week of April 9, with the semi-finals on Friday night, April 13.
Baseball Practice Begins;
3	Monogram Men Back
Good weather favored Coach Jake Kline and his 70-odd baseball aspirants this week with the result that the infielders and outfielders were able to get outdoor drills on the second day that they reported. Coach Kline decided to keep the batterymen practicing indoors until the pitchers were able to get their arms in proper shape to have batting practice outside.
Only three monogram winners of last year’s nine were on hand to greet Coach Kline. They were Frank Gilhooley, outfielder; Jack Barrett, pitcher; and Frank Ciszczon, third baseman. Paul Lammers, who was also a pitcher on last year’s team, has signed a contract with the Chicago Cubs and will report for training to the Los Angeles club of the Pacific Coast League, a Cub subsidiary.
Since the opening practice was held only last Saturday, Coach Kline has been unable to get a complete line on the candidates but he has hopes of fielding a good team for the opener about the middle of next month. Scheduled to be candidates for the team from the monogram basketball winners are Bill Hassett, John Dee and George Ratterman.
14
Bill Tully Victorious in
Handball Tournament
Bill Tully, Notre Dame’s versatile athlete, added another title to his growing collection when he captured the Notre Dame Interhall handball tournament at the close of last semester. Tully succeeded in disposing of Matt Benko in the finals in fairly easy fashion by scores of 21 to 4 and 21 to 7.
Tully reached the semifinal round by defeating Scott and entered the finals by disposing of Norm Mir rington, who defeated Benedict to reach the round of four. Benko defeated Carl Gobel to enter the semifinals, after having defeated Deming in the quarterfinals. Gobel, who paced the way in the early stages of the tournament, had gained the quarter finals with a victory over Savitt.
The doubles tournament was cancelled when a sufficient number of early round matches were not completed before the examinations started.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Mile Relay Team in Chicago Meet on 17th;
Notre Dame Second in Triangular Meet
Seven men will represent the Notre Dame track team in the Chicago Daily News Relays to be held tomorrow night in the Chicago Stadium. Bill Tully will compete in the 1000-yard run, Bill O’Neil in the low hurdles, and Bob Vosburg in the pole vault. The Notre Dame one-mile relay team of Steve Provost, Fred Jones, Bob Schirmer and Dave Murphy will enter their specialty.
The track team failed in its attempt to retain the Central Collegiate Conference indoor- track championship last Saturday as the team tallied but 25 3/5 points to trail behind Drake University, who finished first with 35 markers, and Iowa Pre-Flight and Marquette who tied for the runnerup position with 32 points. The meet was held in Lansing with Miami University, Western Michigan, Michigan State, Wheaton College and Wayne University also competing.
Notre Dame failed to capture a first place in the meet as Drake University's five-man squad led the way with four-firsts. Marquette and Miami each gained two firsts, while Western Michigan and Michigan State each garnered a first.
Point-makers for the Irish were: Mc-Keen, tied for fourth in the high jump; Schirmer, fourth in the 440-yard dash; O’Neil, second in the 75-high hurdles and third in the 75-low hurdles; Kelly, fourth in the shot put; Scott, fifth in the shot put; Tully, third in the 880-yard run; Vosburg and Struble tied for third in the pole-vault.
Irish Place Second in Triangular Meet
The Saturday previous the Irish track squad played host to Iowa Pre-Flight and Purdue in the last meet of the semester. Iowa Pre-Flight emerged with 53% points while Notre Dame tallied 47% to Purdue’s 28. Features of the meet were the last lap sprints turned in by Bill Tully in the 880 and mile run which gave him two narrow victories.
Others who finished in the money for Notre Dame were: Bill O’Neil, firsts in both hurdle events; Kelly, second in shot
Notre Dame Jackets Sweat Shirts Pennants
SONNEBORN’S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax
Phone 3-3702
put; Scott, third in shot put; Vosburg, tied for first in pole vault and fourth in shot put; Provost, second in 440; Schirmer, fourth in 440; Walsh, fourth in 60-yard high hurdles; Entriken, third in 60-yard low hurdles; Prosche, fourth in two-mile run; Major, third, and Duarte, fourth, in broad jump; Hull, third in high jump; second in mile relay race.
PERSONAL STATIONERY for MEN
Highest grade rag content bond. 50 sheets and envelopes to the box. Monarch size, 7% x 10^4, with large envelopes.
Price including printing $3.00 Unprinted $1.50 We will pay postage.
DON MERRILL, Printer
60 Hollywood Avenue East Orange, N. J.
FLOWERS
make the perfect
EASTER Gift
Place your out-of town orders early to avoid telegraph expenses and last-minute rush.
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
Golf Clubs Hand Balls and Gloves
15
Interhall Activity for Spring Term Announced
An elimination interhall softball tournament which will probably be the feature of an extensive spring interhall program was announced early in the week by John Scannell, directoi' of the Physical Education Department. The softball event will get under way for boh Navy and Civilians as soon as weather permits.
Other events scheduled for this semester in the well-rounded program include a handball tournament, outdoor volley ball tournament, indoor swimming meet, and the Bengal boxing event. If sufficient interest is shown badminton and squash tournaments will also be held. A round-robin softball tournament will be held during the summer semester, Mr. Scannell also announced.
NTEPS
FRO/A THE
>RESS BOX
Cornell University will be receiving the services of a fine coach when Ed McKeever assumes command of the football destines of the Ivy League school on Cayuga’s waters. Notre Dame accepts its loss cheerfully, for it means that another of its sons has been able to advance himself further in his chosen field. Ed McKeever with his affable personality was well-liked by his players, his staff, the faculty and students of Notre Dame, all of whom join with the Scholastic staff in extending to Coach McKeever best wishes for continued success.
HARPER METHOD MEN\S SHOP
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Bertelli On Iwo Jima
A number of former Notre Dame men have been reported as fighting with the U.S. Marines on Iwo Jima.
Among them are Major Thomas Philpott, Thomas Fitzharris, Edward Buddy, and Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame’s All-American back of 1943.
Bertelli narrowly escaped death on Iwo Jima when a Japanese mortar shell hit 15 feet from him and sprayed the area with fragments. Four men who were with him were wounded, but the former football luminary was untouched. This is his first campaign, since his arrival in the Pacific five months ago.
Although the official opening of spring won’t occur until Tuesday, March 20, many harbringers of spring have been present on the Notre Dame campus for the past week. The large number of N.D. students playing football, baseball, softball and tennis indicates that spring has arrived already. Coach Jake Kline has his baseball candidates working outdoors but Coach Hugh Devore will not officially greet candidates for the football spring training drills until March 20. The spring training period will probably last 30 days.	-
Really FINE FOOD
Patronize Our Advertisers
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Cedi C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
--------Try Our	-Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
16
Our congratulations to Coach Clem Crowe and his basketball team for their splendid season. The team captured 15 out of 20 games and three of the defeats which they received were at the hands’ of teams which they had previously defeated. Iowa and De Paul defeated Notre Dame in the single game in which they met. The team and its members tied or broke at least a dozen Notre Dame scoring records.
Twenty men participated in varsity games for Notre Dame but only seven men played a sufficient number of minutes during the season to earn their monogram. They were Vince Boryla, Billy Hassett, Johnny Dee, Paul Gordon, George Ratterman, Frank Gilhooley and Jim Kartholl. Manager John Cassidy was the recipient of a monogram also.
which is scheduled for March 22 and 24. Kentucky is also to compete in the Eastern N.C.A.A.
Iowa, another Notre Dame opponent on the basketball court this season, was
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
the first choice to compete in the N.C.A. A. as the representative of the fourth district since it captured the Big Ten title, but it declined an invitation since all of the players would be unable to compete because of school work.
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
The monogram men met at the conclusion of the season and named Vince Boryla, high-scoring freshman center, honorary captain for the year. The lettermen then unanimously elected Billy Hassett as captain for next year’s team.
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
"T" SHIRTS
4. (Monogram and Plain)
Despite the many complaints about Indiana weather heard from Notre Dame students, more major league teams have chosen the Hoosier State than any other state as the site for their spring training camps. Six teams will train in Indiana this spring as the major league teams observe the unofficial Landis-Eastman line for the third season. Cleveland Indians will encamp at Lafayette; Cincinnati Reds at Bloomington; White Sox at Terre Haute; Cubs at French Lick; Detroit Tigers at Evansville; and the Pittsburgh Pirates will again train at Muncie.
Doug Waybright, end on last season’s Notre Dame eleven, is now a private in the Army, stationed at Camp Gordon, Georgia.
One sportswriter has suggested that the Cincinnati Reds engage in more extra-inning games in the future. The Reds emerged victorious in 14 out of 18 overtime games last summer, while they tied another. The St. Louis Cardinals established a record last season when they captured both ends of 17 double-headers.
Three of Notre Dame’s opponents during the basketball season just completed will participate in post - season tournaments. The De Paul five will compete in the National Invitation tournament in Madison Square Garden which opens its four nights of play tomorrow evening. New York University will compete in the Eastern half of the N.C.A.A.
THE HUDDLE
17
For New Students—the
Real Dope on Notre Dame
“So you are going to Notre Dame! . . . (chuckle) . . . you poor guy.
’’Greetings, Poor Guy.”
Welcome to the school of the Golden doom and Fighting Irish; Knute Rockne and the National Football Champions. One of the most famous universities in the world offers you the use of its many and varied facilities; a part in its opportunities and a share in its traditions. A whole lot of people think you’re one of the luckiest guys in the world. Then there are guys like the one above. Before you make any decisions, let’s take a perspective on things: The vast majority of you have at least four months here ahead of you. Just what is going to happen?
First off, you are not going to like the food. Why? One reason is that nobody can cook like Mother. Another is that food in the Navy isn’t complimented. It just is not done. You’re going to cuss at Phy Ed, and come out to calisthenics looking like you had the biggest hangover since last New Year’s. The teachers will positively be out to flunk you and Math and Physics will account for one quart of perspiration per week alone. Maybe that fellow’s right about "poor guy.”
Truth in proportion, however. AVhat is the other side?
You will get one of the best educations offered anywhere. You will become a member of a great fraternity, the unwritten bond of Notre Dame men. You will get to meet and really know intelligent men and great teachers. You will become intimate with the little customs that breathe the real life into the school
EASTER GIFTS for "Her" —
Come in and choose from our fine selection ....
JEWELED PINS BRACELETS COMPACTS LOCKETS
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
spirit: trips to Rosie’s; football rallies and games; swims in the lake; the Sacred Heart Church; basketball at the Rock; those fateful trips to St. Mary’s; baseball on Badin bog; ice cream in the cafe.
Now’s the time to stock up on those swell-looking Arrow ties! Arrow has smart numbers to suit every taste in a wide range of fabrics, including foulards, macclesweaves, satins, and repps. Arrow ties are extra special because they are made with a patented lining which resists wrinkles, and tie into easy goodlooking knots. Get some Arrow ties today!
$1 and $1.50.
And how about some Arrow shirts? $2.24 up.
^ARROW^
$ HI KT S and TIE S
Make your decision on Notre Dame a year after you have left her. At present try to appreciate the real school.
I think you are pretty rich, poor guy.
—Harry LeBien
18

Conduct Tips for ND Men
New men coming to Notre Dame are expected to fall into a pattern of conduct, long established here, and to respect certain customs that have become a part of the Notre Dame daily routine. For example:
It is customary to greet those encountered on the campus, even though you do not know their names, and for civilians to tip their hats to religious members of the faculty;
All stand reverently during the playing of the Victory March, official University anthem. Likewise, the entire campus stands at respectful attention during the raising and lowering of the flag each day. Civilians should doff their hat in both instances, weather permitting;
The front steps of the Administration building are used by no student until the day of his graduation. Nor does anyone smoke cigarettes in front of the Administration building;
Private student devotions at the Grot-tot are spontaneous and have hallowed the spot past all description;
Uniformed men, in marching formation, are always given, the right of way, even in congested areas;
The Notre Dame monogram is the sole emblem of athletic achievement honored and worn on campus;
The various creeds and nationalities which make up the student body create neither barriers nor cliques. The matter of family finances is likewise astonishingly unimportant. Precedence or distinction at Notre Dame comes only through the criterion that personal merit and achievement should be the sole gauge for bestowing individual awards.
Notre Dame, though geared to wartime efficiency, cannot sever her ties with the past, and is still Notre Dame. Nor are the young men, late of many other universities, expected to cast aside the rich memories that have bound them to other halls of learning. On the contrary it is hoped that they will augment and strengthen that regard for scholarship and patriotism through their days under the shadow of the Dome.
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Flowers for Easter
You'll want to send flowers — just the right gift for Easter. Always a wide selection of cut flowers, corsages, and potted plants- at	.
Swill RwJl
Phone 3-8227
114 South Michigan Street
South Bend
WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN!
For a pleasant evening, you are cordially invited to visit
The LaSalle Dining Room in the LASALLE HOTEL
Enjoy dinner music Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings rom 6:30 - 8:00 p. m.; Sundays 12:00 - 3:00 p. m.
THE «ASS W
16 45

Spickness and spanness were de rigueur in the colleges of the 1840s. This portrait depicts a member of the Class of 1845 attired for the Junior Prom. Observe the height of his stock and the cosdy ruffles on his shirt.
In that same year, 1845, the Mexican War was imminent. Railway Express service was 6 years old. The colleges were few. Now, a century later, America is fighting a global war, the colleges are counted by thousands, and our service is nation-wide.
Today, the colleges are training students for the armed services; and the rail and air facilities of Railway Express are being largely utilized for the speeding of war-goods shipments. So, to help all concerned, please do three simple things with your 1945 home packages and baggage: Pack them securely—address clearly and adequately—avoid abbreviating state names.
NATION-WIDE
RAIl-AIR
SERVICE.
Contribute to the American Red Cross Today
19
KINGS FOR A WEEK
Another leave is over and we’re all back at the same old grind. As we look about us, and at ourselves, now, it seems that we have had a beautiful dream in which we must have been royalty.
At least, we were treated like royalty in this dream which supposedly lasted about a week. Our old homes were palaces in which we were the kings and masters. We “sacked in,” when we felt like it, into a velvet covered bed big enough for ten, and so soft that we seemed suspended in mid-air; to be awakened by nothing in particular, no clanging of bells that shake the walls— we had just slept out, that’s all; and what a grand feeling that was!
When we weren’t eating inch-thick steaks smothered in onions, pork chops, turkey, chicken or other luscious dishes, all cooked like no one but “Mom” could cook them, we did just as we pleased with our time, and took as long as we pleased in doing it—no worry about being late for a muster or surprise bed check.
Evenings we whiled away with gorgeous princesses and had glorious times at only the swankiest “joints.”
Yes, we were really kings, there’s no doubt about that, but right now we seem to have been temporarily dethroned. We can, however, always look forward to the next time when we will regain our throne and be “kings for a week” once more, and perhaps then the week will be an
unusually lengthy one. In the meantime, we’d better take a glance at the new work ahead of us.
MOVING DAY.AND SOME DIDN'T LIKE IT
All V-12’s of Alumni Hall Navy Barracks had to move to Dillon, pre-medics on the first deck of Dillon had to move to old Company E area on the third, men formerly in that area had to move elsewhere, anywhere. As a result, all sorts of speculating people were traipsing in and out of every other room to evaluate it as a possible future “home sweet home.” Some fellows who had the present titles to the rooms and their own “home sweet home” plackets on the walls, and others who wanted to put across the idea that they had all the options of every description on it, were “more than somewhat” perturbed by the invasion of private property and privacy itself, and had several things to say about the whole deal. Some of the remarks were posted on the doors to the rooms in question.
“Please Keep Out! 50,002 others have already put in their bid for this lovely suite.”
“Company F. advanced front, not to change commands.”
“Caution! Bedbugs, termites, no heat,
Parker - Winterrowd
115/z N. Main Street (Upstairs) ★ ★ ★
Offers future Officers at Notre Dame
the Finest Custom Tailored Uniforms ★ ★ ★
All Garments Tailored to Your Measure and Fitted in Our Own Fitting Rooms
THE COMMODORE CAP, expressly styled by Parker-Winterrowd, with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin strap, 10 carat gold and silver device, with two Van Husen white crowns, at_$18.50
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
20
bad plumbing, etc. You don’t really want this room, do you?
OU YEAH ? HOW MANY SEMESTERS DO YOU HAVE IM THE NAVY -
SIGNS OF TOO MUCH STUDY
During the week before the final exams last semester and the week of them, it was especially easy to see signs of too much study or worry on the part of many V-12s and civilians alike. It almost seemed that some were having a brief break with reality that was involuntary.
A V-12 removed the cap from a bottle of milk, then shook it vigorously dousing everyone within a wide range.
One chow hall worker had just put on one of those white N.D. chow hall jackets. He came up to another worker and said, “Gee, it sure is great to be in uniform again!”
Both V-12s and civilians have been echoing “coo coo” from all corners of the campus for some time.
The boys of old Company B had a big time during those last two weeks trying to blow out the street light which was
Fighting moisture and fungus— communication’s jungle enemies
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Ever-present dangers to military communications are the twin enemies of the jungle—moisture and fungus. By impairing the efficient working of telephones and radios, they can halt vital messages as effectively as cutting the wires.
The long experience of Bell Laboratories engineers in designing telephone equipment for use under all climatic conditions has helped the Signal Corps in counter-attacking these enemies of the jungle.
Lessons learned in this wartime emergency will aid in building better communications equipment for war and peace.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
21
still burning at the 0700 muster. Sometimes this didn’t work so well, even if half the company blew together, so some tried to use magic words and gestures and “phumph” them out.
We also heard someone cry, “Somebody stole my lolypop,” during that intense period of study.
❖
DID ANYONE HIDE A LOCKER IN HIS PILLOW CASE
The other day when we came back from our 11 o’clock classes all our pillows were stripped of their cases, and both laid recklessly on our “sacks.” Everyone wondered what the big deal was—a practical joker ox- something? Finally someone, surely with a very high I.Q. theorized, “One of the specialists was looking for an extra 78" x 42" x 18" locker that was reported missing.” -
LAETARE MEDAL
(Continued Irom page 3)
is president of the American Prison Association, the Osborne Association, and the Bureau of Rehabilitation, (Washington, D. C.)
A past president of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, an office which he held for two terms. Mr. Shaw’s
extensive interests also include juvenile delinquency—a field in which he is nationally recognized as an authority. He is a member of the Board of Visitors and of the Parole Committee of the National Training School for Boys (Washington, D. C.); vice-president and a member of the Board of Directors of Children’s Village (Dobb’s Ferry, New York); a member of the Board of Directors of the Prison Association of New York, the Boys’ Club of New York, and the National Probation Association, and is vicepresident of the National Conference of Juvenile Agencies.
The Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing a Golden Rose on a member of European Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday. Its modern counterpart was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward Sorin,C.S.C., university founder, bestowed the first medal on the late John Gilmary Shea, eminent Catholic historian. Since that time the name of the recipient is revealed by the University president on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
Mr. Shaw, 49th man to receive the award, will be presented with the medal sometime in the near future. The date of presentation has not yet been determined.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M. D.	M. J. THORNTON, M.D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623.629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
Alles van die beste... Have a Coke
... giving the good word in South Africa Have a Coke is a simple gesture of good will that lets people know you wish them well. In Capetown, as in Columbus or Concord, Coca-Cola turns refreshment time into friendship time,—has become a symbol of good feeling among friendly-minded folks.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
u u 0
• £
5 o
22


HELLO!
future officers of the
U. S. NAVY
WELCOME to the Notre Dame Campus and South Bend
A hearty welcome also awaits you at the OLIVER HOTEL Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshments moderately priced, in delightful environment and pleasantly, but efficiently, served.
We wish you success in your new career and hope that through your efforts glorious victories will accrue to the U. S. NAVY.
OLIVER COFFEE SHOP OLIVER EMERALD ROOM
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc., Corner Washington and Main Streets
23
Copyright 1945, Liggett Sc Myeks Tobacco Co.