

The Nineteenth of April 2007 
news 04 
-RESENT THEE, NOTRE DAME 
Daric Snyder Signs posted near the Center for the Homeless offer an unusual critique of Notre Dame's involvement with the local charity. 
Mc SHOWDOWN 

Jennifer Wulf Farmworkers are making headway in their fight against the major fast food corporations. Students weigh in on why this is a major issue. 
COVER: STEPPING HIGHER 
Sarah Barrett 

...................-Scholastic's CultureEditor explores thevarious implications of women taking power positions on campus. 
Culture 10 
LETTER FROM ABROAD 

Colin Dunn One traveller relates aharrowing true story ofmayonnaise, rattails and hazing in Chile. 
DARE TO DANCE 

................-
Breana Leader The Parsons Dance Company's show at the DPAC exemplifies the joy manystudents find in dance -in both performance and experience. 

S~ports 26 
-A HOPEFUL LOOK AHEAD 
Andy Gray Look here for suggestions of notable people to watch during Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. 

Hum.or 32 
.............. -WHERE MYJOB AT? 
Elisa Suarez Who knew that one person could hold so many utterly unappealing and pointless jobs? 
Notebook: E:arth Week . . . . . . . 5 Sports Notes . .-. . . . . . . . . . . 26 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . .... 18 Making a Racket . . . . . . . . . . .30 Campus Chatter. . . . . . . . . . . 21 Gipper ................33 Bravissimo ..............22 Final Word . . . . . . . ·. . . . . . .36 
Vol. 148, No. 11 • 19 April 2007 

SCHOLASTIC 
Interim Editor in Chlof 
Carie Silyder 
Design Editor Emma Daugherty 
Production Editor Kate Dresser 
Copy Chief Jessica Farmwald 
News Dario Snyder, editor Molly Slavin, assistant 
Culture 
Sarah Barrett, editor Jonnifor Wulf, assistant 
Sports 
Marques Camp, editor 
Humor Elisa Suarez, editor 
Design Mayer,e deLeon, assi_1;1tant 
Kathleen Dilenschnoidor Anno Frazer Anna Jordan Sherry Kim Jonathan lee Christina Lewis Audrey Marier Jamie Schulte 
Copy Staff Christina Golubski Katie Keyser 
Photography Kristin Kove, editor 
Juan Muldoon, editor 
Courtney Sullivan, assistant 
Business 
B~an Low~'!:'• ~anagor 
Distribution 
Jennifer Wulf, manager 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 
COVER STORY 
ARAH BARRETT 
COVER DESIGN 
Disce Qunsi Sempe,· Victurus Vive Qunsi Crns Mo,·ittmis 
Published at the_ University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria 
Pross, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic 
Magazine is copyright 2007 University of Noire Dame. She's All That. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in 
whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher~ Scholastic Magazine does not assume 
liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. Women on Top. All 
correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortu.no 
Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. You Go, Girl! Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copyj please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
19 APRIL 2007 


Congratulations to our four brothers who were ordained: to the priesthood on __ Easter Saturday at the ,_ .B:asilica.of the Sacr~d;H.eart~:.:·­




vocation.nd.edu 
574-631-6385 

The Trouble with Deadlines 
New football ticket distribution flawed· 
I t's time to start thinking about football again. v\Tith the Blue-Gold game this weekend, excitement for next season will soon flood campus. In addition to the game, students have another reason to start planning for autumn Saturdays: a new ticket distribution system. The online system replaces the long­standing method ofwaiting in long lines with a stack ofapplications and IDs for a group of friends. Online distribution hopes to simplify the process, allowing students to pay for tickets and arrange for group seating with only a few clicks. Students have requested this change for years, and the ticket office benefits from this system too, cutting cost and chaos by streamlining the procedure. With the first home game kicking off the weekend after classes begin, now is the perfect time to get rid of the old, tedious process. The new system is far from perfect, however. In moving the ticket distribution into the 21st century, the ticket office is also moving the sale deadline to the spring. Tickets for returning students must now be purchased by May 3. While it makes sense to have tickets ready for distribution at the beginning of the fall semester, setting the deadline four months before game-day is excessive. Tickets cost $222, which is a fair amount ofcash to put up so far in advance. Student bank accounts tend to dwindle by the end of the semester, and many students work over the summer to pay for expenses during the school year. When you purchase products at many online stores, you usually are not charged until the product ships. Ifthe application deadline is months before students will receive their ticket booklets, sales should not be finalized until distribution. Further, the seat-grouping system leaves something to be desired. Groups are established with a password. Anyone who knows a group name and password may join a seating group. The directions state that any group will be seated in a section according to the student in the lowest class year. With larger groups, it is likely that passwords could be passed around too much, leaving some upperclassmen surprised to find themselves relegated to an underclassman section come September. Students are left responsible for knowing who is part of their group, but the system provides no moderation tools for group leaders or any clear way to view the members ofa group. The absence of this feature is a serious oversight. Despite the shortcomings, online football ticket sales are a welcome upgrade. It would be great to see this system introduced for away football game lotteries and-basketball tickets. As with any substantial change, there are bound to be initial troubles, but the ticket office has plenty oftime to address problems in the upcoming months. Like the Blue-Gold game, hopefully the current system is just a preview of better things to come. 0 · 
19 APRIL 2007 

Every Week is Earth Week ... Especially April 14-22 
oHan.n.a Mori 
on't let the weather fool you. Despite the blistering cold 
and frequent snow flurries these past two weeks, it has 
officially been spring for nearly a month. Students for Environmental Action (SEA) here at Notre Danie organized a series ofenvironment-related events taking place the week of Earth Day, April 14 through April 22. 
"I'm really enthusiastic and optimistic about the scope of Earth Week on campus. We've put a lot of time and effort into planning the events, especially for Step It Up," SEA Co-President Ashley Braun says. Earth Week began with the National Day of Climate Action on Saturday, April 14, with the nationally-celebrated Step It Up event. The activity took place at Fieldhouse Mall and included live music, speeches, games and informational booths to encourage congressional legislature that would reduce carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050. 
Students for Environmental Action worked alongside several environmental groups from the South Bend community to design an event intended to "engage both the Notre Dame and greater South Bend community," fellow SEA Co-President Morgan Dill, one of the main organizers of Step It Up, says. 
Earth Week activities similar to this year's have been celebrated at Notre Dame since 1990. In light ofrecent attention to ecological issues, mainly due to increased media coverage ofglobal warming, Braun explains that, "The goal of Earth Week is to increase student, campus and community awareness of current pressing environmental concerns, from climate change and energy consumption to dietary habits and environmental ethics. What we would really like is for people to develop the mentality that every day is Earth Day." 
Earth Week continued with various activities throughout the week, including a pinwheel farm demonstration on Monday and a showing of the movie "Go Further" on Tuesday. There will be a special dinner in the dining halls on Thursday, tree-planting on Friday, and the week will culminate in a mass at the Grotto on Sunday-Earth Day. 
"I think it is fitting that we begin Earth Week at Notre Dame with a national call to action through Step It Up and end with an environmental mass to be held at the Grotto, bringing together the idea of 'God, Country and Notre Dame.' Earth Week is about bringing Notre Dame to a global understanding of our moral responsibility as members ofthe common good, intricately bound up with the fate of_the environment we all share," Dill says. 
More information about Earth Week and a full schedule of events can be found at SEA's Web site, nd.edu/~sea. 0 
D 
19 APRIL 2007 

··· · · · · · · · · · · · · f[!Scho/asticNews 
SII'*!"I Thee, 



Notre Dame 
Notre Dame's relationship with a local charity called into question 
the Center and the university, "Love thy neighbor." "They come not because they've given up, began to neglect his needs "We were joking that we as a property and business should put up a sign that says but because they're moving on." owner, ultimately forcing 'love thy neighbor,"' Executive -him to relocate the business Director ofthe Center for the -Steve Camilleri to· Edwardsburg, Mich. Homeless Steve Camilleri · Leinen considered selling the 
''T•"hou shalt not steal." 
. .The eighth commandment is 
posted on asign by the building at 755 S. Michigan Street in South Bend. But the building is not a church. The sign, among others on the unoccupied building, is aimed at its neighbor to the south: the Center for the Homeless. Though the signs face the Center, they also target the University of Notre Dame and the mayor of South Bend. They accuse the Center for the Homeless of attracting drugs, violence and homelessness to the area, all for the profit of Notre Dame arid other "supporters." 
says. Founded in 1988, the 
Center provides services and shelter to 
hundreds of men, women and children 
each year. About 200 people currently 
occupy beds at the Center, according to 
Camilleri.The Center offers programs in 
education, job training, child care, health 
care; drug rehabilitation and counseling 
services. Through partnerships in the 
community, the Center also creates access 
to employers and other opportunities for 
the area homeless. "The people that live 
~MP'\,.'­
•.....••• 6 
the University ofNotre Dame," Camilleri 
says. Since the Center's founding, Notre Dame has contributed millions ofdollars, provided significant administrative 
support and sent countless student volunteers. Many staff members at the Centerare Notre Dame alumni, including Camilleri, who graduated in 1994. "It's the perfect model here because you have a university's thriving community that has a sense ofsocial justice as part ofthe 
there are no different than us," Camilleri says. "They come not because they've 
given· up, but because they're moving on." He says that expectations are high 
for those who come to the Center. A zero­
tolerance policy on drugs and alcohol is strongly enforced. The Center's goal 
is to help the homeless take control of their futures, rather than to condone a 
destructive lifestyle. 
Of the private donors that fund and support the organization, Notre Dame is the largest contributer. "The Center for the Homeless could not exist without 
property and had its value professionally appraised. The Center, considering an expansion, showed a particular inte:rest in purchasing the property with the help of the university, Leinen says, even going as far as to suggest other local properties to which he could relocate. Eventually, an offer was made on the property. "The offer was for pennies on the dollar," Leinen says. "It was insulting." Despite pressure to take the offer, Leinen refused. 
19 APRIL 2007 
• Daric Snyder 
mission of the university, and just down the block, three miles away, you have a place with great need," Camilleri says. 
"Thou shalt not covet thy 
neighbor's goods." 
Arthur Leinen, Jr., has owned the 
building next to the Center since before 
the charity was founded. Yet, once 
the Center was built, Leinen, who 
formerly operated a business at the 
location, felt that he was being pushed 
out ofhis property. "We tried to be good 
neighbors," Leinen says. He says that 
the city, in cooperation with 

In 2002, Leinen announced that the building would become the new home of Len's Gun Shop, moving the firearms store about a mile north of its current address. The city quickly rejected t,he idea, citing a city code prohibiting a gun store from opening within 200 feet of a school or child-care facility. With the building's sale off the table and the gun store relocation shot down by the city, Leinen stopped negotiating and started posting the signs. Leinen has had no formal contact with representatives from the Center or the university in years. 
"I've never met the owner," Camilleri, who became the Center's executive director a few years ago, says. 
Len Grummell, the owner of Len's Gun Shop and a friend of Leinen, explains that their intent was never to actually move the firearm store to the building neighboring the Center for the Homeless. Rather, they were trying to prove a point. 
"They'll support a helpless shelter [sic] and import crime, but they don't want a gun ·. shop in, town," he says. Grummell, the only gun store owner in downtown South Bend, says he has felt serious pressure to shut down his business. He argues that the Center contributes to local crime, acting as a magnet to the homeless and 
... , an_rac~il,"!g. drugs and ,violence.' · :' 
,· :.:\: -~ : ·-· Grummel pointed to a shocking stririg of murders this winter in the area ne·ar. the Center that left 'one man dead in his home, and four others were discovered in manholes .. The four men found in the manholes were homeless at the time of their deaths. Two of the men had used services provided by the Center. "Those four homeless scrappers ... all they ,did was steal, and [the Center] brought them here," Grummel says. 
Leinen echoed Grummel's concern that the Center contributes to local crime bycateringto criminals. "Notre Dame pays for them to bus people in from across the country," Leinen says. He suggests that ifthe university wanted to serve the homeless, the Center should be located on campus, rather than in the downtown area. 
Dennis Brown, assistant vice president for news and information for the university, ·says, "To suggest,,that the Center for the Homeless and its partners' are responsible for somehow attracting homeless people to the area simply isn't true. The vast majority of the guests at the Center are from the immediate region, and they are served by an agency that has been repeatedly recognized as a national model for how best fo address the myriad complex issues associated with homelessness." · · 
CamillerireinforcedBrown'sstatement, 
· citing that 87 percent ofthose ll;Sing the Center for the Homeiess are from the county, though he clariB..es _that _some 
· were originally. from' the· area but had lived elsewhere before·-entering the Center. He also dismissed the argument that the Center or the university profits from the homeless via the government, noting that federal funds make up only around 12 percent ofthe Center's budget. Camilleri also addressed safety concerns, assuring that three police officers are on 
staff and aware of any potential problems. "When we had those four murders, obviously it was devastating," Camilleri says. However, he says, "I think that the 
· ai-ea is cleaner and safer than it's ever been." He';eferenced new developments in the neighborhood:· such as a new firehouse and new buildings at Ivy Tech State College that are revitalizing the area, as wellas programs-initiated by-the Center and other charities. 
Leinen;, who is Catholic, says he would still co~isider selling the building to ancharitable organization such a_s Right to Life or Eternal Word Television Net\Vorkbut_ no~ ifthat organization had strong ties with the university. 
, . Camilleri says the Center would still like to buy the building and construct a health and wellness center. Despite the signs next door, he feels that the community largely supports the Center and its mission. "Whenever there's _anyone in great need and we find out about it, we're going to reach out and do whatever we can to help them." 0 

· · · · · · ··· · · · · ·; if!Scho/asficNews 


McShowdown 
•Jennifer Wulf
T hree years ago, current senior 
Antonio Rivas decided not to 
eat for a week. 
His decision was not a result of his exasperation with the dining hall or a mean case ofhomesickness, but was rather a hunger strike against the exploitation of immigrant farmworkers. And this April, after a nationwide battle between activists and the fast food industry, the tables have finally turned. Current score: Farmworkers-I, McDonald's-0. 
The battle between the fast food industry and the farmworkers has been instigated and fueled by the maltreatment of workers in the field. These abuses range from abysmal wages to actual violence. The farmworker's Web site, ciw-online.org, even cites three cases in which their employers were convicted ofslavery. 
The movement quickly grew when the farmworkers realized that they would 
• I 
make little progress with the rancher 
when he was being pressured by his 
suppliers; namely, Taco Bell. The workers formed an alliance called the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW) and 
approached the corporation with three 
demands -that Taco Bell pay a penny more per basket of tomatoes, that they 
introduce and enforce a code of conduct 
and that workers be recognized and able to communicate with the corporation. The ensuing boycotts and hunger strikes were the beginnings of what is now a nation-wide movement. 
"I just get angry. It surprises me that anyone can be so disrespectful just 
because they're greedy," senior Guadelupe Gomez says. Gomez is the co-president of Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan de Notre Dame (MEChA), a campus organization that works with the farmworkers in Florida. During her 

sophomore year, Notre Dame students 
participated in the local Taco Bell protest. The administration had a contract with Taco Bell that allowed them to advertise in exchange for supporting Notre Dame athletics. Sparked by Rivas' week-long fast, students organized a sit-in at the Main Building and a rolling hunger strike involving 150 students. The administration acquiesced and joined the ranks of22 other colleges that decided to break their ties with Taco Bell. 
Itwas also during Gomez's sophomore year that she went on the "Truth Tour," a bus trip that went from Florida to Louisville where participants could see the living conditions of immigrant farmworkers. The bus' final stop was supposed to be a farmworkers' rally, but that same week the corporation met the workers' demands, so the rally became a celebration instead. 
"There were abuses in the fields, low pay and harsh living conditions," Gomez says, referring to what she saw on her tour. 

"Their jobs are not guaranteed. They wake up at 3 a.m. to go wait for the buses and see whether or not they are needed." Wages are usually about 35-40 cents per bucket oftomatoes, which means to earn $50, a worker would need to pick two tons of tomatoes. Also, since they can only work while tomatoes are in season, the maximum amount a farmworker can earn a year is about $7,500. The federal poverty line is twice that. 
Despite this, some still justify the wages by stating that immigrants are making more than they would at home. 
"Just because you're getting better pay doesn't mean your life is better," Gomez says. "A lot of them are separated from their families and are sending money back home. That's a very sad life." 
In addition, the low wages of the workers still cannot account for the high price of living in the United States. A trailer in poor condition designed for two to four people typically costs about $2,000 per month. To afford one ofthese trailers, several families live together, usually around 10 to 15 people total. During his spring break, freshman Kristofer Trujillo went to see the situation in Florida and stayed in one of these trailers. 
"There were holes in the ceiling, mold growing all over the place. At night when I went to bed, I saw the roaches running across the floor," Trujillo says. The experience was especially powerful for Trujillo, who is of Hispanic descent. 
"My grandfather was a migrant worker, so it kind of hit home when I heard about some of the conditions these people were facing and the exploitation in these communities." 
After his trip to Florida, Trujillo 
19 APRIL 2007 
became very involved in the farmworker 
movement -writing editorials, doing 
projects and even planning a trip to a 
protest. "Once you're exposed to these 
realities, you have a decision to make as 
to whether you will continue to support 
these organizations." 
Senior Heddy Nunez seems optimistic about the future. "Students always respond when they know about the situation," she says. Nunez went on the migrant worker seminar last year and led it this year. Both years, she says, her theory about student response was proven. "Students are deciding to care about society's problems and, little by little, we 
are realizing that we do have power." 
This power was exercised when the war 
on the fast food industry sparked shortly 
after the farmworkers' defeat ofTaco Bell. 
They sent McDonald's a list of demands 
identical to the ones that Taco Bell had 
met, and McDonald's initial response did 
not not satisfy CIW's demands. Instead of 
what the workers demanded, the company 
offered them such as 
free gloves and sent 
paid analysts to "assess" 
the condition of the 
workers on the farms 
and deliver questionable 
testimonies of their 
well-being. 
But the farmworkers 
were. not satisfied 
with these measures. 
The company's 
initial reaction only 
inflamed supporters of 
the farmworkers and 
caused them to view 
any further concessions 
with a skeptical eye. 
They continued to press McDonald's to 
meet their demands and early this month, 
their efforts paid off when McDonald's 
finally acquiesced. "I was totally skeptical 
when I heard that they had accepted 
the demands," Nunez says of the recent 
victory' against McDonald's. 
Trujillo captures the emotion of 
this victory plainly by saying, "Once 
McDonald's goes down, the rest are 
sure to follow." For those interested in 
continuing the campaign, he says, "By 
supporting farmworkers and their rights, 
you're already a part ofthe alliance." An 
alliance is, indeed, what the workers and 
their supporters are all about. "The CIW 
hasn't called people to help them out, but 
to join them," Nunez says. · 
When asked what would happen to the campaign after the acquiescence of McDonald's, Gomez smiled, saying, "Burger King's next." 0 
·· · · · · · ·· · · ·· @Scho/asticCulture 
_(t:
_:·,·.::--;.;,,.,:~<!!'": 

~--'1': 
-Ultt!:•1~, 
oColinDunn
T he thing about life here in Chile is that you're just never quite sure what will happen 
next. Yes, the sun will rise above the smog every morning, but beyond that the predictability often stops. To us gringos it seems to be a land ofinfinitely strange possibilities: at any moment a mound of mayonnaise on top of your iceberg lettuce could be called · salad dressing, hot­and-heavy make­out sessions could be encountered between two Chileans anywhere in the city, and T-shirts boldly pronouncing outrageous English statements such as 
"IAMADDICTED TO THE SEX AND THE PUNK" could assault your moral and lingual decency at the most unexpected times. When you wake up, as the saying goes here in Chile, you never know what braided mullet the day will bring you. 
Our experiences at the Catholic University of Santiago have been no exception to this rule ofunpredictability. The first few weeks ofclass seemed to be at least quasi-optional, and the first week specifically seemed to amount to no more than a thinly-veiled excuse to publicly haze freshmen. Of course, my first class of the week was chock-full of novatos, as they call the freshmen here, and, rather than have class, the upperclassmen simply took advantage of the large number of novatos corralled into a small space to make the hazing process more efficient. My professor showed up 20 minutes late that day and made his entrance <n just as I was about to be hazed with my ~mullet-donning novato classmates, but 
his stay was brief a.nd of little help. The upperclassmen · had already swept into the room, blocked off the doors, pulled out some sort of menacing rope and begun to tie up the novatos one by one. 
Expecting the professor to put a stop to this, I was elated when he finally arrived. Unfortunately, after quickly scanning the impending debauchery, the professor simply announced, "Class will begin next week" and scuttled out the door. 
My only hope for liberation fled, 
flashbacks of freshman orientation 
flooded my vision, only this time around I 
knew it would be much worse, 
as I had not yet learned the 
phrase "Please, sir, may I 
have another" in Spanish; 
and a high percentage of my 
abusers would have rattails, 
which is just wrong. As they 
closed in on my seat, I flailed, 


"~~ri~i~:,i11~~:~~~ ~ 
in broken Spanish, "I NOT ~!:F 
NOVATO, I FOREIGNER!" 15?::-0 They took a moment to ~'­glance me over, but I didn't 
A Chilean Adventure 
give them the chance -I sprinted for the door, knocking a few upperclassmen out of the way and running for sunlight. 
Ultimately, those poor novatos 
didn't have it quite as easy as Frosh­O participants at Notre· Dame. No, here they tie the freshmen up and drag them around campus in a herd, soiling them with whatever they can get their hands on 
_:_ mostly flour, eggs and condiments. They then tear up their clothes, confiscate their shoes, wallets .and cell phones, and throw them half­naked out onto the streets of Santiago to beg for change. Once they've begged long enough to rummage up $20 they can "buy" their things back. 
Personally, I found this type of hazing rather inspiring and firmly believe that Notre Dame freshmen could do with a bit more shoeless begging and a few less mixers. Throwing the freshmen out penniless in the middle of South Bend to. beg for change could only end well, and I fully intend to implement this system nextyear. As for the rest ofmy time here in Chile, I plan on assimilating to this unpredictable new life the best way I know how -eat as much mayonnaise as humanly possible and grow a sweet, sweet mullet. 0 
19 APRIL 2007 


·.·:.·_ ·' 




wvfEJ~{:£iia1a1it·'Yim~1~E~1s:,.
mothers a1td· father~, which_ were 01:1ce .. ·lf~~~!;~ttq1;1:0~f;,ff"{lizeg~ :~-~uca.te~, white,._· . ])~~~;s.;l:~?,ryear h_1story. In; ~hg111n~~~ · 
securely erqbc::dded mto the-foundation m_en,;No:longer1s th:1s:value system of with .r~cent_·tl:io:ughts on umtmg "fem1-· ofAmericanpoHtics, have been redefined. ge,n,cler inequalityjn place.•. ri.ine''. a11d ''1nasculine" · qualities in lead-:. The Declaratto11 ofIndepende~ce states. . Evidence ofthis shift can be seen here. . · ers; 13r9'wn ~11d Braun are an e:xample of·.·· that "all men"'.at~•horn free and equal atNotre Dam_e.This spring, Liz Brown th,'e,. gr.eat strides that have been 111ade ·· 
~~~ 1. . . .. . .. 

Scho/asticCoverStory (;!. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
toward gender equity in American poli­he says. faculty only 11 percent offull professors, 
tics today. Although the ratio of women to men 26 percent of associate professors and 
Across the nation, increased female grew fairly quickly, it took women 40 percent of assistant professors were 
achievement and leadership have been met longer to attain positions of power. It women. These numbers tell a different 
with contending reverberations; some.{lre was not until 2001, 29 years after Notre story than the gender equality experienced 
celebrating the success ofthe civil rights Dame became coeducational, that the at the student body level. ''At the assistant 
movement, and others are dismayed at university's first female student body professor level, there is not quite gender 
the seeming withdrawal ofmale students president, Brooke Norton, was elected. parity, but it's close. But as you go up the 
as a result of feminism. With the push With tp.e immediate succession ofanother [power] hierarchy the gap widens, from 
of the women's civil rights movement, female president, Libby Bishop in 2002, associate professor to full professor and 
the swelling gender gap then moving up to 
between men and women deans and all the way 
in academic performance "I think as we continue to turn out on up," Cummings 
and pursuit of higher says. 
education has proved highly qualified and very intelligent Ata universitywith 
increasingly enigmatic a legacy so deeply 
for scholars over the past women, they are going to continue, rooted in male 
several years. Questions dominance and an 
about changing gender more and more, to get into positions of existing instructional 
roles and the acceptable and administrative 
parameters of gender important and influence." faculty that reflects 
movements have sparked that gender inequity, 
interest in statistics, as -Fr. Theodore Hesb_urgh itis difficult for female 
researchers look for ways students to shed their 
to attribute causality to patriarchally-derived 
the progression ofwomen of society. it was clear that the national push for perception of inferiority. The gender 
When Notre Dame first admitted gender equity in education :was finally inequity among the administrative and female undergraduates in 1972, women breaking ground at Notre Dame, an instructional faculty reflects Notre represented less than six percent of the institution founded upon the patriarchal Dame's long legacy of male dominance. student body, finding themselves at values ofthe Catholic Church. With Lizzi Absorbed within this patriarchal culture, a ratio of 17 to one. By 1977, women Sha pp ell's win in 2006 followed by Brown female student leaders at Notre Dame are had· already claimed 24 percent of the and Braun's election in 2007, marking the challenged to break traditional notions incoming freshman class. According first-ever all-female ticket, this notion of gender hierarchy. Brown says that to the Office of Institutional Research, was reaffirmed at Notre Dame. during her campaign she was undeniably with each successive decade that number While some within the Notre aware and wary of the potential gender grew by about 10 percent until it began Dame community noted this as an scrutiny. leveling off at just under 50 percent. accomplishment, the lengthy delay of "Traditionally, a female candidate has According to Son Nguyen, assistant female leadership since the university's not even considered running with another director of undergraduate admissions, coeducational transformation proved to female because it's seen as a liability," she female applicants have started to become be acutely disturbing for some female . says. "I think this is primarily because it stronger than male applicants around the faculty members. History professor has never been done before, so when I nation, but this gender discrepancy does Kathleen Cummings, who teaches decided to ask Maris [Braun] to run with not exist at Notre Dame. "Here there within the gender studies department, me, I knew we were facing a significant are not much less-qualified men. We articulates this concern in response to challenge. Not onlywould we be running have experienced both fantastic men and the air of celebration that surrounded against a strong opposing ticket, but we fantastic women," he says. the Gender Relations Center's "We Can would also be running against the norm 
While many Jarge universities have Do It! Women and Leadership at ND" of a gender-balanced ticket," Brown 
been challenged. by the decrease in male lecture in November. "I am as thrilled says. 
applicants and a student body with a as anyone is that there is now a [female] The history of male-dominated 
female majority, Notre Dame's applicant president and vice president, and I know leadership in higher education is not 
pool for the class of 2011, Ngyuen says, that there was a celebration in November unique to Notre Dame. In fact, when 
was 51.2 percent male and 48.8 percent that.there have been three, but, my first the first national survey was conducted in t 
g
female. Of those admitted, 51 percent question is -'why did it take so long?"' 1870, men made up the majority ofcollege II) 
were male and 49 percent were female she says. "Why aren't there more? Why graduates and continued to do so until -"not much different at all," he says. isn't there a female provost? Or more the early 1980s. Today, the consensus of 
I
Nguyen attributes this difference to the deans?" American colleges and universities shows u Notre Dame tradition: the legacy ofgreat According to the Office oflnstitutional thatfemales outnumber males by a four to ~ 
:s
athletics and academics. "Traditionally all Research, in 2004 only 23 percent of three ratio. This new female-dominated 0 
::c
mal~ ... the tradition has gone a long way the full-time instructional faculty were gender gap competes with the age-old 
&l 

in keeping [Notre Dame] so balanced," women; of all full-time instructional stereotype ofwomen as homemakers and 
19 APRIL 2007 13 •.....••• 
men as breadwinners. 
As the women's civil rights movement 
gained momentum in the late 1960s 
and early 1970s, Americans began to 
focus their attention on the prejudices 
that inhibited opportunities for women 
in education. This issue of sex bias in 
education moved to the forefront of 
legislation, culminating in the enactment 
ofTitle IX in 1972. 
Among other tenants of the educational amendments to the 1964 Civil Rights Act, Title IX stated that 
"no person in the 
United States shall, "I don't think it's men being pushed back; I opportunities so on the basis of sex, that the gender be excluded from think it's a case ofwomen now having gap in education participation in, be no longer exists. denied the benefits greater equality, and that is what our society Women now make of, or be subject up the majority to discrimination is supposed to be about." of students in 
under any 
educational 
program or activity 
receiving federal 
financial assistance." Title IX has 
since profoundly affected all aspects of 
education by requiring equal opportunity 
for females and males. By extension, it 
has also affected the labor market, as 
evidenced by the ever-narrowing gender 
disparity in corporate America and has 
had a hand in-reevaluating the standards 
for political leadership. 
Gradually, gender role allocation began 
to change, suggesting that traditional 
gender stereotypes are archal.c and 
ineffective. When given the opportunity 
and proper education, some women 
have learned to use their femininity 
and interpersonal skills to become 
compassionate and effective leaders. In 
an article published in Business Week back 
in 2000, Rochelle Sharpe wrote, "Twenty­
five years after women first started 
pouring into the labor force-and trying 
to be more like men in every way, from 
wearing power suits to picking up golf 
clubs -new research is showing that 
men ought to be the ones doing more 
of the imitating. In fact, after years of 
analyzing what makes leaders effective 
and figuring out who's got the "right 
stuff," man·agement gurus now know 
how to boost the odds of getting a great -executive: Hire a female." 
Notre Dame's own Rev. Theodore 
Hesburgh, C.S.C., was a founding 
member of the White House's civil 
rights commission, the driving force behind the comparative equality women and minorities have today. While serving on the commission from 1957 to 1972 under each president -from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Richard Nixon -Hesburgh was simultaneously holding presidency at Notre Dame. His involvement in the mission for the increase ofequality directly changed the face ofhigher education, the most direct reconstruction of which was the Notre Dame student body. "I helped write 
Education, in 1971, 18 percent offemale 
high school graduates were completing 
at least four years ofcollege compared to 26 percent oftheir male peers. "We were 
in a changing time, and we looked upon women as minorities," Hesburgh says. "But women are not just a minority, they are a majority in the population, and they are certainly entitled to all opportunities 
for human development and human use 
and direction." 
Since the educational ammendments of 1972, women have been ·given 
America's colleges-Joan Aldous and universities, 
most of the laws on gender equality, so 
I did two things that were sort of earth 
shattering here; first, I put the university 
under the order of the lay trustees and 
second, in 1972, I decided it was about 
time we had women here. [ ... ] And today 
we have just about 50:50 men and women 
students, and it's a much better university 
because of that," Hesburgh says. 
As the First Circuit Court ofAppeals 
noted in the 1997 Title IX case, Cohen 
v. Brown University, "interest and ability rarely develop in a vacuum; they evolve as a function of opportunity and experience." Because ofTitle IX, women today are receiving much more training for leadership skills over their years of 
· education. 
"The greater education, greater 
employment outside the home a:re 
both factors that are contributing to 
women being not so much homemakers 
than homemaker/employee, and, ·in 
an increasing number of cases, the 
employers," Notre Dame sociology 
professor Joan Aldous says. "Butnowadays 
it's a choice; it didn't used to be. You were 
a housewife because you didn't have the 
training, and men were supposed to take 
care of things. But now women on this ­
campus and certainly on other campuses 
are getting the training, and they don't 
just want to pass it on to their children. 
They want to use it," she says. 
According to the U.S. Department of 
in addition to 
comprising the 
majority of those receiving master's 
degrees. Women are also entering 
business and law schools in record 
numbers, writes the U.S. Department of 
Education. 
Hesburgh, in his 70 years at ·Notre Dame, has seen this transformation in the role of women in society; when he first came back to Notre Dame after being awarded his doctorate, there were only a few nuns in the graduate school. "There are big strides going on 
for women 'throughout the world. That's 
why I'm happy that Notre Dame women are getting a fine professional education _here -we ·have women judges now that are alumni, and we have a lot of women in the business world and other worlds, especially in education," Hesburgh says. "I think a_s we continue to turn out highly qualified and very intelligent women, they are going to continue, more and more, 
to get into' positions of importance and 
influence." · One such woman chose to make her 
markhere at:Notre Dame. Frances Shavers 
is chief of staff to Rev. John I. Jenkins, 
C.S.C. A freshman at Notre Dame in 
1986, Shav~rs matriculated within Notre 
Dame's patriarchal structure and found her place in the world by asserting her right to choose her path-in life while 
respecting her values as both a woman 
and a professional. "Choice for women, and choosing where 
19 APRIL 2007 

they want to be is important. I have chosen at this point in my life to focus on a career outside of the home .. But it is all about choice. Women now have been given that latitude, but it is still shaped by the various burdens, pressures and perceptions that exist in greater society," Shavers says. 
Notre Dame is not exempt from these structural pressures. Rather, they are often heightened by long-standing traditions of the university. "You take the culture ofNotre Dame that is more patriarchal than some other institutions, and then you add in the dynamic of athletics . . . and academic environment, and all of these things have existing histories ofmale/female dynamic," Shaver says. "I am definitely a product of that, and I certainly work and operate within it, [ ...] but the thing that has been most important for me is having a true sense, as best possible, of who I am. I think that's really important for women in thinking about where they want to go in the future." 
As Brown and Braun begin their term as student body president and vice president, they are confident that their sex did not influence the election and, with female mentors like former president Shappell, are determined that they can be feminine and just as competent and effective as male leaders. "I guess I just hope that people see that anyone can attain any position if they work hard enough. Regardless of gender, the most qualified individual should always get the position. What I'm most proud ofis that we're now starting to see this in action; slowlybutsurely I thinksociety is moving to a place where gender does not affect an individual's capacity for achieving their goals," Brown says. 
"I think it's really important that you keep your femininity and your softer side. I don't think being a leader means that you have to be like a man, not in any stereotypical sense, just that you can still be a girl and have those feminine traits but be a fully capable and strong leader. It's finding that balance, between professionalism and not losing sight of who you are," Braun says. 
Nationwide, women have been asserting their womanhood while acting as female leaders. From Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential candidacy to Drew Faust's recent appointment as Harvard University's first female 
19 APRIL 2007 
president in its 371-year history, female leadership has proven to be a potent mechanism for furthering the United States Constitution's promise for equal opportunity. As the old patriarchal system is lessening in importance, today's generation is forging ahead and raising the bar to new levels ofequal opportunity and repr.esentation. 
While the debate continues over "the gender switch," as Christina Sommers, author of "The War Against Boys: How Misguided Feminism is Harming Our Young Men," calls it, Brown, Braun, Shavers, Faust and others argue instead that theirs is a zero-sum game, and the changes now taking place are the long­awaited effects ofTitle IX. Sommers and her peers argue that women's growing leadership and academic excellence pose a threat to males, consuming attention as the favored sex and pushing men to the periphery of educational achievement in the classroom. These critiques examine gender inequality but not in an air of celebration. Instead, Sommers presents men as the short-changed victims of feminism, writing that men are falling behind academically because of the excessive attention the educational system gives to female students. Sommers' critique of female achievement exists among a myriad ofother novels, articles and biogs. Her criticism presents a stark contrast from the gender equality celebrated by individuals who are relieved to have finally made ground against the politics ofpatriarchy. 
"I would like to think [we are] getting at gender equity. So it is not. a case of women who are asserting themselves at the expense of men, it is just broadening the opportunities for everyone 
-regardless of what their gender is, regardless of what their ethnicity is. I don't think it's men being pushed back; I think it's a case ofwomen now having greater equality, and thatis what our society is supposed to be about," Aldous says. 
·Former Student Body Vice 
Schol~sticCoverSt;ry II)··············· 
President Bill Andrichik argues that gender is second to leadership style and competency. Of Brown and Braun, Andrichik says, "I can't speak for them but I would almost think that bringing gender into the equation cheapens the fact that they are both extremely qualified student leaders." 
Brown and Braun's platform provides vision and meaning to Notre Dame as it sets realistic short-term goals "to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to 
6: 
~ 
a: 
w
> 
; 
0 
! 
u 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u 
Cf) 
"!~--­i · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · (~)Scho/asticCoverStory 
justice." Not only do their platform's have different leadership styles, part of objectives promote the development of which reflects that we are both girls, but "disciplined habits of mind, body and I don't think it's all determined by our 
spirit, which characterize educated, femininity." skilled and free human beings," but As a female within a male-dominated they themselvesaie a-materialization administration, Shavers often finds 9£-He;burgh's civil rights visi01:{cjf,,_comfort in reaffirming her strong sense 
,/"equality. ofs~lf. "I am a woman. On any particular The equaLgender·distrib:Qtion of day it,is not all of who I am, nor is it studel}t-b6dy presidents since 2000.i_s an unirilRortant part of who I am; it's ev~jlehce of Andrichik's hope realized>,,a part of my story and a part of every "Lguess us winning this election, being copversation\I have. I don't believe in 1furo girls, shows that the gender shouldn't pla){ng that cl.own, and that includes / matter. Ifthere were two males next year what \wear, ho~ I speak, all those sorts that won I hope that no one would make a of thing~," she sa'j~-Shavers reaffirms the stink about it. We really had no one make importa~ce of ind,ividuality and gender a stink about it this year, and I really hope diversity \ro educa~ion, saying, "I think that we are·past that point. I just hope it that anytime you have the opportunity would work both ways," Braun says. for there t6 be diffe~ent voices at the table, In her article, "Women and the that is important; tr enriches outcomes. Leadership Paradigm," professor Roslin [ ... ] Anytime you/ have the numbers 
Growe at the University of Louisiana, change, fou get· different conversations Lafayette, writes, "Good school in the cl~ssroom,"/ she says. administration is more attuned "Lasdemester, riiyphilosophyprofessor to feminine than masculine gave1fu.e this five-minute spiel about 
modes of leadership behavior. beirtg a femaJe' in power and how you Female attributes of nurturing, h~e to watch how you step and, while ',.,)?eing sensitive, empatheti,c;,/not cautio_p.ingme against taking certain intuiti~e!__compromis!~~cari!ig, acti~~_J( make sure I am co~stant~y . cooperat1ve-and·accdmmodat1ve watch.mg how guys are respondmg to 1t. .·. areincreasingly associated _with· )Si(e warned me that] since it's not such '-·-eff~ctive administraticm/' 1~:':tale_..,,. an accepted norm yet, that some [guys] leadets~a-re said, a~termitively, might not respond well to girls telling to focus oh "completing tasks, them what to do all the time," Brown achieving goals, j hoarding says. "She emphasized finding the balance information!and winning." between complete domination and 
. Growe de~1cribes ~ender as a bringing ~ow~ yo:ur standards." social construction,· sl1a:ped by the On the 1mphcat10ns offemale students' attitudes, knowlJdge and behaviors increasing leadership within Notre Dame that are describ¢d as m_~sculine or today, Hesburgh feels no concern for the feminine by society\ Shewrit~s that while male side of campus. "I don't think it's power, authorim aqtion arid ~chievement 4urj:j~g..E:en. After all, it's a free world, were-traditionally named as desirable and since more than half of the people in masculine -attributes, today these traits the world ar$ women, they ought to have 
"-are joined· with traditionally feminine the same fi:e'edom of opportunity as men '--cliaractenst1cs su~h as service, caring, liave,..-liesays. nurturing and intuitive r~asoning to Despite such momentous strides, produce the most well-rtjunded and however, Hesburgh argues that there qualified leaders pcissible. I is still more that can be done to further An increasing nuiuber of J.omen today gender equality at Notre Dame. He have begun taking pn these {raditionally recognizes that battles continue to be masculine traits, supplem¢nting their fought and that progress is an ever­feminine attributes\n._ordfr to achieve evolving phenomenon at Notre Dame. a commanding yet dynamic leadership "I pushed behind the scenes as hard as I style. Braun explains the important could until we.had a woman student body fusion of leadership techniques: "I think president. I think we're where we ought that whether you're male or female you to be, but that doesn't mean we can't get need to have your own leadership style better," he says. "In a way, women could ... You need to find the right blend, and have more influence around here than I think Liz and I have done this. We they do." 
19 APRIL 2007
••·····•• 16 
mto1:45am ,, 

vfi.nd.edu 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, . and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources 
in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support} Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 


The Dome is a great way to get involved with Notre Dame student media. Staff members are given the opportunity to write stories, take pictures, learn about the publication process and meet new students. 
Section Editor positions are available for: Sports Organizations Seniors Academics Special Events 
Anyone with orwithout yearbook experience is welcome to apply. Please contact us (dome@nd.edu) to receive an application. Interviews will be held through April 27th. Also, please contact us if you are interested in being a writer or photographer. We look forward to hearing from you! 
Kathleen Martinez · 2008 Editor-In-Chief 

I -, • • • , -• ' ' ,I· . • . . . 
Scho/asticCulture @· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

ROASTED GOAT DEPT. 
A TASTY TREAT 
I decided to get in touch with my inner hunter-gatherer at the anthropology department's seventh annual goat roast. Doubtless, many attendees were concerned, as the phrase 
"goat roast" inspires visions of a bloody carcass on a stake rotating slowly over an open fire in the middle of the Brownson Hall courtyard. Thankfully, this was not the case: The goat and two sheep came beheaded and skinned from a commercial firm right here in South Bend. (Who knew this place had a market for goat meat?) Professor Ian Kuijt and his lithics technology class, a course that teaches the art of stone toolmaking, hosted the event and butchered the animals. It was somewhat alarming that students would be experimenting with their homemade, unsanitary stone tools on the meat that the guests were about to eat. But this anxiety quickly passed because the students took the sterile route and used modern metal knives to butcher all the meat to be eaten at the roast. They practiced cutting only the inedible parts of the animals with their stone instruments. 
The lithics class focµses on experimental archaeological research, making and using flint and obsidian tools to understand the complexity of stone tool technology used by both Neanderthals and early Homo sapiens. This class debunks the popular belief that "cavemen" had extremely 
. primitive technology and simply banged rocks together to make tools. Stone tools 
_are surprisingly complex to make. Even with modern technology, archaeologists cannot recreate some ofthe tools crafted by our ancestors. 
1 9 APRIL 2007 
Despite this fact, those who attended the goat roast were enthusiastic to try their hands at stone toolmaking, and, luckily, the class gave demonstrations in introductory lessons. Even with skilled class-member Sheena Ketchum coaching the group step-by-step through the process, most attempts at making stone scrapers yielded pathetic, barely functional instruments. The lithics students, after a semester of practice, were far more adept at making stone tools. Their carefully crafted instruments were able to cut through meat and scrape bark off branches with ease. 
So, what's the point of meat. Also, according to anthropologists, culture dictates which animals it is socially acceptable to eat; American culture mandates that goat meat is not a typical delicacy. Despite this, guests were encouraged to get the full Neanderthal experience, abandoning their plastic forks and knives and digging in. It was kind of an unusual breakfast; I'm sure they weren't serving goat meat in the dining hall, or at least I hope they weren't. 0 
-Emily Lyons 
learning a skill that is not 
exactly useful in today's 
electronic world? Junior Kyle 
Bocinsky's father wondered 
the same thing: "We're 
spending $40,000 for you 
to do what?" Kyle explained 
that the class helps students 
understand the complexity 
of stone technology as well 
as the context in which such 
tools would have been used. "It's legitimate," Kyle says. 
Finally, the main 
attraction of the goat roast 
was cooked and ready to 
be eaten.. After seeing the 
goat butchered, cut up into 
cubes and transported in 
buckets to the grills, some 
were apprehensive. As a rule, 
Americans usually don't 
have this much involvement 
in the preparation of their 
21 ••••••••• 



· · · · · · · · · · ····@ ScholasticCulture 
Bravissimo! 
La Locandiera: !tali.an Theater Workshop Production 


,·c·>
"·,. ,jao _;agazzi!''Amemher o~the ·.·. immersion program at Middlebury (_ :__ ,--. ,· ·. Italian theater works~op dass . College in Vermont, director Colangelo ·_: __ • < .caUs for the c;oinmencerrient of l;_opes the workshop will "create a thenight'sre~~arsal. The students circle· /language immersion experience at Notre 
up in theWa{sh Hall basement and begi.n spitting out Italian tongue twisters to get t:hem prepare.cl for their upcoming dialog;_ie: "Seil coniglio giFagli tfpiglia, levagli gli·l!:gli et:igliaglia gliartigli!" .. · 
Establishe~ in 200Lby 2002 Notre Dame graduateJ.,aura Colangelo as part of her senior th~sis and undergraduate research work, the Italian theater 
workshop class annually performs an .. While at rehearsal, the students are Italianplayforthepublic.Thisyear'splay. dnly permit:ted t. speak Italian. And 
is "La Locandiera" _. by Carlos Goldoni. Performed in conjunction with the April 19-20 conference on campus; "Goldoni and the Eighteenth Century: Text and Performande in the Curriculum," the performanhe is indicative ofthe wide . array of c_;iiltural events sponsored by Notre Daµie's.language departments. 
The annual Italian play is merely one event put on by the language depart!Ilents 
throughout the year. From the Spanish .-.. department's salsa dance lessons to the French department's annual filmJest:ival to the Italian department's spring ioccer tourname~t, language studeI1tS h~ye the, opportunity::C!Q _eiplore their. lan.guage beyond the classrooin;"Our aim/is to•· teach and learn in a m.ore holistic fa~hiorr; to show students thatt:he, study of language and culture can involye different. talents, interests, learning materials and settings," faculty advisor and Director of the Italian Language Prograhl Colleen..· Ryan-Scheutz says. i • : ; ·_.. 

w The two-credit Italian theaterworkshop !5 class is comprised of stµderi.ts at varying ~ levels of language proficiency. Rartging 
from those who havf spent a semester ~ in Rome to those wh6liave j-q.st finished • 
o two semesters of the language, the class ~ attracts a diverse group of student~{;
'ri•fo'.pi~~: by the summe, language 
Dame" that parallels her experiences at Middlebury. Ryan-Scheutz says that she hopes the class will "help students feel at 
._ ease and take ownership, so to speak, of ·. the language and numerous aspects of Italian'culture." 
· An int~gral component of the class liesiil thelangirnge pledge each member is.required fo sign before participating. 
· ~his is takefi very ~eriously. The second ·~tude11tserit:er the rehearsal room, "hello" i~ imrt1ediately transformed into "ciao," and evell side conversations between · students take place in Italian. "The class att:pcts very motivated students who 
• Molly Kring 
are passionate -about learning -Italian," Colangelo says. This drive is necess~ry · given that the class has one seniester to perfect a play, a task that Would usually require much more time to master. 
There is a saying in the theater business that for every m_inute on the stage; there should be one. hour of practice. The Italian Theater Workshop Class defies this theory !:>y meeting only twice a we'ek . · for an hour[ and fifteen minutes. A large·· · amount of !outside work is required of the studentJ, incliiding niemorizing lines; recording themselves to make sure their pronunciation is correct and · analyzing the characters an.cl/ themes present in Goldoni's work.Due!to the precious value of rehearsal time, .Colangelo permits no unexcused absences: •·· -. · 
Despite the intensity ofthe class, the students sayjt is·an enjoyable experience. _. 
----:_., .,~ '. ... ' . 
19 APRIL 2007 




"This has been a great experience because I have had the chance to meet other people with my same passion for Italian language and culture," junior English and Italian major Elizabeth Simari says. "I definitely feel a sense ofaccomplishment along with the others in the class. We have worked hard on interacting with and interpreting Goldoni's 18th century drama, and I cannot wait to see the final product and see how · the audience reacts." There are even some members of the class that have been involved for several years and plan on coming back next year as 
· · ·· well. "It's a great atmosphere to be . in," senior anthropology and fo1lian major Tina Fuller says. 
Advertised as "a comedy about love, po;wer and money,'' this year's play, "La Locandiera," was chosen in honor ofthe 300th anniversary 
·of Venetian playwright Carlos Goldoni's birth. Goldoni, hailed by wrote. in his memoir that the primary Showcasingthelivelyanimation typical many as one of European theater's aim ofhis works is to,Ccorrect'vice, as it of Goldorii's comedies, "La Locandiera" ;greatest• authors, is widelf known for · is the primary, oldest and noblest object tells the Story ofMirandolina, an Italian revolutionizing Italian theater, . a1dirig of comedy." His comedies often satfrize innkeeper playing host to three noblemen. ina transition f:rom improvised comedy the Church and the arrogance ofthe While two have fallen for her, one man, (commedia dell'arte) to. comedies with nobility. • . . . ·.· ·· . . . the Cavaliere, clai1hs he has never been more realistic, unmasked characters. . "La Loca:0:diera" is a depart:ure from. in love arid has no interest in women. His Born in Venice into a strict Catholic the more modern plays Colangelo disinterest in her causes Mirandolina to 
1
fa~ily, Goldoni displayed· an interes~ in . normally chooses for the class to perform. • : spend the majority of the play trying to th<:!a_ter from an earlyage.After a short "This play has been quite a challenge," seduce him, despite the fact that she is stint in law, the playwright found he had Colangelo says. "We had to edit alotof already promised to another. a talent for writing comedies. Goldoni the original textto make it work. " . · Because the chosen play does not 
. ;permit every student in the workshop to : secure an acting role in the performance, 
•some students are assigned the roles of 'coshlme and set designers, publicity diiectors and audio and sound directors. 
\'Ifyou want to be involved, they'll find a ;spot for you," Fuller says. . The members of the class encourage 
both students ofItalian and those whose only link to Italy is eating spaghetti to ·. come see the play Saturday, April 21, and 
; Sunday,Aprit 22, at 2:30 and 7:30 both days _in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Regis Philbin Blackbox theater. Experience with the Italian language is not necessary to enjoy the performance. Ryan-Scheutz says, "Our troupe performs w plays that have accessible and useful ~ language and lend themselves to physical ~ comedy so that non-Italian speakers or 8 beginning-level students who attend the ~ shows will be able to understand much o of the play." 0 I ~ ! 
19 APRIL 2007 


· · · · · · · · · · · · · · @Scholastic Culture 


w 
:J 
!::i 
:J 
u 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u
; en 
Breana Leader
0Concluding a series ofshows and artistic demonstrations, the D.eBartolo Performing Arts 
Center (DPAC) will end the 2006-2007 season with a bang. On April 26 and 27, the internationally-renowned Parsons Dance Company will perform a six-piece program at the Patricia George Decio Theatre, including a number set to the music of Dave Matthews Band. 
What makes Parsons Dance Company different from other dance companies? 
"It's an attitude that has made Parsons Dance famous and kept it solid since David Parsons founded the repertory company in 1987. Since then, Parsons has created some 70 works for the company, not to mention the pieces he has made for companies and festivals all over the world. In 2000, he received the prestigious Dance Magazine Award and the American Choreography Award the following year," Parsons Office Manager Colleen Cashman says. 
The mission of Parsons Dance Company is simple: to make modern dance entertaining and enriching for the widest audience possible. According to Cashman, "Parsons makes dance for people, not dance groupies." As a result of this vision, Parsons Dance Company has captivated audiences in 17 different countries with more than 1,500 vibrant and multi-dimensional contemporary dance productions. According to Noelle Thorn, house manager at the DPAC, the upcoming Parsons Dance performance is perfectly suited for the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. "They are really one of the best modern dance companies in the world, and their style is very consumer-friendly," she says. 

Although this is Parsons Dance Company's first trip to Notre Dame, 
..­

•··•••••• 24 

19 APRIL 2007 

it is certainly not the only world-class dance company 
that the DPAC has presented over the past few years. 
Hosting the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, Russian 
National Ballet, St. Petersburg Ballet, Htp1garian State Folk 
Ensemble and many more, the DPAC has established itself 
as a significant force among performance venues in the 
Midwest region. "It is a center for the arts and for artists, 
for learning and for doing, for enjoyment, inspiration, 
creation, dialogue and exploration. And it is especially 
a place committed to the strengthening of community 
through a shared appreciation of the world's cultural 
treasures," Jacqueline Schmitt, director of guest 
services and university outreach, says. 
In addition to watching professional dancers, 
Notre Dame students can get into the act 
themselves. Junior Elisabeth Rowley, a 
member of the Notre Dame Swing Club, 
feels that the DPAC's commitment to artistic 
endeavors, particularly dance, can be attributed 
to the Notre Dame community at large. "Not only does Notre 
Dame embrace 
participation in 
dance, it also 
encourages 
performance. 
From student-run 
performances.such as the 
annual Welsh Family Dance Show to professional 
performances in the DPAC, most types of expression are 
available somewhere on campus. The university seems to 
really support the dance programs and learning more about 
this form of expression," Rowley says. 
Reflecting on her recent performance in the hip-hop, 
pop and jazz dance group, Troop ND, junior Noelle Yoza 
described the event as "energetic and entertaining [ ... ] 
Performers practice for a long time. You can tell they are 
performing for the audience, hoping that everyone will have 
ScholasticCulture@ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
~ 
a good time," she says. Also a member of ~ the hip-hop groups Project Fresh and 2J Productions, Yoza feels that the I dance clubs at Notre Dame are a ' great way to do what she loves · while meeting new people who share her passion for dance. In addition: to the aforementioned groups, the Irish Dance Club, First Class Steppers of Notre Dame, Ballet Folkorico Azul y Oro, Dance Company ND and the Ballroom Dance Club offer Notre Dame and St. Mary's students the opportunity to participate in a wide array of dance techniques and performance styles. Additionally, classes offered by RecSports in ballet, Brazilian dance, jazz and Latin dance provide an avenue for novice dancers to explore the art form. Regardless of skill level or knowledge, both student-run and university-sponsored dance performances aim to engage diverse audiences. Groups like Parsons Dance Company promise to deliver entertainment, while groups aimed at participation allow students to explore and share their own talent. 0 


wizardry of Charlie Weis -Quinn was regarded as the consensus No. 1 selection heading into this year's draft. Then along came J aMarcus Russell. 
LSU quarterback] aMarcus Russell is a man ofgargantuan proportions. Standing 6'6" and a hefty 265 lbs., Russell is a combination ofsize, speed, strength and agility the likes ofwhich most have never seen. Though he has only made 29 career starts as opposed to Quinn's 46, Russell has caught the eye of the Oakland Raiders, holders of the first overall pick. The Raiders desperately need a franchise quarterback, and according to most scouts, the Raiders believe that Russell is their man. 
Quinn, by most accounts, is the safer pick. Most believe he will be a very good pro. Yet Russell has the potential to be a great pro. Once in a generation potential. If he could only harness his natural abilities, his bust will almost certainly be sculpted in Canton. 
Quinn has gone on record saying he has proved more than Russell, that he possesses the "intangibles," and therefore the Raiders should select him. The burden of proof, Quinn implicitly states, lies on Russell. Quinn wants to let his statistics and his game film speak for themselves. Russell, meanwhile, must prove that the potential he possesses can produce actual results. But it seems that Quinn's pleas are falling on deaf ears; most experts expect the Raiders to select Russell. 
Why do we tend to reward potential? The answer lies in the fact that potential tugs at the heart -it arouses our deepest hopes, dreams and desires. It makes our hearts pound. Statistics and game film, meanwhile, are cold and objective. We look at them with a detached eye. Analysis fails to captivate our imaginations. We react 
· • 
.•· · 

son was recently awarded 
the Spencer Penrose Award, given to collegiate hockey's top coach. It is the first Penrose Award in Jackson's illustrious career, and he is also the first Notre Dame coach to ever win the award ... 
Irish hockey goaltender David Brown wrapped up a successful college career by claiming a spot on the Reebok All-American first team as well as the inaugural Lowe's senior CLASS award, awarded to the sport's top student-athlete ... 
Irish women's tennis has been tearing through the competition, as they won 17 of their last 18 matches after a 7-0 victory over DePaul. They are currently ranked ~Cl· 2. in th~. country wi,th a ~2-2 
overall record . . . · . · · 
Mean~hile, the No. 6 men's tennis team improved to 21-3 on the season with a 6-1 victory dver Louisville in their regular seasbn finaie. They begin the Big East 
19 APRIL 2007




•~.f~;J'~(q:... ,~!">,'d;:.. ::; 
~!M?t1-~:\\~t~•.f.l..=•:-• :-."'·;,,,,,,,.• .• t~f;~t:??:~ !' 
' ... -~~. :'~: 
·i 1;;. 
~­
~ 
'tiT 
.f·'.'. 
~;~.!-'.;'!,:•.,,;'§(w:,;,>,:·';'-":•'.~e'.;;•:;;'.;";,.,,;,,~oH.'0:\'f<>;,,.:,..·_~~•:,;0:,i' 
r championships later this week in Tampa, Fla .... On April 14, the No. 16 Notre Dame women's rowing team picked up momentous victories with eight varsity upsets over No. 5 California and two-time defending national champion No. 7 Stanford on the opening day of the Windermere Classic ... The men's golf team, looking to establish itself as a contender in the NCAA tournament, tied for eighth place at the Boilermaker Invitational. Senior Cole Isban was the top finisher for the Irish, tying for 15th place at six over par ... Former Irish football coach Ara Parseghian, who coached from 1964­74, •was honored on April 17 and inducted into the Cotton Bowl Hall of Fame. He coached in the game in 1970, when the Irish suffered a last-~ute loss to Texas, and again -in 1971, when they avenged their defeat by beating the Longhorns 24-11. 
19 APRIL 2007 
.. · . EYES ON••• 
Lena Zentgraf 
•Alex Hellmuth 
, As you head into 
. Lena Zentgraf is a· $enior midfielder on · the~ B ig East the Irish women's lacrosse team. With 16 .tournament,what goals so far this se~on, the art studio · do you think are major is avital part of the lacrosse squad.· the keys to your Known for her leadership on and off the . team's success? field, Zentgraf's speed and ability to mcive I think we need· to the ball througtr the .middle of the field focus on playing wjll help the . .No. l"rariked Irish aqvance · 60 minutes of our through the Big Ea:sttournament · · · · · ·. game, regardless of 

..who we are playing 
Whatfirst2:1ttracted you to lacros·se'?' :•against. If we remain true to our style of 
I actually>,didn'fstart • playing until the·,: :pl~y; Ithinkwe can do reallywell. •··. 
su111rner~efore ·my freshman year in high,:'. : : . ~--,·. ·• ·...· -. . · ·• .·.... 
school. I went to alacrosse camp that .. ' Wh~f do you have to do person·ally to 
myuncle{the Irish men's lacrosse coach): Em~ure u'pcoming wins? . 
was holding as a wayto fill up my summer ·· I rieed_,to organize the defense and make . vacation'; and I ended up really loving the . sure eyeryone is composed; we need to 
sportand playing throughout high school, .. ·stay)rdhe mom~nt. .· 
. ... . .. ;,·· . 
How did -it feel to defeat. No. 8 · What are your feelings as you are Georgetown 1~".'8, a score that you about to play in your last home garrie contributed to?:·/;_:_: . . . . ag~inst RutgE!rs? . . . ·.· : .·· . . . Any win. ·aga_i.ns{'a' ~;food team like0 .)i/iiill really miss playing· 1:1t home. SteRping Georgetown woiJldJ1ave been great, but .. oufonto ·yo"t..i(home field establishes the the fact ttial-we beafthem -by"five goals ·.. -type of team you wil( become, ~nd-1 will was aweso'rne. We really played like :a miss walking out with my team. But I am team; and it was great to have everyone< · als_o excited because it worl't be our last contribute to the win; it made it all tn_e:' .. g_ai:ne, so it doesn't really feei Uke the end 
better. . .·. yet.·.· . 
.! 
~ 
0 
D. 
UI 
(.) 
~ 
::i 
0 
I 
(.) 
(f) 


•.......•. ---@Scho/asticSports 
Blue-Gold Game Preview 
A Hopeful Look Ahead 


•Andy Gray 
any uncertainties surround 
Notre Dame football as 
Irish fans look ahead to the 2007 season. After the graduation of quarterback Brady Quinn and top receivers Jeff Samardzija and Rhema McKnight, the direction of the passing game is in question. The two receivers' offensive production, along with that of NFL-bound running back Darius Walker, accounted for 71 percent of the team's total. The only quarterback on the 2007 roster with any game experience from last year, rising senior Evan Sharpley, threw only two passes. Where will offensive leadership come from? Additionally, last year's much-maligned defense allowed an average of 44 points in the team's three losses, all in pivotal contests. Will their successors step up when the pressure is on? 
Next year's squad has a chance to provide at least preliminary answers to these questions. The 78th annual Blue­Gold game, scheduled for Saturday, April 21, will allow Irish players the chance to prove their mettle in game situations. For fans eagerly anticipating next season with hope, apprehension or some mix thereof, here are some things to watch for: 
M 

~ 
0 
ll. 
U) 
(.) 
~ 
0 
I 
(.) 
en 

Position Battles 
Brady Quinn leaves a gaping hole at the helm ofthe Irish squad. Several candidates are vying to :fill the void at one ofcollege 
· football's most glamorous positions. Can star recruitJimmy Clausen live up to the substantial hype and secure a starting position? Will Demetrius Jones or Zach Frazer, rising sophomores, win the job? Orwill last season's backup Evan Sharpley steal this much-anticipated day? Head Coach Charlie Weis has made known his commitment to giving each a fair number of snaps with the first team in practice, and this philosophy will likely continue in the Blue-Gold game. Experience with teammates and schemes should be a factor in this contest. 
If replacing Quinn isn't challenge enough, Darius vValker's early departure has opened the running back position to a handful ofcompetitors. Travis Thomas, a senior captain, is transitioning to the offensive backfield and leads the pack. Rising sophomore James Aldridge is reportedly challenging to split carries with Thomas, as Weis finds a "night-and­day'' difference from Aldridge's injury­shortened effort last season. Aldridge will further improve his standing if he runs powerfully in the Blue-Gold game. 
New Faces 
In addition to Thomas and Aldridge, early-admit freshman running back Armando Allen has quickly put his name 
in the backfield mix and is hoping to 
prove he is worthy of consistent carries 
in the coming season. He will be a 
quicker presence at tailback in the coming 
years and should demonstrate this on 
Saturday. 
After just two receptions last season, 
rising sophomore George West has "separated himself from the pack" of wideouts competing for the second receiver slot behind rising junior David Grimes, Weis has said. Watch for the speedy 5'8" West to stretch the field 
when possible. 
True Legends 
Honorary Blue-Gold coaches are 
traditionally former players. But patrolling 
the sidelines for this year's game will be 
Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz, minor 
deities to Irish faithful. Parseghian, Irish 
head football coach from 1964 to 1974, 
was named college coach of the year in 
his first year and led Notre Dame to two 
national championships. Holtz had 100 
victories in his 1986-96 stint as head coach, 
taking the Irish to their last· national 
championship win in 1988. Look for fans 
to be in a heightened state of adoration 
Saturday. 
The Blue-Gold game is one of many 
time-honored traditions at Notre Dame. 
Will this team stake its claim as part of 
another great Irish tradition? Saturday's 
game may give us a clue. ) 0 
19 APRIL 2007 


The Student Activities Office would like to congratulate the recipients of the 2007 Student Leadership Award: 
CAITLIN BURNS TAYLOR JINDRA ADAM FAIRHOLM ANDREW MAGEE JAMES GRACE ERIKA MEYER CHRISTOPHER HARRIS SARAH MILLER AMANDA HETTLER ELIAS MOO RYAN IAFIGLIOLA 
These awards are given annually to undergraduate students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential, servic_e, and religious activities that promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. 

Congratulations also to the following students recognized by the Division of Student Affairs: 
WILL McAULIFFE 
Denny Moore Award for Excellence inJournalism Presented to a senior who exemplifies the quali­ties for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
LIZZI SHAPPELL 
Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C. Award Presented to a graduating senior who has made a substantial personal effort to advance the interest of students at the University of Notre Dame. 
MAUREEN SPRING 
Ray Siegfried Award for Leadership Excellence Presented to a senior at Notre Dame who exem­plifies the qualities for which Ray Siegfried was known, including leadership, generosity, devotion to Catholic faith, and affinity for athletics. 
MICHAEL DEWAN 
John W Gardner Student Leadership Award Presented to a graduating senior who exemplifies­the ideals of the University through outstanding volunteer service beyond the University community. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Division ofStudent Affairs 
: '· ':· ,>:::. ~ s· h. t·· s· ._. rt .... ·•_·.·__ .··,,,. /1/ i~Jl .J1 ·
·,· 
/··~.,-.: __ ,:::.:f,/ 
..:;·gi~in-i ,a ITu~rref;>~/· lr[! ~11= 
and hard-working players 
combine, the result is the No. 2-ranked Irish women's tennis team. Led by seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson, the Irish have posted a 22-2 record and maintained a top-four ranking nationally since the start of the spring season. The team hopes to improve upon last year's NCAA quarterfinal loss to Miami. The players are confident that this year will end more favorably. "There were tough circumstances last year in San Francisco. vVe warmed up outdoors but then had to drive an hour to play indoors because of bad weather. This year in Georgia, things should suit us better," Christian Thompson says. 
The Irish women were ranked No.· 2 in 2006 as well, but this year they have greater confidence in their game; Sophomore Kelcy Tefft attributes much of their success to their new outlook on the game. "This season we are much more confident. We go into matches expecting to win, instead of hoping to win, as we often did last year," she says. 
Whilethe Irish are playing better tennis this year, they credit their work ethic and team chemistry to the leadership they had in 2006. "We had unbelievable captains last year," Christian Thompson says. Her twin sister agrees. "It's hard to live up to them. They got us further in the tournament than ever before. They left a good example for us," Catrina Thompson says. She notes that with the addition of 


As tli'ese~spn co.'in···'e~.!£,~ clos~(tl__ if_; Irishf__l look toward-::·th~ Big'·East C01\(erence ti 
and the NCAA tot1,rnament. They are=0;:= coming off a successfilb:tun in the\lTA !J Team Championship in Fe~-uary. Aft~r lc·--­
beati~g Northwestern _in WQ~-~-Tefft\:., describes as her favorite momet1t of \:.·,"' the indoor season, the IrisJ:i ~:~ 
reached the final. "The match\~,. was tied 3-all, and [junior] '~. Brook Buck was playing No. ·. ·· ' 
6 singles. She ended up winning 7-6, 7-6, putting on what they had last Y,ear. "We already had great chemistry, and, combined with the talent of our new freshmen, we. are now an even better team." 
Irish success cannot be attributed to t~lent alone. Coach_Ja~ Louderback _s~ys his team's best quality 1s the competitive 
nature of their game. "They are the best group of competitors I've ever had," he says. Louderback, now in his 18th season as head coach, has taken the llflll!!lffl!ltl! Irish ·women's "illsiililli'lillmi 
tennis team to · ,_ , "/,<> us into the finals. We all the NCAA tournament 13 out l)i';, · . . ran down to the court in ~f the last 14 seasons. Six of those ;.., ._ :'·· ,,__ ':",.._,..,,_"_.:j•,/ · celebration," Tefft says. In 
time~, the team r~ached the Round . of SLxteen. The Irishhav,e a~so won 13 conference titles under Louderback. Despite his long tradition of success, he sees something special about tlus team. "They are without a doubt the best team I have coached. I think last year was probably the best I'd had, and this year they are even better." 
Catrina Thompson agrees that the team's competitive edge· is ·what . makes this year different than. others. "We all push each other. When everyone else is playing really ('1:--~ · well, it makes you (~:,2t\ want to play well too," ~,£,a she says. The team has beensuccessfulindividuallyin addition to their team accomplishments. 
Five Irish players have been ranked in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) Top 100 at some point in the season. Catrina Thompson leads the team in singles rankings, currently at No. 26. 
Louderback attributes part of the team's achievement to their improvement in_singles play. "We probably have the best doubles teams in the country, and our singles are definitely better than last year," he says. Catrina and Christian Thompson are 
f, : _.,,.'iJ'i the final, the Irish landed f ?-·< \ their first,loss of the season / · to No. 6 Georgia Tech. Catrina Thompson says she thinks the experience prepared them for what is to come. "It was the first time in my career here 
to _make it to' ·the ITA .·• · 
final. Now we've seen 
how well we· can dci/ 
she says. 
Louderback hopes 
to translate this success 
to the end of the spring 
season. Their No. 2 
ranking puts them 
in a great position 
to compete for the 
national championship. "We want to try 
to win," Louderback says. "We have a 
great chan~e. There will be eight or 10 
teams in the running. Stanford has won 
the past few years, but they are not as 
good of a team this season. The door is 
pretty wide open. It's a big goal, but we 
have a good shot." 
The Irish head to the Big East 
Conference tournament this weekend in 
Tampa, Fla. Louderback especially enjoys 
this. part of the season. "I love coaching 
during matches," he says. "They are such 
a ~ team to. be _around when ~ey:re 
playmg. It's great to be ab.le ,.to t:,nJoy, 
matches that much." ) ·0 · 
19 APRIL 2007 

.' -.~:-. 
,,.... 
... 
:.-. \;_ •< 
. . 
. ·.-i'.: ( ( :.. .,. liBli/f :· .. :• ·: . :·.· ..·. 
L·-·... 
; <-·) .. 
\\-.•.•::. 

f •• , • 
··.:... , ..•: 
:{. :. ,,i~:~~;'i~:i~:~: ,'1J·t1)f~;J!i~At:,~ ·:.: _··•, ·. ·. 
:,;,,:.:·:,-__.·/l-: :\:·. ••-·.··, •·:•. •-;.• 
i'',· 
•••:., •••.·.... .... ....... i ..... ,,: • ~-;:. 
!•. . . •.,!•:.•: ••• l',•· 
··.·:~\~-~\!·~· •. , .• ., 
, .. ,·
._ ..._.: ..., .. 

'%'lDEBARTOLO PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU ~UNIVERSITY OF 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER W NOTRE DAME. 
........... ,... !])Scho/asticHumor 
Listening In... 
11 "True story: I weighed 127 pounds in college. I used to tell my friends I was 127 pounds of twisted steel and sex appeal." -size-challenged professor 
¦ 
"I thinkifI were a little more sexually comfortable, I 

could be really kinky." -open-minded freshman inNDH 

¦ 
"Itsays"HealthyChoice" ... Isithealthy? Shouldlchoose 

it?" -conscientious Huddle-shopper 

¦ 
''Just remember that they're always airbrushed." -dedicated magazine reader 

¦ 
"That's a bummer that they decided to reschedule Shack City, especially since the homeless can't reschedule their homeless-ness." 


-crotchety critic 
Forty-Seven Years Ago 
Even back in 1960, the debate concerning overpopulation was raging like a bull tripped out onuppers in a china shop. See howCatholics back then looked to the future to solve this problem: 
''In opposing certain fomi'ly limitation methods a member ofthe stnjfofthe National Catholic Welfare Confere1ue wasprovoked into asse1'ting the possibilities ofinterplanetary and interstellar travel to drain aff the world'sfature growingpopulation. Predictab!J an artide appeared soon afterward in a scimtificjournal exp/ming this possiblity. Therein we get figures that are overwhelming. At all favorable estimates, for example, itwould cost 9,000 billion dollars peryear to tal,eAmzrica'spresmt excess ofbirths overdeaths to the nearest inhabitable sta1:" 
The author proposes an interesting solution. Is 9,000 billion even a real number? I guess back in the '60s times were simpler and numbers were just smaller. Here's a plan: Notre Dame raises its football ticket prices a few bucks to help pay for this interstellar travel. 
-Elisa Suarez 


([!Scho/asticHumor ·· ··· ··· ·· ····• 
( 
\ 
!·){f:,(;;yurc~d their {>wn 24-pack of inebriants with the intention ;:~/ of ... y,eH--:.:arigking it all. The competition involved imbibing ,· ~sinrich5>fthat magical aqua vitae as possible 9y.nopn:;tlfe•rie~(' experience gratificatiorif9J.l9:w;irig'a''.Jtt, . ''.&h,if~nslpuiing and 
_.,..~ ~::.-·-,. ' '.', ·'.,· · ..,.'.' , , '.; :: ... . .. :c., ?•-!,-.:--;;?'.·f,:•-•;-:,-_\''• ,.,·•,:,:•-..~!-~\/1.r ~,. ';.,,.:,',~.••.·.-("' 9·•--·•,_,J• 
. day and riot leaving the room (although the foufli>was withheld,. >l<acebook harassment.ofai £g6rgeousiNottefmairielferiU:It'salso .• I pr~y these :11isfits would have l:!}J.~~,~~nf~reil_f.~rfe>f io "(}i6f6fe~yday or chara~f1;istic 6f~il9r&i:~tliti¥¾io \nvite self-respectmg man woul~J~l~a.s,<:\· pC>pfly ~1t1ds in,to: ~fte -y~1:y,.' :tli~.dotmgfreshman male to stay next to0 herpq~tm1E;~tal~. And 
sink in which he g:~rg~~.f~it~r):J9'§-o/1nne1.fo(couts1, ~9,-qld~/,by}i,~xtto·, I mean literally: She was to sleep'oi{ftge:Jui:op, and receive nothing.,.(asrpfidehardty:seems·a11 appropriat~ reward\ 'he gc5ttosleep on the floor next to her. . ··. ·· . ( for such tomfooWi-y). '3/itl1;ti111e cbti~trai111:s: i11 plic'~ a#cl:tl}.~;_.·.. 1L911g story short; fourth floors ofwomen's dorms do not have 
knots offrielidshiir p.rp1_ly st:!cur~d; i:h:e'riaughtiriess•b~ga:ii; ari'd;; I :nft:!n'sit'.oilet_sj'and the sink is not an option, so homeboy holds for Jenkifi{lqrdis.~hatrea~_on>1:11dy·~t:#ted<6ufddriki~g):i~e1:; iif{~;~?ffo~ini hey,.he's done it before. He just has never done frorn.paper)bbwl~';,heb11:i{e;crips>'akei~ppare1itiy'overi:aieq\[A.i f"'if:'.i,tJljJ~:,greaking• parietals, next to his potential wife, while . these\bfiglit-Jf~it{iituf6~::<'.{fi~~tica:.beg~ii'.th~i~do\Yn\vafd:"; sl~e'pihg'bn the floor. Two hours into his peaceful slumber, he spiral/{?ih,jp~#ffy\\W~'rd>gcit/o.u~,:~J\it i:~Ms't,o. do/~if, .• ~\Vakes 'soaked i:o the bone, a victim of his own golden shower. began as aiple~sa:p.t evening 9(peacefuJindividual d'.ep~uchery : Frantic, understandably, for it wasn't just his pants that were turned irit6:ip:'aiV-'chifparty" ,: this:cfan:desti~fbet a_n@ocke.d(/wet: There was a. soggy stain about the size of Texas on the doorwere~~t~\fr1fr,cke,d,andthe·~isi~9f,l?rf!Y11:w~~tfron{§'.ejpg5·•floor. He's wet, smelly and about to be the laughingstock of 
.,~jf!/J;/-~-> 
t 
\, :. :f:::r =(he Gippe, g,eets you again, loyal sons and diugh. ter.s. · ' This installment delivers a one-two punch to the groin as we expose the inanity ofNotre Dame males. Ladies: 
you were good this month . 
. Three unnamed fellas in an unnamed dorm living three skips 
anfa hopfrotn HWY 31 all made a pact to lose their virginity k/ il:>efor~ propi. Allright, wrong movie. BUT these three virgins [\/ •<~iqpiakt:!. a0b'€t: -they set aside an 18-hour time slot, and each 
individual tctt)¢i11g'_c9rnrriuµify;J:f pe }¾rhol(! flq:c'>(gqtiJ:ivolvecl, 
and ~ii:~ the)~~'.CJf ~YQlJii~jfi1t~~\ffii?.i~{~~d266<5ie w_ere 
flowmg m andollt.h¼e.F~qio\b~gi;:ttifiitblond'liair on a magical rollercoaster ride. · · ··· ·· · · · ,_ · 
· The original three were slightly frustrated that none ofthem would become lord ofthe mountain or champion of the clique that evening, but nonetheless, the party seemed a success. Parties don't often occur in singles, but this one did. As the sole occupant of the room ventured into the hall, most likely for a bathroom break, a bottle ofspray paint materialized. Don't ask why, don't ask how. The tenant of said "room" couldn't believe his eyes as what used to be a beautiful blank wall had transformed in a gluttony ofgraffiti ranging from ND logos to , profanity. There's d]!e word that's fun to say aloud and flawlessly describes his emotional status upon reentering his room: discombobulated. But that did not stop him from defacing his own dorm room wall as he giggled and drew stick figii'res .. 
The next morning he awoke on a m::i.ttress. wfrh nb sheets; the sounds of Enya roaring from his· computer and. red pai!lf' clogging his nostrils (someone forgot to rea.d the wa.rninglabel .· and remind him that the windowshouldhave been opened, as · paint typically needs a well-:ventilat~d ar~a tod;yproperly and · to prevent causing severe brain damage to those sleeping in a 

19 APRIL 2007 
with ... at a certain time after whicli" botli)e'sris and du'I)ddi. . the mixing of genders is imRiriw~sible?. Well,'·a'yoiiftg'.~ctii' '"" who experienced the demisc<it a' rel~rjQ{\~l:i_ig ¼.efitting-a kniglii: .· ·. · went out this week with a b~~g<: :·or;'~t("' "#.c;c.t1:t;at\'!JY, a-putter, 
. trickle and thump. It's nQi:jly:~cydiiyttp: . e;'.Ni'>~eJ~itfie men 
all mankind, so he hysterically uncaps the Febreeze bottle and douses th~ e~tire room, waking up his ~air n:iai_den. H~ escape_d 
back to liis room as the sun rose and ritualistically dipped his 
hand in boilin'gwater as a form of corporal mortification and 
controlled conditioning...,... he has not peed to this day. 
Well, crack :open a fresh cold Keystone Light, real men 
of genius! You are being rewarded for ... nothing, and your 
contribution to society? Well ... you give us something to laugh 
about; but the rest of the community prays for the effecting 
of Darwin's revelation and an improved gene pool. LADIES, 
I'm disappointed. Stepit up; tip the Gipp, and I will make you .· iinmortal. 

· . 
TIP THE GIPP at gipper@nd.edu 
. 33 ........ . 

•. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · !]}ScholasticHumor 
St. Thomas Aquinas stresses the goodness of.natural reason, despite its shortcomings. Firstly, he states that man's inherent intellect is prearranged for each human by God, since God is our creator. All man's knowledge ofnatural principles ... haha just kidding. Let's start this article for real. Well folks, it's that time of year. The time of year when thoughts of summer bring the appropriate mix ofboth longing and gut-wrenching fear. I long for summer because it's a time for ice cream, sand volleyball games, and crashing high school parties and then getting chased by the cops when things get rowdy. But why the gut-wrenching fear? Well, it could be my horrifically vampire-esque sun allergies or my bathing suit phobia (completely unfounded because my bod is bangin'), or it could be my complete and utter lack ofemployment. Yes ... I missed out on the five-day period last fall break when 95 percentofNotre Dame got a job. Sorry, I just didn't look good in a pantsuit thatweek. PLUS, I was actually showing 
•-.::::::;.:.;::;::,;.;;;.::::::~;;:~;:;.:~;:;:;.:~:~ the sugar from 22 hot
-pink marshmallow
I 

my employment worthiness because I 
was busy honoring a commitment I had ~ previously made. With my Tv: And I ! don't break my appointments. 
Fast forward a few months: Instead ~ of hitting the pavement over Christmas 
o break, I chose to eat Cheetos and watch 
:c 
~ "Dawson's Creek" reruns. (Sidenote: Have Peeps and three white chocolate crosses still coursing through their veins? And let's not forget the excitement of a spirited Easter egg hunt. (There was money in them ... I almost lost a left digit in the tussle for the $20 grand prize egg, religion be darned.) 
Back to the point: You can't work under those conditions! That's like expecting Notre Dame to win a bowl game, which is just ridiculous. Anyway. Thereal question is, what shall I do this summer? 
I've worked a lot of crap jobs over the years, believe me. In the past, I've made. many judgment errors when it comes to smiles she kind. of sticks her tongue out? Weird.) 
Then, once again, I missed the job-hunting window over spring break, which was completely not my fault. I was in Cali. Who can work when they're in Cali? The majorityof the people there split their time between pretending they can surf and sitting in restaurants. It's a surprise that the economy ofthat _ state even runs. I mean, it doesn't really . matter; California is going to fall into the · ocean in a few years anyway. 
Half a semester and six bottles of Tylenol PM later, there was the "Easter Break Interview Flurry" which . . . I missed. I mean, who can do things like 
"call people" or "hit the pavement" with 
• Elisa Suarez 
fifth grade when, ~ tried to write a whole report on Navajo Indians using only the caption to apicture inmyhistory · book. The first real employment I ever had (and foolishly kept for two years) was at the local public library. I'll let you in on an insider secret: Libraries are boring. My imagination didn't transport me to far-away lands, and I never even caught a couple making out in the stacks. Come on, people! Also, librarians eat a lot ofsalad, and they don't speak. Every day in the break room they would all get out their salads and their Pulitzer prize winning books and read away. Only later, when they thought no one was looking, would they sneak off with their chocolates and that romance novel with Fabio on the cover. 
But I wa~ watching them, hidden 
behind the bookshelves. Because I'm a creeper. Among the librarians, I was seen as the brash young teenager who did things like "move," "make noise," and "breathe loudly." I still say that the third one is a falsehood. I hate loud breathers. 
Oh, wait, it wasn't all boring. There 
was this one interesting time when this 
guy printed out pornographic pictures 
one by one on the library printer and 
then put them into his huge thre~ing 
binder of, I can only assume, more pi>rn. 
ou ever noticed that when Katie Holmes job selection ... kind oflike that time in · Um ... hello? I can see you. I mean, he 
. 
......... 34 19 APRIL 2007 
didn't even try to print them out all at once and then grab 'em and run away. He was as nonchalant about printing porn as I am about stealing movie covers from the Huddle so no one else can rent them: real darn nonchalant. 
Besides the library, I also had a~. a babysitting gig on the side, which was equally horrible, yet more lucrative. Putting to bed several hell-cat children hopped up on Play-doh (perfectly edible, I say) and SpongeBob while they jump up and down on their beds, partially declothed out of defiance to pajamas? Not worth it. 
Then there was the time I thought it would be fun to landscape for 40 hours a week, thus solidifying my farmer's tan for the next 25 years. Not even The Great Skin Sizzle of Spring Break '06 (alternatively named The Elisa/Sun Standoff) could burn that puppy off my arms. That's okay though, because I'm considering changing my middle name 
.. to "Hick." 
. . But, all th~-s~ ho~rible jobs have faded into the sad past now, along with the memories of when I still got spanked by my mom, didn't have bad knees, and didn't have to think hard to remember what I had for lunch yesterday. (Answer: tater tots covered in marinara sauce. Try it.) The question is, what will be the source of the magical cash-flow river? I think my best bet would be to move to California and get a job cleaning the toilets in Brad Pitt's house. Then I'd steal small household items like dirty shirts, cologne, aviator sunglasses, socks, razors and half-used hair gel bottles and 

sell them on eBay for $49.99 each. My 
cousin's friend's mom did that once. Heck, 
somebody would buy it. 
Eventually I'd probably get fired from 
Brad Pitt's house for raiding the fridge 
one (or nine) too many times. When that 
happens, I'll just become a total surfbum 
and live in a box on the beach. That way 
I can grub money off the passersby using 
my pet dog as a lure. People will pay me 
so that the really adorable Labradoodle­
Shitzu-Cockapoo-Retriever sitting next 
to me won't starve. I'd ask everyone in my 
sad "Save the Environment/The Whales 
Are Dying" voice, "Please ... help my dog. 
Biscuit's hungry." 
IfI wanted to stay a little closer to South 
Bend, I could live in the dumpster outside 
Reckers and give this campus the much­
coveted big city "street edge" that it's been 
looking for. Look out Notre Dame, here 
comes your very own professional hobo. 
West Quaders, wouldn't your morning 
walk to DeBartolo be more fun ifyou got 
heckled for your Grab 'n Go PB&J by the 
smelly girl in the dumpster? Wouldn't it 
be fun if you . could actually get course 
credit for doing stuff like knitting me 
socks? Wouldn't you be more excited to 
know that at any moment you might get 
into your car to drive to Chipotle only to 
realize that I'm asleep in your backseat? 
No? Fine. 
Or maybe ifl really want a free ride, I'll be that person who lives at my parents' house, like Matthew McConaughey in "Failure to Launch." Except it won't be cute because I'm not a ripped man who has a Southern accent no matter what movie he's in or where he's supposed to be from. Also, it wouldn't work out because I have friends with REAL names, instead 

-
-
19 APRIL 2007 

Scho/asticHumor(D • • • • • • · · · · · · · · · 

~~ 
ofthings like "Trip," "Buddy," "Shooter," 
"Barry Barryson" or whatever. I guess that since I'm into manual labor, I could also be that dude who cleans up the elephant patootie at the San Diego Zoo. I mean, who else would volunteer for that crap? Pun completely intended. But then I'd probably become that person who spends the rest of their life crocheting bla11kets with tigers on them and' having kids named things like "Rain" and "Lamp." 
You know, maybe this summer I should just go for broke and try something completely new and exciting ... like marriage. It might be tough, I admit, since the closest I've gotten to a proposal is when some guy accidentally touched my honey pretzel twists in the checkout 
line at the Huddle last Saturday night at 2 a.m. That's not a metaphor or anything. But ... the way guys are willing to pop the question around here, I don't think it'll be much of a problem. 
Anyway, to conclude this article, I will now send out a plea through the airwaves (or press, whatever): Alumni, if you are reading this, please give me a job. I'm a good worker, I promise. Or send $4,000 to my school address. Anything less is .. kind of insulting, to be honest. 0 

Our hearts go out to the students atVirginiaTech. As college . students, it's easy to forget that our lives can: end in a second. Savor every moment. 


Fair Trade ensures that your coffee purchase promotes human dignity, economic justice and hope for small family coffee farmers and their communities. 


ALWAYS MADE FRESH TO ORDERI 




