

Anew book . of stqries by 
. Ray._·_ 

Bradl>ury. 
LONG AFTER MIDNIGHT 
22 Hauntings . . and Celebrations· "each a jewel" . 
-San Francisco Chronicle . · 
$7.95 • Knopf · 


§Kil ·ClEN1r~AIL Wll§(C(Q)N§IlN 
FOR ONLY PER PERSON PER DAY.
(Q)VJE~ 
$19¦00 
·1sa,ed on m1n1mum of two persons per room) 
Includes lodging at either Holiday Inn of Madison, Wisconsin and lift tickets at Devil's head Ski Resort. Join tlie hundreds of midwestern students this Xmas. For reser~ations call the Ski Package Coordinator at (608)-·. 
XMA§ 


I83~1EAK 
222-9121. 

-
• -......,..." • 
•
...... 


Scholastic 
Volume 118, No. 5, November 22, 1976 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES  
4  Four Days in the Life of a Punter  Thomas Kruczek  
6  laboratories, Blackboards, and Electronic locks Karen Caruso  
10  "The Ebony Side of the Dome"  Kathleen McElroy  
13  Theatre?  Michael Feord  
14  Can You Sell Yourself?  Theresa Rebeck  

REGULAR 8 Jottings Catherine McMurren 
Editor 
John Phelan· 

Managing Editor 
Annemarie Sullivan · 
Design Editor 
Bernie Valenti 
Production Manager 

Charles Sweeney . 
Copy Editor 
Karen Caruso 
Cultural Editor 

Gilda M. Montalvo 
Sports Editor 
Tom Kruczek 
News Editor 
Kathleen McElroy 
Photography Editor. 
Tom Everman 
Advertising Manager 
Kay Andrews 
Business Manager Mark Ondash 
Advisory Board .. Ronald Weber, Carl Magel Bro. John Benesh, c.s;c., James Cook, Richard Conklin, 
Elizabeth Christman 

Staff 
Thomas J. Waldoch, Anne White, Dave Beno, John Kenward, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Feord, Mike Moses, Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, Barb Frey, Gary Harde·n, Julie Runkle, Jim Ryan, Sue Hart, John Bartone, Andrew Gotuaco, Randy Cashiola, Mary Ann Chambers, Ji!}l Romanelli, Maureen Reynolds, Sherry Simon, Lee Hendricks, Cary Gerber, Jay Tiamarsh, Tom Browne, Jim Jordan, Ed Rodgers, Norman Burkhart, Keith Connor, Maria Maggi, Maureen Kelly, Mary De Roche, Karen Mahakian, Betsy Birch, Jennifer Ryder, Christie A. Herlihy, Clare Leary, Maribeth Horne,. Deborah Childs, Jill Justice, Andy McKenna, Carol Smith, Hector Cecilo Ham, Don Orban, Theresa Rebeck, Mike Doherty, Howard Rand, Lisa Fulks, Tom Westphal, Robbie Moore, Rosemary Mills, Kevin Con­nolly, Joseph Caverly, Nicholas Durso, Michael Lavalle,. Lisa Michaels, Sheila Kearns, Peggy. McGuire, Fran• Gilbert, Russ O'Brien, Carol Ruppert, Marc. Novak, Burt Brunner, Dave Dreyer, Marylou Walsh. Hall Representatives:· Kim Gumz, Mary Millen, Tom Westphal, John McLutchon, Russ Angelo, Greg Skranznas, Sheila Gavan, Mary Reppa, Wendy Fencl, Kevin Paulson, Joe Lauck, Norman Burkhart, David Perry, Ed Rodgers, Kevin Gorman, Don Osborn, John Delaney, Jeff Scholemer, Kathy Connely, Jessie Reed, Jim Jordan, Burt Brunner, Dan Lombardi, Russ O'Brien, Tom. Browne, Terry Molony, Ruth Hohl, Julie Runkle, Clare Leary, Barb Frey; Jay Tidmarsh,·John Muldoon, Matt Branyansky, Joe Caverly. 
The opinions ex.pressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its 
administration, faculty or the student body. • · · . . Second-class postage paid at· Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during tlie school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. . copyright © 1976 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­


up all week and you know that you have two days until the game, and the one thing that you don't want to do is to get all psyched up on Thurs­day and fall flat on Saturday. You

Four 

just have to tell yourself to calm down and get ready to play. You have to peak at 12:50 p.m. on Satur­

Days 

.day and not two days before." 
• Midnight. Went to sleep. 
Friday. Joe has three morning classes. 
1n the 

"I -was ju.st sitting through· my
Life classes and I'd look out the windows and see the stadium and you know we have a game there tomorrow. it's really an unbelievable feeling. You

of a 

go to class and take notes, but you. really don't hear what's being said.· You worry about that later,· now the
Punter 

game is on your mind." 
Noon. Went to lunch. "After lunch it hit me that we're playing tom.or­.row and I have all of this energy in
by Thomas Kruczek 

me as I start to get ready for the· game. Sitting through aclass is hard
Last weekend's Alabama game day at Cartier Field for practice. A. 
work when you have something. im­
represented a unique experience for few inches of snow has fallen over­
portant that you have to do. I'm not
Notre Dame. It was the first time night and although the practice field 
saying that my classes are boring or
that the Irish had met the·Crimson has been cleared of most of the white 
that .I don't enjoy them, but I'm
Tide in the regular season; it was stuff, displaced snow rings the field, 
thinking about the gaine and that's
also the first time that Alabama had walling the area in. The team does 
the utmost thing that's on my mind
ventured north of the Mason-Dixon not appear that "up" for the game, 
right now." · 
line since 1946. although Restic is one of the few Although the Notre Dame-Ala­who is making noise. The cold may 
2:20 p.m. Joe comes· back· fronibama rivalry on the playing field has have stunted the team's enthusiasm. 
classes and meets some friends who
been a short one (the only other have come up for the game. The talkmeetings between the schools · were "Today .we had our assignments · turns to football and the game.to~

in bowl games in 1973 and 1974), down pat and really began to pre~ 
morrow.
the feud really dates back to 1966. ·pare ·ourselves· more mentally for That was the year when Notre Dame . the game. Our preparation really and Michigan State played to .the .goes back ·to the. beginning ·of the "Yo1i have to work yourself up and famous 10-10 tie. The Irish were week because we have a lot of new bring the tempo up a little bit." voted. National Champion in both defenses -for 'Bama. Monday and polls over Alabama who were un­Tuesday ·you really aren't ·thinking · 4:15 p.m. Practice begins. The people defeated .and untied. To make mat-• about fhe game that much yet, be­for the game have been corning in ters worse, Michigan State was voted·. cause then you're more concerned since Wednesday, and many people second in both polls ·ahead of Bear about the defenses that you have to are congregated around the stadium Bryant's team. Ten years_.Iater, the learn.. You concentrate then on in~ where Alabama is getting. dressed Crimson Tide appeared 'on. the Irish dividual a.ssignments." to work out at Cartier. People' are schedule. also jammed around the north dome 
The mere appearance of the Tide 5 :30 p.m. Practice ends. of the ACC where Notre Dame will on campus created • excitement for 7 p_.m. After dinner, Joe goes back to practice. Practice, like: it. has been the team arid . fans alike .. But what the room and sits around talking, all week, is closed. The managers try was it really like fo face Alabama trying to relax before _starting .to do to keep all the onlookers out and on the field? What emotions were some homework for the next · day's have put towels and sheets over the going through the players? Scholas­classes. . doors arid windows that are 'on the tic followed starting free safety Joe · first and second floors. There isn't an Restic through his activities to see "I did the homework halfheartedly awful lot that an Alabama spy could how one player prepared for the Ala­because I was thinking more of the learn by watching a practice like bama game. game. One thing that I have to keep today's other than the fact that 
telling myself is not to peak too Vagas Ferguson is· going to start, Thursday, 3 :30 p.m. It is a very cold early. You can feel yourself building and that was revealed somehow in 
Friday's Chicago Tribune anyway. The team in sweat clothes goes through a light workout that lasts less than an hour. 
5:45 p.m. Restic goes to dinner in the Monogram Room of the ACC with the rest of the team. After that it's off to Stepan Center and the Pep Rally. Then it's over to Moreau Sem­inary for the night. Tonight the fea­ture movie is Gator with Burt Rey­nolds. After that, a quiet night's sleep, away from the noise and parties on campus, is all that re­
mains. 
"I think Alabama is something spe­"Everyone knew what they had to do and everyone. was pretty keyed up. Coach Devine didn't have to try to get us up,· he just reminded us of what we had to do and reminded us not to get overly aggressive and start making costly mistakes." 
3:45 p.m. The game is over; Notre Dame wins 21-18. 
4:15 p.m. Following the game, Res­tic, at his corner locker, slumps in his chair and doesn't start to undress until long after the others have. He looks absolutely exhausted. Blood from cuts on both hands has stained much of his pants. Restic's voice is 

beautiful feeling to win. It's got to be the happiest I've been in my f oat­ball career." 
8 p.m. Joe goes to the Chicago con­cert and then on to Rick Slager's house. 
"I keep running plays over in my mind, especially the pass play I got burned on. That .one was pretty hu­miliating. I keep thinking over a lot of the plays and thinking about what I could have done differently on them." 
Sunday, 9 a.m. After getting up early to watch game highlights, Joe 
has to go to the infirmary for a swine flu shot along with the rest of the team. 
10:45 a.m. Joe's parents call and his father shows a deep interest in the game. His father happens to be the head football coach at Harvard. 
"He _had a tough, one yesterday, losing in the last game of the year to Yale, so he .was down. But both of my parents will be up next week­end for the Miami game, so I'm really happy .. This will be the first time he'll have a chance to see me play; it's always something special to have your parents in the stands for a game. We talked about our, game and his game and it's good to talk about it with, him. He asked about what Alabama had run and tne kindof defenses they had used: 
cial. because it is Alabama. I can remember seeing the Sugar Bowl and the Orange Bowl and you know there is some sort of rivalry coming from those games. 1 looked at the Orange Bowl films and I watched the two teams play and it's hard to believe that I'll be part of that. In watching the films, I wanted to see how we.played at that time because this week we are using some of the same defenses that we used when we played them in the Orange Bowl. 
I. wanted to see how they were re­
acting to them, It helps to get me · ready for the game." 
Saturday, 7:45 a.m. Get up and get ready for Mass. After Mass, the team comes back to campus and the North Dining Hall for breakfast and meetings. 11 a.m. Report to stadium. 
12:30 p.m. Come off the field follow­ing warm-ups. 
NOVEMBER·_ 22, 1976 
noticeably higher than the day be­the usual coaching questions." fore and he speaks much more rapid~ ly, reflecting the emotion of the 12:15 p.m. Restic goes to Mass' at game. Sacred Heart and then to lunch. 
Afterwards, he can just sit around "You just can't explain the feeling Keenan Hall until it's time to watch behind the win; it's just unbeliev­films and start getting ready for the able. Against the wishbone you have Miami game. . . to come up and make a lot of tack­les, so there is .a lot of. hitting out "The·. big thing now is not to let there. I had either the pitch man or down after a big win like this. !just the quarterback depending on the think that.this lw..s been the greatest certain defense that .we're in. You footballgame of my life. You really just feel great when everyone is con~ .can't pinpoint how · much emotion· 
· tributing, and it was just one great was involved in this game. You can't game. I .hadn't been working on explain everything that you feel; kicking the ball out of bounds much, you just .wish other people could until this week and it paid off today. · enjoy it with you. But you just thank I just aimed out of bounds at the God that you are one of those select flag, and it went out .around the few that can. It was great for me 
·eight:This game really pulled the personally arid for the team."· team together and -it's something that you just can't explain. I think · 2:30 p.m. Now it is time to start pre­that this game puts our season in a · paring for the Miami game by · 
· better light now, and it was just a watching films. 
5­

Where is creativity found at Notre Dame? In the Music Depart­ment, the Art Gallery, the Juggler office? Certainly this cannot be de­nied, but is creativity limited to these sources only? Not at all. Few peo­ple realize they can see creativity in action at Nieuwland Science Hall, the Engineering Building and other such places on campus. Although they do not receive a great amount of recog­nition, many practical and interest­ing inventions are designed at Notre Dame. 
One invention, a digital electronic 
lock, was created in 308 Nieuwland 
Science Hall during November of 
1969 through the combined ·efforts of 
Michael T. Elliott, Stephen L. Coluc­
ci, Frank E. Vopat, Ronald L. Erich~ 
sen and David L. · Sypniewski, who 
were all staff members of the Univer­
sity at that time. Mr. Erichsen, staff 
professional ·specialist of physics, is 
the only one of these five inventors 
remaining at Notre Dame. The origi­
nal purpose of their device was to re­
place the ignition keys of automo­
biles, but the lock ·can also be used 
in any other situation that requires · a security device. 

The lock works on a combination system that replaces the master key; a sequence of numbers. is punched on a control panel {similar to that of ·a push-button telephone) which un­locks the device. Only the correct combination operates the lock, insur-
Laboratories,· Blackboards, and Electronic Locks· 
ing definite security. By replacing a small part, the combination may be changed if needed. 
Suppose a thief encounters this lock; he tries a few of the infinite number of combinations possible, hoping to punch the correct one, and becomes discouraged. He then de­cides to tamper with the wiring of · 
the lock, but is unsuccessful because a short in the wiring won't release it. Nor can he tear apart the control panel searching for a clue to the cor­rect combination, because it is con­tained in a box separate from the control panel. He becomes extremely frustrated and runs off in search of · a conventional lock that he will be able to break without so much ag­gravation. Thus, the digital electron­ic lock can be considered virtually 
by Karen Caruso 

anti-theft, since the only. way to op­erate it is to enter the correct combi­nation. 
Tests on model locks of this sort have shown that·the lock can with­stand harsh weather conditions.· Its components can be found in · any electrician's lab, and the lock can be operated by a common transistor battery, which would allow 500 trials. The digital electronic lock is estimated to last from seven to ten years without the need for main­tenance. Some models can be oper­ated on a power source of as little as 
· five volts. Punching a combination of numbers is not the only method· of activating the device. Cards with· a program of holes (similar to IBM cards), different pitches of sound and even patterns of light rays can 

be .used to operate appropriate 
models of the lock. 
The digital electronic lock was 

patented in 1974, but lacks market­
ability at the present time. Prac­
tical and reliable uses include a mon­
itored system of locking rooms in a 
motel, a theft-proof method of start­
ing an automobile and a child-proof 
:lock for· a kitchen cabinet. If the 
lock .were .mass-produced,· a .· small 
model designed for ·home use would 
cost only $20. Manufacturers have 
acknowledged the ingenuity of the 
device, but have told the inventors 
that they are a_ few years ahead of 
~their time. Erichsen would like to 
see the product become marketable, 
but, "Until that happens," he says, 
"it serves only as a fascinating toy." Two other inventors at Notre Dame are Dr. Kwang-Tzu Yang and Dean Joseph Hogan, both of the Engineering Department, who have devised an emision control system for hydrocarbon vapor at service stations. The system is designed to reduce the amount of hydrocarbon vapor escaping from the gasoline as it is transferred from a station pump to the gasoline tank of a car. Since 60 % of the .air pollution of urban areas is composed of. hydrocarbon vapor, the system would aid environ­mental conservation by limiting the vapor's escape. --About a year after the inventors conceived their idea, a shortage of gasoline swept the na­-tion's service stations. The emission 
control system could have been use­
ful during this ~nergy crisis, since 
escaping ,vapor from the pump is 
actually was_ted gasoline in the gas­
eous state.·· 
The emission control system util­

izes a sleeve attached to the open end of the service pump hose that collects the escaping vapor, which is then pulled through suction holes by a vacuum pump to an accumu­lation tank. The gasoline in the accu­mulation tank can then be .returned to the service pump for recycling. The system is devised so that it could 


· ,,',/~'l"Ak,r 

easily be attached to existing service pumps without altering them to• any extent, -thereoy being a ·convenient method for preventing -gasoline waste. 
A third -interesting -. contraption on the campus _ is _a ·_ portable mechanical punching. device, created in -1970 by Michael Dalka, electron­ics specialist in the College of En­gineering. Mr..Dalka had the. con­venience for parking lot attendants in his mind when he . designed his invention. Instead of registering each-_ vehicle in hand-written form that could be lost or inaccurate, the attendant wouid use a device that records the information ·. on IBM cards which are easily kept and filed. The puncher, worn on his belt, has · categories for the date, time of arrival, time of departure, amount of fee, etc. He sets the categories by sliding the indicators to appropriate positions, inserts an IBM card into a slot, pushes a handle, and the data is recorded on the card in a series of coded holes. All cards are kept together in the attendant's pocket. At the end of the day, the cards are inserted into a computer that keeps an accurate record of the day's business. This method eliminates the encoding, key-punching and verifying steps that usually are necessary between the attendant and the computer. 
The punching device is rugged, easy· to use and saves time. The attendant can check all the indica­tors for mistakes before punching the ,card. No special training is needed to work the portable device, which operates without a power source. These· features enable com­panies to make use of an,inexpen­sive and simple method of organiz­ing stocks, inventory, information and money. ' · Mr. Dalka could secure a limited patent for his portable mechanical punching device, but does not feel the expense is worth· the trouble. He doesn't see any market for his product at the moment, but says that his invention would greatly help the bookkeeping aspect of many sman·companies that could not af­ford to use larger computer meth­ods. 
The three ingenious inventions are not easily making the inventors large profits, giving huge satis­faction to consumers or even being '.appreciated to any great degree. 
_ But do these obstacles prevent Notre Dame inventors from continuing? _As Dr. Yang puts it, "Making money is not necessary to motivate inventors. They receive satisfaction from creating and improving differ­ent types of mechanisms, solely for the sake of invention itself." 


"I don't believe that he left me home alone tonight. You know, I haven't even seen him for four days. The only time I do see him is when he wants something. You know, frisky. That's the way it always is. I'm supposed to be around when he wants me, but he always decides when. Everytime we go out, it's always to the same place: his room. And it's been the same-with the last four guys I've gone out with. I tell you, the whole world is after ass, and with me they figure they're · getting a bargain .:....:..: two for the price of one." ­
Poor baby. I tried to focus my 

eyes through the haze to see if she 
was smiling, but the blur wouldn't 
clear. I thought for a minute that I 
should open a window, that the 
cigarette smoke was going to 
suffocate us. Maybe the room was 
on fire. No, it was me. I got up for 
another beer. 
"Look, JoAnn, maybe you're just 

not careful enough. I mean, some 
guys are just careless. They just 
don't care." The floor between the 
chair and the refrigerator was very 
bumpy and moved away from me as 
I tried to step on it.· I ended up 
tiptoeing back, thinking for a 
moment that I should have taken 
ballet when I was young. 
"Maybe if !lost some weight ..." 
I looked at her again to see if 

she was smiling: This time I could 
barely make out her features, and 
she was staring at the wall with a 
stupid, determined look. I watched 
her for a minute. Shiny, blonde 
hair, ivory skin, filling size nine 
clothes with a goddamn voluptuous 
grandeur. I hadn't even owned a . 
bathing suit for three years. · 
She finished· her beer and got up, 

walking a straight line to the 
refrigerator while I wondered how 
she did it. Not enough to drink, I 
guessed. 
"Karen, you're out of beer. Is 

Scotch OK?" 
Shit, anything's OK. "Yeah, a big. 

one. On ice." I drained my beer and 
took the cold glass from her. She 
walked to the stereo, and with her · back to me went through the · 
records.· I watched the neat curves 
that stayed in place even. while she 
shifted her weight and slouched, 
but it got too hard to keep my eyes 
focused, so I laid my head back 
and shut my eyes. · 
Jottings 
So 



Fat girl sitting at the bar.~ 
Bartender: "Why do you drink that-stuff? Don't you know it makes you fat?" 
"I'm already fat." "You ·must have-to eat a lot to keep your w:eight up." "No, drinking beer does it-just · fine." · 
"Why don't you stop, then?" 
"Because if my ·vision clears I see my reflection in windows,· mirrors, toasters. . :'' "Buy-: glasses." · "But I don't need glasses." "That's the point. You can sober up ·and still not be able to see.'; · "Oh.. I see." · . 
"Oh! JoAnn!" I sat up quickly arid tried:to focus my eyes on her, but let the image slip back to a• grey haze. Too much work to talk and see at once~ "That hockey player who lives· upstairs :..:..;_ he was down here for a•drink iast night.••: 
She turned around. "Came to see you?" "Well, yes. The toilet was broken; not broken, but leaking, so I asked 
. ' .· SCHOLASTIC 
by Catherine McMurren 

r So 

him to look,atit. It was fantastic; 
· he·really understands things· like that~ • Did you know that all water .· in·a ,whirlpool, in the. northern hemisphere at least, flows in a· . counterclockwise spiral, so · the guy that designed the toilet, he· made 
./the water·flow through the bowl·.· that way,: so it flushes better. I mean; Ushould be iike.that, but · .. what .:a fantastic mind-to remember that. :.What a fantastic mind to : · · , appreciate it." ''Is this guy a toilet engineer or.. . just gener~ly· interesting?" : · ··· "No; he's a biologist.: But he says he warits to get together with his roommate and me and make dinner some.night., He said he thought I was probably a good cook." "You ~ow, if you lost about fifteen-pounds and worked. out some,· you wouldn't be bad looking, .. _Karen.":_;:: ..'.. · 
I shut my eyes and clenched my .. 

. teeth until: the: anger went away. I.• got suddenly very bored and wished she'd leave. _ ' · · · · 
"You know, if you'd quit drinking for a while, that.would help, too." 
I stood up and drained my glass. "Did you leave a message for Tom that you're here?" 
· "Yeah, if he calls, good, if he. d~esn't, I'll just stay here and get drunk with you. Do you think that hockey player will be down tonight?" 
I didn't say anything, just closed my eyes, head back, and listened to the music. I was feeling pretty· .. drunk by now; my mouth and tongue were numb. I reached for my empty glass and found that my flnglzj:-s were quite numb, too . 
. "Karen, you want me to get you another drink? Or maybe you've had enough~" . . ' 
. . . 

Yes, I wanted another drink. I decided to try and walk to the kitchen. When I stood up, it was with a great· lurch that surprised me and I almost fell over. Walking was pretty embarrassing; the · bumps were gone now, I could hardly feel the floor at all. It was going around the . corner from the living room to the kitchen that I hit the wall and fell, a redwood into an ocean, JoAnn dashing across the room, dragging me to my bed, arid·trying to quiet· me down . 
. I must have fallen asleep for a while, butI remember lying in the darkness iri •my· room and hearing . their voices outside, JoAnri and Tom.' 
"If I hadn't decided to come and · get you, you would have been ·stuck here with her all night.'; 
"It's not-that bad. We had a nice talk before she passed out. I'll never know how she can drink as much as slie . does. Besides, she's so lonely." 
"Maybe she should get a boy~ friend," and they both laughed softly. "Anyway, where do you want to go? Out for a drink?" 
"No, let's go to your place. I kind of like your etchings.'' . ·· 
"Good. enough. Will .your friend be aU right now?; 'Course she . . probaJ?ly won't :remember anything · -not f~m the shape she's in." 
'.'That's something weird; for as. long as.I've laiown Karen, and seen her -drink until she. couldn't· even talk; she. always remembers every~ 
thing." · . . . · · .That's when they turned out the light, the door closed behind them, 
leaving the. apartment and me. in . 
darkness. 

''The Ebonv .Side of the Dome'' 
The Black Cultural Arts Com­mittee has made a name for itself. 
Yet, negative attention due to dis­
turbances earlier this month fol­
lowing their dance in LaFortune Student Center threatens recogni­
tion of the Committee as a viable 
organization. The problem now is 
one of interpretation and r~exam­ination of more than the specific 
conditions which provoked incidents 
of violence and destruction by an unruly crowd composed mainly of South Bend minors. A troubling situation exists due to the social predicament of black students and· their general reception into· the Notre Dame community. 
As Keith Tobias, president of the Black Cultural Arts Committee, ex­plains, "After the University admits students, whether ·they are black, white, grey or grizzly, it has an obligation to see that all students enjoy themselves and receive a total· college experience." In essence, the University has a moral responsi-. bility to extend its commitment to: provide all students with an atmo-· sphere encouraging growth in aca-; demic, social and cultural areas. 
Consideration of the problem be­gins with an examination of admis­sions policies for minority groups .. In_l967, a Notre Dame student, Don . Wycliffe, studied recruitment pro-'. cedures and said, "Competition for the best minority group students is_ intense. There is, in fact, some evi-· dence of resentment by those who feel they are 'bought' by admissions people· who breeze through inner city schools waving full rides." Ac­cording to the University. Bulletin and Information for Admissions: 
"The University believes strongly in the importance of encouraging ap-. plications from these young men and women [minorities] for two im­portant reasons: As· an institution· founded on Christian ethics, the University is responsible to a con-· text much larger than the bound-· 

--aries of Notre Dame. Our. second reason follows from. the first. The University must also reflect the relevance of the community to its times and society. ; .." 
When considering the actual sue~ cess the University has had in at­tracting black students to Notre Dame, there exists a questionable reflection of the ideals it . hopes to establish. Dan Saracino, in charge of minority group recruitment in the Office of_ Admissions, says, "I 
'""1' ' 
:i~M,::~j 
·'.:,{.. j 
. -)'"•• 

. ~<:·:::---:--~ 
-.=:~.:.f' 
-:-:--. ­
--~~~-i ;.~~-:~<·_=­


"'Being black' is different .from what it meant in the sixties.'~­Prof. James -Stewart 
could make a case to call Notre Dame the most_ racist institute in the country; on the (?ther hand, it is ·. a private university with a struggling scholarship program as a whole, so it is not just the blacks. who are being hurt." Although black students comprise 3% of the enroll­ment, they receive 40% of the money available. "Notre Dame is bending over backwards·for blacks," states Saracino. "However; when Notre Dame starts blowing its horn, you must realize that they really 
by Kathleen McElroy 

haven't done enough." Recruitment includes mailing campaigns and at­tempts to contact students in schools not traditionally associated with Notre Dame. . ._ -._. . . 
Professor James B. Stewart, dt-· rector of the Black Studies Depart­ment, says, "The University has been less than · successful in · increasing the percentage of blacks. This is primarily for two reasons. In re­ality there aren't many black· Catholics. Aiso, historically, Notre Dame has not been a haven for blacks." An analysis of the results of the Black Student Affairs Com­mittee's questionnaire distributed last year states, "In order to. get blue C'hip scholars'to come to Notre Dame, financial aid packages must be competitive with offers of schools like Harvard and Princeton." Sev­eral students acknowledged a con­sciousness of having been "bought" and a sensitivity to the feeling that they may have been admitted to fill· a quota ·rather than on ·merit. Saracino states, however, that there are no modified requirements or special -acceptance criterion for mi­nority groups. 
At present· there· are 151 black undergraduates~ of which 46-(30%)­are women. : According to results from the BlackStudenfAffairs Com-. mittee questionnaire, · 73% agreed or strongly agreed with the state­ment, "The unbalance· in the ratio. of black males to females promotes dissension." Because of this unbal­ance they must reach out ·to the black community of South Bend. John Reid, assistant director of Stu­dent · Activities, explains that prob­lems with ·previous activities were the result,. of . a .. disproportionate number of non-Notre Dame students .. attending,. !'We have no intention to exclude the community," says ·Reid. "Dances held at Notre Dame should be primarily for Notre Dame stu­dents, but we hope that iri.the future there can be an openness to invite dates from town." Part of the diffi­culty ·arises from pressures ·already 
SCHOLASTIC 

existing between the town and Notre Dame. As Keith Tobias states, "The University hasn't. ·made ar{ attempt to recruit blacks from the South Bend area, and · this contributes to the tension." Resolution of this sit­uation must arise through close con­tact with the community leaders of South Bend.. Prof. Stewart states; "We need to have informal meet­ings with' the black community' to show tha_t we have a sense of com­mitment. The solution is not to ctit them off." 
According to the Black Student Affairs questionnaire, 75.4% either agreed or • strongly' agreed .with the statement, . "Major University ac~: tivities do not account for black stud~nts' pr~sence. on campus." The Black Cultural Arts Committee ~ ceives $2,000 froin the general Stu­dent Activities and $800 from Stu­dent Government. · John Reid states, however, that part of his office's in­
' volvenient' is to .·encourage Student Union t_o, have concerts, speakers and films which will be appreciated by a wider range of _the students. 
Orientation into _the college ex~ perien~e and the particular needs of the black.· student are ·part of the function·' ·of .the minority· counselor in Freshman Year of Studies. Sev.,; eral upperclassmen described .their first .. co~tact with . the. freshman counseling program as a caution not 'to lose sight of their identity. ."I don't want to be completely ~b~ sorbed,ii says one student. "I don't want to · be . just. a darker white i,\.merican." . Another student re­
.·· marks, "I can never ignore being black. 'I'm nobody if I'm not black: I have no desire to assimilate in'to a typically, prescribed social be­
havior." ·. · · · · . Others commented that they·orten feel pressure from those they see as "wanting. to get everything out of Notre Dame without putting any­thing in" to assert their "blackness" through separ_atism. "Being black," says · Prof'. . S_tewart, "is different from what if meant in the sixties. At that time you were ostracized for. not projecting black culture." He describes such organizations as the ·Afro-American Society .. arid Ujaama as groups "which were the products of a militant era, a time. of defining culture and . trying • to 'tlnd one's self. Once this is achieved; it is necessary to integrate into larger 
structures. It was necessary for 
these organizations to die out. If you 
look at' any bureaucratic structure, 
it , always outlives its use in an 
attempt to perpetuate itself past a 
time when it is functional." 
Several black students explain that the behavior which white stu­dents often interpret as defiance is a defense against riskin~ disap­pointment from rejection. "Defiance is a struggle within the self," says Tob_ias, "to give, but fearing that ·if you give too much you might lose sight of who: you are and discover too late that you have lost part of 
your individuality." 
In describing the atmosphere at Notre Dame, Tobias says that he came . to this_ University expecting the inost unprejudiced institution in the country because of its religious character, but instead he has fo'und "it's just like every place. else. It's no different at Notre Danie than a_t the · University of Mississippi." An~ other student explains· that the hos­tility he has encountered is not necessarily characteristic of the Notre Dame community. "I believe it is embedded; society sees things in black and white and it's hard to leave these attitudes behind." Part of the problem results from the fact that many white students have never been around· black students and . yice versa. "Even though we may recognize that the stereotypes are fallacious," says Tobias, "it's difficult to deal with when we have been surrounded by. these attitudes in society." . 
The Student Affairs questionnaire analysis notes: "Sixty-six percent of the respondents indicated. that they believed acceptance as a stu­dent by the larger Notre Dame community. can best be attained if they associate with •. a mixture of black and non-black students. Over 65%. of the students feel that they are at least adequately integrated into· the Notre Dame community." One student suggests' that "because we spend so much time being overly conscious of our· differences it is difficult to have mutually construc­tive exchanges. It is disturbing to sense that others feel they are con­descending· when they approach you. To always be conscious of how others will react to what you are saying because they are of another race is · to admit to being preju~ diced." As another student says, ."I don't want whites to say 'I'll forget you're black.' We are influenced by a struggle which is an active con~ cern in my everyday life.'' · 

Both internal and external pres­sures exact a toll in the academic lives of students. Stewart says, "If you compare black ·students'· ere­

. dentials, especially in the last four or five years, it's obvious that they are capable of performing well in the absence of any types of pres­sures. Part of Paula Dawning's job as the former freshman coun­selor for· blacks was to encourage students to perform up toexpec~ tations, but after freshman year students .are subject to the gen­eral counseling program.'' 
. Although most black students acknowledged greater acceptance within the classroom than outside in the social environment, they are disturbed by sentiments similar to those which Notre Dame's first 

women probably_ felt. "Why is mine 
the first name the professor knows 
by heart?" asksone student. "They 
can always tell when you're ab­
sent,'' says another. Within the 
academic setting, questionnaire re-·· 
suits showed' 48.9% agreeing or 
strongly agreeing that "White fac­
ulty and/or staff members are in­
sensitive to our concerns.'' In an­
other category, 50.4% of the· re­
spondents · answered yes to the 
question: "Have you ever been dis~ 
criminated against by one or more 
of your professors since entering 
Notre Dame?" Stewart notes that 
attempts are now being made to un~ 
cover this problem by. presenting 
specific cases to Fr. Burtchaell. 
Prof. Stewart states that some of the students' problems are also ex; perienced by black faculty mem-: hers because of their sca·rce . dis­persion in various departments. "In terms of quality," says Stewart, "I think the black faculty is highly qualified. In terms of numbers, the University could do much more. There is a need for systematic mechanisms to attract and keep black faculty members.'' Stewart · pointed out that although the six black faculty members who left last year were . replaced; this does not contribute to a net gain or an in­
crease of the base. 

Prof. Stewart points out, "The University is conservative with re­gard to change, but not discussion. There are no restraints on whom you can ·· bring in as speakers.'' Stewart is optimistic · toward the future. "There is not that hard di­visiveness· which stymies growth.'' With regard to the repercussions from the recent Black Cultural Art Center's dance, Johan · Reid says, 
. "Actions. cm the part o~ theadmin~ istration. will speak for themselves. We are not planning to curtail ac­tivities.'' Keith Tobias notes that he is impressed and appreciative of the "very professional mariner" in which administrators have handled the problem. · Tobias says, "It is important for students to recognize this because it says that we are respected.''-. . . . -· There is a general agreement that a better dialogue between · blacks and whites would promote. under­standing, but there· is· still ·cautious experimentation on both sides as to how·. this may . be :_ accomplished. "You can't improve others until you improve yourself," states Keith Tobias. When delivering an address 
a.t this September's Black Forum, Tobias quoted the following words c:if Martin Luther King, Jr.: "Fleecy locks · and black complexion cannot forfeit nature's . claim.. Skin may 
. differ but affection dwells ·in whites and blacks the same. If I were so tall '. a.'s to reach the pole or grasp the ocean at a stance, I must be measured by my soul. The mind is the standard of man.'' · · 
Tobias summed up his feelings by ·saying that being bla.ck to him means, .."getting my head together as aviable individual so that I can go· back to the community and help others.'' This goal cannot be de­gradedby classifying'it or by being comfortable.. with David Patrick Moynihan;s caff )or · "benign ne­glect.'' Indifference and.· insensitiv­ity harm. the whole . commu,nity. It is_ essential to re:,earn· the praise ·Ebony ·magazine ga.ve to the Uni­versity iii. 1950 during early stages of integration: "The changein pol­icy . was adopted by the student body. overnight because, as one ob~ 
·server -put it, 'the· esprit de corps of students is · stronger than any racial . prejudices· they · may bring with them.' Negroes -fresh on campus· were amazed by .the total lack of prejudice.'' 
. SCHOLASTIC 

The New Keenan Revue was, un­equivocally, the best theatrical production done so far this year by any members of the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's community. This may 
Theatre 

sound like a rash judgment inade during a wave of uncritical en­thusiasm, but that's because it was. After much critical attention to the 
? 

entire matter, 1 can. now. amend 0 the statement -it will.probably be the best of the entire year. . 
Wllat. makes it all the more in­
by Michael Feord

teresting is that few people, either 
those who did it or those who saw people met each other and becameit, thought to call it theatre. j'Artsy" involved. In the end they had apeople think of theatre as an show patterned on 'the old Vaude­esoteric az:t form designed as. a ville burlesque, complete with wittyshelter .from the cold winds of emcee (Rick Thomas), a high­philistinism (whatever _that .word 
quality stage band, well-donemeans).."Cultured" people think of. 
musical skits, classically badtheatre as a social grace, something comedians, talented singers andto dress up for and talk about in solo instrumentalists.
high tones. '.'Uncultured" people ·It might not have looked like think o(theatre as useless and. dull, . theatre, but it had all the elements,and are annoyed by the lack of with life and energy where .itentertainment in most productions. 
counts -within the cast and crewTheatre is thought of as many and in their relationship with thethings, but IllosUy as dull. For the . 
audience. The material -goodintellectuals, dull mea:ris terribly music, strong comedy and satireartistic; for the intelligent, dull on Notre Dame life -was ex­means only terrible. So when people tremely timely (certainly far·from· 
saw The New Keenan R~e. and 
the high school teacher's· old maximsaw nothing artistic or dull, few of that the true test of art is time),them made the mental connection but it was good art, immediate andbetween: it and theatre. 
effective.
Theatre happens when a message In establishing the fact that The passes through the living bodies of · Revue was, indeed, theatre, I am actors ·to a physically present not trying to say that the otheraudience. It. may be an accusing shows done here this year were not. 

message;· it ·may be moralizing, 
Heartbreak House, I thought, was 
_. critical ·or just plain entertaining,, . , . 
good theatre, and Jacques Brelbut the message must be.conveyed · 
ls Alive and Well and Living in
through the physical senses. 
Paris was a worthy attempt. ThereAnother precondition to any com: were, however, impediments to themunication of this message is that· effectiveness· of both of thosethere be a social link between -·shows, impediments which such
actors .and audience. Perhaps that link is as general as both being members of the: human race; per­haps as specific as both being mem­bers of the same family. A rule, though, is that the closer that link is, and the more personal the mes­sage t_o both actors and audience, the more meaningful the theatre. 
Rick Thomas an~ Tom Lenz; co­producers/ directors of· The .New Keenan Revue, said that their show was a community· activity, aimed at improving the social life of·Keenan: Hall. As they organized it, more , and more ideas and talent came out of the hall, and more and more 

::.....___ 
shows as The New Keenan Revue . can help to remove. 
Heartbreak House was not less effective than the Keenan show because of any performance qualities, which were understand­ably higher, but because of the audience. Heartbreak House was written by George Bernard Shaw in 1918 and deals with the ."uni­versals'; of high school English fame and lacks the superficial immediacy of a Notre Dame­oriented .variety show. Most of the American public is unfamiliar with the workings of theatre, un­aware of the value to be had in it, and unwilling to expend the effort to pierce through super­ficial unfamiliarity of "artistic" plays to get to the familiar and the immediate. Companies like the. ND-SMC Theatre should work more vigorously to increase that which. is immediate, but highly commu-· nity-oriented shows like The Revue are invaluable in getting the · public to break down its resistance to theatre. 
Jacques Brel was an enjoyable evening of music, yet failed to be powerful theater due to a lack of understanding of the necessary 
. elements. Instead of carefully 

planning the visual effect and the 
· use of the physical environment, the producers .concentrated only on the vocal work, giving us theatre of'the ears but not of the eyes and body. Jacques Brel, a coffee-house · play, was put into a coffee-house, The Nazz, and.then the· coffee~ house was taken away. Chairs were lined up and a visually ineffective proscenium stage was built, turning an intimate S.I>ace into a poor ex-.. cuse for an auditorium. It provided an i:riteresting example of how. most people still mistake the plastic . conventions of theatre (proscenium stages and rows of chairs) .for its essentials (spatial relationships and sensory effect), robbing it of much of it~ power. · 
A reason for the success of The New Keenan Revue might have been that the students of Keenan weren't out to "do theatre," but to have fun. Nor were they led by any preconceived . notions of .what they "should" do; they just did what. was right for their show. You can't ask for better theatre, but you can ask for . more. 
Can You 
Sell Yourself? 
In half an hour you will meet with a corporate representative for a job interview, and it will become evident whether or not you can demonstrate . that the four · years here have not been a waste of time.· Feeling a little nervous? That's okay, it's understandable. 
Although nervousness may be un­derstandable, it does not create a very beneficial state of mind for a job interview. The pressure put on a student in such a position can lead to high states of anxiety which ad­versely affect the student's perform­ance. To help students learn how to cope with this anxiety and generally· 
~ • , • • • < ~ n.y ""• ~•• • • • V ._ • ' ••,._,..,, • ' 
to communicate in a more meaning­ful way in the · job interview, the counseling. department of the Uni-· versity· has devised a series of ses­sions known as the Job Interview Skills Workshop. _ 
Given on a series of Wednesday evenings which began on-November 3, these workshops are not intended to teach the students the· do's and don'ts of job interviews. According to Stan Hoffman, one of the coordi­nators of the workshops, the job interview is "basically an interac­tion between two strangers, and be­cause it is two strangers it's tough to· say 'do this' and 'do that' and be meaningful. Instead· of giving them two dozen do's and don'ts ­they can pick up any number of books· in the bookstore for that ­we teach them the skills of how to handle . themselves and use their natural assets." 

As a whole, the workshops are intended to teach students to be calm, assertive and open in an inter­view situation. In addition to this, 
· they attempt to make the students aware of what they should get out of the interview. Emphasis is placed on the fact that the interview is not meant to be a one-sided situation. The student should learn to evaluate whether or not the job is suitable to his needs or even if the questions 
the interviewer is asking are ap­propriate. All this is taught .to the student in three 90-minute sessions. 
The first session is devoted to dealing with the four basic stages of an interview. The participants learn through a series of role-playing situations after which there is time for feedback. Part _of this session is also spent on teaching the stu­dents to be aware of non-verbal communication and how it, too, can affect the interview. -The second 
· session is spent on more of the role­playing situations which were be­gun in the first and which are fin­ished up in the third. The third session also explains in what situa­tions an interviewer may say no and 
by Theresa Rebeck 

the limits of any interview. 
Throughout these workshops, posi­tive feedback is ·emphasized more than negative. Mr. Hoffman stresses that they are attempting to enlarge upon the abilities the student · al­ready possesses _and raise · his awareness of the total number of responses that are available to them. By becoming aware of all the possi­bilities open to him, the student sees that he may-act in many different ways and any ·one of them could be appropriate, considering the condi­tions of the interview itself. 
A!)other portion of • these work~ shops is devoted to assertion train­ing. Ml,'. Hoffman points out that there are three possible ways to act in an interview:. assertive, non-as­sertive and aggressive~ If a person is assertive, he can_ put his feelings in the open and keep the lines ·of communication open, while if he is non-assertive he· hoids ·them in and becomes withdrawn. If he is ag­gressive, on the other hand, his feel­ings are in the open, but usually in a way which puts :down the other person. • This also closes the lines of communication. In a good interview these lines .must remain open, and this is why assertion training is so imperative here.· 
The workshops are coordinated by two counseling ·center trainees, Stan Hoffman and Mary Brennan, and an undergraduate -paraprofes­sional, Dave Shaub; Although it is free of charge, there are merely seven university students currently enrolled. ·. 
·· It will be offered again nex~ se­
mester, -though, and is open to any­
one on campus. 
"Our'purpose is not to tell people 'this-is what -an interview is,'" in_­sists Mr. Hoffman. "We're trying. to emphasize the communication skills that can be used .in an interview, and everyone comes with a lot of them already. We try to help the students become aware of them, de­velop them and hopefully acquire a few new ones." 
· SCHOLASTIC 
,i 






Teltronics manufactures and sells ex­clusively these quality-crafted solid state watches worldwide-over 1 million sbld at much higher prices. Now, order direct and get tremendous savings, all these· features: 
.• 6 functions controlled by a single button: ·• hour, minutes, seconds, month, date, and day. Accurate within 2 minutes per year. 
. • Full year warranty against defects in materials or workmanship, except battery. We will repair or replace any Teltronics watch developing such defect within 1 year of purchase. 
• 
30-day home trial, if not completely sat­isfied with your watch, return it within 30 days for full refund of purchase price, no questions asked. · 

• 
Ultra-thin case, with stainless steel back. All watches shown are available finished in silver rhodium or gold plate with match­ing bracelets. 


FREEi 
Order any two . •-Toltronlcs 
L.E.D. watches and get.
this 8-dlglt, 5-functlon · electronic · memory calculator,

with battery and carry case, FREEi 
BUYDIRECTAND SAVf! 
6-Function L.E.D. \Vatch 
t/:~;~ 
j.. ':::~ 
; 
r 
7

Mall check or money order lo:
I 
I

TELTRONICS, 2400 E. Devon, Des Plalnes, 111. 60018
I 
I

I Please send the following watch[es). (Specify your choice I 
of 10 styles: A thru J, followed by "S" for silver rhodiumI GS18.95 or "G" for gold GS17.95.) I understand that I will I I receive, free, a Teltronlca calculator with every rwo watches 
I ord!'r,
I 

QUANTITY •. STYLE FINISH PRICE
I 
I 

Add '1.00 shipping an~llna co~ch wai;;;."jjjjnol•
1 

re1ldent1 add 5~ sales ta,c. I encloae my check or money order 
1 for the total •=-.-:-=:e-.
. I (Do not mall ca1h. No coo·a accepted. Offer aoOd In conllnental
I USA only.) · · . I Nam---------------­1 Addre,,.________________ I I Clty______... tat _____.,lp I 
L--------------~-----~ 
WHAT'S MISSING ··­-. FROM YOUR INTELLECTUAL 
. ·_ .I··-1~ 
. 'j 
·:

AND SOCIAL LIFE? -:: 
A 

DELICATE BALANCE OF COURSE. ­
Get it on December 3, 4, 10, .or· 11·· at 8:00 p. m.. in -·O'La_ughlin Auditorium . -. 
• Compliments of: 







