lb a raindrop, all umbrellas are the same
Yes, the nice part about umbrellas is their similarity. When the need is urgent, any one mil work.
When it comes to telephone equipment, however, a general likeness isn’t enough. Parts are engineered to be exactly the same no matter where they are used. Only such rigid standardization made possible the smooth and interlocking system that serves you from Penobscot, Maine, to Pescadero, California. ;
We’re reminded of it sharply in times of disaster — from flood, blast or hurricane.
Telephone men from other areas can come and pitch right in with the same methods, tools and equipment.
But one Bell System asset isn't standardized. That is its people. It takes able, original minds to keep our business moving ahead. For college graduates qualified for and interested in such widely differing work as research, engineering, operations and administration, we offer many opportunities.
Your college placement people will be glad to tell you more about it.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The Scholastic
Stolen
■frotn Nature!
Van Heusen’s new
Snowflake patterned sport shirts are really in a class by themselves— they have plenty of razzle-dazzle. The neat, colorful patterns, adapted from crystal-like snowflakes, are creating a flurry in colleges from coast to coast. Van Heusen styled these shirts with the new sportown collar that college men favor. In comfortable rayon poplin ... a flurry of bright color combinations.
$5.95
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Mokes—Large Selection Students Special Rates 3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO. Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
VMltaoM
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N.^Y.
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station


Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
MEDICO
/MEDICO V.F.0.-9 With NEW NYLON 8IT?\ Exclusive! Guaranteed Bite-Proof! i Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bite! i
1 MEDICO MEDALIST-*1.51 I
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
?; When filter turns brown—in Medico M Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw
II
h it away, with nico-| < tine, juices, flakes, i ? tars it has trapped. H Insert a fresh filter for cooler, cleaner mi dryer smoking.
Imported Briar. q USBai m
Wide variety of style* eej rises.
Write MedkoFmes. lac. N.Y.2X for BoeMe* 0<|
Nov. 14, 1952
Philippines Correct SCHOLASTIC
Editor:
Thank you very kindly for the publicity given in your paper, the Scholastic, for the Requiem High Mass for the late Archbishop of Manila, Most Reverend Gabriel M. Reyes, sponsored by the Notre Dame Philippine Club.
In passing, I would like to make the correction of the statement that the deceased Archbishop Reyes is the Church’s only Philippine Archbishop. The Philippines have six Archbishops, five of whom are Filipinos, the other being American, Most Reverend James Hayes, S.J.
I would be very thankful if you would publish this correction just for the sake of veracity of news and facts.
Sincerely yours,
Rev. Osmundo A. Calip, Vice-Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Nueva Segovia
Vigan, Ilocos Sur, Philippines
=♦%=
Bouquet for the Band
Editor:
Now that the crucial Oklahoma weekend has passed and the spirit of Notre Dame has risen to new heights via the excellent performance of her men in green it should be noted also that this rising spirit was pushed along equally well by the fine show of the Notre Dame band.
They have worked tirelessly and presented a very admirable showing both to the fans in the stadium and the millions of TV viewers. However, this improvement in our band hasn’t been just an overnight affair, it has been a steady advance perceptible since the beginning of the season.
Therefore I say hats off to Mr. Robert O’Brien for a fine job and compliments to the unsung heroes of the Notre Dame marching band, who represent the University just as well as the football team, and have given an equally creditable showing.
Gene Howley 364 Alumni
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
M ENGINE IND IIRHINE CONPOHTION	4^^
r Al RCHILD
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
[■jiu........................
Notre Dame Students Portrait Specials
Special No. 1 3 5x7 French Gray $9.50
6 Black and White proofs to choose from
RIFLE TEAM TRYOUTS
Candidates who wish to try out for the University Rifle team are asked to report at the rifle range under the stands in the Stadium.
Try-outs will be run for three days starting at 1:30 p.m. next Wednesday.
A Special value from South Bend’s leading photographers
Special No. 2 6 5x7 French Gray I 8x10 French Gray both for $ 15.00
McDonald Studio
116 W. Colfa
Phone 4-8891

The Scholastic
tic plates quite ferociously. Then they began throwing bread around. As the atmosphere thickened with rye and whole wheat, the noise swelled. The Farley Men thought it was mean and unfair when somebody told them to stop the racket. Noise and bread throwing
By Mort Lu by
are not necessarily college fun. Besides, a chunk of pumpernickel in your coifee does nothing at all to enhance
Top of the Week ~
Senior trip leaves Saturday . . .
The Scalper's Lament
Those clever speculators who had bought Oklahoma game ducats several months ago and were planning to hold them tightly until “the price was right,” found very little solace in the outcome of the game last Saturday.
Tales of the exorbitant prices asked for the precious tickets were many.
There were fables being told about smart operators who had sold tickets at one hundred .dollars a pair, and then told their customers how lucky they were to get off so easy. The great legend grew until we were all convinced that Oklahoma tickets were
as scarce as Democratic electoral votes.
But on the morn of the big game, a peculiar thing happened; the campus broke out in a rash of extra tickets. To get to the stadium you had to weave your way through a forest of ticket vendors. They pleadingly waved the precious little things in front of your nose and as you got closer to the stadium the price toppled downward. At Gate 15 we were met by a little boy who said he would trade two 50-yard line ducats for whatever spare change we might have in our pocket.
We had our student I.D., however, and decided to use the spare change for a cold hot dog at half time.
Pass the Erector Set, Maw
For years we have heard sociology teachers, Popular Mechanics, and people on the next bar stool tell us that this is the Age of Machines. We looked at dad’s Chevy, mom’s Mixmaster, little sister’s talking doll, and our own useless electric razor and decided they were probably right. But if anybody really had any doubts about this being the Machine Age, they were dissolved last weekend when the hall decorations went up.
Not content with some really fine art work (Morrissey, for instance), the competent blasting of loudspeakers, and
some worthwhile themes; the boys went completely mechanized on us. You could hardly hear yourself think with all the whirring of electric motors, the zesty clanging of little pulleys, the Niagaran deluges of water. Even those English majors who are inclined to sneer at the M.E. boys decided that this power-driven display was a bit of all right.
Farley’s Folly
Two weeks ago we made a homely little remark that went something like this. “A body’s liable to think this a college or something.” We lauded the collegiate performances of Sorin, Walsh, and Lyons, and said it was a good thing. We liked the homey hall dinners and the semi-dignified cheers. Our position was fortified last week when Badin’s dinner sported a strolling violinist; picturesque and almost clever, we thought. But as the honorable old cliche goes, there are always some people who carry a good thing too far.
The Farley Men somehow decided that banquets were the thing. They figured they would have a banquet and make it the biggest, noisiest, rowdiest dinner of all. These qualities would make it ipso facto the best dinner of all, they thought.
So one dark night the Farley Men marched en masse upon the chow hall. They clobbered on the walls, they screamed loud screams, they toppled stacks of trays, and they beat the plas-
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
the flavor.
The Senior Trek
After that great thing that happened in our stadium last Saturday, the Seniors are even more fired up about their jaunt to East Lansing this weekend. Besides the fact that the game might prove interesting, the Seniors have been drenched with hearsay about the real live gurls on the M.S.C. campus. And after the last few home games, most seniors have decided that gurls are a fine institution.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Senior trip returns Saturday.
AAASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 17—Feast of St. Gregory, The Wonder-Worker, Bishop, Confessor.
Tuesday, Nov. 18—Consecration of the Basilicas of Saints Peter and Paul.
Wednesday, Nov. 19—Feast of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, Widow.
Thursday, Nov. 20—Feast of St. Felix of Valois, Confessor.
Friday, Nov. 21—Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Saturday, Nov. 22—Feast of St. Cecilia, Virgin, Martyr.
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Nov. 14, 1952

NOVEMBER 14
AVON (just four more days)—Because You’re Mine refuses to leave. If you haven’t seen it yet, stand firm. Just think of something else and maybe it’ll go away.
COLFAX (through Nov. 20)—Here’s one we hope will stick around, for quite a while. Warner Brothers has come up with a really worthy picture, The Miracle of Fatima (A-l), authentically presented in color. Even we’ll pay to see this one.
PALACE (tonight only)—South Bend’s biggest opens its curtain on another stage show. This time it’s Paul Whiteman—all of him—in person.
NOVEMBER 15
MACKLIN FIELD, EAST LANSING (kickoff: 1:30 EST)—Several hundred seniors will invade the Spartan stronghold to root the Fighting Irish to their second upset victory in two weeks. The monsters from Michigan State have other ideas, but the omnicient Scholastic sports editor predicts an N.D. win. The rest of the troops can hear the' game over WNDU or WSBT, beginning at 12:30'CST.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 & 8:50 p.m.)—After a rough afternoon, what could be more relaxing than a couple of hours in the cozy confines of the N.D. opera house? It might seem so, watching Lovely To Look At, with Kathryn Grayson, who is.
PALAIS ROYALE (3:30 to 11:30 p.m.)—For those fellas who prefer their own version of the real thing to a celluloid Grayson, there’s the Student Senate victory (we hope) dance—for a dollar, if your “dues” are paid up.
PALACE (through Nov. 20)—Here’s a couple of titles for those who aren’t particularly pleased with Northern Indiana. Lure of the Wilderness (A-l) is a fair story starring a fair lass, Jean Peters. Best of all, it’s about Pogo’s stompin’ ground, the Okefenokee swamp in Georgia. Co-pic Tropical Heat Wave (A-l) refers to one Estelita, not to the climate. Bob Hutton plays Hollywood’s idea of a college prof in the comedy.	-
NOVEMBER 16
RIVER PARK (three days)—A high-sounding pair: The Big Trees (A-2) uses everything to try to liven it up. Tall Sahara at least has Yvonne DeCarlo and Peter Ustinov, the Nero of Quo Vadis.
GRANADA (through Nov. 19)—The Raiders (A-2) is a gold-rush saga with little to boast of except the technicolored California countryside. A change of scene is offered in Pirate Submarine (A-l).
NOVEMBER 19
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m.)—The Department of Modern Languages tries out its Spanish this week with The General and the Senorita, a lively Mexican ditty with a sprinkling of everything. Two bits will get you past the man at the door.
Mil Mike Chatter
More Celebrities!!!
Johnny Long came up to the WNDU studios last Saturday before the ball game to talk to Al Wood and appear on Al’s 12:30»to 1:30 Al Wood Show. Naturally, he brought his very lovely and talented • vocalist Miss Barbara Hammond. I also understand that Philip Morris’ famous bell-hop, Johnny, will be calling from the studios in the fieldhouse in a couple of weeks. People must finally be deciding that Notre Dame actually has a radio station on the premises. Don’t be surprised if Paul Whiteman makes an appearance on some show tomorrow,. Never can tell just what you might hear on the “Student Voice.”
A couple of announcers that have to get up at 5:30 on Sunday morning to go to Mass and get the station on the air at 7:00, have devoted the first two hours of broadcasting to a show called “Obnoxious,” and it really is. Al Wood and Tom Knott are the two not-so-hardy souls and the show runs to 9:00 a.m. with one welcome five-minute interlude of news at 8:00. So if you are up that early, and you think your roommate is giving you trouble, tune in to 640 kc and hear a couple of guys that are really “Obnoxious.”
Speaking of Tom Knott brings us to the first major departmental breakdown under Bill Ryan. Tom is the Program Director for WNDU. His duties are	i
two: one, to schedule every show that	]
you hear on the station, which job in-	I
eludes finding the shows to go on, such	|
as the programs from the armed forces' | and foreign networks; and secondly, to ’ direct the departments that come under i him. His department, besides being the i largest, is the most	important under	j
Bill Ryan.	|
Tom’s department	is the largest,	I
mainly because he has the announcers I in his section. The announcers are I headed by Jim Gannon, who also heads the Sports Department under Programming. These two departments have a membership of about 22 men, including both shift and specialty announcers. However, many of the other staff men are qualified to fill in in an emergency.
Capitol Records are starting a big promotion on “Bunny Hop” by Ray Anthony. WNDU is going to be part	;
of it.—Bryan Coughlin	j
The Scholastic	B
Vol. 94 November 14, 1952 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors
DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ...........  News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ............Features
JOHN F. SAND..................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY .........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ...........Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine. Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, barren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski. Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby,. Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry- Baier.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, ' Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published .weekly during the school year, except during. vacation and examination periods at the.University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Presenting four important parts of the greatest weekend this university has seen for a long time — decorations, dance, game, and victory. The picture story of the events leading up to the tremendous 27-21 win can he found starting on page 17.
—Photos by Bill DeCrick
Food for Thought
On the news pages of this issue can be found preliminary facts concerning a contest which will be held for the benefit of the proposed Student Activities Building. All the details have not been settled as yet, but it is definite that prizes will consist of cakes, cookies, or pies received weekly from Vetville.
This is one time when you can look a gift horse in the mouth and see perfect teeth. The people of Vetville do not figure to get much benefit from the Activities Building, for they have their own homes for relaxation and entertaining. The women are voluntarily giving up their valuable time to do the baking each week, a completely unselfish gesture which should serve as an example for, and earn the gratitude of, every student.
Details will be released next week, but decide now to get some pastry tickets. You can’t lose: if you don’t win a weekly cake you still help win yourself an Activities Building.
What Though the Odds ...
Writing a tribute to the Fighting Irish for last Saturday’s display of perfection and fighting spirit is much harder than it first appears. We went through our own vocabulary and read the Thesaurus from cover to cover, but just can’t find any adjectives or catch phrases that will fit.
It could be said that the game was wonderful, wondrous, surprising, striking, marvelous, miraculous, stupendous, and indescribable, but these words just don’t do justice to the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game.
It could be said that the crowd was astonished, amazed, astounded, startled, electrified, stunned, and fascinated. But these words cannot express the emotion which the crowd itself expressed in action, when it surged onto the field after the •final gun.
And when it comes to the team itself, we give up. They just haven’t invented the adjectives needed in this paragraph. We thought of throwing in the well-worn sports catch phrases, saying Johnny Lattner was a whirling dervish, Joe Heap had winged heels, Dan Shannon hit like a piledriver, and Jack Alessandrini was a block of granite. But, again, to do justice to this theme one must think up about 30 such phrases, because there were at least that many stars.
This fact is enhanced with the realization that it is almost impossible to describe the Sooners, who were proved one touchdown worse than the Green-Shirts. After seeing MacPhail and Vessels, the incomparable Blanchard and Davis seem no longer incomparable. The entire team was excellent, first-rate, and exquisite.
So finally we had to give up the idea of any lilting prose. All we can say is that it was a tremendous game and deserves a place along side the best contest of all time.
As regards the Fighting Irish: consider us with hats doffed, executing a sincere, low, sweeping bow. To you goes the highest compliment possible: you are definitely a Notre Dame Football Team.
And Now ...
This Notre Dame Football Team has no chance to rest on its laurels, for Michigan State is reputedly even better than Oklahoma. Revenge is sweet, and the scores of the last two years, 33-36 and 0-35, are bitter.
Duplicate last week’s effort and there will be no doubt about who has the . country’s best football team. Better that effort and our doffed hats will be thrown high into the air.
There are just four words on everybody’s mind this weekend: Go Irish, Beat State!
Nov. 14, 1952
An Ideal Gift for or by an N. D. Man
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame
WALDEMAR GURIAN, Editor
THOMAS T. McAVOY, FRANK O’MALLEY, Managing Editors
Typical articles of vital and lasting interest:
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
BACKGROUNDS OF MODERN CULTURE
H. Butterfield,	The Tragic Element in Modern International Conflict
Mary Bromage,	De Valera’s Formula for Irish Nationhood
M. A. Fitzsimons,	Britain and the Middle East: 1944-1950
Waldemar Gurian,	From Lenin to Stalin
Stephen Kertesz.	Interplay of Soviet and Western Politics in Post War Hungary
Hans Morgenthau,	World-Politics in the Mid-Twentieth Century
Hannah Arendt,
Alfred Cobban, Alois Dempf,
The Imperialist Character
An Age of Revolutionary Wars: Historical Parallels The Significance of Medieval Intellectual Culture
Robert M. Hutchins, The Theory of State: Edmund Burke
Robert Strau.2-Hupe, U. S. Foreign Policy and the Balance of Power
N. S. Timasheff, The Strength and Weakness of the Soviet' Union
Hans Kohn, Yves Simon, Eric Voegelin, Luigi Sturzo,
Romanticism and the Rise of German Nationalism
The Secret Sources of the Racist Ideology
The Formation of the Marxian Revolutionary Idea
The Philosophic Background of Christian Democracy
AMERICAN CIVILIZATION
RELIGIOUS APPROACHES TO MODERN SOCIETY
Aaron I. Abell,
Origins of Catholic Social Reform in the United States
Robert B. Dishman,
Mr. Justice White and the Rule of Reason
Peter F. Drucker, A Key to American Politics; Calhoun’s Pluralism
Thomas T. McAvoy,
The Catholic Minority in American Culture
Robert McCloskey,
American Conservatism and the Democratic Tradition
John U. Nef,
Clinton Rossiter,
The University of Chicago and the World, 1929-1951
The Political Philosophy of Franklin D. Roosevelt
I. M. Bochenski, Jean Danielou, Otto Karrer, Jacques Maritain, Frank O’Malley, Josef Pieper, '
On Soviet Philosophy	.
Marxist History, and Sacred History ■_
Newman and the Spiritual Crisis of the Occident
The Person and the Common Good
The Wasteland of William Blake '
The Social Meaning of Leisure in the Modern World
Heinrich Rommen, Church and State
Marshall Smelser,
The Jacobin Phrenzy: Federalism and the Menace of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity
Leo R. Ward, ' Humanism and the Religious Question
WALTER LIPPMANN says: “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics?
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
8
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK
To the Editors of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS Notre Dame, Indiana /	.
Please enter my. subscription to THE REVIEW OF POLITICS for......... year(s), at $4.00 per.year. -
Name ........—...............-..-.....—...—2........................
Street..............................................................-
City_____________________________ Zone_______ State..................
□ Check enclosed	Q Please bill me
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 8
NOVEMBER 14, 1952
Irish Backers Set to Invade East Lansing
Senate Chooses Kelly To Pilot Mardi Gras
Brian Kelly will head the 1953 Mardi Gras charity festival next February.
Elected to the general chairmanship by the Student'Senate Monday evening, Kelly will have charge of the prizes contest, carnival, dance, and other activities that comprise the annual Mardi Gras.
An A.B. senior from Detroit, Kelly has had an active record in campus activities during the past three years. Chairman of the Freshman Dance in 1950, he served as campaign manager for Eisenhower in the Mock Convention at Notre Dame last Spring.
Two years’ experience with the Mardi Gras will aid the new chairman. In 1951 he served on the prizes committee, while last year he was booth chairman for the carnival.
Kelly was one of three men whose names were presented to the Senate by a special screening committee, set up to review the qualifications of the several men nominated for the position. The other two were Ed Raque and Dick Rogers.	•
The committee, composed of Senior Class President Kerwin Fulton, Blue Circle Chairman Ernie Buckley, NFCCS Secretary Don Carbone, and Gerry Boehling, president of the Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club, will continue to work on the Mardi Gras.
Headed by. the general chairman and joined by another* representative each from the Blue Circle, the NFCCS Council, the three other classes, and two other campus clubs, they will choose chairmen for the major Mardi Gras committees.
Then, as the Mardi Gras executive committee, they will draw up complete plans for the pre-lenten festivities, to be carried out by Kelly and his assistants.
The committee hopes to begin fullscale operations this week, after chair-
BRIAN KELLY
Several Innovations
men are chosen for the prizes contest, carnival, dance, and other major Mardi Gras positions.
Of immediate importance is the prizes contest, which Kelly hopes to have started early in December.
The 1953 Mardi Gras will feature several innovations, as well as the more successful events of last year’s affair.
JUNIOR PROM CHAIRMEN
Junior Prom Co-chairmen Phil Bolin and Mickey Moran have announced that heads for various sub-committees for the dance have not as yet been named.
Any student desiring to lead or be a member of any of the committees must submit a written application before Thursday night, stating qualifications, experience, etc.
Moran may be contacted in 339 Badin, and Bolin’s address is 120 Walsh.
Senior Trippers Leave Tomorrow Morning
Three hundred fifty regular senior trippers will leave, the campus tomorrow morning to invade East Lansing for the Notre Dame-Michigan State game there tomorrow afternoon.
A special train will leave the Eddy street siding at 7 a.m. after the trippers have had an early breakfast at the Dining Hall. Buses will transport the seniors from the Circle to the point of departure.
An extra block of 50 tickets for the trip was completely sold out when they went on sale last Wednesday. According to Kerwin Fulton, Senior class president, a total of - 350 ducats placed on sale were bought up almost immediately.
An additional set of cars for the train carrying the trippers has been added to accommodate the great increase of those making the trip.
All game tickets purchased by seniors include reduced train rates, since everyone is making the trip on the same train. No game ticket has been sold unless the buyer has purchased a round-trip railway token.
All game tickets will be distributed to students upon boarding the train. At approximately 11:30 ajn., EST, the special will arrive at East Lansing for the tussle.
Specific warning has been given by trip officials that the train will leave for the return trip to Notre Dame the same day. This ruling was brought about because no mixer or dance has been scheduled for tomorrow evening. Any senior missing the train back automatically voids his return ticket.
Regardless of age, all those wishing to make the trip require a special written permission from their parents for class cuts which must be registered in the rector’s office by today. Permissions for all off-campus students making the journey must be filed with the Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Nov. 14, 1952
9
•1
'How to Win Converts'—Fr. O'Brien's Lecture Nov. 19 Will Give Students Conversion Skill
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., will deliver a lecture on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Law Building Auditorium on “How to Win Converts.”
Author of a widely syndicated column bearing the same title as his lecture subject, Father O’Brien is famous as a Catholic and universal writer.
The purpose of Father O’Brien’s lecture will he to render to the Notre Dame student a technique for winning converts and to show him how to become successfully articulate in his faith. By doing so, he further hopes to prompt a universal movement among
REV. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, Ph.D.
For ND Man, One Convert A Year
Notre Dame men to obtain at least one convert a year.
In a recent Scholastic interview, Father O’Brien developed his aims somewhat by disclosing that “briefly, the problem is this: of the 155,000,000 people in this country, about 80,000,000 have no definite church affiliation, while another 20,000,000 — having a slight church relationship — rarely darken the door of a church.
“We have therefore,” Father O’Brien continued, “about 100,000,000 persons who constitute a great white harvest waiting for Church disciples to come and gather them. These people are the people who in turn are most susceptible to the snare of Communism; they create an intellectual vacuum that must inevitably be filled, by either truth or error.”
He went on to explain that “45,000 priests are physically incapable of
reaching 100,000,000 people! The only passage is through the laity and the bottleneck of the problem lies in the lethargy of this laity:”
Father O’Brien is unquestionably qualified as a leader in the convert movement. His interest in this movement has been demonstrated during 37 years of labor. In 1927, he edited, and in part wrote The White Harvest, the first pioneer study of the movement. In 1948, Winning Converts appeared and this series of works was completed in 1950 with the publication of Sharing the Faith which particularly emphasizes laity participation in winning converts.
Throughout the nation, Father O’Brien has spearheaded the establishment of inquiry classes and information forums and has thus done away with the wastefulness of individual instruction. He is the author of about 100 pamphlets, the estimated circulation of which is about 2,000,000. His pamphlet, Finding Christ’s Church (Ave Maria Press), is the most -widely used religious pamphlet in the English-speaking world.
Some of the more famous of the books which he has edited include: The Faith of Millions, which boasts a 300,000 circulation and European and Asiatic translations; The Road to Damascus and Where I Found Christ, in which such distinguished converts as Maritain, Merton, Burton, Hasley, and Luce tell their conversion stories. Another of Father O’Brien’s books and a five-year best seller is Truths Men Live By, which is also a widely employed University text.
Another month will witness the publication of Paths to Christ. Concerning this new book. Father O’Brien comments that “this work features conversion stories of the so-called little guy: the cab-driver, waitress, barber, housekeeper, shopkeeper — those of the common walks of life.”
Senator Elections Near
Plans for the coming elections of college senators were laid by the Student Senate Monday after a report by Investigating Committee Chairman Ernie Bartell.
Elections, to be held in the first part of December, will be handled by the; Blue Circle, which will accept nominations by letter. Nominees must > be sophomores or juniors, with an 85 scholastic average, and have no record of disciplinary action.
LOBUND Receives Damon Runyon Grant
Notre Dame has received a giant of $20,500 from the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund to carry on cancer research in LOBUND Institute. The grant enables Prof. James A. Reyniers, director of the Institute, and his associates to continue their study of germ-free life as a biological tool for* cancer research. They are seeking to determine whether viruses and certain carcinogenic agents induce comparable tumors in germ-free animals and normally contaminated animals.
LOBUND — which is an abbreviation of Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame — has attracted international attention by its pioneering research with germ-free animals. These animals are born and raised free of all bacteria and other contaminating agents which can be detected by modern science. In this germ-free state they provide the scientist with unprecedented opportunities for biological and medical research.
Under Prof. Reyniers’ direction, LOBUND is conducting long-range basic research as well as the study of practical and immediate problems. Included among current research projects are radiation sickness, liver necrosis, amoebic dysentery, anti-biotics and growth, tooth decay and the i-ole of intestinal bacteria in nutrition.
In underwriting continued cancer research at Notre Dame, the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund has allotted a total of $5,973,427 in grants to universities, colleges, and medical institutions during the past six years.
Vets Will Unveil New Mayor At Potluck Supper Tomorrow
Vetville residents have made their choice for the new mayor and council members, casting ballots yesterday and today. However-, the results will not be known until tomorrow night, when they will be announced at a pot luck supper.
Four nominees were entered in the mayoral race. Bud Guiltinan represented Ward 2; Steve Hauser, Wards 4 and 5; Ed Meynard, Ward 6; and Jim Ragan, Ward 1.
Candidates from the six wards were: Hawley, Hinshaw, Lambert, Flanagan, and Peckham of Ward 1; Ward 2, Jack Conley and Joe McCoy; Ward 3, Jerry Houseman; Ward 4, Bob Simmons, Ed Malo, Lin Kamer, and Len Biernowski; Ward 5, Dick De Santis, George Granger, and Gene Jaeger; and Ward 6,
10
The Scholastic
John Thelan, Roger Lawrence, and Luke Morin.
The new administration will take control of community affairs sometime in the first part of December.
The pot luck supper will. be held in the Vet Rec Hall at 8 o’clock tomorrow night. This "will be followed by a square dance sponsored by the Christian Family Movement. Betty Lally is the chairman in charge of all arrangements for the get-together.
———«&— ......
Fitzsimons to Lecture on Pearl HarborPolicy
Prof. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, a member of the Department of History and noted authority on Sixteenth and Seventeenth Century History and English History, will lecture on “Pearl Harbor” in Room 103 of . the Law Building Wednesday evening at 8:00.
Professor Fitzsimons, having taught here for the past 16 years, received A.B. and M.A. degrees from Columbia University, an A.B. from Oxford, and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
Author of many articles on British foreign policy during the past three years, Prof. Fitzsimons’ latest book, The Foreign Policy of the British Labor Government from 1945 to 1951, will be published sometime in December. Many of his articles on British foreign policy in the Middle East have appeared in Commonweal.
Prof. Fitzsimons will discuss the events which brought us to the European and Asiatic wars. The story has mainly been told of two sides, those attacking and those defending President Roosevelt. Prof. Fitzsimons will talk impartially regarding President Roosevelt on the tragic situation as a cool man carrying a “hot potato.” He will draw certain conclusions regarding Roosevelt’s decisions while attempting to retain his impartiality.
The lecture is sponsored by the Committee on International Relations. All students are invited to attend.
Roemer Is Elected Indiana's Philosophy Association Head
Prof. William F. Roemer, Ph.D., and a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame for 30 years, was elected President of the Indiana Philosophical Association at the convention of the Association in Indianapolis, Nov. 8.
Delegates from the various universities and colleges throughout the state assembled in the new Arts Building on the Marion College campus for the Fall meeting of the philosophers.
Papers were read before both the
Catholic University's Players Incorporated Stages 'Love's Labour Lost' Here Dec. 2-3
Players Incorporated, the nationally-famed Catholic University theatrical group, is scheduled to invade Washington Hall Dec. 2 and 3 to give Notre Dame Shakespeare fans a triple performance of the comedy, Love’s Labour Lost, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., announced this week.
The play itself revolves around Ferdinand, king of Navarre, and his three courtiers — Berowne, Longaville, and Domain — who take an oath to form themselves into a kind of monastic academy for study. Their oath forbids looking upon the face of a woman, but the King has forgotten that he has arranged to see the Princess of France and three of her ladies-in-waiting on a matter of important state business.
Upon the arrival of the ladies, each of the four gentlemen falls madly in love, and a comedy ensues which should tickle the ribs of the sourest of critics.
Starring in the farce are: Naomi Vincent, as the Princess of France; Pete Donahue, as the clown, Armado; and Henry Sutton, as Sir Nathaniel.
The play is directed by Alan Schneider and the staging is done by James Waring.
Launching its fourth season of nation-wide touring, Players Incorporated is attempting to bring back to the American scene the traveling repertory company. A lone pioneer in the traveling theatre field, the C.U. aggregation is succeeding in its original objective: to bring the best possible theatre to the largest possible audience at the lowest possible price.
Founded on the belief that the laughter and tears of the professional theatre need not be confined to the New-York area, Players Incorporated is now considered one of the foremost theatrical groups in the United States.
In their travels from Burlington, Vermont to the hills of Korea, they have been widely acclaimed by all types
Senior Association and the Junior Association in morning and afternoon sessions.
Mr. Richard Spurney, a graduate student in the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame participated as leader- in a panel discussion of the Junior division. Two of the papers read before the Senior members were concerned with the aspects of philosophy and science as taught in Soviet-controlled countries.
of American audiences. Their greatest critical acclaim came last season, when under the auspices of the Department of Defense, they toured army bases in Japan and Korea. The six-week string of performances the company gave in the Far East war zone easily ranks as its most gratifying experience.
The individuals who make up Players Incorporated have had, like the Abbey Theatre in Ireland and the Old Vic in London, a single source of training and inspiration: the Speech and Drama Department of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.
Since its inception, Catholic University’s Speech and Drama Department has impressed itself indelibly upon the theatre world. For instance, the 1939 production of Yankee Doodle Boy, based on the life of George M. Cohan, started a trend of biographical musicals. Since then, other original C.U. productions,
PLAYERS INCORPORATED
Coming Soon to Washington Hall
such as Sing Out Sweet Land, Count Me In, and Touch and Go, have found their way to Broadway.
This imposing array of productions has earned C.U.’s Drama Department a solid reputation as one of the most capable and productive schools of its kind.
Highly successful at Notre Dame last season with its scintillating productions of Twelfth Night and School For Wives, the repertory company’s appearance on the Washington Hall stage is considered a high point in the University’s Concert and Lecture Series.
Nov. 14, 1952
11
Dual Effort of Father Sorin and Henry Clay Got Notre Dame Its First Post Office in 1851
The postmark, “Notre Dame, Ind.,” is a double tribute to the vision of a pioneer-priest and the efforts of one of America’s greatest statesmen.
Back in 18-51, Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of Notre Dame, sought a post-office for his small school because he felt that the sight of the mail coach sweeping up to the door each day will add dignity and attract attention to the University.” It was through Henry Clay’s representations in Washington that Father Sorin’s hope became a reality.
When Father Sorin was appointed first postmaster of Notre Dame, Ind., in January, 1851, there were less than 200 students on the campus of the University which had been founded only nine years earlier. Now, in its second century of operation, the Notre Dame Post Office handles 10,000 pieces of first class mail and 600 parcel post packages each day for Notre Dame’s 5,100 students. It employs a full-time staff of eight persons and more than 30 student assistants.
Increasingly heavy mail is already crowding the present campus Post Office which was built in 1934. At the dedication of the building, Frank C. Walker, a Notre Dame alumnus who was later to become Postmaster General of the United States, purchased the first stamp and affixed it to a letter mailed to President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The Notre Dame Post Office is staffed almost entirely by the Brothers of Holy Cross who qualify for their postal duties through regular Civil Service examinations.
According to Brother Marcelinus, C.S.C., postmaster at the University since 1945, the greatest influx of mail comes with the opening of the school year when the number of parcel post packages jumps sharply.
“Christmas-time, Valentine’s Day and the closing days of school are especially busy times,” Brother Marcelinus added, “and all the publications mailed from the University add considerable bulk to our second-class mail the year ’round.”
Fifty thousand copies of Ave Maria, a Catholic family weekly published at Notre Dame, are mailed from the campus post office each week and more than a dozen other periodicals bear the Notre Dame postmark. Included among them are the Scholastic, Juggler, Amer
ican Midland Naturalist, Technical Review, The Lawyer, Alumnus, Notre Dame, The Review of Politics, and publications of Saint Mary’s College.
Israel Attache Herzog Speaks Here Tuesday
Col. Chaim Herzog, newly-appointed Military, Naval and Air Attache of the Embassy of Israel to the United States,
COL. CHAIM HERZOG “Tension in The Middle East”
will speak here Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
Topic of Col. Herzog’s address will be “Tension in the Middle East.” The lecture is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series; and faculty, students, and general public are invited.
Col. Herzog was born and received his secondary education in Eire. After emigrating to Palestine in 1935 to study languages and law, the new Attache returned to England to graduate from Cambridge University with a Bachelor of Law degree.
After joining the British Army as an infantry private in World War II, Col. Herzog graduated from the Royal Military College in Sandhurst in 1942 with a Second Lieutenant’s commission. He served with various units in the northwest European theatre in both an armored division and on the general staff. He saw service in England, France, Belgium, Holland, and Ger
many, and was discharged with the rank of Major in December, 1946.
Col. Herzog joined the Israel Defense Forces at the outbreak of the Israel War of Independence and served in the siege of Jerusalem and in other theatres as a brigade chief of staff. From this rank, he moved to the general staff where he had several appointments, his last being that of Director of Military Intelligence. He was promoted to the rank of Colonel in January, 1950.
The elder son of His Eminence, the Chief Rabbi of Israel, Dr. I. Herzog, Col. Herzog is married and has one son.
Van Huffel Is Elected Freshman President
Harold “Mike” Van Huffel, 305 Breen-Phillips, and his entire Achiever’s party made a clean sweep of last Tuesday’s Freshman election.
Those elected to assist Van Huffel in leading the Freshman class are: Jerry Gatto, vice-president and a resident of 236 Zahm Hall; Don Ameche, Jr., of 130 St. Edward’s Hall, as secretary; and treasurer, Joe Weibel, 113 St. Edward’s Hall.
The only close competition afforded any member of the Achiever’s party was for the vice-president post. Mike Kiley, an independent candidate, fell only 20 votes short of the 221 votes polled by Gatto.
Only 800 members of the Freshman class, which numbers better than 1600, cast ballots. Although this is comparatively a large number of ballots for a class election, it is below the expected number, due to the greater size of this year’s Freshman class.
The student convocation and History departmental tests, which were scheduled for the same night, contributed to the smaller vote, according to Ray Korzen, election committee chairman. Korzen stated that the committee was forced to close the polls 20 minutes before the scheduled time in order to comply with the other activities.
Five parties and two independents vied for positions in the election. Other than the Achiever’s, the following parties campaigned for positions: Active party — John “Cy” Cyminski, president, Ray Drexler, vice-president, Pete Roc-chio, secretary, and Tom Caplet, treasurer; Dome party—Ed Spengeman, president, Tom Chambers, vice-president, Bill Weldon, secretary, and Rich Ewald, treasurer; “4-4-U” party — Dan Devine, president, Bob Miller, vice-president, Bob “Slats” Krummel, secretary, and Al Degnan, treasurer; and the Reprocratic party—Tom Falcinelli, president, John Weeks, vice-president,
12
The Scholastic
Gene Brennan, secretary, and Jack Kirby, treasurer.
The two independents were Bill Pavin for president and Mike Kiley, who came in second in the vice-presidential race.
Lack of knowledge concerning campaign procedure had caused an abundance of independent candidates in early nominations. Chairman Korzen held a meeting last Wednesday to explain the advantages of candidates running in parties. An extension was allowed on the nominations, and the candidates reorganized their plans.
The final result of the nominations and the conduct of the campaigns by the candidates and their parties was satisfactory in the eyes of the election committee.
President-elect Van Huffel, speaking in behalf of himself and his paity, expressed gratitude to those who cooperated in his campaign and those who voted for their ticket. Van Huffel stated, “We will try to live up to our promises and make this a great year.”
The freshman election was conducted under' the sponsorship of the Blue Circle.
Fund-Raising Contest For ND Student Union
Graduate student Dick DiSantis has recently proposed a contest to raise funds for the new Student Union in the Old Science Museum.
The contest will be open only to Notre Dame students — including those living off campus and graduate students, and is being sponsored by the Student Senate. Prizes for the affair will be in the form of pastries, baked by the wives in Vetville.
Admission slips to the contest will be sold in the halls for an as yet indefinite price. The slips will be sold from Monday, Nov. 24, until Wednesday, Dec. 10.
It has been decided to hold the selection of winners on Sunday, Dec. 14, the day on which the Glee Club Concert is scheduled.
Ten winners will be chosen who will receive, each week until the end of the schoolyear — starting after Christmas and excluding vacation periods, a cake or some other form of pastry.
There will also be a prize for the three halls selling the most admission slips per- man. Each wife in Vetville will bake a cake on a certain night after the selection, and these baked goods will be distributed among the winning halls proportionately according to their size. The hall members will choose the night on which they will receive their dividend.
Christmas Dinner With T. S. Eliot Last Year Prompted Casey to Stage 'Cocktail Party1
A Christmas dinner with T. S. Eliot in London last year provided the inspiration for the forthcoming Thanksgiving Day production of his widely acclaimed play, “The Cocktail Party,” by the University Theatre here. The renowned British poet and playwright shared the holiday feast
Engineer Ball Ducats Nearing Sellout Mark
Ticket sales for the annual Engineers Ball to be' held on Friday, Nov. 28, at the Indiana Club, reached a near sell-
JERRY CANDELA AND BOB WAGNER Decide on Moment of Inertia
out this week. Ticket Chairman Gene Zimpfer has announced that the ducats, which went on sale last Monday, include in the 84.50 cost an orchid corsage.
Sporting a theme of “Moment of Inertia,” the semi-formal affair will be handled by Co-chairmen Jerry Candela and Robert Wagner, who have announced that Don Gels and the Lettermen will be on hand to provide music for the Engineers and their dates.
The ball, which is being sponsored by the Engineering Advisory Board, will climax the social season for the College of Engineering.
Candela and Wagner have also announced that a block of about 200 tickets for the Notre Dame-Southern California game have been reserved, giving promise that this will be the big weekend for the engineers.
The weekend festivities will be brought to a close with the Victory Dance on Saturday night.
Guy Priso will handle publicity, while Syl Shulte will attend to program arrangements.
with several friends including Michael Casey, assistant director of Notre Dame’s University Theater.
With Eliot’s personal encouragement, Casey will direct the Notre Dame presentation which is- believed to be the first completely non-professional production of “The Cocktail Party” in America.
Casey, who was associated with London’s Old Vic Theatre before joining the Notre Dame faculty this Fall, has discussed the' characterization of the play with several of his friends who were in the original cast when “The Cocktail Party” had its premiere at the Edinburgh Festival in 1949. Casting for the campus production was recently completed with Charles Doherty, a senior from Worcester, Massachusetts, selected for the role of Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, the psychiatrist, and Eleanor Kaskey, of South Bend, Indiana, named to play Celia Copiestone.
“Eliot chose a cocktail party as the opening and closing setting of his play,”1 Casey says, “because he regarded, it as a symbol of the spiritual emptiness of modem life. The theme of Eliot’s play,” according to Casey, is “Know yourself and proceed to guide your life accordingly. Don’t be hoodwinked into thinking you’re something which you are not.”
Two special reasons were advanced by John D. Tumpane, director of the University Theater, for presenting “The Cocktail Party” on the campus. “First of all, we feel strongly that it’s the kind of play which ought to be produced at a university because of the seriousness of the philosophical values which it dramatizes,” Tumpane said. “Secondly, in our opinion it is important for Notre Dame students to have the opportunity to see this great play which comes from the pen of one of our greatest modern thinkers and writers,” he added.
Tumpane, who directed the University Theater’s first production of the season, Shakespeare’s “Comedy of Errors,” will serve as technical director of Eliot’s play-
Following its premiere, “The Cocktail Party” was presented in London and New York and had a brief engagement in Chicago. Five performances will be given in Washington Hall beginning Thanksgiving evening, Nov. 27, and continuing through Sunday evening, Nov. 30, with a Sunday matinee.
Nov. 14, 1952
CHEF LATTNER ROASTS HAPLESS SOONER
Farley Barbecue Wins First Prize—$40 and Trophy
Moreau Christmas Cards Receipts Go to Far Missions
The Mission Society of Moreau Seminary placed posters in all the campus halls last week, promoting their 1952 Christmas card sales program.
An assortment of twenty cards, featuring fine reproductions of the Old Masters and contemporary artists, is offered for one dollar. All profit from these sales will he turned over to the Holy Cross missions in East Pakistan, Chile, and Texas. This is the first yeai’ that students have been contacted through posters and order blanks in the halls.
The Moreau seminarians handle all this work in their free time. Other “material works” of the Society include the sale of hand-made Rosaries and the' collecting of cancelled postage stamps. Among the “spiritual works” is The Unseen Army, a league of missionary supporters offering daily prayers and sacrifices for the priests in the mission fields.
The seminarians also have special lectures from priests experienced in missionary activities.
Farley Hall Captures Decorations Trophy; Howard and Dillon Take Runnerup Awards
Metals Society Holds Dinner; Slate Meeting With Welders
To the victor belongs the spoils!
. During the halftime festivities of Saturday’s Notre Dame-Oklahoma home-coming thriller, Farley Hall was declared the winner of the 1952 Hall Decoration Contest and the first place prize of $40.
Howard Hall placed second and copped a $25 dividend, while the $10 third place stipend was awarded to Dillon Hall.
Floyd Blair, president of the Hall Council system and rice-president of the Student Senate, made the on-the-field presentation to Farley Hall president, Tom McNeill. Farley not only received the $40, but also a handsome trophy to be retained by the hall until next year’s contest.
The trophy began circulating last year and was garnered by Sorin Hall. The first hall to win the trophy three times, not necessarily in succession, will retire it permanently.
Offering a menu of Sooner Burgers, being toasted delicately by a football player representing Johnny Lattner, the Farley exhibit thus possessed the “piece de resistance” of the weekend. A colorful covered wagon being pulled by Oklahoma clinched the honors.
Perhaps the most novel and com
14
ment-provoking display was offered by runner-up Howard. The architects of President Mike O’Toole’s hall designed a wedding scene in the abstract, picturing ND and victory being united to the tune of I Went to Your Wedding, before the very eyes of a dejected Oklahoman.
The priest, bride, and groom were all fashioned out of wire.
Third-place Dillon built their tableau around an oil well theme, utilizing apropos slogans to the utmost. Pat Mbntroy is the president of Dillon.
Water, carried by hose up the .Dillon oil well, spilled into an oil drum containing dry ice (for a steaming effect) and a- dummy of an Oklahoma player. Prophetically announced a sign on the well: Wilkinson & Company — Liquidated.
Judges for this year’s contest were: Rev. G. J. Baldwin, C.S.C.; Miss Ella Jo Chmiel, assistant dean of Freshmen at St. Mary’s; Professors Frank Montana and Paul Grillo of the College of Architecture;; Capt. Luongo, Jr., of the NROTC; and Bill Walsh, Sophomore class president.
The displays were judged on the basis of originality, presentation, and workmanship.
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals held its Novembei* meeting Wednesday evening. The meeting was conducted at a dinner held at Nabicht Brothers Restaurant in South Bend at 6:30.
After the dinner-meeting, the members returned to the campus for a technical session in the Engineering Building. Dr. Walter R. Meyer, president of Enthone, Inc., New Haven, Conn., addressed the assemblage on the “Preparation of Metal Surfaces for Plating, Painting, or Finishing.”
Doctoi- Meyer, an alumnus of Yale University, is the author of 35 papers and articles which have been published. One of the honors which he has received is a Founder’s Gold Medal of the American Electroplaters Society.
He is also an editor of the Metal Industry and Plating and Finishing Guide Book.
At a future date the Notre Dame Chapter* will conduct a joint meeting with the Michiana Chapter of the American Welding Society, at which Mr. W. S. Pellini, head of the Welding and Casting Research Branch at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C., will speak. His subject will be “Factors Which Determine the Brittle Failures of Weldements.”
The Scholastic
COVERING THE ELECTION FROM REPUBLICAN HEADQUARTERS On The Spot When The Good News Came
WNDU's 'Radio-active' List Expands With Recent Election 'First'
Now that the smoke of the big battle has cleared, WNDU, the local campus radio station looks back on one of its major achievements of the year, its full election night coverage of the important returns.
With men stationed at both political parties’ headquarters in South Bend for important interviews during the night and when the returns showed the victor — men monitoring network stations in five major cities for returns on local contests, so important to students from those cities, and an expanded staff at the station to keep track of and inter
pret all the news as it flowed in on the news wire, so fast that two men could hardly keep the machine cleaned — the whole event proved to be the most ambitious and successful venture into new programming that the local station has undertaken to date.
With this in mind, and considering the importance to the station of this important new experiment, the Scholastic attempts to show, on this page, some of the inner workings of this system.
Four members of the Academy of Political Science joined with WNDU to
insure the best interpretation of the results available on the campus. Woody Werner and Paul Braunlich were covering the events at the Republican headquarters with the WNDU staff down there. Jim Applegate did the same at the Democratic Headquarters, which closed up early—throwing a little confusion into the coverage. Al DeCrane was at the studios commenting on the returns as Jim Gannon of WNDU read them to the audience.
A special technical setup was designed by Pat Tobin to enable the sta-
(Continued on page 31)
AL WOOD AT THE TALLY BOARD, AL DECRANE AND JIM GANNON COMPILING RETURNS Network Stations in Five Different Cities Were Monitored
Nov. 14, 1952
15
ND Students and Grads Join Thespian Ranks For St. Joe Linnets' Production of 'Pinafore'
Opening their third season on a rollicking kick, the St. Joseph Linnets of South Bend are scheduled to present Gilbert and Sullivan’s H.M.S. Pinafore Wednesday through Sunday in the St. Joseph school auditorium, Hill street at East Colfax avenue.
And they do so with a grateful bow toward Notre Dame, which has furnished them with four members of its present student body in leading roles. Moreover, the other two males in the principal cast are Notre Dame graduates, as is Director Dudley Birder. Several men in the chorus are on the undergraduate roster.
Assisting Miss Elfrieda Martens, as Josephine, in the business of forming a romantic triangle are an ND Glee Club soloist of the past, Robert Ruetz (Ralph Rackstraw), and one of the present, John Noland (Sir Joseph Porter). Ruetz is working for a master’s degree in music after a tour of duty with the Army in Korea, and Noland, a senior, is holding down his third starring part with the Linnets.
Sophomores Lee Nemechek and Michael Coffey portray the Bo’sun and the Bo’sun’s mate, respectively, of the ship’s crew, but Freshman Ray Papay outranks them as Captain Corcoran. William Sahm, former president of the ND
LINNETS FROM NOTRE DAME
Will Perform Wednesday Through Sunday
Glee Club and later a speech instructor at the University, rounds out the masculine complement as Dick Deadeye.
Miss Kathleen Billisitz plays Hebe, and Miss Terry Birder is Buttercup. Both Miss Birder and the director come by their Gilbert and Sullivan affinity naturally. Their father, Cecil E. Birder, for many years led the Notre Dame Savoyards’ interpretations of the classic light operas.
Lending volume to the rendition of such well-known tunes as I’m Called Little Buttercup, When I Was a Lad, and We Sailed the Ocean Blue, will be the voices of the chorus.
The chorus consists of Dolores Lohmann, Mary Jo White, Jo Ann Kerr, Mari Farmer, Mary Lou Getzinger, Ann Tweedy, Rose Kunkle, Regina Ivory, Deni Egry, Karen Weddle, Deni Becker, Marilyn Chapleau, Jane McCarthy, Dorothy Benz, Marie Dutoi, and Carolyn Jagodits.
Also included in the chorus are Ellen Dooley, Mary Droege, and Jeannine Berner, and William Hamel, Charles Roemer, Richard Robison, Michael Coffey, Robert Moxley, John Peck, John White, John Barany, John Probst, Alan Pando, and Daniel Wasleske.
The Linnets organization is indebted
to Notre Dame even for its name, for more than a decade ago a singing group by that name represented the school. Founder and executive director of the Linnets is Rev. Edmund V. Campers, C.S.C., assistant pastor- of St. Joseph Church.
Mr. O'Brien Speaks on Steel At Engineer Societies Meet
A joint meeting of the engineering societies of the Departments of Mechanical, Electrical, and Aeronautical Engineering will be held Thursday night at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium.
Guest speaker will be Mr. Maurice E. O’Brien, vice-president of Inland Steel Co., Inc. He will speak on the “Contrast and Comparison of American and European Methods of Steel Production.”
Mr. O’Brien spent several months during the past year working with European steel companies in an effort to introduce newly-developed American methods of steel production there.
He has appeared on television programs in Chicago, discussing problems of the steel industry in America.
The speaker was obtained through the efforts of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Members of the St. Joseph County Chapter of the senior ASME will be the guests of the student branch of the organization.
At the last meeting of the ASME, Mr. E. H. Yentz, plant engineer for Case Co., Milwaukee, spoke on the problems of plant engineering.
KC Head Corrigan Announces Chapter Initiation on Nov. 24
John Corrigan, membership chairman of the campus chapter of the Knights of Columbus, announced today that a First Degree Initiation will be held Monday night, Nov. 24. Corrigan also mentioned that this would be the final opportunity for students to become members of the organization this semester.
Application for the initiation must be made by Wednesday. Interested students may apply by contacting- their hall representatives of the organization, or by seeing Corrigan in the Knights of Columbus office, basement of Walsh Hall. Hours there are from 5 to 6 p.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays, and 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays.
The local chapter has been conducting a drive for new members; this will be renewed next semester for students who will have missed the opportunity of joining the group during this present drive. . ..
16
The Scholastic

?!
!
From Visions
To Victory
Photos by Bill DeCrick
Enthusiastic Badinites opened the festivities with a banquet—in the chow hall.

K
We were due. You could sense it wherever you went—the chow hail, the caf, and most of all in the chapels where fellows crowded the communion rails—asking “a little help” for a team faced with a big job. After it was ail over and the victory was ours, the perfect climax had been written for a long and memorable weekend.
Left: Four men from Walsh struggle with their hall decoration. Right: Arriving at the Ball, Terry O’Keefe assists Carol Graham while Nancy Ledger (left) looks.

Nov. 14, 1952

Al Gazortz, Walsh Hall mystery man, reported that spirit for the game was at a feverish pitch. His date carried the sign of the times.
WATCH- °'J'*
Left: Dance contest winners Prof, and Mrs. Dincolo. Right: Queen Madeleva Millar and Chairman Norb Craft.
Dancing...

Candle light conversation? It met with the approval of these four Ball goers. Left: John Fortino and Jean Hogberg; Right Front: Lenny LeRose and Jean Lovelie.
We seemed to be intruding here. Dan Farrell and Nancy Sahm enjoy a musical offering.
The Scholastic
Some sideline action featuring fragments
half-time capers.
band.
Dame
Star
Winning
Nov. 14, 1952
sections cutting a few performed with Notre
Dame cheering “Cochise” who
of the Oklahoma and Notre Right: Tim McCarthy, local
Neil Worden makes it 21—21, as Sooner
Cheering

Billy Vessels (35) expresses disbelief. Referee’s signal brought O.U. despair.
When it was all over the “Irish Confetti” flew and students poured out onto the playing field. Right: The winner! Frank Leahy accepts a fan’s congratulations.
Harold Keith, O.U.’s Sports Publicity Director (left), SCHOLASTIC’S Jack Sand spots for “Hap” Wallace (center).
Munch that cigar! Paramount News cameraman concentrates on the game’s activity from his post in the press box.
The ND band presents its half-time show. An oil derrick begins to shape.
Press Box—Where
raj
Text by BOB HAINE
Not all the activity in Notre Dame stadium is confined to the playing field. High above in the press box other stories are being written — cameras whirr, Western Union telegraph operators click out their messages and reporters’ typewriters, looking none the worse for the abuse, clatter their contributions to the roar heard below.
The “box” is a huge affair, seating over 300 writers and containing 20 booths for the radio-television people and news cameramen. Like any business, the success of their efforts depends on an organized system. There’s a system in the ND press box — and it’s organized.
Each writer, upon entering the press	,
box, finds before him a regular program. Inside is a special sheet containing the lineups of the first, second and third teams, both offensive and defensive. Such a sheet relieves the	t
writer from thumbing through a bulky	,
program.	rj
Statisticians and a mimeograph crew play their part. A running tally of statistics is kept during the game. Dur-	|
ing the half and after the game, the statistics are run off by the mimeograph. crew and distributed to the press and radio sections by runners. These are the team statistics, e.g., Vessels
Tony George (right) covers the game for KOME of the What's yours? The pressbox is equipped with its own stand. Oklahoma network. Ten direct broadcasts were made.	Business is rushing at the half—it’s free!
Tension mounts os the press prepares for the second half	Mel Allen (right) and Russ Hodges engage in a pre-game
kickoff. Fourteen states, 73 newspapers were represented.	chat. They handled “game of the day” for NBC television.
East Meets West
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
carried 17 times for 195 yards, an average of 11.4 yards per try. Also included are scoring and substitution summaries, a statement from Frank Leahy about the game and an injury report from the trainer.
Then there is the “if” story — originated at ND by Charlie Callahan, Sports Publicity Director, and perhaps still unique. It might read: “If Worden scores three touchdowns against Oklahoma he will break his own record of eight touchdowns set during the 1951 season. If Worden fails to score, his total remains at six for this season.” For writers who suffer mental lapses, the “if” story is a great aid. Add a
dope book containing all previous records of Notre Dame teams and the records are complete.
Behind the scene credit for the efficient organization goes to Charlie Callahan and his staff at the Sports Publicity office — Bill Londo who directs press box activities and Maura Mills, Callahan’s secretary. Miss Mills thins down the list of thousands who demand press box seats during each season, then assigns and mails the several hundred tickets allotted for each game.
With this type of service it’s no small wonder that sports writers consider the Notre Dame press box one of the nation’s best.
Any All-Americans here? A serious Grantland Rice ponders the question.
NBC’s television camera operator focuses on impending
The view is unexcelled from high atop the press box. Worden
Irish victory. TV coverage was the largest ever.
heads for a big hole that closed all too soon.
Preamble . . .
In past weeks “Once Over Lightly’’ has given much critical space to books, plays, records, radio, and other media of entertainment, but so far our brother Scholastic columnists have escaped comment. However, this is an arts column, and because writing is considered an art, today is one of reckoning for friends Luby, Finney, and Zalecki.
Today we present our versions of “The Week,” “Once Over Lightly,” “Beating the Bush,” and “The Back Page.” Rather than criticize these columns we will satirize them, the intention being to leave the reader with the impression we usually get after finishing each of these columns. The impressions intended are: “Isn’t that nice?” “So what?” “I’m confused,” and “Say something definite, will you?” in that order.
■
The Weak . . .
Top—Mort Luby writes “The Weak.”
Seymore Senior and Johnny Junior were sitting on the steps in front of Walsh last Sunday morning envying the troops from Sorin who have a porch to sit on, and talking about those terrible freshmen over in Farley who, ignorant of tradition, had the audacity to have a better homecoming display than Walsh.
“Walsh, as everyone knows,” said Seymore, “is the best hall on campus, and had a very clever display — when it worked — and should have won.”
Sid Sophomore, passing by with his beautiful girl friend, remarked that Seymore was prejudiced because he lived in Walsh.
Seymore, eyeing the beautiful girl (the type whom everyone seems to have except the men in Walsh), replied with extreme profundity, “That’s true,” and then remarked to Johnny Junior that there is much more hall spirit on campus than there has been in a long while, and that he likes it.
Keep up this spirit, chillun. It makes ol’ Seymore very happy, and goodness knows Seymore is sad enough now ’cause freshmen are using the front steps of the Main Building, and the girls at the mixers are refusing to mix with him.
Bottom— . . . who is Mort Luby?
Twice Over Slightly . . .
We toddled down to the Malt Bar yesterday to see our favorite malt barmaid, Sadie. As soon as we walked in, Sadie, knowing our fondness for statistics, remarked brightly, “It takes me 47 strokes to brush my teeth, 54 strokes to shave, I can run the hundred in ten seconds, read two pocketbooks a week, and have a dullness rating of 12.6.”
“Oh come now, Sadie,” we said in unison, “you’re not that dull. A 12.6 rating makes you duller than our column, which we consider the epitome of dullness.”
“What’s an epitome?” asked Sadie.
“What are your new malt flavors?” we asked, ignoring her question.
“Well, we’re selling a lot of raspberry.”
“Good. We’re sure the students will just palpitate when they hear that.”
“And strawberry ...”
“Say, that is news.”
“And ...”
“That’s all, Sadie. We’ll just quote you as saying what we want you to say.”
Students will be just tickled to pieces to know that 16 English majors will discuss Li’l Orphan Annie and her search for a natural end over WNDU at Sunday midnight. It should be a great discussion just chock full of interesting facts.
■
Searching the Shrubbery . . .
. . . for anything. The scientists at Embraceable U. in Los Angeles have come up with a gadget that lectures to a student while he is sleeping. This is nothing new for we have had them at Notre Dame for years; we call them professors. Seriously, this invention will enable a student to learn while he is asleep by repeating the lesson under his pillow and thus drubbing it into his subconscious. The only way a student can cut this class is to stay awake all night, which is quite a switch, because I’ve tried taking the paper off a cigarette and it just can’t be done while sleeping.
■
The Sack Page . . .
At last week’s Oklahoma game I overheard many comments about the band and the cheerleaders. Some of
the comments were good, others were bad. One fairly obvious conclusion drawn from such divided views is that the students at Notre Dame are talking about the band and the cheerleaders.
This mixed attitude of enthusiasm and apprehension is not limited by any means to the band or the cheerleaders. Numerous things which have grown big and with their size attained power and stature have experienced a similar reaction; some say they are good, others say they are bad. Due to the seriousness of this subject, I shall withhold immediate comment and give the students my views later. Keep the Faith.
Walt Werner
Gerry Voit
Jack Dilenschneider
Representative to interview Engineers for Air Industry
A representative of North American Aviation, Inc., will be on campus Friday, Nov. 21, to interview mid-year engineering graduates for positions at the company’s Los Angeles, Calif., plant, it was announced recently.
Junior Engineering positions are available at North American Aviation, the company that has built more airplanes than any other in the world.
For details, contact the Placement Office as soon as possible.
North American specializes in building military aircraft for the United States government, according to D. L. Butler, company representative. Currently being manufactured for the Air Force are F-86 Sabre jets, holders of a 16-1 kill ratio over Russian-built MiG’s; F-86D Sabre interceptors, one-man, rocket-firing all-weather fighters; and T-28 trainers.
The company also builds FJ-2 Furies, sweptwing carrier fighters, and AJ attack bombers for the Navy.
<
PRESSBOX PROGNOSTICATOR
SCHOLASTIC Sports Editor Jack Sand seems to have woven spells over the unpredictable Irish eleven during the past four weeks. Using his prognosticating powers quite ably, he hit one score right on the nose, and had three other close forecasts.
Sand called the Irish 27-21 victory over the Sooners exactly; he came within two points of the Purdue final; eight markers in the Tarheel contest; and four points in the Navy game.
22
The Scholastic
Placement News
t f
Next Monday a representative from the Clark Equipment Company will be at Notre Dame to interview any mechanical engineer who will get his B.S. in January. Consolidated Vultee Aircraft will be looking for men on all degree levels in mechanical, aeronautical, civil and electrical engineering.
The same corporation also seeks M.S. and Ph.D. physicists. Rounding out Monday’s schedule are the inteiwiews of A.B. and Commerce graduates by Studebaker for its Sales Trainee and Business Management Programs.
Tuesday it will be Burroughs Adding Machine Company and Standard Oil Company of Indiana. Burroughs is interested in Commerce grads for sales jobs, while B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. chemists and chemical engineers are needed by Standard Oil.
Interviewing engineers from all departments on Thursday will be U.S. Steel. Seeking B.S. mechanicals interested in sales engineering is Worthington Corporation (formerly Worthington Pump Company). Also scheduled for interviews are B.S. and M.S. physicists, and mechanical and electrical engineers, interested in positions with Westinghouse Electric Corporation.
On Thursday, Nov. 20, graduating Commerce men, Economics majors and mechanical engineers may see a representative of the Ford Motor Company. The Naval Research. Laboratories, Washington, D. C., will interview B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. physicists and electrical engineering (electronics) for research work.
Chance Vought Aircraft, Dallas, Texas, will be seeking B.S. and M.S. men in aeronautical, mechanical, civil and electrical engineers and M.S. and Ph.D. physicists and mathematicians next Friday.
Also on the agenda for Friday are Piasecki Helicopter Corporation, Morton, Pa., and North American Aviation of Los Angeles. Noi-th American’s representative will meet the M.S. and B.S. aeronautical, mechanical, civil and electrical engineers. Piasecki is interested in B.S. mechanical and aeronautical engineers. Standard Oil Development Company (Standard Oil of New Jersey) seeks M.S. and Ph.D., chemistsand graduate students in engineering.
Eligible for inteiwiews this semester are undergraduates finishing in January and all graduates leaving in 1953. Further information and forms for the interviews can be obtained at the Placement Office in the Main Building.
The Other Side
“The Notre Dame gentleman.” Sounds good, doesn’t it? As a matter of fact, it sounds so good that most of us secretly apply it to ourselves without thinking of what the term implies. It is mandatory that to be a real man, one must necessarily be a gentleman, and if he isn’t he is lacking something. So to convince ourselves that we are not lacking, we unconsciously apply the concept “gentleman” to ourselves.
Just what is a gentleman? I like to think of Cardinal Newman’s definition as one of the best. Some say that it has become antiquated and that it can no longer be applied to the “modem gentleman,” but I disagree. The fact is that the so-called modern man has lost much of his personal nobility and with it his sense of responsibility because of the homogeneity of the mass society in which we live.
According to Newman, a gentleman is one who never inflicts pain. He is more interested in the comfort of others than in his own. He regulates his actions to put each type of personality at ease — does not make rash judgments or deal in gossip — makes light of the favors he gives — never takes unfair advantage — never monopolizes a conversation — has too much good sense to become disturbed by insults, is too well employed to remember injuries, too indolent to bear malice.
He is always courteous, too clear
headed to be unjust, as simple as he is forcible, as brief as he is decisive. He puts himself into his opponents’ places and accounts for their mistakes and weaknesses. He is patient, forbearing, considerate, tactful, and respects piety and devotion.
The above are only a few of the ideas contained in Newman’s brilliant treatise and can be added to • ad in-finitum, but they nevertheless point in the direction toward which the prospective gentleman should aim.
How then does all this concern the Notre Dame student. Simply that in our collegiate sophistication we are likely to convince ourselves that we already are Christian gentlemen and then fail to put our principles into practice. Take for example the heckling at pep rallies and booing at football and basketball games. The most recent and deplorable example of this was the booing given the ejected Oklahoma lineman in the game last Saturday.
Of course, these thoughtless acts can be rationalized by saying that they indicate a student body aroused to fever pitch with Notre Dame spirit. Yet they are still acts of poor sportsmanship. For a gentleman is best determined by his actions under fire. If he cannot be a gentleman then, he is not a gentleman at all.—Tom Foote
Nov. 14, 1952
23
Concert Plans Include Ballet, Pianist, Plays
CONCERT AND LECTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE A Jazz Concert Also A Possibility
The second weekly meeting of the Concert and Lecture Series Advisory Committee, a new student-faculty group organized for the selection of high-class campus entertainment, took place last Thursday in the office of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Student Affairs.
The committee is comprised of Father Norton, Mr. Thomas Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism, Mr. John Tumpane, director of the University Theatre, Mr. Eugene Leahy of the Music Department, Bob Finney, representing the Scholastic, and Joe Baran of the Student Senate.
Definite commitments already made by the committee include: Catholic University’s Players Incorporated performing Shakespeare’s Love's Labour Lost on Dec. 2 and 3; the Juilliard String Quartet playing here one night or. March 5, 1953; and the Xavier University Choir, tentatively scheduled for March 23 or 24.
The committee has also contacted several famous names in the entertainment field and tentatively scheduled them for performances at a future date. These include: Alexander Tcher-epnin, noted pianist; The Dublin Players, a dramatic group specializing in Irish plays; The Chicago Fine Arts Quartet; and the Ruth Page-Bentley Stone Chicago Ballet The committee
would also like to sponsoi- a jazz concert some time later on in the school year.
The advisory committee concerns itself only with student entertainment. Educational lectures are handled by the various departments, with the committee functioning only to coordinate the departmental lecture schedules in order to avoid conflict.
Marriage Talk Starts Religion Forum Series
The first in a series of four forums to be sponsored by the Department of Religion will be held Thursday in the Nieuwland Science Hall Auditorium at 8 p.m.
Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will speak on “Marriage and Courtship,” which is to be the subject of discussion for the evening. Also scheduled on the panel is Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
These forums, as part of the annual activity of the Marriage Institute, are open to seniors and graduate students as part of preparation for marriage after graduation.
Members of the Institute on Marriage seek to remind students that “since education is a preparation for the whole of life, and since one’s chosen state or vocation is more important than one’s avocation or professional career, a wise choice of one of these four will greatly determine the direction of the whole schooling program. But no choice can be made where the other possibilities are not clearly understood. Moreover, to properly advise others, as parents guiding their children in their vocational choice, one must suppose the same understanding.”
Institute members went on to explain that “God’s glory, our personal happiness here on earth and in heaven, and our greatest contribution to Christian society depend on our choice of and living out of the call given by God and accepted by us as part of His Providential designs for us all.”
On Tuesday, Nov. 25, the second of these forums, featuring the subject of “The Catholic Priesthood” will be held. Speaking at this discussion will be Rev. Bernard J. Mullahy, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Philosophy; RL Rev. John S. Sabo, Dean of the South Bend Deanery, and Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., Assistant Prefect of Religion.
“The Religious Life” will be the topic of the third discussion, to be held Thursday, Dec. 4. Speakers at this forum include Rev. William H. Robinson, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, Sister M. Carmen, C.S.C., St. Mary’s College, and Brother Edwin Mattingly, C.S.C., Principal of Central Catholic High School.
On Thursday, Dec. 11, the final forum will be held. Speaking on “The Dedicated Single Life in the World” will be Mr. Vincent Giese, of the Fides Publishers, and Rev. Joseph E. Halley,
Tickets, priced at twenty-five cents and available at the door, are good for the entire series.
Cite Off-Campus Regulations At Next Villagers' Meeting
The Villagers will hold their next meeting at 7:30 Thursday evening in Room 102 of the Law Building.
A representative of the Office of Prefect of Discipline will speak on University regulations pertaining to off-campus students whose home is in this area. .
Any student who falls into this classification automatically qualifies for membership in the Villagers and is urged to attend.
Movies will be shown after the meeting.
24
The Scholastic
Inspired Irish Out to Snap MSC String
LEROY BOLDEN
Leading . . .
Breen-Phillips Edges Off-Campus Eleven, 7-6, For 1952 Interhall Football Championship
The battling- freshmen of Breen-Phillips came from behind last Sunday to defeat a fine Off-Campus squad 7-6. before a small crowd at Cartier Field. The eastern division titlists rallied with less than three minutes left in the game as quarterback Dick Rust plunged over from the one. On the crucial extra point attempt Rust pitched out to halfback Tom Caplet who circled his own right end for the deciding marker.
Off-Campus had taken a six-point lead early in the second quarter when Jim Pudlowski passed to Don Yarr from 13 yards out. The touchdown was set up by a bad pass fmm center ta Rust, who fumbled while attempting to punt. At this point the rough B-P line stiffened as they tried to preserve their unscored-upon defensive record. After three successive rushing plays Pudlowski fired a perfect pass to Yarr, who raced untouched into the end zone.
Taking the ensuing kickoff, Breen-Phillips picked up a first down only to be halted again by the Off-Campus line.
capt don McAuliffe
. . . Scorers
This time Rust got his punt away and it rolled dead on the Off-Campus eight yard line. With Red Updike and Pudlowski alternating at tailback the O-C gridders drove all the way to the B-P 30. At this point John Raub and Walt Peeney, freshmen tacklers, broke through to spill the O-C passers for two consecutive losses as the half ended.
The third quarter featured a pair of pass interceptions by Tom Denk and Danny Yarr, but neither team could get rolling. As the quarter ended and the minutes began ticking away it looked as if Marty Vieth’s O-C team was going to take the championship. However the freshmen were not to be denied. The entire right side of the B-P line broke through to block Ed Hogan’s punt on his own SO yard line. From there “Rink” Castorine and Tom Caplet battled down to the one from where Rust smashed over for the score. Caplet’s deciding point followed and Breen-Phillips became the 19-52 Interhall football champs.—Tom Welly
Revenge Irish Motive
In East Lansing Battle
By BILL NOONAN
With one big scalp labeled “Oklahoma” hanging in their trophy room, Frank Leahy’s “giant killers” invade East Lansing, Mich., tomorrow to do battle with the nation’s top rated team, the Michigan State Spartans.
It was last year about this time that the Irish traveled to the Spartan fort- -ress only to suffer a 3-5-0 lambasting, the worst defeat ever inflicted on a Leahy-coached team.
This time, inspired by last Saturday’s great victory, ND is determined to get revenge. This is the one the Irish really want, but the Spartans, proud possessors of a 22-game win skein, have also pointed for Notre Dame, and they played Indiana last Saturday, not Oklahoma. Undefeated and untied, Michigan State has rolled over Michigan, 27-13; Oregon State, 17-14; Texas A. & M., 48-6; Syracuse, 48-7; Penn State, 34-7; Purdue, 14-7; and Indiana, 41-14.
Spartan coach Biggie Munn has his attack revolving around junior T-for-mation quarterback Tom Yewcic. Yew-cic has filled the graduated AI Dorow’s shoes more than adequately. He pos-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offensive) MICHIGAN STATE NOTRE DAME
Bobo ..........IE________ Penza
Serr _________ LT___ Varrichione
Hallmark .....LG_________ Seaman
Neal _________ C------- Schrader
Breniff   _...RG.. Alessandrini-c. Fowler ........RT________ Poehler Dekker __________________...RE_ Hunter
Yewcic .......QB___________Carey
McAuliffe	... LHB__________ Heap
Wells_________RHB________Lattner
Slonac _______FB_________ Worden
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 EST
Nov. 14, 1952
25
LEFT END DON PENZA (83) NABS CRUCIAL PASS
Irish Aerials Aided in 27-21 upset of Oklahoma
sesses a passing percentage that hovers around the .500 mark, and his play calling has pulled the Green and White out of many a hole. Willie Thrower is his capable sub.
McAuliffe, Bolden Leading Scorers
The backfield Yewcic directs is an explosive one with captain Don McAuliffe as the chief “dynamiter.” The hard-driving left halfback was MSC’s leading scorer last year and has contributed more than his share to his team’s 1952 success. The other halfback slot goes to Billy Wells, a 175-pound junior or the injured Vince Pisano, a senior who has been a thorn in the Irish side for two seasons. Diminutive LeRoy Bolden, tied with McAuliffe for team scoring laurels with
seven touchdowns, will also bear careful watching. Bolden, a sophomore, teams with Wells in the Spartan’s so-called “light brigade” while McAuliffe and Pisano operate in the “power” backfield.
At fullback, Munn has alternated three men, Wayne Benson and Dick Panin, both seniors, and Evan Slonac, a third year man. The trio, though only producing two touchdowns among them, has gained important yardage at various times during the season. Slonac also kicks the extra points.
If the game is as close as it threatens to be, Gene Lakenta might be a player to keep an eye on. He is State’s field goal specialist whose last-minute place kick enabled the Spartans to edge Oregon State, 17-14. An ankle injury
however, might keep Lakenta out of action.
Rex Corless and John Wilson will probably be the defensive halfbacks with Jim Ellis handling the safety chores.
Duckett Chief Passing Threat
The forward wall, similar to the backfield, features an enormous amount of manpower, the Spartan’s biggest forte. Seniors, Doug Bobo and Paul Dekker will more than likely get the call as offensive ends. Bobo weighs 195, Dekker, 205. However, a 176-pound soph, Ellis Duckett has been the main target for Yewcic’s passes. He has gathered in four scoring tosses and averaged an amazing 38 yards on his pass receptions. The defensive flanks will be manned by Ed Luke and Don Dohoney.
Gordie Serr, a 195-pound senior and Larry Fowler at 210 are offensive tackle starters with Joe Klien as a replacement. Jack Morgan, 240 pounds and Chuck Frank are slated to take over on defense with Bob Edmiston, the heaviest man on the squad at 250, also in the picture.
The offensive guard positions go to Ferriss Hallmark, 185 and Bob Breniff, 204, both of whom are juniors. Sophomore Hank Bullough and the outstanding Frank Kush hold forth when the opposition has the ball. Kush, a senior is 180 pounds; Bullough, 202.
Tamburo All-American Candidate
The offensive center post is held by 215-pound junior, Jim Neal, while a familiar name to Irish grid followers, Dick Tamburo operates as center linebacker. A vicious tackler and a cun-
(Continued on page 30)
CAMERA CATCHES JOE HEAP DRIVING HARD AGAINST SOONERS
Ace Halfback Led by Tom Seaman (62, r.) as OU Tacklers Close in For Kill
26
- The Scholastic
(l-r) ZIMMERMAN, ERLACHER, MACINNIS, WEST, KAUFMAN, GEIS, McMULLEN, RUST (qb), TYSON, FOX, CHICKEY. Cream of the Interhall Football Crop Form a Great All-Campus Eleven.
Notre Dame All-Campus—1952
Breen-Phillips, Off-Campus, Dillon, and Cavanaugh dominated the second annual selection of an All-Campus Interhall Football team, each placing two men on the team. The only hall not represented was St. Ed’s. The team was selected by the interhall coaches.
“Goose” McMullen, B-P’s left wingman was the only unanimous selection while the other choices ran fairly close for most positions. Halfback Bob Chickey and guard Jim Maclnnis, both representing Dillon were the only repeaters from last year’s eleven.
George Zimmerman from Off-Campus, a 6’2” 180-lb. freshman, holds down the other end position along with McMullen. Zimmerman’s play on both offense and defense was one of the reasons why O-C surprised everyone by capturing the western loop crown, before suffering their first defeat in the championship game. Zimmerman who hails from Mishawaka, Ind., played football for the Maroons while in high school. McMullen, who calls Saginaw, Mich., home, was the mainstay of the championship B-P eleven. He was leading scorer in the eastern league and played halfback on defense where he constantly harassed any possible pass receivers. One of his best performances of the season was turned in against O-C in the title game, which B-P captured 7-6. McMullen, who stands 6’2” and 190 lbs., attended Gilmour Academy in Cleveland, playing three years at end, captaining the eleven in his senior year.
by Bob Frolicher
Geis, Erlacher Make Tackles
The two tackle positions are held down by Hank Geis of Cavanaugh and Jim Erlacher of Zahm. Geis barely edged out Erlacher as the number one tackle on campus. “Butch” Vallase of the powerful Morrissey forces was close behind Erlacher. Geis comes out of River Forest, Ill., and played his ball
BOB CHICKEY, JIM MACINNIS All-Campus for Second Time
at the prominent Fenwick High. He tips the scale at 185 lbs. and stands 6’1”. The heaviest member of the AllCampus eleven is Erlacher, a product of Joe Sassano’s Zahm team. Erlacher who weighs 205 lbs. comes from Lead, South Dakota. While in St. Patrick’s High he played football for four years alternating between tackle and quarterback.
Jim McInnis and Dick Kaufman ran away with the race for the guard slots, no one coming within four votes of either winner. Maclnnis, one of the repeaters from last year’s squad, hails from Detroit where he played guard two years for Catholic Central. McInnis is 6’ and 190 lbs. Kaufman is a small but rugged lineman. Although only 5’10” and 175 lbs. he was always a constant threat to any ball carrier coming within his reach. Kaufman was a guard on the Lincoln High eleven for three years. Manitowoc,- Wis., is his home.
West Anchors Interhall Middle
Off-Campus center Jack West rounds out the rugged forward wall. West’s only near competitor was Joe Hayden of Morrissey. West, a junior Pre-Med student, played two years at center for Laneri of Fort Worth, Texas. He weighs in at a slim 170 lbs. but stands 6’2”.
The backfield aggregation is a foursome any interhali coach would like to have on his team. Dick Rust, B-P, (Continued on page 33)
Nov. 14, 1952
27
By Jack Sand
ND Stadium Turns Into All-American Pasture
Last Saturday afternoon, after the hearts of 30 million people started beating again, and the parade of potential All-Americans had left the field, a word of thoughtfulness was uttered by Harold Keith, the Sooners bewildered Sports Publicity Director. He could have made some wise remarks to the effect that it was that old Irish luck again, but he didn’t. He instead declared that the prime reason why the Irish penetrated OU’s territory was the fact that right guard J. D. Roberts, and right tackle Ed Rowland, a couple of rugged 225 pound-
LATTNER, SHANNON
Irish Mainstays
ers, never did finish the ball game. Roberts was ejected in the first quarter when he got caught using his elbows, while Rowland was injured in the latter part of the third period. “I knew Coach Leahy would run Worden and Lattner through the right side of the line,” Keith said. “He’d never pass up an opportunity like that.”
Keith further added that “Johnny Lattner and Neil Worden were the best backs Oklahoma’s seen all year, not to mention that boy Heap who surprised us with his long passes.” Nor will you ever forget Mr. Keith, a fellow named Dan Shannon, whose smashing tackles
exemplified the spirit and
will to win of the whole Irish brigade.
Besides the many reasons and views as to why the Irish won, there is also one more that many fans have overlooked. Notre Dame ran
off a total of 91 plays last Saturday, while Oklahoma rolled up only 52. You can’t win a ball game if you don’t have the ball, is the way the saying goes.
We Really Want This One . . . Notre Dame
Tomorrow afternoon 51,000 people, all suffering from an acute case of the jitters, will sit on the edge of every Macklin Field seat to see if the Fighting Irish can pull what was tabbed by most as the impossible. That is, beat Michigan State, just a week after conquering all-powerful Oklahoma. “Even the national championship team of 1949 would have had their troubles with such a devastating one-two combination,” said ND Sports Publicity Head Charlie Callahan. Whether the Irish can do it or not remains to be seen, but all reports have it that this is the game they really want . . . and bad.
One thing is certain though, Leahy’s lads can expect to run up against a better defense, and a more accurate passing attack than the dazzling Sooners displayed. In their ’52 opener against Michigan the powerful Spartan defense yielded 161 yards on the ground. Since then, they have allowed only 93, 89, 90, 41, and 31 yards rushing respectively to Oregon State, Texas A. & M., Syracuse, Penn State and Purdue.
Prediction of the Week
Past performances in the Notre Dame-Michigan State football series would seem to indicate that the losing team will fail to score. Of 19 contests played to date, the losing team has been shut out 14 times. Last season’s unforgettable 35-0 whitewashing, the worst ever suffered by a Leahy-coached squad, is well remembered by the Irish. Tomorrow they’d like to reverse that infamous decision with another earth-shaking triumph. Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 17.
Jordan Seeks Replacement For Wildcats; Stephens Back
With less than three weeks remaining before the season’s opener with Creighton, Coach Johnny Jordan had several announcements to make concerning the basketball squad.
The Kentucky game scheduled to be played March 3 in Lexington had definitely been canceled due to an NCAA ruling forbidding the Wildcats from playing their 1952-53 schedule. Jordan added that “a game will, however, be played to complete the 22-game schedule.”
Several schools, including Alabama and Vanderbilt, have wired Jordan requesting a chance to meet the Irish. Alabama seems to have the inside track since Johnny Dee, their new head coach, was Jordan’s assistant here at Notre Dame last year. The Crimson Tide is also in search of a game to replace their tilt with Kentucky so it is highly possible that another home game will be added to the Irish schedule.
Jordan also announced that Joe Bertrand and Jack Stephens are back in the fold after a brief fling at football. Bertrand won’t be able to scrimmage for another week due to his broken hand but he will be ready for the opener. Stephens, who sustained a slight knee injury playing football, has decided to drop the grid sport in favor of full concentration on basketball.
Jordan further revealed that Notre Dame will employ the single and double pivot as they did last year and that they would use the fast break when the occasion arose. Defensively, Jordan said, “I’m a devotee of the shifting man to man, and we’ll never use a zone.”
Notre Dame Runners Capture Second in Hoosier State Meet
The University of Notre Dame cross country runners totaled 67 points last Friday to capture second place in the State championship at Richmond, Ind. Indiana University with a team score of 16 won first place honors. Other team scores were: Butler, 78; Ball State, 115; Indiana Central, 133; De-Pauw, 140; Earlham, 174; and Valparaiso, 253.
Jack Alexander of the Irish gained ninth place in the meet with a time of 22:20, and was the first Notre Dame finisher. Other ND finishers and their times were George Helfenstein, 10th, 22:21; John O’Connor, 13th, 22:24; Harry Snyder, 16th, 23:03; Richard DeSchriver, 20th, 23:21; Jack Gets, 28th, 24:11; and Richard O’Keefe, 41st, 25:24.
28
The Scholastic
NEIL WORDEN
Leads Irish with 48 points
Keglers Sport First Place Ties in Both Bowling Loops
Action in the Kampus Keglers Bowling League resumed last Sunday with the Blue and Gold circuits producing some fine matches. In the Blue loop, Cleveland, Toledo, and the Architects are all tied up for first place with six wins apiece and a total of eight points. While Cleveland was sweeping four points from Grand Rapids, Toledo and the Architecture Club were whitewashing the American Chemical Society and the Aero Club respectively.
Over in the Gold league, Detroit, the defending champions, remained deadlocked with the surprising Aesculapians. As a result of a forfeit, the Medical Men took four points from the K. of C., while Detroit beat Chicago in three straight matches.
Another tie holds forth between the Erie Club and Rochester for second place, with each team sporting a 5-1 record and seven points. Erie took three out of four from Milwaukee, while Rochester dumped the California Club in the same manner.
The high team score as well as the single game score was registered by the Buffalo Club with 2687 for three games and 955 for the singles match. The Italian Club is second in both departments with a team high three of 2680, and a high single of 935. The Detroit Club follows with 2636 for three games while the Pittsburgh Club boasts a 922 single game high.
Individually, Bob Rich of the Italian Club leads with a 595 three-game series. Battel of the Met Club follows with 590 with Zurlo of the Aesculapians recording 572. High single honors go to Gene Zimpher of Buffalo with 224.
Worden’s Eight TD's Pace Irish Scorers
Fullback Neil Worden moved nearer to his second straight Notre Dame scoring crown last Saturday as he tallied twice in the 27-21 Irish upset of Oklahoma. The two six-pointers give the Milwaukee junior eight touchdowns for 48 points, equaling his total for all of last season. Joe Heap is second in scoring with four touchdowns for 24 points while John' Lattner has crossed the enemy goal line three times for 18 points.
Lattner continues to pace the Irish in rushing with 585 yards gained in 117 attempts for a five-yard average. Worden and Heap follow Lattnei- in the rushing department. Worden has carried the ball 98 times for 338 yards and a 3.5 average, while Heap has made 294 yards in 66 trips for a 4.4 average.
Heap and Lattner also pace the Irish in pass receiving. The two halfbacks have caught 36 passes between them with Heap snaring 20 and Lattner 16.
Tom Carey, diminutive quarterback, raised his passing percentage to .516 by completing five tosses in as many tries against Oklahoma. Ralph Gugli-elmi, however, has thrown all three Irish scoring passes while boasting an overall .470 average, with 48 completions in 102 attempts for 488 yards. Heap, who completed three of four pitches, from his halfback spot has a .667 average, connecting on six of his nine tosses.
The team statistics show that the Irish have scored 144 points to 87 for their seven opponents. Notre Dame has out-first-downed the opposition 118 to 75, outrushed them 1489 to 1007 yards, and out-passed them 942 yards to 791 yards.
As a team Notre Dame has 3.7 rushing average and a .496 passing percentage. The seven opponents have a 3.4 rushing average and a .405 passing percentage.
Notre Dame statistics for the first seven games are as follows:
WNDU TO AIR IRISH, MSC TILT
Tomorrow afternoon at 12:15 CST, WNDU will present a play by play description of the struggle between Notre Dame and Michigan State. The game will be broadcast by sports director Jim Gannon, under the sponsorship of Max Adler's.
SCORING TD PAT
Worden ................  8	0
Heap ___________________ 4	0
Lattner  3	0
McHugh  2	0
Arrix 	0	7
Mavraides  0	6
Hunter _________________ 1	0
Guglielmi  1	0
Carey __________________ 1	0
Bush ___________________ 1	0
O’Neil  0	0
FG	Pts.
0	48
0	24
0	18
0	12
1	10
0	6
0	6
0	6
0	6
0	6
0	*2
* Safetv '	RUSHING
TC Yds. Avg. Lattner  117	585	5.0
Worden  98	338	3.5
Heap ------------------------ 66	294	4.4
Paterra  20	73	3.6
McHugh ______________________ 17	58	3.4
Guglielmi  34	56	1.6
Reynolds ..................   16	48	3.0
Carey --------------------    27	35	13
Arrix ________________________ 2	2	1.0
Martin 	1	2	2.0
Morrissev 	1	—2	—2.0
Sport Briefs
Notre Dame Ticket Manager Bob Cahill announced that 3000 seats still remain for the Southern California game on Nov. 29. --------------------o---
The seven members of the Notre Dame coaching staff come from seven different states. Head coach Frank Leahy is from Winner, S. D.; John Druze from Irvington, N. J.; John Lu-jack from Connellsville, Pa.; Joe McArdle from Lowell, Mass.; Bob McBride from Logan, O.; Bill Earley from Parkersburg, W. Va.; and Wally Ziemba from Hammond, Ind.
Neil Worden, Notre Dame junior fullback from Milwaukee, scored four touchdowns in his first college game against Indiana, and all came within six minutes during the second quarter. This was in the 1951 game, won by Notre Dame, 48-6.
---o----
Walter Cabral, Notre Dame’s six-foot-three 205-pound end, is the only member of the Fighting Irish who comes from outside the continental limits of the United States. Cabral is from Honolulu, Hawaii.
---o----
The average age of the Notre Dame football squad is 19. Dave Flood, senior defensive back from Pittsburgh, Pa., is the oldest at 24. Flood who had Navy service is the only World War II veteran on the squad.
---o -
Joe McArdle and Johnny Druze, now assistant football coaches at Notre Dame, wore the same number during their undergraduate football days at Fordham. McArdle, who was graduated in 1935, won three letters at guard wearing number 34. Druze, end on the famous “Seven Blocks of Granite” teams inherited the same jersey number from 1935-37. Druze was captain of the 1937 Fordham eleven.
Nov. 14, 1952
29
ND vs. Michigan State
(Continued from page 26) ning play diagnoser, the 200-pound Tamburo rates as one of the best allround players on the Spartan roster. Doug Weaver and Ed Zimmerman will more than likely be the other linebackers.
This is the season’s big game for the Spartans and the biggest of the many big ones for the Irish. If Munn’s crew wins, the 1952 national football championship is theirs, and if the Leahy-men win, the nation will be convinced that Notre Dame has returned to the collegiate football stratosphere. Beating Oklahoma and Michigan State on successive Saturdays would be the fulfillment of an impossible dream.
Irish Stun Sooners, 27-21
As for* last week’s titanic tussle, there aren’t enough exclamation points around to do it justice. All week long the sportswriters have been praising the fantastic spirit, drive and will to win of the Irish of Notre Dame in their stunning 27-21 victory over a great Oklahoma team.
Three times last Saturday, before the roaring home crowd and 10,000 Oklahomans, Notre Dame came from behind to tie the Sooners until finally going ahead of them to stay.
Dan Shannon’s bone-crushing tackle of Larry Grigg on the Sooner 24, after the latter had taken the kickoff following the third Irish touchdown, set up the clinching marker. On the next play, John Lattner shot to the eight and a five-yard penalty put the ball on the OU three. Neil Worden drove to the one from where Tom Carey sneaked over. Bob Arrix missed the point but it didn’t, matter since it was all over except for a few anxious moments for ND followers. On three occasions in the last 13 minutes the deceptive Sooners drove deep into Irish territory only to be turned back by the determined defense of the Leahymen.
Oklahoma got the jump on the Irish after repelling an ND threat early in the first stanza. Billy Vessels, a rocketlike runner, scored the first of his three TD’s, taking an aerial from the Oklahoma magician, Eddie Crowder. The play covered 25 yards. Buddy Leake then converted the first of his three extra points.
ND tied the score at 11:03 of the' second period, driving 59 yards in nine plays. Joe Heap racked up the six pointer on a 17-yard pass from Ralph Guglielmi. A moment later, the favored Sooners were out in front again as Vessels zipped 62 yards for the touchdown and a 14-7 halftime lead.
Lattner, playing one of his greatest games, provided for the second Irish tally by intercepting a Crowder’ pass on the Oklahoma 36 and running it back to the eight. Worden took it over from the one two plays later.
Bud Wilkinson’s men retaliated in this ding-dong battle a short while later with the amazing Vessels dashing 47 yards to give his club a 21-14 lead.
Carey directed Notre Dame to the last deadlock of the game in the third period. The 79-yard march was climaxed in the first minute of the fourth quarter with workhorse Worden bulling his way across from one yard out. Arrix kept pace with Leake with his third straight conversion.
Spartans, SC Roll On; Iowa Beaten by lllini
By WALT TUOHY
Of the three remaining football teams on Notre Dame’s schedule, two came out on top in last Saturday’s clashes. Michigan State took the measure of Indiana by the score of 41-14 in a game marked by eight player ejections, while out on the west coast Stanford put up little opposition to Notre Dame’s Nov. 29 foe, the University of Southern California. U.S.C. won the game, 54-7. Iowa, the only one of the three to fall, bowed to a fai’ superior Illinois team, 33-13.
In Bloomington, Indiana, the number one team of the nation, Michigan
INTERHALL ACTION FAST AND FURIOUS IN FINAL GAME
B-P and Off-Campus Mix it up in Championship Encounter
State, broke loose in the second half for three touchdowns to top the Hoosiers, 41-14. Indiana’s brilliant stand in the first half lifted the hopes of their supporters for the upset of the year, as they held the Spartans to a six-point lead at half time, 20-14. However, the tricky, speedy running of the Spartan backs Wells, Bolden, McAuliffe and Slonac proved too much in the third and fourth quarters as Michigan State rolled up their three touchdowns. Statistically speaking, it was all Michigan State, but the competition was fierce. With nine minutes gone of the last quarter, three Hoosiers were ejected from the game for roughness on a punt play. A few short minutes later these were followed by three more Indiana players, who in turn were followed by two Spartan linemen. It was Michigan State’s 22nd consecutive victory and seventh of the season.
Southern California put on a brilliant aerial circus that scored eight touchdowns and produced a stunning 54-7 slaughter of Stanford. It was also the seventh consecutive victory of the season for unbeaten, untied USC and proved to be the easiest of all. Scoring three times in the first half to take a (Continued on page 32)
ATTENTION INTERHALL CAGERS
There will be a meeting of all interhall basketball managers or team representatives in Room 3 of the Rockne Memorial Tuesday, Nov. 18, at 7 p.m.
in
30
The Scholastic
Two ND Professors Get Essays Published
Two Notre Dame faculty members ai’e among 26 outstanding authors contributing to a new book of essays, From An Abundant Spring, which is being published this month by P. J. Kennedy and Sons.
The' book, which is a 600-page cross section of Catholic thinking on many vital subjects, includes an essay entitled “Collegiate Theology for Catholic Living” by the Reverend Philip L. Hanley, O.P., Assistant Professor of Religion at Notre Dame. In his essay, Father Hanley demonstrates the practical necessity for undergraduate college training in theology.
An essay by Doctor Vincent Edward Smith, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame, is an illuminating explanation of the meaning of definition and its bearing on contemporary scientific methods. Smith is the author of several books stating the Thomistic view of modern science.
Among other distinguished contributors to From An Abundant Spring are: Doctor Jacques Maritain and Doctor Mortimer Adler, both frequent guest lecturers at Notre Dame; the Reverend Gerald Phelan, former director of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute; and Sister Madaleva, C.S.C., president of Saint Mary’s College.	•
From An Abundant Spring is dedicated to the late Reverend Walter Farrell, O.P., author of A Companion to the Summa and one of America’s leading theologians. The memorial volume will appear on the first anniversary of Father Farrell’s death, Nov. 23.
LAUNDRY SERVICE
The University Laundry makes every effort to give efficient service to the students. However, at times peak loads delay deliveries to the Badin Hall Laundry Office.
In order to save students unnecessary trips to the Badin Hall Laundry Office and n e e d I e s s waiting in line, a list of the laundry packages delivered there each day will be posted by laundry members that same evening on the main bulletin board of each hall.
When your laundry number is listed, you will speed up University service if you pick up your laundry promptly.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President—Student Affairs.
Better Watch It, Dad—Polka Hour’s On
History Forum Tuesday Will Discuss Conservatism Abroad
The November History Discussion will be held Tuesday evening at 8 o’clock in Room 101 of the Law Building. It will feature English and Irish conservatism in the 19th century.
Prof. Thomas N. Brown of the Department of History will open the discussion with a paper on “Conservative Revolutionists—the Young Ireland Movement.” The second paper will be given by Prof. M. S. Fitzsimons of the Department of History on “Disraeli and the Making of Conservative Party.”
Chairman of the discussion will be Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., graduate head of the Department of English. The general theme for the history discussions this year is “Conservatism.” The series was opened in October with a panel discussion on the theme “Conservatism Revisited.”
Professor Brown, who is a specialist in Irish history, maintains that there is considerable similarity between the conservatism in the young Irish movement and the ideas of Disraeli. Professor Fitzsimons, who is a specialist in English history, -will emphasize chiefly the position of the English conservatives when Disraeli was Prime Minister of England.
The meeting is open to the public, and
BOYTKO UMDtt AUTHORITY OF TNI COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
discussion from the floor will be encouraged by the chairman of the meeting.	_ _
Pre-Registration for AB's Will Begin Wednesday
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has announced that pre-registration for Arts and Letters students will be held Wednesday, Nov. 19, through Friday, Nov. 21, and Monday, Nov. 24, through Wednesday, Nov. 26.
Hours for each registration day are 8:30 to 11:30 a.m., and 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. in the Dean’s office, 215 Main Building.
Freshmen and sophomores only may register Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 19 and 20; Juniors only on Friday and Monday, Nov. 21 and 24; Seniors only on Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 25 and 26.
All students must pre-register at the assigned time. Failure to do so automatically incurs upon the student a $10 fee for post-registration appointments.
Students should have their major subject as well as their electives chosen before pre-registration time.
WNDU Covers Election (Continued from page 15) tion to pick up the two remote broadcasts, pickups from the networks for -both local results in major cities and the important speeches when the election “broke,” a special cueing system for a microphone in the newsroom for flashes, and the regular announcing from the studios.
Besides the coverage of the presidential picture, WNDU also cut in on important stations in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Detroit and Chicago for the local and state elections in those places, and also announced the gubernatorial races from time to time in all the states.
The whole production was conceived and directed by Station Manager Bill Ryan and Program Director Tom Knott.
Nov. 14, 1952
31
M H H H H H M
H M
M
H H M
M
M M M M M
M
M M
M
Want to be a sought-after partner this 4 Season?
Enroll today at Arthur Murray’s Become a popular dancer overnight!
Think back to the last dancing party you went to...who had the best time? The good dancers, of course. Were you one? Or, did you just sit on the sidelines and watch and wish?
This season be sure of popularity. Come to Arthur Murray’s now and learn the secret to dancing skill. It’s quick and easy with Arthur Murray’s new discovery, "The First Step To Popularity.”
You’ll be dancing with carefree confidence and grace in no time. But, don’t wait... come in or phone now.
Studios Open 10 A.M.-10 P.M.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St.
CALL 2-3339 FOR
FREE TRIAL LESSON
Now Showing ColfdX
■ ____________________ _____,
| THE DAY THE Son PLUNGED TOWARD THE EARTH t |
r	THE THRILL OF ITS
1 STORY, THE MIGHT OF ITS SPECTACLE MAKE THE
Ml RAC
FAT IM
ONE OF THE 10 BEST PICTURES OF THIS DECADE!”^*^

KSENTCO BY
^Warner Bros.
M M M N
M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M H
M M H M M
M
M M M
M M
kTmTTTKITimmTTTITTTTtrXTTmTTTTHITHTirTTTTTTmiM
West Point Among ND Debating Foes
The Notre Dame Debate team opens its major tournament season today at Purdue University. Notre Dame and 19 other major schools who are recognized in the national speech field have accepted invitations to Purdue’s Forensic Conference.
Included in the list of schools vying with Notre Dame will be three service academies — West Point, Annapolis, and Kings Point.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, Debate Coach, has chosen Al DeCrane, team President, and Charles Doherty to defend the establishment of a Fail' Employment Practices Commission. Bill Hank and Don Dowden will oppose it.
In addition to the debates, there will be a series of discussions aimed at clarifying this year’s issues. Prof. Sommer and Al DeCrane have accepted invitations to give their views to those attending.
Four other debaters will journey to the Earlham College Debate Tournament in Richmond, Ind., tomorrow. The topic also will be the establishment of an FEPC, and Tom James and Pete Loedding will be affirmative while William Fagan and Tom Hartzell will be negative.
Opponents
(Continued from page 30)
20-0 lead the usually impotent Southern Cal offense clicked to perfection as they picked up exactly 300 yards. Coach Jesse Hill put in his defensive team for the running chores in the third quarter, and they immediately responded with a 62-yard drive for the score. That made it 27-0, and two minutes' later it became 34-0 on an intercepted pass by Marv Goux, Southern Cal halfback. Not until the closing min-
/fp EUROPE
STUDENT TOURS:
Bicycle, Motor, Study and Adventure Tours for as little as $475 (50 days INCL. Steamer)
ODYSSEY TOURS: All-year 14-65 Day Tours for those interested, in more than the conventional'travel program. Save as much as 20% by going off-season . . . from $575.
fl LATIN AMERICA*
Whether it's MEXICO or ALL Latin America, investigate SITA's unique "off-the-beaten-track” programs ... as little as $89 for an 8-Day Tour in Mexico. $995-$1975 for 30-70 Day Tour of ALL South America.
ADICBdV AROUND -1 — WKICHT the vorid === Steamer, combination steamer-air trips - to the Far East and Around See More *he World at prices como_____.parable to shorter trips. Spend lees 57 ^yj from $1750.
Your Travel Agent or ShrdMfs Inlemetienal _ Travel Aisecietioe MS FIFTH AVE.,'NEW YORK 17 • MU 7-0264
32
The Scholastic
utes of the game was Stanford able to score. A pass play finally penetrated the defenses of the USC third stringers.
Quarterback Tommy O’Connell of Illinois shattered three Big Ten passing records as the Illini beat Iowa in Iowa Stadium 33-18. O’Connell completed 22 of 34 passes for 306 yards, raising his season’s total to 78 completions. Iowa gained only 41 yards by air but outran the Illinois team 196 to 158 yards. The Illini put over their first touchdown midway in the first period, then exploded for a 33-0 lead early in the third quarter. Iowa scored late in the third period and again in the fourth but could never keep up with the magic arm of O’Connell.
All-Campus
(Continued from page 27)
Bob Chickey, Dillon, Jont Tyson, Cavanaugh, and Mike Fox, Morrissey spell trouble for any defense.
Dick Rust, B-P’s quarterback, nosed out Bailie of Farley by the slim margin of one vote. Rust was the spark in the B-P offense throughout the year and particularly in the championship game, as he guided his team from behind to edge out O-C. Rust, a 6’ 1841b. freshman played quarterback three years for Subiaco Academy of Arkansas. His home is Greensburg, Ind.
The halfback duties were split between Jont Tyson and Bob Chickey. Both fellows are small in height, but offset this lack with shiftiness, expert running and dazzling speed. Tyson, considered perhaps the best halfback in the eastern league comes out of Mineola, Texas, where he played halfback for Mineola High for four- years. He is only 5’7” and a light 155 lbs. Chickey, the other* returnee from the previous All-Campus squad is a 5’6” 183-lb. junior. He churned out his yardage for Tom Power’s forces. Chickey played four years as halfback for St. Louis University High of St. Louis, Mo.
Mike Fox, the rugged, hard-running fullback of Woeppel’s Morrissey team missed being a unanimous selection by one vote. Fox saw little action at Cathedral High in Indianapolis, Ind., constantly being plagued with injuries. He stands an even 6’ and weighs 195 lbs.
The All-Campus forward wall averages approximately 187 lbs., while the backfield just slightly misses a 180-lb. average.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Buy Religious Christa Cards
... and Help Support the Bengal Missions
i a
$7.00 for a box of 20 cards and envelopes All proceeds go to the Bengal Missions
Order from: The Moreau Missionary Society Notre Dame, Indiana
North American Has Built More Airplanes Than Any Other Company In The World
WINTER ENGINEERING GRADUATES CONSIDER YOUR FUTURE IN AVIATION!
MR. D. L. BUTLER, Representative of NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC.
Los Angeles, California, designers and builders of the F-86 "SABRE”
will be on campus FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1952
For information, degrees desired and interviewing schedules, Contact
PLACEMENT OFFICE
Nov. 14, 1952
k
By Paul Zalecki
SENATE ON AIR
“Student-Senate-on-the-Air” is presented each Wednesday evening at 7:15 over WNDU by your Student Senate to explain and publicize the meetings of the Senate.
We notice that the co-chairmen have been selected already for the Senior Ball. Though it may seem a little soon to be planning for such a distant event, the early choice actually displays some sound thinking. A well-run dance demands a good amount of careful preparation. Plans for last week’s Commerce dance, for example, were begun last school year.
As the members of that dance committee can probably testify, it takes a lot of hard work and perseverance to carry out a successful program. It is no simple task to prepare such major events as a dance, or the Mardi Gras or Bengal Bouts. In a sense, the same holds for most of the lesser undertakings of the year.
Ordinary problems, moreover, are made doubly difficult by the demands of school life. School work naturally should not be sacrificed for extra-curricular activities, and it is difficult to spend leisure time thinking of fresh approaches for a dance or planning a new program, especially when few may appreciate the work involved.
School Life and Activities
The very nature of school life, moreover, tends to stifle many activities. In spite of what we may think at times, the year tends to pass by fairly rapidly. Already the long-awaited Oklahoma game has been played; Michigan State is tomorrow, and the week between the two has been crowded with mid-term examinations, a sign that the first semester has reached the half-way mark.
It almost seems that by the time we have formulated any program, like organizing a club, it is too late to do anything else. This very real problem, the brevity of the school year, carries over, in a sense, to our four-year stay here. The freshman year, for example, most everything is new to us. In our enthusiasm, it takes time to arrive at a true picture of University life. ■ Our troubles in getting acclimated, moreover, all but make it impossible to do anything else.
Then, by our sophomore year, when some of the glimmer has worn off, inconveniences become increasingly bothersome. We can see that everything is not as wondrous as it once may have
appeared. This transition in outlook, however, can easily make us a little uncertain. Though, on the one hand, we may have a clearer picture of what we would like to do, on the other hand, we may not know exactly how to go about achieving the tremendous improvements we have in mind.
So, we enter the junior year- of University life. With two years behind us, we have a fairly clear idea of what school life is. Knowing what to expect, we can see that it takes a long time to get things done, to pass from the planning stages to reality. We also realize that the time from September to midterms to finals is deceivingly short. It sometimes seems, for example, as if the year has just started and that we are still only beginning to learn something, when our professors are of the opinion that already we know enough for a test.
A Negative Position
One thing, however, is fairly clear by this time. It is much easier and less demanding to abandon any grandiose schemes about improving thingsand to settle into a purely negative position of criticism. It is quite tempting to leave improvements and work to other students or even to feel that nothing can be done.
After three years, finally, we enter our senior year, when that graduation date — only 206 days away for this year’s class — colors our thinking. With deciding what to do after graduation and with trying to determine what we have gotten from three years of higher education, there is little interest left for other things. We become numb, as it were, less excited about doing things, and more resigned to simply taking it easy and enjoying our last year of school.
These above observations are not intended as any rigid, universally applicable truth; they are merely meant to suggest that we progress — or perhaps regress — through such stages during our four years here. It probably is not possible to point out any particular applications of these various stages of development; nevertheless, this constantly recurring cycle — of en
thusiasm, uncertainty, criticism, and disinterest — has its influence.
In view of this situation, it is a wonder that anything constructive gets done. The brevity of the school year and the lack of continuity from year to year certainly does not make the situation any easier.
Extra-Curricular Activities
In many ways, nevertheless, quite a bit of progress has been made in extracurricular activities over the years. The Commerce Activities Council, for example, which was organized last year has already displayed some healthy activity. The annual Student Musical has never ceased to be amazing because of the high caliber of this entirely student planned project. WNDU is another student undertaking which has come a long way in recent years and achieved some outstanding results.
One of the factors, above all, which probably accounts for the success of these student activities is that they are begun with a definite object in mind. Each of them has something concrete to strive for. In addition, most of these activities are begun early in the year before the oppression of school life has settled upon us, before it takes almost a superhuman effort to start anything new.
It pays to start early not only in extracurricular activities, but also in studies. If we have a definite program outlined for ourselves, we at least know what we are trying to do. We may even be able to get some of it done.
34
The Scholastic
The most dashing men on campus wear Arrow Gordon Oxfords
Diamonds Jewelry Walches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
I
The Professor Who Couldn't Say ‘Ho* *
OR
WHAT TO DO WHEN YOU
CAN’T AFFORD TO FLUNK
»»------------------------------------------> __SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS___
| Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Once there was a Professor who was reluctant to Flunk the Team’s Top Muscle-Afan ... a fullback named Printwhistle, of impressive Physical Proportions but intellectually a Lump. The Professor sought a Loophole. “Printwhistle,** he. said, “I am no pedant who
believes that the sole purpose of education is
to cram the Mind with Facts. Rather is its
aim to broaden the Mind and make it more Productive. If you can come to me within 24
hours with one—just one—original and worthwhile Idea, I shall not Flunk you.”
The dejected Printwhistle explained his Dilemma to his roommate. “Relax,” said the latter. ‘‘Simplest thing in the work!”______ and he expounded a Stratagem.
Next morning the evidence was in. Telw grams . . . hundreds of ’em ... on the Professor’s desk, from practically everybody on the Campus. All bearing the same message: “Printwhistle must not Flunk. 011 Blackstrap needs him. This Approach is his Idea.”
Did it work? Well, there’s a certain AllAmerican named Printwhistlc whoca voice shakes with grateful Emotion when anyone mentions Western Union in Lis Presence.
• When yen want to Sn.'-g a Dc'I . . . Telegrams work wrndrrs. ihr-' c grade-A Date Unit, £rc~t -'or coasi-j cash front home, practical zz- nrr-n-iag anything iron a Weekend to a Jcj Interview. When you want to get inside the Opponent’s ten-yard line ... let Vcetem Uniuu cz—j t’ 3 ? ”
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
Nov.
35
NOSE, THROAT, and Accessory Organs not Adversely Affected by Smoking Chesterfields
FIRST SUCH REPORT EVER PUBLISHED ABOUT ANY CIGARETTE
A responsible consulting organization has reported the results of a continuing study by a competent medical specialist and his staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes.
A group of people from various walks of life was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six months this group of men and women smoked their normal amount of Chesterfields— 10 to 40 a day. 45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields continually from one to thirty years for an average of 10 years each.
thorough examination, including X-ray pictures, by the medical specialist and his assistants. The examination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, ears and throat.
The medical specialist, after a thorough examination of every member of the group, stated: “It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-months period by smoking the cigarettes provided.”
At the beginning and at the end of the six-
Buy CHESTERFIELD.^^#4/gz-