·tat Notre Dame need to 



Before you leave ca:rnpus, lnake one last DETOUR to... 

The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories] 
LaFortune Student Center (219);31-8128 
Friday 12-9 ptµ
IRISH 
EXPRESS 
Saturday 8am -9 pm
HOURS
1111--. 


Sunday 9am -3pm 

\Ne Accept both Visa 
,ti
and Master Card 
I 
I 
I 
)· 
·­



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 4 FOUNDED 1867 SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
COVER STORY 

Sinking Spirits 
Notre Dame has always been known for the enthusiasm, loyalty and spirit of its students and alumni. But after last year's disheartening season and a 1995 season opener to Northwestern, many wonder ifthat legendary spirit is on· 
C: 

Cl) the decline. 
~ 
jg 
en 





Test of Tenure · 

Tenure has recently been under siege in the national news as anoutdated, unfair institution. Here's a look at how tenure works at NotreDame. 
·············"··················Page 4 

Dorm, Sweet Dorill 

You'll find Primal Rage gorillas, pet iguanas and vinyl Craftmatic chairs. Here are the winners of 
Scholastic'sMostCreative 
room contest. ........••................... page 12 
FEATIJRES 
Past to Present.....•..................................................... 4 
by J. Michelle Cox 
Men at Work..................................................•.......... 8 
by Melissa Harraka 
Texas Two-Step .•......•........•....................•..............• 16 
by Joshua M. Dickinson 
Greenshirts Rope the Longhorns, 21-0...............18 
by Erwin Alfonsus 
Hook the Horns? ................................................... ~20 
by Jake Schaller 
Brooklyn Dodgers and Hard Drive ...................... 22 
by Chris Myers and Ellen Sinis 
DEPAR1MENTS 
From theEditor ........................................................... z. I.etters ................................................•. ; ....................... 3 CampusWatch ............................................................. 15 SplintersfromthePressBox ......................................... 19 Justin andJoe ............................................................. 21 OutofBounds ............................................................... 24 On OtherCampuses ................................................... 25 Coming Distractions .................................................. 26 Week in Distortion ................................................... 27 Final Word ................................................................ 28 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
:FROM T.HE Ep4JO)t 
Renewed Respect 

Atthis time lastyear, Iwas applying for programs to spend the secondsemesterabroad. While Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer many great programs, I was looking for something different, something that would allow me an experience outside ofmy other three and a halfyears ofcollege. I found itin the small English city ofBath, where I was one of 60 American students from other universities, and the only one ever from Notre Dame. We were all from conservative, liberal arts schools, and Iconsidered Notre Dame no different from any other. 
I was totally unprepared, therefore, for the reactions I received wheneverI mentioned Notre Dame. Students couldn't stop asking me questions about the school, and mostly about the tradition and spirit solongassociatedwith Notre Dame. "You don'tknow how lucky you are," I was told again and again. · 
After stepping back for those eight months, I re-evaluated this school spirit that can so easily be taken for granted; I recognize therespectoutsidershave for this university. And returning for my senior year with renewed affection, it wasn't long beforeI felt the spirit and loyalty the other students had so sincerely admired, was somehow depleting at.Notre Dame. Were the seniors around me bored? Was it the unexpected loss against Northwestern? Freshman reporterTom Coyne takes alookatan elementofNotreDame gre"abless that seems in danger of stagnating, beginning on page 9. · 
Tenuritus 

In an academic enviomment, the issueoftenure is almostimpossible to ignore. While studentsface pressures day to day, ourinstructors are subject to the samerigid evaluations and expectations. Senior writer Beth Perretta examines both the tenure process at Notre Dame and the problems of balancing teaching and research, on pages 4 and 5. 
Collette McKenna 
Executive Editor 

Cover photo by Stan Evan.s 


100 Years Ago.... 
Exactlyonehundredyearsagotoday,Scholasticpublishedashortarticleexpressing concern for the football team, which had recently suffered a loss. Obviously, times have changed. It's hard to imagine optional practices, ateam ofonly adozen men and no NBC contract But the spirit and tradition of Notre Dame football was just beginning. One hundred years later, we can see how far we've come. 
The candidatesfor the Varsity seemtoforget that thefootball seasonisupon us, and that our Gold and.Blue will surely go down in the dustifthey are not in condition to uphold them. The team is not heavy-lighter, ifanything, ihan last year's-andif games are to be won it must be by snappy and dashing workfrom start tofinish. Now quickworkis the resultoflong hoursofpractice and careful attention toform, neither ofwhich, we suspect, is much to thefancy ofour canvas-backed heroes. How long is this condition ofaffairs to last? The captain ofthe team seems unable to get a dozen men/orpractice on any but "rec" days, andfootball was never learned by intuition.' Enthusiasm is woefully lacking ~n every quarter, and ifa change does not come with the equinox, it were better to cancel all games and begin hibernating at once. 
-CM 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

~------------­
Mixed Views on Opus Dei 
Dear Editor: 
Thank you for opening the topic of Opus Dei for discussion in your last issue. Our son, a Notre Dame alumnus, is a supernumer­ary member of Opus Dei. We think that his introduction to Opus Dei started about four years ago when he was a Notre Dame undergraduate. 
His personality change was gradual but permanent We started to notice many small remarks, judgmental of us. For example, instead of expressing appreciation for the Catholic education we had provided for him, he criticized our lack of a sufficient number of religious images in our home. He became subtly dismissive of us and our way of life. His siblings also noticed his lack of respect for their lives. 
We were alarmed when he made fundamental life decisions based onbeliefs that are not logical. Since he lacked the customary respect of adult child for parent, he ignored us, and we watched helplessly. 
Too late, we researched both Opus Dei and the mind control techniques used by cults and intense control groups. I would say thatOpus Dei employs most of the typical manipulative techniques on any list of the methods cults use to attract and keep members. Some methods mentioned by cult expert Robert Jay Lifton, MD, include the control of all communication, a radical demand for purity and a cult of confession. 
When I asked my son if I could say something to him that he would not repeat, he was disturbed, but finally said "no." When I asked him if he would read information I had on Opus Dei, he said "no." When I asked him ifhe would look at information on mind control techniques used by cults, he said "no." ­
I can only think that he thought to do so would result in guilt and would be a matter of which he would be criticized in confession or in his weekly circle meeting. 
In last week's article,Br. Scully said thatany faith has to be freely chosen. That is impossible to do when one is gradually but firmly subjected to immoral techniques of persuasion. These are the very techniques that the Vatican warns against. 
We are loyal to the Church and very active in our Archdiocese. Wearedistraughtthatourformerlywarm,lovingsonnowhasvery little contact with us or his siblings, and that contact is strained. If our son had been using drugs, or attending Scientology classes or studying the Rev. Moon, we would have sought help immediately. But since he was active in a group promoted as exemplary by the Catholic Church, we trusted that we would not be harmed. Too late we learned of ODAN (Opus Dei Awareness Network), an organi­zation based in Pittsfield, MA run by former members and their parents to educate those adversely affected by Opus Dei. 
Dear Editor: I appreciate Steve Myers interest in the Prelature of Opus Dei. For many the ideal of Opus Dei is still hard to understand. It does not fit into any of the readily understood categories of Catholic institutions and vocations. Opus Dei challenges lay people to realize that they too are called to holiness and Christian witness right where they are. Can this make some Catholics uncomfort­able? You bet! Opus Dei reminds people that the world is good, and that family life, work, career and community obligations are not obstacles to loving and serving God and neighbor if one chooses to approach them with a spiritual sense. Family and professional responsibilities should mesh inseparably with our life of prayer and Christian witness. They are not two separate worlds. Does a Catholic man or woman necessarily need to broadcast his or her Catholicity with external badges or pious poses? We say no. Rather, their faith must shine out through the integrity of their work, through the example of their living commitment to· family, the joy of their smile, the truth of their words and their genuine desire to serve. The Church definitely needs the public witness and specialized service of many priests and men and women religious. But today and into the future italso desperately needs Catholic men and women at every level of society who without any external show, strive with a real sense of vocation to bring Christ to their surroundings. · Does Opus Dei propose that lay people need to practice extraordinary mortifications to live a life of holiness as Steve Myers inaccurately suggests in his article? Definitely not. Does Opus Dei reject traditional Church teaching on the value of sacrifice? Another no. IfOpus Dei seems "low key" it is not because it is an inward­looking spirituality, but because it has no other purpose than to spark among lay people, one by one, the ideal ofliving holiness in and through their secular surroundings. While it encourages people to generosity in works of charity, social service and education, Opus Dei never owns or operates anything itself. Institutions founded by members and other are never "confes­sional" organizations. They (and the Windmoor student resi­dence is an example) are secular undertakings of private citizens~ which are open to all people, regardless ofcreed, who share the spirit of the undertaking. Opus Dei' s members (with the excep­tion of priests of thePrelature, who make up only 2 %of the total) pursue their vocation not through any public ministry, conse­crated life or special works of service, but rather through their ordinary professional work, family life and parish and commu­nity involvement. 
The writer ofthis letter wishes to remain anonymous in hopes Jose A. Bufill ofone day regaining a relationship with her son. Acting Director ofWindmoor House 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 



. . 
The practice ofgranting tenure has come under
est 

of 
fire at other universities. Here is a closer look at 
the tenure process at Notre Dame




enure 

BY BETH PERREITAAnannloadofbooks. Sweatypalms. Walking into the classroom full of fearful anticipation. Worrying about the pressures of the next year. Fear of not making that passing grade. The professor working toward tenure worries about how he can strike a balance between teaching and research for another year. SeniorJason Baasten had not given much thoughtto thetenureprocess until lastspring when he learned that a favorite professor would have to leave the university because she had failed to receive tenure. "I was completely smprised. I'd had her for two courses and thought she was a great teacher ... in fact, probably one of the best I've had here. After talking with other 
outraged classmates, I. began wondering who was making the decisions and what factors went into them," says Baasten. 
According to Father Edward Malloy, university president, approximately 95per­cent of the final decisions on tenure reflect judgments that have been made at the de­partmental level. "In this sense, tenure is a peer review system," he says. ''The role of the administration attenuretime is to ensure that the process is conducted in all fairness and that a high standard of excellence is maintained in the selection process." 
The question, then, is what exactly those high standards of excellence are. 
"I'vealways understood the significance of research and publications in the tenure process, but still feel that too often this outweighs the consideration given to a 
professor's actual demonstrated teaching 
ability," says senior Kimberly Downs, 
whose father is a professoratLehman Col­
lege in New York. "More important to the 
students is having a strong teacher in the 
classroom, and it's just difficult to under­
stand how it is that this can sometimes be 
neglected." 

But G. Felicitus Munzel, who has just .finished her third year ofthe tenureprocess, 
contends that teaching and research are 
interdependent. "It is vital to continue the 
process of enriching one's own mind in 
order to enrich the students' learning expe­
rience," she says. 

The two may go hand in hand, but Peter 
Bauer, an associate professor of electrical 
engineering who received tenure this past 
summer, feels that research is the area of 
true evaluation because the criteria, such as 
publications,aremoreconcreteforresearch 
than for teaching. He says that teaching is 
more of a pass/fail area thanresearch; while 
the quality of research can cross a broad 
spectrum of acceptability, performance 
when teaching is deemedeither satisfactory 
or unsatisfactory with no grey area. 
The Tenuous Process

Fornewly hiredprofessors, the tenure clock begins ticking immediately. Upon being invited tojoin the Notre Dame faculty, an assistant professor is of­fered a three-year contract. At the end of this period, the progress of the tenure-track professor is evaluated, and eligibility for reappointment is considered. The formal tenure review process occurs at the close of the assistant professor's sixth year. ''The review that takes place at the end of the third year is to evaluate the assistant professor's potential to attain tenure by the end of the sixth year," says Dean Harold 
4 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
Attridge of the College of Arts and Letters. ''The sixth year is decision time. It's no longer about potential, but demonstrated ability. The potential must have been actu­alized within the six-year time frame." 
Reappointment and tenure reviews are bothinitiated within the assistant professor's own department Based on evaluations made by the department's Appointments and Promotions Committee, the department's chairperson issues a recom­mendation to the dean of the college, who proceeds to send tl).e review package along with his or her own recommendation to the Office of the Provost 
External recommendations from experts in the tenure candidate's field are also used to determine the scholarly merit of the professor's research and subsequent publi­cations. 
In January of each year, approximately 65 packages for promotion and tenure con­sideration arrive in the Provost's Office. Then, during February and March, the Provost' sAdvisoryComrriittee (PAC) con­venes for two meetings, each lasting two days, when its members debate and vote on the merit of the candidates. 
ThePACincludestheprovost, who serves as the committee's chairperson, the associ­ate provosts, all six deans and 10 elected faculty members. 
Once the voteatthesecondPAC meeting is concluded, the provost then drafts his recommendation _to the president of the university. Made'by the end of March, the final decision regarding promotions and tenure rests in Malloy' s hands. 
AccordingtoProvostTimothyO'Meara, one emphasis _is the necessity for balance betweenaprofessor'sdualrolesasascholar and as a teacher, and the greater emphasis placed upon the creative quality rather than mere quantity of scholarly work. 
O'Meara says that elevated standards have created a ripple down effect, which leaves departments responsible for tenure decisions. Through the decision about who to hire and who receives tenure form year to year, precedents are set for the quality of professors here. 
'The departments are always striving to improve the quality of their new hires in the hope that all selected will attain · tenure. Tiris causes a tightening of the reins," says 
O'Meara. . 
Controversy Around the Tenure Issue

Granting a level of job security un­known injustaboutany other field, tenure has come under attack at other universities as a practice that has outlived its usefulness. It has been argued thatsufficientprotection of professors' aca­demic freedom now exists within the legal . system, making tenure superfluous. Ten­ure has also been criticized for creating a lack of accountability, which breeds com­placency. The theory behind the practice of grant­ing tenure is that it affords faculty members much more academic freedom to research the topics of their chioce. Tenure allows professors to be as outspoken in the expres­sion of their scholarly views as possible, without having to worry abouttherepercus­sions on their job security. Richard Mendenhall, who was awarded tenure during the 1991-92school year, says that achieving tenure affects the way pro­fessors think iµid act when their depart­ments are hiring. When professors do not have tenure, they are worried about new professors being hired who will upstage them and possibly endanger their chances of getting ten­ure. ''The pressure for tenure can impede big findings in terms of research," says Bauer. "Professors on· the tenure track are more reluc­tant to tackle a problem un­less they think the answer is one year around the comer. After they receive tenure they're more apt to delve into problems that may take 10 years." _Once they have gained ten­ure, professors can only be dismissed from the Univer­sity ofNotreDamedue to one of the following three extenu­ating circumstances: 1) ifthe university were to declare a financial emergency; 2) ifthe university were to drop the academic unit in which the professor is tenured; or 3) ifa professor were to give proper cause for dismissal by engag­ing in conduct that is unpro­fessional or detrimental to the 

university. "Recently,however,therehasbeenmuch more momentum in thepublicforum against . tenure than for it," says Malloy. 
Responding to any foreseeable impact 
that the public debate occurring elsewhere 
in the country surrounding tenure might 
have on its practice at the University of 
Notre Dame, Malloy comments, "I cer­
tainly do not expect tenure to disappear 
here, but I don' thonestly think much would 
change ifit did. Itis not clear to me that the 
connection between tenure and academic 
freedom is a necessary one, because a basic 
tradition already exists at Notre Dame of 
placing value on academic freedom inde­
pendent of tenure.". 
· "And finally," says Malloy, "when we 
grantaprofessortenure,itisalwaysamulti­
million dollar decision we make. If we give 
someone tenure around age 35, we agree to 
pay that person's salary for approximately' 
the next 35 to 40 years. Thus, the decision 
is a very important one to the university. 
Wealwayshopewemake therightoneand, 
most of all, the students hope we make the 
right one." 0 

m 
::,. 
0 
i "ti lll 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

Past to 
This 1866 engraving shows that the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and the dome atop 
Presentthe old administration building truly were the heart of campus. 
Over the next few years, there will be many changes on campus with the addition ofWest Quad. Here's a pictorial idea ofhow the campus has changed since 1842 
(above) Although this 1912 
engraving includes some 
buildings that were never 
erected, it shows the growing 
campus, complete with Sorin 
College, Washington Hall and 
the old Fieldhouse Mall. 



6 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E II SEPT EM B_E R 2 1 , 1 9 9 5 
By 1954 both North and South Quads were beginning to fill in. The true campus attraction, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, is still missing. 


The familiar sights of the 
Joyce Center, the 
-Hesburgh Library, the towers, the Pasquerillas, Stepan Center, Fitzpatrick and Galvin appear in this 1972 photograph of campus. 

DeBartolo Hall, which opened in 1992, was the last major addition to campus until the College of Business Administration building. Also new In this photograph are the Peace Institute, Decio Hall and Siegfried and Knott Halls. 

7


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 


BY MELISSAlIARRAKAFrom the graceful spirals of the busi ness building's east stairway to the majestic heights of the Hesburgh Memorial Library, the hard-hatted mem­bers of the Notre Dame family have had a hand in it all. 
Mike Corbett, ..,,,.,.,,,,..,.,.,,.,.-----~--. morialLibraryortheDeBartolo who works for the building, seem to agree. "A lot architectural firm of places we have to go out in Ellerbe Becket, has the middle of nowhere, where been involved in there's bugs, dirt and stinking Notre Dame con-trash," says Duane Lowery, an struction for over 30 ironworkerforeman for Casteel years. He remem-Construction. "Butwelovethe bers working on the surroundings on campus: the renovation of St. grass, trees and people every-Edward's Hall and where." the Knights of Co-~ The people, according to lumbus building in ; Lowery, are particularly 1963. "We're trying ~ friendly at Notre Dame. to keep the tradition Mike Corbett works for the "They'vealwaysgotafriendly 
of Notre Dame," he architectural firm Ellerbe Becket. smile and a nice 'hello'," he 
says. "All the workmen want to keep its image. It's one of the friendliest, prettiest campuses around," 
Dick Ploecki of Casteel Construction, the general contractor company for the sta­dium expansion and theWest Quad dorms, has seen Notre Dame in many stages of its development One ofhis first jobs here was the construction of the Center for Continu­ingEducationbuildinginthe1960s. Ploecki has sinceworked on many others, including the Snite Museum, Siegfried and Knott Halls, the Galvin Life Science building and the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"The growth in the university without an increase in population is phenomenal; the . moneyinvestedisbeyondbelief,"henotes, adding that his perception of campus has really not changed much over time. "It's justagreatplacetowalkaround.Especially the old part of campus-it's like a para­dise." 
Otherconstruction workers, whether they 
worked on the Hesburgh Me-
explains. ''Onalotofotherprojects,there's 
nothing but a bunch of (jerks]." 
JoeYoungs,heavyequipment operator for Ritschard Brothers construction company, says, "Every time I go out and do something at Notre Dame, it's rewarding,justbecauseit' sNotre Dame, and I love Notre Dame." In his 23 years at the company, he has worked on the library, the architecture building and the football parking lot expansion, among many others. 
"Notre Dame has impressed me ever since I can remember, and it's just gotten better over 
SCHOLASTIC 

lronworker Duane Lowery works rience. It's a great for Casteel Construction. place to work." D 
MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
HARD AT WORK. Joe Youngs has been a heavy equipment operator at Ritschard Brothers for 23 years. 
the years." 

His job is far from easy, however. While 
students complain about walking to class in 
Notre Dame's temperamental weather, these 
men have to spend all day in Notre Dame's . temperature extremes. 
"In the summertime, when the radio and 
television people are telling you to stay 
indoors, we don't have that luxury," says 
Lowery. "And in the wintertime, when it's 
zero degrees or ten below and the winds are 
blowing 10 to 20 miles and hour, we're still 
out there." · 

So why do they do it? "Perfection," 
answers Lowery. "Every time you finish 
something, you can stand back and look at 
it, and say 'Hey, that looks good, and I had 
a lotto do with that.' That's areal reward." 
Fred Wyant, a Casteel Construction em­
ployee, began working at Notre Dame in 
1961 in theHesburghLibraryasan appren­
tice carpenter. He fondly remembers wit­
nessing the south end of campus "develop 
from parking lots to beautiful buildings." 
Wyantislooking 
forward toNovem­
ber 6, when he will 
begin working on 
the stadium reno­
vation. Impressed 
with the design of 
the expansion, 
Wyant is sure that 
· ,. his next Notre 
Dame venture will 
just be another 
ig chapter of what he 
gj calls "agreatexpe­

N 
G 

BYTOMCOYNE 

esign. Resign. Hey Lou-ser: Do Notre Dame, 
your players, assis~t coaches, the fans and 
college football a favor: Resign. Resign," read a recent ad in the personal column of The-0 bserver. 

A few days later, a similar ad ran. "Transfer. Transfer. Hey ANONYMOUS fair-weather fan(s) who called for Coach Holtz's resignation, why don't you do us all a favor and Transfer. Transfer.'' 
What is happening to school spirit at Notre Dame? For decades, words such as enthusiasm, intensity, involvement and loyalty have been synonymoµs with the student body at Notre Dame. Many feel that America's #18 university is #1 in school spirit­unrivaled in fan support. Legendary in proporµon, theNotre Dame spirit strikes fear in the heart of the opposition and draws tears from the eyes of nostalgic alumni. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
"Students have to realize that ifthey don't have the spirit, no one else is going to carry itfor them." -Jamie Glover, 1994-95 Leprechaun 
Lately, though,studententhusiasm seems to be falling faster than Notre Dame's AP ran.king after the Northwestern game, caus­ing today's student body to be character­ized as disgruntled and apathetic. 
With pockets of empty seats in the stu­dent section, "Shirt" -less students, quiet crowds and un-peppy pep rallies with more football players in attendance than upperclass students, what may sound like a Notre Dame nightmare could very well be the new reality. The student body, once unified in its excitement, now seems to be only a shade of its old boisterous self. 
Jamie Glover, the Notre Dame lepre­chaun during the 1994football season, says he witnessed a disappointing trend in the enthusiasm of the studentbody. But Glover also recognizes a paradox of the school spirit of Notre Dame students: "Out of everywhere I went last year, Notre Dame had the best fans. They're classy and very family-minded about their team," he says. "[But] at the same time, they are very criti­cal. They have high expectations of their team, and they seem to take winning for granted. When thatdoesn 'thappen,itseems like some of the fans give up. The tough times weed out the temperamental fans." 
Glover remembers that his opening pep lost,theyseemedtolettheairoutofthebag. I haven'tseen the sameexcitement at games since then." 
Some newcomers to campus have found the legendary Notre Dame spirit to be less than they expected. "I used to go to Duke basketball games and I haven't seen quite the enthusiasm here that I saw on Duke's campus," says freshman Eric Bosken. "It seemed like most of the people cheering at the Northwestern pep rally weren't even students-they were adults. And the spirit at the tailgate was more directed toward getting drunk than going to the game. I expected students here to be more spirited than what I've seen." 
--But is school spirit just about football? Does the Notre Dame mystique go no fur­ther than simply gold helmets and touch­downs? Kevin Kuwik, senior class presi­dent, seems to think so. "As goes the football team, so goes school spirit," he says. "Football is an important part of spirit here because that's all people outside Notre Dame seem to be interested in. When you go home, it's not classes or activities people want to talk about, it's football." 
Yet there are other students who believe school spiritis alive and well, and notjust at NotreDameStadium. Junior Allyson Luck, 

TRANSFIXED. For some, showing spirit Is as simple as paying close attention to the game. 
SUB director of programming, sees the spirit of Notre Dame as much more than padded giants in tight pants. "Football is one part of the spirit here, but there are several different elements making up that spirit,'' she says. "I don't think the spirit of the students hinges on what kind offans we are. Football doesn't say much about a school, and it's almost insulting to attach the success of Notre Dame to a sport So many people around the world have such deep feelings for this place, _and that has nothing to do with football." 
Individuals who have been part ofNotre Dame for decades recognize a school spirit common to all generations of Darners, re-

"I could tell, though, that when the team SHIRTLESS IN SOUTH BEND. Though some say school spirit Is declining, there are still those who wilI take off their shirts to show support for the football team. 
10 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ SEPTEMBER 2 1, 1995 
-------::-~ --~ ---I • , J!
~ ~ • J 
. ' . ; . . ti 
' ' ' 

entire student body be- enthusiasm to the games.  
hind them, marching to the pep rally in the  concentratedon school spirit because that's  of Notre Dame that you can't put your  
old fieldhouse."  what kept us moving," he says. ''Today's  fingeron. When you'relivingin thatatmo­ 
_Gasperec is surprised, however, that not  students seem tohaveamuch broader spirit,  sphere, sometimes you forget about it. Stu­ 
all students today go to the pep rallies. ''We  a spirit that is more outward-directed. They  dents have to realize that ifthey don't have  
never missed them, but then again, we  seem to be reaching out and helping others  the spirit, no one else is going to carry itfor  
really had nothing else to do on a Friday  through service more than when I was at  them."  
night," he admits.  Notre Dame."  Professor J amesRobinson, who has been  
He maintains an upbeat outlook on the  Although the ways_ in which students  at Notre Dame since 1957, believes that  
spirit of today's students. "The enthusiasm  show their school spirit have changed over  school spirit comes from people,ratherthan  
today is great. ... _We didn't have The Shirt,  the years, Keegan believes itis intrinsically  their actions. "Spirit defined as cheering is  
the 1812 Overture and the players didn't  thesamespiritthatpermeateseverystudent  not a real priority,,.he explains.  "I feel  
salute the student section," he says. "My  body in Notre Dame's history. ''The spirit  Notre Dame is a unique institution -the  
son is going to graduate exactly 30 years  today is different, but it's tremendous," he  spirit is there, but it's deeper than the super­ 
after I did, and I'd have to say the spirit  says.  ficial terms used for public relations. The  
today is as good as it ever was."  Father Theodore Hesburgh, president  real spirit of Notre Dame comes from the  
Gasperec also notes that graduation from  emeritus, agrees that the spirit ofthe school  student body and the faculty, not from some  
NotreDameseemsto boosttheschoolspirit  is at the core of what the Notre Dame  mystique."  
of many students. ''Today's students will  campus represents.  ''There's just some­ Hesburghagrees, ''Thespirithereismore  
find that when they leave school and be- thing about the place ­ people from all  than agung-ho, untbinking, pep rally thing;  
come alumni, the spirit only gets stronger,"  over the country and the world come here,  it's deeper than that. It's the spirit ofservice  
he says. "Sometimes, when you 'reatNotre  and after 10 minutes on campus, they pick  and the tremendous loyalty and concern  
Dame, you feel like it's the best place in the  up the spirit," he says. ''The spirit here is a  Notre Dame people show for each other."  
world to be from.  Once you leave, you  veryrealthing,andit'spriceless. Ifyouask  "Spirit has taken twists and turns, but  
realize it's the best place in the world to be  me how to replicate it, I don't know."  overall, it has been remarkably consistent  
at The spirit is tradition [at Notre Dame],  "Notre Dame's greatest asset is its spirit,  through the years," he adds.  
and you can't break that."  in all its manifestations," he adds.  "It's  The window next to Hesburgh 's desk in  
Jim K;eegan, '59, also thinks the spirit  difficult to talk about because it is, by defi­ his office perfectly frames the administra­ 
displayed by today's students is as impres­ nition, invisible. But if it's there, you see  tion building, with the golden likeness of  
sive as the spirit exhibited by his class- it."  Mary rising above the mess ofscaffolding.  
mates.  "When I was at Notre Dame, we  Glover agrees that the spirit at Notre  "Ihope and pray that the spirit will never go  
didn't have the outside interests and oppor- Dame is intangible, and he calls on today's  away," he says, glancing over to the heart of  
tunities the students today have.  .It was  student body not to take it for granted.  campus. "But you look at the Lady on the  
class, mass and ball games. ·  We really  "There's something special about the spirit  dome, and you know that it's there."  0  

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
11 



DO 

I 


BY BRIDGET BRADBURN AND KRISTINALwoRrH 
ii! 
l2 
! C 

At first glance, Jeannine Lehmann andLiz Scharph' sroom looks like 
. a Universal Studios ride gone awry. A Primal Rage gorilla hangs from the ceiling in the middle of the room, demand­ing attention (above right). Largely magni­fiedpicturesofthefaces ofScharph' sfriends, familymembers,hometown priest andeven her boss, laugh at intimidated guests from their perch on the surface of the elevated refrigerator (above left). On the walls, giant United States and US Marine Corps flags dwarf the Village People posters and McDonald's sign imported from Turkey. 
But every element of their room is a reflection of their personalities, say Lehmann and Scharph. And there is a story behind it all. Pointing to the stand-up 

FIRST PLACE: 408 LYONS HALL 
cardboard alligator holding a sign thatreads "Loa Guede Ti Waive," (left) Scharph re­calls that when she played high school basketball, her friends would chant this phrase,meaning"Don 'tforgettolookto the East,"whileshewasonthefoulline. On the day she left her home in New Jersey for Notre Dame, her friends left the sign on her car. 
This freshman room also exudes school spirit A replica of the famous ''Play Like a Champion Today" sign hangs above the door, and a Rockne Drive street sign is propped above the medicine cabinet Most ·" importantly, though, a gargoyle modeled ~. afterthoseofSacredHeartBasilicaprotects ~ this winning room from evil spirits (facing 
c page, right). ·· 



2NDPLACE: 302 PANGBORN 
The room of sophomores Erica Woodahl, Jen Ennis and Megan Massucci and senior Kathy McGuire,k:nownas'TheBachelorettePad," includes two purple velour couches named Gangsiah and Shaniqua, a working stop light, cow print contact paper covering the outlets and refrigerators and Post-its with lipstick blots on the door of the fridge. In keeping with their "All '70s, all night" theme, the walls are covered with posters andparaphernaliadepictingKiss,TheDukes ofHazard, Charlie's Angels and Wonder Woman (left and below). 

HONORABLE MENTIONS 
915FLANNER 
Nicknamed'Toel.addyshack"bysopho­more residents Brad Gilman, Greg Feo, Dan Eagen and Rob Schmidd, this room includes such oddities as a "Speed Limit 29" sign from Oilman's hometown, a cac­tus, a palm tree and a vinyl vibrating Craftmatic chair that slides back and forth. Other features ofthe room include a lamp made of a working parking meter and "Gladys,"theremote-control-holdingstatue (below right). 
422KNOIT_ 

JuniorsTracy Kijewski,KatrinaNielson, Lisa Ackert and Joy Battersby call their room "The Land of Lunar Love," for its outer space theme. The walls are splash­painted with detergent in designs that can only be seen under a black light and a blanket hangs over the window, pitching theroom into eternalnighttime. Theirfuton is covered in a silver metallic material, and candles adorn almost every shelf and desk in theroom. Finally, glow-in-the-dark stars cover every surface in the room and hang from the ceiling. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

THE DU LAC VIOLATION AWARD:
0 ne room on campus talces the cake for the amount of Du Lac violations. The residents of this room, who shall remain nameless for their own protection, built a bar in 
their room and have 99 bottles of beer on their walls----:-each one a different kind of beer. Also adorning their walls are various artifacts from both North and South Dining Halls, including the pifiata and Mexican man from NDH' s Fiesta Grande room and a wide variety of Dining Hall flatware. More importantly, however, is the sign on their wall from South Dining Hall which states the "one pastry or one piece of fruit" rule. This room is also home to two extra roommates -Melvin the Iguana and one of the Power Rangers. 
Theroom also includes somelegal collectibles. Ashoppingcart sits in the comer, opposite a bonsai tree. The two greatest points of pride for the resi­dents ofthis room, however, are theEuchre table that they built themselves, and the three TVs that sit under a "Ride the Burger King Whopper Hopper" sign. The three TVs allow them to play Atari, Sega, and Nintendo simultaneously. D 
A ROOM OF THEIR OWN: Some of the features of the room which wins the prestigious "Du Lac Violation Award." 

0~'xV:JS THE SHOP c~~ YOU'VEALWAYS WANTED TO FIND 
Discover delightful surprises in our quaint country store here on campus. We carry a variety of items such as country crafts, cards, and candles. 
Begin yo_u IRISH VILLAGE collection today! These are authentic wood replicas of 
ND Buildings on campus. 
Bundle ·up in 100% cotton ND Blue & Gold.blankets 
Enjoy browsing for handcrafted treasures 
Monday thru Friday 10-5 Satutdays 11-2 
(extended hours during special events) 
The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Center Lower Level 
(219)  631-6714  
U.P.S. SERVICE DAILY  VISA & MASTERCARD .I\CCEPTED  

14 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

gipper.l@nd.edu 


Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
Why sir, I have not yet begun to defile myself -Doc Holiday in Tombstone 
THEHESBURGH GOLD MINE 
Well, ifyou have been to the 'Brare any time in the past year or so, you should have noticed that Notre Dame has changed its highly efficient security system. They fi­nally gave those airport radar detectors a purpose beyond their purely aesthetic beauty: they have installed little metallic University of Notre Dame Hesburgh Li­brary stickers in every book and magazine. The cost to Jane and Joe Tuition Payer? Eleven dollars per sticker. 
Now, ifyou remember any ofthe useless facts given to you at freshman orientation, you'dknowthatthereareoverthreemillion books in the Hesburgh Library. The Gipp may not be a math major, but he does remember enough fifth grade math to know that adds up to onefat sum ofcash (over$33 million). What the Gipp wants to know is, what will keep any nitwit with half a brain from tearing the stickeroutand walking out unimpeded? Perhaps the administration should have used that money as a donation to get better sculptures on campus. Sorry, the Gipp couldn't help himself. 
IS THAT SO? 
The Gipp would be remiss ifhe did not comment on what has been the talk of campus for the past couple of weeks. Many have pondered over the somewhat ques­tionable statistical evaluation the Observer did in its five column mini-series on the drinking problem at Notre Dame. There may be a drinking problem at Notre Dame, but the real problem may be how the Ob­server got the results of its poll. Who was polled -the small fraction of people that inhabit the Huddle on Friday and Saturday nights? Two hundred people hardly consti­tute an accurate poll for Notre Dame, a campus of about 8,000 students. The only thing it shows is that the people at the Observer don'tlike math and wanted num­bers that easily convert into percentages. Accurate? Well, if the Observer found that only 43 percent of underage students on campus have fake IDs, they obviously haven't been to Bridget's lately. Perhaps they polled all the students that still go to Jay's Lounge in Michigan. 
GET WITH THE PROGRAM: PARTIII 
The Gipp hates to be a whiner, but he mustreportonsomequestionableandshock­ing stories that came to the Gipp' s attention concerning the fearless and heartless ushers that protect our stadium during game time. Here are the latest: 
• 
One student was turned away from the stadium and refused entrance because he was too drunk. Go figure. The Gipp was under the assumption that blatant intoxica-· tion was a prerequisite for entrance into the game. The shockeris that the guard took his ticketbookletaway and now the studenthas to pay the $90 fee to getitback. Ifthey keep this up, that stadium sure will be empty by the time we play Boston College. 

• 
Another drunken student was lucky ( or unlucky) enough to make it into the game. After eluding several ushers who were try­ing to make him leave because of his intoxi­cated state, he was finally caught, hand­cuffed and thrown in prison. As if that weren't bad enough: to exact revenge for making them exert some effort, the ushers pepper-sprayed him AFTER they hand­cuffed him. Two words come to mind: police brutality. 

• 
Ifthe above display ofraging testoster­one wasn't enough, it was also brought to the Gipp' s attention that one usher was 




heartless enough to put his foot down and tum away a man with an 18-month-old child because he felt the infant needed a ticket. My question is this: what trouble could this cuddly little bundle of joy possi­bly cause? She's too small even to need a seat, she won't cheer too loud or annoy the neighbors and she won'tdo anything stupid because she's probably the only sober per­son in the stadium. 

So long fornow, Gipp fans. By the way, keep your eyes out for the kazoos that student government will be handing out on Friday. These annoying little contraptions will be used to counteracttheannoying cow bells the Texas fans will most assuredly be ringing this Saturday at the game. If you don't get a kazoo, just start making a sound resembling the noise madebyJim Carreyin Dumb and Dumber. You'll fit right in. Adieu and happy tailgating. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

TIME TO GET NASTY. After surrendering 28 points to Purdue, the Notre Dame defense pitched a shut-out against Vanderbilt. This weekend they face perhaps their toughest test yet, especiany the secondary. The Longhorns scored 38_ points while running up 480 yards of offense last week. 


1Exllf Two-f1EP 
After a devastating season-opening loss to Northwestern, Notre Dame's long-awaited rematch with the Longhorns serves as a third stepping stone 
BY JOSHUA M. DICKINSONFor the first time since 1. 954, the Uni­versityofTexas willmarchintoNotre Dame's "House that Rockne Built" to take on the Fighting Irish. Coach John Mackovic will lead the Longhorns, ranked 4th in all-time wins, behind only Michigan, NotreDameandAlabama,intoamust-win game -for both teams. Texas is2-0 andranked 13th in the Asso­ciated Press Poll and 10th in the USA To­day/CNNPoll following victories over Ha­waii and Pittsburgh. Expectations are high for Texas this year as Mackovic enters his 4th season as head coach. After finishing 8­4 last year and appearing in the Sun Bowl, 
for a resurrected season 
Mackovic said, "I would have to say we are expecting to build on that success this sea­son." 
The bricks for this building have been laid for this year's Longhorns as 14 starters return. The potent offense is led by sopho­more quarterback)ames Brown. Despite starting only four games last year, Brown led the nation in passing efficiency while throwing for 12 touchdowns and only two interceptions. Brown will be throwing to standout junior wide receiver Mike Adams. Adams missed most of last season with a knee injury after being named to the all­Southwestern Conference team in 1993. In the 1993 campaign, Adams setal,,cmghoms single-season record with 908 receiving yards, had six 100-yard games and was named UT's MVP. Two other talented wide-outs return in senior sprinter Curtis Jackson, all-SWC last year, and six-foot­five junior Matt Davis. 
The offensive backfield has been de­pleted by graduation and by the loss oflast year's Sun Bowl MVP, Priest Holmes. As a result, sophomore Darrell Wilson will be asked to step up. Despite alack of depth on the offensive line and some spring shuffling of positions, three out offive starters return to the trenches, including all-SWC tackle John Elmore and all-SWC guard Dan Neil. "Our offense can be a very explosive unit," 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
Mackovic said. 
Texas returns eight starters to last year's defensiveunit. Andiftheycanstayhealthy, they could dominate. Defensive lineman Tony Brackens is one of the best pass rushers in the nation and anchors a much improved front. Over the past two seasons, Brackens has piled up 17 sacks and 16 tackles for losses. Linebacker is a position where questions still remain for this Texas team, however. After an injury-plagued 1994, this veteran unit will have to come together for Texas to be successful. 
The defense boasts one of the finest sec­ondaries in the nation, returning three out of four starters from last season. Leading the backs is BryantWestbrook, who has devel­oped into one of the finest comerbacks in the nation. Westbrook had four intercep­tions in the first six games of 1994 before being sidelined with a knee injury for the rest of the regular season. 
Special teams could prove a bright spot for the Longhorns. The nation's fourth 
TOUGH TEST. Mayes and company could have their hands full with an excellent Texas secondary. 
leading scorer a year ago,junior kicker Phil Dawsonreturns, as wellas oneofthenation's most talented kick return tandems in the nation, receivers Adams and Jackson. Adams has returned two punts for touch­downs and ranked 10th nationally in kick­off returns last season. 
The series dates all they wayback to 1913. The last timeNotreDame andTexas met, the year was 1978, and the setting was the Cotton Bowl. Overall, Notre Dame holds a 6-2 series edge over Texas, including a 2-1 recordintheCottonBowl. 0 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
17 

~ii•idhi~~f-----------------------
Greenshirts Rope the Longhorns, 21-0 
BY ERWINALFONSUS 
Editor's Note: The following is a re­print of the Scholastic Magazine report on Notre Dame's last home game against Texas. It was thefirst game under Head Coach Terry Brennan.
NotreDamesuccessfullyopenedits 
1954 season under their new head 
coach Terry Brennan by gaining a 21-0 victory over the stubborn Texas Longhorns. The excited Notre Dame Sta­dium fans lookedon as theIrish handed the Texans their first shutout since 1946. 
Quarterback. Ralph Guglielmi scored two touch­downs and passed for a third, and also made three fancy pass interceptions. Fumbles hurt the gameLonghorns considerably, as they twice fumbled the ball away inside the Notre Dame ten when they were still in con­tention. 
The Longhorns threatened early when they moved the opening kickoff to the Irish seven in four plays. Delano Womack scampered 35 yards around right end to the ND 33, and Charley Brewer's pass to Howard Moon was ruled com­plete on the Irish seven through passinterferencebyGuglielmi. However, on the next play Brewer fumbled and Frank Varrichione recovered the ball for Notre Dame on their own. eleven. 
After three futile thrusts at the Texas line, halfback Jim Morsepunted outofbounds for Notre Dame on the Irish 37, the ball traveling only 18 yards. 
TheLonghorn offense bogged down, how­ever, as Womack and Bill Long failed to gain through the line, and a Brewer to Billy Quinn pass gained only three yards. Long puntedoutofbounds on theNotreDame 17. 
Texas was knocking at the Irish door again late in the first period, but Guglielmi snatched a Brewer to Moon aerial on the NotreDame21 tohaltthethreat Thenearly in the second period "Gug" intercepted a. Dick Miller toss on his own 19, and scam­pered42 yards down the sidelines to Texas' 39. Don Schaeferblasted through theLong­horn line for 16yards, and three plays later Guglielmi tossed one to Dan Shannon, who raced into the endzone unmolested on a 19­yard scoring play. Schaefer aclded the first of his three exi:ra points. 

The Irish made it 14-0 in the third period 
. with a 79-yard march in ten plays. Buck LansfordofTexaskickedofftoMorse,who returned from the i;wo to the Irish 21. Guglielmi passed to Morse for a first down on the 40. Morse and Schaefer carried for four, and "Gug" passed to Joe .. Heap on the Longhorn 40, and he carried to the 18. After Morse,GuglielmiandHeaphad movedtheball to theone,"Gug" went off tackle for the score. Texas threatened again in the third period after. Hornung punted to Chet Simcik on the ND 39. Miller picked up four yards and Don Maroney nine forafirstdownon the26. Miller and Maroney combined again for five yards, and Simcik picked up a first down on the eight. ·Then Maroney slashed . to the five, only to fumble and . have Ray Lemek recover for the Irish on the six. 
In the final period Schaefer punted to Maroney, who sig­naled for a fair catch, but fumbled, and Varrichione re­coveredfor.ND on the Irish 48. Guglielmipassedto Morse,who carried to a first down on the Texas 26. Schaefer ran off tackle fot 23 yards to the Texas three,andGuglielmiranaround left end for the ID. Schaefer converted and the Irish led, 21-0. D 

18 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 21, ·1995 
------------.._ ---------------------------­

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports 
September 12 to September 19 
edited by Shannan Ball 
Irish Cross Country Captures Title Men's Soccer Suffers Setback . 
TheNotreDamewomen's crosscountry After losing to both Rutgers and Seton team opened their season with a win at the Hall, the Notre Dame men's soccer team Buckeye Invitational at Ohio State. Senior fell outofthe top 25 and dropped to a record Maureen Kelly led the way, capturing the of 3-2, 1-2 in league play. Although the individual title. Her teammate Amy Siegel Irish jumped out to a 2-0 lead, they failed to finished third, and was followed by Mary score again as the seventh-ranked Red Volland and co-captain Kristen Dudas giv­Knights claimed a 5-2 victory. Seton Hall ing the Irish four runners in the top six. won by a score of 4-1, with Konstantin 
The Irish also captured the men's title Koloskov scoring the only goal for the Irish with a strong collective effort. Co-captain in the final 17 seconds. Joe Dunlop placed second and was fol­In the coming week the team will face lowed by Jason Rexing, Matt Althoff and fifth-ranked Indiana and Big East opponent DerekMartisus. All three finished less than Boston College at home. a second behind Dunlop. 
This weekend the Irish are looking to Irish Women's Soccer Extends Streak continue their success as they host the Irish Facing their toughest test of the year, the Catholic Championships. Notre Damewomen'ssoccerterun extended their record to 6-0, with victories over both Volleyball Team Wins Tournament Michigan State and Stanford, who was 
The Notre Dame volleyball team domi-ranked thirdin the nation. TheIrish won the nated the Mortar Board Purdue Premier Adidas/Notre Dame I1_witational, extended with victories over North Carolina State, theirregularseasonwinstreakto32andset Oklahoma and Purdue. The previous week a school record with six shutouts the Irish won the Big Four Classic. They Freshman Shannon Boxx, named MVP hope their momentum will carry into the of the tournament, led the Irish offensively comingweekastheyface17th-rankedTexas with a goal in each game. Defensively, and 15th-ranked Colorado. Notre Dame senior goalkeeper Jen Renola tallied five will need sophomores Angie Harris, MVP saves and was named Big East defensive ofthe Mortar Board tournament, andJaimie player of the week. The Irish will take their Lee, MVP of the Big Four Classic, to con-streak on the road as they face Big East tinue their impressive play. opponents Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
We Are ND: Notre Dame has four pages all their own in the Sports Illustrated Insider Authentics catalog. As the only school to have their own page(s), Notre Dame offers authentic football jerseys for the low, low price of $149.95. 
Quote of the Week: "We worked our tail off down at Culver in preseason and then we lose to Northwestern. We come back and hang on for our life atPurdue. Now we're going into a stretch that's difficult with Texas Ohio State and Washington." -Bob Davie 
Schaller's Schot: Coming offthe huge Vandy win, the Irish are sky-high in the first half. With the offense rolling, Notre Dame takes a 10 point lead into halftime. However the Longhorns offense takes charge in tJ:ie secondhalfwhile the Irish offense turns theball over twice. James Brown runs and passes for acombined 300 yards andRicky Williams scores twice. A drive late in the fourth quarter falls short. Texas 31 Notre Dame 23 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
19 


After crushing the Commodores, can Davie and the Irish 

Hook the 

Homs? 
BY JAKE SCHALLER hew! It was a good weekend 
for Irish fans. Not only did we 
destroy the mighty Commo­dores ofV anderbilt, we also received word that Northwestern fell to Miami. Of Ohio. 
Boy that really only makes our opening day debacle worse doesn't it? I remember how hard I laughed when I found out that NotreDamescheduled themightyRedskins of Miami for their 1997 season. And how happy Iwas whenwe dumped them. North­western could've atleasthad the decency to go undefeated, or only drop one or two games during the year. Foranyonekeeping 
W 
FOLLOW ME. Junior fullback Marc Edwards clears a path for.freshman speedster Autrey Davis. The Irish rushing attack has rolled for 543 yards 
over the past two weeks. 

track,SportslllustratedrankedMiaminum­
ber 89 in their preseason Top 108. 

CREDIT WHERE IT'S DUE. Notre Dame did its part this week, though,' and that'sallthatwecanask. Theoffenserolled with493 yards,including293 on theground. More importantly, in my opinion, Ron Powlus was the model ofefficiency. He completed 13 passes in 18 attempts for 200 yards and no interceptions, bringing to mind last year's systematic destruction of Stanford. Powlus also was able to spread the wealth, hitting six different receivers. 
What a confidence booster for the de­fense. BlankingaVanderbiltmaybescoffed at, but a goose egg is a 

gooseegg. Wealsogener­ated some pressure on the passer and took the ball away. No completions in thelastthreequarters? Are you sure that was Notre Dame secondary? "We still have a long way to go on defense," interim coach Bob Davie said. "I'm not sure if it is possible to be­comedominanton defense. The key is stay healthy. We played today about as well as we can play." 
THRUST.INTO SER­
CRUNCH! The Notre Dame defense Introduces itself to VICE. Then there was 
Vanderbilt quarterback Damian Allen. The Irish recorded 
Bob Davie. Notabadstart 
three sacks Saturday. 
foracareerassistantcoach. 
And while some may shrug off his perfor­mance, I thought it a job well done. Even though alotofpeoplenow hate the Gatorade sho"'.er (almost 10 years old -made fa­mous by the Super Bowl Champion New YorkGiantsof1986),Ithoughtitwasgreat. "The plan was already set so it was more like jumping on theroller coaster and hang­ing on for dear life," Davie said. 
A roller coaster is an understatement. Imagine Davie's position: Out of nowhere, he is forced into arguably the most pres­sure-filledcoaching positionin the country, in the middle of a team slump. And he did well. All ofhis fourth down decisions were on target, and he stuckto his guns on his first call to go for a field goal despite the crowd urging him to do otherwise. 
ONAROLLORROLLINGOVER? 
NowtheTexasLonghorns,rankednumber 13 in the Associated Press poll andnumber 10 in the USA Today/CNN poll, roll into Notre Dame stadium coming off a 38-27 win over Pittsburgh. I think this game is huge for the Irish. A win could rejuvenate the season and prepare us for two more top­20 opponents. A loss could set us up for two weeks of embarrassment. The big win was great, but, touse theimmortal words of Han Solo to Luke Skywalker after the young Jedi shot down an imperial fighter: "Don't get cocky kid!" Vanderbilt was a step on the way hack from the depths of the Northwesternloss,butitwasVandy,andit was only a step. . 


llaliL-iiiSl~tu 
Take That American Pop 
BY Ju5TIN CoLE 
AND JOE MARCHAL 
JM: As a service to the Notre Dame com­munity, and to keep up with the Joneses, Justin and I realized that we are already severely behind in reviewing the latest hip bands from England's shores. JC: We could reminisce about the great Brit-pop bands of the past, some of which were central in creating today's altema­
HANG TOUGH AMERICA. Britain's Take That are the newest kids on the U.S. teen music culture. pop-culture block. Their album, Nobody Else, gets a D-from Justin and Joe. 
JM:· We could wish for another Smiths or  
JoyDivision. WemightlamentTheCure's  the crushing waves of Take That-mania,  ery Guy" for weeks on end.  
lack of an album since 1992 or w~ might  Joe, Oliver Stone and I were convinced that  JM: In fact, Justin and I are checking our­ 
even shed a tear over the recent demise of  thesefive guys wereindeed America's own  selves into a deprogramming clinic this  
synth-pop giant Depeche Mode.  NKOTB operating incognito!  instant in order to purge the all-consuming  
JC: Itis undeniably true that British artists  JM: Imagine our surprise when we re­ demons of Gary, Howard, Jason and Mark  
such as Bauhaus, Echo & the Bunnymen,  ceived word of their transition totheAmeri­ from our scarred psyche that resulted from  
Robyn Hitchcock, the Sundays, XTC, The  can market with a few subtle differences.  repeated listening for this review.  
WeddingPresentandSiouxsieandtheBan­ First, they toughened up their image with  JC: Buteven thedarkcloudofmostBritish  
shees were and still are someofthebestpop  new dreadlocked hair and non-matching  pop has its silver lining, and through the  
bands to cross the Atlantic, influencing an  outfits-very quasi-grunge. Secondly, in  haze of our temporary Take That addiction  
entiregeneration ofBritsandYankeesbuzz­ true rock star fashion, after their five egos  we were able to find it Ifyou want to hear  
binners alike.  could no longer peacefully co-exist in one·  some ofthe best hitherto for unknown pop  
JM: 'ibatis not to say Britain hasn't had its  tour bus, they were forced to trim down to  England has to offer I highly recommend  
share of downright awful pop music. In  a four-man line up, ala Color Me Badd.  the following albums: Dead Can Dance,  
fact, we can't dec;ide if their worst pop  JC: Selling out stadium capacity concerts  Into theLabyrinth; the Dentists, behindthe  
makes our ears bleed more than America's  and causing pre-pubescent girls to throw  door i keep the universe; Gallon· Drunk,  
own batch of lriv-o-tune one-hit wonders.  their training bras on stageis the essence of  From the Heart of Town; heavenly, the  
JC: Ironically enough, we found out just  TakeThat. So guard yourkid sister against  decline and fall of heavenly; Stereolab,  
how similar and equally unpalatable pop  this onslaughtas if her taste depended on it  Mars Audiac Quintet; and perhaps the best  
can_beon either shore this week. Thanks to  JM: It has been quite some time since  of all time the Housemartins, Now that's  
Joe's false insinuation two weeks ago that  American youth was faced with such a  what I call quite good.  
Take That was one of my favorite bands,  corrupting and seductive music/cultural  JM: Not to be outdone, I suggest Inspiral  
our editor gave us their brand new album,  force. So it seems inevitablethat, yes, Take·  Carpets, Revenge of the Goldfish; The  
Nobody Else, to review.  That will reign supreme in middle schools  BeautifulSouth,clwke;Elastica,Elastica;  
JM: While some of you might have just  from California to Maine.  and Catherine Wheel, Happy Days.  
heard the breaking buzz on these British  JC: Lest you think you college kids (with  JC: So despite the fact that the Surgeon  
heart-throbs and their inspired MTV hit  your refined Alternative Nation, Hootie­ General has warned excessive Take That  
"Back for Good," Justin and I were indoc­ loving tastes) are immune to their wily pop  listeningcausespermanenth~glossand  
trinated in the ways of Take That ju$t about  charms, we are here to warn you that after ·  severe psychosis, there is a host of other  
a year ago in jolly ol' England.  evenonesmalldoseyou couldfind yourself  British pop that will leave you healthy,  
JC: After a month of being bombarded by  humming their catchy hits "Sure" and "Ev­ happy and with your sanity intact .  

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 



Brooklyn Dodgers 
Spike Lee's latest joint is a searing portrait ofinner city drug pushers, 
,' I 
,, i documenting the violent decay ofa society gone awry
' 

BY CHrus MYERs ere is one scene in Spike Lee's new 
film thatis utterly terrifying. When 
Strike (Mekhi Phifer), a teenage crackdealer(or"clocker"), brings 12-year­old Shorty (Pee Wee Love) to his apart­ment, he shows him how to cutand measure cocaine, teaches him the importance of having a gun and tells the pre-pubescent how anotherpusheronce shot a IO-year-old boy. The scene itself carries a massive impact, but it is done with sucha nonchalant attitude that you can't help but be com­pletely unnerved by the passivity of it all. 
Such is the case with most of Clockers, a powerful movie that brims with images such as the one just mentioned. From the opening credits -still photos taken from crime scenes-director Lee uses images of violence so raw it would make Tarantino cringe. Yet rather than using this violence for shock (or schlock) value, Lee incorpo­rates it into the film so that it's merely an everydaypartofthemeanstreets, wherelife goes on-ifyou're lucky. 
Based on Richard Price's bestseller, with some alterations made by Lee, the film focuses on a small section of Brooklyn and the drug ring that works there. After the 
T
shooting of a local fast-food manager ac­cused of stealing from Rodney (Delray Lindo), the drug lord of the area, the murder is considered a drug-related hit-and-run. When homicide detective Rocco Klein (Harvey Keitel, in top form) analyzes the facts, he sees all the evidence points to Strike, which causes him to wonder why Strike's brother Victor (Isaiah Washing­ton) confessed to the crime. Futhercompli­cations occur when Klein learns Victor has everything to lose by such an action -a wife, twokids and his family life-whereas Strike has become a loner, his only family being fellow clockers. 
This is the central story of Clockers, but the subplots carry just as much weight and emotion. Shorty, theaforementioned young­sterwho wishes tobepartof Strike' s "glam­orous" life, quickly gets caught up in the awe of how much happiness drug money can buy. In contrast, the middle~aged Ar­row(TomByrd)spendstherestofhislifeas a drifter on the streets, dying ofAIDS from his drug abuse. Thelocalcop (Keith David), aresidentoftheprojectswhereStrikeoper­ates, is caught between looking out for Strikeandprotecting Shorty from him. And then there's Strike's festering stomach ul­cer, a result ofthe violence-ridden life he's chosen. While almost all of the characters makeanemotionalimpact,it'sKeitel,Phifer and Lindo that give the film its drive. The one-qn-one confrontations between them simply electrify. 
Yet Clockers isn't without faults. There are many moments during those confronta­tions when a simple silence would be dev­astating for the audience, yet the opportu­nity is missed because of Terrence Blanchard's overzealous score. There are also scenes in which the actors forget that they're on screen and get behind their pul­pits. While I applaud Lee for making a true­to-form street-life film, he could have lost a few ofthe sermons. And John Turturro fans will be miffed by his second billing -his character, Klein's partner, is a thankless, bland, buddy-cop cliche. 
None of these flaws are fatal,however, and they are easily hidden by the top-notch performances of Lee's solid cast After a summer ofbig star formula films, Clockers is a refreshing breath of adult drama that has an indelible impact without stooping to Hollywood moralizing. Exposing the dan­gerous world of inner city crime and the many hostages it holds, Clockers leaves its audience with an uneasiness that is, like the city's terror, inescapable. 0 

22 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
I 
Hard Drive 
AfterJohnny Mnemonic, The Net and Vrrtuosity crashed this summer, Ian· Softley's hack at the cyber-jlick looks to be more exciting than Windows '95 
BY ELLEN SINisAs a young•. naive freshman,the idea of seeing some stupid movie, alone, in South Bend's fun little UniversityParkEastCinemas didnotamuse me. As I sat through the awful promos (the one attempting to make me rush to the popcorn counter by flashing dancing Raisinettes before my eyes was especially captivating) the reality of a completely wasted afternoon set in, as I anticipated the total boredom I knew I was about to expe­rience watching the "cyberflick"Hackers. Yes, it's true, I wanted to hate it ­scathing reviews are so much more fun. Unfortunatly, though, Ijustcouldn't. Sim­ply stated, Hackers is a good movie. Set in Manhattan, the story revolves around Dade Murphy (Jonny Lee Miller), a.k.a. Crash Override, an 18-year-oldcomputerhacker. He's one of the best, and even though he's new in town, Dade quickly attracts a group of friends who share his penchant for com­mitting computerized federal offenses. . The real fun starts after one of Dade's new cyber-friends, Joey, decides to per­form a ''seriously righteous hack" on the Gibson1 a supercomputer. SuddenlyJoey's apartment is raided, and the villian is intro-
Hackers 
Directed by Ian Softley 
Starring: Jonny Lee Miller, Angelina Jolie, and Fisher Stevens. 
Rated PG-13.....,. 105 Minutes AUnited Artists Picture 
Grade: A­
duced. Thebadguy,EugeneBellford(Fisher Stevens), is in charge of protecting the Gibson from other hackers, yet Joey has copied part of a file that could destroy Eugene. Thus, the racebegins to retrieve it. 
Theride is fast-paced, enhanced byclever computer graphics and filled with lots of fun dialogue as Dade and company attempt to complete the ultimate hack in order to save their friend and bring down the evil one. There's plenty ofexciting action and even a rollerblade chase scene. Though it sounds corny, Hackers' solid direction is proof that director Ian Softley has avoided a sophomore slump after last year's art house surprise Back Beat. 
The fun continues in the romantic sub­plot, which follows the tried and true for­mula of Dade meets girl, Dade wants girl, Dade gets girl. Of course, since this is the day of Baywatch and supermodels, there­fore the female lead, played by Angelina Jolie, is a beautiful buxom babe (can we say implants?). This is also the day of women's lib, so she is feisty and intellegent as well. 
The film was so much fun that I managed to ignore its annoying parts. Lines such as "Never fear, I is here," and ''There is no right and wrong, there is only fun .and boring" didn't phase me at all. Neither did 
"The ride is fast-paced, enhanced byclevercom­putergraphics...there's plenty of exciting action and even a rollerblade chase scene" 
the numerous fashion faux pas the charac­ters seemed to embrace. Ihadabsolutelyno problem with red vinyl and leopard skin prints. It's almost scary to admit, but the characters were so believable and endear­ing, nothingabout them really seemed both­ersome. 
I am actually glad I saw Hackers. What a wonderful surprise it was to find that this typicalgood-versus-evilmoviehadaunique twist that set it way above the rest on the amusement scale. And what a wonderful surprise it was to discover that what looked like a ridiculous waste oftime turned out to be a delightfully different techo-thriller. 0 

Both Clockers and Hackers are currently playing at University Park East C{nemas. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

IS(sic) fHEf<>E Cl<fMfNALS IN OU~ 
fDSf? 
BY STEVE MYERS 
. We is M.l.T. 
Efforts to erase the computer nerd stereo­type of Massachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy students have experienced a bit of a setback. Eighty-three percent of the fresh­men at M.I.T. recently failed a writing evaluation, due to elevated standards. The testrequired students to write two essays in 40 minutes and emphasized "clean prose." All students who failed the test will be required to take a composition course to improve their writing skills. 
After the results were compiled, one ad­ministrator admitted, "The first language of most students at M.I.T. is math." One freshman agreed, saying, "Well, a(b+3)/4c, so I guess 9(ac+9)." 
. Relax, Buddy 
A University of Delaware student, in a fit of anger over computer trouble, ran around his room, smashed his fist through his win­dow, andfell 13 floors to his death. Less than an hourlater, another student fell three stories from his balcony. Did the cable go out? Writer's block? No,apparentlyhejust lost his balance. 
. Feline Vigilante 
An administrator at Umpqua Commu­nity College in Roseburg, Oregon, has agreed to stop drowning cats. John H. Blanchard said he was just trying to aid population control when he drowned three cats last month. He also said that he "ap­proachedthe problem from the classic Mid­western point of view" and drowned the cats himself rather than asking someone else to do so. That's exactly what comes to mind when I think of the Midwest: rolling hills, quaint farms, family values and limp furballsfloatinginthetub. Later,Blanchard was spotted patrolling the library and club­bing below-average students to death. Good 

thing he's not at M.I.T. 
. It All Starts with a Little White Lie ... 
Aman caughtforgingarecommendation on his application to theUniversity ofTexas. was arrested for stealing thousands of cop­ies of a newspaper which reported the inci­dent. 
Corrado Giovanella claimed tobea trans­fer student from Texas A&M University and included a forged letter from a dean at A&M. Admissions officers discovered the letter was forged because the letter incor­rectly identified a college at A&M. Offi­cials did not press charges. 
WhenTheDailyTexanreportedtheinci­dent, Giovanella took 5,800 copies of the issue and dumped them in a recycling bin. 
Giovanella was charged with a misde­meanor, but his lawyer maintains that tak­ing free newspapers is not a theft. I agree. My South Dining Hall six-place dining set was free, too.· 
Interestingly enough, the same day that theNew YorkTimesreportedthestory, total revenue from all the newspaper dispensers in the city amounted to $21.50. 
. Youthful Indiscretwn 
Some students at Tufts University have protested the admission of Gina Grant, wqp was rejected from Harvard after the school learned that she had killed her mother. Fliers were posted around campus, quoting the president of the university as saying he will take "ultimate responsibility" for her admission. Apparently, Harvard officials did not object to the murder itself, but decided the method was not up to the cre­ative and intellectual level of a Harvard student. Grant was also accepted atM.I.T., pendingresultsofherwritingevaluation. 0 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
25 


¦-------­




Coming
Distractions 
September 21-September 27 
Field, Court &Alley
Football 
• 
Pep Rally. J.A.C.C. arena. Fri.day, 7 p.m. 

• 
NDvs.Texas. Notre Dame Stadium. Saturday, 11:30a.m. 


Cross Country 
• National Catholic Invitational. Notre Dame Golf Course. Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
Men's Tennis 
• ND vs. Texas. Courtney Tennis Center. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
• 
ND vs. Indiana. Alumni Field. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Boston College. Alumni Field. Sunday, 1 p.m. 


Women's Volleyball 
• 
ND vs. Texas. J.A.C.C. arena. Friday, 8 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. University of Colorado. Mishawaka High School. Saturday, 7 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. U. of Colorado. J.A.C.C. arena. Sunday, 2 p.m. 


Cultural Connection 
Lectures, Tours, Openings and Seminars 
• 
Center for the Homeless Alumni Tours. Main Circle. (Limited transportation available.) 3:30 -5:30 p.m. 

• 
Exhibit openings. "Irish Art: 1770-1995 History and Soci­ety," and "Wendy Ewald: Portraits and Dreams by Mexican Children." Sunday, 2-4 p.m. Snite. 


Entertainment 
• 
Film, "Culture Wars." Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. Thursday, 7:30 p.m. · · 

• 
Film, "Die Hard with a Vengeance." Cushing Auditorium. Fri. and Sat., 8 and 10:30 p.m. Sun., 2 p.m. Admission only to students, faculty and staff of ND and SMC. 

• 
Film, "Before Sunrise." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite. 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Samba Traore." Snite. Thursday, 7 p.m. 


On the Silver Screen 
Sept. 22-Sept. 28 
University Park West: 277-7336. 
• 
"Too Wong Foo," PG-13, 2:15, 4:40; 7:15, 9:45. 

• 
"Usual Suspects," R, 2:00, 4:30, ~:50, 9:20. 

• 
"The Prophecy," R, 2:30, 4:50, 7:00, 9:30. 


University Park East: 277-7336. • "Hackers," PG-13, 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20. • ."Angus," PG-13, 2:15, 5:Q0, 7:20, 9:35. 
• 
"Clockers," R, 2:30, 5:30, 8:30. . . 

• 
"Desperado," R, 1 :30, 4:15, 7:15, 9:40. 

• 
"Apollo 13/ PG, 1 :45, 4:45, 8:00~ 0 "Mortal Kombat," PG-13, 2:1 o, 4:40. • "The Net," PG-13, 7:00, 9:30. 


Movies 10 

• "Braveheart," R, 1 :15, 5:00, 9:00 
• 
"Lord of Illusions," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. 0 "Babe," G, 1 :05, 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:20 .. • "Clueless," PG-13, 7:25,'9:35. · 

• 
"The Babysitters Club," PG, 1 :30, 3:35, 5:25. 

• 
"A Walk in the Clouds," PG-13, 1 :00, 3:20, 5:40, 7:55, 10:10. 

• 
"National Lampoon's Senior Trip," R, 12:55, 3:05, 5:10, 7:35,9:45. 

• 
"Something to Talk About," R, 1:fo, 3:25, 5:45, 8:00, 10:15. 

• 
''The Postman," PG, 1 :45, 4:15, 7:10, 9:40. •"Dr.Jekyll and Ms. Hyde," PG-13, 7:30, 9:55. 

• 
"Bushwhacked," PG-13, 1:1 o, 3:25, 5:30. 

• 
"A Kid in King Arthur's Court," PG, 1 :20, 3:30, 5:35, 7:40. 

• 
"Under Seige 2," R, 10:00. 



16:4:49•ii•J¥it•jd,t•,$i 

Confessions of a SquavVking Fool 
BY COURTNEY KECK deprivedofanytypeofgraphic. I wish you trouble begins. I tell myself only to find could share in my rooster joy. Maybe in a those addresses I got wrong, but as thoseThe horror! why am I here? What more perfect world we could all just have college folders go scrolling by, the game am I doing? No, it is not after theleprechaunannouncingoure-mail. You plan changes. I suddenly think, "Hey, parietalsonsomewild,crazynight, know he does have that certain "Jene sais someone I know goes there. Maybe they but! do have a problem. Yeah, I'll admitit quoi." have e-mail." This begins the frantic search I have to see that little rooster at least once So, who typed me up? My friend, my to find those random acquaintances from a day. That crazy bird that brings what I brother, the guy I'm chasing, the guy who is high school. need most: Instant mail gi;-atification. I've stalking me, my biology professor ... Score! Do I mail them because I want to relive tried not to be sucked in, ,-------------------------those high school glory 
but I can't help it ­ I'm  days? No, it'spurelyself­ 
caught up in the e-mail  ish.  A mere response by  
frenzy.  them means that I'll have  
Every day, ifnot twice a  /  thatroostershaking his tail  
day, I scurry to check my  ./  all over my screen.  Pure  
mail.  It's embarrassing  euphoria.  
because thecomputerclus- An hour later I have cor­ 
ter employees can type in  rected all the faulty mail­ 
mystudentIDnumberfrom ·  ings and have sent seven  
memory. They tell me the  more which are bound to  
computer number, watch  /  be returned via the Post- 
me as I walk to the wrong  master General.  I then  
side of the room and then  spendanotherhoure-mail­ 
laugh at me.  ing, with a  sense of ur- 
Oh, you know what I  gency,repliestomyfriends  
. mean.  I've seen you too.  andfamily. lean now leave  
It'shardtolookcool when  happily. I'm bound to re- 
you haven't a clue where  ceive new mail tomorrow.  
your computer is.  Wait!  I can't leave.  It  
OnceifindmyMacand  won't spit out my disk.  
type in that ever so secre- Okay, I'll just start to pat  
tive password (So, how many of you were  The Post Master General.  I have to start  things away. Whoa! Yes, that would be me  
clever enough to use "Irish?"), I know that  with him.  who just accidentally rebooted. It is amaz- 
I am in for an adventure. Like Mr. Toad, I  "Dear Moron,  ing how that little noise can make everyone  
am off on one wild ride. Tnere is always  The carnage from your last mailing is  jump. Stop snickering. You'vedoneittoo.  
thatmomentofpureterror. Whatifnobody  everywhere.  You screwed up every ad­ Don'tworry.I'llbebacktomorrowlike  
wrote to me?  Not to worry, though, be- dress. You'reanembarrassmenttothisfine  Ialwaysam. It'llbejustlikedejavuallover  
cause there's the rooster squawking "New  institution.  Please do not even consider  again and again...  D  
mail!"  majoring in Computer Science. Resort to  This is a humor column.  The views  
Ihaveoften thought about that bird. Why  snail mail ... "  expressed in this column are not necessar­ 
a rooster? Then again; why not? Ofcourse,  Daunted? Not at all, I'm offto Netscape.  ilythe views ofthe editorial staffoJScholas- 
I must apologize to all the PC users who are  White pages here I come! This is where the  tic Magazine.  

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 
( 
I. 


~ . 
by Thomas O'Neil 

Silent Words 
ANotre Dame alumnus exa,mines Monk Malloy's reaction to the GI.ND/SMC contoversy 
Thomas O'Neil, '77, is aformer editor-in-chiefofThe Observer, the author ofSex With God and a journalist whose articles have appeared in The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times and TV Guide. 
28 
Throughout the recent gay student contro­versy, Monk Malloy seemed to be hiding behind those high windows in the Adminis­tration Building. Nothing shook him to crack his silence, not even the thundering visit to campus by TomDooley'sex-loverCliffAnchor. Thiseventwas so seismic that it caught the attention of a far-away New York Times. It also caught the attention of another Notre Dame president, who welcomed the outcast Christian, now dying of AIDS, warmly. Anchor described the meeting to the Times: "I told Father Hesburgh that we both loved the same man, but in different ways. I felt that he understood that Dooley was the greater hero for having withstood all this bigotry and turning out as he did." "I got the clear impression that Father Hesburgh was displeased that the gays were booted off cam­pus," he added 1n a separate interview later, for this article. What were Anchor's feelings about Father Malloy and his failure to welcome him? Anchor would only give his response off the record. Is Malloy truly hiding? -One would be hard­pressed to find quotes from him on the gay business in any newspaper, even The Observer. And during the recent uproar,· while students marched, news cameras rolled and the AP wire hummed, no letteron Malloy' s stationary was sentout to the alumni telling them what to think about the earthquake back home. Why? Well, it mightbe because he once said quite enough when he wrote a wholebookon the subjectin 1981,Homosexualityandthe Christian Way ofLife: 
• 
"I suspect that there is something in the nature of the homosexual dynamism which prevents loving fidelity from being an integral component of many homosexual unions." 

• 
"It seems evident that true homosexuals cannot change,'.' he adds, but then on pages 95 and 96, he confesses his belief that some young gays and "mar­ginal types" can nevertheless alter their sexual orien­tation through therapy if they just ignore pressures that they'll be considered "a dupe of the psychiatric money-grubbers-." The American Psychiatric As~ ciation denounced such treatment as dangerous ­


"That's the problem with [Malloy's] book: it's beset with such painful contradictions that reveal him straining to be socially hip while marching with Rome." 
indeed lunacy-11 years before Malloy wrote this book. 
• Malloy claims in his book that the argument that homosexuality is natural just doesn't "hold up to scrutiny" because "the evidence against the genes as the cause is strong." Two recent reports by the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, clearly argue otherwise. Will this priest now repent? 
There is hope. Throughout his book, Malloy tries hard to bemuchmoreChristianon this issue. Infact, he even claims that he's pro-gay rights; he's just against letting us into heaven. · 
So what are we supposed to do about it? Stay celebate, although Malloy quickly adds: "By celi­bate, I do not mean sexless, friendless or loveless." Butclearlyhedoesmeansexlessorelsehe'scondon­ing the commission of a mortal sin. That's the problem with his book: it's beset with such painful contradictions thatreveal him strainingto be socially hip while marching with Rome. 
"The church is a many-roomed mansion," he · insists in his defense, "where there is plenty of space for contrary opinions to exist." Except, thatis, atNotreDame whereeveryonegets a room except the gays. 
Condensed and reprinted/ram the GALA Alwnni Newsletter 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 21, 1995 

If you don't stop your friend from driving dnmk, who will? Do vvhatever it takes. 
M!I 1•il IM! il:j III):;j1%jiil I~:,i}:) iJ iH~ jI] ill):! :w 
U.S. Oepanmento!Transponation 

Bruce Willis' Childhood Scrapbook 
m'N.'!Tt~lllWI
•

Now that you've seen this much of Bruce, shouldn't you see it all? 
Friday/Saturday 8pm &10:30pm Sunday 2pm Cushing Auditorium $2 Admission 
" Hey You, yeah YOU!!! Join SUB... •
With childhood friend, 
• we're the ones who do AnTostal, we •
Samuel L. Jackson : bring cool bands to campus, we pull : : in the best comedians &. speakers, we:
The reaction to learning his wife 
• do Acoustic Cafe, and we even ran •
would one day pose nude while . ' ' .
' 

• Bush's campaign in '88. Call 1-7757 • • for the scoop. • 




Our f ri.endly and. effi.ci.ent team is anxious to serve you! 








