wom ^Winston I
WINSTON is the cigarette selected by Capital Airlines to serve passengers aboard the new Viscount.
^Vinston changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You know what they say: “Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!”
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that really does the job. It filters so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you — smoothly and easily. Have fun — have a Winston!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
Ji A
WINSTON
LIKE A
CIGARETTE


WINSTON TASTES GOOD

SHOULD

>ton
--.ClGA’*
DRESS RIGHT..
you can t afford
not to!
Open a Gilbert Charge Account
PAY
February 1st
March 1st
April 1st
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Proper dress helps you make a good impression at first glance____ future executives, lawyers, architects,
engineers, salesmen ... Notre Dame men with a career-in-the-making learn now to dress the part. If you're on your way up ... to the top in your field ... Gilbert's Campus Shop is the place to start.

^GILBERT'S
SHOPPING CENTER ON THE CAMPUS
October 7, 1955
3
Open a Campus Shop Charge Account
PAY
February 1st March 1st April 1st
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Imported
Watch for Gilbert's Campus
Shop "Style-Wise" values. You'll save money ... you'll fin'd smart values ... you'll dress better for less!
IVY LEAGUE
Flannel Trousers

Ivy League imported flannel trousers with pleatless front, belted back and tapered bottoms. In your choice of charcoal grey, charcoal brown, Cambridge grey, and stone grey.
Same style as above except in washable khaki chino. Perfect for class, loafing or casual wear. 3.95.
Save One-half
Reg. 1.20 KNIT
SHORTS 60c
Fine quality knit shorts that will fit you snugly and smoothly. Heat resistant elastic waistband, leg openings that won’t bind, no gap front opening. Stock up now!
Home of Wilson Bros. Sportswear!
SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS

©
The Scholastic

u
f
£
g* by William Malloy
the mathematics of getting a date
In the past many attempts have been made to acquaint Notre Dame students with the problem of getting a date, and to give some pointers on how to solve it. The difficulty in the past has been a
I Alack of an ordered and scientific ap-; ^proach in these attempts. It is just j about a self-evident truth that science i today has all the answers; people need j only apply the knowledge science pro-t vides . . . but this is what people most | often fail to do. Let’s get practical ’ about this problem.
j The science that deals with choosing I a wife, or even getting a date is, of course, psychology. I am aware that ^many of the readers of Entree do not Whave the background to undertake -such
I a study; therefore my first task is to give a sketchy outline of the knowledge , needed. First I will define some terms:
TERMS
.	Pyschology—The study of morbid fears,
hysteria, origins-of abnormal trends in childhood, and why people drink.
Complex—One degree less than a compound fracture usually separated 0 by a dependent clause.
Paranoia—see Caine Mutiny.
Ckrustrophobia—A normal development of post-adolescence in freshmen ! living in a triple.
The Unconscious—A colloquial neurosis caused by bartenders.
Desperation — See page 32. (Cartoon).
Maniac-Depressive Psychosis — That’s ! like when you come to a big school l and you don’t know anything and I everybody else knows something and I A they’re all spying on you and every-I " thing.
K All right, now that we have the terms 1 let’s get into the application. The first i rule in psychology is to clarify everyone , into types. Now all personalities can be । classified into four kinds: there’s sanguine, (that’s my kind), choleric, and ... I forgot the other one. Anyway, you see, the important thing is to find i out what type a person is and what type I you are. As soon as you find out what ffl .fcype y°u are y°u can change to another I type. The reason why you want to ■ change is obvious, because you know how 1 utterly disgusting you are.
I October 7, 1955
THE APPLICATION
Everyone knows that today a happy date depends upon whether your typepersonality fits or is compatible with the type-personality of your date. But what everyone doesn’t know is how to go about this matching. I can best show this by giving an example.
Let’s say the four personalities, A, B, C, D, are trying to be matched up in a date. Type A is the kind that never-brushes his (or her) teeth. Type B is the kind that always brushes his (or her) teeth. Type C is the kind that brushes his (or her) teeth once in a while, and finally, type D is the kind that likes hillbilly music.
Noiu:
A-}-B=X when X is a good match for the reason that opposites always attract.
A+A=Y when Y is a bad match for the reverse reason.
An~C=B when Z is a possible good match for the reverse-obverse-converse reason.
Similarly :
B<C=Z<X
when	B>X and Y<C
or when D—A-f-B=C<Y—E-rY<X as,	X eiir. . . !
Therefore, Q.E.D. and you have your matched date.
The only problem left is that of determining the type-personality of your date. This can be done by simple psychoanalysis. The way you do this is by a word association test. When you are introduced to your prospective date, shake her hand encouragingly and give her a friendly smile and say: “Just relax and let your mind wander. When I ask you a question say the first thing that you think of.” Then ask these questions:
When you were young were you ever afraid of dogs? cats? birds? people?
What’s the first thing you think of when I say:
Red . . . ?
Mother . . . ?
Scholastic ... ?
Tree . . . ?
Archbishop . . . ?
Rhubarb . . . ?
Are you twenty-one?
Are you now, or were you ever, a member of the communist party?
Have you ever been refused life insurance for any other reason than minor colds?
If she says “yes” to all the above, she likes you. If she says “no”, you like her, and if she doesn’t say anything she’s not a St. Mary’s girl. If neither of you cares, it’s an A=Y arrangement. (See above.)
One more problem—getting in touch with a girl so that you can ask her out. There are many schools of thought: phoning, writing, singing under the window (use baritone only), note in bottle, note on balloon, canner pigeon, through a friend, or through an enemy. Techniques should vary with your type and your loved one’s type-personality. However, let me state now that the only really correct way is to write a love ’ letter. And as far as I know there is only one form of love letter that is correct—and all letters should differ only slightly from it. It was discovered in the ancient writings of Alcibides and has persisted down to the present times in one foim or another. Here it is so that you may copy and use it:
Dear Socratius,
Your letter came yesterday while I was making ostrich egg batter. I read your letter and the batter soured. So I decided I would make egg-nog instead. Unfortunately I re-read your letter while waiting for the egg-nog to age and, of course, the egg-nog rotted. I threw the egg-nog out in the back yard and it began to grow. It grew and grew and finally it grew into a big garden hose with a fraternity pin on it. I gave the pin to my godfather and he turned into an ostrich egg batter. I ate the batter and then I turned into a letter from you.
Love,
ALCIBIDES.
The Notre Dame
Why Chancellor Adenauer reads The Reader’s
Scholastic
Vol. 97
Oct. 7, 1955
No. 2
THOSE CAMPUS MARRIAGES. How do student marriages work out? Are young couples able to cope with studies and household chores? What happens when babies come along? Report on today’s col-legiates who promise to love, honor—and study.
AMERICA’S TOP LABORITE: GEORGE MEANY. Life and beliefs of the man who may lead 15 million workers when the CIO and AFL merge.
Get October Reader’s Digest at your newsstand today—only 2 St
44 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading magazines and current books, condensed to save your time..
Dice Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
In my country more than 500.000 people read the Digest in German each month. And they read not only about the people of the United States, but about the people of all nations. The Reader's Digest has forged a new instrument for understanding among men.'"’
In October Reader’s Digest don’t miss:
ALL ABOUT LOVE. How can we tell the difference between true love and physical attraction? Can we really fall in love “at first sight”? What makes us fall out of love? Scientist Julian Huxley brings you a biologist’s view of our most complex emotion.
19-PAGE CONDENSATION FROM $4.00 BEST-SELLER: “MY PHILADELPHIA FATHER.” Whether blueblood Anthony J. Drexel Biddle was teaching jujitsu to the Marines, singing a dubious tenor in opera, hobnobbing with pugilists or raising alligators in the house, he did everything all out—and then some. Here, told by his daughter, is the laughing, loving life of “America’s happiest millionaire.”
CHARLES McKENDRICK . ..News Editor
ED JOYCE ....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN .........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ..........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON.............Assistant News
JAMES McDONALD ...........Assistant News^^ JIM O’BRIEN .............. Co-Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ........Co-Feature Editor RICHARD NAVIN.................Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD............Business Manager
NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator
DAVE DAVIN
Sports Editor
JOHN GLAVIN JOE NORTON .
..Assistant Sports^. Assistant Sports K *
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.	’
INVENTORY
Entree ......
View ________ Campus Scene Folio _______ Art Roundup . Showcase ____ Irish Scene _ Time Out_____ Back Page ___
Page
7 '
9
14
20
24
25
28
34
on the cover Artist Richard Navin has captured the panorama of Notre Dame football at its best. The grimness of thaM) player is significant in a year when^ Notre Dame “might possibly lose all its games.”
6
The Scholastic
ViM
apathy
A newsmagazine is only so good as its readership wants it to be. Well-founded, constructive criticism from its readers is the food upon which a publication thrives. To provoke wholesome thought is the aim of every top-flight journalistic endeavor.
That’s why we were somewhat disconcerted last Friday after the initial Scholastic appeared in the residence halls. With great anticipation we kept an ear cocked for the reactions of our readers. We got some reactions, both yea and ^nay. For these we are grateful.
l' But from some quarters we failed to elicit a reaction. The Scholastic outside the door of the room was picked up, given a fleeting onceover and then dropped to the floor again, its owner muttering, “Oh, it’s only the Scholastic.” Now we don’t deny that this may have been the “reader’s” final, lasting “reaction.” However, we do believe that he didn’t give us a chance. You can’t pass reasonable judgment on anything by applying the above formula. In the case of a publication, you must read at least parts of it.
The apathy displayed by some towards certain campus ^.undertakings is cause for concern.
/ Last year only 5,000 copies of the Dome, the University’s annual, were printed—for a student body numbering in excess of 5,500. And even of the 5.000 who were expected to claim their yearbooks, some 250 failed to show enough interest to make the trek to Farley Hall where they were being distributed.
The case of the apathetic student can be carried further.
' The University’s Concert and Lecture Series offers a diversified, high-class program during the year. These attractions are brought to the campus, with no little effort and expense, for the student—first and foremost. Yet. in many instances, it’s a tossup between students and townspeople as jJto who has the greater representation at these urograms.
Such apathv is a boon to no one. Those who are apathetic lose any benefits which they might have gleaned by showing more interest. And the ones who must bear the brunt of this anathv—those who are instrumental in producing the undertaking—soon become discouraged and. at worst, fall into the very stagnation which they were trying so hard to avoid.
TheJ thought that this apathy might somedav invade other campus activities appalls us. We hope we’re never around to hear about the year that onlv 5.000 students bothered to claim their season tickets for the home football •gamps of the Fighting Irish.
We are proud of the spirit and loyalty which is Notre Dame’s. If we are to preserve it. the case of the apathetic student must be solved—now.—P.L.
perspective
Throughout a man’s four years at Notre Dame he hears often that he shoidd appreciate, and thank God, for the wonderful education he is being given. At first, it seems to everyone that this is pretty true. But a choice few begin to wonder after a while if the newness of university life didn’t “snow” them a little. Maybe there had been too much golden haze flying around before for them to get a good look at the “real” Notre Dame. Friends come home during vacations with “fabulous” tales to tell about state university life.
“Maybe I’m missing something,” they think.
Back at school they can find a lot to moan about by simply looking around. Social life, food, St. Mary’s girls, hours—favorite topics of the habitual moaners a year ahead of them—take on a new appeal. Oh, there are times when they’re proud to be from Notre Dame, like on football Saturdays or when someone asks them what college they’re from—but for the most part, “Notre Dame is a nice place to be from.”	'
The simple truth of the matter is that everyone has touches of this sort of thinking. We’re bound to. No one can live all wrapped up in a place for four years and not wonder whether the grass grows greener somewhere else. Maintaining a true perspective on anything is probably the hardest problem a man has to face during his lifetime, and it’s all the more difficult if you’re a part of the thing you’re looking at.
Fortunately, most of us begin to get an inkling of what we’re getting at Notre Dame, or at least have the good sense to take someone else’s word for it. It is indeed sad to me that this other small group of which I have been speaking will go on making themselves miserable for the rest of their davs at Notre Dame, seeing only what little they don’t have, missing completely the great bulk of what they do have.
Father Hesburgh got a letter from Chet Wynne’s sister the other day. Take a look at how a Notre Dame family feels about this University, a family whose son has just recently been killed in a plane crash.
Dear Father,
I want to thank you for the tribute you gave my brother in the Scholastic. Mentioning him as an example to the other boys made me very proud.
Usually when a boy dies at twenty-one it is sad because he hasn’t made a place for himself. There isn’t a special niche he can call his own and his parents think of the many things they could have given him and now never can give. With Chester that wasn’t the case. Those twenty-one years preparecFhim for an eternity of happiness. You know, Dad is a Notre Dame man, too, so it wasn’t just four years of education with • Notre Dame, but twenty-one.
I wanted to tell you because I am so very grateful for everything the school has done for my family.
Thank you again.
Very devotedly,
MARY WYNNE
Eloquent, I think is the word.—J.A.
October 7, 1955
7
Campus favorites •.. from every angle
No guesswork here, Arrow’s new button-down shirt cops the style lead on campus with its soft roll collar, fulllength back pleat, back-collar
custom shirtmakers! Now available in authentic plaids and tattersall checks, $6.95 up. Combine it with Arrow’s tapered slacks in chino, $5.95 •—for the new casual look.
SIRKOW
CASUAL WEAR —first in fashion
The shirt of Campus leaders
You can spot them every time—the men who run things on campus. They’re wearing this casual button-down shirt by Arrow. It has a full roll collar with back-collar button, and it’s now available in authentic tartans and tattersall checks. Full length box pleat in back for comfort too! Vote yourself into one now! In gingham, $6.95. In Softspun blend, $8.95. Chino slacks, $5.95.

GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
The Scholastic
Campnl Scene
. SCIENTISTS CHANGE CENTER INTO OBSERVATORY TONIGHT
Butler's Music Adds Luster to 'A Night Among Stars';
• ND-Miami Telecast Brings Night Back to Earth
Two hundred fifty scientists and their dates will glide to the music of Fletcher Butler for “A Night Among the Stars,” at the Student Center this evening.
Anne Trepaney, escorted by Dance Chairman Connell Trimber, will reign
Provisional Rule Aids j®Halls Before Elections 1 Provisional governments for the campus halls have been appointed by Tom Crehan, Student Senate president. The purpose of the governments is to combat the lack of activity and planning in the j halls prior to hall elections on Oct. 20. ;i Working under a model constitution, j the provisional governments will strive j to organize and increase the efficiency A of the coming elections. They will be in charge of presenting a hall referendum for financing the hall government and of discussing and making provisions I for ratification of a hall constitution.
Each hall on campus must approve a constitution before campus elections begin.
The Hall Council president of last year recommended such provisional governments and the Senate passed a reso-• lution effecting them. The men appointed •to run the provisional governments have had previous experience in handling hall governments. Each of the men agreed , that he would be ineligible to run for a regular hall office this year.
The men appointed and the halls to which they have been appointed are: Bob Welsh in Alumni, Dan Bergen in Dillon, Mike Carr in Fisher, Dave Lockwood in Walsh, Dick Pollen in Sorin, । Joe McMahon in Pangborn, Don McNeil in Badin, Paul Underkofler in Howard, Jack Doyle in Morrissey, Dick Coyne ^n Lyons, Tom Rush in Breen-Phillips, Paul Krapp in Cavanaugh, Vic Clesi in I Farley, Paul Kearney in St. Edward’s, , and Jerry Murphy in Zahm.
' October 7, 1955
as queen of the Ball. Miss Trepaney, from Boston, Mass., is employed by John Hancock Insurance Co.
Butler’s band, a well-known Chicago group, will accompany the ball-goers as they move among sparkling, three-dimensional, aluminum foil stars from 9 until 1 a.m. Two o’clock permissions have been granted for the occasion.
No corsages are required for the semi-formal dance.
Trimber has arranged for four television sets to be placed in the Center to enable Sciencemen and their dates to view the Notre Dame-Miami game. Kickoff time is at 8:10 p.m. Doors of the Student Center will open at 7:30 p.m. to enable ballgoers to view the entire contest.
Assisting Trimber in preparation for the Ball were Jim Kennedy, Science delegate to the Student Senate; Gerald Kenny, business manager; Robert Guide, public relations coordinator; James Shumaker, campus coordinator; George Dakoske, decorations; Paul Krapp,hotel accommodations; John O’Rourke, refreshments; Richard Lewis, entertainment; Phil Bohnert, favors; John Crano, blind dates; and Manny Rivas, dance program and publications.
TEACHERS WANTED
Anyone wishing to teach catechism in the South Bend Public School system should attend a meeting to be held by the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine next Monday night in the Faculty Lounge of the Main Building. The meeting will start at 8 p.m.
ANNE TREPANEY
. . . rules 'Among the Stars’ . . .
Dedicate Amphitheater In Honor of ND Marine
The Amphitheater of the Student Center was dedicated in honor of the late Second Lt. Elmor Smith, USMCR, last Saturday morning. Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., director of Student Affairs, celebrated Mass in memory of the Marine.
After the dedication ceremonies in the Student Center, the parents of the Marine and officers of the Student Senate and the Blue Circle had breakfast at the Morris Inn.
A native of the Bronx, N. Y., and a graduate of Notre Dame in 19-50, Lt. Smith received a commission in the Marines upon his graduation. He was called into active duty in October of that year, received his basic training at the Marine Corps School, Quantico, Va., and was stationed at Camp Lejeune, N. C.
He requested combat duty and was attached to the First Marine Division in Korea.
On Sept. 16, 19-51, after two days of fighting at Songae-Dong, on the Central Korean front, Lt. Smith was killed in action. He was buried in a military cemetery at Tanggok, Korea. Lt. Smith was the third of four Notre Dame students killed in the fighting in Korea.
In his will, the Marine left all his possessions toward the rebuilding of the Student Center. This was the first donation toward that end.
9
COTILLION ORCHESTRA LEADER AND VOCALIST
. . . Barron ...	... and Baroness . . .
Captain Blue Barron's Orchestra to Launch 'Autumn Flagship' For Soph Cotillion Weekend
The S. S. Cotillion, flagship of the Sophomore Class, will weigh anchor at its Student Center dock Friday night, Oct. 28, and set sail for an itinerary of events highlighting the gala Navy weekend.
Captain Blue Barron and his crew will entertain 475 sophomores and their dates with his “Music of Yesterday and Today.” Barron, a favorite among college students, will bring his two featured vocalists, Bob Marshall and Wendy Moore, to assist him in satisfying his passengers.
The Student Center will be “decked out” in nautical regalia to fit the theme of “Autumn Flagship.”
The weekend will get underway Friday evening with the traditional pep rally and bonfire in the athletic field opposite the Morris Inn. At 9 p.m. the spotlight will shift to the Student Center for the Cotillion. Saturday afternoon, king football will lure the sophs and their dates to the Notre Dame Stadium, where the Irish will meet Navy. The afternoon will be further enriched by the half-time ceremonies commemorating the immortal Knute Rockne. Mrs. Rockne and many of Rockne’s former players will be honored. The regular Saturday night Victory Dance will supply entertainment for that evening.
The activities will close Sunday morning with a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn after a special Mass at 9 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church.
Tickets for the Cotillion, the game, and the Communion Breakfast will be on sale Oct. 10, 11, and 12 between 7 and
10
9 p.m. in the basement of the Student Center. One football ticket will accompany each bid. Price of the bid alone will be $7.
The dates of the sophs will sit in a special reserved section for the game. Rooms in downtown hotels, as well as rooms in private homes may also be obtained at this time.
Dave Kubal, general chairman for the Cotillion, stated that “through the efforts and hard work of all the committeemen, and the help of the class officers as well as the whole Sophomore Class, this weekend should stand out in the minds of the Class of ’58 as one of the greatest in their four years.”
The other committee chairmen are: Jim Keough, special assistant; Tom O’Donnell, business manager; Bernie McGowan and Dave McMahon, tickets; John Higgins, entertainment; Jack Hough, publicity; Bill Hilvert, hotels; Stan Lorens, refreshments; Bob Whearty and Drew Aman, decorations; and Bob Duffy, Communion Breakfast.
Car permissions will be granted from noon Friday until noon Sunday.
Tickets Go On Sale Monday For Student Trip to Purdue
Three hundred students will travel to the Notre Dame-Purdue football game at West Lafayette, Ind. on Oct. 22 for the annual student trip.
Tickets for the trip can be purchased in the LaFortune Student Center Monday, Oct. 10 and Tuesday, Oct. 11. Only
300 tickets will be sold. The price for the entire trip will be $10. A ticket will include train fare, a box lunch, and ticket for the game. The ticket does not include the price of the supper that night.
The group will leave for West Lafayette the morning of the game at 8:30 from the St. Mary’s siding. The group will return the same night arriving at^ Notre Dame between 9 and 10 p.m. The band will travel to Purdue by buses which will leave from Notre Dame at 8:30 a.m.
K. of C. Smoker to View Miami Game Telecast
Members of the Notre Dame Knights^ of Columbus chapter will witness to-W night’s televised broadcast of the ND-Miami football game at the organization’s first smoker of. the year. The gathering will be held at the Mishawaka K. of C. Hall at 212 Lincoln Way East.
Jim Olin, grand knight, said that buses transporting members to the hall would leave from the Circle.
The game telecast will begin at 8 p.m. Following the telecast, refreshments will^ j | be served.	I
Generally, the first smoker is held latex- in the year, Olin said, but it was scheduled at this time so that members could witness tonight’s game together.
The K. of C. chaptex- is now carrying j on its annual membership drive which I will continue through Oct. 30.	|
Those interested in joining may call | at the K. of C. offices in the basement of Mh ' । Walsh Hall anytime between 4 and 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
The organization’s officers are also mapping out plans fox- the initiation ' ceremonies of first degree members ■ which will be held Nov. 7. The initiation of second and third degree members is I set fox- Dec. 4.	I
The ND chaptex- is presenting a weekly radio program, Knights in Revieiv in connection with the student radio station, WSND. The program, heard onG Friday nights at 7:15, is designed to acquaint students with the work of the K. of C. campus organization.
Officers elected fox- the coming year include:
James Olin, grand knight; Don Stuhl-dreher, deputy grand knight; Bill Me Gowan, chancellor; Bob Miller, warden; Dan Bergen, recording secretary; George Zimmerman, financial secretary; Frank McCue, lecturer; Bob Andrew, treasurer; Chuck Grace, Tom Doyle, Jack Arrn-G strong, guards; and Jim Ulrich, advocate. Rev. Phillip H. Schaerf, C.S.C., is chaplain.
The Scholastic
Engler Elected New Senate Vice-President; Pedace Submits Resignation as Treasurer
Barbers Switch Shop; New Facilities Set Up
John Engler was elected vice-president of the Student Senate at the Senate meeting last Monday. Engler will replace Dan Devine who resigned last 0 week.
Several clarifications in regard to the filling of vacancies for Senate offices were made prior to Engler’s election. Tom Crehan, Senate president, ruled that no commissioner would be eligible for the position. This ruling was made and upheld by the majority since the commission positions in the Senate are appointive offices while the vice-presi-— dency is an elective office. Crehan then w ruled that any voting senator would be eligible to fill the vacancy. The senate members agreed that to be eligible a man need not have one year of experience but they overruled Crehan and decided that the officer must be a senior.
Nominations for the position were then opened. Phil Agee, Bill Warren, John Gschwind, and Engler were nominated. Warren and Agee declined. After a brief recess Engler was elected.
The establishment of four permanent committees and one temporary committee was also made by Crehan. The new committees are the Rules Committee which will handle agenda and procedure; the Finance Committee which will be concerned with budget problems and ap-| propriations; the Policy Committee to
| Commerce Forum to Accept 016 Students For Membership
The Commerce Forum announced this week that 16 students will be accepted for membership in the club. Tomorrow is the deadline for receipt of applications. All applications should be mailed to Thomas P. Bergin, Box 45, Notre Dame, Ind.
The club, comprised of 30 members, is made up of sophomores, juniors, and seniors.
Meetings are held every other week, Und begin with a senior delivering a 30-minute talk on a topic pertinent to business or industry. Immediately following, the topic is featured in a discussion in which all members participate.
In addition to meetings, the club sponsors a field trip, as well as smokers and dinners during the year.
Thomas P. Bergin is moderator of the Forum. Officers for the first semester are Eugene O’Connor, president; Thomas Coleman, vice-president; Ray-knond Kramer, program chairman; Donald Liegler, publicity chairman; and Paul Walker, commerce activities council representative.	.
which all plans must first be submitted; and the Student Welfare Committee whose main job will be to review purposes and to check up on the student government.
The temporary committee will be made up of stay-senators and will study revisions to be made in the constitution.
A minor change was made in the number of judges in the Activities Court. It was voted that there will be five rather than three judges.
After- reading the treasurer’s report, Frank Pedace announced his resignation. It was moved that a new treasurerwill be elected next week. Pedace said that his resignation was necessary as the result of the pressure of his beingpresident of the Junior Class. In resigning his post, Pedace said that there was too much work for one person and in order that the job could receive the proper attention it was necessary for him to resign.
HALL PICTURES
Hall pictures for the Dome will be taken Sunday, Oct. 9. Consult hall Bulletin Boards for time and place.
In case of inclement weather, pictures will be postponed until Thursday, Oct. 13. Time and place will be posted later.
Coat and tie must be worn for these pictures.
TONSORIAL PARLOR OPENS IN VACATED BOOKSTORE
Barbers shift operations in Badin basement.
The relocation of the campus Barber Shop in Badin Hall is the latest in a series of renovations on the Notre Dame campus. The shop now occupies the space which formerly housed the Book Store.
Many improvements have been made in the new shop. The number of chairs, upholstered in red leather, has been increased from six to ten. Modern lighting and the most modern barber equipment has also been added. A new ceiling will be installed during the Christmas vacation.
The walls of the new shop are pink, and the woodwork is trimmed with black enamel. Instead of the benches used in the old shop, customers will sit in individual chairs while waiting.
The new shop is owned by the University. Formerly it was a concession leased to Leonard “Mac” McCollum. McCollum has been retained as manager of the new shop. All barbers in the shop are union members.
A TV or study lounge for students living in Badin Hall will occupy the space in which the old shop was located. The Book Shop annex has been taken over by the Notre Dame Laundry and Dry Cleaning service.
This new location is the third for the Notre Dame Barber Shop. Until 1920 the shop occupied a space on the ground floor of Washington Hall. In that year it was moved to Badin Hall, where it remained until September 29 of this year.
October 7, 1955
11
Prospective Lawyers Gain Trial Experience As Law Practice Court Opens Third Season
“Superior Court of Marion County, State of Hoynes, is now in session.”
This cry ushered the Law School’s practice court into its third year under the direction of Honorable Luther M. Swygert, senior judge of the United States District Court for Northern Indiana and Prof. Edward F. Barrett of the Law School faculty.
Each Saturday, senior students try a complete case while first-term law students act as jurymen. Members of the University faculty, the administrative staff, their wives, and South Bend businessmen, act as parties and witnesses. The purpose of the Practice Court is to give law students practice in the trial of jury cases under conditions reflecting those of an actual trial.
Saturday morning’s case, the first of 15 to be tried this semester, involved a claim for double indemnity under an insurance policy.
The plaintiff contended that the insured met his death accidentally by drowning. The defendant contended that the death was the result of suicide, which voided the policy.
Counsel for the plaintiff in the case was John Thornton and James Murray; the defendant’s counsel was George Sullivan and George Michaely.
Parties and -witnesses in the imaginary case were Mrs. Vincent Fraatz, Miss Arlene Sieve, Mr. Edward Quinn,
ASPIRING ATTORNEYS HOLD SWAY IN MOCK COURT Saturday sessions begin again.
Mr. Craig Hambidge, Mr. George Sullivan, and Mr. John Cackley.
Tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in Washington Hall, Mr. Roland Obenchain, Jr., and Mr. George Beamer, members of the St. Joseph County Bar Association, will demonstrate the trial of a negligence action before a jury. Honorable F. Kenneth Dempsey, judge of St. Joseph County Superior Court, will preside. The plaintiff in the action is Roger Peters, Jr., son of Prof. Roger Peters of the Law School faculty. The defendant is Daniel Nespo of Vetville.
On Oct. 15, the Practice Court will illustrate an action brought by the plaintiff for damages to her character and reputation by alleged defamatory publications by the defendant.
Military Council Announces Projects For Coming Year
A greater esprit de corps, joint social activities among the ROTC units, and service to the University are the aims of the year-old Military Council, President Jerry Massey announced recently.
Besides a movie series proposed this year, each year the Council sponsors the Military Ball, a Military Lecture Series, Joint Service Smokers, and the Honor Guards and Color Guards used in University events.
The Council is composed of the presi
dent of each ROTC Cadet Club and two elected members from each service unit. The Commanding Officer of each service, or his representative, act as advisors.
Representing over 1,700 men, the Council is the largest student organization chartered by the Student Senate and is annually awarded a non-voting seat in the Senate. President Massey will represent the military detachments 9) this year.
The members of the Council are: President Jerry Massey, Navy; Secretary Jim Krebs, Air Force; Jack Fitzsimmons, Burt Lash, John Garvey, Army; Dave Brucker, John Thomas, Air Force; Jim Kramer, George Strake, Navy.
Editing of 1956 'Dome1* Moves Into High Gear
Notre Dame’s yearbook, the Dome, is already being readied for publication and -will be released in the latter part of next May, according to Editor Don Snie-gowski.
Although the school year has just begun, the editing of the 1956 Dome is well 9) under way. Staff positions have been filled, including the freshman and photography staffs, Sniegowski said.
The yearbook is keeping its traditional theme, but will have two additions. An advertising section will be included for the first time since 1947, and a “Visitors’ Section” is being planned which will feature photographs of well known personalities who visit the campus this year.
Sniegowski is assisted by Associate^) Editor Bob Morsches, succeeding previously appointed Gene Griffin who was unable to assume his duties because of class schedule conflicts. Also aiding are Business Manager Fred Brinskelle, Advertising Editor Tom Guilfoile, Photo Editor Jerry Tannian, and Photo Coordinator Jim Fitzgerald.
Section Editors
The Dome’s section editors are Chuck O’Neill, sports; Jim Meagher, halls;^) Roger Bennett, social; and Dick Colman, activities. Rounding out the editorial staff are senior editor, Jim Rose; academic editor, John Henrick; copy editor, Bob Haverkamp; and university editor, Dan Beggy.
The entire layout of the book has been completed, and the cover is ready for production. Editor Sniegowski concluded, “We feel that we have the cover, the layout, and the ideas to edit a veiy representative annual. It is now the job® of the editorial staff, with the cooperation of the student body, to produce the finished copy.”
12
The Scholastic
11
i Gen. Sarnoff Applauds | ND For TV Leadership
“The moral law has become the law of survival,” Brig. Gen. David Sarnoff, chairman of the Radio Corporation of America, declared last Friday night. .
General Sarnoff, a pioneer of the W American radio and television industry, delivered the principal address and received an honorary Doctor of Science degree at a special Notre Dame convocation marking the dedication of WNDU-TV, the University’s new television station. He was cited as “an American genius of public communications” whose “contributions to the twentieth century wonders of radio and television have A put our country and the world immeasurably into his debt.” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, conferred the degree at exercises in the University Drill Hall attended by more than 3,000 persons.
Religion and Science
“To provide a peaceful and happy life on earth for all God’s children, science alone is not enough,” Sarnoff empha-| ^ sized. “Man’s yearnings require the satisfactions he receives from religion. Today, both religion and science have vital roles to play. They must play them together in a common effort. The University of Notre Dame with her record of splendid achievements stands as an inspiring symbol of that partnership.”
Congratulating Notre Dame on its “vision and initiative” in establishing its own television station, General Sar-^noff described television on the campus ^as “the modern counterpart of the blackboard and textbook.” In establishing WNDU-TV, he said, “you have taken another important step in pulling down the wall that so often separates the academic from the workaday world, and both worlds are certain to benefit from | the closer exchange.”
Aesculapian Club Schedules ^irst Meeting For October 12
The Aesculapian Club will hold a smoker for all pre-professional students and professors next Wednesday evening in the Rathskeller of the Student Center from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m.
Films of a Notre Dame football game will highlight the entertainment. Refreshments will be served following the movie.
The purpose of the club is to solidify ^>r unify the pre-medical students and " Giheir professors by enabling them to meet infonnally and discuss attitudes toward the various courses in the curriculum.
ND Junior Throws Hat Into Political Ring; Finishes Third in Dearborn, Mich., Primary
by JIM STEINTRAGER
Is a young man 21 years of age too young to run for the office of mayor in a city with a population of 90,000? Edward Robinson, a junior at Notre Dame, doesn’t think so.
Robinson, who won’t be 22 until Nov. 24, entered the Sept. 26 primary elections in his home town of Dearborn, Mich., with his goal being incumbent Orville L. Hubbard’s position as mayor. When Mayor Hubbard was asked what
EDWARD ROBINSON
... America’s youngest mayor—almost.
he thought of his unexpected opponent, he said, “You have to give him credit for trying a thing like this.”
In conducting his campaign Robinson stressed youth and went all out for a proposed youth center in the Dearborn area. Robinson said; “The problem that I am most interested in is youth.” He went on to say, “I will place all my effort into giving children from 8 to 18 some useful late afternoon or early evening activities.”
Other points in his platform included a pro-labor attitude, three new fire stations which were needed in the city, and a new health center. Robinson also emphasized the need for new blood in the City Hall and for better treatment of City employees.
Despite his age Robinson felt that he was qualified for the job as mayor. A neighboi- nicknamed him “the Little Politician” when he was only five years old.' While attending Sacred Heart High-'School in Dearborn, Robinson was president of both his junior and senior
classes. He also played football, basketball and baseball at Sacred Heart and played baseball in the city’s recreation league for nine years. At one time he was president of the Junior Achievement Association of Dearborn. And at the present time he is a platoon leader in the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve.
At Notre Dame he has distinguished himself as an orator. He was freshman oratory champion and placed first in the Notre Dame Peace Oratory Contest, finishing third in this contest in Indiana state competition. Ed is presently majoring in economics and political science and hopes to study for his law degree at the University of Michigan.
When asked if he thought his running for political office would interfere with his schooling, Robinson pointed out that Hubbard is still attending school and said, “If he’s still going to school, why can’t I?”
Robinson was certain of 10 votes when he decided to run. He has six sisters and a brother, all of voting age. His mother, from whom he gets his “fighting Irish blood,” and his dad both were surprised that he ran but were mighty proud that he did so.
When the results of the primary election finally came in, Robinson had placed third behind Mayor Hubbard and Raymond F. Parker, a former Dearborn' councilman, with 651 votes.
Robinson hadn’t really expected to unseat Hubbard yet. “I want to get into politics for life,” he said. “This has given me an opportunity to make myself known.” He still hopes some day to become mayor of Dearborn.
MSU Travelers to Receive Excused Cuts For Oct. 14, 15
The University has announced that those going on the Senior Football Trip will receive excused, but not cancelled class cuts for Oct. 14 and 15.
Accommodations for the seniors have been changed from the Short Course Dormitory to Butterfield Hall.
On Friday night, Oct. 14, the Spartan Review, MSU’s biggest pep rally of the year, will feature The Gaylords, popular recording trio.
Three cheerleaders will accompany the seniors on the trip. Original tickets will be exchanged for game tickets enroute to East Lansing. Maps of the MSC campus will be handed out, enabling the seniors to find theii- way about- the campus.
October 7, 1955
13
^■aUo.
A fascinating flower-card
time retarded
Photos by Armin Gumermann
The never-old routine
October 7, 1955
Here comes that man again

Blue Circle
service their standard*
by JOHN WALSH
It’s a football week-end at Notre Dame, and the sidewalks are clogged with students, fans, parents. A heavy, hurried looking man rushes up to a desk at the Circle, his wife in tow.
“Say, Son, could you help me a little? I’ve got a son in Zahm, and he sent us directions on how to get there, but . . . well, I don’t know. It’s pretty confusing the first time.”
“Yes sir, I know. I was a freshman two weeks before I could find the Dining Hall. Now, d’you see that sidewalk over there? Well, here it is on this map, and here’s Zahm up here. See how it goes?”
“Let’s see. Yeah. Yeah, I think we can get there. Thanks an awful lot, Son.”
The man hurries off, and his wife asks “Are you sure you know how to get there now?”
A blue and gold badge hangs on the lapel of the youth at the desk . . .
* * *
The room is hung with twisted, red and green crepe paper, and a Christmas tree, sparkling with tinsel, stands in the center of the floor. Neat, but poorly dressed children sit around the room, eating ice cream and cake, while the younger ones chase each other around the tree. A door swings open.
“Santy Claus! Santy!” Food is forgotten as the kids run to the white
bearded man in the red suit. “Wha’d ya bring me, Santy?” They cluster around him and follow him to the tree, where he sets down his sack and spreads it open. The children quiet at the sight of the stack of brightly-wrapped packages, and no one dares to be the first one to pick his out. “There they are, kids,” Santa says, and the children, cheering, scramble for the presents. A little, frail girl pushes out of the crowd, flushed, and nudges back her baby-blonde hair. She sits in a corner, unwrapping her present, forgetting for a moment that she has neither father nor mother. She runs to a young man seated in a crowd of children, clutching her present, and sits down on his lap. Soon she’s
playing with the blue and gold badge hanging on his coat . . .
* * $
This blue and gold badge is the emblem of the Blue Circle, an organization dedicated to three purposes—to give a mark of honor to those who have distinguished themselves at Notre Dame, to Q train leaders, and last, and by far the most important, to provide service to the University community—students, faculty, and administration.
“Awright, so they show lost parents where to go, and give a Christmas party at the orphanage and a coupl’a other places. Nice, but so what?”
A Busy Two Hours
ft Yes, that part is nice, but it’s not as simple as all that. This writer was in the Walsh Hall room of Karl Marter-steck, the Circle’s Chairman, for about two and a half hours one evening on an interview, and during that time there were at least two visitors in the room at all times, all of whom had something urgent to talk about. Dave Collins, a Circle member, wondered where he could get some men to go out to the airport to ft meet the officials of the Coca-Cola Co., the National Broadcasting Co., and the friends of the University who were coming for the dedication of WNDU-TV; to meet them, to get them situated, and to show them around. He and Martersteck ran down the roster of the Circle, and it sounded something like “No, he’s on the Rally tomorrow; so’s he; no, he’s got to show Debbie and Eddie around. He’s free, but he’s been on the run all week, • over at the Shopping Center, and then getting up at 6 in the morning to meet that South American freshman out at the airport ...”
So it went. Tom Crehan, Student Senate President, came in to talk about some future function. A boy brought in some “Go Irish, Hack Hoosiers” flysheets that the Circle was to distribute. It was the same all evening. And from the list of things for which the Circle is responsible, so it must go almost every evening. It is the force behind all pep 9 rallies. It is doubtful whether anyone will dispute the quality of the job done here, for Notre Dame spirit is famous everywhere across the country. They have organized and directed the Freshman Orientation Program for the past two years. Mixers, picnics, hall get-togethers, instructive talks by faculty and campus leaders, and the freshman mission all combine to get the first-year man off on the right foot.
Welcoming and tours, probably the ft most demanding of its duties, distribution of tickets for various functions, the management of the annual selections for the national “Who’s Who in Colleges,”
Blue Circle Committee greets visitors.
the arrangements for student trips, and the management of the annual elections all are among the many responsibilities of the Circle.
The group originated in 1923, and since then it has grown and broadened, until now its influence is felt everywhere at Notre Dame. Such trivial conveniences as the ice cream sundaes at the Dining Hall; such profound expressions of Notre Dame faith and spirit as the May Day procession to the Grotto are results of Blue Circle work. In fact its influence had become so widespread that two years ago the Student Senate named the organization as the official executive arm of the Student Government.
To Promote Activities
In this relatively new capacity, the Circle is in an even better position to carry out the object it set for itself 22 years ago. That object is to function for the promotion and continuance of customs and traditions, for the organization of activities sponsored by the Student Senate or initiated by the Blue Circle, and for the advancement of the interests of the student body and the Administration.
This year, under the leadership of
chairman Martersteck, vice-chairman Tom Caplet, and secretary-treasurer Paul LaFreniere, the Circle will provide such services as the football Student Trip to Purdue, an attempt to standardize the Alma Mater, the trip to St. Mary’s of the Woods, the annual Christmas caroling excursion, and the Junior Parents’ Week-end.
Requirements for Membership
Membership in the Blue Circle is limited by its constitution to 45, of whom 17 are seniors, 13 juniors, nine sophomores, and six members-at-large. New members are picked each May. After making application stating his qualifications, and his reasons for wishing to join, he must appear before a board of Circle members for an interview. On the basis of the letter and the interview, plus the applicant’s record, the new members are chosen. A cumulative 80% average and a satisfactory disciplinary record are prerequisites.
With its. goal and tradition of service to the student body, with a tremendous record of jobs well done for little or no tangible reward, the members of the Blue Circle are proud of the achievements unequaled by any other student organization.
October 7,1955
17
I ‘LIKE’ it
Hi, Irish
Who? Me? I’m Debbie
Across the great div -
Starry-eyed starlet
-an understanding.
ZMietiatemeni
To members of the editorial staff, there is only one topic of controversy these days; the Scholastic New Look, to use a wornout tag. We are being stopped on corners, in halls, trapped in our rooms or at the dining hall and heaped with praise, wonder or accusation aimed at the innovations in the local publication.
This is all to the good. In past years, interest in the Scholastic has dropped to a very low point. Any kind of comment, even undeserved criticism, indicates a much-needed renewal of student interest. But all this is somewhat aside from the point of this column, which is concerned with the source of this renewed interest.
We might begin by considering the very striking cover which has caused as much comment as anything. Some commenters have cheered. More have thought it was terrible. A surprising number didn’t get the idea at all. I don’t want to say that the cover was good or bad, because I don’t think that that kind of a judgment can be made. I liked it. Maybe you didn’t, but neither opinion proves much of anything.
But to hear that someone “didn’t get it” is beyond my understanding. Granted that it wasn’t as obvious as the illustrations in a child’s primer, nor as a photograph with an explanatory caption, it seems to me that any sort of college student ought to be able to identify a sketch of something more complex than ‘cat’ or "‘dog’ without a caption under it. It appears that I am wrong.
In listening to various commenters on this subject, I was sorry to hear the ridiculous old “Engineers vs. Arts” controversy as a basis for rejection or approval. The implication is that the AB student deals with “arts” (as his title implies) and can appreciate this sort of thing, while the busy engineer must have more obvious and to-the-point material. I have heard this reasoning from both Engineers and AB students (with the sneers reversed. For some reason, Commerce and Science seem to be above or below this argument.) It doesn’t make much sense either way.
I think that one difficulty (and not a real one) is that many to whom I talked were trying to get some deeper significance out of the cover than was intended. I doubt that any hidden symbolism exists. At least I hope not. We don’t want to display the hidden con-
commentary
flicts of the warped and twisted artistic soul of Dick Navin—at least, not this early in the year.
Another red hot issue was the disappearance of the missing “Week.” In previous years, the Week was doubtless the most -widely read column in the issue, and it might be expected that its absence might be noticed. However! The column is not gone; ‘only the name has been changed to provoke the ignorant.’ It is now called Entree, and is located in much the same place as the now defunct “Week.”
Of the slight style changes within the body of the issue, we have heard only good things and will cheerfully refrain from comment.
In closing, I would like to thank two scholarly critics who undertook to question me on a point of grammar. “Nunc est bibendum ...” gentlemen! I might add that this columnist is very interested in opinions about the column, the magazine or anything else—Jim O’Brien
Movies
AVON
Pearl of the South Pacific (through Tuesday); A-2; RKO; Stereophonic sound; color; V. Mayo-D. Morgan—A treasure-looting action film with the same old pearls, native girls, and South Sea setting. Escapist entertainment.
The Dam Busters (Wednesday through next Tuesday); A-l; Warner (British) ; R. Todd-M. Redgrave — A noisy war drama of men dedicated to country who fly out to destroy German dams without obvious heroics. A man’s picture.
COLFAX
Gentlemen Marry Brunettes (today through next Friday); United Artists; CinemaScope; color; J. Russell-J. Crain —A light, bright, colorful, tuneful, lively bit of entertainment filmed in Paris and Monte Carlo with Jane and Jeanne in the full flower of their feminine attributes. All in good fun.
GRANADA
Ulysses (through Wednesday); A-2; Paramount; color; K. Douglas-S. Mangano—Though rich in production detail, this arty concept of Ulysses’ exploits in Homer’s Odyssey results in a childish, imported (from Italy), fan
tastic adventure. Look out for the Cyclops !
To Hell and Back (starts Thursday) ; A-2; Universal; CinemaScope; color; A. Murphy-M. Thompson — The story of Audie Murphy, the Sergeant York of -q World War II, and his war on a drudg- "J ing, personal basis with its very human heroism, sentimentality, pathos, and absence of screaming military might. From the heart and to the heart.
PALACE
The Phenix City Story (holdover ends tomorrow); B; Allied; R. Kiley-K. Grant —A starkly realistic excellently-done on-the-spot re-enactment of crime and corruption at flood tide in the Alabama city that hit the front pages last year. Very enlightening. Five Guns Wes, a Civil War western, is the co-hit.
Kiss of Fire (Sunday through Tuesday; A-2; Universal; color; J. Palance-B. Rush—A typical romantic adventure of Spaniards in the New World with the usual rogue, princess, villainous court, swordplay, Indians, and scenery. Just lukewarm stuff. Jail Busters provides companion rough stuff.
The Bar Sinister (Wednesday through next Saturday); A-2; MGM; CinemaScope; color; J. Richards-J. Lewis—the technique is startling at first because it tells the story of one dog’s life, during hard times on the Bowery, through the eyes, ears, and mouth of the dog. It’s different, anyway! Svengali, a new Britisher, is the co-feature.	—
■	u
RIVER PARK
Magnificent Matador (ends tomorrow); B; Fox; CinemaScope; color; M. O’Hara-A. Quinn—The upsetting story of a bull-fighter who is champion of them all, his peculiar inner conflict, and its resolution with the help of a lovely Maureen. But for the excellence of the bullfight scene, don’t bother. The Shanghai Story is the year-old co-hit.
You’re Never Too Young (Sunday through Tuesday); A-2; Paramount; w VistaVision; color; D. Martin-J. Lewis —Dean is instructor in a girls’ school and Jerry is a barber’s apprentice in this addition to their laugh and song series, which rates par or better for the course. Just fun. Soldier of Fortune, with Gable, Hayward, and Hong Kong intrigue, makes for good contrast and a fine pairing.
Ygetsu (Wednesday only) is the third offering in the Indiana University movie —, series. A Japanese great.
A Prize of Gold (Thursday through (Continued on page 29)
20
The Scholastic
dence. Once the students accused the cook of watering down the soup to make it go farther. Despite the protests, the students then, as today, manage to add pounds to their healthy frames.
U Qo, Thursday’s a free day. So what?”
“Guess I’ll be able to catch up on a little sack time.”
“Good, no homework for a day or so.”
These lackadaisical comments probP ably express that intangible factor known as student opinion pretty well. Whether you subscribe to opinion number one, number two, or number three, is a matter of choice. But there should be no choice in the matter of finding out exactly what is meant by “Founder’s Day,” the reason for the free day.
Upon digging back into the past, one finds that the Notre Dame campus is Bladen with tradition and atmosphere. The University was founded 113 years ago, late in November, 1842, by Father Edward F. Sorin.
In observing the feast of Edward the Confessor, patron saint of Father Sorin, Kev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will deliver the sermon at a Solemn High Mass Thursday at 9 a.m. This is the 62nd anniversary of Founder’s Day, but the event was not held during Father SorB. in’s lifetime and wasn’t officially recognized until 1893, the year of his death.
Alexis Coquillard, one of the early pioneers of this area, took Father Sorin and six Brothers immediately upon their arrival to South Bend, to a desolate spot where from the top of a hill they could see a beautiful blue lake shaded by snowy oaks. Close at hand was a cabin where M. Charron and his wife, both half-breeds, lived. Charron had been the interpreter for the first missionaries to labor in this area. He showed the troupe the log chapel, a replica of which stands today behind the library, in which their predecessors, Badin, Deseille, and Petit had labored and died.
It was here that Father Sorin, large
and gaunt in his black garb, founded the University with only $500 cash and little other resources. The only building was the chapel, which formed the basis of the school, until the old college building could be constructed.
In two years, the proficient Father Sorin had enlarged the school to include living quarters, classrooms, and a larger
sorin: a sketch
chapel, and he had procured a charter from the state.
Father Sorin met every adversity with a calm philosophical attitude, and must have been a very strong-willed man. In 1849, the first of three great fires struck the school. The last, in 1879, destroyed every building on campus except the church. Aftei- building the school for 37 years, Father Sorin’s work and hopes had all been destroyed. But this brave man was heard to comment, “If it were all gone, I should not give up.” He thought that he hadn’t built it right the first time, since God had destroyed it. So, with the aid of the entire school, everything was rebuilt, brick by brick.
The professors were governed with almost the same strict rules as the stu
dents. ’They were required to live on campus, couldn’t go to town without permission, had to have their candle out by 9 p.m., and, under no consideration imbibe. Any teacher found drinking was subject to docking of his pay.
Notre Dame men then, were much like Notre Dame men today. The usual griping about the food was always in evi-
Notre Dame has come a long way since those early days. Its fame has spread throughout the world on the wings of sport and through its graduates, who have come from and returned to almost every country in the world and who practice in almost every field of endeavor.
Sorin, a practical man who faced hard facts rather than rosy dreams, would probably be amazed and almost unbelieving if brought face to face with.. the tremendous institution which has grown up around the old college and the log chapel.
But he would probably be more interested in the men who have made Notre Dame what it is today; strong men like himself; Zahm, Cavanaugh, O’Donnell, Leahy and a hundred like them; teachers, coaches, presidents. Men who have added to the composite that is Notre Dame in a hundred different ways.
But most of all, he would have been interested in the students. Sorin had a gift of getting down to the fundamental
aspects of a thing, as many practical men have. He knew that the university existed primarily for the student body and his efforts were directed in the light of this knowledge. A present-day observer might wonder if this policy has endured as well as other of the ideas of Rev. Edward Sorin, Founder of Notre Dame.	. •
October 7, 1955
21
English 142 or a package of Camels?
It Beats Me!
by DON ZEIFANG
Around registration time, a good deal _ of student satire is directed toward that™ omniscient automaton of our times, the International Business .Machine. Conflicts in courses, times, and classroom assignments are all blamed upon this electrical mechanism.
Coming to the defense of IBM is Kenneth Doty, supervisor of Notre Dame’s Tabulating Department, located on the ground flooi- of the Main Building. According to Mr. Doty, the IBM system is “more efficient, more reliable, more accurate, and speedier than any manual system. Everything we set up is verified, proofed, and balanced. The work done by the IBM machine is only as good as its source of information.”
In other words, human frailty is to blame for those conflicts, gents, and not poor little old IBM.
The great service which IBM does for Notre Dame is truly amazing. In addition to registration, the Tabulating Department handles payrolls for the University’s 1,800 employees, all accounting A records, student grade reports, student, permanent records, class lists, plant and property records, and billing. The Guid-
22
Tfte Scholastic
I
anee Department also employs an IBM test scoring machine.
The use of the test scoring machine perhaps best points out the remarkable efficiency of IBM. Each fall, a battery of admission tests are administered to approximately 1,500 entering freshmen, and for each freshman must be obtained 26 scores. This means a grand total of " 39,000 scores. According to Mr. Edward R. Quinn, head of the Guidance Department, it would take about six months to hand-score and check these tests. Using the IBM machine, these tests are scored in just four days!
The IBM system first came to Notre Dame in 1937 when a machine was brought in to do the accounting and payroll work. In 1948, registration was begun by the use of IBM.
At present the Tabulating Department uses nine IBM machines—two key punchers, two sorters, two tabulators, one interpreter, one correlator, and one reproducer. The machines are in scheduled constant operation 75% of the time. Much of Mr. Doty’s time is spent scheduling these operations so as to obtain , maximum efficiency from the machines.
The three essential units are the ^sorter, key puncher, and tabulator. Working at the rate of 600 cards a minute, the sorter puts the cards in order. It resembles the machine which Lynn Dollar operates on the “$64,000 ' Question.” The key puncher fills the card with an assorted array of holes, each standing for a letter or number. From there the cards go to a tabulator, which picks up electrical impulses through each hole and prints the re-। quired information at the top of the " card. It operates at the rate of 150 lines per minute. The student’s name card includes his name, address, class, semester, major subject, race, religion, marital status, and other essential information. It even tells whether or not a stu-
Dear Sir: In reply to your letter of the 16th . . .
dent is on probation. With a little coaxing, it could probably reveal the number of Puffos per day which the student smokes and whether or not he snores.
The complexity of the machines is evidenced by the fact that the tabulator contains more than 100 miles of wire!
Mr. Doty and his staff of four workers have a remarkable efficiency record. It now takes just three days to compile grade reports by IBM. By a manual system, it would take from six to eight weeks. Permanent records, which at one time were a semester behind, are now up-to-date—thanks to IBM.
Having been associated with the IBM business for 20 years, Mr. Doty is an
old hand in his field. “We’re always learning new things,” he says. “Occasionally, we go to IBM schools to keep up with current improvements.”
Mr. Doty hopes that in the near future Notre Dame will be able to add a calculator to its array of automatons. It could be utilized in accounting and science courses, and open the door to an increase in experimental work.
Despite the fact that Notre Dame pays $1,600 per month for the use of IBM products (IBM rents all of its machines), it is evident that the investment is a sound one. Countless manhours are saved thanks to Notre Dame’s unsung hero—the IBM machine.
Don’t flip . . . that switch!
Rector; 1960 style.
October 7,1955
23
Skaaxait
coming back
by BOB CAIRA
Bob Caira, an AB sophomore from Nahant, Mass., is attending Notre Dame on the GI bill after four years in the Air Force. He plans to major in journalism and hopes to become a radio-TV script writer. This is his first printing in the SHOWCASE.
IT’S 30 minutes until train time and although you know why you’re standing in Grand Central Station, it doesn’t seem right.
People are everywhere. People you never saw before and don’t especially care to ever see again. You try to hide your anxiety but you can’t. Your mother keeps asking if anything has been forgotten and your dad is content to leave the worrying to her. In between “promise to write” to the comely miss at your side, mother asks for the second time if you said goodbye to Mrs. Sturdley and Bill Harper.
The minutes are moving. To ease the tension, you suggest getting a magazine at the nearby stand. You excuse yourself, hoping that Barbara will go with you but she can’t. Your mother just started speaking to her. You go anyway, thinking “now where can I kiss her goodbye.” You hand the magazine boy 25c while picking up a Pageant.
On the way back you start to become real sweltering. The mob begins moving toward the gate. Your mother starts talking rapidly in an unnatural emptiness. “Take cares” are being thrown all around but none have hit you, so far. Your watch is right; boarding time. You love all these people with you but if only they would leave you alone for a minute.
While you’re thinking, that minute goes. You ease forward with the throng. An arrogant, uniformed gent hollers “No visitors allowed through the gate.” A gangling extrovert jostles you as he is determined to be the 58th through the
gate. It’s all over but you don’t know it yet. There is no place to “step aside.” Your father grasps your perspiring hand and says “take care, son.” You catch that one, but it’s not the one you want. Your mother’s turn and still not the right one.
Barbara’s almost floored you. It somehow didn’t seem as sincere as you had expected. A wet kiss from your mother as your folks drop back. It’s you and Barb now, all the way for the remaining ten steps. You say something to her but stop. Did you call her “Bar-
bara” or “Bessie?” Her eyes don’t confirm anything. You feel like belting that clumsy jerk in front of you. He’s practically carrying his girl and seems so nonchalant. “Let’s see your reservation, fella.”
You’re there. You, Barbara and the ticket taker are all frowning. Finally, the ticket appears. “OK, let’s move along. Sorry, Miss, you can’t go through.” Barbara leans forward and you clumsily lunge for the farewell kiss. You were so clumsy you almost missed and kissed the ticket taker. A smile, a promise, a wave of the hand and the interior of the station fades. There we were . . .
The train eases out of the station and
all you have now are memories. You wonder and think until the train pulls into Rahway. You still think but the wondering is over. A lethargic looking fellow drifts into the vacant seat. You simply can’t figure out why he hasn’t got an ear of corn sticking out of his back pocket. Maybe he put it in the suitcase, though. This should be quite a ride. Suddenly “it” speaks.
“Hi, where ya headed?” You just don’t wont to talk to this lug but “same place you are” comes out. “Oh yeah, what hall ya in?” You immediately think, “Here we go,” but you still can’t hold back “Lyons, why?” Now you’re A leading.	“
After a few more shattered phrases, the suit coat comes up over your eyes and you think. “She sure looked sharp at Plymouth Beach and I think I like her in shorts better than Bermudas. I wonder if she really will go out with that goof from Princeton? Friday night she said she wouldn’t but she wasn’t too sure on Saturday night. If I can only transfer to a school in the East. What Al a summer! Absolutely the greatest. We J didn’t even remember to see who got the tannest. What a summer!”
For the next several hours you shift into more uncomfortable positions. Next time, you’re going pullman. The next time you go to Bankok, that is. A stretch, a walk, a sandwich and you’re back in your seat. You just can’t believe the summer is over. It really isn’t because just a day ago you were on the beach with Barbara. Just before you tell her to watch out for the rolling surf, you become unconscious. The two of you frolic in the breakers as the train glides on. The sun never was more brilliant and the water was never bluer. You race back to the sand and, just as you catch her, a guttural voice blurts “ELKHART.” The conductor seems to change before your eyes from a sleek, graceful blonde to a fat, bellowing gent whom you just don’t like. You’re still grasping for the sun and the summer.
It’s dreary, lonely and dark when the words “SOUTH BEND” roll through the train. It’s still summer, you think. The suitcase, raincoat and other things which were in the hall closet a day ago are now lifted for the long trek. You hustle out of the train, along the walk, down through the corridor and out to the station lobby. A sleepy looking person says “Baggage to Notre Dame over here” and, even though you know it’s not f J the 21st of September, you realize for the first time that the summer is over. Brother, the summer is over . . .
24
The Scholastic
Jfuik Scene
MIAMI SETS SIGHTS ON UNBEATEN IRISH
Irish Hope to Continue Their Winning Ways Against Miami in First Florida Appearance
by JOHN GLAVIN
WHITEY ROUVIERE Gustafson: “Best in Nation”
Keglers Open Season On New Alleys Oct. 12
Last Wednesday and Thursday, 200 • Notre Dame Kampus Keglers opened their 1955-56 howling campaign and the eleventh year of organized bowling competition at Notre Dame on the new alleys in the basement of the recently constructed shopping center on campus. ♦ Approximately 40 teams comprising four circuits of Blue and Gold leagues engaged in a three-game rolloff at scratch, based mainly on detex-mining the individual players handicaps. The teams will begin competition next Wednesday and Thursday undex- this handi-। £cap system. This is to extend equal opportunities to evexy team and provide for excellent recreation and keen competition throughout the yeax-.
Officers of the Kampus Keglers were elected last week and consist of the following men: Bob Filipiak, club president; Dick Torda, vice-president and treasurer; and Jim McLaughlin, secretary. In addition, a secretary-treasurer will be elected to each league in the near future to handle the weekly team fees , A and to compile individual averages.
The league this season operates in two
(Continued on page 29)
The University of Miami Hurricanes play host to the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl in Miami, Fla., tonight, in what promises to be one of the top intersectional clashes of the current season. Notre Dame has never-appeared in the state of Florida, and this will be one of their few invasions of the South.
A crowd of 75,000 fans is expected
GENE REEVES
Could steer the “drives”
to pour into the Orange Bowl and is likely to set a new all-time record for a football game in Florida.
Coach Terry Brennan’s charges, who will be looking for theix- 11th straight win, face a veteran crew coached by Andy Gustafson which lost only seven lettermen from a team that last year-ranked ninth in the nation.
Miami lost its opener to a surprising Georgia Tech team, 14-6, but last week showed that they are prepared for Lemek and Co., when they ripped Florida State, 34-0.
For the first time this year the Irish will match the opposing line pound. for pound but they won’t be able to match the experience of the veteran Miami forward wall.
The Hurricane backfield situation can be summed up for the Irish very easily —“watch out.” Gustafson has some of the most explosive and elusive backs in the South.
Heading the list of backs is Francis “Whitey” Rouviere, a thundering, deceptive right halfback who Gustafson claims is the greatest back in America.
“There’s not a bettex- back in the country today,” says Gustafson. “I don’t know a bettex- man for single platoon football than Rouviere.”
Last year, he intercepted seven passes and recovered three enemy fumbles which is proof of his defensive ability. Oxi the offensive side, the shifty halfback averaged over four yards pex- carry.
At fullback will be burly Don Bosse-ler, a slashing type runner whose superb faking made Miami’s “drive” series click last year. He was one of the most tackled players in the country even though he carried the ball once out of every three plays. He averaged almost four yards per cany’ in 110 tries and was obviously the “bread and butter” man of the Hurricane backfield.
Don Dorshimer, a dynamic runner,
PHIL BENNETT
Promising newcomer
October 7,1955
25
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
MIAMI		NOTRE DAME
Nolan 		. LE	.... Prendergast
Vasu 			. LT		 Edmonds
Cunio 			. LG		 Bisceglia
De Troia 		C		 Mense
Kohut (Co-C.)..	. RG			  Gaydos
Hutchings 		RT		 Sullivan
Melwid 		RE		 Kapish
Bonofiglio 		QB			 Hornung
Dorshimer 		LH		 Lewis
Rouv’e (Co-C.)	RH .				  Morse
Bosseler 			FB			 Schaefer
Kickoff—8:15 P.M., CDT
Radio—WSBT TV—WNDU—TV
will start at left halfback. The speedy and versatile Dorschimer hit his stride early this year. He had some trouble picking up changes in the “drive” series. His deceptive speed makes him an adequate backfield receiver of Hurricane aerials.
At quarterback will be either Mario Bonofiglio or sophomore Gene Reeves. Bonofiglio is the key man in Miami’s “drive” series. He is a tremendous faker and will undoubtedly play havoc with the Irish forward wall all evening.
Reeves might get the nod because of his passing ability but he lacks the finesse and ball handling ability of Bonofiglio.
Depth is lacking at the end positions. The probable starters will be Bob Nolan and John Melwid, Nolan probably being the favorite target for passes although the Hurricanes had not been known for their aerial game ’til Reeves came along.
Pressing Nolan for the left end starts ing spot is Phil Bennett. Bennett has always been regarded for his defensive ability but during spring drills, his of-
(Continued on page 29)
Hawkeyes Upset, Purdue Squeaks by Gophers; Five Irish Opponents Notch Grid Tilt Wins
by BOB PARNELL
As the Irish humbled Indiana, 19-0, to chalk up their second shutout of the season, three of their opponents remained in the undefeated ranks. However, Iowa and Michigan State absorbed their first defeats of the year to fall from the select circle.
Miami bounced back after their 14-6 defeat at the hands of the southern power, Georgia Tech, in the opener. The Hurricanes registered an expected 34-0 victory over Florida State. Coach Andy Gustafson, apparently looking toward tonight’s game with the Irish, chose Sophomore Gene Reeves as the starting quarterback, hoping he could provide the Hurricanes with a strong passing threat to support Miami’s powerful ground attack. However Reeves showed little mastery in ball-handling.
In all, Gustafson used four signal callers, none of whom was especially impressive. Again it was the hard charging line and the powerful running machine that led Miami to the lopsided victory.
Michigan State, although defeated 14-7 by second ranked Michigan, put on the most revealing show of all the Irish opponents. Rated a two-touchdown underdog, the Spartans completely outplayed the Wolverines as their relatively inexperienced line throttled the Michigan offensive machine.
Neither of the Michigan TD’s was the result of penetrating drives, requiring only 20 and 22 yards, respectively, to reach the Spartan end zone. The Wolverines took advantage of an intercepted pass and a blocked punt to set up both their scoring rallies. The Spartans, led by Jerry Planutis who churned
out 70 yards, registered 14 first downs as compared to seven for Michigan. However, Michigan held their inter-state | rivals twice within the five-yard line to protect their victory.
Navy made it two in a row as they pounded South Carolina, 26-0. Navy’s entry for All-American quarterback, George Welsh, displayed some fine ballhandling and precision passing in completing 11 of 15 aerials. Ron Beagle, Navy’s All-American end of a year ago, tallied the first score for the Middies, g
Another passing threat to the Irish, " who should bring back some unpleasant memories, is Len Dawson, Purdue’s passing ace. Although the Boilermakers barely squeaked past Minnesota 7-6 last Saturday, Dawson hit his man nine out of 12 times to roll up 121 yards.
However, Purdue failed in the clutch several times especially in the first half, when they racked up ten first downs and 155 yards and yet failed to pene- g trate the Gopher defense for a tally. w Two touchdown drives ended in intercepted passes and the clock stopped another on the two-yard line.
Pennsylvania lost its 15th consecutive game, as California marched to a 27-7 triumph with 20 points in the final quarter. Penn’s losing streak dates back to 1953. Little improvement is expected in the near future.
Penn continues streak
Penn played sloppy ball, fumbling six times and being penalized a total of 161 yards. Three of the California touchdowns were set up by Penn fumbles. Had the Quakers played a more deliberate brand of ball the outcome of the
‘SEVENTEEN, SEVENTEEN, HE’S A SOLID SEVENTEEN’
Morse scores second Notre Dame touchdown
game might have been quite different, since the score was 7-7 at the end of the third period.
The Tarheels of North Carolina rebounded from their 14-6 setback at the i| hands of fifth-ranked Oklahoma by edging Noith Carolina State, 25-18. North Carolina seems to be much improved over, last year, as they so well indicated in the opener while bowing to the powerful Sooners.
After displaying a rigid defense in the opener against Kansas State, Iowa dropped a 37-14 decision to Wisconsin . in what might be termed a mild upset.
Badger end, Howard, tallied three times on aerials from Jim Miller and Jim 4 Haluska. This apparent slack in pass defense can be disturbing to the Hawkeyes, since a week earlier they had com-
26
’ The Scholastic
pletely throttled the Kansas State passing attack.
Southern California won their third straight by dropping Texas, 19-7. With 24 returnees from last season and earlier season victories of 50-12 and 42-15, the Trojans are ranked among the nation’s powerhouses. Besides possessing a powerful offense, Southern Cal has developed one of the best pass defenses in the nation.
GENTLY, EVER SO GENTLY
Gales reaches for a Chichowski aerial
Hoosiers Second Victim
Notre Dame’s fine running game and spirited goal line stands broke the heart ^of a stubborn, spirited Indiana Hoosier eleven last Saturday 19-0, before 56,494 keyed-up fans.
Sparked by the all-round play of Junior Quarterback Paul Hornung and Senior Fullback Don Schaefer, the Irish scored the second time they got possession of the ball. Hornung capped ND’s drive to paydirt in the first quarter on a 33-yard run around left end. Faking a handoff, the triple threat back took off around end and, set loose by MDick Prendergast’s key block, scored ^standing up. The try for the extra point by Schaefer was blocked.
This 6-0 lead was in jeopardy right up to the end of the first half. Moving downfield with machine-like precision, the Hoosiers had a first down and goal to go on the Irish nine-yard line. The Fighting Irish then rose to the occasion. Three line bucks netted only five yards and on fourth down, a Chick Chickowski aerial was batted down by Notre Dame’s ^Aubrey Lewis.
Schaefer sparked Notre Dame’s touchdown march late in the third period. A recovered fumble by Sophomore Guard
Bob Gaydos gave ND possession of the pigskin. On third down, Jimmy Morse went seven yards off tackle for the score. Schaefer toed it through the uprights and the Irish led, 13-0.
The Irish put the finishing touch on the Hoosiers late in the fourth quarter. Lewis intercepted an Indiana aerial and brought it back to the Hoosier 23-yard line. Five plays later Hornung lofted an easy pass to Prendergast for the final score. Hornung’s try for the extra point was blocked. With only a minute left in the game, Indiana was content to run out the clock and Notre Dame had its second victory in as many weeks and tenth in a row over two seasons.
Format of Swimming Club Discussed at Opening Session
Plans for the forthcoming season were discussed by the members of the Campus Swimming Club at their opening meeting, held last Tuesday in the Student Center.
Father Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor, announced that the club will compete with several other schools, but that the schedule had not yet been completed. Father Pelton said that he also hoped that the swimmers would be able to begin their rigid practice schedule next Monday in the Rockne Memorial.
Club officers also gave short talks at the meeting. The officers are: Paul Kerwin, president; Ed Healy, vice-president; Bill Scanlon, secretary, and Paul Flattery, treasurer.
HONORABLE IRISH JUDO
Schaefer spills Hoosier Stone In Irish victory
DAVIN’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
SMU over Missouri (tonight) Oklahoma over Texas Baylor over Arkansas Ohio State over Illinois Army over Michigan
California over Washington State Georgia Tech over LSU Maryland over Wake Forest Navy over Pittsburgh Purdue over Wisconsin Georgia over No. Carolina Texas Christian over Alabama Auburn over Kentucky
Percentage to date—.750
Freshman Swim Meet Scheduled for Oct. 12
The first Freshman interhall swimming meet of the year will be held Oct. 12 starting at 7:30 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. Mr. Gil Burdick, swimming director here, will supervise the meet.
The events will be: 50-yard free style; 50-yard breast stroke; 200-yard free style; low board diving with four required and three optional dives; 50-yard backstroke; 100-yard free style; and a 75-yard medley including the breast, back, and crawl strokes.
This will be the first of three meets to be held. Medals will be awarded to the first, second, and third place winners.
October 7, 1955
27
Hornung and Schaefer Lead Irish Offense
Time out . . . for me to cast a vote. I want to place Irish workhorse— fullback Don Schaefer on anybody’s and everybody’s list.
DON SCHAEFER
Schaefer came to Notre Dame three years ago as a quarterback. Now he’s a fullback. He isn’t one of those giant battering-rams. But he gets yardage when he carries the ball. Saturday, Hornung called on him for a necessary two yards to keep the first Irish scoring drive alive. Last year he led all Irish backs with a 5.4 average, better than that of Wisconsin’s Alan Ameche who entered the select gridders’ circle for 1954. And currently “Schaef” has a 3.5 average. True, it’s not extraordinary but then, a large average is not the only thing that goes toward making an All-American. Besides, I’m willing to bet it will go to the five mark or better before the season ends.
On defense he’s almost omnipresent, if that’s humanly possible. Usually he backs the line with Center Jim Mense. But that doesn’t mean he stays there. He’s just as liable to turn up in the opposition’s backfield as not. Against Indiana, he came in to block Chichowski’s fourth-down pass attempt
from the Irish nine-yard line, killing the big Hoosier scoring chance.
Schaefer is one of those hard-to-find creatures who plays both ways with equal ability. Last Saturday he stayed in the Irish line-up until early in the fourth quarter, just before the final Notre Dame score came.
When December comes around and the votes are cast, if he doesn’t get on at least all the All-American teams, I know one person who will yell “Foul” and start sniffing for a rat.
*	* *
Time out . . . for a quick look at last week’s rushing statistics. Indiana gained 81 yards on the ground to Notre Dame’s 293. That means one thing —the Irish certainly held their own against the Hoosiers musk oxen forward wall. Some people wondered why Indiana halfback Milt Campbell only carried the ball three times, all in the first quarter, and during their first six offensive plays. Could be Quarterback Chichowski saw the futility of trying to pass camels through eyes of needles. . ..
*	* *
Last Saturday in Navy’s victory over South Carolina, a substitute quarterback named Pat Flood scored one of the Middies’ touchdowns. This Flood fellow is an ex-Irish performer. He played on the Notre Dame frosh team in 1953 but left Notre Dame with an appointment to Annapolis. Perhaps we might see him in action at the end of the month, if the Irish can tie up Navy signal-caller George Welsh.
*	# *
The last time Notre Dame opened its season with two straight shutouts was in 1932, and then they did it the first three games. They routed Drake 63-0, Indiana (hmmm) 25-0, and Carnegie Tech 42-0. In 1952 Notre Dame closed out the season with a pair of shutouts. They clipped Iowa’s Hawkeyes 27-0 and Southern California 9-0.
* * *
Tonight the Irish will go quelling Hurricanes. With some of the play they’ve shown the past two weeks, they should break the differential of Andy Gustafson’s “drive series,” 21-7.—D.D.	•
Two victories, no defeats and yet to be scored upon is the way the Irish scoreboard reads.
To date the Irish have gained 32 first downs and a total of 593 yards, 47 through the air and 546 by rushing.
In the scoring department, Hornung leads the parade. He has two TD’s. Jim Morse, Paul Reynolds and Dick Prendergast each have one. Fullback Don Schaefer has kicked three extra points. Hornung also has kicked one field goal, against SMU.
The workhorse of the Irish backfield has been senior fullback Don Schaefer. Schaefer has carried the ball a total of 39 times for a gain of 140 yards, an average of 3.5 yards per carry.
Aubrey Lewis and Paul Hornung each ■ have carried the ball 25 times. Lewis has I gained 86 yards or 3.4 yards per carry I while Hornung has gained 148 yards for I a 5.9 average.
Others in the backfield who have contributed to the Irish cause are Dick Lynch who has carried the ball eight times for 52 yards and a 6.5 average;^ Dick Fitzgerald, three carries for 12 yards and a four-yard average; Paul Reynolds, four carries good for 11 yards and a 2.7 average and Larry Cooke, six carries good for eight yards and a 1.3-yard average.
In the passing department the Irish have attempted 14 passes, good for 47 yards. Eleven of these passes have been thrown by Hornung and one each by , Cooke, Lewis and Schaefer. Hornung^ I completed four, the others failed to complete any.
Of the passes thrown by the Irish, only one was intercepted. Our opponents | have thrown 50 passes, completing 19 but five have been intercepted.
Aubrey Lewis has three interceptions to his credit so far, two against SMU, good for 30 yards and one against Indiana for eight yards. Larry Cooke and 11 Paul Hornung each have intercepted one.
Sailing Course to Be Initiated At St. Joe's Lake Thursday
A Red Cross Basic Sailing course will be initiated at St. Joseph’s Lake next Thursday. Those who successfully complete the course will receive a Basic Sailing certification from the Red Cross and also the Small Craft Sailing Emblem which is the equivalent of Senior Lifesaving in the Water Safety Pro-^ gram.
The course will be given only to the members of the Sailing Club. However,
The Scholastic
28
“anyone can become a member of the club by paying dues for one semester which entitles them to use of the team’s boats and the sailing course.
Anyone interested in the course may contact Mike Crowe, 205 Sorin, who will be the instructor, or attend the meetings of the Sailing Club Wednesday nights at 7:30 in 209 of the En-& gineering Building.
ND-Miami
(Continued from page 26) fensive play finally matched his defensive skills.
George Vasu and Chuck Hutchings man the tackle posts. Vasu took the starting job from Al Rodberg, the “iron 9 man” last season. Hutchings, a junior, has been in and out of the starting eleven for two seasons.
At the guard positions will be Joe Kohut and Bob Cunio. Kohut, along with Rouviere, will serve as co-captain of the squad. He is an exceptional blocker and is one of those hard-to-find 60-minute men.
Cunio is very fast and usually leads . the blockers downfield. He is a junior 9 and considered one of the top Hurricane linemen.
Rounding out the starting lineup is center Tony DeTroia. He is an inexperienced newcomer to the starting team this year.
Before the season began, Coach Gustafson said that Notre Dame would be a tough hurdle. In a few hours everyone will know just how high Terry builds his fences.
Keglers
(Continued from page 25)
shifts on both Wednesday and Thursday, the two bowling dates designated by the club officers. The first shift for both days begins at 6:45 p.m. with the second starting at 8:45. Each ten-team circuit will bowl one shift.
At the end of the season in April, the ^four circuit winners will hold a rolloff W to determine a champion. Following this a banquet will be held for the Keglers at which individual prizes and team awards will be distributed.
Last season the AIEE and the Air Cadets collected top honors in the league. Bob Filipiak of Toledo maintained the highest average finishing with a 178 for 42 games while turning in the second highest’ total for a single game with 247 pins. Charles Shockley of Delaware turned in the highest total for single •game in addition to breaking the club record with 254 pins.
Tryouts for the university bowling
team will be held in one or two weeks. Further notice will be given on this. At this time, any student may participate in a 15-game rolloff. The six best men will then be chosen on the team to represent Notre Dame in inter-collegiate bowling.
Also, this year 37 additional teams not as yet affiliated with the Keglers have formed their own leagues.
Entertainment
(Continued from page 20) next Saturday); B; Columbia; color; R. Widmark-M. Zetterling—A trivial love story and a plot for larceny on a grand scale, done in Europe, brings everybody to a bad end. A big nothing. The End of the Affair (co-hit) is the sometimes absorbing, sometimes tedious film version of Graham Greene’s novel.
STATE
Shot Gun (ends tomorrow); B; Allied; color; S. Hayden-Y. DeCarlo-Z. Scott—Sterling and Zachary are both “good guys” competing to capture the gun smugglers in this outlaws and Indians classic. What, a classic? Jungle Gents offers the comedy of the Bowery Boys as an antidote.
Daddy Long Legs (Sunday through Tuesday); A-l; Fox; CinemaScope; color; F. Astaire-L. Caron—A bright, funny, up-to-date, thoroughly delightful music comedy with touches of unselfconscious art. Good entertainment. The Big Combo, a gangster melodrama, is the companion.
Jail Bait and The Fighting Men run Wednesday and Thursday.
WASHINGTON HALL
Hobson’s Choice (tomorrow 1:15, 3:25, 6:25, 8:40); A-2; United (British) ; C. Laughton-J. Mills—A leisurely British turn-of-the-century comedy. Likely to please all.
Radio-TV Highlights
WSND (640)
The Fighting Irish vs. Miami, tonight, 8; Sounds (live jazz), tomorrow, 1:30 p.m.; Tales of America (Burl Ives), tomorrow, 7:30 p.m.; Sunday Showcase, Sunday, 2 p.m.; The World This Week, Sunday, 8 p.m.; Mr. Chairman, Tuesday, 7:15 p.m.; Kampus Kwiz, Tuesday, 8:30 p.m.; Front Office, Thursday, 7:15 p.m.; Focus, Thursday, 8:30 p.m.; Meet Your Opponents (Michigan State), Friday, 5:30 p.m.
Showtime, daily at 1:30 p.m., features Make a Wish Monday, Deep in My Heart Tuesday, Can-Can Wednesday, Pajama Game Thursday, This Is the
Army Friday, and Sunday at 9 pjn., Showboat.
WNDU (1490) ABC
Football roundup followed by ND vs. Miami, tonight, 7:45 p.m.; Saturday Night Dancing Party, 10:15 p.m.; News of the Week, Sunday, 12:05 pan.; Voice of Firestone, Monday, 7:30 pan.; Sammy Kaye, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, 8 pan.; Presidential Press Conference, Wednesday, 8:30 pan.
Out of the Sack, Monday through Saturday, 6 to 7:30 aan.; Paul Harvey News, Monday through Friday, 12 noon, and Sunday, 8 p.m.
WNDU-TV (46) NBC
Pigskin Preview followed by Notre Dame vs. Miami, tonight, 8 pan.; Late Matinee, tomorrow, 5:30 pan.; Your Hit Parade, tomorrow, 9:30 pan.; The Christophers, Sunday, 4:30 pan.; TV Playhouse, Sunday, 8 p.m.; The Story of Notre Dame Television, Monday, 8 p.m.; ND-Miami filmed highlights, Monday, 8:30 p.m.; Fireside Theatre, Tuesday, 8 pan.; Screen Directors’ Playhouse, Wednesday, 7 pan.; Greatest Pro Football Highlights, Wednesday, 10:30 p.m.; Dragnet, Thursday, 8 pan.; Ford Theatre, Thursday, 8:30 p.m.
Theatre
ST. MARY’S dramatics group has begun rehearsals on G. B. Shaw’s Heartbreak House for production early in November.
Lectures
HISTORY — Prof. Carlton Hayes, author, teacher, scholar, former ambassador to Spain, and distinguished historian, will speak to history majors Monday on “The Making of a Historian,” Wednesday on “The Profession of a Historian,” and Friday on “Some Uses and Abuses of History” in room 104 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. He will give three more lectures the following week.
COMMERCE—A. B. Sparboe, vicepresident of Pillsbury Mills, Inc:, will address the eighth annual World Trade Conference Tuesday in the Morris Inn. His subject, “Is Uncle Sam Developing World Trade Ulcers?” Dr. Robert K. Lim of Miles-Ames Research Laboratory will speak on “China” at the conference luncheon. .Other activities during the day will be held in the Engineering Auditorium.	.
Sessions
A DEMONSTRATION TRIAL will be staged in Washington Hall at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow by the College of Law and judge and attorneys from South Bend. Open to the public.
October 7, 1955
29
Let an Arthur Murray Expert show you how to get more fun out of life!
Have you ever wondered why good dancers are so popular . . . get so many invitations? That’s because dancing well has given them the poise and confidence so necessary to everyday social success. They’ve learned to relax and have fun.
Why not get more fun out of life
Studios Air-Conditioned
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
Studios Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
CE2-3339 Sf™ CE2-3339
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE 602 S. WALNUT
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
yourself? Let an Arthur Murray expert bring your dancing up-to-date. Let him show you the shortcuts to popularity. Even if you’re a beginner, you can go dancing after just one lesson at Arthur Murray’s. So come in now and be all set for your next party.
Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue" Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
is ».35« iss-." s 98<
Dorms) 60 toblets—
V0£)0Z
AWA KE NE RS
SAFE AS COFFEE
Hall Mixers to Highlight Senate's Social Ledger
Pat Logan, social commissioner of the Student Senate, has announced the aims and approaching activities of the social committee for the coming year. Decentralized mixers, under the hall council system, are the committee’s immediate aims, said Logan.	W
Bus service to and from the Victory Dances for Notre Dame men and their dates from either St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses’ Home, or St. Mary’s Academy has been arranged by the Social Committee.
Buses will leave Holy Cross Hall and Le Mans Hall at St. Mary’s College at 8:15, 8:30, and 8:45 p.m. One bus will leave St. Joseph’s Nurses’ Residence atA 8:15 p.m. One bus will leave from Notrew Dame Circle at 7:30 p.m. to take students to St. Mary’s Academy to pick up their dates, and return them to the dance.
After the dance, buses will depart from Farley Hall at 11 p.m. for Holy Cross Hall. One bus will depart from Notre Dame Circle for St. Mary’s Academy at 11 p.m. This bus will wait ten minutes at the Academy, then return to Farley Hall. Buses ■will leave Farley^ at 11:30 p.m. for Le Mans Hall. AfteiE unloading, the first of these buses will pick up students in the front of Holy Cross Hall and return them to the campus. The last buses will wait 15 minutes at Le Mans, and also go to Holy Cross Hall to pick up Notre Dame students and return them to the Circle.
'Juggler' Announces Nov. 10 As Deadline For Winter Issue
John Meagher, editor of Notre Dame’s literary magazine, The Juggler, has announced that Dec. 7 is' the tentative date for the winter issue of the publication. The deadline for acceptance of manuscripts is Nov. 10.
Aiding Meagher this year are associate editors Bob Duffy and Dick Rupp; Terry Crowley is serving as the business manager. Members of The Jug-, gler's editorial board will be named ar a later date. Prof. Frank O’Malley is the group’s moderator.
During the past two weeks, the magazine has been conducting its annual subscription drive. Although the drive is almost over, subscriptions for the year’s three issues may be secured at 13 Sorin Hall.
Manuscript contributions from any undergraduate of the University will be accepted at 5 Sorin up until the Nov. 10. deadline. Meagher emphasized that his’ staff is continually looking for better material in all phases of writing.
The Scholastic
30
ROY W. LUCKETT
New AROTC cadet colonel.
Name Officers For AROTC;
Luckett Chosen For Top Post
Col. C. J. Letzeltei-, USA, professor of military science and tactics at Notre Dame, has announced the selection of a 21-year-old senior as cadet colonel of athe University’s Army Reserve Officers Training Corps Unit.
He is Cadet Roy W. Luckett of Nashville, Tenn. A chemical engineering major, he received the “Outstanding Military Science III Award” and was first in his company at the Fort Campbell ROTC Summer Camp this year. Cadet Luckett was recently designated as a Distinguished Military Student.
Seven other cadet officers were named ^as Cadet Luckett’s staff. They are: John ™L. Seiis, executive officer; Jackson L. Sigler, S-3 (training and operations); Richard L. Barnett, adjutant; John A. Schenkel, band director; Ralph P. Kep-ner, drill team; Joseph H. Franzgrote, public information officer; and John J. Fitzsimmons, president of the cadet club.
Four army battalion commanders were also named. They are August J. Hoover, Robert J. Welsh, Henry S. Dixon, and John C. Patz. ------------------------------------- ‘WHO’S WHO’ NOMINATIONS
Nominations for “Who’s Who” will be open from October 10-20.
Only seniors and graduate students are eligible. A nominating letter stating the student’s name and qualifications, should be mailed to the Who’s Who Nominations Committee, 1 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Any student may submit nomina-* tions, including his own. There is w no limit to the number of nominations the student may submit.
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles
will interview here October 18
COMPLETE OPTICAL SERVICE!
◄	EYES EXAMINED
◄	GLASSES FITTED*
◄	OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced. Broken Lenses Duplicated. “Bring in the Pieces”.
DRR.W. TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
207 W. Washington OLIVER HOTEL CE4-5777
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty
“Chicken In the Rough” % Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
81.15
FISH, WE IKS, CHOPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
WHIM UKUYid INK SHF
We SeH Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Diamonds Jewelry Walches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main Si. JAIJ. Bldg.
October 7,1955
31
Six Notre Dame Men Attend NSA Meeting
Eight students represented Notre Dame at the eighth congress of the National Students Association held this past summer at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis Aug. 21-31. The theme of this year’s congress was “Education for Freedom.” The purposes of the congress were to exchange ideas, to make and amend laws, and to discuss major issues involving educational freedom.
Among those from ND who attended were Pete Stui-tevant, a member of the national executive committee of the NSA; Tom Crehan, student body president; Karl Martersteck, Blue Circle chairman; John Adams, editoi- of the Scholastic; Jack Bure, chairman of the International Student committee on campus; and Joe Safko, secretary of the Student Senate.
The ND chapter of the NSA is composed of four commissions: the International, Student Government, Student Affairs, and Educational Affairs Commissions. The International Commission was the only one of these to work actively last year. Tom Sheehan, the newly appointed co-ordinator of the chapter, said recently that his main objective for
“The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.”—H. David Thoreau.
this year was to get the other three commissions active.
The NSA was organized primarily for the general betterment of college students. It is a large organization with over 600,000 members. Its top executives are paid employees of the NSA.
The NSA maintains a lobby in Washington for student representation in government. NSA has chapters in 300 universities and colleges across America and also sponsors bureaus for foreign student exchange and student travel.
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave.
Take Out Orders—CE 3-0444
^*04*^40'4 . . .
The Morant That’s Different and New
Thursday Kight Steaks $1.25
Student Specials Every Evening
Fish aid Chips after 9:011 P.M. 30c
delidaullif at. . .
32
The Scholastic
Meany Will Receive LaetareMedal Oct. 18
George Meany, president of the American Federation of Labor, will receive the University’s Laetare Medal for 1955 1 at a presentation dinner in Washington, k D. C., Oct. 18.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., J University president, will confer the 1 Laetare Medal on Meany, the first labor / leader to receive the award in its 73-year F history. Meany will deliver an address । of acceptance. The Most Rev. Patrick A. O’Boyle, archbishop of Washington, * will preside and address the dinner to be held in the Mayflower Hotel.
Meany was named recipient of the W award last March 20 which was Laetare Sunday, the traditional occasion for the announcement.
Established in 1883, the Laetare Medal is generally regarded as the most significant annual award conferred upon Catholic laymen in the United States. Recipients in recent years have included diplomat Jefferson Caffery; I. A. O’Shaughnessy, industrialist and philanthropist; Thomas E. Murray, a member* of the Atomic Energy Commission; Gen. J. Lawton Collins; actress Irene Dunne; and philanthropist John Henry Phelan.
111MTTE
208 E. Jefferson. Ph. CE 3-0969 welcomes you to Notre Dame and South Bend
WASHING AND DRYING AT REASONABLE RATES
Colored Hose Washed Free
THE BROOKS BROTHERS LOOK has been an outstanding tradition with generations of undergraduates
Whether it’s our casual sportwear, popular flannel or tweed suits, or fine evening wear, you can be assured of clothing that’s distinctive and in good taste when it’s from Brooks Brothers. Visit our "346” department, created just to serve you.
MITCHELL Travel Service
LaSalle Hotel
CE 2-2253 Phones CE 3-1181 Residence CE 2-0185
Open Saturdays to 3 p.m.
28-fage Fall catalogue u-pon request
ISTABUSHiDIBM
^ens Jiimisbings, flats bilboes
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
October 7, 1955
33
Hack
I
by Curt Matthews
observations:
respect and loyalty
The confusion of registration and starting another school year has almost subsided. It’s a good time to make a few observations. I’ve made a couple. I’d like to tell you about them.
I observed something at the first football game this year. The band was playing Notre Dame, Our Mother, the song ■of our school. And although everyone was standing, a few failed to remove their hats. Others milled impassively about, talking and laughing and looking for friends or their seats.
Call it pride, or call it sentiment or call it anything you want but traditionally the playing of an alma mater has always demanded a little respect from the student body.
As old-fashioned as the idea may be I still think the playing of a school song produces feelings of some kind in everyone. I wonder why some of us try not to show these feelings.
True sentiment, sentiment that is based on reasonable values is a faculty all of us should try to cultivate. It’s not something we should be ashamed of. It’s simply another emotion we should all be capable of, just like pride or joy or love. In our world of everyday misfortunes, tragedies, and death, we’re going to need a little sentiment now and then. People expect it of us as human beings.
There seems to be a growing trend in our generation to regard any display of emotion by someone under 25 in bad taste. It looks like everyone wants to play the role of stolid, unmoved cynic.
Almost every day the newspapers carry a stoi-y of some youngster making jokes, that are something less than
34
funny, about the sordid crime he has just committed.
Maybe the newspapers and movies have painted such a callous picture of America’s younger generation that they feel they might as well live up to it.
Whatever the reason for this thickskinned attitude of so many lately, it’s an unfortunate situation, both for them and us. Such an attitude can work on the personality like a disease. It can slowly convince a person that nothing around him is quite worthy of his concern oi- interest or attention.
When this happens the person may become so dull and shallow, so insensitive, that he can’t help cutting himself off from all personal and esthetic values and experiences.
I don’t mean you have to go overboard in the other direction and whip out a handkerchief every time the band plays Notre Dame, Our Mother. That would be just as bad as talking or laughing, if not worse. There’s a median that is manly and still leaves plenty of room for humility and true sentiment. If you don’t think so, just watch the athletes on almost any field or court while the National Anthem is being played. You’ll see what I mean.
It would be nice if Notre Dame’s student body could develop the outward respect for their school song as, say, the New York Yankees show during the playing of the National Anthem.
I’m sure all of us feel this respect; all we have to do is to start letting it show.
My second observation really began two days before I came back to school. It was at the Maryland-Missouri football game. That weekend I spent at
Missouri University was still fresh in my mind as I watched the football fever spread on this campus. The differences in what I saw were so evident that I couldn’t help making a comparison.
At Missouri it was hard to realize that the season’s first football game, something you’d expect to stir up even the most unconcerned co-ed, could pass with so little enthusiasm.
No one seemed to care actually who won or who lost or even if the teams showed up for the game on Saturday afternoon.
I don’t know why this should be so, i but I think I have a pretty good guess ™ based on what I saw that weekend and comparing it with what I saw around here last weekend. I think many schools get so bogged down with the social calendar, with fraternity or sorority obligations or with other general distribution of allegiance and interest that it’s hard to develop or maintain a central core of tradition. A oneness of spirit doesn’t get a chance to develop.
The students are Sigma Tris or Alpha J Delts or something, who sort of incidentally attend Missouri or Maryland or Arizona State. They look at college as the next step in their social life rather than in their education.
At Notre Dame the situation is different, I believe. Everyone at Notre Dame is, first of all, a Notre Dame man. A student may be president of the Scranton club, or editor of the Dome or captain of the football team but, first ■and foremost, he is a Notre Dame man. His first allegiance is to his school. A’
That, I think, is the way it should be. ® For it gives every student the same standard of loyalty.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
r
—t
A Campus-to-Career Case History
"I represent 30,000 people”
That’s the population of the Mason City, Iowa, area where Jack MacAllister (Iowa U., ’50) is Manager for Northwestern Bell Telephone Company. How would you like this kind of job?
• • •
66 As Telephone Manager I represent Mason City to my company, and vice-versa. Among my customers are bankers, farmers, housewives, merchants .... each with different questions and problems about telephone service. Through public information and good business
office service, my people and I do our best to furnish the answers.
66 My assignment calls for varied activities—sales, public relations, office supervision. One minute I’m describing a new construction program to a group of businessmen . . . the next explaining a new service to a rural customer.
66 It’s a job with lots of variety and responsibility, and I enjoy every day of it. My supervisor is 75 miles away,” says Jack, 66and that puts me pretty much on my own—which is the way I like it.”*
Jack MacAllister graduated with a B.S. in Commerce and started with Northwestern Bell about five years ago. As Telephone Manager at the age of 28, he is typical of the many young men who are building careers in telephone work. Similar opportunities exist today with other Bell telephone companies ... also with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation, lour Placement Officer has all the details.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
*P. S. Since this case history was prepared, Jack has been promoted. Now a manager at Des Moines, Jotva, he has increased responsibilities.

| Enjoy a Cool Mildness


impossible before
__thanks to the Miracle of
4b
Notice the exfra flavor that
comes through. Yet because this measurably better cigarette smokes more slowly —-you enjoy a cool mildness never possible before.
SMOKING!
bAR
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
best foe
5GETTI MYERS TOBACCO CO.
PUT A
SMILE IN YOUR
Get truly modern cigarette enjoyment! With electronic accuracy. Accu-Ray checks and controls the making of your Chesterfield. For the first time you get a ...
XPERFECT-SM0KE-C0LUMN-FR0M-END-T0-END14,
So put a smile in your smoking! Buy Chesterfield! Smoother ... cooler ... best for you!



Chesterfield
Made the Modern Way — with