SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
WK HAVE IT...
NEEDS: NO ELECTRICITY
NO SOAP OR WATER
NO MIRROR
ZIPPO ...the Original WINDPROOF Lighter
Here’s the vest pocket sized dry shaver that you can use any time — any place 1 Rolls away between-shave stubble fast; can’t cut, scrape or nick. Keep it in your desk drawer or pocket; use it in plane, taxi, office or locker room.
$3.00 with 10 of the finest razor steel blades.
U. 8. Off.
TAXI FREE to the Modern Gilbert’s
GILBERTS
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
s o U T H BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
Sir:
This week has been one prolific of belly laughs for yours truly, the zenith of which resulted after I read “The Week” column, a dubious masterpiece by one, J. A. O’Connor, Esq. Specifically, I received a large charge from his remark concerning the attraction which picture books hold for Engineers and Phy-Ed Majors.
It almost goes without saying that your “poor man’s Westbrook Pegler” has proven himself the acme of feeble-witted humorists. I use that word humorist in the loosest sense. I’m giving “J.A.” the benefit of the doubt when I say he was attempting to be funny. No individual could possibly be serious when voicing such trash.
Rectification of such childish scrib-blings would do much to foster the prestige of your journal.
I need not defend the name of engineering students nor the lads of Phy-Ed school. We don’t have to stoop down to defend the engineering students’ intellect. But let your columnist O’Connor and his confederates crawl up to our level and learn something practical.
Jim Carberry, 229 Alumni.
November 13, 1946
Dear Editor:
This letter is being written to express the views and opinions of many members of the Notre Dame Band, and we sincerely hope it will be taken in the right spirit by anyone it may point to, directly or indirectly.
We would like to know the reason why we were separated from the student’s section in the Yankee Stadium . last Saturday by reason of the section to which we were first assigned.
Why, at the last moment, were we herded like so many cattle into the front part of the student section?
Why was it that we were given seats on a temporary platform, while the band from West Point had choice grandstand seats?
Why is it that we are never given the same consideration as other college bands and university bands, even at our home games?
A short while ago some student asked when the University was going to get a representative band, worthy of ' Notre Dame? When is the band going to be (Continued on p. 6)
"I’m all over the map at once"
IT certainly keeps me on the go... my job of distributing equipment and supplies to the Bell Telephone companies throughout the nation.
"Right now I’m busier than ever . . . delivering telephones, switchboards, cable and countless other kinds of apparatus and supplies. They’re all needed for the Bell System’s construction program of more than $2,000,000,000 ... to give you better-than-ever telephone service.
”1 maintain 29 distributing houses at strategic locations, where I keep some 10,000 different items in stock . .. and where I also repair telephone equipment
“And that’s only part of my job. I’m manufacturer and purchaser for the Bell System...and I install central office equipment
"Remember my name... It’s Western Electric”
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM SINCE 1882
COLLEGE PARADE
Largest Selection o
in South Bend
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
Kaywoodie Pipes $5 up
EMPEROR and
ROYAL DEMUTH PIPES
$3.50 up
REMINGTON
ELECTRIC SHAVERS
•	Dual
•	Threesome
•	Foursome
Business Systems
126 S. Main Across from Court House
Not too early for lay-away gifts for
Christmas
126 N. Michigan Street
Cleanliness is Next to—Impossible . . .
We’ve been sitting here for the last two hours racking our brain (yes, we have one between the two of us) for something to gripe about. We finally hit upon it, the laundry situation. Picture the poor freshman, far away from his loved ones, as he crawls up to the counter in Badin. In his heart there’s a glimmer of hope as with quivering lip he says “Please, 0 Most Celestial High Potentate ... is my laundry in yet?” “No!” snorts the female Mephis-topheles as she reaches for her whip. Oscar Birdbrain drags his battered carcass back to his hovel. “Woe is me,” he sniffles as he wipes his nose with a sheet of second-hand Kleenex, “dear, sweet Anastasia coming to see me this week-end and me without a clean T shirt.”
Sheep in Wolfs Clothing . . .
We notice that movies of late have been making women’s clothes conspicuous by their absence and this condition is naturally having an effect on women’s styles. If brevity is the soul of wit, women’s wear was never funnier.
Favorite Sayings . . .
Prof. Smeeton: “That’s a good question” . . . Al Ifflander: “Hey, gimme a cigarette.” . . . Dick Gottsacker: “Everybody wants ta get in de act!” ... St. Mary's girl: “When do you get your check?” . . . Joe De Lias: “Who, me?” . . . J. L. O’Connor: “Who’s buying this round?” . . . Old John of the chow halls “Hey you! Seet ova heer! Vy for you don’t go vere I tell you? Hey, vatchoo say? For shame youself! I go find Fader Kehoe. He feex you.”
Odds 'n Ends . . .
It was a pleasure (except for the drizzle) to sit and watch a game last week where more than the helmets of the players could be seen. Not that we’re bitter, but it annoyed us to run into six cadets Saturday night in a Manhattan night spot who remarked, quote, “We hope that you’re getting an eyeful tonight. It will make up for what you missed this afternoon.” . . .To add to the fund of Big City stories already in our satchel, we have Tom Ferriter’s tale of the lad (big Op in South Bend) who bounced out of the Grand Central and ordered the cab driver* to take him to the Commodore! . . . Hats off to Jim Ferstel, whose Scholastic pictures of the Army game were as good, if not better,
than those of the news services. . . .We tip our caps also to Bob Uhl who introduced a motion for the approval of the Student Council concerning the showing of the movies of the games to the student body. That’s something we’ve been plugging for two years. . . . Orchids also to the seven lovely lassies who journeyed up from St. Mary’s of the Woods to cheer ND on to victory. One was the sister of Vince Scully—Oh, for the life of a big brother!
On Foreign Fields . . .
Ohio State has three vets enrolled in their Home Ecs School—those lads are taking no chances of being poisoned by the modern American miss and her lack of culinary skill.
Mundelein announces that ten former students have entered the religious life this year. Fine; and we notice a similar attitude in the dining hall—“One more meal like this and I’ll be in Moreau next semester!”
Purdue has a date bureau to help eds and coeds to become -acquainted—the catch is that the bureau will sanction only coke dates.
Just to prove that crime does pay: He worked and slaved each night till three
And all he got was j’ust a “C.”
She sat at bridge throughout each day, Winked at the prof—and got an “A.”
—Drake Times-Delphic
And from St. Mary’s we hear that there’s a girl there that wasn’t allowed to enlist last week—too wacky for the WACS and not wavy enough for the WAVES.
She: “You’re the kind of fellow a girl can trust.”
He: “Haven’t I met you before? Your faith is familiar.”
—Annapolis Log
Zoltan's Thesaurus .. .
Turkey—the bird that goes to the chopping block three weeks after* the politicians.
Agnostic—one who says he knows nothing about God, and when you agree with him, becomes angry.
Narrow-minded man—one who can look through a keyhole with both eyes.
Grapefruit—the most frequently used American eyewash.
4
5
THE WEEK John A. O'Connor
Overlooked in the resume of the Army trip weekend was the best crack of the week, which came inadvertently from an ND student, native of Brooklyn, when he was informed of the dining-car fare for the evening, "Welsh rarebit.” In his most annoyed Brooklynese DiBari retorted: “We can’t eat that; it’s Friday!” ❖
Down at St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods the dolls don’t have to roll out of their sacks on Saturday mornings, but the morning of the Army game there was a 100% turnout for early Mass and Communion. Didn’t think dames had it in ’em, but sometimes one has to admit they try.
South Bend’s cultural-minded citizens, including a few ND music lovers, turned out to heai- the Cleveland Orchestra’s symphonic presentation last week, and came away pleased. Sponsored by the Civic Music Association, the program highlighted Brahms’ Symphony No. 2, and the audience, amply beclustered with fur-bearing fems, sat spellbound by the masterful baton of George Szell.
Special inside flash! Some St. Mary’s girls sleep with toy dogs and rag dolls. Most enlightening indeed!
❖
Austin McNichols, the poor man’s John McCormick, has been dating a chorus
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
CLEANING Pressins While You Wait DYEING
One of Our Specialties:
Cold weather ahead ... Topcoats and Overcoats beautifully cleaned and pressed.
ConvemenflY located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE f
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
girl from Chicago by the name of Reva Merritt, or so he claims. Now we say, let Mr. McNichols bring his chorine on the campus come next football Saturday. Most of the visiting lassies have legs like Moose Fischer.
At the History Department’s latest open confab, last Tuesday evening, there were more brains floating around the place than on a slaughterhouse floor. In this instance the History Department is stepping out ahead of the other departments by supplementing their various courses with open lectures and discussions. This is a break for the students whether they know it or not. Other Departments should follow the lead and offer lectures and debates and discussions in Philosophy, Fine Arts, and Religion. Many students go through this institution without their choice of profs and leave with many questions unanswered because of accelerated p*)grams. More such enlightening evenings should be offered, featuring good speakers on interesting topical questions, such as marriage, labor, the Church in South America, new Catholic art, etc. We gotta keep sharp!
Best dressed man of the week: California’s gift to the campus and to local womankind, Jack Painter, who despite
the week-end’s rain, looked like something out of a Pic ad in his new quailbrown fedora.
Of all the classy fur-bearing animals strolling around this man’s campus last Sunday, the best looking one was proudly squired by Dillon Hall’s Bill Fuertges. How come these guys pass up their flriends when they’re so accompanied? Ruff!
❖
What’s the matter with campus lotteries for the Bengal Missions? There have been plenty of football pools around, why can’t they be officially taken over by the school and operated by the Economics Department, proceeds turned over to the Indian Missions? NO! okay.
LETTERS
(Continued from p. 3)
treated as a unit of the University, on a level with the other school organizations?
Are not we representing the University at the football games and other’ athletic functions in the same manner as the Yale band represents Yale University, or the Trojan band represents Southern California, or the Washington band, the University of Washington, and the Texas Christian band, the Texas Christian University? If so, why aren’t we given the same consideration?
Many remarks have been made, and many were repeated in New York regarding our uniforms. Such names as “doorman,” “cab-driver,” and “ticketcollector” were quite common and have been for some time, even here at Notre Dame. We, of the band, don’t mind this too much because we can all take a good joke, but why is it that all or most of the athletic teams here at Notre Dame have at least one new set of uniforms every couple of years, while the band members are, in many instances, forced to weai’ make-shift uniforms? One member wears a suit coat (his own), others wear NROTC uniforms and so forth. The band would improve 100 percent in appearance if it was furnished with enough uniforms for all of its members.
We are not looking for any special privileges or any special favors, but we would like to be shown the same consideration as the bands of the other large universities.
Sincerely,
Disappointed Notre Dame Band Members.
To The Editor:
Many of the men who like myself started here at school quite a few years ago are disgusted to say the least with the attitude of many of the fine tra-(Continued on p. 30)
6
7
THE HOTRE DflfflE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viclarus Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus
Founded 1867
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber_______________________H. Smith Keel
Itlltlttlltlllitlllttlllltlfltlllftllllltllfllllltltllilttlllllt
James Clemens______________________________News	Editor
Frank Keenan___________Associate News Editor Joe Cheney Sports	Editor
foe Wilcox______________________________Feature	Editor
frank Cacciapaglia_______Photographic Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock__________________________Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
Cover—J. H. Brogan photographed Patrick Durkin as he offers a prayer of thanksgiving.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf Circulation M. E. Varga____________________Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS
Law Club picture, page 9, football action, page 18, and Father Cavanaugh, page 21, by Frank Cacciapaglia. South Bend pictures on pages 14, 15, 16 by Dave Cowdin. Picture of St. Mary's-of-the-Woods visitors, page 12 by Jim McLaughlin.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office. Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
8'

Gef Out and Vote/
The recent Junior class elections manifested an alarming apathy on the part of the class to student affairs in general and in particular to the election of its own officers. Because of the infinitesimal vote—only 85 Juniors bothered to go to the polls—the Administration has decided that the elections are invalid and must be held again on December 4th. The Student Council has expressed the feeling that at least 30% of the class must vote in order to render the class election valid. The height of something or other was reached when six of the candidates, presumably eager to obtain office, failed to vote.
If this prevailing lack of interest in student elections continues, it is fair to predict that class offices will gradually degenerate into a sort of oligarchic privilege to be grabbed by any self-interested group aggressive enough to vote itself in and its friends while the general student body dreamily sniffs at daisies. If the daisy sniffers are too preoccupied to care who is elected to a class office, then by all the rules of fair play they should have no right to outrage when something goes wrong. It ought to be remembered that the democratic attitude entails not only a bill of rights but also a bill of obligations. And one of the obligations is to get out and vote.
Much of the problem seems also to lie in the present election system which has sunk into an abyss of ineffectiveness. Candidates print posters, regularly fail to state their qualifications other than that they were on the hall handball team, do not make any enlightening campaign speeches, and eventually do not vote themselves. If the candidates take the attitude that class elections are nothing but a huge farce, then the blame of the student body diminishes proportionately.
Furthermore, the class elections do not receive enough publicity. At best they are whispered about in a campaign that becomes almost confidential. Most general complaint of the students is that they do not know the precise date upon which elections are to be held, or where, or what constitutes local voting procedure. If such a state of confusion exists, if the election system is so slipshod then it can hardly elicit either the confidence or the cooperation of the student body.
Many of the students would feel more inclined to vote if they knew the specific platform upon which candidates hoped to be elected, and what powers they would exercise once they were in office. Some are so cynical as to allege that
class officers are in the main, mere figure-heads, that they have no power, nor would they be permitted to do anything for the welfare of the students even if they wished to. While such a wholesale allegation is unfair, it will continue to perpetuate itself as long as the general student body remains unaware of the exact nature and extent of the powers the class officers are to represent. A definitive statement from some responsible body on the specific prerogatives of student administration would help immeasurably to reduce the misguided rumors that float around and the rancor that is created by them. As long as the students remain convinced that their class officers are straw-filled puppets, and as long as the candidates themselves do nothing to disabuse their conviction, it is highly conceivable that little or no voting will (Continued on Page 33)
Extended Holiday?
We have been morosely cogitating on our Thanksgiving holiday for the past several days and thinking of our blithe collegiate sisters across the Dixie joyfully preparing for theirs. It shakes our faith in the rightness of the world when we compare our wan one-day vacation from the battle of the text books with their rosy three-day respite.
The comparison so irked us that we stirred ourselves from our usual lethargy; we sounded out several of our more powerful friends on the Student Council as to the feasibility of petitioning the Administration to put a little frosting on our Thanksgiving cake by also giving us Friday and Saturday off. We pointed out that Saturday classes would be of only thirty-five minutes duration, and that attending classes on Friday would be like putting a piece of fish between two slices of bread, a very tasteless dish indeed. Our friends brushed us off with the righteous explanation that the Council several weeks ago decided to ask for Armistice Day off instead of an extended' Thanksgiving vacation, and they could not, definitely could not, ask for another holiday.
We left our friends dejectedly, almost inured to the idea that we would be attending classes while the old grads swarmed to the campus for the Home-coming celebration. But being firm believers in the power of the printed word, we decided io make one last, desperate appeal.
We’re on our knees in supplication, Student Council.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	-
at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 9
NOVEMBER 22, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Election of Officers Declared Invalid
Seniors Split Tickets In Electing
Mastrangelo and Usina to Top Jobs
Larry Turner, Chairman of the Student Election Committee, announced last Monday night at the meeting of the Student Council that only 85 students voted in the junior class elections. As a result the administration has declared the elections not valid and they will be run off again on December 4. At least thirty per cent of the class must vote for an election to be valid, and if this is not accomplished on the second election the juniors will not have any class officers.
The council passed on a motion to set up an investigation committee to determine if the laundry situation here on the campus can possibly be speeded up. Many complaints have been received of late from the student body due to the fact that their laundry has been taking over the two week period allotted for each hall.
Decoration rules were announced for the Homecoming weekend by Bob Uhl, chairman of the Blue Circle. Each hall will be limited to $75.00, and the decision of the judges will be final. Decorations are not to exceed the height of the hall nor will there be any dangerous or hazardous decorations exhibited.
St. Ed’s Hall was given permission to hold a Christmas Party and general get together at Washington Hall on December 11. Films taken by one of the men in (Continued on Page 32)
Blue Circle Announces Final Plans for Nov. 30 Homecoming Activities
The mammoth Homecoming activities ■ which will take place next weekend were gradually being moulded into definite form this week as the Blue Circle committee moved into the final phase of preparations. To be climaxed by the Victory Dance in the Navy Drill Hall on Saturday evening, November 30, following the Southern California game, the festivities will include the hall decorating contest, a cheer contest, the pre-game football rally on Friday night and the return to the campus of many of Notre Dame’s alumni from near and far.
John Mastrangelo, Presidential candidate on the SPATNC ticket, came out on top in a spirited senior class election, the Student Council announced yesterday. “Independent” J. D. Usina led a field of five Vice-Presidential nominees, while Frank Gilhooley and R. A. O’Connell, both of whom campaigned with the Fighting Irish party, triumphed in the race for Secretary and Treasurer respectively. Though individual totals were not revealed, 209 ballots were cast in the voting, which sharply contrasted with the meager 85 votes elicited in last week’s junior class election.
Results of the Junior elections, which were held on Wednesday, Nov. 13, were not announced. The figures were withheld because the balloting was declared “no election,” due to the small numbei-of men who voted. A re-election will take place on Dec. 4. There are three tickets
NO "SCHOLASTIC" NEXT WEEK
There will be no "Scholastic" published next week because of the Thanksgiving holiday. The football issue will roll off the presses Dec. 6. All those desiring extra copies are asked to mail orders and inclose 35 cents for each magazine to the Publications Office before Nov. 28.
The Victory Dance, the last of the season, will feature Bob Strong and his orchestra, a popular “big name” outfit, with the admission being $2.50 per couple. In keeping with the Homecoming motif, the committee, with Paul P. Abraham of Wheeling, W. Va., and Richard Elliott of Ashland, O., as co-chairmen and Robert Uhl of Decatur, Ill., coordinating chairman, plans to have the Drill Hall specially decorated. The orchestra, which has broadcast over coast-to-coast networks of both NBC and CBS, (Continued on Page 32)
of candidates for election to junior class offices. The first is made up of Joseph Signaigo, for president; Joseph Sobek, for vice-president; Paul Abraham, for secretary; and Gasper Urban, for treasurer.	' '
Included on the second ticket, in the same order, are George Sullivan, Thomas Higgins, Phil Lyons, and Thomas Jackson. James Kinn, Harry Reich, Donald Poepsel, and Joe Di Spigno are running on the third. Also to be printed on the Junior ballot are the names of five independents: Thomas J. Ferriter and John Harrington, for vice-president; Gerard Hekker, for secretary; and Frank Roth-ing and Tom Molloy for treasurer.
On Nov. 6 the sophomore class chose its officers from a list consisting of two tickets. The candidates-elect are Terry Brennan, president, with 125 votes; Bill Murtagh, vice-president, with 110; Bob Leander, secretary, also having 110; and Frank Baker, with 87. On the losing ticket were Frank Vittori, who lost to Brennan, getting 30 votes; Myles Quail, Murtagh’s opponent, with 43; Leo Vogel, opposing Leander, and garnering 43 also; and John McCormick, who was defeated by Baker and who received 66 votes.
Members of the winning ticket in the sophomore class were known during the campaign as the “49ers.”
Next week, on Nov. 27, the freshman class will elect its student leaders. Eight men, making up two opposing tickets, are candidates for office. On one are Thomas B. Nelson, Albert Algier, William Duggan, and Joseph Cattalani. They are seeking the offices of president, vicepresident, secretary, and treasurer, in that sequence. Their opponents are Charles Perrin, Herbert Sampson, Donald Luecke, and James O’Connor.
All class elections have been and will be held between the hours of twelve and five on Wednesday afternoons in the basement of the dining hall,.
—Bill Bradley
9
Raise Ticket Price for Final "V" Dance
Two dollars and fifty cents per couple is the price you’ll pay for dancing to the music of Bob Strong and his orchestra after the Southern California Homecoming game, Nov. 29. Otherwise this crowning event to a gala Homecoming weekend will operate as usual: same rules, same permissions, same restrictions.
A little more information on the feature attraction of the evening should prove interesting.
Most new bands, trying to make the grade to the “big-name” class, go through a gruelling process of one-night stands and tank-town dates before climbing to
Jo Ann Tally, featured singer with Bob Strong's orchestra.
the relative prominence of a location spot with a network broadcast twice a week. But that’s not the way Bob Strong does it. For Strong, who leads his great new band into the Navy Drill Hall a week hence, following, by the way, an engagement tomorrow night at St.-Mary’s-of-the-Woods College in Terre Haute at which will be co-featured the presence of numerous Notre Dame men, reversed the process. Starting as a high-powered radio conductor, he went from there into the “in person” field where enthusiastic followers were ready to welcome him.
The many radio shows,' “Uncle Walter’s Doghouse,” Avalon Time with Red Skelton, “Showboat,” ' College Humor, and the Armour Company’s “Treat Time,” brought the band a great flexibility of style while it built up a horde of listeners throughout the land anxious to see it perform in person. The arrange
ments, all personally supervised by Bob Strong, maintain a distinctive touch for every number the band plays, yet are carefully contrived to eliminate any tendency to become rutted in a single style.
So says the Press Relations Department of MCA. For proof of this, or to ascertain the validity of any opinions to the contrary, drop over to the Drill Hall on the 29th, but bring along a date —no stags admitted. ’
"Dome," First Since 1942, to Appear About May 15
So you think the war is over. Then try putting out a yearbook and you’ll soon agree with the Dome staff that as far as yearbook materials are concerned, the old war is still raging full blast.
Despite the critical shortage of paper and other Dome ingredients, the Notre Dame yearbook will make its first appearance since 1942 come next May 15. An added feature of the ’47 yearbook will be a number of color pictures sprinkled throughout.
Topping the staff of ’47 Dome-men is Johnny Walker, fowner Scholastic feature editor, who as editor holds main control over what will go into the annual’s 400 pages. Handling the cash-and-carry end of the book is Art Coughlan, who last semester helped pilot Scholastic circulation. Camera-wise Jim Ferstel tops the battery of lensmen who account for the book’s pictorial coverage and holds the title of picture editor. Dick Dietz is sports editor. Bud Condron and Pete Ahrens are co-editors of the activity section while John Swain and Don Birren co-edit the art work. Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., is the Dome’s faculty advisor.
On Nov. 25, the staff will hold a banquet at the LaSalle Hotel, before beginning the final phase of work on a job begun last summer.—E. Snyder
Students Pay Tribute to George Obermaier
The spiritual bouquet for George C. Obermaier, who died in New York two weeks ago, reached tremendous proportions as all of the 13 residence halls sent in contributions. Notre Dame students offered 6,174 Masses, 4,365 Communions, 3,984 Rosaries, and 6,140 visits to the Grotto.
On Nov. 14, students crowded Sacred Heart Church for a requiem high Mass for the repose of the soul of the junior who suffered a stroke at the Army game. Father Ferdinand Brown, George’s prefect in Dillon Hall, read the Mass, and the singing was done by the Moreau choir.—Joe Herrington
'46 Laetare Medal Conferred on Hayes
The University formally conferred its Laetare Medal foi’ 1946 on Dr. Carlton J. H. Hayes, internationally distinguished historian, author and diplomat, at a private ceremony Tuesday, at the Cosmopolitan Club in New York City.
Presiding at the presentation, which was witnessed by a small group of close personal friends of Dr. Hayes, was the Most Rev. J. Francis A. McIntyre, Auxiliary Archbishop of New York. The medal was presented by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., formei- president of Notre Dame, who also read the accompanying citation.
The Laetare Medal — American counterpart of the historic Golden Rose decoration of the Vatican — has been presented annually by the University of Notre Dame to the outstanding American Catholic of each year. Dr. Hayes is the 64th recipient of the Laetare Medal, so called because its recipient is first announced on Laetare Sunday or the fourth Sunday of Lent.
Dr. Hayes was awarded the 1946 Laetare Medal by Notre Dame for his “preeminence in the field of history as teacher and author,” and for “his brilliant discharge of a wartime diplomatic mission that called for extraordinary tact and forthrightness” as United States Ambassador to Spain from 1942 to 1945, which “elicited from the President of the United States a very special tribute and the abiding gratitude of his countrymen.” —	■	I
Alumni Clubs to Meet Homecoming Weekend
Presidents of 80 alumni clubs of the University representing every part of the United States will meet on the campus Friday and Saturday, Nov. 29 and 30, to develop club programs for the coming year.
The alumni presidents, who will be guests of the University, will have as a major topic of discussion the reconversion and expansion of club activities. The meeting has been scheduled in order to provide alumni of the University with a closer understanding of University problems.
The 80 alumni clubs, organized in cities and states throughout the nation, are the key channels of organization in carrying out the program of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame.
10
Folk Song Concert to Be Presented By Trapp Family In Washington Hall
For something- extraordinary in the realm of musical entertainment the men of Notre Dame are invited to attend a concert to be given by the Trapp Family Singers this evening at 8:00, in Washington Hall. This artistic and unique family will present a program of rollicking folk songs of many lands, gay lilting pastoral songs of Elizabethan England; and masses and motets of Bach and Mozart, in irresistible combination.
The saga of the Trapp Family Singers had its beginning long ago, when an early Baron von Trapp established the family seat in a palatial villa near Salzburg. For music is in the very air of this region. A few miles away is the little church where the best loved of all Christmas carols, Franz Grubers, “Silent Night, Holy Night” was first sung by the worshippers on their way to Christmas Midnight-Mass. The nearest town is quaint old Salzburg, renowned for two centuries as the birthplace of Mozart. Thus, the Trapp Family Singers were born to a rich musical heritage.
Law Club Freshman Smoker — Law students watch Ed Dixon in :	a comic recitation.
Lawyers Hold Smoker At Indiana Club
Mr. Richard P. Tinkam, member of
Indiana State Bar Examiners, spoke to the members of the Notre Dame Law
Club at their regular monthly smoker at the Indiana Club on Thursday, No-
vember 14.
He was introduced by Mike
Haynes, freshman representative, of the
The choral group will be under the capable direction of Father Franz Wasner, who prior to his becoming mentor of the baronial brood which is a sizable little congregation in itself, had been a teacher of Gregorian Chant at the Salzburg Seminarium Majus, for years concentrated on musical studies and had held the post of organist at the Austrian National Church in Rome.
As the Nazis took over Austria the Baron bundled his family over the Alps to Italy, and finally on here to the States. They now reside in Stowe, Vt., where during the summer months music lovers from all over the United States visit the Trapp Family Music Camp.
Since their humble beginning they have made six transcontinental United States tours, having given more than five hundred concerts in forty-six states. Everywhere they have visited from New York’s Town Hall to the auditorium in Portland, Oregon, this illustrious family has been wildly acclaimed. An evening filled with musical enjoyment is in store.
Law Club. Mr. Tinkam is a practicing attorney from Hammond, Indiana.
Mr. Tinkam explained how to write a bar examination, as well as what the Bar Examiners expect of a student in measuring up to the standards set for admission to practice law in Indiana.
Blue Circle Group Reactivated By SC
The Blue Circle, an honorary group, has been reorganized on the campus this year to further cooperation between the Student Council and the University administration so that the best interests of the University of Notre Dame may be advanced at all times.
At the reorganization meeting, Bob Uhl was elected chairman; Charles Russ, vice-chairman; and Walt Zenner, secretary.
Established in 1922 and first named the Booster’s Club, the Blue Circle functions as a subsidiary of the Student Council and operates under the Council’s jurisdiction. Its purpose is five-fold:
1.	To act as a spearhead for all student rallies.
2.	To act as minute men in any large-scale activity promulgated by the Student Council and affecting- all students.
3.	To carry out student participation and cooperation in any program sponsored by the University’s administration.
4.	To inculcate and perpetuate the Notre Dame spirit in all students.
5.	To become leaders in making Notre Dame a family of men and to promote the principles of Catholic leadership.	'
Any Notre Dame student with an academic average of 80%, and who has not been suspended from the University, is qualified for membership in the Blue Circle. Members are selected by the Student Council at the beginning of each school year. The Blue Circle has com-piled1 an outstanding record of achievement since its inception at Notre Dame, and it is now an honor and- a mark of distinction for a Notre Dame man to become a member of the group. ’
At present the Blue Circle is busy promoting inter-hall football and basketball, organizing the weekly football rallies, arranging victory dances, and planning for the homecoming celebration, November 30. The contest for new football cheers, which ended Tuesday, was also sponsored by the Blue Circle.
Anticipating a busy program during the remainder of the school year, the Blue Circle has created the following standing committee: Scholastic, John McKeon, chairman; Athletic, Vince O’Reilly, chairman; Social, Tom Green, chairman; Spiritual, Bill Wombacher, chairman; Rallies, Charles Russ, chairman; Decorations, Paul Abraham, chairman; Publicity, Ed Simpson, chairman; Traditions and Customs, Tom Higgins, chairman; and Special Activities and Program, Dick Elliott, chairman. ...
—John Waters
11
Warren Brown to MC Calif. Club Banquet
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
. A limited number of students, and their guests, will be admitted to the memorial dinner in the Bronzewood Room of the La Salle Hotel next Friday night, it was announced this week by the committeemen of the California Club, sponsors of the fete. The dinner will be the last big social blowoff of the football season, which ends the following day with the ND-Southern California game. Special guests at the banquet will be alumni and boosters of the University from Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Hollywood.
As usual with such affairs, a speaker list has been compiled, but committeemen are emphatic in their assertion that the feed's the thing, and regardless of celebrities, chinmusic will be held to a minimum. Autograph hounds are warned against cluttering the place.
A good many guests who plan on attending the banquet have been following the Notre Dame-Southern California series since the late Howard Jones and the immortal Knute Rockne first began their intersectional clashes back when the flying wedge was okay and the forward pass was still a bottle-baby. In order to accommodate the many ND followers who will be unable to leave the sunny state of California for the big game, a special canned broadcast, originating here in South Bend, will be directed at the Coast next Friday night.
Warren Brown, ace sportscribe of the Chicago Sun, is tentative master of ceremonies.
Chiefly responsible for engineering the dinner is the campus California Club’s president, Christy Walsh, of Hollywood. Pulling strings, wires, and cablegrams, conferring with administration bigwigs, sweating over invitation lists and arranging the setup with the management of the La Salle Hotel, Walsh has lost considerable pounds and worked himself into a frazzle so that the affair may please all those lucky enough to participate. Actual pusher- and drafthorse of the project has been Dillon Hall’s Stan Stone, who, notwithstanding the cheesecake on the walls, has turned his room into a veritable control panel through which activities connected with the chowfest have been routed.
Invitations have not only included luminaries from the West Coast, but also local friends of the University, and even some Southern Cal followers. Students who wish to arrange for tickets are re
minded to contact Joe Farinella at 305 Cavanaugh as soon as possible. Student tickets go at $3.50, which includes dinner, fingerbowl, and a chance to hiss the guests. Chowline opens at 5 o’clock, the night before the SC game. You guessed it, Friday, so you’ll eat fish wherever you go. But at the Bronzewood it’s fresh lake trout.
Poems of 3 ND Students Included In "Anthology"
The third annual Anthology of College Poetry will feature poems by three Notre Dame men. Dennis Hartman, Secretary of the National Poetry Association, has disclosed that the work of C. R. Erickson, Commerce major from Minneapolis and Alumni Hall, George H. McCarthy, off-campus Journalism major from South Bend, and Vincent C. Scully of the Commerce College, Pittsburgh and Sorin Hall, will be published in the forthcoming anthology.
The annual anthology is heralded as “a compilation of the finest poetry written by the college men and women of America representing every State in the union” by the Association which makes its headquarters in Los Angeles. Selections, which will include Temporal, by Erickson; Of Life and Hope, by McCarthy; and On Fate, by Scully, were made from thousands of poems submitted.
Bedraggled after exposure to the liquid sunshine at Saturday's football game, a contingent from St. Mary's of the Woods College at Terre Haute, Ind., still managed smiles for the SCHOLASTIC photographer. Left to right: Joan Scully, with her escort. Bill Buechler, of Northwestern; Jo Kerrigan, Margie McNulty, Hallie Ann McMahon, Anna Louis Hannan, Barbara McCarthy, and Mary Fran Kneer. Behind Buechler, second from left, are Vince Scully (wearing glasses), freshman law student and brother of Joan, and his wife Kit.
Architecture Annex Nearing Completion
The main interest among Notre Dame students, aside from rehashing the N.D.-Army “battle of the century,” is the construction work going on about the campus. Since most of the work remaining on Farley Hall is being done on the inside, the new addition to the Architectural Building is the center of attraction. Francis W. Kervick, head of the Architecture Department, drew up the plans for the annex, while the actual building is being done by the Sollitt Construction Co. of South Bend.
The plans call for two large rooms, 67 by 25 feet. These instruction rooms have the advantage of large, moderntype windows which run nearly the length of the building. There will also be room for three offices, a shop, and a darkroom. Besides opening directly into the existing building, the two-story addition will have three other entrances.
Although the walls were erected with cement blocks, they will be brick-veneered at a future date. The frame is going up rapidly, but shortages of some materials will prevent the completion of the building until at least the second semester of the present school year.
—Joe Herrington
12
Panoramic view of the metropolis, showing downtown section, St. Joseph river, part of residential area in foreground. Public library is at extreme right, center of picture.
—Photo by Stouffer Graphic Arts, South Bend
South Bend-Home of Notre Dame
By JOE WILCOX
1	A favorite collegiate pastime is cuss-
[ ing the college town. No exception, N.D. ! students give South Bend its share of uncomplimentary epithets. Whether Joe
! Blow comes from New York City or t West Snailshell, he’s sure that the home-/ grown girls, beer, entertainment and citi! zenry are all superior to anything South Bend can offer.
Campus men of the world set down South Bend as a typical midwestern industrial city. Bostonians sneer at it. They regard South Bend as a species of mushroom which sprung up over night in the era of great industrial expansion. But facts belie sentiment and prejudice. S'outh Bend has a long, if halting his-
tory, goes back to the great French voy-ageurs who explored this area in the late seventeenth century. The St. Joseph-Kankakee Portage which separated the St. Joseph rivei’ from the Kankakee ditto, passed over much of the land now occupied by South Bend. The Kankakee flowed into the Mississippi, and was therefore a logical route for the French going into the Louisiana territory.
Tradition reports that Pere Jacques Marquette, the great Jesuit explorer and missionary, made the trip over the Portage in 1675 on his last trip from the Illinois country to Michigan where he died at Ludington from overwork. There is no direct evidence to suppoi-t this tradi
tion, but the route was the logical one to take.
South Bend can claim more historically to have been visited by that great itenerant, Rene Robert Cavalier de La Salle, another French explorer who arrived at the Portage in 1679, four year’s after Marquette’s debatable coming. He later held a big pow-wow under the famed “council oak” with the Miami and Illinois Indians to enlist their aid against the Iroquois who canoed as far as Wisconsin on marauding trips. Another French Jesuit, Pere Allouez, founded a mission north of South Bend near Niles, may have founded another on the shores of St. Mary’s Lake. He is buried at Niles.
13

Singularly bare is this picture, taken at 9 a. m. Walgreen's corner is usually black with Notre Dame men watching the South Bend passing parade, looking for St. Mary's
ed by Coquillard and his fellow tradesmen as a boost to their business, and from the first, relations between the school and community were friendly. Father Sorin’s first pupil was Alexis Coquillard the younger, who had guided Father Sorin to St. Mary’s lake. Thus, the son of a tavern keeper was the first Notre Dame man.
South Bend didn’t know it then, but it got a prize in 1852 when a couple of boys named Studebaker started a blacksmith shop. Before long, with the aid of three other brothers, they were making carriages. Still later, this carriage factory became the Studebaker Automobile Corporation and a mainstay of South Bend industry.
girls doing likewise.
The black curtain of oblivion falls now, stays down for over a century. It was not until 1820 that the first permanent white settler set up shop in the South Bend area. He was Pierre Navarre, who came in 1820 as the agent of the American Fur Company. He followed his Indian bride west when the Indians were forcibly removed in 1837, later returned to South Bend where he died in 1864. His log house, the first in South Bend, now stands in Leeper Park.
The first of the two co-founders of South Bend appeared in 1823. His name was Alexis Coquillard, newly come from Detroit as a representative of the same American Fur Company. His brother, Benjamin Coquillard, was the father of Notre Dame’s first student, Alexis Coquillard the younger. Benjamin set up . a tavern in South Bend, perhaps envisioning the establishment of something like Notre Dame. His tavern was an immediate success and was for years the center of social life. Alexis the elder, upon his arrival, named the village “Big St. Joseph Station.”
A competitor in the fur business turned up in 1827, in the person of Col. Lathrop Taylor, who renamed the town ■ “St. Joseph.” Both he and Coquillard soon saw the folly of rivalry, invited more settlers, built mills, dams, and operated ferries. In 1829, the first post office was established, under the name of “Southhold.” A year later, .it became South Bend.
The name South Bend was not popular with the early citizens. They thought that a bend in a river was a small distinction after which to name a great city. A record of their protests still exists in the long-defunct South Bend Free Press, of Dec. 18, 1836.
“Attention, one and all:
A Meeting of the citizens of South
Bend and others interested will be held at the Court House in South Bend on Wednesday evening, of the 21st inst., at early candlelight, to consider the propriety of adopting some appropriate name corresponding to the growing importance of the place, when a variety of names will be submitted for consideration.
signed, Many Citizens.”
But the Many Citizens were howling at the moon; South Bend it was and South Bend it stayed, despite drastic measures such as protests and appeals to the State Legislature.
In 1831, Coquillard and Taylor laid out the plans for the city, promoted it successfully as a county against the opposition of towns like the now deceased Portage. By 1836, the population numbered 800.
Father Sorin’s arrival and subsequent establishment of Notre Dame was greet-
Domed South Bend courthouse is blackened with age. usually covered with hundreds of half-wild pigeons.
South Bend soon outgrew its rivals, Mishawaka and Portage, while the latter vanished because it failed to build a bridge over the St. Joseph river. Misha-awaka grew more slowly than South Bend, soon became the satellite it is today. Alexis Coquillard the elder missed all the excitement of South Bend’s coming of age, since he died in 1855 as a result of having fallen through a burned floor in one of his mills. A year later, James Oliver and two other entrepreneurs started a plow works in South Bend; later under the guidance of Oliver, it became the Oliver Farm Implement Company, one of South Bend’s major contributions to mankind.
While Notre Dame and South Bend have not maintained a dog and cat relationship during the more than a century that they have been neighbors, they have had a spat here and there. One of the first and worst was between Father Sorin and Schuyler- Colfax, a local politico who rose from Congress to the Vice Presidency (under Grant). During the
14
elections of 1864, with what must have been a record for political gall, this worthy threatened, if elected to Congress, to revoke the deferments of the N.D. brothers, who were deferred from military service, if they did not go to the polls and vote for the Republicans. Father Sorin, who knew that Schuyler was capable of doing what he had threatened, told one of the brothers to tip the rest off to “vote right,” but the brothers, being contrary Irishmen and therefore, good Democrats, would not be intimidated by any force whatever, lay or clerical. They all voted Democratic. Ironically, had nothing been said by Colfax, they would not have voted, since Sorin thought that politics and religion did not mix; his religious, as a rule, did not vote. Finding out that the brothers had refused to be coerced, the adamant Colfax was as good as his word, cancelled the deferments. A measure of
Michigan Street is really South Bend's Main street. Its actual "Main'' street is downtown, has lesser shops. Michigan Street is principal artery of trade.
good will was restored through the intervention of Mrs. William T. Sherman, wife of Gen. S'herman, of Georgia fame, who had placed the family at Notre Dame during the Civil War. She put in a good word at Washington for the brothers, who got back their deferments.
Notre Dame and South Bend have had numerous minor skirmishes, involving celebrating students. Sometimes overexuberant pep rallies grew into young riots which turned sedate downtown South Bend upside down. The last of these occurred in 1942, the night before the Michigan game, when about 2,000
Favorite rendezvous of Notre Dame men is Rosie's, properly the Sunny Italy Cafe, where the N. D. boys congregate, sometimes with dates and sometimes stag, to eat spaghetti and drink the amber fluid.
students snarled traffic, invaded theatres for free shows, and otherwise caused confusion. Students of still earlier days would dismantle streetcars after football victories; the University got the bill and the students were lucky to come off with only a tongue-lashing.
Perhaps the most serious trouble ever to develop between South Bend and Notre Dame was in 1924, when the Ku Klux Klan, then running Indiana, held a parade in South Bend on May 17. Klansmen from neighboring Goshen, New Carlisle, etc. poured into the city with fresh night
shirts on their ai-ms. The police, washing their hands of the whole affair, said the parade would be prevented, were nowhere around when it was held. Notre Dame students, itching for a fight with the hated Kluxers, formed their own reception committee. They would greet an incoming Klansman, who, suspecting nothing, would follow them into an alley, later to emerge somewhat the worse for wear. They stoned the Klan headquarters at Michigan and Wayne where the frightened Klansmn had holed up for safety.
On the following Monday night, the students, learning through underground channels that one of their number was held by the Klan, poured into South Bend again. This time the Klan was ready. The sheriff, promptly deputized a.battery of Klansmen who more promptly cracked many a N. D. skull. At this point, Father Hugh O’Donnell, Prefect of Discipline, and Father Matthew Walsh, then President of the University, arrived on the bloody scene. Father O’Donnell and the chief of police managed to get the students together on the Court House lawn where Father Walsh, in an eloquent speech, induced them to return to the University. While the trouble with the Klan did not end there, it lessened and was confined to threatening notes sent to the University by Klan members. Finally, the Klan faded out and was practically forgotten.
Despite the fact that town and gown are traditionally at odds, Notre Dame and the city manage rather well together at the present time. South Benders realize that the University is a real asset; the name of South Bend is inseparable from that of Notre Dame, which is in turn inseparable from glamour, football and a 4 million -dollar a
15
year turnover. Most of the students, despite the fact that they fervently anathematize S’outh Bend, feel that it is a cooperative college town and has many of the chai-ms of back home.
Industrially, South Bend is near the top. Out of a total of 150 industries, it has six which are outstanding. The Studebaker Corporation, The Bendix Products Division of the Bendix Aviation Corporation, and its subsidiary the Bendix-Westinghouse Airbrake Corporation, the Singer Manufacturing Company, Wilson Brothers, men’s clothing manufacturers, and the South Bend Lathe Works. Business men agree that South Bend’s industries are sound, admire the comparative labor peace here.
Artistically, South Bend could improve, is fair now. It boasts a good symphony orchestra, which has a concert season each year, the usual number of itinerant concert artists, a lot of local talent presentations. Dramatically South Bend is frankly out in the cold. About once a year it gets a touring professional stage play; has such hits as “The Corn Is Green.” The rub is that these play a one night stand at the Palace. This year an opera managed to make its way to a South Bend auditorium. But by and large, the usual fare for harrassed South Bend audiences is a bedragggled edition of a worn-out Romberg or Herbert epic, which has been treading the boards so long its shoes have been half-soled four times. This is no fault of South Bend; big-time shows still think the midwest is inhabited by hay seeds who jet-project tobacco from second story windows.
South Bend has two first-run, first rate picture houses, the Palace and the Colfax. The rest range from the second run, passable State to the horse operawhodunit Strand.
In regard to movies, South Bend and Notre Dame have an interesting relationship. Thousands of N.D. men have hissed and booed the ancient productions which phoenix-like rise from their ashes to play once again—at Washington Hall. When motion pictures became popular enter
tainment, N.D. began to show them, sometimes first-run. South Bend exhibitors protested, said they were losing student business. N.D. signed a treaty of peace, agreed not to screen a flicker until it had played South Bend at least three times. N.D. sticks to its contract religiously.
Nite-clubs and bars are plentiful in South Bend, are largely avoided by sagacious Notre Dame men who want to stick around. Favorite hangouts for the collegiate beer-guzzlers are George’s, The Sunny Italy Cafe (alias Rosie’s) which tosses up a fancy plate of spaghetti with brew, and La Fortune’s, a Corby Blvd, spot which is practically monopolized by N.D. studes and profs, has its wall decorated with N.D. sports shots, occasionally shows football movies. Students over twenty-three who have highly-prized bar cards hit the hotel bars in town, pay more for beer and get what they claim is atmosphere. Nite-clubs like the splendiferous Lido and Emerald Room are frequented only by local sophisticates, are strictly taboo for N.D. night-owls.
The big dance emporium is the Palais Royale, which features dances with semi big name orchestras. Coming is Woody Herman, the first really top band this fall. Local parish halls, fraternal organizations and veteran’s bodies also stage occasional dances.
THEN AND NOW —
First house in South Bend, now standing in Leeper Park, was originally occupied by Pierre Navarre, South Bend's first permanent white resident, and was used as a fur trading post.
South Bend is comparatively easy to reach, is on the main line of the eastwest New York Central, and has easy access to Chicago via the S’outh Shore Line. It has what is probably the world’s dirtiest bus station, out of which runs a mediocre bus service. The principal railway stations are modern and clean. The South Bend airport is one of the nation’s most active, most promising, and is serviced by three major airlines.
Four large public and three parochial high schools afford South Bend better than average educational facilities, breed good football teams each fall. It is one of the few towns in the country that fine pedestrians ($2) for walking against the lights. It usually votes Democratic, went Republican in the last election, just to prove it could. It has many public parks, the Northern Indiana Historical Society Museum and the Studebaker Museum of Transportation, 118 churches, an unusually large Catholic population, two radio stations, only one daily newspaper, several good golf courses, and a ban on the sale of liquor on Sundays. Thirsty South Benders go to wet, market-wise Niles on their day of rest.
Such, in a nutshell, is the city of South Bend. Cuss it if you want to, but give it a break now and then. It’s not a bad town and it’s certainly a lot better than Podunk.
Two of South Bend's nearest relatives to the Empire State building. One higher building stands behind courthouse.
16
Some Reasons For The Present Economic Fog
By JOHN H. SHEEHAN
Head, Department of Economics, University of Notre Dame
This fall of 1946 has brought with it a record-breaking economic fog. Some allege that the fog is so thick that all economic movement must either be rigidly policed by, directed by, or taken over by government.
Others maintain that we are enduring a momentary “cloudiness” soon to be followed by new and improved economic sunlight that will last forever.
What—many are asking—What really is the trouble? What actually is the nature of our economic problems? What are the causes and possible remedies?
Obviously, anything near complete and satisfying in answer to these questions could not be given in brief compass. Our economic life is too complex, too interdependent, too much hooked up with non-economic factors to make quick and easy answers possible.
In fact, there is not accessible considerable information that is necessary before an intelligent approach can be made to some particular economic problems. Why? Firstly, because some accurate and complete data have not been gathered. Secondly, because a growing carelessness or indifference as regards truth makes facts increasingly difficult to obtain. Thirdly, in election years particularly it has become practically accepted practice for all sides to distort, suppress and subvert both facts and principles.
Thus the point may be made that much of our economic confusion is due in large part to a non-economic cause: light regard or no regard for truth. This is a moral and philosophical matter which will be returned to later.
Now to attempt briefly to answer the question: What is the nature of our economic difficulty? Despite surface appearances to the contrary, our major problem in terms of the next five, ten and more years is sustained consumption, or sustained purchasing power. (Consumption, of course, is the end and purpose of all economic activity, and it is human consumption—the end—which gives sense to production—the means— wherever production makes sense.)
Right now in tenns of automobiles and refrigerators, batteries and beefsteak, and many other goods, there seems to be much money and little goods. Consequently there exists dangerous inflation
ary pressures that are right now pushing many prices to ridiculous heights. But frictions have already shown up in the form of a few sharp market drops (in cotton and in stocks), in the form of some buyer-resistance, and in the form of wage demands to meet rising living costs.
Two groups meanwhile suffer—and these groups are large: (1) The fixed income receivers and those whose incomes have lagged on the upward swing; (2) There is a growing group of persons who have committed and are committing themselves to longtime obligations; namely, the buyers of fam and residence properties at inflated prices, as well as some stock investor-buyers. Others in this group are those businessmen who are overexpanding their inventories in a speculative way, and those who are committing themselves to long-term, high rent leases.
Available data, up to mid-October, seem to spell out this picture:
1.	In general, business profits and farm incomes are at an all-time high.*
2.	Production and employment are highest in peace-time history.*
3.	The general price level keeps edging upward.*
4.	But weekly money wages were in July, 1946, an average of $4.05 lower than they were in April, 1945.*
5.	Consequently, sustained r e a 1-wages or purchasing power is down even more.
The conclusion seems obvious that as the receding consumer purchasing-power gap grows larger, a recession and deflation are inevitable, perhaps by early 1947. Further general wage-increases will only postpone and intensify the necessary deflationary adjustment. While existing savings and bonds will provide some cushion, that cushion is too small to prevent a bump for millions.
The “supply and demand” thinkers allege there is no danger—because adjustments will be automatic and painless. There was some truth in this belief in Adam Smith’s simple economy of 1776. But surely we haven’t forgotten the dire consequences of the failure of automatic adjustments in this century. We haven’t forgotten 1907, 1914, 1921, 1929,1937.
Regarding the causes of our present
foggy, economic predicament, there are many superficial causes such as money in the hands of many people; some goods relatively scarce for various reasons, but chiefly because major productive effort during the war was on non-consumer goods. However, the underlying cause seems to be the post-war open return to struggle for more and more gain—unlimited gain—by many businessmen, many farmers, many professional people, and also many workers.
Out the window, after V-J Day, flew what was left of our fairly good spirit of cooperation that was encouragingly common during the war. During the war, we more or less agreed “to be decent” economically for rear expediency purposes. Not enough were being decent for decency’s sake. Not enough realized that moral behavior, moral economic behavior, is the only kind of economic behavior which is practicable and workable, and which is compatible with freedom and justice for the individual person today. Hence the underlying causes of our economic difficulty today are not economic. Rather they are philosophical and moral.
(1)	Philosophically, too many either' do not understand, or do not practice, liberty in its only reasonable meaning; namely, as the right and opportunity for all men to exercise their fundamental, inherent, natural rights. For example, the right to life, the right to a reasonable livelihood, the right to association, the right to some private property. Instead, too many think liberty means “the right to do anything I please—especially economically.”
(2)	Morally we’ve countenanced some odd practices and forgotten many things. It seems to have been forgotten that the Commandment “Thou Shalt Not Steal” applies to many acts besides larceny and burglary. It seems to have keen forgotten, conveniently, that “Thou S'halt Not Bear False Witness” applies to such things as advertising and salesmanship, to corporate balance sheets and cost accounts, and to statistics on wages and profits.
Yet, had not Moses been given the Ten Commandments—on which much of our morality is based—someone would have (Continued on Page 25)
* Report of John R. Steelman, Director of Economic Stabilization, October 3, 1946.
17
IRISH MEET TULANE TOMORROW IN LAST AWAY-FROM-HOME GAME
New Orleans, colorful Creole center and birthplace of American Jazz, will play host tomorrow to the invading Irish from Notre Dame as the South Benders tangle with the University of Tulane in their last away-from-home game of the season.
Leahy’s lads will introduce a new kind of music to the birthplace of the blues. It will be the music of crashing leather, crunching cleats and swishing rayon, called to the “Tee, set, down . . .” tempo of Johnny Lujack, Frank Tripucka, and George Ratterman. The Irish corps of quarterbacks will do their best to send the Solid South with real hep ballhandling. Basin street should get a new interpretation of the word “Mello.” It not only means smooth and low-down, but also a hard-charging, low-running Portuguese fullback. Years ago New Orleans experienced the raids of a buccaneer named LaFitte, tomorrow they’ll see a few pigskin pirates like Mastran-gelo, Connor and Strohmeyer haul down their boys in the home port.
Tulane is known as the Green Wave. So far this year they’ve been held down to a slow leak, but the number one plumber around the Green campus is Henry Frnka (pronounced Franka), who is doing his best to pry open the floodgates. Fimka piled up an enviable record at Tulsa, where his teams were steady Bowl diet for Southern customers, but right now at Tulane he is in the building stage.
Tulane has two ends back from their ’41 team, Rowland and Hornick, and besides these two capable veterans there are Porter, Riggs, Olsen, Heider, and Tazzetti. Sometimes Rowland moves over to tackle when the going gets rough at that spot.
At the tackle slot the Greenies boast a 230-pound rebel by the name of Leroy Schneider, and his running mate Vic Klein, 217. In case these hefties fold there’s always Tessier, Franz, and of course Rowland.
Gaston Bourgeois, a regular for the past two years, is back at guard, along with Ike Inglehart. But Demaree usually gets the call ahead of the latter, and the reserves include Compton, and Balen.
Center is usually filled by Rice, a keen play-buster who won out over such former regulars as Olton Hebert, back from the ’42 crew, and Charlie Block, who played for the Wave way back in 1940.
18
In the backfield the Greenies will probably start Finley, Fortier, Campora, and Price. Leirer sometimes gets the call over Finley at quarter. Campora is a newcomer at half, and managed to beat out some rugged competitors for his position. Portier is likewise a newcomer. But both these boys must step fast to keep ahead of Master Van Meter, former highschool hero from Oklahoma, who followed Henry Frnka down to New Orleans, and has been running through enemy defenses very deftly all season. 0. J. Key is another returned G.I. who has been making trouble for enemy tacklers with his fancy open-fleld footwork. Fullbacks galore the Wave has, including, besides Price, Arthur, Counce, and Leahey. Marvin McCain and Joe Chavez are two more lettermen returned to bolster the Tulane backfield, while Julian Brignac and John Sims are still another twosome capable of doing damage.
All in all Tulane will field 11 men, expertly coached, but still a little short of past Tulane par, but nevertheless potentially able to pull an upset (although this is unlikely). The real trouble lies in Tulane’s ability to foul up some of our boys for the all-important season’s curtain with Southern California come next Saturday.
If Lujack can lower his sights, and the eager third-stringers can get their hands on the ball, the Rebels may think that the ghosts of Sherman’s legions have returned in the persons of the Irish warriors.
Phy Ed Majors I Win Soccer Game
The Dujarie Brothers suffered their third defeat of the season Sunday afternoon when the Phy Ed Majors I beat them 3 to 0 in a soccer tournament game.
At the end of the first half the score was 2 to 0, Tom Simon and Al Pais making one goal each. Mike Connelly scored the only point of the second half, while Jim Driscoll was leading defense man throughout the game.
The standings of the league teams to date are as follows.
Team	Won	Lost	Tied
La Raza Club	3	0	0
Phy Ed Majors I	2	1	0
Phy Ed Majors II	1	2	0
Dujarie Brothers	0	3	0
Sitko sets up first TD against Northwestern i quarter. On the next play he went over for ’he s HARRIERS INVADE ^AS FOR NATIONAL CHAM
The Notre Dame cross-country team m will conclude its season tomorrow by T competing in the national cross-country B championship to be held at East Lan- ai sing, Mich., over the Michigan State | h; four-mile course. The Irish will be	pi
among approximately 40 teams who have	te
entered the national event, making it one tr of the largest fields in history.	d<
Favored to win the title for the third straight year is Drake University, conqueror of Notre Dame in a dual meet earlier in the season. Drake, led by Capt. Fred Feiler, who won the individual title for two straight years, is expected to overcome the strong opposition of such teams as New York University, winner of the IC4A title, and Indiana and Wisconsin, co-holders of the Big Nine title.
Notre Dame enters the event after a season of ordinary success. The Irish hill-and-dalers won their first two dual meets, and then dropped their next two. Notre Dame then finished in third place in the Indiana State Meet but jumped up to the runnerup position in the Central Collegiates last Saturday. Drake won the C.C. title with 17 points while Notre Dame came in second with 49 markers. Jim Murphy was the first Irish finisher, coming in fifth 48 seconds behind Feiler who won the event.
Six of the men who have run in every
d< la B oi tt gi bi
oi P< fo D g< cs w u<
1
irthweslern as he carries ball to 1-foot line in first ver for ’he score.
E ^AST LANSING CHAMPIONSHIP MEET
earn	meet will again be on the starting line,
by	They are Corny Styers, Jim Murphy,
ntry	Bill Tully, Louis Tracy, Bob Mitchell,
uan-	and John Lyons. Gerald Johnson, who
tate | has been the number six man, is not ex-be	pected to compete. His place is to be
rave	taken by the winner of an intrasquad
one	trial run held after the Scholastic
deadline.—Jim Regan
hird -
Irish Soccer Team X 1 Loses to Purdue, 1-0
1 to such mer >Vis-tle.
?r a rish iual two. lace iped Jen-rake 'hile
49 rish be-
rery
Salude/ii yuun Ute Pleii
•	•	—	• — By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
The Notre Dame soccer team suffered j defeat in its first game of the season । last Sunday afternoon when the Purdue . Boilermakers overcame them by a score i of 1 to 0 on the ND field. Asbjorn made the solitary goal in the first half of the ! game, leaving the second half scoreless but not lacking in interest.
■ Although Coach “Slim” Urey’s well coordinated Boilermakers scored the only point, the Irish also put on a fine performance in the evenly matched tilt. Notre Dame’s Alex Villavicencio also made a i goal, but it didn’t count as the team was j called off-side by the referee, Prof. Max; well of the Department of Physical Education.
Two members of Coach Luis Clement’s
(Continued on Page 20)
While watching the second, third, and fourth teams run wildly through the tired Northwestern line after the first team had been solidly stopped time and again, I wondered why such substituting wouldn’t have paid off against Army. I have always looked down on Monday morning quarterbacks who like to second-guess last week-end’s games, but the Notre Dame depth wasn’t measured any more thoroughly than against the Wildcats of Northwestern. Had Coach Leahy preferred to gamble against Army maybe they would have beaten us . . . and maybe we might have beaten them by two or three touchdowns. The big question is: Who are we saving our bag of tricks for? The Old Timers’ Game?
Emil Slovak of Eliston, Ohio, probably enjoyed scoring the last touchdown against Northwestern more than any other touchdown that he has made. Emil is a rugged kid of 20, standing five feet seven and weighing only 155 pounds. He has had two previous years of experience but this year will be his last one at Notre Dame. And seniors such as Emil Slovak and Johnny Agnone had no place in Coach Leahy’s plans. Perhaps we saw them in action for Notre Dame for the last time against Northwestern. We hope not because we’ll be looking for number 57 and number’ 15 before the final whistle blows in the Southern Cal game which winds up the 1946 season.
George Ratterman, the 19-year-old signal caller from Cincinnati, Ohio, never looked any better than he did last Saturday against the Wildcats. His brilliant quarterbacking put the clincher on a game which could easily have gone either way, especially with the weather being what it was. The rain-soaked field could have provided Northwestern with the breaks she needed to tie the game up in the final quarter. Instead, Ratterman took charge and before the ragged Northwestern players knew what was happening, the Irish were over- for two quick touchdowns. The first team proved once more that they were the best “shock troops” in the country and the rest of the squad showed the 56,000 fans that they were the best reserves.
❖
Shavings from the Splinters
The referee blew a “fast” whistle on the very first play of the game when Notre Dame recovered a Northwestern
fumble. The official decided that the play had been called before Mackenzie dropped the ball. . . . Sitko looked as if he might be on another one of his touchdown gallops when he broke through for 34 yards on Notre Dame’s second offensive play. . . . Mike Swisto-witcz’ block which took care of two opposing players looked terrific in the second quarter. . . . John Panelli scored both his touchdowns within two yards of the Northwestern goal line. Both were plunges through the center of the line. . . . Ernie Zalejski was being called on by the student section. “We want Ernie” could be heard plainly down on the bench, but Ernie was on the injured list and Mr. Leahy couldn’t “oblige.” Wait till next year. (Sound like last year’s Republicans, don’t I?). . . . Fred Earley has now successfully converted 24 out of the last 28 extra points. . . . The Muggers Club made up mostly of monogram men held another outing last Monday night. ... If you have missed seeing Billy Hassett around here on week-ends, you can find hhn in Buffalo. He’s playing basketball with the Buffalo professional team. Good luck, Bill! . . . The Met Club voted Emil Sitko “The Player of the Week” after the game Saturday. He’ll receive a $25.00 bond.
Basketball Team Opens Season Soon
Head Basketball Coach Moose Krause said that his mind wasn’t made up on who would start against Franklin College on Dec. 4. Tom Brennan, who played on the Irish quintet before entering service, has been helping out the head man by keeping the boys busy while Moose has been running around the country scouting for Coach Leahy. Cy Singer and John Hiller are both back working out daily. Keep your eye on young Kevin O’Shea, a freshman from San Francisco, Calif.
❖
A True Rockne Short Story
A young high school football star named Mike Getto decided that he wanted to play football for Jock Sutherland after he graduated from high school. Rockne had learned about Getto’s abilities and was disappointed when the youngster favored Pitt instead of Notre Dame. Each year that Pitt and Notre Dame played, Rockne watched Get-
19
to and marveled at his running and passing prowess. After the final season of his eligibility, Rockne was asked by a midwestern school to recommend a young player as an assistant coach. Notre Dame’s great coach surprised everyone by giving the nod to Getto. The small college accepted Rockne’s recommendation.
Getto immediately wrote to Rockne, thanked him, and told him that some day he would like to meet him face to face. A year later Kansas was looking for a head coach and again Rockne told them about Getto. And again Getto found himself with a better job. He scribbled Rockne a note thanking him and telling him that he planned to meet him and thank him face to face.
It wasn’t long after Rockne received this last note from Mike Getto that he took off on his fatal flight. When the plane went down in flames in a Kansas corn field, Getto was the first person to reach it. He pulled the limp body of his famous friend out of the wreckage and finally met Knute Rockne face to face.
Notes from Here 'n' There
Army’s win over Penn by 27 points was the same difference as our victory over Northwestern. By the way, the limb broke last week. (Too much weight) 1 . . . The Southern Cal-UCLA game on the coast tomorrow will be worth listening to. The Rose Bowl committee will be tearing out its hair if UCLA loses. Right now they can’t decide on an opponent for the Pacific Coast Conference Team. If USC wins, they’ll have a tie in their own back yard. . . . Both Army and Navy have a rest this week before their annual big game. Navy coach Tom Hamilton will find himself on a small island in the Pacific if he doesn’t get the Middies "up” for their last game. And Tucker, Davis, and Blanchard will want to hang up their black jerseys with the biggest splash of their careers. . . . Coach Bill Earley missed last week’s game to be with his wife, who successfully underwent a major' operation.
The Yellow Banana Picks
USC over UCLA, Yale over Harvard, Duke over North Carolina, Illinois over Northwestern, Michigan over Ohio State, Minnesota over Wisconsin, and Notre Dame 42, Tulane 0. Since there is no Scholastic published next week, we’ll take Georgia Tech over Georgia, and Notre Dame 35, Southern California 7.
INTRODUCING
Long before the frost is on the pumpkins and the fodder in the shocks, sports experts have had advance notice on the prospects of every coach’s football team. The forthcoming season, its schedule of games, the names and background of players likely to see action, past records, biographies of the coaching staff, seating capacity of the stadium, kick-off time, and all sorts of odds and ends are included in an imposing volume sent to the Insiders by each school’s Publicity Department. And Notre Dame is no exception. As a matter of obvious fact, the thoroughness with which the task is accomplished here is demonstrated by the frequent ‘spreads’ the team, school and coaching staff have received in newspapers and magazines throughout the country.
Newspaper offices, radio chains, magazine feature writers, sports commentators, and all others of their fraternity are spoon-fed the vital statistics. They in turn pass the editorialized information on to the Great Unwashed.
All of which may indirectly account for one of the country’s finest halfbacks performing brilliantly every Saturday, yet reaping far less than his share of credit. For when the local volume of

SOCCER TEAM
(Continued from Page 19) Irish squad were injured in play: Ramiro Samaniego and Napoleon Duarte.
The game with Purdue proved itself so successful that a series of games between the two schools is being planned.
The next contest slated for the Irish will be this Saturday, November 23, with Culver Military Academy at Culver, Indiana.
The starting lineups:
NOTRE DAME	PURDUE
Villavicencio...LO.............Urey
Samaniego ......LI...... Dyer-Bennet R. Duarte...............CF. Sequeilla
Rey de Castro ..RI........Rodriquez
Serpa...........RO...........  Bazo
Parise ..........LH........Courtney
N. Duarte.......CH.......... Thorup
Barret ..........RH........ Maxwell
F. Pinto .......LF.........Anderson
R.	Ibanez ......RF........... Banas
L. Pallais .....GK........ Oreficce
Notre Dame substitutes: Duddy, RI; Martinez, RH; Company, RH; Gynne, LH; Ortiz, LH; Powers, LF.
Purdue substitutes: Pereira, RH; Langum, LH; Hermansen, LF; Danielson, RF.—Tom Murray.
‘Who’s Who on the Gridiron’ went to press this lithe left-half was virtually I written-off as “Terry Brennan, just turned 18, won a monogram in 1945 but is rather light.”
Admittedly, 175 lbs. is light for a league housing linemen who generally average upwards of 200 lbs., but a thing called ‘heart’ is sometimes more import- J ant than' a lion’s share of well-conditioned beef.	■
Last year his compact frame rode rough-shod over competition of somewhat inferior quality as compared to the current opposition. He chalked up two touchdowns and averaged slightly less than four yards an attempt. Presently, Terry has rang the bell five times—qualifying as high scorer not only on the Irish squad but ace among all collegiate backs in Indiana—and his ball carrying has netted him well over 5 yards per trip. Moreover, he’s one of Johnny Lu jack’s most dependable receivers, and that on a squad noted for its pass pitching and catching.	-
Terry hails from the town made famous by the joint efforts of Communists ' and a bottle of beer, Milwaukee, and while in residence there contributed quite a chunk of publicity to the place himself. He and his brother, Jimmy, captained the Marquette High eleven in successive and successful years.
Off the field Terry perhaps doesn’t entertain as many people as sit enraptured at his exploits on Saturdays, but his technique at a Steinway is an evergrowing threat to Duchin, Carle, Caval-lero & Co.
Despite his varied achievements and recognition, Terry’s Hibernian head has never been turned. We venture that no one here present has ever heard criticism leveled at him, whether as a fine athlete, an honor student or true friend. Terry has established a remarkable record at Notre Dame and not the least of it is his sincerity and modesty. With two more years ahead of him there will be ’ ample opportunity for Terry to surpass all his previous gridiron marks, but al- 1 ready he has won unanimous respect as a Notre Dame man. And of the two we think Terry Brennan is more proud—and rightly so—of this recognition.
‘Good things come in small packages’ somebody once said, and he may very well have had in mind Terrance Patrick Brennan.—Bob Leander.
20
9t feeJ'iM'ueA
Me Qteatly
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ZYGMONT CZAROBSKI ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Reverend Fathers, Venerable Grounds Keepers, Ancient Order of Army Game Neck-Craners, Worthy Fellow Citizens:
An Epidemic of Open Letters
To Warren Brown:
Dear Warren: I see by Time Magazine that you have been issued the little pink slip, and believe me, Warren, the news of your impending release made my heart grow sad. However, I have just the job lined up for you. Come the football issue, poor old Zig goes the way of Joe Louis, Ted Williams, and the remainder- of the “seasonal” columnists. Without “It Behooves Me Greatly,” the Scholastic will be sorely in need of something to fill up a column of space. “So They Tell Me” would fit the bill to a tee. I can’t say how much I appreciate the blurbs that you have given me in your daily, scribblings, and in thanks I proffer you this opportunity.. True the Sun may have a slightly fatter circulation than the Scholastic, yet you must admit the Scholastic, with its 88 years of service, is certainly the older and wiser. I would be greatly honored if a writer of your “up-and-coming” caliber
ROUGHING IT —
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, braves the rain at N.D.-N. W. game with former postmaster general Frank Walker, left, and ex-ambassador to England, Joseph Kennedy, right, his guests.
should follow a “veteran” like myself. Keep it in mind, won’t you, Warren?
To the Editors:
Gentlemen: The Chicago Daily Nexus in its advance story on the Army game reported that: “It is expected that Fallon and Sullivan will be. called upon to spell Czarobski during the game.” May I suggest that you hire these two men as proofreaders for the Scholastic. Your magazine has made a habit of misspelling my by-line in recent issues. First off, you spelled Zygmont as Zigmont. Then you murdered Czarobski by spelling it C-z-a-r-o-o-s-k-i. If your proofreader will take the time to search through a copy of the football program, it is likely that he will get the correct spelling.
Just a Few Thoughts
Since this magazine will not publish an issue next week, because of the Thanksgiving Day holiday, this column will have to speak of both the Tulane and Southern Cal games. First, of Tulane, the Green Wave gave Notre Dame a bad fright for the first half last year,
IRISH “B" TEAM FACES SPARTANS
Event: Notre Dame ”B" vs. Michigan State "B”.
Place: Notre Dame Stadium.
Time: 1:30 p. m. Saturday, Nov. 23.
Admission: Students, upon presentation of A. A. book.
General Public: $1.00, including tax
although the Irish eventually beat them. Henry Frnka, like all the rest of the coaching brotherhood, will be pointing at Notre Dame, especially since he has had an otherwise unsuccessful season. The New Orleans heat will be a factor in their favor. As for Southern Cal, a lot depends upon the outcome of their game with UCLA. If they win it, beware of the Trojans. Then on the other hand, if they lose it, they’ll be looking for revenge and would like nothing better than to take it out on their old intersectional rival. We’ll have to fight for both games.
1000 Workers Labor on Grid Weekends
Although only eleven men constitute a football team it takes a thousand workers to put a big game into the true tradition of our national sport.
Take, for example, the coming game with Southern Cal at Notre Dame stadium next week. Fans, coming through the turnstiles, will be conscious only of the ticket taker, an usher perhaps, and the athletes upon the field.
Little will they realize that a game like this one will need more help than the 175 press corps and radio teams sending the news to all corners of the country.
In addition there will be 750 ushers, gatemen, rampmen, and inspectors on the job long before the first fan shows up.
Throughout the stadium will be 300 others dispensing food, souvenirs, and . programs. Forty ticket sellers will have their work done far in advance of the game since it is a sellout. A staff of four nurses, an interne, and a messenger, will be on duty in the first aid room.
Outside of the stadium 75 attendants will be on hand to see that the parking situation is run smoothly.
Further removed from the stadium will be a contingent, of city police, firemen, detectives, and state highway patrol, to see that everything runs to order and to be on the lookout for shady characters.
21
Wrestling, Swim Meets on Deck as Intramurals
INTKCDUCINe
The outdoor interhall program is over with the exception of the Sunday soccer league, but plans for many indoor events are in the oiling. On Thursday, December 5th, the freshman swimming meet will be held. Seven events are listed on the attractive card and anyone with a freshman rating is eligible to compete, with the limit of two events, plus diving, to each individual. Those who wish to compete should contact Gil Burdick at the Rockne Memorial.
.The finals in the open campus wrestling tourney will be held on December 10. Entries may be made in all official collegiate weight divisions. Daily workouts are being held in the wrestling room in the old gym.
Plans are being formed for a banner-year in the basketball leagues. Teams are being formed at the present and, although no official league games will be held until after the Christmas vacation, many practice games will be scheduled before that time. Organization will be on the usual interhall basis with pro-visions also for an overflow league with games played at 5 p. m. Many halls have already thought about the makeup of their teams but the majority of players are holding workouts as individuals.
—Joe Doyle
Zahm Gridders Hold Post-Season Banquet
The ’46 edition of Zahm Hall football teams brought down the curtain on a successful football season last Wednesday evening with a post-season banquet down at Rosie’s deluxe spaghetti emporium.
Sixteen members of the Zahm team displayed more prowess in devouring Rosie’s palatable offerings than they had done in digesting their opponents on the gridiron. Following the luncheon, Reverend Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., spoke briefly, congratulating the team for their fine spirit while attaining second place in the Eastern division of the ' interhall football league. And finally, Vince Laurita, head coach, thanked the players for their cooperation throughout the season.
Those present were: Pat Hanifin, Jim Sullivan, Paul O’Connell, Ray Doherty, Paul Schlafly, Jim Klockenkemper, Ray Loy, Jim Balenti, John Alvis, George Nichols, Colin McKay, Tom McNally, Bob Henebry, Joe Crowley, Bob Kienel, Roy Angelica, Jerry Guiltinan, Jerry Howell.—Bob Vierhile.
By BOB LEANDER
Jim Mello thinks that Jim Mello is the greatest football player ever to don an Irish jersey. We asked him. He told us so.
Maybe you agree, perhaps you don’t; but before you walk away let us explain that you’re never to say anything to the contrary in his presence. It wouldn’t be right just now, for a boy should always feel his dad is the most wonderful father in the world and supreme in his own right. You see, the Jimmy Mello we interviewed is varsity Jim Mello’s two-year-old son. Perched on his three-wheeler, astride which he roams the range of Vetville, Jimmy pushed back an unruly lock of hair and told us all about his dad.
After playing fullback on the 1943 National Championship squad, James Anthony Mello, Sr., was called into active service by the Navy. About this time his heart held a council of war with his head and decided that the time was at hand when he should wrest Miss Winifred Castle of Chicago from her other suitors and make her henceforth and forever Mrs. James A. Mello. This pleasant task accomplished, a two-year hitch in the Navy and young Jim’s arrival were taken in stride, which would seem to bring us up to date. However,
Melia
there are a few details we could saunter back and retrieve.
Jim the Elder was born in Warwick, R. I., and in keeping with the acreage of his home state, he scales a relatively modest 185, which nonetheless distributes itself generously over his 5'10" frame.
While in high school Jim won three letters in football, three in baseball, and two in basketball. He was elected captain of both the grid and dribble squads and received All-State acclaim in the former.
The statistics for the 1943 season at Notre Dame show Jim Mello hauled the freight 137 times collecting the fatiguing total of 714 yards. Taking these figures to Mr. Miller of the accounting department, young Jimmy learned that this gave his dad an average of 5.2 yards per try, or the equivalent of a' first down every second trip. A handy battering ram, this Mr. Mello. Offense is not his only forte, though, foi- when Johnny Lu-jack looks over his team and sees this stocky, determined, Italian backing up the line he doesn’t hesitate because chances are the opposition won’t even attempt to come over this deft playbreaker. Jimmy Mello tackles as hard as he runs—so let this be a fair warning, Tulane.
One more sidelight supplied by the younger Jimmy Mello concerns 1944. That year the Naval powers-that-were shipped his dad to the Great Lakes Naval Training Station where he saw considerable action with the sailors’ star-lined eleven. In the course of the season The Lakes ran afoul of Notre Dame and it was a sorrier Jimmy Mello who walked off the field with his shipmates, all of whom bore marks of a 28-7 sinking.
Now, playing his last season for the Fighting Irish, it’s our guess that Jim hopes his new adobe on the windswept plains of suburban Dog Patch is as securely nailed down as his first-string fullback assignment.
And, Jimmy, don’t worry. Your dad is a great football player;. he must be to play ahead of such men as Pep Panelli, and Corny Clatt. We all hope that some day our sons are as proud of you as we are of your dad.
22
VETERANS NEWS
With regard to the compulsory summer school for those veterans enrolled undei- Public Law 16 we find in V.A. Circular 38:
“A veteran once entered into training under Public Law 16 will be expected to continue through to completion of his training program without interruption insofar as it is possible for him to do so.
“When a trainee under Public Law 16 leaves or abandons his training for personal reasons, such as to enter employment or to take a vacation during a period when training is available and offered, the case will be placed in the status “Training interrupted” with a notation on the 1907a Form ‘Claimant’s own Violation.’ When, prior to the time a veteran in such interrupted status desires to re-enter training, there shall have been a reduction in rating to less than pensionable degree, the veteran will not be re-entered into training under Public Law 16. . . .”
If you have any questions as to your own personal case, drop over to the Guidance Center and speak to either Mr. Tolle or Mr. DeCook.
The Guidance Center wishes to announce a new policy on the sending of tracers about missing subsistence checks. From now on through the rest of the school year, all veterans who do not get their checks by the sixth of each month must have their tracer started on or before the seventh of every month. No tracers will be sent from this office any time after the seventh of each month.
In case you have been wondering about the coming holidays and the between-semesters vacation, we find in V.A. Circular 168:
“. . . No charge against leave will be made for absences on those days within a period of training on which the school
or training institution grants total exemption from attendance to all students. . . . For veterans enrolled in educational institutions, this school will include school holidays and shoi-t intermissions between successive terms or periods of instruction within the ordinary year, provided that the veteran was enrolled for the two successive terms.”
So you get the checks for the complete months of December and January and still have your summer leave “in toto.”
—John Hupf
Father O'Brien Attacks Russia for Tyranny In Balkans
Soviet Russia is using the so-called Spanish issue as a smokescreen to divert attention from Communist tyranny in Yugoslavia, Poland and other countries, the Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion at the University of Notre Dame, charged in a speech before the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce last Thursday.
“The peace of the world,” declared Father O’Brien, “as well as the freedom and independence of the nations for which our soldiers fought and died, demands that America’s representatives at the present meeting of the United Nations Organization turn the spotlight of investigation upon the stooge regimes which the Soviets have set up in Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, Bessarabia, Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria, and Hungary, and the pressure they are now exerting upon Turkey for the control of the Dardanelles.
“To distract attention from their aggression upon these small nations,” continued Father O’Brien, “Soviet pressure has brought up the phony issue of Spain. The only threat to the peace of the world and the security of small nations lies in continued Soviet aggression upon helpless countries in clear violation of the charter of the United Nations.”
Fire In Dillon Hall Causes $100 Damage
English professor Frank O’Malley though he was suffering from a Shakes-perian hangover, couldn’t believe his ears when a wild-eyed Dillonite blurted excitedly, “Hurry, Mr. O’Malley, your room is on fire!” Was this a gag? This he’d have to see.
But after he climbed three flights of stairs to his furnished, cramped, two-room apartment on the third floor of Dillon Hall, he found that the charred walls weren’t part of the original architecture, that the water on the floor didn’t come from his private bath. No, instead, he was playing host to the Notre Dame fire department, and it wasn’t a social call, either.
Brother Borromeo, chief of the local fire-eaters, explained it this way: In Mr. O’Malley’s absence a smoldering cigarette dropped from an ash tray into a lounge chair, starting a blaze that would have given most campus rectors a few extra grey hairs. But, as luck would have it, Tom Higgins, an old time ladderclimber from Toledo, Ohio, noticed the black smoke pouring through the transom and went into action faster than a Leahy-coached backfield. Grabbing a nearby fire ax, Tom banged open the door. Another Toledoian, Ron Beyer-smith, came a-running with a fire hose, squirting water in every direction. It was like a volunteer fireman’s convention. To complete the party, Father Elmer Gross, rushed to the scene in his bare feet, and started barking orders. When Brother Borromeo’s charges arrived, the fire was out and the spectators in.
Damage was estimated at $100.
—Bob Vierhile
The Notre Dame Scholastic Announces The Third Annual FOOTBALL ISSUE for 1946
TO BE PUBLISHED DECEMBER 6
This issue will contain a complete review of all games — pictures and biographies of coaches and players — action shots of all games — large autographed squad photo — newspaper comment — all-American selections, etc. Price 35c. Orders should be sent to: PUBLICATIONS OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana.
To insure delivery, orders should be placed before November 28.
23
St. Mary's Sponsors Charity Ball Tonight
The rustling of party dresses is in the air at St. Mary’s College. Off-the-shoul-der, strapless, and on-the-shoulder creations were out in full array last Friday night for the S'MC Sophomore Cotillion and they are slated for a return engagement on a larger scale tonight as the ladies across the Dixie hold their Charity Ball.
Tonight’s hop is a semi-formal gathering, which should be of information to those ND men who were invited to the affair, and who wondered all week whether a tux would be necessary. The Sophomore Cotillion was strictly formal, yet a rumor circulated to the effect that it was to be semi-formal and a dozen fellows turned up in business suits while then- buddies had to sweat out boiled shirts and formal attire.
Betty Gartland of Indianapolis, Ind., and Patricia O’Toole of Calumet City, Ind., both seniors, are co-chairmen of the ball. Ray Winters Orchestra will furnish the music, and decorations of black and silver, following the appropriate theme: “The Bells of St. Mary’s” will adorn SMC’s social hall. Proceeds of the ball go to the missions and to St. Mary’s Christmas poor basket fund.
Last Friday night, the Sophomore class staged its annual cotillion with Bud Simpson’s musicians providing the music. Ann Kiley of Chicago, general chairman of the dance, was assisted by the following committee chairmen: Joan Weiher, Jean Murphy, Christine Magruder, Lorraine Milewski, Martha Smith, Joan Mikriff, Marianne Aschoff and Patricia Moran.—Ed Snyder.
KC Vaudeville Finals Set for Dec. 5-6
The annual Knights of Columbus Vaudeville show, which is open to the faculty, students and guests, will be held in Washington Hall on December 5 and 6, at which time the three winners of the campus contest will be selected. Originally planned for December 4, the show has been postponed one day so as not to conflict with the basketball game being played on that night, according to Jack Galloway of Watertown, N. Y., chairman of the contest.
In addition to the eight acts selected last Wednesday and Thursday, the show, at which Walt Gerrity of Fairfield, Conn., will be Master of Ceremonies, will feature the sextet of Bob Olcese playing background music for the performers as well as some of their own numbers between acts. In past years the show has
Revs. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., give ND plaques to the winners in the Badin Hall name card contest.
Plaques Awarded As
In an attempt to increase the already fine hall spirit, Badin Hall held a name card contest recently. To participate one had to put on his door a card with his name, college, and home town. Prizes were awarded for the most clever presentation of these facts. The contest lasted one week, ending Monday the 21st. The judges for the contest were Rev. Eugene
been among the outstanding events of the school year, and it is hoped that this year’s edition will carry on the tradition.
All students of Notre Dame were eligible to enter the contest, the preliminary rounds of which were held this week. The three winners will be awarded prizes of §30, §20, and §10 respectively. The presentation will be made at a command performance before the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, sponsors of the show, on December 10.
—Shaun McDermott
Cavanaugh Reading Room Concert Schedule Changed
For the music-lovers who flock to the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room concerts thrice weekly there is one item of importance regarding next week’s schedule. Because of the Thanksgiving holiday, the concert planned for Thursday will be held over to Friday noon. Otherwise, the same conditions prevail: time, 12:30 to 1:30 p.m.; all students and professors are invited.
Badinites Boost Spirit Burke, entertainer non-pareil, and Rev. Tom Brennan of logic and handball fame.
The prizes were Notre Dame plaques and one was awarded to the winner on each floor. The winners were: Paul Ames on the second floor, Jim Donaghue on the third, and Bill Nolte and Walt Haaser teaming up on a roommate deal to cop the laurels top side.
The program:
Tuesday, Nov. 26: Tschaikowsky—Romeo and Juliet Overture; Sibelius—Symphony No. 5.
Wednesday, Nov. 27: Brahms—Tragic Overture; Beethoven—Sonata No. 21, C Major (Waldstein); Beethoven — Symphony No. 1, C Major.
Friday, Nov. 29: Verdi—Temple Scene from “Aida”; Mozart—Agnus Dei—Mass in C Minor; Shostakowicz—Symphony No. 5.
Chemist Hits Industry for Research Controls
Research conducted in university laboratories should not be controlled by industry, according to Dr. W. S. Calcott, assistant chemical director of the Organic Chemical Department of the duPont Company, and internationally distinguished scientist.
Doctor Calcott expressed this opinion at the University of Notre Dame last Friday night in the final of a series of three Nieuwland Memorial Lectures honoring the memory of one of the nation’s
outstanding scientists, the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Notre Dame professor, who discovered the basic formula for synthetic rubber. (Father Nieuwland died in 1936.)
Doctor Calcott said that some universities are going into industry-supported research. These universities and industry definitely should work side-by-side, he added, but a college or university never should permit the industry which may be supporting its scientific research to control that research.
SOME REASONS FOR THE PRESENT ECONOMIC FOG
(Continued from Page 17) had to promulgate similar rules before we could live peacefully in society. In fact, punishment for stealing was quick and sure among aboriginal tribesmen who did not learn this precept from the Jewish or Christian religion.
A little reflection tells us that if we permit untruth to become common we’ll have an unlivable society. We depend on the truth of road signs, maps, policemen, and private citizens for directions to a desired destination. We depend on the truth of the waitress when we have her fetch us our morning coffee with sugar and cream—we do not expect her to flavor it with cyanide or other poison.
Despite some silly allegations to the
contrary, we knoiu that it is possible to know the truth about many things. And we demand it. We insist on being told truthfully which plane is the eastbound plane when we get ready for a trip eastward. If someone tried to put us aboard an oxcart saying, “Here is your plane, sir,” we’d at least question that someone’s veracity.
The point is that the root causes of our economic difficulties are (1) false philosophies attempting to justify an unworkable, materialistic selfishness; and also (2) an improper moral approach to economic matters.
The remedy is obvious, but not easy. A return to a reasonable philosophy and to moral principles and an applying of these principles so as to recapture again such workable concepts as “j'ust price,” “j'ust wages,” “j'ust profits,” “j'ust goods and services,” “j'ust workmanship.” In othei- words, a regaining of respect for economic right—and duty. And an abandonment of that which is both unj’ust and unworkable in the long ran: a situation in which economic might prevails.
Most Americans and some others seem agreed that the principle of political might is both unj'ust and unworkable. But it has required constant vigilance of decent men to put down ever-appearing political tyrants and bandits. Similar
vigilance is necessary against economic tyrants and bandits—no matter how much they may attempt to make their banditry appear “legal.” For economic liberty—in the true sense—is a necessary and important part of general liberty. And—let it be repeated—economic liberty does not mean let everyone do as he please. Economic acts like all human acts must conform to rales of morality.
Badly needed today is a better understanding that reasonable and moral safety rales, restraints, and stop lights are j'ust as necessary for economic traffic as for auto vehicle traffic. This is and always will be true despite clever propaganda and smoke screens to the contrary. To avoid thickening economic chaos in the months and years ahead we are indeed in need of broad understanding, of honest good will, and of a conscience moved by j'ustice and charity.
Old stuff? Yes, it is. Moral laws are old, as are the laws of physics for example—and have the same unimpeachable validity. Neither the law of gravity nor the law of honesty can be disregarded without suffering the consequences.
As history well shows, only where there is truth and j'ustice and general morality is there an assurance of liberty. After all, it’s only fountain pens which are guaranteed—“forever!”
WHAT IS STYLE?
(2j^TYLE is a manner of life symbol, of indestructible operation toward culture and beauty, surviving flood, plague and war. It may proclaim itself in a way a sculptor wields his chisel, in the jaunty angle of a battered helmet.
The finished product of inherent taste and good breeding is not a thing to be idly flaunted.
Rather, it must speak discreetly from the line of a label, the contour of a collar, although its outward manifestations vary with the years.
Its classic knows neither time nor reason, and its handmaiden is quality.
Suits and Coats from $50 upwards
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
Custom Tailors and Clothiers
115i/2- 117-i^j N. Main (Upstairs)	ADLER-ROCHESTER Clothing	South Bend, Indiana
25
By JACK FHAIEH and BILL PFAFF
We are writing home to Mother for a set of instructions in bed-making. We are also buying a shovel to get the dirt out of the room once a week. Oui- maids have quit. Tuesday afternoon when we walked into the uncleaned room it was a horrible shock to our nervous system, accustomed as it was to two o’clock cleanliness. The reason for the walkout wasn’t hard to find. Under our carpet was a strange lump. It was the diary of our chambermaid, Apollonia. In it was the whole, tragic story:
Sept. 11: First day on jop. Oi, so moch dirt I hev nefer seen. So many boys in so lettle spece! Vatch fall off my vrist on mettress and bust op in tousand lettle pieces! I trow pillow on floor, brek too.
STORE HOURS Tues.-Sat. — S a. m. to 5:30 p. m. Monday — open till 8:30 p. m.
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
Oristtmasi Carte
With your favorite Photo on each card.
•
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT
Camera Shop
Opposite the Courthouse
122 South Main St.
Phone 3-5041
Take home three pair shoes for my lettle Vladimir. He grows into dem. Soch a hart jop!
Oct. 7: Feetball last Sadurday. Much booze in rooms today. Upper bets come. Soch a climb mek me dizzy. Oiso get first peyceck. Son ov gon, soch a selery' De pey bettar in old Countree.
Oct. 30: Gat second pey check today. Son ov gon, still no raze! I tink I go bek . to Praga gat jop meking borscht.
Nov. 12: Tird peycheck come, todey. Still no raze. Dey tall me dey fight an-flation. Oi, such schmaltz! I buy two bottle yogert out of check for Vladimir end da chenge is silver. I trow in towel!
Robert A. Grant and the Chicago Sun having weathered the storm, we have some political remarks. We have decided that in the next elections Pfaier will be running! When the drudges from the press come to interview us we will answer with all the straightforward, hardhitting honesty typical of politicians:
“Mr. Pfaier, what is your platform?”
“I’m for government efficiency, less taxes, prosperity, jobs, honesty, The American Way of Life, and Veterans.”
“Yes, and how do you feel about international affairs?”
“I’m for peace and for bringing our boys home to their mothers and their good, clean American sweethearts.”
“What do you think of the present situation?”
“Oh, in some ways it’s bad—but it has its good sides too.”
“May we quote you?”
“Certainly boys, when I make a statement it’s for all America to hear!”
“What about your opponent?”
“He is a dirty, rotten Fascist who is against all that America stands for. He is one of those conspiring rats who want to make this a Hitler state. He is controlled by the Commies and the Vested Interests.”
“How do you feel in regard to the farmers?”
“I’m in favor- of them.”
“And Labor?”
“I say that Labor is necessary. You can quote me.”
“Thank you. I’m certain America is reassured.”
As far as we’re concerned the millennium must be at hand. Nothing could have surprised the campus more than the sudden, unexpected appearance of Life and Time at the Dining Hall magazine counter last week. From what we hear a number of students failed to buy copies doubting that they could be anything more than samples, or mirages. We wonder if this radical policy of offering readable, popular magazines for sale will ever go so far as to substitute Laton Tennis and The American Crossword Puzzle Review with favorite magazines of all segments of Notre Dame men such as The New Yorker or Famous Funnies.
After taking the recent outside history reading tests, we came to the conclusion that there is a clandestine humorist somewhere in the history department. A few weeks before the tests they handed us a sheet of instructions that said “These examinations . . . will consist of
• Replaceable filter in new Frank Medico Cigarette Holders, filters the smoke.
• Cuts down nicotine.
o Cuts down irritating tars.
• In zephyrweight aluminum.
• Special styles for men and women, e $2 with 10 filters, handy pouch and gift box.
S.	M. FRANK & CO., INC., NEW YORK 22
26
completion type, multiple choice, or specific identification questions.” We sickened slightly when our professor read off some of the “specific identification questions” like “Did the Puritans have greater influence in creating a moral economic policy than did the English Reformation? Qualify your answer.” Then a bit farther down on the sheet of instructions it said, “To pass the tests will require careful reading, but the outside reading books should not be treated as texts and committed to memory.” After reading the books as if they were novels, we felt slightly unqualified to answer questions like “Name the religious orders of New France and list their activities” or “Tell the methods used to control the entrance of books into colonial Mexico.”
Attention Students!
BREEN JEWELERS
South Bend’s Newest Jewelry Store
309^ S. Michigan St. (Strand Theatre Bldg.)
Offers...
HIGH GRADE JEWELRY.
Diamonds — Watches — Rings at low prices. See our line before you buy — AND SAVE.
You can use our lay-away plan.
It seems, also, that the history department was interested in giving its students some worthwhile experience in tracking down rare historical texts. We went over to the library and asked one of the librarians about the shortage of the assigned books. “Oh, dear, it was really a mess around here,” she said tucking her long pencil into her hair, “but we tried to be fair and accept no bribes. We had nine copies of Religion and the Rise of Capitalism to start with, but some scoundrel ran off with three copies and that left only six books for 330 students. Now if you think that’s bad, we have only one copy of The Age of Jackson on hand at the moment, and The Coming of the Civil TFcw hasn’t come yet. And did you know,” she chuckled nasally, “that one of the fourth semester history books has been out of print for thirty years?”
Chicago Club Sponsors Christmas Dance Dec. 26
The Chicago Club will hold their annual Christmas dance, on Thursday, Dec. 26, at the Continental Hotel in downtown Chicago. Paul Meeker and his celebrated orchestra, who have just finished a successful engagement at the Gamelia Room in the Drake Hotel, will provide the music.
This dance has been an annual affair foi- the past 20 years and provides a chance for the Old Grads to meet the undergraduate students in the best of social functions. With 405 Chicago students now attending Notre Dame, this year’s Christmas dance should be the best attended of all time.
The bids will be $5.00 plus federal tax and attire is optional. Bids will be put on sale in the very near future.



In Her Christmas Stocking
Stamp Out T. B.
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS

27
Brown's Paintings Shown In Library
A group of paintings by Harry S. Brown, Jr., of Berrien Springs, Mich., has been placed on exhibition on the
main floor of the Notre Dame Library. Mr. Brown is a senior in the University art department, which is sponsoring the exhibit.
The group of paintings includes oils, water colors, and pastels, and will be on display for about three weeks.
Mr. Brown is one of the artists represented at the current exhibition held by the Progress Club, and his single entry, “Yesteryear Harvest,” has already been sold.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED J. BURKE W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
MUSIC ANO ENTERTAINMENT FOR EVERYBODY "THE 01' WOODCHOPPER HIMSELF"
IE' HERMAN
Saturday Night November 23
PALAIS ROYALE
Caldonia! — Caldonia!
What makes Your Big Head So Hard?
MY TWO CENTS:
Well here I am .back again after a vacation of three weeks. One week was to make sure I’d get past the mid-semesters, and the other was due to someone mislaying the copy for that issue. Last week however, I was ill. Coming back from Chicago I was caught in the aisle of the train, and about thirty twelveyear-old lassies trampled me. I think they were from SMC. Since the clubs haven’t been too active the past two weeks I am going to rave on this week about things in general.
To begin with, ordinarily no college student would blast the great Damon Runyon, even if the student gets ninety in his English course. Well, I am not getting that mark so I’m going to blast “Darlin’ Damon.” Not the man generally, but definitely that piece of work he did a few days ago on football. It appeared in some NY papers and others throughout the land. “Dainty Damon”
took football, as a sport, and tore it apart. He really showed us all just how much he didn’t know about the sport. If anyone wants some real criticism of DR, turn to Warren Brown, who defended one of America’s great sports admirably this past week.
Speaking about Warren Brown and the New Dealing Chicago Sun, we were sorry to hear about the shakeup on that . paper’s staff. This shakeup affected Mr. Brown, but exactly how we don’t know. Time mag says Brown was fired, and then told he could stay on as a columnist, at lower pay. Mr. Brown was the Sports Editor, and a mighty good one at that. We prefer to think that Mr. Brown was told he would have to take a reduction and he declined. Anyway, you can look for some drastic changes in the Sun’s staff.
While on the subject of newspapers, the other night, in a bull session, one of the participants asked my opinion and views, since he knows I hope someday to express myself as a member of the Fourth Estate. Here is my simple reply. Let’s take two Chicago dailies. The news story concerned Attorney Tom Clark’s speech on “Crimes By Youth.” Now this kind of a story is of real value to the people. One paper gave the story ample space, with a photo of Clark to draw attention. The other paper, which incidentally devotes a lot of its space to politics, in fact most of its space, gave the story hardly any prominence. The value of this article was broken down by the latter paper, in my estimation. The ’ first paper was the Chicago Sun, and the latter was the, er, now what was it. Oh, yes, the Chicago Tribune. Now forgetting all papers as individuals for the moment, it sure would be a help if they all devoted some more space to such things as social problems, and cut down on the political propaganda.
❖
CLUBS IN THE PASSING:
Glancing at the campus clubs, for the moment, we find that Christmas Dances are the topic for discussion. The Met Club is having theirs in the Essex House, on the 26th of December. This should be a bang up affair, from some examination of the plans. . . . Members of the Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club are attending an Xmas dance which is being held in Washington, D.C.,
28

by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of that town. . . . The Detroit Club is planning a super Christmas Dance and a large smoker for the Fort Shelby Hotel. . . .
Incidentally the Detroit Club had their picture taken before the Northwestern game. The picture appeared in Detroit papers. . . . All rebels from either Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas or Tennessee ought to get out and join their club. . . . The Youngstown Club is holding a Christmas Dance on Saturday, December 28. I don’t know yet just where. . . . The Fort Wayne Club, after a couple of unsuccessful attempts to become reorganized this semester, is finally rolling along. Plans for a Christmas Dance, to be held at the Fort Wayne Country Club, are now under way.
The ASME, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, had the pleasure last month of hearing Mr. Carl C. Wilcox, Head of the department of ME, talk on his experiences while working on the Canol (Canadian Oil) Project during the war. . . . Mr. James' Armstrong addressed the Buffalo Club this past week. As usual his talk was wonderful. If everyone was as nice about giving his time to help his fellow men, as Mr. Armstrong is, I am sure we’d never have all the
trouble in the world we have. I have never been refused a request, when I have approached Mr. Armstrong asking him to speak before a club. And he is probably one of the busiest men on the campus. . . . While on the Buffalo Club, we heard that G. Saltarelli has two things on his mind. One to get to Chicago some weekend, and the other thing that is on his mind, or rather that IS NOT on his mind, is “hair.”
Father- John Gallagher, newly appointed moderator of the Philadelphia Club, was introduced to the members at a meeting last Tuesday night. Father Gallagher, associated with the Music Department, gave a brief talk stressing the importance of making the club something more than a social organization, and the necessity of maintaining contact with one another and with the Alumni. Plans were formulated for a Communion Breakfast to be held Dec. 8, and a dance to be held during the Christmas holidays in conjunction with the Alumni Club of Philadelphia. James Master-son was appointed chairman of the Communion Breakfast; Richard Pedrotty to chairman the X-mas dance; and Jack Dempsey to handle an informal club dinner.
Electrical Engineers Inspect Bendix Plant
During the afternoons of Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 13 and 14, more than 49 members of the Electrical Engineering Department of the University visited the Bendix Automotive and Aviation Products Corporation in South Bend on a tour of the plant. The visitors, comprised of students and faculty members, were ushered through the plant under the guidance of Mr. Walter Man-uszak, Notre Dame graduate and electrical engineer at the Bendix plant.
The two and one-half hour tour began with a detailed inspection of the completed automotive brake assembly which involves more than 100 distinct processes required in its manufacture. Each process was followed through — from the stamping of sheet metal parts to the finished product ready for shipment.
The toui- also included a visit to one of the four large machine shops where, it was explained, all the tools and machines used in the four plants are made and serviced.
—Steven T. Valetich
Hospitality
in your hands
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCACOLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyers Avenue
29
LETTERS
(Continued from p. 6) ditions which make Notre Dame something more than just a school.
Why can’t students take time out to remember that there is a tradition against smoking in the main quad? But my main gripe, and the reason for this outburst, is the student who fails to remove his hat when the Victory March is played. This failure is not only apparent at football games where the weather might be chilly, but at pep rallies where it is fairly warm. To those students who claim cold weather as an excuse (if there is an excuse) let me take him back to the ND vs. Iowa game of 1940, which we lost 7-0, it wasn’t too cold for those students then in attendance to remove
Give Tree-Ripened Red Blush Grapefruit
A wonderful gift for family and friends. Bushel gift box (50 lbs.) prepaid to most of midwest $9.50; regular bushel $8.00. _ Oranges or pink grapefruit ’ $5.95. Add 50c to Mich., Minn., Ohio, Wise, and as far as N. Y. State.
Other gifts $2.50 to $57.25. Write for illustrated booklet.
(Paint (Pony Onckandl San Benito, Texas .
118 S. Michigan St.
their hats, and when the team returned from the Army game in 1941 after a 0-0 game (which marred a perfect record) it was neither too cold, (35°), nor too early, (we watched the sunrise) for those men to take their hats off.
On more than one accasion this year, I have troubled myself to remind negligent students of this tradition, and instead of taking this reminder with good grace, they sulk and use petty language. Notre Dame has no place for that; the school means much to some of us, and we’d like to have it kept that way even though it might involve lake parties for the babies.
Richard C. Leon
215 Alumni Hall
134 W. North Street, Waukesha, Wis.
November 11, 1946
Dear Editor:
Enclosed is a poem written by myself which I hope will be of interest to you.
Patrick O’Reilly was the student’s name, Whose playing record brought him football fame. When passing, blocking or making a down, He added laurels to his football crown.
Patrick’s team was the best in the land.
There was no opponent it couldn’t withstand. Game after game its score would mount. From the opening kickoff to the final count.
Patrick is mythical, but not the team, For its victories have been real and not a dream. You ask what team has won such fame?
Why, THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE
DAME.
Our family has been greatly interested in the Notre Dame football teams for a good many years, which fact prompted my writing the poem. I know this poem would never win a literary award, but it expresses the feeling we have toward Notre Dame.
Yours very truly,
(Miss) Mary Ann Frank
124 Morrissey Dear Editor:
I have just returned from that cultural rat-trap, laughingly referred to as the University Library. Now in righteous anger I address my accumulated complaints to the Scholastic. For the last month I have kept score on the number of books that I have been unable to withdraw. The results I can now announce with just a touch of awe in my voice: I have received one book for every three that I have applied for.
Do you get the picture? Typical Student in quest of knowledge enters the catalog room where he must scrounge, through innumerable dog-eared index cards till he has found the title of his choice. .After copying the information
on the card, including his name, address, and the date, he presents this to the librarian. She sets off in search of the volume. (My roomie, an engineer, maintains that there is a floating crap game in the back room where each librarian is allowed two passes before she returns.) Eventually she does return with her winning smile and a pretty shake of her head—the little darlin’—but no book. This boring process must be twice repeated before any book can be withdrawn.
The last book I obtained is really a wonder. It is a 1918 version of the pocket edition. Only once before have I seen a book of equal size. That was in a side show where a midget offered me a King James Bible the size of a postage stamp for thirty-five cents.
For my last complaint I turn to the reference room where the books must be kept in the librarian’s sight. This apparently is a quaint custom held ovex’ from the darker ages when books were chained to the wall. It is a charming practice, but impractical and uncomfortable.
The library as it now stands is shamefully inadequate. I propose that it be enlarged in scope and volume, ox’ that it be abandoned and the building turned over to the Huddle.
Francis Fallon Evans
November 12, 1946 Dear Editor:	’
During the past few months, hundreds of students have vainly endeavored to accept some University regulations as necessary for the common good, however questionable they may have seemed. After the treatment received at the Yankee Stadium by the twelve hundred students who made the Army trip, we sincerely doubt that anyone can feel sympathetic toward any future policy promulgated for the so-called “good of all.”
For a mere $4.80, none of us expected to join Bill Stern in his broadcasting booth. Neither did we dream that we would spend two hours standing atop uncertain chair’s, bickering with everyone within screeching distance to stay seated.
Did the Cadets pay fox’ their seats? Personally, we doubt it! Yet they looked quite comfortable on their side of the field. Could it be that the West Point Athletic Department consider’ their students worthy of primary consideration? None of us were fortunate enough to follow the game completely, simply because the boxholders did not have the decency to remain seated. True, the powers that be have absolutely no control over the behavior of spectators; however, we do believe that they must have
30
realized the position of the field stands would not be conducive to game appreciation. It certainly is a terrible state of affairs when a student body is sacrificed for a few hundred dollars obtained by building box seats for a score of questionable “wheels.”
As the twenty-two men who played so ' brilliantly for Notre Dame deserved something better than a scoreless tie, so too did the students merit at least a place to sit sans the probability of leg cramps, backaches, and general fatigue.
James P. Mansfield, Henry McFarland, Owen McGreery, Howard P. Merins, and
J. P. Reiner.
Dear Editor,
I think that the requiem Mass held for George Obermaier last week was a very beautiful example of that feeling, that spirit which exists among Notre Dame men. But how much more beautiful it would have been if we had sung the requiem ourselves. . . .
George Igle, Alumni Hall.
Dear Sir:
It was only fitting that the student body of Notre Dame should have remembered the soul of George Obermaier, who died suddenly in New York at the Army game, with a requiem high Mass last Thursday morning. The fact that the Mass was sung at the request of the students and that Sacred Heart Church was filled to capacity on the morning of the Mass is evidence of the loyalty and respect which all Notre Dame students hold for one another. Here was a striking example of the real Notre Dame spirit.
But one practical difficulty almost prevented the singing of this Mass—the choir. For high Masses Sacred Heart Church has always depended upon Community choirs. However, as this Mass was to be sung on a weekday, it was only with the greatest difficulty that a very small portion of one Community choir was able to be present.
It seems inconceivable that the student body of a great university, such as Notre Dame, on all occasions that demand a choir, should be so dependent upon a Community group. In the first place, seminarians and brothers, two Community groups which do have choirs, have active and time-consuming schedules which do not permit their participation in various student projects. Consequently, when an occasion arises on which the students would like to have a high Mass, these groups find it most in
convenient and sometimes impossible to accommodate the students. The great difficulty which the Moreau seminarian choir surmounted in attending the Mass for George Obermaier is an illustration of the need at Notre Dame for either-a student choir- or, better yet, the actual singing of high Masses by the students themselves.
It can be seen that there IS a practical necessity for such a plan. But how about the other side? Wouldn’t it have been much more appropriate for the students to have sung this Mass last week themselves? And much more indicative of the great Notre Dame spirit?
Why shouldn’t the students sing the high Mass? It is the published and professed wish of the Church to foster as much lay participation in the Mass as possible. The actual recitation or singing of certain parts of the Mass by the laity promotes the Spirit of the Liturgy—the linking of humanity to God. The Gregorian Chant is the official music of the Church and should be known and sung by every man in the pews, not just the choirs. And if this liturgical emphasis could be achieved at Notre Dame—it could be if the students sang the high Masses themselves—the effects on the Catholic world would be weighty and far-reaching.
Why can’t the students sing high Mass on Sunday as they do Benediction? We have heard suggestions all over the campus to this effect. Many of the students are thoroughly familiar with the Chant, having sung it in their churches at home and in various choirs in the serv
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO,SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
ice. Still others have been listening to it so long that they know it without ever having sung it. Why doesn’t some organization on campus, like the Liturgy Club, the Catholic Action group, or even the Glee Club, get behind a plan such as this? Why don’t they organize a student Gregorian Chant movement so that the boys can sing high Mass themselves on Sundays and in their halls whenever they please?
Sincerely,
Ross Dugan, Cavanaugh Hall George Nesbit, Wafe/i Hall Bob Reynolds, Walsh Hall Dan Downey, Walsh Hall Pat O’Meara, Lyons Hall Dave Ardito, Morrissey Hall Chuck Patterson, Sorin Hall George Bariscillo, Alumni Hall
‘ iaieh TUNES
Rickety Rickshaw Man Intermission Hiss
Shanty In Old Shanty Town St Louis Blues
Star Dust
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
31
Specializing in the eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
5 ex) Al il1 ion Fil fers Sold
. . .THIS IS WHY:
* Reduces nicotine and tars
* Filters flakes and juices
* Improves tobacco aroma

| * Coolsand cleanses smoke I Jk hen filte> is stained from | ! tars and nicotine, replan j
New Books Interest Many ND Students
For all history students who have found outside reading to be so interesting and exciting, the Library offers a new list of books’ that may be read now that the current History Department examinations are finished. American Capitalism vs. Russian Communism is an outstanding work by C. A. Peters which gives everyone an opportunity to condemn or praise the present administration’s foreign policy toward Russia by reading up on the subject. If you are wondering in your spare time whether Catholic schools are progressive, L. J. O’Connell will emphatically answer that question in Are Catholic Schools Progressive?, and your doubts will possibly be clarified. Due to the current craze for psychology in all forms and the recent increase of psychological motion pictures, many books have been written on this interesting phenomenon. Notre Dame is not to be left ignorant and so L. G. Lowrey’s Psychiatry for Social Workers, a very practical work, has been deposited on the Library’s shelves.
K. B. Mickey has had his book, Man and the Soil, added to the evergrowing library, along with America, by S. V. Benet, The Gentleman From San Francisco by I. A. Bunin, and Sil* Walter Scott’s Private Letter Books. Athletes take cover since B. Nelson condemns all so-called golfers without proper form in his latest, Winning Golf. Sometime when lounging after “19th hole,” it would be worthwhile to sneak out a. copy of Nelson’s fine book and find out how to chop off thirty points from your score without an eraser. Students fascinated by literature will be gleeful to note that A Bibliography of the Separate and Collected Works of Phillip Freneau compiled by V. H. Paltsits, Poetical Works by J. Milton, The Life and Works of William Hayley by W. T. Le Viness, and L. S. Benjamin’s William Makepeace Thackeray are impatiently waiting for some lucky youth to gain the knowledge therein.
—Vern Kelley
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
(Continued from Page 9)
the hall will be shown and some amateur acts will be given.
Efforts will be made by the council to increase the bus transportation between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame on the nights of Victory Dances.
The National Federation of Catholic College Students will hold a Regional meeting on Saturday, December 7, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
BLUE CIRCLE
(Continued from Page 9) features vocalists Don Bailey and Jo Ann Tally in addition to Eddie Cox, novelty singer.
In the hall decorating contest many various schemes have already been submitted, imaginatively displaying the con- -quering of the Trojans of Southern California by the Irish of Notre Dame. While all the details have not yet been definitely decided, the prize winning hall, which will be announced during the weekend, will be feted at a special dinner, probably to be held in one of the parish halls in South Bend. Although unable to secure the faculty dining hall, the committee has been told by Mr. Ford that he will cooperate as much as possible in furnishing whatever will be needed.
The rules which have been drawn up for the hall decorating contest are:
1.	No hall can spend more than $75.00 for their decoration.
2.	Each hall must submit a list of their expenditures.
3.	The decorations must not be higher than the hall, and must be fastened securely to prevent any accident.
4.	Each hall must have only one recognized committee in charge of their decorations.
5.	The decision of the judges will be final, and in case of a tie equal awards will be made.
The judges of this contest will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith of the Commerce College and Paul P. Abraham, Blue Circle member.
The cheer contest, for which the final entry date was yesterday, was open to all students, priests, brothers and members of the lay faculty, who could submit any number of new cheers. For this, three prizes will be awarded—a Notre Dame blanket for the best new cheer, $5 for the second and a Notre Dame plaque for third place. These cheers will probably be introduced at the pep-rally on Friday night. Also scheduled for the rally is the appearance of Frank Wallace, famed football writer who annually does a pre-season bit of prognostication for the Saturday Evening Post. Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., the executive assistant to the President of the Uni-sity, will also speak, while it is tentatively planned to co-feature Mr. Timothy Galvin, member of the Board of Lay Trustee and old-time Notre Dame athlete.—Shaun McDermott
32
GET OUT AND VOTE!
(Continued from Page 8) be done in the future. And that for the pretty reason that no one wants to be a sucker.
In the light of the depressing situation which prevails, it is recommended that student elections be publicized in an organized and widespread manner. Also, the student body should be advised of the powers and limitations of their class • officers. No election should be declared valid unless 50% of the student body votes. Furthermore, no student should be considered for office unless he has taken part in previous elections. If these policies are maintained then it is entirely possible that class officers will regain their lost prestige, and that the students will take a more active interest in their own class affairs.
In all fairness, it must be said that the Administration is always willing to confer with responsible representatives on matters pertaining to student privileges. But it can hardly be expected to be so clairvoyant as to intuite student likes and dislikes. These must be made known in an intelligent manner before anything like consideration or arbitration can begin. So get out and vote for the right kind of representatives. If the knell rings for student rights, it will be no straining of the truth to assert that the student body worked the ropes.
—Joseph Wilcox
Inter-American Convention Scheduled for December 7-8
Notre Dame will play host to the Chicago and Fort Wayne Commission on Inter-American Action at a Bi-regional meeting Dec. 7 and 8. The fall gathering of the Commission, annually held on the Sunday nearest the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe (December 12), will have as its theme “Woman’s Place in Inter-American Affairs.”
In a tentative program for the Congress sent to all Catholic colleges and Newman Clubs of non-Catholic colleges in the bi-regional area, Luis Beltranena of Notre Dame has outlined two days of activities that include meetings, discussions, a campus tour, and a dance to be held at St. Joseph’s Hall in South Bend.
Among featured speakers will be Srta. Maruj a Cabrere Cardus, a native of Paraguay and instructor in Spanish at the University of Wisconsin, Rev. Gervis J. Coxen, M.M., Maryknoll Seminary, N.
:	Y., and Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., N.D.
5 Each school has been ask to take re? sponsibility for and participate in the :	panel discussions on various phases of
I the general theme. These panels are > scheduled for Sunday morning presentai tion in the Law Building.
I
NROTC Applications Being Accepted Here
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies, has announced that applications for the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps program at Notre Dame are now being accepted. Applications must be filed by Dec. 17.
Candidates for the NROTC must be not less than 17 years of age nor more than 21 on July 1, 1947, and must meet the entrance requirements of the college. Applicants already in attendance at a college or university are eligible if they agree to continue an academic course (at the undergraduate and/or graduate level) for four years after enrollment; such candidates attending other than NROTC institutions must meet the requirements for transfer to a NROTC college or university.
Candidates who are minors must have the consent of parent or guardian. All must be physically qualified; agree to remain unmarried while in the program; and agree to accept a commission in the Navy or Marine Corps, if offered, and if this be terminated, to accept a commission in the Organized Naval or Marine Corps Reserve.
Candidates accepted receive the cost of tuition, fees, and textbooks from the government. Uniforms are provided, and students receive retainer pay for other expenses during college at the rate of $600 per year.
While in the program students may take any course leading to a baccalaureate or higher degree, but must include 24 semester hours of Naval Science, plus certain minimum requirements in mathematics, physics, and English.
Persons interested may obtain further information and application blanks from Father Kenna in the Office of the Director of Studies in the Main Building.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Typing Done
TERM PAPERS, MANUSCRIPTS. PRECIS Typing done ten cents per page (double space). Carbon copies one cent each. Paper furnished.
W. J. WISSEL, 326 Badin
For Sale
FULL DRESS SUIT — Size 37-short Excellent condition, worn only twice.
Phone 3-1134 — 9:00 to 5
Urgently Needed!
APARTMENT
Any Vet and wife now living in South Bend and anticipating vacating their apartment in the future please contact occupant of Room 219, Zahm Hall.
Met Club Officers Announce Christmas Dance for Dec. 26
The Metropolitan Club of N.D. recently announced its annual “Christmas Formal” to be held at the Essex House on December 26. The music is to be supplied by Harry Arnold and his orchestra, a group which has been extremely popular in and around New York for the past six or seven years.
Bill Harrs, chairman of the dance, has announced that the bids will go on sale next week; the price will be $6.00 per couple (entertainment tax included). At the same time, it was announced that plans are being made for members of the club to attend a performance of “Toplitsky of Notre Dame” one night during the Christmas holiday.
—Gerry O’Reilly
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
- •
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
33
Bill
Lyman
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1906
Feb. 3.—Dr. Douglas Hyde lectured here this week on Irish folklore. The subject was so popular that Washington Hall was full for the first time in three years . . . Mar. 24.—“Talkative Irish are again well represented on this year’s debating team, and, if endurance will win matches, our boys can’t lose.” So said the coach of the debating team as he looked over a roster which contained such names as Cunningham, Donahue, Hagerty, Bolger, Malloy, Corcoran, Burke and Boyle . . . Mar. 31—The Durno Concert Company, which played here last Thursday, set a new record by emptying Washington Hall in two minutes and ten seconds. Most of the credit was given to the particularly sour violin of Mr. Karl Hermann . . . May 5—The varsity baseball team finally beat Beloit . . . May 12—A new monument to Father Sorin was unveiled in the quadrangle last week . . . May 19—The hard-talking debating team continued undefeated by winning its twelfth straight match . . . Dec. 1—Tuesday was, of course, a holiday as the school celebrated President’s Day in honor of the Rev. Father John Cavanaugh.
❖
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT
And the Moon is Made of Green Cheese
Letter reprinted from the Boston Traveler, Oct. 24,1946, via George Schott of Lyons:
Arthur Siegel,
Traveler Sports Department, Boston, Mass.
Dear Arthur:
We received a clipping of your story written the day following the Illinois game. Many thanks for the nice writeup.
Notre Dame is highly overrated this year, Arthur. We met Illinois when they had an off day. In all probability we will lose three or four games yet this season.
F. Leahy.
For Dillon's Sake
In Dillon Hall where I reside, To you, my friend, let me confide. On second floor, in northwest wing, There is a boy who loves to sing.
Every morning, noon, eve, or night, My anger, I must fight and fight.
Will he please croon around the lake, Not just for me, for Dillon’s sake!
—Gerald Corrigan, Dillon
* Prelude to Packing
Come on, the watchman’s a friend of mine.
Oh, I’m not worried about getting kicked out. That’s a lot of balony about ten thousand fellows being on the waiting list.
—Crazy Jack, Lyons
But why, you ask, just this day of the week?
Come my friend, let’s take a peek Into some of the halls of education
Look To
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
for ARROWS
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
Hoot Mon! We know 'where you can
Nothing like a little Scotch atmosphere for Christmas cheer, we maintain.
Arrow has a bonny assortment of pure wool Scot Clan plaids as Scottish as bagpipes and haggis.
buy SCOTCH for $1.00 (Scotch PLAID that is.}
To see the prettiest assortment of college ties in town, jmost of them for just one dollar, stop around today.
Pick out a couple of beauties for your Dad and Brother before you go home for Christinas. Dinna for* get yourself, laddie!
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON

34
It’s Adler’s for ARROWS
MIK CORNEA... MKIMAN (MMM
A cravat to suit every Psyche !
We can even service schizophrenics.
If you Jekyll at people who wear loud neckties by day and Hyde from those who wear conservative cravats by night, we have the right tie for each of your personalities.
If you are a sheep in wolf s clothing or vice versa or are. even quite normal Arrow has a tie just for you.
Drop in at your favorite Arrow psychiatrist and get an analysis of your necktie needs.
He has a wide range of fabrics, patterns and colors from which you can satisfy your particular cravat craving. $1 up.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
At the future leaders of this great nation.
Whether we go to the campus of old Notre Dame,
To Wisconsin or Texas, the scene is the same.
A desk, a student, a small white card, This problem, it seems, must be terribly hard.
We hate to disturb but we quietly ask, My boy, what is this great task?-
Is it chemistry, physics, or psychology? English literature? Perhaps biology?
Oh no, says he, It’s none of those. The reason for my studious pose Isn’t a subject taught in school I’m picking teams in a football pool.
—Elt Clemens, Dillon
Supersonic Air Tunnel to Be Constructed Here
Preliminary plans are in the designing stage for a supersonic air tunnel at the University of Notre Dame, according to Prof. Frank N. M. Brown, head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering. The wind tunnel will be much smaller than the one at the Lone Star Laboratories, Danger Field, Texas, but it will be similarly constructed.
Professor Brown’s calibration processes were of great assistance in the erection of the high-speed tunnel in Texas, which is rated the largest in the world.
In November 1945, Professor Brown left the University on a leave of absence to work with engineers of the U. S. Navy and Johns Hopkins University in the construction and technical development at the Texas aeronautical center. On another occasion, the Notre Dame educator was sent on a special war mission to the Near East and China by the State Department.	—J. D. Usma
Professor Eells Elected Indiana Academy Officer
Professor LeClair H. Eells, head of the Department of Finance at the University, was elected vice-president for Business Administration of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences at the recent annual meeting of the Academy at Spring Mill (Ind.) State Park.
Professor Eells, a native of New Hartford, la., was graduated from the Iowa State Teachers College in 1926 and received a master’s degree from Harvard in 1929. He has been a member of the faculty at the University since 1931.
The Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences is composed of professors and instructors of the social sciences from universities and colleges throughout Indiana.
35
Always Better Cooler MILDER TASTING SMOKING
RIGHT COMBINATIONS WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS • PROPERLY AGED
Copyright 1946, Liggett & Mrr«s Tobacco Co.