Put a hat over it,Curly, we've all had a look
Here’s curly, the only man in the world who ever had a head of hair. Comes the middle of winter with snow and ice or hot summer days with the sun beating down and Curly still keeps his locks bared for all to gasp at.
Frankly, wavy locks don’t do a whole lot more for us than any other kind of hair, but obviously they do for Curly, and that’s why we feel a little sorry for him.
The best way no t to keep those curls looking pretty is to wander around without a hat. Honest.
A hat is primarily for protection, protection for your hair and your health. The hot sun dries up your hair and your scalp, and cold winds and rain and snow beating against a bare head are a cold bug’s best allies.
Here’s something for psych 1-2:
Curly doesn’t look any better without a hat. As a matter of fact, he looks like a darned fool. But something deep down in Curly’s libido makes him think he’s climbing up Dr. Adler’s Male Complex ladder when he struts around like a rugged bear.
Curly, like everyone else, would look a whole lot better and feel a lot better, too, if he’d let a hat protect his health and improve his appearance.
"Wear a Hat—Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!"
These fine hat labels have published this advertisement in the interests of good grooming and good health of American men.
DOBBS g|g CAVANAGH	KNOX^
BERG^ BYRON® C&Kg DUNLAP®^
Divisions of the Hot Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
2
The Scholastic
!
U PHILIP MORRIS... AND OHLY PHILIP MORRIS | IS ENTIRELY FREE OF A
X Sk	aJ

SOURCE OF IRRITATION USED IN ALL OTHER LEADING “ % CIGARETTES!


..j
PHILIP MORRIS gives you
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE than any other leading brand.
Yes -YOU’LL BE GLAD TOMORROW, YOU SMOKED PHILIP MORRIS TODAY!

y
'*«k\ fp
You’ll love “I LOVE LUCY”
starring
LUCILLE BAU and DESI ARNAZ Zj| The new TV laugh *■ riot over CBS
____________ ...	— । —r—... ^... —~ :<r~":r	.
HUUP MORRIS
April 4, ig52
3
LETTERS
For the Status Quo
Editor:
In as much as the other two proposed constitutions were written up in the Scholastic for all to see, I thought it only fair that some light be shed upon the present constitution.
Under the present constitution, definite liaison is set up between the two bodies, and it is stated that the administration will recognize the Student Council as an official body, and the only official body, representing the students. Any complaints brought before the Council would be presented to the administration, along with the Council’s recommendations on the matter. Also, the administration would use the Council as a “sounding board” for determining student opinion.
The argument that proponents of the other two constitutions throw at the present system is that it lacks representation. Under the present constitution everyone on campus is represented through his floor representative, who gives his views to the vice-president of the Student Council.
All students wishing to participate in student government may do so, as the constitution states: “All members in good standing in the student body shall be eligible for committees.” These would be sub-committees of the Council with a member of the Council as chairman.
All of the clubs are supposedly represented through the NFCCS and the Blue Circle Audit Committee. It is a shame that these groups have not received the representation they deserve, but it is not the system which is at fault, because the present constitution prescribes the means whereby they would be represented. The other proposed constitutions sacrifice simplicity of structure in trying to get representation, and the result is a top-heavy bureaucratic form of government. I believe, in this case, that the “best government is that government which governs least.”
Drawing a conclusion, I would like to say that the functions of the Council are already defined satisfactorily under the present constitution but are not carried out. The fact that they are not carried out does not mean that the constitution is at fault, but that those who were elected to carry it out do not perform their tasks as stated by the constitution.
JOE GALLAGHER.
Get ready for Easter with Arrow Shirts in white, solid colors, and patterns, and Arrow Ties.
M/tOW »»------------
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
4
The Scholastic
and courageously stump for a return to the five-cent piece. I, for one, would back him to the hilt and pledge him my undying support. It could very well be the one factor which would decide the outcome of the nominating convention.
Top of the Week
Easter vacation begins Tuesday . . .
They’re Off
The Organizers, we understand, all got together last Monday eve to look each other over ahd to hold a little town meeting affair over in Washington Hall.
What with the assemblage all leafing through their rule books on parliamentary procedure, along with a sprightly discussion on the floor concerning new Constitutions and plans for bigger and better organizing, I don’t imagine a body could keep wits enough about him to know a question from a motion.
If there are any more enlarged and extended organizational meetings someone will have to organize WGN-TV to cover proceedings. Either that or move the meetings into Chicago Stadium—and that probably would be the better choice—Chicago is fun.
Limited Offer Only
Reminiscent of last year’s panic over Junior Prom bids was the disclosure by this season’s committee that all their bids for the “Sophistication” soiree this coming April 25 had been sold out in the record time of 55 minutes.

This calls for some sort of an award or something. Last year’s time was a sluggish 36 hours. The government ■will probably want to grab off the hustlers on the J. P. committee to sell war bonds or something. Such talent shouldn’t be checked. ,
Mr. First Nighter
Last Saturday night, at precisely 8 p.m., the Women of the Western World raised the curtain on their annual Variety Show.
We could be real fresh and ask why, but we won’t. Truth of the matter is that the gals at S.M.C. scored with a lighter, funnier and more sensible pro-_ duction than any we were privileged to observe in the three years past.
Miss Eleanor Fails, now under con-
By Jack Hynes
tract to Josh Logan, gets the Week’s orchid (now in the mail) for a stellar performance.
Alas!
You might not realize it, but last week you witnessed the final culmination of an era. Last week, local rates for telephone calls rose from five to ten cents. The increase sounded the death knell for our age—an age when a nickel meant something.
Perhaps you can remember back to the despondent thirties when the nickel beer went out of existence; then in the pre-war days which saw the nickel cigar, the nickel cup of coffee, and in the metropolitan centers, the nickel subway ride pass into history and oblivion. And now, the nickel phone call.
Would that one of the many current presidential candidates would come out
WANT TO SEE "PM JOEY? -KIE S HOW! “Pal Joey" is currently Broadway's biggest hit. Lines at the Broadhurst Theatre all daylong. No seats available for weeks.
/ r r if you are coming to New York during JUNE, JULY and AUGUST it will be easy to see this brilliant musical comedy if you write for reservations NOW. Mail orders from your college will be given prompt attention.
Starring
Enlir* Production Supervised by NBEIT ALTON
Eves.: Orch. $6.60; Bate. $4.80. 3.60. 3.00. 2.40. Mats. Wed. & Sat.: Orch. $3.60; Bate. $3.00. 2.40. 1.80.1.20. - Ta* Ind. Please list one or more alternate datat and enclose stamped. nH addrtmd envelope.
BROADHURST THEA., 239 w. 44 st. hy.
Music by	lyrics by	Boek by
RICHARD ROKERS * LORENZ RART - JORN TRARA
“A BRILLIANT PRODUCTION!"-ATKINSON. N.Y.Times
“A ROARING SUCCESS!"- LIFE MAGAZINE
“THE YEAR’S MOST ENTERTAINING SHOW!"- ESQUIRE VAiJoty
VIVIENNE SEGAL HAROLD LANG
By George, it’s almost enough to make a person vote for Bob Taft. Oh well, time and progress, I guess - . . hey pal, gotta nickel?
It’s Only Blood
Yesterday - and today, the mobile blood units from Fort Wayne were in operation over in the Navy Drill Hall and took in about 300‘ pints of blood.
In case you forgot to give, your pint during these past two days, you’ll have another opportunity to give your blood on April 21-25 when a bloodmobile from the Chicago area will be on campus for five days.to receive donors.
The blood you give will probably be used within eight or nine days, as the Red Cross states it will all be processed and shipped immediately to Korea. Don’t muff your opportunity to save a life.
Bottom of the Week
. . . for seven days.
April 4, 1952
Favorite subject of coeds—
YOU „
CANOE TRIPS
in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. At a price a student can afford. For free colored booklet and map, write: Bill Rom, Mgr., Canoe Country Outfitters, Box 717 C, Ely, Minn.
Shirts
Nothing gets admiring glances on the campus faster than a handsome guy in a handsome shirt. To look your handsomest, try on a Manhattan Burt or a Manhattan Range.
The Manhattan Burt! The Manhattan Range!
The Burt is a button-down oxford with a soft roll to the collar. Or, if you prefer broadcloth, then the Range is right for you with its smart widespread collar. Better still—buy both and be ready for anything—classroom or coke date!
The Franciscan Brothers are religious who live according to the “Rule of the Regular Third Order of the Seraphic Father, St. Francis.” The general end of the Congrega-THE BROTHER’S *1OnJS
vnanmi	sonal sanctlfi-
VOCATION	cation of the in-
dividual by the faithful observance of the Rule and Constitutions. The special end is that the members may promote, with all their efforts, the salvation of the neighbor, devoting themselves to the care of boys, especially children of the poor, that these may grow up true Catholics and become good and upright citizens. For free literature write, phone or visit: Brother Louis, OSF, Vocation Department. 41 Butler St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y. Phone: MA 4-2036
Go Home For Spring
BY TRAIN
Comfort and Safety
No Other Travel
Can Match!
SAVE MONEY! Get together 25 or more going home the same direction at the same time. Go GROUP COACH PLAN . . . then £ return separately if you wish. EACH saves up to 38% compared to one-way fares!
HAVE FUN! It’s vacation all the way when you travel with a group of friends ... in the roomy comfort of the train . . . with swell dining car meals!
BE SURE of getting home as planned . . . and back to school promptly after the holidays. Remember, no other travel can match the all-weather dependability of the railroad!
Ask Your Railroad Agent Now How to Save on Group or Single Round-Trip Vacation Fares!
Eastern Railroads *
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 April 4, 1952 No. 23
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
j	Associate Editor
JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE ................News
PATRICK CARRICO ...............Assistant News i	RICHARD	P. CODY........Features
JACK R.	VARLEY ................Sports
:	THOMAS FOOTE ..........Assistant Sports
•	LEON GARDNER .................Librarian
1	RONALD	E. ZIER____________Advertising
;	WILLIAM	KERWIN ............Circulation
JOHN P.	DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin. Larry Brehl, Vai Chun. Pete j	Connolly, Mike Ducey,	Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberg-
,	er. Paul Fullmer.	Bob	Gorman,	Jim Harrington.
<	. Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore,
«	Gorman Redding,	Bob	Rust, Al	Suualsky, Mike
'	Ward, Irv Carrig,	Frank Donlon,	Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon. Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch. Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy, i -----------------------------------------------------
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the 1	school year, cscept during vacation and examina-
|	tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-
<	dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre
Dame. Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per vear.
Sound Off — Now!
Two weeks ago, Scholastic carried an article on two plans for reorganizing student government at Notre Dame. In the same issue, we commented on both plans in this column and gave our reasons for favoring one over the other. All that we said then still holds, especially that part about “speaking now.”
Today—and until after supper this evening—a referendum is being conducted to determine just how the Notre Dame student body wants its government revised. The exact time and place are given elsewhere in this edition. We urge all of you to examine the proposed plans and make your choice.
Naturally we hope you go for the interhall and interclub councils plan. That is the one we supported in the past in this column. But whatever your preference is, at least have one.
We believe that either plan would be an improvement over the present set-up —which operates, incidentally, under a constitution never ratified by the student body. We believe, further, that such an improvement is necessary’ if the full potential of student government here is to be realized. The men responsible for the proposed plans deserve commendation for the time and work they have given to the project. But with this referendum, the initiative passes out of their hands. It’s up to you now.
If the referendum turns out only a small percentage of students, then we submit that Notre Dame doesn’t need any student government because the lads are not ready for it or interested in it. A large turn-out will effectively demonstrate a lively and aggressive student interest, one that could hardly be ignored.
What it boils down to is that all of us now have a chance to demonstrate the sincerity of our criticisms of student government. We have an opportunity to demonstrate our willingness to accept more responsibility. So if you’re really interested in things around here, cast your ballot tonight. Either do that or confine your complaints to the weather and your golf scores.
COVER: Senior Sam Monagle did the posing for this feature—the old story of the lad with a yen for the stage. For the results, see page 17.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
Movies and Blood
Some folks get things done around here without publicity or thanks and this week we have in mind some people who deserve a lot of thanks.
First, whoever instituted the Thursday Washington Hall movies for Lent, came up with a real winner. This time of year always drags and the additional show was a great idea. The size of the audiences seems to indicate that we’re not alone in this sentiment. Here, for the record, is an enthusiastic “Thank you.” -
And orchids and thanks and congratulations to the anonymous lads who brought a blood drive to Notre Dame despite all kinds of obstacles. Even after they secured the pledges, they had a battle lining up collection facilities. But we are finally having a blood drive, mostly because of the unselfish and strenuous efforts of a few men with initiative and endurance. Hats off to all of them! And a small footnote: if you haven’t pledged a pint of your own blood, there’s still time. Patriotism, charity and mercy are all wrapped up in a donation that costs you nothing. So how about it. Lad, can’t you spare a pint?
April 4, 1952
7

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME'S OWN HOTEL WILL OPEN IN APRIL
92 Rooms
92 Berths
Rates from $6.00 Single — $9.00 Double
Dining Room — Excellent Cuisine — Air-Conditioned Private Function Rooms — also Air-Conditioned
Room Service
Gift and Souvenir Shop
Cigar and Newsstand
Golf, locker and shower facilities for men guests
Putting Green
Radio and Circulating Ice Water in every room Parking Area, paved and lighted, adjoining
The Morris Inn, a gift to the University from the late E. M. Morris ’06 of South Bend, Indiana, will open in April.
Reservations from many friends of Notre Dame, the alumni and parents of the Students are being received daily.
It is the hope of the University that the Morris Inn will help to introduce many new friends to the objectives and ideals of Notre Dame, as well as to serve the many old friends and supporters whom the University now enjoys and values so highly.
With this thought in mind we think it well to assure all of our readers that the facilities of The Morris Inn are completely at their disposal, not only for themselves, but for their friends and acquaintances as well.
Please feel free to call upon the management of The Inn for assistance in caring for your requirements, or those of persons you direct to us. It will be his pleasure to render prompt and efficient service at all times and nothing will be left undone in carrying out your wishes.
In the event your room requirements cannot be taken care of at The Inn because of previous booking the management will assist in securing reservations in one of South Bend's downtown hotels.
Please write, telegraph or telephone.
Edward H. Hunt, Manager The Morris Inn Notre Dame, Indiana
x-
8
The Scholastic
Vote Today Decides Council Fate
Successful Plan S+ill To Face Ratification
From 5:30 to 7 this evening in the basement of the Dining Hall, the Notre Dame student body will voice its preference in a constitutional referendum, being held to determine which plan for student government reform will be adopted.
Voting began during the noon hour today at the Blue Circle-operated polling station. All ND students are eligible to vote in the referendum, but each must present his I-D card before casting his ballot.
The various proposals for constitutional reform were presented at a student “town meeting” in Washington Hall, Monday night.
Whichever plan is selected by the students today will be perfected and then presented to the student body for ratification shortly after Easter vacation. Constitutional changes must be enacted this month because of their effect on the forthcoming student elections in May.
Some 70 students attended the meeting, which was conducted by the Academy of Political Science and arranged by Floyd Blair. Father Stanley Perry, C.S.C. of the Department of Political Science, served as moderator of the meeting.
Three Plans Aired
Presenting the various plans were Jim Garvin, president of the Student Council, who presented the “three R” plan; Paul Zalecki, NFCCS senior delegate, who presented a plan for a two group government with a Regency Board; and George Sweet, president of the senior class, who favored continuing the present form of government.
The “3 R” plan would form student government of an executive
cabinet and a student senate to carry on both legislative and executive functions. Garvin pointed out that this plan would permit greater student representation, and would distribute the work of the Council, which is now greatly overworked.
Zalecki’s plan would offer a Regency board of students as the executive arm of a legislative group composed of an inter-hall council and an inter-club council.
George Sweet, defending the present system of student government, admitted that it might be improved by expanding the various committees now working for the Council, but argued that a more complicated system would be much less able to handle matters as quickly and easily as the present system does. He also pointed out the time and effort involved in completely reforming the student government, instead of merely revising it.
The meeting ended after a short discussion period in which the audience questioned the different members .of the panel on their plans.
JOHN NOLAND
The Spotlight on ND
Noland Represents ND on Waring Show
John Noland, first tenor of the University Glee Club, will appear Sunday evening, April 27, on the Fred Waring Show, produced in New York and carried on the CBS television network.
His appearance will highlight the “Varsity Showcase,” a portion of the Waring program dedicated each week to featuring a top university or college. The April 27 edition of “Showcase” will turn the spotlight on Notre Dame, particularly timely since the following day is Universal Notre Dame Day, observed by alumni and friends of Notre Dame throughout the nation.
Waring’s TV program customarily shows campus scenes of the particular university which is commemorated, and has a' member of the university’s glee club appear on the show to sing a few songs. It is • this hole that Noland will fill for Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame tenor will sing one or more of the five following songs, which he has submitted to the program manager: The Rose of Tralee, I’ll Take You Home Again, Kathleen, Mattinata, Ave Maria (Schubert), and Panis Angelicas.	'
A junior English major, Noland was president of his high school glee club for four years before coming to Notre Dame. He has sung in the University Glee Club for three years and has been a soloist for the last two.
In addition to his musical activities here on the campus, Noland is also an active member of the South Bend “Linnets,” a St. Joseph parish organization, for which he has had the tenor lead in two recent musical productions—Gilbert and Sullivan’s The Mikado and a revue entitled Bits from Hits.—Bob Gorman.
April 4, 1952
9
GLEE CLUB
New York, Philadelphia, Buffalo . . .
Glee Club Plans Eastern Tour Over Holidays; Band Scheduled for Midwest Appearances
Both Notre Dame musical aggregations, the Glee Club and the Band, will make extensive trips this Spring. The former hits the road next Wednesday for an eastern tour lasting until April 24. The Band will travel through the Middle West on its concert tour, which begins Easter Sunday night.
Sterling, Ill., is the Band’s first stop, and successive appearances are to be made at Great Lakes Naval Training Station; Newholstein, Wis.; LaCrosse, Wis.; Mankato, Minn.; Highmore and Sioux Falls, S. Dak.; and Sioux City and Davenport, la. From Davenport the Band will return to ND.
Fifty-five bandsmen will make the trip. Their repertoire ranges from symphonic compositions to marches.
After its return to campus, the Band will present its Spring Concert on April 30, in the Drill Hall.
In its second major’ trip of the current school year, the Glee Club heads East for appearances in New York City, Philadelphia, Buffalo, Summit, N. J.; Harrisburg, Pa., and Greensburg, Pa.
While in New York City, the warblers are scheduled for their fourth appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” TV show. CBS stations across the nation will carry the show Easter Sunday night. This appearance
will wind up their New York stay.
Four performances will be made at the Biltmore Hotel in New York previous to the TV appearance.
Another repeat stop is scheduled for Kleinhans’ Music Hall in Buffalo. This will be the third consecutive showing there.
Accompanying the 36 singers on the 2,000-mile tour will be Glee Club Director Daniel H. Pedtke, who is also the head of the Department of Music. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., will travel with the group as chaplain.
A number of other trips have been made during this schoolyear, this Easter circuit being second in distance onlj7 to the West Coast trip made at the beginning of this semester. The entire trip will be made in one of Indiana Motor Line’s new Luxury Liners.
Each of the musical groups will feature a number of soloists. From the Glee Club ranks, Jim Etling, Gene Fanning, and John Noland will render special numbers.
Band soloists are Andrew Fairley, bassoonist; Charles Hos, vocal; and Bill Missimer, piano. Featured groups are Edward Dix, Ted Peller, Eugene Henry, and Bill Erman, trombone quartet; Don Gels, Bill May, and Owen Cox, trumpet trio; and Jon McKinsey and Lee Tavis, Irish pipers.
STUDENT COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for next Monday’s meeting of the Student Council, at 7:15 p.m. in 100 Law, will include:
1.	Distribution of Mardi Gras profits.
2.	Report on summer storage space.
Inter-American Club Goes To Pan-American Conference
Rosary College in River Forest, Ill., is the site for this year’s annual PanAmerican Day Conference April 20. Notre Dame’s Inter-American Affairs Club will send a number of representatives.
Theme for the conference is “Brazil.” Adolfo Calero, ND junior, will speak about “The Economic and Scientific Development of Brazil.” After this and other topics to be presented, the subject will be opened for discussion from the floor.
The day’s activities will include business and discussion meetings and will end with some sort of entertainment. Charles Crowley and other ND men will provide music.
Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., faculty counselor of the La Raza Club, and prime mover of these InterAmerican conferences, will attend the meeting. About 20 ND men and St. Mary’s girls will also make the trip.
Swart Wins Chicago Berth In Hearst Preliminaries Here
John Swart, a junior speech major, captured the Notre Dame elimination round for the national Hearst Tournament of Speech. He thus qualifies for* the sectional elimination tourney to be held in Chicago at a later date, with prizes ranging from $50 to $250.
The preliminaries for the Breen Oratorical Contest will be held Monday at 4 p. m. in Room 327, Main Building. The finals will be held during the latter part of the month in the Law Auditorium. The Breen Medal of Oratory is awarded annually to the Notre Dame student who excels in oratory. The selection of the topic is left up to the individual, with a nine- . minute speaking limit.
Contestants for the Freshman Oratorical Contest to be held in May, with preliminaries late in April, are now being registered in the Department of Speech office, 328 Main Building. Deadline for applicants, aiming at the first prize of $10, is April -26.
The Scholastic s-
10
< a Ultra-Modem Morris Inn Opens April 21; Early Guests Include Junior Prom Dates
By JIM HARRINGTON
being scheduled by various groups. .
An added feature for male visitors to the Inn will be the use of the golf course for a nominal greens fee of $1.50. A locker room will be maintained, with an attendant on duty at all times during the playing season.
With the official opening on April 21, the new Morris Inn becomes the first structure of the Notre Dame postwar building program to be put into operation. Among the first guests of the Inn will be many of the girls here for the Junior Prom weekend.
Built by the University to accommodate visitors to the campus, the Inn is being run on a regular hotel basis. Its rates, of $6 and up for single rooms and $9 and up for double rooms, compare favorably with those of other first-class hotels.
All of the 92 guest rooms in the Inn have been elaborately decorated and furnished by B. Altman, Co., of New York City. Eighty-five rooms are furnished with twin beds, seven with double beds. All rooms are with bath.
The million-dollar Inn, a gift of the late Mr. E. M. Morris of South Bend, an alumnus and former president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame, is capable of accommodating as many as 180 guests.
Four Months Late
Although the impressive, modern, three-story structure was scheduled for completion by last Christmas, (work was begun late in the fall of 1950) construction and material supply delays caused the four-month set-back to its April opening'. Prominently located at the main entrance to the University, the building is of the usual brick facing which characterizes all the newer buildings on campus.
A U-shaped building, opening out to the west on the golf course, it measures about 200 feet across the front with the wings extending back about 125 feet. It is the third largest of the four new buildings on campus.
The general construction of the building, designed by Holabird, Root and Burgee architects, was under contract to the Sollitt Construction Co., Inc., which is also general contractor for the Science Building. The type of construction used is described as “reinforced concrete column and slab construction.”
Features Country Club View
Except for 12 guest rooms in the south wing, the first floor is taken up
by the main lobby and dining facilities. The west walls of the lobby and the public dining room are of plate glass, presenting a full view of the golf course.
One of the finest and most modern stainless steel kitchens in the Middle West serves the public dining room, which will seat 125 persons, and the three private banquet rooms, which can accommodate a total of 150 persons. For large affairs an additional 50 persons can be served in the “Nineteenth Hole,” a refreshment lounge in the basement of the Inn.
Mr. Edward Hunt, who has had wide experience in the hotel business along the Atlantic seaboard and in the Middle West, is manager of the Inn. Mr. Armand Lysak, formerly employed by several prominent hotels in Europe, has been appointed assistant manager in charge of catering and front-office activity.
The Inn will employ about 65 part-and full-time employees, many of whom will be students seeking part time employment to help finance theii' education here at Notre Dame.
In outlining the facilities of the Inn, Mr. Hunt said it was expected that many students would dine at the Inn during visits of relatives and friends whom they would wish to entertain. Also, many banquets, parties, communion breakfasts, and the like are
MORRIS INN
. . . on a Regular Hotel Basis
Father Sheedy Leads Vetviile Retreat in Farley Tomorrow
Farley Hall Chapel will be the scene of a retreat for all Vetviile men, beginning tomorrow evening and ending Sunday morning. Retreat master will be Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion.
Saturday’s opening service will be a conference at 8 o’clock. Sunday’s schedule consists of 9 o’clock Mass, a conference at 10:15 a. m. and a holy hour at 11:15.
Last weekend the wives from Vetviile participated in a retreat in Farley Hall Chapel, Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., conducting.
At last Sunday’s Council meeting, it was decided to hold the post-Lenten pot luck dinner April 19. The affair in the Vetviile Rec. Hall will begin at 8 p. m. It was decided to levy no charge but voluntary contributions will be accepted for the Vetviile Jim Aoki Fund. .
Census will be taken soon concerning the playground facilities. A committee under the joint chairmanship of Russell Barta and George McGuan will contact the husbands and wives in each ward. The object of - the - census is to ascertain what kind of equipment is needed, how much, and where it should • be located.
April 4, 1952
11
Walt Swift Booked for New Musical Lead; Chorus, Set Artists Point for May 4 Opener
Mr. Granby, the subject of a frantic campus-wide search last week by directors of the student musical Stay Tuned for Addleman, was found this week.
Walt Swift, a junior pre-ined with years of theatrical experience, has been awarded the role.
Swift, who has been involved in theatre work since he was six years old, will handle the part of the sponsor' of Disk Jockey Addleman. “Granby is the type of part,” according to coauthor Jack Hynes, “which calls for a good deal of work and ability. We feel we’ve found a capable man in Swift.”
Active in theatrical productions in the New England area, Swift has appeared on the legitimate stage, on radio and television.
He toured for six weeks through New England and New York state as Clarence Day, Jr. in Life with Father. Last -summer he portrayed the same role in various stock company versions of Life with Mother.
On 36 hours notice he portrayed the part of Mr. DiPina in You Can’t Take it with You, in a Connecticut summer theatre production, and he is tentatively scheduled to play Don Gresham in a Massachusetts production of The Moon is Blue.
On the local scene, Swift was last seen as the fortune teller in the recent University Theatre hit, Skin of Our Teeth, and was a member of the cast of The Importance of Being Earnest when that play was put on at St. Mary’s.
Casting Now Completed
Swift’s casting as Granby completes the cast line for the student musical, which is now in the midst of rehearsals in Washington Hall.
Under the direction of Jack Hynes, those with speaking parts are working out on the Washington Hall stage and have completed the blocking out of the first two acts of the musical.
In the meantime, Leon Silvers and Tom Powers are working with the chorus in the Washington Hall music room. .
Sets are taking form under the direction of Mr. John Tumpane of the Department of Speech • and Dick Byrne. These two were responsible for the- impressionistic setting for Faust, the effective staging of Old Heidelberg and the successful sets for the very recent Skin of Our Teeth.
Gerry Costello is putting the finishing touches on the music, which will be played by members of Gene Hull’s band.
The show is scheduled to be performed five nights, starting on Sunday, May 4, and ending its run on Thursday, May 8. Thus, anyone arriving a day early for the Senior Ball on Friday the ninth will be able to see the final performance of the show.
The story of a New York disc jockey who gets big ideas, Stay Tuned for Addleman has a book full of laughs by Jack Hynes and Chas Schubert and a collection of tunes by campus musician Gerry Costello, one better than the next.
Tickets Available in Each Hall
Tickets will be available on each floor of every residence hall, as well as in the lobby of the Dining Hall, for the show. Reserved seats will be available for $1 and for 80 cents while general admission will be a half dollar.
“We haven’t as yet appointed all our floor representatives,” said Business Manager Bill Hank, “but when we do,
‘JUGGLER’
Space limitations prevented us from reviewing the Spring issue of JUGGLER. We recommend, however, that you get a copy (on sale now) for some varied and interesting reading.
we’d advise everyone to get their tickets early. Thus they’ll be sure of seeing the musical and avoiding the situation of that unlucky group last year which was turned away because of the sellout.”
Posters, announcements over WND, and stories in the Scholastic will announce the location of the floor representatives with Stay Tuned for Addleman seats when the ticket sale begins.
Indianapolis Scene Of NFCCS Regional
On April 19 and 20, the 1952 NFCCS Regional Congress will be held at Marian College, Indianapolis. Representatives from Notre Dame and the seven other Catholic colleges in the Fort Wayne region will attend. John O’Connell, ND junior, and re
gional president, will conduct the Congress.
The theme will be “The Key to Practical Christianity,” which will lead to the setting up of a program of practical suggestions. Other interests will be election of next year’s regional officers, planning activities for next year, and making preparations for the National Congress being held at ND August 28-Sept. 3.
Saturday the Congress will open with Mass celebrated by Archbishop Paul C. Schulte. Following Mass the first plenary session will open with an address by Rev. Victor Goossens.
Afternoon sessions will consist of panels in groups of three. The first concern the Apostolic, Inter-American Action, and Science Commission; the second, the Student Government, Family Life, and Interracial Justice Commissions; and the third, the International Relations, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, and Forensic Commissions.
Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, dinner, the second plenary session, and a talent show will follow.
On Sunday the third plenary session will close the congress activities.
Five representatives from ND, and at least three from St. Mary’s will attend the weekend meeting.
If any club presidents on the campus desire information on any subject which would come under the scope of any of the panel commissions, they may obtain information by contacting Paul Zalecki, 265 Dillon Hall.
Jaycees' Sport Show Here This Weekend
The second annual Michiana Sports, Hobby, and Travel Show is currently being held in the Notre Dame Field House and Drill Hall. Sponsored by the South Bend1 Junior Chamber of Commerce, the show opened today and will continue through Sunday.
Over 100 interesting and educational exhibits, consisting of all types of sporting goods, boats, motors, automobiles, house trailers, hobby tools, photographic apparatus, etc., are on display in both the Field House and Drill Hall. Additional exhibits of attraction have been provided by the Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls, YMCA Civilian Defense, South Bend Art Association, and various other local and state organizations.
Along the entertainment line, eight major performances, featuring “bigtime” vaudeville acts such as the Ado-ros, high perch pole artists; Henri French, skilled unicyclists; and Leon’s
The Scholastic
12
Great Danes, a dog and chimp act, are scheduled for the three day show.
Carol Mitchell, Miss Indiana of 1951, will entertain each day with her informative chalk talks. Miss Mitchell will also reign as Queen of the • Sports Show.
Joe Kirkwood, Sr., nationally known golfer, will appear tomorrow to give an exhibition. South Bend’s own trick bait-casting champ, Barney Van Lue, will display his technique every evening of the show.
As a special added attraction on Sunday afternoon, the colorful drill team of the Purdue Order of Zouaves will perform their* intricate maneuvers, executed at a cadence count of over-200 steps per minute.
Outstanding exhibitions by local groups such as the Notre Dame Fenc-. ing Team, Turners Trampoline Team, £ and YMCA table tennis experts will round out the full program of entertainment. Music for the show will be furnished by Tony Rulli and his orchestra.—Frank Donlon
Clouds and Anthony Combine As Features of Senior Ball
Co-chairman Roger Fitzsimmons and Dick Stubbins have announced that the theme of the Senior Ball, to be held in the Drill Hall, Friday, May 9, will be “Dancing in the Clouds” Ray Anthony’s band will provide the music for the dance. Some 600 couples are expected to attend.
Ticket distribution for those who have made reservations will begin April 21. Bids for the dance, including favors, will cost $9. Seniors residing on campus may purchase theirs £ from their hall representatives, whose names will be announced later.
Off-campus seniors may purchase tickets in the lobby of the Dining Hall during the noon and evening meal hours on the 21st. Other ticket information can be had by contacting Bill Delaney or Bill Martin, who are in charge of distribution.
ND Blood Drive Underway;
Farley, Dillon Top Donations
Alumni, Dillon, Walsh, Howard, Badin, and Sorin Halls will be represented by their respective members April 3 and 4 when 300 Notre Dame men will donate their blood for the fighting forces in Korea.
The remainder of the halls, off-campus men, and the six above halls will complete Notre Dame’s quota of 1800 pints April 21-25, when the Chicago bloodmobile unit will take 1500 pints.
Lunch will be served after the dona-
Engineers Illustrate Progress With Weird Display of Chariot Races and V-2 Rockets
During the Junior Prom weekend, April 25-26, the Engineering Advisory Board will be host to all students on campus, prospective engineers from South Bend high schools, and the interested public of the area.
The purpose of this first annual engineering open house is to acquaint the public and students with the importance of the engineering profession and to show the facilities on campus for the engineering students.
For the first time, the Engineering Advisory Board will show the uninformed the scope of the engineering profession on the Notre Dame campus.
Co-chairmen Bob DeLine and Max Fernandes have picked their committee heads to see that the weekend is run off with engineering precision. Justin Bolger and George Reverman are in charge of the exhibits, while Joe Osborne has charge of publicity. Bob Wagner is co-ordinating the activities as program chairman.
MAX FERNANDES For the Interested Public . . .
tions have been completed, and cancelled cuts will be given those students missing class at that time.
Figures show that Dillon is leading the campus for total amounts pledged with 246 students signed up. Farley has pledged the greater percentage of its hall—66 per cent, while Morrissey holds the rock bottom spot with 8.6 per cent of its members ready to donate.
Prom-goers will be startled by seeing a 75-foot baby V-2 standing in front of the Engineering Building. The rocket will not, however, be a working model.
Dean Carl Schoenherr will open the ceremonies with a speech Friday at 2:30 p.m. in the engineering auditori-,um. Following the speech, the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. will bring its scientific novelty show to the auditorium at 4:30.
Friday and Saturday tours will be conducted through the engineering labs.	-
As an interesting diversion for the engineers, the various clubs comprising the Advisory Board will stage a chariot race Saturday at 1 p.m. The. chariots will be built in full scale, but no horses will be used. Instead, two muscular engineers from each club will pull their respective chariots over the distance. Tentative plans make it a seven-furlong race in front of the Engineering Building.
After the race, there will be movies in the engineering auditorium punctuated .by short speeches on the subject matter of the films. Each engineering department will sponsor a movie, showing in non-technical terms what is done in that phase of engineering.
Saturday night will close the open house on the non-technical phase of engineering with a dance for the people attending the festivities.
BOB DELINE
. . . And Prospective Engineers
April 4, 1952
13
Benny Strong Will Lend Parisian Atmosphere To May 2 Frosh Frolic in Rockne Memorial
Friday evening, May 2, will see the efforts of ten named freshmen and 50’ or so of their unnamed classmates culminated in the Freshman Frolic of 1952.
The committee of ten is headed by Jim Barry and Joe O’Donnell. These two co-chairmen are in charge of the overall organization and planning of the dance, which will be held in the Rockne Memorial.
Ed Dargis handled the procurement of the band, which was slightly complicated this year when the originally signed orchestra slipped out of its contract and left the freshmen musicless. They succeeded, however, in getting Benny Strong.
The choosing of the bids and the arrangement for obtaining favors is being handled by George Carhart. James Griffin is balancing the budget and handling all miscellaneous financial matters.
If, when one walks into the “Rock” on the night of May 2, he notices that it resembles a gymnasium in no way at all, it will be because of the work of the decoration committee, under the chairmanship of John Sennett.
A miniature Eiffel Tower, flower
FROSH FROLIC COMMITTEE
A Dance, a Social, and a Breakfast
carts with the Paris motif, a corner street-lamp, and a sidewalk cafe are the scenery of “Parisienne Nocturne,” which will dispel the atmosphere of basketball from the “Rock.” The couples will enter the dance floor-through nothing less than the Arch de Triomphe.
The task of getting refreshments and placing refreshment stands in convenient locales falls to Michael Ducey, while Jerry Hughes attends to the matter of informing all the freshmen that there is a dance for them on May 2.
Bill Richardson is the man to see for those having trouble finding accommodations for their dates. Lee Crean is in charge of ticket sales, in progress at this time. Tickets can be obtained in the Dining Hall at meal time or from Crean in Breen-Phillips Hall any evening.
The price for the weekend’s activities is $10, which includes the dance Friday night, a Communion breakfast in the Morris Inn, and a Saturday “Social.” The split-up of the $10 comes out as follows: bid (and favor) $5.50, Saturday afternoon $1.50, Communion breakfast $3.
Father Brennan Leads ® May Day Ceremonies
Again this year, on Thursday, May 1, the Blessed Mother will be honored with a campus-wide student demonstration of devotion. In her honor there will be a procession, rosary, and holy hour at the grotto in the evening, in which all the halls will take part. Arrangements are being made under the co-chairmanship of Bill Osborne and Jim Barry.
The day will begin with Masses in honor of the Blessed Virgin in all the hall chapels.
The marchers will be organized starting at 6:55 p.m. with a ringing of the bells from Sacred Heart Church. The actual procession will begin at 7, each hall starting out individually, with all the students finally converging at the grotto. Each marcher will carry a lighted candle.
During the procession the rosary will be recited, led from loudspeakers set up at the grotto. When the groups have come together, hymns will be sung.
Then Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., will give a short talk, followed by a dedication ’to the Immaculate Heart’ of Mary and a renewal of baptismal promises. The ceremonies will be closed with solemn benediction.
The May Day ceremony is sponsored by the NFCCS Apostolic Chapter. Publicity for the occasion is being handled by the YCS and all arrangements, such as the decorations at the grotto, will be taken care of by the Liturgy Club. The Third Order of St. Francis will obtain and distribute the candles. Organization of the procession is under the Knights of Columbus.
Placement News
Next week’s placement interviews will be held only on Monday. On that day representatives from three companies will be here.
Linde Air Products Company (division of Carbide and Carbon Corporation), Tonawanda, N. Y., will interview B.S. and M.S., mechanical I.O.’s chemical, civil, electrical, and metallurgical engineers.
AC Spark Plug Division, Milwaukee, Wis., will speak to B.S. Mechanical and Electrical engineers for the Junior Engineering Training Program.
General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y., will interview A.B. and Commerce men for accounting, financial, and other non-technical administrative management positions.
The Scholastic
14
MENNUCCI AND HAGERTY
Villagers Go Hawaiian
Villagers' Club Goes All Out With Hawaiian Theme for Its Initial Spring Dance April 18
Big things are planned for the members of the Villagers’ Club, their dates, and friends come April 18, the night of the first Villagers’ Spring Dance, under the co-chairmanship of Bill Hagerty and Don Mennucci. Music will be by Gene Hull’s combo. And it all takes place in the Bronzewood Room of South Bend’s LaSalle Hotel with dancing from 9 to 1. The theme will be Hawaiian, with generous amounts of decorating in that line being handled by Chuck Minges and Jerry Post.
Through the cooperation of the Hawaiian Club, and particularly Andy Lum, leis are being flown in direct from Hawaii. Each couple will be provided for.
There will be a door prize consisting of twin gift certificates for the winning couple.
Then, on the Sunday following, the couples will be entertained at dinner and a show, with an orchid for the girl, as guests of the Villagers.
Many alumni are expected to be on hand to help celebrate. Included among the special guests -will be the mayors of South Bend and Mishawaka, Mr. John Scott and Mr. Spencer Walton, respectively. Both are Notre Dame graduates. Also on the list is
Mr. James Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
A lot of planning and preparation has gone into the dance, expected to become an annual affair.
Dick Goodling is watching over the invitations, with Bob Cook lining up publicity. In charge of the tickets are Ralph Daveline and Bob Farmer. The price: $2.50 per pair.
Met Club Plans Easter Dance At Hotel Statler's Penn Top
The Notre Dame Met Club will hold its annual Easter Dance April 13, Easter Sunday, at the Penn Top of the Hotel Statler from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m.
Those who wish tickets can purchase them from the club’s hall representatives. Tickets for off-campus students are available from Steve Fracino in 163 Alumni. President Don Fager has announced that there will be no ticket sales at the door on the night of the dance and only those buying tickets beforehand will be admitted:
According to Dance Chairman John Maher, the band of Francis Walther will be on hand to supply the music for the Irish of New York City.
World Government Forum Stages Gurian, Price Tonight
Tonight at 8 o’clock in the Law Auditorium, Dr. Waldemar Gurian and Dr. Charles C. Price will present a public discussion on the general topic “World Government and Peace.”
The discussion, arranged by the Graduate Student Association, is being presented as a result of the intense interest in the topic of world government aroused by the publication in the Feb. 15 Scholastic of articles by Dr. Price and Dr. Gurian.
All undergraduate and graduate students are invited to this discussion, which will consist of a short address by each speaker followed by a period of cross questioning. Questions from the audience will also be answered.
Presenting the case for world federalism will be Dr. Price, head of the Department of Chemistry and chairman of the Indiana Union of World Federalists. Dr. Gurian, with the contention that “lasting peace is not the necessary result of world government,” will present the negative side of the issue. A member of the Department of Political Science, Dr. Gurian is the editor of the Review of Politics and a recognized expert on the Soviet Union.
Ed Cochran, a graduate student in Chemistry, has been in charge of arrangements for the discussion.
Washington Hall Resounds With Chamber Music Tonight
The second in a series of chamber concerts presented by the University Department of Music, originally scheduled for last night, will be presented tonight at 8 pan. in Washington Hall.
Featured will be Dr. Charles Biondo and Robert Lundquist, viola; Leo Mu-chuda, violin; Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., cello; Charles Weaver, horn; and Paul Krianke, flute.
Selections to be presented at tonight’s performance include J. C. Bach’s Flute Quintet, Mozart’s Horn Quintet and Weber’s Bassoon Concerto.
The first number1 by Bach, son of the great Johann Sebastian Bach, is being played because of its influence on the style of Mozart and because of Bach’s great influence on classical music.
The Basoon Concerto is the most important of Weber’s chamber works.
The concert is free to all students.
April 4, 1952
15
Capsule Cclnel
Extra Spanish Movie Tcnight
Tonight the Inter-American Affairs Club, in cooperation with the Department of Modern Languages, will present a Spanish movie not on the foreign film schedule, Th-e Nail (with English sub-titles). The movie begins at 7:30.
Lawyers Eligible for Marines
Law students are now eligible for enrollment in the Marine Corps Platoon Leaders Class. Those in a six-year course are eligible during their fourth and fifth years of study and those in a seven-year program are eligible during their fourth, fifth, and sixth years. For details contact Major A. M. Zimmer, USMC, in the Navy Drill Hall, or call 297.
Miller Gets Papal Citation
Frederick C. Miller, volunteer coach of Notre Dame’s gridders was recently named a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Pius XII. Mr. Miller is president of the Miller Brewing Co., the Carl Miller Lumber Co., and the Carl Miller Realty Co.
Daly Wins Chesterfield Contest
William Daly of Cavanaugh Hall was the winner of a carton of Chesterfields on last week’s contest over WND.
The contest, sponsored by the Chesterfield representatives and WND, was ’conducted on the evening request show.
Metals Chapter Meeting
Wednesday night will be National Officers’ Night for the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals. Mr. Ernest Thum, Editor of Metal Progress, American Society for Metals, Cleveland, Ohio, will speak on the “Metallurgical Aspects of Atomic Energy.”
Havana U. Offers Scholarships
The Universidad de la Habana, Cuba, is offering five tuition scholarships to U. S. students for its summer session, -July 7 to Aug. 16. Candidates must be U. S. citizens and must have a working knowledge of Spanish and at least a B.A. or B.S. degree as of June, 1952.
Application blanks and further information may be obtained from the Division of Education, Pan American Union, Washington 6, D. C.
16
History Teaching Workshop
The problems of high school history teachers will be treated at the third Workshop in the teaching of History from June 20 to July 14 at Notre Dame. The workshop is intended for high school social studies teachers who are qualified for graduate study. Professor Devere Plunkett of the Department of History will conduct the workshop.
Chessmen Bat .200
ND’s chessmen came away from the boards with a 20 per cent average for one win in five games last Saturday afternoon at Indiana University in Bloomington.
The team was composed of Bill Teoli, Jim Hatfield, Ernie Dupraw, and Frank Wagner.
CONTRADICTION!
It is regrettable that the Student Council, in arranging a meeting in good government, should resort to a violation of local regulations by disfiguring the campus with cheap signs, contrary to directive of the Prefect of Discipline.
—The Office of Student Affairs
Prom in Need of Decorators, Waiters, Hatcheckers (Male)
With the Junior Prom less than a month away, Co-Chairmen Floyd Blair and Jim Hutchinson are issuing a call for waiters, servers, hatcheck men, and men to help decorate the “Rock.” Decorating will take place on Thursday afternoon and Friday morning before the Prom. Those who wish to help may contact either Blair at 170 Dillon or Hutchinson at 119 Dillon.
There are still some rooms in private homes available for the weekend guests. Juniors may reserve them by contacting Joe McDade, 387 Dillon.
Bids for the prom have been sold out. The dance will be held in the Rockne Memorial on Friday evening, April 25, with Hal McIntyre and his Mclntots providing the music.
Juniors are asked to look for an announcement soon, requesting them to sign up for the free bus ride to the Dunes on Saturday afternoon after the Prom.
Notre Dame Hosts Midwest @ Pol. Sci. Confab April 24-26
Notre Dame will be host on April 24, 25, and 26 to political scientists from all parts of the Midwest at the annual meeting of the Midwest Conference of Political Scientists.
Principal speaker will be Walter Trohan, chief of the Washington Bureau of the Chicago Tribune. Mr. Trohan, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1926, will speak on the opening day of the conference.
Round-table discussions on all phases of politics—both national and international—will feature the three-day Notre Dame conference. Topics for discussion will include methodology in political science, developments in Eastern Europe, nationalism and colonialism in Southeast Asia, and current trends in local government. Parties and politics in the United States during 1952 also will be treated.
Dr. Harold M. Vinacke of the University of Cincinnati, president of the Midwest Conference of Political Scientists, will preside at a luncheon April 25 at St. Mary’s College. James K. Pollock of the University of Michigan, past-president of the American Political Science Association, will speak at the luncheon.
New Journalism Electives
Open to All Students in Fall
“Understanding and Enjoying Painting, Movies, and Music” is the title of a new two-hour elective course to be offered in the Fall semester by Prof. Thomas J. Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism. The course, a briefer version of the one required of journalism majors, is aimed at understanding modern art.
Prof. Stritch also announced that in the next Spring semester Prof. Edward A. Fischer will offer a condensed course in “The Techniques of Journalism,” especially designed for business and professional aspirants whose work may require some knowledge about preparation of material for publication.
Returning to his post as instructor in the department next Fall, the Hon. John A. Scott, mayor of South Bend, will conduct a two-hour course in his specialty, “Publicity and Public Relations.”
Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, assistant editor of the South Bend Tribune, will begin
a new two-semester version of his advertising course, tackling principles chiefly in the first term and practice in the second.
.These courses are open to upper-classmen of any college, Professor Stritch emphasized.
The Scholastic

So this is what Washington Hall looks like without Mighty Mouse. Where is everybody? Aren’t there supposed to be tryouts for the Student Musical tonight? There’s Jack Hynes, though, the director, gesturing to someone on the stage. Must be a dance number, the way he’s kicking his legs and waving his arms. And there’s Jerry. Costello rippling out a couple of tunes on the piano—probably numbers from the show. This place really looks empty with the curtains drawn from the stage, and that as bare as a bald head. So that’s what is on the back wall of the stage, a crumbling picture of a mountain scene—no wonder they always have the curtains drawn.
Well, here come some people now, quite a steady stream. Looks like there’s going to be more than enough talent to choose from. From the way they seem to know each other, it looks like they’ve met in quite a few shows so they should have some experience.
Text by JOHN SLAVICK
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
Nobody seems interested in starting, though. In fact, they seem to be ignoring the director completely, even some conscientious souls doing their homework, although some ai’e discussing the show and what sort of part they’d like to get, and the chances of the show becoming a hit. Here comes Hynes down from the stage, now. Things are finally going to start.
“Could I have a little quiet, please. Thanks. I’d like to give you a brief rundown on the plot before we begin.” ‘‘Stay Tuned for Addleman is about Irving Addleman, the top disc jockey of the country, who got to the top mainly through the efforts of George, his manager, and Jan, his secretary. A cocky guy, he begins to think he’s good enough for something a little
classier than his current one-to-four-in-the-morning show. He’s met Hamilton B. Granby, manufacturer of Granby toasters, who has been thinking about investing some of his money in radio advertising. Addleman sells him the idea that he would be just the man to emcee a classical radio show, and a contract is signed. To make a long story short, the show is a flop, but George and Jan save Addleman by persuading Granby to finance a television show with Irv at the helm. And along the way, George falls in love with Granby’s daughter, Pam, and Addleman does the same with Jan.
“The parts of Addleman, George, Pam, and Jan—the leads—have been filled by tryouts held earlier. Most of the other parts are small, but there are some important ones, the role of Granby for instance. One other thing, we’re only trying out the acting tonight, chorus parts will be tried out Thursday in the band room.”
April 4, 1952
Many Interesting Roles
still no one. stage fright
And another, and another, the only part in the show?
so soon! Have to show their a hurry.
“Another volunteer?”
more volunteers, too.
What does Hynes put , tryout sheets, anyway? looks the part.” “Voice too weak, reads well.”
“Now could we have somebody unteer to try out for Granby?”
A second call for a volunteer,
Vol-
and get
Come on, let’s not
so soon. Ah, here comes
a brave lad, to try the middle-aged businessman. Right up to the piano in front of the stage, get a script, and let Chazz Schubert feed you the lines. A bit faltering at first, but now he's getting into the role. They get stopped
talent in
Is this
Oh, now
comes the part of Seth Tully. “You can compare him to Percy Kilbride.’’ Just how is he supposed to fit into this show? Oh, in the gas-station scene. Well, that sounds simple enough. Say, this is a pretty funny part, after all. Ought to go over big, wherever it comes in the show. And now a taxicab driver—lots of odd characters. He has good lines, too, but the wrong people can ruin them. Hope they pick out somebody good, this part has real possibilities. Still more characters, and

ABOVE: An aspiring actor, with the magic of the theatre all about him, with famous old sayings echoing in his ears. “There’s no biz like show biz." “The show must go on.” And, more pertinently, “Somebody ring down the curtain and get that ham off the stage!” BELOW: But who carries the weight of any musical, who does the hardest work and gets the least credit? The chorus, of course. Ah, there’s the place to be, where the dancing is fast and the singing loud.
down on their “Good voice, too high and
“Voice too
weak, and doesn’t look
Well, they’re finally practice for the whole at 7:30, but let’s take chorus tryouts first.
the part.” through until cast tomorrow a look at the
Tom Powers is making up the dance numbers. Looks like he’ll have quite a job; not many kids could be that used to dancing.
“Now I want to first show you the two basic steps in dancing, the flap and the shuffle.” This should be good.
“I’ll take up the flap first. Put your feet in this position, and then flap them out in a quick motion like this. See? I’ll do it again. That’s it, untangle your feet and try it again. Now you’re getting it.
“OK, now we’ll try the second basic step, the shuffle. You put your feet about this far apart, and then . . . ’’ Yeh, and then. This looks too much like work. It must be discouraging to have Powers and Leon Sylva demonstrate the steps so gracefully and then to get your feet so mixed up.
A little chorus work now, just to see how they’ll sound together. Gather around the piano and sing a couple of tunes.
“OK, everybody, now we’ll give the (Continued on Page 32)
J8
The Scholastic
i
ABOVE.- The chorus, however, demands certain simple qualifications. Chief among these is the ability to tell one’s left foot from one’s right with a minimum of thought and contemplation. BELOW: Is this the role for which our aspiring actor is destined, to be directed only by the stage manager’s “Hey, you!’’ to be merely the holder of props and the carrier of scenery? Must he always just look on, just hang around? Doesn’t willingness count for something, anything?
ABOVE: Perhaps all he II do is hold things . . . BELOW: . . . perhaps he will just wield a broom.
BOTTOM: But he’ll still see its magic, for there’s a place for everyone in the theatre.
April 4, 1952
Better Than Ever
Text by BOB MAINE
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
Some Vital Statistics
Some vital statistics gleaned from a survey of 102 companies and 45 colleges (appearing in the January issue of Management Record) back up Mr. Dooley’s statements. Over the nation, as reported by the survey, 450,000 students will graduate this year; 300,000 are destined for the armed services. Total college enrollment is off 7.8 per cent from 1950-1951. From this, it is apparent that the decrease in the number of available students has created a serious problem for recruiters.
The companies supplying information for the survey hope to recruit 22 per cent more seniors this year than last. One thousand companies scout the campuses annually for talent. If these companies require 22 per cent more seniors, and if the number of seniors is 7.8 per cent below 1950-1951, the companies will be faced with a shortage. The result, according to Management Record, will undoubtedly be a reduction in recruitment quotas by many companies.
But things are not out of hand. Colleges reported to the survey that only 10 per cent of their graduates were placed by December, 1951. They anticipate that no more than 35 per cent would be placed by March 1 of this year; 90 per cent by June 1. Thus in the schools surveyed, seniors in some non-technical fields will be available and the supply will last for several months after graduation. According to the survey, one company in a hundred is offering $400 per month. The average is below $300.
Last year the average recruit was offered a starting salary of $265 per
If one could accept all he hears and reads these days concerning college recruitment, he would believe that every June graduate has already been approached by a dozen different companies, received employment offers from six and accepted one at a starting salary of $400 per month. This offer included, of course, such extras as free insurance benefits, free laundry service and free membership in the local Country Club.
What are the facts?
William R. Dooley, Placement Director at the University of Notre Dame, says that there has been a rush of interviewers to the campuses, since more companies than ever before are seeking more graduates than ever before. The reasons for this great influx of talent-hunters, according to Mr. Dooley, are directly a result of the Korean conflict. “Not since World War II,” he relates, “has there been such a heavy need for specialists to
operate our national defense program. With college enrollments dropping, advanced study becoming more popular, and the armed forces claiming 50 per cent or more of the graduating classes, hundreds of companies are scouting campuses in search of much needed talent.”
“A typical example,” says Mr. Dooley, “is the demand for engineers. Only a few years ago authorities were predicting that there would be a surplus of engineers by 1952. The huge government spending program during the past two years has been one factor upsetting this forecast. The present shortage of engineers is estimated at 60,000 and the situation is getting worse as the annual demand for new engineers exceeds the output of our colleges. According to present indications, this shortage will continue for some years to come even if defense spending is curtailed.”
BULLETIN RACK
A Heavy Need for Specialists
20
The Scholastic

REGISTERING WITH THE BUREAU
Statistics Reflect Its Success
month. This year the going rate is 10 to 15 per cent higher. The details for 1952 are shown in the following
table taken from Management Record'.
67 MANUFACTURING COMPANIES Average Lowest Highest
Engineers ...........$309	$250	$400a
Sales ............... 292	175b	400a
A.B................... 293	175b	400a
35 NON-MANUFACTURING COMPANIES
Engineers ............$296	$233	$310
Sales ................. 275	238	310
A.B...................   268	200	305
aOniy one company is offering more than $345 to start.
bPlus all expenses (food, hotel, and laundry).
The possession of a graduate degree usually brings a higher starting salary. The M.A. or M.S. recruit in 1952 can expect about $335 and the Ph.D. about $425 per month. Remember that these figures are averages and that actual salaries vary widely with college major, the individual’s background and so on.
The success of the Placement Bureau here at Notre Dame in handling the growing demands of the many talent-hungry companies is reflected in a brief statistical report submitted by Mr. Dooley. Summarizing the Bureau’s first full schoolyear (1950-1951) of full-time, centralized activity, the report shows 122 organizations interviewing students at Notre Dame; an 0 increase of sixty-four over the 1949 total. There were 472 student registrants for the 1950-1951 schoolyear.
Of this number, 202 were directly counseled. One hundred twenty-two received jobs as a direct result of inter
views at Notre Dame. Eight received jobs as the direct result of other placement bureau help; the armed forces claimed 37; 42 entered various graduate schools and 70 found “jobs on their own”—often as the indirect
AN INTERVIEW IS ARRANGED
"Few Things Are More Important . . . ”
result of Placement Bureau help. The status of 166 registrants was not definitely known. Many failed to keep in touch with the Bureau after reporting-the lack of a job following graduation.
In Addition to Statistics
“The foregoing/’ notes Mr. Dooley, “obviously takes into account' only that work of the Placement Bureau which can readily be statistically listed. Innumerable informal personal conferences, a large volume of telephone calls, and even larger volume of correspondence—all this must also be counted as a major part of the work of the Bureau.”
Acknowledging the fact that more fine job opportunities are presenting themselves to students today than ever before, Mr. Dooley extended a few words of wisdom to those students who will be seeking jobs in the veiy near future. “Few things in this world,” he said, “are more important than that each human being find for himself the lifetime occupation that is right for him. For upon a man’s occupation, in which he may well spend 40 years or more, depends much of his happiness and achievement in this life. And in the next life too. Much of the good that he can do for mankind generally, for his family and himself and,
above all, for the honor and glory of God, depend on his life’s work. That is why the choice of an occupation is so important. What we are trying to do in the placement Bureau is help a man help himself.”
April 4, 1952
Mock Convention Draws National Attention; Truman, Others Command Student Interest
As plans for the student mock convention, to be staged April 21 through 23 in the Na\y Drill Hall,. accelerate here on campus, more than local interest is being taken in this and . similar undertakings around the country.
Letters from political leaders and other prominent figures on the national, state and local scene, commenting on Notre Dame’s mock convention, have been coming into convention headquarters here on campus.
From the White House in Washington came the reply from President Truman that although “I prefer primaries to conventions, I also have on many occasions said that I regard it to be important that young Americans take an early interest in their government.”
Estes Kefauver, senator from Tennessee and one of the Democrats trying to replace President Truman in the White House wrote, “Congratulations on the interest the members of the Notre Dame student body are displaying in the need for greater citizen participation in our government . . . from the American college and university classrooms of today will come many of the leaders who will guide America in the years ahead. It is refreshing and stimulating to learn of the interest the young men men of Notre Dame are taking in the very pressing problems that confront America today.”
From the Other Side
From the other side of the political fence, from the headquarters of Robert Taft, came these words from “Mr. Republican”: "I am a firm believer in such a mock national convention as proposed for Notre Dame. . . . I have urged consistently just such a thoughtful interest in politics as you advocate, with the aim of providing future leadership for the United States. . . .
“In the last two years I have talked with hundreds of boys and girls in the high schools and colleges of Ohio and other states. They still believe in those American principles which were the basis of the greatest experiment in self-government in the history of the world.”
Another Republican who has tossed
his hat in that famous circle, Harold Stassen, president of Pennsylvania University, replied: “I agree wholeheartedly with your proposal to hold a mock presidential convention on your campus. I firmly believe that all young people should take an interest in American politics, even before they are of an age to vote. . . . May I extend to you my very best wishes for success in this undertaking.”
Paul Douglas, prominent Democratic senator from Illinois, whose people will hold an all important primary within the next few weeks, expressed these sentiments: “I am glad to hear that there are groups of people who recognize the political paucity in this
“ . . . But we have to keep our bridge dub together!!”
country and who are anxious to do something about it. Your idea (of a . mock convention) sounds like a good one.”
Both senators from Indiana, Homer Capehart and William Jenner, gave their views on the student body’s political undertaking.
Capehart Approves
Senator Capehart wrote: “I wholly approve of your splendid program for a mock presidential convention on the
Notre Dame campus this spring. If the plan produces the results which you are shooting for, and there is every indication that it will, you will have made a great contribution to the American system of government.”
Said Senator Jenner: “I want to commend the student body and its leaders at Notre Dame for their unusual interest in governmental and political affairs. Your proposed mock national convention is an excellent means of acquainting the young men of today, who will be the leaders of tomorrow, with the intricate workings of politics, which, after all, is the basis of our system of government.
Jenner Loses Patience
“I lose patience with those who refuse to take part in political activities M on the excuse ‘politics are dirty.’ Politics are only as dirty as those who engage in governmental activities make it so.	•
“Exercise of the franchise not only is a privilege but it is a duty which rests on every citizen ... no matter with which political party we affiliate ourselves. Thank you for the opportunity to give you this expression.”
Moving from the national to the state level, Indiana’s first citizen, Gov. j Henry Schricker, remarked: “I was : deeply gratified with your proposal to hold a mock national presidential convention on the Notre Dame campus this spring, and I welcome this opportunity to commend you for this undertaking. I am confident that this project will arouse a lot of enthusiasm • among the Notre Dame students and that it will serve to strengthen their j interest in public affairs.”
Moving even closer to home, South Bend’s Mayor John Scott thought that “The mock convention could be productive of a number of benefits, particularly that of emphasizing the importance of voting. I feel that it might also have the effect of spotlighting political and governmental service as a career.”
Editor Advises
From the editor and publisher of the South Bend Tribune, F. A. Miller, the committee received some sound, practical advice as to meeting certain problems that would arise in staging the convention.
Harvey G. Foster of Notre Dame’s Alumni Association, told a committee member: “I feel that a mock national
22
The Scholastic
convention held by and participated in by the students at the University would be not only of interest, but beneficial in applying practically the theories propounded in the classroom on a subject that is of vital interest to every American.”
Aside from these and other letters from prominent people, the committee has been receiving letters, books, and other valuable material on mock conventions, from both the Republican and Democratic National Convention headquarters in Washington, as well as from the public relations division of the American Legion headquarters in the capital.
In the past week the Convention Committee has provided the temporary chairman of the state delegations and the nine campaign committee chairmen, with a schedule of the tentative program for the three nights of the convention in the Drill Hall. Enclosed were full instructions on the procedure and rules which will be employed in running the convention. The chairman will supply this information to the members of their delegations and campaign committees.
Read...
OUR LEFTIST ECONOMIC TEACHING
by Ludwig von Mises
Read...
TEXTBOOKS FOR COLLECTIVISM by George Koether
and.. . OTHER FEATURES IN AMERICA’S LEADING MAGAZINE OF OPINION
April 7 issue—25 cents at your newsstand now!
Year's Last Draft Deferment Test Slated for April 24 Here
The last chance for students now pursuing a full-time college course to obtain occupational deferment from the draft is coming up Thursday, April 24, the date of the Selective Service Qualification Test here.
The test will begin at 9 a.m. and will continue until about 12:30 p.m. To be admitted, all ■ examinees must present the ticket of admission they receive from the Educational Testing Service office in Princeton, N. J. Likewise, any tardy applicant will be prohibited.
All examinations will be scored by the Selective Service Examining Section and a report of each examinee’s score will be sent to his Selective Service local board of jurisdiction, which will consider' it as evidence in determining his eligibility for occupational deferment as a student.
From the Blue Circle . . .
... To the students of Notre Dame:
With the end of 1951-52 school year, Father John J. Cavanaugh’s term of office as president of the University will come to a close. We know that the student body would like to show its appreciation for what Father Cavanaugh has done for the University during these past six years.
The best way that we could do this would be to present him with a spiritual bouquet consisting of as many Masses, communions, rosaries, and visits to the Blessed Sacrament and to the Grotto as each student wishes to offer for his intention. An opportunity to make a novena for Father Cavanaugh will be offered from April 21 to 29.
Remember that May 15 is the day specially set aside for Father Cavanaugh. It is hoped that every student will attend Mass and receive Holy Communion on that day for Father’s intention. Be sure and count this in on your spiritual bouquet also. This spiritual bouquet of the student-body will be presented to Father Cavanaugh on May 15. More information on this ■will be forthcoming in the next issue of the Scholastic.
Spiritual bouquet slips will be distributed to all students—except to off-campus students—on April 30, and collected on May 1. For the off-campus students and those who might miss out on the distributed slips there will be a special form in the Scholastic
of May 2 which they can fill out and deposit in the mailbox of the first floor of Alumni Hall. The deadline for this is May 8.
—The Blue Circle.
EARN $1000 THIS SUMMER
Here’s your opportunity for pleasant profitable summer work with a Marshall Field owned organization. Openings for college men to assist the director of CHILDCRAFT work in your home state.
For full details see Placement Office, Administration Building.
Juniors!
.. . Don't let the Easter vacation fake you out... Hurry down to South Bend Floral today and place your order for the Prom . . . She'll love you for it.
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO.
114 S. Michigan Ph. 3-8227
April 4, 1952
23
What type of SUMMER JOB
are you looking for?
You hove a right to be fussy about the summer job you choose! Before you take any summer job . . . find out what a wonderful, profitable summer you can have . . . when you work for Good Humor. Only Good Humor offers you all these advantages for summer employment:
•	Good Pay—Many college men have earned enough money during the summer to pay for their entire college tuition and expenses for the following year!
•	Pleasant Working Conditions — You’ll spend your summer outdoors in the fresh air and sun. And as a Good Humor man, you’ll make dozens of friends among your customers.
•	Be Your Own Boss— Work full time or part time... ft’s all up to you. The more you sell, the more money you make! And there’s no expense on your part — we supply everything you need.
•	Your Own Established Route — When you work for Good Humor, you’re given an established route all your own. You’ll find people waiting eagerly for you every day... anxious to buy.
•	Friendly Co-Workers — Many of our salesmen will be college men just like yourself.
You’re sure to establish several lifetime friendships with your co-workers.
Look into this outstanding summer-employment opportunity. For details and an application blank, write to the Good Humor branch nearest to where you'll be this summer.
GOOD HUMOR CORPORATION
322 Rutledge St., Brooklyn 11. N. Y. • 115 E. Third St., Mount Vernon, N. Y. 426 long Beach Rd., Oceanside, I. I. • 664 S. 15th St., Newark 3, N. J. 25 James St., New Haven 13, Conn. • 2736 Armitage Ave., Chicago 47, III. 6844 Wagner Ave., Detroit 10. Michigan • 818 Bleigh Ave., Phila. 11, Pa.
SORRY
IF WE MISSED YOU
BUT...
If you were unable to get together with our representatives, we’d like you to know about the excellent openings available to qualified engineers, mathematicians and physicists. Our brochure points out and pictures the history, development, progress, organization, expansion, facilities, programs, benefits, and opportunities open to you at Bell Aircraft, a leader in the Research and Development of Supersonic Aircraft, Rocket Power Plants, Guided Missiles, and Electronic and Servo-mechanisms equipment.
(Aeronautical Engineering Training NOT Required.)
MAY WE SEND YOU A COPY OF "ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES"
WRITE
Mgr. Engineering Personnel
P. O. Box 1	BUFFALO 5, N.Y.
The Scholastic
Football Team Begins Spring Practice
Golf Clinic to Open After EasterVacation
By BILL NOONAN
With the aid of Athletic Director Ed Krause and under the directorship of golf coach Father George Holderith, Notre Danie’s first golf clinic will get under way immediately following the Easter vacation. Plans and arrangements for the program have been completed and registration for the classes is now in progress. Those wishing to sign up should do so in the golf shop before the April 18 deadline.
Registrant to Get Six Classes
Each registrant is entitled to six classes, three in each of the two weeks the clinic will last. All in all the plan is to have four groups, two on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 10 a.m. and on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. A period will run the same time as a regular class period of 50 minutes. Basketball coach Johnny Jordan will instruct the morning group while Joe Maschella will tutor the afternoon classes.
The exact date for the clinic’s opening is the first day of classes after the Easter recess, Wednesday, April 16 and as noted before will run for two weeks. The cost is $1.50 for all six lessons. This is to take care of the expense for the practice balls as well as the instruction booklets. The entrant must supply his own clubs. If enough interest is shown in this initial experiment with a golf clinic, there will be another two-week period following the first set.
Theory of Golf Studied
The first 15 minutes of each session will be devoted to the theory of golf, the stance, grip, swing, distance, and the uses of the particular clubs. Each (Continued on Page 31)
Weather, Shorter Practice, Weaker Line Present Problems as 64th Season Opens
Notre Dame’s 64th football season got underway yesterday afternoon when about 80 candidates led by captain Jack Alessandrini turned out on Cartier Field in answer to Coach Frank Leahy’s call. Because of a recent NCAA ruling, this year’s practice, which will be open to the student
JACK ALESSANDRINI A very late start
body, is more than two weeks late in starting.
At their annual rules meeting last winter, the NCAA ruled that spring practices must be limited to 20 days over a 30-day period. Because of this decision Leahy has found himself faced with a good many difficulties. Weather conditions, an early final exam period, a late Easter vacation and late drill periods of R.O.T.C. members of the squad have necessitated the brief training period before Easter that will then be interrupted by the vacation.
Added to the shorter, practice prob
lem is the need to find somebody to replace backfield coach Bernie Crimmins who is now head coach at Indiana. Several former Notre Dame players have been mentioned including quarterbacks Johnny Lu jack and George -Ratterman, both members of the pro ranks. However, chances are pretty slim that either will accept the position.
In addition to the coaching problem and the shorter practice, Leahy also finds himself with what might be his weakest line in six seasons. The back-field built around quarterback Ralph Guglielmi, halfbacks Paul Reynolds and John Lattner and fullback Neil Worden will be powerful and experienced, but graduation will leave gaping holes in the line. With ends Jim Mutscheller and Chet Ostrowski and tackle Bob Toneff leaving in June, Leahy feels that securing their replacements will be his biggest headache.
NEIL WORDEN A strong backfield
April 4, 1952
25
HARRY DURKIN
Baseball Squad Begins Outdoor Workouts; « Oppose Camp Breckenridge in Initial Game
By KEN MURPHY
STAN KONOPKA
Coach Jake Kline finally got his Notre Dame baseball squad out onto Cartier Field last weekend, and with ideal weather conditions prevailing, sent his charges through some heavy workouts and a couple of intra-squad games. As a result of the workouts he was able to get a better line on the caliber of his player personnel and even to venture a couple of statements concerning the makeup of this year’s team.
Kline stated that in comparison, this season’s team will be stronger defensively, have more speed and spirit, and possess better pitching. In short, the ’52 squad Mill be better all around —and if the hitting holds up the team should have a pretty fair season.
The gruelling 29-game schedule opens with a southwestern trip over Easter vacation which will include double-bills with Camp Breckenridge, Fort Knox, and Iowa. Then the team returns for the opening home series on April 18 and 19 with Ohio State.
Kline’s toughest job lies in seeking to replace All-American first baseman Dick Giedlin, outfielder Jim Gillis, catcher Tom Boland, and pitcher Bob Nemes, who captained last year’s nine.
At first base, Kline has been workingsophomore basketball star Dick Rosenthal. Though inexperienced, Rosenthal may help to supply the needed batting power. What the keystone combination
will be is still uncertain, however. Veteran Dave Costigan has been alternating at second base along with soph Dick Colloton. At shortstop, veterans Harry Durkin and Jim Manning have been fighting it out. Rounding out the infield picture, sophomores Hal Riley and George Kolassa are pressing veteran Len Lerose for the starting third base job.
Two seniors—Joe Pfaff and football captain Jim Mutscheller—are in contention for the starting left field job, and it’s a good bet that whichever one of them starts will also be batting cleanup. The centerfield chores have been split between sophomore Mark Tremblay and veteran Jim Gibbons thus far. In right field, veterans Joe Ridge and Jerry Ledwidge have been alternating. Gibbons and Ledwidge are also pitchers and may be called on for double duty.
Kline’s biggest headache may result from trying to pick someone to work behind the plate. Right now the position is wide open, and vying for the job is soph Dick Gaberick, freshman Dick Farrell, and veterans Bob King and Joe Moriarty.
Coach Kline will choose his regular moundsmen from veterans Stan Konopka, Ledwidge, and Gibbons, junior Fred lonata, sophomores Gerry Smith, George Moresco, and John Reynolds, and freshmen Tom Bujnowski and Ron Mottl.
JOE RIDGE
DICK ROSENTHAL (BATTER) AND DICK FARRELL (CATCHER) If hitters come through, a good seoson
26
The Scholastic
• Room
123 Walsh


by Pat Lee
A large yawning golf umbrella hangs stiffly from the ancient electrical fixture in the center of 123 Walsh. Two shag bags both bursting with old par and sub-par golf balls, four pair- of neatly kept spiked shoes waiting in anticipation of warm weather, a picture of last year’s golf team, some scattered irons and golf bags with the painted names Tee Matey and Joe Moresco add to what Joe terms our “curiosity shop.”
The number one proprietor, junior Tom Matey designates his home as Warren, Ohio. It was here in the Buckeye state that Tom first crossed paths with the game of golf, as a caddie, then a player. When only 12 he was carrying clubs belonging to a local professional from whom Tom learned a great deal. He followed the pro, caddied for him whenever possible, observed his techniques and received special hints from him concerning the mastery of the game. Tom rates this person as one of two great golfers who have helped him most with the game.
Tournament Win at 14
By the time Tom was 14 he had already registered his first win in a local caddie tournament via a 76. Many tees later Tom entered the Warren G. Harding High School where he compiled a long list of statistics. He won three monograms, was captain of the golf team three years in a row, led the school to three city championships, one state crown and boasted an unblemished record of individual matches, losing none. It’s the winning of the State High School Tournament that Tom describes as his greatest thrill in golf.
It was during his high school career that Tom picked up the name “Tee.” Fellow golfers conferred the title since he was rarely found without a red plastic tee behind his ear.
The list of tournaments that Tom
semi-
N.C.A.A. where he reached the finals.
has played include the National Junior where Tom was medalist, the Western Junior as far as the quarter' finals, champion in the State Junior and the
TOM MATEY (L> AND JOE MORESCO
Their aim: the Intercollegiate title for Notre Dame
Started as Number Two Man
In the 1950 season at Notre “Tee” enjoyed his first year of
Dame colle-
giate competition as number two man on the team, next to Tom Veech, the other golfer who has been most helpful to Tom. The Notre Dame Open held that year saw Veech as the winner and
Tom as runner up, but last year Tee finished the 72-hole championship in first place, scoring a three underpar 281.
Tom suggests that someone just starting the game should first become proficient with the putter. There’s plenty of time to learn the mechanisms of the other clubs by imitating others after the putter has been solved. His own favorite is the driver. Tom, like anyone else, takes pleasure in finding his initial blow long and straight down the fairway. He feels that mastering the short game, around the greens, is the most difficult part of golf. It’s here that each player must acquire his own personal touch.
The other custodian of the shop, junior Joe Moresco, hails from Staten
Island, New York. Joe’s golfing history started back in Richmond county where at the tender age of 12 he served as a caddie and started playing the game. It wouldn’t be unusual for Joe to go two “loops,” 36 holes, in one day and then round off the daylight left by playing on his own. After-two long years of experience Joe registered his first win in a local caddie tournament. By the • time his years added up to high school age he had played in numerous smaller tournaments and had turned in some scores in the middle seventies.
Three-Sport Man
The New Dorp High School on the Island hadn’t yet developed a golf team so Joe turned his athletic prowess to games using a bigger ball—football, basketball and baseball—where he became a three-sport letter winner. In fact it was not until after he had won his freshman numeral as a quarterback at Notre Dame that he absolutely decided golf was his forte.
Among his most important achievements on the links, Joe was winner and twice runner-up in the Staten Island CYO Junior Tournament. He reached the semi-finals in the Staten Island Open, and the quarter-finals in the Gotham Open.
If you were to ask Joe what his
April 4. 1952
27
Frank Leahy More Problems
greatest thrill was in golfdom he would — probably by-pass all his more notable " statistics and answer, “Playing golf with Joe Louis and Ray Robinson.” The two expert boxers impressed Joe as being equally expert with the sticks.
To a novice just starting the game Joe recommends a number of useful hints. Try to find one system with basically sound fundamentals and stick to that method. There may be a time when everything seems to be going wrong but if most golfers would persevere they would be pleasantly surprised at the results. Experience separates the duffer from the more advanced player. Play often and- if possible with someone who is better than you. Above all observe other golfers.
Both occupants of room 123 Walsh packed up their clubs between semesters this year and traveled to Memphis, Tenn., where they spent five days £ following the little white ball around the Memphis Country Club. Not only were they getting in shape for the coming season but both had an eye focused to the late season Intercolle-giates to be held on the Purdue course. It’s their aim to try and capture the title for Notre Dame, thus breaking a two-year monopoly exercised by North Texas State.
By Jack Varley
Each year, when Spring practice opens Breen Phillips hall is almost submerged in salt water simply because it is this building that houses the Notre Dame Athletic Department: About this time each year you can	wander from	one	office to another and not hear a cheerful	note.
The	occupants are	all	thinking of the chances the football	team	has
the	following Fall	and	are wondering how many times the	Irish	will
end up on the short end of the score.	This	was
true even in the Spring of 1949.
No Cheerful News From B-P This Year
Well, this year it’s the same thing. They have very little, if any, cheerful news. There’s one difference this year. The reasons for all the gloom are more concrete. A shorter Spring practice, the need for an assistant coach to replace Bernie Crimmins, the possibility of bad weather in the 30-day period all contribute to the headaches of coach Frank Leahy, but the worst part is the fact that next Fall’s team will be last year’s minus such stars as Jim Mutscheller, Chet Ostrowski, Bob Toneff, Bill Barrett and John Petitbon. Last year freshmen were eligible and some were quite a help.
This year, however, there won’t be any new blood because the freshmen won’t be eligible for varsity competition.
Backfield No Problem	’
From the standpoint of the backfield this won’t present too diffcult a problem, but in the line it’s a completely different picture. The loss of Toneff, Ostrowski and Mutscheller is definitely going to hurt. So much so that Leahy is thinking of moving last year’s regular center, Art Hunter, to one of the end posts. Hunter played end in high school. Last year's number two offensive end, Menil Mavraides, will most likely move up to the number one spot.
Either Captain Jack Alessandrini or Jim Schrader would then probably be switched to the center spot if Hunter works out as a wingman. Alessandrini, the defensive signal caller last season, might also get another offensive post beside center as a guard. However Frank Var-richione and Tom Seaman, guards from last season, are the most likely candidates for those slots this year.
Fred Poehler, a starting tackle last year and Joe Bush, defensive tackle, are possibly the most likely to share the tackle chores.
Changes in Backfield
Even in the backfield Leahy is planning some changes. Halfback John Lattner will be working out at fullback as a relief for Neil Worden. Paul Reynolds would then go from left to right half and Fran Paterra would move in at left half.
Baseball, Softball, Volleyball Feature Interhall Program
The 1952 edition of the Interhall Spring sports program gets underway in two short weeks with Baseball, Softball, and Volleyball moving into the spotlight. All three leagues are now in the process of being organized with practice sessions lasting up until the beginning of the Easter vacation and concluding a few days afterwards.
The baseball and softball edition under the direction of Ernie Szekely and Francis Maxwell respectively, will be conducted in the same manner as that of the previous years with all the necessary equipment except gloves being supplied to the students. The leagues -will commence on the first Monday after Easter, with the starting time set for 3:00 p.m. There will be a time limit of 5:30 on each contest in order to avoid the usual confusion.
The only other outdoor interhall sport on the agenda is volleyball, which will be held on the fields south of the tennis courts, some time in the near future. Ray Kunkle will be in charge of the loop and will hold an organization meeting for all those interested within the week after Easter.
28
The Scholastic
• Relay Team Places In Daily News Meet
By JACK HEALY

Bringing to a close their most rewarding indoor session in the last few years, the Notre Dame track team sent a 10-man force composed of a one and two-mile relay teams, pole vaultei* Jim Harrington and high hurdler Harvey Newquist to the Chicago Daily News Relays last Saturday night at the Chicago Stadium.
I	The only event in which Coach Alex
Wilson’s delegation scored was the University Mile Relay. The Irish squad made up of Bob English, Justin McDonough, Norm Feltes and Hughes Wilcox placed third behind Illinois and Wisconsin. Sophomore Jim Harring-£ ton, competing against such pole vault-। ing stars as Bob Richards and Don 1	Laz, met defeat for the first time this
1	year. Harrington had preserved a
i clean slate of victories up to the Daily News Relays which included a top effort of 13 feet four inches.
CCC Biggest Victory
Perhaps the biggest victory for the Irish tracksters during the past season was winning the Central Collegiate Conference championship. Notre Dame also came out on top in competition against Marquette and Michigan Normal in a triangular meet. Indiana and Missouri went down before the power * of the Irish in dual meets, leaving Michigan State as the only team to whip Notre Dame in dual competition.
Looking ahead to the outdoor season Coach Wilson seems to be more or less £ confident that the Irish will at least match their successful indoor campaign. Wilson bases his confidence on the manner in which his team has continually improved throughout the indoor season.
“In my estimation,” he said, “you are able to judge a track team much better on past performances than is possible with a team in any other sport. So, looking at our record this past winter, I would say that we should do fairly well. However, there is one black cloud hanging over us and that is the dual meet with Michigan. There is no getting around it, they are strong, very strong in every event.”
Coach Wilson’s remarks in regard to the steady improvement of his squad are borne out in particular by the younger members of the team such as Jim Harrington and Harvey New-9 quist. Harrington, only a sophomore, has been the top pole vaulter for the
Irish to date, while Newquist, also a sophomore, walked or rather ran away with both the high and low 60-yard hurdles in the Central Collegiate Conference championship meet.
The optimism of Notre Dame’s track mentor, who by the way is in his second year as coach of the Irish, will meet its first test when he takes his squad to the Texas Relays at Austin on April 5. Following that the Irish will journey to the University of Purdue on April 19, fox’ the triangular1 relays with Purdue and Indiana.
APRIL SPORTS CALENDAR
April 5—TRACK—Texas Relays at Austin
9—BASEBALL at Camp Breckenridge
10—BASEBALL at Camp Breckenridge
12—BASEBALL at Fort Knox
13—BASEBALL at Fort Knox
15—BASEBALL at Iowa
16—BASEBALL at Iowa
18—BASEBALL at Ohio State
19—BASEBALL at Ohio State 19—GOLF—Indiana here
19—TENNIS—Wisconsin here
21—BASEBALL at Michigan 22—BASEBALL—Purdue here 25—BASEBALL—Quantico
Marines here
25-26—TRACK—Drake Relays—Penn Relays
Detroit, Irish Clubs Cinch League Crowns
By JACK SAND
While the Detroit Club cinched its second consecutive Gold League crown, the red hot Irish Club continued to roll as they made a clean sweep of the Aesculapians to insure themselves of a hard earned first-place trophy as the Blue League winner.
The Irishmen, by virtue of their four-point victory, moved six full points out in front of runner-up Kansas City, since the lattex- was once again upset in three out of foux-matches, this time by the Generation Club. Leading the Sons of Erin fox’ the second straight week was Bob Klein with a 458 series, while the potent combination of Jim Adlex- and Bill Londo with 497 and 496 respectively, helped the Generation Club eliminate Kansas City. Ron Wildex-was tops fox* the losers with a 502 cluster.
Meanwhile the third-place Buffalo Club was dropped to fifth as a result of their three-point loss to Milwaukee. Don Stark led the Badgers with 482 and 218 high. Taking over Buffalo’s vacated third place spot was the Pittsburgh Club, as they gained four points from Kentucky via a fox-feit, with Civil Engineers sneaking into fourth behind the pin smashing of Jack Ur-bain.
Ovex- in the Gold loop, Detroit retained its mastery ovex* the rest of the league as they whipped the Italian Club in three out of four contests. Jim Shannon paced the winners with a neat 534 string. With but a week of the regular season left to play, it looks like Detroit and the Irish will battle it out fox- top honors in the playoffs on April 20.
Irish Billiard Team In 3-Cushion Tourney
Tonight, five Notre Dame pool players will represent the University in the annual Intercollegiate 3-Cushion Telephonic Billiard Tournament sponsored by the Billiard congress of America. This is the second tourney in less than a month fox- the Irish, who on March 6 came in fourth out of 36 entrants in the intercollegiate Telephonic Pocket Billiard Toux-nament in which they were defending champs.
The word “Telephonic” is not out of place, since it is the name given by billiard ace Charlie Peterson to the system in which all the colleges can compete against each other and still stay home; that is, by means of telephoning the results of the matches into the Billiard Congress Headquarters in Chicago, which is the central link between all the competing schools, each team will know exactly what their opponents are doing. This tournament detex-mines the national college team champion, and presents an engraved plaque to the team producing the highest score.
In the Pocket Billiards Toux-ney Wyoming’s Cowboys copped first place with a grand total of 439 points, while the Irish, in an attempt to defend their title, came in a solid fourth with 365 points. Playing in ' the confines of Washington Hall senior Jim Foley led the Blue and Gold cause with 81 points, followed by Jim Spencer and. Al Alexander with 73 points each. Tracey Gately and Bob Binder, finished foux-th and fifth with 71 and 67 re- * spectively.	•
For convenience in reporting, all the colleges participating are divided into five separate sections, composed of a
April 4. 1952
29
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Dept. 39

maximum of nine schools in each. The Irish, one of the representatives in sec- £ tion three, lost to second-place Illinois ■ in the deciding match for that particular division. Four other Big Ten schools are members of this section, namely, Indiana, Minnesota, Purdue, and Wisconsin.
According to Coach Al Ifflander, the same schools will compete in tonight’s 3-Cushion Tourney as had previously played in the Pocket Billiards event. Carrying the hopes for an Irish victory will be Dan Finn, Tracey Gately, Jim Conerty, Jerry Groak, Ed McGuire, and Jim Jacoby. One of the preceding six men will be an alternate on the squad, since only five can compete at once.
Look! Another man switched to Kentucky Club— the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
KENTUCKY CLUB
FOR PIPE LOVERS I
PRIZE WINNING
FLY KLM TO EUROPE
HEW LOW AIR TOURIST RATES
Effective May 1st.
ROUND TRIP NEW YORK TO SHANNON omy $433.80 LONDON* Only 486.00 PARIS Only 522.00
FRANKFORT Only 563.60
•Via Prestwick or Shannon ffores subject to government approval. Good low-cost meals available on olanej
SAILING TEAM SCHEDULE
April 5-6— Indiana Championships at Purdue: Notre Dame, Indiana, Purdue.
April 12-13—St. Louis University dual meet at St. Louis.
April 19-20—Michigan State lnr vitational at Michigan State: Notre Dame, Michigan, Bowling Green, Washington, De-Pauw.
April 26-27 — Michigan Invitational at Ann Arbor.
May 3-4 — Annual dual meet with U. of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
May 10-11—Midwest Regional Regatta at Bowling Green University.
May 17-18—Midwest Collegiate Sailing Assn. Finals at University of Michigan.
AUCROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform DRAWING PENCIL
Duff Leads Irish Fencers
At NCAA; Columbia Wins
• Absolute uniformity means drawings without "weak spots"— clean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull's-eye degree stamping on 3 j sides of pencil. At your campus store 1 A
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines 572 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y. Please send full Information on nn KLM Air Tourist Rates to Europe.
EBERHARD . FABER
■ NAME..........	■
■ ADDRESS ...................... ■
TRADE MAUKS REC. U.S. RAT. OKS.
Winning a total of 40 matches, Coach Walter Langford’s top three fencers placed 16th in the NCAA Fencing Meet at Yale, March 28-29. Columbia successfully defended its crown by taking first with 71 points.
Brian Duff, the epee specialist and lone Irish repeater from last year’s NCAA meet, fared the best of the Notre Dame representatives by winning ' 17 and losing 13. Paul Gibbons won 13 while losing 15 in sabre while Jim Jacobs won 10 and dropped 19 in the foil which was perhaps the stiffest division in the three-weapon tourney.
That this year’s meet had better competition than in the past is attested to by the fact that the Irish won only one more match last year and wound up 10th.
30
The Scholastic
£ Valparaiso Downs Keglers; Retain MIBC League Lead
Notre Dame’s Intercollegiate kegiers traveled down to Valparaiso last Sunday only to lose four out of five matches to the Midwestern Bowling Conference leaders. Had the Irish taken four out of five themselves, they would have displaced Valpo as the circuit leading team in the MIBC five school circuit.
Displaying a complete reversal of form from that which they had shown a week previous, the usually consistent South Benders won their only game out of five by the slim margin of three pins. They suffered their worst setback in the third match as they were beaten by a total of 97 pins.
The only 900 series rolled in the vain Irish cause was Jerry Sheehan’s 916, by virtue of scores of 174, 179, 194, 178, and 191. Next in line was Jim Shapiro and Jim Shannon with 853 and 831 respectively. The usually reliable Paul Pfohl had his worst night of the season as he scored a five game set of 758.
Golf Clinic
(Continued from Page 25) class will concentrate on one or more of the 14 clubs per day and by the end of six lessons, every club will have been fully instructed. There is also to be a section set aside to quiz the pupil concerning the rules and proper etiquette of the game which should be
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Office of Academic Affairs
Date............................
Application for Scholarship offered in cooperation with the Office of Academic Affairs by the Foundation for Better Reading:
Name .................................................................
(last)	(first)	(middle)
Campus or Off Campus Address: ........................................
College ................................ Department ..................
Academic Status:	(	) Graduate (	) Undergraduate
( ) No. of Semesters Completed
I Signature.......................................
To be returned to Office of Academic Affairs not later than April 8, 1952
picked up in the rule book presented him on the first day.
It is hoped that this clinic will produce more and better linksmen on the Notre Dame fairways and that the knowledge acquired will add to both the enjoyment and ability of the student golfer in his struggles with that little white pellet.
Reading Foundation Offers Ten Scholarships
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs, announced this week that ten scholarships will be awarded to Notre Dame students by the Foundation for Better Reading in cooperation with the Office of Academic Affairs.
These scholarships will provide for the regular course offered by the Foundation at no cost to the students except their time.
The scholarships are open to all students, both graduate and undergraduate, who will fill out the application blank accompanying this article. A committee composed of University representatives will decide upon the applicants, and those selected will be notified as soon as possible.
Winners will first receive three to foui- hours of diagnostic surveys. They will then take twenty hours of instruction, spread out over a four-week period. The hours will be arranged to fit in with each student’s schedule. Then, at the completion of the course, the student will be rechecked to measure the progress made.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend By appointnunt Ph- 4-5CE1
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
POPULAR STUDENT TOURS
TO EUROPE
Visit the great cities of Europe in congenial company—Travel by air or sea: Ireland, England, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Switzerland can be seen at reduced rates from $709.
For information:
Institute of University Studies Abroad
1346 Connecticut Ave., N. W. Washington 6, D. C.
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
,---------EUROPE—^
(ind. steamer) Bicycle, Motor, Faitboat, Rail, Self-drive, Family living and Study Tours offered by America’s largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
JD	See Mere—Spend less
XaL OnrI9tAYear
S—yoar beat rvprwe* T	e**1* or ’*"*•
Ak srueom myeennnemm WH ■	TTMVU.MSOCMTMN
---5eFlHRAW.,MEWTb«K1T»M»7<m
April 4, 1952
31
I
Addleman
(Continued from Page 18)
singing a about it. who can dance.”
whirl, but don’t get worried Remember, we want dancers sing, not singers who can
never forget!
Van Gab | gabardine | sport shirt by Van Heusen
[ The Van Gab by V ' Van Hensen keeps its * smooth feel . . .
£ fresh looks . . . roomy size . . . because it’s made of a
'y specially processed rayon that’s as washable as you are! Wear i| the Van Hensen-styled collar open or buttoned . . .
gp with or without a tie. Wear the square-cut tails tucked
g into your slacks ... or S left casually out. It’s a * “must-have” for
the campus! $5.95
Van Hensen
PHILLIPS.JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813*817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Practicing the Dance
But the dancing can’t go unpracticed. They’ve got to start in a hurry with the routines. Seems as though it’s going to be hard to turn at the right time, and to have everybody facing the right way when the number’s over. Glide again, and then whirl, and try to move your feet fast enough. But when they get it worked out that chorus line at least will be something different for old Washington Hall.
The next night. The Main Building is a funny place to hold a rehearsal, but it probably doesn’t matter if they’re just speaking their parts to get the total effect of the play. The actors should find just what they’re going to say, too. But half of them aren’t even here. Who’s going to read their lines for them? Oh, the stage manager. Nothing more theatrical than someone reading his lines with feeling only to have the flat voice of the manager feed his next line. Well, well, he even reads the female roles. Say, some of this is pretty funny. That radio show bit ought to go over well and the gas station scene fits in after all. And everybody ends up with his girl, and lives happily ever after.
“We’ll be down in Washington Hall tomorrow night. Just the people in the first act. We’ll try and block it out then.”
The first on-stage practice and they’ll have to use their imagination for scenery, with just a small sheet draped halfway across the stage for a little atmosphere. And two tables and four chairs make a radio station. The imaginary curtain parts and the show is on. “Where’s Addleman? Where is he ... ” It doesn’t stay on very long. It stops and starts and stops again.
“Hold it. Let’s run that bit over again. Now look Bill, when you come out, don’t go that far down-stage. Just cross over to her and then stop. If you don’t, you’re going to block out Nan.” “OK, let’s get away from that desk. There’s too much action behind it. Bring yourselves out in front a bit.” “Wait a minute. We’re going to cut that line. Just forget all about it —Jerry’s going to write us a new song to fill up that dead space.”
The Voice of Authority
Do this, do that, turn here, face up-stage, down-stage, center-stage, too far
32
The Scholastic
back, get away from the desk, you’re W supposed to be over there now. Two hours for one act! But it looks like they finally have it. Things sure look different on paper than they do on stage. It’s quite different now, they’ve cut and added so much.
“That’s it. Tomorrow night at 7:30. Who’s for Kewpee’s now.”
Looks as if they’re finally settling down to some serious work, tonight. No more of those funny entrances, and the wisecracks passed around when somebody messes up a line, or building a little bit up into a big joke, while practice stops and everybody has a laugh. It’s on with the show now. Really getting serious, running it more smoothly, ironing things out.
“Let’s get this scene right now. Paul comes in from left, and then when he says ‘I’m going,’ Nan, you have to be right next to him. Now let’s try it again.” And again, and again.
“No, no. This scene isn’t right. We’ll have to change it. Bill, suppose you come in from up-stage. That’s right. Now before he comes on, you’ve got to get Granby and Pam off, Chazz. They’re protesting, but you get them off. Just ad-lib it now, and we’ll write something up later. We just want to block in the acting tonight. That’s right. Now let’s try it over again from where they come in.” They really work these bits over.
“Let’s cut out the fooling around and really begin to work. Start acting now, instead of just reading through your lines, and let’s cut some of the funny stuff, or this show will never be ready. Start playing your part.”
£ Well they finally made it to the end of the scene, and they want to try it again? They don’t dare.
Ah, now, the chorus is finally getting a chance to show their stuff. They better show it well tonight, because they’re still trying out their dancing ability. Just pick any four girls and let them go through the bit. And they’re off—“We are only secretaries . . . ” Not too good for the first time. “Let’s have a little more rhythm, a little more timing, girls. Come on, you’re in the chorus now, swing it a bit.” Get a load of the second one from the left. She’s had some practice.
Tom Powers adds a lot of oomph by following them around—“Faster, faster, faster. That’s it.” But a show needs that kind of work, direction— and practice.
“Try it again, girls.”
It’ll be a winner.
Lowest air fares ever
LOOK!
Guayaquil
JANBROj
MEXK CITY
GUATEMALA CITY
Two with
Yes—from May through October—all of lovely, lively South South America is within your vacation reach, both in travel time and travel cost.
ways to go. 1. Fly the west coast Pan American-Grace Airways to
1ANTIAGO(
MONTTVIDCO BUENOS AIKS
ideal for students. After 12 days you can bring in $500 worth of purchases duty free, only $610 from Miami
takes you ’round South America in 30 days with stops at Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Panama.
to Lima, Peru on a 17-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
SAN F*ANCSCO ""““S DAUAS A
ORLEANS^
HOUSTON	k
NEW YORK
s555 from Miomi
to Rio de Janeiro on a 30-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
KMT OF SPAIN
Panama (over the route of Pan American World Airways) then on south to Quito, Lima, Santiago and Buenos Aires.
2. Fly the east coast with Pan American World Airways. Stop at Puerto Rico, Trinidad—fly on to Rio, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, “B.A.” Go one way—return the otherl
These special fares apply to Tourist Service with giant 4-engine planes.
Pan American is U. S. Sales Agent for Panagra
PANAGRA and PAN AMERICAN
PAN AMERICAN-GRACE AIRWAYS PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS
............FREE!	SEND FOR DETAILS	 a 0 Pan American-Grace Airways, Dept. 38	I
Chrysler Building, New York 17, N. Y.	I
Please mail me complete information about these new excursion fares. J *	R
Name____________________________________________________________ J
Address.............1------------------------------------------- !
City......................................... State------------- I
April 4, 1952
33
As I write this column, I have before me an address given at the Constitutional Convention of the National Student Organization, in September, 1947. Given by Dean Newhouse, Director of Student Affairs at the University of Washington. ft has as its subject, "“Student Government, Romance and/ or Reality.”
What Is Student Government?
It has often seemed strange to me while I was listening to arguments concerning student government, being called upon to vote for or against a constitution, and exhorted to become more interested in student governmental activities, that nobody had, in my memory, . defined the term. This, I think, is a grave and serious omission, since we cannot very well know whether or not we have a good student government unless we know what student government is.
Dean Newhouse, in his address, undertook to dispel some of that confusion by setting down eight essential notes of good student government. They are:
Eight Points by the Dean
1.	The authority with which student government acts is not a sovereign power, but is delegated by the administration or faculty.
2.	The authority delegated by the administration to the student governing body must be clearly defined.
3.	Theie should be total and exclusive responsibility for administration within that area.
4.	The responsibility of a student government for representing student interest outside the area of its own delegated authority must be clearly understood.
-5. There must be realistic ideas of what democratic student government can be expected to achieve.
6.	Sound democratic principles of government must be adhered to.
7.	The student government must relate effectively to the rest of the college.
8.	Effective student government must meet reasonable standards of administrative efficiency.
34
By Bill Riley
And How Do They Apply?
The first principle is clear, and, I think, not generally subject to argument. The administration, in the natural order of things must have residual authority.
Dean Newhouse’s1 second principle has not been carried into effect here at Notre Dame, and is one of the chief causes of bad feeling in student-administration relationships. It is not for the students to define this. Since the administration delegates the authority, it is up to the administration to state clearly the limits of that authority.
There Is No TOTAL Responsibility
It is in his statement of his third principle—that there should be total and exclusive responsibility for administration within this limited area—that I think Dean Newhouse runs into a contradiction.
It is certainly true that at the present time at the University of Notre Dame that there is no field, however narrow, in which student government moves with complete and total responsibility. At least, I can find none. Some say that student government here has complete responsibility and authority in defining such things as the conditions under which a dance should be held. I should have to answer that the student government does not have total authority and responsibility for that decision. It does not decide the regulations. It does decide the time and place. But if the time and place are not suitable to university authorities, the student government is subject to veto. I am not saying that this veto power is used frequently. Only that it can be used at any time. That means that there is not total responsibility. In his speech, Dean Newhouse says, “A college president or dean may make a mistake and have to be reminded that he is interfering with the responsibility delegated to student government. If he insists on doing so, he must be asked to withdraw the delegation of authority. It might even be suggested that next time he withdraw it first.” The important thing is that the limitation of authority must be made clear.
Dean Newhouse’s fourth principle— that the responsibility of a student C i government for representing student	/
interests outside the area of its own	-•
delegated authority must be clearly understood — is another one which stands in need of clarification here. It is my contention that student government has a definite responsibility to act in an advisory capacity to the various £ administrative departments. That part I of the function of student government	r
is to represent the student to the ad-	X
ministration. To carry his protests, / urge improvements in various services, ? to inform the administration on stu- ; dent reaction to administration policies. ; To deny this function is to deny the ; student part of his responsibility and right—to be heard concerning his own university. Again this is not to say 1/ that he is to have the decision—only	ty
that he should be heard.
Courage? Maturity? Responsibility?	B
Elections should be supervised—they	I;
are. Everyone who is eligible should '5 be permitted to run—this happens. -Student officials should be mature, rea
sonable, courageous, hard-working and responsible. Sometimes they are; sometimes not. Student government at Notre Dame is reasonably® efficient, and although it has few dealings with other departments, when it does, the meetings usually result in mutual respect and interest.
In a digested form, the above pretty well covers what Dean Newhouse had to say. And, I think, how it applies to Notre Dame. However, I’d like to say one or two things about student government as an idea. In the first place, I don’t think that the term government is a good one for the function which student representatives perform. It is like the term democracy—often used to describe Notre Dame—if it is taken in its common sense, one finds it not fitting reality. Notre Dame is not a democracy, if democracy is rule by the majority with protection for the rights of the minority.
The student council is not really a government, either. It is an organizational group for promoting student activities. It is also a council. • As an organizational group, it ordinarily functions very well. As a council to represent the student to the university, it fails more often than it succeeds. The chief reason for this failure is that there is inadequate communica-tional facilities. Or, more tersely, there aren’t regularly scheduled meetings in which the men in the administration who are making the decisions can find out how they will affect the students. In my opinion, there should be.
The Scholastic
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
of Remington Feeny
Remington Feeny’s money went to his feet. Being extremely cautious, he hid his money in his shoes so he could always keep it with him. By the time he was 48, he was nine feet tall.
Money can be used to grow on, but not necessarily by Mr. Feeny’s method. For instance, more than 1,100,000 people have shown their faith in the future of the Bell Telephone System bv investing their money in it. About one-fifth of them are Bell employees who bought stock through a payroll savings plan.
It takes both money and people to keep the Bell System growing and improving to meet our country’s telephone needs. That’s why college men with the right qualifications can find interesting opportunities with us—in engineering, research, operating and administration.
Your campus placement office will be glad to eive vou more information.
April 4, 1952
35