wins on flavor!
WINSTON
GOOD!
TASTES
a
I
cigarette
SHOULD!
K 'l N
1 2 E.
WINSTON changed America's mind about filter smoking!
■ Happy homecoming! Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking — real tobacco flavor, rich and full. What’s more, Winston also gives you the benefit of a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filtei’ really does the job so the flavor really comes through to you. King-size Winstons are easy-drawing, smooth-smoking, good-tasting!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
Garette
Smoke WINSTON the easy-drawing -filter cigarette!
u II
if

to be
GIVEN AWAY
is1


Dec. 16,1955
Yes, some lucky Notre Dame Man will drive this brand new Studebaker Commander V-8 Sport Coupe . . . white sidewall tires and all. . . home for Christmas! Given by Wilson Brothers and Gilbert's . . . Come into the Campus Shop for details . . . anyone can win!
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Home of Wilson Brothers' Sportswear



May 1st
June 1st
GILBERT'S
I
1?


December 9, 1955
John Kennedy asks:
How much travel is there in technical sales work?

JOHN T. KENNEDY is working toward his B.S. degree in chemical engineering from Notre Dame University in June 1957. He’s a member of the student branch of A.I.Ch.E. and is active in the Young Christian Students and in the Chicago Club. Because John feels one should make employment plans early, he’s starting his investigations during his junior year.
A. Hicks Lawrence answers
i
I

A. HICKS LAWRENCE, JR., earned his B.E. degree from Yale in June 1940 and joined Du Pont in the following month as an analytical chemist. He progressed steadily at various plants, from line foreman to shift supervisor to senior supervisor. In 1949 he applied his technical training to sales work. Today Mr. Lawrence is a sales manager in the “Kinetic” Division of Du Pont’s Organic Chemicals Department.
WANT TO KNOW MOKE about technical sales at DuPont? Send for “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” This booklet contains a section on sales work and also gives many interesting details about the technical staff and laboratory facilities which stand behind a salesman. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
reg.u.s.p*t.ofk
■EHHl TMNGS FOK BETTER UVNG... THROUGH OCMtSTIlf
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
Well, John, as the Old Man of the Sea told Sinbad the Sailor, “The quantity of travel varies with the specific situation encountered.” Of course, you’ll never be shipwrecked or encounter the other travel problems that Sinbad did, but a man shouldn’t seriously consider a career in sales work unless he really enjoys travel. Most of our sales personnel do just that, because the work itself provides so many rewards and satisfactions. It’s not unusual for a representative to be away from home base 30 to 60 per cent of the time.
You see, John, for a good salesman, every trip means meeting new people, new situations, and new challenges. Every one of these offers a chance to display individual initiative. Perhaps the customer will need technical advice on applying our product to a specific item he’s developing. The Du Pont salesman may choose to use his own experience and “trouble-shoot” on the spot. On the other hand, he may refer the problem to “home base,” where he knows he’ll be backed up by a strong technical organization. This knowledge naturally stimulates a salesman and heightens his interest in his work. He knows that he never travels alone.
1 ■S

1
X:'
£

The Scholastic]
by William M. Malloy

Finds mr. molnor very interesting
Well, there’s one profession that’s safe from the do-it-yourself industry. We do not think it possible for haircuts to be self-administered with any degree of satisfaction. Nor is it likely that a machine will replace “just plain Bill,” barber, philosopher. We have it on accredited authority that ^there were pictures of barbers on the walls of Roummus Ill’s tomb in Egypt some 3,000 years before Christ. And in return there are pictures of Roummus Ill’s tomb on the walls of Joe Hoole’s Barber Shop over on Portage Ave. So, you see, this art is at once strangely ancient and modern, unmistakably the mark of a fundamental human need.
And how does Notre Dame meet this need? On campus there is a group of genial yet highly proficient technicians *that pride themselves as responsible for the “unshaggiest campus in the world.” Surely such an incredible boast is worth investigation.
Slipping in to their shiny workshop in an off hour we were fronted by a group of barberish looking white-robed clergy; (Ordinem Tondere Praecidere). All eyes went instinctively to our head followed by an interchange of knowing glances and nods. A few shook their heads in disapproval. There was a J^eneral hesitation followed by a more general relief when we made it quite clear that we were not at present interested in their professional assistance. We explained our interest in their work and were referred to a Mr. Joseph Molnor, a handsome middle-aged barber sporting academic horn-rimmed glasses.
Mr. Molnor said: “I came here in November, 1920, 35 years ago, and I was just a youngster then. At that time, you know, the barber shop was Kver in Washington Hall.” More facts -that hair cuts were then fifty cents and that they worked with hand clippers only — “and there were more shaves
then,” offered a barber standing next to Mr. Molnor.
“You know, from one point of view the history of Notre Dame is the history of her barber shops. Until 1918 we used to have a barber come here from Niles once a week—that’s when we had a prep school here. The first barber to work here regularly was a man named Jimmy Haha. He used to laugh at everything. A boy would come in with a letter that said his father died and ol’ Jimmy would just say ‘Ha, ha.’ Well it wasn’t until 1932 that it moved to Badin, the barber shop I mean, and I came with it. But in 1923 I remember one of the barbers was a member of the Ku Klux Klan. Well, sir, the kids threw rocks through the windows and run him right off the campus.”
We assured Mr. Molnor on behalf of the student body that the barbers were safe from barbarism of that sort today. We asked if he had the pleasure of cutting Knute Rockne’s hair. Oh yes, he had cut them all, even the Four Horsemen. Was Mr. Rockne’s hair particularly interesting? “Well, he didn’t have much hair. Kind’a thin on top but thick along the ears. I remember cutting Father Crumley’s hair one time and ol’ Rock came in and sat in the chair next to him. ‘Just take a little off the top,’ said Rock and Father Crumley laughed and said, ‘Rock, that’s all you got.’ Now George Keogan had a fine head of hair, pleasure to cut. But Halas, now he was always in a hurry. I never cut George Gipp’s hair, he was sick when I came here.”
“Tell him about the time you were a sprinter, Joe,” called one of the barbers.
“We got a new barber here from Italy. That’s him over there in the corner; he’s John Campete. Only been in this country three months. Tell those St. Mary’s girls to come on over ’cause he specializes in Italian bobs.” (Whatever that is.)
We asked Mr. Molnor what was his most interesting head of hair. They were all unusual and all similar. We then essayed into the delicate matter of crew cuts. Why the additional price? More time and effort required. At this topic Mr. Leonard McCollum, the manager, joined us. “I’ve given up telling them,” he said. We expressed our failure to understand. “Some of you fellows come in here with soft hair and expect us to make a perfectly flat, squared-at-edges crew cut,” he said, gesturing with a scissors and looking at the bushy failure randomly covering our head. “And then some heads have straight thick hair, perfect for a crew and then spoil it all by asking for a legitimate haircut.”
“He’s right,” seconded Mr. Molnor, “we like to please, I mean it’s their hair, not mine, but we are asked to do some hard things. One time a boy came in here with a movie magazine and said he wanted a haircut like the picture of Johnny Weismuller—which was no haircut at all!”
Then Mr. McCollum told us that there was a definite relation between the academic calendar and their fiscal year.
If we may metaphysize for a moment, it strikes us that too large a section of the students are guilty of provincialism, an error in fair thinking pointed out by Mr. Frank Sheed in a recent lecture. After all the haircuts we have invested in isn’t it amazing that we have little grasp of the “barber’s attitude”? Hair has been neglected. Why it is the mark of race,, color, temperament; it is the natural hat of man, the cause of boxing sponsors, fur coats and hair tonic drunks, to end a hopelessly incomplete list. Of old, more respect was shown for it. How many poems have been written about curls of loved ones! And the stories that have centered themselves around locks of all shades. All this has been neglected—shame on you.
December 9, 1955
5

The Notre Dame
Sackcloth and Locusts
Editor:
“Behold, the voice of one crying in the wilderness!”
In other words ... I am disgusted because the students at Notre Dame not only fail to keep the spirit of Advent, but seem to be actively engaged in a campaign to promote exactly the opposite spirit.
The Church teaches us that Advent is a time of penitential preparation for the coming of Christ . . .
But how is this being observed at Notre Dame? I find notices on the bulletin boards announcing dances and parties, and even a St. Mary’s—Notre Dame caroling party! And, perhaps worst of all, WSND plays Christmas carols. The time for those is after midnight, Dec. 25th. Then we have cause to end our vigil and rejoice . . .
Those who are guilty, think it over and come back to the Church.
Jack L. Totty Box 19, ND
The Word
Editor:
Re Entree:
Prattle.
C. T. Casale, II 1647 Portage Ave.
“All-fired High Falutin’”
Editor:
It’s getting so every time I open the Scholastic I find a letter something like this:
“You guys are gettin’ too all-fired high falutin’ with your fancy covers and all such-like. You have even changed the Week to some French word. (Lots of us in other colleges don’t have hardly no background in French.) We’re plain folks in my hall and we don’t like to have to read things over three or four times to find out what all them hard words mean. Now you guys have got me readin’ so much I am getting cross-eyed from followin’ my finger across the page. I can’t hardly see well enough to work my slide rule. . .”
Despite the effectiveness of such withering wit, I do not agree with the (Continued on page 30)
The Juggler for 55
Waiting for you at the » BOOKSTORE • CAFETERIA 35c
Subscription 75c per year
Available at 13 Sorin
Scholastic
Vol. 97
Dec. 9, 1955
No. 9;
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
INVENTORY Entree ........................_.. 5
Repercussion ...............      6
View .......................      7
Campus Scene ..................   9
Folio ......................     15
At a Glance _____________________20
Showcase _____________________   22
Irish Scene ................     25
Time Out ...................     28
Back Page ...............    ....34
NOTRE DAME
THE
Chicago Club
OF NOTRE DAME presents its annual CHRISTMAS DANCE featuring
Ralph Marterie
8:30-1:00 Wednesday, Dec. 28
Merchants’ & Manufacturers’ Club ------Merchandise Mart-
Bids: $3.50 on campus; $5.00 at door Semi-formal No Flowers
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Sunny Italy Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame,| Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate ofi postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized! June 23, 1918.	j
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
i
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor'
ED JOYCE .......................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN............Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ............Assistant	News’
DAVE THOMPSON...............Assistant	News!
JAMES McDONALD ..............Assistant	Newsj
JIM O’BRIEN ................Feature Editors
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator| RICHARD NAVIN....................Art	Editor]
KEN WOODWARD..............Business Manager] NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager] JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator] DAVE DAVIN ...............Sports	Edito^
JOHN GLAVIN.........................Assistant	SporUj
I
JOE NORTON.........................Assistant	Sportsj
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Le^ Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas^ Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Hasd ley, Joe Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg Kilduff| Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John* McMahon, Joe Mocarski. Dave Noland. Bob Planted Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer. DavidR Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bom Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.	|
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Barthel, Andy CarnazolaJ Paul D’Amore, Pat DeFoe, Dick Donovan, Bob Early, Joe Foreman, Jim Goethals, John Grady}; Russ Hopkins, Jim Langford, Fred Lavin, Ray. Lescher, Brian Moran, Vince Naimoli, Bob Par£ nell, Jim Reiher, Ed Rohrbach, Jim Short, Carl-Skiff, Dick Sofranko.	t
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffet|
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.} 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	|
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during.th* school year, except during vacation and examinal tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Add dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185,1 Notre Dame, Indiana.	j
The Scholastic^
Viuu
gripes
Yesterday I was talking to a fellow and in the course of conversation he happened to mention that the two ^things that teed him off the most at Notre Dame were line cutting and yelling during the opponents’ free throws at basketball games. While I can’t honestly say I think these are my most serious gripes, they are, nevertheless, a perennial problem here at the University, one that every Senate, Circle and Scholastic staff for the past four years anyway has seen fit to crusade against.
We’re not going to crusade against line-cutting this vear because the simple fact of the matter is that the student body is as conscious of line-cutting as we are, and it’s up to the ^students to do something about it, not us. How many times ^have all of us been standing in line for fifteen minutes, hungrier than the devil, when four or five of the “real fellows” arrive on the scene, take one disdainful look at the line, and march right up near the front where a single friend of theirs is standing? “Only the slobs stand in line.”
It might not be so bad if one fellow happened to see a group of his friends and move up two or three places with your permission, but when three or four disdainers calmly step in front of you, completely oblivious to the fact that you’re even alive . . . well then I’m insulted, even if no one ^else is. I’m no fourth estate peasant to be booted in the "ditch by some of the “real fellows.”
But, as I said, it’s up to the student body itself to do something about it—you can’t legislate against this sort of thing. As soon as the “slobs” get tired enough of getting o	o	o o o
stepped on, they’ll do something about it. As soon as they quit clenching their fists in their pockets without so much as a murmur while they wait ten or fifteen minutes longer, they’ll do something about it. As soon as they wake up to the fact that what the “real fellows” will think of them when they tell them to get the heck to the back of the line doesn’t matter one iota, they’ll do something about it.
_ As to all the hooting and howling that goes on while an ^opponent is taking a free throw, just how grubby and just how dumb can we be? We’re not showing school spirit, we are showing that the only way Notre Dame can win a ball game is by “ganging” the other team. It might shake the opposing team one or two times but then, if they’re any kind of ball club, they’ll begin to get all fired up and walk off with the game. Take another look at the Wisconsin game and see if this might not be. true.
To me, the greatest tribute an athlete from another school could pay us is to say, “You know, the guys at Notre Dame are all right. They cheered for us when our names were announced (instead of “Who’s he?”) and gave the * coach a standing ovation. Kept quiet during our free throws ^too . . . but the rest of the time . . . they really back their guys . . . it’s hard to beat a school like that.” It happened a couple of years back.—J.A.
December 9, 1955
compulsion
During the past couple weeks it has been our privilege to attend the lectures of Mr. Frank Sheed in Washington Hall. To say the least, Mr. Sheed is one of the most remarkable men that we have ever seen or heard. That he is hailed as the foremost lay apologist for the Catholic faith is definitely no idle tribute.
Attendance at each of Mr. Sheed’s eight lectures is mandatory for students in apologetics courses this semester. The religion department’s rule forbidding absences during this series of talks is being strictly enforced. We wonder if compulsory attendance in this case is attaining the objective for which it was ordered: to urge each student to derive the fullest measure of benefit from the teachings of an apologist’s apologist.
First of all, compulsory attendance carries with it a certain amount of aversion on the part of the average student. Naturally, because he is being forced to attend, the student will immediately rationalize that the subject and/or the speaker can’t be too red hot. Joe Student feels that he is being imposed upon merely to present an adequate audience to which the speaker can set forth his ideas and comments.
The student is also told that he will be tested on the matter covered by the lecturer. So he comes to the talks equipped with a pencil and notebook and bearing a grudge against the whole notion at the outset. This puts both speaker and audience in an uncommunicative mood.
Now the student may get something out of the session even with these initial impediments in the way. The speaker, like Mr. Sheed, may be so extraordinary that one would have to be totally indisposed to the process of education for him not to gain anything of value for the listening. But undoubtedly the student would be no better off than if he had willingly read an ordinary chapter in an ordinary textbook concerning the same topic. He gets something much less than his money’s worth.
Compulsory attendance is usually justified with the reason that the student does not alwavs know what is'good for him, and hence he should be exposed to what others know is good for him whether he likes it or not. and with the hope that he will ultimately realize that it is good for him. The fact that too many students clump-clump their wav out of Washington Hall immediately after Mr. Sheed’s talk with no regard for the enlightening question-and-answer session just beginning seems to disnel the notion that the student will soon realize what is good for him.
We think that it would be to everyone’s advantage to revoke the compulsory attendance rule for future lectures of this type. There are a few students, at least, who would attend the lectures freelv. And we will bet our last nickel that, with a speaker of Mr. Sheed’s caliber, attendance will rapidly snowball from the first talk on. Compulsion will not be necessary.
As Mr. Sheed made clear in his opening discussion, he would much rather his audience gather as it pleased and then go away when it had had its fill. In such case only can an audience fully absorb the ideas of the speaker who wishes to communicate with it.—P. L.
7
ENGINEERS:
How 2 Years at Sylvania can equal 4 elsewhere
You’re in at the beginning of major advances in the fast-moving electrical-electronic industry, when you work at Sylvania...a leader in electronics, television and radio, communications and radar, lighting, electronic components, powdered metals, atomic reactor fuels, advanced weapons systems and other rapidly-advancing fields.
Every year important developments come out of the company’s 16 research and engineering laboratories —such recent achievements as Sylvania’s stacked tube, the pill-sized germanium transistors, travelling wave tubes, television circuitry, and many others.
When you join Sylvania you are not plunged into narrow specialization. You work in different groups—survey many activities—and weigh a number of possibilities before deciding upon your field of concentration. The horizons are unlimited.
It is easy to see how a young engineer or scientist can find 2 years at Sylvania equal to 4 at a more static organization — in professional development, responsibility, salary.
This is a young man's company. The average age of department heads is only 45. Sylvania’s steady expansion into new fields provides continual opportunities for young men of talent.
Whatever your interests—research, development, design, production, administration—there are many opportunities for you at Sylvania’s 43 manufacturing plants and 16 laboratories.
We invite you to make an appointment, through your College Placement Office, to discuss a Career at Sylvania with our representative. Write our Supervisor of Technical Employment for the comprehensive booklet, “Today and Tomorrow with Sylvania.”
V SYLVANIA v
SYLVANIA ELECTRIC PRODUCTS INC.
1740 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.
LIGHTING - RADIO * ELECTRONICS • TELEVISION - ATOMIC ENERGY
8	The Scholastic
Irish get up steam in 1952 convention.
'ignite POLITICAL FIRE AT APRIL CONVENTION
Campus Set to Enact Mock Demo Caucus
Fiery oratory, smokey-room caucuses, and banners bearing the names of Stev-^enson, Harriman, Russell and Kefauver, will fill the Navy Drill Hall during the 1956 Mock Democratic National Convention April 16, 17 and 18.
On those days, between 8 and 11:30 p.m., delegates from the 48 states and the territories will vie to have their candidate selected as the 1956 Democratic Presidential candidate.
Since the entire convention will be operated precisely as the Democratic National Convention, delegates will be I ^modeled exactly after the real conven-^tion. Therefore 1,126 delegates must be selected from the student body. February 19 has been decided upon as the
December 9, 1955
date on which these delegates are to be elected.
These elections will be held in the University Dining Hall. Every Notre Dame student is eligible to be chosen as a delegate. Alternate delegates will also be elected at that time. In addition to Notre Dame students, girls from St. Mary’s will also be eligible to participate in the election of delegates.
Individual initiative is to be relied upon as a key factor in the success of this year’s convention. No campus clubs, as such, will be responsible for any part of the convention or for any of the activities leading up to it, that is, with the exception of the Academy of Political Science which is the guiding power behind the convention. Groups backing a particular candidate for office are expected to be formed solely through the initiative of the members of the student body.
All campaigns, strategy, and rallies will also be left to such campus groups as were formed for that specific purpose. Likewise, the campaign chainnan for each candidate will be chosen by the self-initiated groups rallying behind that candidate.
As in the past, Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the department of political science will serve as faculty advisor for this year’s mock convention.
Other convention officials who have thus far been chosen by the Political Science Academy are: Cas Taylor, general chairman; Tom Swope and Pat McCartan, co-chairman of the publicity committee; Bob O’Malley, chairman of the campaign committee; Jack McGraw and Jack Owen, co-chairmen of the delegate committee; Chuck Conway, chairman of the refreshments committee; and Bob Guthrie, chainnan of the house committee.
9
Senior Marriage Institute Talks Open Feb. 2 With Rev. Hesburgh's Address on 'Courtship'
The Senior Class and the Department of Religion will sponsor the 1956 Marriage Institute beginning Feb. 2 in Washington Hall.
The annual Institute, open to seniors only, is designed to better prepare them for this important phase of their lives and is considered an almost necessary part of their education, according to Dave Granger, the chairman of the Institute.
The series of lectures will be opened by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and his talk on “Courtship” Feb. 2. On Feb. 9 Mr and 'Mrs. Frank O’Doud will speak on the subject of “Male and Female Psychology.” The next lecture will be delivered jointly by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe on “Love and Marriage” Feb. 13.
The Institute will continue Mar. 7 when Dr. Lewis Leone will speak on the “Doctor’s Point of View.” On Mar. 15 “Morality and Marriage” will be the topic, and Fr. Francis Nealy, O.P., is slated to discuss the subject. The Marriage Institute will close Mar. 22 with a lecture by Dr. and Mrs. Maino on “Success in Marriage and How to be Happy with the Children.”
The speakers in this series are chosen because they have professed an earnest desire to help the students and are well qualified to speak on their respective topics.
MAPPING PLANS FOR 1956 MARRIAGE INSTITUTE Father Putz and committee ready senior series.
After each lecture there will be a question and answer period followed by a coffee hour in the Student Center, where the seniors may informally meet and talk with the speakers.
Tickets for the Marriage Institute will be on sale after the Christmas vacation.
The Institute is a recent innovation begun in 1949. It evolved in part from a Christian Marriage elective course taught by Fr. Hesburgh. The Marriage Institute is now a regular part of the school year with special backing from the Department of Religion. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., is this year’s departmental representative.
Assisting Dave Granger are: Clem O’Neil, financial manager; Joseph Kal-bas, physical setup; Alan Virostek, publicity; and Tom Hubbard, special arrangements.
Schedule Christmas Parties For South Bend's Sick, Aged
Christmas spirit will prevail Saturday and Sunday when students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College will visit South Bend Children’s Hospital, orphanages, and homes for the aged to hold parties and distribute gifts.
Glee club members will be on hand to sing carols. Appearances will be made
s by the Notre Dame football and basket-^ ball players. Other entertainment will| be provided by the Physical Education 4-club and several student groups. ||
The parties on Saturday will be held f, at the Children’s Aid Society Orphan-1- ■ age in South Bend and the St. Joseph County Old People’s Home.	j
On Sunday the students will go to I the Northern Indiana Children’s Hos-^ pital and the Circle of Mercy Day | Nursery.
Gifts and refreshments will be dis- | tributed.	t
The parties are sponsored by the £ Notre Dame Student Senate, the Campus Charity Chest and St. Mary’s. Tom | Caplet is general chainnan from Notre | Dame and Barbara Hilger represents ? St. Mary’s.
Buses transporting students taking ; part in the activities leave the circle at ( 1:30 p.m. Saturday and 2 p.m. Sunday. | •
’Old King Cole' Motif [ Selected for AB Ball f
Old King Cole calls for his fiddlers^ three, anticipating the merriest and most fanciful Arts and Letters Ball of recent ( times, when 300 couples will be enter- i tained at “King Cole’s Court” on Jan. 13 at the Student Center.	|
£
Humpty Dumpty, the Pied Piper and J other nursery rhyme characters will | serve as decorations for the dance. f
The orchestra of Tom Breese, directed | by Bud Dinwiddie, will supply the music | for the AB men and their dates. f
Dance Chairman Phelan Thompson I said that there will be a glass slipper j that each girl may try on. A special 3 prize will be awarded to the girl whom S it fits.	|
A 15-minute show entitled “The His- j tory of the Dance” will be given by the g Arthur Murray dancers at intermission, g
A Communion breakfast will be held I at the Morris Inn on Sunday, Jan. 15,1 for the ball goers and their dates. I
Tickets for the dance will be sold in* ’ the basement of the Student Center Dec. j 13, 14, and 15 from 4 to 6 p.m. Thej price of the bid will be $3.75.	:
Chainnan Thompson said, “We expect! ‘King Cole’s Court’ to be the merriest!' and most imaginative AB Ball of recent! years.” i
Aiding Thompson will be: Jim Moran,) business manager; Gerry Reed, decorations; Dick Scherer, tickets; Jim Smart,) , hotels; Charlie VanDegrift, publicity Bob Guthrie, refreshments; Jack Bure,| entertainment; and John Glavin, Com-s munion breakfast.	1
The Scholastic I
10
*WSND to Broadcast Christmas Programs
Campus radio station WSND Avill broadcast a series of special Christmas programs beginning Sunday, station officials announced this week. Six shows have been scheduled and they will con-Atinue daily through Thursday night ^when the station leaves the air for the Christmas holidays.
First of the special programs will be aired from 2 to 4 p.m. Sunday afternoon when the new “Panorama” show presents its Christmas production. Highlights of the program will include carols, classical Christmas music, poetry and dramatizations. Kevin Joyce, an AB A senior from Moultonboro, N. H., is pro-Wducing the show.
Sunday night from 7 until 8 p.m. WSND will present the famous Christmas opera Amahl and the Night Visitors. The opera was written by composer Gian Carlo-Menotti and is produced annually on Christmas day over the NBC-TV network.
The four remaining shows will be held from 8 to 8:30 p.m. nightly. On Monday and Tuesday evenings, carols ®and dramatizations from the BBC will be featured. Wednesday night’s program titled “The Spirit of Christmas,” will have Dylan Thomas reading “A Child’s Christmas in Wales.”
The final program of the series will be the “Story of the Nativity” with words and music produced by the staff of WSND.
gPhilosophy Grad Club Outlines Year's Plans
The Philosophy Graduate Students’ Club under their moderator, Robert Ca-ponigri, held their first meeting on Monday, Nov. 21.
Father Bochenski was the featured speaker of the evening, as he addressed the meeting on “Thomism and Its Future.” John Haddox, John Gruenenfeld-er, and Joseph Graham arranged the meeting at the Sunny Italy clubroom.
The Philosophy Club has scheduled meetings this year through May. The next assembly is set for Monday, Dec. 12, when the speaker will be Mr. Fred Crosson. Crosson will talk on “Presence and Person.”
The January meeting will feature a discussion concerning “Philosophy as a Professional Calling.”
Other activities are to include attendance at meetings of the American M Philosophical Association, American Catholic Philosophical Association, Indiana Philosophical Association, and Metaphysical Society.
KNIGHTS AT MORRIS INN BREAKFAST
Gather to hear Deputy speak.
Indiana K of C Deputy Speaks to ND Knights; Campus Council Initiates 80 New Members
Edward J. Dowd, Indiana State deputy of the K of C, spoke to the Knights of Columbus of Notre Dame at a Communion Breakfast following the 8 o’clock Mass last Sunday. The breakfast was attended by 150 officials, Third Degree members, and candidates of the campus council.
In his talk, Dowd outlined the purposes of the Knights of Columbus and
FROSH THEME CONTEST
A contest to obtain a theme for the 1956 Freshman Frolic, spring dance of the Freshman Class, has been announced by members of the dance committee.
The freshman who submits the winning theme will receive a free bid to the dance worth $5.50 and his name will be printed on the program as author of the theme.
All entries must be turned in by Thursday, Dec. 15. Each student may submit as many entries as he wishes.
The themes are to be submitted to Dave Kelsey, 322 Cavanaugh; Tony George, 232 Breen-Phillips; Joe McArdle, 142 Farley; or Jim Miller in 111 Zahm.
mentioned many of the activities undertaken by the organization, both on a state and national level and in local councils, particularly here at Notre Dame. After emphasizing the need for more active participation in K of C affairs by its members, Deputy Dowd stated that in its securing of active and practical Catholic men, the K of C is serving as “the melting pot of Catholic leadership.”
Dowd was introduced by Eli Shaheen, a trustee of the Council, who served as the toastmaster for the breakfast.
Later in the day, 80 Notre Dame candidates for the 2nd and 3rd Degrees were initiated, along vzith 20 other candidates from South Bend and Mishawaka Councils, at the Mishawaka K of C chambers. An Indiana state degree team was in charge of the ceremonies.
Following Sunday’s initiation, a buffet supper was held by the Mishawaka Council for the new Knights and other members of the Council who took part in the proceedings.
On Nov. 7 and 30, 1st Degree initiation ceremonies, for the Notre Dame group, had been held at the campus chambers in the Walsh Hall basement.
The membership drive was conducted under the direction of Don Timm, membership secretary. It was also announced that the entire degree class was named in honor of Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., the Council chaplain, who is seriously ill at the present time.
December 9, 1955
11
PLAYERS INC. AT SHAKESPEAREAN ALTAR . . . “Much Ado About Nothing” . . .
Catholic U's Players Inc. Due Here in January; Present Comedy, Tragedy to ND Audiences
Players Incorporated of Washington, D.C., will present Shakespeare’s King Lear and Much Ado About Nothing in Washington Hall on Jan. 8 and 9, respectively.
Tickets for the performances will be on sale at the Washington Hall box office on Jan. 4, 5, and 6 from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 3 to 7:30 p.m. On Jan. 8 and 9 tickets will be sold from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 8:15 p.m. Balcony seats will be §1 and orchestra seats will be $1.50.
Now on their seventh annual tour, the Players are well remembered for the performances of Moliere’s The Would-Be Gentleman and Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar on campus last year.
In their six previous seasons of touring the nation, Players Incorporated has given more than 700 performances of the great works of Shakespeare, Shaw, and Moliere. The Players are recognized by drama critics throughout the country as one of the nation’s outstanding repertory companies.
In each of the past six seasons they have traveled roughly 35,000 miles through 30 states and Canada. The troupe has also made three tours to U.S. military installations in Europe, Japan and Korea.
Founder of the organization and director of this year’s production of Much Ado About Nothing is the Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., head of the speech and drama department of the Catholic Uni
12
versity and president of the American Educational Theatre Ass’n. Robert B. Moore, resident director at St. Michael’s Playhouse in Winooski Park, Vt., and president of Players Incorporated, will direct King Lear.
All the members of the company are former students of the speech and drama department of the Catholic University in Washington. The Players all have professional experience and were selected for the company because of their acting ability.
Among the Players who perform this year are Dick Sykes, who will play King Lear. Sykes starred on Broadway in the musical revue Touch and Go and last
ANNUAL CAROLING TOUR
Busses will leave at 7 tonight from the Circle and Farley Hall for the annual Christmas caroling tour. From the Circle and Farley the busses will proceed to St. Mary's and St. Joseph’s Nurses Home and then to South Bend.
A party for the carolers will be held in the Student Center after the singing. There will be dancing and refreshments from 9 to 10:30 p.m.
The Glee Club members from Notre Dame and St. Mary's will direct the singing. Song sheets will be passed out containing lyrics of the Christmas hymns.
year played the title role in The Would-Be Gentleman. Sykes will also be seen.. , in the role of Benedict in Much Ado^ About Nothing.
Playing the lead role of Don Pedro;	'
in Much Ado About Nothing will be| Edmund Torrance. Two years ago, V Torrance played the title role of Shake- i speare’s Othello. During the past year; he has made two films and has al sea done work in radio and television. Inf
I the top feminine role of Hero in the| play will be Mary van Valkenburgh. ? Miss van Valkenburgh has appeared in i: * numerous films and on television. v
Three Juniors Head \ 'Caine Mutiny' Cast
Allen Riley, Phil Donahue, and Robert i Sasseen, all juniors, have been selected I to play the leading roles in The Caine i Mutiny Court Martial, according to Rev. i 1 Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., director of the i ’ University Theater. Riley, Donahue, t and Sasseen will play the parts of Lt. t ; Barney Greenwald, Lt. Stephen Maryk, ’ and Capt. Queeg, respectively.	;
The play, second of this year’s presentations, will run from Feb. 29 to^ Mar. 4. Rehearsals will begin after J Christmas vacation.	|
Cast in supporting roles are James Cooney as Lt. Com. John Challee; Gavin ( j King as Lt. Thomas Keefer; Reginald | * Bain as Lt. Willis Keith; and Joe Kelly | as Signalman Junius Urban. George | O’Donnell is portraying Capt. Randolph f 1 Southard; Benedict Harrington, Dr. J Lundeen; Michael Kennedy, Dr. Bird; I and Pete Wistort, Capt. Blakely.
The orderly is played by Tom Brady, | while Bernie Gesner is the court steno- J grapher. Members of the cour-t are Tom g Kiernan, Charles Conway, Kevin Solon, J Bill Brisick, Earl Ware, and Joe Ryan. |
Local Villagers to Waltz I . At Annual Holiday Ball 1
The Notre Dame Villagers will waltz | in semi-formal style to the notes of A Ivan Nelson and his Gentlemen of 3 Rhythm at their annual Christmas dance I on Wednesday evening, Dec. 28, at the I South Bend Knights of Columbus Hall. I
The local collegians will dance from । 9 p.m. until midnight at the new hall on N. Michigan St.	;
Tickets for the dance are on sale from members of the dance committee. The committee includes: Phil Wolf, Paul Hawblitzel, Ken Robinson, Joe Jeriorski, f. i Jim Gierzniak, George Houk, Paula Meyers, Dan Weist, and Stark Sanders, j Bill Hinton is the dance chairman, while | Don Glenton is ticket manager.	|
The Scholastic I ,
Sen. Hubert Humphrey Blasts GOP Regime For Neglect of Domestic, Foreign Policy
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, Minnesota Democrat, speaking at Notre Dame last week, sharply criticized the Republican Administration on matters of both (domestic and foreign policy.
Senator Humphrey, here to address the Academy of Political Science, stated that the Republican Administration is withholding from the American people information of vital importance in international matters. He also attacked the Republican farm and security programs, citing them as “failures.”
The Minnesota senator charged that the Republican Administration has neglected to inform the American public of the crucial and critical danger spots in the world today. Instead it has chosen to concern itself with “purely emotional conflicts” and has shown little regard for the concrete political and strategic differences in the world today.
“The GOP is not very familiar with Communist tactics and Soviet strategy,” said Humphrey. “They have allowed foreign policy to become sloganized.”
“There are three great areas of danger in foreign policy today. These are Germany, Japan, and the East. Israel and India are particularly trouble spots in this area.” Senator Humphrey continued to express fear that Republican foreign policy has underestimated the possibility of further Soviet penetration into Europe, and especially in Germany.
On the domestic scene, Senatoi- Humphrey appeared convinced that the Administration’s farm program of flexible price supports “would be, without a doubt, the greatest single issue in ths 1956 presidential campaign.”
With regard to the government’s loyalty and security program, Senator • Humphrey indicated that there was ample evidence to prove that the Administration is misrepresenting the facts
NSA FILMS
John V. Hendricks, executive travel director of the National Student Association, will speak and show films on foreign travel on Dec. 12 at 3:30 p.m. in the amphitheater of the Student Center.
Mr. Hendricks has just returned from Oslo, Norway, where he attended a conference to rectify and expand the areas of cooperation of International Student Travel.
Specific information on the NSA tour program for 1956 will be given.
about workers ousted from their government jobs as “security risks.”
He charged that the Republicans have collected the incompetents and other undesirables of any sort and have dismissed them all as “security risks.” In reality, the reasons for their dismissals were in no way connected with the worker’s loyalty or lack thereof.
SEN. HUBERT HUMPHREY . . . on GOP “failures” . . .
In his speech, Senator Humphrey praised the recent Democratic Administrations and the Democratic Party. He pointed out several accomplishments of the Truman Administration such as the Marshall Plan and sound economic and foreign policies.
Duplicate Bridge Meet Ends With Close-Score Results
The Duplicate Bridge Tournament in the Student Center Sunday ended with several close finishes in both the north-south and east-west divisions. The team of Pat Bradford and Pat Snyder, edged out Rev. James P. Smyth and Dr. J. Crowley .569 to .571. G. Meisels and H. Heichelheim, with .550, and Tom Betterton and Bob Berschinski, with .518 took third and fourth places respectively.
Ron Vardiman and J. P. Turley scored .604 in the east-west to nose out Mike Regan and Pat Ogren with .598. Bernie Dowding and Joe Bihn with .583 were a close third, followed by Jack Casey and John Laird with .548.
Several prizes were distributed to various winners in the sessions held
<
&
this fall. The prizes were assorted bridge books and memberships in the American Contract Bride League.
It was announced that the University will again participate in the Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament, to be held in February. Students planning to play are advised to practice by playing in the Sunday afternoon tournaments in the Student Center at 2 p.m.
Plans are also underway for an interhall team-of-four tournament after Christmas and the campus pair championship later on. Beginning in January, there will be a monthly master-point game, when winners will be awarded a full master point. .
Instruction in duplicate bridge technique will be given every Sunday at 1:30 p.m., proceeding the duplicate session.
Washington Tour Set To Leave ND Jan. 26
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the department of political science, will accompany a group of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students to Washington, D. C., on a sightseeing and educational tour of the capital area, during the be-tween-semesters holiday period from Jan. 26 to Feb. 1.
Starting from campus at 4:30 p.m. Jan. 26 and returning the morning of Feb. 1, the trip will include a complete tour of Washington, the Senate and House of Representatives, and the annual reception at one of the foreign em- ' bassies in Washington. Over the weekend an excursion will be made by Bay Line Steamship to Virginia to visit such spots as Mt. Vernon and Williamsburg.
One of the high points of last year’s trip wras an informal party given by University alumnus, Walter Trohan, at his home in Washington. Dr. Bartholomew stated that many senators and important governmental officials attend this party.
Dr. Bartholomew also stated that the trip, besides being a sightseeing tour, brings the students in real contact with governmental workings and problems.
The trip will cost §128. This price includes everything except incidentals. Students interested in going should contact Dr. Bartholomew in Room 343 O’Shaughnessy Hall as soon as possible.
OFF-CAMPUS PHOTOS
Off-campus students will have their pictures taken for the off-campus section of the Dome on Wednesday, Dec. 14 in the Student Center at either 11:30 a.m. or 12:30 p.m.
Sweaters and slacks should be worn for these photographs.
December 9, 1955
13

I®ebiaebal 3ns>titute: Scho from the Sast
I
by HARRY WASOFF
IF WHILE YOU WERE GOING through the line on your first day of registration at Notre Dame you had been asked, “Please raise your right hand and swear to your income, sir,” you would have been somewhat taken aback. And it wouldn’t be just because you had been addressed as “sir,” although that in itself would be truly unusual.
However, had you been registering at a university 600 years ago, you wouldn’t have been surprised in the slightest at the question, because during the middle ages, your tuition was determined by the size of your income. So, if you were rich, you paid well; but, on the other hand, you got a bargain if you weren’t. At any rate, you knew you were getting your money’s worth, whatever you paid, because after you were enrolled as a student, the University took care of everything: room, board, insurance, medical care, beer, the town’s police force. It might even pay for your wedding if you decided to get married. This may explain why the students of the middle ages coined the phrase “Alma mater” (dear mother) and applied it to their school.
Perhaps you are wondering where
Director; Assistant and illuminated pages.
this information came from. The answer is that it was supplied by the Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame. So now you wonder, “What is the Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame?”
The Mediaeval Institute is a center of research of the University dedicated primarily to the study of education in mediaeval times. It is the only institution in the United States which conducts systematic research on this subject. Of special interest to the Institute is the life of mediaeval university students and the administration of the old universities, particularly their financial affairs. Appropriately enough, in the possession of the Institute at this time is a reproduction of the original publication of the financial affairs of the University of Paris in the thirteenth century. From these records the Institute has discovered interesting and even amusing little oddities about the old university such as the professors’ salaries and the facts mentioned above. These records actually disclose that at one time a mediaeval university financed the marriage of a student.
Nine year Old Institute
A look back into the history of the Institute reveals that the idea of conducting specialized study in the field of mediaeval history at the University of Notre Dame was first presented by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.G., in 1933. In that year, special courses were offered in the graduate school. Thirteen years later, in 1946, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., then president of the University, established the Mediaeval Institute, importing from Toronto the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan to become its first director.
In the fall of 1952, the Institute became a special center of study and research within the graduate school, and the Rev. A. L. Gabriel, Canon of Pre-montre, became its director, with Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., assistant director. Father Gabriel and Father Garvin still hold these positions.
Presently studying in the institute is a small number of students who hope to become masters of the history of the middle ages. They follow a five-year
course of study in which they pursue t various fields of learning within the | limits of the mediaeval centuries. A । general program is followed by each, • accompanied by his field of major i interest: philosophy, history, education,A language, or literature.	I
More specifically, the courses offered 5 the students require a broad education | in mediaeval history and a thorough pre- | liminary knowledge of Latin. Ex- I amples of these courses are: Gothic | Palaeongraphy and Texts, Old High ( German, and Social and Economic His- | tory of the Middle Ages, just to mention j a few. Applicants for the degree of * Master of Mediaeval Studies must spend A two years in residence and prepare a f research dissertation; those seeking the I degree of Doctor of Mediaeval studies | must spend five years and publish a re- | search dissertation. The last two years | are devoted to the research.	«
Opportunities for Scholars	I
Many of the students, both former | and present, have distinguished them- | selves in their field of study. One of A the former students is now a research j assistant in a famous Princeton institute g for advanced study. He has been sent g to Europe where he is now preparing I his doctorate; and to date, two of his I publications have been edited by Euro- I ' pean reviews. Another student, William I Storey, has finished his curriculum and | is now preparing on the press his doctor- | ate dissertation, which is on the politi- I cal theories of the fourteenth century. I
The students also have an unparalleled I opportunity to acquaint themselves withW mediaeval manuscripts. The Institute i maintains here on campus, a unique i library which includes rare books and ; original manuscripts more than 4C0 ; years old, some of which have never | i previously been translated into English. I?. Some of these books are written long- '' hand in Latin and are priceless. Since the Institute is dedicated to research as well as education, part of its work is the translation and interpretation of these documents. The library, under £ the direction of the Institute’s own librarian, Francis Lazenby, Ph.D., also includes a magnificent collection of
14
The Scholastic
^k>riginal engravings portraying mediaeval university life. A number of these are painted engravings of some of the famous old mediaeval institutions of learning.
With funds provided by the Administration of the University and the Michael P. Grace II trust fund, the library acquires many publications of ^mediaeval times from the satellite coun-^tries behind the iron curtain. Complementing such rare collections as these is a series of books dealing with the histories of universities which has just recently been presented the Institute by Mr. Victor Schaefer, the University Librarian. Over the past few years, the library of the Institute has become so complete that nowhere in this coun-_ try, other than the Notre Dame library, ^may a person gain access to the latest material on the mediaeval history of central European areas.
Prolific Publications
The Institute itself has grown to such a degree that it now publishes two regular periodicals. Perhaps the more
outstanding of the two is the Texts and Studies in the History of Mediaeval ^Education, which is edited by Father Gabriel and Father Garvin. An example of the purpose of this periodical is indicated by the 1954 edition which was written by the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., on the mediaeval representative of music, Jubal, or Tubalcain. This edition deals with the interpretations of the mediaeval expression of these subjects.
Father Gabriel holds forth on old engraving.
Father Gabriel, Director of the Institute, has written two books himself while at Notre Dame. His first book, Robert de Sorbonne, was printed in 1953. Sorbonne is the founder of the French college that bears his name and which later became the cornerstone of the University of Paris. The book was written in connection with the celebration of the 700th anniversary of the College of Sorbonne in Paris. It explores the life of the founder of the college, appraising his
ability as an organizer and an administrator. Since the book is based on research done by Father Gabriel with the micro-film collection of the University, it reveals many non-publicized facts about Sorbonne, such as his financial genius.
Father Gabriel’s second book, Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, is scheduled to make its debut upon the market this week. Included in it are miniature reproductions of original engravings carved at the college during the middle ages. The book explores subjects such as the liturgical, intellectual, administrative, and economic life of a mediaeval college in early fourteenth-century Paris. It contains detailed information on student life in mediaeval Paris, and the author publishes French and Latin documents that have never before been edited, among which are the original statutes of the college.
Father Gabriel goes on to compare the teaching methods, discipline, and customs of the Ave Maria college with those of other colleges in Paris, which contributes greatly in establishing this work as an exact, complete history and chartulary of the College during mediaeval times..
However, not only as a writer is Father Gabriel recognized; he is also well known as a speaker and lecturer. Last summer he accepted an invitation from The French Academy to visit Paris and give a series of lectures. As a result, he spent from May to September there, during which time he addressed the Academic des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, giving an account of
December 9, 1955
15
Research: Raison d’etre of the Institute.
the mediaeval University of Paris. He also honored the Historical Society of Paris with a lecture on life at mediaeval Ave Maria College, after which he spoke in the City Hall of the Latin Quarter about the history of the Sainte
Genevieve neighborhood, in which the College is located.
The Institute, under the direction of Father Gabriel has not limited itself to spreading its knowledge elsewhere, but has also taken an active role in
bringing culture to the campus of Notre T Dame. Periodically it sponsors lectures given by renowned scholars on some aspect of mediaeval history. These lectures are, of course, open to any stu- , '. dents who may wish to attend them.
Last year, Dr. Ludwig Bieler of the University of Dublin was among the speakers who lectured under the sponsorship of the Institute. Another wasJk Professor Gray C. Boyce, chairman of’ the history department of Northwestern University. Professor Boyce’s topic was a bibliographer’s view of the middle ages. These, of course, are only a few of the distinguished persons whose ideas and knowledge have been made available to the students through the Institute.
The faculty of the Institute consists of a group of men who are experts in ! various fields of mediaeval history. Among them are: Father Gabriel (Director), Father Garvin, Assistant Director, and Father Beichner, Dean of the Graduate School. Also teaching for the Institute are: Mr. William H. Ben- ’ nett, Ph.D., an expert on Gothic Philology: Mr. Anton Chroust, J.U.D., Ph.D., S.J.D., an expert on early Chris- 1 tian philosophy and mediaeval law; Mr. James A. Corbett, A.B., Arch. Pal., a noted historian; and Mr. Mortimer J. Donovan, Ph.D., an authority on middle English poetry. The faculty is further . strengthened by: Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Ph.D.; Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C., S.T.D.; Rev. Peter , * O’Reilly, M.A., L.M.S.; and Rev. Henry ; Pouillon, O.S.B., Ph.D.	;
Mediaevalists in a modern setting.
16
The Scholastic
.V. S.A.-Two Views
Pro
Con
Treasurer Murphy
NS A is of value to the individual student insofar as the student benefits from student government in general. Many of the individual projects sponsored by student government are direct products of our association with NSA. For example, tour whole governmental structure is founded on ideas gathered "at NSA conventions. In particular aspects, we have derived our whole Foreign Student Program from NSA.
Besides these two major developments, we have gathered information for our Freshman Orientation Program, Leadership Training Program, Student Court, and elective system from the NSA. These are just a few of the concrete ideas that effect the student directly.
NSA is recognized as the official spokesman for college students. This is witnessed by the fact that at the recent White House Conference on Education col
lege students were represented by two officers of NSA.
NSA for the University
It is really hard to evaluate just how much and how far NSA reaches the respective schools. Each student, by being a member of NSA, has a voice in conferences like the one held at the White House. We also are given a voice in legislation, we would like to see enacted. Though it doesn’t have an actual lobby, NSA gains influence by virtue of the fact that it represents nationwide student opinion.
In conclusion it seems to me that the student derives not only direct aid but also, in my mind more important in the long run, long range benefits which will be of great help in coming years.
Why I Voted ‘Yes’
The basic reason I voted as I did was because I was able to see the Christian influence that Notre Dame has been able to wield on NSA policy. We have a great following in this organization and have a duty to continue our fine work. We are an important school with certain ideals.
Are we to sit back and just let programs take form without trying to help shape them? The answer is no—because Notre Dame is a leading school and as such should take its rightful place among other leading universities of the country in this organization. We have some good to render to NSA. We should perform this duty at a time like this when we are undergoing such a national crisis.	"
I hope I have been able to clear up a few points about NSA. The only thing to remember is that we must continue to wield our Christian influence in the place it does the most good—NSA is one of these I am sure.—Jerry Murphy
December 9, 1955
What effect does NSA have on the students of the University of Notre Dame?	-	•
of the Senate Committee on
Senator Cusack
The United States National Student Assocatiion (NSA) was almost unknown among the student body until a month ago when the question of our membership in it was raised in the Student Senate on November* 3. This is the main reason why, as Chairman National Affiliations, which was really set up to consider Notre Dame’s continued existence in the NSA, I oppose the University’s membership in that organization.
The Majority Report of the Committee on National Affiliations, which I did not sign because it recommended that Notre Dame “join both the regional and national Student Association,” points out that “here at Notre Dame the ordinary student gets little or no benefit from
the University’s membership in the NSA, and that the organization here is a thought group, which gives to the Student Senate ideas on how student government on other campuses is administered.” If the NSA does not benefit the students, I see no reason why we should be members of it. The Student Senate is supposed to be the servants of the students and if they are not favorably affected by the NSA, I don’t think we should be members of it. What does NSA do for the'students? Nothing! If a referendum were taken of the student body concerning Notre Dame’s membership in the NSA, I do not believe it would be approved.
The NSA tends to produce a conformity in schools. It lays down ideas for institutions which are inherently supposed to be initiators of ideas, not subject to thought regimentation.
The cost of NSA further does not warrant our membership in it. It is the opinion of Dan Devine, 1954-1955 Senate Treasurer, that NSA dues and traveling expenses cost over $700.00 per year. In fact in the period from February 1, 1955 to September 1, 1955, checks were written out for NSA dues, traveling expenses, and campus NSA expenses totaling $435.67.	:
The NSA has never been definitely cited as a subversive or Communist organization by the United States Attorney General. But according to the American Legion’s National Americanism Commission, headed by Lee Pennington, former* First Assistant to J. Edgar Hoover in the Federal Bureau of Investigation, “the policy of the NSA has been definitely left of center.”
I believe that it is in the interests of the students of Notre Dame that the'University drop out of the NSA. This, mainly, is the reason why I oppose NSA.—John Cusack
17
Things are looking up.

0
I
£
I
Get off
my foot, dear.
I II take this one.
social maneuvers
Stumbling gracefully through their precision maneuvers, representatives of the campus military evidenced a gaiety not to be dampened by the great iveight of present brass, which
teas ivell counterbalanced by the superabundance of queens.
The mad music of daft Don Caron had nothing tense engagement held on the following afternoon
comely
on the on the
chilly campus east side of the playing field of the Irish, where the turbulent team and the talented toe of Doctor Paul Hornung were also on. The Victory Dance sponsored by the Monogram Club and the Communion Breakfast the next morning, served to crotvn the local military on their big weekend.
IV ow fall in, you guys!
She sings, too.

Military s choice.
classroom dynamo
„ XT"ou have NOT taught a man d 1 because you have silenced him,” said Morley. This might just as well have been said by Father Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., of Notre Dame’s Philosophy department and athletic fields. Father Brennan draws from his students a participation and interest that is chiefly founded on his understanding ways and friendly wit. Brennan excels in flashing his blue eyes about a room jkand searching each and everything in it.
His smile coupled with a welcome-home handshake lends a ‘master-of-ceremon-ies’ air to this spirited C.S.C.
But behind this jovial facade is a “command quality” that everyone faces when he meets Father Brennan. When Father says, “Notre Dame men are head and shoulders above the rest,” you feel as if he had raised every head and shoulder himself. Perhaps he has.
There are two Father Thomas J. ^Brennans here at Notre Dame: Metaphysics Brennan and Philosophy Brennan. Father Thomas J. Brennan, junior, so dubbed by a secretary in the administration is the Metaphysical Brennan; senior, of Corby Hall is the Philosophy Brennan. Though not related, the two priests are great friends despite the mail confusion that arises. “If he ever gets my football tickets it will all end though,” says Father Brennan ^junior, who is a prefect in Dillon Hall.
Background for Ingenuity
An A.B., from Notre Dame, a Ph.D. from Gregorian University in Rome, and an S.T.D. from Angelico College are the degrees Father Brennan brought with him to Notre Dame in 1931. Father taught for- two years at the University of Portland in Oregon, (then called Columbia College) before coming to Notre Dame.
. Most of the courses of the Philosophy 'department and a course in Dante have felt the magic Brennan touch. Logic is now Father’s chief diversion.
“All freshmen are not eggheads! Prove it,” says Father Brennan with more than a touch of ‘show me’ in his voice. Logic taught with the power of a lineman, the cunning of a split-T-quarterback, and the speed of a skat-back are the Brennan pedagogical trademarks.
A typical class day finds Father burst-ling into his class room as the dying echo of the bell fades down the hall. Quickly and reverently the class is dedicated to our Blessed Mother with a Hail Mary.
by BOB TAYLOR
The task is then at hand. Almost unconsciously Father Brennan adapts many different situations to his immediate needs. A dropped book, the arrival of a tardy student or even a strolling passerby, can be and often are utilized in the stressing of a point in discussion.
For example, what happened during
GENIAL PEDAGOGUE PRESIDES
a class that I attended along with a young friend of Father Brennan?
“A visiting educator from St. Francis in Chicago is here today, so would you guys shape up!”, boomed Father Brennan. The nine year old logician from St. Francis grammar school in Chicago beamed at the students who doubted Father and had looked to see the distinguished visitor. During the class the youthful visitor was called on by Father Brennan to affirm many points in discussion.
Variety and Versatility
The Wilkes-Barre kid, the Loyola Light, the Jersey Giant, The Paramount Flash, these and many more all have a place on Father Brennan’s roll call. By the second day of class everyone is known by name; very often by their home town.
Father Sheedy, Dean of the A.B. school, about whom it is rumored that he was a pupil of Father Brennan’s, says, “He is a course in himself, a champion at whatever he does.” Father Brennan was heard to say that he thought Father Sheedy, youngster that he is, is coming along well and according to plan.
It is no mistake that Father Bren
nan’s teaching abilities parallel those of an exceptional athlete, for sports have meant and do mean a great deal to him. Horseracing, the sport of kings, is the only one that Father has not taken an active part in. Someday a private line may be installed between Corby Hall and Jamaica with a profound effect upon the Alumni Fund.
Father Brennan’s prowess on the handball court is well known. 'It is said that he has spotted many a man 20 points and then proceeded in a winning fashion to teach him the fine points of the game. Football, fishing, baseball, bridge, checkers, chess, and basketball all hold more than a passing interest for the versatile Brennan.
Basketball and Botany
This is emphasized by a stoiy which prevails around campus. It concerns Father and Junior Stephens, the captain of last year’s Irish basketball team-The concensus is that during a class Father Brennan, using pieces of chalk to demonstrate, taught Junior how to shoot his foul shots one-handed. Junior adopted the method with All-American results.
With all his sports and teaching, Father Brennan still has time to exercise a talented green thumb. He’s the old dirt dobber of Corby Hall. His one-third of an acre neai- the heating plant is famous for its record yields of almost everything. It’s reported that a few years ago the University hired a noted botanist to undertake some experiments which involve the growing of a rare type of plant. Father Brennan entered the picture unofficially. With his green thumb motto in mind, that a good farmer can grow anything anywhere, he went to work. He snitched a sprig or two of the valuable and hard to grow plant. Not too carefully, he made the trek from the biology building to Corby. Then still less carefully he slapped the sprig into a container in his room. A few finishing touches of water, dirt and time shortly produced a garden in Corby. Green was the predominating color in the biology building; it was not confined to the plants.
* * *
A very good measure of one’s worth is a count of the friends he has made. All across the country hordes of people from every walk of life, are proud to say they are friends of Father Brennan.
“We teach the person, not just pupils,” said Fathei- recently. “Our teaching has a reason and an aim. Each man, no matter what he does had to do it with decency, honesty, morality. The Catholic education here at Notre Dame has this to sell,” We here at Notre Dame have a super-salesman in Father Thomas J. Brennan.
December 9, 1955
19
Ai a Qlance
AVON
Honky-Tonk (ends tomorrow); This is a reissue; With Clark Gable and Lana Turner it sounds pretty good.
Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo (Sunday through Tuesday) ; Spencer Tracy portrays Jimmy Doolittle in the story of his famous air raid on Japan in the early months of World War II. Also a reissue.
White Christmas (begins next Wednesday) ; A-l; Clooney-Kaye-Crosby; a musical worth seeing if you haven’t much else to do.
COLFAX
The Big Knife (tonight through Thursday); B; A morbid story of the movie industry with Jack Palance playing a blackmailed star who hits the primrose path much to the disgust of his wife, Ida Lupino. A number of people die violent deaths before this depressing movie ends.
GRANADA
View from Pompey's Head (through next Thursday); B; Richard Egan and Dana Wynter; A mystery (with a detective story flavor) and a romance (between childhood sweethearts) makes for pretty good entertainment despite the fact that the characters aren’t very lifelike. A new star rises in Miss Wynter.
Good Morning; Miss Dove (begins next Thursday); A-l; color; An excellent film with fine acting on the part of Jennifer Jones, and a supporting cast headed by Bob Stack. This is the life story of a primary school teacher whose influence has been great in her small town.
PALACE
Naked Daivn (ends tomorrow); B; Good acting by Arthur Kennedy is put to poor use in this story of Mexican poverty and greed over stolen money. Also, Hold Back Tomorroiv; A-2; John Agar, about to be executed the next morning, is granted one wish, female company in his prison cell the night before. A romance blooms in this bizarre setting between Agar and Cleo Moore. Fairly good characterizations in both leads.
Headline Hunters (Sunday through Wednesday); A-l; Story of a recently-graduated journalism student (Ben Cooper) and his expose of crime (with the help of over-the-hill writer Rod Cameron) in his search for scoops. Also showing, Flame of the Islands with Yvonne de Carlo and Zachary Scott. Average fare.
Beast With A Million Eyes (Begins Thursday); Starring in the title role is, of course, the Beast. This science-fiction thriller (with too much emphasis on the fiction) is sure to be an academy award nominee. Also showing, Outlaw Treasure, a Western thriller, great for the kiddies.
RIVER PARK
The Looters (ends tomorrow night); A-2; Rory Calhoun and Julie Adams are involved in a plane crash, a trio of dissimiliar survivors, treacherous mountains, and $250,000 are mixed well, but should provide just so-so medicine for moviegoers. Also playing, Hell Below Zero, a frigid adventure in the Arctic starring Alan Ladd.
Young At Heart (Sunday through Wednesday); A-2 Doris Day and Frank Sinatra team up in this sentimental drama with music, tears, and laughter added for enjoyment. A hit at Washington Hall last year. Also, Walt Disney’s typically excellent Vanishing Prairie.
Run For Cover (begins next Thursday); B; Jimmy Cagney uses his gun on the side of the law in this Western. However, he shoots John Derek, who is trying to help him. Moral—Don’t be helpful.
Hell's Island; B; color; John Payne, an ex-D. A. heads for the Caribbean to find a ruby that has disappeared mysteriously (don’t they all). After a few murders he realizes that girl friend (Mary Murphy)is a killer and wins out even over this obstacle.
20
STATE	J i
Seminole Uprising (ends tomorrow);	|
A-l; the same old cavalry versus the । same Indians with nothing new added to i the moth-eaten theme. Also playing, I Yellow Neck—nice scenery, (the Everglades) .
Tennessee’s Partner (Sunday through Tuesday) ; B; Despite the presence of familiar actors John Payne, Ronald: Reagan, and Rhonda Fleming, Harte’^ fame is not greatly enhanced by this film. Also, Pearl of the South Pacific A-2; Same pearls, savages, hero (Dennis Morgan), and heroine (Virginia Mayo) ( provide escapist entertainment.
Affair With a Stranger (Wednesday and Thursday); A-2; Jean Simmons i meets Vic Mature in New York City. The ensuing story of their courtship and married life is one essentially for the £ women. Clash By Night also comes in the package deal; A-2; Good cast with Barbara Stanwyck and Paul Douglas.
Reviews by Bob Sedlack
Lectures	.
Department of Religion. J. Frank Sheed, December 13th, “The Contrast I Between the Church and Christ” 14th, “The Fundamental Difficulty” 4:30 and 8:30 in Washington Hall. Free tickets * Room 327, O’Shaughnessy Hall. Depart-^ ment of Science. Dr. M. J. Kopac, lecture on Cytochemistry at 8:00 p.m.
Music	i
St. Mary’s College Glee Club will hold a Christmas Concert in Student Center on Sunday, December 11, at 8:15 p.m. t
There will be a band Concert on Thursday, December 15, at 8:00 p.m.
Exhibits
THE UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY. O’Shaughnessy Hall is exhibiting Mestrovic’s sculptures and its collection of Peruvian pottery. The gallery is open week days from 2 to 5.	;
WSND
Tomorrow: 5:20-12:00 p.m. Music t I) especially for Johnny-Stay-At-Home in- I. eluding Music in the Miller Manner, f ; Novelty Time, Band Music, Barbershop Harmony, Dixieland, Jazz, and Easy^ Listening Time. Sunday: 2:00-4:00 p.m. Panorama, Special Christmas Program, 6:30 p.m. Anthology: 7:00-8:00 p.m., Amahl and the Night Visitors;
8:00 p.m. The World This Week, 8:30, ; । Letters From Home. Monday-Friday, 1:30, Showtime, 3:30, Afternoon Con- ■ cert, and 6:00, Invitation to Music, 8:008:30 p.m., Christmas Shows. Monday ’ and Friday at 10:30, Jill Corey Time. > Wednesday, 10:15, Sports Final.	i
WNDU	^4
Sunday: Campus Quiz, 4 p.m., Sacred (Continued on page 21)
The Scholastic
platters pondered and...
■x
by JAY WALTON
IT is rather safe to say that the void left by the death of Charlie Parker will never be completely filled by any other alto sax virtuoso.
Immediately after Bird’s demise, the ^market was filled with reissues of his ®old waxings. The best of this group seem to be Savoy label’s four twelveinch L. P’s. Collecting Bird’s records can become an expensive routine, however, and the very greatest of all Parker L. P’s is an old release on Dial. It is called Charlie Parker Alternate Masters. This set contains all that is superb in Parker’s ingenious repertoire. The greater part of the album is made _ up of Parker’s more famous riffs, such £hs “Ornithology” and “Yardbird Suite.” The high point of this album is “Night in Tunisia” in which Bird takes the most fantastic alto break on wax. The precise trumpet of Howard McGhee and tenor tones of Wardell Gray complement this great package.
Chris Connor, the lush-voiced former Kenton vocalist, seems to be particularly popular among campus music lovers. Her latest album, This is Chris, Rias been heard often on WSND. This is Chris’ best on record so far. Tops among her vocal efforts are her sensitive crooning on “Blame It on My Youth,” “I Concentrate On You,” “The Thrill is Gone,” and “It’s All Right With Me.” Chris has a husky, warm quality that is well suited to jazz vocals. One criticism of this set would be that trombone stars Kai Winding and J. J. Johnson who accompany Miss Connor don’t get enough solo space.
If there is really a Chicago style in •jazz, Eddie Condon and his driving group captures it expertly in their new Columbia package, Dixieland. The album is, of course, a tribute to jazz immortal, Bix Beiderbecke, but it is not an attempt to imitate the late Windy City cornetist. Wild Bill Davison and the eloquent Bobby Hackett (who is listed as Pete Pesci because of his trumpet honors.) The highlights of the set are Bobby Hackett’s finesse on “I’m Coming, Virginia,” and the group’s Rollicking versions of “Jazz Band Ball,” ■^‘Jazz Me Blues,” and “Royal Garden Blues.”
Miles Davis has finally reached the
point where he is one of the three or four top trumpet stars in the country. His last two volumes, Miles Davis AllStars, are big moments in modern jazz. On the first volume the other horns are Lucky Thompson on tenor and J. J. Johnson’s trombone. Miles, Lucky, and Jay Jay are all coolly imaginative on both sides, “Walkin’,” and “Boogie and Blues.” The all-star rhythm section couldn’t be better. In the second set, the jibes of Milt Jackson replaces the sax and trombone with equally exciting results. The tunes on this one in-
clude a haunting session of “The Man I Love,” and the driving, modern “Bem-sha Swing.”
Several years ago, Dizzy Gillespie made an L. P. with a lush string orchestra directed by Johnny Richards. This set, on the obsolete Discovery label, was one of the most creatively brilliant records we have ever heard. Recently, Diz and J. R. got together again on one side of a Norgran L.P. called Dizzy and Strings, and the results were keenly disappointing. Richards’ arrangements have digressed from brilliant to dismal and the recording quality of the disc leaves much to be desired. The best moments of the side are Dizzy’s occasional excursions to imaginative sublimity. The flip side is made up of band arrangements that are much more successful. Gillespie’s horn is particularly explosive on “Hob Nail Special,” and “Cool Eyes.”
Swinging tenor saxist Al Cohn and his group have produced some fine jazz on the several L.P’s that they have made. Their latest is their best. It is a twelve-inch Victor, appropriately called The Natural Seven. The horns are
Joe Newman on trumpet, trombonist Frank Rehack, and Al Cohn on tenor. The ability of Newman and Cohn are well known, but a pleasant surprise is the sparkling bone tones of Rehack. Of the twelve selections, ten are originals and two are standards—“A Kiss to Build A Dream On,” and Basie’s “Doggin’ Around.” Without the wailing rhythm section, however, the session would have been considerably less effective.
The west coast brand of modem jazz has gained such individual prominence that Pacific Jazz Records has made up an anthology of coast jazz called Jazz West Coast. The package contains some mediocre to excellent samples of most of California’s “cool school.” Probably the most ably represented is Chet Baker, whose neat, original “Bockhanal” stands out. Trumpet prodigy Clifford Brown and star tenor man Bill Perkins are also bright spots in the affair. The highlight of the album, though, is Zoot Sims’ glowing interpretation of “September in the Rain.”
When you talk about tenor sax stars the name of controversial Stan Getz is bound to make its way into the conversation. Stoic Stan’s latest release will stone all of his fans while it bores the advocates of a hotter type of jazz. The set of two twelve-inch L.P.’s is titled Stan Getz at the Shrine and it was largely done at one Norman Granz concert in the Shrine Auditorium at Los Angeles. Stan’s regular group is here, with the inspired valve trombonist Bob Brookmeyer and new piano wizard Johnny Williams starring. The group treats ballads like “I’ll Remember April” and “We’ll Be Together Again” and smooth swingers like “Feather Merchant” with relaxed and spontaneous brilliance.
Radio—TV
(Continued from page 20)
Heart Program, 8:15p.m Sammy Kaye, 8:35 p.m. Daily (Mon.-Fri.) Out of the Sack, 6 a.m. to 7:45 a.m.; Paul Harvey, noon. Monday: Voice of Firestone, 7:30 p.m. Tuesday: Life is Worth Living, 7:30 p.m. Tues.-Thurs.: Music Box, 9 p.m.; Music You Want, 10:30 p.m.
WNDU-TV
Tomorrow: Perry Como Show, 7:00 p.m. George Gobel, 9:00 p.m. Sunday: Variety Hour, 7:00 p.m. and Alcoa Hour, 8:00 p.m. Monday: Producer’s Showcase, “Sleeping Beauty,” 7:00 p.m. and Damon Runyon Theatre, 8:30 p.m. Tuesday: Fireside Theatre, 8:00 p.m. and Eddie Cantor Show, 9:30 p.m. Wednesday: Screen Director’s Playhouse, 7:00 p.m., and Greatest Pro Football Highlights, 10:30 p.m. Thursday: Video Theatre, 8:00 p.m., and Sports Final, 10:15 Friday: Celebrity Playhouse, 8:30 p.m. and Cavalcade of Sports (Boxing), 9:00 p.m.
December 9, 1955
21
Slt&wcaAe
by FRANK DASEK
The rain swept down in slanting sheets—washing the sand and dirt across the fields and on to the highways. The sky was the color of slate, and where there had been a streak of buttermilk on the horizon there was now nothing but black clouds—swirling and belching—sweeping and bringing with them not only the darkness of night but also the icy winds and rains from the north.
He stood on the side of the road with his coat wrapped tightly around himself, and his head lowered against the wind and rain. The water had soaked through his trousers and they clung to the sides of his legs. Rain was in his shoes, and running down the back of his neck, and he felt its coldness as it reached the small of his back. Stamping his feet, he looked anxiously into the darkness and up the road. And from out of the night he heard the even sound of hooves splashing in the mud. He strained his eyes and the wind took his breath away and he lowered his head. Rain ran off his face and off the tip of his nose. It was in his eyes, and in his pockets where his hands were clenched against the cold. He felt it in his ears, and he swore and stamped his feet again, and squinted into the darkness and cursed whoever was coming, for being so slow—so painfully slow.
“Want a ride, mister?”
He looked up, but the wind forced him to lower his face once again. He stared down at the wheels of the wagon and at the horse’s hooves covered with mud. “Yeah—yeah, I sure do!” Placing his foot on the side of the wagon he took hold of the hand offered to him and swung himself into the seat and under the dryness of a tarpaulin extended above him.
The wind screamed and he sat hunched over his knees—letting the
22
the blanket
water drip from his hair and face. He felt the jerking of the wagon as it made its way down the rutted road and through the night, and he heard the rain pelting the canvas above him.
“You look pretty wet there, mister!”
He turned his head and looked at the side of the driver’s face. It was a young boy with a hat pulled low over his eyes, and a wool blanket draped about his shoulders.
The man smiled disgustedly as he said. “I feel pretty wet. But maybe this will teach me a lesson. Next time I’ll read a road map a little more carefully!” With a little smirk he glanced at the boy and added “I ran out of gas—can you beat that?”
The boy didn’t smile. There was a puzzled frown on his face. “I didn’t pass no car on the road!”
“No, it wasn’t on this road,” the man» said, “it was back a bit, on the other j side of that field.” He pointed into . | the blackness, but the boy didn’t follow ’ his gesture.
The boy was still frowning. “Run out of gas, huh?” He paused a moment,
then looked closely at the man. “You a stranger around here, mister?”
The man glanced down at the horse’r^ grey back. There was mud on the^ harness, and the animal’s head was lowered against, the wind that suddenly—freakishly — changed direction. . “Yes, this is the first time I’ve been ' around here. Came down on a business trip,” he said.
Hunching his shoulders together, the boy grasped the reins in one hand and cupped his free hand over his mouth and warmed it with his breath. The rain* was coming from the side now and it . tore at the wagon. They heard the canvas flapping wildly in the wind, and the sucking sound of the wheels pulling themselves out of the mud. “Sure know how it feels being in that rain like you were,” the boy said. He smiled. “Seems that the cows get lost just when it rains.” Pointing to himself he added “And ya know who’s got ta go after . them don’t ya? Me!”
I
The man returned the smile just to be • sociable. The rain had increased and -he was tired. “You are headed for town aren’t you?”	.
The boy pulled his hat lower over his eyes and replied: “You bet your boots I am! Boy! And I’m gonna have me . a good ole time, all right!”	i
This time the man smiled because he felt like smiling. “You are, huh?”
“You better believe it, mister. Ain't® often that I get a chance to come to
The Scholastic
Wtown like this. I’m really gonna have me a time!” Pointing over his shoulder to the back of the wagon, he added “Never thought ole John would do me any favors.”
“What?”
“Ole John,” said the boy, “back there. I’m taking him to his kin. They live in town.”
The man glanced into the back of the wagon, but the canvas top hid everything. “You mean there’s someone dead in there?”
The boy nodded his head “Ole John. That’s why pa let me go ta town. I’m taking ole John ta his kin. They live in town.”
The man looked back at the boy. “Who was he?”
“Just a hired hand,” the boy said. “He worked for pa for—let’s see now? It would a been thirty years this spring.” The boy spat into the darkness. “Boy, I’m gonna have a good ole time!”
Rain dripped off the edge of the canvas and down the man’s neck. He pulled his collar closer about his neck, and leaned forward with his arms on his knees. It would be good to get j^home, he thought. Home with the wife and kids. He hoped that nothing like this ever happened again. He’d really have something to tell the office crew when he got back. What a queer night this had been! He smiled as he told himself that all the bad luck that had befallen him that day just wasn’t possible. It’s not right, he tbld himself, it’s not right. He’d be glad to get home. Squinting into the rain he said — “How much longer before we reach ®town?”
“Ohhhh, another ten or fifteen minutes,” answered the boy. “Where you from, mister?”
“Huh?”
“Where d’ya come from?”
The man sat up, stretched, and in a middle of a yawn said “Caryle, Georgia—ever heard of it?”
The boy shook his head.
“It’s a fairly small town—something Alike you have around here I suppose!”
“Bet it’ll feel good ta get there huh, mister?”
The man smiled. “Sure will. I’ll have an awful lot of memories about this trip, though.”
Frowning again the boy said “Memories?”
“Yeah,” the man pointed over his shoulder, “That, for one.”
“Ohhh, yeah, ole John.” He smiled and shook his head. “Never thought. >I’d be carting his bones ta town. Sure glad I am though. I’m gonna have me a good ole time, mister!”
A blade of lightning split the sky
apart, and for an instant the man saw the dirty grey of the clouds. The wind whistled in his ears, and a loose bit of canvas whipped wildly above his head. And then it came—hard and strong— rain—pounding—rushing at them like a solid wall. The tarpaulin tore and the water poured down on them. It was like ice, and they were soaked anew in a matter of seconds. Reaching blindly above his head, the man tried desperately to shove the canvas back in place, but the wind tore it from his grasp at each attempt. He was angry, and he felt like shouting or screaming. Never! Never had he hated rain as he did now! God, it would feel good to get home!
“There’s two blankets in the back there, mister.”
He turned around and fumbled in the darkness of the wagon. His fingers brushed against a rusted oil lamp. It fell and rolled toward the back. The glass shattered. The rain pounded his back, and he searched wildly for the blanket. And then his frantic hands rested on the hardness of the covered body. Startled, he jerked his hand back. But then as he felt the wind tearing at him, he grasped a corner of the blanket—pulled it off of the body, and hurriedly wrapped it around himself.
The blanket warmed him almost immediately, and as he pulled it tightly around his neck he realized that he too owed a thanks to old John. But as the rain slowed in its downpour, the man felt a bit guilty foi- taking the blanket from the dead man, and in an attempt to ease his feeling of guilt he said, “Old John—was he sick for a long time?”
The boy shook his head “No—that’s the funny part of it all.”
The man couldn’t hear what the boy was saying because of the sudden shift of wind, and so he just stared down at the blanket wrapped around him.
“It’s pretty odd,” the boy said. “It’s pretty odd the way he died, all right. Never saw anything like it before, mister—never! He was as healthy as a bull until just the other night. Then yesterday morning I went ta see if he needed anything ‘cause he’d said that he wasn’t feeling too good the night before. And, mister, I’m telling ya— I’m telling ya—Sores!—he was covered with sores from head ta foot!
The man looked at the boy and smiled as he shouted above the wind, “Well, I sure hope you do, son—I sure hope that you do have a good time.” Pulling the blanket to himself he thought of how good it would be to get home again—home—he thought—home with the wife and kids!
ilCUSH-N-CREPtCaAuaM
in your BIG SIZE!
SIZES 10-16 —WIDTHS AAA-EEE!
Every latest campus style — in the SIZE YOU NEED! We're America's only Specialists in shoes for Big Men Only! I.’and-Sewn Moccasins, Cush-N-Crepe Casuals, dozens of popular models ■•i.	— a>J in sizes up to 16EEE. Not
”■ sold in stores —by mail only!
Every pair backed by Money-Back Guarantee for fit, comfort, wear! Priced amazingly low! Postcard brings you latest Style Folder FREE! Be sore yoe write us, TODAY!
KING SIZE, inc
813 Brockton. Mass.
UMum
208 E. Jefferson Down Town Use Our Drop Off Service Leave it and We Do it.
Washing Drying at Reasonable Rates.
Colored Hose Washed Free
Ask For Sof-t in your next wash-nocharge
We DO Shirts.
CLOSED THURSDAY AFTERNOONS
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler 325 South Michigan Street Phone AT 7-3630
FOR RENT—One double room. Excellent location. Especially furnished for students.
CALL CE 2-4153
December 9, 1955
23
7^	Mated
...THE TASTE IS GREAT! ,
J
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
PRODUCT OF
AM OKI NG
jAll the pleasure comes thru in Filter Tip Tareyton. You get the full, rich taste of Tareyton’s quality tobaccos in a filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier...and it’s the only filter cigarette with a genuine cork tip.
Tareyton’s filter is pearl-gray because it contains Activated Charcoal for real filtration. Activated Charcoal is used to purify air, water, foods and beverages, so you can appreciate its importance in a filter cigarette.
Yes, Filter Tip Tareyton is the filter cigarette that really filters, that you can really taste____and the taste is great!
FILTER TlpTAREYTON
24
The Scholastic
JiUk Scene
NORTHWESTERN, ILLINOIS FACE IRISH NEXT
•Name Morse Captain For '56 Grid Season
Jim Morse, fleet-footed halfback for the Fighting Irish the past two seasons, will captain the 1956 edition of the football team.
His selection was announced at the
CAPT. JIM MORSE
Steps Into Some Great Shoes.
Cagers Prepare Attack for Wildcats, lllini After Notching First Win Against Ramblers
by RAY LESCHER
Tomorrow night the Irish will invade McGill Fieldhouse in Evanston, Illinois, to meet the Northwestern Wildcats, and return to the Fieldhouse for a game with Illinois, Tuesday, Dec. 13—the last home tilt before Christmas.
This season the Wildcats under Coach Waldo Fischer have undergone a vast rebuilding program centered around a Capt. Dick Mast, the only returning regular from last year’s squad. Mast is the pace setter and play maker of the Wildcat five, also being their deadliest shot from the outside. Teaming with Mast at the other guard position is Sophomore Jay Hook, who looked impressive in North western’s opening loss to Western Michigan, 72-67. Glen Lose and Ed Bood have a solid hold on the forward positions with Bill Stidwell and Don Uebele seeing reserve action.
The main problem for- Coach Fischer is at the pivot. In Bill Schulz, 6-11, and Phil Bromberg, 6-7, the Wildcats certainly have the height but both their scoring and rebounding leave a great deal to be desired.
Locally, the home club has been having its share of bad times, and Johnny Jordan has had his own problems. For two games Coach Jordan has been at a “substitute and see” point.
It has been evident that Notre Dame sorely lacks an outside shot. Their scoring punch, Lloyd Aubrey, has had to carry the game in the two losses. But Aubrey is at his potent best from inside.
Jordan has a solid bench this year and his charges have seemingly overcome their proneness to fouling. But they are having a hard time tallying enough points. Guard Bob Devine looks like he might help the quintet jell in time to save face in the Sugar Bowl.
In their last outing, the locals turned in a team victory over Loyola, 85-84 in a single overtime. Five Irishmen hit for double figures, Aubrey leading the pack with 25. Ed Gleason started and looks like he has a regular berth. He teamed with Bill Weiman to ice the game at the end, and added ten points to the cause.
If the Irish can whip into some per-
annual football banquet in the DiningHall last night.
In 1954 the Muskegon, Mich., junior was third in scoring with 31 points. This year he was runner-up to Paul Hornung with 36 points. Morse was Hornung’s favorite passing target, catching 17 passes for 324 yards and three touchdowns. In ’54 he also had three TD passes, one for the only score in the „ Notre Dame 6-0 victory over Navy. e Morse, small for a halfback (5’11”, 180 pounds) has carried the ball 160 times in his two-year stint as a regular for a 4.6 plus average.
One of the highlights of the dependable halfback’s career was his 77-yard return of the opening kickoff in the 1954 North Carolina game to set up the first score.
Morse steps into the captaincy vacated by Eay Lemek, three-year regular at both guard and tackle, and one ^of Notre Dame’s finest field leaders. ^Morse is the first backfield man to have this honor since Quarterback Frank Dancewicz was captain of the 1945 team.
WEIMAN GOES INTO PLAYMAKER ACTION TO DUMP ONE
Irish Try . . . But Not Enough As They Drop Second
December 9, 1955
25
AUBREY ON WAY TO RECORD TIE
Senior Center Joins Elite of 35.
manent shape, they still could better last year’s 14-10 record.
Next Tuesday night back home, the Irish will host the University of Illinois, co-favorites for the Big Ten title this season. Coach Merrill Combs is in an ideal position for a coach since his entire first string has returned along with the most promising squad of sophomores in Combs’ reign as coach. The 1954 regulars who finished second last year in the Big Ten are: Bill Alten-berger and Bruce Brothers at the forward positions, George Bon Salle, 6-8, at center, and two potential All-Americans at guard in Paul Judson and Bill Ridley.
Returning reserves are: Hiles Stout, Marv Schmidt, and Phil Judson at the forward posts. Combs is especially high on the potential of three sophomores: Ted Caiazza, 6-7, at center, and two sharp shooting guards in John Paul and Ken Taylor.
The Irish opened up their 1955 season on the wrong foot by bowing to the University of Detroit, 77-71. Detroit built up a commanding 48-33 lead at the half and then managed to outlast the Irish comeback in the second half. Detroit’s Bill Ebben led all scorers with 36 points. Center Lloyd Aubrey led the Irish atatck with 22 points, followed by Bill Weiman with 17 and Bob Devine with 10.
Bad luck followed the Irish into their home opener as they lost to Wisconsin’s Badgers 70-66. Guard Dick Miller led the Badger attack with some sharp ball handling and personal onslaught of 25 points. Center John Parker backed him up with 15.
Irish center Lloyd Aubrey tied the single game mark of 35 points on 13
field goals and nine free throws. The record is also held by former Irish stars Jack Stephens and Joe Bertrand.
One other bright spot in the Irish game was sophomore forward John McCarthy who notched 16 points and played a tough game under the boards.
Matmen Face Findlay After Loss to III. Tech
Next Tuesday the Notre Dame matmen entertain a solid club from Findlay College, at Notre Dame. The Findlay club will be hungry for revenge, since Notre Dame beat them last year by a single tally. Coach Fallon expects a tough meet, and will probably start the same men as last Saturday. However, Senior John Gavin may break his way into the starting berth at the 167-pound slot. The meet will begin at 4 o’clock, probably in the Drill Hall.
The Irish breezed into Chicago last Saturday afternoon to open their ’55’56 wrestling season against Illinois Tech. But Illinois was set for revenge after last year’s defeat by Notre Dame, and finally bounced the Irish, 16-12.
The eight matches of the afternoon were split down the middle, with each team taking four. But two pins highlighted Illinois action for the day, giving them the needed points for their victory.
Veterans Buddy Day and Jack Armstrong, and team Capt. Terry Crowley led the Irish assault against Illinois with snappy decisions in their bouts. Moving up to the 137-pound class, Soph Bob Pivonka spilled his man to round out the tally-total for Notre Dame. Bill Wadsworth and Dan McNulty paved the way for the Illinois win with the only two falls of the day, pinning Bob Calabrese and Bob Salvino of the Irish.
Despite the opening loss, Coach Fallon’s hopes are still high for the rest of the season. “The meet pointed out a lot of work to be done,” he commented, “but we have a strong club to work with.” Bob Calabrese was seeing action for the first time, and Bob Salvino didn’t have time to whip himself into peak wrestling condition after a quick switch from football.
The results:
123-pound class—Buddy Day (ND) beat Don Thomas (I.T.)
130-pound class—Bill Wadworth (I.T.) pinned Bob Calabrese (ND)
137-pound class—Bob Pivonka (ND) beat John Koke (I.T)
147-pound-class—Terry Crowley (ND) beat Ron Johnson (I.T.)
157-pound class—Don Borlick (I.T.) beat Chuck Henw (ND)
167-pound class—Ron Hillyer (I.T.) beat Mike Gleason (ND)
177-pound class—Jack Armstrong (ND) beat Charles Augustine (I.T.)
Heavyweight—Dan McNulty (I.T.) pinned Bob Salvino (ND)
Irish Third in NCAA 1 As Spartans Cop Meet ;
Michigan State smashed a perfect season of Notre Dame’s for the second time this year as they romped to an easy first in the NCAA championship cross country meet held at East Lansing, Nov.—. 28. The Irish had beaten State earliei in the season 28-29.
In winning, the Spartans had a total of 46 points. Kansas University finished second with 68 points. Notre Dame 1 tied New York University for third with 95 points.
Charles “Deacon” Jones of Iowa broke the tape of the four-mile run in 19:57.4 just one-tenth of a second ahead of^ State’s Canadian runner, Henry Kennedy. Kennedy had beaten Jones regularly before this. Bill Squires finished on top for Notre Dame, grabbing 12th place. Also placing for the Irish were ( Ed Monnelly, 19; John Michno, 33; Dick DeCamillo, 36; Neil Wallace, 50, and Dale Vandenberg, 55.	t
The meet was run in about the worst conditions in its history, a 12-degree temperature and a strong, chilly wind.^
Notre Dame suffered a bad break late in the race when Spike Daly, Irish captain, collapsed with about 40 yards to go. He was running at least 25th at the time and would have improved the I Irish’s position considerably.
Al Schoenig was ruled ineligible for the meet because he participated in a I race in his freshman year.
Seniors to Ploy in Bowls; Three Win Honor Berths
Notre Dame’s Football Irish have again made their mark in the grid { world. Over the coming holiday season, six seniors will appear in two bowl games. Jim Mense, “Iron Man” center, j Don Schaefer, five team All-American fullback, and Ray Lemek, 1955 captain and tackle will play in the annual Shrine East-West game on Jan. 2 in % San Francisco.	'
On Dec. 26, End Gene Kapish, Fullback Dick Fitzgerald and All-American Guard Pat Bisceglia will play in the North-South game in the Orange Bowl. i
Besides these bowl-bound	gridders,	i
Schaefer, Quarterback Paul	Hornung	’
and Bisceglia made seven All-American	;
teams between them.	■
Schaefer was named to:	Collier's,	i
Look, INS, NBC, and Movietone honor elevens. Hornung made Look and > « United Press teams. Bisceglia wasV ® ; picked first team on NBC and the Associated Press teams.
26
The Scholastic
^Veteran Track Squad
Dillon Sweeps to Interhall Football Crown
Looks to Indoor Season By Dumping Off-Campus in Title Game, 2-0
Notre Dame’s indoor track squad, presently developing in the fieldhouse to what Coach Alex Wilson terms as a “good, sound team,” is looking forward Jo the winter season.
S ■
Wilson sees no startling weaknesses, “except perhaps in the hurdles,” and all the other events are well fortified with a contingent of veterans. Co-Capt. Alex Pestrichella’s 9:08 clocking heads a speedy list of sprinters which also includes Senior Tom Rohrer, Junior Frank Hall, plus three sophomore speedsters, Joe Foreman, Barkley Ewart and jLubrey Lewis. The othei- track captain, Sparkling senior miler Bill Squires, who is shooting for a 4:10 or better time in his event, is backed up by some promising sophs in Dick DiCamillo and Ed Monnelly.
Bernie Allard, holder of the Notre Dame high jump record with a leap of 6 feet 8% inches and who tied for second in the NCAA meet last spring, should ward off all contenders in his ^pecialty. Allard also runs the hurdles.
Throwing the 16-pound shot for ND are four boys whom Wilson says “are all capable of coming up with 50-foot efforts.” They are Junior Giant Byron Beams, with a top effort of 52% feet, followed by Senior Ben Zajeski, Junior Mike Kaufman, and Soph Frank Jere-mia. In the 440-yard sprint are Bill Kegan, Bill Copeland and Sophomore Frank Hempville. A :49 clocking is the Sfcest time turned in by this trio. Al ^Porter, junior who traveled the half mile in 1:54 in the State Meet last year, is expected to get help this year from Sophomore Dale Vandenburg.
Jim “Spike” Daley, senior, along with Juniors John Michno and Neil Wallace, and soph Dick Dillon, are expected to lead the two-mile group. Versatile second-year-man Jack Cote heads the pole vaulters.
Assistant Coach Leo McEvoy is expecting a good season from his 30 freshman charges. The nucleus of the team will be built around the frosh crosscountry squad that perfonned so capably during the fall.
Most promising prospects in the halfmile are Marty Clynes from Watertown, Mass., and Mike Haverty from Oshkosh, Wis. Clynes did the half mile in 1:57 in his junior year.
Tom Skutka, National High School Mile record-holder with a sensational p:19.5 set last spring, leads the milers. ^Behind him is Bud Carey of Rochester, N. Y., who sped the mile distance in better than 4:40.
by CARL SKIFF
In a game marked by intercepted passes, fumbles, blocked kicks and cold weather, Dillon defeated Off-Campus 2-0 for the Interhall football championship last Sunday on Cartier field.
The only score of the game came in the fourth quarter when fullback Ray Miller of Dillon crashed through the Off-Campus line to tackle halfback Tex Tyson in the end zone for a safety.
Neither team threatened seriously to score until the early minutes of the last quarter when Dillon marched from their own 48 to the Off-Campus five. The drive was sparked by a 35-yard pass play from Tom Gunning to Ross Matson. However, a fourth-down pass attempt by quarterback Bill Maddux was broken up by Pete Billick and Off-Campus took over. Two plays later Miller spilled Tyson behind the goal line for the safety.
Dillon marched down to the Off-Campus 28 in the first half, but the O-C line, led by Chuck Connors, held the Dillon team on downs. Off-Campus blocked a Dillon punt in the second quarter, but they were unable to move the ball.
“Dixie” Lewis, Joe Neuhoff, Dick Duj-movich, Connie Lane, Ed Murphy, and Ron Damico played well for the winners coached by George Strake. Ed Sorensen’s passing, Tyson’s running, and Connors’ defensive play led Off-Campus, coached by Bob Holland and Dick Pfarrer.
Dillon fought their way into the title game by winning the Western League crown with a 7-0 victory over Alumni. Bill Thees scored the winning touchdown in the second quarter, when, after returning a punt 60 yards to the Alumni one, he plunged over left tackle for the score. Thees also scored the extra point.
CARTIER FIELD ACTION AS DILLON BEATS OFF-CAMPUS
Joe Reich, Moore McDonough, Sam Rizzo, Ed Sobolewski, and Bob Moran ■ were the bulwarks of Dillon’s strong defensive line. Joe Yeager, Bob Costello, and Gene Brennan were standouts for Alumni.
Dillon finished their regular season play with a 6-0-1 record and scored 87 points to their opponents’ six.
Off-Campus won the Eastern League title with a 7-0 victory over St. Ed’s. Don Logan of Off-Campus intercepted a pass in the third quarter and went 45 yards for the touchdown. Chuck Connors kicked the extra point.
Brenton Sovich, Jim Walsh, John Rogers, “Gooch” Allen, Joe Clarke, and Tony Ciambelli led the Off-Campus attack. Ed Fixari, Jim Trino, Martin Conway, Andy Geiss, Bill Jane, Al Puchi, and Jim Short were the St. Ed’s workhorses.
Athletic Department Appoints Managers for Next Year
The Athletic Department has announced the appointment of Senior Managers for the 1956-57 seasons.
Joseph Lauerman of Marinette, Wis., has been appointed Head Football Manager. Associate Football Manager in charge of equipment will be Donald Timm of Dallas, Texas. Associate Football Manager in charge of personnel will be William Grant of Springfield, Ill.
Senior Basketball Manager will be Bruce Fedor of Lakewood, O.
John Murphy of Mt. Pleasant, Mich., will be Baseball Manager.
John Woulfe of Itasca, Ill., will be Track Manager.
Fencing Managei- will be Leon Glover of Palo Alto, Calif.
December 9, 1955
This whole business about segregation in sports is a black eye on the country. For Gov. Griffin of Georgia to even mention the whole business is pretty poor. The whole segregation problem seemed distant to most stu-
dents at Notre Dame. But all of a
FIRST ROUND ONLY
sudden, when it hit the headlines, we see how warped minds will stop at no ends.
I can’t say that the ruling by the Board of Regents in Georgia is such a big help to the question. Their ruling was that any Georgia athletic team that participates in another state does so according to the rules of the host state. But that still implies that no Negro would be allowed to play any organized sport within the state. As far as the Regents Board is concerned, they were just in their ruling. They merely followed the law. It was only the first round, and the real issue has not been beaten. I wonder what they would have done if they could have side-stepped it.
From what I can learn from Georgia, and other southern students here, segregation usually takes a prominent place in party platforms during state elections.
So Gov. Griffin was only catering to the whole state when he entered his complaint that Georgia Tech be forbidden to meet Pittsburgh in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 2. Pittsburgh has a Negro on its team, Bobby Grier, who Pitt says will “live, eat, and play” with the team.
When somebody stoops so low as to try and forbid a kid from playing football, or any other sport, because of the color of his skin, then we might as well start looking for salesmen of Russian war bonds. I’ll bet the Kremlin gang really enjoyed this last bit of racial prejudice. They thrive on that rot.
Little by little, Jim Crow has been getting his tickets farther back and behind more pillars. The Supreme Court has given him a couple of pokes through rulings at this latest session. Maybe the die-hard old core southerners are still for this business. But maybe in time the whole thing will be looked on as a bad day at the races.
If sports are to go on uncorrupted and attain their rightful end— betterment of the individual—then racial segregation cannot be allowed to even carry the dirty towels.
Hats off to the Irish Cross Country Team. Their season record of nine wins without a defeat is the first time since before World War II that the Irish Harriers have turned in a perfect season. The only smudge on the record sheet is the third place tie in the NCAA Tournament. Michigan State copped the title, but the Irish have the satisfaction of knowing they beat the Spartans earlier in the season, 28-29.
Other feathers in their hat are the Indiana State and Central Collegiate titles. Looks as if the Irish might have a running power for a couple of more seasons with the number of sophomores who turned in fine performances this past season. And Dick Skutka the freshman sensation doesn’t run in splints. *	sj:	*
If it be of any interest, DAVIN’S PICKS finished up the football season with an .661 mark. Out of 103 attempts, I won on 67. Might have been better if Colorado had beaten Oklahoma or So. Cal. had gone wild with the UCLA’ns instead of the Irish. Thanks to Maryland, I always had my ace in the hole.
Spartans Dominate
All-Opponent Team
The 1955 Notre Dame All-Opponent team, as was expected, was dominated by Michigan State and Southern Cal., the two conquerors of the Irish. Michigan State placed four men on the honor squad, the Trojans three and one mai^ each was named from Navy, Iowa, Purdue, and North Carolina.
At the ends are Ron Beagle of Navy and Leon Clarke of Southern Cal. Beagle, the Middies 190-lb. star, has been named to every major All-American team this year. In the Irish encounter he was the favorite target of Quarterback Welsh. He caught three passes for a total of fifty yards including a specta £ cular catch with Paul Hornung hanging on his shoulders.
Southern California’s Leon Clarke, who was a tower of strength on defense for the victorious Trojans, is the choice at the other end. Clarke broke up many plays before they could materialize as he spent the afternoon in the Irish backfield.
The tackle slots are held by Norm Masters of the Spartans and Purdue’t^ Joe Krupa. Masters was named to the All-Big Ten eleven. Krupa was chosen by his Boilermaker teammates as the out-standing Purdue player of the season. He also was picked on the All-Big Ten team and is honorary co-captain for the 1955 campaign.
The guards are Carl “Buck” Nystrom of Michigan State and Calvin Jones of Iowa. Nystrom was the State captain this past season and was named to the^ All-Big Ten squad. Spartan Coach “Duffy” Daugherty regards “Buck” as the best guard the Spartans have had in the last nine years. Cal Jones, Iowa’s iron man, played the full sixty minutes against Notre Dame. The 220-lb. lineman was named on many All-American teams as well as the first team of the All-Big Ten. The center position on the squad is again held down by Trojan Marv Goux. Goux is a repeater from the 1954 All-Opponent team and was a^ defensive standout for Southern Cal. V
Moving into the backfield we find these positions ably filled by Earl Morrall and Gerry Planutis of Michigan State, Jon Arnett of Southern Cal, and Ken Keller of North Carolina. Morrall who has made many All-American teams was chosen as the quarterback. His brilliant directing was responsible for the great success of the multiple offense employed by State. He is as well a strong armed, accurate passer. In the first half of th<« ND game he threw nine passes, completing five for a total of 101 yards.
Jon Arnett, who was a one man team
28
The Scholastic
wor Southern Cal. rates one halfback spot. He gained 58 yards from scrimmage, scored three TDs and five PAT’S. In addition he ran back two kickoffs 62 yards and caught two passes for 72 yards. North Carolina’s Ken Keller was picked to team with Arnett at Halfback. He gained the astounding total of 122 yards on punt and kickoff returns. He ^glso gained 33 yards in seven carries Wnd kicked the extra point after- the Tar-
heels’ only tally of the afternoon.
The Spartans’ Gerry Planutis named to the fullback’s spot. He also been chosen on the All-Big
was has Ten
team. Against the Irish he scored the second TD on a two yard plunge. Although the Spartans’ win was definitely a team victory, it can be said that this 170-lb. fullback sparked the attack. His touchdown in the third period proved to be the winning score and he compensated for his two missed extra points in 1954 by adding three P.A.T.’s in' this game.
In addition to placing four men on the team the Spartans had two other honors bestowed on them. Receiving 32 out of a possible 36 votes, the Spartans were chosen the best team the Irish had ^aced this year. Earl Morrall nosed out ^Ron Beagle and Cal Jones to be chosen as the outstanding player to face the Notre Dame team this year.
.....DETROIT
for the best buy MAKE IT THE HOTEL
Fort Wayne TEMPLE & CASS AVENUES V
Adjoining the largest Masonic Temple in the world.
300 delightful rooms with tub and shower. Radio, television, air-conditioning, Parking, Home of Detroit’s most attractive and re-nowned Cocktail bar— CAFE BURGUNDY Coffee Shop, Dining Rooms, Ballroom,
Cigar Store, Barber Shop, Beauty Shop, Bowling Alleys. Tel TEmple 1-86OO
ret
Rooms from
Gymnasts Open Drills; Three Veterans Return
Wt /MAKE YOURt DATE MONEY! .
With a squad of forty members the ^Notre Dame Gymnastic Club has begun Ovorkouts in the Drill Hall, in preparation for its 1956 season opening Jan. 28.
The club has at present four definitely scheduled meets, and is attempting to arrange several more. The present schedule includes: Jan. 28—Northwestern, Feb. 11—Northwestern, Feb. 18— Chicago, Feb. 25—Western Illinois.
Last year’s squad, coached by Raymond Runkle, scored three victories against seven losses. Mr. Runkle has , ^ince left Notre Dame for Columbia Wlniversity, and his replacement has not yet been named.
Officers of the club for this season are Ev Hatch, president; Charles Ollinger, vice-president; William Brunot, secretary; and Paul Leitzinger, treasurer. The first three of these are the only regulars returning from last season’s squad. Hatch will represent the club in high bar and rings events, Ollinger will compete on the sidehorse, and Brunot ^vill work on the parallel bars.
" Pres. Hatch states that there is still room for any others who might wish to join the squad.
Affiliated with Hotel METROPOLE-Gncinnati, Hotel DESOTO-St. Louie
Nationally Advertised
Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
kWTURBOW \OPTOMKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces"
--- EYES EXAMINED -----
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
EXTRA CASH FOR EXTRA HOURS!
It's easy to earn up to $30 a week -and more — Just showing Tanners notionally famous campus styles to classmates and friends! Crepe-soled casuals, hand-sewn moccasins. Cashmere-grain low cuts — every wanted style! Every pair Factory Guaranteed! You make up to $4 a pair in Advance Commissions! Name your own hours, be your own boss!
No delivering, no collecting!
Big full-color 84-page Catalog showing 118 styles sells for you! No experience needed — no investment required! A postcard puts you into business. Write TOMY for Fill Catalog, details! .v
TAMGBSMECA 923 Brockton, Mass.
arvi
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
December 9, 1955
29
At the Bookstore
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE Books from The Notre Dame Press
Choose from these titles:	Regularly Sale
German Protestants Face the Social Question
by William Shanahan ---------------------------------------- $6.75	$4.50
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology
by Hans Kohn ----------------------------------------------- $6.25	$4.00
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Germany
and Soviet Russia, by Stephen Kertesz ---------------------- $4.75	$3.00
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism
by Waldemar Gurian ________________________________________ $3.25	$2.00
Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-1951
by M. A. Fitzsimons ________________________________________ $3.25	$2.00
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics
by Waldemar Gurian _________________________________________ $3.75	$2.50
Christian Democracy in Italy and France
by Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel _______________________ $4.00	$2.50
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy
by Ferdinand A. Hermens ____________________________________ $4.00	$2.50
Volumes I through 5 of the Natural Law Institute Proceed-	e
ings (slightly damaged) ____________________________________ $ . 0	$ .75
D , r n i l p - 4.	each each
Peter E. Deitz, Labor Priest
by Mary Harrita Fox -------------------------------------- $4.75	$3.00
Notre Dame, 100 Years
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.	$4.00	$1.29
ND Concert Band to Present Christmas Recital Thursday ' The University concert band, under the direction of Mr. Robert F. O’Brien, will present its annual Christmas concert Thursday at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Besides traditional Christmas music, the band will include several marche^ and light selections in the hour and a half program.
The 55 members of the concert band were selected two weeks ago after a week of auditions. Director O’Brien considers this year’s band unusually well-balanced and possessing exceptional individual quality.
After the Christmas vacation the band will begin rehearsals for its 4,000-mile spring concert tour of the Mis-® sissippi Valley and Gulf Coast.
AVAILABLE AT THE BOOKSTORE
Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Tour doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
Tuesday and Thursday
T-Bone Steak $1.23
Pork Chops $1.10
These are complete dinners
Flamingo Manrait
610 N. Michigan o
OPEN SUNDAY
AQULUS UBIURY aid BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Placement
Personnel from four business firms will be at Notre Dame Monday through Wednesday to hold job interviews with February graduates and graduate students, the Placement Bureau announced recently.
Finns represented and the days of th<;^ interviews follow:
Monday: Cities Service Research and Development Company, of Tulsa, Okla. The company needs engineers, Ph.D. mathematicians, physicists, and chemists for oil production and exploration research.
Monday: Emst & Ernst, of Chicago, HL, accounting majors.
Tuesday: Northrop Aircraft, Inc., Hawthorne, Calif., engineers, physicists^ and mathematicians.	®
Wednesday: Kearney and Trecker Corp., Milwaukee, Wis., engineers.
Those interested may pick up application blanks and literature at the Placement Bureau office in the Main building.
Repercussion (Continued from page 6) opinions presented. I don’t see anything wrong with printing a cover thaj*ij| was obviously not created with scissors^ or paste, and I enjoy W. M. Malloy’s work.
Perhaps I am taking the risk of being considered a fanatical, wild-eyed, smoldering, rebellious non-conformist, but I think the Scholastic is to be congratulated for its innovations.
Charles A. Bowen, Jr.
226 Breen-Phillips
Back to the Sub-cultural
Editor:
I wish to protest most strongly theW AB college’s domination of your pseudointellectual publication. I warn you that
30
The Scholastic
I
he assembled armies of students from the other colleges will be forced to resurrect the Thursday Throzvback if you continue in your erring ways! Everyone (even you, sir) know that only AB students are interested in subjects like art, literature, and politics. Kindly omit these from your publication. Certainly, sir, you must realize that anything more abstract than a photograph escapes the mentality of those not blessed with an AB education. Keep this in mind when you select your covers!
Now, I don’t want you to think that I can offer only negative criticism. I have a few suggestions which, if adopted, will save your publication from ruin and get it back in good graces with
STUDENTS—BUY WHOLESALE Thousands of Nationally Advertised Products at 30-70% discount. Name brands like Benrus, Bulova, Remington, Parker, Smith-Corona, Gruen, etc. A $1.00 deposit is required for the large wholesale catalog ($1.00 is refunded with very first purchase). STUDENT WHOLESALE ASSOC. 2436 Hawkins, Royal Oak, Michigan
DETROIT’S good-will hotel Hotel
WOLVERINE
FlTTED for?JsF
gas
John Sakmar, Manager
Detroit
Michigan
Overlooking Grand Circus Park in the heart of the downtown theater and shopping district.
500 modern, comfortable rooms—all with tub and shower, radio. T-V available. Home of the air-conditioned “Tropics”, Michigan’s most unusual night spot — unique “Rainfall Bar”. Excellent Coffee Shop. Moderate Rates. Adequate Parking.
CHILDREN
under fourteen FREE
In the heart of downtown	ihotEISI
ELIZABETH... Block East of Woodward
the sub-cultural masses outside the AB school. First of all, I suggest that you replace Entree with a full page of mathematical formulas to keep the engineers and scientists interested. A feature series on manipulating the stock market for profits will be snapped up eagerly by the Commerce men. The Week should be re-introduced. To make up for past neglect, the first column should be devoted entirely to insulting the St. Mary’s College girls.
These are but a few suggestions. I’m sure that there are many more which others have thought of. Let’s get back to the masses, sir. You seem to think you’re at a university.
Pete Sturtevant 201 Walsh
^fARLtSS^OSDICK by AL CAPP •
I'LL FIND ANOTHER CAREER-A BANKER? —OR A COLLEGE PRESIDENT? AN APTITUDE, TEST WILL TELL ME//
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
y job
R HOURS LATER | YOUR'’BRAIN1
TEST SAYS 'USELESS"- BUT YOUR "APPEARANCE" TEST SAYS'fa
WELL— WHAT AM I
NATURALLY.1* WILDROOT CREAMOIL MAKES ANY MAN LOOK GREAT.?-KEEPS HAIR NEAT BUT NOT (ugh!) GREASY -REMOVES LOOSE DANDRUFF// -GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE//
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY! ABSOLUTELY NON-
gas aaa ms a aaa
BUT MY NAME IS
LUCY*
WKMOOT
ALCOHOLIC-WITH NATURAL INGREDIENTS BUY AMERICA'S -----I FAVORITE.?
rowic
December 9, 1955
31
Sheed Says TV Lame * In Swaying Converts
Television preaching is no substitute for face-to-face contact in winning converts to the Catholic Church, according to Frank Sheed, the noted author, publisher and lecturer.
Sheed currently is giving a series lectures on “The New Apologetics” at Notre Dame under the auspices of the University’s department of religion. He is also member of Notre Dame’s Liberal and Fine Arts Advisory Council.
A modern pioneer in street preaching, Sheed claims that “the best way to put your ideas across to the man in the street is to go right into the street with him.” The internationally known Cathoj lie layman concedes that television is^ a marvelous medium, but insists that a well-written book has the deepest impact. “A book lingers with you, holds you and can change you,” Sheed contends. “The people can’t turn it off or walk away.”
An inveterate traveler, Sheed rivals the record of Secretary of State Dulles for the frequency of his trans-Atlantic crossings. He commutes from London to -New York on the average of once every^ five weeks to fill speaking engagements and to tend to business matters at Sheed and Ward, the publishing house which he founded, with offices in both cities. He is the author of fifteen books including Theology and Sanity, Saints Are Not Sad, and Communism and Man.
Although Sheed has had considerable influence on Catholic thought, he never attended a Catholic school since his father wouldn’t permit it. His fonnar^ introduction to theology came in the streets of Westminster, England, during the early twenties when he was introduced to the Catholic Evidence Guild. The Guild was composed of street speakers who explained Catholic doctrine to anyone who would stop to listen.
Having to explain or defend your religion sharpens your knowledge and love for it, Sheed says in recalling his work with the Guild. “You could present your arguments to the crowd and sometimes they’d tear them to pieces. You’g® just have to go back and learn to present your case for Catholicism more effectively.”
SOCIAL APOLOGY	।
The Student Senate wishes to apologize to the student body for not having an “after rally party” following the Iowa Game Pep Rally.
The reason for this was that the Monogram Club was decorating the 1 Drill Hall for their Saturday night dance.
32
The Scholastic
*
Engineers Schedule 'Open House' for April;
James W. Brehl Named Chairman of Activities
James W. Brehl, a senior from Washington, Pa., will chairman the 1956 Engineering Open House on April 20-22, it was announced last week by the Engi-^_neering Advisory Board, sponsor of the 4^avent.
The Engineering Open House is the largest of the student-managed activities at Notre Dame. Aimed at the whole student body and the general public of So. Bend, particularly the high school students, the Open House tells the story of the engineer—what he is and what
BILL BREHL
Open House Chairman.
Whe does. Last spring a crowd of more than 25,000 persons visited the campus during the three-day affair.
Brehl is a fourth-year student in the engineering-law course. A member of the Engineering- Advisory Board, he is also business manager- of Technical Re-vieiv and served. as publicity chairman of the Engineers’ Ball.
The 1956 Open House, Brehl predicts, will be the best yet. Activities commence on Friday afternoon with an ^engineering show and a talk by a top engineer. Saturday morning an aerial show and a Chariot Race are scheduled. In this race contestants from each of the engineering departments don Roman togas and attempt to pull homemade chariots over the course for the champion’s plaque.
An auto show, featuring the latest developments in experimental and sports cars, will be held in the Navy Drill Hall. During the three days of activi-Aties the departments of the College of ^Engineering will have open house with student-constructed projects and industrial exhibits on display.
The committee assisting Brehl in producing the 1956 Engineering Open House includes: Pat Sweeney, air show; John Dyon, auto show; Jack Scriba, business manager; Ed Lynch, chariot race; Dick Jacob, displays and tours; Bob Weiner, engineering show; and Orlando Maione, general display.
SCHOLASTIC’ HONORS
The 1954-55 ‘SCHOLASTIC’ received an “All-American” honor rating award from the Magazine Guidebook, it was announced recently. .
Superior ratings were given to the SCHOLASTIC in these sections: editorials, features, essays, overall editorial content, and covers. The cover on which Grace Kelly’s picture appeared was termed “superb.”
Excellent ratings were given to: illustrations, photography, make-up, layout, and typography.
Notre Dame Debaters Capture Top Honors In Morris Harvey Forensic Tournament
The Notre Dame debating team captured most of the high honors in the Morris Harvey College Forensic Meet, held in Charleston, W. Va. on Dec. 2 and 3.
Dick Schiller, debate president, won first place in the impromptu speaking contest in competition with the speakers of all 24 pai-ticipating schools.
Rick Ninneman, freshman coach, took first place honors in the oratory contest, while Jerry Brady placed second in after-dinner speaking.
Besides the individual honors, Notre Dame also took third place in debate competition.
In the past three weeks, Notre Dame debating teams have participated in three audience debates. The first of these was at Marquette on Nov. 25 where, before 1,000 people, Chuck Doherty and Paul Coffey upheld the affirmative side of the proposition, “Resolved: That Co-education Is Detrimental to Higher Education.” By winning this tournament for the second consecutive year, the Notre Dame team gained permanent possession of the Raether-Houseman trophy, awarded each year to the winner.
On Dec. 1, Dick Schiller and Rick Ninneman met Morris-Harvey on the
Handling the program will be Don Carlin, while Al Karnath and Henry O’Bryan will be in charge of publicity. The secretary of the Open House is Tom Schriber.
Glee Club to Present Concert Of Christmas Music Dec. 16
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, will present its annual Christmas concert in Washington Hall on Friday evening, Dec. 16, at 8:30 p.m.
Tickets for the show may be obtained from hall representatives of the Glee Club at no charge. Names and room numbers of hall representatives will be posted on respective hall bulletin boards.
The concert will feature traditional songs, but special emphasis will be placed on seasonal selections. Both classical and popular Christmas music will be sung.
The concert is another feature of the University Concert and Lecture Series. The club has made recent trips to Michigan State, Blue Island, HL, Ohio and Pennsylvania, and plans to go to California during the Easter vacation.
national debate question, “Resolved: That the Non-Agricultural Industries of the United States Should Grant Their Employees an Annual Wage.” The 1,700 spectators attending saw the judges award the decision to Notre Dame.
On Dec. 2, Paul Coffey and Jack Martzell traveled to Purdue where they met the University of Illinois before 1,200 high school debaters and coaches on the topic, “Resolved: That Superior High School Students Should Be Granted Scholarships by the Government.”
This weekend, teams will be traveling to Pittsburgh for the University of Pittsburg cross-question debate tournament. Dick Schiller, Pat Curran, Frank Draine, and Stan Kusper will make the trip.
On the same weekend, eight novices will travel to Indianapolis for the Butler University Novice Tournament. Also this weekned, eight men will travel to ’ Navy Pier in Chicago for the annual University of Illinois, Chicago, freshman-sophomore tournament. Representing Notre Dame will be Ninneman, Brady, Martzell, Coffey, John Hirschfeld, Bernie Morris, Mike Hughes and Brendan Fagan.
This weekend’s activity will conclude debating until after the Christmas vacation.
December 9, 1955
35
Hoch Patf»
by Curt Matthews
memory, concentration, industriousness.
Joseph pulitzer II, who used to be editor of the New York World Telegram and the St. Louis Post Dispatch, once said it took three things to be successful in the newspaper business: memory, concentration and industriousness.
Mr. Pulitzer limited himself to the newspaper business because that was what he was familiar with, but it’s my guess that a great many successful men outside Mr. Pulitzer’s business would point to those same three traits as essential to success.
Success itself is a strange thing. It’s hard to define and it’s hard to identify in an individual. One man may be president of U.S. Steel making over a $100,000 a year and consider himself ■“unsuccessful.” Another man may starve to death doing abstract paintings and still consider himself a “success.” Is success related to happiness? Material wealth? Spiritual satisfaction? Or, as one N. V. Peale might say, “innei* peace”? Success is as hard to define as it is to attain. I guess it’s safe to say that success seems to be a relative thing to the individual but an absolute thing to society.
So, I doubt if any infallible formula for success can be devised. People periodically come up with formulas for solving life and living, almost as often as they do for solving the problems of a losing football team or the complexities of the gaming tables of a certain Nevada city. But, then- formulas are usually too general (Mr. Peale, et al.— be good, do good,) or too specific (brush your teeth four instead of three times a day) to be of any true value.
Mr. Pulitzer’s ideas on success appeal to me because they fall, as much as any
success formula can, somewhere between the broad generalities and the trivial specifications.
His formula is not absolute or dogmatic—no one’s could be. Who can say that this particular ability, or that particular trait will allow you to set a goal and then help you steadily and satisfactorily attain it? Success just doesn’t work that way. It involves too many outside factors—many of them unforeseen.
Personality, background, circumstance, and a certain amount of pure luck all help mold many a success story.
About the most we can do to assure success is to place ourselves in the best possible circumstances for acquiring the tools we need with which to seek out the particular kind of success we want. This is commonly known as going to school—or, education.
Once we have the tools it’s simply a matter of making the most of them. That’s where Mr. Pulitzer and his formula come in, I think. His ideas sort of lubricate the tools we acquired during the process of education. .
I don’t wish to imply that anyone with a college education, equipped with a good memory, who can focus his mind effectively on what he is doing and who works efficiently and steadily at the tasks placed before him, will automatically and without exception get to the top in his chosen vocation. But, I do wish to imply that with such traits he’ll have a better-than-average chance of getting to the top.
Just considered for a moment, one would have to say it certainly seems like a simple plan for success. Anyone can train the memory; concentration isn’t really so difficult (not when you
concentrate on it); most jobs by their nature keep you industrious, busy. And I guess it is a simple plan.
The ability to remember well is one of the most useful and time-saving faculties a person can have. But, if memory is to be really useful you must^ remember useful things.
If you’re an accountant it doesn’t do you much good to know who pitched the last game of the 1934 World Series if you keep forgetting on which side of the ledger to enter the debits. A good memory often impresses people who mis- ' take it for intelligence. These same people mistake a bad memory for ignorance. A good memory, like a pleasing smile, should be shown off once in a'£ while.
Most of us associate concentration with some mental process. But, along with mental concentration there’s another sort—concentration of effort. Both are valuable and useful abilities.
We sometimes find our duties and obligations stacking up against us. That’s when we need concentration of -effort and mind to neglect some of these obligations momentarily while wci polish off others. We have to be like^ a juggler who forgets about the one orange in the air while he works with the two in his hands.
Ambition and industriousness seem to go hand in hand. All the truly ambitious people I know are also truly industrious. Industrious people are people who know how to use their time. The industrious, ambitious people are the ones who really get things done. |
In the words of Emerson: “. . . geniusw is the power to labor better and more availably than others.”
34
The Scholastic