2
The Scholastic
"Skip the rest” quips TOM WEITHERS
"I’ll take
SPORTSWEAR ?”
For a guy who really gets around, there’s no better deal than Skipper Sportswear. Looks good . . . feels comfortable . . . easy on a college guy’s budget, too.
SKIPPER
IF IT’S WILSON WEAR IT’S FAULTLESS

A STUDY IN COMFORT, Skipper Sweaters are warm and handsome without bulkiness. Crew or V-neck models, many patterns. $3.95 to $19.50.
WHEN YOU’RE IN A HURRY, there’s nothing easier to dive into than a Skipper T-Shirt. Looks like a million bucks, too. Priced from $1.00 to $3.95.
FOR YOUR SPARE TIME, these trim-fitting Skipper Sportshirts are pin-busters! Come in and look over a wide variety of styles from $3.95 to $15.00.

Max Adler Company • Heck & Aker • O. M. Rasmussen, Inc
Michigan at Washington
111 W. Jefferson Blvd.
106 So. Main Street
Rose & Katz, Inc. • Wyman’s
Main at Colfax
103 No. Michigan
:	Nov. 11, 1949
3
Letters
Dallas Invasion
Editor:
Numerous arrangements have been carefully made to provide entertainment for your Notre Dame supporters when you invade Dallas Dec; 3 for the Notre Dame-SMU football game.
There will be a Notre Dame-SMU Victory Dance at the Jefferson Hotel Skyline Terrace Saturday, Dec. 3, 1949.
This information should be of interest to your fellow students who come to Dallas for the game. Perhaps you can place a notice in the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Notre Dame-SMU
Victory Dance
8:30 P.M.
Saturday, Dec. 3, 1949 Jefferson Hotel Skyline Terrace Dallas, Texas
The newly redecorated Skyline Terrace is spacious and beautiful. Make it your Dallas meeting place Dec. 3, after the Notre Dame-SMU game.
Alvin Sterling 3320 Poinsetta Drive, Dallas, Texas
A Bouquet of Onions
Editor:
Rather than take up your valuable space with verbose criticism, we’ll be frank. We think the covers of the Scholastic this year stink!
John M. Healy Leo A. Coleman Walsh Hall
Someone has informed us that Messrs. Healy and Coleman were included in some of the pictures LIFE took last month. Don’t judge us by the standards of that magazine, please.—Ed.
A Suggestion
Editor:
Memory of a March 17 basketb.aH game at Notre Dame several years ago prompts the following suggestion for pre-game activities.
Induce the band to be present to accompany singing by the entire student body. Print the school songs on the reverse side of the team lineups. Include the school song of the opposing team to be sung just before the singing of the Victory March.
George F. Driscoll Engineering Bldg.
Wha’ Happen?
Editor:
What has happened to Gene Hull?
Gene has played good music for over a year, and just when his band gets fully organized, he disappears.
We’ve had a taste of out-of-town bands for the past two victory dances and I don’t think they rate with Gene for danceability. Why not hire a guy who has proven himself popular instead of some unknown?
Tom McAniff 309 Cavanaugh	gT)
Re: Sherlock Holmes
Editor:
Was quietly seated in my rooms in Dillon Hall Friday last . . . when the out-of-breath and distracted footsteps of a young man paused outside my door . . . something was tossed against it . . . The Nov. 4 Scholastic had arrived. ... I hastened to my perusal of it and in the inevitable course thereof ran afoul of a piece entitled The Bungling Detective by one writer Stock whose name has subsequently been entered in my voluminous file of repre-hensibles and whose effort is the subject of this jeremiad.
How dare he compose, or, for that matter, you publish this flippant and acrimonious reflection on the most brilliant adversary of the forces of crim-
(Continued on Page 32)
LEVI’S are here!
Come and get 9em • • •
3.15 pr.
The toughest, roughest, wearinest wash overalls you’ve ever seen. Made of the heaviest denim . . . cut snug and trim . . . copper-riveted . . . guaranteed — a new pair free if they rip! Ideal for campus wear — get yours tomorrow.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER:
AL KELLY—115 SORIN HALL
’the week
by flack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
Student trippers to get 50-yard line seats at Yankee Stadium.
Student Choo-Choo Goes All the Way
. . . and Back
As today’s Scholastic hits the newsstands, the 1949 edition of the Wabash Cannonball will be chugging eastward along the Pennsylvania Railroad’s rocky roadbed. An 18-car luxury liner, with reclining seats, two diners, an observation lounge — and nothing to drink — will transport some 700 ND men to the bright lights of the big city. This is the first student trip to New York since ’46, and has been designed to make partakers forget the recent Scholastic feature article on Chicagoland.
Arrival in Gotham is scheduled for-7 a.m., and after- Mass at St. Francis of Assisi, Irish tourists will have a few hours in which to find their way to the Stadium before the 1:30 kick-off.
While the game itself does not promise to be too exciting an affair, tickets are as scarce as a seven-cent cup of coffee in the caf. One television network and three major radio webs will air the fray, and the usual heavy newspaper coverage will be given. The WEEK will cover the game for the WEEK. We’re going to fly our copy back to Indiana by carrier pigeon, where an eager Scholastic staff will await it with scissors and editor’s notes.
The only bad feature of the trip is the fact that those who go on the student train, must return on same — and same leaves Penn Station at 4:30 o’clock Sunday afternoon. Not counting transportation time, that’s equivalent to a 36-hour pass. It would seem that anyone brave enough to volunteer for combat with the Penn R. R., Embassy Hotel, et al, rates at least a four-day furlough in a rehabilitation center.
The Crimson Is Blushing
New York Herald- Tribune sports columnist Bob Cooke pointed out the other day that “. . . although Harvard University’s football team has won but one game all year, the Crimson band has been ‘outplaying’ the opposition from week to week.” It has been suggested that, in view of Harvard’s great
Nov. 11, 1949
band, it might be a good idea to let the musicians stage concerts at Harvard stadium every Saturday, and let the football team play during intermission.
The Sick, the Lame, and the Weary
The campus infirmary has been more crowded than usual this past week. In an interview with recently bitten Bill Hopke, one of oui- reporters learned that morale is high in the student sickbay. “They sure are proud of the food over there,” said Bill. “One of the nuns told me they specialize in rare meat for- the patients. And she was right. Meat was so rare, that one night I couldn’t find any on my tray at all.” (Must have been Friday, Bill.)
Penicillin seems to be a favorite treatment at the infirmary, but modern medical science has not eliminated the use of the old remedial adages. For example, if you turn up with a cold, the treatment is “feed a fever, and starve a cold.” But if you run a temperature up over the century mark, it’s “feed a cold and starve a fever.”
True Confessions
Here’s another real-life story from
If You Can Walk, We’ll Teach You to Dance
the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
Don’t pass up all the good times this year. Learn to dance now with one of our talented George Davis teachers. With just a few lessons you’ll gain confidence. relax, and really enjoy Fox Trot, Waltz, Rhumba, or any other dance.
FREE TRIAL LESSON PHONE 3-8229 or Come In Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
our education files: Two journalism majors (who shall remain nameless) signed up for a graduate course in American literature. The J boys felt a little out of place in a room surrounded by well-read Thomas Wolf-ey English majors, but they had waited too long to put in for drop slips. Came the first conference with the prof, in which the reading background of the students was discussed, and outside reading assignments made accordingly. Our heroes claimed knowledge of Collier’s and the Tribune, but little else. Said the prof: “You two fellows had better start at the beginning.” They are now struggling through an advanced work titled The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
It’s not a bad book though, is it, Red?
Bottom of the Week
These editor’s notes have got to stop.
15 PHOTOS $1°°
for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2/a x 3)4
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL $1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROcopy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
Studio Hours: 10 a. m. - 10 p. m.
Entertainment
NOVEMBER 11
STUDENT TRIP (through Sunday night, ouch!)—Over 700 students will head for the old Pennsylvania depot this afternoon to board the New York-bound express. For want of things to occupy their long (sic) stay in Col. McCormick’s imperialistic capital of the world, there’s a large layout of hints in this issue. Al^ who will remain on campus will get a full-blown recount on Monday morning.
COLFAX (through Nov. 12)—They’re holding over Come to the Stable (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). If you didn’t catch it last weekend don’t fail to see it now. Starring Loretta Young and Celeste Holm as two nuns, it’s the type of picture that gives you a lift.
AVON (through Nov. 15)—MGM’s The Doctor and the Girl (A-2) is a sleeper. A modest production, it boasts a good story and some good acting by Glenn Ford, Janet Leigh and Charles Coburn.
PALACE (through Nov. 15)—Sword in the Desert is a story of Israel’s fight for statehood. Failing to hit the mark it aims for, it is still a good action picture and skirts the soap-box nicely. Dana Andrews, Marta Toren and Stephen McNally are fine as the stellar trio.
NOVEMBER 12
NEW YORK—The Irish meet Choo-Choo and his cohorts from North Carolipa. Flashy Justice will put on a good show but our traveling squad will beat him. Prediction: Notre Dame by a southern shuffle.
NOVEMBER 13
COLFAX (through Nov. 16)—Alfred Hitchcock fails to come up to his high standard with technicolored Under Capricorn (A-2). It features Ingrid Bergman, Joseph Cotten and British-star Michael Wilding. The story is set in Australia but gets bogged down with endless talk and presents a very poor commentary of that seldom-used, movie speaking, country.
STATE (through Nov. 16)—Swamp Water and This Is My Affair (reissues). The feature is an exciting tale of the Okofenokee swamp lands. The co-bill stars Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Taylor in a mushy romance.
NOVEMBER 16
PALACE (through Nov. 19)—At this writing Anna Lucas ta (A-2) is tentatively set to play an engagement. We hope that the powers that be change their minds. If it should open, miss it. Paulette Goddard, as the swaggering, hip-swinging heroine, has never been worse. Her looks have fled the coop, too.
NOVEMBER 17
COLFAX (through Nov. 23)—Tight-lipped Alan Ladd turns up in Chicago Deadline (A-2), a tense picture that deals with a reporter and his efforts to find a supposedly dead girl. Although the plot has a hard time explaining itself at times, the picture is good fare. Donna Reed and June Havoc are in the supporting cast.
. . . An orchid will make it a special occassion.
We have lovely lavendar orchids now for only
$3.75 and $5.00 each
BEYERS
Florist
111 W. Wayne (near Y.M.C.A.)
SHUTTERBUGS
Com. 44-1949
Let us suggest proper equipment and interesting subjects that would appeal to your friends.
COULDNT afford ANY heat FOR TRE STUDIO/"
Iff
Special -
Order Your
PHOTOGRAPHIC Christmas Cards Now
10 for $1.00 — 25 for $2.25
ABT CAMERA SHOP (Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 November 11, 1949 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor _	JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA____________ Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY..........Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN.......Photography
LEON GARDNER________________Librarian
£ M. A. ALEXANDER______________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER: Mid-town Manhattan is graphically caught in this week’s Scholastic shot. Before and after the North Carolina game up at Yankee Stadium, the student trippers will find plenty of time to see the sights. Two of the most worthwhile ones are on the cover. Fifth Avenue is the lane on which the traffic is moving. 50th Street crosses it. Beau-A tiful St. Patrick’s is in the center. The buildings at the bottom of the picture are all a part of Rockefeller Center. From left to right they are the International Building, the British Empire Building and La Maison Francaise. The photo was taken from the Rockefeller Center Observation Roof. A guided tour up to this spot is well worth taking. For a more complete article concerning New York see the center spread.—Photo by Rockefeller Center A Roof Studio.
From the Editor’s Desk..
Sleighbells and Scottys
Christmas and Easter, along with almost everything else, have become more and more secularized each year. These two most glorious feasts of the Redemption no longer have any real meaning to much of the world.
Here in the United States, the greeting card industry has traded a fireplace for the crib, a Scotty for a lamb and a stick of peppermint candv for swaddling clothes. About this time of vear, the influx of these pagan cards begins filtering into dime stores, drugstores and even Catholic bookstores.
Perhaps there is some excuse for these cards: people who are not Christian observe Christmas as just another holiday, like the Fourth of July and Thanksgiving. But for Christians—and especially Catholics— Christmas is not a holiday. It is a Holy Day that marks the beginning of a life that redeemed man and restored him to heaven.
For Catholics to substitute sleigh bells and Scottys for the infant Christ and the Holy Family is to deny (or at least forget) the real meaning of Christmas. It won’t be long until it is time for the yearly Yuletide greetings to be sent out again. If you’re a Catholic, look around for some cards that reaffirm the real meaning of Christmas, o
Although religious cards are getting harder to find each vear. there are some on the market. The Moreau Mission Society, for instance, has given a representative in each residence hall a supply of religious cards. Besides curbing secularism, the purchase of these cards also helps the Bengal missions. But no matter where you buy your cards, don’t replace Christ with a Scotty.
How to Lose Spirit
We hadn’t heard a roaring mob like the one that entered the Tulane pep rally since the Army game of 1947. The old gym was packed with shouting students and their guests. They heard Tulane could beat Notre Dame and they were out to prevent such a happening. But after the rally was over (about an hour and a half later) this roaring mob had quieted down considerably. The spark that had set them cheering had • been put out.
For the last few years, pep rallies have become bigger and bigger extravaganzas. Instead of pep rallies, they are quiet shows that last much too long. A lot of speakers go through a Bob Hope routine for 15 minutes (but it’s not always funny), reminisce about a game played 20 years ago and end by telling the crowd that the opponents have a great squad but Notre Dame will win. Sure, the audience likes to hear funny stories ’ and wants to be reassured as to the game’s outcome, but the program should not be designed to kill spirit.
The best pep rallies are short and to the point. They inject spirit where it is lacking. They don’t go on and on until the audience is bored with the whole thing. Before the Michigan State game, the rally was held in Badin Bog. There were three short speeches and the whole thing was over in about 30 minutes. The crowd seemed to go away with more spirit than it came with.
We suggest that those pep rally planners who are only interested in entertainment concentrate their efforts on a vaudeville show in Washino-ton Hall. Rallies would be shorter and more effective. They might even put a little pep into the student cheering section.
Nov. 11, 1949
7
PROVE
TO YOURSELF
noWgarette HANGOVER when you smoke Philip Morris! A -a
HERE'S 1 ALL YOU
DO! i
► In just a few seconds you can prove
PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING
than the brand you’re now smoking!


o
so




I. • • light up a PHILIP MORRIS
2. ..light up your present brand Do exactly the came thing —DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
THEN, iust take a puff—DON'T INHALE — and s-l-o~w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. And NOW . . .
NOW YOU KNOW WHY YOU SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS !
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved definitely less irritating^ definitely milder, than any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.

’s PHILIP MORRIS
8
The Scholastic
I^re Dame ^CjlOlOStlC
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 8
NOVEMBER 11, 1949
Stage Set for Soph Cotillion Next Week
Only a week to go to the Sophomore Cotillion. Everything is in its last stage of preparation. The Decoration Committee is patiently waiting to transport Old Ei‘in, harps, shamrocks, shillelaghs and £ all, into the Palais Royale; the Ticket Committee is making out final reports; Sophs are taking personal financial inventories and looking for corsages; and the girl back home is pondering her weekend wardrobe and checking timetables.
Every minute will be crammed. Friday night there will be a pep rally in the fieldhouse. Then comes the Cotillion itself. Saturday afternoon Notre Dame will be host to Iowa and in the evening the Victory Dance will be held. A special Soph committee is working with the Victory Dance committee.
Formal proceedings will end Sunday morning. A special Mass at 9 o’clock will be said in Sacred Heart Church for Cotillion-goers.
Archbishop Ritter Named For Baccalaureate Mass
The Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, Arch-A bishop of St. Louis, Mo., has been named to deliver the sermon at the Baccalaureate Mass for January graduates of the class of 1950, to be held on Sunday, Jan. 29. Archbishop Ritter joins the Hon. John F. Kennedy, prominent member of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts, on the commencement program. Mr. Kennedy was named last week as the principal speaker at the graduation ceremonies.
Archbishop Ritter was ordained to the priesthood in 1916. He was graduated 9 from St. Meinrad Seminary in Indiana in 1917, and received an S.T.D. degree from Pope Pius XI in 1922.
He was consecrated Bishop of Hippo and Auxiliary Bishop of Indianapolis in 1933. He became Bishop of Indianapolis the following year and remained in that capacity until 1944, when he was named Archbishop of Indianapolis. In 1946 he was transferred to St. Louis. He has been Archbishop of that diocese since then.
w Nov. 11, 1949
General Carlos P. Romulo, UN President, Will Address ND Natural Law Institute
By JOHN H. JANOWSKI
The President of the United Nations General Assembly, Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo, will speak at the third annual Natural Law Institute to be held at the College of Law Dec. 9 and 10.
General Romulo ■will be the principal speaker at the last session of the two-day Institute. His subject will be “The Natural Law and. International Law.”
The UN president is a native of Manila, Philippine Islands, and is an honorary alumnus of Notre Dame. He was awarded an honorary Doctor of
General Romulo
Laws degree by the University in 1935, at the same convocation in which the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt received an honorary degree.
This fall General Romulo was elected President of the fourth General Assembly of the UN on the first ballot. His first ballot election was a tribute never before given to a UN president.
In 1941, he received the Pulitzer Prize for Distinguished Correspondence
as a Manila newspaper editor. Since the beginning of the recent war, General Romulo has written four books, My Brother Americans, I Saiv the Fall of the Philippines, Mother America, and See the Philippines Rise.
During the war General Romulo amassed a brilliant record of service, receiving the Purple Heart, the Gold Cross, the Silver Star and Oak Leaf Cluster and the Distinguished Service Star. General Douglas MacArthur named General Romulo his Aide-de-Camp in 1944. He was one of the last men to escape from the Japanese invasion of Bataan peninsula.
Before his election to the UN presidency, General Romulo served as Secretary of Information and Public Relations, and Secretary of Public Instruction in the Philippine government. In 1944 he was appointed resident commissioner of the Philippines to the U.S.
General Romulo will join three other speakers at this year’s Institute which is being sponsored by Mr. Alvin A. Gould, of Cincinnati, Ohio. The other speakers will be the Honorable Richard O’Sullivan, of London, England, former King’s Counsel of Great Britain; Dr. Edward S. Corwin, retired Princeton University authority on constitutional problems; and Dr. Stephen Kuttner, noted canon law expert at Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.
CHRISTMAS VACATION DATE
Christmas vacation this year will begin for each student after his last class on Tuesday, Dec. 20. The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., made this announcement yesterday to prevent any confusion resulting from a misinterpretation of the University Bulletin. Classes will be resumed as scheduled—at 8 a. m. Wednesday, Jan. 4 1950.
YCS Frosh Received At Mass Last Week
The first recitative Mass of the freshman section of YCS was held in St. Edward’s Hall chapel last Sunday morning. This Mass marked the final step in the indoctrination of new members. Following the Mass the official enrollment ceremony was conducted. The new members first recited in common the Act of Dedication to Christ the King, promising to further His Kingship through Catholic action. Following this the new men marched to the altar in pairs to receive a Catholic Action pin. A special blessing was given to each new member and the ceremony was concluded by the signing of the register.
After breakfast a section meeting was held in the Cavanaugh Hall reading room. The meeting was presided over by Al DeCrane, newly appointed head of the freshman section, and common projects were discussed.
Since the beginning of the school year the freshman YCS has been under the guiding hand of Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., and four sophomore members. It has been their job to organize the freshmen on a hall group basis and to map out a program of action. The following men were selected to head their respective hall groups: Joe Petrillo of St. Edward’s, Bill McMurray of Farley, Al DeCrane of Zahm, and Paul Curtin of Breen-Phillips.
At each weekly hall meeting the members first study the fundamental principles of Catholic Action and then discuss some particular project that they have selected to act upon. Since the YCS considers itself a movement of service to the entire school community and not intended to abolish or overrule other student organizations, projects are selected which will aid these organizations and the school in general. Projects worked on so far by these groups include a family rosary hour, a report on mixed socials which will be submitted to the various hall councils for action, and a plan to explain to the freshmen students, either by lectures or circulars, the proper study habits to develop in college.
'Concord' Feature Article Gives Student Rights Case
Vincent J. Giese, a Notre Dame graduate, presents a strong case for student rights in his feature article in the November issue of Concord, national college monthly. Giese, in his article, “The Coffee is on Me,” answers arguments on contractural rights and student privileges. He likens the case of the twentieth century student in his struggle for self-
10
Cavanaugh Concerts
Monday
Symphony No. 5 ........Beethoven Roumanian Rhapsodies ..Enesco
Tuesday
Nutcracker Sziite ..Tchaikovsky
Italian Symphony ...Mendelssohn
Wednesday
Symphony No. 5 .....Tchaikovsky Rassacaglia and Fugue .....Bach Thursday
Piano Concerto No. 2 ................ Rachmaninoff
Gaite Parisienne .....Offenbach
Friday Piano Concerto in	F..Gershwin
Rhapsody in Blue	...Gershwin
consciousness to that of the nineteenth century worker.
Sally W. Cassidy and Robert Faulhaber dissect modern Capitalism and explode some traditional American myths in their Concord article, “Is Capitalism Withering Away?” A forthright statement in behalf of student responsibility and maturity is presented by Dr. Harold Taylor, president of Sarah Lawrence College.
A physical scientist and a sociologist bring to bear the results of many months research in a special feature article on atomic energy considered in the light of peacetime potential. Completing the November Concord are two picture stories on student contributions to international understanding, along with other features, reviews, and student news.
Fulbright Scholarships Offer Foreign Study
Competition for United States government graduate study scholarships in 11 countries: the United Kingdom, Belgium, Burma, Netherlands, Philippines, Greece, New Zealand, France, Italy, Iran and Norway, has been opened according to an announcement by the Department of State and the President’s Board of Foreign Scholarships.
The scholarships, offered to American graduate students, are made available as a result of Public Law 584, 79th Congress (the Fulbright Act). The scholarships are for the 1950-51 academic year. This is the second year in which students have had the opportunity to compete for these awards. The scholarships provide travel, tuition, and maintenance for study abroad for one year.
The number of scholarships varies
from country to country with the great-est number, 222, being offered for work in France. The United Kingdom is next with 156, followed by the rest in this order: Netherlands 25; Belgium and Luxembourg 22; Greece 12; New Zealand 10; Philippines 6; Burma 3. The exact number of scholarships to be offered in Italy, Norway, and Iran has not been determined but applications are being accepted for those countries nonetheless.
There are only three basic eligibility requirements: American citizenship, a college degree or its equivalent by the time the candidate takes up his award, and a sufficient knowledge of the language of the country to enable the scholar to carry on his studies.
Interested Notre Dame students may get further* information and application forms from the secretary of the Ful-bright Program committee on campus, Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs. Candidates not now in college may apply directly to the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45 th Street, New York 19, New York.
Applications should be in before Dec., 1, 1949.
Irish Aeros to Explore Wright Airport Thursday
Next Thursday, when most of the campus gossips will be shooting the breeze about midsemesters and the Student Trip, 21 air-minded Notre Darners 'will arise bright and early for an all day air outing to Wright Field, Dayton, 0.
According to Walt Gointner of the Aero Club, the group will leave the St. Joseph County Airport at 7:30 a. m. in a twin-engined DC-3 specially chartered from TWA. Breakfast will be served en route and the entourage will set down on Wright Field at 8:30, while sleepy-eyed Joe Notre Dame is just waking up in the middle of his 8:00 o’clock class.
Immediately upon arrival they will embark on an all-day excursion and tour of the hangars and experimental laboratories. It is expected that they will explore everything curious their air-minded eyes can unearth.
As the early evening shadows begin to fall, the crew will drag their aching feet and satisfied curiosities back to the comfort of plush airliner seats, safety belts and perhaps a pretty stewardess or two. A TWA variation of a Dining Hall supper will be served in the sub-stratosphere and after a short 60-minute hop, twenty-one tired Notre Darners will return to terra firma, the Golden Dome and frustration.
The Scholastic
Your Future
4: As an Accountant
This is the fourth in a series of job futures with material obtained from Notre Dame men in the various fields.
Robert A. Brucker
“The accountant is the watchdog of business,” says Mr. Robert A. Brucker. “It is the responsibility of the accountant to gather facts and figures on all phases of a business and to present them in an intelligent manner so that management can run a business at a profit. In this age of keen competition, it is important that an accountant gain a broad knowledge of business.
“A prospective accountant should make sure he knows the fundamentals, knows what they mean, keep studying them; and also keep up with the latest developments in government and business. It would also prove beneficial to acquaint himself with trade magazines and, if possible to be active in accounting organizations.
Practical Experience Important
“Another thing in my estimation is very important — a must — to a young fellow in school with the idea of becoming an accountant, is that he should try to gain as much practical experience as possible while in school. This could most easily be done by working in an office during summer vacation. Such experience makes accounting theory much easier. One studies, but has no real idea how the accounting theory he has studied is applied. Experience and theory put together' make study much easier and also more beneficial.
“My belief is that after a man is out of school and definitely has accounting
in mind as an occupation, he should strive for his CPA (Certified Public Accountant) degree. This does not necessarily mean that he will go into public accounting, as industry is always anxious to have CPA’s on its staffs, and in many instances, a comptroller' is required to have a CPA certificate. However, one of the best ways to start in the field is to get into public accounting, and thus gain a broad experience, as the public accountant deals with all types of business.
Know Commercial Law
“I advise students to take the regular courses in commerce and also to gain a fundamental knowledge of commercial law.
“I also advise the novice accountant to break in with a small firm, where he can gain more experience and not be limited to one segment of work. There he has the opportunity to have his fingers in different phases of the business.
“It is also helpful in gaining a good business background, to work with several firms. Generally, men seek diversity in their work so as not to bury themselves in one industry. There are many successful comptrollers who have been with four or five different firms. Many men change jobs when an opportunity for advancement arises.
“In the matter of salary, the junior accountant usually starts out at from
§200 to §250 a month, and from there may work his way up to be a comptroller or other executive post. Many accountants branch out to administrative positions. How fast the accountant’s salary rises depends greatly on his knowledge of accounting, his ability to present facts in an intelligible manner, and his personality — especially his ability to get along and work with other people.
“Cost accounting is, at this time, the most open field in accounting. Accurate accounting is not only important, but necessary.
“Another big field is tax accounting. With the domestic situation as it is, and the increasing burden of taxes.on industry, tax- specialists are in great demand.
Public Accounting Grows
“Also over the past twenty years, public accounting has grown by leaps and bounds— mostly because of government regulations and taxes. Every business in existence must keep intelligent records, thus putting a demand on the public accounting field to aid and supervise the keeping of correct records.
“As a final note, it should be mentioned that the necessity of knowing facts is extremely important in ' this age of competition, as well as the application of these facts to business.”
Nov. 11, 1949
11
NFCCS Group Plans Third Mardi Gras; Foreign Relief Drive Shifts Into High
Moving its foreign student relief program into high gear this week, the Notre Dame branch of the National Federation of Catholic College Students announced plans to hold its third annual Mardi Gras Carnival in the Drill Hall just before Lent begins. James Garvin has been named chairman of the committee to propel the drive. He will be assisted by Bill Kirchner and Ed Farrell.
Kirchner, student council president and local NFCCS representative, said the charity campaign would be conducted much the same as it has been in the past two years, with proceeds coming from the carnival itself and the customary automobile raffle.
Plans Discussed Sunday
Announcement of Notre Dame’s plans for the 1949-50 drive came after a joint meeting last Sunday of the Student Councils of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s with Miss Ethel Dignan of New York city, executive director of the NFCCS Overseas Service Program. The main purpose of her talk here was to discuss the background, reasons for, and past results of the foreign student relief program and to outline the aims of OSP for this year.
The first phase of the OSP fundraising will consist of gathering contributions for school buildings, student hospitals, books of all types, etc., and some scholarships. Food and shelter, if possible, will also be supplied to needy foreign students. DP students in this country as well as overseas will also receive aid from OSP in many ways. If scholarships cannot be provided, the DP students will be helped in the search for lodging and jobs.
European Travel Program Included
Travel programs in Europe next Summer, of an essentially spiritual nature, comprise the third phase of OSP.
Accompanying Miss Dignan on her ■visit to Notre Dame, was Miss Alice Ching, of Hong Kong, China, who gave a brief eye-witness outline of the benefits already received by students in China from past relief campaigns. She mentioned that destitute Chinese students had received $25,000 from OSP and based her talk on this point. (ND’s contribution last year was $25,000 also, and Miss Ching made her talk more personal by indicating that this money had gone to China, and by giving a first-hand description of the food, cloth
12
ing and educational benefits it had wrought for students there.)
One new phase marks the student relief program at Notre Dame this year: no definite goal of money has been set for the campaign to shoot for. Rather the committee will gather all the funds it can from the carnival, car donations, etc., without being pressed to meet a specified amount.
Also, Notre Dame students will feel the benefits of the new setup. Upon arrangements with the national council of the NFCCS, a portion of the total gleaned from the campaign will be set aside for overall Notre Dame contributions to such local and national charities as Community Chest, Christmas Seals and the Red Cross, thereby relieving students of door-to-door solicitations.—Vic Dorr
Student Council Lists Hall Decoration Rules
The Student Council has drawn up and announced the rules regulating this year’s Hall Decoration weekend, which will be the weekend of the Southern California game, Nov. 26. A new feature to be inaugurated this year is the handling of the details of the exhibitions by the hall council representatives, rather than by the Student Council representatives as has been the case in years past.
Although there are no restrictions on ideas, actual construction may not be undertaken before Tuesday, Nov. 22. A $100 limit has been placed on the amount that may be spent by each hall in the preparation and construction of its displays.
A complete set of rules concerning hall decorations are as follows:
1.	There shall be one and only one official decorations committee in each residence hall. This committee shall be the hall council of said hall.
2.	' Maximum sum to be spent in preparation and construction of decorations in each hall, including cost of materials, shall not exceed $100.00.
3.	Construction of each hall’s decoration shall start no earlier than Tuesday, November 22.
4.	Each hall council must submit to the Student Council a list of expenses incurred in the construction of its decoration.
5.	Only student employment may be used in the construction of any hall decoration.
6.	The height of any decoration must not exceed the height of its respective hall. .
7.	All decorations must be securely fastened in order to prevent any accidents.
8.	Any electrical appliances used in connection with the decorations may be ~ used only with the permission of the rector of that hall. This includes flood lights, colored lights, and public address systems.
9.	All electrical appliances and tools are to be procured off campus; the carpenter and electric shops on campus are not to be solicited for tools and equipment.
10.	All decorations must be dis- -mantled not later than Monday, November 28.
11.	Three representative South Bend businessmen will be invited to act as judges.
12.	Judging of the decorations shall take place Saturday, November 26, not later than 1:00 p.m.
13.	The winning hall will be announced during the half-time period of the Southern California game.
14.	The prize to be awarded to the -winning hall will be determined before ® the decorations are judged and will be announced at a later date.
Also, no hall decorations shall have as, or incorporated into, its theme any symbols or drawings representing a graveyard or cemetery (e.g., tombstones representing the Southern California team) or any symbols or drawings relative thereto.—Don Smith
ND Debate Team Schedules Contests in Eleven States
The ND debate team has announced plans to visit eleven states and travel more than 7,000 miles during this year’s speaking schedule.
Professor Leonard F. Sommer, Director of Forensics, will direct the Irish debaters again this year. Last year the debate team was rated best in the midwest and the top Catholic college team in the National Debate Tourney at West ® Point.
The Notre Dame team will participate in more than 100 exhibitions and dual meets this year. They will also attend the Iowa Conference on Post-War Problems, the Grand Western Tournament at Northwestern University, the Eau Claire Invitational, the Nebraska Invitational, the Boston University Tournament, and the National Tau Kappa Alpha competition at the University of Kentucky.
The Scholastic
• Cambridge Historian To Speak Thursday
Next Thursday evening, at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, Mr. Herbert Butterfield, Professor of Modern History at the University of Cambridge, will lecture on “The Tragic Element in International Relations.” A The lecture is sponsored jointly by the Department of History and the Committee on International Relations and is open to all students and members of the faculty.
Mr. Butterfield is said to be one of the greatest British scholars of the present century in the field of European history. He is the author of several books on this subject, the latest of which, The Origins of Modern Science, $ was published last month.
At present, Professor Butterfield is revisiting the University of' Princeton, where he lectured in 1923. He has frequently lectured at Trinity 'College, Dublin, and other schools in Ireland, as well as in England and on the continent.
Rev. Thomas T. MacAvoy, c.s.c., Head of the Department of History, will introduce the speaker.
Frosh Enter Five Parties;
Vote for Class Officers
Five parties entered their candidates in the freshman election campaign last week.
The “ ’53 Express” party supported Tom Reedy for president, Jim Gibbons for vice-president, Al de Crane for secretary, and Bill Gaudreau for treasurer.
Jim Brewer, John McCormick, Bill Jacobitz, and Bob Frandsen represented the “Big Four” party, for president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer respectively.
Vincent La Puma led the “Combo’’ party, with Art Casey for vice-president, Bob Evers for 'secretary, and Jerry Marchand for treasurer.
The “Frosh Party” ran a ticket that included: Lamont McLoughlin for president, J. Roy Dee for treasurer, Dick Seifert for vice-president, and Bob Biever for secretary.
Bob Timmons and Jim Lightner, the only off-campus students in the race, formed a team as presidential and vice-presidential candidates, respectively.
The election was held on Wednesday, too late for Scholastic deadlines. Returns will be published next week.
Nov. 11, 1949
North Carolina’s Team and Students Gird For N.Y. Battle; 7,500 Partisans to Watch
By CHUCK HAUSER Managing Editor, “The Daily Tar Heel”
Chapel Hill, N. C., Nov. 11.—(Special to Notre Dame Scholastic)—In spite of the glitteringly harsh upsets which have branded their team a two-time loser, the Tarheels of the University of North Carolina, amazingly enough, are not afraid of Notre Dame.
That doesn’t mean the 7,500 partisan students here expect to win a certain ball game come Saturday, but it does point out the fact that, win or lose, Carolina book-toters are a bunch _of mighty loyal football fans.
They will tell you their Big Blue team will come through ahead in the rugged grid fight Saturday, but they won’t believe it. Down deep inside, however, they do believe that with a few breaks and the possibility that the team will be in top physical and mental shape for the fray, the Tarheels might yet show that the South can produce a football team which might even take the Irish for a ride.
3,000 to Alake Trip
Some 3,000 students are going to travel to New York to see the game because of that belief. They are traveling to New York also to do the town, throw a few parties, and see if they can make a dent in the huge metropolis similar to the one they made in the na
Yankee Stadium will be filled with thousands tomorrow, but the most enthusiastic rooters will be the 7,500 North Carolina students and 700 Irish student trippers.
tion’s capital a year ago on a football trip.
At that time, when Carolina whipped Maryland to the tune of 49-20, the parties, pep rallies, parades and other impromptu celebrations instigated by the Tarheels caused capital newspaper columnists to remark that it was like a breath of fresh air to see someone other than Congressmen raising hell for a change.
And of all the writers who commented on the invasion from the Old North State, not a one of them forgot to say, “You’re welcome back any time.” But then again, Washington is a bit smaller than New York City.
Of the 3,009 students going to the game, some 1,300 will be privileged to demonstrate to both the Irish and the New Yorkers that the West Coast has no monopoly on placard cheering sections.
Card Tricks Famous
That is the number that will sit on the 50-yard line and perform card tricks, Carolina style, at half-time. The stunts, first installed on campus two years ago by Head Cheerleader Norm Sper, are famous throughout the Southland today.
(Continued on Page 28)
13
Family Group Begins Day in Common Prayer; Lives the Liturgical Year in Fullest Sense
By ROLAND RAMIREZ
The sun has just begun to rise. It is time for the day’s first liturgical hour of prayer, Prime. At 7 o’clock every morning at their home at 944 Riverside Drive, Dr. and Mrs. Sherman L. Egan and their five children begin their day united in prayer. Because Dr. Egan is very often unable to be home when all the family is together, the Egans say their common prayer in the morning. Prime is the first official day-hour of the Divine Office, a morning prayer of blessing on one’s daily work.
This is only one of the ways in which the Egan family lives the liturgy.
As they begin their day together praising God, whoever has something special to pray for, mentions it at Prime, and the whole family prays for it. Philip, the youngest, is not able to pray for anything in particular- as yet, but before long he will have something of his own to add to the family bond, which common family prayer gradually makes stronger and stronger.
It was with the thought of uniting the family in a Christian way, Dr. Egan says, that they began to say Prime. Dennis, who is only two, has probably witnessed the family praying together as far back as he is able to remember,
Dr. and Mrs. Sherman L Egan get their five children together at 7 a.m. each morning to begin the day by reciting the first liturgical hour of prayer, Prime. Only two, Dennis joins in the rite whch has taken place every morning of his young life.
and now he, too, takes active part.
Hymn for New Day
Every morning, he joins in the opening words of the hymn greeting the new day, “Now that daylight fills the sky.”
This hymn, says Dr. Egan, fits especially well in their large-windowed room which the sun fills with its morning rays—just the right moments to “lift oui- hearts to God on high.”
The Liturgical Life group of Notre Dame meets each Friday at 6:30 p.m. in Cavanaugh Reading room. The following morning, Saturday, a Missa Recitata is celebrated for the group in Our Lady chapel of Sacred Heart Church at 6:45 a.m. All are invited, both to the meeting and the Dialogue Mass.
From the very first, all of the children have gone to Sunday Mass together with their parents. Even the baby goes (whoever happens to be the baby at the time), so that from the very beginning of his life he can remember the fittingness of the family worshipping God together.
(At the Little Flower Church, all the babies are encouraged to come, and although some cry and make noise throughout the Mass, no one pays heed to them, and soon they are unnoticed, even during the sermon. In this way the family remains together, as no one has to stay home to take care of the baby.)
Ann and Judy both know how to sing-high Mass, and for a time the whole family sang together, when there was a $ people’s sung Mass at the Little Flower ' Church. All of them have missals and even Brendan knows more about a missal than many a Catholic adult.
Saturday Night Vigils
One of the reasons why they like the liturgy, the Doctor says, is that it keeps the seasons of the Church. Thus the whole family can feel that it is living-together with the Church, keeping the thoughts of the day’s feast. At supper one of the family reads the Collect of the Mass for the day; and at Prime Dr. Egan reads from the St. Andrew’s Missal what is said about the life of the saint of the day.
Every Saturday night, Father Michael Mathis holds a vigil in preparation for the Sunday Mass to follow. Here certain psalms are recited and explained, and parts of Holy Scripture are read, together with expositions by the Fathers of the Church. Dr. and Mrs. Egan were among the first to attend these vigils when they began some years ago; and it was from them that they received much of their knowledge of the liturgy as well as their deep appreciation of its value.
Beneath the molding of the ceiling in the Egan dining room are artistic plaques with the liturgical symbol for every Sunday after Pentecost, done in color. These help to remind them of the mysteries in the Church, especially of the Pentecostal season, and also make excellent decorations.
a
Thought for Meditation
During the important seasons of the year, the children each day put up an antiphon on a large board painted something like an altar (An antiphon is a thought for meditation, giving the theme of the Office).
Other liturgical observances, such as an Advent Wreath, in which they light -up an additional candle during each of the four weeks of Advent, are particularly enjoyed by the children.
The life of the liturgy, besides uniting Catholics to God, is meant to unite the members of Christ’s Mystical Body, the Church. But even more, Dr. and Mrs. Egan have found, this common worship of God. can unite, as few other things can, the Christian family itself as well.
The Scholastic
14
Off-Campus Men Find 'Kid-Stuff Pays Off
By CHARLEY DULLEA
Stealing a page from the annals of “Steve Roper” of the South Bend Tribune, Scholastic herewith presents the lowdown on Notre Dame’s latest busi-W ness venture, Collegiate Baby Sitters.
C.B.S., as it is known to the cognoscenti, was founded by a group of off-campus students as an answer to the problem of part-time work. When even “Double Dollar” Jim Rogers refused to let them install his plain pipe racks, the boys decided a change was in order and, indeed, “change” has become the by-word of the organization.
Thus, under the leadership of Freshmen Bill Richardson and Bill Farmer and Soph Don Kotoske, C.B.S. was born. Eleven sitters, freshmen and sophomores, are now members of this still-growing papoose-platoon.
Just now, an advertising campaign is being waged to acquaint parents, present and prospective, of the services offered by C.B.S. Mort Linder, of WSBT fame, featured several of the foundling fathers on his “News Highlights of the Week” show the night of $ Oct. 15.
Patrons need have no more worries about conveying Esmerelda or Grenadine to and from the evening’s work, as C.B.S.’s minions have their own Maxwells and provide their transportation. “Coke parties,” telephoning, and “ice-box raids” are taboo, giving a great deal more ease to absent parents.
The boys have a stand-by list for weekends, insuring that a sitter is A always available. As to the tariff for this service, 45 cents per hour is charged until midnight, with the rate after the witching hour’ being 50 cents. To contact C.B.S., call 2-6768 or 2-0463.
In fine, let us offer a salute to this bouncing infant industry and its threecornered coat of arms with the motto, “Let us take care of youi- little things.”
German Club Adopts Name
Provisional officers were elected at the last meeting of the newly organized Notre Dame German Club, which has adopted the name Deutscher Verein. The officers, who will serve until January, include Joseph Dukert, president; Bob Nagosek, vice-president; Rich Seifert, secretary; and Frank Stermitz, treasurer. The next meeting of the club will be held Monday at 7 p. m. in the AudioVisual Center.
Nov. 11, 1949
Two Writer Contests Offer $1,100 in Prizes
Two contests for all college and University students who have a yen to write were announced recently. One is the fourth annual College Writers’ Short Story Contest, which offers a first prize of §500, a second prize of §300, and a third of §200. The contest is sponsored by Tomorrow magazine and will be judged by editors of Tomorrow and the editors of Creative Age Press.
The prize-winning stories will be published in the spring and summer of 1950. All other manuscripts will be considered as regular contributions and paid for at regular rates, if published.
Entries should be addressed to College Contest, Tomorrozv Magazine, 11 East 44th Street, New York 17, N. Y. The deadline is January 15, 1950, and manuscripts should not exceed 5000 words. All entries must be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope.
The American-Scandinavian Reviezv announced a contest for essays on the subject of Scandinavian Unity. The essays may deal -with political unity exclusively, or with unity in the economic, social, or cultural spheres of Scandinavian life, past, present, or future, or
even with the work and achievements of an agency or association promoting Scandinavian unity in any one field.
The essays should range in length from 500 to 3000 words. The deadline is April 1, 1949. Manuscripts should be mailed to The American-Scandinavian Review, 116 East 64th Street, New York 21, N. Y. The first prize in this contest is §100.
'Song of India1 Featured At St. Mary's Charity Ball
St. Mary’s College presented its annual Charity Ball last Friday night. Crowds of couples jammed the furniture-cleared Great Hall and the familiar Louis XVI Ballroom—more commonly known as the Social Hall—to the music of two bands. '
The semi-formal dance, under the cochairmanship of Ramona Oppenheim and Mary Brodie, was held from 8:30 to 11:30. Proceeds from the dance went to the Bengal Missions in India, and the evening’s theme was, fittingly, “The Song of India.”
Gene Hull’s band was featured in the Great Hall, while Bud Simpson’s orchestra spun enchantment for the couples in the Louis XVI Ballroom. Low lights, a murmur of voices, and simple but effective decorations completed the evening’s atmosphere.
World Politics Group Announces 3 Lectures
The Committee on International Relations, established at Notre Dame this year with the help of the Rockefeller Foundation, announces three popular lectures on American foreign policy.
Professor Bernard Brodie of Yale University will speak next Tuesday night at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall on the subject “American Foreign Policy in the
Professor Bernard Brodie
Atomic World.” On Dec. 9, Professor J. K. Galbraith of Harvard University will give a Washington Hall address on “The Consequences of the Marshall Plan.” William Y. Elliot, Professor of Political Science at Harvard University, will lecture the following week, Dec. 15, on another phase of our foreign policy in the Law Auditorium.
Another lecture—jointly sponsored by the Committee on International Relations and the Department of History— will be given by Herbert Butterfield, Professor of History at the University of Cambridge. The subject will be “The Tragic Element in International Relations.”
Professor Brodie is-the foremost academic authority on atomic energy. He is a consultant to the State Department and to the Legislative Reference Service of the Library of Congress with the status “Senior Specialist in National Defense.”
From 1943 to 1945, Professor Brodie was an officer in the United States Navy. He worked with the State Department in connection with the San Francisco Conference during 1945, attending the Conference as a technical expert on the American Delegation. He is editor
16
ND Theater Continues Energetic Program; Maher Heads Cast for New Play, 'Holiday'
Continuing its energetic program for the year, the University Theater announced the cast for its new play, Holiday, this w-eek, a short seven days after the final curtain for Whistling in the Dark.
James Maher, a senior journalism student, has been selected for the lead in this comedy of manners by Philip Barry. Frank J. Hanley will direct Holiday, and the play will be produced four nights running, Dec. 12, 13, 14 and 15 in Washington Hall. Maher, a veteran of several University theater productions, including Whistling in the Dark and Shadow and Substance, will enact the role of Johnny Case, the male love interest in Holiday.
Linda Seton, one of the two top feminine roles, will be essayed by Mary Roach, a newcomer to the campus Theater, and one of five Vetville wives participating in Holiday. Beautiful, sophisticated Julia Seton, Linda’s sister, will be played by Jo Ann Smith, whom
and co-author of the book, The Absolute Weapon, published in 1946.
He has contributed a number of articles on the Navy and the Bomb to such reviews as Foreign Affairs and The Annals, as well as lecturing at the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and other nationally known institutions. He has been Professor of International Relations at Yale University since August, 1945.
Professor Galbraith was formerly a member of the editorial board of Fortune. He is the foremost American authority on the Marshall Plan. Professor Elliott is the author of the recently published book, The Western Heritage.
These lectures constitute the immediate plans of the new Committee on International Relations. They are open to all students and members of the faculty.
Hans Sauermann, Professor of Sociology and Economics at the University of Frankfurt and visiting professor at the University of Chicago, spoke to a group of graduate students and faculty members last Tuesday and Wednesday nights in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. He will return on Nov. 29 and 30 to give two more lectures on the subject “Social Changes in Germany and International Economic Cooperation.” These lectures will be open only to graduate students and members of the faculty, and are sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.
campus theatergoers will remember as Toby Van Buren in Whistling in the Dark.
Jim Beymer, stage manager of most Theater productions during the past season, will try his hand in an actor’s role in the new play. He will be Ned Seton, brother of Linda and Julia. Eleanor Thompson, who played the stoical Hilda in last week’s mystery comedy, will be Susan Potter; Leo Blaber and Larry McDermott, members of the gangster mob in Whistling in the Dark, will play the parts of Nick Potter and Edward Seton respectively in Holiday.
Other newcomers to the University Theater are Frank Malzone, a senior music major, as Seton Cram; Jane Marqueling, as Laura Seton; Charles McCauley as Henry, and Avalon Vogan as Delia. Walter Werner, one of the FBI men in last week’s show, will play the part of Charles, a young man-servant in the new production.
Lou Garippo will be stage manager for Holiday. Ted Stelton will assist him, and Phoebe Stapleton will be in charge of properties. Rehearsals began this week, with but 22 practice sessions scheduled for the cast before opening night, Dec. 12.
The story of the play goes something like this:
One of the daughters of the solvent Seton family has engaged herself to be married to an upstanding youth with neither fiscal nor social background. The alliance is regarded dubiously but with dignity by the head of the house, a self-satisfied moneyman living only for the Seton ingots. The hero though expert in finance, is of the belief that life consists of something more than a one hundred percent bank note, and that there is important fun to be had in the nursuit of other treasures. He would like to retire from business when he is young and work when he is old. These radical imnressions disturb both his betrothed and her haughty parent. Friendly to his- credo is his prospective sister-in-law — and here we come upon one of the numerous solutions of the play’s success.
FOOTBALL MOVIES
Movies of the 1949 Michigan Sjtate-Notre Dame game will be shown Nov. 17 at 3:15 in the Engineering Auditorium. The program is under the supervision of the Student Council.
The Scholastic
A Minor Prophet
Eric Gregor Had Retired and Was Ready to Live in Peace, When He Began Having Dreams — Dreams Which Came True
Mr. Eric Gregor swung down the poor, deserted, and dimly lighted street to his dark house. His heart sang in spite of the murky night because his factory pension had finally arrived. Eric was past sixty and his wiry grey hail- and tired eyes gave silent evidence of the justice in his retirement. To Eric this day was the fulfillment of many years of labor.
$ Mr. Gregor’s background was extremely unspectacular. He had been a street brat in the big city and no one was surprised when he quit high school to get a job at Goggin’s giant catsup factory in order to support his mother and himself. For close to forty years Eric had attended the same bottle-capping job becoming almost a fixture in the plant. Now all that was through and'Eric’s fishing dreams were about to become reality.
But now, in the little, unpainted, secluded house in the dismal fringes of the city, strange and completely unexplainable events were twisting old Mr. Gregor’s life. The well deserved fishing trip was growing smaller and smaller with each day.
It was just lately that old Eric’s brass bed had become a thing of terror. The lengthening shadows of night thrown across the cement became an awful fore-™ warning of violent fright. But why be so frightened of such a common disturbance as a nightmare? Ah, but these dreams weren’t common, they were regular, rivid, and terrifying in that they always ended with the violent death of some one. It became so bad that the aged Eric began to stay up late at night which was a rice completely novel to him. Nervously he would drink great quantities of coffee with the fear gripping him until finally he would drop off into his fitful, promised, awful dreams. Later his twistings and turnings would abruptly cease as he suddenly sat, stock straight, and staring into the great deep shadows of the room with a fine sweat all over his body.
One night Eric had an unusually realistic dream. As he fell into an exhausted, restless sleep, a misty apparition of a giant, distorted building floated forward into view. The structure was now just a mass of girders reaching for
Nov. 11, 1949
SCHOLASTIC FICTION By JAMES S. HURLEY
the sky, but it would soon be a magnificent building. A huge, fat man with a red beefy face was talking laughingly to his companion as he rode the elevator to the top of the building. The companion was shaking his head as if upset, but the large man seemed determined. As his companion shrugged, the fat man stepped out along a girder clutching the rope handrails. Grinning back at his friend, the jolly fellow lost his footing and his countenance underwent a swift change from bafflement to terror as his giant frame swayed heavily against the rope guardrail. The rope straining with the sudden weight, suddenly parted, and with a horrible scream the man hurtled to the pavement. The dream faded as the huge, grotesque limp became misty and old Mr. Gregor cried out in his sleep and awoke.
Shaking, old Eric determined to stay awake as long as possible for these nightmares were making his life unbearable. In fact, Eric determined that one more and he would have to see someone, anyone, and get help.
Gregor stiffened as a knock came at the door. Who could be calling on him for he knew no one? Maybe it was another dream, but no. . . . no, it was daylight now. With a somewhat shaky hand, Eric opened the door. His fears were completely allayed as he recognized the grocery boy delivering the weekly box. After paying the lad, Eric took his groceries into the kitchen and began storing them. As he lifted the last bag, his eye caught the newspaper that lined the bottom of the box and began to read.
“WOOLWORTH PRESIDENT LOSES LIFE IN STRANGE ACCIDENT RESULTING FROM A FOOLISH DARE. Mr. John Greenway, president of the mammoth W o o 1 w o r t h Enterprises, plunged twenty-five stories to his death from the new building on Seventh Street in this city. . . . A friend had mocked the former sky scraper airman that he was getting soft and that he would give a pretty penny to see Greenway run the girders again. Un-
expectedly Greenway took the
dare. . . . Investigations are now underway concerning the rope handrail which failed to hold the bulk of the large man. . . . This accident culminates a whole string of freak accidents in the city. . . . The city council is putting pressure on Lieutenant Mattson of the police. . ..”
There then followed an account of not only actual accidents, but also, almost scene for scene, a revival of Mr. Gregor’s recent nightmares.
This newspaper confirmed Mr. Gregor’s suspicion that these regular dreams weren’t natural. As Eric puzzled over the papers the realization that his nightmares were actually horrible foretellings of the future came to him. It isn’t a pleasant thing to know that the next dream you have will presently be headline news.
For a week Gregor did not sleep. How could he sleep when he knew that his next nightmare was, for some strange unearthly reason, actually going to occur? Call the police? No, they would scoff at him. What else could he do? No matter how he thought, there was nothing, nothing. . . .
Finally he could stay awake no longer and he fell asleep. It was foggy and the ghastly white light of the street light tried vainly to pierce the mist as a tired, nervous, old man plodded sullenly down the street. As his head was hanging low on his chest and his mouth muttering something low, he failed to see the car coming from behind him. The senseless mass of steel was careening sickeningly from side to side as the drunken driver finally slumped behind the wheel. On the instrument of the gods sped, roaring in its mad quest for destruction. The terrible headlights swung on the pedestrian and with a scream, crash, and impact, all was over.
The fog drifted dreamily over the senseless body on the pavement and a tug horn sounded in the distance. The dreamer strained to see the countenance of the man as slowly the fog lifted like a ripped veil falls away from its wearer. The man twisted and mashed on the street was . . . himself, Eric Gregor!
Paralized, Eric’s eyes opened and stared, stared at . . . nothing.
17
<
East Side, West Side
Over 700 Notre Dame Student Trippers Leave for New York To See North Carolina Contest and to Paint Gotham Red
New York, the greatest city in the world. That’s where over 700 Notre Dame students are heading this afternoon for the annual student trip and the North Carolina football game. Their sojourn in the huge metropolis will be short but if it is well planned it should turn out to be a memorable visit.
The trippers will arrive at the Pennsylvania Station at 7 a.m. tomorrow. From there they will go a few blocks south to the picturesque St. Francis of Assisi Church for Mass. After that they will be on their own until 4:30 Sunday afternoon when the return trip train leaves.
After checking in at their assigned hotels the students will have a good five hours on their hands before game time. What to do? Plenty. It will best afford a time for some daylight sightseeing. Most will want to head for the heart of Manhattan, Times Square.
Many busses are stationed around this spot for the purpose of sightseeing trips. They’re reasonably priced and will take you through spots that are hard to find and hard to navigate without a guide. Some of these places include China Town, the Bowery, the Battery, and a spin along the dock-pocked Hudson River. If you prefer
Story by KEN THOREN Photos on Page 19 by Acme
to go off on your own there’s Rockefeller Center, which runs a fine and interesting tour, the Central Park, and other spots. If it is a clear, crisp day then a ride to the top of the Empire State Building is worth taking. Don’t go up, though, if there’s an overcast for you won’t see a thing. A walk up Fifth Avenue, with its fine stores and attractive windows, can also be interesting.
Stadium Is Up Town
New York is not a hard place in which to find your way around. The streets that run north to south are numbered from one to ten and are all avenues. The streets that run east to west are also numerically named but are all called streets. If you go below Greenwich Village beware because that’s the old section of town and the streets have proper names and are laid out helter-skelter.
You’ll probably want a good but inexpensive lunch. Don’t be afraid to try the Automats. Their* food isn’t anything to write home about, but it is reasonable and good. Any Child’s res
taurant is also all right. Toffenetti’s at Times Square is anothei- fine spot.
Allow yourselves ample time to get up to Yankee Stadium. There will be a mob heading in that direction and you don’t want to be late. The best way to get there is via the Eighth Avenue Subway. The mid-town stops on this subway are at 34th, 42nd, 49th and 59th Streets. Be sure and take an express. They zip uptown in no time at all. Get off at the Yankee Stadium stop, walk upstairs and presto — you’ll be there.
The football field doesn’t fit too well into the baseball-designed Stadium, but the student tickets are fine and right between the 40-50 yard line markers. Thousands of New Yorkers will be out to see the game. They’ll also jam the arena to see and hear a bit of the Notre Dame spirit.
After the game head back for the same subway. Take it down to the 59th Street" stop and then get up to the street. You’ll be right at Columbus Circle. Walk one block east along the southern edge of Central Park to Seventh Avenue. There you will find the Century Theater where Kiss Me, Kate is playing. Directly across the street is the New York Athletic Club. And in that, on the ninth floor, will be
18
The Scholastic

a Notre Dame cocktail party. It will be held from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. and is being jointly sponsored by the New York Notre Dame Alumni Club and the campus Metropolitan Club. All ND men and their friends are invited.
New York Night Life
Supper will probably be next on the _ agenda. New York is loaded with good p restaurants. Here are but a few: Toots Shor’s at 50th Street and Sixth Avenue (or Avenue of the Americas, as the sign posts say); Stouffer’s at 44th and Fifth Avenue; the Town and Country at 46th and Park Avenue; Gallagher’s Steak House at 52nd Street west of Broadway; and etc. For other suggestions ask any alumnus at the cocktail party. They’ll steer you right.
And now for the big night, itself. For those who want to catch a movie before celebrating the game, go first, above all others, to the Radio City Music Hall. The Roxy is another of the best theaters. So are the Capitol and the Paramount. The only other house which boasts a stage-show (except the Palace which has a string of mediocre vaudeville acts) is the Strand.
If there are any in the crowd who would like to take in a play but who don’t have tickets, well, here’s what to k do: the first spare minute you get to-F morrow morning go to the theater boxoffices. Ask for your tickets, if they should be sold out then go to a theater broker. They’ll charge you a bit extra, however. McBride’s Agency, right next to the Paramount Theater on the corner of 43rd Street, is a reliable one.
For entertainment value we offer the following list of plays; Where’s Charley?, Kiss Me, Kate, Miss Liberty, t Touch and Go, and Lend an Ear. The " others, for the most part, are straight plays, whereas these are all musicals.
Now it’s time to hit the spots. A word of warning is to stay away from the dives — they’ll rook you right and left. Among the places to which you can take dates, and yet find reasonable, are: the Cafe Rouge at the Hotel Statler, opposite the Pennsy station; the Bowman Room at the Hotel Biltmore, the Roosevelt Grill at the | Hotel Roosevelt and the Mercury Room 9 at the Hotel Commodore.
Then there’s Greenwich Village. The only two decent places down there are Nick’s, at Seventh Avenue and 10th Street, and Eddie Condon’s at 47 W. Third Avenue. Jazz fans will particularly go for these two spots. As for the rest of the Village: skip it — it’s overrated. The places are small and smelly and they will soak you right and left.
) Nov. 11, 1949
Manhattan from the air much resembles bed of nails Indian fakirs like to relax on.
One place that you don’t want to
is the G. A. Club at 17th Street Third Avenue, right underneath York’s only remaining El. This
much to look at but for a relaxed good time this is A-l. Everyone sings as loud as they can. Informality reigns the roost. A large contingent of ND’ers will be there, undoubtedly.
To wind up the night we recommend Hamburger Heaven at 51st Street be-
tween Fifth and Madison. A good hot cup of coffee and off to bed.
Sunday morning you’ll want to attend Mass at St. Patrick’s. That’s down on Fifth opposite Rockefeller Center. After that there’ll be time for more sightseeing and then hectic paths will head for the Pennsylvania Station. The trip back and the jaunt will be over. But that’s when the stories start to grow and grow and grow. Things will quiet down until someone pops up with the question: “Where to next year?” As for now, it’s New York, here we come!
Times Square's millions of lights are a
blazing sight for every New York visitor.
college hang-out alive tomorrow front says Joe
Inside it’s not
is a New York should really be
miss and New spot and
night. The sign out King’s Rathskeller.
ND Religious Bulletin Has Unique History
Some of you may wonder when that constant influx of Religious Bulletins under your door will end. This is directed at those who wonder when it began.
Back in the days when dear old St. Ed’s was a grammar school and students roamed through Corby Hall, when the wings of the Main Building were residence halls and the library was as new as Farley and Breen-Phillips are today, Notre Dame held a mission — just like it does now.
And to preserve the spirit of that event, the Department of Religion issued a ‘‘Mission Bulletin.” The first
SOCIOLOGY DISCUSSION
The Sociology Club will present a General Discussion at 7:30' p. ni. Thursday, Nov. 17, in Room 101 of the Law Building. The whole faculty will discuss the question of general Sociology in a question and answer session.
edition, on October 24, 1921, totaled seven carbon copies, one for each of the six residence halls and one to be posted at the bus stop. But when the mission ended, so did the bulletins.
However, the cry arose for more, and a “Religious Bulletin” was issued—two or three times a week at first, then daily. To keep pace with the demand, they were first mimeographed in 1924
for those who wanted them. Five years later, mass production set in and copies were distributed daily to every student.
As the University grew through the years, so the bulletins increased in circulation, until now they are delivered four times weekly, not only to every student but also to more than 1,000 persons by mail. In fact, it is estimated that the Bulletin has 75,000 f readers I	'
Now as then, the Religious Bulletin reviews timely and pertinent problems of faith and morals, often in a humorous fashion. Any letters of inquiry on such matters will be answered. Currently the work of Reverends Richard Grimm and Edmund Murray, C.S.C., prefects of Religion, the bulletins are apt to discuss anything from algophobia to zanies.—Don Carbone	-
E
Capital’s Sensational Travel Bargain! -NIGHTHAWK
Hircoach
LOW-COST 4-ENGINE SERVICE
< NEW YORK... $29”
Leave 1:00 a.m. Only 4 hrs. 5 min. (Rail Coach: $27.30, 16 hrs. 25 min.)
WASHINGTON .$24”
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 4 hrs. 5 min. (Rail Coach: $23.03, 15 hrs. 40 min.)
CLEVELAND . . $12”
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 2 hrs. 16 min. (Rail Coach: $10.28, 5 hrs. 35 min.)
PITTSBURGH . $16”
Leave 1:00 a.m. Only 2 hrs. 10 min. (Rail Coach: $14.10, 8 hours)
DETROIT
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 1 hr. 17 min. (Rail Coach: $8.34, 5 hours)
This is the Original "Nighthawk" Aircoach ...
UNEXCELLED in Experience, Reliability, Popularity
Capital carries MORE Aircoach passengers than any other airline in the U. S. A. (All fares plus federal tax)
In CHICAGO
FOR RESERVED SEAT TICKETS: 144 S. Clark St. & Stevens Hotel A The Palmer House. PHONE: DEarbom 2-5711 or your travel agent.
I
20
The Scholastic
* Scholastic Sports
Leahy, Snavely To Match Wits in New York
Bob Williams (9) nears the goal line after a 40-yard run. Frank Spaniel (28) is set to knock aside Lynn Chandnois (14) who isn't as close to Williams as he looks.
Three Future Foes Bow, Tarheels Triumph, As Notre Dame Subdues Vaunted Spartans
By BILL DELANEY
Well, it looks like the danger point is past. Michigan State’s valiant eleven proved they were as tough as they were built up to be but they could not contend with the over-all might of the Irish. Before last week’s game it was a pretty well accepted fact that if Notre Dame beat State they would end the season undefeated, the fourth time in a row. Now, there is every indication of that coming true.
Notre Dame’s supposedly formidable opponents for the next four weeks had a rough time of it last Saturday but one of them was able to salvage a win.
Tarheels Fight Back
North Carolina, trailing William & Mary 14-13 with only three minutes left in the game, came to life and drove 56 yards for the winning touchdown. Bill Hayes threw a fourth down desperation pass which clicked for 13 yards and the winning margin. When the final gun sounded it was North Carolina 20, William & Mary 13.
Eernie Bierman turned a pack of point-hungry Golden Gophers loose on the Iowa Hawkeyes and the result was disastrous, to say the least. Minnesota won easily, 55-7, and thus knocked Iowa out of contention for: 1) the Big Ten Championship, and 2) a bid to the Rose Bowl. Iowa didn’t even have a brief moment of glory since the only touchdown they scored came in the last quarter when the issue was no longer in doubt.
Trojans Bite the Dust
Meanwhile, in Los Angeles, another Rose Bowl aspirant bit the dust. Southern Cal was beaten by the Indians of Stanford, 34-13. Stanford, in winning, kept themselves in the running for a Rose Bowl berth and, at the same time, shattered whatever hopes the Trojans had of playing in that grid classic. The first quarter was scoreless but the Indians came roaring back with three TD’s in the second and took a 20-0
(Continued on Page 24)
Irish Seek to Derail Tarheels' Choo-Choo
By BILL RILEY
Carl Snavely, the wizard of the single wing, and Frank Leahy, universally acknowledged master of the art of the “T,” pit wits and grid machines tomorrow afternoon in cavernous Yankee Stadium in the first New York appearance of the Irish since their tingling scoreless tie with Army in ’46.	•
Student trippers, subway alumni and plain Joe Fan will see more than two teams matching brain and brawn try-
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS NOTRE DAME NORTH CAROLINA
Wightkin (198)	....E	 Weiner (212)		
Martin (204) ...		T			 Hansen	(210)
Johnson (190) .	.....G...	McDonald	(195)
Grothaus (192)	...C.....		 Neikirk	(200)
Lally (185) .....		G._...		 Rywak	(200)
McGehee (202)	„„T		... Hendrik	(200)
Hart (245) 			E._...		 Powell	(193)
Williams (180)	—-Q—		 Knox	(175)
Spaniel (184) .	.....H...		 Justice	(165)
Coutre (170) ...	...JH.....	... Sherman	(170)
Sitko (180) 		......F.....		 Hayes	(182)
North Carolina Record to Date
26	North Carolina	State _______ 6
21	Georgia ____________________ 7
28	South Carolina	.......... 13
28	Wake Forest _______________ 14
7	Louisiana State	__________ 13
6	Tennessee ................. 35
20	William & Mary ____________ 14
136 Totals 102
Notre Dame, 231; Opponents, 53.
ing to push the pigskin over the opposite goal. It will be the single wing, with its deception, mousetrapping and power plays against the fast-moving, tricky “T,” as perfected by the master.
Tailback Charlie (the Choo-Choo) Justice and fullback Billy Hayes will be passing all over the field in an attempt to exploit the alleged weakness of the Notre Dame pass defense. AllAmerica end Art Weiner and his alter-ego left end Kenny Powell will be the
Nov. 11, 1949
21
main targets. Weiner is well on the way to a national pass-grabbing record.
The Carolina offense is built around Justice. The diminutive All-American is touted as the greatest of Tarheel backs, and one of the greatest any place. His record is impressive. He Jias averaged over fivey ards a try on the ground, including the times that he has been caught behind the line while trying to pass. His passing completion average hovers around the .500 mark, and his punting averages over 40 yards.
Snavely’s version of the single-wing features plenty of reverses, wide end sweeps, passing from both the tailback and fullback slots, and, of course, the Snavely-developed mousetrap.
Tarheel Point Expert
Choo-Choo takes care of most of the punting, as well as the passing and running. The Tarheels have a rival to Steve Oracko in their 220-pound sophomore tackle Abie Williams who has booted 15 of 19 extra points this season.
So far this season, the Carolina boys have been slightly more than in and out. They won their first four, dropped two, and then bounced back to top William and Mary 20-14. LSU and the Tennessee Vols both upset favored
Tarheel elevens.
Snavely laments a weak midline and places his dependence on his ends and backs. Earlier games have borne him out, and the Carolina club may produce a Justice-powered offense that could give Irish defenders some anxious moments.
This possibility looked more and more unlikely aftei- Notre Dame’s impressive 34-21 triumph over* a courageous but obviously outmanned Michigan State eleven. Bobby Williams took another step towards filling the giant strides of the “Luje" as he completed 13 of 16 passes for 178 yards to lead the Notre Dame offense.
Spartans Click
The Spartans clicked off five first downs before the Irish could make one, but by halftime they trailed 7-14. The first Irish score came on a 19-yard pass from Williams to Zalejski while Larry Coutre climaxed a 95-yard, 16-play touchdown march as he drove over from the one-foot line.
Michigan State scored on a recovered fumble on a faulty Williams handoff midway in the second period. Gran-delius carried the ball from the five to within the one, and then smashed over.
The Irish scored again in their first
series of downs in the second half. W After Coutre, Spaniel and Sitko had moved the ball to the Spartan 40, Bob Williams went off left tackle for forty yards and the score. A bad pass from center hurried Oracko into a miss on the try for extra point.
A Williams to Wightkin pass and the running of Red Sitko resulted in the fourth Irish touchdown. Sitko ran 16 yards for the tally. The drive covered 59 yards. Oracko converted. -
Hart Scores on Pass
The final Irish touchdown came when Williams floated a pass to Leon Hart in the end zone.
Michigan State fought valiantly to the gun, as Glick passed to Chandnois with Landy Lynn going 84 yards before being downed by Emil Sitko. The value of a fleet safety man was shown as John Petibon caught Chandnois’ 0 heels and staggered him for Sitko. Michigan State could not be stopped, however, and Glick passed to Carey from the five-yard line for the tally. Smith converted.
Taking over- on the Irish 44 after a fourth down failure, Glick again passed toCarey, this time for 37 yards. Glick completed the scoring on a seven-yard pass to Dibble.
Among the several All-America candidates to perform in Yankee Stadium tomorrow are Bob Williams and Charlie Justice, key offensive men for their teams. Both boys ran and passed for touchdowns last Saturday as the Irish and Tarheels won.
22
The Scholastic
® Indiana Tops in State Cross Country Meet
The Indiana State cross country championship went to Indiana U. last week when they garnered 32 points while Notre Dame was tying Purdue for second with 73.
Individual honors went to Purdue’s Bob Eodibaugh who toured his hilly, four-mile home course in a blazing 20:52. He led three Indiana men, including the defending champion, across the tape. Jim Kittell, in fifth spot with a 21:37 time, topped the Notre Dame entry, while Benny Almaguer came home eighth.
The other Notre Dame men crossed the line in spots from 19th to 25th, a little too far back to do any good. George Gross ran one of his best races to lead this group. Con Tetrault, Bob Fieler, John Mohar and Jim Kelly were right behind him.
Nine schools and 63 men competed in the Big State race, but, as a consolation prize, Ball State was awarded a Little State title. They competed by forgetting that runners from Notre Dame, Purdue and Indiana ever existed.
Indiana’s triumph over Notre Dame and Purdue wasn’t quite as one-sided as the score indicates. It was places taken by a few little school stars that pushed the Boilermaker and Irish scores so high.
All of the Notre Dame men improved their times considerably over their clockings in last month’s dual meet with Purdue when they swamped the Boilermakers, 20 to 37. The only trouble was that Purdue improved a little more. Indiana was just plain loaded.
There is no race on the schedule this weekend, so the harriers will rest like all good Notre Dame men. The Irish will compete in the Central Collegiate Championship Meet at Ypsilanti, Mich., next week.	'
RUSHING
Carries 1	rards	Average
Coutre	64	498	7.8
Sitko	63	450	7.1
Spaniel	35	260	7.4
Barrett	34 Landry	32	162	4.8
	128	4.0
Zalejski	16 PASSING Attempts Com.	103	6.4 Yards Avg.	
Williams	64	41	705	.641
Mazur	2	1	17	.500
PASS-RECEIVING
Caught Yds. Caught Yds.
Wightkin 11	225 Hart	8	101
Coutre 7 140 Zalejski 4	116
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph Wright
They’re All Stars
Last Saturday’s ball game was certainly a beauty to watch because it was a team victory. Everybody who played seemed to have a big part in the win.
The man singled out by the sportswriters was Bob Williams, of course. If ever a quarterback played All-American football, Bob did last Saturday. Among Notre Dame footballers since we’ve been here, Johnny Lu jack is tops in our book. But even the Luje never gave a better performance than Bob gave against Michigan State. From what we heard in the press box, few of the sportswriters could recall any better quarterbacking than they saw Saturday.
Leon Hart played his best game of the year and Spartan fans waited (in vain) for Bill Wightkin to stop imitating Don Hutson.
Frank Spaniel did the finest ball-toting of the afternoon. Ernie Zalejski ran well too, but Frank may have that No. 1 left half spot again.
John Petitbon showed his speed again when he caught Lynn Chandnois from behind in that 83-yard pass play. Lynn had a pretty good start, but Petitbon tripped him on a desperate dive. Spaniel, who didn’t look slow either, finally fell on the Spartan ace to end the biggest chase of the year.
Del Gander, only in the game for a minute or so, came through too. Once, when the Irish were about to kick off in the fourth quarter, Del came streaking off the bench at the last minute to get in on the play. Then, he nearly beat the ball down the field, spilled Chandnois with a nice shoestring tackle and the Spartans were in a hole again.
Spartans Gallant and Good
Michigan State was a gallant team in defeat. In their current series with ND, the Spartans have proved a praiseworthy foe in both games. They don’t play to put up a good showing; the boys from East Lansing play to win. They were fighting all the way. When ND’s unbeaten string ends (perish the thought), it will be ended by a team like Michigan State.
No one should get the idea that the Spartans were only courageous football players; they were good too. Ed Bagdon and Don Mason rate with any pair of guards around. Chandnois deserves all
the praise he gets and Sonny Grande-lius ran just as well as Chandnois last week.
The Spartan publicity people turned out to be of the same caliber as the football team. Press facilities and service were terrific.
Cadets’ Wishful Thinking
In the Oct. 21 issue of The Pointer, the write-up of the Michigan-Army game begins: “The two best teams in the country trotted onto the gridiron at Ann Arbor a couple of Saturdays ago, and to the surprise of 100,000 Midwesterners, they turned out to be Army’s offensive and defensive elevens. . .
The supposedly-surprised Midwesterners would really be surprised if Army ever agrees to trot onto the field against Notre Dame.
Kegler Kopy
The Kampus Keglers elected their officers last Friday night, so that worthy organization will be running in high gear soon. The choices for officers were good ones. If anyone other than Jim Jennewein had been elected president, the voters would be anathema with us. Jim has been in the Keglers all the way and he knows what’s going on.
The Sun’s in Their Eyes
Already the student hoop addicts are flocking to the Rockne Memorial Gym to participate in those no-holds-barred basketball melees. And already they’re having their daytime games spoiled by the sun shining through the windows. This has been going on for a long time and it certainly wouldn’t take much to remedy the situation. How about some curtains, especially for those south windows? It’s not much fun playing when one team can’t see the basket.
Prediction of the Week
Most people are going to New York to see the sights; we’re going to see Charlie Justice. The Choo-Choo man, great as he is, can’t beat ND alone, though. The Tarheels haven’t set the world afire the last three weeks, so why should they beat Notre Dame? The Irish team has no intention of spoiling our weekend for us. Notre Dame, 42; North Carolina, 7.	.
Nov. 11, 1949
23
Opponents
(Continued from Page 21) lead. Southern Cal tried to make a game of it in the second half, but two touchdowns in the final period iced the game for Stanford. Jim Powers, USC quarterback, passed for his team’s two scores.
At College Station, Texas, an amazing Texas A. & M. team came from behind to tie Southern Methodist 27-27. For the Aggies it was a moral victory and for the Southwest Conference it was one of the biggest upsets of the season. Doak Walker and Kyle Rote each scored’ two touchdowns for the Mustangs, but Bob Smith of Texas was the big gun with three touchdowns. Each team missed a valuable point-after-touchdown try.
Middies, Grecnics Tic
The Sugar Bowl, New Orleans, was the site of one of this season’s most exciting games. Two of Notre Dame’s former opponents, Navy and Tulane, fought it out to a 21-21 tie before 70,000 fans. Underdog Navy, back on their feet after a 40-0 beating at the hands of the Irish, came from behind in the fourth quarter to tie the score. In the waning seconds of the game, the Middies had victory at their fingertips only to have the clock run out. Rogei’ Drew, who had been successful on his three PAT attempts, had just come in to try a field goal when the officials called the game. Bob Zastrow and Eddie Price were the big guns for the Middies and the Wave.
Purdue fell before Michigan 20-12 in a game which never saw Purdue in the lead. Washington upset Oregon by the merits of their extra point kicker, 28-27. Indiana, finding the going tougher every week, lost to Illinois 33-14.
Rockne to Leahy Football In 7-Page 'Look' Spread
Notre Dame football got its second national magazine spread of the month as Look brought out a seven-page layout on Notre Dame football history from Rockne to Leahy.
The theme that Look writer Tim Cohane brings out is that Notre Dame football owes its supremacy to the foresight of Rockne, and a succession of brilliant coaches.
Look begins its history with the Rockne era. The thrills and chills of the first Army game, the Gipper, and the immortal Four Horsemen live again on the pages of Look. The Rockne era ends with the tragic death of Rockne, and Look skips to the era of the thin
24
man, Elmer Layden. Look chronicles Layden’s great teams, with their thrilling last-minute victories such as the ’35 thriller over Ohio State.
The last section deals with the era of the master, Frank Leahy. Look calls the ’43 team “probably the greatest.” The story ends with the wishful hope for a series renewal with Army.
University Riflers
Orientate in Stadium
Having already received recognition as a minor sport from the Board of Athletics, the University rifle team, coached by Captain John Daly, U.S.M.C., held its orientation meeting last Wednesday afternoon at the shooting range located in the rotunda of the stadium.
Early practice sessions will be held four times weekly in an effort to quickly mold a squad which will meet the avalanche of challenges already hurled at the rifle team. Massachusetts Institute
Rifle coaches, Capt. Daly and Sgt. Sova
of Technology, Penn State, and the Coast Guard Academy are among those who have challenged the Irish, while the Dalymen have issued invitations for competition to Northwestern, Michigan, and Harvard.
An intercollegiate rifle team has been suggested by numerous students in the past few years, but it was only this fall that the Naval Reserve unit proposed such a squad to the Board of Athletics. Since the facilities—a range, rifles, and ammunition—are all present, the Director of Athletics quickly approved and set it up as a minor numeral sport. All seniors, juniors, and sophs are legible for competition, and frosh may attend practice sessions if they wish. In fact,
anyone willing to learn to use a rifle is M invited to attend these sessions.
A rifle team consists of ten men. In actual competition there are four positions—prone, sitting, kneeling, and offhand. Each man fires ten rounds from each position and his best five rounds are tallied. From these ten men, the scores of the highest five are accepted as the team total. The distance to the target is fifty feet, and either Winchester or £ Remington .22s are used.	~
During the past few years Notre Dame has been well represented by a Naval Reserve unit in national competition with other such units. In the spring of 1949 the Irish NRO delegation copped top honors in the two major rifle meets. They won the Secretary of the Navy match with a total of 1406 points out of a possible 1500. In the William Randolph Hearst match, emblematic of » national sharpshooting supremacy, the Irish garnered 934 points out of 1000 to edge out Washington and Brown who had totals of 914 and 913, respectively. In both these matches Donal J. Murphy, now a junior, of Alumni Hall and Hawthorne, N. J., copped national individual honors with scores of 291/300 and 194/200. Other Irish riflers posting high marks included Ed Walsh and O. F.' Beumel.
Since much of the competition will be intersectional, many meets will of neces- C. sity be postal matches; that is, both schools will shoot at their home ranges and will exchange the targets and results as a means of verifying the score. However, it is hoped that some shoulder-to-shoulder matches will be held with local universities. Next spring, if the national intercollegiate tournament is held in the midwest—Northwestern was the host last year—the Irish will send a delegation to compete for honors. By so forming an intercollegiate rifle team, the sharpshooters immediately become members of the National Rifle Association, and as such, are subject to its rules and stipulations, according to which all matches are held.—Jack Economoti
MARRIAGE FORUM
The fifth session of the Institute on Christian Marriage, sponsored by the Department of Religion, will be held Wednesday evening at 8 o’clock in the Law Auditorium. Mr. Louis Radelet will deliver an address entitled “Money and Marriage” and Mr. Robert Sullivan will speak on “Law and Marriage.”
The Institute is being presented for graduate students, January graduates, and married students. It is open to men only.
The Scholastic

Walsh Wins West Title
Displaying a brisk brand of football to match a bleak November afternoon, Walsh tucked away the Western Division championship in downing Morrissey, 14-0.
Two hundred frigid fans braved the weather to see the Walshites scratch pay dirt once each in the second and third periods.
Jackrabbit Jean Kreuz skirted his right end from the two after his mates had set up the score by recovering a bad Morrissey pass from center pn their two-yard line. He then place-kicked the extra point as Walsh walked off the field 7-0 leaders at half time.
In the third period a determined Morrissey outfit watched its championship hopes fade on the fleeting cleats of Tom Muscatello, Walsh left end, who snagged Augie Gentilucci’s pass and, after flitting away from a hapless tackle attempt, romped 30 yards to the end zone. Kreuz’s big toe again supplied the extra point.
About the only thing Morrissey was able to salvage for its afternoon’s work was first down honors, three to one, as the Walshmen virtually shackled Morrissey’s attack.
As a result of its victory, Walsh set its sights on the East-West playoff in quest of a cross-campus champ.
Jack Keane
Farley Blanks Stubborn B-P
Threatening throughout but scoring only once, a well-coached Farley Hall twenty-two (eleven is obsolete), blanked Breen-Phillips, 6-0.
Farley opened fast. They received the opening kick-off, were forced to punt, blocked a B-P punt, and recovered on the B-P 30. On second down, Vic Kiley skirted right end to score untouched. His kick missed the uprights. The second quarter saw Farley almost score again. A Riley-to-Rust pass covered 56 yards to the B-P five, but four plays later- Farley was back on the ten without the ball, outcharged by a fighting Breen-Phillips line.
Farley kept B-P bottled up during the third period, and began to roll in the final quarter. But once again they
Nov. 11, 1949
were stymied when B-P held on the nine. Breen-Phillips backs almost broke loose on two occasions but it was Farley’s ball and Farley’s ball game when the whistle blew.
The win, their third straight, gave Farley the championship of the eastern campus.—Mike Cuddihy
Hart leaps up to snare a Williams pass
Walsh Wins Again
Walsh Hall, already champion of the Western Division, added to its prestige last week as it downed alumni, 14-0, in the last game of the year in that division. Walsh’s win—the third straight —kept them unbeaten, untied and unscored upon.
Walsh’s first score was a thing of beauty; Jean Kreuz, triple-threat left half, took a pitchout and lobbed a pass to left end Tom Muscatello for the touchdown. Kreuz then added the point.
Kreuz started the ball rolling for the second touchdown, too. He grabbed an Alumni punt and scurried 55 yards before being hauled down on the five-yard line. Two plays later, little Jack Courtney circled left end for six points. Kreuz again kicked the point, his fifth conversion in six tries this season.
Alumni came close to scoring in the third period when they blocked a Kreux punt and recovered on the Walsh 19. Ick Soisson sparked- a ground attack that moved the ball within a foot of the goal, but Walsh held, to keep its goal line uncrossed for the season.
Tarheel Brochure Proves Charlie Is Quite a Player
If anyone at Notre Dame is wondering, why Charlie Justice’s ankle injury caused concern on the North Carolina campus, a look at the Tarheel football brochure would show the reason.
Charlie, affectionately known as Choo-Choo, has a four-year college record that must be one of the greatest of all time. While most All-American backs point with pride to rushing totals that approach one mile, Charlie has nearly two miles gained on the ground. He’s also passed for well over a mile, returned punts over 1000 yards, is nearing the 1000-mark in kickoff returns and holds the national punting record.
His 75-yard touchdown gallop and 21-yard scoring pass against William & Mary last week are sort of routine. Before the 1949 season began, Choo-Choo had tallied 31 TD’s for 186 points.
An example of the Tarheel ace’s expert punting came in the Maryland game last fall. He kicked for 55 and 64 yards, then sent the ball rolling into the end zone 84 yards from the line of scrimmage.
Jennewein Is Named Kampus Kegler Prexy
The Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame had their first big meeting of the school year last Friday night and elected Jim Jennewein as their president. Others elected were Mike Piarulli, vice-president; John O’Brien, treasurer, and Lou Garippo, secretary.
Jennewein has been active in the kegler organization since it began in 1947. He bowled with the St. Louis Club and the Notre Dame entry in the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference last year.
All the other new officers are Kegler vets too. Piarulli rolled with the Philadelphia Club, O’Brien with Detroit and Garippo with the Italian Club.
The Kegler club league will open on Dec. 4, the Sunday after the Southern Methodist football game. This will avoid any conflicts with football weekends.
25
Music
Freddy Martin and his orchestra have been doing a bit of jungle roaming lately and have picked up a lively specimen called I’ve Got A Lovely Bunch of Coconuts, and it is currently being exhibited on Victor record number 20-3554. The Mills Brothers have dished up a tuneful arrangement of I Want You To Want Me on Decca 24749. On the flip-over the boys are doing a bit of harmonizing on Who’ll Be the Next One To Cry Over You. The J. Teter Trio’s rendition of the Johnson Rag is another waxing that is doing some fast stepping up old Tin Pan Alley. Featured on London record 501, it could be headed for the top of the musical heap. Those fans who enjoy Vaughn Monroe and his muscular tonsils will get a chance to see their hero in action when he appears in the western motion picture, Singing Guns. It has also been stated that he will not sing Riders in the Sky, because the mo-vie rights to the song have been sold to Gene Autry. Yep, old Champion is going to get a chance to travel with the Ghostriders.
An old blues classic by Artie Shaw and the orchestra has been re-released. It’s a two-sided version of St. James Infirmary with “Hot Lips” Page on the vocal and the trumpet solo. The Andrew Sisters have teamed up with Guy Lombardo’s orchestra on an etching of the Merry Chistmas Polka. The Notre Dame Glee Club, on Capitol 57-764 has recorded Notre Dome We Hail Thee and the Victory March. University of California at L. A. features its Glee Clubbers on the flipover. This record should make an inexpensive gift to help stretch that Christmas budget. Those who are interested in any of these items should be able to find them at Rodin’s record shop, right across from Walgreen’s.
The Regents Record company has purchased a series of Buddy Clark discings made before his affiliation with Columbia, and the first two should be on the market by now. They are re-releases of South of the Border and If What You Say Is Time, and should be enjoyed by all Clark fans.
Over 1,000 Students Enroll In Confraternity of Rosary
Over 1000 students have enrolled in the Confraternity of the Rosary, the Prefect of Religion said yesterday. Within the first five days of the drive 600 signed. These figures do not include those who are already members
26
of the Confraternity and need not register again.
Anyone wishing to participate in the Confraternity need only record his name in the book for that purpose on either the Dillon or Cavanaugh hall pamphlet rack, and have his beads specially blessed by any Dominican priest or by either prefect of religion.
To share in the many indulgences gained by the other Confraternity members, it is necessary only to be in the state of grace. However, each member must recite 15 decades of the rosary each week to gain for himself the particular indulgences that accompany that requirement.
Science Center Gifts Gain During October
Spurred on by October contributions exceeding §77,000 and a single gift of §10,725 already this month, administration officials this week expressed the hope that construction of the new Science Building may be started this spring.
Blueprints drawn up for the Science Center over a year ago will be unrolled and the construction of the foundations undertaken before the end of the spring semester depending upon one factor— the continuation of the present rate of contributions towards the Science Center Fund. If the contributions continue, the field between the Chemistry Build
Mass Schedule for the Week of Nov. 12-18
Saturday, Nov. 12—Semidouble—Red—St. Martin I, Pope and Martyr: Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Mennas, Martyr. Common Preface.
Sunday, Nov. 13—Semidouble—Green—XXIII Sunday after Pentecost; Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Didacus, Confessor, 3rd “Defend Us”; Creed; Preface of Trinity.
Monday, Nov. 14—Double—Red—St. Josaphat, Bishop and Martyr; Gloria; Common Preface.
Tuesday, Nov. 15—Double—White—St. Albert the Great, Bishop, Confessor, and Doctor of the Church; Gloria; Creed; Common Preface.
Wednesday, Nov. 16—Double—White; St. Gertrude the Great; Virgin; Gloria; Common Preface.
Thursday, Nov. 17—Semidouble—White—St. Gregory the Wonderworker, Bishop and Confessor; Gloria; 2nd Coll. “Defend Us,” 3rd Against the Persecutors of the Church; Common Preface.
Friday, Nov. 18—Greater Double—White—Dedication of the Basilicas of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul; Gloria; Creed; Common Preface.
NOTE:
Missa Recitata in Our Lady Chapel every Saturday, 6:40 p.m.
Compline and Vespers—Dillon Hall daily, 5:20 p.m.
Vespers—Howard daily, 5:30 p.m. .
Compline—Sorin, five days a week, 6:45 p.m.
Compline—Walsh, 11:00 p.m.
ing and the Gymnasium will turn into a hub of activity early in the spring.
The final tabulation of contributions during October reveals that alumni and non-alumni gave Notre Dame a total of §77,187, bringing the year’s total to §478,520. Of this latter amount ND alumni have contributed §266,316 while non-alumni are responsible for §212,204.
The total of $77,187 for October dwarfs the contributions of the preceding months in 1949 which averaged §44,592.
Lest this progress cause over-optimism, it is well to remember that the total cost of the Science Building will be §1,750,000. These 1949 contributions represent less than one-fifth of the total cost after the restricted contributions are subtracted.
On the brighter side, however, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University and director of the Notre Dame Foundation, announced this week that Mr. John H. Fendrich, president of H. Fendrich, Inc., Evansville, Ind., has presented §10,725 to the University to cover the cost of the Auxiliary Organic Research Laboratory in the Science Center.
Mr. Fendrich, an ND grad of 1884, was personally acquainted with Father Sorin, Notre Dame’s founder and first president. The laboratory will be a memorial to Mr. Fendrich’s parents, Herrmann and Mary Reitz Fendrich.
—Jim O’Brien


-
e.
The Scholastic
Names Make News

RAYMOND C. GUTSCHICK, professor of geology at Notre Dame is in El Paso, Texas, for the annual meeting of the Geological Society of America. Before one of the meetings yesterday Professor Gutschick delivered a paper describing the research he conducted in northern Arizona last summer. Prior to the meetings he participated in a field trip through parts of Texas and Arizona. . . .
Irish athletic publicity director CHARLIE CALLAHAN was the subject of a recent International News Service feature by Bill Corum. Mr. Corum kidded Callahan about the difficulty of his job and painted him as a lugubrious fellow. . . .
Professor WALTER M. LANGFORD, head of the department of modern languages at Notre Dame, was the guest speaker recently before the Knights of Columbus in Connersville, Ind. . . .
Dr. MILTON BURTON, of the radiation chemistry project at Notre Dame, is attending a scientific meeting at the Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh, Pa. Dr. JOHN L. MAGEE and Dr. JOHN C. DEVINS are with Dr. Burton. They will attend a conference on gaseous electrons. . . .
Professor LOUIS HASLEY was guest speaker at a meeting of the Writers’ Club in the Hotel Mishawaka last night. He also read manuscripts by members and submitted them for criticism. . . .
Professor FRANK O’MALLEY, of the department of English at Notre Dame, was one of the principal speakers at a luncheon discussion meeting of the Chicago Institute for Religious and Social Studies. The institute is composed of clergymen and educators who meet weekly to discuss current social and cultural problems. . . .
Two Notre Dame professors will address the fall meeting of the Indiana Society of Architects tomorrow. They ae Professor LEROY D. GRAVES, who will lead a forum on “Soils,” and Professor OTTO F. SEELER, who will address a dinner meeting on “Recent Developments in Engineering and Architecture Inside Nazi-Controlled Areas. . . .
ROBERT J. MAHONEY and JAMES J. DASKALOFF recently announced that they had formed a partnership to practice law in South Bend. Mahoney,
Nov. 11, 1949
former president of Bendix local No. 9, UAW-CIO, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1948, and Daskaloff received his degree in 1949. . . .
EDWIN C. PICK, ’39, has collaborated with another lawyer and two members of the faculty of the University of Wisconsin to produce a new book entitled Wisconsin Practice Methods. The 1400 page volume is a “how-to-do-it” manual, outlining step by step procedure for meeting everyday law problems in Wisconsin. . . .
Dr. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, dean of the College of Science, is busy trying indirectly to recruit future scientists for this University. He is on the Talent Search Committee of the Indiana Academy of Sciences who met last week at Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind. This committee is working in conjunction with the Westinghouse Corporation’s eighth annual Science Talent Search. Should a “Hoosier” lad win one of the scholarships offered he might use it at Notre Dame, hence the dean’s interest.
Runyon Memorial Gives Sum for Cancer Study
Life blood for LOBUND!!
The Damon Runyon Memorial for Cancer Research has given Notre Dame an institutional grant of §25,000 for support of the Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame. This represents one of the largest grants yet given by the Runyon Memorial.
James A. Reyniers, director of LOBUND, accepted the grant from Irving Berlin at a ceremony at New York’s Stork Club last week where Walter- Winchell, Tyrone Power, Milton Berle and others connected with the Runyon Memorial were gathered.
This unrestricted institutional grant differs from previous restricted grantin-aids given to ND scientists by the Runyon Memorial for research in specialized fields. An institutional grant is unrestricted, allowing LOBUND freedom in the use of the grant. Director Reyniers and his staff will utilize the grant by setting up facilities to work on cancer with germ-free animals.
Nebraskans Form Club
The newly-formed Nebraska Club met for the first time Monday night with 28 ’Buskers in attendance. The
constitution was ratified and is to be submitted to the Student Council for approval.
Election of officers also took place. They are Denny Radford, president; Dick Cullen, vice-president; Jim Marten, secretary; and Bill Puetz, treasurer.
Plans for the club’s Christmas dance to be held in Omaha were discussed, and committees were appointed to make the final arrangements.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP
112 E. Washington Ave Under Max Adler Co.
"3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU"
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... absorb juices ... reduce tongue bite ... give you the utmost in smoking pleasure.
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VEKY HNS QUAUTY) Specially selected imported briar Pipes. IO Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... X Aho Frank Medico "Standard" —
America's Outstanding Dollar (SI) Fipo
Frank Medico Ggarette Holders *1 & $
MEDICO FILTERED SMOKING
S. M. talk & Co.,Jee. • fifth Avenue, New Terk 2<
27
Tarheels
(Continued from Page 13)
Also on the NYC agenda is a police-approved pep rally and parade to Yankee Stadium starting in the upper numbers of the numbered streets somewhere. Another informal pep rally will be held in Times Square, but the Metropolitan Police Department hasn’t quite heard of that one yet.
Rumors always accompany Tarheel football caravans. Last year somebody got the notion that the Carolinians were planning to plant Confederate flags on the White House lawn, and, as a result, the Secret Service kept a close eye out for starred and barred activity beneath Harry’s South Portico balcony.
Stars and Bars Figure
This year, the Stars and Bars figure in the rumor again, but the grapevine says the flags will be flown above Grant’s Tomb. Don’t you believe it. The Tarheels may be red-blooded Amer-
SPECIAL
BLANKET
With N.D. Monogram All Wool
PRAYERS FOR JACK
Jack Miles was a popular member of the Notre Dame graduating class of 1947. This summer, a week before the date of his wedding, Jack was stricken with polio. Doctors several times thought Jack was dying in the critical weeks that followed but he lived. Jack and his family credit the many prayers of his friends for saving his life.
Jack is still in an iron lung. This week the word was spread. Next Tuesday Jack wants to storm heaven for a special intention. He asked his mother to call SCHOLASTIC to ask us if we’d ask you to say a rosary for his intention next Tuesday. We already know what your answer will be.
"There goes Chandnois, twisting, powering, smashing through -for two yards."
ican college boys and girls, but they’re not Dixiecrats.
As a matter of fact, the oldest state university in the nation (it first opened its doors to students in 1795) has a reputation for being the stronghold of liberalism in the South.
Chapel Hill is a typical college town. The students here are typical college students. They study, go to football games, and enjoy throwing a humdinger of a party now and then. When they go visiting, they like to let people know that they are around.
So if you go to New York and happen to notice a UNC banner waving from the spire of the Empire State Building, the New York Times animated sign spelling out the words to the “Carolina Victory March,” or Mayor William O’Dwyer leading a “Beat Notre Dame” pep rally, you’ll have an indication that the Tarheels have come to town.
"The Irish score on a 40-yard pass."
Mail Orders Accepted
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
BE THRIFTY .	SHOP AT BREEN'S
AND SAVE $ $ $
•	Nationally Advertised Watches
•	Diamonds
• Birthstone Rings • Men's and Women's Costume Jewelry • Rogers Silverware
• Electric Appliances — — USE OUR LAYAWAY PLAN — —
EREEN’S JEWELRY
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
406 SO. MICHIGAN ST...................PHONE:	2-0400
28
■The Scholastic
I

Biology Students, Faculty Attend Academy of Science
Notre Dame’s Department of Biology was well represented at the meetings of the Indiana Academy of Science which were held in Crawfordsville, Ind., on Nov. 4, 5 and 6. The following list includes all the department’s staff members who were present and the papers they presented:
Dr. John A. Jump: Obsez~vations Upon an Actinomycete Inhibitory to Certain Pathogenic fungi.
Dr. Edward 0. Dodson: The Lateral Loop Chromosomes and the Theory of the Gene.
Dr. John D. Mizelle: The Use of the t Mono genetic Trematode Parasites as an Aid in the Identification of Fishes.
Dr. Arthur L. Schipper: An Effective ijr Method of Demonstrating Longitudinal Binary Fission of Euglena and Poly-vitelliny in Stagnicola Reflexa.
Besides the faculty members attending, four graduate students of the Department also presented papers. They were:
Cyril V. Finnegan: Spatial Relationships to Presumptive Erythrocyte Mi-* gration in Salamanders.
K. S. Gopalkrishnan: A Preliminary P Report on the Pathology of Physoderma _ Graminis (Busgen) Minden.
fw B. J. Jaskowski: Evaluation of Cz~i-teria Used for Generic Separation of North American Freshwater Tetra-ochinazv.
John P. Ovens: Experiments zvith Mztscle Contraction.
The meetings of the Indiana Academy of Science are held twice each year. The Spring meetings are, fox* » tfee most part, devoted to field trips;
-^' fall meetings are devoted chiefly to presentation and discussion of scientific investigation.
Three Professors Travel
Three Notre Dame faculty members went to Evansville College last month to attend the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences.
LeClaii- H. Eells, Professox* of Finance, served as a member of the Board of Directors, a post he has held for two years.
Matthew A. Fitzsimons, Associate Professor of History, was a member* of a symposium on the welfare state, while Thomas T. Murphy, Associate Professor of Finance, presented a paper entitled “Deficit, Debt and Dollar Values.”
In elections held at the meeting, Prof. Murphy was named Vice-President for Business Administration, a post he -will hold for one year. Prof. Fitzsimons was elected to a two-yeai* membership on the academy’s Board of Directors.
be a man
not a mouse
get into bold, bold colors
Leopard skin, Don Juan tights ... and now Bolder Look colors win fair maiden. 10 clear, bright pastels and white__Van Bold wide-spread collar — extra-wide center pleat assert your he-man qualities. Esquire inspired the Bold Look... college men introduced it... Van Hensen makes it more popular than ever with its new Bolder Look shirts . . . §3.95
Van Hensen ,..
"the world’s smartest'’ uU-l-J.
PBILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1, N.Y.
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
29
Nov. 11, 1949
(Advertisement)
ARTHUR MURRAY Expert Knows Shortcut to Popularity
Skillful ND Gardener Overcomes Handicap; Nurses Greenhouse Flowers, Loves Them All
Yes, it’s true. You now can become a sought-after partner faster and easier than ever. One hour is all attractive, Arthur Murray teacher, Irene Trexler needs to show you the way to good times.
ARTHUR MURRAY, 120 E. Wayne St. Call 2-3339 Abovce Copp Music Shop
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
By ROGER VORCE
Over behind the infirmary, in the campus greenhouse, is an assortment of beauty in flowers and greenery that would make anyone proud. The skillful fingers that have brought the flowers to their finery belong to Steve Solnoky, greenhouse gardener for the past year and a half.
Two years ago last April, Steve lost his footing and fell down the cellar stairs of his South Bend home. As a result he is totally deaf. When he left the hospital, Mike Mozer, head ND landscaper, brought Steve to campus to overcome his handicap through his hands.
To hand-written queries on what his favorites or specialties are, Steve answers, “I love them all.” Last Tuesday, an orchid bloomed on one of four plants, but it was no more beautiful than many of his flowers. Said Steve, “I get a kick out of them all.”
Steve is always ready to answer the questions of those who can’t remember the difference between a daisy and a begonia. “Most of the flowers,” he explained, “are used for Church decorations. Then we give some to the infirmary, place some at the Grotto, and use them for decoration at Drill Hall functions, or banquets and parties given on campus.”
When questioned on the possibility of blights, Steve declared that rarely had such misfortunes occurred. “Sometimes by mistake,” he answered, “I give them the wrong kind of fertilizer or spray. Outside, nature may kill the blossoms; inside, the gardener must know. Through 35 years of experience with flowers, I’m
careful. Working with flowers is like a moving wheel. You’ve got to keep going, and know what, when and how to handle them.”	9
Among the loveliest flowers in bloom now are the long rows of yellow chrysanthemums and pom-pom chrysanthemums. Along one of the rows are the dozens of green poinsetta plants that will decorate the main altar at Christmas time. Everywhere are hundreds of green plants in various stages of growth. Among them are pelargoniums, lobster cactus, snapdragons, stocks, Christmas peppers, and Cleveland cherries.	£
Steve will exhaust the knowledge and questions of the average amateur gardener. He’s eager to do so at any opportunity. “Tell any of the students or their friends to come in anytime,” Steve advises, “I’d love to show them my flowers.”
Rapid Bid Sales Promise Full House for Law Ball
“Bids are selling like hot cakes and £ we expect to have a capacity crowd,” revealed Meyer Kroopneck and Wilmer McLaughlin, ticket chairmen of the annual Law Ball.
Future lawyers will waltz their dates to the music of Herb Germann and “The Aristocrats” on Friday evening, Nov. 18, in the main ball room of the Indiana Club.
The scene will be set in a “Wintep Wonderland” theme, with Mrs. Vince* Scully and Miss Marilyn Luyckax reign- — ing as queens of the ball.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend. Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
EXECUTIVE CAREERS IN RETAILING One-year Course leads to Master’s Degree
• Prepare to step into a responsible executive position in the retailing field: buying, advertising, fashion, personnel. Specialized training, exclusively for college graduates, covers merchandising, personnel management, textiles, store organization, sales promotion, and all phases of store activity. Realistic approach under store-trained faculty. Classes are combined with paid store work. Students are usually placed before graduation. Co-educational. Master’s degree. Limited enrollment. Write Admissions Office for Bulletin C.
RESEARCH BUREAU FOR RETAIL TRAINING
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH • Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
30
The Scholastic
Books
The Waters of Siloe, Thomas Merton; Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York; 1949, $3.50, illustrated.
The Waters of Siloe is primarily a history of the Order of Cistercians of the Strict Observance interlaced with a cogent sermon which flows throughout its pages. The sermon is the spring in which the book is born and nourished, and without which the monasticism which eventually resolved into the familiar Trappists would have withered and died. The theme of this sermon is unity with God through contemplation, , made possible and perfect by the spirit of detachment which is engendered by > 9 conscious and austere control of i.he flesh.
The history is introduced by a rather lengthy prologue in which the author attempts to explain why men become cenobitic ascetics. This, perhaps, is the most significant aspect of the book.
“They have not come to the monastery to escape from the realities of life but to find those realities: k they have felt the terrible insufficiency of life in a civilization that »is entirely dedicated to the pursuit of shadows.”
It would seem from these words that one cannot find the realities of life outside of the monastery, and in this day when the dissatisfaction of mankind with mankind has reached neurotic intensity, one might believe that to be j true. That, however, is not Merton’s • meaning. He says it should not be nec-essary to say that this thesis does not A‘ carry with it any criticism of ihe active life. He explains that when one becomes a Trappist, he does so at the behest of God. If he has not the v >ca-tion, he will, like many who have entered the enclosure of the monastery, leave shortly, in awe of or at variance with the extreme self-sacrifice demanded therein.
The Trappists believe, says Merton,
"... that the next world begins in this world and that heaven can be theirs now, very truly, even though imperfectly, if they give their lives to the one activity which is the beatitude of heaven.”
In view of this fact their lives are
primarily directed to contemplation, “the possession of God by knowledge and love.” That, flatly, is their main and sole purpose in life — they have no intermediate aim. The perfection for. which they strive is “infused cr mystical prayer for those to whom God
Nov. 11, 1949
may deign to grant such a favor.” The asceticism they practice is not sought as an end in itself (This was a fault of many of the early monastical orders.) and its end is not merely penitential: it is the means by which men may detach themselves as completely as possible from the things of the .vorld in order to achieve a more perfect unity with God. The monks found through the ages of their existence since St. Benedict that in order to be purely contemplative, to strive for “the perfection of love,” in this world, they had to abandon the world completely, except to pray for it. Any attempt to become even a quasi-active religious order frustrated their’ purpose.
Although the monks have no practical end in the order of things mundane, they have had their practical effect upon the world in a twofold manner. Primarily, as Merton states.
In a world in which men have forgotten the value of prayer, it is the monks who pray for the world and for all those in the world who have forgotten how to pray. . . . And if people have been able to discover any ultimate meaning of the chaos of our world, they rwe it to the grace of God, which was obtained for them by somebody’s prayer.
Going to the DANCE?
Secondarily, the spirit of the sacrifice of Gethsemani and other monasteries has made itself known in the world, especially at times when men have been at a loss for values, and has given men assurance that there is a God and has shown them that the way to Him and beatitude is love.
The Cistercian Order was founded at the turn of the twelfth century as a reform of Benedictine monasticism which had its birth in the sixth century. St. Benedict transferred the whole impact of asceticism to the interior— from the flesh to the will. Merton, after a brief sketch of monasticism up until that time, takes us from there through a rather detailed chronological history of the Cistercians to the present time.
The theme is the struggle of the monks to adhere to the Rule of St. Benedict as interpreted by them in the twelfth century, in spite of the difficulties they encountered from men and the elements. The story moves slowly and the vignettes, experiences, and sketches of each consecutive group of monks through the centuries tend to be varied repetitions of the preceding ones. Merton’s flare for dramatizing the detailed and simple, and the many interesting anecdotes of humor and human interest that pervade the history save it from being the tabloid of facts into which most histories resolve.—Earl M. Hauen
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
No Deposits for Students
Tuxedos $6.75 Full Dress $9.00
All sizes: Shorts, Stouts, Regulars, Longs, Extra-Longs.
Free Alterations for
Personal Satisfaction
You can be sure that the suit you wear to -the dance is the one you were fitted in.
LOGAN
107 North Main Street
Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
31
I
•;
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
Inal evil ever to lead Scotland Yard from the darkness of its perennial confusion to the daylight of truth and solution — Mr. Sherlock Holmes? The grandest memories of my departed youth start at Baker Street on a foggy evening and develop into triumphant adventure as Holmes, Watson and my awed self . . . And now on a day that will live in infamy comes this cynical conglomeration of bad Max Shulman and Holmesian stage pieces, holding up to scorn and ridicule the methods and character of the patron saint of the detective story ... I am aroused to just indignation and regardless of any merit the tale may have I demand an unqualified apology to Mr. Holmes and all like myself who revere his memory.
This declined, I suggest that in lieu thereof, . . . iconoclasts of his ilk should remove tongue from cheek and go take a flying jump into Reichenbach Falls joining such other purple villains as
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
LOOK AT Sheedy all puffed up with pride. And to think that only last week he almost croaked when he found he couldn’t pass the Finger-Nail Test. Then a friend put him wise to Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Now he’s the big noise on the ■campus. Non-alcoholic Wildroot contains Lanolin, keeps hair neat and well-groomed all day long. Relieves annoying dryness, removes loose, ugly dandruff. So if you haven’t switched to Wildroot, better hop to it right away. Get Wildroot CreamOil in bottles or tubes at your nearest drug or toilet goods ■counter. And don’t froget to ask your barber for professional applications! (One at a time, of course!)
+ of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Professor Moriarty and Dr. Roylott of Stoke Moran in the limbo reserved for those, who, in their foolishness refused to recognize the greatness of Sherlock Holmes.
This limbo, incidentally — and I have it on good authority — is a pit filled with such attractions as the faithful old retriever of Baskerville Hall, the lion’s mane, and the giant rate of Sumatra (for which the world is not yet prepared). It is overgrown with burning devil’s foot root and tended by a malevolent Sussex vampire. I cannot but urge discretion and honorable compliance.	Lou Peck
111 Dillon Hall
To the Whipping Post
Editor:
In the name of many unmarried secretaries working in the Main Building, I would like to enlighten Mr. T. O’Brien whose letter appeared in your November 4, 1949, issue.
It is not true that the girls that work
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
CMNKmiM
uMua
OIL
on campus are primarily working here to look for husbands. On the contrary, our primary purpose in working on campus is our job itself. If any one of us should be so lucky as to marry a “Notre Dame man” fine! — but that is not the reason we are out here. I have been going over to the Huddle for some time now, and at no time during the past year and a half have I noticed any of my colleagues bothering any student in any way. We simply buy a cup of coffee, enjoy drinking it and leave, a privilege which we naturally appreciate.
After all, our Mr. O’Brien should realize that we, as working girls, are for the most part in one room from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., and appreciate the break we get in the morning or afternoon. We are sorry that we cannot . regulate the time we are free to leave the office so that we can conform to Mr. O’Brien’s specifications, but important work does not always permit this. Mr. O’Brien and his fellow students, on the other hand, are free to stop in at the Huddle before any class as well as after their class schedule for the day is over, which is usually a good part of the afternoon.
I would suggest that Mr. O’Brien practice a few of his Christian virtues, Charity, for instance, and we sincerely beg him not to worry about his being “hooked” for a husband — we will do our best to steer clear of him!
Velma C. Wukovits
Editor:
We femmes who toil in the Main Building have but few words (all vitriolic) for misogynist T. O’Brien: In Scholastic parlance, “To the wall!” We wonder who gave Obie the brush- ~ off in favor of a human. You’re in college now, laddie, supposedly to become informed; you should know that crowds don’t cause confusion — only children and the emotionally immature get flustered when they find themselves in a throng. Stop frothing! Maybe the well-turned calves are tired of ba-a-a-ing to you, too. If we all supped our caffeine at the same time, what would happen to our work, our phone calls, YOUR queries, etc.? As for mate- * hunting, don’t worry, Adonis, we doubt if anyone has designs on you. Most of us are pretty discriminate!
-	Miss Pat McCarthy
Editor:
(An Open Letter to Mr. T. O’Brien) Dear Mr. O’Brien:
Concerning your marital status we are not overly interested. In fact it
The Scholastic
32
interests us not one iota. Considering your intelligence quota, we have already formed an opinion. And as for your manners, or lack of them, we believe that the Christian Principles taught you at Notre Dame have undoubtedly fallen into a vacuum where they have not been allowed to take root.
of setting up a system, through the administration, to discover if jobs could be obtained off campus for students during the school year and during the Christmas and Easter vacations. The
motion was approved.
Russ Skall gave a report from the audit committee stating that the Victory dances from Sept. 24 through Oct. 15 have netted a total profit of $630.46.
If all the Notre Dame students were of your opinion, we would then most gladly sacrifice the 15 minutes permitted us (to do with as we please!) and would work the full day without a break for coffee!!
Main Building Girls
Editor:
Would you please publish a full-page picture of T. O’Brien, the dashing student who attracts all the campus sec-retaries to the Huddle. I would like to ™ frame it in my wastebasket.
Phil Kelley
336 Walsh
P.S.: Does Mr. O’Brien also feel responsible for drawing the girls to the cafeteria, or might it be that they, too, enjoy something to eat or an extra cup of coffee now and then?
~ Cotillion Dominates Meeting of Council
The Sophomore Cotillion dominated the Student Council discussion in last Monday’s meeting in room 101 of the Law building.
A motion was made, at the request of the sophomore cotillion committee, that the football team be invited to » attend the Victory Dance after the Iowa game as guests of the Student Council. The motion was carried and a blanket invitation will be extended the team in a letter to the co-captains, Leon Hart and Jim Martin.
The Sophomore Cotillion committee has also agreed to have a council committee underwrite the dance. The contract has been drawn and signed by both committees.
Jim Gillis, president of the Walsh P Hall council, was appointed, in a hurried measure, as manager of the campus flower committee. This issue was rushed through the parliamentary procedure in view of the fact that the organization must be operating in time to handle the flower requests for the Sophomore Cotillion.
The YCS submitted a motion requesting the Student Council to appoint a committee to investigate the possibility
college man should know!
r This is an English major. Goes from bed to verse.
Glows when Johnson waxes poetic.
Thinks Ogden Nash is funny but knows John Greenleaf is Whittier.
• These "Manhattan Repp ties open a new chapter in smart fall styling.
And best of all, the stripings are in your own Alma Mater colors.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Cop*. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.


| Nov. 11, 1949
33
LOST
Man’s white and yellow gold Wedding Band, Monday, 5:307:30 P.M. on Campus or N. D. Bus. REWARD: Contact Publications Office—255
Roughly Speaking
by ken Xhoren w
For the One and Only tyl&cuetiA. by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
219 West Washington “Just West of the Oliver”
MACHINE BREAKS IN PIPES
Many New Shapes
$po. $200. >350. $500 Ask Your Dealer
Dr. Gratew Hp ft. Ik., Clfap 14, ■.
Michigan State
Not to be outdone by the tremendous throng that headed for Michigan State last Saturday for the battle with the Spartans, we crawled out of bed with the dami and headed northward, too. And what a day!
A friend from Vetville drove sports editor Buzz Wright, two other campus men and ourself up. The weather1 couldn’t have been better even though it was a bit nippy in the stands. We couldn’t find any of that inch and a half of snow, though, that was described on the radio the night before. The November countryside along the roads was bleak but with good company making the trip pleasant, it was hardly noticed.
We made good time and arrived in Lansing about noon. A comparison between it and South Bend was interesting. The main street was wide and clean. It was lined with huge green flags with a white S on them. After we got back we heard several of these got stuck to Notre Dame men and can now be found decorating a few hall walls.
Traffic was beginning to get heavy so we headed right for East Lansing and the Michigan State campus. We passed up sight-seeing until after the game and went directly to the Macklin Stadium. It’s a great stadium, newly renovated, and a lot like ours. It’s smaller, though, and much harder to get in and out of than Notre Dame’s.
Thousands of words have been -written about the game itself, so there’s not much sense in recapping. We would like to say, however, that we haven’t seen a better game since last season’s opening Purdue game. We didn’t think the Irish were “up” for the game, at least not as much as for the Tulane encounter, but they really fooled us. They fought like tigers. Williams had everyone gasping. Wightkin was at his best. The entire team, for that matter, was great.
As for the Spartans: they tried hard. They fought right up to the final gun, evidenced by those two last touchdowns. They deserved them, if for no other reason than the battle they waged. We outplayed them, and the margin should have been wider — but, the score was,
all things considered, just right.
We didn’t think much of the Michigan State band. Their uniforms were dowdy and not particularly attractive. Their half-time show was one of those that only the fifty-yard line spectators could figure out, and then, only with an explanatory sheet. When will bands entertain the entire stadium?
The game was over about 4 o’clock which gave us plenty of time to look around the State campus. We foi’/id . out, however, that we needed days in- • stead of hours to look the place over. It’s big. Above all else, that impressed us most. It just sprawls and sprawls and sprawls.
The dorms that house the 15,000 students are immense. They’re building a Shaw dorm that looks like a huge hotel. And we thought Dillon was big! We made a tour of Jennison Field House. In it was a pool the size of the Rock’s but with a large gallery around it. Then there’s also a gym that’s about a twice the size of the Rock’s. To top it all off they have a field house, proper, in which two of ours could fit. It was hard to take.
Our next stop was State’s student union. You’d be hard put to mention anything that they didn’t have there. Cafs, sitting rooms, lounges, ballrooms, dining rooms, 16 bowling alleys, an art gallery, a music room, etc., etc. That, too, is newly renovated and decorated in a modern style. Our parting thought was: oh, well, we’ve got the Huddle!
We were to drive back that night so we had to make tracks. Our final impression of State’s entire layout was that it was nice but, fools as we may be, they can have it. Perhaps we’re provincial, but we’ll still settle for Notre Dame. People call this place big; they should see that college. It struck us as being cold. There was no warmth to the campus. The students seemed to drift around in ones and twos. A better example of mass education would be hard to find. The buildings, themselves, were nice, yes, but didn’t reflect what college life is like. Not as much as ours, anyway, and that’s saying something.
Nope, for our money they can keep Michigan State. We were back in time to check in, so, all in all, it had been a great day. And now — on to New York.
34
The Scholastic
$33.75
Voted Best-dressed Man of Sports in 1949, millions know Lott Boudreau as the brilliant player-manager of the Cleveland Indians
impressed by the distinction of
ELGIN styling and the promise
of superb performance from
the DuraPower Mainspring
♦Patent pending. Made of "Elgiloy” metal
$55.00
.50
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.50 to $5000. Elgin De Luxe from $47.50 to $67.50. Other Elgins as low as $29.75. All prices include Federal Tax.
says LOU BOUDREAU,
ust as Lou Boudreau says . . . “There’s a double surprise in an Elgin.” First the prize-winning style (winner of the Fashion Academy Gold Medal Award). Then the amazing DuraPower Mainspring. No other watch in the world has such dependable power for accurate timekeeping. Better start hinting for your Christmas Elgin now. Jewelers are proudly showing the new Elgins in a wide range of prices.
EKIN TIMED TO THE STARS.
The genius of America to wear on your wrist
Nov. 11, 1949
35
Copyright 1949. Liggett & Mms Tobacco Co.
_____________PrintecLat AVE MARIA PRESS