. The Notre Dame Scholastic
{Entered as second-class matter- at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing'j at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
February 15, 1935
No. 16
JOHN LOCHER CHOSEN WASHINGTON ORATOR
INAUGURATE SERIES OF WEEKLY RADIO
BROADCASTS FROM CAMPUS STATION
According to an announcement made yesterday, John Joseph Locher, Jr., of Monticello, Iowa will deliver the Washington Pay oration which is an integral part of the annual Washington Day exercises. Locher is a junior in the College of Law but will be graduated from the College of
John J. Locher
He appreciates Washington.
Arts and Letters this June. His topic will be “An Appreciation of Washing-| ton’s Farewell Address” Locher has been a member of the debating team for the past several years and turned in an exceptionally tine performance at the Stanford debate Wednesday night.
This custom of presenting a flag came into existence through the efforts of the Rev. Martin Regan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline at the University for more than twenty-five years. In 1896 Sam Murdock, who had been president of the graduating class only a decade before that time, K gave to Father Regan a flag pole as a gift. This was set up south of the Post Office. When, later on, the pole was destroyed in a gale, it was replaced by a new one which stands in the present location.
At the suggestion of Father Regan, the senior class of ’97, considerably smaller in number than any of those now graduated from the University, commenced the Washington’s Day tradition of buying and giving a large American flag to the Univer-k sity.
Manion-Thomas Debate Draws Large Audience; No Decision Given
“Neither gentleman will be able to convince the other,” was Judge Oare’s opening statement as chairman of the “Socialism versus Controlled Capitalism” debate which took place at the crowded Central High School auditorium with Norman Thomas as the socialist advocate and Clarence Manion as the upholder of capitalism. Judge Oare, the only Republican of the debate stage, said that as such he would, “act as a smoke screen of respectability.”
Mr. Walter Arnold, a member of the South Bend bar, introduced'1 Professor Manion. In opening his speech, Mr. Manion said, “Socialism is more psychological than logical. I am here to defend one thing — all men are created equal and free to strive for life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
“Socialism is not progressive; it goes backward, not forward,” continued Mr. Manion. “The purpose of the government is to preserve individual rights. Socialism calls for arbitrary government and the ratification of personal liberty.”
Mr. Manion closed his speech saying, “hope is a great psychological invigorator.”
Dr. I. Sandock, prominent South Bend physician, introduced Norman Thomas, leading socialist, “not as an orator, writer, but as a humanitarian.”
The three time socialist candidate for the Presidency commenced his forty minute speech by expressing the opinion that, “I have listened diligently for forty minutes to my esteemed opposition and have not heard how to control capitalism. Socialism is not an ethical doctrine nor collectivism but a development in the fullness of time. Socialism followed capitalism as capitalism followed feudalism.”
Thomas continued, “The Roosevelt administration used the power of the
(Continued on Page 8)
THREE PROGRAMS WEEKLY
By Irwin L. Goldman
To the rhythmic strains of the “Victory March,” Notre Dame went ‘on the air’ last Tuesday night at
James Boyle
His statistics ivere unbelievable.
8:30 in the first of a series of broadcasts emanating from the campus studio on the third floor of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering over WSBT the South Bend Tribune station.
Following the ‘University football song’ came a dramatization of the founding of Notre Dame du Lac by the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., and Alexis Coquillard famous early South Bend settler. Louis Grosso spoke the part of Father Sorin and Jack Sweeney was Alexis Coquillard.
Next on the program was a duonarration by James Boyle and Joseph Mansfield, on the fine points of the University campus. Statistics and explanations were given concerning the buildings, sports, art gallery, library, student recreation, food consumed and other outstanding Notre Dame features. All but one of the states of the Union and numerous foreign countries are represented. “Notre Dame is a real melting pot.” Notre Dame alumni prominent in the sports, political and financial worlds were mentioned.
As a musical interlude the band (Continued on Page 6)
February 15, 1935
One
Wranglers Sponsor I.C.O. Contest; Fort Wayne Entrant Places First
REARDON ANNOUNCES
PROM COMMITTEES

SEVEN SCHOOLS COMPETE
Jerome O’Dowd, the entrant from Catholic Central High school, of Fort Wayne, was awarded the Joseph P. McNamara trophy for first place in the Indiana Catholic Oratorical Con-
Arthur Korzeneski
He substituted for a General.
test for high schools. O’Dowd’s oration was entitled “State Aid to Catholic Schools.”
Second place was given to Joseph Hammerstein, from Reitz Memorial High school, in Evansville. His speech, “Lest We Forget,” was a plea for perseverance in the cause of the Legion of Decency.
The four other speakers, their high schools and their subjects were as follows: William Brennan, Cathedral, of Indianapolis, “Catholic Action”; Nicholas Barsha, Saint Mary’s, of Anderson, “The Mexican Situation”; Richard Hammond, Catholic Central, of Hammond, “Safety”; and William Minges, Catholic Central, of South Bend, “The Ideal Catholic Student.”
The man placing first was presented with a trophy for his high school and a polished gold medal as his own reward. The second best speaker received a similar medal, while the four other contestants were awarded burnished gold medals.
The judges of the contest were: Professor Ronald Cox, of the department of speech, who acted as chairman of the judges; Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the department of sociology, and Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers. Louis H. Hruby, chairman of the I.C.O., presided at the contest.
In the absence of the donor of the trophy and medals, Joseph P. McNamara, deputy attorney general of Indiana, the prizes were awarded by Arthur L. Korzeneski, in the name of the Wranglers who sponsored the state contest.
Movie Schedule Replete With Outstanding
Presentations
The following is the movie schedule up until Easter week as announced by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.:
Feb. 15 — “Charlie Chan in London.”
Feb. 23 — “The House of Rothschild.”
March 2 — “Bulldog Drummond Strikes Back.”
March 9—“Count of Monte Cristo.”
March 16—“Murder in a Private Car.”
March 23—“The Last Gentleman.”
March 30 — “The Lemon Drop Kid.”
April 6—“Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch.”
April 13—“College Rhythm.”
Upon their arrival on Saturday morning the six contestants, their alternates and faculty advisers were taken to their rooms in Morrissey Hall. Following dinner at a special table in the west dining hall, the young men were the guests of the Athletic Department at the Notre Dame-Marquette track meet. After the meet the Wranglers conducted a tour of the campus for the visitors.
At seven o’clock Saturday evening a banquet was tendered the contestants in the lay faculty dining room. Franklyn C. Hochreiter, secretary of the Wranglers and chairman of the reception committee for the I.C.O., acted as toastmaster. The speakers included: Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, who welcomed the guests in the name of the University; Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department of economics and politics, who was the principal speaker; Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the department of sociology; Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers; Professor Ronald Cox, of the department of speech; Mr. James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary; and Louis H. Hruby, chairman of the I.C.O., who introduced the six contestants.
Lecture Tonight
Dr. Peter Guilday, head of the history department at the Catholic University in Washington, D. C., will lecture on the “Life and Times of John Carroll,” the first bishop of Baltimore, Maryland, in Washington Hall on Friday, March 15 at eight o’clock.
The bi-centennial of John Carroll will be celebrated this year.
The 1935 Junior Prom, two weeks away, is taking definite form today as General Chairman Thomas M. Reardon announced last minute plans for the third year men’s dance which will be held Friday night, March 1, at the Palais Royale in South Bend.
Committees and dinner dance arrangements are complete. Edward R. Dunn, of Chicago, Illinois, has been named chairman of the dinner dance which will be held at the Oliver Hotel Saturday evening, March 2. Chairman Dunn will be assisted by seven other juniors. Orchestra arrangements are not definite although an announcement is expected to be made next week.
No definite arrangements have been made on the question of favors but it is possible that the custom of giving these favors will be discontinued this year.
The committee chairmen as announced by General Chairman Reardon are:
Tickets, Lawrence J. O’Toole. Programs, Louis H. Hansman. Decorations, George Moriarity. Reception, William J. Smith. Patrons, Francis L. Layden. Hall, Thomas J. Treacy.
Music, William J. Darcy.
Arrangements, Robert M. Lauer. Publicity, Daniel T. McLaughlin. Favors, Donald M. Kelly.
Riordan Speaks on Defense To Chamber Of Commerce
Mr. Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, will speak on “National Defense” before a luncheon meeting of the Chamber of Commerce Monday, February 18, in the Chamber of Commerce building.
Mr. Riordan’s talk will stress the serious lack of defense equipment and training in the United States at the present time. The talk will be in line with the report made by the Chief of Staff of the United States army in which the status of defense conditions is annually reported.
Each year during National Defense Week, talks are sponsored by the Reserve Officers association to keep civic organizations informed on the status of national defense. The movement is participated in by various military and political societies.
The Scholastl
Two
FROSH NOMINATE HEN * FOR CLASS OFFICES
Debaters Defeat Stanford Univ.;
No Decision In Kent Contest
Bulletin
The Freshman yesterday nominated the following candidates for the class elections to be held next Wednesday: For president, Eugene Vaslett and “Red” Gleason; for vice president, Clark Reynolds and Richard Jenney; for secretary, Thomas Mulligan and Francis Crowley; for treasurer, Charles Sweeney and Edward Haggar.
By Paul Foley
“A Candidate for Every Voter,” seemed to be the motto of the Freshmen when they convened in the gymnasium at 12:30 yesterday to nominate candidates for the four class officers.
While the usual Carroll-Brownson-Freshman versus Dillon line-up was preserved in some of the myriad of tickets, the fledgling politicians outdid themselves in new combines and lack of combines.
Charles Schill, chairman of the S.A.C. Elections committee, was literally swamped with candidates, tickets, lone-wolves, and irate managers. When the dead-line was finally drawn at 6:00 p.m. Wednesday there, were no less than nine full tickets studded with an array of solo fliers, two-seated tickets, and various other hopefuls.
One enterprising lad managed to insert his name on to two tickets as a prospective class secretary; still another ticket showed up with almost as many managers as candidates.
When the dickering was finally arranged in a more or less orderly fashion the fight narrowed to a two ticket affair, one led by “Red” Gleason, of Freshman hall, which named “Bud” Derengoski, Charles Sweeney, and John Monahan, for the offices of vice president, secretary and treasurer. This line-up presented a determined anti-Dillon front with Freshman, Carroll and Brownson being represented. Not content with this set-up the powers behind the ticket took no unnecessary chances and included an Off-campus yearling to further bolster its strength.
The other strong ticket was headed by Eugene Vaslett, and included Clark Reynolds, and Tom Mulligan. While this wing had no candidate to offer for the office of treasurer they made up for the deficiency by having two managers, Charles Callahan, and William McNamara.
The Vaslett faction might be termed the new school of political recipe composed of two parts Dillon hall and one part Freshman.
The ballot-box beef-stew is further thickened with a maze of independent
February 15, 1935
Thirty-three Candidates Report for Tryouts On The Scholastic
Thirty-four candidates striving for a position on the news and sports staff of The Scholastic assembled Tuesday night, Feb. 11, at 7:45 o’clock in the editorial offices.
Since it would be impossible to judge the merit of the unprecedented number of candidates by sending them all on active news assignments the editors solved the problem by giving each candidate a typewritten sheet containing a garbled mass of facts gleaned from a news story of the New York Times. The candidates are to arrange these facts into a logical news order of value and thus, construct a coherent news story.
The preliminary judgment and weeding out of candidates will be based on the worth of these news stories. Further selection will then be made through consideration of active news assignments given to those remaining.
Caps And Gowns Distributed On Thursday in Walsh Hall
Caps and gowns will be distributed to seniors on next Thursday, Feb. 21, between 1:00 and 5:00 p.m. in the Dome studios located in the basement of Walsh Hall. Each senior will be assessed one dollar, to be paid on Thursday, for the use of the caps and gowns. These should be returned at the place from which they are to be distributed on Friday, Feb. 22, after the noon meal.
Walter Powers, chairman of the committee on caps and gowns, and the members of the committee: John Lively, John Maddock, Matthew Ron-zone, James Bartley, and Philip P. Arnheiter, will tend to all business concerning caps and gowns. Attendance at Washington’s Day exercises is compulsory for all seniors.
tickets—some represent all Brownson hopefuls, Off-campus, Freshman unite on another slate, while Dillon Hall, not to be outdone submits a one-hundred percent Gold Coast ticket.
The palm of victory for sheer hope must inevitably go to the enterprising Lindbergh who does choose to run— all alone, Chairman Schill claims the lone candidate did not specify what office he desired but will be in the battle all the way and every way.
TEAMS ENTER TOURNEY
By Franklyn Hochreiter
Notre Dame won its first home debate of the season last Wednesday evening when a negative team composed of John Locher and Joseph Becek defeated an affirmative team
Joseph Becek
His logic teas substantial.
from Leland-Stanford of California. On last Sunday morning over Station WLS in Chicago another Notre Dame negative team debated an affirmative squad from Chicago Kent College of Law. Since this was an audience decision no results have as yet been determined.
Both sides having presented strong cases it was a difficult problem' for Professor E. Knoblouch, of Buchanan High School, Buchanan, Michigan, critic judge, to make a decision in the Notre Dame-Stanford forensic battle. The logic of Locher and Becek, however, proved to be more substantial the the nebulous arguments of John McFarland and Fred Bold, Jr., of Stanford.
In the Notre Dame-Kent debate Thomas Proctor and John Heywood represented Professor Coyne against Archibald J. Carey, Jr. and Robert Brown of Kent.
On February 22 and 23, Mr. Coyne will take several teams to North Manchester, Indiana, to enter a tournament of “B” teams. Represented at this tournament will be squads from leading universities of the mid-west.
Academy of Science
Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, addressed the Academy of Science on the subject, “Medical Ethics,” in Science hall, Monday night. In his lecture, Father Wenninger stressed the importance of moral principles guiding the doctor in his practice. The speaker also discussed abortion, differentiating among the various types, and distinguishing them as to legitimacy.
Three
FR. MILTNER ATTENDS EDUCATIONAL MEETING
EX-“SCHOLASTIC” EDITOR, JAMES S. KEARNS, SUCCESSFUL
STUDENT THEATRE SHOW POSTPONED TO MARCH

The Rev. Charles A. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, attended the meetings, of the Progressive Education association which were held Feb. 8, and 9, at the Palmer House in Chicago.
In the liberal arts section, various reports were made on colleges that have broken away from the traditional form of organization and sought to introduce not only new subject matter in the College Curricula but also new methods of measuring the achievement of their students.
The four institutions making reports were Chicago and Minnesota Universities for men’s schools, and Goucher College in Baltimore and Bennington College in Vermont for women. None of the methods were reported as complete or quite satisfactory but all feel that they are on the right road and will continue.
At the second session the new standards of the North Central Association were discussed by Dr. George Works. These standards were described as a new character of freedom for younger colleges in the sense that each institution will be left free to pursue its own particular- objectives in the educational association taking care only to see to it that the institution possessed and utilized suitable means to obtain these objectives. Thus individuality was guaranteed to each institution and all regimentation along the same lines of development is excluded.
Belmont New President Of the French Club
Election of officers for the Cercle Francais was held in Carroll Rec room on Thursday, February 7. Expresident Louis Grosso, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was congratulated on the very efficient work of his administration by Carmi A. Belmont, of Fall River, Massachusetts, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and newly elected president. President Belmont briefly expressed his gratitude for the office to which he had been elected. Darius Ferland and Lindsay B. Phoebus were elected vice-president and secretary, respectively. Merlin J. Caldwell was appointed chairman for the next meeting to be held on February 21.
The new administration of the Cercle Francais will probably witness the presentation of at least one French movie. President Belmont plans to give the members as much entertainment as possible through the medium of smokers and noted speakers.	.
Four
In the recent sixtieth anniversary issue of The Chicago Daily News, comment was made concerning that newspaper’s various staffs. Of particular interest to Notre Dame is that portion which refers to James S. Kearns, ’34:
“Fresh from Notre-Dame and yet
James S. Kearns
“. . . under that hair, a keen mind.”
not fresh either. Tall and exceedingly slender, with a mop of unruly black hair and glasses which give him a serious look that is only a surface characteristic. Behind those glasses are eyes that have a knack in observing football in all its intricate phase and under that hair a keen mind that enables him to write of it with a style that is catching and, at the same time, inspires respect for his opinions. Only known fault is trying to draw to inside straights.”
Kearns, a graduate of the School of Journalism, was editor-in-chief of The Scholastic last year and conducted the campus sports column, “Splinters From The Press Box.” He had been sports editor and managing editor of The Scholastic during his sophomore and junior years, respectively.
Immediately after graduation in June, 1934, Kearns accepted a position as sports writer on the Chicago Daily News. Since that time he has been writing regularly, many of his stories being by-lined. In addition to his writing duties Kearns was general chairman of the Pageant of the Nations, and the recent Ice Carnival, conducted by the Daily News.
Mr. Myers
Professor Frederic I. Myers .who has been quite ill has returned to the campus to take up his duties in the English department.
. Rehearsals for the forthcoming University Theatre production, “Turn to the Right,” have been retarded because of the illness of the director of the play, Professor Albert Doyle, of the Department of Speech. Action for the three act comedy has been worked out for at least the first half of the production.
Because of the • delay, the dates have been set forward from the originally intended first week in March to the tentative dates of March 17, 18, and 19. It is a general custom of the University Theatre to give a dramatic presentation on or about St. Patrick’s Day each year, and this postponement is in keeping with the custom.
Work on the construction of the elaborate sets which will be built under the supervision of Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Department of Speech, is expected to begin this week. One of the sets, a peach orchard in bloom, will be one of the most extravagant ever to be used by the University players on the Washington Hall stage.
The play is atmospherically a 1910 American scene in a small fanning town. The players will be dressed in the garb of that day and the lines of comedy carry the characteristic slang and by-words of the period.
“Turn to the Right,” the title of the play, does not mean the mechanical turning of a body to the right, nor does it refer to the dumb policeman used as a precaution to vehicle operators. The title refers to a turning of the mind from the wrong to the right.
$
>
Chemical Group to Hear Talk on Crime Methods
One of the most unusual lectures of the year will be given Wednesday night, February 20, in the Engineering Building auditorium. “Chemical Methods of Crime Detection,” is the subject to be presented by Dr. C. W. Muehlberger, head of the Crime Detection laboratory of Northwestern university, Chicago.
This talk, which will be illustrated with lantern slides, is to be given at the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society. Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, president of the section, has announced that this meeting will be open to the public. All students interested in this lecture are invited to hear Dr. Muehlberger, who is an authority on toxicology and crime detection. The meeting will begin at 7:45 p.m.
‘The Scholastic

LESLIE LECTURES ON STYLE IN ENGLISH
By John Gillespie
Speaking to “a full house for the first time in my life,” Shane Leslie presented his second lecture Tuesday evening, February 12, at Washington hall; his subject was “Style in English.”
Style, the speaker explained, is rhythm under restraint; it cannot be imitated; it can be good or bad, or non-existent. It may be found not only in writing, but also in rowing, boxing, running, and game-shooting. We need not look for style in long paragraphs, because it is often found in sentences, not as window-dressing or decoration, but as an inherent part.
Mr. Leslie employed several quotations which exemplified his definition of the various qualities of style — persuasiveness, pertinence, and good taste. As an instance of style in repartee Mr. Leslie offered a witticism by the late Thomas Edison: When the telephone was in its primal stages, an English duke, interested in telephony, visited America and spent an afternoon in Edison’s laboratory. When asked what he thought of the duke, Edison answered, “I have given orders that he should never be allowed in my laboratory again. That man knows several things that I don’t intend to invent until next fall.”
In reference to style in letters, Mr. Leslie pointed out that it may be found in many translations of Greek into English by geniuses who eliminated the awkwardness of a literal translation by turning clever smooth phrases preserving the original sense. American advertisements and newspaper headlines, he said, are full of good style — not entirely epigrammatic, but apt and compressed.
Stylists write to the readers who have style in them. A good test of style is in the conclusion of a book — whether it ends abruptly and flatly, with a note of finality, or whether it is powerful and unique.
“Style is peace as far as the pen can give you peace; those who possess it give a great peace, as it is hidden in the classics.”
I
Hoyer Appointment
Announcement has just been made of the appointment of Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the department of Boy Guidance, to membership on the Committee on Neighborhood and Community activities for the 1935 meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Charities to be held at Peoria, next fall.
February 15, 1935
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL TO DIRECT A FEDERAL SURVEY
Forty-five Notre Dame students have volunteered for participation in the preliminary step of the Federal Bureau of Education’s project of adult education and rehabilitation of cripples. Working under the spon-
President Vincent McAloon His men determine eligibility.
sorship and direction of the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, these students will administer a questionnaire to disabled members of some 200 families in St. Joseph County to determine their eligibility to receive a program of academic and vocational education from unemployed teachers of the county, who are to be paid by the federal government.
The volunteers held a meeting Wednesday evening in the Main Building to receive instructions as to how the test should be administered. Because of the large number of families to be visited, it is planned to have each volunteer make five different visits. Two of these tests will be administered: the first will be made in South Bend, and later on, a second will include all of St. Joseph County.
The purpose of the federal project is to fit physically handicapped persons for remunerative employment, not by establishing special schools or institutions for the purpose, but by use of available agencies is already established. Of this nature is Notre Dame’s Conference of St. Vincent de Paul. The government intends to train handicapped persons for specific vocations, consistent with their physical, mental, and vocational capacities. Once the individual has received sufficient training, the government will seek to place him in a job, or may even set him up in a business of his own. Also within the aim of the plan is the fitting of artificial appliances to restore as far as possible, in such cases, the function of a lost member.
The task of the forty-five Notre Dame volunteers wall be to determine the eligibility of handicapped persons
EARL REEDER SPEAKS TO COMMERCE FORUM
“If you can go into business; compare, analyze the problems of the modern retail merchant, and say ‘There’s the road,’ you can just about write your own ticket,” concluded Mr. Earl Reeder in his address to the Commerce Forum on retail trade last Wednesday night. Mr. Reeder, manager of the South Bend Retail Merchants Association, spoke to the Forum on the problems in the retail trade today, and outlined the paths of work open to the college graduate who had “an eye to the future, and an ear to the ground.”
After outlining the course of American trade up to about 1865 when transportation by railroad came to be the opening of a new field of national commerce, he said “I think that hub in the cycle of business is important to you men because it marks a new era in business, because today I believe we stand at another definite crossroads.” In that day national distribution was unknown, and national advertising unheard of. But the men of vision such as Rockefeller saw that the horizon was broadening tremendously. National distribution meant that the local tradesmen must educate his community to their needs besides supplying the needs, and thus national advertising came into being. With national advertising came competition of the most tremendous kind, until today we have, strictly speaking, a battle of giants. But expansion brought its problem too. The chain store developed, against which there was a great hue. and cry 25 years ago, but the chains continued to grow until today there is practically no line of business which does not depend on syndicates or chains. Many authorities believe that the big problem today is not the chain store against the independent retailer, but the clash of the national chains.
Mr. Reeder believed that there was a possibility that retail trading would eventually turn back to the independent merchant, because the great strides which the chain stores have taken in “buying, displaying, advertising, selling cleanliness, and sanitation have contributed to the knowledge of the local dealer.”
to receive the rehabilitation service. They will interview the handicapped person for the purpose of securing a complete inventory of his disability, financial condition, former employment, education, capacities, personality, and occupational opportunities. They will* make a study of each individual case, and then develop a plan for it.- Data thus compiled will be turned over by the St. Vincent de Paul Society to the federal authorities in charge of the program.
Five
PAT MANION ACCEPTS GOVERNMENT POSITION
WILLIAM II. COLLINS LECTURES ON TRAVEL
Clarence Manion, professor of Constitutional Law, accepted the position, February 8, of director of federal emergency relief for Indiana.
This appointment to succeed Fred Hoke, of Indianapolis, was announced by Donald E. Richberg, executive director of national relief on Thursday, February 7. Mr. Manion wired his acceptance to Mr. Richberg in Washington, D. C. Professor Manion will take over the duties of office on February 16, and Hoke’s resignation becomes effective the preceding day.
As to whether or not any changes will take place in the present setup of the Indiana council Professor Manion said, “I won’t know until after I have talked with Mr. Hoke.” He will leave shortly for Indianapolis where he will confer with his predecessor. Mr. Manion’s appointment was recommended by Senator Frederick Van Nuys and carried the approval of Senator Sherman Minton, both of Indiana.
Although the headquarters of the federal emergency relief director- will be situated in Indianapolis, Mr. Manion will remain a member of the Notre Dame law faculty. This will be accomplished through a rearrangement of his law class schedule.
RADIO OPENING
(Continued from Page 1)
under the direction of Joseph Casa-santa, head of the music department played the “Hike Song.”
Father Burke then introduced James Armstrong, alumni secretary, to the radio audience. Armstrong, in an appreciative tone said that the, “alumni is the first to congratulate Notre Dame on going on the air.”
Rev. Leonard J. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies was next introduced by Father Burke. Father Carrico explained that he was speaking in the absence of Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University and Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame. “We at Notre Dame are glad to have the opportunity of speaking over the air with friends and relatives of Notre Dame. The faculty and students will do their best to make these programs interesting.” Father Carrico then expressed the University’s appreciation to the South Bend Tribune.
The next Notre Dame program will go over the air this afternoon at 4:15 at which time the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Ph.D., dean of the science school will lecture on “Insects..”
X?’about the camPys
There’s a 66-incher holding access to all training table delicacies enjoyed by Nick’s men. When meets come around he works out in “civvies,” instead of the expected track suit, and
flaunts a bold “official” tag before a crew of buzzing assistants. That tag symbolizes the rise of Raymond B. Keating, the Pride of Platteville, Wisconsin, from water carrier to whistle blower, here at Notre Dame.
It wasn’t so long ago—only two inches in height ago, he’ll tell you —that Ray arrived with a reputation as the flashiest quarterback in Platteville High. He had more than a red and white monogram sweater and two years of experience when he went out for freshman football—he had grit! But there was something attractive, more so thought Ray, about the fun those kids who took care of footballs and towels and equipment, and slopped water all over themselves were having, so he switched to their division.
Now, as track manager, the little fellow who came here with the home town nickname “Kitten”—that shows you how ferocious he really was, and is—chortles with glee over the fact that he made the trip to California this past fall with the football team. How he had been cut out of school when they reached Tucson, how he made a brief study of social conditions in Mexico and how he talked himself back into school again make up another story. But it just goes to show you what excitement surrounds the managerial mite and his travels.
Two years ago he left for a study tour of Washington, and, although a Wisconsonite, became interested in a certain representative from the state of Illinois, hailing from Chicago. This interest has grown into quite an
William Howes Collins, president of the Intercollegiate Young Alumni Association and a member of the Executive committee of the National Student Federation of America, entertained a capacity crowd of students in Washington hall last evening with a very interesting and informative lecture on “The American Student Abroad.” Mr. Collins depicted student life, both social and athletic, in the numerous European colleges and universities as well as the opportunities for graduate and undergraduate study in the renowned European institutions. His information on scholarships and fellowships available abroad drew favorable comment from his attentive audience.
Mr. Collins’ lecture was preceded by a travel show depicting a complete trip across the Atlantic on the speedy, luxury liner “Bremen.” That an ocean voyage is far from a dull trip Mr. Collins demonstrated, recounting the many opportunities for social, intellectual and athletic entertainment while abroad. The speaker drew copiously on his many experiences both abroad and in Europe. His anecdotes were highly amusing and interesting.
Mr. Collins also depicted for the audience a journey across continental Europe, visiting Berlin, Munich, Vienna, and Switzerland, and including a trip along the historical Rhine.
The lecture was under the auspices of the educational service department of the Hamburg-American Line, and was arranged by Mr. I. Mitttermayer, the Line’s South Bend representative.
attachment, which makes necessary visits to Chicago, whenever U. of Ill. is in recess—visits which, we understand, are far from ruthless!
Track meets are his woe; coaches’ meetings, his weal. It was after the Butler Relays last year that Ray first drew the attention of coaches and track celebrities to himself. His style of running around was paramount. Making friends in this way is an accomplishment, which is ably complemented by his ability to make friends do things for him. Ask his roommate, Rubly, about this, or the “Brute”— the fellow he virtually lives with—or the other two members of the managerial trio to which he belongs, Kirley and Weber. Or, for that matter, ask anybody on the second floor of Walsh—he’ll tell you, most vociferously, what a swell guy “Shorty” is.
He’s a top-notcher in that elect body of the Commerce school, the Accounting majors. We cite, for -proof, the ‘97 with which he scraped through in that subject last semester.
5 tx
The Scholastic
S. A. C. CALLS MEETING
9 OF NET CLUB MEMBERS
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
K. OF C. PLAN SECOND COMMUNION BREAKFAST
By Paul Foley
The North Room of the Library will be the scene of a birthday party Sunday morning when the members of the Metropolitan Club convene at the request of the S.A.C. to celebrate
Andrew Maffei
His Step-Child’s birthday.
the two-month existence of the Met Club’s step-child — its healthy deficit.
Contrary to most fond party givers the S.A.C. is more concerned with the disgustingly healthy condition of the young red guest than with any show* of weakness.
Campus sentiment, which was not very loud in its acclamation of the birth of the deficit, should certainly be more than willing to co-operate in giving it a rousing send-off.
Since the last note of George Hall’s music faded out in the Roosevelt Hotel ball room there has been much speculation and worrying about the $290.00 debt the affair ushered in — not the least perturbed of the worriers has been President Andrew Maffei on whose shoulders the club’s financial activities have begun to weigh heavily.
Rumors have flown thick and fast about assessments, countei* - assessments, and various other plans for erasing the red figures from the ledger.
A meeting was called shortly after school sessions were resumed and most of the New Yorkers stayed in their rooms with hands stuck firmly in their pockets and the trusty billfolds securely locked in desk drawers.
With all the fanfare and bickering the deficit did not dwindle and the S.A.C. began to wonder* what would be the eventual outcome. It seems that the decision has been reached and the situation has been studied from every angle and the- conclusions drawn.
The Metropolitan Club, since it incurred the debt, is to be given every opportunity of straightening the thing out. A general meeting of the club has been called for Sunday morning as the only possible way by which a general assessment of New Yorkers in the vicinity of the city can be avoided.
(Continued on Base 8)
PAINTRESSES
The Rhode Island Philosophical Society, meeting at Brown University-heard Prof. Curt Ducasse berate the cosmetic craze. Said he: “Women of today stain their fingernails in such a manner that they resemble the claws of a tiger ripping up a sheep. If the reason for staining the fingernails is to provide decorative spots of bright color, why not green, or blue, or golden fingernails, and why not likewise green, or blue, or golden lips, eyebroivs, cheeks or ears? Especially with the addition of colored wigs to match, some wonderfid effects could undoubtedly be achieved.” . . . Not so rational, professor, the ladies may7 follow your suggestion!
At Johns Hopkins, a prof says that pastoral people who drink lots of milk are long-lived. Act accordingly—
Even scientists prefer blondes! A research assistant in M. I. T.’s department of meteorology finds blonde hair is most satisfactory in instruments using human hair to measure the moisture content of the atmosphere.
Four mornings in succession a Chicago prof found his office telephone wire severed. His sleuthing uncovered a campus squirrel as the culprit. Something nutty there.
A Purdue Exponent columnist sings, “Podden my Southern accent — I’ve been drinking from a Dixie cup.”
The ‘Walrus’ of Boston U. Neics declares that American students in Germany, when forced to salute Hitler’s demonstrations, only grin and yell, “HEEL HITLER.”
The Illini submits this as the proper line to pull when complaints arrive from home about your grades: “The primary purpose of eduaction is manhood, not scholarship.” What do you think?
INVESTIGATION
A committee of ten students at Ohio State were appointed by the Student Senate to find functions for class officers. It seems the prexies and their assistants haven’t been giving enough action. If the report states that enough real duties for the politicians can’t be established, the Senate may dispense with all class heads and say “Finis” to all class elections.
And while we’re on the subject a Northwestern co-ed, aspiring to a senior class office, made this appeal: “I am in favoi* of a series of very informal senior parties which would be something more than just dances.” Tch! Tch!
The Knights of Columbus will give a Communion breakfast Sunday, Feb. 24. This breakfast will be free to all members, and will follow the 8:00 o’clock Mass at which the Knights will receive Communion in a body. It will be held in the Lay Faculty Din-
John Busichio
For him, fine men are available.
ing Hall. No speaker has been selected as yet by John Busichio, chairman of the Communion breakfast, but the finest men available are always obtained for this occasion. The K of C picture for the Dome will be taken at this time.
Next Sunday, a group of eight Knights will journey to Chicago to receive the Fourth degree of Knighthood. The degree will be conferred in the Palmer House. Such notables as Mayor Edward Kelley of Chicago, States Attorney Courtney, Judge Schwaba of the Criminal Court, and Gabby Hartnett of baseball fame will receive the Fourth Degree in the same group as the Notre Dame representatives. Senator Maloney of Connecticut will speak at the banquet following the conferring of the degree. The Notre Dame representatives who will receive the degree are: Wm. A. Burke, Robert W. Cavanaugh, Eugene F. Connolly, Arthur D. Cronin, James M. Foohey, Edmond F. Hammer, Arthur R. Martin, and Joseph W. Schmidt.
At a meeting of the officers last Tuesday, the membership drive was organized. Having given one of the finest dances in years, the Knights are ready to turn their attention to the new membership drive. Chairman Robert Grogan is conducting this drive according to a new plan. A man has been placed in charge of each hall, and each of these men will be supported by a group of residents in this hall. In this manner, every student on the campus will be contacted.
For the next meeting, Monday, Feb. 18, Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., has been selected as the principle speaker. Another of the speeches of the Catholic Action movement will be given by a student Knight. Editor Ray Martin announces that the next issue of the Santa Maria will appear March 4.
February 15, 1935
Seven
SIGNOR TAMAGNA SPEAKS BEFORE ITALIAN CLUB
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
FR. CAREY ADDRESSES PATRICIAN MEETING
Signor Francesco Tamagna, Italian exchange student from the University of Pavia, was the guest of honor and the principal speaker at the Italian club meeting of Tuesday, Feb. 12, held in Walsh hall basement. The installation of the Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., as club chaplain was postponed till the next meeting. Professor Staunton of the English department was a visitor to the meeting.
Signor Tamagna spoke in Italian before the club, contrasting the differences between university life in Italy and in America. He pointed out that the Italian university has no campus, no dormitories or refectories. Students live in the various boarding houses, hotels, and pensions in the city. However, the Fascist government has a movement afoot independent of the university to provide student dormitories and refrectories at minimum costs.
In regard to classroom routine he said, “Secondly, students are not obligated to attend lectures in Italy. There is more freedom of study, and the student has an opportunity to do much outside reading on his own. At the beginning of the term the professor gives you a list of books that you are suggested to read, and the list of lectures. There are no designated assignments or recitations. This freedom, however, carries the risk of the student not being well prepared for the final examinations held in the later part of June or the beginning of July, and again in October.”
The final examinations are given orally before a council of three professors, one of whom does the questioning, and the other two who listen to the answers. The maximum grade is 30 votes, ten from each professor, and the passing mark is 18 votes.	•
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 7)
The meeting is not designed to take up any collection or to pass the hat in any manner. It will consist simply in an effort to work out some scheme whereby assessments can be avoided and the debt liquidated in the shortest, most painless way.
It is understood that University officials are not in favor of any form of general assessment that will work a hardship on the students. The S.A.C. and officers of the Met Club have expressed similar feelings.
“The only way a stiff general assessment can be avoided,” said Thomas LaLonde, chairman of the S.A.C., “is to have a large, representative turn-out at the meeting Sunday to offer some intelligent plan of attack’”
Eight
The Last Word:
If out of a possible hundred, ‘B’ is equal to sixty, And sixty is equal to failure, Then “B” isn’t enough.
When Winter Comes—
With, the feeling of relief — for some — that follows the posting of exam marks, comes also that interlude in the Notre Dame year that is more talked about than a visit to the dentist: from February to the Easter vacation. We won’t try to recall the best descriptions of this hiatus in events social and exciting; instead we are going to suggest a few diversions that may keep the undergraduate from finally and desperately resorting to the books.
First, foi' those actively or merely academically engaged in engineering or architecture, a pleasant and brainstirring way to waste a few hours would be an attempt to find the shortest distance, viz., a straight line, from the Stadium to Corby Hall. It would be futile to specify any rules or by-laws for this harmless diversion, but let it be understood beforehand that short cuts don’t count. An added flavor may be inculcated by doubling the score of any surveyor who eliminates the cinder hazards enroute.
Secondly, as a sort of consolation prize to those frustrated Commerce men who were not selected by prexy Frank Shay to make his power survey, we would advocate a similar chart of the many and numerous souls who kicked over that first hurdle of the four year invitational event — that grand old jinx — “Beowulf to Hardy.” Such a staggering collection of statistics would be appreciated by faculty and students alike, and maybe the K. of C. could be induced to erect some sort of a tablet or plaque in a conspicuous place, as a warning to those to come. (Seniors in A.B. may substitute Rational Psychology.)
Thirdly, we intend to give the Phy. Eds. something more to do than provide visitors to the campus with a preview of next year’s fashions for the rough and ready brute. For many, the semesters, a youngish biology prof has been regaling his freshmen with quips and jests convincingly derogatory to the brain matter of those hardy souls majoring on the second floor front of the gym. The jokes are getting stale and the subject is getting monotonous. So to pencils, men of Scannell!
At the second meeting of the Patricians society this semester, held in the Law Building Wednesday evening, February 13, the Reverend William Carey, C.S.C., of the Department of Classics, spoke to the members of the society upon “Qualities of Good Poetry.”
With this subject he treated those qualities, particularly, those that constitute good poetry in any language. In general he referred to interesting comparisons of Latin and English, many of which revealed the dependence of English poetic meanings upon ideas expressed in sublime lines of Vergil and other noted poets.
Father Carey demonstrated examples of poetry possessing good qualities by considering a poem from three points of view. A piece of poetry was examined for its fine words and word order; for its fine music and rhythm; and for its fine sentiment.
To illustrate what he meant by these' three important qualities, the speaker quoted universally sublime lines from Vergil, Lucretius, and Horace. Special attention was given to the profound philosophy underlying these beautiful lines of poetry.
Vergil, the foremost of the Latin poets, served as the chief and final consideration of Notre Dame’s scholarly linguist. With these famous words from Vergil, “Sunt lachrymae rerum, et mentem mortalis tangunt,” Father Carey closed his impromptu discussion. He was well-prepared upon this subject, as he has devoted his career to the study of the great Latin writers, and is how compiling an interpretative work of Vergil’s writings, especially his “Aeneid.”
e
MANION - THOMAS
(Continued from Pase 1) *
government to control collectivism. The Roosevelt administration isn’t working to give honest men jobs. Socialism, on the other hand, is the ideal of cooperation under which poverty can be abolished. The United States does not suffer from overproduction but from under-consumption.”
Pertaining to the present farming situation Thomas stated that one of the objects of socialism is to “guarantee tenure of home and farm to the working farmer.”
In his twenty minute rebuttal Professor Manion; of the University law department, said that under the system of controlled capitalism the “worker could strike singularly or collectively, but could not under socialism.” He compared socialism to the governmental antics of Russia.
. The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, February 15
Symphony orchestra rehearsal, 7:00 p.m. Washington Hall; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial 6:30, general staff 7:00 p.m., editorial rooms. Lecture, “Life And Times of John Carroll,” by Dr. Peter Guilday, 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall. Track, Notre Dame vs. Iowa, Notre Dame gym.
Saturday, February 16
Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame gym. Track, Armour Relays, Chicago. Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Cincinnati at Cincinnati.
Sunday, February 17
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Metropolitan Club meeting, 11:00 a.m., north basement of the Library. Interhall basketball, gym.
Tuesday, February 19
Lecture, “Hamlet as a Catholic Play,” by Shane Leslie, 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m. Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p.m. Washington Hall.
Wednesday, February 20
Servers club meeting, 6:30, Sacristy.
Wranglers Discuss Problems of Membership at Meeting
The Wranglers at their regular meeting in the law building last Tuesday night considered two major problems as a part of their business session. The first consisted of two amendments to the constitution; one, by which graduate students will become honorary members unless they otherwise state their desire to remain active; and the other by which a member will be dropped from the society after three absences, unless the absence be of sufficient weight to warrant excuse and be placed in writing in the hands of the president previous-to the hour of the meeting.
The second point of business was the appointment by the president, Arthur L. Korzeneski, of a committee on membership, consisting of John Logan, chairman, Thomas Proctor and John Locher, to consider applications for membership into the society.
John Logan, junior in the College of Law, delivered the speech of the evening. Logan’s topic was the recent Supreme Court decision against the oil provision of the N.I.R.A.
In the course of his talk the speaker pointed out both sides of the question and demonstrated how, though the Court was correct in its opinion, it was necessary for Congress to control this industry.
February 15, 193 5
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Newcomer
Four weeks ago, the printer, who has to read such things, called our attention to an article which he had seen printed somewhere, possibly, he said, in The Scholastic. He was rather vague about it all, inasmuch as the article hadn’t been very clear, but he was quite positive that it mentioned our name in several places. It was, he said, called Dome Dirt, or something like that, and was written by a certain William Tourney.
Well, always willing to recognize and lend a helping hand to some aspiring reporter, we looked up the department and the name on The Scholastic masthead, but no luck. No such department was mentioned and there wasn’t a sign of a Tourney on the staff. We asked around, and met a lot of blank looks. Editor Carbine said he wasn’t sure—he might have heard the name before. But then, Editor Carbine hears so many names. . . . We put the thing down as an idle rumor.
Last week, however, several freshmen were added to The Scholastic masthead. And there also miraculously, was the name of William Tourney. Right below us, too! Editor Carbine had just kept asking people until he had finally come to Tourney himself, who admitted that he had a column in the magazine. It’s on the page opposite, in the classified ad section, and shows great promise.
• -
Sorin Finishing School
We are thinking seriously of ostracizing Sorin Hall, if that fact is not first accomplished by Sorin itself. You’ll recall that last September this nest of psychological cases started off the year with magnificent abandon, very soon running themselves into a frenzy of hunts, chases, pep meetings, and other pastimes virile. Walsh, meanwhile, sat indoors and cooked.
Now, just past the one-half mark, Sorin is beginning to crack. No more racing about, unless it be on mysterious and questionable week-ends. Life is tending toward the quiet week and downtown at two idea.
But here’s what is worrying us. In a window on the second floor south, inside, where it couldn’t possibly have resulted from the recent gardening scheme immediately below, is a pot of flowers. We don’t know what kind, but they’re flowers, and lot’s of ’em. We mentioned the condition to another Sorinmate. “What’s the matter?” he exploded, “they’re nice!” They’re sweet. They’re darling.
The same room has indirect light
ing, too, and oh ever so many more gadgets that go to make one’s stay in Sorin comfy and homelike. We debate with ourself whether to omit the occupant’s name, or whether to throw another log on the Albert’s fire, so to speak. And, incidentally, what’s the bottle of milk doing in the front window?
Well men, we’re really afraid Sorin’s beginning to decompose. We shall see. And by the way, you know what happened to Walsh, don’t you? A freshman hall next year.
Cut Your Throat, Sir?
The most headlined men on the campus, the smug, complacent Arthur Korzeneski, and the dynamic, sparkling Franklyn Hochreiter—both of whom are dyed-in-the-wool and foursquare, finally achieved the inevitable. They got themselves both in the same headline. Arthur gave Franklyn something, we think. (Jan. 18).
This column extends best wishes to a couple of neighbors who became engaged in a sort of permanent way during the late-lamented holidays. Art O’Neill, whom we know, and a freshman whom we don’t know, but who gets our sympathy nevertheless. Only kidding, Mrs. O’Neill. Can you cook?
They’ll learn, though. Was it Krauss who tried to get out of the Lawyer’s Ball on the plea that he was married? He was persuaded to stay awhile longer. It was a nice dance, at that. The K of C frolic was pretty decent, too, although there are many who can trace their present difficulties back to that evening.
Then, of curse, there’s Jack Rainey, Sending snapshots of himself the size of billboards to “theatre folk.”
We have hundreds more, but let them wait. We’ve been getting charged with too much anonymity lately, so we thought we’d throw a bit of a tremor into those who have, or think that they have, done something out of the midwestern ordinary.
•
Wireless
The campus radio studio has been formally opened, and the hundred-odd townspeople who have not met the students commercially, now have' the opportunity to hear our words of ■wisdom and notes of beauty. The explosions that will rend the microphone every so often are the collapsing chairs. Each explosion means a spectator, and you of the uninvited can smirk knowingly.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame. Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE...................  Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI_____________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY_________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY._________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr____________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY____________________Graduate Assistant
•	Neivs Staff
JOHN J. MORAN______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN___________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL__________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN____________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY__________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI--------------------FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH_____________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
ANTHONY O’BOYLE_______________.FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS Sports Staff JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER____________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN_________________...JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT_________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james mcmullen
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY______________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated gbllegiate Srcss MUWUtl W —	r
-S,S34 WaltJfatsl 1935s-
MAIXSOM	WISCONSIN
February 15, 1935
A SUCCESSFUL PREMIERE
Last Sunday afternoon in Washington Hall, seven young orators selected from Indiana’s Catholic High Schools took part in the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest. This I.C.O. is a most commendable venture and produced several laudable results. The most outstanding of these was the thorough acquaintance of Catholic High School students with the Catholic side of important current issues.
The list of subjects chosen by the young orators was most encouraging in this respect. The winner, Jerome O’Dowd, of Catholic Central, Fort Wayne, spoke on State Aid For Catholic Schools. Others spoke on the Mexican Situation, Legion Of Decency, and Catholic Action. It is essential that young Catholic high school students be conversant with the real facts on these matters. This experience will serve them well in their effort to become educated and informed Catholic gentlemen.
' The acquaintance of the contestants with Catholic issues was not the only service performed by the I.C.O. The young men were encouraged not only to express their views but to express them well. Someone has said that the proof of orderly thought is the ability to express it well. If that be true'— and we do not doubt that it is — then the thoughts of those competing in the LC.O.
T en
must have been very orderly for their expression was little short of excellent.
The I.C.O. brought Catholic high school students from all over the state to a great Catholic institution of higher education. This condition, by itself, could not fail to develop among these students a distinct feeling of solidarity which is so needed in the laity today. Furthermore by exposure to the environs and atmosphere of a great Catholic university, the interest of these young men in Catholic higher education was, no doubt, stimulated to a very great degree. Catholic universities and colleges need young men of the type who competed in the I.C.O.
The Scholastic hopes that the I.C.O. will become a permanent fixture at Notre Dame. This year’s contest, as commendable as it was, should be but a start of a con- K< tinued movement. More schools will be ready to send representatives next year with this year’s contest definitely marked down as a success. This process of expansion can be carried on until every Catholic high school in the state will be included.
•
A SANE AND SENSIBLE POLICY
During the past week individuals of varying shapes and sizes have been running — not walking — around the campus dressed in white shoes, black bow ties and derbies. The occasion is, of course, the annual initiation of the Monogram Club. To the freshmen this initiation * of forced peculiar attire and unaccustomed running may seem to be rather harsh. To upperclassmen, however, it is an indication of the new sane and sensible policy of the Monogram Club.
In past years the monogram initiation has been little but a week of perverted expression. The maulings given the candidates exceeded the bounds of reason, common sense and ordinary human behavior. Athletes, in the middle of their competitive seasons, were on the receiving end of a distorted notion of humor. This type of initiation obviously has no place at Notre Dame.
Rocco Schiralli, the president of the Monogram Club, has, therefore, installed a new sane, sensible and safe policy. The candidates are still put through a period of initiation. There is a bit of real humor in their attire and in the antics planned for tomorrow night’s basketball game. Yet there is no excessive physical violence involved and athletes preparing for games and meets arc not forced to undergo a strenuous physical mauling. This, we believe, is the only sensible way to run a monogram initiation.
•	o
MORE THAN APPROBATION REQUIRED
Notre Dame’s new radio station, another indication of Notre Dame’s progressive policy, was formally opened last Tuesday evening. Every student on campus will admit that he is heartily in favor of the station. Yet the station cannot function properly solely on the strength of such approbation. The campus radio programs require fit material if they are to be successful. There are certainly on the campus many potential radio singers, comedians, and announcers. These men owe it to themselves and to Notre Dame to report for active service. Talent in these fields is not the only thing required by the directors of the station. They need script for dramatic sketches and short plays. One does not have to sit down and write a script especially for radio production, but if there are any dramatic bits filed away with your old assignments, those in charge of the radio station would appreciate an opportunity to see them in order to determine if they can be used for broadcasting purposes.
■ *
The Scholastic
♦ SPOUTS ♦
k^NTEQS
FROM THE
PRESS BOX
COACH KEOCAN’S NETMEN SEEK TO SMASH PITISBUM’S SPELL
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
DEVELOPMENT
Having heard that John Nicholson was a developer of outstanding trackmen we decided to find out more about this phase of Nick’s work. A little investigation brought out the fact that he has taken men who have never competed in a track meet and turned them out of Notre Dame with names that were familiar to all cinder path fans.
Our brief search netted a partial list of sixteen men whom Nick pulled out of a hat and coached from scratch to fame. Heading the list is Alex Wilson. This slim Canadian had run longer distances before Nick took him under his wing, but it was the present Irish coach that remodeled him into a middle distance man. Because of Nick’s tutoring Alex was able to establish a world indoor record for an eight lap track in the quarter mile event. He also is present holder of the 80 yard Notre Dame and gymnasium records. No one ever complained about his performances as a miler either. His accomplishments did not cease there. After completing his collegiate career Alex hied himself to Los Angeles and placed second in the Olympic 440 yard dash.
Probably second in importance in this list of Nicholson’s products is Jack Elder. He came to Notre Dame with football as his primary interest, but his accomplishments in track were at least the equal of his gridiron career. Jack tied the world indoor' record for the 75 yard dash so many times that his name even got over the Alleghenies and seeped into New York while the eastern guards were sleeping.
Being a hurdler of proportions enviable it seems only logical that Nick should have developed a few classy stick jumpers. That he did; took Roy Bailie and Johnny O’Brien out on the track one day and told them to run. That was their
(Continued on Page 15)
Notre Dame Defeats Marquette in Hotly Contested Track Meet
The Irish trackmen garnered their second dual victory of the season Saturday afternoon, by defeating Marquette’s well rated Hilltoppers. The meet was a closely contested affair, going to the last event for a decision. Notre Dame’s mile relay team was easily successful in its bid for the necessary five points to snatch a 48 to 47 hand raising.
Pre-meet dope had placed the responsibility for the Irish showing on versatile Mike Layden. He accepted the nomination, but to do the whole thing up right, appointed George Meaghei- his deputy. The two Irish-ers then ran one, two in both the high and low hurdle events to garner 16 points between them and keep the Hilltoppers within scoring range.
Other individual Notre Dame laurels went to Captain Vince Murphy, Don Elser, and Jack Edwards. The team leader was expected to receive serious difficulty in disposing of Ward Cuff in the high jump, but his extended six foot four leap was plenty good for the nod. Elser failed to break his newly established fieldhouse record in his shot put verdict over Elliott and Trost of Marquette.
The one grand slam of the afternoon went to Marquette when Notre Dame failed to respond to the sixty yard dash. Both teams had acquired five first places, prior to the decisive relay event, but the boys from Milwaukee were uncanny in their number of place and show efforts, so were out in front an ineffective four-points. The relay team of Parsons, Frawley, Bowdren, and Bernard passed the victory baton to Nick when they completely outclassed the Marquette entry.
Summary:.
60-YARD DASH (first trial)—Phillips (M), first; Jordan (ND) second; Moore (ND) third. :06.5.
SHOT PUT—Elser (ND) first; Elliot (M) -second; Trost (M) third. Distance, 47 feet. 4% inches.
60-YARD DASH (second trial)—Sengpiel (M) first; Dinges (M) second; Booyle (ND) third. Time, :06.6.	.
MILE RUN—Sterbank (M) first; Grow (Continued on Page 12)
PANTHERS IN RARE FORM
By Cy Stroker
It is no secret to those who have followed Notre Dame basketball during the last few seasons that the Pittsburgh Panthers are by far the toughest opponents on the Irish schedule. Pitt may lose several games
Martin Joseph Peters He’s the key-man.
during the season to teams that are apparently inferior to Notre Dame, but when the Irish and the Panthers come together, the resulting battle always keeps the spectators on edge and the final outcome is never certain until after the last gun.
To-morrow night Notre Dame will meet Pitt on the Irish floor in a desperate attempt to break the series of victories which almost amounts to that unpopular but significant condition known as a jinx. The Panthers have already shown their power by defeating Notre Dame 26-22 in Pittsburgh. Last year the invaders toppled the championship Irish team in two of the three defeats suffered during the season.
Unlike most teams, Notre Dame does not reach a high point at some time during the seaon, but seems to become consistently better as the sea-
(Continued on Page 13)
February 15, 1935
Eleven
More Men Turning Out Daily For Boxing Drills In Gymnasium
BROWNSON HOLDS LEAD IN INTERHALL LEAGUE
SI
HAL GOODEN WILL FIGHT
By James A. Waldron
With a month to go before the . lights in the gym focus on a canvas-covered ring and two figures glide out to meet each other in its center, a small army of prospective candidates for the Bengal Boxing Show,
Hal Gooden He's a good ’un.
sponsored by The Scholastic, are faithfully conditioning themselves for the night of March 15.
A greater incentive has been given the contestants with the announcement that several of the championship classes have been thrown wide open because the defending titleholders are unable to get under the weight limit.
Hal “Butch” Gooden, who won. the lightweight crown last year, was forced to become a champion. During his Freshman year in high school, the coach asked “Dutch” to go down to the fight arena and see the amateur bouts. When he arrived there, a pair of boxing gloves were thrust in his hands and the 80 pound kid was told that he was fighting that night. As ' stage-fright left him after his first two fights, Gooden won 16 straight during his first year in the ring. In the next three years of his high school career, .“Butch” won the Oklahoma State shampionship three times in the 112 lb. division. The year 1930 was the climax of his colorful scholastic competion when he first cap-
(Continued on Page 14)
Fencers Meet Three Ohio Schools On
Present Road Trip
This week is a busy one for Coach deLandero and his fencing team. Yesterday they journeyed to Springfield, Ohio, where they engaged Wit-tenburg, one of the best teams in the mid-west. Tonight they meet the strong Ohio State University team at Columbus in another match which will test the skill of the Irish fencers.
Tomorrow night they journey to Cincinnati where they meet the Cincinnati fencers in the final meet of their three day trip. This seems to be the most difficult test, for coupled with the third meet in as many days, the Cincinnati team has two members of their teams who are individual state champions in their specialties.
MARQUETTE MEET
(Continued from Page 11)
(M) second; McKenna (ND) third. Time 4:33.1.
POLE VAULT—Edwards (ND) first: McCarthy (ND) second; Legrand (M) third: Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
60-YARD DASH (Final) —Phillips (M) first: Ringes (Ml second: Sengpiel. (M) third. Time. .6.4.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES (Trial)—Layden (ND)-first: Bellinghausen (M) second: Link (ND) third. Time :S.O.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES (Trial)—Pand-jiris (M) first: Meagher (ND) second. Time. :8.4.
440-YARD DASH—Jessel, (M) first; Bernard (ND) second; Ruhly (ND) third. Time. :51.0.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES (Final)—Layden ■ (ND) first: Meagher (ND) second; Pandjiris (M) third. Time. :7.7.
TWO MILE RUN—O’Neil (M) first; Gott (ND) second; McKenna (ND) third. Time, 9:59.9.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES (Trial)—Layden (ND) first; Pandjiris (M) second; Link (ND) third. Time :7.4.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES (Trial)—Meagher (ND) first; Bellinghausen (M) second. Time, :8.3.
HIGH JUMP—Murphy (ND) first; Cuff (M) second; Mierzwa (M) third. Height, 6 ft. .4^ inches.
880-YARD RUN—Beckett (M) first: Ku-bash (M) second; Shiels (ND) third. Time. 1:57.3.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES (Final)—Layden (ND) first; Meagher (ND) second; Pandjiris (M) third. Time, 7:3.
RELAY, ONE MILE—Won by Notre Dame (Frawley, Bowdren, Parsons, Bernard). Time, 3:27.7.
With the second half of the interhall basketball race well under way the purple-clad quintet from Brownson still maintained their unbroken place at the top of the heavyweight heap by bagging two victories. Only St. Ed’s, idle last week, is within striking distance of the freshmen sharpshooters.
Carroll and Alumni were the unwilling victims of the Brownson stampede. In the battle for Main Building honors Carroll wound up on the short end of a 17-14 score. Alumni pressed the issue all the way but succumbed 26-19. Ellis and O’Reilly paced the Brownson attack in both encounters.
Badin stopped the Sorin Tigers 20-10. Only Ed Herold of the bewildered Tigers could cope with the stalwart juniors who were led by Streaky Themes.
Arnheiter Is Brilliant
Phil Arnheiter managed to tally 10 points against Morrissey, but his efforts were wasted and Corby lost 18-14. Foley matched Arnheiter with five baskets.
In the week’s defensive thriller, Walsh nosed out Off-Campus 12-11. The downtowners’ attack was stifled after the ejection of Mclnerey on fouls early in the second period.
Cudmore, lanky Dillon center, scored nine points to lead his team to victory over Lyons 23-19. Riordan and Waldron were the high scorers for Lyons. Howard ran roughshod over Freshman 36-12, in spite of the efforts of Kennedy, the Freshman defensive star.
Alumni Whips Howard
Carroll made up for her loss to Brownson by ringing up the highest score of the year over Walsh 42-12. Alumni also gained revenge by trouncing Howard 27-17. Krause, Nigro, and O’Neill starred.
The lightweights from Carroll completely smothered Brownson to the tune of 40-13. Kilrain, one of the most versatile interhall players of recent years, scored 19 points for Carroll and became the new leader in individual scoring replacing Dorsey of the vanquished Brownson five.
The lightweight contests produced no startling upsets. Alumni was hard pressed but beat Howard 24-23. Sorin forfeited to Badin, and Walsh defaulted to Off-Campus. Lyons overcame Dillon 16-10 in a defensive duel. Sullivan led Morrissey to a 22-6 win over Corby.
T welve
The Scholastic
IRISH FENCING TEAM CAPTURES THIRD WIN
Iowa Track Combine to Meet Nickmen Tomorrow Afternoon
By John I. Flanagan
The Notre Dame fencing team was again victorious last week when they conquered the Wildcats from Northwestern at Evanston, February 9. The final score found the Irish on the long end of an 11-6 count.
In the foil Notre Dame scored six points to their opponents’ three; in the duelling sword Northwestern out-® scored the Irish three to one, but the Blue and Gold came back to capture all four points in the sabre.
The individual scoring was as follows: In the foil Caresio won two of his bouts and lost one. Grosso won all three of his bouts and was the high scorer of the day. T. deLandero won one of his bouts and lost the other two after bitterly-contested battles.
In the duelling sword, Kehoe won one bout and lost one. His defeat was the first he has suffered in eight * bouts this season. McAuliffe, a sophomore, although losing both of his bouts, showed improvement.
In the sabre, Kehoe won his lone bout, but only after a hard and clever fight. Myron continued to show improvement and after trailing his opponent came from behind and won. Captain C. deLandero added two more victories for Notre Dame, winning his bouts in his customary manner.
Because of the icy roads on Friday, February 8, the meet with Illinois was postponed. No definite date has been set for the play off, but it will probably take place between Tuesday, February 19, and Saturday, February 23.
Net Quintet Trims Northwestern Five In Evanston Scrap
Notre Dame came back with a vengeance last Saturday night in Evanston and turned the tables on the Northwestern basketball team, which had defeated them earlier in the season. The Irish triumphed 28 to 26, before a crowd of 5,000 Wildcat supporters, by cashing in on their foul shots in the same manner that Northwestern had done in the previous
game.
The lead changed hands constantly during' the earlier minutes of the game but the Irish gained the advantage midway in the first period and turned the contest into the semblance of a rout. Led by Jordan and O’Kane, the Notre Dame team amassed a lead of 16 to 7 at the con
clusion of the first half.
Notre Dame continued the attack
at the start of the second period and stretched their lead to 18-7 when O’Kane tallied from the floor. North
western then launched a belated offensive and scored ten successive
points, advancing them to within one point of the Irish lead.
The Irish lengthened their lead momentarily to 21-17, but Lyle Fisher, Wildcat forward, sank three consecutive baskets and sent the Evan-
stan team to the fore. The Wildcat
onslaught continued until, with but a few minutes of play remaining, they led 26-25.
Then Joe O’Kane taking advantage of a foul inflicted on him sank two
PITT GAME (Continued from Page 11)
son goes along. This fact will be of great advantage in to-morrow’s game for although the time between this game and the last tilt is not very long, the added experience, the greater amount of practice in playing and practicing as a unit have all helped in the performance. The work of several of the substitutes, notably Wade and Hopkins, has been steadily ♦ improving until now they would do justice to any team at their respective positions of guard and forward.
The Pitt lineup will, without doubt, be much the same as it was in the previous game. Hughes, Pitt high point man, and Roderick will occupy the forward posts, Noon will face Marty Peters at the tip-off position and Cribbs and Emerick will form the defensive wall. This combination has clicked more or less consistently throughout the season and will make plenty of trouble for the Irish.
February 15, 1935
free throws, thereby tallying the winning point for the Irish. Another Notre Dame conversion by Ireland widened the margin of victory.
O’Kane and Lyle Fisher shared the scoring honors of the contest. Each tallied 12 points; O’Kane scoring five field goals and two free throws and Fisher gaining his points entirely
from field goals.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (28) G F F
O’Kane, f______5	2	2
Ford, f -------2	2	1
Peters, e _____1	1	1
Jordan, g _____2	0	0
Ireland, g ----1	1	2
Wade, g _______0	0	2
Totals _______11	6	8
Northwestern (26) G F P Fisher,	f ___6	0	0
Mereer,	f____0	0	1
Grossberg, c 2 0 2 Vance,	g ___0	0	1
Blume,	g ___3	4	1
Kawai, g ____0 0 1
Totals ______11 4 6
Rifle Team
The National Intercollegiate Rifle Meet to be held in Boonville, Missouri next Wednesday night will have as a Notre Dame representative, the captain of the Irish team, “Gunner” McGrath. McGrath will compete for the individual honors of the meet.
IRISH ARE UNDEFEATED
By James M. McMullen
Notre Dame’s twice victorious thin-lies face a serious obstacle at the fieldhouse Saturday afternoon. Captain Page will bring his Hawkeyes, of Iowa, fresh from an overwhelming decision over Grinnell, to test the balanced power of the successful Irish. This team has been rated by Coach Nicholson as the strongest dual meet opposition that Notre Dame has scheduled.
Bob Bernard
He’s due for a victory.
The Hawkeyes will present an outstanding performer in Francis Cretz-meyer. Against Grinnell he was good for first places in the high jump, high hurdles, and the broad jump, and did no worse than second in the low hurdles. It totaled up eighteen points, and from advance notice, the exhibition can in no way be blamed upon inferior opposition.
Iowa is expected to be strong in the favorite events of the Irish. Op- . posing Bernard and Rubly in the quarter mile test, will be Dooley and Skinner, the former boasting a very fine effort his last time out. He covered the distance on the Iowa oval in :50.9, a creditable enough performance. Paul Nelson and Captain Page run the half mile for the Hawk-eyes and have been accustomed to finishing an easy one two in that event.
Notre Dame is accorded the premeet edge in the field events but should receive quite a tussle in the sprints. Carl Nelson, Wilson Briggs, and Jimmy Owen, all sophomores, represent the lowans in the dashes, and although very promising, lost a good opportunity for experience in competition, by being out of the Grinnel meet. Elser and Vince Murphy will probably not be extended in the shot put and high jump, and Nick is counting on Jack Edwards for points in the pole vault. The meet is called for 2:00 p.m.
Thirteen
37 MEN UNDERGOING MONOGRAM INITIATION
INTRODUCING
By Joe Prendergast
By John Cackley
As far as the Monogram club is concerned, this is “the week”; seven days of merry-making, that bring joy and happiness to the ‘veteran’ holders of the coveted N.D. It seems that each and every one, will profit from the initiation ceremonies enacted by the respective candidates. Coach Nicholson will in all probability uncover some prospective material for his cross-country squad, besides deriving quite a bit of pleasure, from watching the varsity managers taking their daily workout on the campus. An unusual amount of politeness is being manifested, such as the using of the term ‘Mister’ to address an old member, which no doubt will be of great benefit to the party concerned in years to come.
Sorin Chapel Popular
The attendance at prayer, in the Sorin Hall chapel the past few mornings, has shown a decided increase, enhanced by the efforts of unexpect-ingly ‘early risers.’ An ‘ex-grad,’ dropping in unannounced, would likely think that part of the student body either had mental aberrations, or a slight attack of spring fever. It’s not an uncommon sight, for the present at least, to observe certain individuals strolling, or perhaps running would be more appropriate, from class to class, attired in a black derby, white shoes, and a black bowr tie. But comes there a time when all good things must cease.
Rocco Schiralli, president of the Monogram club, wishes to announce that the Monogram club’s annual show is in its primacy. Anyone interested in the show through way of suggestions, or those who are interested in being in the production please hand your name in to Mike Layden in Badin hall.
On the basement floor of Corby Hall in room number one, Rock’s old room, two of the most well known characters on the campus dwell. One is the irrepressible, hueylongish “Josh” D’Amora, self admitted disciple of all sports, and the other Vincent Benedict Murphy, captain of this year’s track team. The latter will be the theme of this department’s presentation this week.
Vince Murphy, six feet, three inches tall and 182 pounds is a native of Cleveland, Ohio. Vince attended Cathedral Latin High school in Cleveland for four years and was
He set his crude set of high jumping standards in his back yard and went about to master the art. He jumped from cement to cement but nevertheless this was the start for his magnificent future accomplishments. When the next fall rolled around and the high school coach summoned the candidates for the track team, Vince was on hand. The first meet arrived and “Murph” tied with the opposing team’s man for first place with a leap of five feet, five inches. He outdid the boastful youth on his own team who was expected to win easily and achieved his main goal in doing so.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 12)
tured the Southwestern A.A.U. 118 pound crown, and when in the summer of the same year, he won the same divisional championship in the Crystal City tourney, a Tri-State meet, with contestants from Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Missouri. Coming to Notre Dame as a sophomore, he has twice won the lightweight championship. This year, however, he is over the weight limit and cannot defend his title. Hal “Butch” Gooden, closing his college career at Notre Dame, has his eyes set on the Junior Welterweight title. Best of luck, Hal.
a member of the track team during every one of these four years. It was merely a passing frame of mind that made Vince the high jumper he is today. While still in grammar school, “Murph” was very much interested in athletics, especially track. There was in high school at that time one junior who was, what might be termed, the real all-around athlete. He did everything well and knew it, the result being a vastly swelling hatband. Vince used to hear this boy talk about his prowessess and also about his high jumping ability. “Murph” had entombed within himself an earnest desire to beat this boastful athlete in some event so took up high jumping because of his suitable build.
This was the biggest kick he has ever experienced along athletic lines.
Vince improved as he advanced in school until he was doing six feet, three inches when a senior in high school. In 1931 he won the national interscholastic high jump in Chicago with a six feet, two inch jump. Bill Krider, his high school track coach and brilliant quarter-miler for Notre Dame of years gone by, helped ’ “Murph” in selecting his school of higher education. That is why Vince is now a true son of the “Fighting Irish” institution.
As a freshman at Notre Dame, Vince qualified for the Olympics by doing six feet, five inches in Chicago (Conitnued on Pase 16)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Pasre 11)
»

I
first appearance in anybody’s track suit. They soon became so well known that even McAllister handed out equipment to them with only an hour’s argument. In 1930 Bailie set up the present low hurdle mark of :07.2 and a year later “One Play” O’Brien skipped over the higher ones in :07.5 to establish a Notre Dame and gymnasium record.
The present crop of Irish trackmen numbers a few more runners that Nick is developing entirely by himself. Bob Bernard heads this list. The big blonde hasn’t hit his winning stride-this year, but that’s only a question of time. Supporting him in this field of novices are Carl Link, Leo McFarlane, and Ed Boyle. Others that have felt the sting of Nick’s coaching genius are Joe Quigley, Francis Murphy, Vince Fagan, Nordy Hoffmann, Clyde Roberts, “Tape” Slattery, Joe Abbott, and Ed Krause. Some were fair, others good, and the rest outstanding.
This partial list of sixteen names does not tell the complete story, however. There were many more men that left books and took up track under Nick for the first time. The picture still remains incomplete. This is the rosy side and usually there is very little of that where Nicholson is concerned. Since he is rapidly becoming known as the hard luck coach it’s only logical that some of the trackmen who got the fever for the first time while at Notre Dame were washouts. That can’t be held against Nick. But when he creates a star out of someone who has not tasted competition previously -well, you know he’s got something on the ball.
We understand that Nick had to do some fast talking to get some of these fellows to report. A few came here with a basketball or football monogram as their goal. We don’t imagine “Rock” complained much when Nick wanted one of his men, so the talking must have been done to convince Keogan that the athlete in question was not a eager but a trackman. And that’s another accomplishment.
February 15, 193?
HONORS PRESENTED TO
MEN AT A. A. BANQUET
The Notre Dame Athletic association held its annual banquet for the football team of the University last Monday evening, in the west wing of the University dining halls. Elmer F. Layden, director- of athletics and
Joe Sullivan He sent a message.
head football coach, acted as master of ceremonies and presented the following awards: to Jack Robinson, the All-American football board’s certificate for being chosen number one center on the mythical eleven, also a trophy given by the Indianapolis Star for being selected as AU-Indiana center; to Rocky Schiralli, George Melinkovich, and past captain, Dominic Vairo, trophies given by the Indianapolis Star for being selected as All-Indiana left guard, right halfback, and left end, respectively.
Members of both the “A” and “B” squads attended the banquet. All senior members of the squads gave talks with the honors going to “Josh” D’Amora.
Guest speakers included Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., George Keogan, John Nicholson, Jake Kline, Thomas Conley, Joseph Boland, Chet Grant, Bill Cerney, Arthur Haley, Herbert Jones, Edward Healey, “Scrap” Young, and three senior football managers.
Tennis Candidates
All candidates for the tennis team are asked to report to Professor de-Landero or to Manager Thomas J. Walsh on Monday afternoon, February 18, in the Manager’s Office between the hours of 3:30 and 5:00 p.m., in order to register their names, addresses, and class hours so that in time they can be organized into different groups for indoor practice.
Fortified
with FOOD
Uncle Egbert tried to bear up through the winter!
Winter meant red flannels, and hot, heavy, indigestible breakfasts to the last generation.
We’ve freed ourselves of a host of discomforts since 1906. And Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, introduced in that year, have helped'to bring about the change.
Nowadays we can wear lighter clothing — eat lighter, more appetizing foods. Try a bowl of Kellogg’s, with milk or cream, for a winter breakfast. Crisp and tempting. Rich in energy and body warmth. Easy to digest.
Quality guaranteed. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Corn Blakes
F if teen’
ACCEPTED BY
SCIENCE
FAVORED BY THE NATION
Kellogg’s All-Bran is accepted by the American Medical Association Committee on Foods, and is approved by Good Housekeeping Institute. As you know, the seals of these two distinguished organizations are granted only to wholesome products of the highest merit.
Millions have discovered that this delicious cereal corrects constipation due to insufficient “bulk” in meals. Unless checked, this ailment may cause headaches and loss of energy. You feel below par —fail to be at your best in the classroom and on the campus.
Kellogg’s All-Bran supplies generous, mild “bulk” to aid regular habits. Also vitamin B and iron.
Isn’t it pleasanter to enjoy this food instead of taking patent medicines ? Two tablespoonfuls daily are usually sufficient. Ask that All-Bran be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating-clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP, Rice Krispies, Fheat Krumbles, and Kellogg's whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee—97% caffeine free.
KEEP ON THE
SVXm S/HE OF LIFE
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
We see that there are other sports at Alabama besides football . . . The Crimson’s Tide basketeers had not dropped a game on its home court for five seasons prior to the current year . . . The full name of Pitcher VITO TAMULIS of the Yankees is none other than Vitautis Tamulis . . . that’s a good one, but bow to this —LIONEL CONACHER, Montreal Maroon Hockey star, has a middle name of Pretoria . . . It’s also a monicker of a South African city . . . and therein lies the tale . . . Lionel was born the day that city was captured by the British during the Boer war . . . NATE LEWIS, the Chicago matchmaker, has been in the game 35 years . . . Nate often averages 80,000 miles a year in the booking racket, and sometimes spends 100 nights — not in a barroom — but in Pullman berths . . . ART SHIRES planned a comeback . . . The Great Arthur has probably abandoned it by now — that K. O. he suffered at the hands of Sid Hunter, Texas farm boy, was not one that would boost even Art’s opinion of himself . . . They say, once gone, soon forgotten, in the sport game, but HANS WAGNER, famous shortstop, is a contradiction of the theory. He is running a sporting goods store in Pittsburgh, and still receives on the average of ten fan letters a day . . . The Giants probably have an eye on the gate receipts when they sign up 31 Gotham upstarts for seasoning at the club’s farms. . . .
A couple of years ago, the White Sox were bragging about the speed of EVAR SWANSON on the sacks ... now they’ve outdone themselves by signing JOE VANCE, rookie pitcher, and holder of the world’s base circling record ... 13 seconds, flat . . . GEORGE SELKIRK, Yankee outfielder, was on base last year when a row started on the other side of the diamond . . . the scrappy lad took out his false molars, hid them under the initial stop, and proceeded into the fray . . . that’s thinking under fire ... Hockey is supposed to be no sport for a tea drinker, yet we find EDDIE OATMAN entering his 25th year as professional puckster for St. Paul, and going as strong as ever . . . The village Germany is erecting to house the 1936 Olympic candidates will have quarters to accommodate twice the amount provided for at Los Angeles . . . There will be room for 3,000 . . . Napoleon —he was a skater . . . Unlike SONJA HEIMIE, who by the way just won her ninth consecutive title as the world’s most graceful feminine on the ice, Napoleon fell through, and
almost drowned . . . This all happened when the Nap was just a kid at Auxerres . . . RABBIT MARRAN-VILLE needs 140 more games to pass Hans Wagner’s mark of 2,785 encounters ... if he opens the season, it will be his 23rd — another new mark . . . ROBERT KOBER attended a baseball game a few years back as a not too well informed spectator. . . . one of the umps for the brawl didn’t show up, so they asked Bob to accommodate . . . the next day he was made a member of the Michigan-Ontario league staff, and now he is a brand new addition for the American association. . . .
BABE RISKO created a sensation by knocking out Teddy Yarosz . . . He received $227 for the act . . . the other night he lost to VINCE DUNDEE in New York . . . this time the Babe received $4,000 . . . TOMMY COOK, BILL KENDALL, and LOUIS TRUDELL, of the Chicago Black Hawks, go in for serious hockey .. . after a defeat they return to their apartments, and through the use of ash trays, cigarettes, matches, toothbrushes, etc., reconstruct the scene of the crime to figure out the evening’s mistakes ... A lot of people wonder just how SIR MALCOLM CAMPBELL can guide those speed buggies he operates . . . this year on the beach, a black line of oil, ten miles long, and a foot wide, will help him ... It is going to cost them $40 a day to set the line, and each incoming tide will obliterate it . . . STRANGLER LEWIS owns an airplane pilot’s license ... He can bragg that he is the only one in the grunt and groan industry who does, too.
INTRODUCING
((Continued from Page 14)
but the Olympic Club ran short of funds so he did not go to Los Angeles. “Murph” won a monogram as a sophomore and another as a junior. His mates then selected him to lead this 1935 group of trackmen. Concerning Vince, Coach Nicholson says, “He is one of the greatest high jumpers in the world, today.” His pet means of diversion are the fiddle, the ukelele, and red heads — with emphasis on Katie. Vince holds the Notre Dame indoor high jump record, six feet, five and one-eighth inches, and as far as this season is concerned he says, “If we beat Iowa, we ought to beat Illinois and then outside we shouldn’t have any trouble with Marquette.” Eddie Gough, star of the 1931 track team also came from Cathedral Latin High school so “Murph” is keeping right along with tradition. Vince is 21 years old, a senior in electrical engineering and has a position in mind when he graduates.
Sixteen
The Scholastic