THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
DOLLAR
5'
Bi
-ffi

	
	

SENATE!
WANTS ? ANOTHER



•7
•4
JANUARY 8, 1954
HOW THE STARS GOT STARTED..

Eddie Sauter and Bill Finegan, leaders of America’s most excitingly-different dance band, met in 1939 as struggling young arrangers. Ed had studied trumpet and drum at college, worked up to arranging for “name” bands;
Bill had studied in Paris, won a spot with Tommy Dorsey. After 13 years of pooling new ideas, they formed their own band. It clicked I
AMERICA'S NEWEST, MOST COLORFUL DANCE BAND
o*dFfotk)tC
JUST RIGHT."
IVE TRIED MANY BRANDS.
RUT I GET MOST PLEASURE
PROM OAMEIS. you
WILL, TOO!
for-


sou^
WITH ME, CAMELS CLICKED
INSTANTLY. THE FLAVOR'S HOW
I LIKE FT, THE MILDNESS
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
OaMEIS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE 1
SENIORS
and GRADUATE
STUDENTS
When you come with IBM_ TRADE MARK you’ll want to stay!
There are good reasons why IBM personnel turnover is less than 1/7 the national average! Here they are: Challenging opportunities • Merit advancement • Growing company • Progressive management * Good salaries • Continuous educational program • Exceptional employee benefits • Congenial working and living conditions.
Examine the facts about International Business Machines, leading manufacturer of Electronic Digital Computers, Electronic and Electric Accounting Machines, Time Indicating, Production Recording, and Signaling Devices, and Electric Typewriters.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MONDAY, FEB. 8
If your degree or major is: Make appointment to see:
Arts • Business • Accounting ci _	„ .	„
c • t? •	•	6 IBM Sales representative
Science • Engineering	r
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPBIT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED < OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to ti-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon nteatre 7-5477
Physical Science Mathematics • Engineering	IBM Applied Science representative
Physics • Mechanical Electrical • Mathematics	IBM Engineering representative
Industrial • Electrical Mechanical	IBM Manufacturing representative
Accounting * Administration Management	IBM Business Administration representative
Call your College Placement Office for Appointment
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Portice
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant
Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
January 8, 1954
Scholastic
Vol. 95 January 8, 1954 No. 13
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate o! postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ...................News
FRED C. ECKART .................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ________Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy ROBERT B. FROLICHER _________ Sports
JERRY D. BAIER _____Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL .....____Circulation BOB FOWLER_________________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE______________Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT.—Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly, Mark Connelly. John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray 'Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Nutrition Board Elects Fr. Hesburgh Trustee
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University and J. Earl Coke, assistant secretary of Agriculture, have been elected to the Board of Trustees of the Nutrition Foundation, Inc., it was announced recently by George A. Sloan, president of the Foundation. Both of the newly elected trustees will serve as representatives of the public.
The Nutrition Foundation is supported by the food and related industries to provide grants for research in the science of nutrition and for the development of a program of nutrition education. The Foundation-supported program includes studies in human nutrition and research on the constituents of food, their function and relation to health, and on ways of making the results of these studies available in the interests of public health and welfare.
Since its organization in 1942, the Nutrition Foundation has made grants totalling $3,050,000 to some 75 universities and colleges throughout the United States and Canada for research projects in nutrition.
GLASSES HTTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.


COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND

Member of Catholic School Press Association^ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc-420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during _ vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
COVER BOX: Like the 14-cent ice cream cone and the six-cent newspaper, even the Notre Dame student’s activity fee doubles after a recent Senate ruling okayed a $1 levy for the coming semester. As author Bolin indicates in the cover story which appears on page seven, the debate has developed into a hot, furious fight. We hope the spread will help to explain the reason behind the nevy tax and its controversy.
“Rosie’s.” Here you'll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles
4
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 13	Notre Dame, Indiana	January 8, 1954
SUPPLEMENT ISSUE
We’re not gypin’ ya!
Today’s 12-page supplementary issue was added to our schedule to provide our readers with important end-of-the-se-mester news. This is the first year Scholastic has appeared the first week after Christmas vacation.
We’ll be back with the last regular issue of the semester next week.—Ed.
Richards Might Quit Senate's Top Position
Notre Dame’s Student Senate might start business without a president next semester.
Rumored reports indicate that Jim Richards, present Senate president, may give up his post to enter graduate studies at Georgetown University in Washington, D. C., next semester.
No official report of the president’s switch has come from the Senate’s office, however, and Richards offered “no comments” when a Scholastic reporter contacted him by phone yesterday.
But reliable sources have hinted that the 21-year-old Berwyn, Ill., senior had previously indicated he intends to enroll at Georgetown aftei- the present semester ends.
Speculation as to who Richards’ successor would be, if the president should leave, centers around Senator Tom Field, also a senior. Field ran second to Richards in the Senate’s presidential ballotting last Spring.
Richards was president of the Junior Class last year. He gained prominence in campus politics when he maneuvered the Warren faction to near-victory in the Senate’s Mock Political convention in the Spring of 1952.
January 8, 1954
Ray McKinley Replaces Marterie's Orchestra On Mardi Gras Bandstand at Center, Feb. 12
An unexpected change of contracts has ushered Ray McKinley, his orchestra and vocalists, to the fore of the giant pre-Lenten Mardi Gras celebration starting Friday, Feb. 12, with the annual Mardi Gras Ball, it has been announced by Joe Madigan, chairman of the carnival.
Originally scheduled to provide the music for gala mid-winter ball was Ralph Marterie. However, difficulties arising from previous engagements on Marterie’s part have necessitated the acquiring of the Ray McKinley orchestra.
Tickets for the Mardi Gras Ball will go on sale Monday, Jan. 18, in the Dining Hall, and will continue on Tuesday until the supply is exhausted. Tickets will be sold on the first-come, first-served basis.
The Ball will be the first major activity in the new Student Centei- for the New Year. Dancing will be from
Registration for Spring Term Must Be Completed Jan. 30
The Office of Students’ Accounts is now issuing certificates for the Spring semester. These certificates are issued following payment of the Spring fees and are necessary for procurement of next semester’s class cards.
Monday, Jan. 18, is the final date to pick up these slips. Class cards must be picked up in the Office of Academic Affairs by Jan. 25, with Monday being the first day for this phase of registration.
Laundry certificates can be picked up any time until Jan. 29. Board certificates will be handed in at the Dining Hall from Jan. 25-30. Lodging certificates must be turned in over the weekend of Jan. 30.
Graduate and law students have special procedures that may be obtained from their dean’s office.
Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., assistant to the Vice-President of Academic Affairs, stresses the importance of making payment early enough to enable the students to complete registration without incurring late charges.
9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The theme will closely follow that of the famed New Orleans celebration.
The Mardi Gras carnival will commence Saturday night, Feb. 13, in the Navy Drill Hall and will continue through Tuesday, Feb. 16. Highlighting the festive affair- will be the grand drawing for the brand new 1954 Chrysler sedan, and various other valuable prizes. In addition the student selling the winning ducat will be awarded a 1954 Ford Victoria, fully equipped.
An innovation this year will be a luxurious 10-day, all-expense paid trip to Miami Beach during the Easter vacation for the student who wins the special “Book of Tickets” contest. One chance for the Florida sojourn will be given to the student for the sale of two complete booklets. There is no limit to the number of tickets that a student may sell.
Contest booklets for the grand drawing have been distributed to the halls and will be available this week in Room 231, Sorin Hall, for Off-campus students. The booklets will be collected early in February, and returns can now be made to the various hall chairmen.
The proceeds of the raffle will be distributed between the Campus Charity Chest and the Student Center. The Charity Chest donates to all charitable institutions in behalf of the student body.
Chairman for the Mardi Gras Ball will be Bill Reynolds. Abetting him will be: Gene Howley, publicity chairman; Joseph Giovanni, business manager; Ned Griffin, ticket chairman; Charles Touhey, rooms; and John Reedy, decorations chaii-man.
MARDI GRAS DEADUNE
Monday is the final day for campus clubs to submit letters of specification of booths and games for the Mardi Gras Carni- -val. Letters must contain complete details.
Letters may be submitted to ■ Mickey Moran, 305 Alumni Hall.
LOBUND Institute Links Micro-Organisms With Tooth Decay in Germ-Free Rat Studies
■Research scientists at Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute have established the first direct proof that micro-organisms in the mouth are necessary for tooth decay. Using germ-free rats available only at Notre Dame as a result of two decades of pioneering research, scientists have demonstrated conclusively that even a rich, cariogenic diet will not produce tooth decay un-
Late 'Coed's' Clan Sends
Greetings to 'Scholastic'
Twice now the Scholastic has been remembered by its old friends.
Father Sorin managed to send postcards during his extensive travels last year. This Christmas the Virginia Burke family sent its yuletide greetings to the staff of the Scholastic.
Virginia created quite a stir on campus during her brief stay two months ago. Virginia was the only co-ed in Notre Dame’s history, the only resident to eat worms, and the only resident ever to receive a state funeral on Sorin's front porch. Virginia is buried behind Sorin and is fondly remembered by the hall for her swimming and diving demonstrations.
This was all possible because Virginia was unique—she was an alligator.
The Burke family’s pleasant card depicted a pool of approximately 100 hardened alligators, basking ‘ in the noon-day sun. Their greeting was a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year from the Virginia Burke family!
«£ST WISHES FMA
VitQinia Burke Family
GREETINGS FROM THE BEREAVED
Virginia Burke’s Family Sent Cards
less germs are also present in the mouth. Their findings were reported recently at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Boston.
The next phase of the long-range research project will be an attempt to determine which of the many organisms normally found in the mouth actually cause tooth decay, according to Professor James A. Reyniers, founder and director of the LOBUND Institute. The project is a collaborative effort financed by the University of Notre Dame, the Office of Naval Research, and the Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic of the University of Chicago.
In this collaborative project, the germ-free research phases were carried on by LOBUND scientists at Notre Dame while the dental evaluation was made by Dr. J. Roy Blayney and Dr. Frank Orland of the Zoller Clinic.
As the second phase of the research gets underway, it is hoped that the exact organism or organisms responsible for tooth decay can be identified. When the specific cause of tooth decay has been found, scientists will be in a better position to seek an agent which will prevent the disease.
New $1600 Grad Scholarship Set Up in Medieval Institute
A new graduate scholarship, valued at $1600, has been established in Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, announced.
The scholarship will be awarded to an individual qualified to study for his master’s degree or doctorate in mediaeval studies, Father Beichner said. The student may specialize in mediaeval philosophy, history, education, language or literature.
Father Beichner outlined three principal requirements for the scholarship. The applicant must possess a bachelor’s degree and be recommended for graduate work. He must reveal a specific interest in the Christian culture of the Middle Ages. He also must already have acquired a reading knowledge of Latin and either French or German.
Applications, which must be filed by March 15, may be obtained from the Dean of the Graduate School. Further information is available from Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute.
University Benefactors Include 123 U. S. Firms
One hundred twenty-three American corporations have officially been listed as financial benefactors of the University as of mid-December, it has been announced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Scholarships, fellowships and research grants were provided by 105 corporations, Father Cavanaugh reported, while 18 corporations earmarked contributions for the Distinguished Professors Program which was inaugurated only a few weeks ago.
Father Cavanaugh, who served as president of the University from 1946 to 1952, predicted that several more corporations “will invest in the future of Notre Dame” before the year’s end. He further emphasized that “Notre Dame is a private institution which receives financial assistance from neither Church nor State and which must rely in increasing measure on its alumni, friends and corporations for support.”
Pointing up industry’s stake in private education, Father Cavanaugh reported that 180 industrial and business organizations sent representatives to Notre Dame during 1952-53 to interview seniors for employment with their firms. “We are pleased and proud that so many of our recent graduates have already established themselves as junior executives in corporations from coast to coast,” Father Cavanaugh said.
Noting that four major buildings have been erected on the campus in less than two years, the former Notre Dame president said that all unrestricted gifts to the University during 1954 would be devoted to faculty development.
Father Cunningham Speaks At Havana CIAEC Meeting
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at the University, will address the triennial convention of the Catholic Inter-American Educational Confederation at Havana, Cuba, in session from Jan. 4 to 12. Father Cunningham will discuss “Regional Accreditation of Colleges and Universities in the United States.” Approximately 500 educators from countries throughout the Americas will attend the sessions at the Coliegio Belen in Havana.
Father Cunningham has travelled widely throughout Latin America and for many years has served as coordinator of Inter-American groups at Notre Dame. He will be accompanied to the Havana convention by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., who joined the Notre Dame faculty this Fall after receiving his doctorate in education at Yale.
6
The Scholastic
Senate Wants Another Dollar
By PHIL BOLIN
Just before Christmas, members of Notre Dame’s Student Senate gathered in the little smoke-filled meeting room of the Center to dis-► cuss its most pressing problem of the year: finances.
With its biggest possible deficit facing it since a popular vote of the student body had put it into operation a couple of years ago, the Senate got down to business; decided the only way to beat the rap was to charge another §1 activity 4 fee like the one it had collected at the beginning of the Fall term.
Whispered protestations from a few of the more doubtful senators who questioned the constitutionality of the procedure were tactfully muffled when a series of caucuses proved the thing was above-board: the first $1 fee had been *-* collected with the unwritten stipulation that additional student fees could be loopholed if money got scarce. The second-semester fee became law.
On the outside—in the ranks of the average student—debates grew hot and furious. Senate n Secretary Joe Daley’s “in-coming” mail basket > was heaping with letters of bitter protest; other senators had a flurry of spirited words hurled at them at every turn; one student even referred to the Senate group as the “organization that rules with the hammer and the sickle.”
Despite all the dictions ahd contradictions of , the controversy, the greater part of the students » looked at the situation sanely and asked “Why?” To answer the problem, President Jim Richards called for an aggregate report by each one of the Senate’s money-spending agencies, and reported the results to the Scholastic.
Here they are:
J	• Social Committee: the group whose pro-
jects affect the students most directly, started out at the beginning of the Fall semester with an expenditure allotment of $1,200. With costs of staging activities in the new Student Center extremely high at first (e.g., partial furnishings, etc.), the kitty grew smaller, faster. Five-hundred dollars was spent right away for a Grand Piano.
K	With $700 left, the committee began to make
plans for more elaborate, unusual entertainment for the students. For instance, one night a dixieland band was hired instead of the regular run-of-the-mill musicians who’d formerly appeared on the bandstand one boring weekend after another. Following that, the committee threw a party in the Drill Hall for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students the next week. As the season moved on, more parties were added on Friday evenings after the pep rallies and on Sunday afternoons. Another time, they contracted a special group of callers, dished out 112 dozen donuts and seven kegs of apple cider at a square . dance.
Then too, there was the Champions’ Ball which . cost a record high'for Saturday night dances: $2,300. Other social events included the bridge
and bowling parties; rental fees for football movies which the Senate swallowed willingly.
Freshmen, particularly, were having mixers on Sunday afternoons with ladies from St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses’ Home, Daughters of Isabella and St. Mary’s Academy—all at the Senate’s expense.
Highlight of the first semester’s social calendar- which made a hit with everybody were the Christmas parties at various homes for aged and infirm and at the childrens’ hospitals. Money had to be spent for bus transportation and gifts for the children and older people.	•
Net income from all of the social events which required admission fees—minus expenditures and the first $1200 allotment to the commission —was $975. Total expenditures ate up $1,988, and the commission was left with $187.
While each party in the Senate Center was setting the Senate back $150 per clip, the grand profit total of the regular Saturday night dances came only to $748. Charges for each dance hovered close to the $500-mark.
• Academic Commission: allotted $1500 initial budget; spent $860 so far.
Where? Under the Senate’s sanction, the committee joined in with the College of Arts and Letters to launch the first week-long Festival of Arts in the school’s history. Fees, of course, had to be paid for shipping the million-dollar ait exhibition back and forth; it underwrote a couple of stage performances; paid rental fees for several movies that were shown in connection with the Festival. The committee also chipped in on fees for visiting lecturers like modern art critic-jokester George Buehr. In addition, it staged and paid for expenses of the Senate’s Arts Contest in which $360 in prizes were awarded to various winners.
• Spiritual Committee: each year, this group donates hundreds of dollars to less fortunate people of the South Bend area. While this money is usually provided from funds made on the Mardi Gras, the latter’s profit was used to equip the new Center last Fall. With additional funds from the Senate, it spent some for the Christmas parties; handled costs of parties at the Center after the Sunday-afternoon benedictions and gatherings for the Rosary.
Other big slices went to: the Indian missions; Negro students; Leper colonies; chaplains in China.
Expenditures to date total $2,000.
• Physical Facilities Committee: has spent $400 so far this year. Funds went for: working allotments to various hall councils for hall decorations; decoration winners’ prize money; sailing and wrestling clubs appropriations to continue in intercollegiate sports.
Expenditures for other branches of the Senate, according to the report, also drain heavily on the treasury. Publicity, for instance, has cost the Senate over $350 so far. It’s used for commer-
(Continued on page 10)
JIM RICHARDS, Senate President
JOHN REIDY
Physical Committee's Boss
PHIL BOUN
His Social Group Low on Funds
January 8, 1954
7
r
Fr. O'Brien Pamphlet Answers 'Luther' Film
“Martin Luther: The Priest Who Founded Protestantism” is the title of a new pamphlet written by Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University and published by the Pauli st Press, New York City. According to Father O’Brien, the pamphlet was written in response to the requests of thousands of Catholics who saw the movie, Martin Luther.
Father O’Brien’s pamphlet, which treats the life and work of the Augustinian monk, is written in a calm, friendly and objective manner. On all controversial points it cites the testimony of eminent Protestant historians to establish the facts. Its friendly spirit is indicated in the inscription which appears on the title page: “May Father Martin Luther through God’s grace cease to be a source of division among Christians and become a bridge spanning our differences, leading to a re-united Christendom •with One Fold and One Shepherd, so ardently desired by our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.”
The study embodies the findings of recent historical and psychiatric research which shows that Luther was afflicted “with a serious scrupulosity complex complicated with recurrent attacks of melancholia.”
“It was largely because of this extreme fear psychosis,” Father O’Brien contends, “that Luther invented the doctrine of justification by faith alone, thereby getting relief from his pathological fear of an avenging God. Luther erroneously believed that what brought relief to his troubled mind would do the same for other Christians.”
The great tragedy of Luther’s life, Father O’Brien concludes, is that he failed to keep the struggle against abuses within the framework of the Church and thus severed the historic unity of Christendom.
Military Ball Correction
Tickets will go on sale this week in the Dining Hall for the second annual Military Ball to be held Jan. 15 in the Student Center. The Scholastic previously listed the Ball for Jan. 16.
Fred Dale and his Indiana University orchestra will provide the music from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. for the future Army, Navy, and Air Force officers and their dates. The dance will be semi-formal.
Four hundred bids at $3.75 apiece will be available. There will be 140 bids available for both the Army and Air Force, while the Navy will receive 120.
Co-chairmen for the dance are Lewis Blakely, Army, Joe Deignault of the Navy, and Gene Wagner of the Air Force.
MISTRESS CLAUDE
Mary Rose Stoesser Plays in "The Miser"
'The Miser,' 'Othello' To Show Next Week
Players Incorporated, international repertory company, from Washington, D. C., will present Moliere’s The Miser and Shakespeare’s Othello Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, respectively, at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
All seats will be reserved for these performances. Student prices will be 25 cents and 50 cents. Tickets will be on sale today and Monday from 11:30 a.m. until 1 p.m. and from 5 until 7 p.m. Tickets will be on sale all day Tuesday and Wednesday until curtain time.
This troupe is in its fifth season of nation-wide touring. All members are former students of the famed Speech and Drama Department of the Catholic University of America. Many Broadway hits have originated from the University Theater.
The high point of last season’s tour was the eight weeks the players spent in Japan and Korea. The players recently returned from another successful tour of these bases.
Othello, a tragedy, and The Miser, a comedy, will provide a mixed and spirited diet of Shakespeare in the two-night stand. Othello concerns the life of a Moorish commander and the tragic end of his romance with a beautiful Venetian. Romance and light-hearted antics dot the stage when The Miser hits the footlights. The problems of dowries and an abundance of lovers add to the excitement.
Andersson Announces Paris Summer Session L ■
Theodore Andersson, director of Yale f University’s Master of Arts in Teaching Program, recently announced that 5 applications are now being received from f prospective students for the Yale-Reid I Hall Summer Session in Paris, France. J
The foreign study program is under | the joint direction of Mr. Andersson,	i
associate professor of French at Yale,	I
and Miss Dorothy F. Leet, president of | Reid Hall.	|
The six-week session begins on July 5 and will end on Aug. 14. It is open to qualified men and women students recommended by their college or university who have completed two years of college French or its equivalent.
Students accepted will leave New York in mid-June and embark on a tour of Normandy, Mont St. Michel and the chateaux of the Loire Valley before beginning their studies in Paris. At midsession another tour will be taken through Fontainebleau, Bourges, Veze-lay and other points, and at the end of the course, the group will be given three t weeks to travel on its own before returning to this country.
For further information and application blanks, students have been asked to contact Mr? Andersson, Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale University, before March 15.	.
Chicago Art Collectors Add Three Paintings to Galleries
Three paintings have been presented to the University galleries by two Chicago art collectors, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the Uni- A versity, recently announced.
Lewis J. Ruskin, president of the Ford Hopkins Co., is the donor of “Cincin-natus Offering His Baton To A Farmer,” a painting by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, the last of the great artists of the Venetian school. Tiepolo, who died in 1770, was a fresco painter and colorist of particular importance.
Richard W. Hoffman, radio executive and former U. S. Representative, has presented two- German primitives by Jakob Schick to the University. One represents St. Peter with a donor and " his young son while the other portrays St. Agatha and a donor. Schick (14961530) is famous for the many fine altarpieces which he did for numerous monasteries and churches in Germany.
The three new additions to the University’s art collection will soon be displayed in the O’Shaughnessy Hall galleries on campus.
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
MM
Violets Tangle With Irish Tomorrow Night; ND Splits in Closely-Contested Holiday Tilts
.	By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Tomorrow night the Violets of New York University invade the Notre Dame fieldhouse to tangle with the Irish eagers of Johnny Jordan. NYU has a 5-4 record with an upset victory over Miami of Ohio being the most prominent of the season.
Coach Howard “Jake” Cann, in his 31st season as NYU cage mentor, has four returning lettermen to bolster a small and inexperienced squad. Tom DeLuca, the playmaker of the 1952-53 team, has been claimed by the Army, and two of the Palisader’s leading reserves were lost through graduation.
The star and tallest man on the team is center Boris Nachamkin, 6'6" senior and letterman. Last season, Nacham-kin’s 437 points and 21.8 per game average established a new University individual scoring record. He has been the pacemaker for the Violets in their first nine games this season and poured in 32 paints in their upset win over Miami.
Captain Ted Elsberg, a 6'1" senior performer, holds down one of the guard slots. Elsberg counts heavily with his driving layup, has a nice jump shot around the foul circle, and contributes a steady defensive game.
Transfer Student Play-Maker
A transfer student from SMU, 5'11" senior Herb Bernstein, is NYU’s other guard and is the play-maker of the squad. Bernstein displays talent as a ball-handler and back court man.
Seniors Hal Weitz and Ed Doherty man the forward posts to complete the starting five. Weitz is not fast, but is always dangerous with an excellent outside set shot. Doherty possesses a wide assortment of shots and has an abundance of court knowledge. Juniors Dom DeBonis, a forward, and Joe Scarpinato, a guard, and seven promising sophomores round out the 14-man squad.
The Irish have won 15 of the 20 games played in their series with NYU. Last year the Jordanmen eked out a last-second 78-77 victory over the Violets in Madison Square Garden.
Notre Dame’s basketball team suffered their second loss of the season as the
Irish split in their two games over the holidays, falling before Bradley, 74-72, and downing Northwestern, 52-50.
The Jordanmen’s attempt to overcome a comfortable lead by Bradley fell short as the Irish were edged by the Braves Dec. 23 at Peoria. It marked Bradley’s first victory in the young four-game series which started back in 1923.
The Irish at one time led 44-43, but the Braves then put on a sensational surge and dumped 18 paints through the hoop while holding Notre Dame to two, to grab a wide 61-46 lead. The lead was too much for the Irish to overtake with four Jordanmen, Joe Bertrand, John Fannon, Bill Sullivan, and Bill Weiman, sitting out the game.
Stephens Pours in 21
Irish guard Junior Stephens was high scorer for the Irish and for the game, scoring 21 points on seven field goals and seven free throws. Joe Bertrand garnered 12 points before fouling out in the middle of the third period. Junior Johnny Kent and Senior Bob Carney led the Braves, pouring 17 and 18 points respectively through the hoop.
Notre Dame then bounced back and celebrated New Year’s Eve with a bang, this time the two-point spread working to the Jordanmen’s advantage. The win was the second for the Irish over the Wildcats this season.
The widest lead of the game came at the end of the first quarter with the Irish ahead, 15-10. This was the beginning of a see-saw game with the lead changing hands 11 times.
Northwestern pulled ahead at the start of the fourth period but the Irish tied it up. Center Bud Grant sent the Wildcats back in front for the last time with a field goal, but two baskets by Stephens and a free throw by Rosenthal put Notre Dame ahead to stay.
Captain Rosenthal paced the Irish with 17 paints followed closely by Stephens with 15. The fifth Irish victory marked the first on a foreign court this season. Forward Ehman grabbed Wildcat scoring honors with 14 points.
Rosenthal Holds Lead In Tight Scoring Race
After the first seven games of the season Captain and center Dick Rosenthal is the Irish’s leading scorer with 120 points, and a 17.1 average. Only three points separate the top three from Notre 'Dame’s 300 club. “Rosie” has connected on 41 of 151 shots for a .272 percentage and has dropped in 38 of 53 free throws to lead percentagewise in that department.
Joe Bertrand has poured in 41 of 94 attempts for 119 points and an average of 17 points a game. Bertrand’s .436 shooting average is the best of the Irish regulars. Bertrand is also second to Rosenthal in free throws with 37 of 55 for a .673 percentage. He originally led the Jordanmen earlier in the season, but his below par performances on away courts dropped him to second.
Right behind Rosenthal and Bertrand is Junior Stephens, the peppery Irish guard. All three hit over 300 points last season and are well on the way to matching their performances of last year. Stephens holds a 16.7 average pei- game and a .646 percentage for free throws.
Against Loyola on Dec. 17, Joe Bertrand set a new game and ND fieldhouse scoring record of 35 points to break the old mark set by Leroy Leslie in Chicago Stadium in March 1952. It also surpassed the fieldhouse mark of 31 set by Notre Dame’s Dan Bagley against St. Louis on Feb. 13, 1951.
CAPT. DICK ROSENTHAL
Takes Lead in ND Scoring
January 8, 1954
9
Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York 21, N.' Y.
by Bob Frolicher
No Necessity for “Cat Calls”
Ever since the Dec. 7 game against Northwestern in the ND fieldhouse, the question has been going around, “Why did they stop the pre-game introduction of the starting line-ups?” The answer boils down to simply one thing, the discourtesy shown by a certain “select” group of student rooters yelling out “Who’s he?” after the announcement .of each visiting player and their coach.
Although the students know almost all of the Irish hoopsters, such introductions of opposing players is very helpful, not only to our students, but to both the visiting cheering section and local and out-of-town spectators. It isn’t that the Notre Dame team and coaches don’t appreciate the wonderful support given to the Irish both home and away, but while the Jordanmen are on the road they don’t expect such a reception on their opponents’ home gym and there is no reason why it should exist in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
This uncalled-for ovation can have both a good and bad effect. As Irish coach Johnny Jordan stated: “It can have a psychological effect on the visiting team. They very well might turn around and put on their best performance of the season just to show the crowd who they really are.” It is enough embarrassment to the opposing players to hear such a comment when their name is mentioned, but to cry out “Who’s he?” when some of the country’s best coaches invade the gym is absolutely uncalled for.
As the saying often goes? “Why should everybody suffer for something that a few do?” It’s about time the freshmen and their upper class “big brothers” overcame their high school antics. You’re in college now so why not give the teams, both home and visiting, the kind of cheering and ovations they deserve.
International Institute Lists Foreign Grants
Opportunities for foreign study in 15 countries are listed in Fellowships Abroad for American Students, 1954-55, a pamphlet published recently by the Institute of International Education.
Study awards at the University of Ceylon and the Free University of Berlin are described, as well as other awards administered by the Institute. Universities, private groups, and governments in Europe, Asia, and Latin America have offered fellowships to American students for the 1954-55 academic year.
Earliest deadline for applications is Jan. 15 for the two awards at the University of Ceylon and for foul- awards offered for advanced study in Brazil. Closing dates of other competitions are in February, March, April, and May.
General eligibility requirements for the fellowships and scholarships, designed mainly for graduate students, are: U. S. citizenship; proof of good academic record and capacity for independent study; ability to read, write, and speak the language of the country
of study; good character, personality, and adaptability; and good health.
Largest number of grants is offered by the French Government. Forty assistantships and 35 fellowships are offered. Feb. 1 is the closing date for these awards. Under the French Government assistantship program Americans will teach English conversation classes in French secondary schools and teacher training institutions.
Summer school opportunities include eight awards for the University of Vienna Summer School and several partial grants towards tuition and maintenance at the English and Scottish summer school courses at the Universities of Oxford, Edinburgh, London, and Birmingham. The Birmingham course on Shakespeare and Elizabethan drama is held at Stratford-on-Avon.
Further information can be obtained by writing the Institute of International
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
Civil Service Announces
New Student Trainee Exam
Students in the fields of engineering and the physical sciences are now eligible for the Student Aid Training examination which has been announced by the U. S. Civil Service Commission for filling positions in various establishments of the Potomac River Naval Command in Washington, D. C., and vicinity.
Applications will be accepted until further notice and must be filed with the Board of U. S. Civil Seiwice Examiners for Scientific and Technical Personnel of the Potomac River Naval Command, Building 37, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington 25, D. C. Application forms may be obtained from the Placement Bureau, from most post offices, or direct from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Senate	«
(Continued from page 7)
cials over WNDU, posters, election ballot printing, telegrams.
The Senate’s Student Loan Fund also requires $5,000 for working capital.
Other expenses: Blue Circle, $350;	•
NFCCS $120; NS A, $350; Student Ac- -tivities Court, $50; $122 for office and secretarial supplies. The Senate also estimates that it will cost near $500 per semester for managers’ and maintenance fees for the new Center.
All of these activities have sliced practically to what President Richards calls the “bottom of the barrel.”	4
The Senate has the same plans for next semester, but there it is: the committees are out of money. Will the students pay the buck, or -will the crowds dwindle? Everybody -will know after the collections booth closes up after registration time. .
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti’’ The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made ChiK Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
10
The Scholastic
THEY STARTED OUT EVEN AT GRADUATION:
You may not see it in their outward appearances — but there’s a big difference between these young men. One has held three jobs in the five years since graduation. He’s still looking for a job that offers him a lifetime career. The other has been with a Bell Telephone Company during that time. He’s on his way up!
Seventy-five per cent of college men hired by the Bell Companies since World War II are still with these telephone companies after five years! Here’s why:
Telephone Work Is Interesting—You may train to supervise forces engaged in constructing, installing or maintaining telephone facilities; or to manage groups of people handling customer contact, accounting or statistical work. You may work on engineering problems or be engaged in planning or other important staff activities, such as personnel relations, public relations, or revenue studies.
You Grow with a Growing Business —The Bell System is one of the fastest growing businesses in the world. Since the end of World War II, it has spent about nine billion dollars for new construction. The past five years have seen the introduction of network TV transmission, dialing of Long Distance calls and the development of the remarkable transistor. And the next five years will bring many more changes. In addition, each year the number of college people hired is related to estimates of the number of future management positions to be available.
No matter what your military- status, it’s worth inquiring about Bell System employment opportunities. Your Placement Officer has the details. See him soon. And
be sure to talk to our employment representatives when they- visit the campus. The time to plan your future is now!
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM fA
Copyr^ht 1955, bcGirr& Mtus Tobacco Co.