


•jWDffllESWWK

DISQE* QV^SI •SE/V^-'/i QM^/S
\/i vt- QV^VSi • O\AS -f\0 f^Tv/^k/S •
rJ
■ Vol. XXXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Easter, 1899.
No. 25
Untold.—Two Stories.
A Game for Two.

PAUL JEROME RAGAN, ’97.
SHERMAN STEELE, 97..
I.	.
vain desire my weary days drag slow, ’^1^ The burden of my grief I can not share;
Alone and sad my aching heart must bear ■ The untold love that she will never know.
She can not see that whither she may go My yearning soul in longing follows there, Nor feel that I am lonely everywhere A
That she is not. Alas! lost love is woe. ’
The joys that I have sought can never be, My fondest hopes, I know, will turn to naught.
Perhaps in after days some one will tell, When memory leads a friend to mention me, “Poor soul! I felt for him; he never thought
Of how he loved—not wisely, but too well.”
11.
I little knew how drear the days could be - ’ When he is gone. His honest, pleading face, Reproachful now stares at me every place, And seems to wonder why I did not see. But I, too well, I read his love for me, Although my own I would not let him trace. And since he’s gone I can not now efface
That love that lives and grows in memory. •
If he but spoke those words I would not tell Then that were all; and yet how should he know
Since I grew stranger, colder every day? Could he but say them, he would say them well;
' ’Tis myv fault that our loves are blighted so, For mine I would not, his he could not, say.
+

ISS MARJORIE DAWSON was rosy - cheeked, bright - eyed,, and ... sweet-tempered; one of those little girls that seem always to be children, and whom one can scarcely
resist caressing as one would a child;. -Miss Marjorie, however, was'no longer , a . ■ child. She was nineteen years of age. and. r daintily womanish. Marjorie had finished her studies, and she was heartily glad she had. . . Her stay at home no longer would be haunted ■ by thoughts of returning to school, and she . felt now that she could enjoy life to its full. . Shortly after her return from, school, Marjorie . was invited by her cousin, Maude Wright,-to . attend a house-party that Maude was giving;.. Marjorie was delighted. She . was fond of gayety, fond of meeting strange people;, but this fondness had not been much indulged, for . . Marjorie, except when at school, had been ; away but very little, and Mt. Vernon was a dry .A. old place. And now she was going to Maude’s ’ house-party. Maude, further, was for Marjorie . ■ ’ the personification of social grace and elegance. The house-party would be a success, Marjorie was sure of that. Everything, that Maude gave / . was a success. The house and grounds were - .. suburban, and ideal for entertaining a. houses,: party, and Marjorie knew that Maude had. used... care in selecting the guests. True, Marjorie v had expected that her particular friend,Ra!ph Bennett, would be one of the guests, and now? -V Ralph could not come. But Marjorie bore this * >. disappointment philosophically, and she deter- \ 5
•?&
• mined that it. should. not interfere, with.-her enjoyment of the house-party. ,	... \'A..
A few days before Marjorie was to startup
■W A'A

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
43°
the house-party a letter came from Maude. Maude was very sorry that Mr. Bennett had been forced to withdraw his conditional acceptance, but she was glad to say that a substitute had been -found. A Mr. Blackburn, a lieutenant in the navy, happened to be in town. Maude’s brother, Ben, had met him seven or eight years before at a football game between Ben’s college and the Naval Academy, and when Mr. Blackburn understood the houseparty dilemma he readily consented to take Mr. Bennett’s place. He had two months’ furlough on his hands, and he would be glad to spend a week or two of it at a house-party.
“ Of course,” wrote Maude, “ none of us knows anything about Mr. Blackburn except that he is a naval officer. But Ben says that he remembers him at college, that, he was a good right-guard, and such like nonsense, and Ben insists that he is all right. -So, little Sweetheart, you will have , a great, big, black-eyed navy lieutenant to look after you and tell you tales of his cruise around the world, storms at sea, whales, and all that sort of thing. And while it would be hard to find anyone that could take Mr. Bennett’s place with you, yet you will admit that I have done my best to secure an acceptable substitute.”
Maude’s letter greatly pleased Marjorie. She wished to punish Ralph for not arranging to attend the house-party, and she knew that a flirtation with a naval officer would be the very best way to punish him, for Ralph on general principles disliked. officers of either the army or navy, and he also would dislike the idea of Marjorie carrying on a flirtation with anybody. Sb Marjorie dreamed over the letter for awhile, and her head began to fill with images—shadowy though they were—of black-eyed heroes, of epaulets, brass buttons and all the" rest that go to make a uniformed figure irresistible. She .finally decided that she already was becoming interested in this hero of the sea.
1 * *
The last day of the house-party had come, and all the guests were feeling the .influence . of that strange sensation, so subduing, in its effect, that always fills the minds and hearts of persons .who after living awhile together in close sympathy are about to disperse again, perhaps forever.	.
The time had- passed far too quickly for Marjorie. It had all been a dream, a happy, r gay dream to her; but it had passed so quickly.
She. did not know when she would see Mr.'
Blackburn again. He was going South for a -visit and would have to join his ship at • Hampton Roads.without again coming North. To-morrow he. would be gone, and -Marjorie felt that she would miss him. Ralph, it is true, ! would come for a few hours the next day, and would accompany her back to Mount Vernon, but she always had Ralph, and., besides he was just an ordinary man full of business. He could not tell a flying jib from a main-sail, nor had he ever kept the night watch oh. a battle-ship, seen all the world, nor smelt gunpowder.
The afternoon before he left, Mr, Blackburn and Marjorie spent together. They seemed: to care little what the others were doing; they wished only-the company of each other. They sat long together in a shaded part of the grounds, and the minutes glided swiftly ;by. Too soon the day passed, and the serenity of the sun’s afterglow filled the earth with that stillness, that incomprehensible peace that marks the dying of a summer day. He soon must go; they said their good-byes before returning to the house.	: .	.
. “Well, Blackburn, is it a conquest?” inquired: a loquacious youth, as. Mr. Blackburn joined a group of his fellow-guests who were waiting for the ladies to come down to dinner.
“I fear it is,” replied the brave lieutenant. “ The government pays us you know to make conquests, and we have to earn our money once and awhile. Pardon me, gentlemen, I see Miss Dawson is waiting.”.	.
“The conceited ass!” remarked the loqua-^ cious youth.
‘ . .
- / ■ * * .
Miss Marjorie was seated in the big< chair in her father’s study. She had started to read, but so many thoughts crowded into her busy head that she found it difficult' to keep ' the thread of her story. She had not been _ home long, and her . mind in its wanderings recalled the events of the house-party- andp not infrequently the image, of Mr. Blackburn. Thus busy with her thoughts Marjorie sat in< the big chairr in her father’s study. -
“A letter, Miss Marjorie.” .	'
Marjorie took the. letter from the maid,- and / a glance at the post-mark. and Jthe strange handwriting caused the color to rise higher	•
in~her cheeks. Her fingers twitched: a little	<
as she opened the envelope. ~	.
“I trust, my dear MissDawson,that you. . have not. taken seriously puf little flirtation at ;	: \
your cousin’s House-party. For if you have T .■

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
43*
should feel myself even more guilty than now I-do in confessing to you that I chose my wife several years ago, and that we now are living very -happily together.”
'Marjorie did not faint away; in fact, she made no demonstration, though she blushed very deeply. Taking up the envelope in.which the letter had come, she looked intently at the post-mark and noted the date upon it. Then Marjorie smiled a very significant smile, and in her mind’s eye she saw another scene that was being enacted far away. For upon the same afternoon that Marjorie sat in the big chair in her father’s study, Mr. Blackburn stepped out into the office of a family hotel in a Southern city. He walked up to the desk, and the clerk handed him a paper that had come with the afternoon mail. It was addressed to Lieutenant Blackburn, U. S. N., and was labeled “ Marked Copy.” He tore away the wrapper, and turned to the marked item. It was-the announcement of the engagment of Mr. Ralph Bennett to Miss Marjorie Dawson.
When'the lieutenant read the announcement of Marjorie’s engagement he felt he could have given a month’s’salary to have recalled the patronizing letter to her. The meaning he took from the engagement announcement was that the house-party guests had played a trick on him, that Marjorie had pretended innocence, and had led him on while the others were amusing themselves over his conceit. He ■ recalled -the knowing looks of those fellows . . when .the loquacious youth had asked him if
it was a conquest. Ben Wright must have cruelly strange natures are created in our day.
known that he was married. Yes, he had been hoaxed, badly hoaxed. His letter to Marjorie, no doubt, was going the rounds and causing
convinced, because he was born to. sing and \ the house guests much amusement. The story could not well avoid doing so. Yet he had a -would :get into the navy; his wife would hear .modest arribition to be remembered for his ' Of.it.1 Yet there was no way to stop it-. He music, if some one has not falsely attributed
would have to keep his mouth shut.'
Mr. Blackburn’s indignation began to arise. The worst sort of . anger is anger at oneself, and that is the sort of anger that seized upon Mr. Blackburn. '
“Sam,” he said suddenly, straightening up and looking sterrily at the clerk, “did; you ever make an utter ass of yourself?” .
.“Not that I know of,” answered Sam. -. * i‘.-‘Ydu are fortunate, Sam, very fortunate. I
recently ma’de an ass of myself, Sam, a bloomiri
’ ass of myself! ” And clenching the fatal news- strains, alas too few!” To these the world is paper tightly in his hand, the gallant lieuten- indebted for its priceless; literature; What7a:-. ant strutted 'out into the.street. looking fierce . treasure! what? a store of wealth for every . enough.to demolish.a whole fleet of: war-ships, age to come! ;	. .	. •	* Cr
The Resurrection.
ST. JOHN 0 SULLIVAN, I900.

■ eV HE right to heaven’s joy man forfeited AX 'wiaa.t time he fell and knew his Maker’s (9	frown; .	...
But God decreed to send a Saviour down To rescue man by dying in his stead. ‘ Thereon redemption’s arch is riveted:
One foot includes the sin of first renown, The other holds the promise; at the crown The keystone rules- the triumph o’er the dead.
From out the tomb the God-Man rose again, And proved Himself divine as He had told;
God willed the promise thus to consummate. -He deemed it well to give Himself for men, 'His love for man to show a thousandfold, Although the sin was infinitely great.
Easter Stuff.
RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98.
IVILIZED society , is divided into two classes: those that write and those that do not. The latter has becoihe almost.too narrow to receive '
much notice. The former, which is engaged at present, in penning of Easter, has my sympathy and attention for a brief spaced '
I have wondered often . why men write. With some it seems a necessity of their nature. . It can. not be so with all, or certainly some
Homer, though he did not write, may be named the first literary man. He sang, I am
verses to him that he never made. I mean -those addressed to the Delian women, in which?he says, — ‘‘Farewell to you all, arid remember me in time to come, and when any ; one of men on earth, a stranger from far, shall inquire of you, O maidens, who is the sweetest of minstrels hereabout, and, in whom-do you / most delight?, then make answer modestly, ‘It is a blind man, and he lives in steep.Chios?” ?:
Many of his greatest successors for the same . reason, I believe, “breathed soul - animating

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Roman poet, who spoke of his monument more lasting than bronze, should have been contented, I think, to include himself with his betters by using “We” for “I.” Certainly the words of the great ones have endured; yet I often muse with concern on the uncertain manner of their preservation. To have the Iliad and Odyssey dependent on the memory of generations; the poetry and prose of Rome on the saving of manuscripts from fire and loss; Lear, Macbeth, Hamlet on the chance copies of actors, is to me a disquieting reflection. What a relief to have such things permanently printed and bound in books! That precious folio of Shakspere is monument enough for the inventor of. the printing-press.
Literature almost owes its existence to the printing-press. It has given us the best of all time, and it has, I fear, made writing an industry. The author is now very near being an industrial agent. His productions are subject to the laws of supply and demand. He is not so much an artist as he is a man of business. “ His eye in a fine frenzy rolling,” looks ever
on the market to discover what is selling; that . he labours to produce.
. Steele and Addison invented; or inaugurated, .. periodical literature which, by a- process of evolution, to speak scientifically, developed into the present trade of writing. Whatever is • ventured now in letters must first be tasted by the public from the periodicals. Then, if it ‘ suit the public taste, it is served cold in book form, or put forth again as a.kind of stew in. the form of a play. We have, of course, hired -tasters - on • whose judgment .'we depend, to a slight. extent. The success of the writer depends not so. much on.his-ability to produce .art, but rather on his power to supply.'what ' the readers demand. The. commercial test is
the rule that governs productions of the pen. .
. “The world is too: much with us.” The	:
- ancients were concerned mostly ; with their	.
. /ownaffairs; civilization extended not beyond.
The. borders, of their; own lands,'they^thought.
;? Imagine the Greeks or Romans hearing what happens . to the seventy: million’ souls that //thrive on . this' spot set in‘the immeasurable v ~5ea!.: Even our poor revolutionary, fathers were .
'content to hear the news/Of parts, not so dis-■tant as ;this from our national capital, a month ‘ hqr. mor^	corner of .the earth is remote
z Lmow.L The -yellow or; black . or brown man 7 7-^his^:doings/ of the day into his white . fl' .Brother’s ear: XVe are neighbors one of another.
j The means /of locomotion andtransmission .
that have made it possible for us. to learn- so much have made it necessary that some one write. This is the-business of the literary, man. We must have the history of all countries'; accounts of the people; news of the wars, political changes and crops; stories of foreign people with foreign names, speaking foreign words. Publication has become so easy that there is no time for literature; we must have news;
At this season, “ as I avowed at starting/’ the literary workers are telling of Easter. . As everything the shop-keepers, display bears the name Easter, so must the wares of the literary man? The characters of the story must wear Easterrbonnets, belts, shoes, hats; fall in love, -separate or be married, because it is Easter Sunday. There must be Easter hymns,—verse with the word Easter .in some of the lines. The essayist must talk of the manner of celebrating, the season; the custom of giving presents; say why eggs are coloured and how.
In some way chat of Easter or people that celebrate.it. ..	.
In nondescript writing, such as this, it must be contrived by statement or suggestion _to make known the fact that it is the Easter time. So I can but extend the Easter greeting, to you, reader, and have done. . ___________ .
A Dull March Day.
JOHN J. DOWD.
UN, soggy clouds hang dreary/...: .... ^1 v Over a water-soaked land. . ■	How pass the-time is a query, ' -
- Such weather we can’t long withstand..- :
/ Over a water-soaked land ’	___ .
Settles a saturant sky—	’ ' ' 7 '
Such weather we can’t long withstand; - /” ' We’ll, resolve into rain by-and-by.-:
Settles a saturant sky,—	_7 -7j
.That crow almost swims through the/fog.
. We’ll resolve into, rain by-and-by— -
• ' ’Tis surely the life of a frog.
.. That. crow almost swims- through .the fog. ,
.The mist drenches one to the skin.;..
. ’Tis surely the life of.a frog, 7......
" . Whether without or within. ,	.	’*
. .The.mistdrenches one.to the skin.
7 A flower or bird can’t be seen.. ? _ 5. _-'Whether without’or’within/ - .	77.-77-
7 The atmosphere steeps one .in spleen.’' '
■ A flower or bird; can't be seen,
/. \ ' How. pass the time is a . query.	\	/
7 /T^e atmosphere fsteeps-dne in spleen. .
. 7‘ Dun, soggy’qlouds hang TJreaf y/“ ?	-- - ;







NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
433
Two Easters at Woodlawn.
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98.
OODLAWN was a pleasant country place, situated about one mile east \ of the city of Bowling Green. The residence, which was*- built in the " colonial style, and the grand old forest trees, joined with modern improvements and culture, admirably linked the past and present.
' As Samuel Clark drove -into the yard at Woodlawn, three small children were playing hide-and-seek among the large trees and the shrubs. His wife arid eldest son, a boy of sixteen, were plotting out a flower bed; while .his youngest child, a lad of two years, was using his most powerful invectives against Nero, a big Newfoundland dog, for switching his tail out of his lordship’s hands. Nero barked and ran to meet his master. Soon Samuel was surrounded by his family, each eager to see what
_	right hand he held a ring, and after looking at ..
presents he had purchased for them in the city, it for a moment, all that had taken place in the
Samuel was restless that night, and, as usual with him on the night before Easter, scenes of • long ago were vying for places in his memory.
Easter had marked.the most important events in his career, and on that day the past so strangely . contrasted itself with the present that his soul was alternately changing between ' sorrow and joy at thoughts of what his life used to be and what it is now.
grew. to be unbearable, arid poor Katharine’s ’ life at Woodlawn became desperate. Finally on Easter morning in the second year of their. A marriage the end came.	.
“ Well, go! take the boy with you!” said Clark, and at these words Mrs. Clark pressed her six-months, old son to her bosom and left . the room. She stopped just outside the door,. . and taking her wedding ring from her finger threw it on the floor at the feet of her drunken husband. Unconsciously. Samuel picked up - ? the ring and fell back into his arm-chair in . -. a stupor.	..	;
Gloomy and depressed was Mrs. Clark . when she stepped out into the cheerful sunshine on Easter morning. The perfume wafted from the apple blossoms, and the song of the robin had no charm for her. She cast one tear- J - . ful glance at Woodlawn, and holding’ her boy closer to her bosom she entered the carriage.
Samuel slept in his chair until late in the after- ' noon. When he awoke he was alone. In his . /
morning began quickly to unfold itself before . his mind. Full consciousness of what had happened placed him in utter despair. He paced up and down, staring intently at the ring. With that Katharine had severed herself from him forever. Should he go and ask her to come home with him again? A look at the ring decided. No! “ Then,” he gasped, “ I'll go too.” *
' Samuel Clark and Katharine Brown were ■ the two most popular young persons in Bowline- Green.; Their marriage was the chief social event of the season. The two leading rival .families of the city were united by this union;
Samuel Clark had-just left the breakfast table whenv the porter handed him his mail. , After exchanging the usual morning greeting and. a few words with several of his- friends that he met in the corridor of the hotel, he . ; went to his room. Lighting a cigar he began . :
- and men and women of maturer years said that	to examine	hi's	morning mail. The first letter,	-
■ ‘the marriage of Samuel and Katharine meant	he opened	was	from his lessee at Woodlawn.	-
less gossip and greater prosperity in Bowling	The lessee	said	that everything was going on	:
Green. By all it was considered a good omen,	well about	the	farm; and he. wanted to know .
" A short tithe after his mariage Samuel joined if Samuel was willing to make another five
. .the Webster Club. Only young married, men years’.lease of Woodlawn. He said the contract
were-eligible; and a necessary adjunct to mem-_ -bership was “ to be rich.”	1
. Although brought up in luxury the tempta-
would expire next Monday, Easter Monday,.
and that he would like, to hear from Mr. Clark
at once.	-	'
The mere mention of Easter and the lease of Woodlawn filled Samuel’s soul with sorrow. ,, j
Ai
tions afforded by the Webster Club were of . too . indulgent a * nature . for Samuel • Clark’s
well-being. He had never cultivated., a taste He could read, no' more. Though alone, he for: wihe,;but his associations atrthe club soon looked nervously, around as if ,he doubted his ;; led to the ' most violent excesses. > In vain -, privacy. The consciousness of his former dis-
hiswife besought him to^ quit ..the.cl’ub;Vbut graceful conduct, defied seclusion. He had he turned a deaf ear. The club’s J fascinations Thought many timesover, the past, and ~ of
; were fast overcoming him. At last his conduct. what .it might have been; but never before had

434
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the lost possibilities of past happiness seemed so directly opposed to ^present ease and contentment. His memory was becoming more >	o
active all the while, results of its exertions the room.
Mingling with the ■ gave some little relief;
He could stand the' no longer. Samuel left o
crowd
on the street
yet his thoughts were •/	o
to the same bent as when he
left his room.
Five years to-morrow,” he mused, “since
I left Woodlawn; and ful life I led before has wife and child.”
- He walked about
the drunken, disgrace-ceased, but I have lost
the city until noon.
As a result of his morning’s efforts, he had decided to go to the city of Beechland that night, and then perchance on the morrow, he might drive over to Woodlawn, which was only nine miles distance, just to look at the old place.
The evening train left for Beechland at 7:20, and after spending a restless afternoon he arrived at the railway station about 7 o’clock. He walked into the waiting-room, and a woman and little boy were the only persons he found there. Samuel sat down and began to read the evening paper. He had been sitting but a short time when the little boy, whom he had noticed running around in the room, came up and asked him when the train would be here.
“In about five minutes,” he answered looking closely at the child. There was something about the face that recalled the past.
“What’s your name?” asked Samuel in a tone as if he feared the boy’s answer.
“Samuel,” was the reply; and just then the elder Samuel’s eyes met the wondering stare of a woman who was seated on the other side of the room. He arose, and the woman, turn-Jng as pale as death, arose also.
“ Katharine,” stammered Samuel, and faking the child by the hand, he approached her. “ Katharine,” he entreated, “forgive me.”
. And she, seeing how changed and well he they met in a cigar store. Immediately they looked, only answered in a confused /voice.
. ..“Samuel.” -
• Arid he taking the old wedding ring from : < his watch chain, placed it on her finger, and said, “This time let the seal be forever.” And
Katharine," in the prime of life, and full of a ' . mother’s love, took up her boy in her arms and . . kissing- him-handed him to Samuel, saying, “This seal will be more lasting.” .	.	_
Just then the train arrived at the station: When the day set for the trial arrived excite-The next day" theiibright Easter sun shone meritfran high.: Larkin was very popular, and happily, at Woodlawn. '	- .	7 , /	- he belonged to one of the most.respectable
Tolle, Lege.
JAMES -J. TRAHEY, ’99.
oTTw) NE day Augustine sat in pensive thought: ha'/A heard a voice say: “Take and read; ‘
For what this book contains thy soul will feed, And every word herein will keep from naught ‘ The precious gem that He so dearly bought, Who came on earth to prop the tender reed, To help and teach the erring soul to lead
The spirit-life and do the moral ‘ought.’”
Then rose the great Augustine from his chair,
And lo! before him stood the Virgins pure, Whose beauty held in awe his troubled soul, And filled with fragrance sweet the desert air.
“ No longer, sin,” cried he, “ shalt thou allure My heart; like these I, too, must reach the goal.”
The State vs. Larkin.
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99.
ERNA was only a small town situated in a Pennsylvanian mining district; but when court was called after the warm months had passed,
large crowds of people poured into its streets from all parts of the surrounding country. The mines were shut down, the miners gathered-at the street corners, and with great excitement discussed the probable outcome of the State versus Larkin, the first case on the docket. A murder trial in a small town always causes great disturbance. This one, however, outclassed all.
William Larkin had been indicted by the grand jury for the'murder of Samuel Parker. Larkin and Parker had been in love with the same girl, and each week' widened the breach between them. They had frequent quarrels, and in a short time became bitter enemies. Matters kept growing worse until one evening
began .quarrelling, and Larkin threatened to * take the other’s life if.Parker didn’t leave town within twenty-four hours. Parker walked out of the store followed by Larkin. The next morning Parker’s .body was found lying in . the courtyard, cold and. stiff. He had been . shot during the .night. Suspicion immediately turned bn Larkin. He-was arrested and placed in jail to await a...hearing.	' '	.

NGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
43S
families in the community. These themselves created great interest in
facts in the case.
But a far deeper interest was taken in it because O’Dwyer, the State’s attorney, and Larkin, the prisoner, were sworn enemies. Their enmity was handed down to them from their fathers, and it was strengthened by the fact that Larkin prevented1 O’Dwyer from being elected county treasurer which was then considered the highest office in the district.
In the court-room everything was bustle and confusion. The place was packed with people. The lawyers were busy arranging . their papers and getting their witnesses together. Finally, Judge Elvin entered, and the bedlam was checked by the loud voice of the bailiff calling the court to order. Larkin, the prisoner, was brought in. He was pale and ’ thin, but as cool and resolute-looking as ever. He paid no attention to his surroundings, and quietly took -his seat behind his attorneys.
' The clerk of the court read the indictment, and the prisoner pleaded “not guilty.” After the selection of a jury, O’Dwyer made his opening statement and proceeded to bring on his witnesses. One witness testified that he saw Larkin buy a revolver and also that he heard him threaten to shoot Parker if he.did not leave town. A revolver was found on the •street north of the court-house and a gun-smith identified it as one coming from his store, but whether it was the particular weapon he sold
to Larkin or not, he was unable to say. In general, their answers tended to prove that Larkin was guilty, yet none saw the shooting.
Their evidence was mostly circumstantial. But ; it was of such a positive character that it was . clearly inconsistent with the innocence of the prisoner, and therefore had great weight with the jury. The last witness for the prosecution was a political rival of the prisoner, and this man seemed bent on digging into his past life. This was objected to by the defendant’s attorney, and the court sustained the objection. The State’s- attorney protested but with no avail. After wrangling over the point for some time this attorney took exception and dismissed the witness. Larkin’s attorney made his opening statement to the jury and then introduced his evidence. He tried to prove an alibi, but failed miserably. His witnesses were all more or less confused and on cross-examination, they frequently contradicted themselves.
The people in the court- room felt that the. defendant’s guilt. '	' . ■
O’Dwyer was resorting to every means pos- " The State’s attorney made his closing argu-sible to gain a verdict of guilty.; It seemed ment short and decisive. As he stepped back
only natural that he should. His fame as a ; lawyer rested largely upon the outcome of . this case. He was a young man and but lately elected to the office of State’s attorney; and this was his first important trial in that . capacity; then, besides, Larkin was his enemy.. These considerations, in the eyes of the people, . were sufficient to spur any man on to victory. O’Dwyer was very nervous during the trial, but people attributed this to his eagerness to win. After every little triumph, he would . •turn to see what effect it had on the prisoner.: Larkin’s hatred for the man was intense,-yet he controlled his feelings and met bis opponent’s torturing looks defiantly. The spectators were quick to observe the meaning of every look and movement, and their sympathies were . with’ the defense.
Larkin’s- case seemed hopeless. Circumstances were against him, and an impenetrable -gloom spread over the court-room. The case was not only one-sided but it was poorly contested. Larkin’s attorney gave frequent examples of his incompetency to conduct an important trial. After confusing his best wit- - , ness until the witness hardly knew where he was standing, the attorney rested his case, and O’Dwyer arose to address the jury.. The spectators leaned forward to catch his words, while the jurymen appeared spell-bound; . Judge Elvin heaved a sigh of relief when the -witnesses had finished, and then settled back ' in his chair and began wiping his glasses..


O’Dwyer reviewed the evidence, coloring it to suit his side of the case, and spoke in a dis
■V
paraging way of the defense. He frequently referred to Larkin in anything but soothing-terms. Then pointing at him contumeliously, he would give vent to his sarcasm and ridicule, \ of which, by the way, he had a bountiful supply. He ended by making a vigorous assault;upon < the defendant’s reputation, and throwing a few doubtful compliments at his adversary. Larkin’s attorney, after paying his respects to the opposition, proceeded to bolster up his own evidence and tear down the testimony for the prosecution. He succeeded in tiring out the , jurors by harping on minor points, while the .. -important phases of the case were passed over ’ unnoticed. Fully an hour was spent in explain- ~ ing what was meant by a reasonable. doubt, J and? unintentionally, he managed to convince" each juror that he had no reasonable doubt of

mJ
NOTRE * DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to his place he glanced around the room with a satisfied smile. He appeared pleased at the thought of having convicted his lifelong enemy. The court gave its instructions, and the jurors were taken out to the jury-room to decide upon a verdict. The spectators began moving about and wondering when the jurors would return. The audience felt convinced that Larkin was guilty, but they disliked the impudent ways of the State’s attorney. Larkin gave up all hope of acquittal and was prepared for the worst. Judge Elvin thinking, perhaps, that the jury would be out for some time, ordered the prisoner taken back to his cell and was preparing to go home. Just as he was about to leave, the door of the jury-room was opened and the jurors filed into the court-room. All conversation was cut short, and. every one listened attentively as the judge asked the foreman of the jury the usual questions, and then ordered the clerk of the court to read the verdict.
“ We the jury find the defendant guilty of murder in the first degree.” .
The spectators shuddered. O’Dwyer smiled
By his Mother’s Advice.
JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99.
and Larkin bowed his head, turning to the prisoner, asked tone:
“ Do you know of any reason
Judge Elvin, in a solemn
why the sen-
fence of death should not be pronounced upon you?”	.
“I do, judge,” cried out a gruff-looking man as he came stumbling into the court-room.
Every one held his breath in amazement.
“Ten thousand, Frank,’’ gasped O’Dwyer ■ with a look of horror on his face.
“No, nor would I keep still any longer for twenty thousand,” shouted Frank. “Your Honor, I’m Frank Lamb. Your State’s attor-. ney, O’Dwyer, killed Samuel Parker thinking it ' was William Larkin, and I helped him. Larkin
is an innocent man.” .	■
‘The spectators trembled; Larkin sprang
to
Trying.
OUNG Wareland was in all respects a model young man. The firm in which he held a small clerkship considered him as one of its most faithful and industrious helpers, and Wareland
merited this opinion. He arrived punctually at seven o’clock in the morning, attended faithfully to his duties, and, without doubt, devoted himself heart and soul to -his employer’s interests. He was a retiring young fellow, and preferred to spend his evenings in the public library at lecture courses than with his fellow-clerks in card-playing or billiards. When his father died, and left him and his mother almost without any resources, he cheerfully took, up his burden, and succeeded manfully, for two years. His mother, as all mothers do, regarded him as one of the wonders of his century, and thought only an opportunity was wanting, to raise him to his rightful position. She.would sit in the little cottage they rented, and dream of the time when John would be the foremost man in the city’s affairs. Although his advance in business suited her, she was not at all satisfied with his progress in a social way. Surely, John . could not obtain the prominent position in the , world she meant he should, unless rhe-over-came his timidity. To do this he must mingle with women of refinement, and she herself determined to introduce him into this sphere. ' She induced him one evening to accompany her to call'on the Hardens, friends that, she ; had known in more' prosperous days. That night after they had returned and John was trying the doors and windows of their, little 1 house before, retiring, she was/obliged to acknowledge that John’s entrance into society ; had not been a success. Although the Misses ■ Harden had been most attentive to him, especially the younger, Gertrude, who had “ made eyes” at her John, he ;did not meet their
1
I ‘TRIED to write a triolet,’.
,	. And ’twas but vain- presumption; .
The. rare, rich rimes, I could not get -,/To' form aright that triolet. .	,
I gave it .over with regret. .	.
// T say/it. with compunction,.	,
;. ; I tried to write a triplet -	; / A
.. •-/ And ’twas but vain* presumption:	'
advances at all-.. He; fingered the upholstery 1 and played with.the. tassels, on the chair, until 1 she was in an agony, lest he should tear them . | from their. moorings;. After-remaining for a I / . decent; time, she.-hurried/him away before he j could Tufther-disgrace/himself. But although . J her mind was seething with these thoughts,, she uttered not a word pf. them to John, and J j • he, breathing, a- sighYof .relief,:wasj glad that. ;

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
43 Z
the painful duty was over, and was silent also.
Mrs. Wareland, however, was not a woman to be balked by one defeat. She urged John to join a night dancing class; and though the . young man rebelled at first, he finally yielded to his mother’s exhortations. As the months wore on, John actually entered somewhat into the spirit of the affa.ir, and gave an impetus to his mother’s hopes. But she was yet far from being satisfied.	'
Toward the end of June, his employers sent . Wareland to Troversville with an important document, which he would give to Marsters, the firm’s agent, who would meet him there.
After he had settled himself comfortably in the car, waiting for the train to start, a well-dressed young woman entered the coach. As the only remaining place was in Wareland's seat, she asked him in a sweet, clear voice if it was free. He hastily assured her it was, and crowded himself closer to the window. Although his timidity had worn partly off, the proximity of so fair a companion already excited him, and when she asked him if he would close the window, he felt the commotion beneath his ribs increase.	•
“You know the dust is so thick,” she added apologetically, “and one gets enough in a day.” '
“ Do you intend to travel all day?” Wareland managed to blurt out.	•
“Nearly,” she answered, “but I shall.have to stop over in Troversville for the western train. . “Why,that’s where I’m going,” broke in Wareland, and finding they had one point in common, he felt his courage rising. Until they - reached Troversville they kept up a continuous • conversation. She did most of the talking, but Wareland outshone himself. He wished his mother were there to see him. He felt a confidence in those trusting blue eyes, and soon was telling her all about his work in the every-■ day business terms he was accustomed to. She remarked that he must be clever to be so intimate with business ways, and delighted him by saying she would never be able to grasp and understand them.
. While turning about carelessly on a hundred different subjects he remarked to himself that her English was excellent, and that she was evidently well educated. He noticed the cut
and texture of her garments, her rings and the John did not care much... His mind was too
dainty purse with her name, Miss Grey, engraven upon it, and he guessed that she was wealthy. How lucky it was-forlhim to meet her; and he believed that she already admired him.
When they; reached Troversville, he looked
up a time-table, and found that her train was ; the one by which he expected Marsters. As.. . she’had an hour to wait, he proposed taking-, dinner. She hesitated a moment; then they . both started over to the little village hotel: During the meal she laughed at his stories,., complimented him at every opportunity, and actually squeezed his hand while he was help-.. ing her with her wraps after dinner. As they . walked back to the station, Wareland’s heart was all aflutter. He longed to tell her all he felt, but restrained himself. He would let no boyish indiscretion destroy his chances.
Arrived at the ticket-window she looked hastily into her hand-bag and cried:	-
“Why, where’s my purse?”	'
Wareland looked blankly at her, and, beyond a couple of inarticulate “Whys,” was unable to say a word.	'
“Where could I have dropped it?” she asked imploringly. “ I don’t remember having it since . I left the train.”	.
Wareland immediately recognized this as a most happy opportunity engineered by the gods in his behalf. That Miss Grey had any influence over the doings of the deities was far from his thoughts. He would lend her the ten-- ., dollar bill he had in his pocket, and borrow his return fare from Marsters. When Miss Grey returned the money he could write in acknowledgment of the payment, and so a correspondence would spring up.	.
- Poor John! his mother was right; he should have begun earlier. At first Miss Grey hesi- . tated to accept his loan, but the circumstances were pressing, and Wareland soon made her see the case in its right light.
•	O	O	-	-	,
“ How good of you, Mr. Wareland. I don’t ; know what I would have done! What is your address?”	- -	_
He handed her his card as the train, arrived. .. Stepping upon the- platform, she gave him her - . hand, and said:	.	<
“I thank you so much. Mamma will be so- „ grateful too. Good-bye.” -	"	_
She .gave his hand a little pressure, darted a .: glance of gratitude at him, and hurried into the car. _ Wareland’s heart fluttered and- the . . train pulled out.	.	.
Mr. Marsters did not get off the train, but .








5.




Sit
3?^
full of more tender thoughts. That night as he rode back to the city on the “bumpers” of' an east-bound freight, he thought how sweet it was to be'loved, and that after all mother; was right. '	,	.	/ ;
O	-	1	. .
SB
4.®
438
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Two Broken Lilies.
The Craftsman.
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99.
JOHN J. DOWD.
^HE workman took from a stupid sheep . The tubes that its aliment held,
He sliced the heart from a maple tree,

HE little girl in the sick room' smiled sweetly at the budding Easter lily that nodded on the window-sill. The window framed a
cloud of misty green apple leaflets against a patch of blue sky. Glinting through the window the sunlight darted into dark nooks where the little one had scarce dared to peer. A fresh spring breeze wafted the
From a horse’s tail some hairs Then stringing the tubes in steady Fitted for cadence sharp or deep
Around the heart of the maple
plucked he. sweep,
tree,
Across it a skein of hairs drew he, And from stuff so base such music swelled As device more dainty has ne’er excelled.
fragrance of greening fields and flowering woods through the open casement She could hear a robin fluting in the tree near by, and the murmur of the little brook rippling through the orchard crept gently in.
How loner it seemed she had lain there! The frightened little white faces were almost for' gotten—faces of schoolmates that stared at her as she lay unable to rise, on the icy walk where she had fallen—oh! so long ago—when the trees were bare and the brooks were hushed and the flowers were hiding under the snow. Only one face stood out—a
face full of love and pity—the face of her teacher. She remembered how softly she gathered up in the teacher’s arms, and then all was - dark until she awoke in her little room.	.
She looked wistfully at the lily for a moment, and then day-dreamed anew. , And when she awoke she had seen in the dim lamp light a man bending over her
was
own
To
her drowsy eyes at first he seemed her father; then she saw it was her old friend, the doctor. The shadow's on the blue wall were distorted and wavered in the dancing light. Then she had heard her mother’s stifled sobbing, and she saw again her father standing grim and white in the doorway. Afterwards she remembered those words—words not -meant-for her and which she did not understand. Ah! but how she hated the doctor for them! Had they not made her mother weep afresh and made her father start and grow paler still. But what did they mean?—“ Her spine is injured.” .	.. .	-
The words had meant nothing to the little child of eight. But what right had he to make her mother weep? And why was everyone so quiet in the chamber? And why did all
. step on tip-toe and whisper with faces turned away? And why had they kept her in bed when she had rather have been outside? Why had they tied her down so she could not move, and yet when she asked when she was to go out they said “to-morrow?” But Why did'to-morrow never come? The poor little child-brain could, not answer the rush of questions; and with, turbulent thoughts thronging through her head she fell asleep
. and dreamt of her one friend which they told her would blossom at Easter. When she woke again the sunlight had crept over the foot of the bed and sfre watched the little "dust motes that danced and floated in, the golden beam. s 1 . . .	.
The wind had freshened and the apple-tree was tossing in the breeze. A few petals from the early blossoms drifted through the window. ;. :	.
Still the breeze freshened, and she saw a cloud creep across, her little spot of blue. Another and another ..passed. Then the beam on the bed began to glimmer 'and'finally faded away.
;; The room grew dark and the little one was frightened. ;She thought of nothing but her
; : lily waving wildly in the. window. Still: the breeze grew and a few’'first drops of an April shower pattered through the leafletsi of the tree outside. Footsteps sounded on the stairway just as the first;wild flurry of the shower.burst. The lily’s stem snapped in the.gust .
f of wind, and the little one, with a pitiful look on her face, half rose with outstretched arms, to '‘.save’, it. And,then, she jsank , back as. the door-opened..	..
The shower .passed and the sunlight again , crept over the foot of the bed and gilded .
; .the stilb head of 7the child. But the little one did not see nor feel it, Two lilies had died together •	'<?.
• 1







VGTKh DAME SCHOLASTIC.
439

The Crucifixion.
JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99.
i.	.	.
OT Erebus is darker than the cloud
Now gathering o’er the setting sun, to shroud From mortal view the tender Lamb that bleeds
In sacrifice for man’s ungrateful deeds. ’
n.
His face is pale, besprinkled here and there ■ With clotted blood; and that once golden hair Is tangled, knotted ’bout His sacred head,— No longer gold, but dyed a crimson red.
in.
The murmurs of a feeble voice, in tone
Still clear and sweet, is heard upon the Ione Forsaken Mount, and Mary ever mild Receives the sinless John as guard and child.
IV.
The Saviour’s dying words are said and past, • A moment yet ere He shall breathe His last; The angels hover ’neath the temple’s dome, That they may bear His soul in silence home.
Dramatic Criticism of To-day.
LOUIS T. WEADOCK (LAW), ’99.
As soon
Seek roses in December, ice in June, Hope, constancy in wind, or corn in chaff; Believe a woman or an epitaph,	.
Or any other thing that’s false, before’ " You trust in critics.—Byron.
HIS denunciation of Jeffrey
and
the Scottish Reviewers by one that was so cruelly wronged by them is as true to-day as it was when written. It is manifestly unfair to condemn an entire profession for the faults of a few of its members, but it is also unfair to let the mediocrity of the many pass unnoticed because of the brilliancy of the few. There are at the present time judges, of literary and artistic merit whose decisions are .models of imparti-
ality and learning; but every thinking man So long as the people place as much cbn-. knows that the majority of our present-day fidence as they do in the writings of supposedly
critics are deficient in those qualities that above all others should be theirs..
Life is now too short for universal learning;
specialization is the tendency now directing
:	men,xand in keeping with this tendency a bodywrite fearlessly and - openly have directly
following. No especial requirements are neces- - , sary to the admittance of a man into the craft. .2 And once in he remains—the self-appointed arbiter of right and wrong in others; the irre- ; sponsible critic whose decrees are received as , “1 final by his particular school. That this blind adherence to the dicta of incompetent judges works serious harm to our stage no one denies. . The question is, then; how the standard of contemporary dramatic criticism can be raised; ? The answer is by making the. critic feel his responsibilities and encouraging him in honest ,' expression of his sound opinions.-This reform . can come only from within. But how?	.
One effective means lies in the growing . . custom of allowing or requiring the critic to sign his criticism. This puts the stamp of . individuality upon his work and makes the. critic feel that he owes a duty to himself to be honest and intelligent. It affords him a wider ’ . field for his talents, because , the desire for success and recognition common to us all impels him to do his best. Knowing that he is to stand or fall by force of his own ability he .. . will strive to do the best possible work. He is . no longer, a part of an immense producing . machine, but is an independent worker. What ' cares the unrecognized workman in the pottery that the gods look behind? But the masterworkman, the man that is responsible for the _ work, cares and guards against everything that . . will lessen the effect of his labor. '
. In specialization there should be individ- : ualization. Leigh,Hunt and Lamb and Hazlitt wrote their studies of the stage over their names. The signed articles written to-day by ' Mr. William Archer, Mr. Clement Scott. Mr. . William Winter and Mr. John Corbin have % made the work of these men stand out.from 2 V the indistinguishable mass of anonymous criticism in away that is not only a credit to' themselves but a pleasure to their readers and a . distinct service to the stage itself. These men ■ are types of the real critic.
competent critics, is it the duty of the critics to label their goods, and let people know what material they are, getting.	,
The reputations won by honest critics that
r
of trained men has come into existence whose helped the.advancement of dramatic art. The sole duty is to point out the beauties and player will work harder to satisfy a discerning defects in the work of others. . L critic than he will to please a nonentity'There >	? This body is made up of all sorts, of. men." will be fewer nonentities if the judge will,
>	Every fledgling critic has his school and his always sign his opinion. .	:
Aft
NOTRE DAME
Easter.
MATTHEW A. SCHUMACHER. ■
^HE flaming sword swung over Eden’s gate, The fallen pair passed out unto their toil (9^6? _ Of many years With bitter tears,
Mid direst pain to till the cursed soil
And rue that fault which both had known too late.
Oh! wretched fate of honored choice,
Ye would not heed that simple word, But scorned by act your Maker’s voice And foolish words ye gravely heard.
The rent was made; then wider grew the gulf ’Twixt Eden’s land and earth's drear field of strife, Till muddy streams, and gushing, foaming depths Obscured the Source whence sprang our very life. Then Sorrow’s Self appeared to bring again Sweet, soothing balms to heal the woes of men.
Hail happy Easter Morn! • The Cross’ shame is gone, .
The cold, gray tomb o’ercome, And Christ again is born.
We greet Thee, risen Lord of Love!
.We greet thee, holy day of days!
Let alleluias rise above,—
, To Him aris’n eternal praise.
The cloudy sky that threatened all the race’
Is gone, and now the clear expanse of blue, The freshness of the vernal days, efface The dreary past, and bid the world anew Rejoice!
The Moor’s Revenge.
LOUIS C. M. REED, I9OO.
■	LONE under the shadowy trees,
■	■ Benton and Antoinette stand motion-
. g I A3 M less with hands clasped, gazing into L . '	each other’s eyes. Love and sad-
.	: :	ness fill their hearts.	They regret the fate
7 ? •	that united their loves,	yet it bids them linger
‘	and swear anew their	never-dying devotion.
.	, From the clustered	lilac. bushes, yonder,
7'	5 -	looks Huylton. TThe moon!s rays reveal the
: <	■ :	envy in his eyes as he	looks upon the lovers
;	\ standing silent beneath the branches.
-? / He withdraws his head quickly and beckons 4-Y..7-7' to: a shadow in the darkness. .	. -
£74;" '■ I • “ A. bit: of wifely.indelicacy,” he says with ’7-7777’ sarcastic coldness,-as -Delome advances. . -*«	- * ' *	' •* --- “ * * * - ' " ' -
7’.z7z. 7-. The husband’s face flushes with a sudden Y1: 7 <7 -anger, and. lie glares angrily at Huylton. .The 7i:i7*7 ^ latter '.perceives the fierce eye, and ihe points .'s < 7y ; toward the lovers deprecatingly..	7 7 ,. 7
SCHOLASTIC.
Delome remains motionless for a moment. His face reveals the conflict in his soul. He Iones to rush and tear the brush aside and o
there behold his Antoinette in an other’s embrace, and yet he dreads to know the truth, and a clinging reluctance holds him fast. At last he throws off. the staying influence, and runs to the bushes and peers through. ' He starts at the sight that is revealed to his eyes, and his body shakes with anger. He has all along remained deaf to the tales that Huylton — once spurned by Antoinette — has brought to his ear concerning a certain man that each night comes to the theatre where he and Antoinette are acting, and from the boxes gazes with a lover’s eyes on the. beautiful woman—receiving her loving glances in return.
And now Delome sees the truth with his own eyes! A jealous passion comes upon him, enveloping and burning up his heart.
Huylton is observing Delome with satisfaction. Suddenly he detects something glittering in Delome’s hand, and quick as a flash the jealous man is seized by the arm. '
“Put it away,” exclaims Huylton almost commandingly. “ Don’t risk your own life. Come away, and you will yet discover the ’ whole state of. affairs.”	.
Delome turns away, hardly regarding the words of Huylton, a thousand thoughts, sorrows, resolutions, whirling through his brain.
Yes, he will wait. But he will follow the lovers closely. '
And together the ..two men leave the spot, shielded by the thick bushes and the overhanging vines.	.	.
. Denton, impatient with love, sits in his box at the theatre waiting for the curtain to rise and reveal to his sight the idol of his passion. The theatre^ glittering with many lights, is fast filling, and. nimble1 footed 'ushers hasten up and down the aisles seating the people. Beautiful, women in evening gowns and glit- . tering with jewels chatter and whisper to one another,,wafting their-fans and filling the air with delicate, odors. But Denton sees nothing around, him. His eyes are directed toward the stage in eager glance. His thoughts are there<
Othello will be. produced-to-night.
Presently the orchestra begins to play, the .foot-lamps flash a, quick, brilliant light across the richly painted curtain, - and slowly it begins to rise.-.The‘whispering in.the;audience dies away. 7 7 . .	; . -	■	,
7 The play is on. But the wicked Iago, and
--	’ - Jen'	- L v	'_____ ' - '	-	;-r._W[1;	-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
his artful schemes, and even Othello, who is impersonated by Delome, have little interest for Denton. He is waiting for the appearance of Desdemona—the beautiful Antoinette—and he grows impatient as the by-players go through with the introductory lines.
At last she enters—graceful and fair. Her first glance is at Denton-whose heart beats fast at sight of her. He is overcome by her beauty and the look of love in her eyes.
His eyes are constantly upon her. They follow her every movement, and involuntarily his sympathy goes out to her during the different stages in. the development of the action.
And thus Denton sits, admiring, loving, thinking of the beautiful Desdemona. Yet in his heart there is a lurking guilt;- and he feels 00 J
that the angry words of Othello are directed to him.
It is the final scene. Othello enters the bedchamber of Desdemona. He begins to soldo-quize on her death. She awakens. He tells her to prepare to meet her God. She trembles. She pleads. But her protestations of innocence are but fuel to the fire of passion that is raging in his soul, and his anger grows fiercer and more terrible as he reproves her for her supposed faithlessness. The look in his eyes is fearful to behold. Denton becomes uneasy. Every word strikes- his heart. He fears that the wrath of Othello is genuine. Delome must be really infuriated, so vivid is his agony. .
The awful moment is at hand. Denton begins to grow dizzy as Othello hears the couch upon which Desdemona is lying. A mist gathers before Denton’s eyes. Indistinctly he hears the woman pleading for her life; .he hears her stifled cries, her prayers, and, like in a dream, he sees Othello raise the shining dagger and bury it deep into the heaving white breast.
With one mighty effort Denton rouses himself from his stupor and rushes madly out upon the stage. The audience is startled. A cry of derision descends from the galleries, but ceases quickly. Denton and Delome are seen.grap-pling with each other. Then a cry of horror rings out over the whole- house. A bloody
O	_ ’	•
dagger is in the hand ?6f Delome. ’ Suddenly Denton utters a cry and falls to the. floor
grasping his side. Delome rushes from.the stage. The audience becomes terrified.. Women scream and faint, and men and stage-hands rush ’in and surround the dead bodies of morning George told me that Louise had
. Antoinette and her lover,-Denton. '?	■ gone to Spirit Lake to. visit an aunt. He also.

Lines.
JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, ’99. '	.	’ - .
(U©	.	.	-	.
a grassy glen where wild phlox grows,> ■ Beside a dank and mossy brink ’ . - , Of a rushing rill where wood birds drink, In gloomy woods my reverie goes.	? . ?
The sunshine on the ripple glows, .	.
' And in the pools the shadows blink. Upon the stream, as on it flows, -	. .
The sweet briar wafts its petals pink.' \
No cresses greener seen than those	* ’
That in its dimples rise and sink, ’	?4
And even now I often think	.
Of life as but a rill that flows	. ,
In a grassy glen where wild phlox grows :
Beside a dank and mossy brink.



My Lady Weathervane.
EDWARD C. BROWN, 99.

WAS surprised and pained when I received a note from Louise Sher-, man telling me that our engagement was at an end. It was true that I did.
not look with disfavor upon the fact that her father was very rich; but Louise was pretty,' and I considered myself deeply in love with her. On the evening before, I had called.and she had refused to see me; but I thought the cause of this rebuff was merely a slight touch? of anger. The next day showed me that,! was., mistaken, for she requested me not to attempt to see her.	.
In my despair, I appealed to her brother George; and found out what the trouble really
was.
Louise had, requested me to call on
Thursday evening. I misunderstood, and went? on Friday. I groaned as I remembered meet; ing George at the home of Miss Harrington ’ on Thursday evening. I explained matters:to .. George and he believed me. He.pleaded witlr Louise, but she was relentless. I tried in vain to-beg her forgiveness. I called and slier refused to see me; I wrote and :my letter was; returned; I even telephoned, but as soon as she? recognized my voice, she left the telephone.
For a week', I actually persuaded- myself that?. I was heart-broken; and-at first I ate almost.. nothing. -My appetite, however, was so great that I decided not to starve to death. One;
■4*





NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
442
advised me to take a vacation. I am not . unusually quick in comprehending anything;
but I soon saw what George meant, and the next day I was at Spirit Lake. There is no large town there; but the shores of the lake O	1
are covered with summer cottages. I secured a room at a cottage three miles from the home of Mrs. Marston, Louise’s aunt.	'
At George’s advice, I did not call on Lousie, but waited for an accidental meeting. It came about in an unexpected way. I became so impatient at my failure to see her that I determined to call on her. In making my way through the woods, which are very dense at Spirit Lake, I stepped on a log and twisted my ankle.
The ground where I had fallen was very .damp, and it was almost two hours before my . cries for assistance were heard. Then the cool evening air chilled me, and the result was pneumonia. For three weeks, I was very sick. Then I wrote to Louise. She came immediately, and I was overjoyed to hear her call me “ Frank,” and give my hand an affectionate squeeze. She expressed her sorrow and sympathy, and the look in her eyes told me that ' she meant it. When I explained how the accident had happened,—she nearly cried. She came to see me every day. She never referred ' to our quarrel, nor would she let me mention it.
I had ■ been very sick and it was several weeks before I was out of bed. Just as I was . able to walk, Louise went away. She was gone . a week, and I was so discontented during that time that within a few days I was in bed again.
. When she came back, I tried to tell her how I had missed her. She said “Hush,” but the . look in her eyes told me that I had been forgiven.' I was soon able to be out of bed; and ma few days the physician gave me permis- K sion to go where I pleased. I first went to see .	' Louise. The day was hot, and I proposed a
- walk in the woods. We came to a seat in a .	- lonely place, and sat down.
“ Louise,” I said, “are you sure you have forgiven me?”
... “Oh! Frank I am the sinner. Have you for-.*• given ihe?n ’	\
. “Haven’t I been trving for weeks to tell .= .. . you so? But.my letters were returned and you ", refused to-listen.” . •	. .
; ; . “Oh! not that, Frank. Have you forgiven me for—for the - other? ”
A Natural Mistake.
T H O JI A S J. DILLON, I 9 O O.
“What .other?”.	..	\
“. Haven’t, you heard? Didn’t. George tell
T is a disputed question, whether or not Mrs. Jack was managing when she introduced Will Hanlon to Miss Courtnay, anyway, she did it premeditately, and some would say with malice
aforethought. Certainly she must have known what the consequences would be, for Mrs. Jack had learned her share of life’s lessons and had had some actual experience.
Will was one of those bright young men, very promising indeed, but unfortunately not the possessor of a cent outside of his weekly salary, which salary would hardly be called munificent—newspaper, salaries seldom are.
As regards worldly possessions Miss Court-nay was not at all his superior, and this is what made Mrs. Jack’s otherwise harmless introduction a crime. Even the most romantic person will admit that the pretty daughter of a retired army officer, and a good-looking reporter should never be introduced. If they become acquainted their friends should feel, that it is a friend’s duty to keep them separated as much' as possible. Mrs. Jack did not even do this, and thus increased her guilt. She and Will were related in some manner, as person’s often are, but just how and in what degree they never could settle. Each had a different theory, and debating on the subject had made Will welcome at Mrs. Jack’s home at any and all times. Not having a home of his own he availed himself of his privilege frequently.
Miss Courtnay came to visit Mrs. Jack. The neighbors haven’t yet decided whether she invited her on purpose or not. The majority think she did. Of course, Will met Miss Courtnay; at first mere acquaintances, very formal, conversation including the various phases of the weather, literature, favorite author, and so on. Even so broad a field as this becomes worn, especially with a young man and a young woman, so they became friends.
To' all outward appearances affairs remained at the friendship point on the scale of affection, but inwardly. things were different, very different. Almost unknown to the principals the. mercury was going towards the top with amazing rapidity, and it was only a question of time when it would reach the top with a’bang.
; ; Of course, true-love never ran smooth, and this case, had to.folffiw the time-honored cus-
NOTRE DAME ' SCHOLASTIC
tom. One day a decidedly cool wave was perceptible, and Will did not call at Mrs. Jack’s, but sat moodily in his room, the most miserable man on earth.
The next day was Will’s day off; he didn’t welcome it with the joy he was wont to—there was no pleasure in having a holiday when one did not know what to do .with himself. The police reporter was sick—sick was the word he used, the right word has nothing to do with this story. Will gladly accepted the chance to smother his sorrows in the police station. He felt that there were some persons in that place who were as down-hearted as himself. Thirty days in the workhouse is almost as serious a trouble to some persons as a lover’s quarrel.
Over on the east side two Poles were in love with the one young lady. The object of their affections apparently could make no •definite choice, so .the two Poles started to settle the matter in the Polish way, which is not very refined, but usually highly effective. After drinking enough alcohol to run a five horse power engine, they started to eliminate each other. When a policeman took objection to their way of acting he was given to understand that he would receive his share if he interfered, and so, like the wise guardian he was, he telephoned for the patrol wagon. This was about half past four when the crowds on the street are the thickest. Will got into the wagon and rode out to the scene of the trouble. When they arrived they found the officer in a rather doubtful position; one bf the Poles had escaped, and the one remaining was making the occasion interesting for his captor.
The prisoner was helped into the wagon, rather hastily and not over gently, but little things like that have to be overlooked when the law is in a hurry. He made his objections known in that vigorous manner that foreigners soon learn. Will was seated opposite him, . probably thinking of Miss Courtnay, when he suddenly found himself on the floor of the wagon, in a fair way to lose, his identity. A
- few inquisitive taps from the officers’ clubs brought the warlike Pole back to his seat, and when Will sat up, his straw hat was rimless, and the rest of his apparel more or less disturbed, to say nothing of sundry bruises.
Miss Courtnay knew that this was Will’s day
off, and she had been expecting that he would come and make everything lovely again, but . he didn’t, so she went to the matinee. Per? . haps she might meet Will; he-hardly could passAher on the street without speaking to
443
her, and if he spoke who knows what would happen. So Miss Courtnay went to the matinee.
The performance was just over when the patrol wagon came down the street, the driver ringing the gong vigorously. The crowd looked, and some body said: “ Hello! .Will,” and Will smiled a sorrowful recognition.	.
Miss Courtnay was horrified, more than that, she was indignant; and for a moment she determined that she would see Will no more.
“Maybe he is badly hurt,”she thought; then in a moment she forgave him, in the next she resolved to help him. With a resolute, air she started for the police station; she faltered a little when it came to opening the door, but she plucked up courage and .went in. The desk sergeant instinctively tipped his helmet, knowing in an instant that she did not belong, to his usual class of visitors. '	.
“ Mr. Officer, a friend of mine was ar—ar— arrested to-day. A Mr.—Mr.—MacDonald. Can I do anything for him?” Her voice sank to a mere whisper. This was something new for the officer; he looked at her for- a moment, and then turned to the register. After a moment’s search he turned and said:	.
“No, ma’am, there’s been nobody of that name brought in to-day. About what time was he arrested?”	. / ?	\-
“Just a few moments ago, as I was coming, out of the theatre I saw him. in the patrol: wagon, and he was all bruised. I think it’s.a. shame the way you officers treat people/Irclo^
The thought of Will being roughly.handled by-J a policeman made Miss Courtnay quite savage.-
“ What —! ” The sergeant turned, aroundito straighten his face.	.	;
“Wait a moment, ma’am, I’ll go and look in the cells.”	'
He didn’t go to the cells, but, to the washroom where Will was trying to make, himself presentable. Seizing that young man by the coat collar he urged him out before Miss Courtnay in a most ungentle manner.
“How dare you treat him like that, you coward! Oh Will! what is the matter? Why






■t2
3
were you arrested?” and, womanlike, Miss-Courtnay commenced to cry.
Will does not buy so many neckties now, neither does he smoke so many* cigars. He does not cash his check in the saloon Saturday

g
nights with the rest of the boys; in fact, he is a different fellow, arid his companions of olden time are all unanimous in condemning . Mrs.^ Jack Stevens for introducing Will MacDonald: to that girl.	,	.



•3
444
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
If Silent Lips Could. Speak.
EUGENE A. DELANEY, ’99.
8ISCONSOLATE munnurings breathe of mis‘ content	,
And lowering war-clouds flash portentous light; The fiends of strife intrigue to turn the might Of peaceful peoples into fierce dissent.
The blood-drenched fields yield up their battle-slain To tell the selfish hordes of coming evil days;
War’s dark foreboding, blood-writ, feebly stays
A clamoring for sacrifice that’s vain.
Could ocean’s deep and cavernous cells release The bondaged spirits from their rocking grave, -Would not their tales of lone, dark vigils save
The restless legions, and bid all turmoil cease?
AN INVOCATION.
Sweet Peace, we pray thee, guide us from this verge;
We sicken at the sight beyond the brink:
Lead thou us to thy goal, nor let us sink
Prone ’neath the bite of War’s and Famine’s scourge
The White Chapel Club.
FRANCIS O'SHAUGHNESSY, I9OO.
ATURDAY was Tom Howard’s “ day off ” from the local staff and he had made an appointment to attend the theatre in the evening with Lieutenant Fiejo, a young Spanish officer in the
escort of Princess Eulalia, who was attending ' the. World’s Fair.
Howard had met Fiejo in the course of his newspaper work, and the lieutenant had aided ;	him .in the study of Spanish. After the play
Howard suggested a visit to the White Chapel - Club. This club was .made up exclusively of .. newspaper men. Its rooms were in a dingy basement located in Newspaper Alley. The furnishing of the club-rooms were as gruesome as the. tragedies of the London quarters that -: suggested-the name. The decorations were / skulls of criminals, weapons of bandits, and ' the like. The songs-were drinking songs, and . . ; the members were seldom permitted to leave the rooms in a sober condition. . \ ~	, Howard: was.almost. sorry he had asked the
J lieutenant to visit the rooms that night; he \ . knew the members- would be/ more hilarious J ■ than usual because they had been paid-that
-day in the newspaper offices. . r T . .. '	. “ The. White Chapel, as. you will see,” ex-
plained Howard, “ is a little out of the ordinary
in the way of a club, and a sober man will not see. much in it to admire.”
The dark, murky surroundings were repulsive enough to the young Spaniard, but when he began to look over the relics that had been gathered from the jails and charnel houses an involuntary shudder crept over him. -
“This is a sight that would make a man shiver,” said the lieutenant in a jocular manner.
“It makes you shiver, does.it? ” replied a half drunken upstart. “ I guess you are a tin soldier if you can’t stand these.”
The lieutenant’s face flushed at the insulting remark. Howard stepped forward.
“ I will have you understand, sir,” said he addressing the youth, “that this gentleman is my guest and he must be treated with respect.”
“Ho, ho!” sneered the young fellow, “you
don’t like it? ”
“No, I don’t,” retorte’d Howard, and he slapped the fellow in the face. ' Several members pressed in and prevented further trouble.
Howard and -his friend left the rooms.
“Lieutenant,” said Howard, “this is a"most unfortunate occurrence. I hope you will overlook it. I have done with that club—it is no place for a man.” :	.
“ I appreciate the circumstances,” replied the lieutenant,'“ but I must thank you for your generous action.” . .	•
The President had issued the proclamation of war. The army was to. invade Cuba. The managing editor called Howard into his office.
“I want you to go to the front,” he said. “You are not to wait for the army, but get on the island as early as possible. Get an inter- ’ view with Gomez and the other Cuban leaders. It is a hazardous undertaking and you are at . liberty to decline the place. -
“When shall I start?” asked Howard.
“At once,” replied the editor.
Howard reached Tampa a few days before the Gussie was to sail for Cuba with supplies for the insurgents. He presented his army pass and was permitted to embark with the expedition. There were.no Cubans.to receive the supplies when the vessel reached the appointed place, and the captain had no other alternative than to return to Tampa. '	.	-
There was another , correspondent, Edward . Jarrod, on board. .His mission was similar to that of Howard’s. The two held., a consultation. Howard was: determined to gO, and his resolution influenced Jarrod. They felt th ere. was no real danger, because the insurgents were ?
■
K


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
/ 445
reported to be in control of that part of the island. So they asked to be put ashore.
They had travelled several miles without meeting a person. As they reached the top of a hill they saw a body of horsemen advancing toward them.	•
“The Cubans,” shouted Jarrod, throwing his hat in the air.
“Be careful, man!” said Howard, “they may . be Spaniards.. It will be safer for us to hide in the brush until they come up.”
The two correspondents peered through the shrubbery as the horsemen came clattering down the road. The clothes of the riders were faded .'and dust covered, their faces tanned, and . almost black.	.	■
“ Spanish guerillas,” whispered Howard, “lie still!”
“Nonsense,” replied Jarrod, “the Spaniards would not dare venture out in this part of the island.”	.
. The horsemen were now abreast with them.
“Cuba Libre!” shouted Jarrod, springing from the ground, and waving his hat.
“Halt!” commanded the officer. The riders drew their horses up with a jerk, and a dozen guns were pointed at the startled correspondent.
“You fool!” groaned Howard.
A word from the officer and two men. dismounted to take hold of Jarrod, Howard lay without moving. The concentrated thoughts of ten years flashed through his mind in an instant, and every imaginable form of death-presented itself to him.	'
“There is no mercy in the Spaniards,” he thought, “and I shall make them pay for my life.” '	.	-
He jumped to his feet,-and fired point blank at the officer. The shot went wide of its mark, and before he could fire again the revolver was knocked from his hand by a sabre.
“Are you Americans?” asked the officer. ' A sullen nod from Howard was the reply.
‘I shall arrest you as spies. You are within . .request to make?”
Neither of the men spoke. Then the officer
our lines.” .	. .
The prisoners were- bound and placed, on horseback. The troop halted at the barracks where they were quartered, and the prisoners were searched.. Their army passes and side. arms were taken, and -they were placed under guard. The officer read the. passes carefully, then fixing his eyes upon the men, he studied their faces closely for a moment and went out.
Jarrod had . not spoken. since his capture.
■ He sat in a chair with his hands crossed in . his .lap .staring blankly at the floor; Howard
lighted a cigarette and walked to the window; " his face was set and resolute. As he turned he saw Jarrod.	J
“Damn you, Jarrod,” he said bitterly, “you are responsible for this.”	-
Jarrod raised his eyes;	' L
“Yes, it was my fault,”.he said in a weak voice.	..
. The utter hoplessness depicted in his voice and countenance struck Howard as some-, . thing ridiculous, and he burst into a laugh.
“Brace up, old man,” he said to Jarrod, “it’s / ; tough luck, but we’ll have to die game.” .	. .
An order was handed to one of the guards.' • He read it and motioned to the prisoners to . . follow. They, were conducted to a low square building across the plaza. In the room into . which they were taken, were a number of ; officers in consultation. The one that had made . the capture stood "up.	~
.“What are your names?” he asked. They were given to him, then he continued: “Within the meaning of the law you are spies, you . ? were taken within our lines. Do you know the ’ penalty attached to this crime?” '
He spoke in a low, cold tone with a broad Spanish accent..	"
“We are not spies,” said Howard. “At most * ■ \ we are only prisoners of war; as you can see from our passes. We are correspondents and . noncombatants.”	-
“You carried .arms,” said the officer, “you . are not noncombatants. You were brought . here in a ship of the enemy. The evidence is complete—Tve hang spies!"	'
The dark eyes of the officer were fixed on ' Howard. His words, were driven with the -• force of steel. _ " .	. . .
“This is horrible,” groaned Jarrod.
“I demand a fair trial,” said Howard, “we . / can prove.—”	- . J
“ Enough of. that,” interrupted the officer,: “we have settled that matter. Have you any ;
continued:	. .
“Don’t you wish me to send a piece of the rope to your White Chapel Club?” -
Canned Goods.
C|UR bounteous harvests thus we treat-Sure ’tis a clever plan—	'
We eat as much as we can eat
And what we can’t we can. J. J.

2fOTR£ DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, April 1, 1899.
tbcrn Saturbag Suring Sicrm Eime at S. Hni&crsitji.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Address:
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind.
about Irish poetry and literature in general. He is contented -with hearing of Ireland as the land of sages and poets, but it never occurs to him to look into the works of the men that won this title for her. It would be fortunate if a few more men like Dr. Shane, could be interested in making the work of Erin’s writers better known. From what we have of it, it has proved very fascinating, and there is little doubt that if the people knew more about it they would relish it better.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
SHERMAN STEELE, ’97; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98;
RAYMOND O’MALLEY, ’98; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99;
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99; EUGENE A. DELANEY,’99;
EDWARD C. BROWN, ’99; JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99;
JULIUS NIEUWLAND, ’99; JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; MATTHEW. SCHUMACHER, ’99;
LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99; FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY, ’oo; LOUIS C. M. REED, I9OO; THOMAS J. DILLON, I9OO; ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, I9OO.
F. X. MCCOLLUM,	A
H. P. BARRY,	1	Reporters.
HENRY S. FINK,	'
The Scholastic extends to Reverend James S. Ready the sympathy of both faculty and students. Last Monday he received a telegram from his home near Cleveland announcing the death of his mother. The students of Sorin Hall, of which department Father Ready is rector, held a meeting the same evening, and appointed a committee to draft suitable resolutions expressive of their condolence.
It is so long since it occurred, that we feel - ourselves unable to make more than a brief mention of the lecture given by the Reverend Dr. Shane of the Catholic University of-.Washington. On March 20, the occasion of his visit - at Notre Dame, he talked very interestingly on ’ the great -Irish legend, “The Annals of the Four Masters.” The Doctor being a notable 1 literary man himself as well as? a historian of no mean ability: was capable of handling his subject in an appreciable manner. He was not forcible or strong in his delivery, as he read ■. dearly all his matter from copious notes; The value of his lecture lay in.the thoroughness ?. ..with which the subject was handled: It may T;:. be truthfully said, though it is a regrettable fact,: T< that the ordinary American knows very little
If you have not noticed it already, the Scholastic invites you to take a’ glance at his picture on the frontispiece of this edition. Whatever your opinion of his looks may have been, whether from his jokes you took him to be a portly, good-natured, motley-minded gentleman, or from his wisdom you suspected him of being a small, keen-eyed, frowning sage, now you can put these mind-pictures aside and see him as he is. In the various persons of the editors, you find him nearly the same old fellow that he has always been.
Generations of students may come, stay with us awhile and go away, but old Scholastic is with us forever, and without him Notre Dame would not be what it is. He is the most cosmopolitan being at the University; it is not beneath his dignity to meet the professors occasionally and have a chat with them, though ordinarily you find him among the more aristocratic “rooters.” He keeps in close touch with all that is taking place in the various halls, seems to be well acquainted with all the residents, arid exerts a widespread influence among them. Though not an athlete himself, he is always on the grounds to back up the players	j
and render them any assistance in his power.	i
You may find some alterations in his style this year. They are small, however, for, as a	|
rule, the Scholastic is not fashionable, and	1
rarely secures more than one new costume in	]
a twelve-month. He makes his annual Easter	।
appearance now simply to announce that start-	|
ing in with next Monday, he will resume his old position in society, and accept any and all I invitations to be present at post-Lenten festiv- 1 ities. Expecting, as he does, to meet many of	j
you during the next weeks of gaiety, he is	j
contented ;for the present with offering you 1 the r compliments of the. season and wishing you the best of all that .will tend to keep	j
your shadow covering f a respectable portion	J
of the earth.	; J
A?

, Athletics.
SHIS spring marks a new epoch in the athletic departments of Notre Dame. During the past two years great improvement was made in baseball; and the track department practically dates its origin from the season of ’98. These were the initial steps for the jump we expect to make now. The men at the head of the teams then were the ones to break the ice, and they may justly take to themselves a great deal of the responsibility for our present success.’ The managers find it much easier now to secure teams and games than it was some years ago, and besides, with the advantages we now have for training, they are put at the head of better teams. At the opening of the season now our teams are . as far advanced as they would be by May first,. when we depended altogether on outdoor training. It is not an idle boast to say that our men are in shape as good, if not better, than . those of any other college’ in the West.
Although it would seem like thrashing old straw to say anything more in these columns about our new gymnasium, still there is one thing that has been completely overlooked: we have more men this vear to choose our team from than we ever had before. Last spring when the track team went to Indianapolis, every available man that could do anything on track or field was taken along. It was thought that there was not. a man left behind, that would stand show of winning even a third place. The same was true of baseball. We had nine men on the Varsity, and they represented nearly all the material at the University. When . anything happened one of the regular players we scarcely knew whom to call to fill the vacant place. Old students will remember that when Powers retired from two games on account of sickness, the weakness of our substitute catcher was. apparent, too much so to our supporters. •
Fortunately, things have shaped themselves differently this year. It is not a question of where we will find the man Tor the position, but which ’man shall we choose? After the team is picked there will be many men left that . .. can fill the positions admirably, if there should arise any necessity for their services.
When the local “fans” and track team
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
447
“rooters” consider this they are contented with saying that we. have an abundance of good material. However, a moment’s reflection; shows that we had the same material before;: On the track team, Connor is the only new. man thus far; on the baseball list, O’Neill, Daly and Holland are the only men that were, not with us before. There are only four men, then, on both teams that came to us this year.? This is a smaller number than we usually find among the freshmen. The fact remains that? it is not because of new material that our teams are strengthened; it is because the old: men had proper facilities for training and; were wise enough to take advantage of these; facilities.	.	.


* *
Now we shall speak more particularly of the track team. When our men brought back the pennant from the Indiana meet last spring we had gained all that we hoped for. We can be more ambitious now, since we have the same men with us; with the exception of. Hoover and Kearney, and besides we have; men that can simply run away with last, year’s -records. Since our victory of March II, in which the strong teams of Chicago and Illinois were against us, we have no hesitancy in. bidding on local stock at par. Duane, and O’Brien are the best short distance runnersf that .Notre Dame has had since the days. of “Hal” Jewett. Captain Fred Powers is the.; same champion he was last year, and then he was considered a pretty strong field team, all in himself. With him and Eggeman .of last.’ year’s team in the shot-put, hammer throw; and discus events; with Glynn to help the captain in the high jump and pole vault; and with botE these men, aided'by Corcoran and Duane for the running broad jump, we will, ’ both literally and figuratively speaking, make; the members of other teams “jump” for their? places. In the mile run Connor will beat any . man in the West. Only a few seconds behind', world’s record time he runs his race well all through, and finishes with a wonderful sprint; In the quarter and half mile races Corcoran is running better than ever before;: Herbert-is in the pink of condition, and Martin O’Shaugh-? ? nessy is preparing to run with any of them;? The hurdles will be left in care of Powers , and ? Duane. Other men of promise that may find places on the. team in-the near .future are?? Butler, Wynn, who has. already run with, the ? team, and Duperier; Grady, Foley and Gaffney . will do the bicycle ridingfor us. 1
'<2,


1?


448	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Manager Eggeman and trainer Engledrum are responsible in no small measure for the success of the team; the former in securing a large number of meets; the latter in putting the men in the best condition for the events. Mr. Engledrum is not a new hand at training, and, as he is an old athlete himself, is the best man we could secure to take care of our men. Mr. Eggeman announces the following meets for the rest of the season. April 20, dual meet with Purdue at Notre Dame; May 20, dual meet with Chicago on Marshall field; May 27, ■ Indiana Intercollegiate at Indianapolis; and if we are admitted to the Western Intercollegiate, we shall compete in that meeting, June 3.
. • ’ ’ A • ■	.
In speaking of baseball we would like to urge the adoption of a plan that was mentioned in the Scholastic before Christmas. This is the organization of teams in the various halls. In other universities and colleges they have class teams that play good ball, furnish practice games for the Varsity and develop the material from which the Varsity is chosen.
. We could follow the same plan with our hallteams, and on account of being always here together could follow it to great advantage. It is a fact that nearly all the great athletes - of Notre Dame came from' Carroll Hall. In this hall there is more athletic activity than in all. the other halls put together, and this accounts for the developing of men like Jewett, the Sinnotts, Fitzgibbons, Gillon, John Flannigan and others spoken of as stars. If we can stir up the same enthusiasm in Brown--son and Sorin Halls we will have athletes and ball players to spare. For the short time that Sorin and Brownson played football last fall it aroused great enthusiasm. Time was when .such contests were' frequent and when the inter-hall,games were1 as exCiting as Varsity games. - Those were the games that made
prominent the men spoken of before and also . meh like Combe, McCarrick, Myers, Garter, and many others. Now, we have just as good .
/■- men here to-day; and if Sorin^ Brownson, St.	_______ _______________________
Joseph and Carroll. Halls will only get out of . 1 think it advisable not "to publish one until I their present inactivity, put interest into the can feePsure thatJt will be followed out. It is games, and ..organize teams to fight for the too bad that our other programme could not y honor of their respective departments, baseball- be played. In the next few days, however, I will be played at. Notre Dame as it was never hope to have matters all re-arranged satisfac^ . played before. •	,	\ torily, and then those for whom the schedule
\	. ! J .	. is prepared may have the pleasure of seeing
A word or two now about the Varsity. It is . it published, and, Ftrust, of further seeing it ty customary, for writers at the opening of the carried out to the letter. P • > y f
4 ' season toassume a/prophetic. r<?Ztyand/predict	; 4 Paul J. Ragan. Z
that “ this year’s team will be the best we ever had.” Although-it may be well to hold fast to old customs, in this case let us depart from the established one, and reserve our predictions until the end of the season. We shall have a good team, a very* good team. While Mr. Powers was here, they made great improvement under his able coaching. From being captain of our team for the past two years he knew well where we were weakest. Coming back with a year’s experience in the league he built the team up well, and left them a few weeks ago in good shape. Mr. Hering, now in charge of the team, is carrying the work along as it was started. Mr. Macdonald, captain and first baseman, plays his position as well as any man in the West, knows a thing or two about athletics, and will see to it that his men do e their work properly. The players can rely upon him with- certainty that our interests will be carefully looked after. As we have nothing, but indoor practice so far, we shall not speak of the work.of the candidates now, but wait until they are out. on the diamond. ■
* *
I regret that at this date I am unable to publish the schedule of games. Some few days ago the Chicago papers- contained a schedule for Notre Dame, but that schedule will not be played. It is not a fraud upon the people that the schedule ■ was so published, nor is it the work of a reporter looking to fill up space. At the time that it was given out it was considered authentic, and it was fully expected that we should play the games as represented. On account of the .cold weather and poor conditions of the diamonds in the West, it was not only advisable but even necessary to cancel the games scheduled for next week. The Michigan-Wisconsin-Illinois vs. Chicago trouble has. made. further changes in the programme necessary. However, I do not think this will interfere seriously with our interests.
We.shall play, nearly as many games, but will have to play; them on different dates, hence I can hot, with .certainty, publish a schedule, and
i
■y





NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Exchanges.
^X^HE current number of the St. Mary’s vSY Chimes contains the scholarly address - :.- on patriotism recently delivered at Saint
Mary’s by the Rev. Professor Crumley of the University. In the same number there is a paper on “Memory and Imagination” by Miss Anna E. Quinlan.. Miss Quinlan’s essay is well written, and it contains solid material; it shows much original thought as well as knowledge of- psychology and familiarity with the views of - the different psychologists. The verse is in keeping with the usual high standard set by the Chimes, and the Literary Jottings and Exchanges are cleverly written and bright.
' ***
■To those of us that are fond of tradition there is a special charm surrounding the University of Virginia. This institution occupies a place both in history and in story. The name of Jefferson is inseparably linked with it. It is the-University, we feel sure, that Marse Chan, and men like him, attended.- No wonder is it, then, that we take a special z interest in the University of Virginia Magazine. The. Maga zine, however, is' welcomed for its -own sake. Mechanically, it is very artistic, and its contents are of a high order. .
The March number of the Columbia Literary
Monthly contains a carefully prepared article essays of the great writer also considered
on the' “American Historical Novel.” The writer points out that the purpose of a historical -novel is not to convey a knowledge of history, but that its purpose is the same as that of novels of any class, and its difference lies merely in the means of' fulfilling this purpose.
In the ..April number there is an interesting paper comparing.Augier and Dumas fils. “Father Time’s. Children” is a clever bit of
blank verse work, and Mr. Crane’s story very good; its dialogue is excellent.
is
The -Red and Blue from the University of ' Pennsylvania contains in its current number a
very interesting paper on the famous Brook Farm-venture. “ Mr.Hardaker and Daughter” is the title of a clever story by Mr. Mitchell.
“The Thief of Time” is 'n'ot so good. The f	. -	_.	.. .. .......
. author intends his hero to be a strong, manly . I can particularize, and say that - the young fellow that can not Resist the temptation to ladies of Wellesley College do excellent work; fight for his country; but, to judge from his and that their, verse. shows skilpaBbyelith^ conversation, Hugh Barton was better fitted to .-ordinary.	•.	■ Sherman. Steele:
go to war in company with the ladies of the Red Cross Society than as a member of a battery composed of men. In the description of the mock battle between Lieutenant.Barton and the poodle dog there occurs, an anachronism: officers of the army do not .wear brass buttons on their fatigue blouses. We miss. Mr. Lincoln’s drawings from the March. number; but we are glad to find that Mr. McClellan has not failed to make some verse. - V.

The Yale Courant is the most pleasing and perhaps the cleverest paper in the whole realm of. college literature. It is daintily artistic; and in both form and matter it is original. Fiction and -verse must be plentiful at New: Haven, for evidently only the best, is chosen for the Courant, and there is much that is the best. The standard of excellence never varies.. We also enjoy the “ Bachelor’s Kingdom,” under which title appears critical reviews of the newly published books.	-	.	~



The Brunonian for March is a little scant ; in ' essays and stories, but it makes .up for this lack by giving a plentiful supply of “Brown : Verse” and “ Etchings.” The paper on “Steven-;, son’s Later Stories” is well prepared. The. writer truly remarks that the effect of Steven-, -son’s industry was evident, and that each sue- ; ceeding year his work was becoming better. -The paper would be more complete were the

3

- .
-Before the present editorial, board of the Wellesley Magazine gives way to the ambitious . Juniors we wish to congratulate it upon its ..work in general and upon that Undergraduate Number in particular.. In that number Miss" Cook, the editor-in-chief,.showed herself well; able to fill the leading place which usually, is; reserved for alumnm contributions. .. Her paper on Jacobean Tragedies, was one of unusual: merit, and it proved its author a graceful essayist. In quoting recently a remark of mine concerning the work done by young ladies at; their colleges, this same editor seemed to doubt my sincerity. Lassure her.that'I was/ sincere. And since reading her essay and Miss . Wherry’s story in the Undergraduate Number,



and those prize sonnets in the current number.

45°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
Local Items.
—Dr. Malcolm Gunn of Chicago was a recent visitor at the University.
•	—Mr. John A. Murray of New . York spent
a few days of last week at Notre Dame.
—Mrs. J. P. Sherlock of Chicago was the. guest of her son for a few days last week.
—Mr. and Mrs. Finlay of Jacksonville, Ill., were the recent guests of their son of Carroll Hall.	•
—Mr. H. B. Wyman of Sheldon, Iowa, has been visiting at the Uuniversity for several days past.
—Mrs. Steele of Columbus, Ohio, is visiting at Notre Dame, the guest of her son Mr. Sherman Steele.
—Mr. R. B. Hesse, Jr., student, ’94-96, is the . Democratic Nominee for City Treasurer of Port Madison, Iowa.	*	-
—Mr. William J. Towle, student ’85-86, will be married on Wednesday, April 12, 1899, to Miss Foley of Saint Paul.
—Mr. and Mrs. Barlow of Helena, Arkansas, have issued invitations to the marriage of their daughter, Frances Allison, to Mr. Andrew Pomeroy Coolidge, student ’90-93.
—The Fort Wayne papers have praised very highly the sermon recently delivered in that city by the Rev. Thomas A. Crumley who holds the chair of Psychology at the University.
—Miss Genevieve Veeder and Miss May Feldher of Jacksonville, Mich;, who are visit-ingat St. Mary’s, spent Wednesday afternoon at the University, the guests of Mr. E. C. Brown.
—The recent announcement in this column that Mr. Jerome J. Crowley had joined the ranks of the Benedicts was a mistake, and Mr. Crowley requests us to state that he still is single.
_	—In Moot-Court last Saturday the case of
—Among the very welcome visitors of recent Gutterman vs. Soberman was tried. The plain-~	--	- tiff’s charge, was false imprisonment. He was
date were Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Burns of Laramie, Wyo., who, with Mrs. Burns and Mr. Will Burns, ’96, 0! Michigan City, spent several pleasant days at Notre Dame as the guests of the Rev. . ~ Father Burns.
. -—Christopher Fitzgerald, C. E., ’94, who has been.doing excellent engineering work with the . . /th Army Corps in Cuba, has been rewarded by promotion. He now wears two bars instead of . ’ one in his straps and commands a company of engineers. The Scholastic congratulates : Captain Fitzgerald, and wishes, him continued. success.	.
Promenade. For Easter eggs call and see D. I.. Skin. With every egg goes a green sock and also his blessing. Prices very low. Eggs all guaranteed. If you would like choice. Easter flowers . remember we, the. Lilly boys, can supply .you. ; Experience, over night; capitol stock, n cents. . Clerks? good . looking and accommodating,y __ j_____ ____ ______ ______ _	___ _____ Prompt attention given to all mail orders, . Give ?
• the Lake Shore RR. Co., but now he holds the. us a call —but . have , your tobacco with; ybuV < important' position of Engineer Maintainance —Mr. George -Zeigler, an old .student;?of.. . -of Way of the Peoria and Eastern Division of Notre Dame, is, a man that? had true college-
the BigEour with headquartersat-Indianapolis. '.spirit while at Notre JDame and has lost none
. . —Mr. Charles C. Picquette, C. E., ’91, is fast . gaining- prominence as an engineer. For a ‘.few years after leaving college he was with
—Found.—A knife. Call at room 6, Sorin Hall.	.. ■
—Do not fail to see the play on Easter Monday. .	'	.	'
—At Mass to-morrow morning the choir will sing Schoep’s Mass in A.	' ■
— Get your peepers on E. Guy Easter Sunday
morning. He is going don’t cher know.”
—We have ordered snowballs to be used baseball next month.
to be a “weal wawm,
eight dozen Spalding in our first rames of
—The Hon. Clem Studebaker of South Bend, and Professor Campbell of Wabash College, took dinner at the University last Wednesday.
—The bottom flat of Sorin Hall will no longer be known as the “ Rue de Legal.” In the new directory it is called “ Hospital Row.”
—If Haley had shaved off that infernal white moustache two weeks ago, we might have had a green Easter. Nature likes to be in harmony, at least as far as color goes.
—Wanted.—People to yell for the Sq—t. Reward.—A pleasant smile from the editors.
An energetic young boy, like Yocke, to carry. water during the evening from 8 to 10 o’clock;
—Puzzle.1—Find the handsome gentleman on the frontispiece of this Scholastic. The person first solving this puzzle will be rewarded by receiving a photograph of the gentleman in question. .	’
—The new baseball suits for this year’s; Varsity have arrived. The Victor Sporting Goods Co. of Springfield, Massachusetts, are the makers, and the uniforms are satisfactory in every respect. They will be kept in the manager’s room until the team is picked. : .
represented by Messrs. Kraus and Monahan, while Messrs. Pickett and Hoban looked after . the defendant’s interests. The case was closely contested, and resulted in a disagreement by ' the jury. -	-
. —For the new styles; in Easter bonnets :go(. to Sandwitch Highstone, Sorin Hall, Third
J


NOTRE DAME
of it since he left us. Two years ago when the executive committee sent letters to the old students asking for a little help for- the Athletic Association, Mr. Zeigler was first to respond. A few weeks ago, he was also the - first man to assist us in getting prizes to be presented at the Indoor Meet of March n. Not. long since an invitation was sent to him asking him to attend the exercises. Finding ■ it .impossible to be present, Mr. Zeigler immediately forwarded a money order to the Athletic. Association with the price of two tickets.
.—A friend of ours that has troubles of his own wrote us a letter accompanied by the following tale of woe:	'
-	o
' .	'	TOO MUCH.
■	I bought my love a dainty pet,
Of purest breed and face of jet, •	With krinky tail and body trim,
• My love was soon in love with him. But now that pug I long to slay, My wrath’s increasing day by day, • " And I have cause for all my woe,— _ She’s named that pug dog Cyrano.
-—Several students-of Sorin Flail have actually “shaken themselves," and they wake up to know that there is willing talent in the Hall to bring forth or produce (as you like) another play. This play could be either in the nature of a drama or something humorous. There is' no. end to the talent, and besides it is all free. Then there is no reason why we should not be able, to .-have a thoroughly novel performance along about Commencement time, when it would be most appreciated. All the affair needs is to get the students once interested in it, and it would go through without a hitch.
—Every athlete and every man of the Athletic Association is requested to attend the meeting to-night. Several things have occurred during the last" few days that are a positive disgrace to Notre Dame, and as the offenders have been caught, .we shall take measures this evening to get rid of them. Such outrages have been continued in an underhand manner for a.long,.time and must be stopped at once. We want you all there ready to express your • opinion and help to squelch these rascals that are busying themselves with interfering with everything and impeding all progress of our teams.. (Before you have prepared a philippic to^denounce these ‘scoundrels,’ and before you puzzle your brain to find out what these outrages are, or where this indignation- meeting is to :be held, consult your calendar, dear . reader; and see what day of the year this is)'.
—The semi-finals in the contest of debating to.determine the ones'that will speak in Wash-ington'Hall were held on Wednesday and Thursday last. The debate is on the disarmament question which will be debated with Indianapolis University on May 3. There, are six survivors, and the final contest will take place probably April 5. The judges will be prom-
- t
■	-	-	' .	-	-	-	\ -rg
SCHOLASTIC. " -	.
-	-	' '	' C
inent men from outside the'University. .‘The tone of the semi-finals was spirited throughout,- -and the debates were well attended. The order :
in which the winners were selected were as '' TNNq follows: In the first debate, Mr. Steele,.first: Mr. Weadock, second, and Mr. Barry third. In - . the second debate the first place was given to
Mrt McCollum, the second to Mr. Tierney, and NN& the third-to Mr. Schumacher. In Washington NN Hall the affirmative will be upheld by Messrs. i B Tierney, McCollum, and Steele in order; the - < • AT negative by Messrs. Weadock, Schumacher ...:F >> and Barry. r	' .
—The chess tournament between Sorin and '
Brownson Halls took place last Sunday after- ' noon in the Sorin Hall reading-parlors; as the tournament was not finished, the remaining ' games will be played next Thursday. As it is . they stand even, Sorin Hall having five games . to its credit and Brownson the same number. . In the game between Blackman and Murphy, : .. Blackman, Sorin Hall, won;'between Meyers and Rumley, Rumley, Brownson Hall, won; Hay and Gaston, Hay, Sorin Hall, won; Baab and-Cortez, Baab, Sorin Hall, won; Meyers and Cortez, Meyers, Sorin Hall, won; Hay-and Cortez, Hay, Sorin Hall, won; Rumley and . Baab, Rumley, Brownson Hall, won; Baab and Gaston, Gaston, Brownson Hall, won; Meyers and Gaston, Gaston, Brownson Hall, won; Hay and Rumley, Rumley, Brownson Hall, won. . The best individual playing was done by Mr. Rumley who won his three games. The game . . . between Blackman and Murphy, experts tell us, was one of the best games. seen at the University in a long time. Mr. Murphy held -out well to the last, but Mr. Blackman was one too many for the New-Yorker. ,
—The parliamentary society has somewhat changed its method of procedure, since they have arrived at a stage where, under the teach- 1 ing of Prof. Carmody, they pride themselves with knowing a little parliamentary law. In- ' . stead of having Prof. Carmody preside over the meetings they now elect their own presid- . ing officer for a term of four weeks. Mr. John Eggeman was elected unanimously to carry on the work for the first four weeks, and in-his official position at the last meeting acquitted ■ himself in a masterly, learned manner. He has -a useful knowledge of parliamentary law, and has a good commanding presence. A person . can gain a good knowledge of parliamentary law by being active in the assembly; but he seldom masters it unless he is placed in -a position where it is necessary to .have it at his . fingers’ end. There will be much rivalry in the selection of the presiding officers hereafter, as A the society is- progressive and boasts of having . many good parliamentarians who will not be . contented until they have an opportunity of governing the body. Robert’s Rules of Order . . can be procured at the Office. No student should be without one.
452
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—To look at John Dowd’s picture in the front part of this Scholastic you would scarcely think him capable of devising and carrying out, such a trick as this. Somewhere in an old book he read that when a man was falling from, the top of a three-story building all the thoughts of his past life flashed across his mind. The other day he met the man that fell from the top of Sorin Hall two years ago, and the same afternoon he also met the man that fell from the gymnasium last fall, and both of these men said that they too could read all their past lives while falling through the air. Just before examination in Christian Doctrine the other morning, Sorin Hallers were greatly surprised at seeing Dowd climb to the top of the flag pole and then jump down to the ground. His friends rushed to the scene expecting to pick him up lifeless. When they got there, however, they found him. with a broad smile writing a lot of things on his shirt bosom. He had taken the jump simply to get a look over his past life and refresh his memory for the examinations. He says it is the best kind of way to “cram,” and informs us that before the day of the finalexamination in June, he will jump from the pole at least six times.
Headquarters, Notre Dame Cadets.
.	Notre Dame, March 29, 1899.
■ General Orders, No. 1.—The following promotions and assignments in the University of Notre Dame Battalion of Cadets have been made:—
,C. H. Atherton to be Captain of Company A.; J. F. Murphy to be Captain of Company B;' . W. M.Geoghegan to be Captain of Company C;
P. J. Ragan to be Captain of Company D.
•'J. T.’Neeson, to be First Sergeant; H. C. McAdams, J. W. Newman, J. P. Sherlock and T. Evans to be Sergeants, and all are assigned.
. to Company A. .
A.E. Krug to be First Sergeant; J. E. Morgan, W. B. Land, and H. E. Brown to be Sergeants, . and are- assigned to . Company B. '
’ W. J: Bellinger to be First Sergeant; E.Werk, , G; A. Sinnott, J. L. Slevin and H. P. Druecke
. to be Sergeants arid are assigned to Company C. '' P. McGrath to be First Sergeant; J. J.Eigles-bach, F.; Curtis, F. D. Breslin and D. J. Groogan
.. to be Sergeants, and are assigned to Company D.
. . These'non-commissioned officers will form
, classes to study the drill regulations under the direction of their captains..’Hereafter promotions; will be finade according, to the merit systeni instead of by seniority. By order of 7
:	J. J. Green, Comd’t. of .Cadets, .
: W. M. Geoghegan, Cadet Capt. and Adj.
> —Time,-midnight; Temperature, zero. Wind,
/ 102 .miles . an hour. \Dramatis Personce, Jamie and beauty attached - to this “ epic,” butas :.: and ; Steiner. Place, Steiner’s home on Irbeus the. next ones are directed at some Of the -
L flat. Scene, Steiner in bed, snoring in opposi- editors, we shall not publish them lest we
1 ftion to theXfraptic, elements.. Pitcher of water spoil the “ hit that these gentlemeh^expect : ".......-	-	’	’• T *	to make through thd
jrozen Jhar d" 6 n on the: window-sill. J.'-?.?	T‘.".'
Jamie (without, knocking violently on the door): “Stine! Stine! you crusty Dutchman, get next” (deep silence)! “Open up! I want to see you. I’ll' riot be the, cause of your funeral” ( Repeated knocks and kicks, also expressions for which we have no type).
Steiner grunts, moves, is mad. “What do. .. you want?” he drawls out. “What is this, the 'fire department?”.
Jamie: “ Come bn!-Ring off! Open up here!
I have something important to tell you.” Steiner: “Well, tell it. I’m listening.” -Jamie: “I can’t make it public, it is very important and must be looked after at once.”
Steiner reluctantly leaves his bed; looks all around the room for. his key; tips over his ink; puts his hand in it; rubs his face, and besmears his night apparel; steps on a bent pin; knocks over his bookcase, and falls under it; . extricates, himself; begins anew the research; hits' pitcher on the radiator; it falls arid, smashes on his feet. He limps to the window and sits. Snow-drift somewhat uncomfortable, considering his depth of covering. He moves away, steps in the dripping ink, and then on the bosom of his shirt. Finally he remembers the key is in the -door. He opens it .and . encounters Jamie who cheerfully asks him .for a cigarette paper. The rest you are not .permitted to know. .	. .. .
—The. Scholastic, started a kindergarten school of verse not long ago with the .intention of developing writers for the Varsity Verse column. Some of the children are making remarkable progress, so much so that we feel ' justified in publishing the following production by little Johnnie Eggeman. The title of the verse is somewhat misleading, but after reading the “poem” through you can easily see.what the .boy was aiming, at.	.	- . Y

£r
.	. AN EPIC. «	. :	< -5 . "
.	. Old “Judge” Brucker	~ ■
Was a' pretty good looker, . .
And a' pretty good looker was he; - : -?
- . He kept his punch-bowl .	: .1
. Like a merry old soul,	’
And, he called. for his schooners_thr.ee. ,£
Little Joe Haley	’	‘
. Wrote two letters daily, ■
. To a" dear little girl far away;
. But one day her dad	. ,
. - - Answered back to the lad, .	..
And said, "sport, you are getting top gay.”
Young Louie Nash .	. , ; ;
2 Went out for a mash, ; J 1	-
ai

/ . . Arid he?thought to himself “ I'm a daisy.” ’ ; ... ( . But the maids turned aside, ~r----
.	’ And. derisively cried,	.
> . - “ I guess the; poor'boy’s going crazy.”;.;
There are many more verses of equal rhythm
Sedition
ri
-V
^■4




