Vol. XIX.'	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 8, 1886.	No. 34. '
“A Child of Mary.”*	.
. A vision of soul loveliness, a dream Of lofty aims inspired by love divine, A life as pure as lily blooms that shine In spotless beauty when morn’s rosy beam Across their snowy chalices, doth stream. Thrice happy weaver of thought’s web to twine With artist skill such delicate design. Illumed by Charity’s rare golden gleam, Around Ren^e, Our Lady’s client fair, Who, seeing with Faith’s heaven-inspired eye The want of souls around her, bade all share In her great wealth, building to God on high A temple where His children came to bear Forth from His treasures grace to live and die.
Marcella A. Fitzgerald. Mossy Woodland, 18S6.
* A Child of Mary. By Christian Reid. Notre Dame, Ind. : Joseph A. Lyons. 1885.
Nature as Viewed by the Geologist.
When we look at Nature, as she travels on in Her great work of perfection, we are apt to think of her only as the great enchanter of man,—the one to whom he resorts to find a finite comparison to the sublimity and perfection of the Infinite. His conceptions of her workshop have been depicted in many a fanciful tale, and. he has endeavored, by studying her beauties and conjecturing her duration, to build a bridge from the mound of time across the indefinite valley leading to the mountain of eternity. •
Men have given their lives to the study of Nature, but have not succeeded in unravelling her mysteries; poets have received inspirations from her rivulets, plains, mountains and seas; orators have listened to her enchanting spells; scientists have followed her, step by step, in her progress, and yet all proclaim that her mysterious truths are latent and beyond the conceptions of human reason.
Nature is ever busy in her workings—ever changing, yet always presenting the same uniformity, the same perfect order. Man’s comprehension does not allow him to lift the veil and investigate her most beautiful characteristics, yet it permits him to view many of her attributes, and contemplate her outward symmetry and beauty, the minute details . of which he cannot understand. To man, in whose mind there is a natural curiosity for investigation, there can be no more interesting study than that of the system of things as it exists to-day and as it has existed in days gone by. For, by the study of the universe we see effects, and are naturally led to inquire their causes; we see causes and seek to obtain their effects; we see its beauties and sublimities, and, from a careful study of the world of matter,	*
“ We look through Nature up to Nature’s God.”
The whole universe abounds with sublimated beauty, and if we but stoop to pluck the simplest of flowers we find that it is invested with a magic power to influence and ennoble the mind. The objects of Nature have given to the artist his truest models, and to the poet the charm of his song. By studying the universe, noting its physical phenomena and laws, we perceive that all this could not have come from material objects, and are compelled to refer its existence to some unseen principle, thereby rising from impressions made upon the senses by material and finite objects to a concept of the immaterial and infinite.
Man cannot conceive of the extent of the universe; and although the astronomer has viewed planets and stars, yet there are others, perhaps millions in number, existing which will forever, be hidden from his view. Being an investigator, man is ever striving to penetrate this gloomy veil in which Nature has wrapped herself; and although he cannot comprehend the infinite expanse of the universe, yet he is able to study those parts which come in contact with him; he is able to study not only the present condition of his. temporary abode, but he may trace her existence way back into the gloomy, past. His curiosity to know the structure, mineral constituents, physical phenomena, and history of the globe which he inhabits has given rise
538	the hotee dame scholastic.
to many investigations, and introduced the beautiful science of Geology. This science presents to man’s inquiring mind a series of facts, which lead him from the present back to the beginning. It takes him into the depths of the earth, and there exposes to his view the wonders of the material world—“The Medals of Creation.”
It teaches him that beneath the soil on which he so unconsciously treads, lie petrified forests and the sepulchred remains of animals and plants that mark an era in the earth’s existence; and tells him of the successive transformations made before his appearance as culminator of creation.
Geologists have examined the condition and composition of the earth’s crust, and, by endeavor' ing to ascertain whether or not it has always presented the same appearance, the}7 have exhumed many records which expose a portion of the earth’s history. Notwithstanding the many exertions of geologists and scientists in general to carry the history of the globe back to the time of creation, the beginning is still covered with the impenetrable veil of obscurity. Many theories have been advanced upon the first condition of the earth, and although no computation has been made of the time which has elapsed since creation, aJI geologists agree in maintaining that its primitive condition was that of a molten mass, and apply to the primary period of its existence the appellation of “age of sterility and desolation.”
No traces of animals or plants being found in the unstratified rocks formed during this period, it is rightly called the barren age. The imagination of the poet presents as a picture of its desolation:
“ The awful walls of shadows round might dusky mountains seem,
But never holy light hath touched an outline with its gleam; ’Tis hut the eye’s bewildered sense that fain would rest on form,
And make night’s thick, blind presence to created shapes . conform.
No stone is moved on mountain here by creeping creature crossed;
No lonely harper comes to harp upon this fiery coast: Here all is solemn idleness; no music here, no jars, , Where silence guards the coast ere thrill her everlasting bars;
No sun here shines on wanton isles; but o’er the burning sheet	‘
A rim of restless halo shakes, which marks the internal heat;	.
As in the days of beauteous earth we see, with dazzled sight,
The red and setting sun o’erflow with rings of welling light.”	.	.
Only unstratified rocks were formed during this period, and, granite being most abundant, geologists have considered it as the foundation of the earth’s crust. The next age in the earth’s history is designated as the transitory period. In this period stratification makes its appearance for the first time, and in these primary stratified rocks a few fossils .are found, indicating that certain animals and plants.flourished during this age. Petri' factions of a few shells, seaweeds and corals are , about the only indications of life that .the geologist has discerned among the lower rocks of the second age; but in the upper layers, or strata, he has
found the petrified remains of many corals, and other animals and plants, especially the trilobites, which must have abounded in great profusion during the transitory period. The layers of rocks of this age, being formed by the action of water, the few fishes that existed at that time have left their forms imprinted on the rocks. Shells of Ammonites are found, and although species of the Ammonite family have been discovered in the formations of every subsequent period of the earth’s existence, they are, nevertheless, conceded to be the first to appear among the many representatives of the animal kingdom. In passing from the transitory to the secondary period we not only ascend from a lower strata of rocks to higher ones, but also from a lower grade of animals to those of a higher and more distinct order. This period is characterized by abundant fossils of gigantic birds .and monstrous reptiles. It was at this time that the monster Saurians made their appearance as giants among reptiles. Speaking of the many discoveries made concerning this period, it may be said that they have not only served as a gratification of the geologist’s desire for knowledge, but have resulted in something practically beneficial to mankind. In the carboniferous epoch of this period vast deposits'of coal have been discovered. The importance of this substance is fully illustrated by its extensive use as fuel in the many manufactories of to-day. The origin of coal is from vegetable matter, and the quantity found in the carboniferous strata of the secondary period indicates that this age was one of abundant vegetation. We have but to enter the coal mines of Pennsylvania to see the remains of the vast forests that were once growing upon the face of the earth, changed by Nature’s chemical forces, and deposited beneath the surface, to be discovered in after years by eversearching man. The secondary period haj always been one of peculiar interest to the geologist, not only on account of its vegetation, petrified forests and large reptiles, but also because most of the animals that existed at that time have left no representatives to perpetuate their kind in subsequent periods. .
Ascending from the secondary to the tertiary period, the geologist again notices almost an entire change, both in the composition of the rocks-form-ing the strata, and the fossil deposits of animals then existing. In the beginning of this period many volcanic actions took place, which constantly varied the face of the globe. From the ocean bed high mountains alternately raised their granite peaks to the clouds, or sunk into the depths of the sea, according to the character of the eruption or depression. From the limestone and numerous shells found in .the strata it is evident that many crustaceans inhabited the waters during this period; but its most distinguishing characteristics are that remains of marine mammalia and ruminant animals are found among the' many fossils which present themselves to the geologist.
Of the Modern Geological Period space will not permit lis to speak. ’ : Suffice it to say that in the upper rocks of this period the first remains of man are


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
found. Thus we see the statement of the inspired writer, concerning man beings the last-born of ere-ation, corroborated by the discoveries of the geologist, and we re-echo the apparently truthful statement of the poet:
“ From harmony—from heavenly harmony— This universal frame began;
From harmony to harmony, Through all the compass of the notes it ran, The diapason closing full in man.”
These are some of the views that Nature has unfolded to the £^edlosfist. We see, with admiration, how he has penetrated her half-darkened haunts, and there read the history of the millions of tribes that have gone before him; how he has exhumed the remains of many creatures that were once inhabitants of the globe, and gathered the seeds of knowledge from Nature’s cemetery. Every layer of rocks formed during the successive ages of the earth’s existence may be compared to those grand old monuments of ancient times with their hieroglyphics. In each layer of rocks the geologist has found inscribed the geological history of past generations, and, by indefatigable exertions, he has endeavored to link the present with the days that are long gone by.
Nature’s rocky tombs are filled with precious relics, and although many of these graves have given up their spoils, there still remain myriads of objects for man’s investigation. To the geologist Nature has revealed many visions; she has taught . him to listen to the music of her enchanting voice, and to learn a lesson of wisdom from every created thing. Her mysterious grandeur will ever prove to be an interesting, elevating and moralizing theme for the mind’s operations, and it will be found that, not alone to the geologist, but to all “who in the love of Nature hold communion with her visible forms, she speaks a various language.”
V. H. B.
On Receiving1 a Present of Oake made by the Graduating Class of St. Mary’s Academy.
Delicious compound! thine attractive look
Is fully justified on mastication, . Reflecting honor on thy preparation.
No coarse, untutored hireling was thy cook—
On scientific principles she took
Ingredients mixed by Rule of Alligation, Or Horner’s Method of Approximation, With wisdom guided by some learned book.
Spices their Oriental home forsook
To mingle in the dainty complication;
Superfluous sugar then she o’er it shook— Her plastic fingers, in our estimation, Had made it sweet enough without. I ate it, And very nice it was; don’t you forget it!
- Mike Roskippy.
Compliments of congratulation are always kindly taken, and cost nothing but pen, ink, and paper. They are drafts upon good breeding, where the exchange is always in favor of the drawer.
Life’s Discontents.
It has often been remarked, and it is a truth which experience brings home to every one, that the human heart seldom, if ever, meets with the full realization of its desires in this life. How often is:it not the case that we hear complaints, even from such as have apparently been graciously enough handled by fickle Fortune! No matter where we go, we find , people who are not contented in their station of life, and who regret that they have not chosen some other vocation. They have an insatiable yearning for an ideal happiness, and are and remain disappointed, because it is never realized ; and, to make matters worse, they are, as a rule, prone to compare the dark and gloomy pages of the history of their lives with the bright and glowing ones in that of their friend and neighbor.
The young clerk or laborer longs for the easy, varied and romantic life of an actor; he desires the applause and the ovations of a fickle and pleasureseeking audience; while the actor heaves a deep sigh, and wishes himself in some cozy and quiet home out in the country, or in some place of business in town. He is tired of the restless life he is leading; tired of feigning to be what he is not; tired of the momentary smiles and applause of his audience. And so with others. What has brought about all of this? The question can be answered very easily by saying, this prosperous country of ours furnishes so. many good positions that they become a stumbling-block for the young aspirant, and he is at a loss to know which to choose.
A second reason why so many have made a grievous mistake in selecting the role which they are to act in the great drama of life, is because they have a friend or a relative who has made a fortune in the pursuit of a certain business. They immediately choose the same, without considering the circumstances in which they are placed, or reflecting whether they are adapted for it. Thus, many brilliant enterprises have been abandoned, and many-a promising career given up. Others do not even take the trouble to inquire into their fitness for this or that station of life; live from day to day, and are satisfied with being, tossed about by the uncertain winds of fortune. They drop into some business which would be a profitable one to an enterprising man, but not to them. But there they are, without . knowing what brought them, or how long they may remain. They go to their work in the'morn-ing and leave it at night. They are a kind ’ of automatic machine, and their labor resembles more the work of an animal than it: does that of an intellectual being. There must be an object to be gained, an end to be reached, a plan to be laid out, or the man will grope his way in: darkness, arid the mere fact of performing his day’s labor arid drawing .his pay will be the only end he can have in view. Such despairing men. naturally, never have a higher motive than this. They never think of becoming the foremost lawyer, the most prom-nent physician or a great statesman; “ This,”.they
^4°	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAS'fiC:.
say, “ is for ambitious and high-minded people, and not for me.”
Another reason why so many are not satisfied in their station of life is.because thejr did not prepare themselves sufficiently for the work that was before them. The hours that ought to have been spent most diligently in preparing for the great battle of life were wasted in idleness and carelessness. As long as a generous father provided the youth with the necessaries, his bark was gliding over a calm and quiet sea. Such a student, at best, learned only a few technicalities of his particular profession, and with this meagre knowledge he presumptuously ventures out to battle with the stern realities of life; and that this “ promising ” young man should never be satisfied with himself and his surroundings is quite natural. He continually experiences the growing reproach of having been a traitor to his best interest and happiness. (3ne who has failed to make the necessary preparation during the days of his student-life feels a much sharper sting of remorse than he who has missed his vocation altogether; he fully realizes that it is wholly his own fault, and can blame no one; that he is only suffering the punishment of his own folly.
Again, there is another class, much different from the former. These may not-have wasted their early days in idleness, but, quite the contrary, may have applied themselves most diligently. -But their error has been that during the time of preparation they did not pursue the proper studies which would have fitted them for the profession in which they have engaged. The principal part, perhaps, of their time was spent in following studies which were altogether unnecessary for what afterwards would be to their interest.
There, perhaps, is not so great a difference between various studies, as far as the discipline of the mind is concerned; but it makes a great difference whether a study will be useful to a young man in his vocation. History is more important to the lawyer’s profession than the natural sciences; while, on the other hand, the natural sciences will be of more practical benefit to the doctor than history. So, too, with the Civil Engineer: unless the principles of the exact sciences have been instilled into his mind, there will be an obstacle always in the way. Such men will never succeed in after-life.
The mediate cause of dissatisfaction in life may be manifold, for the source of human misery is a prolific one. But, certainly, in almost every case . an imperfect preparation for one’s vocation is the first source and spring of discontent. The only correct way for a man is to choose what he feels to be his proper vocation, then he will always have plenty - to keep him busy, and he will not have time to meditate, on the unfortunate circumstances which surround him and make him feel more miserable than he really is. He will have time to see only the bright side of everything, and will not only be happy himself, but also, make life pleasant for all those who are around him. ,	;
There is another class of men who, no matter ,in what station of life:theytare, cannot be satisfied. In their case the fault rests, not on the wrong choice
of their vocation, or on the imperfect preparation for the same, but in their own foolishness. Instead of grasping atfhe good fortune within their reach, they are always striving after something better. If they must sweat for their daily bread, they complain about their sad lot; if they drink champagne and eat terrapin, they grumble because nature has not furnished them with something more pleasing to the palate.
What is the conclusion that we draw from all this? Briefly, it is this: we, young men, should weigh well that the “ to be or not to be ” depends on the correct choice and the conscientious preparation for our vocation in life.
' L. M.
The Fall of Constantinople. ‘
When, in the course of time, small towns become great cities, and these cities become, in turn, the capitals of vast empires; when they have stood for many years, oftentimes centuries, and through all the ravages of time have sustained many attacks from their less fortunate and jealous neighbors, it is but natural that they should, at last succumb to some mightier power, and fade away in. obscurity from the sight of man. This was the case with that once proud and powerful city, Constantinople. The ruler of the Western Empire, Constantine the Great, after having- reigned for some years with Rome as his capitol, conceived the idea of removing the seat of the empire to another city. He chose for this purpose the site of Byzantium in Thrace, and there founded that beautiful city which bears his name.’
Constantinople was, for many years, the capital of the Roman Provinces, and many were the learned men and faithful warriors who lived within her walls and matured under her maternal care. As the empire in the West, founded by Augustus, fell under Augustulus—or little Augustus—so also the Eastern, founded by Constantine, was destined to fade into littleness, and, finally, succumb to the Turks under another Constantine, surnamed Pale-ologus. This prince, the last successor of Constantine the Great, possessed all the virtues of a Christian and magnanimous prince, while his opponent and enemy, Mahomet II, possessed all the vices of a Mussulman conqueror.
While this lawless invader could command many thousands, Constantine could muster only a handful of men, when • compared to the hordes of Turks and other infidels, constantly increasing on the outside of his walls. '
The siege of the city was commenced in the spring of the year 1453. Toward the first of April, the city was surrounded by a fleet of three hundred and twenty vessels, and about three hundred thousand men, one-third of whom were cavalry. To this powerful army, Constantine could op-,'pose only "nine thousand men and.a few ships.
. Prodigies of valor were displayed oh the part-'of the Greeks,and the enemy was repeatedly repulsed; but at last, by means of a stratagem, the latter succeeded in gaining admittance to the harbor. So
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	541
long as the Greeks could retain the possession of their excellent harbor, they were comparatively safe—as safe as they could be with such an army .around their very wallsi But now they realized >. that the time had come when they, too, must give themselves, their homes, and their country up to that fearful and merciless conqueror, Mahomet IL Constantine displayed great bravery; but when he saw that the fall of the city was inevitable, he resolved to fall with it, and was killed while leading his men to the charge. With him fell,the hopes and courage of the garrison. They at last yielded to their numberless enemy, and the Turks entered the city in triumph. Many of the inhabitants were put to the sword, while others were detained as prisoners, and as such suffered all the tortures that cruelty could devise.
So fell that grand and magnificent city founded by the first Christian Emperor of Rome. It withstood for eleven hundred and twenty-three years the dashing of the waves of time, but at -last was washed away, affording another evidence of the truth that the works of God alone remain unchangeable forever.
P. H. Levin (Prejj
Tn Honorem Beatas Marias Virginis.
Alma Redemptoris MAter sine labe MariA. Lumen adest: toto cLarissimus orbe nitet SoL, Multaque jam can factuM est post s^cula VerbuM. Attonitus miratur Adam et miserabilis EvA: Rex coeli omnipotens oRitur de Virgine, paupeR Emicat in terris nEc non ignobilis essE Dignatur. Christus Deus est humilisque puer; seD Exemplo Vitaque docEt sum Missus, ubiquE Mitis, ublque animum Multis minitAntibus altuM Priestat: paRvus enim patria e Regionefugit, seP Tennis in EGypto maneT, atque Idola refringiT. O qualis dOctor,QuantaO mirAcula cernO! Rex placidus sanat moRbos summusque MagisteR Instituit legem TESTTS, qua pectora amorl Subjiciens puros homineS faciatque beatoS, Multiplici infamem Meruit pro munere morteM. Alma Redemptoris MAter sine labe MariA. Te cantent pueri, graTo te cor de salutenT Et vocitent “ Domini O gEnitrix castissima,	salvE I
Rumpitur acris hiems, floRet . tepidumque subit veR. Sylva virenSaviumreSonat conOentibus, omneS Interea ri dent a h I m i r enO vantur et hortl: No s catu r JTostrre geNitricis et uNdique n om eN: En virgo, vEne FidEi spes inOlyta, sa 1 vE! Lux radians cceLo Late spl E ndescit, et exsuL A t e, S t e 11A maris, vA1 e L- e x s P ectare secundA. BelluaquumnoBis . oBstat teTerrima, nos aB E ff r e n a inf E rni rabiE, . Regin A,	t u e r E.
Millia quum feedam Monstrant discrimina morteM, Ad te confugimus pAvidi. Memorare, Benign A! Regnum nos Dornins nostR <£ defendere s e m p e R: In te speramus, Virgo purissima, alumni. Alma Redemptoris MAter sine labe -MariA.
F.
Flowers.
Flowers are the most beautiful of all the many beauties of nature? There are those, without a doubt, who have never thought of flowers as beautiful. This is .because they have never studied them. Look at a pretty flower, and if you have any appreciation of the beauties of nature it will bring to ...your mind many happy memories of the past.	-
Do not flowers bring to the mind memories of friendsnow far away,parted with,perhaps,forever? Do they not endow memory with even greater charms than it before possessed? Does not the memory of bygone pleasures seem brighter and.. more charming when connected with those beautiful symbols of past happiness and pleasure, the lovely flowers with which God has’ adorned our earthly. homes?
Are you cheerful? flowers are cheerful; and if you are morose, admire and study them. To the repentant sinner they say: “Go on your way rejoicing.” To the sorrowing, “ Cheer up; although it rains to-day, the sun will shine to-morrow.”
Flowers teach us to be cheerful and happy, but not to be coarse. On the contrary, they teach us that no coarse pleasure can compare with those which are pure. Men who live coarse lives, and satiate their unwholesome appetites with coarse pleasures never enjoy either this world or the world to come. Let them learn a lesson from the flowers and be pure, and their now disgusting countenances will become like the mien of the flowers, pure, cheerful and happy.
God loves flowers. He has strewn them in profusion all ■ over the earth, for the admiration and edification of man. Many a man, wise in the knowledge of books and men, could learn a grand lesson from the little flowers. They are teachers, and if we will only heed their admonitions we will reap a harvest therefrom which will be a lasting benefit to us.
All men rightly educated love flowers. So have they in all ages. The ancients gave to the victor in their contests a simple wreath of flowers. That wreath was cherished and handed down from father to son for generations, a most precious heirloom. The path of the conquering hero was strewn with flowers. This was the greatest compliment the masses could pay him. .
To-day the Church adorns hej altars with flowers. a most touching emblem of her love and affection for the Creator of all that is good and beautiful. Are not, then, flowers connected with all our pleasant, all our noble thoughts?
Flowers teach us a greater and more solemn lesson. In the spring they come to cheer and please us, after, the long, dreary months of winter. Fora few months they make the world look cheerful and happy, then they die.Let us, then, learn this lesson from the flowersTo-day we are here, to-morrow we vanish. Why not, since; like the flowers, our stay is so short, like them make those around us
£42	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
cheerful and happy? Our stay is to be short; then let it be cheerful. Let us laugh, and not cry.
Flowers teach us that our lives are short. When we realize that our sojourn in this world, like that of the flowers, is but for a day, then come the solemn thoughts of the hereafter and eternity. With those thoughts comes the knowledge of God. A true knowledge of God, His love and mercy, leads to a better and purer life. Flowers are emblems of a better life.
Let us cultivate a love for these precious gems. With a love for flowers will come refinement. As we cannot be refined without being pure, we will become pure. Purity naturally inculcates nobility, and we cannot possess a noble character without its companion virtue, the great and final end of earthly ambition—a love for God. Thus we see that a little flower can teach us the noblest lesson in the power of man to comprehend. That time spent in the study of flowers is not time thrown away. A little flower, considered rightly, will teach us lessons which will be to us an eternal blessing. Hereafter let us study these flowers, of all God’s creations one of the most beautiful. We should cultivate and acquire a taste and love for these earthly beauties. They will awaken many a noble thought, and give birth to many a noble sentiment. May we learn from flowers to be good, cheerful, and pure! to strive toplease and accommodate our companions; to love and serve God; to “do unto others as we would that others should do unto us;” to consider that, like the flower, we live to-day and die to-morrow, and therefore should prepare ourselves for the hereafter.
Having learned and observed these teachings of the flowers during life, we may rest assured that our pathway in the next world will be strewn with flowers more beautiful and more lasting’ than any ever servilely thrown beneath the disdainful feet of the worldly conqueror; that in eternity we shall be even more cheerful, more lovely, and more pure than the most beautiful flower which God ever placed in this world for our enjoyment and education.	..
Lovely flower, teach us to be ever true to ourselves and our God. Beautiful flower! thy smiling face tells me to ever cherish bright and glowing memories of the pleasant past, and quiet confidence for the unrevealed future.	’
'	'	M.
Scientific Notes.
------It is claimed for the electric light that it shows colors truly, does not consume the oxygen of the air, gives out no products prejudicial to health or injurious :to paintings, furniture or ornaments, and is. safe from fire and explosions.
—A remarkable illustration of the increasing use of English as the language of science is to be found in the fact that a Dutch scientific society at Haarlem, in Holland, offers a gold medal and a prize in money for the best essay on the researches on Pasteur— the competing memoirs to be written in English.
—Comets are multiplying. The latest discovery is by Brooks. Its position is given as in 23b. of right ascension and 21° of north declination, with a slow motion towards the north; is bright, with a fine tail. The position stated is not far from half way between the two bright stars known as Alpha and Beta in the constellation Pegasus.
—Mr. H. M. Stanley, the celebrated explorer of Central and Western Africa, and the true creator and organiser of the Free State of the Congo, is now in Rome in search of health. He has held important conferences with the Secretary-General of the Italian Geographical Society, as well as with the noted African traveller, Captain Cecchi, who goes soon to the Congo as Consul-General for Italy.
—Washington has been plagued of late by a visitation of huge bugs [belostoma^ which congregate in immense numbers about the electric lights. They are bred in ponds, where they remain during the winter. In the spring they emerge, often in immense numbers, and fly about; after a little time the females return to the water to lay their eggs, and the plague disappears. These big bugs,between two and three inches long, are harmless, but can, and will, bite sharply on provocation. They are carnivorous, feeding on other insects, and often catching small frogs and fishes in the water. They have been quite as abundant at the capital heretofore, but never so conspicuous. ’
—The Borgia Museum of Propaganda has recently received from the Rev. Father Camboni, S. J., a missionary in Madagascar, a valuable collection of le-pidaptera, some of which were presented by the Governor of the Island of Mauritius. He has also forwarded some mollusca, various specimens of insects, and a fine collection of vegetables and fruits from Ambora, Bokadahy, and Ravinala. Another foreign missionary, the Rev. Dr. G. N. Maingot, parish priest at Trinidad, has sent several specimens of bitumen from the Petch Lakes, as also fruits, vegetables, and other specimens, which will be most useful to students of the ethnography and the natural history of that part of the world.	.
—Bro. Potamian, a Christian Brother, recently lecturing in London on Electricity and the Electric Light, made the following allusion to the explosion at Hell Gate, which took place last October, and which he had witnessed:
“ When everything was ready, the delicate hand of General Newton’s young daughter closed the electric circuit, and 240,000 lbs. of rendrock exploded with fierce violence. At the same instant,- a short, sharp tremor was felt, and vast masses of water were tossed up into the air. By the mutual collision and clashing of the water particles, these columns were dashed into spray as they rose. They ascended to various heights, the loftiest reaching 250 feet above the bed of the river. It was, indeed, a grand sight to see these spray-like pyramids springing up from their broad bases of foam, and glittering for a few moments in the rays of a bright noonday sun.”	’
—A Laughing Plant. ’ This is not a flower that laughs, but one that creates laughter, if the printed stories of' travellers are to be believed. It grows in Arabia, and is called the laughing plant,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
' 543
because its seeds produce effects like those produced by laughing gas. The flowers are of a bright yellow, and the seed-pods are soft and woolly, while the seeds resemble small black beans, and only two or three grow in a pod. The natives dry and pulverize them, and the powder, if taken in small doses, makes the soberest person behave like a circus clown, or a madman; for he will dance, sing and laugh most boisterously, and cut the most fantastic capers, and be in an uproariously ridiculous condition for about an hour. When the excitement ceases, the exhausted exhibitor of these antics falls asleep, and when he awakes he has not the slightest remembrance of his frisky doings.— Vic^s Floral Magazine.
—The largest refracting telescope in the world is now in process of construction in the modest workshop of the venerable Alvan Clark, the eminent telescope-maker, in Henry street, Cambridgeport, Boston. The two disks of-glass go to form the lens of the great Lick telescope, which will be placed in the observatory on the peak of Mt. Hamilton, a bequest of the California millionaire, James Lick. These two circular glasses are valued at $25,000 each, and if destroyed, they could not be duplicated within the next six months for millions of dollars. The disks were cast in Paris, the order being given five years ago, but the failures were so numerous that they were not received by Messrs. Clark until . last September. When finished, the lens will be thirty-six inches in diameter—six inches wider than the one which they recently completed for the Russian Government. Since receiving the blocks, last September, Mr. Clark and his sons have been constantly at work upon them, but they do not expect to have them completed much before next fall. When completed, the two lenses will weigh about 700 pounds. The work of polishing the disks has reached that stage where the removal of a few grains more or less from the wrong place would ruin them. The only instrument used is the hand smeared with rouge—a polishing substance, finer than the finest emery. Some idea of the power of the instrument may be gained from the statement recently made by an astronomer, that, gazing at the moon, 240,000 miles away, that orb by this telescope will be brought to within less than one hundred miles from the eve of the beholder.
.	J
College Gossip.
—Michigan University is to receive the sculptor Rogers’ entire collection after' his death. It includes over 100 pieces in plaster and marble.—Ex.
—His Holiness Leo XIII,who has always shown special solicitude for all.that concerns classical studies, has just allotted 20,000 francs to the new Greek Catholic school of Constantinople. Thus, Constantinople, as well.as Rome, may testify to the Pontiff’s love of Greek literature.
____The German Government, with a view to extending German influence and trade in the East,
has decided to establish a seminary for the teaching of Oriental languages in connection with the Berlin University. The Imperial exchequerand the Prussian exchequer will contribute $5,000 each at the start, and $8,000 annually thereafter.
—The sons of the late Wm. H. Vanderbilt have given $240,000 to the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York. A new building will be built, to be known as the Vanderbilt Clinic, at a cost of $150,000 and the remaining ,$100,000 will be invested to maintain the current expenses of the Clinic. This new gift is in accordance with the purpose of Mr. Vanderbilt, who, previous to his death, had given the College of Physicians and Surgeons $500,000.
—Ax Essay on Coluxibus.—The following story comes from a school in the Midlands. The master told the boys of the third class to write a short essay on Columbus. The following was sent up by an ambitious essayist: “ Clumbus was a man who could make an egg stand oh end with- • out breaking it. The king of Spain said to Clumbus: ‘Can you discover America?’ ‘Yes,’ said Clumbus, ‘ if you will give me a ship.’ So he had a ship, and sailed over the sea in the direction where -he thought America ought to be found. The sailors quarrelled, and said they believed there was no such place. But after many days, the pilot came to-him and said: ‘ Clumbus, I see land.’ ‘Then that is America,’ said Clumbus. When the ship got near, the land was full of black men. Clumbus said: ‘Is this America?’ ‘ Yes, it is,’said they. Then he said, ‘-I suppose you are the Niggers?’ ‘ Yes,’ they said, ‘ we are.’ The chief said: ‘ I suppose you are Clumbus.’ ‘ You are right,’ said he. Then the chief turned to his men and said: ‘ There is no help for it, we are discovered at last.’”—London Standard.
—Longfellow at Twenty-Two.—At the age of 22 we find him back in Brunswick as Professor at Bowdoin College, where the following was his daily round of work: “ I rise at six in the morning, and hear a-French .recitation of Sophomores immediately. At 7 I breakfast, and am then master of my time till 11, when I hear a Spanish lesson of Juniors- After that I take a lunch; and ' at 12 I go into the library, where I remain till 1. I am then at leisure for the afternoon till 5, when I have a French recitation of Juniors. At 6 I take coffee; then walk and visit friends till qj^study till 12; and sleep till 6, when I begin.the same round . again. Such is the daily routine of my life. The intervals of college duty I fill up with my own studies. Last term I was publishing text-books for the use of my pupils, in whom I take a deep interest. This term I am writing a course of lectures on French, Spanish, and Italian literature. I shall commence lecturing to the two upper classes in a few days. You see, I lead a very sober, jog-trot . kind of life. My circle of acquaintance is very limited. I am on very intimate terms with three families, and that is quite enough. I like intimate ' footings; I do not care for general society.”—Life,. of Longfellow.	.
544 ’
THR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HKW semsnc.
Notre Dame, May 8. 1886*
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand. 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the'day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
IiA&cess EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—We are pleased to note that a much longed-for impetus has been given to the study of vocal music, and that renewed interest among the students manifests itself in this pleasing branch. We may now confidently expect that our future exhibitions, particularly the exercises of Commencement time, will be made additional!}'- pleasing and varied by gems of song.
. —The devotions of this month of May—a month fittingly consecrated to the honor of the Mother of God—are well attended by the students. This is as it should be. It was a happy, heaven-inspired thought that suggested that this month, which ushers in the full life and bloom of Nature, should be devoted to the honor of her through whom, in the designs of God, that great mystery of the Incarnation was accomplished, by which a new life of grace and friendship with God was opened out to sinful man. It is a devotion, therefore, that commends itself to every Christian heart—to all who believe that Jesus is Christ the Son of God, and consequently that« Mary, of whom was born J esus,” and whom God Himself so highly honored, is worthy of all the honor which we can pay her. But in a particular manner is it the students’ month. For, though the origin of this universal devotion is involved in that obscurity characteristic of religious practices that spring naturally and spontaneously from the feelings of the Christian heart, and the incipient expression of. which, therefore, cannot be definitely assigned to any particular time and - place, yet the first public manifestation of the devotion of the month of May, in the form in which it now obtains, appeared among a band of youthful students, in the city of Rome, towards
the end of the last century. Thus originating, as we may say, among students, it has a special claim to their love and practice, and particularly as she, whom the Church so fittingly styles the “ Seat of Wisdom,” has ever proved to be the Protectress of the life and work of. the young student. Two of the greatest minds that have illumined the world of thought since time began—Albertus Magnus and St. Thomas of Aquin—will ever remain examples of the efficacious patronage of Mary, the Mother of God, to whom these great masters in the schools of philosophy had an unfailing devotion. Therefore, the Christian student of the present day will consult his best interests by following the example of his predecessors and thereby realize for himself the benefits, temporal as well as spiritual, that will prove the happy result of a devotion to Mary, the Mother of God, the Seat of Wisdom.
—An essential qualification of a good speaker or writer is a command of language, the acquisition of an extensive and readily available vocabulary. Now, an important means of acquiring this valuable requisite is the habit of taking notes in the course of one’s reading. There will ordinarily be found two classes of students of decidedly opposite tendencies in the manner in which they employ their precious time in reading. Some will take up a book, survey its contents wholly or in part, and that is ’ all; whereas, on the contrary, there are others who, when they read, however great or little in importance the book may be, will employ their pencil, paper and dictionary, and thereby not only increase their store of knowledge, but pave the way for acquiring and retaining an extensive collection of words, so that thoughts and ideas, as they come welling up in the active brain, will find ready expression when occasion calls for their utterance. If a student wishes to get the full benefit of his read-ing, he should cultivate the habit of writing something either out of the book he reads, or concerning the matter treated, and make a brief synopsis of the important facts and arguments in historical and scientific works. In regard to many works, it will prove highly beneficial to write briefly concerning the impression, whether favorable or otherwise, which the author’s treatment of the subject has made on the mind, with a statement of the reasons for the opinions formed. Such practices cultivate the taste and judgment, and materially aid the memory; and this manner of reading will soon result in the acquisition of that much-desired boon, a copiousness of vocabulary.
Again, we should spend much time in careful reading, and beware of swallowing books; we must masticate and digest what , we read. Non multa, sed multum. Another riecessary point is this: never to let a word go’by until its meaning be understood. : By committing to memory some of the most striking passages of classic authors we | likewise add to our vocabulary, and . add to our | store of useful knowledge. . We should al ways read	I
the very/best authors, for they use a far greater	|
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
54S
variety of words than second or third-rate men, who too often travel around in a narrow circle of thought. Probably, no man-has ever been master of the whole wealth of the English vocabulary; but the simple fact of holding a place in literature is a guarantee of a great mastery of language.
The Rhetorician.
"■He loved the beautiful; and teas tvilk music, form and color, touched to tears.”
He is a maker of phrases. From the dead words of daily use he fashions ever-changing forms of beauty and perpetual life. The quartz, a thousand careless feet tread upon, in the sunlight of his fancy, flashes gold.
He is a beautifier of all things common; a vivi-fiei’ of things that are sleeping, and as dead. He speaks to all men in words that have meaning for the sons of men. He affects not the mysticism of the poet, nor the fl re of the orator. He says nothing that has not meaning; nothing that cannot be understood.
He is an artist among men, and among artists he is an msthete. He touches nothing but to leave it the more beautiful. He scorns to reproduce, unless he can glorify.
Careless is he, whether he pitches his rude tent in the Sierras, or builds a palace in the Orient; whether he wanders on the snow-capped crest of mountains, or in the green valley by the rushing stream. He finds welcome in the house of joy, and dignifies with tranquil beauty the place where Mourning shrouds herself in gloomy state.
All life is to him a theme of inspiration: the mother’s love, the child’s first cry, the school-boy’s triumph, and the young soldier’s first farewell; the carnage of war, the sunshine of returning peace; the strong man’s triumph and adversity, the silvered head bending in sorrow o’er the new-made grave— all stir his generous soul alike, and turn his careless speech to gold.
He is a maker of phrases; but his handiwork is cunning beyond thought, and surpassing all the dreams of love and beauty in the sweetness of success.	T. E. S.
Young- America.
There is one fault with which foreigners charge us, which it is impossible for us to deny. This is an'affectation of independence, insubordination to superiors, an entire want of reverence for the aged, and of deference to those who possess more wisdom and experience than ourselves. In the olden times, before the star of young America rose in the ascendant, the age of majority was fixed at twenty-one. ' In our times it has been put down to about fourteen. At this age it has become custom-arv for the young gentleman to proclaim himself free and independent of parental control, and to begin life for himself. He does not, generally, leave his parents’ roof, but simply takes possession
of his father’s house, and makes use of the old peo-pie for his own convenience. .He follows his own will, and has his own pursuits, his own1 company, -his own hours, his own opinions. It is his will that • his accommodations be luxurious, that his apparel be faultless; and as his will is law in the house, he is obeyed. Twirling his cane, and putting himself behind a cigar, he becomes a “ gentleman ” of no mean pretensions. And these feelings of irreverence and . habits of premature independence are not confined to boys alone. The contagion has affected the whole rising generation, and the young people have almost crowded their seniors out of .society, and put themselves into all the pleasant places of life. The result is that society is not rightly enjoyed, —indeed is frequently unknown—for, most assuredly, we ought not to designate by the dignified . name of society an assembly of boys and misses who giggle and dance and eat sweetmeats together. Society is a noble word, which should only be applied to an assemblage of mature, cultivated and -refined people, who have come together to interchange opinions, feelings and sentiments, to receive and to communicate pleasure. and information. This is what society really is, and, next to the sacred and peaceful pleasures of home-life, it is the noblest, purest and sweetest enjoyment. This it is which heals the spirits, worn out by the work of study or business; it creates friendliness and good-will among men, and thus shows that it is in perfect accord with the Christian religion. But it is from such society that we are debarred by the pretensions of those who had better be busied with their text-books and finishing their education.
The cause, but not the excuse, for this precocious independence may be found in the peculiarities of our condition and institutions. In Europe, . where the population is dense, and disproportioned 1 to employment and the means of support, the young are forced to remain for a longer time under the paternal roof; they are wholly dependent on their parents for care and support, and are, as a consequence, more absolutely subject to their control and authority. There, wages are low, and, as a matter-of-course, the work of all the members of the family old enough to labor is necessary to af- . ford support to all. Thatindependence, then, which is here assumed by the young would there cause utter astonishment.	.
In America, the state of things is reversed. Our population has not by half exhausted the resources . of nature. All classes have more ample means, * and it is not necessary to compel the young to immediately earn their bread, or, if so they choose, they may soon earn their own support by their own : . independent exertions.	'
In addition, the republican form of government ,	‘
under which we live has extended the democratic feeling down to the very children, and has given to them some of those very feelings which actuate men. This republicanism has borne much and excellent fruit; it has developed an energy and en- = terprise of character which have advanced the// ~ country forward in the way of. improvement at a / rate of rapidity never before witnessed in the ah-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nals of the world; but it has its evils, as all forms of government have, and one of the greatest is the early abandonment of the young to follow the bent of their inclinations. As a consequence, thousands g-o wrong- from this cause alone, and add to the long list of crimes in the world.
A young man, then, in this country is earlier left his own master and thrown on his own responsibility. Since this is the case, they should endeavor in all things to assume the steadiness, the self-control and sobriety of men. They should show that subordination to their parents and superiors which true men in the world always show; they should pay that respect to authority which makes the good citizen; they should have that reverence for the aged which all true gentlemen possess; and they should pay all deference to those who have more wisdom and experience than themselves.
B.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic World for May is an unusually interesting number of this excellent magazine. * It opens with a beautiful Easter poem, “ Paas-Flow-ers,” by Edith Cook. In a paper, entitled “ Son Eminence Grise et Son Eminence Rouge,” Rev. Thomas Keeley contributes an interesting sketch of Cardinal Richelieu and Friar Joseph, in which a true relation of their career and mutual relations is set forth. C. M. O’Keefe writes on “ A Model Alphabet ” which, with evidence of much erudition and research, he shows to belong to the Irish language. “ The Catholic Church and Civil Liberty,” by Ex-Senator John W. Johnston; “A Few Mistakes of Rev. Dr. Newton ” by Rev. Dr. Brenn; and “ W e Catholics,” by Rev. Edward McSweeney, are instructive and timely papers. Maurice F. Egan contributes another highly entertaining “ Chat About New Books.” Other interesting articles are, “Richard Honey wood’s Request”; Harboring DaySchools in France ”; Francois Coppee ”; “ Pia de’ Tolommei”; “The ‘Circuit of Ireland ’ and the Fortress of Aileach.” “ Eustochium; or, St. Jerome’s Letter” is the title of an exquisite poetic contribution from the pen of Aubrey de Vere.
—Among the Catholic periodicals of the present day there is not one that bettei' deserves an extended circulation among the intelligent reading public than the American Catholic Quarterly Review. Its articles are the expressed thoughts of persons of high intellectual culture and literary refinement dealing with leading and vital questions of the times, and are therefore worthy the attentive consideration of the anxious searcher after truth,-and of all who would know the real principles by which solutions may. be found for all the great social, political and religious problems which, in one form or another, constantly beset the human intellect.. A glance at the contents of. the April . number of the Review will indicate the valuable nature of the papers which the present, number of this excellent periodical presents to its readers. The question of the temporal power of the Papacy
is a great question of the day—one that concerns • not alone a single government, but governments and, indeed, the whole Christian world. The Review presents two papers dealing with this important question, one under the caption of “ The. Roman Question,” by the Rt. Rev. James O’Connor, D. D., and the other, entitled “ Catholicity in Italy,” by the Rev. Bernard O’Reilly, L. D. Each of these writers,—the one a learned American prelate, the other a well-known American priest at present sojourning Rome,—deals with the same question from different points of view, but presenting arguments supported by historical facts as varied as thev are interesting and instructive, tending to show that the claims of justice and the natural order of things demand the restoration of the freedom and temporal sovereignty of the Pontifical See. “ The Traditional Misrepresentation of Ireland,” by Bryan J. Clinche, treats of an interesting phase of the subject of Home Rule for Ireland. Geo. D. Wolff writes on “ The Wage Question ”—a great and all-absorbing topic of the present day, and one that has begun to assume a national importance for this country. Other timely questions receive appropriate treatment in instructive and able papers on “Lectures and Catholic Lecture Bureaus”; “ The Decrees of the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore,” “ The Church and Cremation,”’ and “ God and Agnosticism.” Very Rev. Edward Jacker contributes a deeply philosophical article on “Primitive Man and His Speech,” which is intended to be the first of a series of papers in relation to the origin of language, and deals principally with the refutation of various evolutionary theories. Of another character, though deeply interesting and instructive, is a paper on “ Art and Artists,” by John A. Mooney,, who embodies bis subject in a sketch of the life and work of Giorgio Vasari, an artist and art-historian of the sixteenth century. The “Scientific Chronicle” speaks of scientists among’the clergy, and several instructive subjects pertaining to Astronomy and Physics. The usual collection of able reviews and notices of recent publications concludes the April number of the Review.	.
Obituary.
William Ratighan.
It is with feelings of the deepest regret that we record the death of one of our fellow-students, Master William Ratighan, of Park Ridge, Ill., ' who departed this life on the 4th inst. He was taken suddenly ill on the evening, of Sunday last, but i no alarming symptoms manifested themselves, until | Tuesday, morning, when a change for the worse ! set in; and though all was.done for him that the | most loving, attentive and skilful care could sug-	f
gest, it proved of-no avail, and in the afternoon he	;
was called away to another and a better life. The j deceased was in the fifteenth year of his age, and was passing through the second year of his college course. - He was of an amiable disposition, manL

THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.	547
festing great kindliness of heart and brightness of talent, such as to justify the hopes of a brilliant and honorable career in after-life. But an all-wise Providence willed that life should end for him ere these bright hopes could be realized, and the faithful heart will bow submissively to the merciful designs of Him “who doth all things well.” The closing of Willie’s young life was made happy and peaceful by all the consolations of religion; and, with a calm, sweet’ joy, he gave up his soul to his Maker, confident in the speedy possession of a blissful union in love eternal with God. To the afflicted parents and relatives the students and Faculty of Notre Dame extend their heartfelt sympathy, but bid them have the consoling assurance of the unending happiness of the dear departed. May he rest in peace!	,
Personal.
—Richard Sobey (Com’l), ’78, is conducting an extensive Druggist business on Madison St., Chicago.
—F. Bennett, of ’73, conducts one of the first-class orchestras of that great musical centre, Cincinnati.
—Mr. and Mrs. J. Mainzer and daughters, of St. Paul, Minn., were welcome visitors to the College during the week.
—Rev. Thos. McGovern, Danville, Pa., and Rev. Joseph Koch, Shamokin, Pa., are amongthe visitors to the College.
—Captains Cusack and Luhn, U. S. A., of Fort Neobrara, Neb., are spending a few days at the College, on a visit to their sons in the Senior department.
—Mr. and Mrs. P. P. McVeigh, and Mrs. Judge Cleary, of Covington, Ky., spent a few days at the College during the week, visiting their sons in the Junior department.
—Col. Hoynes, and staff", of the Hoynes Guards, Notre Dame, drove over to the city to-day in full uniform and were photographed in a group by McDonald.—Sozith Bend Tribune.
—George Clarke, of the Book-keeping Department of the Studebaker works, has organized a class in stenography. Mr. Clarke was formerly an instructor in stenography at Notre Dame University, and is an expert in the art.—South Bend Tribztne.
— We learn from the Philadelphia papers that Arthur P. Coll, of ’84, now attending the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania, was one of the winning crew at the annual University class race, which took place on the Schulkill River, May 1.
.—Among the visitors during thepast week.were: Mr. and Mrs. A. F. McKee, Wayne, Ill.; Miss Hattie Smart, Midville, Ga.; Mr. H.. P. Smart, Savannah, Ga.; S. J. Strauss, Mrs. J. L. Dunning, Ligonier, Ind.; Mrs. M. Morgenweck, Mrs. F. O’Brien, Mrs. H. L. Kendall, Miss Ella Kendall,
H. H. Dennis, ’66, Chicago; P. H. Rahilly, Lake City, Minn.; R. B. Kelly, Racine, Wis.; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Buysse, Miss Laura Buysse, Detroit, Mich.; Henry C; Murphy, Woodstock, III.; Henry Gray and son, Kansas City, Mo.; Mrs. J. E. Bassett, Mrs. R. W- Colpitts, Elkhart, Ind.; MissLib-bie Wells,Buchanan, Mich.; S. Martindale, Greeley, Iowa; Miss Jennie V. Fenton, Miss Kate Fenton, Edward Dolan, J. S. Aldrich, South Bend, Ind.
Local Items.	-
—Beautiful weather!
—Ye festive straw-hat doth begin to appear. .
—A linen coat was seen in the distance. Who was it?	-
—The month of May has ushered in most beautiful weather.
—Wonder if it would be possible to have two young whales in each of the lakes?
—The Philopatrians ate expected to give their entertainment next Thursday evening.
—South Bend’s city election took place last Tuesday. The Republicans elected their ticket.
—The reorganization of the Vocal Classes was effected last Monday, under Prof. Koeundig.
—“ Keep off the grass, darling, keep off the grass;
Stray not from orthodox paths as you pass.”
—The great question now is: Shall it be an Imperial or a plain moustache for Commencement?
—Our genial gardener is busily engaged in laying out a beautiful 'parterre in front of the Presbytery.
—The subject for the final essay in competition for the English Medal will be made known in a few davs.
—The floral treasures of the greenhouse have been transferred to St. Edward’s Park, making it a bower of beauty. z
—The fine weather and the beautiful appearance of Notre Dame at this season of the year attract a large number of visitors.
—The rehearsals of the Band and Orchestra are well and regularly attended. Many new pieces have been added to their repertoire. .
:—We are informed that in days of yore • the genial secretary used to “set the style ” in summer head gear. Why doesn’t he do it now?
—Our microscopists have done some very creditable work in mounting specimens, an exhibition of which will be given at an early date.	-
—The carpenters, under the direction of "Bro. Charles, are advancing rapidly with their work in the' interior of the extension to the church.
—Notice:—A Lamp Guard has been taken from off the box near the Seniors’ refectory. Whoever has taken it, will please return it to the Senior refectorian.
—Now, that plans and specifications for the new
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
astronomical observatory are completed, it is expected that work on. the building will be begun before many days.
—The Latin poem, In Honorem Beata; Marits Virginis, which appears elsewhere in this number, is an excellent specimen of what plight be called a sextuple acrostic.
—Another burro has appeared on the scene. Our statistician gives the following'dimensions: Height of animal, exclusive of ears, 18 inches; length of each ear, 2 feet.
_____Very Rev. Father General reviewed the Sorin Cadets on Sunday morning. Their handsome uniforms and graceful movements were greatly admired by their beloved Patron.
—A new course of lectures in Elementary Physics was inaugurated in the large lecture-room of Science Hall on Tuesday last. The students following this course manifest a very lively interest.
—The plasterers will finish their work in the lower part of the museum in Science Hall in a few days. Nothing will, then remain for the completion of the building but a small amount of work to be done bj7 the carpenters.
—Among the improvements contemplated for the near future is a botanical and zoological garden. The site has not yet been selected, but it will very likely occupy the same spot as the famous botanical garden of days of yore.
—On the 2d inst., an exciting game of baseball was played on the Senior Campus between the “Atlantics” of the Manual Labor School and the University “ Reds,” captained by P. Chapin. Score: 16 to 6 in favor of the “Atlantics.”
—Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has adapted from the French Moliere’s Comedy, “The Miser.” It is for male characters only, and in this season of school exhibitions ought to be very popular.—Irish American.
' —The Chicago Tribune of May 1 has the following combination heading: “Saturday Selections—The Presidents’ Wives.” Does he wish us to understand that the chief executive officers of this Republic have invariably “.proposed ” on Saturdays?	.
—Prof. J. Koeundig,of Munich, arrived at Notre Dame last Monday, and will take charge of the Department of Vocal Music. The Professor is an accomplished musician, and we may hope for the happiest results from his accession to the Faculty of Music.
—Mr. M. O. Burris read his Thesis on “ Property,” before the members of the Law Class, Tuesday evening. The treatment of the subject and the style of composition reflect much credit on the writer. The remaining essays of the “ Class” will be read during the pi esent month. .
—The May devotions are attended by the students every evening. Sermons during the week have been preached by Rev. Fathers Cooney, Toohey, Fitte and Hudson. Our new little choir, under the direction of Father Kirsch, sing very beautiful hymns, and add to the attractiveness of the services.
—A Requiem High Mass for the repose of the soul of Master William Ratighan, of the Junior department, who died on Tuesday last, was sung by Very Rev. Father Granger on Thursday morning. The students, with the Faculty, attended in a body, and united in prayers for their deceased companion.
—The young ladies of the Graduating Class of St. Mary’s Academy have been kind enough to remember the Scholastic Staff with a gift of a fine large cake, prepared by their own fair hands. They will please accept our thanks for the delicious morsel, which was really a splendid specimen of great skill in the culinary art.
—Mr. Thomas Ryan has just completed a steam engine in the department of Mechanical Engineering. There are several others engaged in the same work and they are expected to have engines ready for exhibition in a few days. We shall be pleased to give a full report of forthcoming interesting seances of this department of Science Hall..
—Col. W. Hoynes and the subordinate officers of the Hoynes’ Light Guards were photographed by McDonald, of South Bend, on Monday last. We have not yet seen the pictures, but we are sure that the elegant appearance'of our military gentlemen and the always good work of this excellent artist will combine to present a picture of unusual excellence.
—Herr Baum, who is in charge of Science Hall, is kept quite busy looking after the various departments in his care. All declare, however, that everything is made to appear remarkably neat and in the best of order. Herr Baum was for three years a ^re'Parateur in a military academy in Germany, and is in every way well fitted for the position he now occupies.
—During the past three days twenty students have been engaged in the exercises of retreat preparatory to the most solemn event of their lives—their First Holy Communion, which will occur to-morrow (Sunday). Solemn High Mass will be celebrated to-morrow at eight o’clock, appropriate instructions will be given, and the occasion made fittingly solemn and impressive.
—Commentators have long been perplexed to account for the dismissal of AEneas by the Ivory Gate, after his visit to his venerable father, in the obscure regions where, that pleasant old gentleman had taken up his abode. A very natural solution of the problem seems utterly to have escaped them. Ivory is the tusk of the elephant. Now, as ALneas was bound for the Tuscan shore, what more proper than that he should go by the Tuskan.Gate?
—Mr. A. T. Stephenson, of South Bend, has completed his work satisfactorily in sinking the new well in. the rear of the College. A 2-inch pipe descends to a depth of 156 feet, and is connected with a,steam pump which works from 5 in The morning until 10 at night, supplying the College and adjacent buildings with good, pure, fresh water for cooking and drinking purposes. It is proposed to sink similar swells on the grounds of the Scholas-ticate, Professed House, Novitiate, and St, Mary’s Academy, ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S49
—The grand medal for the baseball championship of the Minim department has arrived, and is on exhibition in St. Edward’s reading-room. The medal is of heavy gold—24 carat,—and elegant in design and workmanship. Over a circlet of gold and white enamel, two burnished baseball clubs cross each other and are enclosed in a triangular piece . from which a silver ball is suspended. The whole is surmounted by the title “ Minim Department,” with space for the inscription of the name of the winning club. On the reverse are the words, “ Boland Medal,” a memento of the generous donor, Rev. P. J. Boland, Lake View, Minn., to whom the Minims return’their sincere thanks.
—The case of State vs. A. Johnson, indicted for murder, was tried in the University Moot-court, on the 1st inst., Judge Hoy nes presiding. The prosecution was vigorously pressed by State’s attorneys, Willson and R. Byrnes; while an able defense was conducted by Messrs. Conlon and Jess. The jury, selected from the panel, was composed of Messrs. Jewitt, Kendall, Gordon, White, McGuire and Bolton. The witnesses for the State were Messrs. Burns and Ancheta; for the defense, Finlay and Goulding. The evening of the 2d was devoted exclusively to the arguments of the counsel and the Judge’s charge, which, to the spectators, were the most entertaining parts of the proceedings. The jury, after a short deliberation, returned a verdict of “ man-slaughter,” assessing the penalty at 21 years in the penitentiary. The Court, on motion, set the verdict aside, as being contrary to the law and the evidence, and ordered a new trial.
—-At the last meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, held Sunday evening, April 25, two very interesting and well-prepared papers were read before the Society. The one on “ Religious Orders, Communities, and Congregations ” was treated by Mr. Charles Niel; the other, on “ The Dogma of Confession,” by Mr. M. White. Both gentlemen performed their respective tasks in a creditable and able manner. The subjects of the papers which are to be read at the next meeting are: “ Religious Heresies and their Causes,” by Mr. T. J. Sheridan; “The Canon Law and its Relation to Modern Legislation,” by Mr. Koudelka; and “ The Influence of the Church in the Promo-• tion of Civil Liberty,” by Mr. Dolan. The next' meeting will take place on the fourth Sunday of this month, and as it will be the last of the scholastic session, it is expected to be the most instructive and interesting. Every possible effort will be made to ensure its success, and the exercises will be, as it were, a resume of the good work which the Society has accomplished throughout the whole year.	.
—In the Academy.—It has always been the aim of the Academy, while under the wise management of their worthy Director, to discuss only those questions which recommend themselves by their great importance in moral or mental science, and the bearing they may have upon the affairs of the day. Nor can they be criticized as “ stale ” or “ trite,” for they are questions that must be met and grap
pled with, either here in the peaceful shade of Alma • Mater, or later on the busy battle-field of life. How much better is it, then, to provide ourselves with the armor of defense, especially in these days of disbelief and doubt, when infidel theories and socialistic movements are so prevalent! “Civil Authority Comes from God ” was the thesis defended before the Academy on last Thursday evening by Mr. T. P. Sheridan, ’86. The paper was certainly . one seldom surpassed in point of originality and depth of thought. The arguments put forth were wisely chosen and skilfuilv handled, though the depth into which the speaker entered rendered one or two a little obscure to the ordinary auditor.—- As the thesis will appear in the Scholastic, further comment is unnecessary.
Messrs. Becker and Mathers, who were the “ objectors,” made a vigorous attack upon their opponent’s position, and rained upon him a lively and unexpected fire of syllogistic artillery. Some of the objections were aptly introduced, especially those relating to the existence of society and the origin of authority in human agreement. They were • promptly refuted, however, by the defender of the thesis, the truth of which was thereby established. At the close of the discussion, Prof. Hoynes addressed those present upon the bearing of the thesis upon Law, and concluded with a few critical remarks. The Rev. Director announced for the next discussion the question: “ Which is the Best Form of Government?” to be defended by Mr. Becker.	■
—The Junior 1st nines played their second championship game Thursday afternoon. After 2J^ hours of hard playing, victory declared in favor of the “Blues,” with a score of 13 to 10. Messrs. Gartier, Cooper, Courtney, Fehr, Bennerj Myers, Regan and Porter distinguished themselves. The following is the score:
Blues.	a. b.
E. Benner, 1st b.......... 5
L. Preston, 2d b. and c....5
G. Myers, p............... 5
W.Wabraushek, 1. f. and 2d b. 5
E. Dillon, c. and 1. f.....5
E.	Porter, 3d b........... 5
F.	Nester, s. s........... 5
J. Fitzgerald, c. f........4
D. C. Regan, r. f..........4
R. I.B. T.B. P.O. A. E.
i i 4 3 1 3
111 022 o 0,0
3 3 3 01	1
3	i	*
13	10
5	1	2
4	8	.0
1	1	2
1	2	1
111
1	3	1
o	0	0
100
Total.........................
43 13 12.17 27 17 7
..	Reds.	* a.b. r.
G.	Cartier, c............. 5	2
G. Cooper, p................5	3
J. Courtney, 2d b. and 1st b... 4	1
F. Fehr, istb. and 2d b....4	o
C. West, 1. f.............. 4	o
H. Robinson, r. f. and c. f.... 4	1
P. Brownson, s.s.-..........4	2
M. Luther, 3d b............ 5 o
W. Arts, c. f.and r. f.....4	1
I.B. T.B. P.O. A. E. 2	2	663
2	4	I	13	O
0	7	3	1	1
1	1	12	1	o
O	O	O	O	I
2	2	O	O	O
0.0 O 2	2
O	O	2	O	3.
I I OOI
Total....,...................39 10 8 17 24 23 11
Struck out: Cooper, 11; Myers, 5. Base on Balls:. Cooper, 2; Myers, 3. Wild Pitches: Cooper,i; Myers, 1. Passed Balls: Dillon, 4; Cartier, 2. Stolen Bases: Court— ney, 1; Regan, 1. Two Base Hits: Preston, 1; Cooper, 1; Courtney, 2. Three Base Hits: Benner, 1; Courtney,jr.,
55°	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.	•
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Ashford, Akin, Archambeault, M Burns, D. Byrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Baca, A. Browne, F. Brown, P. Burke, Conlon, J. Crowe, Chapin, Jno. Cusack, Jos. Cusack, Fred Combe, Cassidy, Carbajal, Dexter, M. Dolan, Egan, Emmons, Finlay, Forbes, Goulding, A. A. Gordon, Gallardo, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Hagenbarth, Harrison, Judie, Jackson, Jeffs, Johns, Kou-delka, H. Kenny, Karst, Kleiber, Kendall, G. Morrison, J. Murphy, Murdock, McGuire, Miller, Moon, Neill, Nan-colas, O’Rourke, Ott, P. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Padilla, T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, E. Rielly, Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rheinberger, Rodriguez, Shaide, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, F. Soden, Snapp, Triplett, Werst. W. Williams, White, Wagoner, Zeitler, S. Wiley,* A. A. Gordon.*
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Austin, Arts, Ackerman, Akin, Berry,' Benson, Brabrook, Baur, Brownson, Boos, Bowles, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Baci-galupo, Curtis, Cleveland, Colina, Cleary, Cooper, Chute, G- Cartier, Cavaroc, Clarke, Coles, Coad, Chaves’, Corbett, E. Campbell, S. Campbell, Cain Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dunning, E. Ewing, Epple, Frain, Flood, Finckh, Fehr, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Fontanel, Grothaus, Goebel, Gordon, Galarneau, Garrity, Houlihan, Houstan, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hiner, Hoye, Hall, Inderrieden, Jewett, N. Jacobs, P. Jacobs, Joyce, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Long, McCourt, Meehan, McVeigh, McConn, Mo-hun, Mueller, McPhee. McIntosh, Myers, McNamara, Mul-kern, Mitchell, McCart, Mulburger, Macatee, Nealis, Nussbaum, Nester, Newton, Nations, O’Connor, R. Oxnard, O’Kane, O’Gorman, Portillo, Press, Prudhomme, Preston, Regan, Robinson, Ramirez, A. Ruffing, C. Ruffing, Shields, Spencer, Scherrer, F. Smith, S. Smith, N. Smith, Stattman, Servis, Talbot, Tewksbury, Towner, Tarrant, Tiedrich,Van-selow, Valasco, Warner, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, C-West, L. West, Williamson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Atkinson, W. Bailey, Barger, Bull, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Campeau, Chute, Crotty, Cobbs, Jessie Dungan, Jamie Dungan, E. Doss, L. Doss, Dewald, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, E. Garber, Grant, Graham, Griffin, O- Haney, Healy, Hillas, Huiskamp, Inderrieden, Jones, Jewett, P. Keefe, Klaner, Kellner, Landenwich, Mainzer, Moncada, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy, Mason, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munro, Mitchell, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Nester, Noonan, O’Neill, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Quinlin, Ramsey, Riordan, Rowsey, Steele, Stone, Stillivan, D. Sweet, W. Smart, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Taft, Tillenberg, Williamson, Albert Morgen-weck, August Morgenweck.
♦ Omitted last week by mistake.
Class donors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. Sheridan, Mathers, Browne, Saviers, A.ncheta, Goulding, Dolan* V. Burke, Murdock, Kleiber, J. Wagoner, Craig, F. Combe, C. Combe, Baca, Brownson, Goebel, Courtney, Ewing, P. Wagoner, Rothert, D. Byrnes, M. Burns, Cleary, Stubbs, Hagenbarth, C. Crowe, Hull, Harless, Maguire, White, W. Cartier, Congdon, H.’Paschel, C. Paschel, Hamlyn, C. Hagerty, O’Connell, Newton, J. Crowe, P. Burke, Meagher, Crawford, Houck, R. Byrnes, Conlon, O’Donnell, Bryar, C. West, L. Chute, Neill.
The ‘f List of Excellence ” for this Course will appear in our next issue.
Saint JRary’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The opening of the month of May was hailed with unusual pleasure, and the honor of a sermon by Very Rev. Father General enhanced the joy of the happy occasion.
—Two of the art pupils are copying studies from Signor Gregori, kindly lent to the Studio by Mrs. Studebaker. Their work is very satisfactory. The Misses Fuller and Ewing are the fortunate copyists.
—The fourth number of St. Mary's Chimes, Vol. XI, was read at the regular Academic reunion. Editresses: The Misses Minnie Rend, Egan, and Grace Stadtler. It was, as usual, highly interesting and brimful of wit.
—The final parlor reception of the scholastic session was given on Tuesday evening. Members of the First Senior Class received. Miss Marie Fuller recited, and Miss Mary Frances Murphy furnished a little musical treat.
—The Feast of the Invention of the Holy Cross, being celebrated on Monday, the remarkable circumstances attending the discovery of the implements of the Passion by St. Helena, mother of Constantine the Great, formed the subject of the instruction in the Chapel of Loreto on Monday.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Rev. J. E. Hogan, Lemont, Ill.; Mr. John J. Murphy and son, Woodstock, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Hull,Mrs. S.Wynn,Toledo,Ohio; Dr. J. B. Bertel-ing and bride, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mr. Reilly and son, Minnesota; Mr. E. Moon, Mrs. Fred. E. Moon, Warsaw, Ind.; Mr. M. W. Egan, Independence, Iowa; Mrs. S. L. Myers, Mr. and Mrs. D. D. Myers, Mrs. T. Dillon, Mrs. P. S. Preston, Dubuque, Iowa; F. D. Kinsella, Mrs. Kearsey, Mrs. L. Connor, Miss K. M. Walsh, N. W. Haley, Chicago, Ill.
The Child and the Birds. ■
.	“ Birdie, up in the old oak tree,
What are you singing, pray?
What are you trying to tell about . All the live-long day? ”
“	Girlie, down in the meadow grass, Please, don’t bother me now;
Maybe I’m planning a summer home, But I can’t tell you how.”
“	Birdie, hopping about my feet, Maybe you can tell;
You’re not so pretty as Dicky is, But I like you just as well.”	’
- - _ \ . .	“ Your dinner is ready,” chirped Dicky’s wife,
“ I’ve nothing more to say, Twit, twit, twit, twee, twee, twee,” So Edith ran away.
;	- ’	•	.	. Marielle.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ■	551
William Wordsworth.
“ My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky;
So was it when my life began, So is it now I am a man.”
Thus does the poet of Nature reveal his whole history; in these few words we find the key to his life and his writings. When we reflect that, with few exceptions, his works were of so metaphysical a nature as to require more study than the majority of his* readers were content to bestow on them, it is not surprising that his poems were unappreciated until long after their presentation. Again, Wordsworth made a vast digression from the old school of poetry; hitherto, the great characteristic of the English writers was artificiality, which, indeed, was so marked that nothing else would satisfy the poets or their readers. Our author determined to organize a revolution, and how successfully his plan was carried out may be seen in the popularity his works to-day enjoy. It was a rule with Wordsworth that he should write as people talk—a principle to which, we must confess, he too strictly adhered in many of his poems. Yet, though we do not. deny that Wordsworth’s love of simplicity-sometimes betrayed him into faults, he has certainly conferred a lasting favor on the poetic world by showing that sentimental and ideal subjects were not the only themes worthy the attention of the Muse. *
William Wordsworth was born in Cumberland, England, in 1770. He studied during his early years at Hawks Head, near his home, and was afterwards sent to Cambridge, where he gave evidence that to him the life of a student was very distasteful. His greatest enjoyment was to be found in his contemplation of the grandeur of Nature. Nothing to him was devoid of beauty; nothing too trifling to escape his watchful eye, and he found food for reflection in every existing thing:—
“To me, the meanest flower that blooms can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears.”
The most commonplace objects were by Wordsworth seen to be full of a richness that only a true poet could perceive; all seasons, all times, all places, were able to inspire him with the most beautiful sentiments:
“ In November days, When vapors rolling down the valleys made A lonely scene more lonesome; among woods At noon, and ’mid the calm of summer nights, When by the margin of the trembling lake, Beneath the gloomy hills, I homeward went In solitude, such intercourse was mine;
’Twas mine among the fields both day and night, And by the waters all the summer long.”
Wordsworth made several tours through England and other countries; his two earliest poems were the results of reflections during his wanderings: “ The Evening Walk” being laid among his native mountains, and “Descriptive Sketches” an account of his travels through the Alps. In the “Evening Walk” the descriptions of scenery are very beautiful; one can almost see the place
“ Where rocks o’erhang the road, the radiant shoots On tawny earth, wild weeds, and twisted roots. The dried stones their lighter fane unfold. And all the babbling brooks are liquid gold.”
In the “ Descriptive Sketches ” our poet blends sound moral reflections with his delineations of the Alpine scenery.
In most of his travels Wordsworth’s sister was his constant companion; ever acting as his inspiration, giving him the results of her observation, and often suggesting ideas that would, perhaps, never have otherwise occurred to his mind; thus, it may be said that, in reality, Wordsworth’s poetry is the emanation of two minds rather than of one.
Many of our author’s poems are short; but for originality, beauty of conception, and completeness, they are surpassed by few writers in the English language. Chief among his minor pieces are his sonnets. They are dedicated to various subjects, and are much admired, particularly for their pointedness—a characteristic of nearly all of them. Among others may be mentioned “The Mother’s Return,” “We are Seven,” and “The Pet Lamb.” Everyone admires the simple beauty of the second-mentioned; while in the last, the little child who bids her pet lamb good night has a countenance so full of expression that the poet himself says that, by right, one-half of the poem belongs to her, as
“ She looked with such a look, and spoke with such a tone, That I almost received her heart into my own.”
Two very pretty poems are the “ Highland Girl,” and “Nutting”; in the latter is portrayed, perhaps more strongly than in any other, the poet’s love of Nature. He tells us it was
“ One of those heavenly days that cannot die, When forth I sallied from our cottage door .... Among the woods,
And o’er the pathless rocks I forced my way, Until I came, at length, to one dear nook Unvisited, where not a broken bough
' Drooped with its withered leaves, ungracious Of devastation, but the hazels rose
Tall and erect, with milk-white clusters hung,— A virgin scene! ....
Perhaps it was a bower, beneath whose leaves The violets of five seasons re-appear And fade, unseen by any human eye;
Where fairy water-breaks do murmur on Forever.”	'
The whole poem might be quoted, as every line is replete- with beauty. The lines composed at Tintern Abbey are much admired, and are, indeed, worthy the great poet. In them we see one of the truest pictures of our author, showing him to be the affectionate friend and the ever ardent admirer of Nature.
One of the longest of Wordsvyorth’s poems is “ The White Doe of Rylston,” a story written in seven cantos, relating the misfortunes of a family in the North of England during the reign of Elizabeth. There is nothing very striking in the poem, and it is not one of his best. The most extended work of our author is the “ Excursion,” written in blank verse. As a whole, it is not to be admired; there is but little plot, and its length is rendered, tedious by the lack of interest awakened in the mind of the reader. The poet describes a three
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
days’ tour through the country; he meets a person called the Wanderer, whom he accompanies on a visit of friendship to the Solitary. This person appears to have met with many misfortunes, and upon relating his history receives consolation from the Wanderer. The three travellers spend the time discussing various subjects, until they meet the Pastor of the vale through which they are passing. With him the party continues the conversation, until they arrive at the Parsonage; after a short time they disperse: and thus the story closes. The incidents related are commonplace, and in themselves uninteresting; yet the great genius of Wordsworth’s metaphysical mind is here shown in all its perfection. The subjects treated are among the most elevated—viz., Man, Nature and Society; with these are interspersed descriptive and imaginative passages, often of great beauty. The topics are well treated; it is evident the poet regarded them as the most worthy of consideration, and sought to elevate the mind of man to the meditation of that which would fill his soul with “ noble raptures.” Beautiful passages are to be found in different parts of the work, showing the conviction of the author in the truth of an over-ruling Providence, who has ordained all for man’s greater good; also his belief that the calamities of life are easily endured when we reflect that they come from the hand of One who converts everything to our advantage. The length of the poem is probably the greatest objection that can be raised to it; many of the incidents, too, are inconsistent; yet, with its faults admitted, the “ Excursion ” is a great work.
The chief characteristics of the writings of Wordsworth are, purity of language, great depth of feeling, and a strong power of imagination. His greatest fault is, perhaps, his too great elevation of the lowly in the human character. He was fond of drawing similitudes between himself and Milton, which, however, no one else ever recognized; this fact has given him the imputation of conceit.
Wordsworth is widely read, and is held to be one of the first among the English writers of the 19th century. He has many admirers; among those of recent date may be mentioned the late and very distinguished writer, Frederick Wm. Faber.
Sarah Dunne ( Class
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
* Par Excellence—NHsses Allnoch, Alwein, Andreus, V. Barlow, M. Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Blair, Bubb, Blacklock, Beckmann, Carney, Clendenen, Chaves, Considine, Claggett, Coll, Cox, Dillon, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dart, Desenberg, English, Ewing, Egan, Fuller, Farnsworth. Fenton. Flannery, Griffith, Gordon, Guise, Green, A. - Heckard, Horn, Hummer, B. Heckard, Henry, Haas, Harlem, Kearney, Kearsey, Kearns,-Kennedy, Lang, Lyons, Levy, Livingstone, Moon, Munger, Morrison, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, M. Murphy, Neff, Nagle, North, Nester, Patrick, Riedinger, .Rose, Robb; Rend, C. Scully,
S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, M. Scully, Stadtler, Shields, A. Shephard, Stocksdale, Smith, Thornton, Trask; White, Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses L. Bragdon, S. Campeau, M. Coll, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, T. Hertzog, T. Haney, A. Haney, A. Keyes, L. Nester, C. Prudhomme, M. Paul, G. Regan, M. Smith. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Mason, B. Pierce, F. Steele, E. Sheekey.	:
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E^ Blaine, L. Caddagan, E. Kendall, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, J.Wallace.
ART DEPARTMENT.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
DRAWING FROM THE CAST.	.
2D Class—Miss Heckard.
3D Class—Misses Butler. M. F. Murphy, Egan, Griffith.
FIGURE DRAWING (FROM THE FLAT).
2D Class—Misses Van Horn, Keyes.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Sheekey Thornton, F. Steele, Beckmann, Smart, Bragdon, Neff, H. Nester, G. Nester, Rubb.
PAINTING ON CHINA AND GLASS.
Misses Otero, Walsh, Addie Gordon, Cox, E. Donnelly.
LUSTRA PAINTING ON PLUSH AND SATIN. .
Misses Otero, Clifford, Considine.
PAINTING ON WHITE VELVET.
Miss Nagle.	'
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Miss Ewing.	*
2D Class—Miss Fuller.
3d Class—Misses Kingsbury, Clendenen, Foin, Munger, C. Lang, B. Kearney, H. Rose, St. Clair, Green, C. Scully, McHale.	.
2D Div.—Misses E. Coll, Fenton, Stadtler, N. Meehan, Shields.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses A. Donnelly, N. Meehan, M. Alwein, Kennedy, Desenberg, Henry, North, Trask, C. McNamara, M. McNamara, Faxon, Morse, Neff, Stocksdale, Allnoch, Andreus, Carroll, Flannery, M. Smith, Harlem.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses T. Balch, Paul, Pierce, Smart, Haney, Odell, Coll, Simpson, Hertzog, Prudhomme, Qualey, Wallace, Caddagan, Burtis, Spencer, Rhodes, Lee, Kendall.
“Look here, daughter,” said Mrs. Parvenu to her eldest, “I’m not going to have you deranging my parlor with your athletic notions any longer, and I shall attend to it myself.”—“ Tant mieux,” replied the daughter, in elegant seminary French. —“’Taint you, eh?” snapped the mother; “Well, I’d like to know who.the mischief it is then?”— Washington Critic.
In Mayi will the river entice the small boy?
It will, oh, it will, oh, it will, oh;
- Will sport, and not school, bring him solace and joy?
Itwill, oh, ibwill, oh it will, oh;	,
Will he fly his big kite from the top of the hill? And be, when there’s fishing, for study too ill? . Will a thought of his marbles insure him a thrill?
. It will, oh; it will, oh, it will, oh!	...
.	.	.	-	-Tid-bits.