
Index of Advertisers
THIS IS YOUR MAGAZINE
Adler, Max  26
American Telephone & Telegraph ______ 34
Block's Jewelry Shop  33
Burke, Dr.  35
Bookstore, Notre Dame ____________    32
Cain, Dr. E. J. ____________________  33
Chesterfield ________________________ BC
Coca Cola  	30
Dining Hall Canteen ..............    32
Douglas Shoes  26
Ellsworth's _______________________   28
General Electric .................    29
Gilbert's  2
Grundy, Dr. O. J. .................   33
Harper's ___________________________  35
Hans-Rintzsch ____________________    33
Huddle _________________________      35
Krauss ______________________________ 31
Lower, I. W_____________________      33
Lucas, Dr. Robert____________________ 33
Marvin's __________________________   27
Parker-Winterrowd ___________________ 28
Probst, Dr. _________________________ 33
Railway Express ................      27
Rose Dental Group____________________ 33
Singler, Dr.  33
Sonneborn's Sport Shop ____________   31
South Bend X-Ray Laboratory _________ 33
South Shore ________________________  35
William's, the Forist_________________ 33
Wyman's ____________________________  31
This fall the SCHOLASTIC begins its eightieth year of publication as Notre weekly newsmagazine, offering to the students a careful and complete coverage of the -University s diversified activities and functions. This is the Notre Dame student's magazine—both civilian and navy—and it is dedicated primarily to presenting the news and features of student life on the campus. This is your magazine.
In this issue the SCHOLASTIC presents to the student body a synopsis of summer events at Notre Dame and a preview of activities remaining in the semester. On October 19, the SCHOLASTIC, in conjunction with the graduating seniors, will present the graduation edition. After the opening of the winter semester, we will resume regular weekly publication.
Life at Notre Dame is complex and diverse. To keep in touch with all the activities with which you should be familiar is impossible. Yet you want to know and need to know the things that are going on about you. To keep you abreast of the full life led by Notre Dame students is the task the SCHOLASTIC assumes. All phases of the news will be covered: administrative personnel and regulations, official dictums, navy curriculum and discipline, social activities, club news, sports, scuttlebutt, humorous happenings, gossip, and departmental activities.
To the Navy men at Notre Dame and others not regularly enrolled as civilian students, the SCHOLASTIC offers a semester's subscription for the nominal fee of one dollar. In this complimentary issue we are printing an order blank for your convenience. -Subscriptions are now being accepted for next semester, and those expecting to be here more than one more semester are requested to order accordingly. Subscriptions may be entered at the Publications Office in the Main building during office hours. The magazine will be delivered to your room every Friday evening, beginning with the issue of November 16 next term.
— THE EDITOR.
eep up on Notre Dame News—subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or for your friends in service—
$ 1.00 for the Winter semester
Name.    -..................    —...........
Address..—...........  -.........-.....-..........—...............
A SCHOLASTIC representative will call on you soon—or you may Clip Blank and Mail to Publications Office—Notre Dame, Indiana
3
I
^he S^otre ^Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade BY DANIEL DANISZEWICZ
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
ERVING WOLF -	_	- Navy Associate Editor
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
PHIL CORBOY, LOUIS HAFNER -	- Sports Editors
JAMES F. McCarthy -	-	- Feature Editor
J. W. BURNS	Club Editor
COLUM N ISTS
HARRY WALTERS -	-	- The Green Banner
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-	- The Crow's Nest
DAN DANISZEWICZ	-	- The College Parade
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES FARLEY R. SCHREITMEULLER JAMES JOHN GEORGE MacDONALD PAUL REYRUCH JAMES GREENE THOMAS JASPER SAMUEL HAZO BOB CUNNINGHAM
LAURENCE McDERMOTT GEORGE COLLINS JOHN O'BRIEN BRENDAN O'GRADY RUSSELL TRITICO PAUL RAGAN FRANK TYCHSEN DICK CULLEN TOM SCHIELDER
PHOTOGRAPHY
JAMES FERSTEL
REV. EDWARD A. KELLER, C.S.C.
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -
REV. PAUL BEICHNER, C.S.C.
ADVERTISING -	-
Circulation Manager
Faculty Advisor
Publications Office
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
V-J DAY ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
On Tuesday afternoon, Aug. 15, Carroll College’s (Helena, Montana) bell pealed out the announcement that Japan had accepted the Allied conditions of surrender. With special liberty for the occasion, the college men were able to join the Helena townspeople in the popular demonstration downtown. . . . Villanova College of Villanova, Pa., went all out in celebrating the end of the war with Japan. The first thought was one of prayer and thanksgiving, and practically everyone visited the Chapel. Following this the band staged an impromptu parade joined later by a neighboring community’s firetruck which added the sound of its bell to the noisy demonstration. . . . The final announcement of victory over Japan sent Georgia Tech men into a rapid-fire celebration Tuesday night and Wednesday as all activities were suspended for a day, and the girls suddenly become more liberal with their lipstick. . . .
❖
HELPFUL HINTS TO THE RO'S
The Tulane Hullabaloo can be thanked for this one.
At last the RO's are ready for war. (That's what we keep telling them.) Each and every man knows that in case oi gas attack you should:
1.	Throw away your gas mask. They itch, are hot, and smell funny inside.
2.	In case of vomiting gas stay away from us. Use your own canister.	'	-
3.	In case of nerve poison, take it easy and die gracefully, it's pretty hopeless. (Murmur a war-bond on the way out, the effect is terrific.)
4.	If it's tear gas, requisition GQ for Kleenex.
5.	On choking gas, cough quietly into your handkerchief (Emily Post).
6.	If no protective measures are available, your cigarette ration card is automatically void.
LESSON IN ACCOUNTING
She has an ermine coat and a foreign car, A ten-room flat with a built-in bar, • And she does it all on thirty per, Believe it or not, it’s the truth, dear sir. Yet five years back, some teaching hick Flunked this gal in arithmetic.
—The Technique
❖
IN PASSING
Teacher: “What were your grades?”
Student: “Submarine.”
Teacher: “What do you mean?”
Student: “Under ‘€73’.”
—Tulane Hullabaloo ❖
HERE AND THERE
Charlie Spivak, “The Man Who Plays the Sweetest Trumpet in the World,” was featured in the first Victory Varieties of the new season to be held in the Hall of Music Friday, Sept. 21 at Purdue. . . . Recently Tulane was blessed with the arrival of nearly one hundred nurses to study courses necessary to their training. No such luck here, boys! . . . A plan has been worked	(Continued on page' 35)
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 85
SEPTEMBER 28, 1945
NO. 1
Full Weekend Planned for Illinois Game
Veterans Present Plea
To Western Conference
Representing the Veterans’ Club of Notre Dame and in behalf of all returning servicemen, Phil Callan and Paul Hussar met with Kenneth L. (Tug) Wilson, Western Conference Commissioner, on Monday, Sept. 24, to protest the Conference ruling that bars athletes who have become affiliated in any way with professional clubs from participating in Conference athletics. This action on the part of the Veterans’ Club was prompted by the fact that the ruling has already affected many ex-servicemen and will undoubtedly bar many more as the tide of discharged servicemen grows. The case as presented contained the following arguments:
1.	The decision is inconsistent with the stand of the Intercollegiate Conferences on this same problem during the training period of wartime, since all athletes, professionals included, were encouraged to participate in intercollegiate sports.
2.	This decision is unfair in the light that it has not been enforced for many years and consequently many servicemen, in good faith and without abandoning their intentions of completing their college studies before donning the professional garb, signed professional contracts. It seems unfair to these veterans, that, after nothing was said for such a long period, suddenly now when the war is ovei' and they have returned to college under the G.I. Bill and the Rehabilitation act, the Conference digs up the old ruling and they are declared ineligible.
The case was favorably received by Mr. Wilson but he expressed doubts that any immediate action to rescind the ruling would be taken. He stated that as spokesman and “watchdog” of Conference eligibility rulings he lacked the power to initiate such action himself.
(Continued on Page 32)
Student Council Has Prepared Elaborate Plans for Festivities Beginning Tonight at Bally
A gala rally and bonfire at seven o’clock tonight on the University athletic field east of Notre Dame avenue will culminate many weeks of hectic preparation by the Student Council for the Notre Dame-Illinois weekend.
The University band and cheer leaders will circle the campus and the whole student body will join in the line of march over to the fieldhouse where they will meet the coaching staff and the football team. The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chairman of the board of athletics, Hugh Devore, head football coach, and leading members of the squad will speak. In addition Harry Wismer, ace sports announcer, is expected to address the gathering. The evening’s festivities “will end with the lighting of a great bonfire on Brownson Field.
Pre-Meds Sponsor Dance
Tomorrow night after the game a victory dance sponsored by the Aesculapi-ans, the pre-med society, will be held at the Indiana Club. Ovei- four hundred couples are expected to attend this dance which will begin at 8:30 and end at 11:30. Myron Walz and his orchestra will supply the music.
Meanwhile the Notre Dame student body has gone all out to defeat the Illini. The peaceful campus has been transformed into a varied collection of colorful displays deriding the Illini or glorifying the Fighting Irish. Each residence hall is brightly decorated with giant placards and bunting in celebration of the opening game of the 1945 football season at Notre Dame.
Announce Award at Game
In acknowledgment of the talented efforts directed toward the construction
of these decorations a faculty committee will judge which hall has the most original and appropriate display. The judges are Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., moderator of the Student Council, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and Mr. Robert McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline. The judging will take place at the time of the rally tonight and tomorrow morning, and the decision will be announced at the -half-time period of the game Saturday afternoon.
The award for the display judged to be the best is left to the discretion of the rector in the prize-winning hall or—if a navy hall should win—to the naval authorities. Special midnight permission for the night of the Dartmouth game on Oct. 13, has been suggested as an appropriate award for the winning hall.
The only event remaining to round out a perfect weekend for Notre Dame is a decisive victory over the mini by the Fighting Irish.
FOOTBALL SATURDAY MORNING
The least heralded and most admirable group action of the Notre Dame student body will be enacted again tomorrow morning in the more than a dozen chapels on the campus as the student body arises to attend Mass and receive Communion.
Masses in all hall chapels will be held at the regular hour.
More than any other phase of the enthusiastic support rendered by the student body, this traditional Notre Dame practice of Mass and Communion on football Saturday morning is sincerely sought and appreciated by the team.
5
Industrial Advisory Committee Organized by Notre Dame to Aid Research Department
Twelve outstanding men in American industry have accepted invitations from the University of Notre Dame to serve on the University’s newly-organized Industrial Advisory Committee, according to an announcement by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the university.
During the wartime era, plans were laid for the expansion and further development of Notre Dame, particularly the development of the graduate and research departments in the colleges of science and engineering. The university is beginning to realize these plans.
Several of the university’s fundamental research programs (rubber and plastics from both chemical and physical approaches, electronics both theoretical and applied, nuclear physics and radiation, chemistry, etc.) will have important implications for the future industrial development of the nation.
To assure an understanding and cooperation between the university and industry, which will be important for the maximum realization of the university’s contribution to this development, the University of Notre Dame has invited a number of outstanding men in industry to serve as an Industrial Advisory Committee. Men who have accepted are:
Britton I. Budd, of the Northern Public Service company of Illinois, Chicago; William Calcott, assistant director of the Organic Chemical Division, E. Dupont de Nemour Company, Wilmington, Delaware; Bradley Dewey, president of the Dewey and Almy Chemical company, Cambridge, Mass.; William P. Feeley, president, Great Lakes Dredge and Dock company, Chicago; William H. Harrison, vice-president, American Telephone and Telegraph company, New York City; Walter G. Hildorf, director of metallurgy, Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton, O.; Edgar Kobak, president, Mutual Broadcasting System, New York City; Peter C. Reilly, president, Reilly Chemical Corporation, Indianapolis, Ind.; Arthur J. Schmitt, president, American Phenolic corporation, Cicero, BL; Harold S. Vance, chairman of the board, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend, Ind.; Dr. Albert F. Zahm, Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics, Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.; and M. E. Coyle, office of the general manager, Chevrolet Motor Division, Detroit, Mich.
The committee will meet at regular intervals with university officials to advise on programs of research, on relations of industry and the university in research, and on ways and means of expanding the research program at the university.
B-X ANNOUNCES
BUSINESS HOURS
Having saved hundreds of students the expense of buying new books each semester, the Notre Dame Book Exchange has become well known on the campus as a used-book center. Since its institution as a “service to students,” the B X, on the ground floor of the Main Building, has handled thousands of books.
Many students wish to sell their books at the end of the semester. They simply
DURING OCTOBER ...
The Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church will again be the scene of October Adoration this year. The Prefect of Religion announces that Daily Adoration in honor of the Holy Rosary will begin Monday, October I, and will continue for two weeks.
In previous years the Adoration extended throughout the entire month; but because of the final examinations and the mid-semester vacation it must be shortened this October. The students will volunteer for half-hour watches of prayer before the Blessed Sacrament as they have done in the past.
The Adoration will begin each day at 12:30 and will close at 5:00 p. m. with Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament and the recitation of the Rosary.
The Novena for Examinations which begins October 9, will be in honor of Our Lady of Fatima whose feast falls on October 13.
On Sunday, October 7, the feast of the Most Holy Rosary, a Plenary Indulgence can be gained for every visit made to Sacred Heart Church. Six Our Fathers, Hail Marys and Glory Be To The Fathers are to be said during each visit for the intentions of the Holy Father. The Indulgence may be gained between Saturday noon and Sunday evening. The big bell in the church will ring Saturday noon announcing the opening of the Indulgence period.
take these books to the B X and receive a receipt in return for them. When the books are sold the student may receive payment upon presenting this receipt. The price the seller receives for his books is much higher than the price paid by wholesale book concerns, which invaded the campus regularly before the institution of the Book Exchange. The student buying books is also saved much expense by the B X.
Students who leave the campus to join the armed forces are likewise aided by the Book Exchange. These boys receive receipts for their books when they leave. Payment for these receipts is mailed to the seller at the beginning of the next semester, when the books are sold. Last semester the B X handled books for seventy-eight students in this manner, sending out a total of 8483.32. In addition to this, the Book Exchange handled 778 books for returning students.
For the convenience of students who are leaving, the B X is open every Monday afternoon from 2 to 3:30. The B X will be open every afternoon from 2 to 5 during the week of final exams and again at the beginning of next semester.
6
N. D. Rejoices, Gives Thanks on V-J Day
BY LARRY McDERMOTT AND BILL SUTHERLAND
Notre Dame men listened to the choir solemnly chanting the Mass and prayed to God, for the war was over. Men who had seen friends fall and lie still in the mud of far off battlefields thanked Him —thanked Him for having ended the wholesale carnage that had wracked the world. Boys with brothers in the service prayed and hoped that those brothers would soon be back among their own, some even to go to school with them.
The Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S. C., reminded the congregation of the fact that our country had entered and ended the war on an eve of a feast of the Blessed Virgin. He reminded them of the many alumni of Notre Dame who had given their lives, but many needed no reminding. Some knew, or were related to, those who had died or been maimed for life by the savage forces of evil.
Notre Dame men, paced by the underclassmen, reacted with characteristic vigor to the premature flash on Sunday night, August 12. When the official word came through on August 14th, most students had just returned to their residence halls after Tuesday evening supper. Flocking out of the halls, the student body assembled before the flag waving in the cool breeze over the quad
rangle while the ROTC band played the National Anthem. Throughout surrender day the Indiana sky over Notre Dame had been overcast. As dusk approached the' sun broke through the clouds and reflected with significant brightness from the golden dome.
On the feast of the Assumption the entire student body of Notre Dame attends the Solemn Mass in thanksgiving for the end of the war.
The band, serving as a rallying point for the crowd, started the march down Notre Dame avenue to downtown South Bend. Busses were unavailable. The parade was disorganized at first, but got under way in due course, led by the band and a small boy perched on the shoulder of a navy student. The student body followed, some marching, but many took advantage of sympathetic and genuinely happy motorists by climbing on to automobiles.
On reaching town the civilian students joined the surging crowds already celebrating. Navy students, however, were ordered into ranks and were escorted back to the University by their superiors, thus crushing their hopes for a downtown celebration. The melee continued well into the night, but lost the support of Notre Dame men after eleven o’clock as the return to the campus began.
At the Solemn Mass in thanksgiving, held Wednesday morning, Father O’Donnell announced a two-day holiday. The students of Notre Dame took full advantage of this opportunity to usher in the new era of peace which came to the peoples of the world on the eve of one of the greatest feast days of Our Lady.
RO Graduates To Be
Kept in Active Duty
According to Navy V-12 bulletin No. 235, all NROTC trainees scheduled to graduate on or about November 1, 1945, will be retained on active duty after commissioning unless they are eligible for demobilization under the basic system in effect at that time. Final disposition of other groups now enrolled in NROTC or scheduled to be enrolled in November, will be determined at a later date.
This announcement is a revision of a former bulletin which gave NROTC trainees scheduled to graduate in November a choice in applying for active or inactive duty. The previous order also placed V-12 engineering students scheduled to graduate at the close of this term on inactive duty. The more recent order compels V-12 engineers to be retained on active duty.
The number of trainees affected by the latest bulletin includes twenty-four ROTC students who are scheduled to graduate next month and twelve V-12 engineering majors who will receive degrees in October. They are: ROTC: David Armstrong, James Cassidy, James Cullen, William Glass, James Griffin, LaVerne Hansen, Jack Hasten, Ellsworth Holden, Stanley Idzerda, Arthur Kartman, Virgil Kennedy, Frank McFadden, George Murphy, John Phipps, James Ruff, Richard Sadler, Dennis Scully, Robert Skoglund, John Warren, Robert Thomas, Raymond Wollam, Norbert Geier, Charles Devine and Harry Ross.
Engineering students to graduate are: James Butler, Joseph Faust, John M. Henry, Raymond Kopituk, John La Bonte, Edward La Rocque, Francis McCarthy, John Meek, James Monahan, Thomas Scheitlin, George Sippel and William Truska.
Sailors to Vacate
Alumni and Dillon
Pack your sea-bags, sailors, moving _ time is just about here.
According to present plans, the NROTC and V-12 units will vacate Alumni and Dillon Halls at the close of the summer term and move into the halls now occupied by the midshipmen: Lyons, Morrissey, Howard and Badin.
The change is necessitated because of the increase of the NROTC unit here next term, and also because of the midshipmen unit’s closing early in November. Midshipmen’s graduation is scheduled for November 2.
The NRQTC and V-12 units will have a combined strength of 929 men next term. Originally the number of navy students scheduled to study here next term was 1129, but the number changed shortly after the Japanese surrender.
7
R.O.T.C., V-12 Ball Tonight
With Jack Teagarden’s theme song, “I Got a Right to Sing the Blues,” floating across a rejuvenated and redecorated Servicemen’s Center, the Ninth Navai Ball will get underway at 9:00 tonight.
Five hundred couples will attend this gala event which is the culmination of three months of planning and organizing by Chairman Dave Murphy, together with the untiring help of Lt. F. W. Pollard. La Verne Hanson, publicity chairman; Jim Griffin, chairman of the band; and Jack Hasten, ticket chairman, have also contributed generously of their time and energy to make the ball tonight and the fun-packed week-end accompanying it the outstanding affair of its kind evergiven by the NROTC and V-12 units.
Reigning as Queen of the Ball will be Miss Jean Shanesy of Willmette, Ill., guest of Dave Murphy. Miss Geraldine Waters of Wadsworth, Ohio, Guest of Honor, will be squired by Battalion Commander. Stan Idzerda. Also waiting to greet the incoming couples will be Captain J. R. Barry and Commander R. T. McDaniels.
The symmetrical and refreshing decorations are the product of Tom Devine’s fertile imagination. Upon entering the couples will be greeted by an unusual nautical design. As they proceed upward the dance floor will give the appearance of the approaching football game. And for those who wish a glimpse of France, they need only ascend topside, and Lo! they are in a waterfront cafe.
Jack Teagarden, “King of the Blues Trombone,” who is acknowledged to be
Stanley Idzerda
By GEORGE COLLINS
the country’s greatest trombone player even by the inimitable Tommy Dorsey, will be present along with Sally Lang his “Charming S'ong Stylist” and the Teagarden Trombone Choir to furnish the smooth-flowing ihythms for which he is famous. Recently Teagarden and his band returned from Hollywood upon completion of the Paramount picture, “The Birth of the Blues.” His engagements have included the Blackhawk and the Sherman Hotel in Chicago.
Wending his way through the dancing couples will be the discerning photographer ready to record some memorable moment. Gold-imprinted- leather pro-
Miss Geraldine Waters
Miss Jean Shanesy
grams will further serve to retain memories of this occasion. Intermissions will be the go-ahead signal for surprising and varied entertainment which up until this time has been kept “hushed up” by the various committee heads.
At 11:00 there will be a temporary hush, the radio technician will give a wave of his arm and listeners of WSBT will be the recipients of the sounds of revelry emanating from the Ball. Dancing will cease at 1:00 and happy couples will fortify themselves with a short rest before embarking on the further activities of the week-end.
This evening the trainees and their guests will assemble at a schoolwide pep-rally for an advance inauguration of the Notre Dame-Illinois football game. Saturday morning at 11:00 Captain J. R. Barry will present the company colors to the winning company. Further enhancing the festivities of the weekend will be Notre Dame’s first football game of the season with the University of Illinois as the unlucky opponent. Each couple attending the game will be furnished a program. Terminating the planned activities of the week-end will be the dance at the Rockne Memorial Saturday night with the Anchormen providing the music. This dance has been under the leadership of Don Toker, Company Commander of the V-12 unit, and a special committee which he appointed. Sunday will be a day of rest and fond farewells. And so the curtain will close on a week-end that will live long in the memories of all.
8
A Guy Named Joe—Behind the Scenes
The Notre Dame-Illinois game will be played tomorrow on a gridiron in perfect condition. Never seen by the thousands who jam the stadium for the games is the smoothly-working staff of caretakers who keep it in perfect condition. The man responsible for the operation of the stadium is Joseph Dierickz, who has been head caretaker for the past 14 years.
“Joe,” one of eight children, was born on June 22, 1885, in Antwerp, Belgium. At an early age he became interested in vaudeville and joined an international troupe with his two brothers. For the next five years he traveled throughout the continent entertaining many an eager crowd with his acrobatic skill.
In 1906, accompanied by his two brothers, Joe came to America. Soon afterwards the trio was reduced to two. For the next ten years Joe and his remaining brother became associated successively with the fabulous Belle family in Mexico, Barnum & Bailey, and the Hackenback & Wallace Show. And in their travels over the U. S. and
When the news of Frank Szymanski's voluntary withdrawal from the football squad spread over the campus on Tuesday, Sept. 4, an aroused student body staged an unofficial pep rally. Szymanski addressed the crowd from the porch of Sorin hall. Photographer Ferstel catches the students' emotions.
Canada they met such famous celebrities as Lillian Russel, Eva Tanguay and Will Rogers.
Then in 1918 while his troupe was working its way east between Chicago and Columbus, Ohio, he was involved in the terrible trainwreck outside ef Gary, Ind., which took a toll of sevency-two lives. Among the dead was his brother, and he himself was forced to spend sixteen weeks in the hospital. It was here that he met the future Mrs. Dierickz a nurse at the hospital and sister of Knute Rockne’s wife.
Because of poor health Joe went to a farm in Maryland to recuperate. He again came west in ’21, married and started to work at the Studebaker plant in South Bend. He labored diligently at the plant until 1931, when, at the request of Elmer Layden, he was hired by the University as caretaker of the stadium.
This position he has held for fourteen years. During this time he says he has never watched a single game because
the job requires his presence elsewhere. Having complete charge of the stadium, Joe was instrumental in the filming of the motion picture “Kunte Rockne, All American.”
Today at sixty years of age, Joe is going as strong as ever. Residing with his wife at 1112 North Eddy St., he is the father of six children, three of whom are now serving in the armed forces. One son has been in Iceland for nine months with the Marine Corps; another, a Navy man, served on the Aircraft carrier Franklin, while the third is with the 1st Army in Berlin. Indeed Joe is justified in being proud of his family. And it is with this same justification that we are equally proud of Joe. For it is people like Joe Dierickz who, in their own unselfish way, carry on the traditions which make up Notre Dame.
Gen. O'Connor Speaks to Engineering Students
A large crowd was present to hear Brigadier General James A. O’Connor speak on the Alaskan Highway. The talk, second in the. Martin J. McCue lecture series, took place last Friday night in the Engineering auditorium. General O’Connor treated the topic in a manner interesting equally to engineers and laymen present. Technicolor movies of the Alcan Highway were shown, after which the General answered questions of the audience.
General O’Connor was in charge of all projects for the Northwest Service Command, including the Alcan Highway, the Canol project, and the construction of some thirty airfields. In addition, he supervised many other projects, including the Lido Road.
Mr. C. E. Wilcox, head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, -was associated with General O’ Connor on the Canol (Canada Oil) project, which supplied fuel for the Alaskan Highway and its airfields. Altogether the work involved the construction of 1600 miles of pipe lines, and 1500 miles of roads, as well as the erection of 2000 miles of telephone wires, an oil refinery, and many oil wells. Mr. Wilcox was in charge of all engineering work on Canol.
Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., was named acting head of the Department of Religion on August 15.
Plenty of "the Old Irish Go" Is Evident in Activities of Summer Student Council
That the Student Council is not only the voice but the driving force of student opinion is evident by a glance at the Council’s record to date. Having established as its prospectus for the summer semester the revival of old Notre Dame traditions, the Student Council proposed to attain that goal not by mere words but by forceful action.
After inaugurating the “Student Views” as its official publicity organ, the Council delved into the important business of the semester. It was decided that the N.D.-Illinois football game would be the ideal occasion for a gala weekend celebration. Committees were immediately appointed to handle the complex preparations for the weekend. The A’es-culapians, campus pre-med society, were given permission to sponsor the Victory Dance the night of the game, and a Council representative, Don Toker of the V-12 unit, was appointed to work with the committee and report on its progress.
There was no organized group of cheer leaders, so the Council immediately issued a call for all those interested in trying out. The response was very gratifying, and a squad of eight cheer leaders was sifted from the applicants by
the Student Council Secretary, Jim Donovan.
A great rally and bonfire were planned for the eve of the Illinois game, and a committee of five councilmen was appointed to handle all preparations. Meanwhile each hall representative was charged with the responsibility of constructing colorful displays for the occasion. This was carried out very efficiently.
While the weekend festivities occupied much of the Council’s time, other important matters were not neglected: the first pre-season football rally was held on Sept. 18; a new “Clashmore Mike” was obtained; preparations for the weekend of the Dartmouth game have been made; and an organized student trip to the Northwestern game is planned for next semester.
When the unexpected incident involving Frank Szymanski occurred the Student Council assumed complete control in co-ordinating the efforts of the various student groups interested in having Szymanski reinstated as captain of the football squad. After an emergency meeting of the Student Council Executive
Committee, President John Power and Vice-President Brendan O’Grady held a conference with the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., which culminated in the formation of a six-man committee which investigated all the facts underlying Szymanski’s resignation. Later the president and the vice-president of, the Veterans Club were added to this committee in order to harmonize their activities with the Student Council’s plans.
Whatever success the Student Council has had to date can be attributed to one factor in particular — co-operation of both students and faculty. The future success of the Student Council depends upon this continued co-operation.
Rally Held Last Week
The first official pre-season football pep rally was held on Sept. 18 in Washington Hall under the auspices of the Student Council, President John Power presiding. Speakers for the evening were Pete Berezney, Frank Szymanski, and John Power who reviewed the details of the Szymanski’s resignation as captain of the football squad and the students’ efforts to have him reinstated.
The University band, Mr. H. Lee Hope conducting, played the school songs, and the cheer leaders went through their routines on the stage.
Students Applaud Szymanski's talk and cheerleaders' "T" at Bally
10
Summer Band Concerts Held in Shadow of the Dome; Football Debut Tomorrow
BY RUSSEL TRITICA
neat and surprising tricks up his sleeve for the'half-time periods of the Notre Dame home games, and when the gun goes off at the half mark of the Notre Dame-Ulinois encounter, the University band will step onto the playing field to thrill the fans in traditional fashion.
Under the baton of Mr. H. Lee Hope, the University of Notre Dame band stepped into the gay light of success when it presented its summer program, which was completed several weeks ago.
The band, with 108 men in its ranks, is made up of two separate campus organizations, the Navy Battalion Band and a civilian group. It is extremely fortunate in having two capably filled sections, despite the uncertainty of the members’ length of stay on the campus, which, at present, is rare in similar college organizations.
Mr. Hope was faced with the difficult task of organizing the two units and he deserves great praise for the development of the present well balanced group.
“Getting the boys to work together,” according to Mr. Hope, “was the biggest job.” The members have to go through a period of feeling out the rest of the group, and so become at ease in their new spots. After this obstacle was passed, the remaining work became a mattei- of practice—and practice they did. On weekday evenings from 6:30 to 8:30, Washington Hall vibrated from the intense rehearsal going on within.
A series of five conceits held beneath the spreading elms directly below the Dome made up the band’s summer program. The civilian division presented three of the outdoor concerts, and the Navy Battalion band two.
Visitors and students who crowded the lawn in front of the Main building each Thursday night from 7:00 to 8:00 made the open-air concerts a great success. And the citizens of Notre Dame and South Bend alike made new friends, as work was forgotten and a pleasant mood of recreation prevailed.
On August 19, the entire band, under the sponsorship of the South Bend City Park Commission, presented a concert in Pottawatomi Park before a large throng of music lovers.
The selections rendered during the summer were picked especially for their popular appeal. No heavy concert material was used, as the band featured martial airs, semi-classical numbers and popular pieces of the day.
With the concert schedule temporarily canceled, the band’s efforts are now turned towards the ensuing football season. Mr. Hope, as always, has some
Mr. H. Lee Hope
Enrollment Figure
Nears Pre-War Level
With the coming of peace the civilian student enrollment at Notre Dame has started to climb to its prewar level. This semester’s enrollment of 986 will probably be increased by at least 600 next semester; 1517 have already registered.
The total is made up of 861 pre-registered students, 437 accepted incoming freshmen, 197 former students, 12 law, and 10 graduate students. A total enrollment of at least 300 veterans is expected.
The 986 civilian students attending Notre Dame this semester include 350 former students, 578 freshmen, 27 law, 28 graduate, and three part-time or special students. In addition, there are 765 R.O.T.C. and V-12 in attendance.
NOTE TO STUDENTS:
The Alumni Association is pleased, through the cooperation of the Notre Dame Scholastic, to extend its interest to the students of the University.
Alumni status may seem a long.way off. Career, waistline, family seem a little remote. But, like "post-war,” the day will arrive.	.
You are all alumni now—in the sense that the name "Notre Dame man" is already yours, to carry forever. What affects Notre Dame from now, affects you. '
The Alumni Office, the ALUMNUS magazine, the personnel of the Alumni Association, want to co- • operate with you. The Association, in its major objective, simply tries to preserve for you through life the friends, the influences you meet at Notre Dame.
Many of you are sons or other relatives of Notre Dame men. You know alumni. Many more of you will return to communities where membership in Notre Dame Clubs awaits you.
Your interest now, your participation in campus organizations, is an investment for this future. Campus groups can contribute to, and gain from, cooperation in bringing the Notre Dame family-alumni, faculty, and students—closer together.
Feel free to ask for any help the Alumni Office can give you.	'
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG
Alumni Secretary
JFor (Cob, (Country T anti J^otre Bame
As the United States hilariously rejoiced at the ending of hostilities in the Pacific the number of Notre Dame men who made the supreme sacrifice for our final victory approached three hundred.
At the last publication of the Scholastic the total was 239. The total is now 272, and the Scholastic herewith completes the list:
★	240. Sgt. William F. Fair, ex. ’33, Youngstown, 0., was killed in action April 24 in Germany.
★	241. Capt. Aquinas T. Colgan, 0. Carm., a Notre Dame student in the summer sessions of 1933-34-35-36, Chicago, was killed in action on Mindanao on May 6. Chaplain Colgan had been awarded the Purple Heart.
★	242. Lt. Peter Lavialle Whelan, AAF, ex. ’42, Henderson, Ky., was killed in an airplane accident in France, Sept. 11, 1944. He was an honorary member of the RAF.
★	243. Lt. Robert D. VanderHorst, USMCR, ex. ’42, Celina, O., died Sept. 17, 1944, from wounds suffered in the invasion of Peliliu.
★	244. Lt. (jg) Louis J. Cenni, Jr., ’40, Brandy Camp, Pa., was killed in action in the Pacific.
★	245. Lt.'(jg) Martin Gordon O'Reilly, Jr., ’42, Chicago, died on July 4 in an airplane mishap.
★	246. Lt. Francis E. Metzgar, USNR, ’42, Seattle, Wash., formerly listed as missing, is now known to have gone down with his destroyer on March 26, 1945.
★	247. 1st. Lt. Robert F. Finneran, ’42, Columbus, O., died in a plane crash on Tinian Island on May 16.
★	248. 2nd Lt. Charles E. Reynolds, ’41, Mt. Carmel, Ill., previously listed as missing, is now officially reported to have been killed when his plane was lost over Italy on April 18, 1944. He was awarded the Purple Heart, and the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters.
12
★	249. Capt. Roger C. Foley, USMCR, ’41, Winthrop, Mass., died on May 27 as a result of wounds suffered while leading his companies during an intense battle on Okinawa.
★	250. Lt. Otto J. Seifert, USMCR, ex. ’43, New Ulm, Minn., is now officially listed as having been killed in action in the South Pacific on May 24, 1943.
★	251. 1st Lt. Thomas E. Creevy, AAF, ex. ’44, Chicago, was killed in a plane accident over England. For his meritorious service he had received the Distinguished Flying Cross, Air Medal with seven Oak Leaf Clusters, and a Presidential unit citation.
★	252. S/Sgt. William C. Sparks, ex. ’44, Alton, Ill., formerly listed as missing in action since Jan. 4, 1944, over Germany, is now officially declared to have been killed in action.
★	253. Cpl. George M. Wolfe, USMCR, ex. ’44, Hollis, N. Y., was killed by a sniper, May 17, on Okinawa.
★	254. Lt. George S. Owens, ’32, Lockport, N. Y., was killed in the Pacific theater of war.
★	255. John Bishop, ex. ’44, Staten Island, N. Y., died in action off the coast of Guadalcanal.
★	256. Pfc. Richard A. Schiltz, USMCR, ex. ’43, Billings, Mont., was killed during the struggle for Iwo Jima on March 4.
★	257. 2nd Lt. John L. Probst, ex. ’47, Sheldon, la., was killed in action on Okinawa on April 16.
★	258. John R. Keane, ex. ’45, formerly missing in action, is now officially reported to have been killed in Germany on Nov. 20, 1944.
★	259. Lt. Edmund L. Leach, ex. ’45, Golf, Ill., of the Fifth Marine division, was killed on Iwo Jima on March 3.
★	260. S/Sgt. George H. Yeager, Jr., ex. ’45, Roanoke, Va., a bombardier, was
killed in action over Munich, July 16, 1944.
★	261. Capt. John F. Rogers, ’40, Belleville, N. J., missing in the Pacific since Jan. 25, 1944, is now declared by the War Department to be “presumably dead.”
★	262. Capt. Robert Sugnet, ’41, Buffalo, N. Y., reported missing June 12, 1944, is now officially believed to have been killed in action near Guadalcanal. He was awarded the Air Medal and Oak Leaf Cluster.
★	263. Pvt. James R. Ankenbruck, ex. ’46, Fort Wayne, was killed in action in Germany on Dec. 2, 1944.
★	264. Pfc. George G. Birmingham, ex. ’46, Sioux City, la., was killed in the fierce fighting for control of Iwo Jima, March 5.
★	265. Lt. Patrick J. Lambert, ex. ’46, Argo, Ill., was killed in action Dec. 6, 1944, in the Netherlands East Indies.
★	266. Cpl. Martin T. Callaghan, ex. ’47, Chicago, was killed while fighting in Germany.
The Scholastic does not have complete information regarding the following Notre Dame men who were killed in the defense of their country:
★	267.- Pvt. James B. Bassett, ex. ’43, of Toledo, Ohio;
★	268. T/5 Mark DeMots, ex. ’44, of Minot, N. Dak.;
★	269. 1st Lt. William G. Haller, ex. ’42, of Doylestown, Ohio;.
★	270. Lt. Roger H. Henry, ex. ’44, of Valparaiso, Ind.	.
★	271. Sgt. James J. O’Brien, ’41, of Elmhurst, N. Y.;
★	272. Maj.-Carlo J. Marinello, ex. ’37, of Buffalo, N. Y.
Company Five Wins Color Competition;
Review to be Held Tomorrow Morning
The climax of three bitterly contested months of inter - company competition will be held Saturday morning at 10 a.m. at the drill field adjacent to the tennis courts. At that time Virgil Kennedy, commander of Company Five, will be presented the colors as a result of his men’s aggregating the highest number of points in the nine competitive events which included all types of athletic games and drilling.
Pretty Miss Shirley Tegtmeier of Belleville, Ill., has been selected to present the colors to Kennedy. He will es
cort her to the naval ball tonight. Miss Tegtmeier will receive the colors from Capt. J. Richard Barry, and in turn will hand the award to Kennedy. Then the winning company will probably sound off with a “hip, hip, hurray” while the other five NROTC companies stand solemnly at attention, each wishing it had won the title of “best company.” Upon receipt of the award, all the companies will then pass in review before the Notre Dame Naval Commandant.
Company Five’s victories in both the company and platoon drills were the main elements contributing to that organization’s walking off with top honors.
In the seven athletic activities Kennedy’s men had managed to accumulate but 400 points by virtue of third places in the volley ball and softball tournaments. However, the 2,000 points received from the drills, were enough to change the entire picture of the competition, thus advancing Company Five from last to first place, with 2,400 points.
Company Four, commanded by Jim Cassidy, was leading the field with 1,750 points, until the drill competition took place. Four failed to place in either of
the drill events and therefore ended up in second place when the final tabulations were made. Company Two finished third with 1,575 points; Three, fourth with 1,300; Six, fifth with 1,075, and Company One with 700 points.
Final tabulations in each of the events are:
COMPANY DRILL: Five, 1,000 points; Two, 625 ; Three, 375.
PLATOON DRILL: Five (first platoon) 1,000; Six (first platoon) 625; Three (second platoon) 375.
PISTOL: Four, 250; Three. 150; Six. 100.
RIFLE: Six, 250 ; Four, 150; One, 100.
FOOTBALL: One, 500 ; Four, 300.
SOFTBALL: Two, 500; Four, 300; Five, 200.
VOLLEY BALL: Four. 500; Two, 300; Five, 200.	■
SWIMMING: Three, 250; Two. 150; One. 100.
BOAT RACES: Four, 250; Three, 150; Six, 100.
Navy Clothing Rule
Is Quickly Rescinded
On again, off again—that’s the story of the navy’s recent directive concerning the wealing of civilian clothes “outside of working hours while on shoreleave or otherwise in off service status.”
Secretary of Navy Forrestal’s order permitting sailors to doff navy blues and grays was issued September 4. However, due to the shortage of civilian clothing, the order was rescinded. This all happened so rapidly, that Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of naval training here, did not have time to issue a memorandum concerning Forrestal’s initial order.
Nevertheless, a number of optimistic naval trainees here have already written home for “ciwie” clothes, in anticipation of the navy going back to the peace time policy of wearing civilian clothing while off duty.
A Message From the President
When an alumnus of the University enjoys the .confidence of succeeding administrations for more than forty years, and when he has portrayed in his whole life the highest ideals of his Alma Mater, little wonder it is that in his death genuine sorrow should pervade the campus he loved, so tenderly.
Ever since John Neeson was graduated in 1903, he went about doing good in his own quiet way. Bishop O'Hara beautifully characterized him in his funeral sermon when he said he observed faithfully the two great Commandments, love of God and love of neighbor. We may be sure that the Master he served so well will richly reward him. because of his fidelity to His precepts while on earth.	■
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees has lost a valued member, the Alumni Association an exemplary Notre Dame graduate, and I personally a very dear friend. Our hearts go out to his devoted wife and only son, also an alumnus of the University, as we assure them of our continued sympathy and prayers for a Notre Dame man who through unpretentious excellence in life reflected glory on us all. Peace to his great soul!
13
Midshipman School Wii Graduate 10,000th Officer as School Closes on November 2nd
BY DICK SCHAEFFER
of combat duty, has replaced Lt. H. W. Walker as aide to Commander R. T. McDaniel, NROTC executive officer. Lt. Walker, who arrived at Notre Dame in April, 1944, has been transferred to the U. S. S. Salt Lake City.
Since its origin in October of 1942, commissions as ensigns in the Naval Reserve have been granted to 9,456 midshipmen at the U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School at Notre Dame. The eleventh class, now in training, comprises approximately 1,000 men, about 950 of whom are expected to graduate. This number will boost the total to well over 10,000 midshipmen who have graduated in the shadow of the Golden Dome. These men have seen service wherever the Navy has gone. Seventy-seven of them have been killed or are missing in action. They have won the highest military decorations, including the Congressional Medal of Honor.
5.079 Officers in 1942
The midshipmen’s school at Notre Dame is successor to the officer’s indoctrination school, inaugurated on the campus in April, 1942. This program gave an intensive two-month training course to 5,079 naval officers from April until its close in October of the same year.
Capt. H. F. Burnett, U.S.N., was the unit’s first skipper, commanding all naval activities at the University. Capt. Burnett was later replaced by Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., the present commanding officer.
Humble Start
The school has improved steadily since its beginning. The first class operated in classrooms without chairs. Its members were without textbooks, and studied from mimeographed notes and models prepared by the officers of the teaching staff. Since that time superior equipment has been installed to facilitate training. The curriculum now includes training cruises aboard YPs and ARBs docking at Michigan City and the training ship U.S.S. Wilmette docking at Benton Harbor, on which midshipmen actually operate the vessel under the direction of her captain and commissioned officers from the school.
New Naval Buildings
Two new buildings have been constructed on the campus specifically for Navy use—the Navy Building, housing adminstrative offices and classrooms, and the Navy Drill Hall, containing classrooms and a wide variety of naval guns and equipment for familiarization and drill purposes.
January of 1943 witnessed the gradu-
tion and commissioning of the first class in the then-incompleted Drill Hall, and the publication of the first Capstan, midshipman class organ resembling a college annual, which has been published by each large class. The ninth Capstan, now being prepared for the presses, will be the last. The midshipmen’s school, having served its purpose in a short but successful career, will be decommissioned after the graduation of the eleventh class on November 2, and the familiar grey formations will become a part of history of the Notre Dame campus.
Lt. Censale Replaces Lt.
Walker on NROTC Staff
Lt. Michael A. Censale, Annapolis ’42, a veteran with more than three years
ARMY SERVICE FORCES
OFFICE OF THE COMMANDING GENERAL
WASHINGTON, 25, D. C.
September 12, 1945
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, President
University of Notre Dame du Lac
South Bend, Indiana
My Dear Father O’Donnell:
Your institution has played a very important part in producing the materiel which has been such a decisive factor in winning the war. You and your associates must have a deep sense of satisfaction as you look back upon your accomplishments for your country.
Now that the war is won, I want to express to you the gratitude and appreciation of the Army Service Forces for the magnificent achievements of your organization.
The energy, initiative, and efficiency which you and your colleagues have demonstrated in the war effort give me complete confidence that the problems of peace will be met with the same effectiveness as those of war and will be as swiftly and as succcessfully solved.
With all good wishes for the future, I remain
Very sincerely yours
BREHON SOMERVELL
General, Commanding
Lt. Censale, before being stationed here, was aide to the commanding officer and ship’s secretary of the U. S. S. Minneapolis. He had also seen duty on the U. S. S'. Ranger, upon which he was assistant navigator and aide to the executive officer.
While here, Lt. Censale will be in charge of the rifle and pistol team, will teach Naval Administration and law, and will be the voting and victory bond officer.
Lt. Censale has five service bars. They are the American defense, American area, European-African with battle stars for Casablanca and the raid on Norway; the Asiatic ribbon with battle stars for Leyte, Lingayen Gulf and Okinawa; and the Philippine Liberation ribbon with stars for Surigao Straits and Corregidor.
14
N. D. Student Wins Fame With Trombone
Joshua’s famous trumpet solo that brought the walls of Jericho tumbling down about his ears may seem a long way behind us, but here on the campus at present we have a student, one Robert L. Lieberenz, whose well known trombone has brought him the laurels of national acclaim. A sophomore student in Architectural Engineering, 19-year-old Bob, a resident of Elkhart, Indiana, has won national recognition for his musical talents.
A mere peek at the bag of medals and trophies won by this young artist provides ample evidence of his abilities as a fine musician. While a student at Elkhart High School, Bob was first division winner two consecutive years at national contests held in Battle Creek, Michigan and Michigan City. Besides taking first prize as a soloist, Bob was many times first named, playing in ensembles.
Looking more like an athlete than a musician, Bob possesses a winning personality and - a genial smile that should gain him many friends in his chosen profession.
During the summer Bob traveled 10, 000 miles with the Cole Brothers Circus Band; he can also boast of having played during the summer with Henry Busse’s orchestra in Hollywood.
In 1943 Bob played with the St. John’s Military Academy Band, and at present is with the local Dale Higgins orchestra.
When asked what his ambition in life was he replied, “To be a first-rate architect.” And certainly if he is as successful in his studies as he has been with his trombone, he will reach the top.
Alumni Board Meets
The board of directors of the Alumni
Association is holding its fall quarter meeting on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Thomas F. Byrne, Cleveland, O., national president, is heading the discussions which hinge around the programs for placing returning Notre Dame war veterans in jobs or educational opportunities and initiating stronger Notre Dame leadership in religious and civic life in communities where Local Alumni Clubs
„	; are organized.
* YThe Board will also hear reports on • $ ^the'Third Annual Alumni Fund, which / ..has been of great value to the Univer-^jy^ity’s progress’ during the war years.
"	~	addition to President Byrne
afe^E^ .Gepald^As
(€y Bailey, Baltimore, 0.; tochester, N. Y.; Rev. M.
^^.M^jqrty, Cleveland, O., and John T. - '*Higgini,' Detroit, Mich. Rev. Hugh
honorary president,
•onnell, ' C
r ‘'hnd , J^	and William
- -r " - 7^' “ST' '	,
GLEE CLUB HAS SUCCESSFUL SUMMER SEASON
BY JAMES GREENE
Summer Songsters
Soon after the beginning of the semester, Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke called together the Notre Dame Glee Club and practice sessions were begun, with the number of members greatly augmented by the addition of many new freshmen to the Club.
Each noon after lunch, the Glee Club gathered in the Music hall to prepare and practice a new program. Under the expert guidance of Mr. Pedtke, the 60 voices familiarized themselves with some 20 selections, ranging from Bach and Handel to Oklahoma.
On Sept. 13, the Glee Club traveled to Healthwin Hospital and brought great joy to the patients there by presenting the entire program while moving from ward to ward. A special tribute was paid to Mr. Dan Hanley, the former custodian of the gym and now a patient at the hospital, when the group paused outside his room to sing all the Notre Dame songs. Needless to say, Mr. Hanley was more than delighted.
The first formal Glee Club concerts of the season were presented in Washington Hall on the evenings of the 20th and 21st of September, before most .appreciative audiences. The success of the concei-ts amply attested to the ability of Mr. Pedtke and the diligence of his group. Included on the program were Bach’s All Beings Noiv Are Under Thee and The Lord My Shepherd E’er Shall Be; Let Their Celestial Concerts All Unite by Handel; Witt’s Ave Maria; Believe Me and a solo, Irish Lzdlaby, rendered by tenor Thomas Devine; a special arrangement of selections from Okla-
R. Dooley, of the Alumni Office, complete the personnel of the current meeting. Hon. Harry F. Kelly, governor' of Michigan; John T. Balfe, New York City, and William J. Mooney, Jr., Indianapolis, are the absent members of the Board.
homa; and the stirring marches, Anchors Aweigh and the Victory March.
The first of a series of concerts to be given away from home this fall and winter will be presented over the weekend of Oct. 6 and 7, when the Glee Club will give their programs at Rosary College in River Forest, Ill., and at Aurora, Hl.
The Club will also add to the festivities and excitement of the pep rally the night before the Dartmouth game on Oct. 13 with an informal concert.
The Notre Dame Glee Club is under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, B. Mus., F.A.G.O., and its officers are: N. Geier, president; J. W. Owens, vicepresident; R. Schneider, secretary; and J. Boyes, librarian.
New Executive Officer
for Notre Dome NROTC
Commander George Hutchison, USN, last week succeeded Commander R. T. McDaniel as executive officer of the Naval Reserve Officers Training unit at Notre Dame. Cmdr. McDaniel has been placed on inactive duty and has returned to his home in Columbus, Ohio.
Prior to assuming his new post, Hutchison was executive officer of the midshipman’s school here. He first reported to Notre Dame in January, 1945.
Cmdr. McDaniel, who graduated from the United States Naval academy in 1924, has been in and out of the navy during the past two decades. His latest service on active status began in October of 1940, with officers procurement duty in Columbus. Since that time he has served as executive officer of the U.S.S. Wilmette and the U.S.S. Boric; commanding officer of Mine Squadron 11 and the U.S.S. Staff.
The retiring executive officer of Notre Dame R.O.’s served on General MacArthur’s staff in the Pacific before reporting here on May 28 of this year.
15
"REVIEW OF POLITICS" EULOGIZES ROOSEVELT
The summer edition of The Review of Politics, published in July by the University, was a special tribute to the late President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, an honorary alumnus.
The editorial, entiled “The American Idealist,” was written by Mr Frank O’Malley, managing editor of the Review. Mr. O’Malley’s masterful prose is a worthy tribute to one of America’s greatest leaders.
Prof. Frank O'Malley
In “Roosevelt, the Modern Jefferson,” the Rev. T. A. McAvoy, C. S. C., compares the characteristic domestic policies of Roosevelt to those of Jefferson, noting that they “had more than accidental resemblances.” Prof. M. A. Fitzsimons wrote of “Roosevelt, the American Strategist.” The writer states clearly and understandably the foreign policies of Mr. Roosevelt. Under the title, “Roosevelt and Social Justice” the late Monsignor John A. Ryan treats especially the policies of the late president with respect to the New Deal.
World affairs are aptly handled in articles by Prof. Waldemar Gurian, editor of The Revieiv of Politics, F. A. Hermens, Luigi Sturzo and Werner J. Cahnman. Mr. Gurian writes of “Hitler, the Simplifier of German Nationalism.” Mr. Sturzo, whose works include Church and State, The International Community and The Right of War, presents an article in the July Review called “Has Fascism Ended with Mussolini?” F. A. Hermens discusses the topic: “Germany, Europe and the World.” Mr. Cahnman, who is on the faculty of Fisk university, Tennessee, writes of “France in Algeria.”
Prof. Jerome Kerwin, of the University of Chicago, answers Francis G. Wilson’s article, “Public Policy in Constitutional Reform” which appeared in the January 1945 Review of Politics. His article is entitled “Checks with Bal
ances” and treats controversial issues of the constitution of the United States.
The concluding article is written by Mr. O’Malley. In “The Plight of the Soul” he presents the major tenets of recent books dwelling on the “acknowledgment of the soul and the plight of the modern soul.”
The final pages of the summer Review are devoted to reviews of seven new, outstanding books.
Graduating Seniors
to Have Formal Ball
The weekend after the Illinois game and preceding the Dartmouth game will witness one of the social highlights of the semester—the Senior Ball.
A traditional campus event, the Senior Ball was dormant throughout the days of the war until it was revived by last semester’s senior class. This will be the first formal peacetime social affair since 1941, and it will prove to be the go signal for future postwar social events.
The date is next Saturday evening, Oct. 6, and the scene will be the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel in South Bend, as the members of one of the smallest graduating classes in Notre Dame’s modern history have their last get-together before leaving the campus.
Thomas McCaughey, president of the class, has done extensive’ work and has accomplished a great task in arranging the affair. Michael Garry, chairman of the Ball, has taken care of the technical arrangements. Seaman James Butler, chairman of the music committee, has procured the music to put the seniors and their guests into the proper mood for the evening. Harry Ryan will act as master of ceremonies.
The seniors and their guests from all parts of the country and from across the Dixie Highway will begin their evening with a sumptuous dinner in the Rotary Room. After dinner the dancing will begin, with Myron Walz and his orchestra on the bandstand.
Miss Patricia Mercer, of St. Mary’s, guest of President Tom McCaughey, will have regal honors as she reigns as the Queen of the Ball. Other guests of honor will include: Miss Katherine James of St. Mary’s, guest of Mike Garry; Miss Shirley Eschrich, guest of Jim Butler.
The seniors wish to thank Father Kehoe and all those who are helping to make this Ball an occasion on which the seniors will look back in future years as one of the most pleasant memories of their life at Notre Dame.
Bev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
BOOK REVIEW
Ourselves, Inc.
The pen of Leo R. Ward has turned out another success. Following his God in an Irish Kitchen, Nova Scotia, Land of Co-Op, and other books, Ourselves, Inc., not only is concerned with co-ops and the job they have done in our country, but also gives us an insight into the co-operators, and more important, the spirit moving their actions. We see this spirit throughout the book in the conversations of the different co-operators that we meet, as Father Ward takes us across the nation. We see how the idea has spread and is quickly gathering groups, communities, and towns that have been fortunate enough to be in its course.
We are offered a compromising panacea between the serfdom of capitalism and the slavery of state-socialism. The progress and success of the co-op depends on charity and spirit of the people. It comes up from the people of the community or town; it is their private enterprise, not that of some profit-seeking alien. The control is all held equally by the members with no political pressure from the top. It’s the people’s organization.
In his journeys, Father Ward travels all over the Middle West, visiting different co-op communities. He shows us how a very few with very little can pull themselves “up by the bootstraps” to a high standard of living. We also see how the co-operators have gone into banking, oil producing and refining, medicine, marketing, lumbering, and other enterprises, and have made them pay where they had not before. The importance of the Rochdale Principles are thoroughly stressed as the dominating guide for the operating of a co-op. An equal stress is put on the stimulation of discussion groups and adult education. Without education co-ops can not expect to survive.
—Paul Ragan
16
*Z4e Qteeti &atuie^
By HARRY WALTERS
TOP OF THE WEEK
Go Irish, Beat Illinois!
S.A.C. BECOMES O.P.A.
Of late the Chicago Tribune has been loaded with tales of congressional investigations—Pearl Harbor, Elliott Roosevelt, and the War Department have come in for their share of scrutiny. Now from the august chambers of our Student Council comes news that a big investigation has been taking place right under our* noses. Those local politicos have been investigating prices in the caf. The only good to come out of their gastronomical adventures is three inches added to Senator “Jumbo” Cauley’s waistline. Keep it up, boys, if the investigation lasts long enough even Prexy John Power will look healthy.
However, members of this semester’s student council do deserve a few kind words. The lads have actually accomplished much in their attempt to guide student activity to something approaching peacetime level. The pep rallies and the hall decorations are two of their achievements. In fact—a good sign of their industriousness is that, they have done something that we can ride them about.
NEW COMIC SECTION AD
High on the list of the semester’s big events is the entrance of Coach Hughie
Devore into the company of Cereal Boosters in the Sunday funnies. He made the select circle by endorsing the Quaker Oats. Said Hughie, a Quaker from way back: “Quaker Oats is the cereal which I recommend for young athletes who want the foods that will help them become stars.” After reading these words in the funnies we saw in a vision four halfbacks, who wished to become a constellation, being injured in a dash for the breakfast caf line.	'
LAUGH OF THE WEEK	.
Notice on the Main Building bulletin board: “Wanted two tickets for the Army-Notre game. 301 Zahm.”
MOOSE, MOOSE
We were startled to find advertised on the local bulletin boards that a former denizen of Cavanaugh has a buffalo head for sale at §20. We would like to call the attention of any prospective purchaser to a campus best-seller entitled “The Student Manual” or “Ignorance is No Excuse,” which states that “pictures and objects lacking in good taste will not be tolerated in students’ rooms.” We suggest that said purchaser hang up a buffalo nickel and save §19.95.
CAF SMOKE
“There is the second worst mural in the world,” said a local art critic, point
ing to the caf wall. Then turning around, he added, “And there is the first.”
SOCIAL NOTE
The Zahm, B.-B., and Cavanaugh Cub Packs held their annual outing to St. Mary’s on Sunday, Sept. 16. Said one veteran, “I haven’t seen a break-through like this since the Belgian Bulge.”
♦
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Wait for the Big Ten.
New History Course For
Next Term Is Announced
The department of history is offering a new course for the winter term beginning November* 6. The title of the course is “The Foundations of National Power.”
Naval ROTC juniors and seniors will be required to take the course. It will be open to other advance students as an elective. The Rev. T. A. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department, has announced that the course will examine the basis of modern power politics. Professors Gurian and Corbett will teach the course.
New Basketball Coach
The basketball coach of the University of Notre Dame during the 1945-46 season will be Elmer Ripley, who has had 16 years of coaching experience at Yale, Georgetown and Columbia.
The new Notr.e Dame hardwood mentor has played pro ball for many years and is considered one of the outstanding pros of all time.
For' the past 20 years he has been working summer boys camps in Connecticut.	'
AGAIN TOMORROW . . .
In an audience with American sports writers. Pope Pius XH urged them to stress the need of athletics in helping deter juvenile delinquency, building bodies and minds, and developing good citizens by providing healthful recreation and environment. He gave American • football an indirect pat on the back, recalling a visit to Notre Dame in 1936 when he was papal secretary of state. One of the writers asked what he thought of the Irish eleven. "You'd have to see it with your own eyes to believe it" the pontiff replied.
—Flint Journal
17
Fighting Irish Tangle With Illinois in Season Opener Tomorrow Afternoon
LINEUPS FOR
NOTRE DAME
By LOUIS A. HAFNER
Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame open their ’45 season in the Notre Dame stadium when they contend with the University of Illinois. After eight weeks of summer and fall practice, Head coach Hugh Devore and his staff can sit back and watch the products of their training in action on the sod of Cartier Field. Over 52,000 spectators will watch the Fighting Irish of 1945 tangle with Ray Eliot’s jet-propelled eleven.
The game tomorrow will be “TNT” as both teams are possessors of the T formation, though the Illini do not use the man in motion. The Illini, fresh from a 23-6 walkaway at Champaign, look to the tilt as the first decisive match of the season. Coach Devore genuinely fears the club which Ray Eliot is going to bring here. The clean-cut victory which the Illini achieved at the expense of the Pittsburgh Panthers last Saturday proves that they are a well-balanced outfit which would give any opposing coach a headache. On the basis of actual achievement, the Illini are favored to overwhelm the yet untested Notre Dame squad.
In eight meetings of the two teams, Illinois has not yet gained a victory. In 1898, the first encounter, Notre Dame conquered them by a score of 5-0 and the next tussle in 1937 ended in a scoreless game. Since that time the Irish have defeated the Illini six consecutive years with the last two games being the best in the series. Tomorrow’s game will be the first time that the University of Illinois has opened the Notre Dame schedule. Thus far the record books read seven for the Irish and one tie. Let’s hope that the Irish will make the win column eight to none.
When the blue and gold jerseys come up the players ramp, many of them will clearly remember the passing of Paul Patterson, the sensational runs of Buddy Young, and the brilliant line play of the ’44 Illinois squad. Many of the Illini players have returned this season but the Irish are resolved to scalp the Indians this year.
Old Mother Injury, her son Ineligibility and her baby daughter Transfer have become the worries of Head Coach Devore. Captain Frank Szymanski, probable AIl-America center resigned as a member of the team when he was declared ineligible for collegiate competi
tion because of his commitments with a professional football team. Next to be struck was Marty Wendell who was transferred by the Navy because of scholastic difficulties. Marty, an alumnus of St. George in Chicago, teamed with Szy-
Coach and Captain
manski in backing up the line. Wendell was molded for the fullback slot where his driving power and excellent blocking could be utilized.
Notre Dame will field a unit that is typical of former fighting elevens. The team is a shade heavier than last year’s model and possesses just as much speed. Even though the driving power of Bob Kelly has been lost, the backs make up for it in shiftiness. The starting team will have the aid of three promising freshmen who have to win their place in collegiate competition.
The first backfield possesses speed, power and deception. With Captain Frank Dancewicz in the driver’s seat, the team is certain to operate like a watch as he is one of the best and most experienced quarterbacks in football. At the halves, one will find Elmer Angsman, converted ’44 fullback, and Phil Colella, a freshman speedster from Rochester, Pa. Together they should tear off an enormous number of yards and hit pay dirt many a time. Frank Ruggerio will be the fullback who is expected to tear into the opponent’s line for those extra few yards. “Roge” has the strength to rip through the line and also the speed (Continued on page 30)
Skoglund________________LE
Mieszkowski_____________LT
Mastrangelo____________L.G
Walsh___________________C.
Rovai__________________R.G
Berezney___:___________R.T
Leonard________________R.E
Dancewicz______________Q.E
Colella_______________L.H.
Angsman_______________R.H.
Ruggerio_______________F.B
V	-	--
Tennis Interest During < Summer Is Maintained
' By BOB CUNNINGHAM
Tennis interest at Notre Dame during the summer semester centered around the informal season of match play arranged for the team by Coach Langford. Further activity consisted of the St. Joseph Valley championships, both singles and doubles, and a series of interhall matches designed to stimulate ' general student interest in tennis.
The team opened the season on July 28 with the Toledo Tennis Club and lost by a 6 to 3 score. The turning point of the match came when Notre Dame dropped two critical matches in closely contested three-set affairs. It was here that Bill Tully dropped his only deci- . sion when Ed Rathburn, a high ranking } star in the state of Ohio, upset the Irish ace.	,,
One week later, rain halted the match with the Exmoor Country Club at Highland Park, Ill., after Notre Dame had gained a 3-2 lead in matches completed and held long leads in two matches which were under way.
After a respite of three weeks the , squad traveled to Evanston to face Illinois Tech on the Northwestern courts. Jerry Everts, who will be remembered as a former Notre Dame player, went down to defeat at the hands of Bill Tully, 6-4, 6-1. The one-time teammates
(Continued on page 35)
18
R TOMORROW
ILLINOIS
LE__________________Hiess
LT__________________Agase
L.G.________________Forst
.. C________________Bujan
R.G._____________Bingaman
_R.T_________  ...Serpico
R.E.______________Sprague
Q.B.____________Butkovich
_.H.B________________Bray
LH.B._____________Zaborac
F.B__________________Cies
=} -=■ - =— -
< "B" Team Will Play Miami U. Tomorrow
i
i
L
The Notre Dame reservists will resume play tomorrow afternoon when they engage Miami University of Oxford, Ohio, in the latter’s stadium. This contest will represent the first of its kind since the early days of the war-, when transportation difficulties and limited student enrollment necessitated the discontinuance of a “B” team schedule.
Those seletced for the “B” team making the trip tomorrow are those members ' of the football squad whose services will ' not be needed for varsity competition throughout the season. The personnel ! usually varies from week to week, as it r is the purpose of these games to enlight-! en the coaching staff as to potential var-| sity material.
i Jake Kline, assistant football and head ,, baseball coach, will be in charge of the 22 members assigned to the squad.
CLASHMORE MIKE II
Notre Dame's football team received a new mascot this week. He is Clashmore Mike II, a five month old Irish terrier, presented to the University by lames McGarraghy. one of the most enthusiastic members of the subway alumni. Mr. McGarraghy is a cheese broker in Chicago, Illinois.
Plenty of Speed and Experience Face Irish in Tussle With Fighting IIEni
BY PAUL WEYBAUCH
Chief Uliowek will lead his tribe of Ulini into Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow to renew a football war with the Irish of Notre Dame. Smoke signals from Champaign bear the word that the Chief is roaring mad and will go all out to see that his tribe wins the battle.
Ray Eliot, in his fourth season as head football coach at the University of Illinois, has reason to smile when he watches his 1945 squad prance through their daily workouts. Veterans are plentiful to give Illinois an edge over most of its opponents this fall in experience, and the stopwatch backfields for which Illinois is famous are still in existence. The Ulini are considered dark-horses in the Big Ten this fall. While they may not take the title, they will give more than one club a rough day.
That vaunted forward wall which outplayed Notre Dame last year is still intact and functioning smoothly. Pitt felt its sting last week, as their ground attack was stopped cold in a game won by Illinois, 23 to 6. Bill Heiss and Stan Sprague give the Orange and Blue capable flankmen with Ray Ciszek in reserve. Lou Agase, brother of Alex, the ex-Illinois and Purdue star, and Captain Ralph Serpico make as fine a tackle pair as a coach would want. Agase weighs 190 and Serpice 195. Larry Forst, 215 pounder, and rugged Les Bingaman, a mere 277, put that needed weight into the line at the guards. George Bujan, 190 pound regular center last year and Mac Wenskunas, regular center in 1942, give the Illinois boss, Eliot, plenty of choice at center. Bujan will probably get the call. Walt Versen, guard, Lester Joop, 255 pound guard, and Art Demeter, 192 pound tackle, bolster the Ulini reserve strength.
As usual, the Illinois backfield will depend on speed. The team received a severe jolt a week ago when star halfback Eddie McGovern was rushed to the hospital for an emergency appendicitis operation. His speed was being heavily counted upon this fall, but he will be lost until November at least. In his place at right half, Eliot has put Tommy Zaborac, 205 pound speedster from Canton, Ill., Zaborac placed third in the 100 yard dash at the state high school track meet last year; this qualifies him for the stop-watch backfield.
Eddie Bray, diminutive wizard at left half, is the feature of the Illinois speed. Eddie tied Daley of Michigan for Big
Ten ground gaining honors in 1943 but was out of action last fall with injuries. He scored once last week against Pitt and managed to get off some nice gains despite the muddy turf. He weighs only 145 and stands a mere 5'8". At fullback, Eliot will employ veteran Jerry Cies. Jerry is small for a fullback, weighing only 168, but his speed and. experience give him the edge over his closest rival, Ray Stone, of Indianapolis.
Illinois fans were quite gleeful over the showing of Bill Butkovich, 19-year-old quarterback, against Pitt last week. Bill is the brother of the famed Tony Butkovich of Illinois, killed in the battle for Okinawa. Butkovich ran a heated race with Clyde Perkins for the starting quarterback post all season, but when given the starting nod last week wasted no time in showing the selection was a good one. Besides crashing over for two touchdowns against Pitt, Butkovich guided the Ulini with amazing skill, mixing plays, and commanding the offensive situation at all times. He also kicked two extra points and did some fine punting and passing.
Gathering the facts at hand, it is not out of place to say that this is the year Illinois has been waiting for as far as Notre Dame is concerned. They have the advantage in experience and speed and have already played one game. Eliot and his boys want to win this one more than any other—and don’t be surprised if they do.
Freshman Bill Shields
Wins Golf Tourney
Averaging a hot 73 per round, freshman Bill Shields won the annual campus golf tournament with a final score of 291 strokes for 72 holes. Shields won over a field of eighteen entries.
His victory was not an easy one, however, for pushing him from behind all the way was runner-up Tom Kennedy, the University golf team captain, who came in with a 294 total. Shields and Kennedy were neck and neck all the way and their torrid pace forced ten of the aspirants to give up.
Shields will have his name engraved on the William J. Burke plaque in the golf clubhouse and also will receive a golf trophy from the clubhouse, it was disclosed by Father G. L. Holderith, C.S.C., sponsor of the tournament.
IS
Illinois Has Yet to Beat Notre Dame in
Sorin Hall Wins
Competition Dating Back to Year 1898
Softball Tourney
The Sorin hall softball team recently
While Saturday’s football game between Notre Dame and Illinois is only the ninth meeting between the two schools, this rivalry, which has become one of the greatest in the Middle West, dates back to 1898. In the eight games played between the Illini and the Fighting Irish, the best that the Orange and Blue have been able to do is to tie one game while losing the other seven. But such a record does not speak well for the rivalry that exists between the two schools.
Illinois Field in Champaign was the scene of the first contest on Oct. 8, 1898. Notre Dame and Illinois played a hard fought game with neither team being able to cross the other’s goal. However, Charles Fleming of Chicago, Irish quarterback, place-kicked a field goal from the 35 yard line in the second half to give Notre Dame a 5 to 0 win. In those days, field goals netted five points. Reports at the time relate that it was the first place-kick attempted in the Middle West. Illinois penetrated to the Irish 5 yard line at one time and were on the 3 when the game ended. For that first battle, Notre Dame lined up with ends Farley and Captain Mullen, tackles McNulty and Farlin, guards Bennett and Murray, center Eggeman, and a backfield consisting of Fleming, Kupper, Lins, and Monahan.
Thirty - nine years elapsed before Notre Dame and Illinois met again in Memorial Stadium, Champaign, Oct. 30, 1937. Although Elmei- Layden’s team was favored it was fortunate to go away with a scoreless tie. The following year, Illinois made their first trip to Notre Dame only to lose an exciting game, 14 to 6. Earl Brown and Ben Sheridan scored for the Irish, while Ralph Ehni tallied on a blocked kick for the Illini.
In 1940, a crowd of 63,189 spectators watched Juzwik, Saggau, Piepul, Crimmins, and Bagarus pave the way for a Notre Dame win, 26 to 0. Notre Dame had little trouble winning in 1941, 49 to 14. However, if was not until the final quarter of the game that Notre Dame broke loose to run up the score. Illinois trailed 21 to 14 at the outset of the final period, but Notre Dame roared back with four touchdowns in the final eleven minutes.
That great Notre Dame eleven of 1943 pushed a young but fighting Illinois eleven up and down Notre Dame Stadi
um’s turf to win 47 to 0 after Illinois ‘ had forced Notre Dame to the limit to take the 1942 decision, 21 to 14.
Buddy Young ran circles around Notre Dame in the first half of last year’s contest but Chick Maggioli of Notre Dame snatched a lateral from Bob Kelly to trot off for the game’s winning touchdown score in the fourth quarter. Final score, Notre Dame 13, Illinois 7.
Who will win the ninth game of the series? Your guess is as good as any other, but you can bet any amount that the 1945 game will not lack any of the thrills that have highlighted the Notre Dame-Illinois football games since 1898.
SCHEDULE FOR THE 1945 SEASON
Sept. 29—Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. 6—Georgia Tech at Atlanta Oct. 13—Dartmouth at Notre Dame Oct. 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 27—Iowa at Notre Dame Nov 3—Navy at Cleveland Nov. 10—Army at New York Nov 17—Northwestern at Evanston Nov. 24—Tulane at New Orleans Dec. 1—Great Lakes at Great Lakes
SHEEKETSKI BECOMES NEWEST N. D. COACH
The appointment of Joe Sheeketski, Notre Dame right halfback on the 1931 and 1932 teams and an All-American during the latter year, as backfield coach to fill the vacancy left by the resignation of Gene Ronzani, closed the Athletic Department’s search for personnel to round out Head Coach Devore’s staff.
Coach Sheeketski, who hails from Shadyside, Ohio, joined the Holy Cross squad immediately after graduation in 1933 as backfield coach under Eddie Anderson, and held down the position until 1938. In 1939 he took over the head coaching job and turned out highly successful teams. In 1942 he entered the Federal Bureau of Investigation, remaining there until January of this year when he resigned to enter private business in Cleveland.
Another former Notre Dame football luminary to return to the campus is Lou Rymkus, giant Notre Dame tackle of the 1941 and 1942 teams. Now a chief specialist in the Navy, he has been assigned to the Notre Dame Training School as an athletic instructor. In his spare time he is helping the coaching staff to devel
annexed the title of the summer interhall softball league by virtue of a 6-0 victory over Walsh hall. The two teams had survived the regular schedule by winning two games apiece from Breen-Phillips and the Villagers.
In the playoff contest, Frank Szymanski, politician hurler, allowed the Walsh-ites but one hit in six innings, at which time the game was called because of darkness. Jim Donovan, power hitting Sorinite, led his team in victory with three tallies.
Final Standings:
w.	L.	PCT.
Sorin	5	0	1.000
Walsh 	  4	1	.800
Breen-Phillips ..1	3	.250
Villagers 	0	4	.000
op the team’s forward wall. He played for the pro champion Washington Redskins in 1943 and last year held down the tackle berth with the undefeated Bainbridge (Md.) Naval Training Station.
Joe Sheeketski
20
E Splinters from the Press Box ►	By PHIL CORBOY
ways seems to place its members on the long end of the statistics when the season has ended. . . . We can but wait and see, wait and see.
For nine successive Saturday afternoons beginning tomorrow, the eyes of a sports-minded nation will once again be focused upon the gridiron exploits of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. Dominant in the minds of many of these enthusiasts is a query as to the success, or lack of it, that may be anticipated from a ball club that has had an overabundance of pre-season misfortune. Preeminent in the succession of unlucky events that have plagued Coach Hughie Devore these past few weks is the ineligibility, through a rather controversial ruling, of his star center and captain, Frank Szymanski. Concurrent with the loss of the redoubtable Detroit line backer was the resignation of Gene Ronzani, who chose the greener fields of professional football in preference to his back-field coaching position at Notre Dame.
Upon acquiescence to Czar Wilson’s Western Conference code and upon the procurement of Joe Sheeketski to serve in the capacity of backfield mentor, Devore proceeded to groom his charges in preparation for an arduous ten-game season. Less than two weeks of fall practice had elapsed when he was informed that Marty Wendell, regular fullback and line backer, was to be immediately transferred to Great Lakes. And then, as an apparent interpretation that this last blow was just too much to survive, the team’s mascot of over 10 year’s standing decided that the effects of rigor mortis would be much easier to contend with than the impending schedule!
Prior to Szymanski’s resignation and Wendell’s transfer, the journalists of the country had predicted a favorable season for the wearers of the blue and gold. Now these same prognosticators, as a group, contend that the Irish, lacking the services of these two great line backers, have but meager possibilities of fielding a team that can be relied upon to salvage a majority of its games from defeat. Obviously these erudite gentlemen base their opinions on the premise that a new coach cannot afford to lose any of his returning regulars—especially a captain destined for All-American honors—and still hope to attain any degree of success. If such were the case, then at least three great Notre Dame
elevens of the past which compiled impressive gridiron records should have gone down to ignominious defeat.
It was back in 1920 that All-American George was forced to the sidelines because of ill health. Notre Dame, playing without his services, managed to eke out a 48-0 victory over Michigan Aggies in the final contest of the year. Gipp, whose return to play was expected for the following year, died soon after the ’20 football season terminated. Thus it was that the Irish were forced to open an 11-game season in the fall of 1921 deprived of the services of the greatest athlete ever to represent the school. Apparently a suitable replacement was found, for the Rockne-men lost but one encounter that fall—and that at the hands of their jinx, Iowa.
Again in 1935, just prior to the annual spring practice, another Irish luminary, Captain-elect Joseph Sullivan, was the fatal victim of pneumonia. In respect for their deceased leader the Notre Dame players, with Elmer Layden at the helm, refrained from electing a successor. When the final whistle had concluded the season, the Fighting Irish had compiled the impressive record of seven wins, one tie, and one loss. The only defeat was suffered at the hands of Northwestern.
And finally, just seven years ago, the regular right tackle and captain, Alex Shellog, resigned the semester previous to the 1938 football season. The squad, after electing James J. McGoldrick to the vacated captaincy, proceeded to win eight battles while losing only to the University of Southern California in the last game of the season, 13-0.
With all due respect to Messrs. Gipp, Sullivan, Shellog, Wendell and Szymanski, sufficient evidence has been provided that Notre Dame teams are at their best when the chips are down. Cannot the learned gentlemen of the press perceive that when the Irish are placed at a disadvantage by the loss of a star player, there is always another to take his place? None can deny the 1945 Notre Dame team will be the underdog in many of its contests this season; but, also, none can forget that there is something uncanny about the Irish elevens—a certain indescribable “something” that al-
THIS'N THAT . . . KERE N THERE . . .
Frank Szymanski, theoretically ineligible because of his signing a pro contract, is at present connected with a. no “pay for play” club. The big Detroit boy may fool ’em all and matriculate at an Eastern law school next fall. . . . Pete Koblosh, regular shortstop on this summer’s varsity baseball team, hopes some day to don the uniform of the Chicago Cubs. The Yonkers youngster played exceptionally brilliant ball this season, compiling a batting average of • .303 and making but eight errors in 73 chances for a .935 field average.___Jack Fallon, sophomore guard from Alton, Ill., keeps in condition by weight lifting in his spare moments. He’s also a wrestler of sorts and lists his greatest athletic thrill as competing in an A.A.U. meet. . . . Newest addition to the Irish grid squad is diminutive Jimmy McNamara from St. George High School, Evanston, Ill. What he lacks in size, “Mac” more than makes up for in shiftiness and speed. With LeRoy Pantera and Jack Vainisi, he was a member of the 1944 St. George team that won the Kelly Bowl game in 1944. Marty Wendell, recently transferred by the Navy to Great Lakes, was also a member of the championship club. . . . Charley Kane, whose abilities may be utilized at either fullback or center tomorrow, was once on the receiving end of a Power’s model’s kiss. When questioned about this osculatory experience, Charley has but one reply—“gulp!”
"Boley" Is 3rd Backfield Captain in 26 Years
For the third time in 26 years Notre Dame has a backfield man as its football captain. He is Frank “Boley” Dance-wicz, of Lynn, Mass., star quarterback foi* the past two years. “Boley” succeeds Frank Szymanski, who resigned because of the Big Ten ruling declaring ineligible all men who had signed pro football contracts. Gene Edwards and Tom Hearndon, co-captains in 1926, and Milt Piepul, in 1940, have been the only back-field players to lead the Irish.
During the last two years of his high school grid career, in 1940 and 1941, “Boley” was named the outstanding back in New England. In 1943 he understudied Angelo Bertelli and Johnny Lujack, and last year developed into one of the nation’s leading passers and defensive players.
21
Baseball Team Breaks
Even During Summer
The Notre Dame summer nine kept the athletic picture rounded by playing 18 games in its summer series. Even though the ^win and loss column stands equal with nine apiece, the season was filled with close games and “heartbreakers.” Pitcher Jack Barrett took over the major portion of the mound duties and hurled himself to one win and six defeats. This definitely does not tell the story of tight
Jack Barrett
pitching yet losing in the end, as in the Twin City game when he threw a one-hitter and lost the event on the only hit. Other hurlers who shared pitching chores were Smullen (2-1), Hilbrich (30), Simpson (1-3), and Stewart (1-0).
The team set two records during the season. The first was when the Irish battled it out for 20 innings with the fliers from Stout Field. After Barrett threw for 14 frames, Simpson relieved him and hit the winning run across the plate which ended the marathon in a 1-0 Notre Dame victory. The other record was the memorable eighth inning of the Percy Jones game when Notre Dame hitters filled the air with baseballs and pushed 15 runs across the plate to win by the score of 18-7.
On an average, the team was not too strong on the hitting side of the books but was very good on the field. Ghering, Schneider, and Brickheisen were the power section of the lineup, collecting the majority of the hits. Coppinger, the first baseman, was lost to the team when he left to play in the Annual East-West baseball game sponsored by Esquire magazine. .
With few exceptions the majority of
"SCHOLASTIC" FOOTBALL FORECAST
As another unpredictable football season rolls around, the Scholastic will again go out on the limb with weekly predictions. As a warm-up last week, your predictor lost only four games out of forty. Fortunately, Indiana was picked to win. Well, here goes for Saturday, Sept. 29—and for some luck!
MID-WEST
NOTRE DAME over ILLINOIS. Illinois has been waiting for this one and is loaded with plenty of power. However, we can’t see the Irish losing their first opening game in eleven years, at least not too clearly.
MICHIGAN over MICHIGAN STATE. The Wolverines have a little too much size and experience for Bachman’s State crew.
PURDUE over GREAT LAKES. Ed Cody and Dave Shaw gave Purdue some real running power, at least enough to down the inexperienced Great Lakes team.
INDIANA over NORTHWESTERN. What else!
OHIO STATE over MISSOURI. Missouri couldn’t stay in the game with Minnesota last week and rates little if any better hope against the Big Ten champions of ’44.
MARQUETTE over WISCONSIN. OF Tom Stidham has an improved ball club at Marquette this year. Wisconsin had little chance to show what it has in the rain last week, but even on a dry field it doesn’t look like they’ll have enough to win.
IOWA over BERGSTROM FIELD but don’t underrate those Texas flyers.
DE PAUW over ILLINOIS and MIAMI over INDIANA STATE to round out the Midwest.	.
EAST
ARMY over LOUISVILLE AAF. Any doubts?
NAVY over VILLANOVA in a run away.
CORNELL over BUCKNELL. ExIrish coach, Ed “Tex” McKeever has a pretty fair club up above Cayuga’s waters this year.
the teams booked were service organizations studded with experienced players. The season can be considered very successful as one looks down the lineups of the other" teams. Some of the men who made this possible are Duo Guardi, the regular catcher, Grieve, Cave, Muchado, Koblish and Parise in the infield, and Kluck, Kloss, Lindquist, and Wolfe in the outfield.
DARTMOUTH over HOLY CROSS. This is a sticker. A tie last year, both teams are equally improved. Koslowski is back with the Crusaders and may mean the difference between victory and defeat.
PENN over BROWN, YALE over TUFTS, PENN STATE over MUHLENBERG, COLUMBIA over LAFAYETTE, PITT over WEST VIRGINIA. Pitt is young but improved this fall and should win this one but not too easily.
ROCHESTER over COLGATE. Rochester did it last year and should repeat over Andy Kerr’s boys this year. A close one.
SOUTH
GEORGIA TECH over NORTH CAROLINA. The big game of the day in Dixie. Carl Snavely has taken over at North Carolina but wasn’t handed too much material. Tech in a tough battle.
TEXAS CHRISTIAN over BAYLOR. The Bearacts have returned to collegiate football this year and already have two victories over minor foes. But TCU will end that streak.
LOUISIANA STATE over RICE. This is always a hot spot for an upset but the word is out that L.S.U. has a real aggregation down in the Bayou this fall.
TENNESSEE over WAKE FOREST. Here’s the place for some longshot artist to pick an upset. Wake Forest has a veteran-studded club but won’t have the reserve strength to cope with the Rose Bowl Vols.
Skipping around the cotton fields, GEORGIA over CLEMSON, KENTUCKY over CINCINNATI, MISSISSIPPI to take FLORIDA, TEXAS over SOUTHWESTERN handily, SOUTHERN METHODIST over NORTH TEXAS, TEXAS AGGIES to gain a victory over TEXAS TECH, TULSA in a romp over WEST TEXAS STATE, VANDERBILT over TENNESSEE TECH, and NORTH CAROLINA STATE over VIRGINIA in a close one.
MIDLANDS and FAR WEST
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA o v e r CALIFORNIA. The Trojans have a prewar style team and should not have too much trouble with the Cal Bears directed by Buck Shaw.
ST. MARY’S over COLLEGE OF PACIFIC. Those Hawaiian boys, Wedemey-er and Cordiero, can do plenty of fancy hip-shaking on the gridiron for St. Mary’s and should have lots of practice in this game.
With fingers crossed, the ferecast is closed until next week.—Paul Weyrauch
22
INTRODUCING . . .
By LOUIS A. HAFNER
Hugh J. Devore
been able to build a team that is representative of Notre Dame and under his guidance there is sure to be an excellent football season regardless of the opponents and their odds.
Student Predictions For Illinois Gome
By JIM FARLEY
Scholastic Sports Writer
One of the friendliest head mentors of a Notre Dame team for some time is Hugh Devore, acting director of Athletics and Head football coach. He took over the directing of the football squad after the resignation of Ed McKeever who is now head coach at Cornell University.
Football has been in Hughie’s life since the time that he entered St. Benedict’s Prep School in Newark, N. J., his hometown. While he was there he made the all-state and all-metropolitan teams for two successive years and consequently became known as one of their greatest athletes. He entered Notre Dame in 1930, playing on the freshman team. Foi- three years he was a regular on the grid squad holding down an end berth during that time. In 1933 he was chosen co-captain with Tom Gorman. Because of his aggressiveness and alert maneuvering, Devore gained the reputation of being one of the most vicious blockers in college football. Despite the poor record of the season, Hughie was picked by many of the “all-selectors” to an end position.
Devore’s brilliant blocking exploits in college are still the topic of discussion whenever coaches and newspapermen meet. He was one of the “meanest” blockers, and his feat of knocking down three Pittsburgh players with a bona-fide block in 1931 is one of the great grid stories. This incident happened as Chuck Jaskwich, Irish quarterback, caught a punt in midfield, and started back toward the goal line. He was hemmed in near the sidelines by three Pitt players, and just as they were about to gang up on him a gold and blue figure came from nowhere to cut all three down. Jaskwich rambled on to a touchdown and Notre Dame was away to another victory.
Devore returned to Notre Dame in 1934 as an assistant freshman coach, then accepted a line coaching job under Jimmy Crowley at Fordham where he remained for three years. In 1938, he became the head coach at Providence College in Rhode Island, staying there for four years before moving to Holy Cross, where he was assistant to Ank Scanlan. Devore returned to his alma mater in 1943 and was a line coach on the National Champions.
Hughie is always in a cheerful mood regardless of the circumstances. Even though he has had more “Tough breaks” than any coach at Notre Dame, he has
"Doc" Handy Prepares Cross-Country Runners
Alvin “Doc” Handy’s cross country track hopefuls are very busy striving to earn varsitv berths on the team. With «* the opener in the near future, “Doc” is preparing them for some hard competition and is putting them into fighting trim. With but three lettermen left from last season, most of the positions are wide open. Coach Handy is working with a lot of new material, but thinks they can compete favorably with all their opponents.
Jim Murphy, a splendid runner, will be out the remainder of the season because of an attack of appendicitis, and his absence will certainly be felt. Bill Tully, veteran half-miler from last year, will be around with the same old zip. Another speedster who will remain is Fred Jones, monogram quarter miler. Three freshmen who “Doc” Handy said will show up when the going gets tough are Bud Tracy, Lee Paradise, and Ray Sabota.
On Sunday, September- 30, the University cross country championship is to be held and from the winner of this “Doc” will choose the team which is to oppose Wheaton, the team’s first opponent.
Coach Handy is not certain about any date for competition at the present time but will know in the future, and the dates will be posted.
“The team as a unit looks promising,” “Doc” said, “and will certainly make a good showing for themselves, providing plenty of excitement.”
©a,me awSt be Pu4yi»J Foot 8 all. ziGAiM.
A Scholastic reporter has been wandering the campus this week quizzing students on the outcome of tomorrow’s initial gridiron classic of the 1945 season. The crystal balls came out and the students looked into the future to predict what will be football history tomorrow.
Senior Rudy Lopez: “This year’s game between the Fighting Ulini and our own Fighting Irish will have more significance than any other game that we will play this year. For the past four years I have held the upper hand with my girl who is a senior at the University of Illinois. This year there will he no exception; our boys will make those Indians bite the dust to the score of 23 to 13.”
Junior E. Hannah, NROTC: “The loss of Szymanski and Wendell has been a bitter pill for Notre Dame to swallow. Since Illinois outplayed Notre Dame last year, I believe that this year they will come back fighting harder to whip Notre Dame 7 to 0.”
Sophomore Emil Slovak: “Notre Dame will start its season off with a bang. Tomorrow’s headlines will read Notre Dame 20—Illinois 0.”
Senior Jack Stewart: “It will be plenty tough, but our boys will come through to win their first victory of the year with the close score of 19 to 14.”
Freshman Charles Kane: “Although" Szymanski and Wendell will not play, I believe that their inexperienced replacements will play a great game. I say we’ll defeat Illinois in a 27 to 13 contest.”
Sophomore Phil Luppi: “It will be a tough contest as it was last year. Notre Dame will send the boys from Illinois home with another 13 to 7 defeat. We did it last year and we will do it again this year.”
Senior Sam Rich: “I think that both teams are evenly matched. It will be a hair-raiser of a game with Notre Dame finally winning by the very slight margin of 14 to 13.”
"Motts" ToneMi Liberated
Sgt. Mario (Motts) Tonelli, Notre Dame fullback on the 1936-37 teams, who was a prisoner of the Japanese since early in the war, was liberated from the prisoner of war camp at Yokgaichi, Japan, about two weeks ago; Tonelli was taken prisoner in 1942 and shortly afterwads moved to Japan where he remained for over three years.
23
"Contretemps"
An embarrassing situation developed a short time ago when the pre-meds were accidentally locked in their classroom in the Biology building—at a time when Herb Lee was afflicted with that abominable scourge well-known to all patrons of our chow hall, the “Turkey Trots.”
Victory Medals for R. O's
The official word via the grapevine: Kelly Myer says that at chow the other day he overheard two fellows say that a squad leader in the Third Company said that he heard the janitor say that on the 31st of this month at 0304 all R. O.’s with 85 averages or better will muster* outside the Battalion Office and be awarded Victory Medals.
Little Caesar
Those of you who are wondering (and who isn’t these days?) why Stanley Id-zerda is walking around the campus mumbling to himself can rest at ease. “Little Caesar” spent his weekend liberty down at the lake, trying to figure out the height of the transverse metacenter on the whaleboat. Go to it, Stan.
What's in a Name?
When it was announced that all men of Jewish faith would be granted special leaves to enable them to celebrate their New Year, Marty Wendell’s roommate, Jim McGurk, immediately filled out his leave papers. He still wants to know why he wasn’t granted leave. Somebody give him the word.
Inconsistency of First-Classmen
Dick Sadler: “Forward, march! By the right flank, march! To the rear, march; By the left flank, march! Double to the rear, march! Company halt! Parade rest! Attention!”
Jim Cook: “I don’t mind the guy giving us orders, but I wish he’d make up his mind.”
Oh, Johnny!
Johnny “Call Me Irresisible” Polich . is looking unusually well-fed these days. One of our sweet, demure chow hall
/Iff /UmaU
girls is the cause of it. Whenever Johnny comes through the chow line, she giggles, blushingly flutters her eyelashes, whispers something in a foreign tongue to her neighbor, and then with a flourish of generosity flips an extra wiener in the general vicinity of his outstretched tray. Why all this attention? Jerry Schroering says the girl has been striking for a bid to our Naval Ball tonight. Hands off, fair maiden. Johnny’s been hooked by a St. Mary’s girl quite some time ago.
Mistaken Identity
Seamanship instructor: “Now men, do you all understand what list means?”
Jim List, coming out of his trance: “But sir, I didn’t say anything.”
Zoltan's Thesaurus*
Anatomy is the human body which consists of three parts, the head, the chest, and the stomach. The head contains the eyes and the brains, if any. The chest contains the lungs and a piece of liver. The stomach is devoted to the bowels, of which there are five a, e, i, o, and u.
Heredity means that if your grandfather didn’t have any children, then your father wouldn’t have any, and neither would you, probably.	.
Maneuver is what they put on grass. We have maneuver on our lawn.
A first-classman is someone who does not go where he’s told to until he dies.
A midshipman is someone who becomes a gentleman only through an act of congress.
(* This portion of The Croiv’s Nest is affectionately dedicated to the mental enlightenment of the bourgeoisie of the chow hall and all deficient R. O’s.)
Veterans Organize Active Campus Club
The Veterans’ Club is the newest organization on the campus, but, although only organized at the end of last semester, it already is one of the most active. Activities this semester started with a picnic at St. Joseph Lake, Mich., the club however, has not restricted itself to social functions. The first Communion-breakfast at Notre Dame since the start of the war was attended by the club on September 9 to commemorate the sacrifice of 272 Notre Dame men killed in action.
When Frank Szymanski resigned from the team because of the Big Ten ruling declaring ineligible all persons who had signed contracts with professional teams, the Veterans’ Club went into action— not only because a Notre Dame player was affected, but because the ruling was aimed at veterans. The retroactive ruling passed last July is unfair because it penalizes veterans who signed contracts in good faith while in service; when they signed there was no rule barring them from playing collegiate ball while finishing their education. Letters pointing out the unfairness of the retroactive ruling were sent to sports commentators, sports writers, the Veterans Administration, and veterans’ clubs at other universities. By marshaling public opinion against the ruling, the Veterans’ Club hopes to have it rescinded.
An orientation program which it hopes to have in operation by the start of next semester is now being set up by the club. Under the plan, information booths will be set up on the campus on registration day to give directions to incoming veterans, and members of the club will act as guides to assist them in getting settled. The extensive program also calls for scholastic aid for the veterans, many of whom have been away from their studies three, four, and five years.
Already scheduled by the club for next semester are two functions, a smoker and dance. The smoker will be held the second or third day after the start of the semester to welcome the new veterans. With the dance, planned for the end of November, the club hopes to bring back to Notre Dame the gala social affairs which lapsed during the war.
24
Notre Dome Wranglers Hear Three Speakers
The Wranglers, Notre Dame’s distinguished discussion club, heard papers during the summer delivered by Stanley Idzerda, James Cassidy, and David Armstrong.
On August 2, the paper entitled “One Tenth of Our Nation” was presented by Idzerda, commander of the Notre Dame NROTC unit. The talk was concerned with the negro as a racial problem; its major points were devoted to the crisis as it exists today. The cause of the problem was analyzed by the speaker under the headings of economics, sociology, and psychology.
James Cassidy presented a talk entitled “Ireland among the Nations” at the meeting of August 30. He related the historic background of Ireland, touched on topics of religion, language, literature, theatre and music. Calling Ireland the “preserver of world culture and learning,” Cassidy asked for a fair understanding of one of the most persecuted nations of the world.
David Armstrong presented the talk, “Affirmation of a living Hope” on September 25. The talk was devoted to condemning and deriding the cynicism, complacency and mediocrity of “the common man.” With pleasing eloquence and articulation, Armstrong pleaded his case against “the crime of inaction,” and presented a “plea for hope. ... in our time.”
Following the presentation of the papers the members discussed various phases of the topics treated. Mr. Frank O’Malley, faculty moderator of the Wranglers, added enlightening comments.
During August a drive for membership was held, and at interviews held on Sept. 7 nine applicants were accepted into the club.
Thomas Devine is chairman of the summer banquet scheduled for the first week of October. Mr. O’Malley will address the members at the dinner.
Officers for Wranglers during the summer term have been Norbert Geier, president, and Frank Grimaldi, secretary.
Just Arrived
White "T" Shirts
A huge shipment is here. Hundreds of fellows are awaiting this news. We have them in small, medium and large sizes.
Shapiro Gives Concert
George H. Shapiro’s Little Philharmonic Orchestra presented a chamber’ music concert in Washington hall on Sept. 13. An exceptionally large number of students attended and were very receptive to the program. A note of humor was introduced into the admirable program when the baffled drummer, who attracted much attention during the show, was unable to find his score sheet.
ONTK CORNEK... MKNIMII ( MOHMM
By Ed Caso and Joe Piedmont
as though he were graduating. ... It is rumored that rebel, fresh from Dixie, is planning to raise the Confederate flag over ND, and to claim the campus as Southern territory. . . . Pete Ahrens is talking of taking up a collection for a revolving coffin to facilitate Chopin’s turning over in his grave—after what some people do to his “Polonaise.”
PLAGIARISM
Breathes there a man with soul so dead
Who never turned his head and said, “Wooooooooooooo— Not bad!”
—With apologies to S. TP. Scott.
CAMPUS QUIPS
Davey O’Brien asks: “Are they going
to throw St. Ed’s hall into the pit in front of B-P?” .... How does “Sleepy” Dolan manage to pick up twenty-five hours of sleep a day? .... Bob McShane of the Boonville, Mo., McShanes, is frequently asked if they had to lasso and tie him in order to get shoes on him, or did they put sand in his number 15’s to make his feet feel at home. . . . We wonder whether the frosh who ran up the front steps of the Ad building really felt
If you don’t feel just right;
If you don’t sleep at night;
If your throat is dry;
If you moan and sigh;
If you can’t smoke or chew;
If your grub tastes like glue;
If your heart doesn’t beat;
If there’s lead in your feet. . . .
Try eating in the Caf for a while.
—Stolen from “The Juggler.”
Candidates for the Gallows — The fellow who always decides to use his electric razor in the middle of your favorite radio program—The Lone Ranger .... The humorist who delights in pouring water under your door. ... Not to overlook the lad who rushes into your room and reads those ultra-jmvate letters.
❖
A puzzled freshman wonders why it is that the noise of the lawnmower always sends Father Shea into a musing reverie in French class. Is it the memory of childhood labor, Father?
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Bulletin—The newest coming attraction at Washington Hall (not Washington Park, for those who may be confused) is Rudolph Valentino’s smash hit “The Sheik”—also latest news and the first pictures of the sinking of the Titanic.
LAUGH OF THE MONTH
(From the South Bend Tribune, S'ept. 7)
STUDENTS HOLD RALLY
The Notre Dame student body, under the direction of the student council, held its first pep rally of the fall season last night in front of Sorin hall following the supper hour. Music was furnished by the University band and the principal speaker was Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline
❖
N.B., FROSH
This-column is a freshman mouthpiece. Any suggestions, complaints, or contributions should be sent to 309 Zahm hall.
26
Top Ranking Living
Ace Is N.D. Man
The top ranking living ace of the Army Air Forces, Notre Dame’s Lt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski, has been assigned to Flight Test Division of Air Technical Service Command. Gabreski, who has 31 German planes to his credit, spent ten months as a German prisoner after he was forced down over Germany on July 20, 1944.
The 26-year-old fighter pilot from Oil City, Pa., has at least 218 points — enough to get two men and a WAC out of the army—but when asked if he intended to ask for a discharge, he answered, “No, I plan to stay in. There is a lot to do in a peacetime air force. Besides I love to fly.”
Gabreski entered the Army in July, 1940, from Notre Dame and was at Pearl Harbor on the day of the Jap sneak attack. His crowded tunic carries Polish Air Force wings, as well as AAF wings, the Distinguished Service Cross with nine clusters, French Legion of Honor, Croix de Guerre with palm, Polish Cross of Valor, Air Medal with four clusters, Bronze Star, Pacific Theater ribbon with a battle star, European theater ribbon with a battle star and seven overseas bars.
Notre Dame Lawyers
Have Busy Summer
Continuing activity for the second successive summer, the Notre Dame Law club spent a semester of varied activities including smokers, softball games, picnics, and a late summer golf tournament. They had their more businesslike moments, however, as officers were elected for the club. Thomas F. Bremer, senioi* of Cleveland, was elected president; Herman Caldwell, junior of South Bend, vice-president; Joe L. Brady, senior of Joliet, Illinois, treasurer; and Joe Rudd of Evansville, Indiana, secretary.
The social highlight of the summer was the annual party held at the home of Dean Clarence E. Manion. The big men on campus put away their case books long enough to enjoy a day filled with swimming, ball playing, and adequate supplies of delicious food and beverages.
To show their versatility, the lawyers organized a soft ball team of no little ability. They even defeated Sorin Hall’s campus championship club.
Rounding out a summer of successful activity, the Lawyers are holding the final round of a late summer golf match.
During the match play they demonstrated their ability with the golf clubs as well as with the big books. After some par shooting, three finalists emerged, one of whom will ultimately weal* the club’s golf diadem. The three men in the finals are John O’Neil, junior of Michigan City, Francis J. Paulson, • senior from Denver, Colorado, and Francis Dulak, of Chicago.
Ending the social activity of the semester will be a banquet to be held on October 3, at the Hoffman Hotel. The banquet, an annual affair, honors the graduating seniors. The lawyers graduating this fall are: David S. Landis, South Bend, Harold Berliner, of San Francisco and Norbert S. Wleklinski, of East Chicago.
Latin American Club
The twenty odd Latin American students on the campus resumed the activities of their Inter-American Affairs club at a meeting on August 6.
At the first meeting, Rolando Duarte was elected president of the club; Joseph D’Spigno became the new vice president: and Noel Pallais, secretary. During the
owned one) and the stiffest shirt-front and collar obtainable. Prexy, similarly armored, grasped your perspiring palm. Matriculation was complete. You were a college stude at last.
America, too, was stepping out in the 1890’s. Her cities were growing, populations were spreading. Railway Express, then as now, provided her with a nation-wide shipping service, including the baggage and laundry needs of innumerable college students. Today, during the emergency, the country’s shipping needs are heavily strained. So, please do this with your baggage and home-going bundles: Pack and wrap securely, address clearly, and get them started early.
subsequent meetings various members of the club gave talks on their native countries in the interests of promoting Pan American co-operation and understanding.
On September 4, a club picnic was held at St. Joseph, on Lake Michigan. The vice president and Frank Foss formed the committee that arranged the outing.
ROTC Rifle and Pistol
Teams Schedule Meets
Notre Dame’s NROTC rifle and pistol teams opened their current season with a twin kill over Northwestern University’s naval unit. The rifle team, led by Captain Ed Soergel with 188 points out of a possible 200, clipped the Wildcat riflemen 921 to 911, while the local pistol squad fired away to the tune of a 850 to 794 triumph.
The matches are being carried out by mail, with each team firing on its home range and mailing the scores to its opponents.
Lt. M. A. Censale, who is in charge of the Irish marksmen, has tentatively arranged 17 matches for the season.
The schedule follows:
September
S—Northwestern.
'	15—Duke.
22—University of Southern California. October
13—Brown.
20—Columbia.
November	.
3—Cornell.
10—Dartmouth.
24—Yale.
December
1—Oklahoma.
15—Tufts.
29—Rice.
January
12—Harvard.
26—Holy Gross. February’
9—Michigan.
16—Princeton.
March
9—Washington (Seattle).
A.S.M. Meet on Ocf. 70
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals will hold its first meeting of the season on Wednesday, October 10, in the Engineering Auditorium. Dr. Robert F. Mehl, head of the Department of Metallurgical Engineering and director of the Metals Research Laboratory at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, will be the speaker. His subject will be “Impressions of Worldwide Metallurgy.”
Members of other engineering societies will be welcome. Other meetings will be held throughout the year on the second Wednesday of each month.
Four Naval Trainees
Eligible for Discharge
Four members of the NROTC unit are eligible for discharge under the navy’s new point system. They are Edward Hannah, John Richards, William Woods and James Wilkins.
Hannah, with 73 months of naval service, including 44 months of overseas duty, leads the list in points, with a total of 59.5 points. Forty-four points are necessary for discharge. However, before an officer candidate can be discharged,
Adler-Rochester and Globe Trotter Top Coats
Tweeds - Shetlands - Alpacians Button through and fly front models
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115!6 North Main Street
his request must be approved by the bureau of personnel.
Wilkins, in 68 months of duty, has accumulated 54.25 points, while Richards and Wood barely got under the line with 45 and 44.5 points respectively.
FOR THE MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
28
Aero Club Activities
By MIKE MACK
The Notre Dame chapter- of the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences held a reorganization meeting July 20 and planned the semester’s schedule. Plans were made for the publication of the Burble each semester. The club officers elected for the Notre Dame branch of the I.A.S. were Verne Hubka, chairman; David Norton, vice-chairman; and Robert Snyder, secretary and treasurer.
The club met again on Aug. 3 when a picture from the Navy Department was shown—“Meteorology, Warm Fronts.”
The club was entertained on August 17 with a very interesting lecture by Dr. Marcellus Lee Wiedenbeck of the physics department who discussed atomic physics and the fission theory, correlating it with the recently developed atomic bomb and the development of atomic power.
Aug. 19, the club migrated to Michigan City for a beach picnic on Lake Michigan. A few club members will never forget the return to South Bend. Because of a wreck, the 7:30 p.m. South Shore arrived in South Bend just five hours late.
At the next meeting, Aug. 31, Joe Lotta, the editor-in-chief of Burble, reported on the organization of his staff of 14 men to publish the magazine. Although previous plans provided for a gloss paper issue, the magazine will be mimeographed due to high costs of gloss paper print. The meeting was ended with a movie from the I.A.S. on “Streamlines.”
At the meeting on Sept. 14 plans were made for a banquet to be held Oct. 2. Plans were also made to inspect the atom disintegrator under the guidance of Dr. Wiedenbeck sometime in the second week of October;. The announcement was made that the test library which was started at the first of the semester is now in operation. Copies of all available Aero tests given in previous years are made accessible for members to prepare for future tests.
Lay Faculty Party
The Lay Faculty Club of the University held an informal party the afternoon and evening of Sept. 15. Golf and horseshoe tournaments, putting and flycasting contests were held, after which the members retired to the Rockne Lounge for refreshments and games. The club, of which Dr. John D. Mizelle of the Biology department is president, and Mr. Carson P Buck of the Engineering college is sec.-treas., is intended to further the social life of the University lay faculty.
V-12 Scholastic Averages
Eighty-five of the 139 men in Notre Dame’s V-12 unit have obtained midterm scholastic averages of 84.5 per cent or better.
Heading the list of honor students is Donald R. Griffith, a pre-med student, with an average of 96.4. Dan W. Johnston, also a pre-med, is three-tenths of a point below Griffith, while H. G. Portz, an engineer, has an average of 95.6.
All V-12 students having averages of 84.5 or better will receive an extra overnight liberty each month. At present all students receive one over-night liberty per month.
TANK WRECKER
*IhE trail of tank wreckage from Normandy to Berlin is evidence of a super shell’s effectiveness. It was one of the potent weapons necessary to drive the enemy back to Berlin.
The shell’s core is cemented tungsten carbide, improved by G-E research and manufactured by the Carboloy Company, G-E affiliate. It’s a material second to diamonds in hardness— commonly used for the tips of cutting tools and wear-resistant dies. Projectiles using this core weigh less than
Hear the General Electric programs: "The G-E All-girl Orchestra" Sunday 10 p.m. EWT, NBC— "The World Today" news, every weekday 6:45 p.m. EWT, CBS.
Th* host investment in th* world is in this country’s fufuro—Koop oil th* Bonds yon Boy.
GENERAL A ELECTRIC ms-ukt-su
Aero Dept. Has P-39
Five weeks ago the Department of Aeronautical Engineering of the University acquired from the government a used Bell P-39 Airacobra. The plane was built late in 1941 and delivered early in 1942 to the Army Air Forces to he used for training purposes.
After 252 hours of flight, the plane was purchased for $100 plus transportation costs. Weighing 6000 pounds, the Airacobra has been recently subjected to load tests, and is now almost completely assembled. Patterson Field, Ohio was the shipping point of the P-39. At present the fighter is kept in the Engineering building.
ordinary shells because of their lightweight aluminum housings, and so have higher velocity. They often stopped German Tigers with a single shot—at ranges up to 3000 yards.
The core does the actual armor piercing. Because of the extreme hardness of the carbide, it doesn’t flatten out on impact. Instead, it goes right on through the armor plate and then breaks up into lethal pieces inside the tank. General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.
FIGHTING IRISH (Continued from page 18)
of a halfback. The second quartet includes George Katterman, an R.O., at quai-terback, Bill Gompers, and Terry Brennan at halves, and Pep Panelli, a converted halfback at fullback.
The line is heavy and aggressive. Bob Skoglund, only returning wingman, and Hoppy Leonard, a freshman, are likely to win the starting assignments. Both are good receivers and fine defensive men. Mike Bush and Bill Flynn seem to have the second berths sewed up. Veterans Pete Berezney and Ed Mieszkowski seem to be the stalwarts at the tackle positions. Backing them up are Moose Fischer and Jack Vanisi, both from Chicago. The guards who will start tomorrow are Fred Bovai and John Mastran-gelo, both returning for their second season at their positions. Jack Fallon and Vince Scott are the ones who won the nod into the second string positions.
With the resignation of Frank Szymanski, the load of the first string pivot spot was placed upon freshman Bill Walsh who is i-ated as one of the greatest line prospects in Irish grid history. Only 17 but 215 pounds, he has ably
Knights of Columbus Will Reoccupy Walsh Hall Clubrooms in November
The summer activities of the Notre Dame council of Knights of Columbus have been eclipsed by the recent news that the council cham-
bers in the basement of Walsh hall will become available for club use during November. The return of the chambers is expected to be a boon to the reorganization of the council which has functioned under adverse conditions since Navy offices have occupied Walsh basement.
In announcing the return of the chambers to the club, Father Kehoe said that the navy would vacate as soon as possible after the close of the midshipman school. Some repairs will be made and the chambers are expected to be outfitted as fully as during pre-war days.
filled Szymanski’s spot but he still lacks experience. Next to Bill is another freshman, Walt Grothaus, who was converted to center from an end position when the need was felt.
The chief activity of the council during the summer was a membership drive staged during August which netted forty applicants. The drive was climaxed with an all-day outing held Sunday, September 9 on the shores of Lake Michigan. The group held a corporate Communion ceremony at the monthly council Mass in the Walsh hall chapel on the morning of the picnic. Traveling to Michigan for the outing, the Knights had beautiful picnic weather to go with a well-planned affair.
The first degree rites will be staged for the new members in the South Bend Council chambers on Thursday. September 27.
Grand Knight of the Notre Dame council for the current year is Joseph T. Kivlin, Jr., of Gardner, Mass. He was elected to the post in June, succeeding Walter McDermott. Other leading officers in the club are: Deputy Grand Knight, Frank Grimaldi; Chancellor, Chris Cochrane; Secretary, William Mc-Shay; Treasurer, William Schmid.
All along the line
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
30
In War and Peace -- The Obstacle Course
By SAMUEL HAZO
Here at Notre Dame we are the proud possessors of an obstacle course—an impressive memento of World War II, especially to those who go over it. And, while it is still with us—we hope it won’t be with us long—I have found a stalwart, young volunteer who will complete the course for us, obstacle by obstacle, in order to acquaint the unfamiliar with some of the horrors of this contrivance.
Bravely our hero gets set, and at the sound of the starting whistle he’s off. There, one row of hurdles, a splendid shoulder roll, another hurdle and—What can this be? Our hero is down!
(Short pause for explanation of mishap.) While leaping this hurdle our hero succeeded in propelling his entire body over- the obstacle except for his left leg. This limb, obeying all the laws of gravity, cast the gentleman headlong.
(Casualty Report: Three bumps on head.)
Our* hero, however, being a Notre Dame man, thrusts his failures behind him and begins anew. Swiftly he clears the remaining obstacles and comes face to face with his next neck-breaking impediment—the ten-foot wall! Bracing his courage for the attempt, he trots ahead slowly and then suddenly zooms forward. Upward he flies, reaches the top and is about to descend in a perfect leap when he remembers that left leg again. Just a few more inches but, ooops! Too late! In a matter* of seconds our hero’s head bores a hole two feet deep into the hard-packed soil of Indiana. Well, nothing to do now but “dig ’im up.” A steam-shovel quickly uproots the lad, and once again he is on his way.”
(Casualty Report: Seven more bumps on head, compound nasal fracture, right forearm badly twisted.)
With ease our now rejuvenated stalwart clambers hand over hand across the horizontal ladder, leaps two more hurdles, straddle-jumps eight logs, but, after he completes the final high jump, catastrophe again rears its ugly head. During this episode the shoelace of his left shoe becomes untied and manages to slip itself directly under the heel of his right foot. Sad to relate this accident occurs while our young gallant is “running like mad” for the finish line.
(Casualty Report: Dislocated jaw, three leg abrasions.)
Now my dear reader, just to prove
that our magnificent athlete is still at the peak of condition he has agreed to run the entire distance around St. Joseph’s Lake! . . . Will you please-say a few words to the public before leaving?
“. . . .” In due respect for higher authority this statement was stricken out.
—And as the moon slowly rises over the peaceful countryside our hero lifelessly drags his broken body to a waiting padded cell in the infirmary. Finished at last!
(Total Casualty Report: Ten bumps on head. Compound nasal fracture. Right forearm, badly twisted. Three leg abrasions. One dislocated jaw. Moral:—Although Notre Dame is in the land of the free it is truly the HOME OF THE BRAVE!)
Give Your Shirt A FALL FLASH
OF COLOR ... with a Gay, New
WEMBLEY TIE
Quality ties to tie so easily in a flattering knot. Rayons, and wool-rayons in large and small patterns, plaids, stripes.
1.00
MEN'S DEPT.—Street Floor
H........................     ........g
WATCHES	I
DIAMONDS
I *	i
|	Always a wide selection	I
|	of Attractive Gifts.	=
|	KRAUSS	I
Jewelry Store, Inc.	|
f	207 N. Michigan St.	f
BaaaaaaiiaaaaaaaaaaaaaasaaasaasasasaaaaaasaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaMaamaaaaata^J
31
At the
Notre Dame
Bookstore
A PLASTIC CONTAINER for those papers or pictures you want to keep
Waterproof— Non-Soiling— Items Sealed in Permanently
NOTRE DAME SCAPULAR MEDALS
With chain — $ 1.95
STATIONERY
with a Personal Touch
Kervick and Grads
Honored in Portfolio
Francis W. Kervick, head of the department of architecture at Notre Dame, and seven graduates of the University are honored in a portfolio of ecclesiastical designs published by the church property administration in Milwaukee, Wis., and received recently by Notre Dame library.
The portfolio, designed to present outstanding ecclesiastical designs in recent years over a general cross section of the United States, contains 130 accomplishments. including 18 by Notre Dame architects. All designs are ecclesiastical buildings embracing churches, chapels, schools, hospitals, rectories and convents.
Represented are the accomplishments of 59 architects who have demonstrated their ability in the field of ecclesiastical design, and of this number eight are architects of Notre Dame.
Prof. Kervick, veteran head of the Notre Dame Department of Architecture, was selected for the portfolio on the basis of his designs for two educational structures—the Cushing Hall of Engineering on the Notre Dame campus and the St. Matthew’s parish school in Mobile, Ala.
Architectural graduates of Notre Dame who have distinguished themselves in the portfolio follow:
Maurice Carroll, ’19; Thomas Flad, ’40; Paul C. Brust, ’28; John J. Brust, ’34; Wendell Phillips, ’12; R. L. Kelly, ’13; Thomas E. Cooke, ’24, and P. M. O’Meara, ’09.
VETERANS' PRESENT PLEA
(Continued from page 5)
According to Mr. Wilson, the Western Conference officials met last spring to discuss eligibility rulings and voted to retain and re-inforce the ruling under question, and announced their decision in July of this year. He expressed regret at the overlooking of the special case of the veteran who, desirous of insuring his future and that of his family at a time when all was quite insecure, became affiliated with a professional club and, thus, unbeknown to himself, signed the death warrant to his amateur standing under the exhumed ruling. Mr. Wilson announced that the officials of all the major conferences would investigate the case at their annual meeting on Oct. 23 and, in view of the thorough justice of Messrs. Callan’s and Hussar’s plea, invited them to present it to the assemblage at that time.	,
32
[■jjaiiiimamiiitstniiiiaitiiatimitttiitiittititiiitiiiittiiiiiamimtttQ
=	• Greeting Cards	|
i	• Artists’ Supplies	E
=	• Picture Framing =
I	I. W. Lower Co.	i
|	DECORATORS	1
:	128 North Michigan Street |
Q.IIIIIIIIIlIUllllllllKllllllUllllllllllllllllUlinitKIIIIIIIIIIIltllllllQ
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST ❖
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS general dentistry
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4*5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
Aesculapians—Pre-Med
Club at Notre Dame
The official organization of the local would-be M.D.’s, the “Aesculapians” society, is devoted to the best interests of the pre-medical students on campus. Frequent meetings are held in the Rockne lounge for the discussion of topics pertinent to the medical profession. To conduct the summer activities of the society, “Bud” Wilson was named president, Don Griffith of the Navy was chosen treasurer, and Joe Murphy retained his position as secretary.
At a meeting held Sept. 20, in the Biology auditorium, Rev. R. J. Sheehan, C.S.C., who has taught for many years in the College of Science of the University of Portland, gave an address on “Medical Ethics.” Father Sheehan discussed the significance of the Hippocratic Oath and pointed out that medical ethics are based on Natural Law and are intended to embellish the profession as a whole.
Other activities of the Society during the summer months involved the holding of a picnic that saw a civilian team beat an all-Navy team in an extra-inning ball game as the afternoon’s main event. The pre-meds have also completed plans for the Illinois victory dance they are sponsoring tomorrow night. Preparations for this coming event rounded out their activities for the summer.
Thirty-nine V-12s to be Placed on Inactive List
Thirty-nine navy V-12 men currently enrolled here as pre-medical and predental students will be placed on the inactive list at the close of the summer term, Lieut. E. V. Bowman, course officer, announced today.
In order to qualify for the inactive status, each student had to state that he would continue with his school ^ork.
Names of the men to be placed on the inactive list are as follows:
Hairy J. Benson. Cecil R. Burket. Henry M. Castello. James P. Cloud. Robert W. Cochran. Elwin K. Conner. John A. Culligan. Robert J. Daschbach. Robert H. Evans. Sheldon L. Fellman. Wesley C. Fielding. Milan K. Glover. Donald R. Griffith. Peter V. Hamill. John M. Head. Dan W. Johnston. Herbert G. Lee. Robert E. Lee. Karl A. Marshall. John W. McNally.
Jack W. Milder. John N. Olinger. John J. Polich. George Redmond Robert M. Reynolds. John C. Ridge. Wm. C. Rogers. Warne N. Schaap. George R. Schank. Gerard B. Schroering. Robert H. Shorr. Frazier L. Thompson. Donald L. Toker. John Van Boven. James E. Vanderbosch. Richard D. Vieth. Robert L. Vosburg. Wm. M. Wilkinson. Kenneth Z. Zike.
FLOWERS
are the
Perfect Gift
If you place out-of-town orders early, you save telegraph expenses.
Corsages Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
The Florist
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
BLOCK BROS
CORNER m C- CAS ■ * A S -
33
Commerce Forum Has
Full Summer Schedule
The activities of the Commerce Forum this summer have attracted attention to it as one of the outstanding discussion groups on the Notre Dame campus. With the help of Mr. Edmund Smith, the faculty moderator for the Forum, and under the leadership of its president, Michael Garry, the organization has had a successful schedule. With Garry, as officers in the Forum, are Thomas McCaughey as vice-president, John Castelli as program chairman, and Paul Ragan as publicity chairman.
Talks on Postwar
Leading off as first speaker of the semester was Edward Rodgers of Rockford, III. Rodgers’ talk on “Post War Germany” advised “a strong, determined attitude in dealing with the Germans,. and by showing them defeat we will suppress all future desires on their part towards world conquest.”
The second speaker at the Commerce Forum’s meetings was Robert Horan of South Bend. “Post Wai* Trade with Russia” was the topic for his talk and he stated that “with Russian demand for U. S. machinery and products, our post war economy will not only be benefited, but helped over any economic upheavals that might appear* in our commerce.”
Social at Third Meet
The next meeting was held at the home of Mr. Smith in combination with the organization’s social. Harry Walters of the Bronx gave a paper on “FairTrade and Employment Practices.” Walters pointed out that “the abuses on the part of both management and unions in employment are not characteristic of a free country and must be abolished.”
Paul Ragan of Indianapolis spoke at the fourth meeting of the Forum. His talk on “The Anglo-American Oil Pact” showed “the need for an aggressive policy on the part of the State department in cooperation with American oil interests in the acquisition of foreign oil concessions for a continual oil supply.”
The Commerce Forum held its fifth meeting last Wednesday night in the Rockne Memorial lounge. After the business for the evening had been concluded, John Castelli of Midland, Pa., gave a paper on “The Post War Treatment of Japan.” Mr. Castelli asked for “the restoration of the Japanese people to an economic and political position, consistent with wffiat they deserve.” The discussion following brought on a vehement disagreement as to our attitude in dealing with the Japanese.
34
LEAVES THE GROUND
A bomber crew needs training as a team. And now those hazards which are too dangerous for air-borne drill can be duplicated on the ground. This is made possible by an electronic flight trainer perfected by Bell Telephone Laboratories’ scientists for the Navy.
At remote controls the instructor follows the “flight,” sets up various dangerous conditions, coordinates the crew’s reactions.
Tubes glow, switches click much as they do in a telephone exchange, to duplicate such flight perils as icing, fouled fuel lines, “conked” motors. It is the science behind the telephone that here performs another new service to the Nation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 4) out whereby Tulane students may bring guests to sit with them in the student section at football games. The long-desired change has been brought about through the efforts of the Student Council. . . . Latino Americano, a new student organization, has been formed on the campus for the benefit of Latin American students enrolled at Auburn. . . . The larger part of a recent gift of $100,000 to Tech from the Georgia Power Company will be used for the purchase of an A.C. Network Calculator. The calculator, believed to be the largest in the world, will be used to solve power distribution problems. . . .
PRESSING NEWS
A College paper is a great investment— The college gets all the lame. The printer gets all the money. The staff gets all the blame.
— Villanovan
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
“T” SHIRTS
j	(Monogram and Plain)
♦
THE HUDDLE
TENNIS
(Continued from page 18) exhibited brilliant tennis in a match that was closer than the score would indicate. Notre Dame won 7 to 2.
A return match with Illinois Tech on the Irish courts closed out the season. With Notre Dame leading 3 to 1 the rains came and washed out the rest of the contest.
Coach Langford entered his team in the St. Joseph Valley championships which were held at Leeper- Park in South Bend during the last two weeks in August. The title was not defended by Charley Samson, last year’s champ, since he left the campus at the end of last semester on Navy orders. Bill Tully took over the title, winning from Jack Car-dall, a representative of California Tech, in the finals. The two finalists then teamed up to walk off with the doubles title.
Competition to decide the interhall champs has been in progress throughout the summer. Every hall, with the exception of Sorin and Walsh, was represented. Two divisions were formed and
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
round-robin matches were played. St. Edwards and the Dillon I teams were undefeated in their respective sections and will hold a playoff to decide the medal winners. At this writing the matches were not under way, but a close contest is anticipated. St. Eds is captained by
John St. Germaine, leads the Navy hope, players are:
St. Edwards Jim Whalen Frank Curran Len Mangen Bill Carter
and Jack Gailey Dillon I. The other
Dillon I
Bill Garrels Joe Breslau John Head Bob Surrey
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
HOLD THAT HAIRUNEI
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
H.‘.-PED ‘.'■ETugo >.O S SHO?
35