Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 15, 1887.	' No. 18.
The Better Part.*
FROM THE FRENCH OF S. F., C. S. C., BY M. E. M.
Lovers of things celestial, even now, Monks full of faith, ecstasy on your brow, Drinking long draughts as steadily ye plod, From the Book, wisdom; from the Chalice, God. Restless we moan, weighed down with sombre care, Unknown the calm, the sweet delights of prayer; Plucking the bitter fruits of love in sin, While our sad hearts bleed silently within.
You smile and sing, your trembling voices rise In sacred harmonies that pierce the skies;
The heavens are parted, stilled.are.all earth’s sighs: You see Jesus—monk, angel, both in one— But we with senses blunted, souls undone, Bewail our pleasures, faded ere begun.
—>lve Maria.
* The original of this poem appeared in the Scholastic of Dec. 4.	"	'
The Tariff Question.
BY PROF. WILLIAM MOYNES, A. AL
The word “tariff” signifies a list or table of duties or customs to be paid on goods imported or exported. Though of Arabic origin, it was more immediately derived from. Tarifa, the name of a • town at the entrance to the Straits of Gibraltar.
Vessels-,sailing past were at one time required to pay a toll at that town. It was consequently natural to apply the word to the toll or duties collected upon foreign goods.
In the United States tariff duties are imposed by Congress, and collected by officials at the federal custom-houses. They are designed to furnish. ■ revenue to meet the expenses of the public service, to protect the, legitimate business of the country; and to guard industrial enterprises, and. those engaged, in them, against undue, competition on the part of foreign merchants ;and manufacturers. .... ?
. As foreigners who send their manufactures here for sale derive all the profits and advantages from access to our markets that our own citizens do, it. is deemed just and proper to make them bear some of the burdens of citizenship. They pay no-taxes, and yet they have the protection of our laws, and the profits of our trade for themselves and their goods. Though they do not live in this country, yet if any injury or damage is here sustained by themselves or in respect to their property, they may invoke the aid of the courts and set the machinery of Government in motion to secure redress. Should a fire break out where their goods are stored, they may count on the services of a fire de- ' partment to combat and extinguish the flames, even though they pay not a cent to maintain such department. When they or their agents walk the streets, police are at hand to protect them, although they pay nothing for the support of the police force. They have the benefits and accommodations of paved streets, gas, water, etc., for which citizens and residents pay, while they pay nothing for such conveniences. Should war break out, every citizen could be depended upon as a unit in the grand aggregate of the Nation’s strength, and might be called upon to render military service whether voluntarily or compulsorily, while persons not citizens would have no obligations and be subject to no coercion in that regard.	.
In view of such facts, it is deemed proper to make those who would enjoy the advantages incident to se.lling here foreign goods and products,, pay duties upon them when they pass the.custom-, houses at ports of entry. That takes very largely from the great body of the people the burden of sup-, porting theNational Government by direct taxation. It transfers the greater-share of that burden from the people to foreigners and the wealthy classes.of . our own country who insist upon wearing-clothes offoreign manufacture, drinking foreign wines, and indulging a taste for things foreign, generally— or such, at least, as can be substituted for .things American.	■A
To have a good demand for labor, and a.reliable, home market for the products of labor, is a great advantage to all citizens engaged inthe.industriab
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pursuits. It is one of the signal benefits—one of the great rewards—which wise legislation seeks to make constantly available to industry. And it cannot be satisfactorily. disproved or successfully denied that it is the province and test of sound statesmanship and wise legislation, in protecting such market, to impose duties upon goods and products that foreigners insist upon taking into it for their own profit—to offer and vend in competition with the products and manufactures of home laboi’ and industry.	•	•
For local purposes, such as maintaining state, county, town and city, governments, paving streets, improving roads, establishing water-works, building and maintaining schools, paying officials, and keeping up police and fire departments, and the like, direct taxes or assessments are levied. The owners
of property, whether real or personal, are required to pay specific sums annually, in accordance with the returns of the assessors. The local governments have the power to enforce the payment of these sums, dr the taxes so assessed, as the}’ become a lien upon the property, if not paid; and such property may be taken from the delinquents by legal process and sold by public authority. These direct taxes are burdensome enough, as all know; but how much greater would they not be if the indirect taxes required to support the federal Government were added to them! Under existing arrangements, we pay no direct taxes into the public treasury. Its sources of supply are the duties collected on imports, and the internal revenue tax. And from it, as from a fountain, flow out into all branches of the public service the moneys thus collected. They are appropriated to pay salaries to Senators and Representatives in Congress,to the President, members of the Cabinet, ministers and consuls to foreign countries, persons employed in the Departments at Washington, clerks in the service of the Government, postmasters throughout the country, judges of the federal courts, United States district attorneys and marshals, officers and men of the army and navy—in fact, all persons in the civil or military service of the Government. And from the National treasury, too, are drawn the moneys appropriated to pay the interest and principal of the public debt, to pay pensions to soldiers who received disabling wounds in battle or contracted diseases that caused permanent disability, to construct fortifications and ships of war, to furnish rations and clothes to the Indians of peaceful tribes, to dredge and improve rivers and harbors, and to
erect in the larger cities federal buildings for post. offices, courts, etc. :	’
It may well be supposed that if the people had to pay direct taxes for the purposes indicated, the' burden would be found extremely onerous and oppressive. In that case the people of Indiana, for example; would have to pay about $10,000,000 annually, in addition to the present rate of taxation. At least such is the estimate recently made by a prominent United States Senator, who is probably familiar with every city and town in;the ;State.. But. the burden' is now • hardly- felt, for the tariff policy .transfers -it’very largely to foreign. manufacturers'
and the wealthy classes of our own country. The duties on foreign imports are paid into the public treasury and become the-common property of the people, although applied to the uses of the federal Government instead of to those of states and municipalities. Upon a few articles produced in our own country, as tobacco, beer, whiskey, etc., the Government also imposes certain charges, as provided by the internal revenue laws. These are regarded as luxuries, and not essential to the health or comfort of the people. The federal tax upon them is, in a measure, intended to discourage their use. In the event of the accumulation in the treasury of a surplus too great for current needs, this tax can readily be abated, or the public moneys can be more generously appropriated to construct fortifications, ships of war, public buildings, and the like.
In the definition of “tariff,” reference is made not only to import duties, but also to duties on exports, or duties on goods going out of the country. This Government never imposes such duties. England, however, which sets herself up as the teacher of political economy for all the world, for a long time not only charged export duties, but also passed statutes imperatively prohibiting the exportation of certain things. In 1576, during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, a law was enacted, which provided that—	•
“For the exportation of sheep the offender shall forfeit all his effects, suffer imprisonment for a year, and then have his left hand cut off in a market town, on a market day to be there nailed up; and for the second offense he shall suffer death.”
For a thousand years England had a protective tariff. There are historical records that show it to have been in operation as early as A. D. 870. Under it she built up her industries and raised her shipping to its unparalleled magnitude. It was not until June 26, 1846, that the royal assent was given to Sir Robert Peel’s noted tariff—a measure which cancelled the duties on several hundred articles and pressed upon the country the adoption of free trade. But she did not wholly and unqualifiedly declare in favor of free trade. More than fifty articles were left on the tariff list, and import duties oh them had to be paid. In fact, there are many articles still on her-tariff list and subject to import duties. All the schemes that ingenuity could devise to increase the wealth and establish the manufacturing supremacy of that country have been put into effect and given a full trial. Even monopolies were fostered and protected there at one time.	.	.
As then understood, a monopoly meant the sale and exclusive .right to produce, manufacture or deal in some, particular commodity. Such right, as evidenced by a grant conferred by the sovereign, power, could be assigned by the person who received it. Thus it oftem, became possible for court favorites, to speculate^on the royal bounty and.to make large fortunes? Fortunately, no approach to so corrupt a practice ever found toleration under, our Government. It is true that, under, our patent arid.copyright laws, inventors and au. thors are given, exclusive right for a term of years
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
291
to manufacture and sell the things they invent, or to publish and sell their books; but that right is accorded under like circumstances in every civilized country, and it is so reasonable that nobody objects to it. In passing, it may be well to state that our patent laws account for the apparent hardship and inconsistency noticeable in the sale of certain American inventions in foreign countries at lower prices than they command here. Not being protected by patent laws abroad, competition in trade necessarily reduces the prices to a very low plane. The same rule applies to foreign inventions patented abroad, and not patented here. They may sell abroad for much higher, prices than they bring in our market. And the same is true in respect to the copyright laws. All know that reprints of English books, which do not come within the protection of our laws, sell here for about one-half or one-third of what they cost in England. The patent and copyright laws realize the nearest approach to monopolies that we have. But patents expire in seventeen, and copyrights in twentyeight years; and things patented oi' books copyrighted abroad are not similarly protected by our laws. The prevailing policy is to give the people the benefits of the inventive skill and authorship of their fellow-citizens at the earliest practicable moment, and to let them imitate and vend immediately, if they so wish, the things invented and the books published in foreign countries. After the expiration of the periods covered by our patent and copyright laws, the things thereby protected fall into the current of general trade and commerce, and competition soon reduces prices to a level that can certainly give no reasonable cause for dissatisfaction.
If all the nations of the world were under one and the same government, and influenced by an exalted and unselfish policy looking’to the promotion of the common interest of mankind, without respect to race, religion or country, free trade would be the normal and proper status of commercial interchange, as it now is among the States of our Union. But the fact is, as it has always been, that nations are even more selfish and envious of one another than individuals. Their intercourse with one another in respect to commerce and everything else is eminently practical and totally devoid of sentiment. They have no compunction about giving effect to every means designed to further their respective interests, no matter how unfair and disastrous its adoption may be to the trade and commerce of sister countries/ And it stands to reason that a nation which casts away the means'of self-protection and.invites other countries to unrestricted participation.in the trade and profits of its markets must ultimately fall a victim to their selfish and insatiable rapacity. It is only a question of time when a merchant who throws open his store to his fellow-merchants, without payment of rent, tells them to occupy it jointly with himself, to remove their goods to it, and to sell them as freely as he sells his to those who deal, in the place,;must become insolvent.. There is a German proverb to the effect that, he whp makes a sheep of
himself, makes a meal for the wolf—„ SSer fid) jiini ®djaf mndjt, ben frigt her SBolf." And any man foolish' enough to invite competing merchants, and especially those having the reputation of selling goods at lower prices, to share his hospitality and to compete for the trade upon which he relies, certainly « invites the wolf to his door.” But individuals are not foolish enough to do this, nor ought nations to be.
It is a well-recognized principle of political economy that the industries and commercial interests of a young and growing country must be protected by suitable legislation until they are as well established as those of older and wealthier nations. The older nations have industries established, markets secured, and all the preliminary work done. In a new country, capital is too chary to touch any enterprise without a reasonably fair prospect of deriving substantial profits from it. Manufactories are to be built, machinery is to be secured, facilities for transportation are to be established, fuel must be available, the raw material upon which to work must be at hand in sufficient quantities, and the assurance of a market for the sale of manufactured goods must be reasonably certain. While such preparations are making, the enterprising manufacturers earn nothing whatever. No mattei* how great their expenditures, there is no return. They are forced to pay a high rate of interest for the use of money while building their establishments, and it may be years-after they begin work before the demand fortheirgoods will be sufficient to give them a profit. To-state these facts is almost tantamount to proving* that no reasonable man would be inclined to build additional manufactories here if the free trade policy were in operation. These facts were recognized by Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Madison, Hamilton, Jackson, Clay, Webster, Lincoln, and all who are conspicuous in our history as great statesmen and fathers of the Republic. All of them believed in a high protective tariff. The second Act of the First Congress, after the adoption of our Constitution, was in harmony with a preamble that reads—	•
-‘Whereas, It is necessary for the support of Government, for the discharge of the debts of the United States, and for the encouragement and protection of manufacturers, that duties be laid on goods, wares and merchandise imported,” etc.	.	.	.
That covers the demands and accurately outlines the policy of the advocates of a protective tariff! They know that this country is still new. They know that its resources cannot for centuries be developed to the maximum. They know that there ’ are vast regions and Lvaried interests almost untouched by the hand of labor. They know’ that manufacturing enterprises of various kinds are yet to be .established; but they apprehend that the . establishment of such enterprises would be indefi-: nitely postponed under the blighting influence of' the free trade policy.	/	(
' But it may be said that “ England is a free trade! country, and does not. seem to suffer on that account.” The conditions existing here and there
292
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
are altogether different. For a thousand years she maintained a protective tariff, and she had ample time to establish her manufactories and to secure markets for their products before the adoption of free trade. A nation that is easily more than a match for her neighbors in manufacturing, trade and commerce, may very prudently favor a free trade policy, as it gives her a decided advantage in competition with them, and tends ultimately to lay them prostrate at the feet of her commercial supremacy. In a state of nature, the largest and most powerful man acquires ascendency over his fellows. Under a free trade policy, where there would be no law for the protection of the industries of a small, weak or new country, an old and powerful nation could at once step to the front, in the exercise of her commercial supremacy, and make the other her tributary. English statesmen unhesitatingly admit that they are striving to make their country the workshop of the nations, and to supply the world with all needed manufactures. They know that this will give their country commercial supremacy, enable her to increase her navy, add largely to her wealth, facilitate her plan of controlling the purse-strings of the world, and offer her easy opportunity to acquire a paramount influence among the nations of the earth. As a purely agricultural country, England would be comparatively insignificant. As such, she could not conveniently accommodate a population of more than 10,000,000. But as an exclusively manufacturing country, her population might be six or seven times as great. Her breadstuffs and provisions could be purchased abroad, and the ready money of the world, with which to buy them, would be irresistibly drawn to her great manufacturing centres. Money is migratory, and never inclined to make its permanent abode in agricultural countries. It takes wings, and from them flies away to the haunts of trade and commerce.
Under the free trade system the manufacturing interests of the country and all industrial pursuits would necessarily suffer a severe reverse, and many of them would be permanently prostrated. This would force,a great number of the operatives to turn to agriculture for a living. Hundreds of thousands of men and women would be drawn from the profitless marts of trade, and forced to seek a livelihood in tilling the soil. Cities would thus lose so large a share of their population that the purchasing power of the markets would be seriously curtailed. These markets now take for home consumption about ninety-two per cent, of all things raised and produced in the country. But how much would they take if the producing power were thus augmented and the consuming capacity thus diminished? The value of products speedily perishable by nature, and mainly a dead loss unless disposed of in the home markets, is about equal to the value of all other products, raised upon the farms. The home market is now sufficient to take all these things, and the home capacity is sufficient for their consumption. But it- would be otherwise in the 'case of any material depopulation of the cities. And should the demand for. them become
materially abridged, cereals and articles adapted for transportation to foreign countries would have largely to be substituted for them. Thus would the cereal supply be incalculably increased. And, as it is now found difficult to secure remunerative sales in foreign countries for the trifling excess annually yielded above the capacity of home consumption, what could be done with the surplus almost certain to accumulate under the free trade policy?
The farmer saves the cost of transportation to Europe by having the products of his farm consumed in this country, and he escapes, at the same time, the poor prices consequent upon competition in foreign markets with the surplus cereal productions of Russia, Austria, India and Australia. The prices of agricultural products, which are now certainly low enough, would almost necessarily fall to a lower plane under the operation of free trade. Besides, as the carrying trade is in the hands of foreigners, they would derive all the profits, and secure all the advantages incident to ship-building, insurance rates, employment of seamen, wages paid for then’ services, etc. All, the benefits incident to the carrying trade would accrue to foreign countries. So let the farmer not say that the tariff discriminates against him, or that he is not protected. All employments and all industries are closely united with one another—as much so as the different members of the human body—and one cannot be affected without all being more or less affected in like manner. Besides, for the protection of the farmer, and to prevent the Canadians from sending their agricultural products to this country to compete with him, import duties ranging from ten to twenty cents a bushel on corn, wheat, barley, potatoes, rye, oats, etc., are levied and collected by the federal officials. It is as much for the benefit of the farmer as for that of the manufacturer’ to build up a good and reliable home market.
A nation solely agricultural inevitably becomes poor. Capital flees from it, and the soil wears out. The constant shipment from year to year of the products of the soil to other countries impoverishes the land. By this process of exhaustion several regions once fertile have been tilled and tilled, until now they are but little better than desert tracts. Let wheat, corn, oats, etc., be consumed as near as possible to the places where they have been sown and harvested; for there is an invisible chemistry ever at work in the mysterious economy of nature in restoring to the soil by means of rain, snow, winds, atmospheric influences, etc., the food products it gives forth in bountiful harvests of golden grain and silk-plumed corn. Besides, the proximity of a farm to a market, where the products can readily be sold, necessarily exercises great influence upon the question of its value. A farm within two. or three miles of a city is usually three times more valuable than one eight or ten miles away. The 4,200,000 farms in the United States owe probably a third of their current value to the fact that re-liable home markets take for home consumption ? ninety-two per cent, of their products. Rem.ove" the markets to foreign countries, and so remote -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
and unreliable would they be that the prices of farming lands would almost inevitably become greatly depreciated. In fact, under the free trade policy, farms, lots, dwellings, business blocks, mills, factories, and all kinds of property, would rapidly tend to a far lower standard of valuation.
There is hardly anything more ruinous to business and fatal to prosperity than uncertainty. Its influence is blasting and deadly. It is the chief inspiration of the demoralizing habit of gambling. The feverish anxiety, the enervating doubts, the grasping avarice, and the reckless prodigality it inspires in different persons, according to their temperaments, are at war with all sound business methods, destructive of confidence, and subversive of the public weal. It sweeps through the marts of trade, and ruin and despondency mark its pathway. No observing man can have failed to notice what a paralyzing influence it exerts upon business. It stimulates the unwholesome activity of the irresponsible speculator and gambler on the one hand, while, on the other, it causes the great mass of business men to hesitate, to wait for developments, to make no purchases for which, a demand cannot, with almost absolute certainty, be predicted; to manufacture nothing which has not been ordered, or which is not al most certain to be speedily ordered. Thus is business stunted and made dull. Thus do times become perversely hard and trying. Thus do evidences of increasing poverty and suffering press inexorably to the front. And the free trade policy is attended with an uncertainty likely to produce such evils. Were it to be given effect, manufacturers, importers, merchants and retail dealers, would be at a loss to determine how large a volume of foreign imports to expect from year to year, or season to season. They would be altogether in the dark touching the competition certain to arise from that source in their respective lines of business. All the superfluous products resulting from overproduction abroad, such as shoddy and mungo clothing, adulterated wines and liquors, useless toys and trinkets, and, in short, the leavings of everything salable, would be sent to this country and thrown upon our market. That policy would go far toward destroying our manufacturing industries and producing general ruin, for wholesome competition would be next to impossible in so bewildering a situation. In the midst of such chaos, it would be a comparatively easy matter for foreign merchants to secure control of the American market, and thereafter it would not be difficult for them to fix prices at any standard suitable to themselves. There is certainly sufficient depression in business, with its attendant hard times, whenever the people suffer from what is known as overproduction in our own market, and in dealing with domestic products. But what would be the.effect of having the leavings of the overproduction of all the rest of the world added from season to season? And that very overproduction would be stimulated by the consciousness that here could be found a free market for things in excess of foreign consumption and demand. No man could gauge accurately, or even approximately,
the magnitude of the volume of goods which would thus annually flow in upon us from all parts ofc the world. The present tariff, however, enables us to guage, with a reasonable approach to accuracy, how large an aggregate of foreign productions we may expect from year to year. It has a tendency, also, to shut out and exclude altogether from bur market inferior goods of foreign manufacture. Our own goods are so comparatively cheap that foreigners would lose heavily by paying the tariff duties upon theirs, and then undertaking to compete with our domestic manufactures. The great majority of the American people are satisfied to wear American clothes, and to use the products of American art and labor. And, as a rule, these are cheaper and better than goods and wares of corresponding grades in foreign markets. But, at any rate, it can safely be averred that all the staple articles of food are much cheaper here than abroad, and that the rewards of labor are much greater. The more substantial manufactures of this country are certainly preferable to those of any other nation. American railroad iron, locomotive-engines, cars, machinery, wagons, plows, stoves, fire-arms, ammunition, axes, saws, clocks, watches, cutlery, sewing-machines, printing-presses, cottons, prints, calicoes, etc., are nowhere surpassed in quality and cheapness. The prices of these things, and hundreds of other articles, were more than twice as high in free trade times, when it was necessary to import them.
From the beginning of the Government down through the years, the majority of our leading and most patriotic statesmen-have sedulously sought to promote the growth of home industries and the development of the inexhaustible natural resources of the country. And to this end, they adopted what seemed to be soundest economic policy—the policy of protection. On three occasions the.free trade theorists had sufficient power in Congress to give effect to their tariff reform schemes, and they did so. The result each time was a panic, with a long period of dullness in business, and poverty and want of employment among the people. In each instance, the people, after a bitter experience of a few years, were constrained by their poverty and necessities to return to the policy of protection. In the main, that policy has been jealously fostered and cherished, and it has not disappointed the expectations of those who believe in it. In all sections of the country it has stimulated the establishment and growth of manufactories. It has protected labor, given independence to industry, and materially increased the rewards of toil. The great manufactories built under this policy have made us comparatively independentof foreign powers. They have made this a. greater and freer Nation-—a Nation more capable of working out its grand destiny independently of other countries—than ever before it was.
Free traders sometimes say to workingmen: “ The tariff is robbing you. It requires you to pay a great deal more for the things you wear and use —the clothes you buy for yourselves and families, the carpets you have on your floors, the furniture
294	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
you have in your houses, the food you require for sustenance, etc.—than if free trade existed.” Straightway some shortsighted people, on hearing that absurd statement, set to work to figure up the total of the prices paid for the different articles purchased by them at some particular time. Then they refer to the tariff'list, and compute the duties charged, upon like articles of foreign manufacture. The sum of these duties they subtract from the aggregate of the prices paid for the articles purchased. Then they hold up the remainder, with an injured look, and say: “ That is the true value of the things I purchased. The amount I paid included both the tariff duties and the real prices.” It is difficult to be patient in dealing with so gross a mistake—so gross a perversion of the facts. There is not a scintilla of truth in the statement that the duties on imports have any influence in specifically fixing the prices of things manufactured here. In this point of view, the object of the tariff is to prevent foreign goods from being thrown indiscriminately upon our market, and interfering with the standard of prices found to be appropriate and necessary to the conditions here existing. As it is found that American workingmen cannot successfully compete with contract labor imported from abroad, it is believed that far worse than such competition here, not only to them, but to the people generally, would be the free introduction from abroad of the products of such labor. Here even contract laborers receive better wages than in their own countries, and it is certainly preferable to compete with them face to face in the performance of their work than to be required to compete with the imported products of their work. The aim of a protective tariff is to guard against harm from this insidious species of competition. It is designed to protect the clover-field, keeping the fences up and the gates closed. Of such little moment is it to merchants, jobbers and manufacturers to know or refer to the tariff list as a gauge of prices, that not one in a hundred of. them, knows what the duties on the domestic goods in which he deals really are. This is a matter in which onlv those who deal in foreign goods are particularly interested. The import duties are added to the prices of foreign goods, but it is probably .responsive to the sentiment of the readers of this article to state that no persons more deserve to pay the additional prices than those who ape foreign fashions, wear foreign clothes, assume foreign manners, and discriminate against American goods. Such pseudoAmericanism as that deserves all the discouragement that high duties can involve.
The tariff never fixes the prices of domestic goods. This matter is regulated by home competition. When a manufacturer sees a favorable opportunity to embark in a particularly profitable line of business, he usually does embark in it. But when capitalists see that he is making money, thej7 speedily establish competing concerns. The poorer of them may form corporations, and, by linking their capital, acquire the. power of establishing and'carrying on the same business. Millions of dollars of comparatively idle capital are
always available and at hand to embark in profitable enterprises. And the more profitable a business is, the more speedily and numerously competing enterprises spring into being. They manufacture the goods in great quantities, and soon the demand is more then supplied. Then is witnessed what people commonly call over-production, and the result is that prices quickly fall below the plane of profit.
Manufacturers, as well as workingmen, have alternately their periods of prosperity and adversity. >. One year they may have large profits, and for the following two or three years they may hardly pay expenses. Many of them work as hard as the humblest laborers in their service. The care, anxiety and mental strain to which they are subject tend, far more than manual labor, to produce premature decay, decrepitude and death. There is a competition among them that calls for the highest order of business talent and sound judgment as imperatively requisite to success. A few years ago many of the men now numbered among the wealthiest in the country, were themselves humble mechanics and laborers." They were successful; but not so on account of good fortune simply, nor the favoring influence of the protective tariff'. They ^succeeded chiefly because they were industrious, enterprising, frugal, intelligent and practical. Their example teaches that—
“ It is not in our stars, dear Brutus, But in ourselves, that we are underlings.”
It is not because of the tariff7 that men become rich, but because of the ability, wisdom and enterprise in the exercise of which it protects them. And to all citizens and residents its protection is equally extended. The humblest man who has • health, industry, sound judgment and proper habits has it in himself not to be an underling. The tariff' is reciprocally helpful to the manufacturer and to the workingman. But of itself it does not tend to make either of them rich or poor. It simply offers to and protects for all the opportunities of achieving and realizing fair returns for capital, fair prospects for enterprise, fair rewards for industry, and honorable success for labor, economy and sound judgment.
Art, Music and. Literature.
. —A copy of Caxton’s “ Game and Play of the Chesse, ” lacking two leaves, was recently sold in London for £645.
—In demolishing the houses near the Sanguigna Tower and the Annibaldi Palace, several fragments of ancient columns have been discovered, one of them of giallo anticb measuring six and a half feet in diameter. A fragment of a .beautiful fluted column was also found in the same place. The Annibaldi Palace is adorned in the interior with a considerable number of ancient columns found formerly on this spot.	-
—“ The Life of Leo XIII,” by the Rev. Bernard O’Reilly, is expected to make its appearance in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
295
coming spring. The fact that, by order of His Holiness, the Rev. Dr. O’Reilly was supplied with the necessary documents and special information concerning the subject of this life, renders it most trustworthy. Such assistance, combined with the well-known literary ability of the author, will make the work worthy of its grand subject.
—M. Charles Gounod has set to music a song written purposely for him by Bret Harte. It had for some time been the wish of both the French maestro and’the American author to unite in such a composition, and the result is eminently successful. In the new song Mr. Harte has remained faithful to his California leanings. It is called the “ Bells of Monterey,” and M. Gounod has expressed himself as delighted with it. It is shortly to be published in London.
—In a collection of interesting autographs, sold recently in London, was the MS. of a poem by Daniel O’Connell, on the ills of Ireland. The following are the first four lines—words that may be applied with almost equal appropriateness to the present state of things:—	’
“ Within that land was many a malcontent, Who cursed the tyranny to which he bent;
’ That soil full many a wringing despot saw, Who worked his wantonness in form of law.”
—Among the American artists in Rome who have distinguished themselves is Mr. Waldo Story, son of the famous American sculptor. Among Mr. Storv’s recent works is “ The Falien Angel,” which has won him unqualified praise from the Roman artists. The other famous productions of Mr. Story-are “ Penelope,” “Phryne,” “ The Black Prince at the Battle of Cressy,” “Pan,” “Honorias” and “The Marble Faun.” European artists predict for the young American much greater triumphs in the arena of monumental sculpture.
—The rich and celebrated collection of ancient manuscripts, belonging to the Archduke Ranieri, of Austria, consists of 15,000 Greek, 4,000 Arab, 2,000 Coptic manuscripts or papyri, and a certain number of papyri written in hieroglyphs and in the Demotic, Ethiopian, Syrian, and Latin languages, the valuable collection contains documents which range from the first to the seventh century of the Christian Era. Amongst them are the Gospels of the third century, more then 300 verses of the Iliad, fragments of the Dialogues of Plato, and of the works of Thucydides, Aristotle, and Hippocrates.—Pilot.
College Gossip.
—Universities in Italy.—There are twenty-one universities altogether in the kingdom of Italy, seventeen of which are.“royal”—that is, maintained out of the funds of the State; and four “free” universities (Camerino, Macerata, Ferrara and Perugia), maintained out of local funds. There is only one university for Piedmont, at Turin; one for Liguria, at Genoa; one for Lombardy, at Pavia; one for the old Venetian territories, at Padua; two for the Island of Sardinia, at Cagliari,and Sassari;
Bologna, Modena, Ferrara lie near each other; Tuscany has Pisa and Sienna; Rome is for central Italy; Naples is the only university- for southern Italy; while Sicily has three—Palermo, Messina, Catania. Naples numbers 3,qoostudents—an attendance which in central Europe is surpassed only at Berlin and Vienna. Turin has an attendance of 2,100; Rome, 1,200; Bologna, 1,160;Padua, 1,000; Pavia, 1,000; Palermo, 950; Genoa, aboutSoo; Pisa, 600; Catania, 400. Of the others, Modena is at the head with 270, and Ferrara at the foot with 39. Surely nothing would be lost by the amalgamation of these miniature universities. Ferrara only professes to teach medicine, mathematics and jurisprudence; Macerata, jurisprudence only. Per contra, the great Milan Academy — where Ascoli teaches (one of the greatest philologists in Europe) and the Abate Ceriani is librarian of the Ambrosian—has not the rank of a university, although it does more genuine university work than a dozen of the nominal universities. The same is to be said of the Institute of Higher Studies in France, where the teaching staff includes the historian Villari, the great Hellenist Comparetti, and De Guernatis, Bartoli and Rajna—names famous all over Europe.— Chicago Times. '
—New Year’s at the College of Notre Dame, Cote-des-Neiges.—Cote-des-Neiges is about’three miles from Montreal. It is on the Northwest side of Mount Royal, and the name is taken from the fact that it comes in for its share of the snow. The college is under the direction of Fathers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and is intended for small boys. It is beautifully located, situated on the slope of the hill, and com- -manding a view of the Island of Montreal, the River St. Lawrence, and the Ottawa River and Valley. The house itself is a magnificent building of cut blue stone. At the invitation of the Superior, the Rev. Father Moran, we attended the New Year’s entertainment given by the pupils. Knowing that the bovs were all under fourteen years of age, we did not expect much, but we were agreeably disappointed. The programme was very judiciously- arranged in regard to quantity and variety. The music was really- beyond our expectation. . The St. Cecilia Choir is under the direction of a member of the community, who made his studies in the Conservatory of Brussels. The choir is numerous—about 60—and some of the voices really- beautiful. The comedy in English was very well produced. The French piece, which, by- the way, was played by- American boys, was also well rendered. It is a great boon for the people of Montreal to have such an institution at their door, where they can place their children in the hands of such competent teachers. We were surprised when we were shown boys from Boston, from^Connecticut, Rhode Island,New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Wisconsin and Montana; so that the College of Notre Dame has’more than a local reputation. An addition to the college is required, and will be built next year.—Boston Pilot.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January Id, 1887*
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished. themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms., St.^o fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—There can be no doubt of the truth of the statement that Mr. Henry George, the noted Socialistic reformer, has abandoned all aspirations foikfurther political honors at the hands of the enlightened people of this Republic. His recent attack upon the religious faith of a large body of American citizens has placed him in a new light before the public—and one that will certainly not commend him to all lovers of justice and liberty.
expands, the taste becomes refined, and a world of enjoyment,hitherto unknown, is opened up.’ The most attractive reading is by no means confined to the fiction and poetry around which such a glamor is thrown by modern readers and book reviewers. As a rule, reviewers, as well as authors, lean to the popular feeling of the hour, and cater to it, even though they may laugh at its folly. It can hardly be expected of one of our young people to rise from the enervating comfits of a modern novel with a zest for the wholesome food in Wiseman’s' Essays or Brownson’s works, from which the more refined derive so much pleasure and profit; but we have not the least hesitancy in saying that the most confirmed novel-reader will rise with greater pleasure from the“ Martyrs of the Col-‘ osseum ” than from the best work of his favorite writer of fiction. There is more enjoyment—as well as instruction—in our historical literature than readers of fiction dream of. If this mine were more sedulously worked, great advantage would result.
. The young, whose minds are not yet vitiated with the novel, naturally like history, and history gives them a wholesome appetite for reading. Many of the incidents in our Catholic American history, to begin with, are so remarkable that such Protestant writers as Parkman and Bancroft are never so brilliant as when chronicling them. Even Longfellow’ appears at his best in the Catholic legend of “Evangeline.” These Protestants, despite their strong early prejudices, are carried off on the flood of poetic or chivalric enthusiasm, and for the moment give free scope to. their pen, writing things that their Puritan bigotry afterwards makes them almost tremble at, and perhaps erase, as in the case of Bancroft. The history of the early Catholic Missions in America, by John Gilmary Shea, and others, should be in every Catholic household, and read by every Catholic child during the winter evenings. It is not dry reading; by no means. One. of the last contributions of the lamented Helen Hunt Jackson to the Century Magazine ■was the history of Father Junipero Serra’s mission in California, illustrated with the best skill of the graver’s art, and it achieved popularity. The history of the early American missions contains many such stories, and they should be read by every one who wishes to be credited with ordinary intelligence.
—It is greatly to be regretted that many, especially among young students, do not sufficiently appreciate good reading—or, we. should rather say, that they seem to be entirely ignorant of good reading matter and the pleasure that can be derived from it; Where the taste for reading does not exist, , it should be cultivated. As in music, and ■ the fine arts generally, the taste for reading is sus-.ceptible of a high\degree of cultivation, and as in music, so also in reading, the cultured mind derives a vast amount of pleasure little known to the uncultiyated.	With cultivation—and this cul-
tivation is within the reach of every one—the mind
—The Pall Mall Gazette recently published a letter from His Eminence Cardinal Manning, Archbishop of Westminster, on the subject of the present system of studies in English universities. The Cardinal advocates the stud v of English Literature, and in no measured terms condemns that decidedly “ modern ” innovation which would seek to banish the Greek and Latin classics from the curriculum of studies in colleges. The wordsmf such afleader in the world of thought,—in whom years of experience combine with the' powers of a superior mind, to add the, weight.of . authority to his expressions,— must needs carry with, them an influence more than
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

ordinary, and draw to them the attention of every student. The letter reads as follows:
“ Before I attempt to answer the questions you have put, I must say that, for the last thirty-five years, I have only watched the changes at Oxford —for of Cambridge I cannot speak—from a distance and without the duty of any minute inquiry. I may, however, say at once that, so far as I can judge, the changes in Oxford, both in studies and collegiate discipline, are not, in my judgment, for the better. I shall be thought, no doubt, a laudator tein'Poris acti; but I believe the system of study and examination, as I knew it more than fifty years ago, was a severer tax upon the student willing to study; and if it did not multiply a diversity of subjects, tested by early'and isolated examinations, it had, nevertheless, a permanent effect in training men for the studies and works of after-life. I have been confirmed in this belief by finding many young men who have come to me possessed of various but partial knowledge, but comparatively wanting in the knowledge of Greek and Latin.
i.	“I will now endeavor to answer the’three questions in your letter. I fully agree with you that in the curriculum of University study, literature, as distinct from philology, Ought to be cultivated. Philology is as necessary to literature as analysis is to chemistry; but it is subordinate, and cannot supply its place. By literature I understand the intellectual product of cultivated nations. Inasmuch as the Latin language and literature sprang so largely from the language and literature of Greece, and inasmuch as our own language and literature are to so great an extent pervaded by the language and literature of the Greek and Roman world, I do not see how it is possible to have an intelligent knowledge of our own language and literature without the Greek and Roman classics.
2.	“ In this full sense it is evident that English literature ought to form a part of University studies, and I have seen with satisfaction such works as those of Morris and Skeat on Early English, and the volumes of selections printed at the Clarendon Press, and the knowledge of English which is exacted by the London University. I think I am correct in saying that few Englishmen have ever learnt English grammar. They master their mother-tongue unconsciously, and they learn its grammatical rules from the Latin grammar. This defect, however, I believe, is being at this time carefully supplied.
3.	“From what • I have already said you will know that I believe the office of a university is not so much to fill men’s minds with information, howsoever valuable it may be; as to educate the man himself; and I believe that the two great traditions of classical literature in the Greek and Roman world form an intellectual system in the order of nature, essential to the development and cultivation of the faculties and powers of the mind. I say in the natural order, because I am not speaking of the higher cultivation by the tradition of revealed truth. The Greek is :the oldest language, and has outlived all others. It is at this day as fresh its in its origin. -For subtlety, flexibility, precision.
and fertility it has no equal; and I have always believed that between the Greek and the English languages there is a wonderful analogy and affinity.
“ I look, therefore, with dismay upon the tendency of these days to exclude the Greek and Latin world from the education of Englishmen and to substitute the modern languages, which are in demand in our commercial and utilitarian days.”
' V	-
Programmes for 1887.
We spend the last week of the old year in thinking over the events of the year rapidly drawing to a close. Many are the wishes that the twelve months could be gone over again. In things with which we are not satisfied we assure ourselves if we could but go back to the beginning, we would perform them in a far better way. Facts and happenings which have never come to our minds since the time of their occurrence then appear before us. With some we are satisfied, with others we feel that they have not received the care and attention which they demanded. Meditating upon these, we lengthen our train of thought, in order to complete it, by associating the faces, figures and conversations of those with whom we have come in contact during the year past. The recollection of some gives us pleasure; that of others reminds us that we have not always acted a good part. This causes a feeling of displeasure with ourselves, and we hastily set aside the picture which awakens painful sensations instead of joyful ones. It is thus in bringing forward the memories of the departing year, sifting them, so as to separate those which reflect credit upon ourselves from those from which no credit can be claimed; lingering a while on the one, but casting aside the other, we spend part of the last week of the old year.
The beginning of the New Year is occupied with laying plans which, we tell ourselves, will •_, enable us to act in such a way during the coming year as shall always reflect credit upon us. We promise ourselves that the end of the ensuing year shall bring peace of mind as well as prosperity. The business man promises himself that his success shall be attained by perseverance, fair dealing, and strict attention to business. The farmer is determined that the profits which shall be made from the sale of his grain, will be the reward-of unremitting toil and labor. The mechanic will endeavor, by careful attention to the details of his trade, to master the principles of an aft admitted to be the most useful of all arts. In a word, those who are really in earnest in any pursuit, seek, at the beginning of a hew period in their career,.to redeem the errors of the past by a corresponding improvement in the programme which they lay down for the conduct of the future.	/	*
The programme of the scholar or the. student is somewhat different from those of others. The object of the man of learning, or of the young student, is to cultivate the intellect. This cultivation must be obtained by study and meditation. The programme of the student is filled with res'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
•olutions to examine carefully into the nature of his studies, to read authors bearing upon them, and to give his undivided attention to the instructions of'his teachers. He promises himself that this year shall be one of hard study. No absence without excuse, no neglect of duties without causes shall his conscience accuse him of at the end of the year. And he realizes that this programme, if faithfully carried out, will prove the stepping-stone to the plane of success through which he will pass the years of after-life.
G. W. Mallav.
Physical Exercise.
Looking at one of the figures which stand out most prominently in the civilized world to-day, the man who for many years has so skilfully' directed the destiny of a mighty empire: the man who, as orator, statesman, and profound thinker, is almost without a living rival—William E. Gladstone—two things immediately attract our attention: namely, his advanced age, and his unimpaired powers both of body and mind. As a general thing, when a man has attained the age of seventy, he is no longer able to take an active part in the affairs of the world; but Mr. Gladstone, to the delight of his friends and the dismay of his enemies, displays a vigor which would do credit to a man of thirty. He himself attributes this wonderful vitality’ to physical exercise. In it he has always delighted; and, even when burdened with all the cares and distractions which the office of Premier necessarily' entailed upon him, he has never neglected to give a due share of attention to physical exercise. Nor is this example one out of a few. Glancing over the pages of the world’s history, we find that, with few exceptions, the men who by their deeds were raised head and shoulders above their fellows were men; not only of strong minds, but were also well-developed physically; and this in consequence of a due regard for bodily exercise.
Man should endeavor to cultivate and develop every' portion of his being, physical, moral, and intellectual, for by’ so doing he will become a man in the highest sense of the word, and will .recover, according to the measure in which his whole being is, as it were, expanded—that dignity of human nature which was lost by the fall of our first parents. Now, after all, the body .is, even as much as the soul, a part of man’s being; and therefore should he pay' due attention to the development of his physical powers. . 'Besides, everyone of us knows from experience the advantage, nay, the necessity, of taking physical exercise. When feeling out of sorts, a game of ball, or some other' such interesting sport, will have the .same, effect upon our minds as oil upon, troubled waters; for. physical exercise has also a most invigorating .effect upon the mind. .Walking, for example; is an exercise-which is very beneficial, and it is one, too, of which the majority of persons can, readily avaibthemselves. , How de.. lightful a'ramble .in the'country’ at. early dawn,
when the eastern sky' is a field of gold, when the birds sing- merrily, when all nature is awaking-from her slumber, and the great world can be imagined as fresh from the hand of the Architect! The value of the effect such an exercise has upon both mind and body' cannot be over-estimated.
Exercise is the strongest of mental tonics, the most vigorous of physical medicines. All nature shows us something analogous to this effect: the standing pool stagnates into pestilence, while the running water is pure. How cheerless the stream which creeps along through level plains, and grows fetid in sloughs and marshes, or stagnates in pools! In it slimy' creatures find a home, and tall, rank weeds, which cast a gloom about its banks, peep above the water. On the other hand, the mountain brook that buffets its way from stone to stone, now rippling merrily' as it flows between grassy banks, and again breathing a song of defiance as it leaps from crag to crag; here wearing for itself a channel between huge rocks that would bar its course, there gliding softly' beneath the shade of trees which draw their vitality' from its life-giving waters; as it laughs in the sunshine, as it glistens in the moonlight, how full of life and vigoi' does it not seem! The birds of the air drink therefrom, and, with uplifted heads, pour forth a song of gratitude and joy. This stream fertilizes the soil, gladdens men’s hearts, and often raises them to the contemplation of higher things.
In like manner, the man who never takes exercise, and whose constitution is therefore exposed to the attacks of every' disease, is, in consequence, of a gloomy' and morose disposition; the world is, as it were, upside down to him, and where others find pleasure, he can discover nothing but misery. He knows nought of that strength in trials which physical exercise imparts to both mind and body; and not only is he gloomy' himself, but casts a gloom all around him. But about the man of sound health—the man who pays due attention to physical exercise—there is an atmosphere of cheerfulness which has a beneficent influence upon all those with whom he comes in contact. He travels through life fearlessly, is prepared to combat its adversities, and, if his intellectual and moral faculties are likewise duly' developed, may feel himself a man in the highest and truest sense of the word.
;	/ \	J. A. B.
Books and Periodicals.
— The American Agriculturist for January announces that arrangements - have been made for issuing the English and German editions hereafter at London, Paris, and Berlin simultaneously with their, appearance in this country. The opening number for the year presents even a greater variety of matters pertaining to the Farm, Garden and Household than usual.- David W. Judd continues his 'editorialcorrespondence. There are a great ; number, of other writers, including Doctors Thurber and. Hexam er;; Colonel Weld,.and other emi-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*299
nent authorities in their special departments. The engravings, numbering 60, full-page and otherwise, present a great variety of scenes, plants, animals, farm contrivances, household conveniences, etc., etc. The first of a series of articles on the A B C of Agriculture begins with this number.
— The Popular Science Monthly for January is unusuallv rich, even for that magazine, in articles bearing upon social and educational topics. Professor W. G. Sumner holds the leading place with a discussion of the question, “What Makes the Rich Richer, and the Poor Poorer? ” and gives the answer to it which .he has reached. Sir John Lubbock, who is as eminent for the personal attention which he gives to the discharge of his duties as an inspector of schools as he is in scientific research, considers the subject of “ Manual Instruction,” particularly with reference to English schools, but developing principles which are applicable to our schools too. Mr. Frank P. Crandon gives his attention to the “ Misgovernment of Great Cities,” in an article in which an endeavor is made to expose the source and study the nature of the difficulties with which honest and orderly municipal administration is beset. M. Maurel, who. was deputized by the French Government to examine the country, presents the results of “A Scientific Missiop to Cambodia.” Dr. C. C. Abbott, one of the most charming of scientific writers, gives a’life-like account of the “ White-footed Mouse”; and Mr. Ernest Ingersoll, of the same ilk, another of “ The Hound of the Plains,” or the coyote.
—The prominent feature in the January Century o is the instalment of the “ Life of Lincoln,” now running through the magazine. The current part relates to Lincoln in Sringfield: the first clash with Douglas; the Log Cabin and Hard Cider Campaign; Lincoln’s marriage; his relations with the Speeds of Kentucky; the Shields duel; the campaign of 1844; and Lincoln’s devotion to Clay. The paper has a number of interesting pictures, portraits, and documents. We must say, however, that the aspersions, which the»biographers of Lincoln cast upon the character of Gen. Shields, are entirely unwarranted. The sketch of this brave hero which appeared in the Scholastic of last week shows him in his true colors—a Christian gentleman, soldier and statesman. In a paper on “ Comets and Meteors,” in the “ New Astronomy ’■’ series, Professor S. P. Langley, the astronomer, gathers up the most recent scientific knowledge of his subject, illustrating it by graphic comparisons which quickly awaken the imagination of the reader. Among the pictures are wood-cuts of comets and of a meteoric shower. The second of Mr. W. C. Brownell’s critical papers on “French Sculptors” deals with Saint-Marceaux, Mercie, and Falguiere, whose work is represented by beautifully engraved wood-cuts, three of full-page size. • - Mr. Brownell incidentally touches upon the relation of the sculpture of the present day.to that of Greece and to that of the Italian Renaissance. Mr. Henry James, in a paper of criticism and reminiscence, presents his impressions of .Q.oquelin,
the French actor of the Comedie Francaise^ the immediate occasion of the article being that actor’s lately contemplated visit to America. Though not giving biographical details, this sketch acquaints the reader with the personality and triumphs of the noted artist. . A portrait engraved by Kruell' is printed with the article. There are also many interesting sketches, beautiful engravings, poetical contributions, editorial comments, etc.	.;
Personal.	.
—Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., our esteemed Director of Studies, passed the Christmas vacation . at Watertown.
—T. E. Steele, ’84, and a former valued mem-her of the Scholastic Staff, was a welcome visitor during the holidays.	.
—Mr. B. J. Clagget, of ’79, has the sincere . sympathy of his many friends at Notre Dame in . his sad bereavement occasioned by the loss of his estimable wife, who died on the 27th ult., at Lexington, Ill.	,
—We have received, with deep regret, the sad intelligence of the death of Mr. John F. Teasdale, who was a student at Notre Dame in 1883. He departed this life at his home in Palatka, Fla., on . the 31st ult.
—In a recent letter, written from Barletta, Italy, Monsignor Straniero sends New Year’s greetings to the Very Rev. Father Sorin, to Rev. President Walsh, to each of the Fathers, Brothers and Pro- ’ fessors, and the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm, of Notre Dame University, « went East last night by the Burlington, taking-with him a car load of little ones to his . famous College. With Coloradans Father Zahm-is the most popular educator in the country.—Denver Nevas, Jan. 4.	■	.	.	.	.
—Not a few among the students, new and old, will be pained to hear of the death of Bro. Cesaire, whose various occupations at Notre Dame had . made him well known and esteemed by everyone. . He departed this life on the 2d inst., after.a linger- . ing illness. May he rest in peace!	.
—Bro. Stanislaus, C. S. C., left last week, for J Austin, Texas, whither he goes for a change of climate in the hope of recruiting his failing health. He has the best wishes of his many friends that : : . . •the change may prove beneficial, and that he may be soon again" with us .to resume his- important _ position in the full possession of health and strength. ■	.
—At the Annual Bar Banquet, recently heldrat: -Burlington, Iowa, toasts were eloquently responded . .. ■ . to by. Messrs. Charles and William Dodge, of the. <• Class of.’74. Their speeches attracted much at- . tention, and werejpublished entire in the city papers. A. “ Charlie ” is now one of the leading lavvj-ersVof- ■ / ; ' Burlington, while “ Willie” is an honored State Senator from that district. The success .with
3°o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which they are meeting is very gratifying to their many friends at Notre Dame. .
—Among the visitors during the week were: Miss Koon, San Francisco, Cal.; A. A. Barthe, Minneapolis, Minn.: N. W.Brandican, Bloomington, III.: Mr.-and Mrs. Theodore Cohn, Mrs. R. Malloy, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. J. T. Priestly Des Moines, Iowa; Edward Keeley, Coldwater, Mich.; Mrs. J. C. Lindecker, Miss I. M. Moore, W. F. Cowles, B. F. Wade, Toledo, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Frank, Beaver, Pa.; Miss Emelia Beans, La Grange, Ind.; Mrs. Celestin Gillespie, Goshen, Ind.; T. E. Steele, Columbus, O.; Frank O. Gerber, J. H. Green, W. D. Decker, Ligonier,Ind.: Mrs. W. P. Orr, Piqua, Ohio; Mrs. A. J. Irwin, Goshen, Ind.; A. B. Holden, Alleghany City, Pa.
—M. B. Keeley, ’72, of Faribault, Minn., was recently appointed to the responsible office of County Attorney. The Faribault Democrat s: ys of him:
•“Mr. Keeley brings to the office splendid legal knowledge, an enviable reputation as an advocate, and an energy and perseverance that will make hard lines for all evil-doers who fall into his hands ”
The same paper also contained the splendid address which he made on the occasion of the presentation of -a substantial Christmas gift from the parishioners to the Rev. Father Danehy. All at Notre Dame are pleased to hear of the success attending Mr. Keeley in his chosen profession. During the years spent at College, he was one of the foremost students and a leading member of the Senior Literary Society, which numbered not a few bright minds amongst its members. Their famous public debates and literary reunions are still remembered with pleasure.
—A recent issue of the Cincinnati Enquirer contained a reference to the work of two old students of Notre Dame—William Pinkerton, of ’59, and Robert Pinkerton, of ’64. The latter spent three years at the College, and was one of the brightest and leading spirits of the Junior department, prominent in all literary and dramatic entertainments, as well as athletic sports, and a general favorite with all his fellow-students. The Enquirer says:	-
“ The recent remarkable capture of Wittrock, alias Cummings, and his pals in the Adams Express robbery adds another to the long list of brilliant detective feats of the famous Pinkerton family. Allan Pinkerton was in his day the greatest American detective; but when he died he left two worthy successors in his sons, Robert and William. ‘Like father, like son.’ This is true.in a wonderful degree of the Pinkerton boys, who, besides inheriting the shrewdness and courage of their famous parent, are familiar with the most modern methods of bringing criminals to justice. The recent exploit which ended so successfully was entirely planned and carried out by the Pinkertons. The arrest of Wittrock was effected by Robert Pinkerton personally, and • it is a' noticeable fact that when any big job-requires bravery and care", these brothers always attend to it themselves. They will not take a case unless there is promise ' of success, no matter how- much, money there is in it.
.Herein lies the splendid reputation of. Robert and William Pinkerton, whose names arc. synonymous with ability, honesty and fair dealing. They are the avenging Nemesis of wrong-doers, and when they start after a thief or mur-" derer his chances of escape are slim indeed.”
Local Items.
—We are all here now.
—The Band will be reorganized shortly.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Classical Course.
—“Did you ever hear ‘ The Maiden’s Prayer’? We heard it the other day.”	■
—There are indications of an increased attendance during the coming session.
O	o
—The semi’s will begin in the early part of week after next, and close on Feb. 1. The Boards of Examiners will be published next week.
—The regular monthly disputation of the St. Thomas A.quinas’ Academy has been postponed until after the close of the examinations.
—“ Midshipman Bob ” is already a decided favorite with the students. For further particulars consult, Taliaferro, Berry, McPhee and Monarch.
—We regret to announce that our esteemed Prof. Ackerman still continues seriously ill. His many friends will not fail to pray for his restoration to health.
—We think that our standing invitation to everybody to contribute to our “ local ” and “ personal ” columns, should meet with a more general acceptance. The reason is evident.
—Mrs. H. J. Huiskamp, of Fort Madison, loWa, has the thanks of the Minims for a handsome painting that she has presented to St. Edward’s Hall. The painting, is the lady’s own work, and is very •delicately executed.
—At the fourteenth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Society, held Dec. 12, a lively debate took place in which the following took part: Masters E. Berry, J. McIntosh, F. Cobbs and H. Walker.
—The Director of the Historical Department is greatly indebted to the Messrs. Rudd, of the Senior department, and Master E. Darragh, of the Junior department,.for variable services rendered during the Christmas vacation.
—The Minims return thanks to Mr. H. H. Heller, of South Bend, for a valuable Christmas present in the shape of a large aquarium^ with terra cotta ped-^ estal, and a .variety of gold fish. The Minims have placed it in the most beautiful room in their building —the Sorin Society Hall.
—The printers flatter themselves with the hope of shortly having a new and improved style of paper-cutter in their office. It will be home-made, of course. The material is already in the hands of our capable and accommodating mechanical engineers of Science Hall. -
: .Prof. Gregori has just completed two large oil paintings, 22x27, of the Sacred. Heart and St. Joseph with the Divine Child. The. paintings, which are finished in.that highest style of art for which .the maestro is so'distinguished, are designed for the.Italian Church of Chicago.	.
—Rev. Father" Zahm, our esteemed Vic^-Presi-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dent and Prof, of Natural Sciences, has accepted an invitation from Dr. Jordan, President of the Indiana State University at Bloomington, to lecture before the students of that institution. The lecture will be delivered to-morrow afternoon, on the subject of “ Religion and Science.”
—We are informed that the beginning of the second session will, in addition to other features, be characterized by the complete organization of the students’ choir. This will be delightful news to many in this locality as well as to visitors. The Church music during the scholastic year, thus far, has not been all that it might be.
—As soon as the weather permits, the foundations will be commenced for the grand monument to be erected to Bishop Brut6, Fathers Badin, de Seille, and Petit. From drawings we have seen, the monument will be one of the finest in the West, and one in every way worthy .of the illustrious missionaries whose deeds it will commemorate.
—Notre Dame University is the heaviest consumer of coal in Northern Indiana. They keep six teams busy hauling coal, and, it is said, use 28 tons per day in heating their great Institution. This is 10 tons per day more than is used by the new Indiana State House. They paid for coal, in December alone, the sum of $1,800.—South Bend Times.
—The twelfth and thirteenth regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held Dec. 7 and 15 respectively. The feature of the meetings was an interesting debate participated in by Masters E. Darragh, M. O’Kane, L. Preston, F. Long, T. Goebel, J. Wagoner, M. Luther, P. Chute and R. Oxnard. Essays were read by Masters M. O’Kane and S. Nussbaum.
—The tenth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held Saturday, Dec. 18. Essays were read by Messrs. H. D. Hull, P. Burke, ’P. VD. Brownson and H. McFarland. A debate on the subject: “Resolved, that the Christmas vacation is injurious to the student,” was very lively and entertaining. The debaters were Messrs. Burke, O’Regan, Kendall, Martineau and Hull.
—Prof. A. A. Griffith, the'well-known elocutionist's expected at Notre Dame in the hear future to deliver his celebrated lecture on “ Facial Movements.” Prof. Griffith is the author of a work on the art, and taught the classes of Elocution in the University about fifteen years ago. He is well remembered by many at Notre Dame as an agreeable gentleman, and a master of this particular branch of study. All may be assured of a rich treat by attending his lecture.
—We have received, with the compliments of Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, the Scholastic Annual for 1887. This is the twelfth year of this publication, and it has increased in excellence each year. It contains contributions from such well-known writers as Boyle Dowell, Prof. A. J. Stace, Rev. Dr. Howley, Prof. Albert F. Zahm, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Maurice F. Egan, Prof. Wm. Hoynes, and others, and
offers much other matter of interest.—South Bend Register.	■
—Last Thursday, Very Rev. Father General was made the recipient of a fine basket of oranges which had been fresh plucked and sent by the Sisters of St. Mary’s of the Rosary Academy, at Woodland, Cal. In accordance with his usual method of disposing of all delicacies he may receive, the venerable Superior kindly committed the delicious fruit to the tender mercies of his youthful proteges^ the Minims. The latter desire the Scholastic to express their grateful thanks to their beloved Patron.
—We are in the receipt of the 12th number of the Scholastic Annual, with the compliments of its publisher, Prof. Lyons. We are not using mere common-place politeness when we say that, excellent as previous numbers have been, this seems still an improvement. The leading articles are essays on the relation of capital and labor, and on the tariff, in the latter of which the writer takes the side of protection. Both are able and exhaustive in argument. We do not understand, however, that protection is dogmatically taught in the great University, of which the Annual is a representative. Like everything from the printing works of Notre Dame, the Annual is a gem of the paper makers’ and the printers’ art.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—The following official announcement has been made in regard to the semi-annual examination of the higher English classes in the University:
The Examination of the Classes of English will consist: 1st, in the writing of an original essay which shall count 60 per cent, of the marks. 2d, in a -written examination lasting for an hour and a half. (No oral examination.) This written examination shall count 40 per cent, of the-marks.
Subjects for the Essays—Literature Class:—“The English Literature of the 19th century, prose and poetry, as contrasted with that of the iSth century.” Rhetoric Class:—“The contrast between the diction of prose and the diction of poetry.” Composition Class:—“ The faults which may be committed in diction, and the remedies for these faults.”
The subjects were made known to the classes yesterday (Friday), and the essays will be collected and submitted to the Classical Board on Tuesday, _ January 25.
—Signor Gregori is at work on his sketches for the picture of St. Francis Xavier, to be placed over the Archbishop Kenrick Memorial Altar in the Cathedral of Philadelphia. The painting will represent the death of the great Apostle of the Indies in a hut on a small island near the .confines of the Japanese Empire. The sketch represents the Saint stretched on a mat, in the habit of the great Jesuit Order. Stones serve to elevate his head, and a crucifix, which he had clasped to his heart, is falling from his relaxing hands. Near the feet of the saint, a Japanese attendant is represented in an attitude expressive of his grief at the loss of his apostolic master. The picture will be placed beneath the full-length painting of St. Patrick, made by Gregori last summer. Thus, realizing the happy thought of His Grace Archbishop Ryan, pictures of both the patron saints of Most Rev. Francis Patrick Kenrick will decorate his Memorial Altar.	•	'
302
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Those who follow the “ Art Preservative” tender their acknowledgments for the baskets of excellent frosted cakes, savory fruits, etc,, lately presented them. AVe need scarcely say that, coming from the hands of the good and devoted Sisters, they were first-class in every respect, so much so as to satisfy even the cravings of an epicure. Last —though surely not the least acceptable—was an Epiphany cake, blessed by Very Rev. Father General, We assure all concerned that the feelings which prompted these acts of kindness and goodwill are duly appreciated.
—The following characteristic communication from an old friend of Notre Dame, was received by Very Rev. Father General during the Christmas holidays. Even at this rather late date, we deem it worthy of publication, because of the sentiment it contains:	.
“La Porte, Ind., Dec. 27,1S86.
“ Very Rev. E. Sorin.
“Dear Father General:—At the family gathering of the Wile family, held on Saturday, the 25th inst., the following preamble and resolutions were read and most unanimously adopted:
.“Whereas, we have all had reason and cause to be grateful to the good people of Notre Dame for many favors and kind acts of attention received at their hands during the many years of our acquaintance, and especially so at the hands of the venerable and beloved founder of the Institution, Be it, therefore,
“Resolved. That we herewith tender thanks and good wishes to Very Rev. E. Sorin for the kind and substantial remembrance which this family has enjoyed to-day; that we drink to his health; that our prayers for his life to be spared for many years to come are offered, and that a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to our beloved friend.
’ c* Verv sincerelv vour friend,
■	“ Jacob Wile.”
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall: Gold-headed cane used by7 the aged Bishop Flaget, who gave it to his coadjutor, Bishop Spalding, by whom it was presented to Captain James Rudd,' and by him given to Mr. John Rudd, of Louisville, who presented it to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall. Curious pocket missal, two hundred and forty years old, used by Bishop Brute, and by him given to the venerable Father Neyron, who gave it to Rt. Rev. Mgr. Bessonies, V. G., by whom it was presented to Notre Dame. Spanish document with signature and seal of Bishop Garcia Diego; manuscript Latin address by Espinosa to Bishop Garcia Diego when he entered Monterey, presented by Archbishop Riordan. Mitre used by Bishop Rosati; portrait of Bishop Rosati, presented by Rev. Father Kenrick. Portraits of Mgr. McEachern, Mgr. McDonald, Mgr. McIntyre, presented by Rt. Rev. P. McIntyre. Life-size bust portrait in crayon of Rt. Rev. Bishop Whelan, of Wheeling; album, handsomety framed in heavy bronze and plush,.filled with notices of Bishop Whelan, presented by his spiritual daughters, the Visitation Nuns of Mt. de Chantal. Portrait of Mgr. Seton in the robes of his office, presented by a friend. Mitre used by the first Archbishop of St. Louis, presented'by Sister Mary of the Good Shepherd. Sixteen letters written by Bishop England, twelve written by-Bishop Cheverus, nineteen written .by Bishop Dubourg, presented by a friend.. .
Roll of Honor-
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Becerra, Brownson, Burke, Baca,* Barnes, Bolton, Bush, Byrnes, Barrett, M. Colina,* Crane, Castleman, Craig, Coady, Cooper, Crilly, Cullen, Cassidy, Devlin, Dwyer, Dierdorff, Duffield, Eyaii-son, Egan, Ensor, Finckh, Ford, Fehr, Fry, Grever Gallardo, Galarneau, Gordon, Gibbs, Griffin, Houck, Hummer, Hagerty, Judie, Jeffs, Kleiber, Kendall, Kreutzer, Ley, Langan, Lyons, Lais, Leonard, Luther, T. McDermott, J. McDermott, G- Morrison, Marx, McErlain, Henry, McAlister, Murphy. McGinnis, Mallay, Mulkern, V. Morrison, • Myers, Murnan, Noonan, Neill, Nelson, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Donnell, O’Connell, L. O’Ma’ley, J. O’Malley, Orr, Padilla, P.. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Rheinberger, Rothert, Rochford, A. Rudd, J. Rudd, Suing, O. Sullivan, Stubbs, Shannon, Strasser, Triplett, Taylor, M. White, A. Williams, Wagoner, W. Williams, W. White, Waixel,.West, Zeitler, Zaehnle.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Bodley, Bunker, Brabrook, H. Boland, W. Boland, Baca, Benner, Burns, Bacigalupo, Black, Berry7, Brau-nich, E. Campbell, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford,* Cobbs, J. Qlarke, Casey, B. Clarke, Cooney, L. Chute, F. Chute, Curtis, E. Darragh, T. Darragh," Duffield, Dunning, Devine, J. Doss, E. Doss, Draper, Dempsey, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Flood, Fisher, Galarneau, Goebel, Garber, Glenn, Houston, Hoffman, Hayes, Houlihan, Hanley, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hannin, Henry, Hampton, Hibbord, Inks, Jewett, Joyce, Jacobs, Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Katz, Kern, Kahn, Kellner, Kutsche, Keating, Landen-wich, Lane, McKenzie, McCart, McMahon, W. McCormick, McIntosh, McPhee, McGuire, Monarch, Morgan, Macatee, Mulburger, Moncada, Morrison, Mitchell, Mallay, Nations, Noud, Ormond, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, O’Shea, Pfau, Preston, C. Paquette, L. Paquette, Roper, Redlich, Ramsey, Reynolds, Rosenthal, Sweet, B. Stephens, J. Stephens, Senn, Steele, F. Smith, Spencer, M. Smith, Schloss, Taliaferro, Tivnen, Vhay, Wilbanks, L. West, White, Walker, Welch, Walsh, Wade, Wageman.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Boyd, Bloomhuflj Blumenthal, C. Boettcher, Black, A. Backrack, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, Clendenin, Cohn, Crotty, W. Connor, C. Connor, Cooke, J. Conners, E. Conners, Corbett, Doss, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Dahler, Foote, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey,G. Franche, C. Franche, Gale, Grant, Goldmann, Garber, H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, Hagus, Haney7, Hillas, Jewett, Koester, Keefe, Klaner, Kraber, F. Kerwin, Lowenstein, Lane, Lewin, McIntosh, McDonnell, Martin, C. Mooney7, Mahon, H. Mooney, Munro, A. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mason, A. Morgenweck, F. Mainzer, Nester, O’Mara, -O’Neill, Paul, Priestly7, Quill, Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Savage, Silver, Sweet, Smith, Stone, J. Sulliyan, F. Sullivan, A. Sullivan, F Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, Tillenburg, Triplett, Taft, W. Williamson, Weckler.
* Omitted last week by7 mistake.
FIVE THINGS.
If you your lips Would keep from slips, Five things observe with care— Of whom you speak, To whom you speak,	.
And how, arid when, and where.
If y7ou your ears -	-
Would save from jeers.
These things keep mildly hid— “•Myself ” and “ I,”
And “ mine ” and “ my,” And how “ I ” do or did.
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	joj
Saint TFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Mrs. J. W. Doherty, of Chicago, has sent agreeable reminders of her esteem and affection o
to her friends in the Academy.
—Beautiful souvenirs of the Christmas-tide were sent by Miss Mary Murphy, of Woodstock, Ill., to each member of the Graduating Class.
— Miss Annie Butler, a former pupil of St. Mary’s, has sent a very acceptable donation to the church fund, for which she will please accept hearty thanks.
—The sermons of the Rev. Chaplain have been of remarkable interest during the Christmas season. They are always replete with deep thought and valuable instruction.
—During the holidays, in the Junior department, those most obliging and most distinguished for their love of order and neatness—two essential domestic virtues—are the Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, 0. Boyer, I. Stapleton, M. Hughes, Bridgman, A. McDonnnell and D. Rogers.
—The names of the following- young ladies, of the Senior department, are worthy of mention for their marked readiness to oblige, and to assist in keeping neatness and order during the holidays: The Misses Horn, Wolvin, Brady, A. Duffield, Kearns, G. Regan, Heckard, Snowhook, Blair, Hertzog, M. Smith, Stadtler, Stocksdale,Van Horn, Thompson, Negley and Johnston. '
—Miss Belle Heckard deserves to be honorably named for the beautiful penmanship in which the numerous complimentary addresses of the season were copied by her. Among the important accomplishments—or rather the indispensable acquirements of a good education—a neat, clear, graceful handwriting stands among the first. Flourishes, and bewildering and interlacing lines, do not belong to good penmanship.
—Heartfelt condolence is extended to Mrs. J. C. Jordon—nee Miss Anna Wooden—Class ’80, of Sigorney, Iowa, in her late affliction, the death of her excellent husband, which occurred last month; also to Dr. Wm. McCandless, and to the family of his estimable wife—formerly Miss Lizzie Ritchie, Class .’77—who died Dec. 2, 1886, in Pinkney ville, Ill. Especial sympathy is offered to Mrs. Emerson —ncc Miss Lettie Ritchie—Class ’85, the affectionately devoted sister of the deceased.
—In the Junior department, Miss Irene Stapleton has worn the Roman mosaic cross since Dec. 20, 1886, when it was drawn by Miss Ola Boyer, who waived her claim in her friend’s favor. Those who were equally entitled to the honor, and who drew for the insignia, were the Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, Beaubien, Blaine, Bruus, Campbell, Crane, Clore, C. Dempsey, L. Griffith,-.Hughes, Heyman, Hinze, Kendall, Knauer, Koester, Mason, McDonnell, Morse, Nester, Prudhomme and Stumer.
-—Among the visitors during the week were the following: Mr; B; Claggett; Lexington, Ill.: Mr. G. Brown, Mrs. Stumer, Mrs. J. S. Carter; Miss M. Moran, Chicago; Mrs; C. W. Papen-dick, Lawrence, Mich.; Miss A. Mason, Kalama-joo, Mich.; Miss M. Keene, South Bend, Ind.; Miss A. B. Holden, Alleghany, Penn.; Miss E. T. Wells, Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss J. T. Vance, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. D. AV. Fravel, Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. E. W. Dart, Mrs. R. Beaubien, Miss E. Beaubien, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. F. Schmauss,Rockford, Ill.; Miss M. Shanahan, Lombard, Ill.; Mr. M. AV. Egan, Independence, Iowa; Miss E. Dempsey, Manistee, Mich.; Miss K. Rapp, Cunora, Ill.; Miss M. Flake, Grand Rapids, Mich.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau of Notre Dame, in keeping with his never-failing kindness, brought to the Children of Mary, to the ladies of St. Anne’s Hall, and to the Minims, on Sunday, what is known at St. Mary’s as “ the blessed bread of Epiphany.” In France and Canada, in all the churches blessed bread is distributed every Sunday throughout the year. We, in the States, are less fortunate. In places like St. Mary’s we consider ourselves happy to receive it once in the year. A ring is often deposited in this bread, and special favors are natu- . rally expected to be the fortune of the one to whom this ring may fall. To afford a pleasant pastime for the young, the custom of the ^Gateau des Rois” is often observed with appropriate ceremonies. The one who receives thefeve is crowned, and a delightful and innocent amusement composes a part of the Epiphany festival. The ring is to commemorate the circle of Divine charity, made complete on the day the holy Magi knelt before the Incarnate Son of God in the stable of Bethlehem. The acceptance by the Blessed Virgin Mary, on the part of her Divine Son, of the symbolic gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, was the seal uniting the estranged gentile nations with the chosen people of God. The prayer said by the priest while blessing the bread is as follows:
“ O Lord, vouchsafe to bless this bread, and grant that all who may partake of it may enjoy health of body and mind.”	■
Silence.
- “ Silence is deep as eternity, Speech is as shallow as time.”
AVhen the toilsome, tumultuous day has passed, and darkness has spread her restful mantle over earth; when flocksand herds,and thrifty,ambitious mortals, the tuneful-winged denizens of air, and the prattling children of men have sunk to their repose, silence asserts her calm and life-giving power.
The brilliant wit,—the nucleus of the social circle —and the poor imbecile, chattering to himself his meaningless jargon, the eloquent orator and the. stammering child, have alike yielded to the potent sceptre of slumber. Their eyes are sealed; their lips move not. But this silence is not the hush of death. It is the kindling force of life. Nature is building up her exhausted energies. The soul is '
3°4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
traversing the mystical domain of dreams; the heart pulsates in tranquil rhythm, and the mind drinks at fountains more invigorating than those of the fabled Castalian spring of Parnassus.
Strong and irresistible as we find the charm of music to be, no fairer realm does she command than that of silence. In truth, she is subservient. Her harmony, her melody are bound in sweet meshes of silence. Her “ measures ” and her “ rests,” her crescendo and diminuendo are but her graceful acknowledgments, her acts of loving allegiance to silence, the voiceless queen of space.
The sphere of sound is limited: that of silence, is boundless as the universe. The restless rage of the tempest is vented in fierce discordance. The grandeur of the ocean is not so impressive in the dash of its giant waves against the shining beach as in its broad expanse; its countless leagues of . undulating surface, stretching away, far as the eye can follow, to where the tints of its waters mingle with the hues of cloudland. The billows approach the shore,but their thunders die on the sands: the threatening murmurs recede, and, far away, are lulled to rest, like the cares of our hearts when sleep has overpowered the weary senses. Space, so great as to be almost incomprehensible to our feeble minds,—-the mighty sea,
“ Without a mark, without a bound, And running the earth’s wide regions round,”
has filled us with awe. Well may we ask, in the words of Father Faber:
“ What is distance, but nature’s best poem, that sings As it lengthens its flight, throwing off from its wings The most magical softness which veils and discloses: Bringing out, filling up, wheresoe’er it reposes?”
It sings the song of the poet—the silent song, which is read, not heard; for the world of letters is noiseless.
The. land of silence, too, is the true abode of art. Though we hear of pictures that “speak,” so full are they of accurate, life-like expression, yet their language is that of the flowers and the stars, of the forests and the meadows, of the mountains and the valleys, of the rainbow and the dewdrop. It speaks to tile eye, to the mind, to the heart, and not to the ear.
Coleridge has told us of “a light in sound, a sound-like power in light,” and so natural is it to use, indiscriminately, terms descriptive of that which appeals to the sense of hearing, and words delineating those objects which challenge the sense of sight, that we readily admit even more than a poetical consistency in the resemblance traced by the author just quoted.
What inspirations thrill the soul of the artist as he studies the wonders of the silent realm where light and beauty have spread out their treasures, and made them tributary to his genius! The delicate and innumerable tints and shades of the varied landscapes which embellish the earth, are, sources of inexpressible delight.. Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter, each presents its own peculiar ' loveliness. So does every object of animate and inanimate creation. The little weed, whose mod-'
est blossom meets but the contempt of the florist, is admired by him. The symmetry of its petals, the brilliancy of its verdure, by him are not despised, any more than the stately and luxuriant tree that rears its summit to heaven. Both are precious pictures in Nature’s wonderful art-gallery. At each footstep he finds fresh models for his canvas: now it is the graceful bounding fawn; again the meek and gentle lamb, the faithful hound, or the noble horse. To-day he sketches the fragrant copse, the waving forest, the picturesque cottage or ruin; tomorrow, perchance, the loftier graces of human portraiture may claim his attention. What a world of mysterious study is here unfolded to his mind! In this sphere he opens the portals of the inviolable, silent land of thought, of emotion. He investigates their expression, and his obedient pencil writes their history on the canvas.
But not exclusively to the author and to the artist are the grandeurs of silence revealed. This land of calm and recollection presents its benefits to all, and invites them to remember its claims. The voluble, and those who express themselves freely, often have cause to regret their words.
“Speech is silver; silence is gold.”
Caroline Griffith ( Class
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Brady, E. Barry, Blair, Bates, Brophy, Blacklock, Beschameng, E. Coll, Dillon, A. Duffield, M. Duffield, Egan, Ewing, Griffith, Guise, Griffin, Horn, Heckard, Hertzog, Harlem, Johnson, Kearns, Murphy, M.McNamara, C. McNamara, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, Nester, Negley, G. Regan, Riedinger, Snowhook, Shields, R. Smith, M. Smith, Sherman, Stocks-dale, Triplett, Thompson, Van Horn, Wolvin, Zahm.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, Boyer, Bragdon, Bridgman, Campbell, Clore, Hughes, Kennedy, Leonard, Mason, McDonnell, Koester, Prudhomme.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses I. Becker, M. Becker, Caddagan, McCormic, A. Dinnin, O’Mara, H. Pugsley, Qualey.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Horn, Dillon, Griffith, Wolvin.
ist Senior Class—Misses Kearns, Snowhook, Regan, Brady, Heckard, Guise.
2D Senior Class—Misses Barry, Blair, Coll, Balch, Stocksdale, Hertzog, Moran, Riedinger, Stadtler, Smith, Van Horn.	•
3d Senior Class—Misses Bates, Campeau, M. Duffield, Egan, L. Griffith, Harlem, Huntting, Griffin, McDonnell, McCormic, Murphy, Marsh, R. Smith, Shields, Triplett, M. McNamara.
Intermediate Class—Misses C. McNamara, Allnoch, Blacklock, H. Nester, L. Nester.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Wimmer, T. Balch, Leonard.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Stapleton, Qualey, Zahm, Mason.	.
Junior Prep.—Misses C. Caddagan, Rhodes, Crane, Rogers. ’
ist Junior Class—Misses Campbell, A. O’Mara, Me Corm icr Pugsley.	....
2D Prep. Class—Misses I. Becker, M. Becker..