NAVY MEN!

AT GILBERT’S LOW PRICES
■fi
Why Buy Unknown Brands at the Same Price?
Navy Officers' Uniforms
Dobbs Navy Officers' Caps
Arrow Shir+s and Collars
AND EVERYTHING YOU'LL NEED TO COMPLETE YOUR OUTFIT
Call Us -- We'll Deliver
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
2
- Gktcaao-	in	cMoiel . . . .
ki’. ;	-.	-■’.	—	„■■-...	,	■■■
WELCOME
TAXI FREE!
>> -
TO THE MODERN GILBERT'S
Hail any Cab — Tell ’ the driver “Gilbert’s.” We pay upon arrival. *
You UI enjoy shopping in this air-conditioned store for men
EVERYTHING FOR THE NAVY MAN
THE MODERN
GILBERTS
&mjz,	AktxrtfvzAj ‘
>>,	. •
/	SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STOR
3
4

COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
fLONG AGO
'j A poet who, one night heartsick, Looked up where the stars were so thick
As he wandered, they tell,
X He fell into a well,
.-.i But they fished him out pretty damp, quick.—1906
<	CHARM MARM
» - Out in Omaha the boys at Creighton University have a new lead to success.
*	■ The following ad appeared in a recent issue of The Creightonian.
CHARM SCHOOL
Young Men Interested in Learning the Social Graces See
>	Irene Konat or Marilyn Dugal Dancing, Lines Taught
*	"	Reasonable Rates
Guaranteed to Turn Out a Finished Product
SKIN DEEP
’’ Not that it matters, but one of the v lesser statisticians has figured that the average co-ed spends 1,176 hours or 49 days before a mirror during four years of college.
Specific St. Mary’s figures were unavailable, but nine out of ten girls are said to be beautiful, but this may be mere ►. conversation.
SOUTHERN HOSPITALITY
President C. B. Hodges of Louisiana State comes across with the latest news on beating the high cost of living. Go to L.S.U., says he for the cost of living there has risen only eight-tenth of one per cent in three years, while the bureau of labor statistics points out that average living costs have increased 16 per I cent over the same period of time.
Two can live as cheaply as one— r-' at L.S.U.
SUN FUN
The kings of Pent were the Incas. t' They were widely renozvned as drincas.
They worshipped the sun
And had lots of fun,
But the peasants all thought they were stincas.
The Aquinas
PUHPADHANA
“In England any boy who works his way through college would not be accepted socially, but in the United States those boys are looked up to and are even envied. That is what I like about democratic America.”
These are the words of Udom (call me George) Puhpadhana, a Miami University student who has been around enough to know what he is talking about. George was bom in Thailand and has taken his education in Thailand, Hongkong, Shanghai, London, Paris, Lisbon, and various American schools of higher education. He speaks three Chinese dialects in addition to French, Thai and English.
After a recent visit, George is reported to have said: “St. Mary’s girls are (the) nuts.”
TALE
Sail, Gale, Pale, Rail.
The Tomahawk
QUELL BELL
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., president of Portland University, Oregon, and former member of the Notre Dame faculty, recently silenced Portland’s Victory Bell for the duration.
With the words, “There can be no real victories until our boys return victorious to their homes,” Father Miltner removed the clapper from the bell which was part of a Victory Shrine erected last year.
Keep buying those War Stamps and we’ll soon have that bell ringing again for our West Coast brothers.
BLACKOUT
Dear Dad:
Gue$$ what I need mo$t of all? That’$ right. $end it §oon. Be$t wi$he§. Your $on.
Tad Pole
Dear Son:
Nothing ever happens here. Write us aNOther letter aNOn. NOw I must say goodbye as NOt aNOther thing do I kNOw to write. Good luck.
Dad Pole
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vwe Quasi Cras Moriturus
r
FOUNDED 18 6 7
i
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917.. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Don Heltzel, Editor
Robert D. I^l&EisSE....Managing	Editor
Daniel Downey.___________Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds____________Sports	Editor
Robert Dunne_____________Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan____________Promotion
Ted Weber.________________Photo	Editor
Walter Krawiec______________Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis..Sta^ photographer Gail Fitch, Jr. ___________Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national' advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 151 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind,
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Sunday through Wednesday at i :15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Sophomore Cotillion Tonight ...-  9
Freshmen Fleeced in Racket I I
Editor of "Greeen Banner” _______12
War Bond Drive __________________13
ADMINISTRATION
Laetare Medalist Dies ________15
17 Profs Publish ___....._____d5
SPORTS
Stanford Game ________________20
Sports Editor on "T”  ________25
FEATURES
College Parade 5
The Week ______________„2_______ 6
Telescope _____:______^...______C10
Man About Campus _______________12
The Navy______________-.________.18.
Introducing ______1_____________.’23
Short Shots ___:______----------24 .
Splinters ____________1_____. :.-..„:.26
Dis-cussion ____________________1...32

5
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Rock adopts theme song.
COTILLION CUTIES
The sophs are in their glory today, for tonight is theirs—till 1:30. As one of the former “Weeks” so perfectly put it: “They rush to get locked in before they get locked out.” Each soph has been asked to let his date sit with a sailor during the game and to let each V-7 man have two sets with her at the dance tonight. Someone has to do something to cheer up these lonesome boys, and it might just as well be your girl friends as anyone else. And so it is that Miss Judy Hollenkamp will lead the grand march down the quadrangle, into the lake, and twice around the football stadium. The V-7 lads have been invited to take over the girls after the students leave tonight. The band will continue playing till 3:00 a.m. A noble gesture on the part of the sophs! Notre Dame is proud of youse guys. Perhaps the most famous quotation next Monday will be: “I know* she doesn’t look like her picture but she wTas tired. 800 miles is a long v-ay to hitch hike.”
LA DE DA
Bert Bertelli was on the Court of Missing Persons broadcast last -week. ’Midst strains of Let Me Off Up Town,- Bert told his heart-rending story of the little boy in the big city. Said Bert: “Which way is the Mishawaka bus?”.... The Green Banner is stealing our stuff.... The first get - acquainted dance, better known as, “So you Avanta’ lead a band of harpies,” was held for the freshmen at the “Rock” last -week. One of the lads was griping about things in general when an acute young, thing crawled up to him and said, oh so colloquially: “You should look at us through rose-colored glasses.” Said our hero: “I did, and.it looked like Dante’s Inferno.’’, That’s showing remarkable restraint wTe think .... On Saturday nights the’ steak may sometimes be tough but we have to give the chef credit for one thing anyway. You can always bend the gravy.'... Back to the “Rock.” The girls are much happier since hanging that -new sign over the door of old “Mascara” Hall. It reads: “Abandon all hope,' oh ye who enter here.” The girls at “Sweetbriar” have one big advantage, in fact, two big advantages over the other girl schools.
The first one is ourselves. And as for the second one, we’ll let them make it up themselves . . . The Seniors ($1000) seem to be passing up the Cotillion ($500) in favor of the Prom ($750). . . . One morning last w-eek the butter was feeling strong and took a walk around the table to say “hello” to the coffee; but the coffee was too weak to answ7er.	-
SUBWAY ALUMNI
Isn’t it nice having people back on the campus staring at us again? Another home football game is here and so are the foreigners. Once again strange looking people will stand in front of Father Sorin’s statue and inquire as to whom he was. Say the freshmen: “I dunno.” Say the sophomores: “Gimme a nickle an’ I’ll tell ya.” Say the juniors: “Knute Rockne’s grandfather.” Say the seniors: “Lady, is this your daughter?” Ah, those sly, sly seniors. The average visitor is
surprised, yea stunned, upon learning that w-e do not wear football uniforms to . class and that we do not have to take a course in The Theory of Football. Of course there is always the freshman showing the family around the campus. He inevitably calls things by their maid- , en names. “That’s w7here I have my history class. It’s knowm as flunk it with Plunkett. This is the post office where all my letters come in, (both of them). There’s the bog, and over there is the Rock, and that building there is the Yacht Club. There’s the tea pot over there, wffiere they serve us those mystery ■ balls. There’s the Gold Coast, and that’s , where the Zahmbies live. There goes Joe Pulf a B.T.O. and definitely a B.M.O.C.” The father looks puzzled, the sister thinks that big-brother is just too smart > and w-ait till she tells the girls at Antelope Tech about him; and mother stag- ' gers, then faints when her little Willy 4 yells at a girl whose slip is showing: “Hey sister, your anchor’s draggin’.”
FAMOUS LAST WORDS:
In Cafeteria — “Praise the Lord, I’m getting malnutrition.”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Sleepy Log Goon.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
>
Vol. 77
OCTOBER 9, 1942
No. 3
N. D. BECOMES FOURTH MIDSHIPMAN
SCHOOL IN U. S. AS 1300 V-7'S ARRIVE
| Announcement |
More Officers Arrive Here as Four-Month Tour Starts
* • Signifying a possible permanent rela-. tionship between the Navy and Notre
*" Dame, 1,300 men who will be trained at the University’s new Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School arrived Monday, _t Oct. 5, for the four-months' session.
In connection with the appointment ► - of the University as a midshipmen’s center, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president, declared that it was “an honor of a permanent character,” and expressed belief that the designation -will find a “continuing and intensifying of the fine relations” already enjoyed.
The midshipmen’s school was assigned to Notre Dame after five classes of V-7 k trainees had completed pre-indoctrination courses here. The first of these * groups began training at the University April 15.
Authorities offered two reasons for converting the local indoctrination station into a midshipmen’s base: the ex' ” penditures necessary, in transferring the trainees, and the undesirable break in ‘ training made by the transfer trip.
Previously, those .who finished the preindoctrination periods . here, were sent to either Abbott Hall, ’ Chicago, . or to the Prairie State,- anchored in the ’ Hudson River, N- Y. .	.
Officials interviewed emphasized the fact that for the first month there will be no evidence of a midshiiJmen’s school. Following this period, which will be the same as past groups underwent, the men who qualify - will receive three-months 1 training in the capacity of midshipmen and then will be commissioned and as' . signed to active. duty. This advanced training will include classes in navigation, ordnance, seamanship, damage control, professional drills, and some athletics.
~ On becoming midshipmen, the men will don the navy-blue officers’ uniforms with the gold star on the sleeves. .
The staff of officer personnel to train the midshipmen has almost doubled the
usual number of officers stationed here. The number of officers at the local station who are Annapolis graduates is higher than at any of the other three schools of this type in the nation. The other three middy schools are located at New York City, the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md., and Abbott Hall, Chicago.
For the “middy school,” two buildings are being, erected. One, under construction behind the Rockne Memorial, will have classrooms and office space for the commanding officer, Captain J. H. Burnett. By Oct. 15, it is expected to have its two storied, asbestos - shingled sides raised. The other building lies directly east of the gymnasium, extending across the concrete driveway into Cartier field. This latter building will be the larger of the two, measuring 100 feet by 276 feet and will be used for indoor drilling and exercise.	.
Sailors and spaghetti: the system has changed, but not the food
Captain H. P. Burnett, commandant of the Notre Dame naval station, requests that the following be published as a matter- of possible vital interest to students:
“Information has been, received from the Navy department that college undergraduates will ho longer be issued probationary commissions in the U.S. Naval reserve. In the future the V-l program is the only opportunity for such commissions open to freshmen and sophomores, -except the Naval R.O.T.C. at the beginning of each fall semester, and the V-5 and V-7 programs are the only opportunities open to juniors and seniors.
“Freshmen and sophomores who may desire information concerning the V-l program should apply to the Rev. J. D. Trahey, C.S.C. Juniors and seniors may obtain information concerning the same from Lieut, (junior grade) J. M. Ken-
nedy, U.S.N.R., in the Rockne Memorial building.
“. . . Pre-medical and pre-dental students in their junior or senior year' may enlist in Class V-7 (S), and are exempt from regular courses prescribed for enlistment in V-7. Such students are automatically transferred to Class H-V (P) at the time they are accepted by a. med- •
ical school. . . .”
Plans Announced For Cleveland Student Trip
With three weeks to go before Notre
Dame meets Navy on the gridiron in
Cleveland, plans
CHARLES KANE
are being formed for the unofficial student trip to the game by Charles H. Kane, president of the local Cleveland Club.
According to President Kane, expenses for the entire trip will be approximately those of last year’s
journey to New York. Due to the present situation, no special train rates are available, though every effort is being made to get a special train for the trip. The round-trip rail fare amounts to $10.60.
Tentative plans now call for departure Friday afternoon Oct. 30, which will get the students into Cleveland in time for the Notre Dame reunion festivities at the Carter Hotel that night. Slated to be present at the dinner are many naval and Notre Dame officials. A continuous stage show is promised for entertainment. Three conventions scheduled for Cleveland at this same time make it difficult to obtain a ballroom for a student and alumni dance Friday night.
Attention of students is called to the fact that no flat rate can be given for the entire trip. All expenses will be incurred separately, such as train fare, game ticket, and hotel accommodations. The prices of game tickets and hotel rooms will be announced definitely next week.	- '	•	.
Chuck Kane announced that Captain Burnett expressed the desire that all the N.R.O.T.C. cadets make the trip and attend the Navy game in a unit. At present it is unknown whether the band will be able to make the trip.
A preliminary census of all students who think they will go to the game is now being taken by the Cleveland Club. Besides President Kane, of Sorin Hall, other official representatives of the club are Griff Allen, Cavanaugh,- William Mulligan, Walsh, and Dick. Pejeau of Dillon.	:	;	.
f . -■	\	'
Law College Marks 73rd Year of Existence
Two important wartime changes have been made in the Notre Dame College of Law as it begins its 73rd year of preparing young men for the legal profession. •
The changes are a reduction of entrance requirements and the shortening -of the length of the course. Previously Notre Dame was one of the few schools which required three years of pre-law for entrance. This has been reduced to two years and the addition of another semester to the school year will enable a law student to complete the six re-" , quired semesters in law school in two . calendar years. .	.
Historically, the Notre Dame law. . school is the oldest Catholic college in the United States, having had its be- , ginning in 1869 when the course was in-. . . troduced into the. scholastic curricula..
Since then the college has grown , rapid- \ ly and is now one of the. 95 member in- /
(SCHOLASTIC feels that the idea presented in the following letter is a good one. It’s working out would certainly be a worthy endeavor for some campus chib. Any chib desiring to promote this idea is advisdd to contact the Student Council at once.)	.	'
Columbia University, New York City .
September 18, 1942 The Honorable Henry Morgenthau, Jr.
Secretary of the Treasury
Treasury Building Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I am sure that you will be interested to know of a little plan which we at Columbia have evolved to help further the sale of War Bonds and Stamps at our football games here at Baker Field.
It is this: Between halves of each of oui’ games, we are planning to auction off the game ball, autographed by the captains of the opposing teams, the ball being presented, of course, to that spectator in the stands who pledges to buy the largest War Bond.
It is our hope to inaugurate this little ceremony at our first game here on September 26, when we will meet the United States Army team from Fort Monmouth, N. J. (All proceeds going to Army Emergency Relief, incidentally). We hope to have Mayor LaGuardia, or some other prominent citizen, act as the “Auctioneer,” with results of the bidding announced by him over a loud speaker on the field. Bids, through pledges, will be carried to the microphone by ushers and members of the Women’s Voluntary Services.	.
We expect to devote ten minutes of the halftime intermission to this public “bidding,” but we shall urge spectators to continue by presenting their pledges throughout the game to a War Bond booth situated at the end of the field. Some time before the game ends, we shall announce the winner over the public address system.
We shall be happy to let you know further about the results achieved.
With all good wishes, .
Sincerely yours,	‘
(Sig.) Edward S. Elliott

Al
stitutions of the Association of American Law Schools. It also has the approval of the Council of Legal Education of the . American Bar Association. Using the ’ case method . of instruction, the college aims at giving the student a thorough and practical preparation for the practice of law in any state.
The college is housed in a comparatively new building, constructed in 1930, J which is considered as one of the most complete structures of its kind in the educational world. The work of two outstanding architects, M a g i n n i s and Walsh, it includes a library of more i than 17,000 volumes of reports of all , state and territorial proceedings, both from the Supreme and lower courts, and several thousand treatises and .textbooks.
The present , dean, Dr. Clarence E. Manion, is the fourth man to hold that ; position. A well-lmown orator, author ‘ ' and active lawyer, Dean Manion took his J.D; degree, from the University in . 1922. The late Hon. William J.’Hoynes, . . (Continued on page 34)'
- SOPHS SWING OUT AT PALAIS TONIGHT AS COTILLION WEEK-END BEGINS
Indiana Club, will take up Saturday-evening. The center aisle in Sacred Heart Church .will he reserved for Cotillionites at 10 o’clock Mass on Sunday morning.	’
\	' TED WEBER
*• It’s a Notre Dame tradition — this ' Sophomore Cotillion. And tonight in the Palais Royale, in a football mood and Centenary atmosphere, 400 sophomores, ' juniors, and seniors and their guests will swing out to the music of Eddy Howard at this, the 32nd birthday of the Sopho-"■ more Cotillion.
An early evening pep-meeting and glee club concert on campus, the Stanford — football game and a Saturday evening Victory dance will combine with the Co" tillion itself as the highlights of the week-end for sophomores and their guests.	.
Reigning as Queen of the Cotillion will be Miss Helen McKeough from South Bend and guest tonight of Jack Leahy, . general chairman. Because football-playing Frank Cusick, president of the soph- omore class, will be unable to attend, orchestra chairman Dick Murphy’s guest, r' Miss Mary Jane Mosier, of Oak Park, ,, will hold forth as Guest of Honor.
It was in the late fall of 1910 that the first Sophomore Cotillion was born. • The cancellation of a junior* reception was replaced by a dinner-dance spon-■ sored by the second year men. At the first Cotillion about 80 couples were present; tonight approximately 800 Cotillion-
Miss Helen McKeough
ites will fill the Palais Royale. An orchestra directed by a faculty member provided the music for that first Cotillion; tonight Maestro Howard, recently of Chicago’s Aragon, will take over the band-stand.
Beginning early this afternoon and through to late Sunday afternoon, sophomores and their guests will hold the campus spotlight. Special seats have been erected in the field-house for tonight’s pep-meeting and the glee club concert will be held in the sophomores’ “own back yard,” the Dilhn-Alumni c.rmrt.
Cotillionites Will Swing Out
The music of the glee club will be echoing in their ears as sophomores return their guests to downtown hotels and make a mad rush back to campus to don formal attii*e. From nine till one it will be Maestro Howard and his band in a decorated Palais Royale as the features of the 1942 Cotillion. The decorations will take as their theme “white ties and tails” and will feature seven silhouettes each outlining a phase of the week-end activities. . ■
Saturday afternoon Cotillionites- will watch the Irish bid for: victory. over Stanford in a specially reserved end-zone section. Another dance, this time the Student Council Victory Dance at the
The music committee of Murphy, Byrne, O’Neil, co-chairmen, and Tom Reyburn lay claim to signing one of the biggest bands ever to play for a Cotillion. Howard opened his musical career as a guitar player with Dick Jurgens, left him to become a soloist and in turn leader of his own band. Best known for the songs he has written, Howard will sing four of these at the Cotillion. They are: “A Million Dreams Ago,” “If I Knew Then,” “Careless,” and “My Last Goodby.” The orchestra features vocalist Roy Bast, drummer Howie : Kerns, and the four Swing Sirs, a vocal quartet.
(For Columnist Frank King’s ideas of Eddg Howard’s, music, see “Disc-cussion,” page 32).
Combination tickets for the Cotillion and Stanford game went on sale early this week in Dillon with the price for both at five dollars. In charge of tickets were Jack Herlihy, Al Bohn, and Jim Reagan. '
With Joe Long as chairman, the arrangements committee of Dick Drier, Bill Griffin, and Frank Crowley was in charge of the selection of theme and decorations. The sketches and silhouettes are the work of John Bartolomeo, soph-cmore arcihtect of Joliet, Hl. ,
Guests will be housed in downtown hotels and South Bend homes. Jim Crowley, Jack Welsh, Bill Dwyer, and Jack Killian of the reception committee have
been at work since mid-August compiling and assigning lists of available rooms.
Tony Earley, Jim Monaghan, and Joe O’Keefe of the publicity committee and Jack Conway, Bill Harrington, and Paul Cartwright of the patrons' committee complete the student groups working on the Cotillion.
Patrons for the dance will include Captain and Mrs. H. P. Burnett, Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Leahy, Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Cusic, Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Leahy, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Mulligan, Mr. and Mrs. Murphy, Mr. and Mrs. J. J. O’Neil, Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Grumbine, Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Long, Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Earley, Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Griffin, Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Crowley, Mr. and Mrs. Conway, Commander and Mrs. J. E. Herlihy and Mr. and Mrs. Drier.
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
FRIDAY, Oct. 9: Pep Rally, followed by Glee Club football concert between Dillon and Alumni Halls. Sophomores’ night out! The Cotillion, Palais Royale. Cotillion broadcast over WSBT from 11:05 till 11:30.
SATURDAY, Oct. 10: Notre Dame-Stanford game in Notre Dame stadium at 2:30. “News and Previews” . with Vail Pischke, 12:30 to 12:45, WSBT. Notre Dame Quiz show with Dan Downey, 5:00. Victory Dance,’ Indiana Club, 8:30. Movie, Washington Hall.	-	.
SUNDAY, Oct. 11: Parade of Cotillionites, to 10. o’clock Mass. Notre Dame Forum of the Air, WSBT, 10:0510:30. .
MONDAY, Oct. 12: Sportscast with Lee Raymond arid Bill Boss, WSBT, 3:30-3:45. Iowa Pre-flight 'tickets for seniors, 12:30-4:00.
TUESDAY, Oct. 13: Iowa Pfe-flight game tickets for. juniors. -
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 14: Movies of the Stanford game, Engineering Building, 7:30 and 8:15. Economic Round Table meeting. Sophomore tickets for . Iowa Pre-flight game. :	.
THURSDAY, Oct. 15: K. of C. war bond and stamp room-to-room sale, commencing at 7:30 p.m. . Radio " Club meetirig, 7:30. Freshmen Iowa Preflight tickets. "Wrangler’s meeting,’ 7:30. .	- . - YA :	:
Tom Miller Wins First Valuable Player Award;
Variety Program Promised Fans Tomorrow
Robert Kopf
Dampened somewhat by a defeat at the hands of Georgia Tech, the Metropolitan Club presented its initial football show Saturday after the game.
Tom Miller was overwhelmingly voted the “player of the day” award for his stellar afternoon’s play and appeared in person to accept the scroll. The Wilmington speedster’s hard running and pass receiving was one of the heartening aspects of the game. The lone Irish marker came when Tom skirted around
Halfback tom miller
his own left end for 15 yards and the touchdown. A $25 defense bond will be given to Miller upon graduation. The winner was chosen by a committee of three: the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C/S.C., vice-president of the University, Coach Frank Leahy, and the compiled written vote of. the students who attended the show.
The program teed off with Master of Ceremonies Dave Curtin introducing Veet Capello’s Cavaliers who rendered a special arrangement of “Take Me Out of the Ball Game” by Norm Hauser, . their first sax man. Then some 700 customers, already hoarse.from the game, went through the Notre Dame cheers under the direction of the cheer leaders."
. Although the. promised scores of .other . games could not be secured, the 40-min-ute show continued with more cheers and < music. Veet and his lads sent .the rhythms of “Let Me Off Up Town” and a vocal by.Hank Kane, “Take Me,” echoing through Washington Hall. The afterr noon concluded. with the singing of the “Victory March.” < .	.	1 w
.. Due to lack of cooperation on several sides, the show last Saturday; did hot . turn out so successfully, as planned. However, Don Degnan, president of the Metropolitan club, and master of cere- •
monies Dave Curtin promise a real program for tomorrow’s award. Besides several entertainers, there will be noted speakers with the entire football team present.
Don Degnan, together with the officers and members of the club, has promoted this program which is hoped will bolster the war effort and promote a closer union between the team and students. Club members were admitted by presentation of their membership cards.
In addition to the Saturday show following- home games, the Met Club plans to have a football banquet at the end of the season to present the most valuable player of the season with a special trophy.
Pep Rally Troubles
Revealed to Students
If Walt Jones publishes a book entitled “The Mystery of the Missing Pep Rally Speakers” he will be justified. Students expressing disapproval of the ill-planned spontaneity of the program little realized Walt’s woes.
Bill Alexander, Georgia Tech coach, tired from the long trip and with a trainload of his boys to meet, bowed out gracefully from the duties of a pep rally speaker. Our own Coach Leahy was excused on account of sickness. Maestro Ben Bernie was contacted just 20 minutes too late; he expressed his regrets but was unable to break a previous engagement. Governor Schricker and S.B.T. Sports Editor Costin were also on the not - thought - of - on - time list. CBS Sports Announcer Ted Husing, he of the fluid-drive tongue, received an invitation in plenty of time. Husing refused to give a yes or no answer until the last minute and then declined without comment. It is rumored that Ted has failed to appreciate. pep rally audiences ever since one of his pet jokes received a unanimous boo several years back. .
sSaid Head Cheerleader Tracy: The rally didn’t receive enough publicity.
-X


“Scholastic's” new color- plus cover was designed by Milton Walton, display advertiser for the South Bend Tribune. Mr. Walton’s effort initiates this magazine’s regular color issue plan. “Scholastic” now boasts a printing order for. 7,000 copies - with each issue.
10
’ OPERATORS FLEECE FROSH SUCKERS IN ILLEGAL FOOTBALL POOL RACKET
DAVE CONDON
Cavaliers Tomorrow Night;
'' Run-Around " by Chemists
■ Friction found its way into Alumni Hall last week when the hand- for the-
Every Indian summer, campus financiers drag out the old reliable, the football pool ticket. And football being to Notre Dame like the White House to President Roosevelt, they mop up like a prohibition bartender. Never have such fine pickings been had since they shook ■ the down from the goose that laid the x- golden egg.
It works thusly: Those running the pool select several games tougher than x a five cent hamburger (remember?). If perchance some of the games aren’t exactly toss-ups, such as Slippery Rock versus Minnesota, yield seven points to the Greased Pebbles.
Thus with tough games, giving points, - and making ties “heads we win—tails you lose,” the operators are in a better , cleanup spot than DiMaggio.	'
* Then the tickets are peddled. Freshmen make the best customers, since the first year boys are about as loose as a double-jointed India rubber man on roller skates when it comes to parting with dough. And when it gets down to brass knuckles, frosh with finances have been left holding more bags than the entire Red Cap organization.
All the tickets, however, can’t be peddled to frosh, and that is where upperclassmen come in. The number of upperclassmen eligible to purchase said tickets, however, is limited, since the majority are on the other side of the fence.
With upperclassmen, there are other difficulties, too. Seniors notoriously slow on the draw for the pocketbook, are considered bad prospects by anything but the draft.
k Juniors sometimes buy tickets, but hewing seasoned by two years under- the ■ v shadow of golden voiced salesmen, are a rather cautious lot. That leaves sophs.
Sophs,, too, know the ropes better than < . Max Baer and are fond of keeping the ? jingle, jangle, jingle in their own pockets. — Sad was the experience of one ticket, vendor who canvassed Dillon last week. He sold 40 two-bit tickets and ended up by buying 13 Cotillion corsages, one chance on an. Idaho Wesleyan season .	ticket,: and two subscriptions to News' week. ’	. .	-	■
On your ticket if you pick five for five, the profit is eight marbles for one invested. It increases up to 40 to 1 for the
man with a system who picks ten for ten. However, unless you were born under the sign of a rabbit’s foot, you can get better returns from the tennis team at a girls’ academy in Ottawa.
Statistics show two strikes against you and Bob Feller on the mound before you even start picking. This is because ties lose, and that is an 18% probability on the cards. The odds are less than your chance of buying four new tires. For example: Cards pay from ten up to.20-to one for six out of six right. Mathematically, chances of selecting six for six are 64 to 1.
Not to be one-sided, we interviewed a vendor on the campus. One Notre Dame vendor, class of 4-F, said, “Last, week a student won $2.50. And that happened in 1937, too.”
How about that! ■
Attention Seniors
Tuesday afternoon, Oct. 13, from 12:30-5:30 p.m. will be absolutely the last opportunity to be measured for caps and gowns. Measurements will be taken in 224 . Alumni Hall.
.... Heads We Win, Tails You Lose.
Saturday night Victory Dance was an
BOB DEGENHART
nounced by Bob Degenhart, president of the Chemistry Club, to be Myron Walz and his orchestra. Veet Capello and his Cavaliers evidently had an eye . for the job, for they expressed some disappointment
at not getting the nod. Said singer Hank Kane, “The Chern club crowd gave us the run-around.” President. Degenhart
expressed the thought, that this is still a free country and students have the right to choose their bands. His roommate;'Bob . Dunlay, said Myron Walz and his or
chestra played better than the Cavaliers could anyway.
Over 200 couples crowded the Indiana Club to attend this first Victory Dance of Notre Dame’s centenary season. According to Degenhart the dance was considered by all a huge success. -	.
Tomorrow after the Stanford, Indians hold a pow-wow in Notre Dame stadium, another Victory Dance is scheduled, sponsored by the Student Council. At this Capello’s Cavaliers will play. Bids as usual will be S1.10.	.	•
11
WILL THE "GREEN BANNER" REAPPEAR?
STUDENTS GUESS EDITOR, CRITICIZE
What 3,000 students want to know is
“Where is the second issue of The Green Banner?” In an effort to determine just who was behind the mysterious publication and what students, in general, thought of the paper, Scholastic conducted a poll covering 14 students from seven halls. Of each student two questions were asked: Who do you think is the editor of The Green Banner? and What did you think of the paper?
Various opinions have been offered by others outside the student body. Several faculty members commented on the eight page publication. “It was criminal!” said one. Said another, “It would have been better had there been more ‘information’ in it.” A third characterized the paper as “the attempt of a few frustrated individuals to express themselves.” A fourth faculty member expressed a desire to write for the Banner.
Several comments came from Saint Mary’s girls who somehow procured a copy of the first issue of the paper. The general reaction among them was amusement at everything but the article which concerned them. One expressed the belief that Scholastic was responsible for its appearance.
Following are the opinions of the 14 students interviewed on the questions. Only two students found it out of place, two were disappointed at its timid attitude. The rest couldn’t find adequate words to express their praise.
. Luke Newbold, 123 Carroll: “I don’t have any idea who put it out. But it is a great idea. Whoever it was, they ought to keep it up. It’s the best thing I’ve run across since I’ve been at Notre Dame.”
Tom McGuire, 158 Cavanaugh: “I think the Scholastic staff put it out. If they had a few more issues of it that expressed student opinion as well as the first did, it would be swell.”
Kelly Cook, 201 Walsh: “I think Jack Woelfle.must be the editor. At any rate, it was a pretty good publication.”
Jack Woelfie, 205 Walsh: “I think the editor was either Father Burke or Louis - Kurtz. Undoubtedly it was a fine publication.”	- j .	.
- Bob Gantner, 104 Dillon: . “I don’t know who put it out; some upper .class-, men probably. I thought it very good; and I hope it continues.” . ’
Bob Calan, 302 Alumni: “It must have been John Considine. It surely has possibilities. The St. Mary’s article and the one on profs were especially good.” -
so many fellows called the editor, I
couldn’t hazard an accurate guess. I think it was a very good paper: something we need around here.”
Felix McFarland, 230 Cavanaugh: “I haven’t the slightest idea who put it out. The articles, I think, weren’t of sufficient quality to be run even in the Scholastic.
Dick Terry, 226 St. Edwards: “I have no idea who put it out. There wasn’t much to it. I’d rather read the Scholastic any day.”
Chuck Kane, 253 Sorin: “I think the editor was Jack Finnigan. It’s the greatest thing to hit this campus in my four years here. I think it will provide the necessary stimulus to get the Scholastic out of its English major rut.”
Fred Goebeler, 31 Carroll: “I only have a faint idea of who might be the editor. I was disappointed in it. Wasn’t up to what I expected after hearing so many rave about its coming.”
Charles Leslie, 276 Dillon: “It must have been Dave Curtin who put it out. I liked it very much—something different from the manufactured stuff you read around here.”
Frank Haley, 267 Alumni: “I think it was many rather than one specific editor. Except for the fact that it wasn’t radical enough, it was very good.”
Joe Montegna, 124 St. Edward’s: “I don’t have any idea who the editor might be. All I know is it was real freedom of the press. The appealing angle is that
any student can put whatever he wants into it.”
(When the “Green Banner” will appear again no one seems to know with any degree of certainty. The idea of. the anonymous campus publication is by no means original. It belongs to the pulp variety of journalistic endeavor which - periodically -makes an appearance, and then dwindles into oblivion after the second or third issue. The SCHOLASTIC notes, in passing, that several articles, . highlighted in the initial appearance of
“Green Banner,” failed to -meet the grammatical and journalistic requirements of the official campus -publication. -Furthermore, since the SCHOLASTIC is
. a news .weekly, it does not look. upon . “Green Banner” as, either a rival or a
competitor. The SCHOLASTIC-mentions	liked to have viewed the series. T'
the appearance, of the new publication .Where there is baseball there is Tallet merely as a campus news item.)	... 467 batting average and all.	J
Frank Kearns, 248 Sorin: “I’ve heard
Jack Tallet, from North Chicago, Ill., " is senior class president, law student, ' baseball player extraordinary, and habi- * tant of Alumni hall.	.
Scaling 192 pounds and standing six- j three, Tallet was powerhouse hitter on ' 1 the 1942 N.D. baseball squad . . . batting average of .467 topped everything but j state tax rate and established him as one of the outstanding college first-sackers in the country.
His father an attorney, Tallett is law . student here . . . hopes to join G-men in Washington after Army Air Corps duties are finished. An ardent movie fan, he can be found at every change of the flicks ... in spare time might be seen golfing in the local pasture with roommate Pete Moritz.
Waukegan Township high was the alma mater for four years. . . . Besides baseball Tallet played two years of high school basketball in the city made famous , by Jack Benny.
Older. of two children, Tallet has a younger sister who is 14. . . .
. . . Played on the diamond three * years in high school, roamed around in junior Legion ball, and wound up in a semi-pro . circuit . . . although he covers / initial sack like a blanket, Tallet took time-out this summer to pitch two wins for his home nine.
. . Where there is baseball there is Tai-
' let, who wouldn’t have bet against the , . Yanks in the past World Series. But he ‘ ’ admits the Cards must have played top- j rate ball to capture title, and would have
12
K. of C., Forum, Start War Bond Drive
Forum Sells War Stamps and Corsages at Games
and made up of nine 10-cent war stamps fastened together with decorations by Wyman’s of South Bend. Thirty-five of each were sold.
Two $25 war bonds were sold from the
Knights Total $700 in Room to Room Sales Drive
Featuring in Notre Dame Stadium for the first time in its ten year history a war bond and stamp sales campaign, the Commerce Forum wound up an afternoon of effort by selling over $100 worth of bonds and stamps to an enthusiastic Notre Dame-Georgia Tech football crowd.
Gail Fitch, president of the Commerce Forum, expressed a little disappointment over the fact that the total sales did not come up to expectations. “Perhaps it was because of the unexpected outcome of the game,” he said. “People just didn’t seem to be in the mood.” He also expressed the opinion that too much shouldn’t have been expected of the first attempt, since it takes a little experience to get on to the “hang” of selling.
Most of the sales were made during the half, when Commerce men working " at the booth moved throughout the crowd. At other times, the center of activity was around the special stand erected > inside Gate 14 at the stadium.
The special attraction the Forum featured were boutonnieres for men and corsages for women, each selling for $1
to the Architects Club for a 16-foot sign, and to the Metropolitan Club for the purchase of their $25 War Bond.
Chairman Fitch looks happy over Sale No. I
Forum booth. One was to an unknown party, while the other was taken by the Metropolitan Club and presented to the winner of the “player of the day” award in Washington Hall. Thirty 25-cent stamps were sold, besides 10 single 10-cent stamps.
A significant fact is that all sales are credited to the local post office. The Forum’s, with those turned in. by the Knights of Columbus room - to - room drives, has boosted considerably the low total formerly held by the post office. Sales of bonds by the Commerce Forum are done by pledges only; the actual filling out of the bond is done at. the post office.
Sophomore Cotillionites are invited to visit Gate 14 and the Commerce booth to procure corsages for their dates and
boutonnieres for themselves at the Stanford game.
Besides Wyman’s, who donates the decorations for the boutonnieres and corsages, the Forum expressed gratitude to the University for an allowance of $200,
Notre Dame’s .first organized effort to promote war stamp and bond sales on the University campus started Thursday, Oct. 1, when members of the Knights of Columbus canvassed every residence hall on the campus.
Present plans call for the drive to last for the duration of the war, with a room-to-room canvass of the residence halls each Thursday night. To date about $700 worth, of stamps have been sold in the combined totals of the first two canvasses.
According to Thomas Rolfs, chairman of the drive, it is eventually hoped to have 100 per cent student participation in war stamp purchases.
According to Rolfs, returns from the first two canvasses have been very encouraging and it is expected that when the program gets under full speed the total purchases will greatly exceed those of the initial effort.
Under the present set-up there is a separate chairman for each hall. Response for the first drive was so great, it was said, that some halls. had purchased their quota before two floors had been covered.
The drive has already received wide publicity and drawn the comment of the Treasury Department in Washington. In a letter to one of the officials of the drive, the Treasury had this fo say: “We greatly appreciate the fine support which the Knights of Columbus council of Notre Dame is giving the War Savings Program.”
Recent events have indicated that the campus has become stamp and bond minded, and many sales have been registered not only in the room to room canvass, but in other drives.
Even before the war, many, colleges and universities instituted the defense stamp corsage plan for all big dances. The stamp corsages do not wilt with age and the money paid for them obviously serves a good purpose. The “Scholastic” mentions the idea so that future dance committees will have a chance to consider utilizing this timely plan.
13
Dance Committee Will Crack Down on Upperclassmen Who Crash St. Mary's Mixers
FRANK SIERAWSKI
There was no pairing system at the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame Freshmen Mixer last Sunday and possibly that was the cause of the grief experienced by the committee. It seems that too many upperclassmen crashed the affair, either due to the ignorance of the Breen-Phillips priority on that particular day or due to their fear of losing prestige. However, the committee has vowed to crack down on the trespassers when the next tea dance is staged Oct. 18.
Last Sunday’s mixer commenced at 2 o’clock, and about midway in the afternoon the nervousness of the frosh was greatly relieved by some very fine entertainers who were introduced by Dave Curtin, the master of ceremonies, in his usual witty manner. Phil Foote present-
Band and Cheerleaders Bolster Student Spirit
With the long awaited centenary football season now realized, Notre Dame has come up with more than a fighting, representative team. A lively, well-disciplined band, a tumbling cheerleading squad, and a high-stepping drum major all prove that a colorful season is in store for followers of the Fighting Irish.
Fans saw a band march on the field last Saturday which looked as good as Notre Dame has ever produced. Dressed in new uniforms amply decorated with gold stripes and cords, the 100-piece out-
Kress, Hope, Tracy, Capello, all dressed up ... .
14
ed several piano renditions, and Bill Brady sang.
Immediately after the entertainment, couples went to the “Oriole” for cokes which were obtained by the' girls who only had to present gratis tickets given them earlier in the afternoon. When the coke-sipping subsided, everyone returned to the dance hall where several “Paul Joneses” were held to increase the firsttime acquaintance. At five o’clock, back to the books bounced the Notre Dame good-will agents.
Although the rules on the following Sundays will be more strict, still the committee and the faculty of St. Mary’s welcome all Notre Dame upper-classmen who have dates. A bulletin will be posted in sufficient time to afford convenience for all.
fit played the traditional songs with a new zest. A special feature of the band were the formations displayed at the half. For the Georgia Tech rooters, a mammoth locomotive was formed, with marching members portraying rolling wheels while the entire band played the “Ramblin’ Wreck” song. A .shot of the gun from the 26-year-old leader, H. Lee Hope, of South Bend, turned the men first into a huge “100,” commemorating the centenary, and then into a formation of the Dome. Among the pieces played
was the serenade “Georgia,” a former popular tune, given for the out-of-town Georgia fans.
Leading the band, and producing many thrills for the crowd with his sensational baton twirling, was Jim Kress, freshman from Detroit. Drum major Kress either $ j kept the crowd cheering with his baton ' feats or laughing at his goose-stepping tactics in changing field positions. A drum major of some repute in his home town, Kress takes over the position here from last year’s senior, Stan Litizzette. The new leader showed great composure on the field, even when his baton acci- ' dentally collided with his hat and inter- < rupted a series of high throws.
Another factor which added greatly to the color of the game and which promises to help bolster the student ' spirit, was the eight-man cheerleading - »•,' squad. Headed by senior Joe Tracy, the , squad showed results of a summer of intense practice on acrobatics. The traditional yells have become more effective through the somersaults and flips furnished by the octet. Though hampered somewhat by the illness of one of their _ main acrobats, Dave Curtin, the squad came out on the top of the cheering end * and ranks as one of the best in Notre Dame history.
O'Toole Octet Sings At Several Events
The Kevin O’Toole octet, an eight man abstraction from the Notre Dame Glee * Club, last week provided the entertainment for a program in Central High
Reggie Flynn Kevin O’Toole
school featuring Most Rev. John F. Noll, . D.D., Bishop-of Fort Wayne, and Sister J Mary Clare of Cleveland High schoo’a The octet sang several'patriotic nu^'- * bers, besides some new melodies of the ' > Glee Club.
Last week, the octet also sang at a St. Patrick’s Parish Party in South . Bend. The next scheduled appearance of the Singers is at the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame freshmen dance Sunday.
Included in the personnel of the octet ’ are Reggie Flynn, president of the Glee Club, and Bill Murrin, bases; Dick Mur- j ray and Herb Clark, baritones; Bill	«,<
Brady and Lou Colleran, second tenors; and Kevin O’Toole and Gerry O’Reilly, tenors.
■< <
vat


96M
Five Notre Dame men were among the class which, on Aug. 5, received the silver wings of the Army Air Force at graduation ceremonies in the advanced flying schools of the Gulf Coast Air Force Training Center. Left to right they are Lieut. R. J. Eichenlaub, Jr., ex. ’42, whose father is the noted R. J. ’15, of Columbus, O.; Lieut. Roger H. Henry, ex. ’44, Lieut. Roman Nicholas Lamberto, ’38, Robert E. Langlois, ’41, and Lieut. John N. D. Smith.
Noted Labor Economist
Dies in Washington
Dr. Charles P. Neill, ’89, the 1922 Laetare Medalist, and one of Notre Danie’s outstanding sons, died in Washington, D.C., Friday, Oct. 2.
A foremost economics scholar, Dr. Neill attended the University from 1885 until 1888. After spending one year at the University of Texas, he received later an A.B. degree from Georgetown University. While an instructor at Notre Dame, he was awarded an M.A. degree in 1893. From Johns Hopkins University, he received his Ph.D. degree in 1897.
Under President Theodore Roosevelt, Taft and .Wilson, he served as Commissioner of Labor. For outstanding work, Notre Dame bestowed an LL.D, degree on Dr. Neill in 1908.
He was a member of the board of directors and of the executive committee
of the American Smelting and Refining company from 1913-1915. As manager of the Southeastern Railway’s bureau of information, Dr. Neill was employed until 1921, at which time be became director of the National Catholic Service School.
A native of Rock Island, Ill., he also held, for four years a membership on the board of managers of the Associated Charities of the District of Columbia; seiwed six years as vice-president of the District’s Board of Charities; labored one year as assistant recorder of the Anthracite Coal Strike Commission; and during the war served as a member of the War Department Commission on Training Camp activities. In 1916, Dr. Neill served as president of - the American Statistical Association. At the time of his death, he was retired at 77 years of age.
The Laetare Medal came to him for his work in labor economics. \
Notre Dame Faculty Publishes Many Works
A deluge of- literary work by 17 Notre Dame faculty members has appeared recently. The books, articles, and reviews, written by University professors are below, with the authors’ names listed first. The list first appeared in The Listening Post, monthly publication of the faculty.
Yves Simon: The Road to Vichy, published early in September by Sheed and Ward; Richard Sullivan: Summer After Summer, novel, published by Doubleday, Doran & Company on Sept. 25; Father Leo R. Ward: Nova, Scotia,: Land of Cooperators, to be published soon by Sheed & Ward.
Raymond P. Kent: Money and Banking, textbook, soon to be published by Farrar & Rinehart; F. N. M. Brown, R. S. Eikenberry, and Louis J. Demer: The
(Continued on page 34)
► . .
More and more Notre Dame men are flying for Uncle Sam. Recently commissioned in the Army Air Corps were the following, left to right: Lieut. Joseph F. Campagna, ex. ’43, Lieut. Irving M. Cochrane, ex. ’40, Lieut. Harold F. Demple, ex. *40, Lieut. Edward J. Malone, '41, and Lieut. Thomas M. Tierney, <x. ’40.
\	15
Architect Kram, Designer of Dining Halls, Dies; Advocated Return to Medieval Walled Towns
The man who designed the Notre Dame dining halls died last week in Boston. He was Ralph Adams Kram, internationally famous architect.
Architect Kram was noted as the leading influence in the Gothic revival in American architecture, having designed or assisted in designing, New York’s Cathedral of St. John the Divine; the chapels at West Point and Princeton; Pittsburgh’s §4,000,000 E. Liberty Presbyterian Church, and, as mentioned, Notre Dame’s dining halls.
Seventy-eight years of age at his death, Mr. Kram was earnestly interested in the medieval way of life, and
Entrance to Notre Dame Dining Halls
Social Work Professor
Speaks in North Dakota
Mr. Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work at the University of Notre Dame addressed a conference of social workers at Grand Forks, ; N. Dak., Tuesday, Sept. 29. Mr. Flynn discussed the increase in crime and juvenile delinquency in the United States i during the first six months of this year ’ i and, judging from British experience, f he pointed out what we can expect in the ; future.
J । The popular belief that a crime-wave ' । is now in progress, according to Mr. ii 16 l »
published many writings on this subject. His most noted, My Life in Architecture and The End of Democracy, may be found in the University library, along with all of his other works. In his writing, he expressed a desire for a return of self-sufficient walled towns; a return of craftsmen’s guilds; abolition of mass production; abolition of gunpowder, the printing press, and the combustion engine; a return “to the land,” and a semi-monarchial political setup for the United States.
In 1924, he received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University in recognition of his achievements.
Flynn, is false. He points to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s statistics showing that during the first six months of this year there has only been a two per cent increase in crime. We should, however, intensify our efforts toward crime control and also youthful delinquency so that we may compensate for the disruption which has taken place in the family due to the war and the shifting of war workers and their families, he asserted. The two remedies for these problems, said Mr. Flynn, are first, to keep the dislocations at a minimum, and secondly, not to break up those agencies which provide recreational . safeguards
for the children.	|
No community has less youthful delin- j quency he said than it deserves to have	|
and those communities which fail to	|
make adequate preparations for the increase should begin, “expanding their detention quarters and jails.” All youth leaders who possibly can should remain at their posts. Their job is just as essen- ~ tial as that of the air-raid warden, Mr. Flynn states. The welfare of the children must be supported and the welfare budget must keep pace with the increased cost of living. The fact that it > has not indicates a lack of social common sense. The home front in our dem-ocracy must not be allowed to deteriorate.
Mr. Flynn explains that the current rising trend in crime and delinquency are blamable on the waning influence of the home and church in the lives of the young people. The primary social institutions, the home and church, must be strengthened and the community, which has taken over many of their functions must intensify its efforts to aid in the relief of the moral holiday which accompanies war.—Vincent Scully
Student - Prof Meetings Resume Next Monday
Next Monday the lights of the Rockne Memorial Lounge will flash on around 7 o’clock, students will flock Rock-ward, and a prof or two will hurry across the campus. The student-prof meetings, almost an institution on the campus by now, will begin again next Monday. The prof of the week is not yet announced; however, whoever it is, count on a top-notch lecture and discussion.
As outlined in the Scholastic, (8-28-42) the student-prof meetings are held every week to give the students and profs a chance to become better acquainted. Everyone agrees these meetings serve their purpose well. Everyone > is invited. The get-togethers are held every Monday night at 7:15 in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Watch the / ■ bulletin boards for the name of the prof*' -of-the-week.	-
Some variations are planned this year.
For instance, plans are being drawn up for inviting several profs to present varying opinions and angles on problems of interest at a round-table discussion. Another suggestion being considered is to invite those professors soon to leave the campus to -speak sometime before their departure.' And, of course, there will probably be a repetition of one of the most widely discussed meetings of the year—the explanation of the atom smasher given last semester in the Science building.—Al Sommer, Jr.
I

1
Michael J. Ledding, '33,
Dies in Schenectady, N.Y.
One of the most outstanding electrical engineering students ever to be graduated from Notre Dame, Michael J. Ledding, ’33, died Sept. 28, in Schenectady, N. Y., following a prolonged illness.
Graduated maxima cum laude, Mr. Ledding was the only engineering student to be valedictorian of a Notre Dame class. He was a tackle on the varsity football squad of 1932, and in that year received the Frank Hering trophy, an annual award given to the varsity athlete with the highest scholastic average. The J. J. O’Brien medal for excellence in shop work, and the Caparo medal for the senior student in electrical engineering who achieves the highest four-year marks, both went to Mr. Ledding.
At Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Rensselaer, N. Y., he received his master’s degree in electrical engineering, and later became employed by the General Electric company at Schenectady, N. Y. Mr. Ledding had remained with General Electric until the time of his death. He was born in Oglesby, Ill., on Nov. 11, 1910.
.<1



»
Art Department Head Now in Navy Training
Professor Francis J. Hanley, head of the department of art during the summer semester and instructor at the University since Sept., 1937, reported to Cornell university Oct. 1, where as an ensign in the Navy he will receive training in communications.
The latest lay faculty member to join the nation’s armed forces, Professor Hanley received his B.A.E. from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1935, and a diploma from the University of Kyoto, Japan, in the same year. He later studied in Florence and Rome, and did graduate work at Providence college and Brown university. After two years of teaching in Providence, he joined the Notre Dame faculty and remained until \he was commissioned recently.
; Specializing in water colors, Professor Hanley’s reputation spread far and wide. He had held several exhibitions in the University’s Wightman Gallery, and has participated in numerous Chicago showings. Before his departure, Professor Hanley presented two of his best known paintings to the Wightman Gallery. During the past years he has worked with the Scrip and Dome editors on art work, and at the request of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, he drew the scroll of names of Notre Dame war dead, which now hangs in the vestibule of Sacred Heart church.
Edward Schreiber, '41, Dies in Army Plane Crash
The name of Edward J. Schreiber, ’41, was added to the list of Notre Dame war dead, Sept. 24, when the pursuit plane he was piloting crashed in northern New Jersey.
Schreiber was attempting to land his ship in the Clinton reservoir, near New-
Lieut. Edward J. Schreiber, ’41
foundland, N. J., but missed the water and careened into the woods and boulders near the shore of the artificial lake. With the plane on fire, and machine gun bullets exploding, rescue was said to be impossible.
After receiving his commission as second lieutenant at Luke Field, Phoenix, Ariz., he had been assigned to LaGuardia Field, New York.
He is survived by Miss Rose Marie Schreiber, sister, who is a member of the Alumnus staff; two other sisters, and his parents, of Rochester, N. Y.
U.S. Steel Workers Secretary
Speaks Here Tomorrow
David J. McDonald, secretary-treasurer of the United Steel Workers of America will speak tomorrow morning in the Law Building Auditorium on “The Big-steel, Little-steel Dispute.” Mr. McDonald will be introduced by Francis “Nordy” Hoffman, ’30, an officer of the United Steel Workers. Both of these men will be guests on the campus for the Stanford football game.
The lecture, which will start at 10 o’clock Saturday morning, will be open to all and will clarify the aspects of this dispute which has attracted so much attention. Dean Manion of the law school in announcing the lecture emphasized that the lecture will be open to’ all.
Unionist Says Labor is
"Victim in War of Giants"
On Monday night, Sept. 28, Mr. Carl Shipley of Bendix, regional secretarytreasurer of the United Auto Workers, of the C.I.O., addressed the Commerce Forum. He gave a very interesting talk on the laborers’ position in war.
“Labor,” he said, “is a ‘victim in a war of giants.’ ” He claimed that this is supposed to be a war of all-out production, but the management of some war factories do not seem to be “all-out.” Materials and cooperation are not forthcoming. To have “all-out” production we must have harmony between the producer who supplies the material, the financier who backs the production with capital, and the laborer. Mr. Shipley said that he thought that the workers should be allowed to decide upon their foreman by vote. This would be the first step towards harmony. Another point of friction is poor personnel. It was also pointed out that if the unions had a freer hand they could furnish better labor and lead to smoother production.
Mr. Shipley presented three more demands of labor. He thinks that 65 years is too high an age to start paying out old age compensation. He said that labor wanted the minimum age limit reduced to at least 55, for after he has reached that age the laborer loses his efficiency.
—Jim McElroy
Faculty Advisor Writes In "Catholic World"
“They Sing Off-Key,” by the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor of the Scholastic, was published in the August issue of The Catholic World, monthly magazine of general literature and science.
Asking, “What has happened to the traditions of poetry in our Catholic colleges and universities,” in his article, Father Carey writes:
“For some years, now it has been my precarious lot to read the manuscripts of poets, young and old; to welcome the promising lyrics with deep and suitable appreciation, and to return the vast majority of the offerings as unsuited to our needs.
“._____I have made two observations r First, that there is a noticeable decline in literary offerings from young Catholic scholars; and, second, those who do write poetry have, to an alarming degree, abandoned the traditional canons of established literary .expression in favor of what might well be called the ‘cult of the unintelligible”’ - — - - --
17
182188
NcuHf, at Notte.
36V
“Bt
the “Chesapeake1
sinks and don’t give up the ship.
accustomed easy going ways of civilian life, in the coming months and years this manner of speech and this way of life will become a familiar and vitally essential part of your lives.
Keep that thought in mind and act accordingly and you’ll succeed. More power to you!
Vic-tok as
>»
VHEU/£
NARRflTBP E>Y 3hm D U>o CHAPUN
VICTOR POBSW’T KNOW OWN STRENGTH BUT SG6N FINDS GOT (MUCH TO CWAGrAlN)^
Victors no^	th rd
(Dvr goe^ for. a H ike « € AN Victor	it? The,
KiNt>vy motorist „ WHO (S-IVES HIM A klFT Five. MINUTES UfcT-
THIPIX H& CRN.1HI3 THlRP * PVSH - UP

FROM THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER Lieut. Commander Richard Wagner
Because of your special qualifications you men have been selected for training to become officers in the greatest Navy the world has ever known. Your future duties, no matter where they may be, will require every ounce of knowledge and judgement concerning the Navy you can acquire during your brief stay at this midshipmen’s school.
Your course of study will be very difficult. It has to be to help you learn in four months the elements of the Navy which took four years at the Naval Academy. Frankly, you will be anything but a qualified naval officer when you • leave here in February as an ensign. But more important, if you study hard and keep an open mind, already ready and alert to learn, you will make up for much of the training time forbids us to give you.
“Keep an open mind” might well be the slogan before you at all times. Men who have climbed to leadership in the Navy are men who never for a moment said, “I’ve learned enough.” There will be times when you think so. You’ll tire of study, drill, and more study, but remember, you’re in training to face possible hardships that dwarf any inconveniences received during your training.
We’ll be watching you. Every officer has been instructed to do so for your own guidance. If you err, you’ll be told; if you achieve success, you’ll be properly
y t ctor. S. Evan SHORTLY AFTER.
IN.

Al»t> AS He HOPES
H
commended. The conduct of all must be under surveillance at this activity and ashore. For one reason; within thirty days, many of you will be officers in the Navy.' A midshipman ranks above a warrant officer and beneath an ensign.

(Note: The folloiving address was delivered by Ensign Austin J. Kennedy, Jr., to a former class of V-7 officercandidates. We believe it should be learned by every member of this class, so its message will be carried with them.)
You are now entering upon your naval careers, which began the day you were acepted for enlistment as an apprentice seaman. You have become a part of an . ancient profession and a time-honored organization. Like all professions, this of the sea has acquired through the centuries a language of its own and certain customs which are peculiar to it. Although the speech may sound quaint to your ears and the customs rigid to the
Customs have had a profound effect upon the formulation of naval regulations. The worth of ceremony rests mainly upon the fact'that it binds us to the past while at the same time it lends an air of dignity and respect in all official relations whether' they occur at home or abroad. Ceremony is to a marked degree the cement of discipline, and upon discipline the service rests. Tradition, when coupled with courage and pride, gives to the officers corps its highest incentive to carry on.
The great value of tradition is that it leads to an economy of effort; the individual is released from the burden of learning everything from the ground upward and is able to make use of the experience of others. Thus we have practical justification for the fostering of traditional customs. As an example of . the continuity of tradition we can cite the similar action of Perry at the Battle of Lake Erie to that of John Paul Jones during the Bon Homme Richard-Serapis action of the Revolutionary War.- Both men returned the swords of the defeated captains after these naval encounters. As another example of the continuity of tradition, Lawrence’s dying words in
Fight her til’ she
18
were carried to the Battle of Lake Erie by Oliver Hazard Perry. He used these words on the flag flown at the masthead of his ship. This original flag is'now on display in Memorial Hall at Annapolis for the guidance of Midshipmen.
* * *
The following poem, which came to us through a member of the ship’s company at the Navy School, was written by an unknown—to us—author.
Sis is going with a sailor.
And at first it didn’t faze us	■
But now the family talk is full .
Of sailors’ salty phrases.
We found it rather hard at first
To follow all his speech
For they talk different on hoard 'ship Than we do “on the beach.”
For when the time to eat comas He sings out “chow” for food And always “stows it down the hatch” Which grandma says is rude.
When speaking during dinner
He talks like other boys,
Except he calls the lettuce “grass” And celery just plain “noise.”
His salty talk is slangy
And hard to understand.
He calls the canned milk “iron cow”
And sugar he calls “sand.”
His many names for coffee
Are certainly a joke.
He calls it everything from “mud" To “Joe” and plain “Jamoke.”
The chicken he calls “seagull.”	-
The ketchup is “red lead,”
The hot cakes are “collision mats" While “punk” is mother’s bread.
We finally all caught on though .
And now we’re doing fine
We say “six bells” for three o’clock When we are telling time.
SlSLWft
Shore, cvserv/
lN6r Tt> SPEND A &V lET BVRNtWQ-AT A	IH E VANT3 TO SAVEPts ^tr^s-th. But	Wo
Nd/Vc'-cone to vie enow torm me I’*
When ma goes to the city Or runs down to the store
And someone asks us where she went
We say she’s “gone ashore.”
Sister calls a floor a “deck” .
To hear her talk is sport
To her a roof’s an “overhead" window is a “port.”
Then, too, if something gets “fouled up" Or some new trouble comes
And dad starts to complain
Ma says, “Pa, don’t beat your gums.”
Dad doesn’t tie his tie now	■
Instead he “bends it on”
While grandma says the “kids shoved off” Instead of “they have gone.”
Ma says dad’s suit is “shipshape” .
. If it is fitting him
But if it’s not so neat
She says, “That lash-up ain’t so trim."
When pappy goes to work now We say he’s “turning to”
While mother “swabs” instead of scrubs.
As once she used to do.
Fried fish is “pedro pork chops” “Sea dust” his name for salt.
When he called the pepper “fly specks” Ma nearly called a halt 1.
He sat beside my father	.
And needed elbow room.
He looked at dad and said. “say. Mate.
Rig in your starboard boom.”
The whole place has gone salty Which makes me. lots of trouble.
For when ma says, “come here ‘chop-chop’ ” I go there — “on the double.”
'I wish that gob would “weigh anchor” And do what of I think
And “point his bow” and “trim his jib" And go jump in the “drink.”.
I’m through “batting the breeze”.and. “Singing the blues,” I’m sure.
So for tonight I’ll just “turn in” “Cease firing” and “secure.”
« so-1 wctor i Fancy sfeinGt You
WttAT IS iJlCTOW	# FO1K3?
Why ^<CVO«e t3 SETTING THOSE. KWtcS (XT OF	MOocvESo 13
HE HAVjnfr Fun ? HE |S HAVING
WORD OF WELCOME FROM
THE COMMANDING OFFICER CAPT. H. P. BURNETT
U. S. NAVY “ '
You men have been given an opportunity which few in this great Democracy receive. You have been made eligible for training to become commissioned officers in the greatest Navy in the world.. I hope you have come here with a full realization of your responsibility. The more effort you’put into your work here the more you are going to receive from your training.	‘
The Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School here at Notre Dame is to the Navy what a stethoscope is to a doctor. It is the testing ground for future officers. Upon completion of your training here you will be sent where you are needed on the sea or at shore bases.
There is no room in the Navy for men who are not willing to make every sacrifice for the Democracy our Navy defends. There must be no such thing as a “fairly good” officer. Every man must be qualified to do an expert’s job in any duty in which he is placed. That’s the only way this war will be won.
The officer personnel aboard this school stands ready to help you start immediately to become top-notch naval officers.
Remember every minute you are aboard this school you are helping America win this war. Remember, too, that some day you may have the lives of the men under your command hinging upon your judgement. Most of all, remember that you have already taken an oath to defend this country and its’ ideals with your lives if that be necessary.
It’s full speed ahead from now on.
CHART YOUR OWN COURSE!
hetuinjc of Monpay Pors. noV.thwhc op MoNPAY J W LEAVE. YOV as	aCEhEs MAY GE
TOO EMWFUU FoiR OS VO £> E.P|Crt
19
IRISH MEET THE STANFORD INDIANS;

PHIL KEEN
Two model T’s will clash tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 C.W.T. in Notre Dame
WEST COAST OPf
stadium as the Irish play host to Mar-chie Schwartz and his Stanford Indians. The Indians met plenty of opposition in their first game with an experienced
;	"Big Lou" at Tackle
; Washington State eleven. Unable to dent
. a line of returning lettermen, the In-
; ' dians were beaten 6-0. Much like the i . Irish against Wisconsin, they drove down :	to the one-yard line twice only to be
t stopped before reaching pay dirt. '
? . The West Coasters are said to be look-| ? ing forward to meeting the T-formation I p as set up by Frank Leahy and his boys. | The number of “T” against “T” contests £ in collegiate football are very few and | , this one promises to really open up the f • possibilities of the man-in-motion style V P of play.
ft : ’	■
P Coach Marchie Schwartz is another
H case of a Notre Dame alumnus being a j - success. He was appointed head coach this >: * summer when Jim Lawson was granted pa leave of absence. The new Indian
; coach was born in New Orleans-and at-s P tended St. Stanislaus high school in ■; / Bay St. Louis, Miss. He won three letters
; each in baseball and basketball and two
; in football in. high school. He then at-3 3 tended Loyola University for a year P 3 and started his colorful career at Notre >i ■, Dame in 1928. He won three letters in Ji i fooball here, playing left halfback and [i f captured All-American honors in 1930 .
L and 1931 under Knute Rockne and Hunk ; Anderson. Marchie got some coaching fpj experience under Clark Shaughnessy at
Chicago and then coached Creighton L University for four years.
I I J	-	' ,	'	-	.
H • . Tomorrow’s game will mark the inauguration of a'seriesof intersectiorial tilts <
||1 between the two squads. Irish followers
ill20
still talk about the 27 to 10 trouncing that Rockne’s lads handed the Indians in the Rose Bowl of 1925. This was the first and only time that Notre Dame and Stanford have met. However, one can be assured that the Indians are not coming half-way across the country to play “possum” to the Irish football machine.
They have power, speed, and weight that is not regarded lightly by anyone knowing Stanford of past seasons. It is a team built primarily on lightning fast backs and a heavy, determined line. The speed of last year’s ace halfback Pete Kmetovic and the passing and field generalship of Frankie Albert have been hard to replace, but Coach Schwartz has found another high kicking left halfback in Don Zappettini. Ray Hammett seems to be every bit the passer and ball handler that Albert was. Zappettini is a power runner; he gets off fast, and often finds a hole where there just “ain’t none.” Fellow sophomore Pettit is running a
Brock is always ready
close second for the left halfback spot. On the right side there is a wealth of material. Rock Shelter's 196 pounds and , experience gives him the edge over Eric Armstrong, 172 pound senior, and diminutive Al Hoisch, 5 feet, seven inches and 146 pounds of bullett-like speed. Fullback Buck Fawcett is a real speed burner and is rated as the powerhouse of the Indians;. Buck was shifted from halfback to full where his experience is badly
. needed.
The forward wall lines up as one of the ' heaviest in Stanford history. At tackles 210 pound Bruno Banducci and 220 pound Ed Stamm leave little, to be
desired in aggressiveness, charge, and weight. Both of these men are playing, their last season under the cardinal color
of Stanford. Reserve tackles are all ove^-r1 200 pounds but lack experience. Loren b La Prade, after a brief stay at centei.
will be back at right guard ably supported by Okie McCain, Chuck Taylor,
(
and a host of big sophomores. The big-, ' gest worry of Coach Schwartz is the in
experience of his ends. Hank Norberg;
1941 reserve, will be at left end, supported by Bomber Brown, a promising';
but untried sophomore. Roger Laverty, , the devil-may-care type of ball player , whose recklessness makes up for his lack of speed, will probably charge from the
right end position. Milt Vucinich, shifted! A from his halfback spot of last year, ap- E pears firmly entrenched as first string" /
center. Dar Seeley or Jim McCurdy
both have the ability to take over if Vucinich slows up.
Coach Frank Leahy, having watched his squad in their first two games, should have a. good idea of the calibe^ of this 1942 Notre Dame team. Getting more acquainted with the heralded Tj‘> formation with every game, the Irish are expected to show the Indians that they, too, can play the game the Stanford way.
With the Irish line-up still uncertain/-'' it is improbable that Dippy Evans,, . Creighton Miller or Walt Ziemba will be x in the starting eleven, but may get some action if the going gets tough. All-Amer
ican Bob Dove, back again at left should exhibit some of the form made him a top wingman last year.
end/ that
Dove back to old form
, SMOKE TO RISE FROM MODEL "T"
JlON IS NOTRE DAME OVER CARDINALS
nd ng« or
By Bob Sontag
Sports Editor, Stanford Daily
en.
sr.
Stanford University, Oct. 9.—No one
ip-ar, igp in-
on the coast thinks Stanford has a chance to beat Notre Dame when the two teams clash Saturday, Oct. 10, for ?h'e first time since the Irish plastered
<&,. 27-10 licking- on the Indians back in
ip-’gf ty, rer
1925 at the Pasadena Rose Bowl.
.ck fie
Two years ago Stanford had a championship football team. Under Clark Shaughnessy the Redskins knocked out
its seven Conference opponents and fol-
:edi tp-ng" dy
if
Towed with a 21-13 victory over Nebraska >iri that self-same Rose Bowl where Notre 'Dame and Stanford first tangled.
led es, )e^, ng
ish lat
tn-
Now Shaughnessy has departed to the University of Maryland, and the task of -trying to field a squad like Shaughnessy’s 1940 outfit has fallen on the shoulders of a former Notre Dame all-American, Marchmont (Marchie) Schwartz.
Schwartz has no Frankie Albert, no Pete Kmetovic, no Norm Standlee, and no Hugh Gallameau—all familiar names as coast greats even to Mid-Westerners.
ih,4* ns, be x
me
er-nd,-lat
Instead the soft-spoken Card mentor has a bare remnant of a team, which ^lost its- opening contest to Washington State, 6-0.
To take the place of pass-pitcher Albert is Ray Hammett, now Stanford’s
one and- only signal-caller with the de-
>?xrparture ’ of Al Cole to the Navy Air
Bert will be passing em
Corps. Hammett played very little football last year as Albert’s understudy. His best game came at Corvallis when he passed the Indians down to the 20-yard line, from which point Albert again took over.	.
Best back on the Cardinal eleven, and one who could even give Notre Dame’s defense a little trouble is Randall (Buck) Fawcett, top-flight fullback. Fawcett is the best all-around man in uniform here, and if he cbuld only pass,' Schwartz would probably kiss the T formation goodbye and switch to a single wing or Notre Dame box.
One other man in the Stanford backfield can be considered a potent ballcarrier and kicker. He’s Bill Sheller, right halfback. At left half is a sophomore, Don Zappettini, who needs worlds of experience to even half measure up to the position left open by the graduation of Pete Kmetovic.	.
of coast lines—perhaps not against Notre Dame’s, however.
Before the season started Stanford was woefully depleted at ends, having
Walt's knee is doubtful
Will "The Dipper" go in?
Skipping up to the line is a little more shine than the backfield shows. From left to right, starting with tackle are Ed Stamm, Loren. LaPrade, Milt Vucinich, Chuck Taylor, and Bruno Banducci.
That forward wall is exactly the same as Stanford’s last two front lines except at center, where Vucinich, converted from fullback, takes over for Vic Lind-skog.	'	. .	.
Taylor has been mentioned on several pre-season all-nation teams, while Banducci, Stamm, LaPrade, and Vucinich can usually hold their own with the best
only one veteran from its last year’s team, Hank Norberg. But a trio of sophomores showed up so well against the Cougars in the curtain raiser that Coach Schwartz will probably use two of them at starting positions against Notre Dame. The three are Dave Brown, Pete August, and Bob Hall.
There’s the meat of the team, and whether it’s well done or not is only a guess. Notre Dame will be top-heavy favorite, and rightfully so. Stanford will be the lowest underdog it has ever been, and if Marchie Schwartz' eleven can only hold the Irish down to a couple of touchdowns it will have done mighty well.
Just for name’s sake, here are a few who might get somewhere Oct. 10—Al Hoisch, right half; Art Shipkey, fullback; Ross Dana, right half; Fred Sanderman, left half; Dave Patterson, guard; Jim Cox, tackle; Ed McCain, guard; and Ben Morrisson, the only q.b.
. behind Ray Hammett. -	.
Notre Dame		■ Stanford
Dove	-T.E	‘	Norterg
	—L.T.	_ _	Stamm
McBride -	'	_L.G	Taylor
Chipman ~	--	C. _	Vucinich
Wright		_..R.G					 LaPrade
Neff			R.T.			Cox
Murphy-' -				RE . ...			   Hall
Bertelli. —			......Q.B			Hammett
Livingstone		T. TT		Zappettini
C. Miller 		_R.H.	L_		—....	- Sheller
Mello 	:			F.B				Fawcett
		21
Prospects Bright For Cross-Country Season
Faced by the opening dual meet on Oct. 17, Coach Elvin ‘Doc’ Handy has been busy whipping the Notre Dame Cross Country stalwarts into shape. In their daily workouts around the lakes the hardy ‘hill and dalers’ have shown form that points to a successful season.
Coach Handy in discussing prospects foi- the year said, “The team is working hard and will be in shape. I’m looking forward to good competition from Loyola and a very tough fight from Illinois.”
The compete schedule is one of the stiffest in years. On successive Saturdays the ‘Flying Irishmen’ meet the best the Midwest can offer. Also on the docket are three titular meets that will bring together the sectional and national greats. Against this field last year Notre Dame copped the Indiana State Title and finished sixth in the Nationals.
With such a high record behind them the Irish this fall have set their eyes on the same green pastures. A glance at the team substantiates their belief. On the starting line against Loyola will be four dependable veterans and a very capable newcomer. The first five have demonstrated in the early workouts the speed and endurance that made them standouts in the past.
Headliner of the group is Ollie Hunter, a member of the All-American track team last year and probably the best college two miler in the country. A consistent winner, he shines on the four mile fall grind just as he does on the cinders.
Another star is Frank Conforti, a 4:17 miler in the winter and spring. Frank was second in the Nationals last year bowing only to Champion Les Mc-Mitchell of N.Y.U.	-
The third of the double monogram men is Tony Maloney, a steady, consistent plodder. Tony has been a standout for two years and the coming season will be no exception.
Walt-Brehmer, the fourth of the lettermen, has been running true to his old form and his presence lends added strength to the team. •
The surprise package of the group is sophomore Don Currie. Don has stepped easily from the freshman to the varsity team and has proven his worth where it counts. He rounds out a well balanced, veteran quintet.	.
The battle for the alternate ■ position is one of the bitterest in years. Four men, Bob Crawley, Fran Waldeck, Bill Kelly, and Bob Welch, - have grimly fought time and each other for the sixth place. The way things stand now the choice
may not be made until the eve of the Loyola tilt.
Under the guidance of Coach Handy and Senior Manager Frank Ebner the Notre Dame harriers should carry on the traditions set by Coach Nicholson and have another winning season.
Ollie Hunter
The schedule: Oct. 17, Loyola, Chicago, (here); Oct. 24, Illinois, (there); Oct. 31, Loyola Invitational at Chicago; Nov. 7, Indiana State Meet at Indianapolis; Nov. 14, Open; Nov. 23, National Collegiate at Lansing.
The home races will be run, starting at 10:30 a.m., on the Notre Dame crosscountry course which circles the lakes and finishes on Cartier Field.
Working out faithfully with the varsity have been several promising freshman prospects. Outstanding among them are: Bill Leonard, Frank Martin, brother of John, an ex N.D. track man, Al Lesmiz, Tony Mistretta and the two ‘F’ boys Finneral and Finneran.	.
The cross-country team has been prac-■ ticing long and tirelessly, (four or five miles every, day), to represent us. Let’s do our part and support the fellows by attending the race on the morning of the Iowa Naval Pre-Flight game.
—Bill Carey
Slamin Takes Honors In Frosh Swim Meet
While three swimmers took most of the honors, the freshman swimming meet staged last Wednesday evening in the Rockne Memorial pool was a huge success. Henry Slamin swam away with two firsts and a third for 11 points during the evening to cop top point honors." He started out by grabbing a third in the 50-yd. free style and then took firsts , in the 200-yd. free style and 100-yd. free.
Slamin was pressed by Gerald Gass and Jackie Winn who tied for second place with ten points each. Gass took first in the 50 breast and 75-yd. medley. Winn copped first in the 50-yd. free style and dove to the depths of fame by topping his class in the fancy diving division.
Results—50-yd. free style: Winn, first; Leonard, second; Slamin, third. 50-yd. breast stroke: Slamin, first; Madden, second; Anderson, third. 200-yd. free style: Slamin, first; Gushurst, second; Erkins, third. Diving: Winn,: first; Champion, second; Dooney, third. 50-yd. back stroke: Madden, first; Erkins, second; Kasberg, third. 100-yd. free style: Slamin, first; Gushurst, second; Flack, third.—Don Murphy
Evert Battles Faught In Tennis Meet Final
Jimmy Evert and Bob Faught battled their way into the final round of the annual fall tennis tournament last week and are, at this writing, awaiting the' weatherman to give them the go ahead signal to determine the champ.
Evert knocked off Tony Zagame, Bill Talbot, Nick Pappas, and Artie Hoffman to reach the finals. Bob kept pace with wins over Gerry O’Reilly, Lyle Joyce, and Johnny Troup. George Biittner, one of the pre-tournament favorites, was unable to compete. Bud is teaching physical education classes downtown and is unable to find time for tennis.
The frosh tournament, only a step behind the upperclassmen, is in the semifinal round. Tom Herbert provided the upset of the tourney in defeating Rance Haig, seeded number one, 6-4, 8-6; Tim Kelley topped Bud Steffen 6-0, 6-1; Gibbons outlasted Lockwood 3-6, 8-6, 6-2; Sords completed the semi-finals round with a default.!.
The finals in both of these tournaments will be played when and if “Indian Summer” arrives. .
Tribune Editor Talks	>
To Journalism Club
Guest speaker at a round table session of the University Press Club, Tuesday, Oct. 6, in the journalism room was Man
aging ,Editor Bob Walton, of the South Bend Tribune.
Ten members of the journalism school were present. Mr; Walton discussed many problems of the press. A graduate of the University of Michigan, Mr. Walton was connected with the Associated Press and several newspapers before assuming his present post with the Tribune.
22
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
Some sport writers were inclined to feel sorry for Bernie Crimmins last year, not because the speedy backfield ace had been moved to the right guard slot from his backfield station, but because it was his third shift in three years on the Notre Dame squads and they wondered when the kid would finally get anchored.
This year there is another “Crimmins” case; this one involves Harry Charles Wright, senior Physical Education major from New York state. In his sophomore year he understudied Crimmins as a fullback. Last year durable Harry quarterbacked the first edition of Frank Leahy’s blue and gold gridmen to an undefeated season, guiding the Irish over several rough spots with amazing poise. His deadly blocking was the offensive weapon that prompted Leahy to switch the Long Islander to the guard post left vacant by All-American Crimmins.
The pride of Alumni Hall was born in New York City, Oct. 4, 1919. After Harry had spent eight years in Our Lady of Loretto grade' school, the Wrights moved to Mineola, Long Island. Here Harry attended Chaminade High School for the next four years. During these years Harry paced the Catholic gridders from the left halfback position. He drove the best team in Chaminade
history |p the league championship his junior year. He was voted the most valuable player on Long Island that year,, and also won the league scoring crown. He finished out his high school football career again pacing his team in scoring.
Harry found time to play three years of varsity baseball. He claimed to be a pitcher, but when he wasn’t on the mound, he was behind the plate in the catcher’s suit, where his terrific hitting
won many close games. Two years of varsity basketball finished out his secondary athletics. After graduation, Harry prepped a year at Scarborough. He was fullback-on the football team, and captain and leading hitter on the baseball nine. -	.
“I had always wanted to come to Notre Dame. I used to see the Irish play every time they came to New York, but I never thought I could make it out here. Then one day I got a call from the late Hugh O’Donnell of the New York Times, a Notre Dame alumnus, and it was through him that I enrolled at N.D.”
“The Horse” is a member of the Monogram and Metropolitan clubs. He played on Badin’s championship Interhall Basketball team, and was a member of the St. Ed’s A.C. runner-up team in the basketball circuit last year.
In the Marine Corps Reserve, Harry will be called to service in March. He places golf at the top of the hobby lineup. (He shoots between 75 and 78).
His mother, who sees about five games a year, is his special advisor. She traveled from New York last week to see her son perform against Georgia Tech. Harry played a major role in those pileups from his line backer spot. When asked about what game he is looking forward to this season Harry offered: “I see where Northwestern is looking for me; well, I’m looking for them.
* * *
Only two minutes remained to be played in the 1940 Southern California-Notre Dame football classic when the Irish head mentor, Elmer Layden, substituted an inexperienced sophomore for Steve Juzwik, who had battered and dodged the Trojan eleven for 58 minutes that afternoon. Notre Dame led 10-6. On the last play of the game . . . Howard Jones’ men had the ball on the Irish . 34 yard stripe ... a long .pass looped towards a lone Trojan end-standing in the Notre Dame end zone. Just as. he was about to grab the pass the sophomore right , half streaked across the end zone and smacked the ball to the earth, saving the game for Notre Dame. That sophomore was none other than William Jo-, seph Earley, present senior right halfback from Parkersburg, W. Va. _
Earley was born Aug. 31, 1921, in Parkersburg. He prepped at Parkersburg High where he won ten letters—divided between basketball, baseball, and football.
Bill paced the Parkersburg gridders for three years, climaxing his colorful high school career by playing in the North-South West Virginia All-Star game. The peppery All-State back from Parkersburg teamed with neighbor Bob Neff, battling the stellar South eleven.
In his freshman year Bill played quarterback, but was moved to right half to aid Steve Juzwik in 1940. Under Frank Leahy’s new regime Bill returned to his
freshman position and remained there during spring grid drill and fall practice. A week before the Arizona game last fall, he was switched to the right half post again to understudy Juzwik. Bill did enough studying last season to win his monogram. He grabbed five passes for a total of 106 yards, nailing down the best average in pass receiving for the ’41 Irish.
The radio announcing game rates second to football, and Bill, who has done some broadcasting on WPAR, Parkersburg, is anxious to get into radio work. He has enlisted in the Army Air Corps Reserve and will be called to duty after graduation in May.
■ Vitamin Bill is a member of the Press,. Monogram, and West Virginia dubs. He also played on St. Ed’s A.C. basketball team last year.
A most unusual happening took place in the Earley household one Saturday afternoon last October. The Earley’s huddled around two radios; one set tuned to the Illinois-Notre Dame game, the other to the local high school game which pitted Parkersburg against a strong conference opponent. Angelo Ber-telli shot a long pass towards the Illini end zone, where stubby Bill grabbed the ball from a host of defenders for the tally. At the same time brother Fred galloped 85.yards for a counter in the high school struggle. Fred has been AllState for the last two years, and is anx-’ iously looking forward to the time when ’ .he will be wearing the blue jersey with a gold numeral “I” on the front and back which has been so capably filled the past three years by brother Bill.
23
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
By Bill Reynolds
After last week’s upsets it doesn’t look like there will be any such thing as a national champion in collegiate football this year. Grantland Rice, the dean of sports writers picked these eight teams as the nation’s best: Notre Dame, Minnesota, Georgia, Texas A. & M., Texas, Alabama, Michigan and Fordham. Michigan, Georgia and Alabama are the only ones still undefeated and the season is only two weeks old. Francis Wallace picked the top ten in this order: Minnesota, Notre Dame, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Alabama, Southern California, Texas A. & M., Michigan, and Boston College. Four of his selections are still undefeated and untied. Norman Sper picked his ten top teams as: Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Notre Dame, Missouri, Mississippi State, Michigan, Fordham, Cornell, Texas and Southern California. Only Missouri and Michigan of these ten are still maintaining perfect marks......
Saturday was really a bad day.... All the big boys were stopped: Duke, Fordham, Texas, L.S.U., Minnesota, South-. ern California, Cornell, Indiana, Iowa, Stanford, Tulane, Mississippi State, Notre Dame and even Slippery Rock.... Speaking of the big boys: Bill Alexander’s Yellowjackets were not even counted in the pre-season guesses but on the showing they gave in the Stadium last Saturday, they are definitely to be reckoned with.
So, you wouldn’t believe me when I tried to warn you about the Cardinals. Now do you?.... They have been hot since the first of August.
Norman Sper’s latest Football Almanac came in the mails last week. Full of vaaluable facts and figures, it makes a good addition to any football fan’s book shelf. Here’s an idea of a little of the •“dope” it contains: Complete records of teams, players and coaches; last year’s statistical records, team and individual; and why the predicted winners should win. .
It wasn’t until after Bob Chappuis, Michigan’s sensational sophomore passer, had led the Wolverines to victory over Great Lakes, that the correct spelling on his name was made known. His name had been spelled “iu” instead of “ui”.... That makes us wonder .if they are sure of .the spelling of Clint Castleberry’s name down in Atlanta—it could easily be Castlebreaker....
Georgia Tech’s Captain Jack Marshall is also president of his senior class. Ed Stamm, a two-year regular Stanford tackle, is president of the Stanford Student Council. Coach Leahy and Marchie Schwartz were teammates under Knute Rockne.... Leahy was leading the way back in those days and we’re looking for him to lead the way by a tune of 19-6 tomorrow afternoon... Larry Dee, Stanford half back, teamed with Ted Schroeder to win the National collegiate tennis doubles championship last June....
Football was first introduced at the United States Naval Academy in 1857 as a form of recreation for the midshipmen. ... The first Army-Navy game was played in 1890, the Sailors winning 24-0. .... Bill Kyle who attended Notre Dame as a freshman and played interhall football is currently first string left end at Pitt..Who said that Pitt wasn’t deemphasized? Or is this interhall stuff just as tough as it appears? We think so....
Stanford holds an edge in victories over every team on their schedule except Southern California and Notre Dame. They are tied with the Trojans at 12 victories apiece And you know how that Rose Bowl game ended in 1925.
Martin Marion, the Cards shortstop who was one of the outstanding men in the Card’s late drive to the pennant and series championship, was ready to quit baseball last spring when he was put on the bench in favor of Bobby Blattner who ended up in the minors....
There should be no more cries about breaking up the Yankees. With Henrich already in the service and Gordon,. Rizzuto and Keller soon to leave, who will be. left to build up the Yankees around Joe DiMaggio next spring.
Are you an expert? Try picking the winners of these games on tap for tomorrow: Indiana-Nebraska, Iowa-Camp Grant, Michigan-Iowa Navy, Ohio State-Southern California, Army - Cornell, Fordham-North Carolina, Harvard-Wil-, liam and Mary, Navy-Princeton, Vanderbilt-Kentucky, and West Virginia-So. Carolina.... If you can get seven of the ten right you are no expert; you’re a magician.
Freshmen Play. Varsity
Using Opponent's Plays
“The Notre Dame freshmen have the toughest schedule in the country. They
play Notre Dame for 11 consecutive weeks.” With these words Coach Bob Snyder aptly summed up the precarious position in which a freshman football aspirant at Notre Dame finds himself. For there are no headlines emblazoning their names across the country. The most rabid football. fan could not tell you their yard-per-try average and, as a final crushing blow, they are never picked apart by the Monday morning quarterbacks. Which would all seem to add up to a rather thankless job for the boys in green who, several times a week, must stand up under the gruelling assault of the varsity. But without the efforts of these yearlings the smoothly functioning defense of the Irish varsity would be impossible.
Each week the freshmen are schooled in the. offensive formations of the varsity’s opponent for that week. They then run these plays against the Varsity, and in this manner the coaches are able to pick out the defensive weaknesses of the Irish, and at the same time the players familiarize themselves with their opponent’s brand of attack. The only reward that the young hopefuls derive from their task is the quiet satisfaction that they, too, play an important part in the victories on Saturday afternoon. The immortal Rockne attributed a major part of the success of his 1930 team to the grand cooperation of the freshmen, and he never failed to stress their importance as an integral part of the Notre Dame football setup.
As to the relative merits of the players, Coach Snyder was rather noncommittal, explaining that it was really too early to form any set opinion. However, he did dwell momentarily on the running style of Ray lannucillo, nicknamed the “Bull” by his teammates. “Just like Nagurski,” Snyder explained, a remin- . iscent twinkle in his eye. Jake Kline, well experienced in such matters, added the information, “the team compares favorably with other Freshmen outfits.” So it is not amiss to assume that the Ber-tellis. and Evanses of the future will rise from the green-clad ranks on Cartier field.
• Emil Sitko is a cousin of Steve, redoubtable field general of a few seasons ago. And Frank Sullivan is out to equal the name established by his brothers Joe and Ed. It was Joe who died so tragically after being nominated captain-elect
. . of the 1936 edition of the Fighting, Irish. No other captain was named that year as a silent tribute to his memory.
In the event the reader wonders how the herculean task of acquainting the freshmen with; a new set of plays each
(Continued on page 27)

J
24
Illinois Sports Editor Says "T" Complicated;
Believes Notre Dame Gridders Will Master it
(This week’s Scholastic presents the -first of a series which consists of questions asked by Notre Dame students and answered by their sports-editor fathers.
Today’s father-son combination is M. Douglas Grant, Sports Editor of the Freeport, III., “Joiimal-Standwrd,” and Dick Grant, Walsh Hall junior. Dick, who won a monogram as a member of the Irish baseball nine last spring, is majoring in journalism and hopes to folloiv in his father’s foosteps. The questions concern the Wisconsin game.)
Q. — What do you think of Notre Dame’s T-formation?
A.—It is a system of proven merit, complicated and difficult to master. However, Notre Dame gave evidence in her opening game against Wisconsin that she can master this style of play. The system as exhibited in the initial game appeared fundamentally sound and with more polish and finesse, which will naturally come with ensuing games the T should mean added “Triumphs” for the Irish.
Q.—What was Notre Dame’s greatest asset against Wisconsin?
A. — The N.D. line, which held Pat Harder to 11 yards net in 11 attempts in carrying the ball. The line backers likewise did good work but apparently missed defensive assignments which permitted Hirsch to score for the Badgers. This department of play should improve with experience, however.
Q.—Who, in your opinion, was the outstanding player for Notre Dame?
A. — Undoubtedly spectators would proclaim Jim Mello and Bob Livingstone the outstanding players of the day because of the yardage piled up by this pair, Mello gaining 112 yards in 26 attempts while Livingstone advanced 53 yards in 12 attempts. However, a football team is- no better than its line and throughout the afternoon the great defensive play of Wally Ziemba, Irish center, stood out like a beacon. Lou Rym-kus, Harry Wright and . Captain George Murphy likewise were defensive bul-' warks. Ziemba seemed “in” on every play and stamped him as one of the nation’s outstanding centers.
Q. — How many potential All-Americans does Notre Dame have?
A.—One game does not make an AllAmerican but if they continue play throughout the year as they started against Wisconsin Ziemba would seem a certainty for the honor, with Captain Murphy, Rymkus and Wright also due
slated for -consideration. It is hardly probable that any of the sophomore group can scale the All-American heights in their first year of play, although this is possible..
Q.—What was most detrimental to the Notre Dame cause in the Wisconsin game?
A. — Uncertain ball handling which caused four fumbles, all recovered by the Badgers, when Notre Dame seemed on the march goalward. Likewise there were a few errors in judgment, which
M. Douglas Grant
are to be expected in early season games, especially from youngsters operating under* a new system such as the so-called T.
Q.—In your opinion is the T formation too complicated for college teams to master?
A.—No, but it can not be mastered in a few weeks. Coach Leahy’s boys indi-.cated by their play against Harry Stuhl-dreher’s outfit that they have already absorbed at least the fundamental operations of the. system and they should give a good account of themselves, under this scheme as the season progresses. Rome was not built in a day nor has any team ever mastered the T system in a short space of time.
Q.—What in your opinion might have turned the tide toward a Notre Dame victory? . •	-
A.—The presence of “Dippy” Evans in a* few of the clutches undoubtedly
would have aided the Irish materially. Likewise his presence in the game would have been a mental hazard to the Badgers, which certainly would have annoyed them. Also had Bob. Livingstone . not been so unfortunate as to have stepped out of bounds, only a matter of inches, after receiving first quarter pass from Bertelli, as he raced for what appeared a touchdown, the story would have been different. However, this touchdown run was nullified and gave new life to the Badgers.
J
For Your Information: Wisconsin, 7; Irish, 7
A capable University of Wisconsin eleven tangled with one of the finest squads to represent the University of Notre Dame in the last decade Sept. 26 at Madison. The .final score wasn’t too encouraging as the Irish wilted when yardage was needed and gave Harry Stuhldreher’s aggressive youngsters a 7-7 tie.	.	.
A savage running attack led by the, spectacular sprints of one Elroy Hirsch, of near Madison, and the inconsistency of the Irish eleven in scoring territory ultimately led to the draw between the two teams. Wisconsin considered the struggle a moral victory; .Notre Dame, a shameful defeat.
The Irish, heralded as the No. 1 team in the nation this year, flashed a shadow of greatness as they rambled gdalward on many occasions. But numbed fingers that dropped a cold football on precious ground erased all scoring threats by the insistent, if not successful, Irish. Angelo Bertelli, a bit distracted after his Crusoe episode in Chicago, lacked all passing precision and most of his usually competent casts went awry. The final scoring threat by the Irish was thwarted - when Bert’s pass to Murphy was intercepted by Bobby Ray on the Wisconsin 15 yard line. The Irish had driven .without repulse through the wilting Badger . forward wall for 70 yards.	-
Notre Dame’s lone tally, of the day came when Jiminy Mello crossed the Cardinal goal from the two after a delayed Irish charge. Elroy Hirsch, had previously sprinted unattended through the entire Irish secondary for Wisconsin’s score when he leveled off left tackle, cut back, and;swept through the clawing arms of the Irish backfield for 35 yards and a touchdown.
The Notre Dame line was the inspiring portion of the day’s play as they shoved Wisconsin’s ^strong front wall backward consistently during the second half.
• Statistically, Notre Dame won the ball game but still the scoreboard shows the official judgment, Wisconsin, 7; Notre
- Danie, 7.—Bill Boss
25
“RED” LONERGAN
WELCOME V-7 MEN!
That Game
That Wisconsin game had a lot of messages for all of us, the greatest being a reminder that “It ain’t what you do; it’s the way that you do it.” There isn’t much gained from running up and down the field when there’s a fumble at the end of the line, if all of those in the game were fumbles and we have to assume that they were. The next lesson was that the best plays in the world don’t work when the speed to do them is missing. We were all reminded that when the next team comes up, even if it happened to be mediocre, which Wisconsin was not, the news columns won’t win the game. What happened in practice or last week doesn’t count. It’s what -happens today that counts.
The week-end was far from wasted, though we did have some tough luck. We have all heard as much about Harder and Negus as we like, but the unveiling of Bob Livingstone and Jim Mello has given us a taste that won’t fade soon. Bob’s running puts him up somewhere near Dippy Evans, which is pretty good for most of us. Wisconsin’s tissue paper line wasn’t so thin but Jim Mello did - his best to cut it up. He looked like a jeep the way he plowed through. If it
hadn’t been for such outstanding secondary defense men as Negus and Harder it would be hard to say where Mello would have stopped. It isn’t likely that he would have run through the side of the stadium, but you get the idea. Camille Piccone was also very curious about what the Wisconsin boys were guarding so well so he took several trips around end for nice gains, one of the few with the speed to do this. It was his steadiness that made him good. We have a pat on the back, sort of, for Pat Harder, Ray Schreiner, and Elroy Hirsch. They are as good as the Midwest will produce this season, and when Sellinger gets back into the game the Badgers will be a tough bunch.	-
That's Them
A vital part of all of our victories on gridiron and court is the fine support given to the teams by the student body under the direction of the cheer leaders. These boys don’t stop at cheer leading but also lead in social and class activities. Joe Tracy, the captain, is a philosophy major' and member of the Met Club. Paul Toland is president of the Philadelphia Club and majors in criminology. He hopes to join the F.B.I. if the Army doesn’t annex him first. Bill Herzog, a mechanical engineer, is in the
We carry the regulation Navy Shoes
Supplies of Complete Navy Officers' Uniforms
Adler-Rochester Tailored
NEW FALL ARRIVALS
°f
SHETLANDS, TWEEDS AND FLANNELS	-
by	-
Adtteh - (iGckeAt&L
'	Custom made or ready to wear Suits,	-
. Sport Coats and Topcoats	.
FULL DRESS AND TUXEDOS FOR RENT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver -
Captain George Murphy, 130 Alumni	Bob Kuipers, 114 Alumni
Florsheim's, $ 10.50 up
Freeman's, $6.95 up
MAIN AT COLFAX
26
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Business and social sue* cess depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained graduates examine your hair and scalp ...treat the real cause of receding hairline. Free examination. Treatments $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP
413 City National Bank Bldg.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
X ★ ■ ★
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONER/ AND NAVY JEWELRY
★ l
Toilet Articles Supplies
Naval Reserve. Griff Allen, pride of Ravenna, Ohio, and the shortest man on the squad, is a low 80 golfer and member of the Army Air Corps. Dave Curtin, the something of Rochester, N. Y. is known for his participation in the Glee Club, Press Club, Savoyards, and the dramatics. Frank Finn is a ring fiend. Tony Earley, Forest Hills, N. Y., is vice president of the Sophomore Class. We don’t have the dirt on Evo Fatigati, except that he is in commerce and his family is in Cuddy, Pa.
Bowling's Here
The boys are (haw - haw) mowing them down in the K. C. Rec. in Walsh. Tom Halligan, proprietor of the Rec., has announced that all of those who plan to enter a team in the league had better start to move. The rec has two alleys, pool tables, and pin ball games.
More Notre Dame "All Out"
Some 60 bronze name plates for the box seats in the stadium are now part of the scrap drive collection.
The band is in the hands of Mr. Lee Hope this year. Already the band looks classy and the new uniforms will dress the boys up even more. Freshman Jim Kress has replaced Stan Litizette as drum major de luxe. Jim insists that he has won no national or state titles for his baton twirling, but he is proud of the Michigan State fly casting title he won. He was a champ at 16.
FROSH FOOTBALL
.(Continued from page 24) week is accomplished. A large part of the credit must go to Jack Warner and Bob Walsh, injured varsity men. In spite of their natural disappointment at being forced to the sidelines, these boys carried on, lending all the skill and knowledge garnered in two years of varsity experience to Coach Snyder and his effort to convert the inexperienced Greenies into a smoothly functioning unit.
The following list contains the names of the outstanding frosh candidates— the embryonic greats of 1943.
Ends: John Baroni, Jim Flanagan, Gerard Ford, James Terrill; Tackles: Ted Budynkiewicz, John Pehar, Warren Schultz, Joe Signaigo, Jim Tharp, Harold Zimmerman, Gasper Urban; Guards: John Frampton, Alan Griffiths, Bill _ Mann, Jim Vugrin; Center: Louis San-tiano, Frank Sullivan, James Sullivan.
Backs : George Birmingham, Ray Dooney, Ray Franklin, Bob Greenlagh, Charles Haringer, Bill Heywood, Ray lannucillo, Andy Lipnosky, John Lujack, Steve Nemeth, Mike Noonan, Fred Ro-vai, Wally Schoyer, Ralph Shimer, Emil Sitko, Harvey Stroud, Gerry Theunick.
—Myles Kelly
PALAIS ROYALE
presents
JACK TEAGARDEN AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Saturday, October I Oth
Adm. 85c per person (tax inc.) 9-1
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading BARBER SHOP
. 100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS: 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
Buy with Confidence jgmiws
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
Spalding & Goldsmith
EQUIPMENT
* N. D. Jackets : "T" Shirts — 45c
N. D. "T" Shirts —' 65c
Gym and Basketball $2.25 - $5.50
Socks Supporters Gym Pants
Warm-up Clothing
SONNEBORN'S
121 W. Colfax
27
HOPES FOR UNDEFEATED IRISH SQUAD GROUNDED BY GEORGIA ENGINEERS
J. D. USINA
Coach Frank Leahy’s pre-game pessimism concerning the fancy - stepping footballers from Georgia Tech and their potent power was not shared by all the staunch supporters of Notre Dame’s Irish pigskin eleven. So then, to many, the unexpected 13-6 victory of the Southerners came as a rude surprise.
It wasn’t so much the fact that defeat was thought impossible as it was the common opinion that following the 7-7 tie with the Badgers of Wisconsin, Notre Dame would vent its power on the
Whether you're in college or technical school — majoring in history or welding — you'll slip into your Bantamac a thousand and one times this term — ready for campus, class or outdoor action in any weather, every season. Light weight, rugged, washable.
$5"- $5.95 and up.
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
121 SOUTH MICHIGAN
Rambling Wrecks. Instead, the Engineers shoveled a bit of coal in the hotbox and proceeded to hand the Notre Dame machine its first defeat since Frank Leahy took over the mentorship.
Somehow, things didn’t pan out the way that they were intended and the 30,000 fans in the stadium, who sat in well-nigh perfect football weather, did not understand the ability of the Georgians until it was flaunted before their eyes in the form of nifty and tricky battle-plans as cooked up by Coach Bill
Alexander.
As the Notre Dame formations started their initial period surge with five successive first downs in the drive from the Irish 14 to the Tech 26 it seemed that it would be up to them to provide all the showmanship for that afternoon. Pass interceptions by alert Yellow Jacket secondary here and at other times during the contest turned the spotlight on the Engineers as well.
Last Saturday’s home opener loss was the first such loss suffered by -Notre Dame since 1933 and was the second defeat administered by Coach Alexander’s squad in 13 games. According to the general roundup of statistics the Irish had the edge in almost every department but that essential one of scoring.
The Georgians, adept in the art of a slick style of performance scored first about midway the third quarter after Notre Dame had taken the second-half kickoff and marched from their 16 to the Yellow Jackets’ 10 where Manning intercepted a Bertelli aerial. Following a bit of offensive work and then a punt which carried to the Notre Dame 18, an Irish fumble on second down gave the Tech squad the ball on their foe’s 27. In five plays Georgia crossed the doublestripe with their Fullback Ralph Plaster smashing the line from the one-yard stripe. Plaster tacked on the single point.

Shortly thereafter the stage was reset. With the fourth period minutes old Georgia whizzed a pass, Clint Castleberry to Halfback McHugh, for a touchdown which matched the effort of Notre Dame a short while after.
It was in the closing moments that Notre Dame sought desperately to tally once more and eke a tie out of the depths of defeat. They laid hands on the pigskin after they had scored their first time and started humming, going from their own 15-yard marker to the Engineers’ 43. Center Manning of Tech again came into the picture and intercepted a pass, being downed on the Georgia 27 a few seconds before the closing gun.
Signs of hidden offensive might were displayed by the Irish as the second half began as they penetrated deep into the Tech inner defenses on the 23-yard line. Again a pass interception spoiled things and Georgia took over following through with their first tally.
It was a combination of things that turned the tide in favor of the Peach State 11. Ranking high in this combination was the downright good play of the Tech team. They startled the stadium with the ancient “Statue of Liberty” play netting 24 yards. A run from fake punt formation gained 32 yards.
It’s been said and truly said—there can be no alibis.
28
| ^ke Claii. t

Met Club Plans Trip
The Metropolitan Club’s 350 members, -with Donald Degnan as president, will hold regular meetings throughout the year. They are planning a minor student trip for the Army game, but if the administration is willing, it might be enlarged to students outside the club.
The Christmas Dance will be held Dec. 26 at the Essex House in New York. A band has not been decided on yet. ,
The other club officers, besides Donald Degnan, are Anthony Maloney, vicepresident; Thomas Foley, secretary; and William Maloney, treasurer. The board of trustees is made up of William Walsh, Gerald O’Reilly, Charles McCafferty, and John Murphy.
Donald Degnan requests that all the members support the player of the week program.
A.S.M.E.
The A.S.M.E., American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held its first meeting of the semester, Sept. 30. Movies on naval warships were shown, and speeches were given by some of the members.
The club has 37 members: 22 juniors and 15 seniors. Its officers this year are John Garceau, president; Robert O’Reilly, vice-president; Henry Reilly, secretary; and Edward Powers, treasurer. The faculty advisor is Mr. C. Robert Egry.
The purpose of the club is to assign speeches to the members on technical subjects that interest them. Meetings will be held every other Wednesday.
Old Dominion
Last week the Old Dominion Club held its first meeting of the semester. In an election supervised by Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, history professor and moderator of the club who also comes from Virginia, the following members were elected to office: President, Harry McKnight; vice-president, George Kelly; secretary treasurer, Leo Burke. During a second meeting held last night, plans were also discussed for participation in intra-club activities.
Bookmen
On Tuesday, Sept. 29, the Bookmen held their first fall meeting. Wilbur Puhr presented an excellent paper on the German historian, Spengler. Mr. Puhr’s summarization, analysis, and
With your civilian clothes, you wore Douglas Shoes because they had what you wanted—looks and comfort— at a fair price. Now you’re in the Navy, you’ll find that Douglasisstillthe best buy.Seeourpredsion-styledNavy-type shoes today, they’re built for long wearing comfort.
criticism of Spengler’s controversial work, The Decline of the West, gave way to a lively discussion following the presentation of the paper.
The Bookmen will hold an interview meeting for applicants on Tuesday, Oct. 13, at 7:30 p.m. in Seminal* Room A of the Law Building. All students interested in the appreciation of Modern Literature are invited to attend.
Central New York
The Notre Dame Club of Central New York held its first meeting for the fall semester last Monday night. Fifteen freshmen were introduced to the 32 members present. The total club membership numbers 46 men from Auburn, Syracuse, Utica, Watertown, Cortland, and the surrounding territory. '
An informal dinner is planned for
Biology Club Meets
The Biology Club began its second active year with a meeting Oct. 1. Donald Seuffert gave a report of last summer’s picnic. Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, acting dean of the College of Science, ’ gave a very good talk on biological cata-- lysts, and a description of vitamins and ,:	hormones. The club has plans for a ban-
quet this fall, and at the end of the year they are going to have their own yearbook.
• Robert Nelson is president; the other j officers are Don Seuffert, vice-president; .
and John Shea, secretary-treasurer. Dr. John D. Mizelle is the faculty advisor.
< The members are pre-medical and predental students.
A
210 South Michigan Street
NEW FALL STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS SHOES- $4.45 — $5.45
29
Thursday, the 22nd, after mid-semester exams. Plans are incomplete as yet, but the committee, under the directorship of Paul F. Tierney, president, is in charge of arrangements.
A meeting to discuss final plans will be held for the entire membership on Monday, Oct. 12. Refreshments are to be served.
The club has been functioning through the sununer semester, but activities have been limited because of the lack of membership.—Jack Terry
Rev. John A. O'Brien
Urges Use of Rosary
Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion at the University, addressed the student body Sunday, Oct. 4 in the Sacred Heart Church and declared that, “a world in the flames of war should prompt every Catholic to have recourse to the devotion of the Rosary during the month of October to beseech the intercession of Mary, the Queen of Peace, to bring a just and lasting peace to afflicted mankind.”
“Every Catholic who has the welfare of our soldier boys at heart,” continued
Father O’Brien, “will remember them with a rosary each day. Let us launch here at Notre Dame a great rosary crusade that this historic devotion will find its place in every home in America until peace, based on justice and charity, comes once again to our nation.
“The rosary may well be called the thermometer of Christianity,” he said, “when it is used, Christianity is flourishing. When it is neglected, Christianity falls to a low ebb. Pope Pius IX was accustomed to say: Tn the whole of the
Vatican there is no greater treasure than the rosary.’
“This saintly pontiff was most anxious that the rosary be said daily in every family. The legacy he bequeathed to the faithful was the admonition: ‘Let the rosary, this simple, beautiful method of prayer, enriched with many indulgences, be habitually recited of an evening in every household. These are my last words to you: the memorial I leave behind me.’
“Tradition ascribes the popular use of
f
py knack of making thirst a minor matter...refreshment your foremost feeling.
“And your own experience will prove this fact: The only thing like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola itself.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Wks., 1107 Beyers Ave. Tel. 4-3186
It Pays to Patronize "Scholastic" Advertisers
30
the rosary to St. Dominic, founder of the Dominican Order. When the Albigensian heresy was spreading through the south of France and the north of Italy in the year 1200, Dominic was commissioned by the Pope to preach against it. His efforts were unavailing. He then besought the aid of Mary. Appearing to Dominic, Mary gave him the rosary bidding him to use it as a weapon against the prevailing heresy. The devotion spread rapidly and in a short time had effected the conversion of more than 100,000 heretics.
“Later on, when dire calamities loomed up for Christendom, recourse was had to the rosary. To its efficacy the Christians chiefly attributed the deliverance of Europe from the Turks by the well-nigh miraculous victories at Lepanto (1571), Vienna (1683) and Belgrade. It was in thanksgiving for these victories that the feast of the Holy Rosary was established on the first Sunday of October and the whole month dedicated to the Holy Rosary. That the Blessed Virgin was highly pleased with this prayer was clearly evidenced by the fact that when she appeared at Lourdes to St. Bernadette, she held in her hand the rosary.
“Pope Leo XIII issued not less than 12 encyclicals and letters apostolic encouraging this devotion. As it averted the evils threatening the Church in these days of St. Dominic, and later on when the crescent of the Turks seeking to replace the Cross of Christ loomed up menacingly against the Christian horizon, so also has it the power to avert the evils threatening the Church, society, and the individual soul in this day and age.”—Vince Scully
An Open and Shut Case
Doubler Shirt works fine with the collar open or closed!
With the top button open, collar flared and tieless, it's a perfect-fitting sports shirt. With the top button closed, and with a tie, Doubler's a smart, neat, regular shirt! All the Arrow Shirt features: "Mi-toga" Figure-Fit, Sanforized label (shrinkage less than 1 percent) and Arrow's anchored buttons. S2.50.
MAIN AT CPU MAX
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
It's Adlers for Arrows!
Picture yourself in the authentically styled new Arrow White from Arrow Headquarters. They’re tops for Fall . . . See them tomorrow.
Doubler—The Two-Timing
Shirt
The Arrow Doubler can be worn two ways-—buttoned at the neck and with a tie, for regular wear, or unbuttoned and without a tie for sports and casual wear. The secret lies in the ingenious convertible collar.
Like all Arrow shirts, Doubler has the Mitoga figure-fit and bears the Sanforized label (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). See your Arrow dealer for Doubler today. 32.50.
Select some of those prize-winning Arrow ties, too! They can’t be beat! SI up.
* BUY U. S. WAS. BONDS AND STAMPS *
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS . UNDERWEAR. SPORT SHIRTS
31
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN!
Special Prices to Students and V~7!
American Shoe Service
New, Modern Repair Shop All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No gueswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at I 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call C. W. VEACH Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
WELCOME, Navy Men! Ask about special furlough rates
DISC-CUSSION
Frank A. King
Wheel!!! Wheel!!! Tonight is the big night for the class of ’45 (or is it ’44?). They will all frolic, dance, drink pink tea and lemonade at the beautiful Palais Royale. However, it is a pity that they won’t have a band to play for them while they dance. Although a character named Eddy Howard is slated to sit on the band-stand for several hours and give forth with varied groans and grunts (and what could be more appropriate with that bunch that Howard is bringing than grunts and groans?) it is, in the opinion of this column a case of simply not having a band. But let’s not be too hard on Mr. Howard or the Sophs; Howard tries md the Sophs didn’t haw* any choice, cbviously. Because if th< did and they were in their right minds, they should never have hired horrid Howard. i
However, all is not gloom on the musical front. P' ' >how- or other some of America’s " ands managed to find their way .h Bend. Not so very long ago, my the 26th of September to be . j, the Palais Royale presented Ch : Thornhill and his orchestra. Acoi ng to the advance notices Mr. Thornhill' was supposed to wake things up arour here. Well, he did, right after Jan Ga? r the “Idiot of the Airlanes” put th . to sleep. But it was no rude awake .mg. Thornhill presented a mediocre orchestra . . . just mediocre. His pianc was refreshing and his arrangements were unique, but there seemed to be a certain punch missing. Maybe Claude got buried under his “Snowfall.” In the first place too many of the Thornhill arrangements were written for listening pleasure and not enough for dancing pleasure. This is probably because nobody bothered to dance at the Glen Island Casino, Thornhill’s last stopping place. They couldn’t dance. It was too crowded. The outstanding musician was Thornhill, of course. However, he featured a very good tenor sax man (we’d tell you his name only he is a Japanese spy and doesn’t want any publicity) and a good trumpet man (we’d tell you his name only he’s an F.B.I. man trailing the spy and doesn’t want "any publicity).	'
The record business has been slow lately. Outside of the usual run of patriotic songs recorded by everyone from Goodman to Lombardo—-Jdoivn to Lombardo)—and a few sloppy hit parade darlings, nothing has reached the mar-
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
Bostonian Service Shoes.$8.95
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington
32
ket — and the aforementioned aren’t worth mentioning.
The only solid music to penetrate our beloved midwest recently, came a week ago Thursday in the form of Louis Armstrong and his lads at the Palace Thea
ter, downtown South Bend. The whole show was excellent, including a few “should have been censored” gags, but this column is concerned only with the band, and not the side show. Louie’s outfit bounced, the saxs and brass and
rhythm all giving excellent performances. In solo wo.rk Louie was fine, but took a back seat to one of his section men (we’d tell you his name, but he’s dodging the draft, and doesn’t want any publicity) who played a tasty, lower
1N the groove that new RAINFA/r
&
RAIN FAIm
TOPCOAT SMARTNESS
SHOWERPROOF PROTECTION


CRAFTON . . . $11.50
Definite '"favorite” with college men everywhere! Balmacaan style, Piedmont gabardine Storm Coat with fly front . . expertly tailored .. and finished with sleeve and deep yoke lining of lustrous rayon. Showerproofed by Cravenelte. Colors: fawn, light olive or taupe. Sizes 34 to 46. Regulars, longs, shorts.
ZIPRAIN______$13.75
The nonchalance college men look for .. an English style knee-length Storm Coat . . made of fine quality Piedmont gabardine, showerproofed by Cravenette. Talon fastener on fly front. Slash pockets, railroad stitching on cuffs and bottom, full iridescent rayon lining! Colors: bleached bone or light olive. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars, longs.
TACKLE T WILL ... $16.75
Made from weather-and-wear defying Tackle . Twill fabric. Used by leading teams for football pants. Chosen by Uncle Sam for first Paratrooper uniforms. Balmacaan style, raglan shoulders. Deep yoke and sleeve linings. of lustrous rayon. Made showerproof by famous Long-Life Cravenette process. .
Keeps its water-repellent qualities when - ■ dry cleaned! Colors: eggshell or tan. Sizes -32 to 44. Regulars or longs.	_
M*X ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" Michigan at Washington
register trumpet that was very good. The trombone solo man (we’d tell you his name, but he hasn’t paid any income tax for the last 12 years, and doesn’t want any publicity) who also coupled with Two Ton Tessie in a stirring dance number, is in the Teagarden, Jenny Hig-genbothem class—at least in the Teagarden, Jenny class. And the tenor laddie crawled around that hunk of gold lacquer until we begin to think his mother must have been frightened by a black octopus. The sax screamed, it moaned, it climbed down to its knees and shouted uncle, but he kept blowing arid tenor music almost as marvelous as Barnet’s (the King of them all) kept pouring out. (We’d tell you the tenor man’s name but he wears a little black moustache and his hair keeps falling over one eye and he doesn’t want any publicity—at least not in this country.)
LAW SCHOOL
(Continued from page 8) for whom the college is now named, began as head of the department of law in 1883 and continued as dean until 1918 when he retired. F. J. Vurpillat was dean from 1919-1923. Thomas F. Konop, now dean emeritus, took over the duties in 1924, holding the oilice until 1940.
Under Dean Konop a Bureau of Research in Civil Church Law was established in 1939. The facilities have been available to all diocesan and parochial officials in the country but work on this project was suspended recently since present conditions have caused a short
ENGRAVED ON ETCHED BOWL
ULTRA FINE IMPORTED BRIAR
makes pipe function superbly
&
Write for chart picturing 18 beautiful all-smooth models, telling benefits of
Marvelous Patented Filter
Also same styles, all-etched, with Eagle or engraved PATRIOTIC EMBLEMS speciallydesignedfor men in service as well as civilians.
age of material. A course in church law added simultaneously with the establishment of the Bureau, has also been temporarily suspended.
A cabinet member, a state governor, several federal judges and many specialists in the various fields of the law are present testimony ..to the value of Notre Dame’s legal training, in addition to those in high professional and civic posts. Notre Dame’s law alumni have practiced successfully in every state of the Union.—John Borkowski	.
FACULTY PUBLICATIONS
. (Continued from page 15)
- Brown Navigator, a computation devicepad for solving velocity triangles in air and surface navigation, privately printed; Rev. John A. O’Brien: God — Can We Find Him, 60-page pamphlet recently published by the Paulist Press.
Henry B. Froning: Father Nieuwland, Priest-Scientist, article in two parts, Ave Maria, Sept. 5, 12; Norbert Engels: It’s a Grinding Job, article in the September Columbia,, and To See Thyself, essay in the September Catholic Mirror, and Mount Palomar 1941, poem in September 19 America.
Waldemar Gurian: Reviews of Ernst Fraenkle’s The Dual State in September Thought; of Wallace Deuel’s People Under Hitler and of Sanford Calvin Yoder’s For Conscience’ Sake; A Study of Mennonite Migrations Resulting from the World War, both in the September Journal of Modern History.
lil filters FOR
IN	vnj
Iki	V
lai ROYAL DEMUTH
pipes

ENGRAVED ON
Father Charles M. Carey: They Sing Off-Key, article in the August Catholic World.
R. S. Eikenberry: “Glider Instrumentation,” article in Instruments for August; Rev. Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist.: combined review of three books of nonfiction, Ave Maria, Sept. 12; Father Richard H. Sullivan: Review of Our Palace Wonderfid, by the Rev. Frederick A. Houck, Ave Maria, Sept. 5.	•
F.N.M. Brown: Space-Time Recorders, article, and What’s an Engineer? editorial, both in Instruments, for August; Willis D. Nutting: Review of Four Years of Nazi Torture, by Ernst Winkler, in the Ave Maria, August 22.
Father Alfred Send: Review of Capitalism Explained, by Thomas E. Wiley, Ave Maria, Sept. 5; Father Leo R. Ward: Review of Medieval Humanism, by Gerald G. Walsh, S.J., Ave Maria, Sept. 5; Richard Sullivan: You’re Only Young Once, short story, Mademoiselle, . September; Woman’s Day, short story, New Yorker (Eastern edition), Sept. 12.
THE BIGGEST NAME
Dr.GRABOW
THE Pie-Smoke J PIPE
FOR VICTORY
BREAKING IN NO BITE NO BITTER TASTE
. MADE BY M. LINKMAN k CD./DkGRABOWl —	tru-grain!
The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it. Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine Pte-Smokei. • every Dr. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
1
34
N. D. Fall Radio Shows Feature Faculty Members Shaun McDermott
Starting off the fall semester with a new program schedule, the Notre Dame Radio Club shows great prospects of having a successful season. Over 25 active members were here for the summer session, and with 20 freshmen, described by President Vail Pischke as “the finest prospects the club has yet seen from a freshman class,” to be added, the club will definitely have a representative
group.
A special feature of the Radio Club for the fall is a dinner to be given for the members, at which Professor John T. Frederick, an outstanding authority on American literature and a conductor of a radio program of some repute, will speak. The exact time of this event is yet to be announced.
Among the new features of the club are two programs being fostered by prominent faculty members. A series of dramatizations of jury trials is under' the direction of Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law, while Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, is planning a musical show.
Two other highlights are now in sight for the club this fall, both being class dances. The sophomore cotillion, featuring Eddie Howard, will be aired' over the campus facilities as will the Junior Prom in November. Both will be conducted in the same manner as was the Sen.ior Ball last week, with Tom Cooney doing the announcing.
The first meeting of the club will be held next Sunday at 11 o’clock in the studios on the third floor of the. Engineering Building. A list of names of those accepted in the club as a' result of the tryouts held last Monday will be posted in the building. Tryouts will again be held next Monday, to enable those who were not able to make it last week to do so.
The programs originating from the campus studios are:
“Sportscast” with Lee Raymond and Bill Boss, Monday 3:30-3:45.
“Views and Previews” with Vail Pischke and Bob Johnson, Saturday 12:30-12:45.
“Notre Dame Forum” with Joe Rud and George -Bariscillo, Sunday 10:05-10:30.
How YOU can help her speed vital war calls
WHEN you’re about to telephone, remember that the wires—especially Long Distance circuits—are busier than ever before, with war calls. We can’t build new equipment to carry the load because the materials we need are going into ships and planes and shells.
Missing In Action
Pvt. Henry J. McConnell, ex. ’37, is listed among the “missing in action” since the fall of the Philippines, according to a recent note from Providence, R. I., his home.
Here’s how you can help to keep the lines open for war calls. Unless your message is really urgent, please don’t use Long Distance service. But if you must, please make your calls as short as you can.
Thanks!—we know you’ll be glad to help!
%% CALLS COMt FIRST'gl

ssurtoS
35
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building*
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S. Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S. . Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
Fencing Outlook Dull
As Season Draws Near
Fencing stepped into the sports picture this week as organized practice began in. preparation for meets with the strongest squads of the Mid-west.
Captain-elect Jim Madigan can not look too optimistically toward the coming season in which he will be backed up by only two of last year’s squad, Herb Melton and Angel Gonzalez. However, the darkest side of the picture lies in that fact that these three fencers graduate in December before the regularseason begins. Coach Walter Langford is making every effort to schedule some
meets before Christmas, but has nothing | definite as yet.	;
' On the brighter side, there are many I underclassmen anxious to show their 1 skill. Among these are juniors Dave Roney and Alfredo Ortiz and sophomores, Stewart Stratter, Jack Dillon, -Frank Repilado, Ventura Gonzalez, and Ray Zando. With the exception of Strat-ter and Dillon, these fellows have not proven their skill in actual competition.
Stewart Stratter showed some real “fence sense” in copping the annual frosh fencing tournament last spring. ' Jack Dillon compiled a brilliant record while fencing with St. John’s Prep. Jack captured the New York-Brooklyn } high school fencing championship and the New York State high school championship to place himself as a good prospect for varsity competition.	'
Walter Langford announced that interhall fencing has been proposed and a definite verdict is expected in the near future.—Phil Keen
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2674
Notre Dome HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
a
PEN REPAIR MATERIALS
GETTING SCARCE
MAY SOON
BE IMPOSSIBLE TO OBTAIN!
— c y v
t 0UARWS^’|M£|
• Imagine writing term papers with a quill! You may be—unless you protect your pen from wartime failure. Repair parts are scarce. And that’s what makes amazing new Parker Quink with solv-x big news. This sensational ink discovery eliminates the cause of most pen failures ... ends gumming and clogging of inferior inks ... cleans your pen as it writes! Get Quink with solv-x today.
Rich, full-bodied, faster-drying—Quink gives a new zest to writing. Don’t ask for ink—ask for new Parker Quink!
com. 1942. THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
NEW PARKER QUINK is the only ink containing solv-x.
Eliminates the cause of most pen failures:
1.	The solv-x in new Parker Quink dissolves sediment and gummy deposits left by inferior inks. Cleans your pen as it writes!
2.	Quink with solv-x prevents the rubber rot and corrosion caused by strongly acid writing fluids.
N. R. O. T. C.
Neckband Shirts________$2.00
Paper Collars_____10 for 50c
15^, 25^, and up. Made by the makers of famous Parker Pens. 7 PERMANENT COLORS: Black, Blue-black, Royal Blue,Green, Violet, Brown, Red. 2 WASHABLE COLORS: Black, Blue.
Parker Qu»fAr ^COWTJLIBS SOLT-X
Important Notice!

NAVY V-7 WELCOME!
Important Notice!
We are proud and nappy to greet you Future Officers of the greatest
Navy in the world —
For Your Convenience . .
500 PAIRS
BOSTON has more than
Black
Blucher, Plain Toe Oxford
of REGULATION DRESS OXFORDS
4
available in all sizes,6to 12,in B,C and D.
SPECIALLY PRICED to Navy V-7 Men
$ 35
per pair
(Our regular $5.85 quality)
The Boston Shoe Store is justifiably proud of its record of fitting shoes properly, with emphasis on Quality Merchandise, sold at Popular Prices. We back each sale with a 43-year reputation for Integrity and Honest Value. To serve you will be deemed a privilege.

-M'
THE BOSTON SHOE
124 South Michigan Street
South Bend
Fashion Footwear .... Always Properly Fitted
37
NAVAL UNI


NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER’S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
Individually Hanc>u. to Individual Measured;
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient ser- ' vice that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . ( • ■ i
an advantage of great value to men on the move.*-For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may " be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville^ . . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you
-J
find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, cour-^ teous, efficient personnel to serve you.	-
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailoring that will give complete satisfaction. All Simp-
son uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
AN
’UR ' :;1 be
Si nui Stifle:
3R1ET ly ofl dy. I
CKE1 MOVj La r fach case yw* o
NAVAL OFFICER’S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
DICE
hin i
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S ft} WINTER WORKING i4 OVERCOAT
Hi
NAVAL OFFICER’S OVERCOAT (Two-piece half belt in back)
J. B. SIMp
NJ KJ ft.;
IN SOUTH BEND - 2Cr or Zero Deck) tte
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., W^ BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS* ^A1 WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOtfACI '	TN, I
38
■
ORMS of Character
and Tailored J. B. Simpson, Inc
quick and positive
e>-
al 'r
r-
■•<
r-
attached slide that easy to remove are
BODKIN BUTTONS with the can’t he lost and which are so
3R1ET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: ly officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty dy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) : •isily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
i number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink. itification can always be made.

r- I
(ANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED
/ J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
? UR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram -• (el bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse.
r^. Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date--
?r
-f -U
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
CKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK MOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in minute’s time through the little pocket opening in j facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the UR open.
DICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter »r half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed hin regulations, are followed on all personal details.
IPSON, Inc. tBAILORS 2?north main street
I iteen on the Campus wA
Ag< (GAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, H0^/CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. '^N, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
| MAIL COUPON TOMY-
FOR FREE ILLUSTUTEO	|
NMOL UNIFORM UTOIX	i
with price list and actual samples of ,. uniform materials.	I
J. B. SIMPSON. INC.. 205 N. Main St.. South Bend. Ind.. . Gentlemen:	|
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of materials.
Name--------------------------------------
Address______________________________________________
39
• J -1 / h
W J . L
Copj right 1942. Liggett i Mvers Tobacco Co
from Here a to lectori/ esterfield
the cooler, better-tasting, definitely milder cigarette
When there’s a joh on hand a good cigarette is mighty comforting to have alon" . . . and Chesterfields are on the beam with the one and only Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. It’s the
combination that smokers quickly find to their liking and count to give them everything it takes to Satisfy.
Make your next pack Chesterfield...enjoy more smoking pleasure ivith the full knowledge that regardless of price
on
t0,«c0 ca