
*
THE notre dame scholastic
.jbo McIntyre, Richard Parrish, Richard Elfers, John V. Hinkel,

931
the scholastic staff •
Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,
- - News Editor Asst. News Editor ’ Literary Editor • - Sports Editor
Editor-in-chief Business Manager
J. F. Mahoney, - - - - The Week Cyril J. Mullen, The College Parade Arthur Stenius, - Mucic and Drama John Bergan, - - - Club Editor

William Craig Bernard Garber
John H. Zuber George McNally
NEWS
R. W. Munz
John DeRouiet
ADVERTISING
J. T. Bonner, - - Local Adv. Mgr H. J. Noon, - Local Circulation Mgr. D. Mz Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
George a. Kiener Raymond DrymaLski
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	h. O'Bryan
C. M. Ashman	e. J. Carlin
W. E. Burchill
JUNE 2, 1928
No. 80
1872
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece.-. The Week.....__-..............
The Commencement Speakers. The University Awards .... Alumni Plans for Commencement. The University Theatre........ The Editor’s Page.........--
Commencement Program —........ An Age for Ideals (The Oration)..
J. F. Mahoney______ Richard Parrish...
James E. Armstrong John de Rouiet____
Pierce J. O’Connor..
Approach to Maturity (The Poem) ....Richard Elpers
Valedictory Address of 1928. Sport News —--------------
.W. Hudson Jefferys ..John V. Hinkel „—
1928
______932
_____933
934
_____938 _____940
...__941
____... 946
_____ 947
_____ 948
_____960
_____952
... 954-968
3
m scholar™ u p—*
A’
c-£



uw, OMciwr A mr, witAwfcrf w,
Tbe JUnrtim ■	M"*"" ®“°w * hb^e rf M
the notre dame scholastic
933
THE WEEK ----------
I think I may safely be as careless about this last Week as I wish, because it’s fairly certain that in the rush of Commencement no one will bother to read it, assuming that anyone has bothered to read it before. This business of saying goodby is never pleasant and almost never done very cleverly, though I must say that the Juggler’s dramatic farewell was reminiscent and worthy of the high moral tone and’ salubrious humor of that eminent magazine. I hope that whatever I am about to set down will be as worthy of the Scholastic as that piece was of the Funny Fellow.
It has been my privilege to know rather intimately a good many of the departing seniors, and I have come to the conclusion that their class is probably the best class ever to attend this school. This view may not be universally shared, but then few views are, the subject matter notwithstanding. I have lived with them, talked with them, seen them when they were possibly not appearing to their best advantage, and I’ve liked them a good deal. I’ll not like to see them go.
As freshmen, they were undoubtedly like any other freshman class; some of them were intent on reforming Notre Dame, some of them proposed to gather laurels on the fields of honor, and some others thought quite seriously of perpetuating their names in undying verse.- The likeness to othei freshman classes disappeared about a mo^th after their arrival and has been unremarked ever since. Enough of them have realized their ambitions to justify failure in the negligible percentage who have not,.and w a more can you ask of a senior class.	1 s0
happens that some of them are now the world with less tangible ambitionsi than those they cherished here, it really very little, because ambitions are r
worthy. If this one grows up and becomes president of the Rotary Club when he had rather be a struggling member of an artist’s colony, or if that one, cut out to be a saint, becomes a notorious desperado and beer baron, who can say that they are miscast? If you are going to be a gangster or Y secretary, be a good one. (The various careers pursued here at Notre Dame, have, in. some instances, been splendid training for Y secretaries.)
Bear up bravely at Commencement. If your diploma is not a diploma at all, or if it contains a bill from the library, ’ide your breaking ’eart. Diplomas aren’t everything, though your mother might not be aware of it. If you detect sly leers on the faces .of certain of the alumni in the audience, think nothing of it. They have been given to leering of late. A leer is a good thing sometimes, as you will shortly learn. Every time this year I told Jack Mullen I’d have this thing in on time I was rewarded with a leer. I guess editors learn to leer before other people.
Count your presents carefully. This will be the last time you will get a great deal for nothing, so mark the moment well. Pay your respects to the South Bend.gal (or gals) and where it is possible, reclaim your pin. Walk around the lakes and reflect on the moods you’ve known as you walked those paths in other years. Call on Father Cavanaugh, Charles. Phillips, Vincent Engels, Paul Fen-Ion. Visit the Grotto and stop in to thank Father O’Hara. Throw away your old dance programs and make a note to buy some new golf hose. Sell your chair and dresser at a reasonable profit and throw your Poverty and Dependency book out the window.. Finally, step into your Rolls-Royce coupe or tie • your new tie and depart.	J.F.M.
934	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BISHOP FINNIGAN TO CELEBRATE PONTIFICAL MASS TOMORROW
The Right Rev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C., D.D., Notre Dame’s own beloved Bishop, returns to the campus tomorrow from his Mon-
RIGHT REV. GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, C.S.C., D.D. Bishop of Helena, Montana
tana diocese to celebrate the Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9 o’clock in Sacred Heart Church. A former vice-president of the University, one time Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross of the United States province, Bishop Finnigan is one of Notre Dame’s most distinguished graduates.
Just a little more than a year ago Bishop Finnigan left here to assume the duties of his post in Helena, Montana, after having been appointed bishop by Pope Pius XI. In that short year the Bishop has endeared himself to the people of his diocese and has had great success in his work.
Bishop Finnigan was graduated from Notre Dame with the degree of bachelor of letters in 1910. Somewhat later, he left for Rome where he received the degree of doctor of philosophy and was granted a licentate in
theology. Continuing his studies, he entered Lavalle University, Quebec, Canada, in 1915 and there won a doctorate in sacred theology.
When the United States entered the World War, Bishop Finnigan applied for a commission as chaplain in the army and was commissioned in January, 1918, and assigned to the 137th field artillery at Fort Shelby, Hattiesburg, Mississippi. The Bishop saw considerable service in France and before the close of the war had been made a captain in the A. E. F. for exceptional service.
Bishop Finnigan was made Superior of Holy Cross Seminary on his return to America and held that post until 1925 when he was made vice-president of the University. The following year he was elected Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He left that office last year to become Bishop.
—---------------
BACCALAUREATE SPEAKER IS NOTED PRIEST AND SCHOLAR
Orator, student, world traveler, a striking figure, the Rev. William B. Martin, D. D., who will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the Solemn Pontifical Mass in
REV. WILLIAM B. MARTIN, D.D.
IV/io Will Deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	935

Sacied Heart church, tomorrow morning, is a man exceptionally well fitted to offer a message to young men about to begin their lives outside college cloisters.
Father Martin is now the pastor of the Church of the Holy Family in New Rochelle, N. Y. Before assuming his duties at New Rochelle, the priest spent about 20 years as first assistant of St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York city. He is the founder of the Institute'of Scientific Study in New York and for a time acted as its president.
The baccalaureate speaker is a product of the Catholic school system. He attended a parochial grammar school and later St. Francis Xavier’s College in New York city, from which he was graduated with the bachelor’s degree. He pursued his graduate work at the Catholic university which awarded him the M. A. degree. After concluding his studies at the university, Father Martin retained his interest in study and this, coupled with his wide travels, has produced a scholar.
Father Martin is considered one of the finest orators in the New York diocese. Possessing a striking personality, his words make a deep impression on his audience. He has delivered many lectures on literature, in which he is deeply interested.
ALUMNUS TO DELIVER COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS
Francis O’Shaughnessey, a distinguished Chicago lawyer and Notre Dame graduate, will deliver the commencement address tomorrow afternoon in the gymnasium at the exercises that begin at 5 o’clock. Mr. O’Shaughnessey, who is a former president of the alumni association, is considered a remarkable orator.
Mr. O’Shaughnessey has been actively interested in the affairs of his Alma Mater since his graduation in 1900, when he was awarded the bachelor of laws degree. While a student here he was a prominent campus figure and was a member of the Scholastic staff. He makes it a point to attend every commencement and has held a number of offices in the alumni association, being president in 1910 and 1911.
The commencement speaker, on graduating, became an attorney at law in Chicago and today is considered a leading member of the bar of that city. His fame as a speaker is generally known and it is certain that his address to the graduates will be both impressive and stimulating. He is the first Notre Dajne man to make the commencement address at his Alma Mater.
Editor’s Note—The SCHOLASTIC regrets that it was impossible to obtain a photograph of Mr. O’Shaugnessey in time for publication.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
936
PIERCE J. O’CONNOR
Pierce J. O’Connor, the man who so admirably acquitted himself this morning when he delivered the class oration, has been active
PIERCE J. O'CONNOR Class Orator
in forensic work throughout his stay at Notre Dame. His oration today is typical of the sort of speaking he has been doing while a member of the varsity debating team of the University. The same poise, the same c 1 a r i ty of thought, has marked his many appearances as a debator.
Mr. O’Connor came to Notre Dame from Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Keeping in close touch with his native state, he was a member of the Ohio club and the Cleveland club. He was also a member of the “Wranglers,” honorary debating society. His popularity as a student is attested by the fact that he was the secretary of the sophomore class. Tomorrow he will be awarded the Bachelor of Arts degree.
W. HUDSON JEFFERYS
The audience that heard Hudson Jefferys deliver the valedictory address this morning in Washington hall could not but have been deeply impressed with the evident sincerity of the words of the young man. The philosophy of Mr. Jefferys, in the opinion of those who know him, was summed up in his declaration that “the true measure of success , is a righteous life.”
The valedictorian in his life here at the University suc-
W. HUDSON JEFFERYS Valedictorian
ceeded in symbolizing what is expected of the Notre Dame student. His record has been markedly clean and he has responded in the fullest measure to the. religious atmosphere of the schobl.
Mr. Jefferys has been an excellent student during his stay here. He has taken an active interest in the Knights of Cdlumbus and he served as chairman of the decorations committee for the Senior Ball which met with such success. He majored in Domestic Commerce and is considering teaching as a profession. His home is in Hanging Rock, Ohio.
RICHARD C. ELPERS
Richard C. Elpers, class poet, reached a fitting climax to an impressive college career when he delivered the class poem “Approach
RICHARD C. ELPERS Class I’oct
to Maturity” in Washington hall this morning. It was somehow in the course of things that he, a decidedly promising poet and writer, should conclude his life here at Notre Dame by reading such an impressively beautiful poem, a poem refreshingly original in form and matter.
“Approach to Maturity” is a well chosen
title for the poem, though the poem itself indicates that maturity has been reached in a certain measure by the man who wrote it. Written in the heroic metrical pattern, it treats of that period in a man’s life when he realizes for the first time his own individuality against the world—an important moment for him, but comparatively unimportant in the eternal repetition of that crisis through . all time.
Mr. Elpers is best known through his writings. He was the winner of the Scribbler’s poetry contest last year, and was awarded third place this year in the same competition. Three of his poems were published in the Scribblers’ Anthology last year and the Scholastic has published much of his

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
937
verse. His play, Gallery Gods/’ was nm +1*4 o * j •
UqI- ni<rk<- Her u-	^10" “us year and is a member of several organ-
,	...	,	,. asi“8°n hall. He izations, including the Scribblers. His home
served as literary editor of the Scholastic is in Evansville, Indiana.
THE MEMORIAL ARCH OF THE SACRED HEART CHURCH Erected in. Honor of Notre Dame Men who died during the World War.
University Memorial Day Services were celebrated here Wednesday.	>,•.
938	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTI C
University Awards for 1928
Rev. Emiel De Wulf, Director of Studies of the University, has made announcement of a number of the various prize winners for 1928, this week. All prizes awarded to seniors were distributed this morning at the class day exercises.
The following Medals and Prizes arc awarded:
The Breen Medal for excellence in Oratory, presented by the Honorable William P. Breen, of the class of 1877, is awarded to
Charles Augustine Lee, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Meehan Gold Medal, the gift of the late Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, for the Senior who writes the best essay in English, is awarded to
Mervyn Aloysius Aggeler,
Los Angeles, California.
The Martin McCue Medal, presented by Warren Antoine Cartier, C.E., of the class of 1887, for the best record in all subjects prescribed in the Civil Engineering program is awarded to
Vincent Arthur Stace,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
The Electrical Engineering Medal, presented by Doctor Jose A. Caparo, Sc.D., of the class of 1908, in memory of his deceased father, for the best record in all the courses prescribed in the four-year program of Electrical Engineering, is awarded to
Richard H. Greene,
Joliet, Illinois.
The Docktveiler Gold Medal for Philosophy, founded in memory of his deceased father, by Mr. Isidore Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California, for the best essay on some philosophical subject, senior year, is awarded to
George Benaglia, C.S.C.,
“ ' •	Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Lehn and Fink Medal for Pharmacy, awarded annually by Lehn and Fink, wholesale druggists and manufacturing chemists, New York City, to promote the advancement of pharmacy, for the Senior in Pharmacy having the highest general average in his work, is awarded to
Maurice Gerard McMenamin,
Freeland, Pennsylvania.
The Meyers Burse, thirty dollars in gold, founded in 1920 by a gift of five hundred dollars from Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers, of Paducah, Kentucky, as a memorial to their deceased son, J. Sinnott Meyers, of the class of 1920, is awarded to
Richard C. Elpers, Evansville, Indiana.
The William Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting, fifty dollars, founded in March 1928, by a gift of one thousand fifty dollars from Mr. Joseph V. Mitchell in honor of his son is awarded to
Richard Parrish, Fairmont, West Virginia.
The South Bend Watch Company has made permanent arrangements to offer annually a full jeweled, fourteen carat gold watch to the senior student in each of the five colleges who has made the best academic record for four years in the college from which he graduates. These watches are awarded as follows:	■
In the College of Arts and Letters, to Richard Clarence Elpers, Evansville, Indiana.
In the College of Science, to Andrew Samuel Romano, Vicksburg, Mississippi.
In the College of Engineering, to Vincent Arthur Stace,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
In the College of Commerce, to George William Crongeyer, Wyandotte, Michigan.
In the College of Law, to
William Lawrence Daily, Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania.
Two money prizes have been offered for distribution among the monogram men who have achieved the highest academic excellence. The first is a prize of one hundred and twenty-five dollars given by Mr. Francis Hering, of South Bend, Indiana, A.B., 1891, LL.B., 1902, a member of the baseball team of 1896-97, and captain of the football team during the same year. The second is a prize of one hundred dollars, donated by Mr. Leroy Joseph Keach, of Indianapolis, LL.B., 1908, captain of the track team of 1908. These
the notre da prizes have been combined and are awarded as follows:	,
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Soph omore Monogram man with the best class average for the Freshman and Sophomore years, to
Paul Manning Enright, Texarkana, Texas.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Junior Monogram man with the best class average for the Freshman, Sophomore and Junior years, to
Frederick Charles Miller, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Senior Monogram man with the best class average for the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Senior years, to
Vincent Arthur Stace, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
A number of public-spirited citizens of the city of South Bend have co-operated in the establishment of money prizes of fifty dollars each and twenty-five dollars each. These prizes are for members of the senior class and are awarded as follows:
■ Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Albert Russell Erskine, President of the Studebaker Corporation, for excellence in Machine Design, to
Gerald C. Ludwig,
Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Miles W. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works, South- Bend, for excellence in Mechanical Drawing, to
Richard J. Schilder,
Chillicothe, Ohio.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. William A. Mclnerny, Attorney-at-Law, for excellence in Public Speaking in the College of Law, to
Charles Anthony Haskell,
Denver, Colorado.
Fifty dollars, offered by the South Bend Tribune, for the student in the School of Journalism submitting the best thesis on a journalistic subject, to
John A. Mullen,	.
River Forest, Illinois.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by A^hur Hubbard, Attorney-at-Law, for
MESCHOLASTIC	939
Accomplishment in the College of Law, to
Fred Ruiz, Las Cruces, New Mexico.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Edmund Wills, Attorney-at-Law, for High Legal Scholastic Achievement in the College of K Law, to Bernard P. Wood,
Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Gallitzin Farabaugh, Attorney-at-Law, for High Legal Scholastic Achievement in the College of Law, to
Alvin F. Hans,
South Bend, Indiana.
The Hoynes Award, established in January, 1926, by a gift from William James Hoynes, LL.D., Dean Emeritus of the College of Law. The income from this fund, amounting to one hundred dollars, is awarded annually to the member of the graduating class in the program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws, who has the highest average in scholastic grades, application, deportment and achievement, together with fitting qualification for admission to the bar and to the practice of law. This prize is • awarded to
William Lawrence Daily, Wilkinsburgh, Pennsylvania. -----------—-------
I
At the time of going to press the winners of the following prizes had not been announced :
Fifty dollars, offered by Doctor Charles A. Lippincott, of The Studebaker Corporation, for student having the highest average in philosophical subjects in the College of Commerce.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. George L. O’Brien, and Mr. William D. O’Brien, of the O’Brien Varnish Company, for excellence in Chemistry.
Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, A.B., 1904, member of the baseball team during the years 1902, 1903, 1904, member of the debating team during his four years in college has made arrangements to offer an annual prize of two hundred dollars to the senior monogram athlete who has been adjudged most exemplary as a student and leader of men.
940
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ALUMNI PARTICIPATION IN COMMENCEMENT
The “fountain of youth” for Notre Dame alumni is the annual Commencement at the University. From the four corners of the country the men who marched in pap and gown in years past return for the rejuvenating process of reminiscence. Young fellows who took their diplomas last year and the year before return to enjoy similar exercises with a little easier mind. Old fellows who received their degrees under far different circumstances come back to enjoy the differences that have come with the Greater Notre Dame.	,
This year, plans for entertaining the returned alumni are more extensive than Cver. Registration began Friday, June 1. Rooms have been assigned in Morrissey, Lyons and Walsh halls. Last night seventy-five members of the Class of ’23 met at their Five Year Reunion dinner in the Lay Faculty Dining Room. In another part of the hall, the Classes of ’05-’06-’07-’08 were holding a dinner under the new Dix Reunion plan, inaugurated this year, which insures every Class a reunion every five years, and brings them together in more congenial groups than the old five-year plan. In the West wing of the Dining Hall, the St. Joe Valley Alumni sponsored the annual Commencement dance.
Saturday morning the annual Mass for deceased alumni was said in Sacred Heart Church, attended by the alumni who have already returned. This noon Mr. Borland is serving a luncheon in the Dining Hall. This afternoon the varsity baseball team tangles with Michigan State for the athletic event of the week-end. ..
Tonight is the big Alumni Night. The annual banquet will be held in the East wing of the Dining Hall at 6 o’clock. The usual feast will be spread by the University, augmented this year by the beautiful surroundings, new to practically all of the returned graduates. Music and speaking will season the meal, but the speaking this year has given place to an innovation that promises big.
After the banquet the guests will go to the other wing of the Dining Hall where an Alumni Carnival is to keep them busy for
the rest of the evening. The chief object of this event is to bring the Class of ’28 and the older alumni together. Booths representing the leading alumni Clubs will welcome old and new graduates at a common meeting place. A program of entertainment has been prepared to keep everyone as long as he cafes to stay. The carnival is the outgrowth of plans of President John P. Murphy, Cleveland, and promises to become a popular and regular feature of Commencement.
Sunday several groups are planning informal reunions. Movipg pictures of the various organizations and alumni will be taken, and the alumni participation will come to a most fitting close when Francis O’Shaughnessy, LL.B. '00, delivers the Commencement address. Mr. O’Shaughnessy is an outstanding member of the Association, and his selection as Commencement speaker is a tribute to the Alumni Association.
UNIVERSITY CATALOGUE FOR 1927-28 IS PUBLISHED
The official General Catalogue of the University of Notre Dame for the scholastic year 1927-28 was issued at the office of Rev. Emiel De Wulf, Director of Studies, Tuesday. According to the usual custom, the catalogue contains announcements for next year, 1928-29^	‘
An important innovation in the volume is a complete diagram and plan of the University included as a frontispiece. The diagram replaces the former aerial view of the campus, and will be of vastly greater assistance to visitors and new students than was the photograph.	'
A statistical summary in the back of the book is particularly interesting. According to the figures, 2993 students have attended the University this year, of whom 1305 were entered in the College of Arts and Letters. With the addition of the 914 who attended the summer session last year, a total of almost 4000 persons have been registered at Notre Dame in the course of the past twelve months.
Illinois leads the states in enrollment when the seminarians and brothers of the Congregation are deducted from Indiana’s total. Indiana, New York, and Ohio follow* in order.
941
THE Notrb Dame schqlastic
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PLAYS PRF SENTED LAST NIGHT
On Friday evening, June first, the Univer sity Theatre offered its final p’roduction the scholastic year. Three one-act plays__ ranging in tone from the intensely tragic to the gayest of satirical farces—were produced in this, the most completely satisfactory program that the group has offered. Only sixteen months ago the University Theatre was founded. At that time some doubts were expressed as to the advisability of such an organization on the campus. The Theatre has, however, more than justified the high hopes of its founders, for it has in its short life staged fifteen excellent productions.
The last play of the evening, “Tomorrow,” a tragedy of Mexico, was written by Richard B. Parrish, ’28, of Fairmont, West Virginia. This was a serious drama of contemporary Mexico. The plot revolved around the hunt for a fugitive priest, Father Raphael, and his sacrifice in offering his life-to save that of a young leader of the. church for the Mexico of tomorrow. Judging from a purely technical standpoint, we believe that Mr. Parrish’s play was the best, for the action and suspense were handled in so capable a manner as to be worthy of more than an amateur production. The play was well cast, all of the characters being excellently done. William J. Coyne, as Father Raphael; John Leddy as Carlos, the young leader; and Harry Merdzinski, as Jose,’ a servant,, were all particularly good. The others—John M. Keefe, as the American Reporter; Albert Doyle, as Captain Tirado; and James L. McShane as Sergeant Cruz—formed an excel-‘lent supporting cast.
“Son Patrick,” by John A. Mullen, ’28, of Chicago, was the second play of the evening. The scene was laid in a West Side apartmen house in Chicago. The story might be summed up as “another fight for Irish Free om, but a very different type of fight than a which we usually associate with ings Gaelic. “Son Patrick’’ was an ™terf study in the family life of middle c ass Americans, and of the manner in Patrick O’Byrne shook off the^ul el, of porting a family and establishe a his own. Pat, played in a very creditable
manner by Albert Doyle, decides that he is suPPorting his mother and younger rothers. He has done this for years, although his brothers are perfectly capable of supporting themselves. Pat wants to get married. The play deals with his declaration of independence, in an interesting dia-SUe’ intersPersed with delightful humor. Miss Helen Shank played the part of the mother, Mrs. Patricia O’Byrne, and again showed the high calibre of her acting which she has showed before in other -University Theatre Productions. John Carroll and William Murphy, who played the younger brothers, handled their parts in a very capable manner. All things considered “Son Patrick” was an excellent play—the plot well worked out, the characters well done, and the. humor having a delightfully Irish tone, quite in keeping with the characters.
“Gallery Gods”, a satirical farce, by Richard C. Elpers, ’28, of Evansville, Indiana, was by far the best comedy produced by the University Theatre this year. Miss Margaret Moist who starred in the December Production, “Fire Fly," showed a remarkable capacity for light comedy. The play deals with the pseudo-artists so common to-day. Beulah Deemer, a young house wife ;who has taken a course in lamp shade decoration, decides that she is an artist. Her endeavors to gather a salon about herself, and to cultivate her husband’s mind proved to be the most delightful comedy which we have seen on the campus. Ben Deemer, a sign painter, played by Frederick Collins, a discovery of the Monogram “Absurdities", proved to be a most amusing character, and his efforts to overcome his wife’s “art craze” resulted in some of the best lines in the piece. John M. Keefe as Parrett, the magazine writer; Robert Capesius, as Holzman, the picture dealer; John Leddy, as Franz Gody,' the art critic; and Mrs. Walter Minzey, as Gladys, the landlady’s daughter, all added to the general ex- ’ cellence of this very amusing play. Mr. Elpers showed an unusual talent for clever dialogue and for making the most of comedy situations.	’	.
All in all the Sixth Production of the University Theatre was by far the best of all the offerings.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
942
♦ CAMPUS PERSONALITIES ' ♦
The idea of having such a department in the Scholastic as Campus Personalities originated with John T. Cullinan. Nevertheless it is quite proper that he, because of his activities, should have this write-up.
The Scholastic has benefitted greatly from Cullinan’s pen. His writing of “The Week” made it the' most enjoyable and enlivening feature of our news-weekly. He originated too, “The College Parade” which gives us glimpses of our contemporaries. His three years as a valuable member of the Scholastic staff are now ended by graduation.
John also contributed extensively to the Dome of 1927 and to the Juggler of the past several years. He was chairman of the Scribblers recent short story contest, ,of which announcement is yet to be made. He has been a member of the Scribblers for two years and of the Blue Circle one year.
Among Cullinan’s more enjoyable activities were the Sophomore Cotillion and the Senior Ball committees of the Class of ’28. It is not generally known that he has had several articles in national magazines. May we see more- signed by John T. Cullinan, Bridgeport, Conn.
—-------$-------
“SANTA MARIA” CONTAINS WORK OF FAMOUS MEN AND WOMEN
The “Celebrities’ Number” of the Santa Maria, magazine of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, which appeared Thursday, May 31, is not only the best magazine of its kind ever published here, but compares favorably with many of the leading periodicals of the country. This issue represents the final gesture of the editor, Leo R. McIntyre, who has surpassed the best efforts of preceding editors.
Articles by men and women prominent as novelists, poets, humorists, and business executives, are found between the covers of the current issue of the Santa Maria. The magazine contains writings by such notable people as Willa Cather,
Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., Ring Lardner, Charles Phillips, O. O. McIntyre, J. p. McEvoy, Hugh A. O’Donnell, Knute K. Rockne, Albert Russell Erskine, Joseph Scott, Warren Brown, and J. A. McGuire.
The prize-winning short stories in the recent Santa Maria short story contest are published in this issue. The stories and their authors are: “Heritage,” by Basil G. Rauch ; “The Real Portagee,” by John F. Burns; and “Novembral House,” by Bernard A. Garber. The stories are well worth reading and are good evidence that the contest, the first of its kind conducted by the Santa Maria, was a decided success. Poems written by Jack Mullen and Richard Elpers, seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, are also published.
An axticle, “The Human Side of the Celebrity,” written by Professor Charles Phillips, serves to introduce the contents of the magazine. Aptly and interestingly, Mr. Phillips makes the point that celebrities are as human as any one else. The articles, letters and poems that follow bear out this statement. In almost every instance, the “celebrities” writing in the magazine deny that they are as. famous as they are considered.
The articles in the Santa Maria are accompanied by photographs of the authors and by relevant biographical data that introduces them to the reader. This same faithfulness to detail is noticeable throughout the magazine. The make-up would do credit to any periodical.
The usual departments are carried in this issue and are as well conducted as usual. The most of them summarize the work of the year that has to do with their particular department. The general tenor of these summaries indicate that this has been the most profitable year in the history of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus. Certainly the Santa Maria has had a most successful year. Leo McIntyre and his sub-editors are to be highly congratulated for the excellent magazine they have published. It was consistently good and the final issue completely overshadows all proceeding issues.

the notre dame scholastic
golf course under construction
AT NOTRE DAME
A golf course for Notre Dame to be completed and ready for use May 1, 1929 is now under construction, it is officially announced. The course, which promises to be one of the finest in this section of the country, is being presented by W. J Burke, president of the Vulcan Golf Co., of Portsmouth, Ohio.	’
The course will contain 18 holes, will be 6,600 yards in length, with a par of 75. It is being constructed on a 130 acre plot of ground on the extreme southern part of the campus. This ground is bounded by Notre Dame avenue on the east, by the cemetery and Angela avenue on the south, by the Niles road on the west and by the Dore road on the north.
The plans of the course, which were drawn up by Allen Heeter, an architect of Portsmouth, Ohio, promise a decidedly picturesque outlay with a splendid variety of holes and greens. It will be well trapped and complete in every detail. Trees will be planted within a short time and the seeding will be done this fall.
The first tee will be located near the new dining halls and the ninth and eighteenth greens will be placed in the hollow across the Dore road from Lyons hall. This is an arrangement that will meet with general approval, since it will mean that the players will be able to secure refreshments from the cafeteria when they are most desired.
The building of the golf course is expected to cause a revival of interest in golf at Notre Dame. Heretofore, the students were forced to travel several miles in order to play. The appearance of the campus south of the Dore road will be decidedly improved by the new course.
-------—«—-------
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HOLDS FAREWELL BANQUET
Acting as toastmaster for the Science Academy banquet, Mr. S. A. 0 closed a very successful year as pr of the Academy. The banquet was given in the faculty dining room May 21, th
943
University Orchestra and the Glee Club quartet entertaining.
Following the dinner, the ,Rev. G. W. Albertson, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, spoke briefly on the success of the Academy during the year.. Dr. J. B. Berteling, honorary member and guest at the banquet, related some of his medical experiences and stressed the importance of chemistry in medical education.
Prof. H. B. Froning, head of the Department of Chemistry, was a guest of the Academy. He spoke, very appropriately, on “Raising the Standards.” He presented data to illustrate the changes which are being wrought in the standards of medical schools today, over former times. He expressed the hope that if any changes were made in the qualifications for membership in the Academy, they would be in the direction of higher, rather than lower standards. ,	— W. J. T.
-------9-------
M’NAMARA REELECTED PRESIDENT OF WRANGLERS
The Wranglers, in their recent election, drafted President Joseph McNamara for a second term, and chose James J. Walsh for secretary-treasurer. On Sunday evening, May 20, the officers were installed; John Keefe was initiated; Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., presented Notre Dame pins to debaters; and farewells were exchanged. Father Bolger’s words held praise and encouragement for the club.
444444 4 4 ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖• ❖ FROM SCHOLASTIC FILES « 444444$4>W4,WO$W,>$W
“All candidates for ball teams should provide themselves with rubber-soled shoes. The ordinary heels tear up the ground and make clean fielding impossible., This request is imperative.”	'
--
“The Columbians, an organization managed by the Central Lyceum Bureau, entertained the student body at Washington Hall last Thursday night. Mr. Lavin, a powerful tenor, sang “Ah So Pure” in the original French of Martha.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
944
MEMORIAL DAY FITTINGLY COMMEMORATED HERE
Memorial Day was commemorated in the traditionally impressive manner at Notre Dame Wednesday, May 30, by a Field Mass on the campus and by a procession to Holy Cross cemetary where ceremonies fitting to the day were held. The Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Assistant Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and chaplain of the 117th Engineers of the A. E. F., celebrated the Mass.
The Field Mass was solemnized at an altai* erected in the memorial doorway of the Sacred Heart church. The Mass and the ensuing ceremonies were offered, as is the custom, for the souls of the Notre Dame veterans of the American wars. Notre Dame students, a number of the living veterans of the wars, and townspeople were present at the outdoor Mass.
The procession to the cemetery immediately followed the celebration of the Mass. Colonel William J. Hoynes, dean emeritus of the College of Law, was the marshall of the parade. Father Charles L. O’Donnell, the chaplain, members of the Community, visiting officers and veterans, and the students made up the body of the procession.
Arriving at the cemetery, the Notre Dame band played the anthem “Columbia.” Members of the graduating class of St. Edward’s hall then decorated the graves of the veterans. The chaplain prayed for the nation’s dead and the ceremonies were brought to a close by “taps” played by a bugler.
--------o-------
OFFICE OF ALUMNI SECRETARY CHANGED
The office of James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni association, is now located on .the second floor of the Main building in the room formerly known as the Students’ office. The new quarters of the alumni secretary are a decided improvement over the old office which was located on the third floor of the Main, building. The new office is quite large, well lighted, and easily accessible.
CLEVELAND CLUB WINS IN INDOOR	I
BASEBALL LEAGUE	1
TROPHY	]
i
After an undefeated season, climaxed by divisional victories over the Law School and	!
Chicago, the Cleveland Club was awarded	i
the Indoor Championship Trophy, presented	'
by the Chicago Club of Notre Dame. The	;
winning of the cup marked the close of five	'
weeks of play, in which forty-two campus organizations were represented. The splendid ; pitching ability of Igoe and Viktoryn, and ‘ the playing of Rini, Wilhelmy, Gavin, Blum and Reidy featured the majority of the contests. On the whole, the Indoor Baseball League proved a remarkable success in its initial year’s tryout, and a great deal of interest and rivalry characterized all the games. J There is little doubt but that the League will : be revived again next year, and each sue- ; ceeding year thereafter, because of its	un-	!
precedented popularity.	<
SUMMER PARTY,TO BE GIVEN	j
. The first of the Summer parties to be	1
given this year by the Cleveland Club will be	j
held on June seventeenth, at one of the country clubs in the Cleveland district. As usual, j the affair will last throughout the afternoon and evening, and on this occasion will serve j as a “farewell party,” in honor of the seniors	;
who will be graduated this year. This event	J
will also mark the official installation of the ! newly elected officers of the club:—Otis Win-	>
Chester, president; Cletus P. Schneider, vice- ] president; Al Schiapicasse, secretary; Jerome | Reidy, treasurer. Throughout the summer, as in past years, parties will be given every | two or three weeks at a club, or country home, and it is expected that this year’s sum-	|
mer activities will prove even more popular	j
than- those of last year. The committee in	I
charge of the first festival as appointed by	j
President William J. O’Neill, includes: Pierce ,	|
J. O’Connor, chairman; Francis Belting, | music; Chris B. Wilhelmy, Jr., arrangements; I Eugene Miliff, decorations; and Claude	I
Frantz, entertainment. Announcements of	<
the definite and detailed plans will be sent to '	‘
all members in the near future.	;
X
. • -J
the notre dame scholastic
945
PRESS CLUB ENROLLS IN
CATHOLIC PRESS ASSOCIATION
Mr. S. A. Baldus president of the Catholic Press Association, in a letter received recently ?	expressed himself as
“delighted” with the enrollment of the Notre Dame Press Club as a life member The' membership was granted in consideration of a contribution to the Association’s Litem Awards Foundation. The contribution, which went “over the top,” was made up among the faculty and graduates of the School of Journalism, with liberal assistance from certain lay members of the English faculty.
Chicago, Illinois, May 17, 1928. Prof. John M Cooney, Ph.D.,	.
School of Journalism, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Dr. Cooney:
I was delighted when I was advised by Father Benedict Brown of the enrollment of the Notre Dame Press Club as a Life Member in the Catholic Press Association,, and I want to thank you personally, and on behalf of the Association. We sincerely hope the development that will be possible under the Literary Awards Foundation will prove interesting and pleasing to all the members. We have made a good beginning.
Again thanking you, believe me, Sincerely yours, S. A. BALDUS, President, The Catholic Press Association.
Bernard Garber is the graduating president of the Press Club and Professor John M. Cooney is its faculty adviser.
----------------
SOUTH BEND WINS ORATORICAL CONTEST
The Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest held Saturday, May 19, was highly successful because exceptionally good speakers represented Fort Wayne, Decatur, La Porte, Mishawaka, Lafayette, and South Bend Hig Schools. The court room of the Law building was filled with young men and women from the various schools, as well as oui own students.	_ ,
South Bend won first place, Fort Way , second, and Mishawaka, third. is rine Hoke from South Bend, spokejbut not as a competitor. The judges weie •
veil, Mr. Norbert Engels, and Mr. William oyne. A large silver loving-cup was awarded to the winning school, and gold, silver and bronze medals to the winning speaker.
The Wranglers Club expects to sponsor the ■ affair annually, since the first venture was . so satisfactory.
FATHER CAVANAUGH AND PROFESSOR PHILLIPS GUESTS AT
• SCRIBBLER BANQUET
The Scribblers, campus literary organization, held their annual farewell banquet in the Gold Room of the Oliver Hotel on Saturday, May 19. Barry Mahoney, newly elected president of the club, acted as toastmaster.
After a delicious meal in the usual Oliver style, President Mahoney introduced the two new members of the Scribblers, John Nanovic and Arnold Williams, both of whom have been contributors to the Scholastic.
He then called on the graduating seniors who were present for short farewell addresses. Richard Parrish, assistant news editor of the Scholastic and winner of the Mitchell playwriting award; Richard Elpers, literary editor of the Scholastic, poet of the class of 1928, and winner of the journalism scholarship prize; Harry Engel, member of ■ the Juggler staff, and contributor to the Scholastic; Jack Mullen, editor of the Scholastic and winner of the journalism thesis prize; .and Walter Hugh Layne, editor of the Juggler and retiring president of the Scribblers, all obliged with talks, the general tenor of which, was regret at the end of their membership in the club.
The two guests of honor, Professor Charles , Phillips, honorary president of the Scribblers, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame, gave the concluding talks on the program. Both men emphasized the requisites for success in the field of writing.. Professor Phillips spoke on the necessity of initiative and self-confidence, and Father Cavanaugh on the willingness to work in spite of discouragement.
President Barry Mahoney closed the banquet with thanks to the guests and departing members.
946	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTI C
Hail and farewell, brother, forever and forever, hail and faretvell!—CATULLUS.
There are those who will say “Today we are on the brink; tomorrow we step into the chasm, from which few echoes come, and they are but the falling of a stone into water.”
And there are those who will say “Today we are on the plain; tomorrow we begin the climbing of the mountain that is crowned with a great city.”
But all men, and we with them, will hold to the opinion that we stop for a moment today before taking a step which, be it upward or downward, marks the conclusion of an epoch in our lives.
And many, but we are not among these, hold that it is a time for tracts and sermons.
A time for reminiscence, perhaps, but not for sermons; a time .for wonderment, but not dismay; a time for good words and good wishes—a time for parting.
Even a time of relief that the strain is over.
A time for reminiscence over four years .... Harry Stuhldreher snapping signals to nine eager men and Jimmy Crowley, while The Four Horsemen put consterna-> tion into the ancient foes of Notre Dame . . . . Professor Kaczmarek’s unforgettable lectures... . other lectures more easily forgotten. . . . dreary winters that stretched out to the first mile-post this side of eternity in January and that gave birth to an unbelievably beautiful campus every May .... the fellows .... hobnailed boots, corduroy trousers, lumberjack shirts . . . . an occasional eccentric in knickers, with either a sheepish or a defiant look in his
eyes .... hats of the most improbable shapes .... room-mates, usually peculiar and sometimes lovable .... the fellow who sat next to you in so many classes—you thought for a while you would be friends .... and classes .... dull classes . . . . stimulating classes .... professors who wanted to teach you something, and professors who didn’t care .... old faded halls and shining new ones .... the maddening din of the Dining Halls .... the -fellows .... many of them in knickers .... an occasional eccentric in corduroys, but the hobnailed boots have disappeared with something less tangible .... two or three men who were nearly always with you .... you may not see them again. . . .
A time for wonderment: much lies behind us, and what before? Generalities will be made for us, and they will be false. For the life of men is not a generality, and no particular road leads to success, nor any to failure. The influences and the circumstances will vary with each of us, and we go by unknown roads to high places and to low ones, to fame and to obscurity, to happiness and sorrow and despair. And no one in the world may say at the end what was our destiny, and no one will know whether we attained our objective. . . .
A time for good words and good wishes: it has been a happy thing to know you. It has been good to say “Hello” and to hear your answer. We have learned, and played, and talked, and read, and fought together—now, at the end, we have only one wish for you: a happy life, because that is the sum of all the things that matter either in this world or in the next.
A time for parting. . . .
—J.A.M.
Eighty-Fourth Annual Commencement
FRIDAY, JUNE 1
Alumni Registration, New Alumni Office, Main Building, Main Floor 8:30 P. M. Band Concert. Main Quadrangle, University Band.
8:00 P. M. University Theater Presentations. Washington Hall. 10:00 P. M. Informal Commencement Dance. University Dining Hall.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2
8:00 A. M. Solemn Requiem Mass for Deceased Alumni. Sacred Heart Church.
8:30 A. M. Senior Class Last Visit. Sacred Heart Church. Private Ceremony.
10:00 A.M. Class Day Exercises. Washington Hall.
12:00 M. Alumni and Guest Luncheon. Cafeteria University Dining Hall,.
8:00 P. M. Baseball. Notre Dame vs. Michigan State. Cartier Fidd.
6:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Banquet. University Dining Hall.
6:80 P. M. Concert. Studebaker Corporation Band. Main Quadrangle.
8:00 P.M. Concert. University Musical Organizations. Washington Hall.
8:00 P.M. Alumni Carnival. University Dining Hall.
SUNDAY, JUNE 3
8:80 9:00
A. M. Academic Procession. Main Building to Sacred Heart Church.
A M Solemn Pontifical Mass. Sacred Heart Church.
The Rt. Rev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C.. D.D., Bishop of Helena, Celebrant.
The Rev. William Martin. D.D., New Rochelle, N. Y„ Baccalaureate Sermon.
Moreau Seminary Choir and University Glee Club. Music of the Mass.
11:00
A. M.
12:00 M.
2:00 P.M.
5:00 P.M.
I. Senior Flag Raising Exercises. Main Quadrangle.
Group Luncheons. Cafeteria University Dining Hall.
I Annual Alumni Meeting. Washington Hall.
Awarding of Degrees. University Gymnasium.
Commencement Address-Fronds O'Shaughnessy. 00, Chicago. Ui.
948	THE NOTRE D AM E S C H 0 L A S T I C
An Age For Ideals
•	The Commencement Oration
PIERCE J. O’CONNOR
SOME eighty years ago Father Edward Sorin, the founder of this University, arrived here at. the scene of his future labors. Where then gleamed the campfires of an Indian village in the wilderness there is now a city of college halls. In a rude logcabin built by Indians, Father Sorin began his work of founding an institution of higher learning. This task to which he laid his hand was an enterprise to be undertaken only by. one prompted by the most unselfish and lofty ideals. The Notre Dame of today is a monument to the vision and the zeal of its founder, a worthy realization of his ideal.
The most valuable and the most permanent achievements of civilization have been the fruition of ideals. That which is motivated only by material utility and expediency perishes presently with its age; but that which is born of a noble ideal lives on, deathless as truth, <down the centuries. The opera whose beauty makes it a heritage, the classic epic of the ancient time, the unparalleled art of a medieval cathedral—such are the results of valiant dreams, of aspirations toward perfection.
The history of our country is singularly a record of ideals realized. The discovery of America resulted from the vision and the courage of an intrepid navigator. Inseparably bound up with the story of the colonization of this new world are the deeds of the early missionaries, who forsook all and braved torture and death to win souls to God. From the time of Lord Baltimore, America has been the symbol of religious freedom. For the ideal of liberty, our forefathers gave their lives generously in the bloody battles of the Revolution. The Declaration of Independence proclaims the ideal upon which our theory of government is based, that of the intrinsic equality of men.
The history of every nation is a cycle. From small beginnings it develops through its periods of growth, to the climax of its power ; then comes the unhappy combination of causes which results in its final dissolution as a political entity. The great nations of the past ceased to be, not primarily they were
overcome by a stronger power, but because internal decay made them susceptible to conquest. The nation which has lost its ideals is a nation weakened, declining, doomed inevitably to extinction.
Our country in her century and a half of existence has evidenced the most remarkable national development in the history of the nations. Her Constitution embodied a theory of government which had never before been put to the test. The experiment has succeeded beyond the most sanguine hopes of its authors. The nation whose progenitors starved at Valley Forge now gives of its bounty to impoverished peoples across the sea. The republic which paid tribute to the pirates of Tripoli is now first among the powers of the world.'
Once past the period of early struggle, however, the nation, like the individual, is apt to be afflicted by the very concomitants of its prosperity. Despite the glory of our past and the apparent security of our present, we are confronted today by an internal situation far from utopian. Thoughtful men are asking whether democracy is not, after all, a failure. “Men who have been with microscopic precision watching the tremors and vibrations of the social organism,” says Senator David Walsh, “believe that we are approaching a condition which, if it continues to expand, will sooner or later lead to an open contest foi’ or against policies and political doctrines that may involve the destruction of the government of our forefathers.”
Our body politic presents the curious anomaly of voters who. will not vote and leaders who will not lead. Those who are by nature and training best fitted for leadership devote their energies to more remunerative activities. The people, appalled by the corruption in politics, have so lost interest in government that many no longer take the trouble to go to the polls. And so the way has been smoothed for minority rule, and a paternalistic minority is succeeding in its attempts to regulate morals by legislation, and to centralize power in the national government at the expense of the rights of the individual.
It'
the notre dame scholastic
In many industries employers, stifling the voice of conscience substitute economic might for moral right, and the laborer is forced to accept the pittance which they dole out to him. Labor, oppressed and bewildered, retaliates by harkening to the tenets of Socialism.
The philosophy of this age is for the most
£« 1S in
ideaL Men worship the god of business^ esLtia"
ciency and make pi oduction their religion. It ways and everywhere one and the same, the is an age fiankly materialistic, clutching its conduct based	’
flesh-pots greedily. Addle-pated proponents of free thought run the whole gamut of
philosophical fads, introducing as “new'
ideas which were old before America began, and which are as false now as they were then. Modern literature mirrors the beliefs of that increasingly large class whose standards are either crass materialism or false ■
ated man a rational • creature endowed with an immortal soul and a free will, has rejected the verities wherein its salvation lies. From these fundamental truths follow naturally the objective difference between good and sentimentalism.	• evil, the ■ moral obligation of the individual,
Like an insidious and loathsome cancer, and the necessity of religion. Upon the Cath-
this philosophy is gradually eating its way into the body of the people. The weak and the vicious accept eagerly the notion that a human being is not responsible for his acts. The home, which Leo XIII calls “the cradle of civil society, within whose confines is prepared the destiny of nations,” is being destroyed from within. Divorce and birth-control are prevalent among the upper classes, whose officious representatives invade the abodes of the poor with then’ doctrines, subversive of the very purpose of marriage.
Not all these evils can be attributed to ignorance or to malice. They are in the main traceable to modern education, whose philosophy is paganism, whose criterion of morality is expediency. The student at the nonsectarian college or university is expose o education devoid of Christian ideals, e uca-tion which diverts the mind from fundainen-tal truths. It takes cognizance of nothing beyond the material world, it recognizes no standard but utility. The truth it pro esses to expound is wholly subjective, a c changing hue with each professor, teacher nor student is restraine y thing so old-fashioned as a pnncip e.
is free to pursue his own variety•	•
The man schooled under such a sy be highly trained in a sense, bu
949
nnnfl-St”Se educated- He is confused by the nflicting doctrines he has been taught. He ,a®. and unchanging principles on which to found his view and conduct of life, he knows no obligation save worldly success.
Amid a world of false and shifting values, the principles inculcated by Catholic education constitute a basis for the ideals of which
--------------- upon true principles, besides being morally right, is ultimately the most expedient. The modern world, in rejecting the concept of a personal God, Who has cre
olic doctrine of the essential dignity of the individual as a rational being, having natural and inalienable rights, is built a conservative system of industrial relations, and a theory of government in which human rights have priority over private interests, in which the State derives its power from God and exists for the individual, whose natural rights it must recognize and protect. Finally, Catholic education implants the ideal of the sanc-: tity of marriage, of an enduring union blessed by God, the primary purpose of which is the procreation and the education of children.	.
.We, as graduates of the University of Notre.Dame, are fortunate in having received a Catholic .college education. For four years we have lived in an atmosphere of the highest ideals. Four years ago we came here from all corners of the country to receive our training in preparation for life. Today we go forth into the world as the exponent of an educational system which for centuries has directed men toward the fulfillment of the ideals prescribed for them by their Creator. From him who hath received, much is expected. Our privileges have impressed upon us the duty and awakened in us the determination, of being ever loyal to the ideal of God, of Country, and of Notre Dame.

950
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Approach to Maturity
The Class Poem of 1928	.
/NCARN ATE in his sons, the first mam, stands, Re-exiled from his pleasant parapet, And, looking down upon the barren lands, Remembers Eden, dreading thorns and sweat.
Oh, never say that youth is made the mam, By deepened voice, or down upon the lip, By accidents of height, or numbered years.
Nor think that when the stripling’s life began, His blood was hallowed by the salty drip .
Of water poured with prayers for Jesus’ ears.
No, each man’s self is Adam’s, not his own, Until he stands, as Adam stood, alone.
A bitter sight it is—a bitter sight
To those who love the sun on young men’s faces, To see them in the still and frosty light
The world trajects to watchers in high places. The pliant features that the sun had lined, Assume the chill of granite in this glare;
And bitterly the eyes that had been clear,
Set up a polished glass before the mind, Reflecting in its brittle shafts an air Of unconcern to hide am, inner fear.
Each sees in every other man a rival, Assailed with doubtings of his own survival. '
»
Is this, they ask, the earth from which they came— This flat expanse that dulls the eager sight?
Is this the land that they have made their aim ~ Through all the time of climbing to this height?
Tomorrow lies behind a tapestry	.
Of two dimensions, tight and woven close
Against their progress who would journey through. No single land-mark cam, the young eye see, And notvhere is the scantest trace of those
Who went before them when these roads tvere ne tv. Youth finds the world complacent oimd .compact, Secure behind its battlements of fact.
XX-- '; -'&l ' X *’* > •.' M v

the notre
dame scholastic
WinT th& ^^0 ^rs smile With broader vision at these slender fears, And having rested for a little while
Resume Hie distaff, spindles and the shears.
They see the warp and woof that mesh the world;
Component in a scheme so infinite
That all the seas are shallow in its heart;
And through its awful sweep, the cloth is curled
With fading skeins from all the ages, knit
Into a devious pattern of slow art.
Beneath this cloth’s impenetrable face, Each thread is integral within its place.
A thousand hills flow backward into time, Incipient in the dust of Adam’s sin, And up the hills the sons of Adam climb, And, facing life, despair of entering in.
But see them brighten! See the roads run down!
And see them weave the ways of all young men With purposed skill into the textured blend. Predesignate, some marted mer,chant-town Admits the strands of silk, and earth again Receives the wool unto its proper end.
No matter if the threads be cut or crossed, The loom goes on and on, and none is lost.
Forever on the heights above the earth
The young men of the later day succeed
Their fathers in the penalty of birth, And face the common lot of Adam’s seed.
Tomorrow younger feet mil follow after, And other eyes will age with awe to see
No place within the serried land, below; While three old women, tremulous with laughter, Will sit and spin, propounding endlessly
The ancient riddle they and Adam know. No seam divides these timeless unities, This cloth is woven of two eternities.
—RICHARD ELFERS.
952	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Valedictory
William H. Jefferys
Rt. Rev. Bishop, Gentlemen of the University and Friends:
The Notre Dame Class of 1928 stands this morning in the doorway of their college home about to step forth into life. We recall now the September four years ago when nearly a thousand of us sought entrance at Notre Dame. Today, just a third or so of that number are at the threshold, ready to go out into the world as graduates. Before taking our leave, we pause for a word of simple but sincere farewell.
Today is a day we have longed for and worked for during the four years of our college course. To us as freshmen, this occasion appeared as a destination on the distant horizon, a destination that has grown brighter and more beautiful with the years. To' day,' however, we awaken to the startling realization that our college course is finished; and, as we look back over the days of study, our smile of triumph becomes a tear of sorrow. We are happy to attain our graduation day but sorry at the same time to lose the things we have found so precious in our college life. At this thought we awaken to a full realization of what this farewell means to us.
In this commercial age of ours, in which invention and industry have.made success and money synonymous, the world is very much in heed of. the man of ideals. Success is the ambition of the day. It is sought by all, and for the college graduate‘it is the goal to be attained. But what is success in life?
Well indeed may we ask ourselves this question at our commencement, at our outset into life. The popular notion of success is a life
crowned with riches, honors and position, regardless of the way in which they are acquired. Our education of the last four years has tried to give us a very different view of success. If at the end of our course we have not that view, our education has been in vain. We have been taught that wise and honest , men will consider our motives, our intentions, and if these be honorable, even though we have not riches, or fame, or high place, they will pronounce us successful. According to our education, the living of a righteous life is true success and the only real success that is possible.
Our education, unlike the training of many others who are being graduated from college this June, has been the Catholic system of education in which the education of the soul for the supreme purpose of life is paramount. We came to Notre Dame because we wanted that kind of education. If we have failed to get it, it has certainly not been the fault of Notre Dame. Man’s destiny is to live justly in this life as a way to living eternally with God in His Heaven of happi-. ness. And education, to fit him for that purpose, must be both secular and religious. Its aim must be to teach a man not so much how to make a living as how to live, and such is the theory of. the education we have received here.
It would be unwoi’thy of us on this occasion if we were to take our leave without a word of thanks to those who have made this day possible. Our first debt of gratitude is of course to God, who has been very good to us in oui’ years at school. His grace has made us stronger, more persevering, and able to make spiritual provision for the life of, happiness with Him in the hereafter.
THE NOTRE DA
In these four years we have been inspired with the Catholic ideal of right living, and for this we are truly grateful to the priests, brothers and lay professors. It is ours to prove by the character of our lives that the training we have received here has developed us into men of solid Christian character. We offer too on this occasion our best and lasting thanks to our mothers and fathers who are here to enjoy with us the happiness of this hour—an hour made possible by their sacrifices. They sent us to Notre Dame in the hope that this day might find us men of principle, ready and able to reflect credit upon their good names. Unless we make our utmost effoi-t to fulfill this high hope in our lives, we shall be most ungrateful. On this solemn day, therefore, we promise them
ME SCHOLASTIC	953
that this sacrifice for us shall not have been in vain.
Finally, we of the class recall that we began our course here four years ago as strangers. Today we are assembled for the last time at the feet of Our Lady, as classmates and graduates, as we shall never be assembled again. It is but natural that we who have lived together so closely in the shadow of the Dome should feel a great sorrow now in pai-ting from one another, but our training is finished and we go forth bravely as men on oui’ various ways into the world. In leaving Notre Dame we wish her continued and increasing success in her great work of making men. As her alumni, we promise that her ideals and her spirit shall be ours to the end.
954	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Wins Fourteenth State Track Title
INDIANA AND PURDUE PRESS IRISH CLOSELY FOR HONORS ELDER HIGH-POINT MAN OF MEET
Whatever track prestige was lost by Notre Dame last year when Indiana University terminated an Irish string of thirteen consecutive State cinder triumphs by1 a margin of less than a point, was more than regained Saturday, May 19, when a well-balanced Blue and Gold spiked-shoe aggregation annexed their fourteenth Indiana State Collegiate Track and Field Championships by the close margin of seven-twelfths of a point over the Crimson of Indiana who again pressed them to the final event for titular honors. The meet which was held at the Purdue University track in Lafayette, was easily one of the most closely-contested corrjpetitions ever staged within the Hoosier state. More than a dozen colleges and universities scattered throughout the length and breadth of Indiana participated and the final scores of the quintet of leaders were as follows: N. D. 36 1-2; Indiana 35 1-3; Purdue 34 1-4; De Pauw 28 1-3; and Indiana Central 10. Muncie Normal, Oakland City, Manchester, Earlham, Rose Poly, and Butler also broke into the scoring column but far behind the first five named.
Elder of Notre Dame, and Martin of Purdue, shared individual honors for the meet. The Blue and Gold star took the 100 in 9.9 sec., captured the 220 in 22.2 sec., and finished second in the broad jump for a total of fourteen points, which were more than enough to give him high-scoring honors for the competition. Martin won both the 880 and the one mile events, and set the only new state record for the meet when he negotiated the latter distance in 4 min., 20.6 sec. Abbott of the Irish pressed him closely in each race.
Bov’s tie for first at 12 feet even in the
pole vault; McSweeney’s third in the shot • put and fourth in the discus; Quigley’s fourth in the 440; Stace’s second in the 120 high hurdles; J. Brown’s third in the two mile; Lavelle’s second in the javelin; and Welchon’s • third in the high jump; were othei’ outstanding performances by the Notre Dame track artists.
The Summaries:
TRACK EVENTS
100-yard dash—Won by Elder (N. D.); Ramsey (D.), second; Brumbaugh (M.), third. Hogan (D.), fourth. Time, :09.9.
220-yard dash—Won by Elder (N. D.), Ramsey (D.), second; Brumbaugh (M.), third; Leet, (I.), fourth. Time, :22.2.
440-yard dash—Won by Stephenson (I.); Abbott (N. D.), second; Abramson (I.), third; Quigley (N. D.), fourth. Time, :49.6.
Half-mile run—Won by Martin (P.); Abbott (N. D.), second; Sutherlin (D.), third; Smock (I.), fourth. Time, 1:57.3.
One-mile run—Won by Martin (P.); Fields (L), second; Chapham (I.), third; W. Brattain (I.), fourth. Time, 4:20.6. (New state record.)
Two-mile run—Won by Fields (I.); Little (L), second; D. Brown (N. D.), third; Brattain (I.), fourth. Time, 9:48.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by Work (P.); Stace (N. D.), second; Christie (D.), third; Wall (E.), fourth. Time, :16.1.
220-yard low hurdles—Won by Schooler (M. N.); Work, (P.), second; Hutton (P.), third; Holz (B.), fourth. Time, :25.7.
FIELD EVENTS
High jump—Won by Smith (I. C.); Work (P.)> second; Welchons (N. D.), Nelson (P.), Simpson (P.) and Lange (P.), tied for third. Height, 5 feet, 11 1-4 inches.
Broad jump—Won by Smith (LC.); Elder (N. D.), second; Schooler (M. N.), third; Cain (E.)> fourth. Distance, 22 feet, 6 1-2 inches.

THE Notre dame scholastic
Pole vault—Bov (N. D.), Christie (D.) and Todd (IJ, tied for first; White (R.), fourth. Height^ S
Shot put—Won by Meadows (0. C.); Button (D.) second; McSweeney (N. D.), third; Todd (I) fourth. Distance, 41 feet, 11 3-4 inches. ' h
Discus throw—Spohn (D), first; Tomlin (D) sec. ond; Smith (P.) third; McSweeney (N. D.)' fourth Distance, 129 feet, 7 inches.	’	’
Javelin throw—Won by Sindelar (P.); Lavelle (N D.), second; Rinehart, (I.), third; Druley (E)’ fourth. Distance, 169 feet.	’ ’
Mile relay—Won by Indiana (Leet, Smock, Abramson, Stephenson; DePauw, second; Purdue, third-Notre Dame> fourth. Time, 3:24.4.	’
IRISH NOSE OUT ST. VIATORSCORE 7-6
A jinx of three years’ standing was abruptly terminated last Saturday afternoon on Cartier Field, when Coach Tommy Mills’ Notre Dame diamond performers scored a well-earned and long-postponed triumph over the St. Viator outfit from Bourbonnais, Illinois. The score was 7-6. Previous to the victory the visitors had registered five consecutive triumphs over* Blue and Gold baseball teams
in the past three years. The the eighteenth annexed by the this current season.
The entire Notre Dame ball
victory was
Irish so far
club played
“heads-up” baseball to beat the highly-touted invaders who annually boast one of the strongest nines in the Middle-West. Offensively, the Irish while limited to but six safe hits by Harrington, St. Viator pitcher, made every hit count and also took adequate advantage of nine free tickets to first base issued by the visiting hurler.
Meanwhile, Ed Walsh on the mound for Notre Dame, was hurling excellent baseball for the hosts, whiffing nine, and not granting a single base on balls to the Bourbonnais players. Several costly errors by his mates behind him, together with opportune hits o his slants by the St. Viator batters, enabled the Illinoisans to remain within dangerous striking distance to their hosts the woe nine innings of play, however.
After the visitors had scored twice in the first frame on Evard’s safe rap to cdnter an
955
Fedris’ terrific home run over Bray’s head, the Irish came to life in their half of the same session and counted three times without the use of a single hit. Two St. Viator errors, a walk, a stolen base, and a sacrifice fly scoring Schrall, Sullivan, and Colerick with the tallies that put Notre Dame one-up on the visiting club.
The Blue and Gold made the score read 5-2 in their favor in the fourth when Bray watched four wide ones sail by, and registered when Walsh sent one of Harrington’s fast balls soaring out in left center for a triple. Walsh also dented the plate when Sullivan poked a safety to center a moment later.
St. Viator’s kept pecking away at Walsh undauntedly, however, and in the fifth got two of these markers back when Walsko singled sharply to right and Harrington was given life on an error. Sullivan then uncorked a wild throw to Lordi on Evard’s grasser and Walsko and Harrington scored. The visitors manufactured their tying run in the seventh when with two down Harrington knocked a one-baser to left to cross the plate when Evards rapped a Texas-Leaguer to the same territory.
Notre Dame practically won the ball game in the eighth, Schrall’s walk, Sullivan’s sacrifice, and Colerick’s rousing three-bagger propelling the first-named across for the counter which broke the deadlock. Lordi then cashed Colerick in a pretty execution of the squeeze play.
St. Viator’s died gamely, and with one run already in, two out, and two men perched on the hassocks waiting for succor in the ninth, things looked dark for the Irish until Feehery gathered in Ferris loft for the final out.
Colerick, Sullivan, and Walsh of Notre Dame, and Evard, Ferris, and Walsko of St. Viator, played the best ball during the en
gagement.
The Score:
viator......2 0 0 0 2 0 1 0
Notre Dame.....3 0 0 2 0 0 0 2
Batteries — Harrington rind Walsh and Lordi.
R.H.E 1—6 8 3 x—7 6 3
Walsko;
THE NOTRE' DAME SCHOLASTIC
956
CLOSE RACE IN INTERHALL BASEBALL
A triple tie marked the finish of Division A in the Interhall Baseball League. Morrissey, Badin and Sophomore were the contestants in the playoff which Sophomore won by .virtue of a brilliant victory over Morrissey who had previously eliminated Badin.
Offt Campus came through victor in League B without having lost a single game. Sophomore’s victory over the Off Campus men for the Interhall Baseball Championship, marked the only loss in an otherwise undefeated season. Freshman and Brownson finished in a tie for second place. However, the men of Brownson lost a hard battle in the playoff to Freshman to settle the question of runner up to the Day-Dogs.
Splendid spirit and enthusiasm marked the revival of Interhall Baseball this year. From the interest shown it is planned to have two teams in each hall next year. This is an innovation that is bound to enable all who wish, to get out and play , interhall ball.
CHARLEY TOTTEN IN GOLF SEMIFINALS
After a brilliant comeback a la Hagen,' Charley Totten entered the Semi-Final round of the University Golf Championship by defeating Russell Beaupre of Freshman Hall in a hard fought match over the Erskine links.
At the end of the first nine Totten was three down to Beaupre, whose medal score of 37.bested Totten’s by two strokes. After a game uphill battle Totten evened matters up at the sixteenth and proceeded to capture the next two holes in brilliant fashion with a pair of 3’s on the 17th and 18th. In winning Totten had to turn in a score of 35 for the second nine. The total scores were, Beaupre 77, Totten, 74. Both men played excellent golf with Totten’s experience in the final holes counting in his favor.
This year’s tournament has been extremely successful. It is certain that next year’s competition will produce even many more capable golfers as it is planned to stage three or four flights in addition to the champion-' ship flights.	—d.d.h.
SOPHOMORE INTERHALL BASEBALL CHAMPS
The Sophomore Hall ball tossers won the Interhall Baseball championship last Sunday morning by decisively defeating the Off-Campus outfit, 6-1. The contest was staged on Cartier Field and a large crowd was in attendance.
Hardaker on the mound for the twoyear olds pitched a brilliant game throughout, and was never in serious danger at any time during the entire seven-innings of play. Accorded sterling support by his mates behind him, he limited the Day-Dogs sluggers to seven scattered bingles, struck out four, walked but two, and in general turned in a commendable account of himself.
The Off-Campus slab artist, Dilly, also hurled a fine game, but two bad innings, the second and third, proved his downfall. He, too, limited the opposition to seven safe blows, but two errors, five sacrifice hits, and three stolen bases in addition, were more than enough to give the Sophomores their sextet of markers.	’
After scoring a single tally in the first when Gallagher was hit by a pitched ball, stole second, and was sacrificed to third and home respectively, the twoyear men landed on Dilly in the second frame for three more runs, singles by Kelly and Conway and a lusty triple by Hardaker coining the score.
The Sophomores added their final count-ters in the third when two errors coupled with Stephan’s long three-bagger manufactured a pair of markers.
The Day-Dogs secured their lone ran in the sixth when Cunningham got on via an error, was sacrificed to second by McQuaid, and scored when Dilly singled to right.
Hardaker, Conway and Stephan of Sophomore, and Dilly, Greene, and Cunningham of Off-Campus were the individual stars of the battle.
R.H.E. Sophomore.......,...1 3 2 0 0 0 0—6 7 1
Off-Campus ........0	0 0 0 0 1 0—1 7 2
Batteries—Hardaker and Kolski, Dilly and Cunningham.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Scholastic Subscribers
This is the final issue of The Scholastic for the school year 1927-28. The first issue of the fall term will be published September 28th. Kindly send your subscription remittance of Three Dollars for the year before September 24, that we may include your name on our new mailing list.
Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana
What the “Luggage Shop” Has for the	I
College Man	j
-
! Down in the basement of our store is [ ; a comer of special interest to the col-I lege man—the “Luggage Shop.” \ There he will find a satisfying array ! of correct hand luggage and trunks [ for his summer travels.
George L. Miller
Oliver Hotel Shop / 03 North Main Street
Knickers
Golf Hose
Sweaters
Bachrach Neckwear
Come and See Us
Imported Linen Handkerchiefs
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
* '
Imported and Domestic Mens Wear
AM
958
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHARLES TOTTEN UNIVERSITY GOLF CHAMP
IRISH NETMEN BOW TO OHIO STATE 1
IN FINAL MATCH, 5-2	S
Charles Totten of Pittsburgh, Pa., a senior in the College of Aits and Letters of the University, won the 1928 Notre Dame golf championship by defeating Don Boyce of Escanaba, Mich., 3-2, in the finals of the school tournament sponsored by the Physical Training department of the University, held last Wednesday afternoon on the Niles Golf Course.
Totten, who was defending his 1927 championship, was forced to the limit by his soph-• omore opponent and flashed some of the most brilliant golf of his career to secure the winner’s verdict. Coming from behind after Boyce had secured a one-up advantage as a result of the first eighteen holes played in the morning, Totten more than lived up to his reputation as a strong finisher by gradually overcoming Boyce’s slight lead and forging ahead until he had cinched the match with the finish but a few holes away.
Boyce deserves unstinted credit for the wonderful game he put up against perhaps the finest golfer Notre Dame has had in several years. In addition to extending Totten the whole match, Boyce also had the signal honor of defeating Larry Moeller, one of the best-known junior golfers of the MiddleWest, who was figured as an almost certain fianlist. Boyce trounced Moeller by exactly the same score 3-2, that he later lost to Totten.
As a result of his splendid victory, Totten received the handsome silver trophy emblematic of the school championship which was donated by Coach Knute K. Rockne, head of the Physical Training department of the University.
Totten’s accomplishment also climaxed one of the best-conducted Notre Dame championship golf matches ever held in the history of the sport at the school. Over one hundred contestants participated in the competition and that the matches were run off with the utmost expediency and direction possible, speaks well for those who had the tournament in charge.
The Ohio State tennis team, runners-up to Wisconsin for the 1928 Big Ten net crown defeated the Notre Dame raqueters last Wednesday afternoon on the Blue and Gold courts by a score of 5-2. The engagement was the last of the season for the Irish, arid made
their seasonal record read five wins and three ’ defeats.
Exceptionally brilliant tennis was on tap for the small gathering of net fans who were in attendance. Each match was productive of spirited play, and Captain Markey and his men although losing, gave an excellent account of themselves nevertheless, in forcing their visitors to the limit before accepting defeat.
Both teams were about evenly matched in the singles, the Buckeyes holding but a slight advantage over their hosts in this respect. Superiority in the doubles play, however, in which they captured both matches, cinched the triumph for the Ohioans.
Markey and Crauci were the only Notre Dame players to come through with victories. The Irish captain stroked his way to a commendable triumph over Du Bois, Ohio State’s . star, in straight sets, 6-2, 7-5, and Crauci, after dropping the first set by a narrow margin of 6-8 to Lessau, his Buckeye opponent, came back in brilliant fashion to take the next two sets, 8-6 and 6-4 from the Ohioans. His splendid reserve power earned him the decision both times.
Olstebloom of the visitors disposed of Griffin of Notre Dame, 6-3, 6-2; Patterson of Ohio State defeated Burns of the Irish, 6-4, 6-4; and Poppleton of the Buckeyes took two straight sets from O’Connor of the hosts, 6-2, 6-3, to register the other State victories in the singles.	.
Griffin and Burns of Notre Dame, after a courageous battle lost a heart-breaking 6-3, 4-6, 6-4, to Patterson and Olstebloom of the visitors in the first doubles match, and Du Bois and Poppuleton of the Ohioans, triumphed over Markey and O’Connor of the Blue and Gold in the second doubles engagement, to conclude the afternoon’s play.




‘-I
a
1 3
-J


