Vol. XXI. • NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 8, 1887.	’ - No. 5.
Nero and Peter.
BY REV. S. FITTE, C. S. C.
Octavius, victorious at Actium, his hands stained with blood, called himself Augustus. Having become emperor, the shrewd, designing politician made himself a -god. He had temples, priests, sacrifices during his life-time—a sad commentary on the state of Rome on the pinnacle of its glory; in the full bloom of art, literature and philosophy; but a few days after Brutus, Cicero and Julius the Great; in the age of Horace and Virgil, when universal peace closed the temple of Janus.
No display of material force, only a few soldiers in Rome and Italy. Augustus, a simple citizen, lived in a modest house without guards; he walked in the streets clad in a woollen gown, neither esteemed nor loved; his one strong defense was the dread of another master worse than himself. The patron of letters and the promoter of pleasure, he distributed the offices as he willed. Consuls, senators, knights, all Rome and the rest of the world cheerfully rushed into servitude.
Augustus died, and lo! the official attendants, placed on two ranks, smiled and bowed before Tiberius. Tiberius was well known; a compound of mud and blood mixed up with hypocrisy. Therefore he was more readily adored by slaves. Caligula and Claudius were soon created emperors, or, as they were styled, gods. At that time, Peter of Galilee, a poor fisherman, came to live in Rome, while Nero sat upon the throne of Augustus. Nero was the master and god of mankind. Greater even than Tiberius, more divine than Claudius, he himself\believed in his divinity.
Nero, the supreme god of imperial Rome, the masterpiece' of the insolence dreamt by Lucifer, who gloried in the worship of that, corrupt and corrupting monster, born for all kinds of crimes: Nero, a fool and a wild beast; omnipotent, but a coward, and at the same time a dilettante; an artist, a fop. In him was concentrated all the life and light of Roman civilization; he was its,best fruit, the offspring of its maturity. Pagan Rome, Julius
Caesar and the age of Augustus must have met to produce Nero.
He had the instinct of his future work: not sat-5 isfied with involving Rome in blood and fire, he buried the city in the mire of luxury and disgrace. He succeeded so-well that it was never able to emerge from the depth of infamy. By his stupen-: dous refinement Nero gave the last polish to Ro-■ man corruption. For long years was the spirit of Christ to struggle against that formidable enemy, whose cunning baffled the plans of the greatest sages. Nero instilled into the Roman rabble a taste for Christian blood; and this thirst was to last for three centuries.
Peter, the fisherman, was but the chief of a de-■ spised ;ect, who were scourged in Jerusalem and of so little consideration in Rome that they were merely permitted to live. In Peter Nero saw the Pope.
: Therefore he took and killed him. Strange! this . obscure blood did him honor in the eyes of his : people. Nero’s people had Nero’s instincts. The mob hated the Christians and sent them to “the lions ” when statesmen could scarcely guess their presence. To be sure, the Christians then visited the poor, and in giving them alms, they endeavored to keep them away from the circus and brothel, the two best places of worship for the gods.
The persecution of the Christians was calculated to conceal the conflagration of Rome and supply the circus: Nero’s instinct was unable to see further. Still, God did His work by the hand of Nero, and in the midst of the city of Satan laid down the . foundations of his own City. But to strengthen them He needs stones put to the test. - Persecution shall be the crucible: ye, wise politicians, ye, men of compromise and conciliation, who wish to erect the Cross without overthrowing idols, shall be cast away. No reconciliation is possible between Christ and Satan: one or the other must be chosen. Human wisdom chose, and its choice showed what she is; and those who seek God in the simplicity of their hearts shall know and judge her. Once more the infernal city perished, and the walls of the sacred edifice rose to heaven.
See those stern and proud Stoics, the sons of the primeval virtue of Rome; hear them ask for the reign of laws and cry for their lost liberty! They
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
would prefer to serve what they despise, and persecute what they honor. Tacitus, as well as his friends, would have only such virtues as do not prevent one from being senator!
Thus it is that Nero will easily revive in his successors, and the best of them will reproduce enough of his vices to render their wisdom foolish, their moderation ambiguous and their humanity bloodthirsty. Thus it is that the pagan filth will become, day after day, thicker and deeper; nay, neither the arms nor the liberty of Rome will bring forth heroes any longer. All heroic souls thenceforth belong to Christ; His are all great minds, all noble characters. Through those strange victors who wished but to die, Rome shall be conquered in less time than she formerly needed to subdue Latium. Yes, Nero made a mistake; Satan himself was deceived, as everyone fails who wages war against God; Peter alone was not mistaken.
Nevertheless, Nero remains the most complete personification of the reign of Satan. He is, indeed, the supreme expression of the empire of evil; the vicar of Lucifer, as Peter, whom he beheaded, is the Vicar of Christ. Never will Satan make anything superior to Nero; and all the copies he has shown to us fall below that inimitable original. Never were, in the same degree, mixed together cruelty, licentiousness, baseness and buffoonery. Nero must necessarily have been ridiculous; but, on the other hand, it was necessary that a beast, destined to tread the human race as grapes in the wine-press, should be neither a lion nor a tiger, but a hog. It is too little for the Evil One to trample upon man, he wants to mock and sully him.
Nero was wallowing in debaucheries of his own, and contaminating all that had been the honor of Rome. Bel-esprit^ writer, gardener, general, musician, dancer, coachman, constantly surrounded by buffoons to whom he paid a high salary, and who laughed at him. When he was to play or sing on the stage, he was always accompanied by his hired clappers. Here he overthrew mountains, there he built up new ones. His mansion extended over two of the seven hills. In that immense palace of gold, rare marbles, precious stones and artistic curiosities, he used'to give magnificent feasts, and amused himself in killing his guests, or driving through his boundless park lit by human torches. He loved flowers, perfumes and glory. He was a coward. He killed his victims, not always for pleasure’s sake, but often because he feared them; still he never failed to enjoy the sight of human blood. Verily, Nero was the man fit to crucify Peter!
Such was the fifth heir and successor of Cresar, the “ great” prince who first confronted the Church of God and slew the first Pope. He reigned ten years. After him the imperial power could easily go down to Domitian, that “bald Nero,” and pass by the hands of Heliogabalus. It was borne by other fools, stolen by soldiers, bought by coxcombs, so that Nero began to look great. Rome needed a master. The multitude, packed up in the circus, hailed him with the same clamors: “Thou art the first, thou art the god! , Honor to thee! thou art our chief! Happier than all, thou hast conquered!
thou shalt conquer forever! ” His name was Titus, Caracalla, Didius Julianus, what did it matter to the “plebs?” What did it matter to the king-people if a blow or a kick put an end to the emperor’s eternity? He would soon be replaced by another to give the multitude panem el. circenses !
All the Roman emperors have been faithful to Nero’s policy; yes, both the mild and the wild, the wise and the foolish; those who expected more from seduction and flattery, as well as those who relied upon sword and coercion, have come to the same violent conclusion against Christianity, and slaughtered the Christians without mercy. But the Popes, constantly true to Peter’s policy, have all followed in the footsteps of their leader. Simple or learned, bold or timid; those whom threats could not terrify, and those whom promises did not soften, all had but one answer to give to their persecutors: “It is better to obey God than men!” They died; and the history of the successors of Peter, during those two hundred and fifty years, has for each the same glory: “ Crowned with martyrdom! ”
Who put an end to that dreadful period? Constantine the Great. Pope Marcellus had just died a slave, charged with feeding the beasts of the amphitheatre; Maxentius had just been proclaimed emperor by the clamors of the circus; the cross shone in the sky, and Constantine planted it on the Lateran: “In this Sign thou shalt conquer!” The statue of Nero, one hundred feet high, which he, like Nabuchodonosor, had erected himself, was still standing at the gate of the amphitheatre, but the Roman Empire was no more. Cresar, baptized, gave up the government of Rome to Pope Sylvester and his successors. “Rome has become too small to contain at the same time Pope and emperor. The temporal ruler cannot retain his power where the prince of heaven has established the primacy of priesthood, and the centre of religion.” Constantine removed the idolatrous pontificate with its paraphernalia, and Peter’s successor was recognized as the High Pontiff of the living God.
Vain precaution of human policy, soon to injure the dynasty of the hero vyho had just freed the Church, and shake the new imperial fabric into whose foundations that ruinous block of old had been thrown. The pontificate of idols should have been neither carried away nor left behind, but abolished forever. Because they were yet the.high pontiffs of the gods, the successors of Constantine imagined they were also the pontiffs of Christ. They unceasingly tried to rule over the Church, change her doctrine, and effect, by the skill of courtiers and eunuchs, what the hangmen could never accomplish. The Eastern empire failed and per- -ished, swallowed up as a river in the sands of the desert; but the Church of the God-Man drew therefrom her vigor and glory. Rome, had made martyrs: Byzantium made doctors; and, as the mystical body of Christ had grown stronger amid tortures, the doctrine of Christianity developed and shone resplendent in the midst of disputes.
The Church has no regret that the Ions’ era of bloody persecutions ended by a triumph.. A few ardent souls used to speak of it as though it were a
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
glorious period and the “golden age” of the Faith. “We would be glad,” they exclaimed, “to go back to the Catacombs!” But the Church prays her divine Bridegroom not to expose anew her children to by-gone trials. When she celebrated the triumphs of martyrs, she had also to mourn over the shame of apostates and the misfortune of persecutors. She asks God for peace and the right to serve Him in full liberty. To those who threaten her with death she shows that bloody stream which flooded the Roman Empire and served to raise the Cross on the immovable rock of Jupiter Capitoline.
La Premiere Impression.
J’etais alors enfant, j’avais une ame pure
Qu’aucun souffle mauvais n’avait encor ternie;
Et du sein de mon cceur, du sein de la nature, Me semblait sorter une voix amie.
J’etais alors enfant; ange plein d’innocence, .
Naif et curieux je demandais un jour
A ma mere: “ Oh! dit moi ce que c’est pour 1’enfance Que le premier amour.”
Elle prit dans ses bras son enfant qu’elle aimait, Le dernier ne de tons qu’encore elle allaitait
Et me dit: “Gabriel, lorsque je devins mere Quand je sentis vagir ta frele voix si chere,
Je t’aimais; et parfois quand tu semblais trop lourd
A mon bras fatigue, je ne sais quoi disait:
Courage! 6 tendre mere! et le premier amour A mon coeur souriait! ”
E. L.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
BY CHAS. A. RHEINBERGER (LAW), ’87.
Being fully aware of the importance of this subject, coming under the general caption of contracts, and resorted to almost daily by men in one transaction or another, I will proceed to outline the same, showing the difference between a surety and guarantor—the application of their contracts and their respective responsibilities as construed by courts under various circumstances in different states:
The doctrine of suretyship is by no means a new one. Its origin is lost in the dim vista of ages. The Scripture, in that solemn style with which it treats of all things, has proclaimed in the proverbs of Solomon, that, “ He shall be afflicted with evil that is surety for a stranger,” thus, in its proper sphere, even illustrating the doctrine of today. Shakspeare, in the inexorable character of “ Shylock,” brings home to us how tenaciously obligees were wont to cling to their bonds. But more directly in reference to our subject.
Suretyship and guaranty were for a long time, and are now, frequently confounded in their application, and employed synonymously. They are
contracts between a creditor, called the obligee; a debtor, called principal obligor, principal debtor, or principal merely; and a third person, who either undertakes to pay the debt or perform the obligation, if the principal does not—and in this case is called the surety; or he undertakes or engages that the principal will pay the debt or perform the obligation, and in this case he is called the guarantor.
The same requisites are necessary as in the case of any ordinary contract, to wit: parties capable in law to contract; voluntary consent of all parties concerned, and a sufficient legal consideration, except when under seal (which is generally the case with contracts of suretyship) the consideration then being implied in law, as in the case of' specialties generally.
Suretyship is a contract entered into by one or more persons, which makes him, or them, responsible for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another. In Smith vs. Sheldon, 35 Mich. 42, Chief Justice Cooley thus explicitly states the doctrine of suretyship: “A surety is a person, who, being liable to pay a debt or perform an obligation, is entitled, if it is enforced against him, to be indemnified by some other person, who ought himself have made payment or performed the obligation before the surety was compelled to do so.” It is, therefore, a simple undertaking that “ the debt shall be paid, or the obligation performed”; and, consequently, a joint undertaking with the principal obligor.
Guaranty, on the other hand, is not a direct undertaking to pay a debt or to perform an obligation, but merely to -answer for the liability of another. It is that “ the debtor shall pay the debt or perform the obligation; ” hence it is a collateral undertaking. This distinction between a surety and a guarantor determines the manner of proceeding and of enforcing contracts and rights as against them to a great extent.
A surety, being bound with his principal, can be sued on the debt immediately or jointly with his principal; while a guarantor, being a mere collateral obligor, can neither be sued on the debt nor jointly with his principal, but must be sued on his individual contract. Again, what may be a good defense for a guarantor would be of no o	e
avail to a surety, since the latter is presumed to be cognizant of every default of his principal, and cannot seek protection through the indulgence of the creditor or want of notice of the non-performance of the contract by the principal, even though such conduct on the part of the creditor or want of notice be injurious to him. But a guarantor engages for the performance of the duty by the principal merely—he is, in fact, a mere warrantor, and consequently, not being a joint contractor with his principal, is not bound to take notice of his default. He is ordinarily entitled to notice by the'creditor; and where, through neglect, such notice is omitted, it is generally held that, if he can prove the neglect to have been injurious or prejudicial to his rights, he will be discharged to the extent of the injury so incurred. But where a creditor undertakes to proceed directly against the sureties, without first exhausting his remedy against the prin
&	ibb ^otre bAME sciioLA 's 'fi’t.
cipal, they may restrain him by bill in equity, or notice in the first instance to the creditor. Such notice must be positive in its request to sue, and must definitely state the instrument to be sued upon.
For greater precision in treating this subject, we will now consider the contracts of suretyship and guaranty in respect to infants and married women; the effect of the statutes of Limitations and of Frauds; the different equities; and, finally, the liability and discharge of sureties and guarantors.
Infants.—Contracts of suretyship and guaranty, when entered’ into by infants, are not void but merely voidable. If ratified by the infant upon attaining full legal age, they become as binding as if the disability of infancy had never existed; but such ratification or confirmation must be distinct and with full knowledge that he is not liable on the contract at the time. Infancy or coverture of a principal is no defense to an action brought against a surety or guarantor, who undertook for the responsibility of such infant or married woman, since the creditor demanded the security because of the disability of the principal obligor.
Married Women.—Tn the case of married women contracts of suretyship and guaranty are absolutely void at common law. And, with the exception of few states, this is the rule in the United States. However, the tendency being to enlarge and extend the rights of married women in respect to their separate property, statutes have been passed in some states abridging the rigor of the common law rule; and,in a very few others, virtually abolishing it.
Where a married woman executed a promissory note jointly with her husband, and as his surety, on default by the husband, it was held, that her separate property could not be charged in satisfaction of the debt. It is so held in Massachusetts, unless it can be shown that she received a consideration or some benefit to her separate property. In pursuance of section 5119, R. S., Indiana, it was held, that where husband and wife are tcr-ants by entireties a mortgage executed by the husband and wife on such land, to secure the payment of an individual debt of the husband, is, as to the wife, a contract of suretyship, which, under that section, she cannot enter into. And so held where she signed a note and mortgage, apparently as principal, which was to secure a loan for the benefit of her husband.
But, notwithstanding this section, it was held in Indiana, that, where a married woman made representation by affidavit, which was relied on bona fidez and believed to be true, that a loan was to be for her own use and benefit, she was estopped in a suit to foreclose a mortgage, executed upon her lands to secure the loan, from denying the truth of such representation by asserting that the mortgage was given as a security for the debt of the husband. In Maine, under an act passed February 23, 1866, providing that «Contracts’of any married woman, made for any lawful purpose, shall be valid and binding, and may be enforced in the same manner as if she were sole,” etc., it was held that a contract of suretyship, being a
lawful contract, and for a lawful purpose, was binding on a married woman.
Statute of Limitations.—The Statute of Limitations begins to run as soon as the surety or guarantor is liable to suit. Where the debt is paid in instalments, or at different periods, the statute begins to run anew at each pay ment. Where, when bankruptcy proceedings are pending, a guaranty is given upon a promissory note, the consideration being that the holder will give a receipt for the percentage due him, under a composition by the bankrupt, accepted by a majority of the creditors and ordered by the court, the bar of the statute will be removed as to the note, and it begins to run from that time. So, too, where a bond or other instrument is jointly, or jointly and severally, executed by the principal and surety, a new promise or part-payment by one is a sufficient acknowledgment to take the debt out of the statute. In such cases the act of either of the parties is the act of both. Where a surety was liable on a promissory note it was held to be a sufficient consideration for his subsequent written guaranty of its payment, whether at the time such guaranty was made, the right of action was, or was not barred by the statute.
Statute of Frauds.—Bj' the statute of Frands, 29 Car. II, c. 3, contracts of suretyship and guaranty, which at comman law were not required to be in writing, were required to be so declared. However, the statute did not operate to destroy the validity of such contracts, entered into contrary to its provisions,but merely barred the remedy,or right of action. It provided that “ No action shall be brought on such agreement, unless the agreement, or some memorandum, or note thereof, shall be in writing, signed by the party to be charged therewith, oi’ by some person thereunto by him lawfully authorized.” Its clear effect is to cut off the remedy for the enforcement of mere verbal promises of suretyship and guaranty, and not to render the contract itself void. Consequently, where an agreement has been fully carried out by all parties, the statute has no force, arid it cannot be afterward invoked, by any party to the agreement, to set aside the transaction on the ground of illegality of the contract. Nor can a surety or guarantor, after discharging the liability of the principal, under an agreement by parol, recover back the money so paid, although he was not, in the first instance, obliged to make payment. But he may, under such circumstances, institute an action against the principal for the amount so paid. Cases of this nature are governed By the fact before stated, viz.: that the statute bars the remedy merely, and, consequently, where the surety or guarantor waives this right and makes payment, he is the loser on his contract. But where the statute does not cover all the parol agreements between the parties to a contract of suretyship or guaranty, the general rule is, that if such agreements as are not covered by the statute can be severed from and still form a distinct obligation, independent of those governed by the statute, they may be enforced by an action at'law; but if all the agreements.are so connected as to form one inseparable agreement, the entire
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	69
contract falls within the statute and cannot be enforced. The relation of principal and surety or guarantor must exist, in order to bring a contract of this nature within the statute. And to constitute this relation there must be an actual present or a future contemplated liability of a third person; that is, there must be a principal obligor, otherwise the agreement need not be in writing-. Thus, where a person purchases goods and a third person says to the vendor “ I will see you paid,” he thereby discharges the purchaser from every liability for the goods and constitutes himself principal, the contract running between him and the vendor only; the relation of principal and surety, or guarantor, does not exist, and the contract is binding, even though verbal. But had such third person said “ he, (the vendee) will pay you,” or, “I will pay you if he does not,” the vendee would still have remained liable for the goods; and these words, in order to bind the third person, must be in writing. But the primary liability of an obligor may be implied in law. Courts have extended this principle of primary liability to the guarantor in a contract of an infant, and held such guarantor liable although there was no writing evidencing his agreement. His undertaking in such case cannot be collateral to that of the infant, since the infant is not bound by his contracts.
If the consideration is the release of the principal from liability, or the promise is to pay the promissor’s own debt, or if the promissor be already liable for the payment of the debt, the agreement need not be in writing, there being no primary liability of a principal obligor.
But we must distinguish between the assumption of the whole debt, or responsibility, by the surety, or guarantor, and a new consideration merely as between the promissor and promissee; for in the latter case the agreement will not be taken out of the statute, and the relation of principal and surety, or guarantor, will still exist.
. (to be continued.)
Celebrated Violinists.
In the year 1577, Queen Catherine of Medicis invited her fellow-countryman, Baltazarini, to take up his residence in France. The talent of this virtuoso delighted her fashionable and pleasureloving court, and accordingly, the violin after having been forgotten for some time, became once more the instrument a la mode.
Baltazarini was succeeded by John Baptist Lulli, who far surpassed him in celebrity. Lulli was born at Florence, A. D. 1635, and while yet quite young left'his country and went to France. Being . introduced to the court, he was favorably received. Mademoiselle de Montpensier attached him to her service, and Louis XIV, in order to show him how much he appreciated his talent, appointed him to a high position at court.
' Lulli made several innovations in music, all of which were highly successful, Before his time
the base and middle parts formed only a simple accompaniment, and the only thing considered in violin pieces was the melody; but Lulli made all the . other parts just as agreeable and important. He introduced admirable fugues, extended the empire of harmony, and invented new movements. He knew how to compose the most original passages of his works on those musical discords, the rock upon which the composers of his day usually stranded. The melodies of Lulli are so natural and insinuating that they will be played so long as the human heart loves music. He died at Paris, on the 23d of March, 1687.
Lulli did not establish a school. The first that had this honor was the celebrated Corelli, who was born at Rusignano, in 1635. He visited Paris in 1672, then travelled through Germany, and finally established himself at Rome, where he wrote his sonatas and ballet music which have rendered his name famous. He was named director of the Roman opera, and in a very short time saw a multitude, eager to gather up his inspirations,'flock around him from all parts of Europe. Corelli’s style is distinguished by its pliancy, elegance, simplicity and naturalness. Though he was wanting somewhat in that brilliancy of which his contemporary virtuosos were so prodigal, on the other hand, his accentuation was exquisite. U nder Corelli’s touch the violin reminded one of a sweet trumpet according to the expression of Geminiani, his pupil and successor.
Francesco Geminiani was born at Lucca, A. D. 1680. The reputation which he had acquired at Rome, and his title of being the first pupil of the great mcestro Corelli would soon have rendered his name popular all over Italy; nevertheless, he left that country to visit England in the year 1714. George I occupied the throne; he loved music, and Geminiani. obtained the favor of being presented to him. He played in the monarch’s presence, and the illustrious Handel accompanied him on the harpsichord. The king was delighted beyond measure by the performance, and for fifteen years Geminiani enjoyed the highest, honors. During that long period no one could be compared to him for finish of execution, elegance of conception, freshness and vivacity of style. He composed several treatises on harmony, and was the first musician that attempted to imitate the tramp of armies, the roaring of the tempest, the rolling of the thunder, the rumbling of the sea, the sighing of the winds, etc.
Carbonnelli, another pupil of Corelli, distinguished himself at about the same time, but he was inferior to the former.
A phenomenon was now about to astonish the musical world in the person of Giuseppe Tartini. He was born at Pisa in Istria, A. D. 1692. His . family destined him for the bar; but that profess sion did not please the young man. He became in succession a sailor, prizefighter, buffoon and fencing-master; then he began to study music passionately. To discipline the fiery, capricious character of Tartini, he was sent to the University of Padua, which then had eighteen thousand students
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
numbered on its rolls. But he only made his appearance there; for, being soon reduced to a condition of misery, he would have died of hunger, had not the cloister opened its sheltering doors to him. One of the monks, a relative of Tartini, came to his assistance by giving him a home within the convent. In this holy retreat the young man set himself once more to study music, became master of the violin, and by his wonderful progress obtained a place in the orchestra of the cathedral. From Padua, Tartini proceeded to Ancona; there it was that, in the midst of his laborious vigils, he made the singular discovery of the “ third sound.” His reputation increased rapidly. He was appointed first violinist in the Church of St. Anthony of Padua, a post then most eagerly sought after by all the eminent virtuosi. Thenceforth he vowed himself and his instrument forever to the saint. He instructed pupils who carried his reputation into the various capitals of Europe, and he received the most brilliant offers from many sovereigns, but he replied that he desired no other protector than St. Anthony. The impression Tartini produced on his contemporaries is the only means we have of appreciating his merit; for it is impossible for us to judge of his great worth as a violinist by his musical compositions, since they would require the hand that gave them life to be properly rendered.
During this time, Veracini, as well known by the oddity of his character as by the extent of his talent, flourished at Venice. Every year the most celebrated musicians of Italy assembled at Lucca for the feast of the Holy Cross. Veracini, entirely unknown to the Luccanians, came also and volunteered to play a solo. But on entering the choir of the church he perceived that his offer had been disregarded, and that Laurenti, a monk of one of the Bolognese Congregations, occupied the place of the soloist. Veracini advanced unhesitatingly to the post which the monk held.
“Where are you going?” asked Laurenti.
“To take the place of the first violinist!” was the only answer of the artist.
They thought him a fool; and in despair, he placed himself in the rear, on the last bench of the orchestra. When his turn came to play, Laurenti, the director, invited him to approach a little nearer to thb public view. “No,” said Veracini, “I will either- play here, or I will not play at all.” He was permitted to have his way. "
He commenced; the sounds which he drew from his violin immediately captivated the attention of the assembly; their clearness, purity, and energy were unequalled. Not even the respect due to the sac redness of the place could prevent the outbursts of applause. As each passage ended, the bravos were renewed; and the artist, with a look of triumph and disdain, turned towards the old director of the orchestra, saying: “That is how a first violinist should play.”	.
Veracini’s style, entirely original, was odd, bold and redundant; his meritchiefly consisted in the richness, depth and ease of his arpeggios, and in a brilliancy of tone by which he could make himself
heard even amid the fortissimi of the largest orchestra. Veracini never desired to have pupils. Tartini, on the contrary, left an illustrious school behind him. Nardini, elected director of this school after- the death of the founder, was also distinguished by his pathetic and true execution; but his originality was less marked than that of his master. Everyone said that Nardini’s violin either had a voice, or seemed to have one.
After hi m, Felice Giordini obtained the first place. He was born at Turin, in 1716, and received the greater part of his musical education from an old pupil of Corelli. When only seventeen years of age, he began his travels as an artist to the different courts of Europe. Everywhere he reaped an abundant harvest of laurels; but everywhere, also, his inconstancy begot him innumerable sorrows. After a thirty years’ residence in England he took the notion to return to Italy; but Italy had forgotten him; for younger and fresher talent had gained possession of the- public favor. He then returned a second time to England, but was no longer welcomed as of yore, and so he went to Moscow, there to die in misery.
Giornovichi now made his appearance on the stage. He was born at Palermo in 1745^ an<3 spent his life in travelling through Europe. First he proceeded to Paris, where he eclipsed all his rivals; then he filled the position of first violin in the royal chapel of Potsdam, and afterwards left for St. Petersburg, where his great renown had preceded him. He went to England in 1792, then proceeded to Ireland; he returned to Germany, and visited Russia a second time, where he died in 1804.
Giornovichi’s style was neither brilliant nor powerful, as certain critics say, but it was enchanting, which is worth as much. Being endowed with a great power of execution, he ever made it subservient to the natural beauty of his imagination. Delicacy and finish characterized his talent; his art was all the more admirable because'it was hidden; he captivated his audience just as though he had charmed them.	■
A new era was to open for the violin under the celebrated Viotti. Bold, majestic and grand in conception, he was brilliant, energetic and soft in execution. They said of him: “He is a cotton bow-hand directed by an Herculean arm.” Never did artist approach nearer the sublime. A pupil of the illustrious Pugnani, he added the fire of his own genius to his master’s freedom of touch.
Viotti was born in 1755, at Fontaneto, in Piedmont; his musical education was precocious and rapid. At the age of twenty he was first violinist of the royal chapel of Turin. After a few years’ study in this place, he began the usual pilgrimage. He went to Paris, where he was received as a wonder; but an act of rudeness caused him to take a sudden departure. Queen Marie-Antoinette was desirous of hearing him; the artist repaired to Versailles, where all the court was assembled. He began his piece, but was interrupted .by. a disagreeable chattering; he began anew, but was again disturbed by the whispering; so he folded his book, placed his hat uncier his arm, and departed.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
He proceeded to England, but was obliged to leave that country after a brief sojourn, and retired into Germany, where he lived in a beautiful place near Hamburg. After a short stay at this place, he revisited Great Britain and France, then returned to London, where he ended his wandering course in a state of absolute destitution, on the 3d of March, 1824, at the age of sixty-nine. Viotti’s appearance was remarkable; his figure was imposing, his head large, his forehead high and bold, his eye quick and penetrating. As a composer, he is certainly at the head of his school, and his school is regarded as the very first of all. The originality and solidity of Viotti’s style are such that his concertos may be arranged for other instruments than the violin, without losing any of their effect. The seal of his productions is nobility. Others have possessed in an equal degree his rich and sweet harmony, but nobody ever had his grandeur and majesty.
The most celebrated French violinists of our age are Beriot, Baillot, Lafont, and Boucher, who is remarkable for the wonderful ease and neatness with which he executes the most difficult passages. Sphor is the first German violinist who has enjoyed a lasting reputation. He was born in the territory of Brunswick, A. D. 1784, and had a rapid career. After having visited the principal cities of Germany and Russia, he was, at the age of twenty-one, named first violinist and composer to the Duke of Saxe-Gotha. He visited Italy in 1817, and England in 1820, and whilst there, he appeared at the concerts of the Philharmonic Society.
Sphor was already known by the knowledge of his compositions; his execution justified all that could be expected from German patience. But his manner is heavy and void of imagination. With a remarkable purity of sound and a perfect art in the handling of the bow, he never becomes brilliant. All he can- generally offer to his audience is a sweet melody, graceful modulation, or well-performed cadence.
Mayseder is also a noted violinist of the German school. His style, although extremely labored, is sometimes brilliant. His works are adapted to the taste of his countrymen. They are popular airs with numerous variations, some feeble and affected, others of a remarkable richness, variety and sub-tilty. The air and variations which he dedicated to Paganini, are a happy specimen of the style of that great violinist himself, which Mayseder has ■ perfectly copied.
We have mentioned Paganini. He was not an artist, he was a magician. The violin was no longer recognizable in his hands. Never before were power of execution and vigor of conception united in such a degree. Bold, yet subtile; grand, yet refined; skilful, yet extravagantly odd, he possessed in himself all those qualities, each of which had sufficed to . render his predecessors illustrious. It was most agreeable to hear him, but not less curious to see him. His tall, emaciated figure; his long, bony fingers; his pale and wild-looking countenance; his thin locks of gray hair falling over his shoulders; his strange laugh could never- be forgotten. When
he walked upon the stage, it seemed as though his poor, wasted limbs refused to carry him. When his haggard eye surveyed the hall, one would say that he was either a ghost arisen from the tomb, or else a maniac who had broken through the bars of his cell. But when the tumult of applause, excited by this appearance had subsided, when the orchestra having played its part, the violin solo’s turn had arrived, then the spectre became Paganini. Up to this time, he has let the violin hang by his side; now he raises it slowly, then fixes his eye on it as a father would on his favorite child, then smiles his hideous smile, drops his violin and surveys the assembly, which in the most profound silence has been looking on the pantomime with a mixture of stupor and anxiety; Then he suddenly seizes his instrument anew, looks triumphantly atthe audience, brandishes his bow above the strings, then, drawing it across them with the rapidity of lightning, inundates the air with a torrent of harmony. Paganini was extravagant beyond expression ; but his extravagance was not affected, as was that of some pretended artists of genius. It was the almost natural result of a violent passion on a nervous temperament; it was the effect of solitary work, an absorbing imagination and of a musical sensibility which caused every fibre of his body to vibrate. The novelties introduced by Paganini have been praised sufficiently. Sometimes he played on a violin which had only the fourth string; his pizzicato, with the fingers of his left hand, made the instrument produce the effect of a guitar; his harmonious tones and staccato are also cited, but they were merely feats of strength of his invention.
Another great star which shone brilliantly in the musical world was Ole-Bull. Ole-Bull was a Norwegian, and although the polar region is little favorable to Southern arts, he was the only artist who reminded one of Paganini. Contrary to the great mcestro, Ole-Bull formed himself. He was but eight years old when he began to study music. He left his country and went to France, where he heard the great Italian artist, and he determined to imitate him. He was poor; but a few concerts which he gave put him on the high road to fortune. He then determined to visit Italy. But the classical land of the fine arts would have let him die of hunger and misery, had not an unforeseen incident made him known. He was in Florence when Mme. Malibran and Mr. Beriot arrived there to give a grand concert. They were staying at the same hotel where Ole-Bull himself was lodged. The day and hour of the concert having arrived, and the audience being assembled, Mr. Beriot suddenly felt himself indisposed. The master of the house having, heard Ole-Bull play, told Mme. Malibran about him. He was sent for, invited to play, accepted, and played so admirably that his success was established forever. When he played at Naples, he excited such warm enthusiasm that he was obliged to repeat the same piece nine times. Ole-Bull walked in the footsteps of Paganini, and sometimes he imitated him so perfectly that it was impossible to distinguish between them.
■ c»
on

72
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WlWffSCMM
Notre Dame, October 8, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First jrear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and. Scientific Gossip of the day ;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the suc-^cess of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Father’s Feast.
Thursday next, the 13th inst., is the Festival of St. Edward, the name-day of the Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross and the venerated Founder of Notre Dame. By the students it has always been very properly considered as the great festal day of the year, and they spare no effort to make it one of great rejoicing and expressive, in the best manner possible, of the esteem and affection which they entertain for him to whose life-long labors they owe the immense educational advantages afforded by their Alma Mater. The 13th this year will be, as usual, fittingly observed, though one great drawback to the general rejoicing will be the absence of the venerable Founder himself in whose honor the day will be kept. For the first time, in many years, on a day so dear to all, the cares of the high office which he holds will have kept Father General away from scenes which evidence the rich harvest of years of fruitful labor. But it is unavoidable; and, while deeply regretting his absence, the thought of him will be fondly cherished, and the desire intensified for his safe and speedy return.
From a letter recently received, we learn that Father Founder is now in Rome, and in good health. We may hope, therefore, that the object of his journey will be soon attained, that ere long we may rejoice in his presence amongst us.
We, of the Scholastic, in union with the whole student body and his spiritual children, tender him our respectful congratulations on this anniversary, and express our heartfelt wish for A Happy Feast, and many happy returns!
Literature.
At this advanced age of refinement and culture all nations concur in the truth of the old saying that “in knowledge is power”; and the day is at hand when the position of a nation in the scale of nations does not depend upon the glory of her arms, but rather upon her commerce and institutions of learning—the arts of peace. This is what the inquiring and ever aspiring mind of man has brought about.
When we read the history of the human family, we find them making little or no progress in the way of civilization and refinement before the invention of letters; but there seems rather to have been a retrograde movement on the part of mankind, departing farther and farther from the will of God, and plunging deeper and deeper into vice and barbarism. But the alphabet appears, and thenceforward we find the human mind gradually aspiring and finding truth, until Plato declares the immortality of the soul, and the wise Socrates walks the streets of Athens; the worship of the gods begins to be shaken, and an altar then erected bore the inscription: “ To the Unknown God,”—whom it was reserved for the Apostle Paul to declare to the Athenian people.
The Athenians were, indeed, a refined people; and never has a language or a literature attained a higher degree of perfection than in this very country. In almost every department of human science she presents models—statesmen, generals, poets, philosophers, mathematicians and historians. And even though the genius of the Grecian muse has departed, she still extends her influence. Athens was once, though conquered by the Roman arms, looked up to as the centre of refinement; but those days were days when Greek literature was in its prime, when, says Quintillian, a single age produced ten orators at Athens. Yet, though' Athens no longer holds her supremacy, the influence of her former genius will continue to modify the literature of nations to the end of time. How different is the Athens of to-day ! No longer is she the centre of the arts and sciences. Times have changed, and we seldom hear her mentioned. No longer is the voice of Demosthenes heard in her council chamber. Aristotle and Plato are no more. Xenophen, Thucydides and Herodotus are names belonging to the mighty past. The people no longer gather in crowds of twenty or thirty thousand to witness the tragedies of a Sophocles or-the comedies of aq
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Aristophanes. All those geniuses who served to breathe over Greece an air of classic serenity have returned to the dust: and she no longer rules the world. But so long as the literary muse of Greece continued to flourish, so long did Greece remain the centre of learned men, and Athens the schoolhouse of nations.
The effect of letters is here very apparent, and it serves to point out to us their real value. Literature is an essential characteristic of a civilized nation, and the more letters are cultivated, the higher will be the degree of refinement.
Difficult, indeed, would it be for us to picture to ourselves a people without letters, so accustomed have we become to partake of the pleasures which they afford; without them, each age should have to commence almost where the previous age began, instead of continuing the work from Where the last left it; science would ever remain in its infancy, for tradition which will not carry forward from generation to generation even the simplest fact of history, cannot be supposed to transmit, with accuracy, facts which relate to abstract science. Talent, indeed, men may have, but it requires the assistance of letters to make it useful.
“ No good of worth sublime will Heaven permit To light on man, as from the passing air;
The lamp of genius, though by nature lit, If not protected, prun’d and fed with care, Soon dies, or runs to waste with fitful glare.”
We have but to open the pages of history to be convinced of this, for the name of no man shines there who has not, to some extent, at least, cultivated his mind by means of letters.
“ As the uncultivated prairie bears a harvest Heavy and rank, yet worthless to the world, So mind and heart, uncultivated, runs to waste; The noblest nature serving but to show A dense growth of passion’s deadly fruit.”
B.
Poet Laureate.
Among the Greeks, poets who were successful in the musical contests were crowned by vote of the people with wreaths of laurel. This custom was, during the Empire, adopted by the Romans, who imitated the Greeks in everything regarding the fine arts. It fell into disuse when the Empire began to fall asunder, and we read nothing about the crowning of poets until about the twelfth century when it was revived by the emperors of Germany, by whom the title of poet laureate was first given to the court-poet or writer. Henry V caused his historian to be crowned, and Frederic I bestowed the laurel upon Gunther, a.monk, who celebrated in epic the victories of the emperor.
Though the title was given in the German Empire and the laurels bestowed upon poets, yet very little interest was taken in the matter until the coronation of Petrarch. This took place in the city of Rome, in the fourteenth century, and was done by vote of the Roman Senate. The same honor was to have been bestowed upon Tasso, but he died just before the ceremony, was to take place. The
custom seems.to have fallen into disuse in. Germany, but was revived by Frederic TH, who crowned with his own hands yEneas Sylvius Piccolomini. The same emperor, in 1491, also crowned Conrad Celtes, who is considered by many to have been the first poet laureate of Germany. Maximilian I, having crowned Ulrich von Hutten, gave the right of bestowing the laurel crown in their own names to the Counts Palatine. This, of course, * -caused the importance of crowning with laurels to fall; and when the Empeior Ferdinand II gave the same privilege to all the counts of the imperial court it ceased almost to be held as any honor whatever. The most distinguished persons crowned in Germany were Ulrich von Hutten, George Sabinus, John Stigelius, Nicodemus Frischlin, and Martin Opitz. The last-named was crowned in 1625, and was the first poet crowned on account of verses written in the German language. The poet Karl Reinhard, who edited Burger’s poems, was the last poet in Germany to receive the crown.
The right of conferring crowns was-not only given to the counts of the imperial court, but a like privilege was accorded the universities. Many of these institutions in Germany gave the degree of Poeta JLatireatus^ and thesame was done by theEng-lish and other universities. In France there never were any poets laureate, although there were courtpoets. The title was known in Spain; but of those who bore it little has been said. That it was not looked upon as much, or rather that the laureates themselves were not‘esteemed very highly, may be seen in .that passage of Don Quixote where Sancho Panza attempts to comfort his ass, when they have both fallen into the ditch, saying to it: “ I promise to give thee double feed, and to place a crown of laurel on thy head, that thou mayest look like any poet laureate.”
In England it has been the endeavor to show that the office of laureate dated from Chaucer; but such was hardly the case. It was said that Edward III, desiring to emulate the crowning of Petrarch in Rome, granted, in 1367, to Chaucer a yearly pension of one hundred marks and a tierce of Malvoisie wine. This, however,'is not so; the story having propably arisen from the fact that the monarch granted an annuity of twenty marks, with the controllership of the wool and petty wine revenues for the port of London, the duties of which Chaucer was to personally perform. There is no evidence whatever that this was made on account of any poetical merit displayed by the “valet Geoffrey Chaucer,” as he is called in the grant. However, Ben Jonson speaks of Henry Scogan as the laureate of Henry IV, and . we know that John Kay held the office of courtpoet under Edward IV, and that Andrew Bernard enjoyed the same title under .Henry VII. The Universities of Oxford and Canmbridge severally conferred the title of poet laureate on John Skelton, and Spencer is spoken of as the laureate of Queen Elizabeth because of his having received from her, when he presented . her the first books of the “ Fairie Queene;” a pension of fifty pounds. Daniel and Michael Drayton are also spoken of a§
74	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
laureates, but Southey says that the latter was one of thos^ poets to whom the title was given, not because of their holding the office, but as a mark of honor to which they were entitled.
So far the laureateship was not established. Nowhere can anv trace of wine or wages be found. But during the reign of Elizabeth masques were introduced into the country from Italy, and this rendered the necessity of employing court-poets imperative. In 1619 James I secured the services of Ben Jonson as court-poet by granting him by patent an annuity for life of one hundred marks. He was not mentioned as laureate, but such he probably was, and so considered. The laureateship was made a patent office in the year 1630, and was put at the disposal of the Lord Chamberlain. The salary was increased from one hundred marks to £100, and a tierce of canary was added. In this century, when Southey was appointed, the wine was commuted to £27 a year.
From the time of James I until the present day, the succession of laureates has been regular. Those who held the office were Ben Jonson, William Davenant, John Dryden, Thomas Shadwell, Nahum Tate, Nicholas Rowe, Laurence Eusden, Colley Cibber, William Whitehead, Thomas Warton, Henry James Pye, Robert Southey, William Wordsworth, and Alfred Tennyson, the present incumbent. As may be seen by the names of the laureates, it was not poetical genius which caused their appointment in most cases. Political considerations frequently controlled the appointments. Sometimes it was religion which operated. Dryden was removed from the office because he was a Catholic; and Shadwell, his successor, was appointed because of his politics. The Earl of Dorset, on appointing him laureate, said, in vindication of the appointment, that it was “not because he was a poet, but an honest man.” The appointment of men unworthy of the office brought it into contempt, and it was the desire of the literary men of Great Britain that it should be abolished. After George III, in 1810, became deranged, the performance of the annual ode was suspended, and after a while fell into disuse. On the death of Pye, the laureateship was offered to Sir Walter Scott. He, however, declined the appointment and recommended Southey, who accepted the position with the understanding that he was to write only when and what should please him. This has now become the rule. Wordsworth wrote nothing in return for his appointment, and Tennyson has done but very little. The title is now what it should be, one of mere honor.	B. S.
Books and Periodicals.
—We acknowledge the receipt, from the Gov- ’ ernment office at Washington, of “The Report of the Commissioner of Patents ” for the current year. The “Report” possesses an interesting feature in .the comparison of the “Pension System” in the United States with that which obtains in other
governments of the world. The commissioner remarks that England refused to give any particulars regarding its “.system.”
—The excellent paper by Mr. Martin I. J. Griffin on “ Thomas Fitzsimons, Pennsylvania’s Catholic Signer of the Constitution of the United States,” which was read before “The American Catholic Historical Society of Philadelphia,” on the occasion of the recent centennial commemoration, has been published in pamphlet form. The ’ paper met with a well-merited favorable reception on its first presentation, and we are glad to see it given to the public in permanent form. It displays a great amount of. historical research, and abounds with many interesting and instructive facts. Mr. Griffin is the editor of the I. C. B. Union and The American Catholic Historical Researches, both of which periodicals are published in Philadelphia; and in them he has distinguished himself by the collation and preservation of a multitude of points bearing upon the early history of the Church in the States. In the pamphlet above mentioned, he has , done a good work in bringing to light the record of one so prominently connected with the formulation and adoption of our great Constitution, but whose memory had been allowed to sink into almost total oblivion.	•
—The October Wide Aivake will delight the boys who love a humorous story about one of themselves, for in it Maurice Thompson tells an irresistible story about one of his own boyish escapades, entitled “My First Voyage.” They will also enjoy “A Catskill Bear Story,” by Henry Tyrrell. There are three delightful out-of-door articles: E. S. Brooks’ “Football,” Grant Allen’s “Pitcher-Plant” and Amanda B. Harris’ “IndianCorn Talk”; these have fine illustrations, by Hassam, Barnes, and Lungren. Charles Egbert Craddock concludes the powerful serial of “ Keedon Bluffs”; Mrs. Catherwood’s Wabash River serial, “The Secrets at Roseladies,” takes Sister, and the Mound-Diggers too, through strange adventures; Howling Wolf, in Mrs. Champney’s Indian serial, “ The Lost Medicine of the Utes,” goes campaigning with Geromino; young Vangrift, in “A Young Prince of Commerce,” forms a railroad syndicate; Margaret Sidney’s Concord paper describes and illustrates the Concord Library with its famous treasures, Mr. French’s studio where the statue of the “Minute Man” was modelled, and the site of Thoreau’s hut at Walden Pond. The biography, in Mrs. Bolton’s series “ Some Successful' Women,” is about Miss Alice Freeman, the President of Wellesley College; Mr. Holder, in “ Wonder-Wings,” has an entertaining chapter on “The Sports and Games of Animals,” illustrated by J. C. Beard; the “ La Rose Blanche ” story, by Mrs. M. E. M. Davis, is about “ An African Princess.” 'The poetry of the number is fine: “ Atalanta,” by Edwin Arnold, “Butterfly and Thistle-Ball,” by Edith M. Thomas, “Bird Talk,” by Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney, “The Dairy Maids of Dort,” by Mary B. Dodge,” “ Following the Sunset,” by Juliet C. Marsh, “ His Offering,” by Callie L. Bonney.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—Alexander Reach (Com’l),’80, is prominently connected with the Illinois National Bank of Chicago.
—Samuel Dunn (Com’l), ’73, holds a responsible position with the firm of John Church & Co., Cincinnati.
—Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, Rector of St. Mary’s Church, Columbus, Ohio, made a pleasant visit to Notre Dame during the week. His many friends were pleased to meet him, and to see him in the best of health.
—Very Rev. Father Provincial Corby, C. S. C., returned on Monday last from a visit to the Houses of the Community in Illinois and Wisconsin. He was present at the receptions tendered Cardinal Gibbons at Milwaukee.
—Rev. T. L. Vagnier, C. S. C., ’63, Rector at Leo, Ind., passed a few days visiting friends at Notre Dame this week. All were gladdened by his presence, and hope that he may be able to find time to make his visits of more frequent occurrence.
—Charles Ackhoff (Com’l), ’82, who is now connected with the Sterling Piano Co. of Chicago, visited the College on Wednesday last. He was cordially received by many friends who were pleased to hear of the success attending him in mercantile life.
—Our old friend, Charles K. Finlay, (Law) ’85, of Kansas City, Mo., recently abandoned the shores of bachelordom and embarked upon the sea of matrimony. We extend congratulations to him and his amiable bride, and hope that the voyage of life may be for them as propitious and pleasant as thejr could desire.
—The Superiors of the celebrated Academy of St. Mary’s of the Woods, Vigo Co., Ind., visited Notre Dame a few days ago, for the purpose of inspecting the working of the incandescent electric lights through - the University buildings. They were so pleased with the result of their observations that they have determined to introduce this “modern improvement” in their renowned institution.
—We learn from the Catholic Columbian that W. F. Koudelka, brother of the Rev. pastor of St. Michael’s, Cleveland, left for the American College, Rome, as a student of that diocese, Friday, Sept. 2. Mr. Koudelka was one of the leading' members of the Class of ’86, and distinguished himself by his talents and industry. He has the best wishes of many friends for a successful career in the vocation upon which he has entered.
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Rev. Joseph Uphaus, C. PP. S., New Corydon, Ind; J. A. Fox, Brooklyn, N. Y.; I. G. Galbreth, and daughter, Ligonier, Ind.; H. Werriere, Englewood, Ill.; Jas. Dolan, B. B. Bristol, Mr. and Mrs. Sutter, M. M. Shephard, Miss M. Crane, Mrs. B. M. Josselyn, Mrs. P. Hutchinson and daughter, Miss L. M. Cudahy, Miss L. Lawton, H.W. Quan,
M. J. Burns, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. W.J. Early, Theodore Cohen, Mrs. A. Maguire?Cincinnati, Ohio; E. S. Porter, Eau Clair, Wis.; Mrs. P. Coll and daughters, Miss A. S. Kelly, Philadelphia, Pa.; Jno. Ebner, Jr., Vincennes, Ind.; Mr. John Kerwin and Miss Kerwin, St. Paul, Minn.; Mrs. H. Franklin, Deadwood, Dak.; Theo. M. Foley, Columbus, Georgia; Mrs. R. F. Campbell, Mrs. L. J. Hepburn and daughter, El Paso, Texas; Mrs. M. Pfau and daughter, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Jas. Dunn, Miss M. Cavanaugh, Troy, New York; Mrs. Gavan and daughter, Lafayette, Ind.; Jno. G. Hoffman, Wheeling, W. Va.; P. L. McDermott, Galena, Ill.; Jas. I. Smith, Circleville,'Ohio.
Local Items.
—Hurrah for Founder’s Day!
—Next Thursday is St. Edward’s Day.
—The baseball season is drawing- to a close.
—The elocution classes are doing “admirably well.”
—Query by a Freshmax :—“ Is cider to be trusted ? ”	-
—The boys enjoyed an extra half-holiday on Tuesday last.
—The local dude is just now passing through a transformation scene.
—The music discoursed by the Elbels, Wednesday night, was a rare treat. We hope they will soon come again.
—The Philopatrians are very active and energetic. Reports oT their meetings will be given next week.
—On Wednesday evening the Elbel Orchestra played some choice morccaux during supper in the Senior refectory.	'
—A lot of new oars and a box of carpenter’s tools arrived for the boat-house last Thursday. The boys mean business.	.
—The Minims were never in better trim than at present, under their genial prefects, Brothers Cajetan and Angelus.	■	'
—The Juniors’ military company enjoyed a fine march around the country the other day, especially those who crossed the railroad track.
—Every one is pleased to notice the improvement, both intellectually and physically, of the students in the Senior and Junior departments.
—Three handsome new billiard tables, directly from the manufactory, have lately been added to the attraction in the Juniors’ recreation rooms.
—The Library is open every day in the week, except Sunday, for the distribution of books—in the morning from 9.30 to 12, and in the afternoon from 1 until 3.30.	.
—Our enterprising landscape gardener has traced -out plans for the cement walks, which will add to the beauty of the grounds between the College and the Presbytery.
^6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—The course of Church History will be inaugurated to-morrow ( Sunday ). The lectures will be delivered by Rev. President Walsh.
—Rev. Father Corby, of Notre Dame, Ind., delivered an interesting sermon to his old parishioners at St. Bernard’s Church last Sunday.— Watertoxvn Democrat.	-
—An excellent game of football was played on the Junior campus, Tuesday afternoon, between the “ Northmen and Southmen ” of the study-hall. The “Northerners” won.
—The South Bend Times, of the 6th inst., says: “Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, a staunch Republican, went to Chicago yesterday to see President Cleveland.”
—There are now 510 students attending the various courses of the University of Notre Dame. This fact places the record of entrances in excess of that of all previous years.
—The upper dormitories in the main building have been refurnished in the best style. Nothing has been omitted that can secure the comfort and convenience of all concerned.
—The Euglossians have in active preparation the great drama of “The Proscribed Heir’’for the entertainment on St. Edward’s Day. It is expected that they will surpass the brilliant efforts of previous years.
—Extensive improvements have been made in and around St. Joseph’s Novitiate. Among those still in contemplation is the erection of an infirmary for the use of the inmates of that delightful retreat.
—A new large boiler arrived from the shops of Jonathan Matthews, South Bend, on Tuesday last. The great number of the University buildings requires this additional means of heat supply during the cold weather.
—The usual Fall field sports will take place on Thursday next—St. Edward’s Day. Games and sports of all kinds, in the various departments, will occupy the day, and numerous are the prizes in store for the successful competitors.
—A concise and pithy lecture on Temperance was delivered on Wednesday in the presence of a select, highly appreciative and moving audience. The words of the lecturer made a deep impression, and will not soon be forgotten.
—Great excitement prevailed among our aquatic men during the early part of the week, owing to the reorganization of the crews. Everything has been satisfactorily arranged, and the regatta will be one of the great features of the celebration on Founder’s Day.
—Here is the longest correct sentence of “ thats” which we have yet seen: «I assert that that, that that ‘ that,’ that that that that person told’me contained, implied, has been misunderstood.” It is a string of nine “ thats ” which may be easily “ parsed ” by a bright pupil.	.
.. —The 2d regular meeting of the Columbians-was held Saturday evening, Oct. 1. The following were elected to membership; Messrs. Joyce, Ray,
Pollock, Nations, Kehoe, Meehan, Fischer, Boland, Dore, E. Larkin, W. Larkin, McCarth, Bronson, Cartier, Crane, Garrity and Waixel.
—A grand promenade concert was given Wednesday evening in the Senior reading rooms under the auspices of the Crescent Club. Magnificent music was furnished by the Elbel Bros’ Orchestra, from our neighboring city of South Bend,, and a most enjoyable time was had.
—The Class of ’86, under the lead of Mr. B. T. Becker, did a good work last year in taking charge of the extra lecture course. We hope that the Class of ’87 will continue the good work, and do even better than their predecessors. They should begin early, and make arrangements to secure the pr.sence of the best lecturers in the country.
—The Curator- of the Museum is indebted to Mr. P. J. Towle, of Chicago, for a large and valuable collection of minerals, fossils and archteolog-ical specimens, which he has recently presented to the various cabinets in Science Hall. Among them are several specimens of Mexican antiquities, which are as rare as they are curious; besides a valuable collection of specimens from the coal measures of Illinois, which will be of special value in class work.
—Here is one of Burdette’s good things: “The principal of an academy in New Jersey advertises in the city papers that he prepares ‘boys for bus. or col. Backward boys taught pri.’’ If you hav. a boy who is a little slow in his gram, or dilator, in his rith. or weak in his Lat. that you want to rush for a bus. posish. or a profesh., you should write a let. to the prin. of this acad. for a circ. and a cat. containing terms and curric. The prof’s head is lev.”
—Col. Hoynes and the Commissioned Officers of the H. L. G. attended the parade and reception of the “ Northern Indiana Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Association” which held its annual reunion at South Bend on the 6th and 7th insts. The city was en fete: prominent buildings and many private residences were handsomely decorated; arches, festooned with taste and skill-, spanned the principal streets through which the parade passed, and, barring a few showers, the reunion was a success.
—At the second regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, held Wednesday, Sept. 28, .Masters F. C. McGrath and L. Chute were elected to membership. An excellent criticism on the previous meeting was read by R. Adels-perger; W. McPhee read an interesting essay on “The Rockies”; J. E. Berry delivered a declamation which was well received. The minor vacant offices were then filled by H. Blake, D. Cartier and L. Scherrer.	. .
—The Leonine Literary Society has been established at St. Aloysius’ Seminary. It has for its object the cultivation of Literature and written criticisms of select English authors. The first meeting was held on Tuesday, the 4th inst. The election of officers resulted as follows: President, Rev. J. French, C. S. C.; Vice-President, J. Black;
'Ilie kotim daME scholastic.	77
Secretary, J. W. Cavanaugh; Literary Critics, Messrs. H. A. Holden, W. Houlihan and M. Donohue; Sergeant-at-arms, Jas. Maguire. The name was given said society in honor of the present Pope, Leo XIII.
—The “Chickering Grand,” which for so many years adorned the main parlor of the University, has been placed in the reception room of St. Edward’s Hall. Music will receive more than usual attention by the Princes during this year, and this superb instrument, which still retains the fineness and volume of tone and delicacy of touch for which it has been noted, will be utilized to the best advantage in contributing to the pleasure and interest.of the many reunions and entertainments which will vary the period of school-life for the inmates of the “ P alace.”
—The scaffolding has been removed from the new addition to the church, and the paintings and beautiful stained-glass windows can now, for the first time, be seen to advantage. The two large pictures over the altars of Our Lady of Lourdes and Bona Mors will be completed early next month. We have already seen the designs of the grand fresco for the Bona Mors' altar. It represents the death of St. Joseph in the arms of Our Blessed Lady and her Divine Son; a choir of angels are in attendance to receive the spirit as it leaves its earthly prison.
—Among the recent additions to the Historical Collections of the University is a fine oil painting of Rev. Simon Petit Lalumiere, presented by Rev. Mother Euphrasia, General Superioress of the Sisters of Providence. When the sainted Bishop Brute, arrived at Vincennes, in 1S34, to take possession of his new diocese, he found in the whole State of Indiana only one priest, the Rev. S. Lalumiere, who resided at Vincennes. He had been ordained by the venerable Bishop FIaget,of Kentucky. He was the first native of Indiana raised to the priesthood, and the first ordained for Vincennes, by the venerable Father of the western Church. The portrait was formerly owned by Rev. Father Chasse, one of the early missionaries of Indiana. Rev. Father Lalumiere, S. J., the veteran rector of St. Gall’s Church and President of Marquette College, Milwaukee,is a nephew of thelate Rev. S. P. Lalumiere, and manifests in himself those admirable qualities of mind and heart which characterized his distinguished relative.
—Bro. Fabian, C. S. C., accompanied by several students for the U ni versity, has just returned from an extended Western trip. After visiting the famous Bethesda Springs, the Fort, the Soldiers’ Home, and all the other objects of interest in and around Milwaukee, he spent several weeks in Kansas City, and to say that he was favorably impressed by the commercial spirit and enterprise of this marvellously growing city, is to say the least. He reports all of Notre Dame’s old students in Kansas City well and prosperous, and says furthermore that in speaking of their Alma Mater all of them evinced the greatest interest and pleasure in her prosperity. Bro. Fabian returned by way of Alton to Chicago,
where he spent a week or more visiting the schools of the Congregation. He speaks in glowing terms of their prospects, and in particular, of St. Pius’ School, which, although but recently instituted, has nevertheless an attendance of 400. Bro. Fabian’s health has been wonderfully improved by his trip —a fact which his numerous friends at Notre Dame are pleased to observe. .
—The first baseball championship game of the Fall series was played between the first nines of the Senior department, Thursday. It resulted in. a victory for the “Blues” with the score 18 to 3; such a large score resulting from darkness in the last two innings. The feature of the game was White’s pitching; he holding the “Reds” down to three actual hits, and striking out seven men. Inks and Jewett for the “Blues” and Cartier for the “Reds,” excelled at the bat. Following is the score:
Blues.	t.a.b.	r.
Burns, 2d b.................. 5	2
Campbell, s. s............... 5	3
Inks, r. f................... 5	4
White, p..................... 5	o
Cusack, 1st b.............. 5	3
Jewett, c.................... 5	3
Kelly, 3d b.................. 5	1
Paschel, c. f.............. 5	1
Springer, 1. f............. 5	1
Total
Reds O’Regan, s. s.............. Cartier, c................. Cooke, 2d b................ Smith, p. and 1. f......... Mackey, 3d b............... Alathews, 1. f. and p...... Melady, 1st b.............. Kelly, r. f................ Preston, c. f..............
I.B. S.B. P.O. A. 2OII 2	10	1
3	1	I	O
11	o	8
2	2 7o
3	1	7	5
2020 1010 1220
E. O
O o o o I
I o
+
•E.
I I 2
I
I I
I I
Total
17
T.A.B. R. I.B. S.B. P.O. A. 311015 312056 300142 31	1004
300020 300021 300060 3	O	O	O	A	o
2	0	1	0	0	2
20 12
1
Two Base Hits: O’Regan, Smith, Bums, Campbell. Three Base Hits: Cartier, Jewett. Base on Balls: offSmith, 3; off Alathews, 1; off White 2. Struck out: by Smith, 4; Alathews, i; White, 7.	-
Score by Innings:—1 234567
Reds:—1 o o 1 o 1 0=3 Blues:—o 3 1043 7=18
Scorers: AI. B. Alulkern and John B. Aleagher. Umpire: H. Luhn.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Letters written by Archbishop Spalding, Bishop Barry and Bishop Verot with regard to the removal of Bishop Gartland’s remains from Savannah to Philadelphia, presented by Mrs.B. Robbins. “ True Piety; or,The Day Well Spent,” printed in Cork,1797—original copy corrected for an American edition by Bishop David,1809; Pastorini’s “History of the Christian Church,” New York, A. D., 1807—copy owned by Bishop Fenwick, of Boston, with his autograph—presented by Dr. John Gilmary Shea. 22x34portrait of Bishop O’Sullivan, 'of Mobile, from Rev. Father Mattingly. Large 20x28 group of all the Abbots who attended the Third Plenary Council; 22x30 full-length standing photographs of Archbishops Corrigan, Ryan, Leray and Kenrick; length photographs of Archbishops Kenrick and Spalding; full-length
• y§	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
photographs of Bishop Kain, of Wheeling, Bishop O’Reilly, of Springfield, Mass., Bi.-hop O’Farrell, of Trenton, Bishop Becker, of Savannah, and Mgr. Seton; large group representing Archbishop Segh-ers, Bishops B rondel, Glorieux, Junger and Father Lemens; large group representing Archbishop Heiss, Bishops Flash and Krautbauer; large group representing Archbishop Williams, Bishops de Goesbriand, Hendricken, Healy, O’Reilly, McMahon, and Bradley; large group of Archbishop Kenrick and his suffragans—Bishops O’Connor, Finck, Hogan, Cosgrove and Hennessy; large photograph of Archbishop Leray, Bishops Machebccuf and Salpointe; group representing Archbishops Ryan and Corrigan; full-length standing photograph of Cardinal Gibbons; photographs of Archbishop Bailey and Bishop Hendricken, presented by . Bro. Edward. Rare engraving of Rt. Rev. John, Bishop of Baltimore, published at London, Nov. 6, 1790, presented by Rev. Father Riordan. Relic of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, owned by Most Rev. Ambrose Marechal, third Archbishop of Baltimore, from A. Balt. ■
—SONG OF THE B. C. CREW.
I.
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
While rowing over the lake!
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
The gentle echoes wake.
It’s oh! to be a rower,
Along with the other ten, Where the Captain does no more
Than scream to the other men.
11.
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
Till the sweat begins to run;
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
It is the best of fun.
To feather, and back, and turn,
To turn, and back, and feather, Till over the oars their faces burn
In Autumn’s balmy weather.
•	.	in.
Oh! crew with friends so dear!
Oh! crew with muscle and brain!
It’s not so much the weather you fear, As who will row in vain.
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
While rowing over the lake, Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
The gentle echoes wake!
IV.
But why do we talk of the crew, Those men of the frail canoe?
Who, but these favored few, . Can row on the lake so blue?
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
In rowing over the lake!
And still with a voice of sonorous pitch,
-- This is the song of the crew.
Burns, Baldrick, Boland, F. Coady, J. Clark, Campbell, E. Clark, J. Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack, Craig, Crill, Cartier, Chute, E. Coady, Donaghue, Donelson, Dempsey, Decker, Dore, Dulaney, Ewing, Eyanson, Finckh, Francka, Fitz-harris, Fink, Fenton, Fisher, Fehr, Franklin, Goebel, Gallardo, Giesler, Gibbs, Gilmartin, Henderson, Higgins, Hobart, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Houck, E. Howard, Jennings, J. Kelly, Keriin, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, Leonard, Luhn, A. Longmire, L. Longmire, Langan, Mathews, Meehan, Mulkern, J. Meagher, L. Meagher, McWilliams, McErlain, McDermott, Mackey, Major, V. Morrison, Maloney, Maier, McAllister, McCart, Mack, McAuliffe, McGrath, Melady, W. McDermott, Nird-linger, Neill, Nations, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, Nester, Norton, R. Newton, Nelson, O’Hara, O’Regan, O’Shea, Pollock, Pears, Plato, Paschel, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Prichard, Metzger, Roper, Rochford, Reynolds, Rodriguez, Rothert, Rudd, Russell, Ruebsamen, G.' Stubbs, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schaug, Short, Stephenson, Suing, Spencer, Shields, H. Smith, Springer, M. Smith, Tiernan, Tudor, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, Waixel,* White, Wilkin, Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anfender, Berry, Boyd, Blake, Boldrick, Burger, Backrack, Bray, Brady, Bombeck, Bronson, Beaudry, Brown, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Campbell, Case, Cooney, J. Connors, Connelly, Chacon, Coad, F. Connors, Carney, Chute, D. Cartier, Casey, J. S. Doherty, J. Doherty, Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Fitzgerald, Fleming, French, F. Flynn, Falvey, Freeman, Frei, Galbreth, Goodman, J. Greene, T. Greene, Graham, Gonzales, Gray, Grossrr.an, Girten, Heller, Henderson, Hoffman, Hiener, Hagan, Houlihan, Howard, Hall, R. Healy, P. Healy, Hillas, Huber, Hoerr, Hampton, Hartman, Hughes, Hackett, Hake, R. Inderrieden, Johnson, Jewett, Jackson, Johns, Josselyn, Kahn, Kellner, Kehoe, Leonard, Lahey, Lane, Monroe, W. Merkle, Monaghan, J. Martin, H. Mallay, W. Mallay, James McIntosh, John McIntosh, McMahon, McGuire, Miner, McIvers, McPhee, McNulty, Mooney, Mulqueen, E. Merkle, Neef, Noud, M. O’Kane, O’Neill, O’Hearn, W. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, O’Donnell, Patterson, Paquette, Powers, Pritchard, F. Peck, Pfau, J. Peck, Pecheux, Quinlan, Reinhard, Rierdon, I. Rose, S. Rose, Reidinger, Roth, Ramsey, Rowsey, C. Scherrer, C. Schillo, Stephens, Senn, Shenk, L. Scherrer, Sullivan, C. Spalding, Simpson, Silver, Smith, R. Spalding, Talbot, Tewksbury, Wile, Wageman, Welch, Wade, Wood, Wilbanks.
’	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Ackerman, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, .A- Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Boettcher, Bates, Burns, Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Carlile, Cudahy, Crane, Durand, F. Dunn, J. Dungan, Jessie Pungan, Doss, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Ferkel, Grant, Goldmann, Griffin, Hinds, Hagus, Harlan, Healy, Halthusen, Jenninngs, Johns, Jaramillo, Kutsche, Kehoe, Klaner, Koester, Keefe, Kane, H. Lonergan, A. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, A. Morgenweck, Maternes, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Neenan, Neef, Nichols, Oppenhimer, O’Mara, L. L. Paul, Perry, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Rogers, D. Ricksecker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stephens, Tomkins, F. Toolen, F. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, W. Williamson, Wm. Williamson, J. Walsh, Welch, W. Walsh, Witkowskey, Wilson, Zieman.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entiresatisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR. DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Albright, Brady, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Blessington, Bernhart, J. Burns, Bush, Brownson, Brewer, Britt, E.
When the wind is east, they say, We may have a rainy day;	'
When it travels from the west Waving fields have little rest. Warm and soft it is, we know, . When the southern breezes blow; But this north wind puzzles me,— Who knows -what the weather ’ll be!
.	—St. Nicholas.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	79
Saint Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Little Mamie Morse was the only one in the Junior department who received 100 in lessons last week.
—All concede that the most graceful bow made on leaving the refectory is that made by little Adele Papin.
—Lost.—A garnet bracelet, on Saturday last, between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. The owner is Miss Sophie Papin, St. Mary’s Academy.
—Thanks are tendered Miss Sophie Papin from the French pupils for favors received. Her artistic taste is fully appreciated by all, and particularly by friends at St. Mary’s.
—The Phonography classes are well attended, and the speed tests add much to the interest felt in this branch of study, while they are an incentive to renewed energy of effort.
—The monthly Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament was held on Rosary Sunday. The High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Fitte, who preached a very interesting sermon on the “Rosary.”
—The Holy Angels’ Society, at their last reunion, elected the following officers for the year: Miss I. Stapleton, President; Miss O. Knauer, Vice-President; Miss M. Hughes, Secretary; Miss H. Hake, Treasurer, and Miss E. Dempsey, Sacristan. -
—The lecture by Mr. B. Bigsby, of Oxford, England, was listened to with, real interest by the Seniors. His subject—“ The Origin of our Language”—was a timely one, as the classes in Literature and Rhetoric have been giving their attention to this topic for the past two weeks.
—It is always a pleasure to see the old pupils return to St. Mary’s. During the past week Mrs. H. Wiley, Miss A. Shephard, Class ’87, Miss E. Carney, ’86, Miss M. Beckman, Miss Sophie Papin, Miss A. English, and Miss C. Campbell have made friends happy by their presence here.
—The officers of St. Angela’s Literary Society are: President, Miss Margaret Geer; Vice-President; Miss A. Johnson; Secretary, Miss J. Young; Treasurer, Miss C. Quealey. At the last meeting, after a sketch of St. Angela’s life, the life and writing's of Longfellow were discussed.
—The new badges for the officers of the Children of Mary Society are admired by all. They consist of wide sashes of light blue satin ribbon, on which are printed the respective titles of the officers, in silver, while white flowers, emblems of the purity of their Patroness, are twined among the letters.
—When some of the young ladies of- the Senior department heard that a violin, belonging to Miss McFadden, who entered school last week, was over one hundred years old, they felt that they had perhaps been unwise in petitioning for the removal of the piano in the recreation room, for it might . certainly be regarded as a relic. However, .the one they got in exchange has some merit as regards age, so they are resigned.
—At the regular Academic meeting of Sunday, Oct. 2, the first number of Rosa Mystica was read. The editresses were the Misses M. F. Murphy, K. Hughes and L. Trask. The principal articles were: “A Trip from Denver to Palmer Lake,” “Toussaint L’Overture,” “Our Kind Father L’Etour-neau,” “Reapers,” “The New Piano,” and an excellent parody on the Bells, entitled “Teeth.” It was, as usual, well read. Rev. Father Saulnier expressed his pleasure, aftei- which Rev. Father Zahm made some interesting and instructive remarks.
The Fourth Commandment
The first cry that escapes the lips of a child in sorrow is that endearing name, “Mother!” The arms first sought as a refuge in danger are those of a Father. Yes, nearest and dearest should be our parents. Their unchanging affection and constant care alone should inspire gratitude and devotion. How much is due her who watched unceasingly over our childhood’s hours, and in times of sickness tarried night and day by the restless, fevered form of her darling! How many were the anxious hours spent in caring for us,—training our first steps in life, watching the development of our heart and mind, as each day revealed new depths before unfathomed ! How untiring were the efforts of. our father to provide for all our needs, to protect and cherish us! Beautifully has Scott held up this paternal love for our admiration in the following lines:
“ Some feelings are to mortals given
With less of earth in them than heaven;
And if there be a human tear,	.
From passion’s dross refined and clear, A tear so limpid and so meek
• It would not stain an angel’s cheek,	.
’Tis that which pious fathers shed Upon a duteous daughter’s head.”
Yet, knowing all that we owe our parents, what would seem to be nature’s law requires a positive command from God to insure the love and.honor due our mother and father. Always surrounded by a loving atmosphere, we become so accustomed to it that oftentimes we do not show our true appreciation of its hallowed influence, and, alas! that it is true, those cherished ones are deprived of the . little marks of affection for which their hearts so yearn. Illustrative of this seeming neglect, one of our late daily papers gives the following incident': “ The mother of a family who had brought up her children well, and, by dint of real sacrifices as re- •_ garded her own comfort, had procured for each a good education, was taken suddenly ill. Her daughters had always been dutiful, her sons obedient; but no word of gratitude, no token of appreciation had ever gladdened the mother’s heart. In , this gloom she had labored on for them, until, like a flash, the summons came, and in that moment also came the realization of what they were losing. ‘O Mother!’ her son exclaimed, ‘ how can we give you up? You have been a good mother to us!’ Even in that last hour her heart responded, and with loving emotion her lips framed the words
8o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that are a sermon eloquent indeed: ‘ Why did you not tell me that before?’ and her face, beamino; with glad surprise that they loved her, she left them to mourn bitterly that they had not shown their love before.”
“ Honor thy father and thy mother,” are words engraven on not only7 tables of stone, but on each human heart. However, there are many in this a?e who do not understand the significance of the above command, or, understanding, they neglect it. The young of to-day are too progressive for their parents; they cannot be expected to remain near the home fireside when the great world beckons them on to fame, fortune and pleasure. They love their parents j yes, but as they look back .with a half ashamed sigh at the happy days of youth, and the amusements which they have outgrown, so they consider any demonstration of affection as childish and unbecoming. The voting man forms bad habits and associates with evil companions, while his father’s words fall unregarded. The daughter smiles with a condescending air and listens while her anxious mother warns and advises; she sees not that her mother’s cheek grows pale and her eye dim as she counsels her beloved child. The son follows his evil inclinations, the daughter gratifies her pride and vanity; and would that only the children suffered from their misconduct! but, no: the tears of a father and the broken heart of a mother are the first effects of this violation of God’s strict command.
History and literature give many evidences of the excellence of this virtue—respect for parents; but the highest, the noblest example is that of the Infant Jesus, who, as the Gospel says, “ was subject to them.” He, the God of heaven and earth, obeyed His Mother and St. Joseph, and we all know that His first miracle was at His Mother’s request.
Faithfully, then, should we strive to make glad the hearts of mother and father in obedience to Him who said: “ Honor thy father and thy mother, that thou mayest be long-lived upon the land which the Lord thy God will give thee.”
L. Van Horn (ist Senior Class).
Roll of Honor.
FOK. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Arpin, Andree, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng, Bourn.-, Butler, Bates, Blacklock, Beck, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Carey, Conners, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll, Campeau, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, English, Early, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Gavan, Geer, Guise, Hummer, Hughes, Hert-• zog. Hellmann, Hyland, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Johnson, Kearns, Kennedy, Kohler, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, N. McCarthy, Morse, M. McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, Neff' O’Brien, Orr, Palmer, Prudhomme, Piper, M. Papin, Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, Rend, Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rowsey, Rannells, Reen, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, Shields, Saviers; Smith, Sloman, Sear,Thompson,
Van Mourick, Van Horn, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm;
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, Butler, E. Burns, M. Burns, Campbell, Crane, Churchill, N. Davis, E. Dempsey, Dolan, Dryer, Farwell, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Hull, Hughes, Knauer, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Mercer, Miller, McCune, N. Morse, M. Morse, Newman, O’Mara, G. Papin, A. Papin, Quealey, Reeves, Reed, Rhinehart, Rose, Rogers, Simons, S. Smith, Stapleton, Wyatt.	.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC*
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss E. Horn. , Graduating Class, ist Course—Miss H. Guise.
ist Class, 2d Div.—Misses M. F. Murphy, M. Rend, L. Van Horn.
2D Class—Misses A. Reidinger, B. Snowhook.
2D Div.—Miss O. O’Brien.
3d Class—Misses E. Brady, K. Gavan, G. Regan, L. Sears, C. Shields.
2D Div.—Misses M. Barry, H. Coll, M. Desmond, E. Flannery, M. Horner, L. Hillas.
4TH Class—Misses C. Dempsey, L. Ducey, T. Hintz, J. Latta, C. Moran, E. McCarthy, L. Piper, G. Stadtler.
2D Div.—Misses M. Clifford, K. Heffron, I. Stapleton, M. Sheehan.
jth Class—Misses M. Bates, A. Blacklock, I. Bub, B. Claggett, F. Carmien, L. Dolan, J. English, L. Fravel, M. Hughes, L. Henke, O. Hoffman, C. Hurley, M. Hummer, O. Knauer, E. Kearns, M. McEwen, N. Morse, M. Sullivan, E. Wright.
2D Div.—Misses M. Beck, M. Carey, M. Davis, E. Dempsey, J. Daube, M. Fitzpatrick, E. Harlen, B. Hellmann, F. Hertzog, M. Hull, E. Lewis, L. Meehan, H. Meehan, E. Quealey, P. Sloman, G. Wehr.
6th Class—Misses J. Bloom, E. Balch, T. Balch, E. Churchill, E. Foster, H. Hake, A. Johnson, M. Kennedy, L. La Berge, M. McCormick, M. Newman, E. Palmer, C. Prudhomme, M. Rhinehart, R. Van Mourick, L. Waterbury, K. Wagner.
2D Div.—Misses M. Andree, M. Arpin, M. Burton, E. Blaine, M. Coll, E. Fritz, M. Kohler, C. Kron, M. Loomis, L. Nicholas, V. Orr, M. Papin, E. Regan, M. Richardson, J. Robinson, M. Simon, M. Thompson, A. Wyatt.
7T11 Class—Misses C. Bray, E. Buras, M. Burns, C. Conner, M. Campbell, E. Davis, M. Geer, K. Hurley, E. Hagus, E. Longmire, M. Leonard, L. Mercer, M. McCune, K. McCarthy, E. Nicholas, E. O’Conner, N. Quill, G. Rowsey, D. Rogers, M. Rannells, B. Smith, I. Zahm.
2D Div.—Misses M. Morse, A. O’Mara, L. Wiesenbach.
8th Class—Misses L. Dryer, C. Kloth, B. McCormick, G. Papin, L. Reeves.	.
9T11 Class—Misses F. Burdick, E. Burns, M. Miller, M. Rose, M. Reed, S. Smith.	.
HARP.
Advanced Course—Miss M. Dillon.
6th Class—Miss L. Hillas.
GUITAR.
6th Class—Misses M. Burton, K. Desmond, L. Nicholas. violin.
Miss B. Morse.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.
2D Div.—Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise.
2D Class—Miss C. Moran.
3D, Class—Miss E. McCarthy.
2D Div.—Misses M. Barry, F. Carmien, N. Dempsey, C. Dempsey. ,
4TH Class—Misses I. Bub, M. Carey, F. Hertzog, B. Hellmann, B. Morse.
5TH Class—Misses E. Balch, B. Claggett, L. Hillas, C. Hurley, E. Kohler, C! Kron, M. McCormick, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, O. O’Brien, C. Prudhomme, M. Papin, B. Wagner.	.	.	•
* Those honorably mentioned are the pupils who have been here since schoolopened, the others are simply classed.-