THE NCTDE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
In This Issue:
NEWS
Mathematics Symposium Opens . . . Juniors Get Lopez for Prom . .. Bengal Bouts Scheduled for March 18 . . . Little Philharmonic Concert Monday . . . The Week . . . College Parade ... Man About . . . Music Notes.
TRACK COACH JOHN NICHOLSON
SPORTS
Thinlies Meet IHini Saturday . . . Bengal Boxers Round into Shape ... Irish to Tangle with Butler Cagers . . . Joe Jab Appears . . . Hoopsters Rout Pitt . . . Introducing ...Splinters... Brushing Up.
February 11, 1938
gSB
*
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
short story of a Texas
wolf hunt.
In Huey Longs Louisiana...
WHO IS KINGFISH NOW?

A DEAD WOMAN IN THE BACK OF OUR CAR? . . • well, of allthings /
Funny how different a murder story looks when it’s YOU that you’re reading about in the headlines. A dead woman turns up in your car (THE ACCUSED FEIGNS SURPRISE). Your wife is'rather upset (HORROR-STRICKEN WIFE SHRINKS FROM KILLER-HUSBAND). And so on. It could happen to anybody.
It Could Happen to You
Av CHARLES HOFFMAN
AND' * * WH0’S FLYING THIS SHIP? An account of how aviation is slowly but surely being stripped of its biggest risk, human error. By W. A. Patterson ... ONE WAY TO TELL IF A GIRL CAN REALLY COOK: MARRY HER! A short story about a conscientious gourmet, Cupboard Lover, by Sophie Kerr...WE LIVED A YEAR AMONG THE ESKIMOS! A young couple tell you their adventurous story in Farthest "West, by Ruth and Bill Albee... Stories, articles, serials, cartoons and intimate news on the Keeping Posted page.
ODAYt three men run the
left leaderless by the assassination of Huey Long. Who are these men, and how did they win the scramble for power? Who among the inner circle of Huey’s leaders lost out, and what happened to the family of the obscure young doctor who killed the Kingfish? Just what is “the second Louisiana purchase” and how are Louisiana people faring under their new political masters? Turn to page 5 of your Post this week for the answers.
Huey’s Heirs
F. RAYMOND DANIELL
your hound only said 'QSd^'insiealof^gd^
ID MARRY YOU!
It near broke Miss July’s heart to turn down Obie Terry . . . just because his dog Tater had a questionable ancestry! “We always owned noble dogs,” she told him. “I just can’t let no potlikker blood into the strain now.'
May the Dew he Heavy
by GEORGE SESSIONS PERRY
at*
feS
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 71	February II, 1938	-	No. 15
LITTLE PHILHARMONIC PROGRAM MONDAY
PUBLIC TALK BY DR. HUNTINGTON TO CLOSE FIRST DAY OF MATH SYMPOSIUM
By George Haithcock
By F. G. Barreda
Overture! Overture! George H. Shapiro, conductor, presents the Little Philharmonic Orchestra in a delightful concert of the world’s greatest symphonic masterpieces. With curtain time set for 8 o’clock, Monday evening, in Washington Hall, the conducting baton of Maestro Shapiro will unfold a Philharmonic program that has thrilled audiences in both Europe and America. In recent tours throughout the two continents, Mr. Shapiro has received numberless compliments from the press lauding his outstanding ability as a conductor and the beautiful concerts by the orchestra.
The musical personnel of the orchestra consists of: Meyer Minkow, violin; Joseph Michalek, violin; Joseph Silberstein, violin; Gerrard Van Uffelen, viola; Carl Brueckner, cello; Oscar Wemhewer, bass; Charles K. North, flute; John Schaefer, oboe; Thomas M. Hofmeester, clarinet; John C. Schon, bassoon; Rudolph K. Haase, French horn; Anton Sailer, trumpet; Jacob G. Hultgren, trombone; and Otto Kristufek, timpani.
These musicians claim former membership in organizations as varied as the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra, the Antwerp Symphony Orchestra, the Chicago Civic Orchestra, the American Opera Company, the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, the Royal Opera of Budapest, the Antwerp Symphony Orchestra, the Symphony Orchestra of Amsterdam, the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra, the State Opera of Yugoslavia, and the New York Chamber Music Society.
Making a repeat appearance in Washington Hall, the Little Philharmonic Orchestra plans to repeat the triumph it scored here in past years and to demonstrate why enthusiastic audiences in metropolitan centers are asking for return engagements. Splendid mastery of the musical program is directly responsible for the extensive popularity of the Philharmonic group.
Many of the leading mathematicians of the United States were present this morning when the first session of the Notre Dame mathematics .symposium opened at 10:30 a.m. Dr. Karl Menger, of the Notre Dame mathematics department and formerly of the University of Vienna, began the proceedings with remarks on the purpose of the * symposium. The algebra of geometry
Varsity Debater Osborn
- Awaits Hilltoppers Monday.
Osborn and Mulligan Open Debate Season
The Varsity Debaters will engage Marquette university next Monday afternoon at 4 o’clock in the John F. Cushing Hall auditorium. This nondecision debate will be the initial engagement of the current season.
The question under consideration for the intercollegiate clashes is, “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board shall have the power to enforce compulsory arbitration in industrial disputes.”
Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan have been chosen for the first debate and will defend the negative side of the question. Howard Raether and Ralph Houseman of Marquette will oppose the Irish, upholding the affirmative side.
Professor William Coyne, coach of the debaters, assures his squad of a very talkative season. The schedule this year will keep the orators busy far into April. The Manchester tournament, held annually at Manchester, Ind., Feb. 25 and 26, will see both the “A” and “B” teams in action. |
and related subjects is the main theme of the sessions.
The first talk at this morning’s session was given by Dr. Marshall H. Stone of Harvard university who spoke on, “Boolean Algebra and Topology.” Following Dr. Marshall’s talk Mr. Garrett Birkhoff, also of Harvard, delivered a speech on, “Partially Ordered Function Spaces.” The morning session adjourned at 1:00 pan.
At 3:30 p.m. the afternoon meeting got underway with an address by Dr. Ostein Ore, of Yale, on the subject, “Structures and their Applications.” This was followed by a paper given by Dr. Saunders MacLane of the University of Chicago. His topic was, “Applications of the Lattice Theory to Field Structure.” The proceedings of the first day’s sessions will be brought to a close by Dr. James K. Senior, University of Chicago, who will speak on, “Some Problems Concerning Groups.”
A feature of the two-day meeting will be a general lecture of popular interest which will be given tonight at 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Dr. Edward V. Huntington of Harvard University will be the speaker and “The Duplicity of Logic” will be the title of his lecture.
Particularly noted as a statistician, and one of the first men in his field to deal with the method of postulates, Professor Huntington is well-known for his application of mathematical thought to many practical phases of life.
The first meeting of the second day will take place at 10:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. At this time Dr. John von Neumann, of the Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton will speak on “Continuous Geometry.” Dr. von Neumann has recently applied this modern branch of geometry to quantum mechanics in physics.
Following Dr. von Neumann a talk (Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VINCENT LOPEZ TO PLAY FOR JUNIOR PROM; O'TOULE REVEALS FINAL PLANS
By George Neumann
Final plans have been made for the annual Junior Prom, according to announcement made this week by Bart O’Toole, chairman. With the selection of
Vincent Lopez, one of America’s smartest dance bands, as the Prom orchestra, it is hoped that the affair will be one of the most successful of recent years.
The announcement of Lopez as the music master of the Prom was made late this week by Jack Roacap, chairman of the music committee. This is the first time that Lopez has played for a Notre Dame dance.
Prices of bids for the Prom and the dinner-dance were also released. . Five dollars will cover the Prom and two dollars and fifty cents the dinner dance. Favors have been planned but, of course, details were not given out concerning them. Decoration plans were not revealed.
Automobiles will be permitted over the week-end provided they are registered with the Prefect of Discipline. Music will start at 9:30 and continue till 1:30, and Prom-goers will be required to be in their place of residence at 2:30 a. m.
The dinner-dance on Saturday night will be held at the Oliver Hotel, under the chairmanship of John McGovern. Music -will be furnished by Myron Walz. This affair will start at 7:00 and end at 11:30, with midnight the deadline for return to the hall.
Club Smokes and Views
The Cleveland Club, under the leadership of President Tom Mulligan, held a smoker Tuesday evening, Feb. 8, in Carroll Rec.
The outstanding event of the evening was the prize awarded to Joseph Hillenbrand, winner of the handball tournament held recently by the club.
Movies of the Minnesota - Notre Dame football game, also were shown at the meeting, being provided by Frank Payne who was in charge of the entertainment program.
Refreshments, consisting of ice cream, coffee, and sandwiches, were served, bringing the meeting to a close.
/-------------------------------\
All students interested in sub- | mitting for publication in the | Scholastic short stories, poems, | familiar essays, essays in histor- | ical or literary criticism, are in- | vited to bring manuscripts to the | Scholastic offices in the Ave | Maria Building, Monday, Tues- | day and Wednesday evenings | between 7 and 8 o’clock; or to | room 328 Main Building, morn- | ings from 9 to 11 or evenings | from 8 to 9 o’clock.	|
Orator Mulligan His theme: Washington.
Mulligan Is Named To Give Annual Talk
•
Versatile Tom Mulligan, whose activities have ranged from Bengal bouting to varsity debating, has been chosen to deliver the Washington day address at the annual exercises on Washington’s birthday, February 22. This address is a part of the presentation ceremonies for the Senior class gift of a flag to the University.
These exercises had their origin ninety-three years ago when the University arranged a program in observance of that day. The first flag presentation, however, was not made until 1896 when the senior class president presented a flag to Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., at that time president of Notre Dame.
The graduating class, dressed in academic caps and gowns, will march from the Main building to Washington hall for the presentation.
Spanish Club Meets
At the initial meeting of the Spanish Club, held Thursday evening, Feb. 10 in Badin Rec, President Charles Kolp, outlined briefly plans for the present semester.
Plans were also made for a joint meeting with the Santa Teresa Club of St. Mary’s some time in March, at which a Spanish play will be presented by them.
SHEED AND WARD TO LECTURE SOON
•
Frank J. Sheed, eminent lecturer and publisher, Catholic author, and founder of the publishing house of Sheed & Ward, has been engaged to speak in Washington Hall on Friday, February 18. The noted Australian, who is of Irish extraction, will lecture on “The Significance of Bernard Shaw.”	.
Mr. Sheed received the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws from Sydney University and later turned to the publishing business, founding a Catholic publishing house in London.
Since the London office of Sheed & Ward was opened in 1927, Mr. Sheed and his wife (Maisie Ward) have worked at presenting Catholicism positively and using their publishing company as a medium of expression for the entire Catholic world. The American branch of Sheed & Ward was opened in 1933.
On Friday, February 25, Maisie Ward will appear in Washington Hall to lecture on “G. K. Chesterton.” She has been chosen by Mrs. G. K. Chesterton to write the life of the famous Catholic apologist. Mrs. Chesterton has turned her husband’s correspondence over to Mrs. Sheed for the biographical work.
Maisie Ward is the daughter of Wilfred Ward (the biographer of Cardinal Newman) and granddaughter of William George Ward, the first of the Oxford Movement converts.
Hasley Faculty Leader
A paper entitled “Some Observations on the United States Constitution During the Past Five Years,” presented by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, will be the feature of the regular monthly meeting of the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters. The meeting is to be held Monday evening, Feb. 14, at the Rose Marie Tearoom.
At a previous meeting of the club Professor Louis L. Hasley, of the Department of English, was elected as the new president. Professor Daniel C. O’Grady, of the Department of Philosophy, is the new vice-president, and Professor Andrew J. Smithber-ger, of the Department of English, the new secretary-treasurer.
February 2, 1918—“Yes,” he said in a grave solemn tone as he toyed with his watch fob and paused between the words to make an impression on the girl, “when I die I’m going to leave my brain to some medical school.”
She turned her flashing black eyes upon him and said in the sweetest way, “Oh! you stingy thing!”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
MUSCLE MEN SEEK ABSURDITY SKITS
•
What Hasty Pudding is to Harvard; the Triangular Show to Princeton; the Daisy Chain to Bryn Mawr—the Monogram Absurdities is to Notre Dame. For three nights, May 2, 3, and 4, the floors of Washington Hall will creak and bend beneath the combined weights of various rugged and talented athletes of the University. Here, departing from their usual role, they will give expression to their latent Thespian tendencies.
The famous football “beef trust” chorus already started to practice its dainty capers under the direction of Miss Marie Buczkowski. Art Davidson has formed an octet and is writing the songs.
In order to give the entire student body a chance to participate in their traditional production, the Monogram Club is offering five dollars for the best skits submitted to them. Judges of the contest are Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer, C.S.C. The skits should be of a length that can be presented in 15 or 20 minutes, and they may be sent to either James Quinn (Sorin) or John Donnelly (Sorin) before Sunday Feb. 20. All skits submitted will become the property of the Monogram Club.
The Absurdities production is under the direction of Mr. Thomas E. Mills, professor of speech. James Quinn is the student director.
Among the professional writers consulted by the managers of the show are Eddie Dowling, Frank Wallace, of the New York Sun.
Doozan Hits Lynching
The last meeting of the Economic Round Table was featured by a paper read by Carl Doozan on the Federal Anti-Lynching Act. The paper was divided into two relative aspects. First, the various methods attempted in punishing lynchers, and secondly, the various methods tried in preventing lynchings.
The motivation behind the topic was the fact that lynchings have been on the increase during the last forty years. The total number of lynchings during that period were 3,753.
There are two main reasons for lynchings: The impatience with the judicial system, and the threat of Negro domination in the South. The corruption on the part of local officials in the lynching territory, and their reluctance to punish lynchers has made the situation very complex.
Another weakness in the antilynching enforcements is laxity on the part, of the local officials to make full use of the national guard, and
"SCHOLASTIC" SPONSORS SEVENTH RENEWAL OF BENGAL BOUTS, FRIDAY, MARCH 18
By William C. Fay
The seventh annual Boxing Show sponsored by the Scholastic for the benefit of the Bengal Mission Fund will be held on Friday evening, March 18. Back in the spring of 1932 the Scholastic took over the direction of the University boxing championships, gave them the terser title of BENGAL
Whattaman “Shadow” Hack Race aspires for his abdicated throne.
'Dome' Announces Start Of Snapshot Section
Monday, Feb. 14 is the day set for the opening of the annual student snapshot section, promoted by the Notre Dame Dome.
Following its usual custom, the University yearbook has allotted this year several pages for the publication of any kind of pictures depicting life on the N.D. campus. All students are invited to submit as many pictures as they like for approval to John Starkie, snapshot editor, 135 Dillon Hall.
All used and unused prints will be returned provided the donor’s name and address is printed on the reverse side. .
Editor Frank Reppenhagen announced that all Senior class pictures have been completed, and the proofs should be returned to Walsh basement not later than the 14th of this month.
their failure to sign the necessary papers to authorize the militia to act.
The second aspect of the paper concerned the proposals now in Congress to eradicate the obsolete law-enforcement of certain sections of the South.

BOUTS, and donated the proceeds of the fights to the Bengal Mission Fund. Neil Hurley promoted the first show which featured the comedy team of Perrone & Heitz or Heitz & Pen-one. In between the comedy capers Jerry DuWan punched his way to the heavyweight championship. Thus the triumvirate Heitz, Perrone, and DuWan set the precedent for all future Bengal Battles — fistfuls of fight and funniness for twenty-five cents.
Editors Edmund Stephan and Jim Kearns promoted the Bouts in 1933 and 1934, which marked the rise of Max Marek, former Golden-Glover from Chicago, to the heavyweight throne. Since then Max has taken his gloves to the pro ranks and now headlines fight cards all over the country.
A couple of comics, Tancredi and Conners, gave a large crowd a lesson in laughs at the intermission during the 1935 Bouts. Between times the C.Y.O. boys dominated the fights and the gym was filled for the first time.
The shadow of James Francis “Shadow” Hack billowed over the 1936 battles. Mr. Hack put on a solo three rounder unsurpassed for sheer punchiness. And at the end of the evening a black haired freshman, Phil Dahar, pounded through to the heavyweight title.
1937 saw Hack and Dahar again in the saddle. Both came up to the finals with no competition. A punchier Hack wobbled through his three rounds and then withdrew to permit Mr. Dahar to re-annex his heavyweight crown. Dahar came into the bouts cold-—none of the other boys wanted to fight him, so they fought for the privilege of coming through to the finals. Runte won the sacrificial lamb role and was led into the ring. Whereupon he proceeded to knock Dahar colder than a disciplinarian’s heart, in the last ten seconds of the last rounds to provide the Bengals with the wildest windup in history.
This year? Who knows? The shadow of Hack is gone. We think we have his successor, a gentleman by the name of Adrian Race. Dahar is still here waiting to take one more shot at the heavyweight belt. A new team, Dahar and Race, will run the gauntlet of fight and fun — Friday evening, March 18, at 8:00 o’clock.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NEW RADIO SET-UP GIVES CAMPUS STATION BIGGEST PROGRAM LIST IN HISTORY
PATRICIANS DISCUSS ANCIENT LAW
By James Dempsey
With the reorganization of the staff of the campus radio station and the increase of its time on the air, activity has reached a new high in its brief history. Arthur Mulhern, new president of the radio men, has planned a comprehensive program and with the new staff, plans still more activity.
The Scholastic will carry each week, in a section appended to the calendar, a complete resume of the radio programs for the week. This measure was made necessary by the increased scope of the studio.
Faculty adviser Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., has appointed Walter Hagan, Jr., as new program director. A new publicity director, George Wallace, and an assistant director, Raymond Dubrinski, were also appointed. Other officers of the radio
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
Reorganizes Radio Staff.
staff in addition to President Mulhern are: George Feeney, vice-president; J. J. Gorman, treasurer; and Phillip McHugh, secretary.
There are now 14 programs on the air each week, marking a new height for radio activity since the studio was inaugurated. Father Burke estimates that the programs will reach a maximum of 20 each week in the near future. Plans for a new control room have been formed and when completed will relieve the present crowded space of the studio.
The new programs to fill the additional time are: “Student Sessions,” a free round table discussion with students on questions that are of interest to them; this program is under the direction of Ray Sadlier. The Dramatic Club will cooperate with the studio staff in presenting the “Miniature Theatre,” a series of dramatic skits. “Journey Without Maps,” a make-believe travel trip sketch will be presented by Robert Blake. Morry Frank, junior lawyer, will present vocal arrangements of songs of various nationalities in the program, “Music of the Nations.”
McFarland letter
A letter containing a dollar bill, addressed to “Bub McFarland, University of Notre Dame, Indiana” was found tbis week on the campus. The owner may have it by calling at the Publications Office, 212 Main Bldg.
Puppet Theatre Gives "Joan of Arc"
•
American puppetry delighted a large audience in Washington Hall last night when the Marionette Theatre of Martin and Olga Stevens presented “Joan of Arc,” a two-act drama written by Clem D. Easly. Through eight scenes the tragic career of the Maid of Orleans was enacted by life-like marionettes on a special stage arranged with beautiful scenery and elaborate lighting and sound systems.
But it was more than entertainment—it was an experience long to be remembered by those who attended the performance. Particularly breath-taking was the scene at Rouen where the martyred Joan died with undaunted fortitude while being burned at the stake. -The historical occurrence of May 30, 1431,. was so excellently depicted that the burning of the Maid appeared real to the audience.
The author, Mr. Clem D. Easly, known as the most powerful dramatic writer in the Marionette Theatre today, wrote the play exclusively for Martin and Olga Stevens. Hollace Arment, who is credited with composing the first American puppet opera now in production, served as musical director for the Stevens Theatre. The technical staff, headed by the Brothers McElroy, was responsible for the special effects in lighting, decoration, and sound, that gave life to the sculptured models.
The company in the play last night represented American puppetry at the 1937 International Exposition in Paris.
Medical Future Talk
Dr. Caton, a graduate of Notre Dame, will address the Academy of Science at the meeting, Feb. 14. He . will speak on “Future in Medicine.” Latest discoveries in the medical field will be discussed. The changing economic conditions and their possible effect on the medical profession from the stand point of making a living will also be touched upon.
Dr. Caton is connected with the medical staff of the Notre Dame infirmary.
Last Monday night the Patricians held their monthly meeting in the Seminar Room of the Law Building. Thomas Patrick Wall, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, read a paper entitled, “A Comparison Between Roman and Brehon Law, Made with the Purpose of Understanding the Development of Roman Law Through a Study of a More Primitive System.”
According to Mr. Wall the “Brehon” means simply a judge, and the term has been applied to the whole system of law administered and evolved under this direction. Brehon law was a system of law used by the Celts, particularly the Irish, in very remote times, the sources and beginnings of Brehon law are lost in the dim antiquity of Ireland.
Moderator Turley
Advises Classicists.
With regard to the structure of both the Roman and Celtic states Mr. Wall said, “There was a great deal of similarity between the Roman ‘familia’ and the Celtic ‘Sept' and between the Roman ‘pater familias’ and the Irish ‘athair.’ Both the ancient Roman state and the ancient Celtic state were definitely organized along the lines of genetic tribes or clans and the family comprised the basis of both of them.”
In his conclusion Mr. Wall suggested a different approach to the understanding and appreciating the Roman civilization. He said /‘Through a study of a nation called ‘hoi bar-baroi’ when Rome was at the apex of civilization, we can learn something of the foundation that Rome was built upon, and so understand more fully the whole structure.”
After the paper the group engaged in an interesting discussion, in which Mr. Wall explained some points more fully. Mr. Turley, faculty moderator, and Mr. Plunkett offered some pertinent advice as to the writing of future papers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Music Notes ]
By Paul R. Locher
Bacteria Now Excess Baggage to Modern Pampered, Germ-Free Guinea Pigs
By Frederick E. Sisk
On Sunday evening, the Ford Symphony hour will commemorate the fifty-fifth anniversary of the death of Richard Wagner with a program enttirely selected from his works, which will feature Lauritz Melchior, leading Wagnerian tenor of the Metropolitan.
The program as arranged by Fritz Reiner, conductor, emphasizes the growth of musical ingenuity within Wagner. The fi,rst number, the overture to the opera, “Rienzi,” is somewhat Italian in character, following closely the models set up by his predecessors. Succeeding excerpts from “Lohengrin,” including the familiar Prelude to Act III, from “Tannhauser,” and from “Die Meistersinger” illustrate Wagner’s departure from traditional music forms as developed by Bach and Beethoven. He so revolutionized his art that all composers since his time have reflected, in varying degrees, the profound influence he exerted.
Lauritz Melchior sings several numbers from “Lohengrin,” and from “Die Walkure,” and the orchestra will conclude with Siegfried’s Rhine Journey from “Gotterdammer-ung,” the last of the musical dramas comprising the “Ring of the Niebul-gen” series.
Wagner intended that his music should be absolutely integrated with stage action, but strangely enough, the majority of people prefer his music in concert form. It is a tribute to his genius that most of the music of his dramas can be played as absolute music, without reference to its dramatic significance, and still rank as some of the greatest ever written.
Toscanini will also include a composition by Wagner, “A Siegfried Idyl,” in his concert Saturday night over N.B.C. This composition was written as a birthday present to his wife, a daughter of the renowned Fraiz Liszt.
“Aida” is undoubtedly the most popular opera of the many composed by Guiseppe Verdi. However, the finest from the critical viewpoint is conceded to be “Othello,” which will be broadcast from the Metropolitan on Saturday afternoon. “Othello” was written when Verdi was seventy-three years old, and has long been a favorite among critics and advanced students of music although, despite its dramatic fire and melodic development, it failed to draw public interest before the World War. Opera tastes, however, have changed in the last twenty-five years.
“Rabbits? Guinea pigs? Mice? Rats? Alive?”
Yes, rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, and rats are kept and raised on the Notre Dame campus. No, you won’t find them roaming around over Badin marshes, but if you are of a skeptical nature, wander over to the northeast corner of the campus and take a peek into one of the room on the basement floor at the east end of the Biology building: there, rats, mice, rabbits,
Professor Trexler
Controls “Boiler” Guinea Pigs.
and guinea pigs are penned up in neat, clean, and individual cages. The luxury of their existence is almost unheard of in the animal kingdom.
Apart from this one particular room, an adjoining room contains a number of shiny, stainless steel cylinders mounted on stands, the appearance of which would be certain to make the layman immediately point and ask questions. Collectively these tanks, in their horizontal positions, are known as “cages.” They are about five feet long and of a diameter the size of the hot water tank in your home.
These cages are subdivided into an “operating cage,” raising cages,” and “storage cages,” and it is the combination of these cages and guinea pigs from the next room that represents the present development of the so-called germ-free laboratory under the direction of Prof. J. Arthur Rey-niers of the department of biology. A system of raising animals free from any bacterial contamination was first invented and used by Mr. Reyniers at Notre Dame in 1928. From the single cage of that day the present equipment consists of four raising cages, one examining cage, twelve storage cages, and one operating cage.
The major addition to the system this year is the control board, which contains gauges and instruments to record the temperature, steam pressure, vacuum, and every other detail
♦j. within the cages which is in the main for the perfect operation of the process. The control board is principally the work of Prof. Philip C. Trexler, who at the present time is on leave of absence for studies at Harvard university.
As Professor Reyniers explained, the purpose of the apparatus is to do every kind of experimental work with animals in a sterile environment while the “germ-free” animal part is only coincidental to the particular purpose for which such experiments may be intended.
The operation is begun when a mother guinea pig, stripped of her hair and washed in a germicidal bath, is placed on a trap-door in the lower half of the operating cage. The animal is then lifted up as the trapdoor in the bottom closes and stops at a point where a thin sheet of cellophane is stretched over her stomach. Inside the cage there is a complete absence of bacteria, and the air coming in and going out is carefully filtered to prevent the entrance of germs.
On the outside the attendants work with long, sterilized rubber gloves which extend into the cage itself where the animal is resting, and through glass panels in the sides of the steel cylinders, the operators are able to conduct their operations. The first step is the removal of the babies from the pregnant mother pig, and these babies are directly transferred to the raising cage without exposure to the outside air.
There the animal is left on the average of two weeks, although the duration of time depends largely on the condition of the particular animal In this stage the small guinea pig proceeds in life just the same as any other such animal except that the “boiler guinea pig” is free from germs; however, his development in the germ-free environment is perfectly normal in every other respect.
From here the growing animal is again transferred to a third cage— this time a storage cage, and the change is again made directly from one container to the other without contact with the outside air. In the storage cage the animal is observed through glass panels in the walls of the cage, and the animal remains in this cylinder for about seven or eight days. The growing guinea pig is again changed into an alternate storage cage which has been steam-cleaned and is provided with fresh food and water free from germs for the animal to live upon. This progression of changing the animal at
(Continued on Page 20)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MISSION GROUP TO HOLD DANCE
•
The manifold prayers of God’s soldiers in India for more offerings with which to carry on their priceless work of saving human souls will receive a willing answer on Monday evening, Feb. 21, when hundreds of Chicagoans will gather at the Congress Hotel for the annual dance sponsored by the Bishop Crowley, C.S.C., Mission Club. Held on the night before Washington’s Birthday, the dance will accommodate numerous out-of-town guests visiting in Chicago over the holiday week-end.
All proceeds of the dance will go to the missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Bengal, India. Notre Dame is familiar with this work, since students here have often donated to this worthy cause, either through individual offerings or through attendance at the Bengal Bouts, held every year on the campus.
The Bishop Crowley Mission Club, known as one of the most active Catholic laymen’s clubs in Chicago, was founded a few years ago, dedicated to the very work which it is furthering through the sponsoring of this dance. The inspiration for its name was the Right Reverend Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., who has been bishop of Dacca, Bengal, India, since 1929. Bishop Crowley was born in Limerick, Ireland, in 1880. He was educated in Limerick and at the University of Notre Dame, later doing graduate work at the Catholic University of America. He has been in Bengal since 1907.
Music for the dance will be supplied by Keith Beecher and his band, one of the more popular of the new bands in Chicago. The Beecher organization has just returned from a successful tour through the mid-west, during which it filled engagements in Milwaukee, Cleveland, and Cincinnati.
Tickets for the dance may be obtained from the Chicago campus club.
Frank To Address Club
Charles Brosius has announced that the next meeting of the Commerce Forum will be held Thursday, Feb. 17. The meeting will be held as usual in the auditorium of the John F.- Cushing Hall of Engineering. The principal speaker of the meeting will be Mr. Arvid L. Frank, president of the Studebaker Export corporation. His topic will be “Foreign Trade and Domestic Economy.”
The Commerce Forum - has voted ten dollars to the Student Activities Council to be given to the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.
Man About the Campus
X_______________
At the track meet this year, when you see a fellow who looks as though he’s warming up for the 440, despite the fact that he’s wearing a shirt, tie, and business suit—that’s Thomas A. Kelly, manager of track. He refuses to divulge what the middle initial stands for, but fellow managers believe that his parents, in a spirit of civic pride, plugged the old home town, Anaconda, Montana. Speaking of Anaconda, get “Kell” to tell you how he used to step out on the back porch of his house and shoot coyotes. That’s how they keep the wolves from the door in the great Northwest.
Kelly is deep in the toils of aeronautical engineering. Right now he’s figuring how to equip some of the
pole-vaulters with wings and staba-lizers so as to provide gliding exhibitions at meets where air-minded enthusiasts might be present. (Imagine Langton setting a new record for sustained flight).
Has no interest in the spot across the road, but prefers a spot across the continent—out in California, to be exact. Kelly’s pretty tight-lipped about this angle of his biography, but rumor has it that she does the mile in 0:48 flat—in a Duesenberg, no less!
When Kelly gives birth to a brainchild, look out! Probably his greatest mental phenomenon occurred during a freshman telegraphic meet with another university. When the relay came up, “Kell” found himself beset by eight men who wanted to run it, instead of the usual four. So he ran the eight in the same event, set a new gym record for the relay, and
ACTIVITY PLANS MADE BY BOOKMEN
At the meeting of the Bookmen last Wednesday evening in the Law Building the members made definite suggestions for future activities.
The members drew up a list of books to be acquired by the club for reading between now and the end of the scholastic year. Hal Williams, president of the club, announced that a meeting with the Blue Pencil Club, an organization at St. Mary’s similar to our Bookmen, had been arranged. Definite information as to time and place will be held pending final arrangements by the officers of the clubs.
In order that the members may have some external evidence of the club and a memento of their association with its members, it was agreed that plans should be made to procure keys.
Of importance to the club was the announcement by Hal Williams, that Professor T. Bowyer Campbell will again play host to the Bookmen in his home just south of the campus proper.
The feature of the next meeting of the club will be a discussion by Frank Cunningham and Jim Gorman, the latest members to be admitted to the club on an open topic.
Press Club Plans Work
The Press Club, under President Jack Freedy, announced their plans for a survey of American authors at the meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 8. Plans for a smoker to be held in the near future on the campus were discussed. The annual banquet held in March was also discussed.
A survey of American authors is-under the direction of Prof. John Cooney. It will include about 3,000 persons listed in “Who’s Who.” The purpose of the survey is to determine how many of these authors have had previous experience in journalism. The facts and figures compiled will be turned over to the Department of Journalism. The survey will be completed early in May.
just missed the world record by a couple fifths of a second.
Takes pride in claiming to be the only full-time manager in the lot. His job started in September and will end at the finish tape in the relay at the outdoor C.I.C. meet in Milwaukee next June. He also claims that he will be the manager of the only undefeated team when the year is over, but Nick refuses to comment on this last statement — until after the Indiana meet.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
HUNDRED INDUCTED IN KNIGHTS1 RITUAL
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
The Knights of Columbus of the second Indiana District will confer the major degrees of the order on a class of 100 candidates Sunday, Feb. 13, in the Columbia Athletic Club.
Membership in the second Indiana district is composed of councils from Notre Dame, South Bend, Misha-
District Deputy Abraham selecting.”
waka, Elkhart, Plymouth, La Porte, Michigan City, and Rensselaer. The Notre Dame council will have the largest group of candidates at this traditional ceremony, and will also act as hosts to the district.
Thomas Robinson, District Deputy of Benton Harbor, will be in charge of the third degree, while the second degree will be presided over by Grand Knight Edward Dunn of Niles. Various committees conducting details incidental to the ceremonials have been appointed by James L. Quinn, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame council.
Immediately following the initiatory work, a banquet in honor of the newly initiated members, will be served in the ballroom of the Columbia Club. George Foss, graduate assistant in the College of Engineering, will serve as chairman of the banquet which is expected to be attended by 300 members of the Order in this District. Speakers for the occasion have been selected by District Deputy, Eli M. Abraham, and will include several prominent members of the Knights who will address the members assembled. Officers of the Notre Dame Council will be in charge of the First Degree.
A welcome meeting of the Notre Dame Council will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 15, in the newly furnished quarters in Walsh basement, at which time all the new members will be officially introduced to the Council.
Top of the Week
The ten o’clock Mass.
•
The ten o’clock Mass
We attended the official ten o’clock Mass last Sunday and came away thinking about the size of the crowd. We decided to investigate the seating capacity of the Church so we dug up our guide book which has all sorts of interesting facts such as the organ contains 2,041 pipes, and the 42 genuine stained glass windows have 114 life sized figures and 106 small ones. The guide book says that the church seats 1,200. Assuming that the book is correct, we figured that there must have been between 1,500 and 1,600 present because students were standing is all the aisles, in the back, in the transepts, in the Lady chapel, and in the organ loft. Deducting the number of non-Catholic and off-campus students and allowing for the outsiders attending the Mass, we concluded that over half of the student body attended the ten o’clock Mass last Sunday. This conclusion is so startling that we can think of nothing to say on the subject for the present.
The “Come-On” dances.
Coming events (Notre Dame Junior Prom, Feb. 25, Dinner Dance, Feb. 26) cast their shadows before them.
St. Mary’s Junior Prom, Feb. 11.
St. Mary’s Freshman Formal, Feb. 18.
•
Success story.
Someone once said that the most financially successful Notre Dame men never graduate. We do not know how true this rather sweeping statement is, but we heard the other day that Joseph Aloysius Henebry, age twenty-two, ex. ’37, has been elected a director of the Plainfield, Illinois National Bank, and, more recently vice-president of the Plainfield Lions Club. There is also the rumor that Mr. Henebry, while in school, failed in Money and Banking, but then you know how Notre Dame rumors are.
Bill DeCorrevont.
This De Correvont person who scored twenty-three touchdowns in one game or made some such remarkable record has decided on Northwestern. We got this information from the Scholastic (Feb. 4, page 18). Why the Scholastic should comment on this does not concern us; if you’re interested figure it out for yourself or ask the sports editor. All we are interested in doing is giving
another reason why Mr. De Correvont might have picked Northwestern.
In the November 1937 issue of the Northwestern Alumni Neivs, their Aluumni Foundation had a very striking ad. It was a half-page picture of a little tot in his nighty saying his prayers. The caption under the picture read, “. . . And, PLEASE GOD, send me to Northwestern.”
•
Mistake.
At this time of the year most of the laughs are on the students, but here is a little story that turns the tables. A professor was lecturing away when he heard a bell ring. He looked up with a puzzled expression, gazed at his watch, shook it, and then dismissed the class. The students were more puzzled than the professor because it was only half-past ten. • Then they discovered that what the professor mistook for the class bell was only a telephone ringing down the hall.
•
Street car conversation.
On the street car the other day we happened to overhear two dapper young gentlemen, both about thirteen years of age, compare notes on girls and dates. One of them, it seems, had been to a party, the other had not attended. “Any dazzlers there?” inquired the other. “Naw!” was the disgusted reply. “They all had braces on their teeth.”
•
Inside dope.
This little item might give you a clue as to why some professors go into the greatest detail when talking about their cars, their automatic toasters, their fountain pens, their lawnmowers, or their electric shavers.
A few weeks ago a professor showed us a letter he had received from A. M. Andrews, president of the Progress Corporation, 521 Fifth Avenue, New York. It starts out: “Dear Professor, I want you to have a professional discount on a Packard ELECTRO-SHAVER . . . we will allow you a discount of 33i/3% . . .” The professor explained to us that these professional discounts were given to professors in the hope that they would buy the product and then, in appreciation for the discount; talk about the product in class and thereby create new sales prospects.
We don’t know whether this professor took advantage of the 33i/3% discount, but if he did he certainly hasn’t earned it because he hasn’t mentioned a word about the Packard ELECTRO-SHAVER.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
Ed. Note — Valentine Day is just^ around the corner so we thought that this little bit of cynical verse might be appropriate.
Roses are red
That’s nothing new— Violets are blue That’s the way they grew— Sugar is sweet
Saccharine is too— But of you still ask for it, So are you.
—De Sales Transcript.
—o—
Add Daffinitions
Celerity—well known person. Clock—what the hen says. Caution—something to sit on. Convex—prisoners.
Addict—top part of a house. Jingle—dense tropical forest. Lacquer—alcoholic beverage. Tentative—one who likes to go camping.
—Ohio State Lantern.
—o—
Jottings
If you go to the Lewis Insitute of Technology you can hire someone to think for you. A student there has started a card index of students who completely forget such vital details as their sweetheart’s birthdays or when they got their last haircut. This embarrassment is now eliminated. Instead of tying their fingers with string they merely call their remembering service' thumbs a card and the customer is satisfied. . . The following ad appeared in the classified section of the Pitt News: Wanted — A social secretary for the girl-friends, to be hired by two Pitt lads. No specifications except efficiency. The girlfriends are the sort who accept two dates for the same night.—Two Worried Men. . . If a gangster’s wife is a moll, would a gangster’s child be a mollikin. . . We’ll have to blame the “Walrus” in the B. U. News for that one. . . Warning: Some go out with their dates to break them. . . . We swiped this one. A certain professor began his lecture this way: “Students aand faculty, before I begin my address I have something that I want to say.”. . . Similes from the Rain: As staccato as a ride on a crosstown trolley; as democratic as a subway strap; as irrepressible as a back-seat driver. . . St. Mary’s College (Calif.) has an Indian student whose name is Lonely Vigil. . . A conscience is that sixth sense that comes to our aid when we’re doing wrong and tells us
SESSLER WINS PRIZE IN ART CONTEST
The painting, “Malagas,” by Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, associate professor of Art at Notre Dame, took first prize
Artist Sessler
His “Malagas” takes honors.
in the fourteenth annual Hoosier Salon. Mr. Sessler was awarded the Peter C. Riley prize for meritorious work done by an instructor in the Catholic schools of Indiana.
“Malagas” is a still-life arrangement of a tray full of Malagas grapes, a crystal decanter, a tea set in the foreground, and a tapestry in the background. Besides the winning painting, Mr. Sessler submitted two other paintings that received recognition—a self-portrait called “Archer-Hunter,” and an imaginative landscape called “Angry Hoosier Skies.”
Yesterday, Mr Sessler was the guest of honor at a luncheon given by the South Bend Hoosier Art Patrons Association in the Marshall Fields Galleries where he received his award.
Mr. Peter C. Riley, a native of Indianapolis and a trustee of the University, has a sincere interest in encouraging the development of Catholic art, and the sponsoring of this prize is but one of the many ways in which he manifests his enthusiasm for art.
Exhibiting his paintings throughout the nation for the last nine years, Mr. Sessler won, among other awards, second prize in the same classification four years ago at the Hoosier Salon.
that we’re about to be caught. . . It was a balmy day at the insane asylum. . . .
J Calendar J
Friday, February 11
Meeting, Scholastic staff, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Meeting, Civil Engineer’s Club, Engineering auditorium, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, California club, Carrol Rec, 7:45 p.m.; Lecture, Dr. Edward Huntington, Washington Hall, 8:30 p.m. “Duplicity of Logic.”
Saturday, February 12
Movie, Washington Hall, “Topper” and March of Time, first show for Freshmen only, 6:40 p.m., second show 8:20 p.m.; Track, Illinois at Notre Dame; Math Symposium meetings, 10:00 a.m., and 2:30 p.m.
Sunday, February 13
Student Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6, 7, 8:30, 10 a.m.; Meeting Vincentians, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, February 14
Debate, varsity vs. Marquette, auditorium, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering; Little Symphony program, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Basketball, varsity vs. Butler at Indianapolis; Meeting Detroit Club, Badin Rec. 7:45 p.m.; Meeting Round Table; Meeting, Academy of Science, Biology Building, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, February 15
Meeting, Minnesota Club, Badin Rec., 7:45 p.m.; Knights of Columbus meeting, Walsh Hall chambers.
Wednesday, February 16
Meeting, Wranglers, seminar room, Law building, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, February 17
Meeting, Propellor club, seminar room. Law building, 7:45 p.m.
R4DIO LOG
Saturday, Feb. 12
7:30-8:30 p.m., Studio dance orchestra.
Sunday, Feb. 13
11:00-11:30 a.m. St. Mary’s Music school, with glee club soloists.
Monday, Feb. 14
“Student Sessions,” with Ray Sad-lier, 4:30-4:45 p.m.; 7:15-8:00 p.m. faculty talk.
Tuesday, Feb. 15
Miniature Theatre, 4:30-4:45 p.m.; drama skits with Drama club, under direction of Ed Heinz; 7:45-8:00 p.m., “Old Cronies.”
Wednesday, Feb. 16
“Journey Without Maps,” with Robert Blake, 4:30-4:45.
Thursday, Feb. 17
“Periscope,” with Ed O’Connor, 4:30-4:45; Music program, with Prof. Pedtke, 7:45-8:00 p.m.; 7:15-7:30, “Music of the Nations,” with Morry Frank.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Dansant Prelude
Tonight the boys are being taken. Literally we mean. They are being taken to the St. Mary’s Junior Prom and by St. Mary’s young ladies, of course. This situation is a complete reversal of form. It’s usually the other way ’round—but it will be as always soon again.
Strangely enough the starched shirts will be predominantly crowned with the wearied heads of N.D. Seniors. This situation arose as a result of a frantic appeal being sent by boat and a good bog-leaping horse to interrupt the St. Mary’s students at their studies with the question, “Would they assist in bringing the Notre Dame Seniors out of their midWinter doldrums?” Sympathy was aroused and the response of the young ladies was magnificent. Why, of course, they would see to it that our seniors were dragged out of their hibernation and made to see that life was not just one dull drag. They would invite them to their Junior Prom. And wasn’t it lucky that their prom had been dated before any other Spring dance of either college? The timeliness of the dance is beyond comment.
So tonight the shy, luster less fourth-year men with the bovine eyes will be packed into dinner coats and tails, persuaded that white socks and high shoes are not the thing with formal wear, and shunted off by less lucky comrades. They will be drawn out of their shells and made to talk. They will exact a heavy toll on dainty gold and silver shoes but all will be forgiven with warm and sympathetic smiles because it’s all for sweet charity which is boundless.
And when May rolls around, bringing with it warm, soggy evenings and the Senior Ball, these same chaps— magnificent fellows that they are!— will feel that reciprocation is in order. Why not send an invitation to that young lady—er, what was her name?—and take her to the Ball? Why not indeed? So thus it goes— the gay social circle that had its start with the sympathetic, heartwarming response to help poor, shutin seniors who are leaving us in June and should know now a little something about such things.
Advertisement
The professor who lost his overshoes and almost his shoes in Loch
Badin can be assured that they will be there until the Spring thaw. No one has penetrated as far as he into our own surpassing imitation of the Great Swamp. It would take a hardy soul to do so.
Here and There
John Kane and Al Butler, after doing a fine piece of substitution work at the Engineers’ Ball, have opened up an escort agency with the slogan, “Effervescent conversation and twinkling toes on call at any hour.” . . . Merchant tailors at a convention in Chicago decided that
“Good morning, Father.”
Mayor Edward Kelly wears doublebreasted suits much better than Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia of New York and that Mayor Kelly is the best dressed mayor in America. Another point for Chicago in this race for “the biggest and best city in America.” . . . Down in the heating plant you can find at any time from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. a couple of students taking the steam pressure of the boilers every fifteen minutes and sifting ashes between times. They’re chemistry majors, Ed Mattingly and Zanny Gedmin, who say that this is all in the day’s work of a chemist. They say their work is to discover what is left after coal is burned. We always thought it was just ashes.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C...............Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT..........................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams-------------------------------The Week
John Callaghan_____________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford_________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy____________________________In the Juggler Vein
Netvs Staff
Vincent DeCoursey______________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk_______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard___________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller________________________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey__________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay____________________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman_______________________________Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli______________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_____________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan______________________________Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff Art Staff George Elmore__________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor "of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los -Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	February II. 1938	No. 15
And Defy Tradition
rpHE, front page of the February 4th edition of the Scholastic carried an account of the doings of the ' St. Louis Club. It seems that this group, defying traditions as solid as the foundations of Sorin, held a banquet in honor of the basketball team that represented St. Louis University. Now, why is it that the activities of a club should merit the front page? This event was not of such great import that space simply had to be left for it; there were other things that ordinarily would have dwarfed this story. But on this campus, the fact that a club has actually done something, apparently is so unusual as to deserve very special consideration.
And so it should be. But the campus need not have been so shocked. For there are certain clubs that have not as yet become atrophied: the K. of C.’s, the Vincentians, and at stated intervals, the Commerce Forum, are usually active; but specifically there is the organization known as the Wranglers. As an example of group activity and accomplishment there could be no better model for others to emulate. Each year the Wranglers plot a
definite program—and by no means an easy one. Meeting are held weekly, and events proceed efficiently and with purpose, a habit that would shock the average club president. This year the annual interhall debate contest was run off smoothly and efficiently by the Wranglers, and a worthy cause was filled by a campus group. Later on in the year there will be an oratory contest held at Notre Dame in which a number of Catholic high schools of the state will participate. Truly these are things that shine through the veil of blankness that enshrouds the usual campus club activity.
But why should one club be permitted to so far outstrip others in accomplishments? Why should a group of less than twenty men be allowed to shame organizations of more than a hundred? It can’t be from lack of things to be done; the field of tasks that await solution is noted more for its extent than for its population. The Wranglers have proven that things can be done — why aren’t they?
A Great Endeavor
THE SCHOLASTIC takes this opportunity to welcome to the campus the outstanding men in mathematical circles who are taking part in the Mathematics Symposium now being held here.
Symposiums at Notre Dame have become nationally famous, but this year’s meetings promise to be the most prominent ever held. How can they fail in this respect? With such educators as Dr. Edward V. Huntington of Harvard, Dr. Menger and Dr. Artin of this institution, and Canon Georges Lemaitre of Louvain, augmented by professors from Yale, Princeton, and Chicago this gathering will produce material that will be discussed all over the world.
Symposiums at Notre Dame in the past have boasted of famous men. Last year ’s philosophical gathering had the famous Thomist, Mortimer Adler of Chicago. The political symposium found the Central American country of San Salvador represented by their consul. The present mathematics symposium presents equally famous men.
Another great gathering at Notre Dame is being looked to eagerly by all men of science. Although it will not take place until early May it is already being talked of. We refer to the physics symposium which will have as its participants, two Nobel prize winners, Dr. Carl D. Anderson of the California Institute of Technology, and Dr. Arthur H. Compton of the University of Chicago. Dr Harlow Shapley of Harvard, considered the century’s leading astronomer, our own Dr. Haas and Dr. Guth, and numerous other physicists of national and international repute will cause the world of science to listen attentively to the words spoken at Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Greetings and Solicitations
l)y Don Currier
T AST night I was comfortably sit-" ting in my easy chair enjoying, the immortal tragedy of Hamlet, (well, what if it was a Collier’s love-story?) when the spell of the story was broken by the noisy entrance of a “fellow down the hall.” In two thumping strides he was across the room and clamoring for a cigarette. Aroused from my reverie, as one rudely awakened from a beautiful dream, I thrust my hands into my pocket, snatched my Christmas “gift” cigarette case, and reluctantly offered him one. After he slammed the door in departure I slumped back into my chair, happily restored to my reverie. Then, with shocking suddenness, the door again swung open and my uninvited guest” rushed in choking for a match. Controlling my nerves I tossed him a box of matches, which he used and flung back under my bed. The spell definitely broken. . . I disgustedly gave up further reading.
These interruptions put me in a philosophical mood. As I sat reflectively patting my silvery beard, visions of other men in other days rushed into my mind. They were artists at “bumming” cigarettes, I mused. If only the deft finesse and delicate technique of the old masters could be infused in our modern “bummers”! Their approach. . . . their stance. . . their follow-through would shame the least perturbed of our sophisticated age. I recalled their formulae for successful “bumming”— formulae which gladdened the hearts of the “bummed of.” Then I tabulated my personal suggestions, which may help the modern “bummer” achieve an artistry appealing to his victims.
The successful “bumming” of cigarettes, my friends, may be likened to the successful passing of an examination—in that your goal is attained, not at the scene of action, but in the quiet recesses of your study. It is wise to daily keep yourself in shape, memorize your lines, and critically size up any possibilities “who” may be fruitful. It is advisable to gargle your throat, in order that your voice may have that appealing“touch.” The old masters concentrated a person
ality-smile, which is effective under certain circumstances, but which may seem very ridiculous at time.
This bit of course is for only the ordinary uninitiated. Just as certain students can go into a final, without having prepared and attain their goal, so also can certain “bummers” reach their goal without technique. They secure their ends on their reputation or position in other lines, as . . . the “premier danseur” of the sophomore class, the previous week’s “Man About the Campus, the corrector in one of your classes, or any athlete of prominence. I’ll omit these men from our discussion as being “ex officio” members of the victims’ lists. Incidentally, these men are by their position tough competition, which only the finest technique can combat.
We now turn to the scene of action. If your victim’s door is open, your task is the easier. If he seems not particularly busy and you spy a pack of the coveted weeds, walk leisurely in and, in a subdued tone, ask if you could trouble him for a cigarette. If he seems friendly, (and you get a “fag”), you might mention that the picture of his girl is too too, or that his window-drapes are in good taste. Don’t be blunt on this point! If, on the other hand, he seems unconcerned, it is good policy to thank him—not gushingly, but in a sincere manner—and leave quietly. I might best warn you here not to pull the old gag about “pay you back Tuesday”—in Wimpy-style. (No reflection on any campus Wimpies).
Your problem is more difficult when your victim’s room-door is closed, or when the coveted is not in sight. In such cases I would suggest a quiet knock on his door and a concerned look when you ask for a cigarette. If he is assertedly “without fume,” don’t question his word, but thank him anyway, because you may reap a rich harvest from him in the future.
Do not be elated if you succeed on your first attempt, because you’re liable to get too confident, and consequently “bum” indiscriminately. In
this connection I caution all amateurs not to “put all their eggs in one basket.” The masters taught cosmopolitanism. “Broaden your interests,” said one of the Old School, “and your percentage of return will increase.” If you fail in your first attempt, don’t be dejected, but always remember that, whatever Fate may decree, your principles will live and enrich you in the long run.
The foregoing are the fundamentals for those who aspire to be successful “bummers.” After a while you can shift your tactics and act freer in the face of a “touch.” Your victims get to know you better, and it depends upon how you handled your previous cases whether you are a success. This you may glean from your victim’s attitude. If they offer you a cigarette the moment you enter their rooms, don’t smile to yourself and think that you are one of their beloved, because this may be a bitter and cynical gesture on their part. Then, too, if you never notice packs of cigarettes in conspicuous places of their rooms, or if they reach into their desks to “get a cigarette for you,” be assured that these things are done not merely to keep the tobacco fresh. These are signs and omens for you to improve your technique.
In conclusion I’ll offer these final suggestions. Drop into your victim’s rooms at times without the object of “bumming” in mind. If you meet any of them in the hall or at a dance, always give him a big “blow” (which “blow” should remind you of smoke rings, etc.), and, in an acute way, make him think he’s a prince. If you ever have cigarettes of your own, never refuse a request for one, but smilingly oblige and make a mental note of the “bum.” Above all, be circumspect in your dealings with a roommate, because borrowing and “bumming” have broken up more happy combinations than wine, women, or song.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
ILLINOIS TRACK TEAM HERE TOMORROW FOR MEET WITH STRONG NOTRE DAME SQUAD
The Notre Dame track team is determined that tomorrow is the day for breaking the tie jinx that has hovered over all athletic contests between the Ulini and the Irish during the past year. Although Illinois will be stronger
than Marquette, it is doubtful that it Notre Dame’s even spread of power.
Before Coach John P. Nicholson, Notre Dame had lost 11 indoor track meets to Illinois without a single victory to break the streak. After Nick had taken charge of Irish track affairs, Notre Dame lost three more in
Sprinter Clifford ' Hits practice round of 6.2.
a row, but finally took hold of things to win six of the last eight meets. Notre Dame almost doubled Illinois’ points last year.
Illinois nosed out Chicago by a score of 52 la to 51^ in its-only dual meet of the season thus far. The outstanding men of the blue and orange seem to be Jack Robinson, Big Ten Indoor champion in the hurdles, Dick Brunton, veteran broad jumper and hurdler, Robert Diefenbach, a high-jumper who has cleared six feet two inches, and Captain Harry Gaines who specializes in the 880 and also runs the mile. Monogram winner, Bob Ashley, and a promising sophomore, Burton Downs, will run the 440. William Lehman in the dashes and Wayne Yarcho in the two mile are both sophomores.
John Francis, who was out last week with an infected heel, will be back in shape for the 880 tomorrow. He has met Gaines of Illinois twice already, and has come off with two victories. The first was a homestretch battle which produced the meet record of 1:57.5 in the Notre Dame field house in 1936; that record
(Continued on Page 19)
can gather up enough points to equal
INTERHALL CAGERS IN FOURTH ROUND
The 1938 interhall basketball season has completed its third round with Zahm and Walsh still undefeated. Zahm is leading Group I of the Heavyweight Division with 3 victories and 0 defeats, while Walsh is on top of Group II with the same standing. Dillon, one of last year’s champions, was defeated by Lyons.
In the Lightweight Division, Group I, Brownson and Can-oil are tied for top honors, each having won 3 and lost 0. Walsh and Alumni are likewise deadlocked in Group II of this division. Both have won 3 and lost 0.
The teams thus far have been fairly well matched, and by the looks of the present team standings, the champions will be decided in the next round. The scores have been unusually close and competition is becoming keener as the finals approach.
The results:
Heavyweight Division:
Group I, January 16—Carroll 17-Zahm 11; February 6—Freshman 16-Carroll 22; Cavanaugh 14-Zahm 13; Off-Campus 17-St. Ed’s 23.
Group II, January 23—Dillon 22-Lyons 24; Alumni 30-Badin 13; February 6—Lyons 35-Morrissey 24.
Lightweight Division :
Group I, January 30—Freshman 18-Cavanugh 15; February 6—Freshman 27-Carroll 29; Cavanaugh 12-Zahm 25; Off-Campus O-St. Ed’s 1 (forfeit)
Group II, February 6—Alumni 14-Sorin 13; Walsh 23-Dillon 16; Morrissey defeated Lyons (forfeit).
CAGE TEAM TO MEET BUTLER MONDAY
•
By Nick Lamberto ■
Notre Dame’s basketball five will invade the lair of the Butler Bull dogs next Monday night when they journey to Indianapolis to do battle with Coach Tony Hinkle’s men at the Butler fieldhouse. In their first meeting of the season on Jan. 22 at Notre Dame the Irish downed the Bulldogs 39 to 26 after a somewhat scary first half for the local partisans.
The Bulldogs bowed twice to the Irish last year, 25 to 24 and 42 to 17. The 25 to 24 game was one of the most exciting and closely contested games seen here last season. The inspired play of the Butlerites had the Notre Dame adherents in a grave state of apprehension, particularly near the end of the game.
Coach Tony Hinkle, one of the best basketball mentors in the country, has been coaching at Butler since 1926. Since that time two of his teams have won three state championships, two Missouri Valley crowns, and one National title. His teams are famous for then- “upset” victories over Indiana’s Big Three; Purdue, Indiana, and Notre Dame. Butler’s plays are deliberate and set. Very effective use of screening is used on most of their scoring thrusts.
Butler’s squad is composed of a group of veterans who know all the answers off and on the floor. The four top guards are Poland, Geyer, Jaggers, and Capt. “Red” Cosgrove (the Cosgrove of technical foul fame). The front line finds either Merrill or Waggener at center and Fawcett, Scholfield, or Maylor at the forward posts. Nine members of the Butler squad call Indiana their home state which should be of some significance.
Coach George Keogan, Notre Dame’s outspoken basketball mentor, is trying to pierce the bubble of overconfidence that should be prevalent at this stage of the season. After numerous secret conferences with Student Manager John Lungren (Keogan’s direct antithesis in temperament), the “Little Napoleon” has decided that Moir, Sadowski, Nowak, Wukovits, and Brown will probably constitute the starting lineup. Capt. Meyer, Crowe, DuCharme, Ellis, Ertel, Jordan, and Klier will be held in reserve in case the Bulldogs have hydrophobia in their basket shooting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
KEOGANITES LOSE TO MARQUETTE FIVE
•
A basket by Paul Sokody, Marquette center, from far out in the last 30 seconds of play was the margin by which the Hilltoppers were victorious over Notre Dame in a hotly contested encounter at Milwaukee before a capacity crowd of 6,300 Wednesday night. The final score, 45-43, marked the tenth victory for the Hilltoppers in their last eleven engagements and put an end to the Irish winning streak which had mounted to seven games.
Notre Dame swept into an early lead, and at one point led 12-4 only to find themselves trailing 21-19 toward the end of the period. A quick rally led by Wukovits and Sadowski gave the invaders a 26-23 advantage as the teams went back to the dressing room.
Shortly after the intermission George Hesik went on a scoring spree and as a result the home outfit forged ahead, 33-28. Notre Dame came back swiftly, and tied the score, and then went into the lead, 38-36, after Paul Nowak registered a sensational onehanded toss from over in the corner. From this time on the teams were deadlocked on three different occasions and finally Paul Sokody’s long shot decided the game.
Johnny Moir led the losing cause with 17 points to his credit while Sadowski played his usually excellent floor game. Bob Deneen, reserve sophomore forward, was high man for the victors with 14 points while Gorrge Hesik made 12. Al Cofone, however, led the last half attack with eight points.
BALMY WEATHER SEES SPRING SPORTS WORK
•
Unseasonal weather early this week brought out the first faint harbingers of spring sports; baseball and spring football practice.
Coach Jake Kline had his battery men loosening up their arms and sharpening their eyes in the gymnasium every day this week before Coach Nicholson’s track boys came in to claim the gym. Pitchers and catchers are the only men out, as yet. Jake could not be reached for a statement regarding his prospects, for the season. You can be sure however that his two ace batterymen, Arboit and Kozelove will be two of the mainstays of the team.
Head Football Coach Elmer Lay-
HEAVY RESPONSE TO BENGAL BOUTS CLASSES BEGINNERS, CHAMPS, EX-CHAMPS TRAIN
By Nick Lamberto
Punches and counter-punches are flying fast and furious these days in the apparatus room of the gymnasium where instructors Napolitano, Walker, and Broscoe are preparing fifty odd stalwarts for the annual Bengal boats, the finals of which will be held on March 18.
Messrs. Napolitano, Walker, and Broscoe (known in pugilistic circles as “Dapper Nappy,” “Palais Phil,” and “Browsing Broscoe,” have their hands full because of the large
"Dynamite" Dahar
Ex-champ of Bengal Bout Heavies seeks to become first to regain crotvn.
den also took advantage of the weather and issued his first call for Freshmen football practice. Coach Layden plans to profit by the experience gained in other years since there evidently is no spring in Indiana.
How long these present practice sessions will last is a matter of conjecture.
attendance at each meeting of the “swing” school. Regular boxing classes are held each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday beginning at 4:00 p. m. These classes are for the benefit of those desirous of learning a few pointers in the “manly art of self defense.” Attendance at the class does not necessarily obligate the student to enter the bouts.
The instructions to date have consisted in preliminary workouts with a few of the veterans engaging in light sparring matches. Faces familiar from last year’s bouts at the practice sessions are legion. Among them are Tom Leahy ( light heavyweight champ; Phil Dahar, heavyweight champ two years ago and finalist last year; Vince Dollard, middle weight heavyweight semi-finalist; Carl Fricke, semi-finalist in the 160 pound bracket; and Slim Thompson, finalist in the 147 pound division.
Romeo Popp and Joe Strnad, among others, have also signified their intention of winning one of the coveted Bengal Bout sweaters. One of the Pinelli boys, son of the famous baseball arbiter, has been donning the gloves at the boxing sessions. Maybe he’s just getting in condition to follow in his father’s footsteps, but it is whispered about that he has his eye on one of the titles. Then there’s the freshman, Bruce Hebenstreit, who won his boxing letter at the New Mexico Military Institution. He’s already sizing up his possibilities in a bout with Tom Leahy in the light heavy class.
Three weeks’ training will be one of the requirements for the entrants in the Bengal Bouts. This rule was installed to insure the safety and protection of the participants. Now is the time to enter the classes. The best trained athlete usually wins if otherwise evenly matched.
Head Instructor E. J. Napolitano says they can still accommodate more boxers, especially in the lower weight divisions. Show the folks back home, train yourself to whip the neighborhood bully, prove to your hall-mates and table-mates that you weren’t bragging, cover yourself with “wounds of honor.” How? Pry yourself out of your room and enter the Bengal Bouts.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Nick Lamberto
This is the story of Daniel Sidney Gibbs, -— Holyoke, Colorado’s contribution to the Notre Dame track team. Friends call him Dan, but a certain twin across the way insists it’s Danny Boy. Born on January 17, 1916 in Denver, Dan moved with his family to Holyoke where he received his pre-college education at Phillips County high school.
While in the process of getting a high school education Dan acquired two letters each in basketball, football, and track. In track he teamed with Dick Kearns who since has become one of the best decathlon men in intercollegiate track circles. Dick and Dan were then known as Holyoke’s two-man track team, each entering in ten events and usually bringing favorable results for their Alma Mater.
In the fall of 1934 Dan packed his trunk and reversed the Horace Greeley formula by coming east to Notre Dame to cast his lot with the Fighting Irish. He reported for freshman football and won his numerals as an end, but an injury to his knee in his sophomore year curtailed
his football career. From then on he concentrated his six foot-180 lb. frame
on track with gratifying results to all concerned. He won the coveted ND in his sophomore and junior years with some stellar pole vaulting.
Dan remembers the first advice that Track Coach John Nicholson gave him after he saw Dan vault. It was, “Say kid, you better quit pole vaulting or you’ll kill yourself.” This advice really was a boomerang as later events proved. Determined Dan tried harder and is now one of the mainstays of Nick’s squad.
Diligent practice was rewarded last spring when he won the vault crown at the Drake relays "with a leap of 13' 2". The prize for this was a handsome wrist watch. Dan’s best effort was in the Ohio State meet last year when he cleared 13' 6", an almost unheardof height among Notre Dame vaulters. Dan threatens to go even higher this year and Coach Nick thinks he will.
Last Friday against Marquette in the first track meet of the indoor season Dan won the vault with a 13' 3". While waiting his turn to vault Dan stepped over the low hurdles for a second place and won a first in the broad jump. These two firsts and a second netted 13 points, one more than necessary to win a monogram. Dan isn’t stopping there, though, for he has a secret ambition to compete in the Olympic decathlon. Dauntless Danny isn’t denied for long, ho his dream may again become a reality.
On the serious side Dan has hopes of entering into partnership with his father in the latter’s drugstore in Holyoke. He's in the science school, majoring in pharmacy, and will graduate in June in the cum laude bracket. The only hurdle left after graduation is to pass the Colorado state board pharmacy exam which should come natural for “versatile” Dan.
After he graduates Dan will have to give up those Chicago week-ends to the Clifford mansion, but we’ve a hunch that he’ll manage it somehow. We could go into the story of how Dan once tried to stop a shot put but that’s another tale.
IRISH DAZZLES PITT WIN EASILY 51-17
•
A superb Notre Dame basketball club wrote its 13th victory in 15 games into the 1938 record book by tripling the score on a good Pitt team in the fieldhouse last Saturday evening. The widespread score, 51-17, is not indicative of either squad’s ability.
From the time that Tommy Wuko-vits tossed the first free-throw and Earl Brown connected for a field basket Notre Dame was always in the lead, and Pitt was never in the ball game if only the figures are discussed. Notre Dame led by 18-3 at one stage of the first half, 29-9 at half time, and only the use of reserve material by the Irish during a large part of the last half kept the score reasonably proportional.
To say that Pittsburgh played poor ball, that the Panthers were off, or that they just don’t have the stuff is, however, to detract from Notre Dame’s superior form. Pitt was a good team but Notre Dame was superb—the kind of “superb” that led the eye-witnesses to stamp the Irish as the best ball club in the country.
Pitt displayed a creditable brand of ball; the Panthers matched their defensive strength individually against Notre Dame’s scoring peculiarities; they used a man-for-man defensive, shifting only in the danger zones; they went into a shell in the last half with a zone defense; they handled the ball well enough, but the Notre Dame embargo stopped everything coming to or from a “Pitt” jersey.
Notre Dame’s best offense was a sterling defense; the reverse is more generally accepted. Pitt had difficulty all evening in getting the ball over the center line within the allotted ten seconds, and the Golden Cats had more trouble in playing the ball from out-of-bounds. Notre Dame men hounded the Panther throughout and the visitors did not get a set shot until Eddy Lawry dropped a sleepei-toward the final gun.
The Irish seemed to have a string tied to the ball all night and it did just as bid. Coach George Keogan used 12 men and nine of them scored. To point out one man as outshining the others would be folly. Earl Brown broke down passes and intercepted others for thirty minutes; “Pest” Sadowski stole the ball as only he can; John Moir was high scorer and a night watchman on the defense; Paul Nowak was the best man on the floor under either hoop; and Tommy Wukovits was so consistently eflucent that he never attracted attention. The reserves kept step
(Continued on Page 17)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Brushing Up
By Ed Brennan
The University of California baseball team, which plays Notre Dame here, May 27 and 28, will be away from their campus at Berkeley for six weeks on a tour through the middle-west and east. The Golden Bears are slated to leave about May 15, and they will not return until the last part of June. However, no classes will be missed, because the semester ends before they go on the road—
It is seldom that a sophomore, wearing his school’s colors for the first time in intercollegiate competition, takes advantage of an opportunity to defeat a record holder at his own game. However, Ted Leonas, sophomore high-jumper from Chicago was quick to capitalize on such a chance last Friday night when he cleared the bar at a higher mark than Marquette’s great Negro jumper, Eddie Burke, holder of the world high jump record—
If a vote were ever taken to determine the most unusual taste in school, Mary Anthony Ertel, sophomore center from Tipton, Ind., would be assured of a high place in the returns. Daily he brings a jar of mustard to the basketball training table and spreads it on bread instead of butter—
Contrary to a previous announcement, the Irish do not open their baseball season Easter Saturday against the Maroons in Chicago. Instead, Western State Teachers will be their first opponent April 14 at Kalamazoo—
Purdue’s 23 to 13 victory over Illinois at Lafayette, Monday is evidence of how the loss of two outstanding men, Boudreau and Dehner, can hamper the success of any team—
One of the high-lights of tomorrow’s track meet should be the appearance of Jack Robinson, indoor high-hurdle champion of the Big Ten against Bill Mahoney, Irish captain—
Larry Vejar, former Notre Dame quarterback, is coaching a Chinese football team in Los Angeles—
PITT GAME
(Continued from Page 16)
with the regular lineup and caused one Pitt man to remark that he had never seen so many good players before on one club.
A crowd total beyond the 5,500 capacity attendance was amazed to watch one first-class team administer such an utter trouncing to another top flight contender in the finale of a ten-year basketball relationship.
FIRST TRACK MEET OF SEASON SEES IRISH SOUNDLY TROUNCE MARQUETTE SQUAD
By Andrew F. Wilson
V
The Irish track squad opened its 1938 season last Friday night in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, by easily running over Marquette, 74-30. Notre Dame led from the very first event—the high jump—in which Sophomore Ted Leonas beat Ed Burke, Marquette’s world indoor record holder. Coach Nicholson’s shot
putters swept their event, his milers allowed one visitor to sneak in for a third place, his sprinters took first and third, and his pole vaulters made a one-two-three sweep, so that at the end of the first four events, Marquette had scored just 8 points to Notre Dame’s 37.
Dan Gibbs was high scorer for the Irish, assuring himself of his monogram by taking two firsts and a second for 13 points. He won both the pole vault and the broad jump—a spur-of-the-moment addition to the program—and placed second to Shurilla of Marquette in the low hurdles, another added event. Shurilla, who spent his first college weeks at Notre Dame, then transferred to Marquette, also made 13 points, placing second to Gibbs in the broad jump, and winning both high and low hurdles. He was the only visitor to take a first all evening, though a later check-up revealed that Burke of Marquette should have been credited with a tie for first in the high jump. Both Burke and Leonas
NEW CAGE RULES SAID TO BE HARMFUL
•
Medical evidence is beginning to pile up against the new stream-lined basketball rules which have given the game its greatest box office boost in history.
While coaches from coast to coast discussed the controversial rule eliminating the center jump after field goals, Dr. Marcus Hobart of Northwestern disclosed he had completed experiments purporting to show the new game stimulates heart action of the players to a dangerous degree.
Dr. Hobart, Northwestern’s team physician, said he had tested players after two Big Ten games and found “their normal hart beat of 60 to 90 had increased alarmingly, in one case to 144.”
Chief defender is Ward Lambert, Purdue’s “wild fox” who has been coaching the fast break in high schools and colleges for 25 years.
“It’s all a matter of conditioning,” Lambert counters. “We bring our boys up in the ‘fast break’ down in this country and keep them trained.”
cleared 6 feet 3 inches, but Leonas did it in a fewer number of jumps, and so was awarded first place, according to the rules of the A.A.U. However, it seems that the N.C.A.A. rules, which govern all college track meets, no longer coincide with the A.A.U. rules, and no longer contain a provision for deciding ties in jumping events.
No remarkable times were turned in. Leonas’s 6-foot 3-inch high jump was probably the best single effort, since it was the one surprising event of the night. Meet records were newly set in the mile, the two-mile, the broad jump, and the pole vault, but these were expected. Greg Rice and Bill Donnelly in the mile passed the old record of 4:30.6 by 6 and 4 seconds respectively, with neither runner extending to the limit. Szu-machowski, Gormley, and Rice, who finished third in spite of a severe stitch in his side, all went under the 9:48 two-mile record. All three men are capable of 9:25 and better, so the new time of 9:39 was but an easy jaunt for them. Gibbs automatically set a meet record of 22 feet, 7% inches in the broad jump, since no indoor meet between Marquette and Notre Dame had eVer before included the event. Gibbs, who has been barely missing 14 feet in practice, then easily boosted the pole vault mark from 12 feet 8 inches to 13 feet.
Johnny Francis, Notre Dame’s best half-miler since Olympic star Alex Wilson, developed an infected foot and could not try for the record in his event, but sophomore Curt Hester turned in a respectable victory time of 2:00.7. The Irish sprinters alone went slightly under expectations. Shields won the dash in :06.4, with Coughlin third behind Black of Marquette in :06.5. But both sophomore Bill Tucker, who can do :06.4, and Senior Bill Clifford, who can do :06.2, were eliminated in their heats in about :06.5. With Indiana’s mob of great distance runners facing Notre Dame at Bloomington next week-end, an Irish sweep in the sprints is absolutely necessary to keep the score close; and to make a sweep, all four men must be hitting their best time.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
( SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX )
\________________________________________________________________/
By John F. Clifford
RUMBLINGS
Since Notre Dame hit the basketball up-grade everybody wants to meet this rejuvenated Irish quintet. There’s a rumor circulating among the sports writers in New York these days that negotiations are in the brewing for a game between Notre Dame and Army in Madison Square Garden. There is nothing to it, however. Scranton papers have reported a possible game between the Keoganmen and St. Thomas College of that city. Likewise the old oil. Without doubt the great popularity of the two schools, coupled with their famous gridiron traditions, would make the meeting of the Irish and the Army on the basketball court the answer to a promoter’s prayer for higher gate receipts.
The Tommies would enjoy a position on the Notre Dame schedule, too, fully realizing the added prestige such a game would bring to their already successful season. But the Irish schedule, completed early in the fall, will not permit any additional games to be billed at this late date. Also Gotham will have a chance to see the Fighting Irish in action when they meet NYU in the Garden on February 25.
V
TRIBUTE
“Lookit! It’s in again!”—a compendious description of the Pitt game that hit the spot. There are many phases of the last meeting of the Irish and the Panthers that can stand comment, such as the “maltreatment” that Giz Nowak received in one or two of the pile-ups under the basket and the painful expression on his face as he got to his feet (Poor Giz—he takes an awful beating), or the fine work of Referee Lane in calling them right, or the panic that swept the Pitt squad as defeat became inevitable and humiliation imminent. But in cur opinion the sincere round of applause for Captain Ray Meyers as he entered the game with his injured elbow strapped up showed that his fine leadership is felt in the stands as well as on the court, that a scrappier player never before captianed an Irish team, and that his return to action will make an immeasurable difference in Irish basketball henceforth. Captains of Notre Dame teams in the future would do well to follow the edifying example set by Ray Meyers—“a most gallant leader!”
V
BENGALESE
As far as expert coaching is concerned this year’s Bengal Bouts should prove to be the classiest exhibition of the manly art of fisticuffs ever sponsored by the Scholastic. (Adv.) In “Nappy” Napolitano the Bengal battles have an instructor who knows the boxing game inside and out. He is a close friend of Jimmy Johnston, former matchmaker for Madison Square Garden, and has spent many hours among the liniment and tape, learning all the intricacies of the boxing world from professionals and amateurs alike. Nappy was once a fighter himself, throwing many a jab at amateur leather-tossers for six years in and around Jersey way. One of the three AAU authorized boxing referees in this locality, he has officiated at the South Bend Golden Glove tournaments for several years, and may possibly referee the Golden Gloves in Chicago this year. New York and Cleveland are also considering him as a member of their refereeing staff during the Golden Glove bouts there.
Napolitano’s assistants, Ed Broscoe and Phil Walker, erstwhile Bengal fighters, have the advantage of several seasons of boxing experience on the side. Walker hit the amateur ranks of Connecticut several years ago, while Broscoe fought Max Marek, now a professional in Chicago, in the 1935 Bouts, taking much but learning plenty.
FENCERS LOSE TO CHI DEFEAT OHIO
•
Led by Veterans Zerbst and Scar-lata, the Notre Dame fencing team was decisively beaten by the University of Chicago Friday, Feb. 4, by a score of 17% to 9%, but managed to rally the next day, to win over Ohio State, 9 to 8. The lack of experience and polish was in evidence in the foil matches, hence the Irish will have either to make drastic changes or to develop rapidly if they hope to win matches.
In Chicago, the foli bouts were the major cause of defeat. Mercado defeated George and Greensburg 54, but lost to Captain Strauss 4-5. George and Green brug also defeated Pierre de la Vergne, 5-4 and 5-0. Leising was beaten, 2-5, by Captain Strauss and Greenburg. Then Citzen was outpointed by George, 1-5. This ended the foils events: Notre Dame 2, Chicago 7. In the epee events, the Irish showed good form, but were unable to beat last year’s Western Conference Champs. Jim Graham lost to Corbett, 1-2, and to Tinzley, 0-2. Gavan was taken by Corbett and Goldberg 1-2, but managed to tie Tinzley at 2-2. McEnearney lost his bout with Corbett 0-2, then tied both Tinzley and Goldberg at 2-all, making the final epee score 7% for Chicago and 1% for the Irish.
Although the Irish foil and epee teams failed to win their share of points, the sabre team did its best to turn the tide. Captain Zerbst took his opponents in fine style, defeating Gistofson 5-4, Tritz 5-2, and Butler 5-4. Then Scarlata beat Tritz with a 5-4, Butler with a 5-3, but lost to Gistofson, 4-5.
When Ohio State invaded the Notre Dame campus, the story was different. Vic Mercado beat Armstrong in the first foil bout 4-5, and also won over Viers, 5-3, only to be defeated by Captain Tlowison in his last match, 2-5. Pierre de la Vergne repeated the performance, beating Armstrong 5-4, Viers 5-2, but losing to Tlowison 2-5. Captain Tlowison then defeated McEnearney 1-5, but Leising turned around and beat Armstrong and Viers by 5-2 scores.
Notre Dame was not so successful in the epee events. Graham defeated Cunningham 3-2, hut Reeves reversed the score to 2-3 to beat Jim in the second bout. Reeves also trimmed Gavan, chalking up a 3-0. Citzen was trounced by Cunningham in the last of the epee events, 2-3.
In the sabre attacks, Captain Tlowison received his only defeat of the day at the hands of Scarlata, 5-4. Donovan lost to Croecetti 2-5, and Captain Zerbst took Roberts 5-2.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
What's This? Race and Kell Mad? Joe Jab
Picks Race To Win — He Owns Part of Him
(Editor’s note: “Joe Jab,” special correspondent for the SCHOLASTIC, will make weekly rounds to the training camps of Joe Race and Paul Kell, contenders for the Bengal Bout wrestling and will report his findings in letters to Mark Mitchell, sports ed. title. Race is defending champion, having defeated John Fogel last year.)
Dear Mark:
We got into the fight racket this week. “We” is the nominative re
“Terrible Joe” Race
Kell just “chicken” to him.
placement - for the usual “I” in the fight racket.
We bought a “piece” of “Terrible Joe” Race, Bengal wrestlin’ champ, from his manager, Jake “We-Ain’t-Gonna-Be-Robbed” Kovalcik. Race and Kovalcik used to be football players of some ability before they got into a good racket. Now, with me directin’ the policies and punches, we should go some place. We think that we are pretty good and that we will make boardin’-house mincemeat of that big amateur Kell when we fight him on the night of the finals of those Bengal Bouts.
Of course, you know, a big house will be on hand if for no reason other than to watch us beat Kell. But even though the “house” will be big, our “take” won’t be so much because we will give our end to those Bengals. That’s a sort of Milk and Ice Fund proposition down around Africa.
We figure that that’s a good smart thing to do. We dope it like this: maybe some day “Our boy” Race won’t be all that he is today in this fight racket. We don’t have a very big stable as it is and we will be needin’ more material to bolster our prestige. We get it straight that some pretty good and big tough boys come out of those Bengal regions and we should come in for first call if any of ’em develop into cornin’ stuff in the fight racket.
When we buy a “piece” of “Terri
ble Joe” this week, Mgr. Jake Kovalcik says to us, “ ‘Terrible Joe’ is right, we sure got a good name anyway for Our Boy.” “Our Boy” is what the fight people call their wrestlers whom they like real well.
But what Mgr. Jake says to us worries us no little bit; but that’s just temporary like. For we get a press conference with “Our Boy” shortly after and he confides in me that we will take this Punch Kill or Paul Kell, or whatever his monicker is, without no trouble.
“Terrible Joe” says to me, “Why that bird don’t have a thing. He’ll be chicken for us. He don’t even have a manager; he don’t have no name like what I got. And do you know what? He don’t even have a public relations man like I got.”
I don’t know where “Our Boy” got this latter expression. The ordinary run-of-the-mine wrastler refers to my
ILLINI MEET
(Continued from Page 14.)
may be lowered tomorrow. Pete Sheehan, who indicated by his race last Friday that he has found the home stretch sprint which had so often bothered him by its absence, and Hank Halpin, who jittered himself to exhaustion before his first race in collegiate competition last Friday night, should both give good performances in the 440 tomorrow.
, ’ Greg Rice, Bill Donnelly, and “Red” Martin will run in the mile where it is possible, since Rice has already run a 4:20.7 mile in practice this year, that the meet rcord of 4:22.8 will be broken. Despite the fact that Yarcho set a meet record against Chicago, it is likely that Steve Szumachowski and Gene Gormley will not find it too hard to place first and second in the two mile. Sprinters Tom Shields and Bill Clifford were clocked in an almost dead heat of 6.2 in practice this week, but Nick won’t believe it. Captain Bill Mahoney and Bob Lawrence will find it is likely that the Big Ten champion will lower the records in these events.
In the field events, Notre Dame seems likely to get a preponderance of points both in the shot put with Bill Faymonville, Ed Beinor, and Mike Mandjiak, and in the pole vault with Dan Gibbs, John Dean and Hal Langton. It is likely that Gibbs will break the meet record of 13 feet six inches, but he will have to break the Notre Dame Indoor record and the gymnasium record to dp it. Sophomore John Dean showed a great deal of promise in placing second against his home town school of Marquette last Friday. Ted Leonas will probably have a battle in the high jump, but he should come through with a victory for Notre Dame.
kind of business as a “press agent.” But what “Our Boy” says to me interests me more than the way he says it. So this bird Kell don’t have no public relations man. Well, he’s gonna have one before long.
So I get into the little red wagon that I travel around in to the various training camps and go over to see this bird Kell who “Our Boy” says will be duck-soup for us.
You know, Mark, training camps are not what they were when we used to collaborate on those “color” stories in the days of Dempsey, Tooney, “Strangler” Lewis, and Joe Stecher, before these young college wrastlers got into the game.
Anyway, I’ll send my impressions of Kell’s training quarters to you next week. But right now, I’m tellin’ you that he won’t be no trouble for us ’cause “Our Boy” says so.
Yours affably, in memory of the halcyon days,
“Joe Jab.”
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Philologists Organize
A long needed organization has been founded on the campus. It is the Philological Society of Notre Dame. This Society opens its membership to all language instructors at the University and to all graduate students who are majoring in a language; and is organized for the study and the encouragement of research in the science of philology.
Among other purposes, the Society is founded to create a clearing-house for opinions and to further the solution of problems connected with the teaching of languages. At the inaugural meeting the following admin-
istrators were elected: Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, president, Professor George Wack, vice-president, and Eev. Maurice Eigley, secretary. A program committee was appointed, consisting of Professor George Wack, Professor- Benjamin DuBois, Professor Walter Langford, and Professor Stephen Eonay. An outline of the Society’s regular monthly meetings till June has been presented to the Society.
ON YOUR
GERM-FREE GUINEA PIGS
(Continued from Page 7) certain periods from one storage cage to another goes on until the animal reaches the age and size proper for a particular experiment.
The most recent honor and praise to be bestowed upon the “boilers” of Professor Reynier’s occurred when the present system was completely exhibited before the American Association for the Advancement of Science at their annual meeting which was held in Indianapolis during the latter part of December, 1937. The equipment, which weighs a full two tons, has recently arrived on the campus from its exhibition and is once more prepared to prove that bacteria are only excess baggage for the modem guinea pig.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
qARROW
COLLARS
ARROW SHIRTS, TIES, HANDKERCHIEFS & UNDERWEAR
Wear an Arrow Starched Collar
You’ll be amazed to see how much a detachable white starched collar can do for your appearance. Try Duncan, most favored by young men. 25C each
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Crusade Seeks Stamps
•
Climaxing the meeting of the Student’s Mission Crusade in Badin Rec Hall, late last week, an inspiring and constructive talk was given by Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., moderator, who commented upon the affairs of the club. He touched upon the past accomplishments of the Mission Crusade, and the goals that it could be expected to reach.
George R. Huter, chairman of the Stamp drive, announced that the entire campus will be canvassed in the near future for contributions to the worthy cause. The members of the stamp committee are: Bill Demling, William Flanigan, and John L. Mc-Guiness. All personal contributions may be forwarded to them or by directly contacting the officers of the Mission Crusade.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
TOBIN says:
T	IRISH MIXTURE
O	
B	CORKTOWN
1	
N's	COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
IIO North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
Engineers1 Ball a Hit
Engineers, togged out in fancy dress in contrast to their customary rubber aprons, charted their merry way across the smooth sailing Palais Royale dance floor last Friday evening to the music of Ted Nehring and his orchestra.
President George Schlaudecker reports that the dance was a financial as well as social success. However, George was too taken up with his guest to know much about what went on.
. and we'll take
a ride on the South Shore Line"
• He’s right. It may be shy on romance, but there is no better way to travel than by South Shore Line. You can depend on it for speed, safety and economy . . . and ride free from worries of traffic, driving or highway dangers. It’s the fast, SAFE way to Chicago and the South Shore region.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
The Safe, Fast Dependable Way To Chicago
:500thnsehore
RECORD REVIEW
BRUNSWICK MASTER
VICTOR	DECCA
VICTOR: Richard Himber features “The Parade of Bands” on his latest waxing. Clever impersonations of the leading “name” bands, with the Goodman Quartet take-off outstanding.
Hal Kemp comes to the fore with a sweet arrangement of “Good Night Angel,” featuring Bob Allen on the vocal. Saxey Dowell is good novelty “Swingin’ The Com.”
Benny Goodman’s quartet version of “Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen” is a let-down after hearing the full band's arrangement on this same tune. Martha Tilton’s vocal is good but sounds much better with the entire ensemble background.
¥ ¥ ¥
DECCA: The Andrews Sisters waxing of “Bie Mir Bist” is easily the standout record of the month, and ■ perhaps the year. Already 76,000 discs have been sold. A remarkable tribute that’s a good indication of the true worth of this- recording.
Glen Gray and the Casa Lomans, back home at The New Yorker after an invite to the President’s Birthday Party in Washington, express their sentiments in “Sweet As A Song.” Kenny Sargent takes honors on the vocal, with Billy Rauch doing some ultrasweet tromboning, in the background.
Bob Crosby fans have all been eagerly awaiting his waxed version of “Dogtown Blues,” and now it’s out! The reverse side of this twelve incher gives forth some real dixieland in Ray Baduc’s “South Rampart Street Blues.”
¥ ¥ «
BRUNSWICK: Glen Miller’s swell band does a very fine job on the currently popular “Sweet Stranger.” His arrangement of “Every Day’s a Holiday" is the best we have heard, aided no little by the consistently fine warbling of Kathleen Lane.
Sammy Kaye heads the Vocalion list as he makes us “swing and sway” in “Indiana.” The three barons do the vocalizing for this oldie. Tommy Ryan takes the honors on “Sometimes I’m Happy,” the reverse side. Both go to make up a choice coupling that the Kaye fans can’t afford to miss.
Horace Heidt’s “History of Sweet Swing” is one of the most novel recordings we’ve heard in many a day, although typical of Heidt. The triple-tongue-trumpeting of Lewis, Browne, and Kingsley is outstanding on the reverse, “Toy Trumpet.”	•
"THE BIG TEN"
Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen—The Andrews Sisters —Decca
A- Night at the Waldorf—A Special Album— Victor
Outside—Rudy Vallee—Bluebird .
Error in the News—Hudson-DeLange—Brunswick
For Dancers Only—Jimmy Lunceford—Decca The Big Dipper—Tommy Dorsey—Victor Thanks for the Memory—Isham Jones—Vocalion
Shenanigans—Will Osborne—Decca
Harmony in Harlem—Duke Ellington—Brunswick
On the Sentimental Side—Guy Lombardo— Victor
(Adv.)
T. P. Sheils
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WATCH A DOTH, BUTCH' TMIHIN' TOH TOUR NTXT BOUT?
NAW.nA'IUSTMACTICIN'W
WATCHTHtrORDSGOW
MATHEMATICS SYMPOSIUM
(Continued from Page 3)
will be given by Notre Dame’s Dr. Karl Menger who will speak on the subject “Alt’s Algebra of Affine Geometry and Related Problems.” The third paper of this session will be given by Dr. Arthur N. Milgram, of
Notre Dame, on “A Theorem on the Algebra of Geometry.”
The final session of the two-day meeting will begin at 2:30 p. m. with a talk by Dr. A. Adrian Albert, of the University of Chicago. Dr. Albert will take as his topic, “An Application of the Theory of Division Algebras to Geometry.”
Dr. Emil Artin, who just recently came to Notre Dame from the University of Hamburg, will give the concluding talk of the sypmosium on the subject, “An Algebraic Topic with Geometric Aspects.” Dr. Artin is internationally celebrated for his outstanding contribution to the theory of numbers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
HE SEES WHO BUYS WHAT TOBACCO
Like so many other independent experts, Bill Whitley, Tobacco Auctioneer of Henderson, N. C., smokes Luckies
“I’ve noticed, too, that independent buyers, not connected with any cigarette manufacturer, smoke Luckies more than any other brand.”
HAVE YOU HEARD "THE CHANT OF THE TOBACCO AUCTIONEER" ON THE RADIO?
When you do, remember that Luckies use the finest tobacco. And also that the "Toasting" process removes certain harsh irritants found in all tobacco. So Luckies are kind to your throat.
WILLIAM D. (BILL) WHITLEY sold over 15 million pounds of tobacco last year. It’s easy to see that he’s an expert who knows tobacco.
So it’s important to you when he says.. .“At 14 different markets in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Kentucky, I’ve seen Luckies buy the best tobacco. I figure it’s good tobacco that makes a good smoke. So my own cigarette is Lucky Strike!
i * '
Mr. Whitley is correct. For sworn records show that, among independent tobacco experts, Luckies have twice as many exclusive smokers as have all other cigarettes put together. Remember: The men who know tobacco best smoke Luckies 2 to 1.
WITH MEN WHO KNOW TOBACCO BEST-IT’S LUCKIES 2 TOI
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
