A NEW TUXEDO ...
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING... AND
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY!
Get whatever you need new ... a suit, topcoat, tuxedo, Christmas Gifts . . . and enjoy the convenience of your Campus Charge Account. If you like you may pay one-third in April . . . one-third in May . . . and one-third in June. There are no carrying charges, nor interest to pay, when you use this convenient way to J buy.
PAY ONE-THIRD IN APRIL
PAY ONE-THIRD IN MAY
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE


December 12,
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN, Campus Kep. 263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
■V I
ST:

Junior Year in
New York
Don’t be caught napping
V
An unusual one-year college program
on your
shopping
I
5
❖ Christinas

Come in and see our complete variety of Christmas gift merchandise now. Whether you wish a university enscribed gift, . a book, or a novelty present, one-stop here and you’ll find exactly what you want.
Toes With
When the student body sits in class all day, getting numb at both ends, be crazy like a fox. Keep on your toes with NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour studying and hep on late dates. Safe as coffee and much move convenient
If you can’t decide, give the perfect gift — a Bookstore gift certificate so that the recipient may choose his or her own gift.

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
4
The Scholastic
«se
Scholastic

Vol. 100 December 12, 1958 No. 10
Disce Quast Semper Victunu Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
i	Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame,
y	Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of
postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
>
RON BLUBAUGH....
* WALT RUDGE...... JIM YOCH.......... TEDDY THOMPSON.
PETER HASBROOK-
—.News ____Copy .Features .....Sports
Editor Editor Editor Editor
.Business Manager
CONRAD SUSKI...................Circulation
BOB FANCHER-------------------Photography
DAVE SOMMER-------------------Photography
LYN RELPH___________________Assistant News
* ROY RUBELI______________________Assistant News
BOB MARUYAMA_______________Assistant Copy
j. ' CHAS RIECK________________Assistant Copy
FRANK DUDA_______________Assistant Features
11 JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features r CHUCK MILLER_______________Assistant Features : TOM ROSE___________________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER..............Assistant Sports
; BOB HORN..................Assistant Business
j FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
Business staff: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim
Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Rich 4 Galvin, John Hoey, Tausche, Tom Weiss.
Burke, Wade Clarke, Bill Tom Marciniak, Charles
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Jim Lee, Pat O’Connor, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, (Jeorge Voris.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Congratulations are in order to all those who will represent Notre Dame on the College “Who’s Who.” Their nomination is a partial reward for the services which they have rendered the University in their various field whether they be engineers or commerce men, leaders in politics or in athletics, contributors to the spiritual life or to the intellectual life. They have all distinguished themselves in one or more activities during their college career.
Recognition must also be payed to those members of the class of ’59 who also participated in extracurricular activities but who for one reason or another were judged less worthy for singular distinction. Their role in the student life was as essential and as worthwhile as the role of those who controlled and led the various organizations.
As a university, Notre Dame can be satisfied with the manner in which the majority of the non-scholastic functions are maintained by its students; but also as a university, Notre Dame should be wary lest these functions cease to remain as adjuncts to the primary academic life. Extracurricular activities are excellent, especially for completing and embellishing a serious student; but they are extra for the college undergraduate. They are good only when coupled with a scholastic habit.
It is unfortunate that this concept is neglected when the third-year men of the schools throughout the country choose their candidates for honors such as “Who’s Who” on the basis of extracurricular distinction or, at best, extracurricular distinction with a satisfactory academic record. This is not the full purpose of the “Who’s Who.” It is to provide recognition to “the seniors and graduate students who have most distinguished themselves by scholarship and/or extracurricular activities.” Notre Dame is lacking in its effort to comply with the full purpose of the selection.
This year’s “Who’s Who” is an example. It counts mostly men who have given enormous quantities of their time to activities. It has less than a fifty per cent membership on the Dean’s List. It can count only eight members of the Science and Engineering schools whose level of education is equal at least to the others, but whose curricula demand a more time-consuming effort. Those whose qualifications in the way of activities, are identified as more academic or scholarly (i.e. “Bookmen,” Tech Review, etc.) number only six. Contrast this with the observation that over two-thirds are on the list for their participation in the various service societies and governmental groups (i.e. Blue Circle, Senate, etc.) — twenty of these men are connected with some aspect of student government, twelve of whom are members of the Blue Circle.
What is the cause of this lack of balance? The immediate cause is definitely the method of selection." The selection board is composed of approximately twelve to fifteen juniors chosen from the colleges and the more prominent organizations on campus. The familiarity of these men with the senior class is .almost wholly restricted to those in their own organization or to those holding the prestige positions in others. Extremely little is known about the various seniors’ academic life. Little co-operation in the way of advice is sought from those with a better knowledge of the class — whether it be from seniors themselves or from members of the faculty. Without this aid it is impossible for the juniors to obtain any but the most limited acquaintance with the nominees whom they must choose.
There is a further explanation which ought to be considered. Among many students, especially among many who have distinguished themselves scholastically, there exists an unhealthy disdain for the non-academic and such things as “Who’s Who.” They hold student recognition as an end only for those who are at the controls of numerous meaningless service societies. Oddly enough this stand enhances the prevalent identification of the B.M.O.C. and the distinguished students of the University. To separate completely the spheres of scholarship and activity participation is contrary to some of the major ideas of education. If the University is to reward its distinguished students by such means as “Who’s Who,” it should not fail to include its scholars.—L.S.
December 12, 1958
/In PaMM wh wA V<WljW^ Mistaken
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek**)
Qldop HOTEL ROOMS
ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. 1
“The proper study of mankind is man,” said Geoffrey Chaucer in his immortal Casey At the Bat, and I couldn’t agree more. In these tangled times it is particularly proper to study man—how he lives and works. Accordingly, this column, normally devoted to slapdash waggery, will from time to time turn a serious eye on the social sciences.
In making these occasional departures, I have the hearty approval of the makers of Philip Morris Cigarettes, whose interest is not only in providing young Americans with fine cigarettes, matchlessly blended of vintage tobaccos, grown with loving care and harvested with tender mercy, then cured with compassionate patience and rolled into firm tasty cylinders and brought to you in long size or regular, in soft pack or flip-top box, at prices which wreak no havoc on the most stringent of budgets, but who are equally concerned with broadening the minds and extending the intellectual vistas of every college man and woman!
I, for one, am not unmoved by this great-heartedness, and though I know it is considered chic these days to disparage one’s employers, I shall not. Indeed, I shall cry “Huzzah!” for the makers of Philip Morris.
I shall cry “Huzzah!” and “Viva!” and “Old!” and “Ochichoonya!”
But I digress. For our first lesson in social science, let us turn to economics, often called the queen of the social sciences. (Sociology is the king of the social sciences. Advertising is the jack.)
Economics breaks down into two broad general classifications: 1) coins; 2) folding money. But before taking up these technical aspects, let us survey briefly the history of economics.
Economics was discovered by the Englishman, Adam Smith. He published his findings in 1786, but everybody giggled so hard that Smith, blushing hotly, gave up the whole thing and went into the cough drop business with his brother.
For long years after that economics lay neglected while the world busied itself with other things, like the birth of Victor Hugo, the last days of Pompeii, and the Bunny Hug.
Then one day while flying a kite during a thunderstorm, the American, Henry George (also called Thorstein Veblen), discovered the law of diminishing returns, and then, boy, the fat was in the fire! Before you could say “knife” the Industrial Revolution was on! Mechanization and steam power resulted in prodigies of production. For example, before the Industrial Revolution, a Welsh artisan, named Dylan Sigafoos, used to make horseshoes by hand at the rate of four a day. After the Industrial Revolution, with the aid of a steam engine, Sigafoos was able to make entire horses!
And so it went—factories rising from
the plains, cities burgeoning around the factories, transport and commerce keeping pace—until today, thanks to economics, we have smog, recessions, and economics textbooks at S7.50 per copy.
© 1958 Max Shulman
The makers of Philip Morris are no economists, but they do understand supply and demand. Some people demand filter cigarettes, so they supply the finest—Marlboro, of course! Great flavor, improved filter—a lot to like!
6
anytime to PREFERRED
THE
HAMILTON HOTEL
20 SOUTH DEARBORN Preferred by guests in CHICAGO IN KANSAS CITY IT'S THE BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton — preferred by the family, and business executives for downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates—guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to. you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
. Rates from


*
The Scholastic
i * RepMcuA&UMt,
I *
' Dear Editor:
I In regard to your editorial of Novem-| ber 21, 1958, I would like to report that i the same problem has been the occasion [ 4; of much discussion in the past year ; among the members of the Managing il^ Board of the CRUSADER, the student ij publication of Holy Cross College.
We realize that, indeed, students from i| other colleges as well as alumni do read our paper. As such, then, the paper is a publicity organ for the school.
» People tend to form their opinions of ■ the school from what they read about , it in the school paper. The question thus has been raised as to whether this is reason enough to omit mention of various bits of news which might in some manner be harmful to the school i when read by one unacquainted with the
*- school.
, I agree with your point that the per-, centage of off-campus copies which are j critically read are few and therefore I would not thereby seriously injure the I school’s reputation. You would certainly I not do so in the minds of other college students for they too have problems which are much similar to yours. You would probably not do so in the minds > of the alumni either for they probably admire your taking a stand on issues which probably had their counterparts i when they were in school.
’ We would be interested in hearing how you solve the problem for yourself. This year we have treated several issues which might be considered “dirty wash.” , * These have brought favorable comments ! from all sides and of course a number i ’ of objections. However, we feel that if Isome glaring situation exists, we should bring it before the minds of the students and faculty with appropriate suggestions for correction, in the hope that something will be done to correct the * situation. It is certain that nothing will be done if there is no interest ex-'y hibited by the students and perhaps more certain that nothing will be done if । the situation is not realized by the | faculty.
Sincerely,
*	Ralph W. Webster
Assistant News Editor.
COMMENTARY
CONGRATULATIONS to Professor Leonard Sommer and the debate team on their recent success in the Dixie Classic Debate Tournament. (See News). We were really amazed at the number of trophies, medals and certificates the team has won already this year; the 27-3 record compiled by the debate team is the'best in several years. Also, good luck this week end at Pittsburgh and Chicago — if only the athletic teams could do so well.
A COVER: We were somewhat surprised that we received no adverse comments on our Thanksgiving cover. Last year a number of people were outraged (to various extents) when we published a not-quite-thankful Pilgrim with his foot in a bear trap. This year the only person displeased with the covei- was Miss Ellen Miller of Chicago who thought it was “horrible.”
SPORTSMANSHIP: We usually leave the realm of spoils to Ted Thompson and his staff but we would like to comment on ‘the Notre Dame spirit’ at last Monday’s basketball game against Northwestern. Although the game was pretty rough and seemed on the verge of becoming a free-for-all at times, a football cheer such as “hit ’em again, harder” is definitely in very poor taste. We seriously doubt that anyone really intended or expected the basketball team to follow that advice, but such a cheer gives the worst impression of Notre Dame spoilsmanship to outsiders watching the game.
STUDENT FORUM: Last month, the first of a re-instituted series of the Student Forums took place in the Law Auditorium. As was befitting the occasion, the Academic Commissioner took time to cite the reasons for such a series. The Student Forum is an attempt to acquaint the students with the issues involved in the point under discussion and to stimulate the participants to further thought on the matter.
The first of these discussions was interesting and informative. The prepared portion was more than satisfactory; but the discussion which followed did not seem to be adequate. The major inadequacy was the poor response given to points which the two professors had reiterated as their theses; but this is a major difficulty in conducting any discussion and was not unpredicted. Somewhat more annoying was that the discussion took on itself more of an attitude of debate with much time wasted in refuting petty objections which hardly merited being refuted let alone mentioned. Much of the alloted time was also consumed in the reading of various statistics and editorial commentary. It was humorous, but unfortunately not uncommon, that the statistical evidences were often contradictory. Another uncalled for refrain was “As David Lawrence, the editor of U. S. News & World Report, says. . .” followed by a long tract. Arguments based upon authority are valid and acceptable in certain instances; but certainly the cogency of such arguments as these is at its minimum in a topic like Integration-Segregation about which a wealth of quotable statements of eminent but equally impeachable men is available for both sides. It would have been better for the discussion and, though less impressive, more indicative of a comprehension of the issue if the quoting Thomases had digested the substance of the article and then had expressed in his own words.
There is another forum scheduled immediately after the return from the vacation. For it, the minor defects in the prepared part of the Integration-Segregation effort will be corrected. It will be left for the students who attend to correct the defects of the unprepared part.—S. & S.

Merry Christmas
Happy New Year

December 12, 1958
HOTEL PICK-OLIVER
Sunday is a day to relax and enjoy dinner with your girl or with other students. Try our BUFFET DINNER this Sunday being served from 12-9 p.m. $2.25 per person.
THe

“as much as you can eat"
Big car bills cramping your social life?
GO
Now for 59, Rambler gives you even more miles per gallon, saves even more on first cost, too—up to $214 on comparable 4-door models. Easiest to turn and park____first with Personalized Comfort: individual sectional sofa front seats. Go Rambler!
$1835
SwM Minrad prk» a Koutta. Winrate, for 2-dnrndaa at tell State
RAMBLER I For ’59—and Save!
T4'


-v.
i
The Scholastic
i,	in hoc
i e
. signo static
■>
by JOHN BELLAIRS
As I went out one evening to take the s ’ pleasant air, it took me instead and wafted me in the direction of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts (you may imagine a crash of cym-” bals now if you wish). Not being one to fight the Jet Stream, I went along, and once inside, began to make the ascent of Mount Parnassus, in order to visit the radio station. I fought my way past the janitor, who extinguished my . cigar with his water pistol, and soon , found myself before a great nail-studded door, over which were emblazoned the station’s call letters, done in Old English. I opened the door and found . before me an imposing flight of stairs, j at the top of which was a mural de-<. picting the Spirit of Rock-and-RolI routing the classical composers. When I got to the top of the stairs, I found on a ■ marble pedestal a bronze bust of the . Program Director, crowned with a wreath of bay leaves intertwined with t enchiladas. His castanets were lying on I a table nearby, so I deduced that he was y in. Thus, with fear and trepidation, I ; began to inspect the outer office.
The first thing that caught my eye | , was a list of regulations in a gilt frame on the wall:
1.	The new six-hour Spanish music * program, entitled “Fandango Fiesta” shall be announced by a serape-clad an-f nouncer, who shall take the name of 1 Pouncin’ Pancho. This shall be considered a very good program.
j 2. The announcer of the Rock-and-Roll program shall bounce up and down slightly in his seat as the program begins. Rapturous exclamations after each number shall be limited to “Golly Whiz” or “boy-o-boy,” uttered in a tone of quiet awe. '
3.	Someone has stolen the teletypesound record which the news program uses. Until it is found, the announcer will make appropriate sounds by clacking a pencil across his teeth, and breathing heavily into the microphone.
4.	Those who have painted mustaches on the oil paintings of Elvis Presley
December 12, 1958
and Pancho Villa will please have the decency to own up to it.
5.	A record of fist-fighting has just arrived, and will be played during lulls in the debates on Student Government.
When I had finished reading this, I cautiously opened the door of a broadcasting studio, and discovered that the five-minute Classical music program was already in progress. I caught four bars of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony between commercials for Botticelli’s Pizza Palace, and with that I shut the door quietly.	.
A few minutes later, I observed a number of young men and women filing into another studio, and decided to follow them. These people. seated themselves around a large table, at one end of which was an announcer, who signaled for silence, then began to speak:
“Rooty-toot-toot and Vo-do-deo-do, This is the station you all love so! Be it quadrille, mazurka, or gavotte, We’ve got the program you’ll like a lot.
Rah-rah RADIO!! The medium of American culture!”
“This is your old announcer, Grovelling . George Gobeaune, bringing you the fascinating panel show, ‘Why in the World . . .?’ in which our brilliant panelists match wits with a mystery guest, and attempt to find his occupation and a place that he has been in the recent past. Here is our first guest.”
At this point an usher, with St. Elmo’s -Fire playing about his epaulets, led into the studio a small, rather timorous man. He was wearing a- pair of smudged coveralls, and wearing a miner’s helmet with the lamp on. In his hand, he carried a . small metal pick. The announcer began to speak again:
“Now, panelists, from the garb of our guest, can you guess his major subject? Introduce yourself, mystery guest, and give the panel its first clue!”
“My name is Simeon Feldspar and I am a senior. My clue is: You might say that I have rocks in my head. Ah-ha-ha-ha. . .?” One pretty young woman be
gan to jump up and down in her seat excitedly. She pressed a buzzer and exclaimed :
“I know! You are a Physical Education major. ‘Rock’ is a very clever reference to the gymnasium, is it not?”
“Nhhh. . . .no.”
“Are you a mountain climber?” “Nawwwww.”
The guest began to gloat obviously, as it was clear that he had stumped the panel. The announcer broke in:
“Well, time’s up!! Mr. Feldspar is a lapidary and majors in rockhounding. Now you must guess where he has been lately.”	-
The questions began to fly, and it was variously guessed that he had been in King Solomon’s Mines, the steam tunnels, and the Ozymandias Brick Quarry in Elkhart. All these guesses were wrong, and the guest proudly announced his secret:
“I was over to the Huddle this mornin’ fer breakfast. I had a cup of black coffee, an’ three jelly bismarcks an’ I read the paper an’ . . .”
At this point I ducked out a side exit, with gay laughter ringing in my ears. On my way out I stopped to light a firecracker, and threw it hopefully into a wastebasket full of ticker tape.
CHRISTMAS DEPT.
A few days ago I heard a radio version of Dickens’ Christmas Carol. In order to play down the commercialization of Christmas, the director had omitted all commercials. Instead, the plugs were subtly inserted at various points throughout the production. For in- ' stance:
“. . .Yes, old Marley was dead. But he had the honor of being buried by the ' Thanatopsis Funeral Home, in a Scroggs Bros, coffin. Yes, even in those days —”
“... You may be a fragment of underdone potato. But there’s never a fragment in Grunch’s Instant Potato. Yes, never a Marley’s ghost of a chance of trouble with this fine. . .”
Anyway, you get the idea.
9
Classified Advertising
BUSSES
Have a HORIO of FUN!
9
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
SERVICES
Student Government will provide busses to the two railroad stations and to the St. Joseph County Airporton December 19, the day Christmas vacation begins. The price for the busses will be 25c. The exact sched-
Trave! with f ITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Europe
60 D-n ..X. *•* $645
Orient
43-65 cm
<«*« $998
TERM PAPERS, theses, research reports, expert assistance in organizing and compiling. Paragon Publications, Box 967, New York, 1, N. Y.
PERSONALS
ule has not but posters nounce the been set.
yet been determined, and WSND will an-schedule after it has
—I Many toun indvat ged	college
jePfHD tf**TlAl5O low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around die World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
WANT to reach the students at a nominal rate? Place a classified ad in the Scholastic.
26th Year
L 332 Se. Michijan Ave. IK-Oitcy 4, HA 7-2557
KQDL KROSSWORD
No. 10
ACROSS
1. Locust tree, ______interested
7. Anchors____
13.	Kool gives you a________: regular or king-size with filter
14.	Bargain
15.	They’re used in hanging
16.	Tea cakes
17.	Kind of roUer
18.	Those in office
19.	God who sounds like a cheer
20.	A little light
21.	Colorado resort town
24. Ease (French) 27. Bouncy rhythm 28. America’s most refreshing cigarette
29. Fusses and fumes
31.	Pass receivers
32.	Latin abbreviation for age
33.	For whom any old flame wiU do
35. Alamos’ article
37. Diner sign
39. West Point
43. Entertains
45. Buy your Kools by the________
47.	Victory inarch
48.	Wakeup
49.	La_____ Argentine newspaper
60. It makes things gel
DOWN
1. German “ahs” 2. Kind of chat
3.	First class: compound
4.	Kool is America's most refreshing------
5.	O’Neill said he cometh
6.	Roman coin
7.	English “achs”
8.	She-GI
9.	Your inner self
10.	What brings out a spark
11.	Valley
12.	Rudolph
20.	It’s great, as these things go
21.	Man’s nickname
22.	He's generally dear
23.	You get it from Kools
25.	If it’s old, it’s Ireland
26.	Ex-New York railways
30. Horses
33.	Tiny mountain
34.	Mighty little man of the movies
35.	But he has no luxury, living ’way up north
36.	AU he needed was bread, wine, verse and thou
38. On the ocean
40.	Flabbergast
41.	This old man kicked the bucket
42.	Dill used in tennis?
44. Piazza____ Marco
46. Exist
KODl
MfcnlBL
•foSmwftesh )]
KGDL
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience in smoking. Smoke KOOL ... with mild, mild menthol...for a deaner, fresher taste all through the day!
Answer on page 31
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR... OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER!
C1958. Brown * WiUlanaaon Tabeeeo Corp.

K®L
KGDL
MKJDNenwot-

10
The Scholastic
SCHEDULE MARDI GRAS TICKET DISTRIBUTION
Chevy Impala Picked 1	For University Bonus
“Lincoln” tickets for the 1959 Mardi J	Gras will be distributed Monday among
the members of the Notre Dame and • *■ Saint Mary’s student bodies. Brochures on the selling of the tickets will also be given out at this time.
Every student will receive two books, each of which contains 15 tickets. The tickets sell for 50 cents each, allowing the student to make $2.50 profit on each book, returning $5 to the University. These tickets are being distributed before the Christmas vacation to give the f students the opportunity of disposing of their books during their stay at home.
The 1959 Notre Dame Mardi Gras student prize is a red 1959 Chevrolet ' Impala conveitible. It will be awarded at a separate drawing where each student selling a chance book has one chance per book sold on the student prize.	'
The St. Mary’s student prize will be a । round trip ticket for two to Chicago J and a day’s expenses in order to per-। sonally select a free, $300 wardrobe there.
These prizes and the opportunity to help the Mardi Gras reach its goal of I $37,000 for charities are the incentives > t • which the Mardi Gras committee hopes
will motivate every student to sell two or more books of tickets over the coming Christmas vacation.
Three collections for the return of the ticket sales will be held. They will be on January 7, January 21, and February 4. All students must have their returns in by the February 4 collection.
The drawing for the car will be the climax of several nights of entertainment planned by the Mardi Gras Committee.
On the evening of Friday, February 6, the Mardi Gras Ball will be held in the new University Dining Hall. On Saturday, the Dave Brubeck Quartet will present an afternoon jazz concert in the Field House. Immediately after the concert, the Mardi Gras Carnival, which will last for three days, will begin. The drawing will be held on Tuesday evening.
Proceeds from the Mardi Gras will go to the Student Scholarship Fund, the LaFortune Student Center, and the Campus Charity Chest. Any additional money will be given as partial scholarships to deserving upperclassmen.
The Mardi Gras committee feels that this is a chance for every student to get behind a worthy drive for charity, from which all will benefit. The support of the student body will be a large factor in the success of the function, which is one of the most important in the school year.
NSF Awards University Two Engineering Grants
The National Science Foundation has awarded the University grants totaling $65,300 to suport two research projects in the College of Engineering.
A $44,800 grant will underwrite a three-year research project to be directed by Dr. Bernard C. Cullity, associate professor of metallurgy. Dr. Cullity and his associates will study “The Control of Preferred Orientation in Metals?’
Dr. Lawrence Lee, associate professor of engineering science, will direct research on “Plastic Buckling Strength of Initially Imperfect Cylinders.” The two-year project will be supported by a $20,500 NSF grant.	’
Dr. Cullity, a specialist in physical metallurgy, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1950. He was educated at McGill University, the University of Minnesota, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which awarded him a Doctor of Science degree in 1947. He is the author of Elements of X-Ray Diffraction.
Dr. Lee was educated in his native China and at the University of Minnesota where he received his doctorate in 1950. He joined the Notre Dame faculty the same year. He has specialized in stress analysis and has written a number of articles in this field.
STUDENT TO WIN A SIMILAR CHEVROLET IMPALA
This car or one like it will be given to a student at the Mardi Gras Festival in February.
Seminarians to Sell Rosaries For Indian-African Missions
Handmade rosaries of various styles and Christmas cards are now being sold by the Moreau Seminarians. In their annual drive to aid the missionaries in Africa and India, the seminarians offer these rosaries at substantially reduced prices.
Suitable for Christmas gifts, rosaries can be selected out of seven colors: aqua, white, and powder blue (made of glass crystal); clear (rock crystal); black and brown (cocoa); and charcoal grey (moonstone). .
Average prices are listed as follows: cocoa—$4; moonstone—$4.50-$6; mother-of-pearl—$8; glass crystal—$7; and rock crystal—$10. All prices are one-third to two-thirds below those at ordinary stores.
, The rosaries are handmade with the “loc-link” which is guaranteed to be non-breakable. Only sterling silver centerpiece, chain, wire, and crucifix is used, in mounting the rosaries.
Orders can be placed by calling Moreau Seminary—733—for Mr. Lawrence Calhoun, C.S.C.	-
U
' December 12, 1958
Warren Albright Gene Bertoncini
Thomas Cahill Thomas Carroll
Robert Daily
Notre Dame’s members of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities have-been carefully chosen by juniors representing various campus organizations. The elections were held and conducted by the Blue Circle Service Society.
Later in the year the entire national membership of Who’s Who will be published in a single volume, available at libraries across the country. Here is the listing and qualifications recommending this University’s contribution to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities:
Warren Albright, member of the Blue Circle Service Society is a commerce student from Merchantville, N. J. Warren is also WSND station manager, Dining Hall commission chairman, NS A regional vice chairman, and a member bf the Knights of Columbus and the Marketing club.
Gene Bertoncini, familiar leader of the University band the Lettermen, is an architecture fifth year man from New York City, and a member of the marching and concert bands.
Thomas Cahill, Boulder, Colo., is a commerce student, member of the Blue Circle Service Society and the Marketing club. Tom is stay senator in the Student Senate, represented Howard Hall his sophomore year, and is policy committee chairman.
Thomas Carroll, freshman orientation chairman for the Blue Circle Service Society, commerce senior, was bom in Great Neck, N.Y. Tom served as general chairman of the Mardi Gras and assistant manager of the Student Center for 1958.
Joseph Daschbach, Wrangler president, was bom in Pittsburgh. A Dean’s List student, Joe studies in the Liberal Arts College, and has served as a teacher for the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine.
Robert Daily, Student Center manager, served as Junior Prom Business Chairman last year. Skokie, Ill., claims him a resident,- commerce as a student, where he is on the Dean’s List.
President of the International Relations club, Robert Dempsey, is also president of the debate team and chairman of Washington Day exercises for this, his -senior year. In
? - -the College of Liberal Arts, he was chairman of this year’s Festival of Arts. He lives in New Ulm, Minn.
Eugene Duffy, co-captain of both the basketball and baseball'teams, is a member of the Monogram club and the
---Knights-of Columbus.— - - . - .	-
~ Daniel Ferron^ member of the Blue Circle Service Society, ; ' interested also in the University Theater, Glee Club,: and the
WSND radio station staff, goes home to Newton Center, Mass.
'?	Donald Gillies, of Greenwich, Conn., student senate spir-
\ ■ itualcommissioner,spent two years as hall vice-president,
: was chairman of the JuniorProm breakfast, and is president of the Naval Institute. A regular in theNROTC, Don studies
: in the College of Liberal - Arts. :	.. ' . .. / .	.
The Scholastic
WHO
Barrett. Gleixner, secretary-treasurer of the Blue Circle *	Service Society, is Battalion Commander of the NROTC and
chairman of the President’s Dinner. Barrett was junior class i	secretary and is an engineering student from Chicago.
Student Body Vice-President Bill Graham is an Illinois resident from Savoy who studies commerce here at Notre Dame. A member of the Blue Circle Service Society, he is also on the Dean’s List. ►
George Hahn is business manager1 of WSND, president ?	of the Commerce Forum, student of commerce from Lake-
wood, Ohio. In his first year, was class president and chairman of the Freshman Frolic.
Michael Halpin, who lives in Rutland, Utah, is vice-chairman of the Blue Circle Service Society, received the Chicago Tribune Gold Medal, and is a company commander in the v	Naval ROTC. He served as hall president in his sophomore
year and as Sorin Hall senator.
|	Michael Haverty, Dean’s List commerce student and
■	member of the Accounting club, resides in Oshkosh, Wis.
Mike is a member of the Varsity Track and Cross Country teams and Monogram club. He was also'Academic Commissioner for the Student Senate.
Thomas Hawkins, All-America basketball center from Chicago, is a Liberal Arts student and member of the varsity track team and the Monogram club.
John Hayward, membership chairman of the Blue Circle Service Society, class president this year, calls Toledo, Ohio home. He is co-chairman of the YCS and a member of the i	NROTC.
>
Robert Hochman, at the University on a teaching fellowship, is president of -the Graduate Student Association. As an undergraduate he was chairman of his Sophomore Cotillion and a member of the Glee Club. Bob also holds a patent with Minneapolis-Honeywell Corporation. .
* .
Neal Lamping, Fisher Hall senator and member of the *	Blue Circle Service Society, is a Texan from Dallas. Neal
studies in Liberal Arts, is a Dean’s List student, deputy group commander in the AFROTC, and was chairman of this year’s Military Ball.
►	John Leahy, head football manager, is a member of the
■ Monogram club, living in Glencoe, Ill. He served as sophomore class treasurer and is a Liberal Arts’ student.
Karl Mangold is president of the Hall Presidents’ Council andwas president of Pangbom Hall last year. Dean’s List
1	student in science, living in White Plains, N.Y., and holding ~
a Met. club scholarship, Kart is a member of the YCS. ..
December 12, 1958
William McAdam William McCullough
Who’s Who (continued)
Roger O’Neil
Michael Phenner
Nicholas Pietrosante
Dennis Readey
Herbert Riband	Joseph Ryan
William McAdam, on the Engineering Dean’s List, assistant editor of the Technical Review, member of the Hall Council, lives in Wilmette, Ill.
William McCullough, chairman of the Blue Circle Service Society, is manager of the Book Exchange. Bill lives here in South Bend and is in the YCS and on the Advisory Board.
James Roger O’Neil is editor of the Technical Review, his fourth year on the staff of that publication. Roger was a delegate to the EMCA convention and is a member of the YCS.
Michael Phenner, national president of the NFCCS, cochairman of the YCS, Appleton, Wis., is a Liberal Arts’ student and member of the debate team.
Nicholas Pietrosante, member of the Knights of Columbus and the Monogram club, earned a letter in football, coming to the University from Ansonia, Conn., to study commerce.
Dennis Readey, assistant editor of the Technical Teview, president of the Metallurgy club, vice-president of the Engineering Honor Society, is also a Dean’s List member.
Herbert Riband is active in student government as a hall senator and a stay senator; president of the University Band; prefect of the Third Order of St. Francis; Dean’s List.
Joseph Ryan is this year’s editor of the Juggler.
Richard Sampson, president of the Bookmen, is a member of the Wranglers and on the staff of the Juggler; also on the Dean’s List.
Mark Shields, Senior Class vice-president, was Junior Class president last year and has been a member of the Senate for two years.
James Short, chairman of the student trip and of the pep rallies—’57, is a member of the Blue Circle Service Society and is on the Dean’s List.
John Thurin, Dome Editor—’58, Dome Sports Editor—’57, president of the Canton, Ohio club, member of the Third Order of St. Francis, was named as a distinguished military student.
Lawrence Wentz, chairman of the freshman advisory program, pep rally chairman—’58, member of Blue Circle Service Society, also secretary of Howard Hall, was a member of the freshman baseball team.
Robert Williams, varsity football team, member of Monogram club, is on the Dean’s List.
—Lyn Relph
14
The Scholastic
k Debaters Win Second Place in Dixie Classic; t Awards Given to Dempsey, Whitney, Powers
Last week end the University Debate Team brought back its fifth trophy of the season from Wake Forest College at a Winston-Salem, North Carolina, after participating in the annual Dixie Clas-> sic Debate Tournament. The debate I team captured second place in the tournament with a 10 win, 2 loss record, | defeating such teams as Navy, South Carolina, Maryland, and Florida.
Debating on the affirmative were Bob * Dempsey, president of the debate team and senior from New Ulm, Minn., and i,- Jay Whitney, sophomore from Burbank, Cal. On the negative were Gerald Gou-dreau, junior from Cleveland, Ohio, and Guy Powers, sophomore from New York, N.Y.
In addition to the second place tro* phy, three of the debaters copped the top individual awards at Wake Forest. > Bob Dempsey was named the outstanding debater-at the tournament with Jay Whitney and Guy Powers capturing second and third place speaker awards ’ respectively. Powers and Whitney also received awards for extemporaneous * speaking.
In the three tournaments in which ' Notre Dame has thus far participated, the debate team has placed second
School Receives $48,100 For Chemistry Program
The University will conduct a Summer Institute for high school chemistry teachers beginning June 19, according to Dr. G. F. d’Alelio, head of the chemistry department. The six-week program will be underwritten by a grant of $48,100 from the National Science Foundation. Approximately 350 summer institutes for high school science and mathematics teachers are being sponsored by the NSF at colleges and universities throughout the country.
Prof. Emil Hofman, who directs the general chemistry and qualitative analysis laboratory programs here, has been appointed Institute director. He said that approximately 100 secondary school teachers will be accepted for the Institute which is designed “to improve their subject-matter competence and to help them motivate their outstanding students to consider careers in science.”
The sessions also should help high school and college chemistry instructors better understand each other’s teaching problems, he said.
The chemistry department has conducted a teacher training program leading to the master of science degree since the summer of 1957. Teachers applying for admission to the Institute need not be seeking a degree, but degree candidates will attend the Institute during the first summer of their course.
December 12, 1958
twice, and first once. On November 14 the debate team journeyed to St. Joseph’s College, Philadelphia, Pa., to compete in the first annual St. Joseph National Invitational Debate Tournament. With a record of nine wins and one loss the Notre Dame team edged out 31 eastern and midwestern teams to place second to Dartmouth College, which also had a 9-1 record.
Notre Dame also placed all four debaters in the top seven speaker rankings. Bob Dempsey was awarded a trophy for placing fourth in the tourney. Guy Powers received fifth place trophy and Jay Whitney and Gerald Goudreau placed as sixth and seventh speaker's respectively.
Four freshmen represented Notre Dame at the Xavier University Debate Tournament in Cincinnati on November 21-22 and with an 8-0 record they won the first place trophy and the title, “Midwest Catholic Novice Champions.” On an individual basis the Notre Dame debaters were awarded medals as being the top four speakers at the tourney. The affirmative team was composed of Bill Beaver, Hammond, Ind., and Dick Meece, Chicago, Ill. David Castaldi of Warsaw, Ind., and Maurice O’Sullivan of Kansas City, Mo., were the negative debaters.
Notre Dame has participated in three exhibition debates this season. William Barrett, senior from Albany, Ore., and John Sullivan, senior from Shrewsbury, Mass., debated against Pittsburgh University at Purdue University this past week end on the national high school debate topic concerning the relative attributes of American education and Russian education.
Earlier this season, Goshen College, Goshen, Ind., and Dayton College, Dayton, Ohio, traveled to Notre Dame for exhibition encounters. John Lamb, Peter Welsh, James Fahy, John Twomey, John Davis, Charles Wasaff, John Mie-sel, and Ron Vannuki, all freshmen debaters, debated in these exhibition debates.
To date the Notre Dame debate team has captured five trophies, four medals, and seven certificates in the three tournaments in which it has participated. The team has won 27 debates and lost three, with no Notre Dame debater placing lower than seventh place in the individual speaker ratings. According to Professor Leonard F. Sommer, director of forensics, “this showing represents, the finest beginning in the history of Notre Dame intercollegiate competition.”
This week end, Notre Dame will participate in the annual Pittsburgh University National Debate Tournament. Another eight-man team will be sent to Chicago to compete in the annual freshman-sophomore debate tourney at the University of Illinois-at-Chicago.
Senior Class Schedules Ball
For May 8 in Navy Drill Hall
The date of the Senior Ball for the class of 1959 is Friday, May 8 in the Navy Drill Hall. On Saturday evening there will be a supper dance and a Communion Breakfast will be held Sunday morning. Tickets will go on sale some time after Easter vacation.	■
General Chairman is Hugh T. Murphy, who is in the College of Commerce and comes from New York. Don Gillies is the executive chairman.
Assisting them will be Bill Whaley, chairman of the dinner dance, and John Moran who heads the Communion Breakfast. Bob Becker and Tom Smith will handle the arrangements for decorations, while Jim Rhadigan is in charge of the entertainment.
Jerry Bechamps is ticket chairman and Joe Mulligan is handling publicity. Jim Sutter is the business manager.
University Theatre Sets Date of T. S. Eliot Drama
Murder in the Cathedral, Thomas Stearns Eliot’s psychological probings into the death of St. Thomas a Becket, will be presented on the Friday and Saturday of two week ends, Feb. 12-14, and 19-21.
The cast has been chosen at a recent tryout and Rev. Peter Sweisgood, O.S.B., a graduate student living in the priests’ section of Howard Hall, will play the stubbornly Catholic Thomas. Thomas’ conscience is revealed to the audience through the medium of four tempters, played by Robert Love, Neal Ball, John Smith, and John Toth.
St. Thomas says “I expected only three,” corresponding to the three temptations of Christ, but the fourth tempter is the very thought that Thomas holds closest to him, the possibility that perhaps Thomas is too holy.
The chorus, women of Canterbury, is composed of Diane Crowley, Carol Ann Finn, Arlene Lagona, Carolyn Quick, Ann Rody, Kathleen Ryan, Connie Stalina, and Francis Voorde.
Thomas’ murderers, the four drunken knights, are played by Gerald Broderick, David McDonald, David Barrett, and James Cooney. They overhear the King of England say he wishes Thomas were out of the way, and taking him at his word they murder Thomas on the altar.
Three priests of Canterbury, unable to understand Thomas’ actions, are played by Leo Gorman, Charles McCar- . thy, John Curtin. They are confused by . the announcement that Thomas returns to England from France after seven years of voluntary exile after refusing to be the king’s right-hand man as Chancellor and Archbishop of Canterbury.
The cast is directed by Mr. Frederick Syburg, stage direction by Rudy Hor- ■nish, with Ed Sullivan his assistant. .
Repeating the dates, Feb. 12, 14, and , then the 19-21.
Notre Dame Glee Club
1958 CHRISTMAS CONCERT
DATE: Tuesday.
TIME: 8:00 p.m.
PLACE: Washington Hall.
No admission charge — all are cordially invited to attend.
PROGRAM
I Ave Maria.........................  Witt
How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling
Place.........................  Brahms
Alleluia......................... Handel
Song Now Stilled..............  Sibelius
Arena................. Chesterton-Pedtke
II
Dalia sua pace (from Don Giovanni).....................Mozart
Soloist: John R. Thomas
III
Grandfather's Clock..Work; Hunter-Shaw Li’l Liza Jane..........Hunter-Shaw
Drink To Me Only with
Thine Eyes...............  Parker-Shaw
Brother Will, Brother John_________Sacco
Italian Salad......................Genee
Seventy-Six Trombones.......Wilson-Stickles
Intermission
IV
My Bonnie Lass She Smileth.........Morley I Thought That Love Had
Been a Boy........................Byrd
Coletta............T raditional
I Voxtix Acute	Daodi-...........Veodelot
The Silver Swan................  Gibbons
Au Joli Bois____________ ....Traditional
Madrigal Singers
Directed by Rev. P. Maloney, C.S.C. The Birthday of a King—.......Neidlinger
I Wonder as I Wander________Niles-Horton
Christmas Day......................Holtz
The Night Before Christmas........Waring
Christmas Medley—
Silent Night
The First Noel
God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen
Adeste Fidelis
Callero Receives Award From Commerce Group
Robert Callero, a senior from Niles, Ill., has received the $500 Haskins and Sells Foundation Award presented annually to the outstanding member of the senior accounting class in the College of Commerce.
The award was presented to Callero at a recent dinner meeting in South Bend by Lawrence Walsh of Haskins and Sells. It is given on the basis of scholastic achievement, participation in extracurricular activities, and the student’s over-all bearing as a future professional man.
Callero is a member of the Accounting club, Human Relations club, student choir; he is also on the Dean’s List and serves as a freshman adviser.
LAW SYMPOSIUM SPEAKERS
Seated: Mr. Hugh Sherer, Mr. Murray Seasongood. Standing: Mr. Thomas Meeker, Mr. G. W. Snyder, Dean O’Meara. Absent: Oscar Davis.
Five Attorneys Featured at Law Symposium; Lawyers Cite Merits of Government Practice
Five prominent attorneys in an allday symposium Thursday, December 4, in the Notre Dame Law School, emphasized the attractions of government practice.
Among those features enumerated was the wide range of rewarding jobs, the opportunity to gain the extensive experience required to enter private practice, and an adequate salary for performing a public service.
Dean Joseph O’Meara, in concluding the symposium, also pointed out that, when you are working for the government, you have the people of the United States as your clients. He emphasized that it is possible, although in an indirect manner, to gain the same satisfaction as in private practice.
The four- government attorneys were all agreed that the transition from government to private practice was easily „ accomplished. They also attacked the idea that government practice was not as challenging and demanding of hard work and personal sacrifice as private practice.
Addressing the law students were Oscar Davis and Thomas Meeker. Davis is the first assistant Solicitor General of the United States and in this position is often found arguing cases before the Supreme Court. Meeker is the general counsel of the Securities Exchange Commission.
Murray Seasongood, former mayor of
Cincinnati, author of several books on municipal corporations, and one of the foremost authorities on the legal aspects of these corporations, and Hugh Sherer, chief counsel to the Attorney General of Ohio, also lectured. The fifth speaker was G. W. Snyder, the assistant regional commissioner of Internal Revenue for the Cincinnati office.
The five speakers were unanimous in stating that the benefits received were . in proportion to the responsibilities that government lawyers bear. They pointed out that the task is to serve fellow citizens, and in so doing, personal interests must be submerged.
Now in private practice, Seasongood * discussed local government careers and pointed out that “new and fascinating” legal problems have arisen in communities. With rapid community development and modern ideas in municipal operation and planning, cities have broken away from “straight-jacket restraints” imposed by state legislatures < and many new posts have been created for talented lawyers.
Discussing state government, Sherer said the attorney general’s office provided the “greatest challenge” for young lawyers. Although, he admitted, elections often end the public careers of subordinates, Sherer noted that the job provided a great deal of the practical experience needed for private practice.
(Continued on page 32)
16
The Scholastic
► Professor Frederick j To Head English Dept.
Professor John T. Frederick, an authority on American literature, has been appointed head of the University’s English department. He succeeds the Rev. a Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., who is now serving as vice president for academic , affairs at the University.
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1930, Frederick is nationally known I as a scholar, critic, and lecturer. He is co-author of American Literature, a two-volume college text published by Scrib-i ner, and he collaborated with the late
PROFESSOR JOHN FREDERICK
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., in publishing Reading for Writing and Good Writing.
Frederick has reviewed books for sev-, eral metropolitan newspapers and for many years conducted the “Of Men and Books” program over the CBS Radio - Network. Currently he is editing the book review section of the Rotarian magazine.
Professor Frederick was born at Corn-। ing, Iowa, and was educated at the State y University of Iowa where he received i his A.B. in 1915 and an M.S. in 1917. > While still a student, he founded The Midland, a literary magazine which he edited for 18 years. He taught at his alma mater for nearly ten years before joining the Notre Dame faculty. From 1930 to 1944 he also devoted part of his * time as professor of contemporary literature at the Chicago and Evanston cam-t puses of Northwestern University.
I At the current time, Frederick is con-I ducting an undergraduate course in American fiction and a graduate semi-I nar on the American author Herman Melville. He also operates a farm near Glennie, Mich., but lives in South Bend.
Professor Frederick received one of the “favorite teacher” awards presented by last year’s seniors.
Geographic Clubs Plan Dances Over Xmas; Sheraton Astor Hotel Set for Met Club Affair
During the Christmas vacation, the geographic clubs keep active with dances and other activities, to provide students with an opportunity to mix with the friends from school they have made.
In New York, the Met club is holding their annual Christmas dance at the Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton Astor Hotel with the Marty White Orchestra playing. The dance lasts from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., bids at the price of §6.50 on campus and §7.50 at the door. For those who wish to deposit on a ticket and pay the rest later, the required deposit is §2.50.
There is being raffled a round-trip train ticket to be awarded to someone who has bought a ticket on campus. The drawing will take place Sunday morning at the Communion Breakfast.
Dress required for the dance is formal; there will be door prizes. Tickets can be bought on campus from the hall representatives.
LaSalle Hotel will be visited by students of Chicago on Saturday night, December 27. Dan Belloc is hired from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., the time of the dance. Tickets, which can be bought from hall representatives, are §3.50 on campus, but §5 at the door. Dress for the dance is semi-formal.
On the West Coast, the southern half of the California club will dance on Tuesday, December 30, to the music of the Muzzy Marcellino Band, this dance from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Bids are §3 here, §4 at the door. The dance will be held in the Huntington Sheraton Hotel in Pasadena.
Kansas City will have two dances to go to, one by the alumni on the Saturday after Christmas. This dance is at the President Hotel, dinner-dance, beginning at 6:30 p.m., ending at 1 a.m., for §14.
The student club dance is in Drexel Hall, January 2, from 9-12 p.m. Prescribed dress for both dances is semi-formal.
Elsewhere in the Midwest, the St. Louis club meets on the 26th of December, in the Korrasan Room of the Chase Hotel. The dance lasts from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m., with Buddy Kay playing music until 1 a.m., and a dixieland band playing at intermissions and from 1 to 2 a.m.
Bids are §5, dress semi-formal, all tickets sold at door. Students are cordially invited to bring their friends.
Hotel Carter, Cleveland, will be invaded on Monday, December 29, especially the Rainbow Room. Tickets are a straight §5, here or at the door, dress is semi-formal.
The Connecticut club dances on the day after* Christmas at the Chase Country Club, Waterbury, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Delvino’s Orchestra music; all tickets sold at the door for §5, alumni, students, and friends invited.
Meanwhile, back on the West Coast,
the Alumni club of Oregon, for §8 per couple, is holding a dinner dance on Friday, January 2, at the Waverly Country Club, Portland.
Fred Netting and his Orchestra play for the Detroit club at the Sheraton Cadillac Hotel, the Crystal and Founders Ball Room. The cost is §4.75, favors will be provided. The date is December 26 and time 9 pjn. to 1 a.m. Tickets are §3.75 if bought on campus.
Notre Dame Concert Band
1958 CHRISTMAS CONCERT
DATE: Sunday.
TIME: 8:00 p.m.
PLACE: Washington Hall.
No admission charge — all are cordially invited.
PROGRAM
Pride of the Marines March......Edwards
First Suite in E flat for
Military Band______________________Holst
Chaconne
Intermezzo March
Caprice...........................  McRae
Peanut Vendor_____________________ Simons
Barnum and Bailey’s	Favorite--------King
Spiritual from Suite
“Symphonic Songs	for Band”----Bennett
Pa paya..................-......-Morrissey
Featuring Mr. Charles Armstrong, trombone soloist
Danny Boy...............Irish	Folk Song
Featuring Prof. Thomas Fallon, vocal soloist
Pavanne (Second Movement of
American Symphonette No.	2)---Gould
Toy Trumpet-----------------------Scott
Prima Donna March-----------------Gould
Ten More Days Till School	is	Out-Klein
Christmas Medley—.......Traditional
I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day
Joy to the World
It Came Upon a Midnight Clear
The First Noel
We Three Kings of Orient Are
Adeste Fidelis O Little Town of Bethlehem Silent Night
Featuring Prof. Thomas Fallon, vocal soloist
White Christmas................. Berlin
Featuring Prof. Thomas Fallon, vocal soloist
Jingle Bells................Traditional
The Notre Dame Victory March-------Shea
December 12, 1958
17
Toro Appraisals by G. P. SCARPIA
James Bastien
.	I have yearned greatly for the day
when, in this scientifically saturated field of music, I would be fortunate j	enough to hear a musician who was at
j	the same time a pianist. I am still
yearning. Why the scientific aspect of ; the art must so vehemently outweight the artistic in relation to 88 keys and
i three pedals I shall never understand.
1	James Bastien’s campus debut was
5	met with an ample	crowd, a widely
’■	varied program, a Baldwin piano, and
i	program notes which	were lugubriously
j	voluminous.
3	The Bach Toccata which opened the
I	program served as a	marvelous vehicle
with which to warm up the hands in
J* preparation for what was to follow. The Schumann version of the Great-
i	est Show on Earth wasn’t, except for
:	the Intermezzo, which was fired with
5 exactly the right mount of that grandi-i ose flair which makes Schumann’s music sing.
The Chopin Etude Op. 10, No. 3 slipped, tripped, and finally fell flat on ‘ its four sharps, due not to technical problems but to the extreme use of
1 rubato, which robbed the piece of al-I most all musical sense.
'	The not-often-heard (due probably to
I a tendency to infect the listener with ' sugar diabetes) Chopin Berceuse came J off in fine style, carrying with it, dei spite an overpowering left hand, some i bits of sheer beauty.
A real workout is presented with Chopin’s B Minor Scherzo, but happily this wasn’t felt, as this one work, technical though it be, tried sincerely to make up for lost music.
Concert presented by James Bastien, pianist, on Thursday, November 20, 1958 in Washington Hall.
Toccata, E Minor..............Bach
Scenes from the Carnival.. Schumann Etude, Op. 10, No. 3.........Chopin
Berceuse....................Chopin
Scherzo, B Minor............Chopin
Sonetto 104 del Petrarca.....Liszt
Concert Etude in F Minor......Liszt Sonata No. 3...................Prokofieff
Liszt’s musical setting of Petrarch’s 104th Sonnet was left waiting for a good round tone, prompting my neighbor to remark: “Imagine what Liszt would have done with the previous 103!”
The Chopin-like Concert Etude again teased the listener with a hint of musicality, and the closing Prokofieff Sonata (from old notebooks) seemed to demand a second look at the old notebook.
The chief loss sensed in the performance was that of tone quality. This is undoubtedly due in part to the piano,
which a music major informed me was “remade.” Let us hope that in future recitals Mr. Bastien, who is a technician “magna cum loud,” will show us that he qualifies for equal, if not superior, musical honors.
Theodore Ullmann
What a beautiful experience it is to be placed in a position by necessity wherein one must look vigorously for wrongdoings. This smacks of a utopia, a paradise, a heaven. Is this possible in today’s world, and to be even bolder, is this possible in today’s pianists? Permit me to scream an affirmative answer, for against almost overwhelming odds, I have found a pianist who is a ventable musician.
Concert presented by Theodore Ullmann, pianist, on Friday, November 28, 1958 in Washington Hall.
Prelude & Fugue in D
Major................Bach-d’Albert
Andante favori...........Beethoven
Scherzo, B Minor............Chopin
Suggestion Diabolique...Prokofieff
Arabesque, E Major.........Debussy
Mountain Tune...............Keeney
Sonata in F Minor...........Brahms
Theodore Ullmann, playing to a vaca-tion-sparsed audience amazingly augmented by Southbenders and little seminarians, is a pianist. He plays the piano. He does not beat it, caress it, cajole it, attack it, or shimmy away from it. He kneads from the ebony-simulated box the purest, roundest tones ever assimilated before a Notre Dame audience. Of course, this may be due in part to the piano, which a music major informed me was “remade.”
Ullmann can make a nearly impossible, and certainly impractical Bach organ transcription leave you wanting only the throatiness of a diapason or the sinewy texture of a gamba which a percussion instrument can’t begin to achieve. He can make a more than limpid Beethoven offering simply limpid, a Diabolique Suggestion of Prokofieff more diabolique than suggestive, a Debussy Arabesque melt as deliciously as a wild cherry lifesaver held under the tongue.
He can even give encores which are reviewable, encores musical, like the C Major Intermezzo of Brahms, encores technical, like the Octave Intermezzo of Leschetizky, and encores technically musical, like Ravel’s Tombeau de Couperin Toccata, which was gyroscoped through the hall with such force that it set you spinning all the way to the bus shelter.
And Chopin he can play, play with all the purring inner voices and dynamic
contrasts which Chopin and the audi- 1 ence demand. This was the Scherzo in J B minor, full of the abrupt nuances and |
elastic phrases that make this piece of the edge-of-the-seat variety.
g
Brahms is not Chopin, not Liszt, not Bach, and not Ullmann. But although IB reincarnation of personalities is an im- S' possibility, Brahms’ music was reincarnated from the Washington Hall Baldwin by Ullmann, and this is quite W sufficient for my taste. This was the gigantic Brahms, trudging in dotted rhythms and sawed-off phrases through 0 one of the greatest works to come out of the 19th century. This was the £ Brahms of the wide open melodies which M make the raucous runs of Liszt in- 3 sipid. This was the Brahms of never- ®
ending surprises, heralded subtlety, best of all, this musical fame.
With all this,
of big tone, of un-of sweet grace. But was the Brahms of
I still want several
things. I want Mr. Schrantz’s secretary stoned to death for misspelling the word “andante.” I want a recording of the Brahms f minor. And I want to hear Ullmann again and again and again.
Applause!!!
by G.P. SCARPIA
Time and space must be banned from the world, for they do not permit me to extol fully something which should be extolled. Bach and Kodaly secreted from O’Laughlin Auditorium Monday
evening, and secreted gloriously, cause of the whole affair was a bespectacled man who will never the title of genius because it has
The bald, eam been
’v
his musically since birth. Daniel Pedtke * sang a glorious Magnificat, stocked with . surging choruses, exquisite orchestra, : a cast of hundreds, and a harpsichord. (Baldwin or Steinway?)
Program presented by the Saint Mary’s Glee Club, Notre Dame Glee Club, Per Musica Orchestra and , soloists under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke on December 8, 1958 in O’Laughlin Auditorium at Notre Dame, Indiana. Program scheduled for repitition December 9th.
Magnificat Te Deum
.. Bach Kodaly
Weak moments it had. The soloists,’;
particularly Thomas the tenor, swallowed notes all too eagerly. But the strong moments, among them a fugue (Sicut Locutus Est) which dazzled the! audience with its loquacious clarity/ were absolute pinnacles of college art. i Kodaly never sounded better. H screamed, wept, laughed, and played the big bad wolf wonderfully, while simultaneously weaving a massive thanksgiving hymn to God which the audience
(Continued on page 25)
The Scholastic
i
18
Then at dawn we came down to a temperate valley, Wet, below the snow line, smelling of vegetation;
With a running stream and a water-mill beating the darkness. And three trees on the low sky, And an old white horse galloped away in the meadow.
Then we came to a tavern with vine-leaves over the lintel. Six hands at an open door dicing for pieces of silver, And feet kicking the empty wine-skins.
But there was no information, and so we continued And arrived at evening, not a moment too soon Finding the place; it was (you may say) satisfactory.
—from “Journey of the Magi” by T. S._ Eliot
December 12, 1958
19
Christmas Customs
by Tom Scanlon
After the last great Christian persecution, the Roman Church ended the dispute over the date of the feast of Our Lord’s Nativity by assigning December 25 as the day for the observance. The exact year, month and day of Our Lord’s birth has never been discovered and it seems that the Church picked the present date for Christmas more as a means of replacing the pagan celebration of the winter solstice than as a result of historical findings. But by 400, the entire Christian world was celebrating the feast on the day assigned except the Greeks who were not following the Gregorian calendar.
The celebration of Christmas was
Shortly after the Church in Rome assigned definitely the date for the celebration of the birth of Christ, a time of preparation and fasting foi- the feast was introduced. By the ninth century, Advent was widely observed and gave rise to many beautiful legends. In Germany, families kept an Advent wreath in their homes. It usually consisted of four candles on branches of holly or spruce, and its candles were burned each night while the family gathered round the wreath and prepared prayerfully for Christmas. On the eve of the holyday, the large Christmas candle was placed in the center of the wreath as a symbol of the Christ Child.
brought to the pagan European tribes by the same men who brought them the word of the Gospel. St. Patrick introduced it to Ireland, St. Boniface to Germany, Sts. Cyril and Methodius to the Slavic tribes. By 1100, all the nations of Europe had accepted Christianity, and Christmas was celebrated everywhere with great devotion and joy. The time between the twelfth and sixteenth
Up until fairly recent times, the Italian shepherds of Sabinum and Abruzzio observed a beautiful Advent custom. Each morning before the sun rose, they would descend from theii- mountain watches to play before the images of the Madonna which were placed in the streets of the village. The music of their reeds and oboes would be a melodic reminder to the villagers of the approach
centuries witnessed the origin of many of our Christmas rites, both religious and secular.
I
of the birth of the Savior.
Another custom observed by some of the European countries during Advent was the touching practice of placing pieces of straw, signifying prayers or good works, in a crib prepared for the Christ Child. This practice was observed originally by the children of France, but soon spread to many other countries of Europe.
On December 24, 1224, St. Francis of
7*


Assisi preached before the first Christ- j mas crib in Greccio, Italy. It was Fran- j cis’s desire to present the people with | a realistic tableau of the Nativity, and j so he supplied his crib with real people I and real animals. Two people dressed | as Mary and Joseph stood over an image | of the Babe while an ox and an ass were tethered close by. Francis’s idea | drew the attention of other churches and g villages, and soon the custom of the | Christmas crib spread all over Europe. | During the Renaissance, artists became 1 intrigued with the incidentals of the i Nativity scene. The landscape and ’ groups of figures were displayed irrev- S erently; Wise Men wore richly woven j clothes, and the devotional shrine soon f grew into a highly ornate spectacle that | reduced the roles of the religious figures s to insignificant ones. But the excesses I soon passed and the modern Christmas | celebration has accepted universally the j idea of St. Francis — to let the moment | of Christ’s birth live before the eyes of ’ the faithful.	?
The first Christmas Mass is usually j a Midnight Mass because Christ is gen- | erally believed to have been born at I that time. Actually midnight has never 1 been assigned for the celebration of the y first Mass, but it must take place “in I nocte” or during the night. It was sung, 1 in earlier days, at the crowing of the g cock. Even today the Spanish people | call the Midnight Mass the “Misa de I Gallo” (Mass of the cock).	1
Around the world, many rites take | place after the Midnight Mass. In the 0 Church of the Holy Nativity in Bethle- ,| hem, a statue of the Christ Child is car- I ried in procession to the spot in the fl church which is supposed to be the actual place of Christ’s birth. The Gospel fl of St. Luke is then sung; when the 3 Deacon comes to the words “she laid 3 Him in a manger,” the statue is placed in a rock-hewn crib.	||
Formerly in Paris and other French | cities, families proceeded from the g church to a huge family gathering | where as generous a meal as funds 2 would allow was served and family mat- j ters discussed. In Brittany, old women ' greeted the country folk at the door of 3 the church and took the lantern that ? had lit their journey to the town. When = the lanterns were returned after Mass,
20
The Scholastic
teenth century, the Christmas tree popular in Alsace and Strasbourg
was and
substantial amounts of alms were expected and received from their owners. The German people used the time after Midnight Mass to place an image of the Babe in a crib and sing solemnly their repertoire of carols.
Ever since the feast of the Nativity was designated, Christians have been singing about the birth of Christ. In r. the fifth century, solemn hymns about the theological mysteries of the Nativity were numerous, and many were incorporated into the Divine Office for the Christmas season. The birthplace of the Christmas carol, however, was in Italy during the time of St. Francis of Assisi. In fact, St. Francis is frequently credited with originating the Christmas carol. He wrote at least one carol himself in Latin, and he encouraged his friars to compose them in the vernacular. Their child-like simplicity and genial fervor gained them easy acceptance to the homes and streets of Spain and France.
After the Protestant revolution the old hymns and carols were not sung. The Calvinists discouraged them in general and substituted metrical psalms in their place. However the Methodist revival in the eighteenth century inspired many new Christmas hymns and soon these were accepted by all English speaking people. Many of our modern hymns were written during this period. Charles Wesley composed “Hark the Herald Angels Sing,” Edmund Sears, a Unitarian minister, wrote “It Came Upon a Midnight Clear,” and the Episcopal Bishop of Massachusetts, Phillips Brooks, composed “O Little Town of Bethlehem.”
At the same time, but in a different part of the world, “Silent Night” was written by Joseph Mohr, the parish priest of Oberndorf. On Christmas Eve, 1818, Father Mohr was notified that the repairs of the church organ would not be completed in time for Midnight Mass. Since great preparation had gone into the choral arrangements for the Mass, he knew that the news would bring great . disappointment to his parish, and so he decided to surprise them with a new Christmas hymn. He wrote three stanzas — the first and most famous being inspired by a visit he had recently made to a sick woman and her child. Hastily, he brought the lyrics to Franz Gruber, an organist in nearby Arnsdorf, who put them to music in a few hours. That night, at the Midnight Mass, the congregation heard for the first time the carol that was to become the anthem of Christmas all over the world.
The Christmas tree enjoys a prominent place in our celebration of Christmas, and its origin dates back to the
Medieval mystery plays of Germany. Since the plays about Paradise always closed with the promise of a Redeemer, they were popular during the Advent season. The tree of Paradise was signified by a fur tree on which apples were hung and which were surrounded by lighted candles. When the plays were suppressed, the trees found their way into the peoples’ homes. In the six-
M
it soon developed into a custom of all the German peoples. When the German inunigi’ants arrived in America between 1700 and 1830, they brought it with them as one of their cherished customs, and despite the fact that the observance of Christmas was banned at that time, the custom spread throughout America. Its spread was a rapid one — so rapid that what Charles Dickens described as “a new German toy” in 1850, was called by President Harrison in 1890 “an old fashioned Christmas tree.”
Christmas has been often referred to as the Christian “feast of lights.” The medievals placed a large candle, symbolic of Christ, in the center of a laurel wreath and allowed it to burn throughout Christmas night. This custom of the “Christmas Candle” has survived in many countries today. The Slavic nations place it on a table only after it has been' blessed by a priest, and the Irish gather on Christmas Eve around a candle decorated with holly and pray for their loved ones.
It was the Irish who brought the custom of burning candles in the windows
to America. This practice dates back to the English persecution when Irish priests lived in caves and forests and said Mass in the neighboring homes and farms. The fondest wish of every Irish family was that at least once in their lifetime a priest would arrive on Christmas night and offer the Holy Sacrifice. As dusk fell on Christmas Eve, they would place candles in their windows and leave their doors unlocked so that any priest passing through the dark night would be guided to their homes. Should a priest slip through the unlatched door, he would be welcomed with tears of welcome and gratitude.
The legend of Santa Claus has its roots in the traditional character of St. Nicholas. St. Nicholas was the friend of the poor who brought gifts to the children of Europe on the eve of his feast day. But his role was not merely that of giving gifts. He appeared as a heavenly messenger admonishing little children to prepare for the coming of the Savior. After- the Reformation, the feast of St. Nicholas was abolished in many countries and the new figure of Father Christmas was substituted. The people of Holland, however, retained the tradition of St. Nicholas and brought it with them to New Amsterdam in the New World. When the British founded the colony of New York, they found the figure of “Sinter Klaas” more appealing than Father Christmas and accepted him as the bearer of Christmas gifts to their children. The Dutch pronunciation of “Sinter Klaas” became “Santa Claus” in English.
Santa Claus became more and more Americanized during the eighteenth century and gradually became a mixture between Father Christmas and St. Nicholas. His home in the North Pole, his reindeer and his habit of sliding down the chimney were borrowed from the English Father Christmas and his practice of bringing presents and putting them in shoes and stockings from the figure of St. Nicholas. The modem conception of Santa was given us by a cartoon by Thomas Nash, the originator of the GOP Elephant and the Democratic Donkey.
It would be impossible to recount all the details or even all the types of man’s celebration of the feast of his Savior. . They differ in every country in the world and mean different things to every citizen of every country. But there is not one tradition that exists in.the modem world’s conception of Christmas that man has not used at one time or another to express “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men of good will.”
December 12, 1958
21
Good Will
by JOE HALLER
Wheezing and coughing, Hank stood at the edge of the town. It had been a long way, two hours, since he had passed the sign saying Lorando, 4 mi., pop. 83. He put down his bag and blew his nose. All afternoon the desert wind had sent sand into his nose and mouth. He could hardly breathe. He picked up his bag again and brushed it off. He was always careful with it, for it was the only good thing he owned. Good leather. The sun, falling toward the mountains in the distance, gave the grey houses a sickly, pinkish cast. The town was like two rows of grey boxes left on the sand by some child, to be picked up or blown away, leaving nothing but the smooth sand behind. Two men stood in front of one of the buildings several yards away from Hank. He moved toward them. Through watery eyes he saw that one was leaning on the other. Both looked up as he approached, and the one pushed away from the other and teetered a little.
“Howdy, stranger, Merry Chris’mas.” The voice greeting Hank was blurred by whiskey. “Come from far?”
“About twelve miles today, I guess,” Hank replied. “Is there a hotel in this town?”
“Say, thas’sa bad cough you got there. How about a little shpirit to get the sand outa yer throat?”
Hank looked at the old man’s glassy eyes and wide grin. “No thanks,
gramps,” he said. “Just tell me where there’s a place to stay.”
“The stranger’s in a hurry, Bill.” The man’s steadier companion spoke for the first time. “There ain’t no hotel in this town, mister.”
“No hotel, but Larry Hall takes in people, shometimes,” Bill asserted. “Ish that big building down the street on yer right.”
As Hank stalled down the street, Bill’s companion called to his back. “But they got a lotta people stayin’ with them over the holidays; they won’t have no room.”
Halfway down the street, Hank stopped to get his breath and gazed at his dim reflection in a dark window nearby. He saw himself, a long, thin man with long shaggy hair and a week-old beard. Sleeping out on the desert the night before had given him a stiff neck, and his curiously tilted head and his ever-open, gasping mouth gave him the mien of an idiot. He shuffled on. At the end of the street, he came to a two-story house with lights glaring from almost every window. The front windows had big white snow-flakes and snowmen sprayed on them. Through a window in the door Hank saw a tall, bushy, pink Christmas tree glittering with lights and ornaments. Several men were standing around a table set for dinner with bottles of beer in their hands. A woman came in from another room to put a
dish on the table and got a slap on the g rear end from one of the men. A small girl was straggling to take a toy car fl from a smaller girl and a young boy T was rattling a gift-wrapped package, k Suddenly the boy looked up and saw 1 Hank through the window. Hank S knocked. When the boy opened the door, | crying and laughter blasted out mingled | with Christmas carols from the radio. -4 The boy stared at Hank’s tilted head and f his open mouth and stepped back a f little.	%
“What d’ya want, mister?” he asked. | "Let me talk to your dad, Butch,” 5
said Hank.
A man came up behind the boy. He had a sport shirt on, open at the throat.
“I’m his dad, what do you want, bud?” The boy went back into the room.
“A fellow down the street said I could get a room here,” Hank said.
“Sorry, we got a lotta people stayin’ here for Christmas.” The man took a puff on his cigarette.
“Look, I don’t need a private room. (Hank cleared his throat.) Just someplace inside. I’ve got asthma and a night out on the desert doesn’t do me no good.”
A woman came up behind the man and looked over his shoulder. “What does he want, Jim?”
“He wants a room but I just told him we don’t have it.”
The woman smiled. She was a woman in her thirties, heavily made up, and wearing a shiny red dress. She had several holly leaves stuck in her hair. “Ah Jim, let him in. It’s Christmas.”
Hank glanced at her smile. “Yeah, lady. But I’m not St. Joseph,” he said quietly.
He watched the puzzlement spread over her face, and then the door slammed and he turned away. He walked a few yards and then put down his bag and looked out into the desert. The wind had stopped and the sand spread into the twilight horizon in smooth ripples. Night was drawing a chilly blueblackness across the sky. Hank opened his bag and took out a battered cap. He pulled it tight over his head, picked up his bag and again brushed it off.
a

%

The Scholastic
by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.
Can we still speak of peace in 1958, a year that saw the nation and the world hover dangerously on the brink of war? Our 40 billion dollar defense program is hardly reassuring. What of the peace promised by the angels on that great night at Bethlehem? We still sing their song, but perhaps we ask ourselves whether we still believe in its promise: “Peace on earth to men of good will.” Are we of good will? Are there no longer any men of good will?
Why when Christmas is near, this joyful activity? these preparations for the feast? these cities full of lights? In some courses of anthropology this annual splurge would be explained as man’s yearning for the sun and the adaptation of pagan feasts of the winter solstice. We don’t think that these explanations are adequate. Christianity has so deeply penetrated into our lives, social and individual, that the various levels of our society, as unbelieving as it may be, are formed by it. We think, too, that it touches man in a spot so sensitive that no one, even the unbeliever, can remain deaf to its appeal.
For us Christians, Christmas is not
CHRISTMAS SU by Pope St. Leo
Today oui- Savior was born, dearly beloved; let us rejoice. For it is not right to give any place to sorrow, on the birthday of the Life which, by destroying our fear of death, brought us the joy of the promised eternity. No one is excluded from sharing in this eagerness. One single reason for joy is common to all of us because, just as our Lord, the Destroyei' of sin and of death, finds no one free from guilt, so He comes to deliver everyone. Let the saint rejoice, because he approaches his reward; let the sinner rejoice, because he is invited to forgiveness; let the Gentile be revived because he is called to life. For the Son of God, in the fullness of time which was decreed by the inscrutable depths of the Divine Wisdom, took on the nature of the human race to reconcile it to its Maker, so that the deviser of death, the devil, might be conquered by that nature which had been conquered by him.
In this conflict undertaken on our behalf, the battle was fought according to a great and marvelous law of equality, the Omnipotent Lord engaging His savage foe not in one majesty proper to Him, but in our lowly nature, presenting to him the same form and the same nature as ours — in fact, sharing in our
December 12, 1958
'f Qood Off ill”
a myth. The manger is both the humble representation of a historic fact and the symbol of a mysterious reality, of the most marvelous gift made to the earth, since on that day God gave himself to us: “And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us.” How right we are in counting our years beginning with that event, for since then everything has changed; it is really the beginning of a new era, and mankind will never be the same.
But how can we reconcile this optimism with the present turmoil and insecurity? It is not for us to reconcile; but we should come to an understanding. God’s promise is eternal and is not brought to naught, not even by malevolent man. We have to turn to the last moments of Christ’s life, just before the final ordeal of His Passion, to touch the meaning that Christ put on that word, ‘peace’. “Peace I leave with you,” Christ told his apostles, “my peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you.” (John 14:25-26) The world at best can give only external peace and that it gives sparingly if the last fifty years of the world’s history is
mortality, but completely free of all sin. How different is this birth from what is read of all men: “No one is free from stain, not even an infant, whose life on earth lasts one day.” For, in this unique birth, none of the concupiscence of the flesh was transmitted, nothing from the law of sin was passed on. A royal virgin is chosen; of the house of David who, in becoming pregnant with one holy Child, conceived her divine and human Son first in her soul before she conceived Him with her body. Lest, not knowing the divine plan, she might tremble at the unexpected news (of her motherhood), she learned from the angel’s words what was to be effected in her by the Holy Spirit so that she would not believe it to be any cause of harm to her modesty, that she was soon to be the Mother of God.
So therefore, dearly beloved, let us give thanks to God the Father, through His Son in the Holy Spirit, that because of the great love with which He loved us, He had pity on us; and, though we were dead in our sins. He gave us life together in Christ, that in Him we might be a new creation, a new fashioning. Let us then, put off the old man with his deeds; and, having obtained a share in (Continued on page 25)
any indication. The peace that Jesus brings is a different one and he gives it in a different way. His peace is a spiritual reality and here is how St. Augustine defines it: “It is serenity of mind, tranquility of soul, simplicity of heart, the bond of love, the communication of charity.” That peace, says Christ, is my peace; it is the peace of a man who was soon to be condemned, tortured, dead. And he bequeaths it, leaves it as an inheritance to men who themselves will experience fear, exile, persecution, martyrdom.
It is that peace which is announced by the angels at Christmas. This peace, as explained by Christ’s existence, is
absolutely independent of the peace cf the world. While the Church does not give up praying for external peace, peace among nations and peace among classes and peace among races, it is still at the roots a spiritual reality and will exist externally only to the extent that it fills the hearts of peoples.
“Let not your hearts be troubled, or be afraid.” For as long as you cling to me, as the branches to the vine, your life is not endangered. “He who believes in me, even if he be dead, will live, for I will raise him on the last day!” That is the source of real peace; it has never failed the faithful. That peace has remained with them even in their prison, concentration camp, in the face of death.
It is meet and right to sing with the Angels of the peace promised men of good will. God does not fail us in his promises. True Peace is within everyone’s reach and through it alone will the world achieve a peaceful future.
Christmas Liturgy
(Taken from Vigil Service for Christmastide, by Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C.)
The text of the three Masses of Christmas presents the mystery of Christ, Who was born of the Virgin Mary as: the Light of Truth; as Prince of Peace and eternal King; as the divine Bearer to men of the grace by which they may be reborn as children of God and brothers and sisters of Christ.
The fact of the birth of Jesus our Savior from the Virgin Mary, and our joy in this wonderful mystery run like golden threads through the whole texture of the day’s liturgy. These two themes are to be found especially in the Gospels of the Masses, and in the commentaries on these Gospels by St. Gregory, St. Ambrose and St. Augustine. The Gospels of the first two Masses (Luke 2, 1-20) tell the story of Christ’s birth at Bethlehem, in a stable, while “night was in the midst of her course.” No one on earth was aware of this
BOOK REVIEW
The Academic Mind is a basic study of the state of academic freedom in the American university. Its conclusions are drawn from personal interviews of 2451 social scientists from 165 colleges of various sizes and quality. The authors, both sociologists at Columbia University, are more interested in the objectivity and truthfulness of their report than they are in its popular marketability. In other words, those readers who anticipate or seek spicy tidbits garnished with a scholastic sauce might as well expect mysticism in an accounting text. The book is so steeped in statistics and graphs that the average reader will find it relatively dry reading and perhaps somewhat incomprehensible in parts. This is not a criticism of the book’s value, but an observation. Messrs. La-zarsfeld and Thielens, Jr., have not proceeded under the assumption that positive action can only be stimulated by glaring examples of the faults discovered. Consequently the book is not overburdened with examples of outrageous oppressions against certain individuals of the academic world. The authors even state that the occasions of this type of oppression were not reported by a majority of the interviews, but add that it is significant to note that many of them suffered various degrees of apprehension due to the possibility of such oppression, and that some consequently altered their expiessions of opinion both publicly and in the classroom even when they did not alter their actual opinions.
The authors, who are both in favor of liberal academic freedom, state the problem in terms of ultimate results.
24
greatest of God’s wonders except Our Lady herself and St. Joseph, until the angels made it known with their song of praise “Glory be to God in the highest,” and their message to the shepherds to look for the “sign” — a Child wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. The reason for our rejoicing is, primarily, the same as that for the rejoicing of the angelic hosts — that a Savior has been born to mankind, who will bring true peace to men of good will. And the Gospel of the Third Mass is the Prologue of St. John’s Gospel, presenting us with the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity in His eternal existence as the Word of God, and in His becoming man and dwelling amongst us.
As the eternal Word of the Father, Jesus was begotten “in the brightness of the saints, from the womb before the day-star” (Gradual of the First Mass). He is, therefore, as the Epistle of the Third Mass tells us, “the Brightness of
Since oppression breeds oppression, the individual who makes an attack against an individual professor may feel only his subjective righteousness as he feels it applies to the particular case, while he is myopically blind to the possible far-reaching effects of his attack. The authors have attempted to reveal some of these remote but significant consequences. They also consider the professor as a means to sociological development and not only as a teacher of established knowledge. A state which condemns mistakes discourages the new; a state which perversely tries to protect the established norms is in danger of stagnation and death. Messrs. Lazars-feld and Thielens see the oppression of academic freedom as an attack against the quality of the American college education. Besides the serious consideration of the individual’s integrity and freedom, the book touches upon two consequential problems; the value of academic freedom to all, even those whose ideas are radical or are currently unaccepted, and the outsider’s attitude towards academics and their teachings.
The book is extremely valuable as a needed benchmark to which later surveys can refer. Although the intricacies of the study will cause the average reader to miss much of its significance, it does provide some basic information about the world of the teaching profession which was not previously available and it should be of immense value to other social scientists who are more familiar with such techniques and to those who are concerned with the same or similar problems.
— by Will Kilbourne
(His Father’s) glory and the figure of | His substance.” As Savior of mankind, -i His birth was announced to the shep- 1 herds by the angels while “the glory of ’ the Lord shone round about them” | (Gradual of the First Mass)). And in g the Collect of this Mass, the Church ) prays: “O God, Who hast made this 1 most holy night to be radiant with the | brightness of the true Light, grant, we pray Thee, that we who have known the I mystery of His light on earth, may at- ' tain to the enjoyment of His happiness in heaven.” Christ appeared as the Light shining out in the darkness of the first Christmas night; Light arising from the darkness is also one of the most characteristic figures used by J Isaias to describe God’s redeeming of Israel from the depths of exile and sorrow, and the restoration of David’s everlasting kingdom. This figure is used in the Introit of the Second Mass: “A light shall shine upon us this day, for the Lord is born to us; and He shall be called Wonderful ...” And again, the < Gospel of the Third Mass and St. < Augustine’s commentary on it dwell on ' the idea of Jesus as being the Light of | men by reason of his Incarnation ...” | in Him was life, and life as the light 1 of men, and the light shineth in the darkness, and darkness did not comprehend it” (John 1, 4-5).	ki
And, finally, in the Preface for Christmas, the meaning and the effects 1 of our celebration of the mystery of the Incarnation and Birth of Christ are ; summed up in terms of light: “We i should always give thanks to Thee —	‘
because by the mystery of the Word made flesh the new light of Thy brightness has shone out to the eyes of our mind; so that, while we know Him to be God made visible, by Him we may | be drawn to the love of things invisible.”
The Divine Office expresses this idea j and tells us how Christ brings us peace 1 and establishes His kingdom: “Today 1 true peace came down to us from J heaven. Today the skies rain down -f sweetness over- the whole world. Today 4 has shone upon us the new day of re- H demption, the restoration of what was t of old, of eternal happiness.” And in the I Introit of the Second Mass, the new- |g born Savior is called “God, the Prince II of Peace, the Father of the world to 3 come, of whose reign there shall be « no end” (Isaias 9,6).	W
As the Christmas liturgy constantly R proclaims, the newborn Savior is the a Son of God. He is therefore Himself the M “great sacrament of God’s loving- ® kindness” as St. Paul says, the visible S Sign and cause of divine grace. This is O why His light, His peace, His kingship H bring us joy. So, in the Secret Prayer S of the First Mass, we ask that our of- O fering of ourselves may be pleasing to ^1 the Lord so that, by the bountiful out-	g
pouring of Thy grace, through this	||
sacred exchange (of gifts), we may be 41 found refashioned in the image of Him, in Whom our substance is present with « Thee.” In the Secret Prayer of the	s|
Second Mass, we pray for peace, and	W
also for participation in Christ’s divine	Mi
nature: “May our gifts, we pray Thee,	«
The Scholastic	S
!
O Lord, prove fitting to the mysteries k of today’s feast of the Nativity, and may they pour down peace upon us always: so that, as He Who was bom as man also shone out as God, so this substance taken from the earth may confer on us that which is divine.” In the Secret of the Third Mass, we ask that the birth of God’s only begotten Son > may “cleanse us from the stains of our

sins.” And in the Post Communion of the same Mass, we pray “that as He Who was bom today the Savior of the world is the Author of our divine rebirth; so He may also be to us the Giver of immortality.”
In brief, then, the special lesson and grace of Our Lord’s birthday in the flesh is this: God became man so that man might share in divine life, through grace on earth by glory in heaven.
S'

Christmas Sermon
(Continued from page 23) the re-birth given by Christ, let us renounce the works of the Flesh. Be aware of your dignity, 0 Christian; and, having been made a partaker of the divine nature, do not return to your one-time vileness by a degenerate way of life. Remember- of what a Head and of what a Body you are a member. Remember that you have been snatched from the powers of darkness, and brought over into the light and the Kingdom of God.
Applause!!!
(Continued from page 18) quickly grasped and laid at Mr. Pedtke’s feet.
Now I am sure that Notre Dame has a music department, because I know that couched in room 243 O’Shaughnessy is a musician of an almost miraculous assembly of gifts. Te Deum laudamus —for Pedtke!
i -
X‘-
1
►

'Cinderella Ball' to Begin SMC's Winter Carnival
The “Cinderella Ball,” a formal dance, will initiate the annual sophomore sponsored Winter Carnival at St. Mary’s Friday night January 9. The carnival’s theme this year will be “Snowbound in Storyland.”
Highlighting the Carnival’s Saturday afternoon activities will be an ice show starring Patty Edwards of St. Mary’s and Hugh Dean, of Notre Dame. Ice skating and indoor and outdoor games are also scheduled. Climaxing the carnival will be a box supper.
Mary Ellen Berry is general chairman of the carnival. Other chairmen are: Ruth Putnam, decorations; Mary Ellen Vaughan, publicity; Barbara Breen, finance; Sue Metzger, indoor games; Mary Roemer, outdoor- games; Diana Wiese, skits; Connie Sheridan, ice show; Dottie Nebel, refreshments; and Kathy O’Connor, arrangements.
The dance chairman is Barbara
Burke; rainy day will be headed by Wini Tennis, and Katie Herbstritt will handle bids. Hostess of the carnival
At the Movies
AVON
No Sun in Venice: (Dec. 12-19). A cast better known in Europe than here approaches the obviously sordid components of this particular melodrama with arty ineptitude. Co-Feature: W. C. Fields Festival.
The Silken Affair: (Dec. 18-25). Co-Feature: The Golden Age of Comedy.
COLFAX
Wolf Larsen: (Dec. 12-16). Stars Barry Sullivan, Peter Graves.
Tom Thumb: (Dec. 19-30). About which I know absolutely nothing.
Besides, I don’t know about you, but I, for one, am going to have better things to do on the 19th than go to a show.
GRANADA
Giant: (Dec. 12-16). Edna Ferber’s epic of love, money, oil and life. Filmed in the second largest state in the Union. Stars don’t knock the Rock ’ Hudson, James Dean, and Elizabeth Taylor.
Co-Feature: Mister Roberts. War, it seems, can be fun. Henry Fonda, Jack Lemmon.
The Buccaneer: (Dec. 17-30). Now here is a good movie! Of course none of us are going to be around to see it, but here is a gocd movie.- Yul Brynner, Charlton Heston, Charles Boyer, Claire Bloom, Inger Stevens, Technicolor, VistaVision.
PALACE
The Last Hurrah: (Dec. 12-30). A rich saga of old-time American political life, done with splendid authority by a cast of real old “pros,” with pace and spirit. Adapted from the Edwin O’Connor novel of the same name. Mr. O’Connor is, incidentally, a graduate of Notre Dame. Spencer Tracy, Basil Rathbone, Jeffrey Hunter.
RIVER PARK
The Prince and The Show Girl: (Dec. 12-13). Sir Laurence Olivier and his wife starred.
Co-Feature: Shoot Out at Medicine Bend. Randolph Scott. In, of all things, a Western.
The Safecracker: (Dec. 14-17). Ray Milland cracks a safe.
Co-Feature: Until They Sail.
I Accuse: (Dec. 18-20). Based on the tragic Dreyfus affair, one of the ugliest incidents in French history. Literate performances given by Jose Ferrer, Anton Walbrook, and Viveca Lindfors.
Co-Feature: Handle With Care. Moral: a cry of distress can take precedence over the dry forms of legal enactments. Stars, tritely yet appropriately enough, Dean Jones and John Smith.
STATE
From Earth to the Moon: (Dec. 12). No comment.
Co-Feature: Flaming Frontier.
Tarawa Beachhead: (Dec. 13-16). “Nobody knows anybody. That’s a fact, General.”
Co-Feature: Life Begins at 17. Sometimes, in my wild imaginings, I “picture” the State as a sort of Middle West Cape Canaveral. Hollywood’s proving ground, you might say, for bad movies.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Reluctant Debutante: (Dec. 13). Kay Kendall, Rex Harrison, John Saxon, and Sandra Dee together explode a rocket of comedy that is certain to outshine anything offered in South Bend Saturday night.
—LECIL STARKLOFF
»»
is Harriet Asman.
December 12, 1958
25
MILITARY SUPPLIES
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
WORMSER
BRINGS YOU THE AUTHENTIC
NEW BOWLER
LIGHT . . . TRIM . . . SMART AND ONLY . . .
$7.95
Other prices to 8.95 - 9.95
WORMSER
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
Insignias
For: Hamilton -■ Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
Gendel's Surplus Sales PARKAS AND WINTER CLOTHES You Save Everyday at GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.
J.M.S. Bldg.
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS AND STAFF!
SAVE UP TO 50%
You are now eligible to buy thousands of nationally advertised items at WHOLESALE PRICES through the ATLAS DISTRIBUTING CO.
Send $1.00 which is refunded on your first purchase to obtain the large new WHOLESALE CATALOG listing Electrical Appliances, Cameras, Radios, Television, HiR, Watches, Luggage, Furniture, Typewriters and many more items.
216 S. MICHIGAN ST.
NEXT TO THE STATE
WRITE TO:
ATLAS DISTRIBUTING CO., 605 So. Dearborn St., Chicago 5, III.
before every date

after every shave
Splash on Old Spice Aber Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze, Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you're at your best
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO
plus tax
by SHULTON
26
The Scholastic
Spa/di Pickm
Cagers Begin Tour of Big Ten at Wisconsin; Compete in Bluegrass, Hoosier Tournaments
Notre Dame’s highly-rated basketball team makes their first road trip of the season tomorrow. The Irish travel to Madison, Wis., to face the Wisconsin Badgers, losers of a 78-37 game to Rice last Saturday.
Next home game for the Coach Johnny Jordan’s Irish will be Wednesday against the Michigan State Spartans and All-American Johnny Green.
The Badgers, doormat of the Big Ten for the past few seasons, don’t seem to have to rely on sophomores, and the Big this season. Coach Bud Foster will have to rely on sophomores, and'the Big Ten is a rugged grind for first year men.
Top ball players on the Badger squad are Brian Kulas, a 6-6 forward who was third in scoring on the squad last year, Bob Barneson, a 6-4 forward, 6-7 Bob Stack, who has recovered from an injury which sidelined him last season, and .6-4 Fred Clow. Foster has 6-7 center Ray Gross back also, but he has only a half-season of eligibility left.
Sophomores who could help out- the Badgers are Bob Rossin, a 6-7 center, and Dave Tremaine, a 6-0 guard.
Michigan State, an old nemesis for the Irish in any sport, will be just as tough this season as they are one of the favorites for the Big Ten title. With Green, a 6-5 jumping-jack, back for another year the Spartans have a good chance of taking both the Big Ten title and the Midwest NCAA regional crown.
Leading the parade for MSU are 6-3 Bob Anderegg, who with Green bore the brunt of the scoring attack last year. He hit for 20 against Detroit last Saturday. Two other top players are Horace
i-
Walker, a 6-3 guard, and Tom Rand, a 6-2 backcourt man. Walker and Rand hit for 17 and 14 points respectively against Detroit.
Next week end the Irish travel to Louisville, Ky., where they will participate in the annual Bluegrass Festival. Entered with Notre Dame in the tournament are North Carolina, Northwestern, and Louisville.
On Friday night the Irish will face North Carolina, and Louisville meets the Wildcats. Saturday, the winners will meet for the championship, and the losers will clash for consolation honors.
North Carolina, losers of an 87-70 game to the Irish last season, are not as strong this season but will have a height edge on the Notre Dame eagers.
Probable starters for the Tar Heels will be Lee Shaffer, a 6-7 junior who moves with finesse around the boards, 6-9 Dick Kepley, York Larese, a 6-4 forward who was shelved with an injwy last year, and guards Ray Stanley and Harvey Saiz. Saiz is a fine playmaker and has a good one-handed shot from the outside.
Northwestern, led by Joe Ruklick, Nick Mantis, and company, made an appearance in the Field House last Monday where they tipped the Irish, 68-63, in a hard-fought game. Ruklick had 30 points.
Louisville has a wealth of -talent with four of five starters from last year’s squad tested reserves, and a promising group of sophomores. The starters returning are 6-5 Don Goldstein, a top scorer and rebounder who gave ND a rough time last season, Alex Mantel, small for a forward at 6-2, and guards
Roger Tieman and Harry Andrews. The center slot is being fought for by two big men, senior Bill Geiling (6-7) and sophomore Fred Sawyer (6-10).
After a layoff for Christmas Day, the Jordanmen will play in the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis, Dec. 26-27. The Irish are defending champions, but both Indiana and Purdue are in the tournament and will offer stiff opposition. Indiana showed that they have found replacements for the gap left by the graduation losses of Archie Dees and Sam Gee. The Hoosiers gave powerful Kansas State a scare before bowing 8279 in overtime.
Indiana is bolstered up front by 6-7 Frank Radovich, a starter last year, sophomore Walt Bellamy, who stands 6-10, and Ron Horn, who netted 14 against Kansas State.	•-
In the backcourt Herbie Lee, a highly-touted soph, and Bob Wilkinson, a junior, round out a lineup of three sophs and two juniors.	.
Purdue has its entire starting five
back from last year’s third place finishers in the Big Ten. At center is Wilson Eison, holder of a 14.5-point average last year. The forwards will be held down by Bill Greve and Bob Fehrman. Fehrman, Greve, and Eison are all 6-5.
Purdue’s backcourt duties are handled by a pair of top scorers in Willie Merriweather and Harvey Austin. Merriweather got 20 in a 65-57 win over Missouri. Austin averages close to twelve points a game.	-
Butler rounds out the four-team tournament. Returning for Butler are Ken Pennington and Bill Scott. Pennington was one of the top scorers against the Irish at the Field House last season when the Irish walked off with a victory.
The next two encounters for the Green will be away from home and during the vacation period. On Dec. 31, they take on Northwestern again, this time at Evanston. Jan. 3 finds the Irish ait Charlotte, N. C., where they will face North Carolina for the second time.
Notre Dame returns home on Jan. 6, to play host to Butler University in the first of two consecutive home games.
In the second of these two home games, Notre Dame hosts Detroit University on Jan. 10. The Titans have three starters back from last year’s squad which lost a 104-96 ball game to the Irish, plus a seven-foot newcomer.
John Belohlavak, a 6-2 senior, Ralph Uchison, a sharp-shooting forward, and guard Ray Albee, a 5-9 junior, head the returnees from last year’s Detroit five. Belohlavak is a rugged rebounder and got 15 points against the Spartans last week.
The seven-foot sophomore is Peter Corbett. He was put in to try to stop Michigan State’s Green last Saturday but was ineffective. His size will help after he has a few games’ experience.
GENE DUFFY Diminutive Irish playmaker
27
Fencing Team Takes 19-Match Winning Skein Into Season-Opening Meet with U. of Detroit
Notre Dame’s fencing team will place its 19-match winning streak on the line when it opens its 1959 season against Detroit University on Jan. 9 in the Field House. The Irish fencers were the only undefeated Notre Dame varsity squad last year, winning 16 matches. The fencers won the last three matches of the 1957 season.
Coach Walter Langford has ten monogram winners returning to the squad, but graduation losses include last year’s Captain Dick Fagon, All-American Ron Farrow, Gerry Meyer, and John Kearns, all three-year veterans of varsity competition. Fagon was the Irish leader in the sabre last year with his 31-11 record. Fagon also grabbed twelfth place in NCAA competition last year. Farrow, who posted a 32-6 slate last year, was an All-American pick by virtue of his third-place finish in the NCAA tourney. Meyer, a veteran in the sabre division, posted a 24-11 card last year while Kearns had a 13-9 record in the epee division. The Green suffered no losses in the foil.
The foil should be the strongest division in the Irish attack this year with three monogram winners, who scored 82 points between them last year, returning, Jim Russomano posted a 33-7 record last year and garnered fourth place honors in the NCAA tourney. Jerry Johnson finished close behind Russomano with his 29-12 record while John Lauerman won 20 while dropping one less.
Co-Captain Joe Klein has rejoined the squad after a year’s absence. Klein was injured on a Naval cruise two summers ago and was forced to remain out of school last year. In his junior year, Klein posted an impressive 21-8 sabre record. Pat Green and Tom Lee are ex
Two of Langford's top returning lettermen
JERRY JOHNSON	JIM RUSSOMANO
pected to back up Klein. Green won 21 duels last year while losing 14. Lee . lost only two last year while posting eleven triumphs.
The other co-captain is Joe Jock. Jock, a three-year veteran, posted a 33-7 record in the epee last year and just missed a trip to the NCAA tourney. Dan Clancy who had a 12-6 record and Jim Brogan who won six while dropping four will probably get the nod for the second and third slots in the division.
Also expected to see action this year in the foil will be sophomore Ted Bares and junior Norb Spitzer. In the sabre division will be senior Klaus Muller-Bergh and juniors Ted DeBaene, John Wursta and Gene Spejewski. The epee will have Pete Giamo who won three and lost none last year and Jack Ro-nayne who won one match last year. According to Coach Langford, the team has “a solid core of very promising sophomores and juniors. We have a balanced team with the all-important depth that the team needs.”
The fencers will duel in 17 matches this year. After Detroit, the Langfordmen will travel to Cleveland to meet Oberlin on January 16 and Case, Fenn, and Western Reserve on January 17. The Green took the measure of Detroit 18-9 last season. Case and Fenn are usually experienced squads who can prove tough for the fencers. Oberlin and Western Reserve are new opponents this year.
The Irish return to the Field House on January 31 for a meet with Buffalo and Indiana Tech. Buffalo gave the Irish their toughest test last year. The Green squeeked by with a 14-13 rally. The Irish walloped Tech 22-5 last season.
The Langfordmen will then depart for their longest trip of the year. They will
meet the Air Force Academy on February 6 in Colorado, Springs, Colo., and Iowa and Indiana in Iowa City on February 7. The Academy is expected to be tough this year with a team of three-year veterans returning. The Irish won 15-12 last year in a close match. Iowa fell 18-9, and the Hoosiers lost 21-6, last season. On February 14, Wayne State and Chicago will meet the Irish in Chicago. Wayne fell 18-9 while Chicago was trampled 23-4 a year ago.
In their last home meet of the season, the Irish will meet Michigan State and
WALTER LANGFORD
Winningest coach in school
Ohio State in the Field House on Febru- * ary 21. The Irish took the Spartans 16-11 and the Buckeyes 18-9 last year. j
The fencers will finish their season
in Madison, Wis., where they will meet 1
Illinois and Wisconsin on February 28.
The Illini and Badgers are usually Midwestern powerhouses and Notre Dame’s toughert opponents. The Irish beat . Illinois twice last year, 16-11 and 17-10, and took Wisconsin by a 16-11 margin. |
The three top men on the squad from each division will then travel to the ] Naval Academy for the NCAA, championships on March 20-21. The Lang- | formen finished in sixth place last year. J
A match consists of 27 points. Each | division has nine matches with three i men usually dueling for each squad. To I score a point a fencer must score five touches against his opponent with his ; weapon. The minimum winning margin 7 for a team is 14 points.	|
In commenting on the season, Mr.
Langford said that “with normal de- fl velopment, barring any physical in- ® juries, and with the return of ten W monogram winners, we look forward to « a successful season. We should have jl difficulty, though, with our first few op- g ponents who will have already partic- 1 ipated in several matches before we I start our season.”	I
1
The Scholastic |
28
Tankers Host Badgers In Initial Home Meet
Notre Dame’s embryonic swimming team opens its home schedule tomorrow afternoon, meeting Detroit Institute of Technology and the University of Wisconsin of Milwaukee. It will be the second meet of the season for the Irish tankmen.
Last Saturday, the team opened its season at the University of Chicago. The two squads battled to a 43-43 tie in the first intercollegiate swimming meet for a Notre Dame team. Coach Dennis Stark’s boys won four firsts in the ten-event meet and piled up enough seconds to tie the Maroons.
Jim Garrity, Paul Chestnut, Jim Sauer, and the 400-yard medley relay team were the first-place winners for the Big Green. Garrity won the 200-yard backstroke in the time of 2:24.6. Chestnut topped all in the diving competition with an aggregate total of 213.8 points. Sauer came home firrt in the 200-yard breaststroke. His winning time was 2:43.7. The medley relay team of Garrity, George May, Tom Moran, and Joe Meany was timed in 4:15.7.
TEAM BALANCE
Team balance keynoted the tie. The Irish picked up points in every event except the 400-yard freestyle relay. Tom Londrigan, a senior, took thirds in the 220-yard and 440-yard freestyle events. In the 60-yard freestyle, Chris Lund and Bill Cronin finished second and third respectively. In the 100-yard freestyle, the order of finish was reversed as Cronin came in second and Lund finished third. Jim Carroll took a third behind Chestnut in the diving competition.
In the distance races, Tony Haske and Dick Dunn placed second and third in the 200-yard butterfly event. Dick Katis finished second behind Garrity in the 200-yard backstroke. May followed Sauer home in the 200-yard breaststroke.
HARD SCHEDULE
Throughout the season the Irish will be meeting topnotch competition. Meets have been scheduled with such swimming powers as Bowling Green, Ohio University, Central Michigan, and North Central College.
The remaining meets on schedule for the 1958-59 year are as follows:
Dec. 13 Sat. Triangular Meet Here Jan. 10 Sat. North Central There Jan. 15 Thur. Ind’polis Ath. Club Here Feb. 7 Sat. Ohio University Here Feb. 11 Wed. Bowling Green U. Here Feb. 14 Sat. Western Michigan Here Feb. 19 Thur. Riviera Club of
Indianapolis	There
Feb. 21 Sat. St. Louis Univ. There Feb. 25 Wed. Loyola University There Feb. 27 Fri. Central Michigan Here Mar. 7 Sat. Midwest Invitational
December 12, 1958
TIME OUT
A week ago last Wednesday marked the beginning of Coach Johnny Jordan’s eighth season as leader of Notre Dame basketball forces. Although the comparative ease with which the Irish triumphed over Bellarmine is not typical of Notre Dame games because of the schedule which grows harder each year, Jordan has produced at Notre Dame winning teams in six of his seven previous seasons. His only losing season came in 1955-6 when the Irish dropped 15 of 24 games.
After his only losing season, however, he led his 1956-7 team to a 20-8 year* in which the Irish closed the year competing in the NCAA regional championships and were rated 16th in the country at the season’s end.
Last year Jordan’s team won 24 games while dropping only five. The Irish went to the finals of the NCAA regionals and were ranked seventh and eighth in the AP and UP polls respectively.
Also Jordan has taken Irish teams to the NCAA regionals in two successive years once before, in the 1952-3 and 1953-4 seasons. In the latter year, the Irish finished the season with a 22-3 mark, including NCAA play, the best mark a Notre Dame team has compiled under Jordan. Only last year’s team won more games than the 1953-4 squad.
COACH’S PART IN TEAM’S SUCCESS
Since Notre Dame cannot command as many fine athletes as some of the larger basketball powers around the country, much of the Irish success ovei- this seven-year span belongs to the grey-haired coach who very seldom strays from his position at mid-court during the team’s drills.
Just as his practices often follow pretty much the same pattern and almost always include a scrimmage, his style of basketball remains the same each year. Jordan has a system which he makes work so well that other teams perennially find the Irish one of the harder teams on their schedule.
Because Jordan’s offense is not complicated and is not fast, it does not have some of the spectator appeal that a fast-break team, such as St. Louis U. under then- former coach Eddie Hickey, has. Jordan, instead of placing spectator appeal as his foremost objective, puts scoring points as his most important goal, and he sets up his offense to score points, whether • or not it is popular.
Very seldom does one of Coach Jordan’s players shoot from more than 20 feet away from the basket. The important facet of his offense is to play for the good shot with emphasis on picks and screens. His offense emphasizes teamwork rather than letting individuals shoot at random from all over the court. While Jordan’s offense may not be the most exciting in the country, his teams won 124 games in seven seasons, an average of close to 18 games a year. Even though he has two major losses from last year’s squad and a harder schedule than last year, I feel sure that he will extract from this year’s players the most that they as a team can give and will produce as successful a season as the Irish could possibly have.
ANOTHER EXCELLENT JOB
Coach Alex Wilson again this past season guided the Notre Dame cross-country squad to a very creditable finish in the NCAA championships run at East Lansing, Mich. He had lost Dale VandenBerg, Ed Monnelly and others from last year’s national championship squad.
Wilson took a predominantly young squad, on which Mike Haverty, the team captain, was the only senior among the key personnel, and again led the Irish harriers through an undefeated dual meet season and a series of impressive performances in the larger invitational meets at the end of the season.
The last two meets were the high points of the year for the harriers. They came through with an outstanding performance in the IC4A championships in New York, and sophomore distance star Ron Gregory captured second place behind Michigan State’s Crawford Kennedy. Then the Irish grabbed fourth place in the NCAA tourney, just three points behind third-place Army. Gregory was again top Irish finisher; he placed 13th.
Heartiest congratulations to Coach Wilson and his squad for a truly successful season, the second in a row.—T.T.
New Kampus Kegler League Now In Action; Jim Miller Bowls Rare Three-game Series
Having waited until the completion of the home football season, the Geographical Club league joins the list of campus leagues this week. The league is composed of four-man teams representing the Kansas City, Kentucky, Minnesota, Jersey, Detroit, and Capital District clubs.
Bowling in the Kampus Kegler Blue league, Jim Miller strung a 115 triplicate series. Rolling on the same alleys as Miller, Jim DeBernard missed a 142 triplicate when a wobbling pin fell to give him 143 in the third game. A triplicate, three identical scores in a series, merits a shoulder patch from the ABC.
Pete Glovna of the Cleveland Club “B” team joined the “Sour Apples Club” when he left the 5-7-10 split standing after the first ball. Not to be outdone by the Kampus Keglers, bowlers in the Classic league left the same split twice the following week. Unfortunately, none of the three bowlers converted this rather rare split.
Harriers Close Season; Indoor Practice Opens
Now that his cross-country squad has completed its season, Coach Alex Wilson has turned his attention to the Notre Dame track team and the indoor track season ahead. Although Notre Dame’s first meet isn’t until February 7 when the Irish face Michigan State, Wilson is already conditioning his charges for the heavy schedule ahead.
Chief job for Wilson during these early practices will be to find able replacements for Dale VandenBerg, Joe Foreman, Don Faley, and Jack Cote, and other outstanding runners who graduated last spring.
Ron Gregory, top runner on the crosscountry squad, will run in the one and two-mile events. Jerry Fitzpatrick will compete in the sprints, the 60-yard dash being his speciality. Dan Rorke and Chris Monahan are top middle-distance runners, and Ray Ratkowski has been impressive in the quarter-mile. Dick Monjeau is scheduled to high-jump and broad-jump for the Irish. All of the above mentioned are sophomores.
The captains of this year’s squad are Steve Dornbach a hurdler, and Mike Haverty who runs the mile. Barkley Ewart, Frank Hemphill, and Dave Cotton also return to the Notre Dame track scene this year.
Wilson stated that the prospects for a top season look dim right now, but “if the sophs come through, it could be a very interesting season.”
Concerning the harrier’s fourth place finish in the NCAA, Wilson stated that he considered Notre Dame did very well to have finished fourth, considering the loss of four top runners from last year’s championship squad.
30
The Classic League keglers continue to roll higher scores each week. Last week LaSalle Hotel scored a season high of 1006-2710, only to be topped this week by Palais Royale’s 1036-2733.
GEOGRAPHICAL CLUBS Capital District “A” ........ 4-0
Capital District “B” ........ 4-0
Minnesota Club ............   4-0
Detroit Club..................4-0
Keith Hauge, 173-159-148—480; Ray Maturi, 162-111-191—464; Bill White, 187; Bob Paquin, 179. Averages: Bob Weingart, 154; Bob Paquin, 152; Ray Maturi, 151. •
CLASSIC
LaSalle Hotel...............31-9
Project Construction ..... 28-12
Denny Panozzo, 226-206-205—637; Pat Heenan, 223-208-172—603; Stan Pecora, 223; Jim Flannery, 218; Ted Nekic, 217213; Fred Kleiderer, 203; Frank Pran-til, 202; Jerry Alberts, 201; Mick Re-dohl, 201; John Deibel, 200.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 194; Ray Grub-be, 186; Pat Heenan, 181.
KAMPUS KEGLER—RED
Holy Rollers “A” ....... 29%-	6%
Detroit Club “A” ......... 26-10
John Curran, 166-181-211—558; Ed Tejeira, 141-191-202—534; Burke Reilly, 214; Larry Hanahan, 198.
Averages: Earl Mossner, 176; Pat Heenan, 174; Jerry Cangiano, 172.
KAMPUS KEGLER—WHITE
St. Louis Club.............. 27-9
Holy Rollers “B”  .......... 22-14
Tom Tafelski, 196-201-175—572; Al Doering, 197-199-167—563; Martin Kubiak, 227; John Rafferty, 216; Jim Gilbert, 205.
Averages: Fred Hoey, 172; Bob Kriner, 167; Jerry Alberts, 164.
KAMPUS KEGLER—BLUE Northwest Motor Service..... 30-6 Detroit Club “B” ........... 28-8
Fred Vida, 158-201-220—579; Ray Grubbe, 189-181-170—540; Fred Kleiderer, 205; Ed Murphy, 196.
Averages: Tom Jablonski, 182; Fred Vida, 181; Ray Grubbe, 176.
KAMPUS KEGLER—YELLOW Cleveland Club “A” _________ 26-10
Michillos __________________ 24-12
Jim Flannery, 195-204-177—566; John Diebel, 191-167-180—538; Rocco Dan-tona, 199; Dave Gundling, 192.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 184; Frank Mullen, 175; Jim Flannery, 174.
KAMPUS KEGLER—GREEN
Jokers __________________________ 20-12
Fighting Five ___________________ 20-12
Father Baxter, 216-168-177 — 561;
Father Brennan, 159-182-200 — 541;
Wally Russell, 229; Frank Arnetta, 204.,
Averages: John Burns, 167; Phil Hul-ler, 158; Mike Auth, 156.	-
—Ed Silliman
Dillon Overpowers Stanford For Interhall Championship
Dillon’s heavier and stronger line and the hard running of halfback Dick Orsi guided Dillon to a 14-0 victory over Stanford last Sunday for the Interhall football championship.
The game, played on the snow-covered field in the Notre Dame Stadium, matched the winners of the two divisions of the Interhall program. Dillon represented the west while Stanford won the
east crown.
Orsi started the scoring in the first quarter with a 25-yard burst into the end zone on a slant off right tackle. Joe Cooper tried to pass for the two points, but the pass was incomplete.
Al Chonko then scored the second TD in the second quarter on a three-yard keeper which capped a drive of around 70 yards. The running of Orsi and Tony Shalloup highlighted the drive. Cooper tried to run for the extra points after he couldn’t pass, but he was forced out of bounds around the five-yard line.
Dillon picked up its final two points, on a safety when Corky Clark and Pat Heenan hit Jim Davis, Stanford quarterback, in the end zone. Just before this, Stanford had recovered a Dillon fumble on its own one-yard line to halt a Dillon drive. .
Defensively, Orlie Vaughan stood out for Stanford at his middle guard and . center positions while Tony Kaminski intercepted a pass, recovered a fumble, and knocked down three passes for Dillon.
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks
DECEMBER 12-19
Louisville over Alabama DePaul over Bowling Green Ohio State over Butler Kansas State over California Cincinnati over St. Louis Xavier over Detroit Holy Cross over Yale Illinois over COP Indiana over Missouri Iowa over Texas Tech Kansas State over San Francisco Notre Dame over Wisconsin Minnesota over Nebraska Marquette over NYU * North Carolina over South Carolina Notre Dame over Michigan State Rice over Louisiana State
Kentucky over St. Louis	•
Kansas, over USC
A) L
TYLER JR. PICKS THE *
BOWL GAMES *
ROSE BOWL Iowa over California SUGAR BOWL LSU over Clemson COTTON BOWL Air Force over TCU ORANGE BOWL Oklahoma over Syracuse
The Scholastic
i
Matmen Away for Two Meets First Home Match Thursday
Notre Dame’s wrestling squad is on the road for two meets this week end. Tonight they meet the Findlay Oilers of Findlay, Ohio, and tomorrow the matmen take on Wayne University of De> troit in a dual match. First home meet
*
A
>•
of the season for the Irish will be held in the Field House, Thursday, Dec. 18, against Western Michigan.
Competing for the Irish this year in the 123-lb. class, is senioi- letterman Ed Finlay. In the 130-lb. division, Jerry Sachsel returns. Last season Sachsel went undefeated in dual meets. .
Two sophomores are battling for a starting berth in the 137-lb. weight class. Gene Epperly and Dick Nielson are the leading candidates for the job. Dick Sapp, a junior, has the ’ 147-lb. class nailed down. Mickey Sundstrom and Tom Grojean are the starters in the 157 and 167-lb. classes respectively.
Team Captain Bucky O’Connor holds down the 177-lb. division as he did last season. Sophomore Al Salvino wrestles in the heavyweight class.
Coach Tom Fallon is not too optimistic about his team’s chances this season. He has two men injured, Gene McFadden and Frank Sheehy, whose return will bolster the squad’s strength in the 167-lb. division. Fallon also has Jim Bankin sidelined. Bankin has lost only-one dual meet in the past two seasons, and his return will give added strength, to the 137-lb. class.
This year’s schedule has two major additions in Northwestern and Cincinnati Universities. Both of these squads, along with Western Michigan and Wheaton, will provide the stiffest competition for the Notre Dame matmen.
The schedule:
12—Findlay........
13—Wayne U........
18—Western Michigan
There There Here Here Here
K Dec. ■ Dec. PI Dec. Q Jan. 31—Chicago U..........
, Feb. 14—Northwestern ....
Feb. 20-21—Wheaton Tourney Feb. 27—Cincinnati ......
Feb. 28—Miami (Ohio) ....
Mar. 6—Marquette ........
Mar. 7—Wheaton ..........
There There Here Here
STUDENT TOUR TO EUROPE with Dr. and Mrs. Geo. Mayer of Purdue University
Sail from New York—June 27
60 days—11 Countries
For free itinerary write IRVINES TRAVEL SERVICE 127 Northwestern Ave.
W. Lafayette, Ind.
KGDL ANSWER
C
A
C
A
A
C
□□□□□□
0
C
I
H
eWh
G
E
N
1
H
E
S
M
S
P
N
A
I
F
R
E
R E
O
L
S
E
S
M
U
A
D
R
E
P
A
S
R
N
E
P
□na □□□□
C^QEIEB
□snra
A
S
E
S
S
R|O|U

E
Switch -from Wots ■fo Snow Fresh KGDL
NOTICE
WARM-UP JACKETS
GOLD STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES 24-OUNCE WOOL NAVY MELTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED BLUE AND GOLD TRIMMED
Special $15.95
MINKOW'S
303 So. Michigan St. NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS
Home of Adam Hats, Massagic Shoes, and Campus Sports Clothes.
kWTURBOW yOPTOMKTVUST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5///
607 No. Michigan St.
also serving
ITALIAN SANDWICHES
CE 4-6688
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS—$2.00 MINIMUM
linos UBUBIud INK SUP
New Catholic Books* Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Aw., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Why Not Europe This Summer?
as low as $697 all-inclusive
SEE: Wm. A. Conway
265 Dillon Hall WRITE: NFCCS-NNCF
1 Thomas Circle ■ Washington 5, D. C.
December 12, 1958
31 '"
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
NOW!
big discounts for students and faculty
SHERATON HOTELS
with a Sheraton Student or Faculty I.D. card
Here’s how to cut your travel expenses. Sheraton Hotels have special low rates for students, faculty, and all other college per-• sonnel during weekends, vacations, and summer. Rates even lower with two or more people in the same room. Group rates are also available for dubs, teams, and other organizations.
Arrangements may be made for credit privileges at Sheraton Hotels. The Sheraton StudentFaculty Plan is good at all 48 Sheraton Hotels in 39 cities in the U. S. A. and in Canada.
You must present your I.D. card when you register at the hotel to be eligible for these special discounts.
Get jw Staataa I.D. cart fmc
JIM CRISMAN (Student Rep.)
Room 325, Walsh Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Phone: CEntral 4-9011 Code No. 83
32
Tomorrow at 8 p.m., the Student Voice of Notre Dame, WSND, will begin its coverage of the 1958-59 Irish basketball season. WSND will be broadcasting the Notre Dame-Wisconsin basketball game from Madison, Wise. WSND Sports Director, Mike Ahern and his staff will be with Notre Dame all through the basketball season to send the play by play of each game back to the campus.
This new program of Irish basketball is being made possible through the courtesy of Gilbert’s Campus Shop. It will be sponsoring the Irish road games all through the season according to the following schedule:
Dec. 13 Wisconsin at Madison, 8 p.m. Jan. 13 De Paul at Chicago, 8:15 p.m. Jan. 24 Illinois at Chicago, 8 p.m. Feb. 14 Kentucky at Chicago, 8 p.m. Feb. 16 Butler at Ind’polis, 7:15 p.m. Feb. 24 Marquette at Milw’kee, 8 p.m.
Law Symposium
(Continued from page 16)
The national welfare was emphasized by Davis. “The government wins its case only when justice is done, and consequently its lawyers have strong obligations not to be unfair or inflammatory,” he stated.
Meeker, expressed the belief that federal service generally offers above-normal opportunities for young lawyers to exercise individual responsibility and initiative, thus enabling them to readily develop their professional skills.
The wide range of government practice provides an unlimited horizon. “The chance for public service, combined with the challenge of a great variety of complex legal problems. . .is more than enough to excite enthusiasm.”
The Internal Revenue Service, Snyder declared, has a constant demand for lawyers with accounting backgrounds. -In this work he pointed out, “the compensation standards are good ($4,980 per year after a six month training period) and there are excellent opportunities for advancement.”
Their service is especially valuable since “the effectiveness of (America’s) defense depends in a large measure on the power and ability of our government to raise revenue by taxation; this is essential to the maintenance of our American way of life.”
—Roy Rubeli
CHRISTMAS PARTY
The annual Christmas Party, last date affair of the year 1958, will take place Saturday night. Time is 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. and tickets will be 75 cents per couple. Also, there will be a door prize.
CALENDAR
TODAY:
7-9 p.m.—Caroling party sponsored by the Blue Circle Service Society.
9-11 p.m.—Mixer in the Student Center, in conjunction with the caroling party.
SATURDAY:
8:30 p.m.—Christmas Ball, in the Student Center.
SUNDAY:	.
8 a.m.—Met club Mass with breakfast afterwards in the Morris Inn.
7 p.m.—Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., speaking in the Amphitheater of the Student Center on “St. Joseph and the First Advent.”
1-5 p.m.—Morrissey Hall mixer in the Rathskeller.
MONDAY:
7 p.m.—Meeting of the Delaware Valley , club in room 2B of the Student Center.
7:30 p.m.—Cleveland club meeting in the Engineering Auditorium.
3:30-5 and 7:30-9 p.m.—Met club sales of tickets for ride home at Service Bar of Student Center.
TUESDAY:
3:30-5 and 7:30-9 p.m.—Further Met club sales.
7:30 p.m.—Meeting of the Pacific Northwest club in room 2D of the Student Center.
8 p.m.—Debate, against Marquette, in the Amphitheater of the Student Center. Meeting of the Economics Roundtable, in the student lounge, room B-15 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. Discussion of future plans and a talk by Prof. Warren J. Bilkey on “New Developments in Market Forecasting.” Refreshments will be provided.
WEDNESDAY:
7 p.m.—Meeting of the “Ad Men” in room IB of the Student Center.	.
Keenan Hall Mixer in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
THURSDAY:
A meeting of the Labor Management club in the Student Center in the evening.
■ ADVENT SERIES
This Sunday at 7 p.m., student government will present the second of a series of Advent lectures. Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., distinguished professor of religion and philosophy, will speak on "St. Joseph and the First Advent." The lecture will be in the Student Center Amphitheater, and all students and faculty members are invited to attend.
The Scholastic
Senate Group Requests ‘ Clubs' Financial Reports
Debating to music piped over the La Fortune Student Center P.A. — sched-, uled out of the Amphitheater for the evening — the Senate last Monday-mandated the student affairs commission under Tom Cahill to subpoena the z- financial reports of all geographic clubs and their athletic rosters listing the ' home towns of the players.
j The senators were reminded of the ■ notoriety surrounding campus club ad; ministrations and Vice President Bill i Graham mentioned that there are a number of irregularities in the finances of * several campus clubs.
I A motion by Graham to donate $1,000 to a fund for the victims in the tragic school fire in Chicago was tabled until next week. This would allow time for the Charity Chest Committee to determine what recommendations the Senate
I should make regarding the use of the money.
At the November 25 meeting, Student Body President Denny Shaul took exception to the Scholastic for its apparent change in attitude toward student government. He referred to the treatment ! of the bookstore affair in which the Senate was criticized for accepting the word j of Stay Senator John Patton without ; question, even though Patton had received his facts from a source that he had no reason to question.
Shaul also criticized “A Better Kind,” which appeared on the “back page” of the November 14 issue as a “vicious attack” on student government. He ac; knowledged that such words as “rascals” and the like were probably more for effect than for accurate characterization but nevertheless, they were unfair.
Also at this meeting the Senate voted to appropriate funds for a foreign student scholarship sponsored by the National Student Association.
(. - --------------------
, Confraternity Teaches Hold Workshop in Student Center
The Notre Dame and St. Mary’s units of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine will hold a teachers’ workshop to-./■ morrow in the LaFortune Student Cen' ter from 1 to 5 p.m. Rev. Glenn Boar-
• man, prefect of religion and Mr. Robert Christian, professor of English, will be the principal speakers. The affair will close with Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament at Sacred Heart Church.
The purpose of the workshop is to > give the members of the Confraternity new ideas to aid them in their work of teaching religion to grade school children in the South Bend parishes.
MET CLUB BREAKFAST
The Met dub will hold its annual Communion Breakfast after the 8 a.m. Mass Sunday morning. Official time of the breakfast is 9:15 a.m. and the cost is $1.
December 12, 1958
CORRECTION — OUR MISTAKE
We said last week that the Stu< dent Impala will be given to the person who sells the ticket that wins the Lincoln. This is false. The system will be the same as last year.
during the Christmas holidays select your clothing and furnishings
AT OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
In our New York, Boston, Chicago and West Coast stores, an interesting selection of good-looking suits, sportwear, evening clothes and outerwear awaits your visit... made to our exacting specifications in sizes 35 to 42... and all moderately priced for such fine clothing.
Suits, $60 to $70 • Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 Topcoats, $7 5 ‘ Raccoon Collar Outercoat, $80
Mtns
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS!
Off-campus students who have so far been unable to pick up their Mardi Gras ticket books can get them from Paul Quinn, 104 Sorin.
Back PcUfg.
ostracism
by TOM BANCHOFF
of the critic
“To conceal the failure (of collectivization) people had to be cured, by any ■means of terrorism, of the habit of thinking and judging for themselves”
—Boris Pasternak in Dr. Zhivago
“If he doesn’t like it, why doesn’t he get out?”
—Anonymous Universal
If the Soviet Union and Western governments have little else in common, at least they share one opinion — they dislike criticism. It seems that few people, and even fewer governments, enjoy being criticized, and some can tolerate it a lot less than others. In general, though, if a group of people are happy or content under a given situation, they will resent attacks on that order by those who are not satisfied. “If he doesn’t like it, why doesn’t he go away? That is, if he can.”
But Boris Pasternak is an exception. In his novel, Dr. Zhivago, he certainly was critical of Revolutionary Russia. The New Economic Policy (NEP) he calls the most ambiguous and hypocritical of all Soviet periods. He laments the position of the intellectuals:
“At first everything is splendid: ‘Come along. We welcome good honest work, we welcome ideas, especially new ideas.’ Then you find in practice what they mean by ideas is nothing but words— claptrap in praise of the revolution and the regime. I’m sick of it.”
And the Russian society reared against him. From the Chief of the Young Communist League: “Let him be a real emigrant and let him go to his capitalist paradise/’ and with the approval of the smiling Premier, “I am sure that neither our public nor the Government would create any obstacles.”
Pasternak could leave. He could claim his prize money in Stockholm and settle in some Western country where he
would be free to do as he pleased. President Eisenhower said he would welcome him personally if he came to America.
It is almost a matter of faith in the United States that anyone living under Communist domination, would much rather be in America. This we can maintain because of the ever-increasing number of escapees from behind the Iron Curtain, the almost-rebellions in Hungary and Poland, and the magazine repoits of reassuring political figures. It seems only natural that a critic of the Soviet Union would have as his fondest wish the haven of the Free West.
But Boris Pasternak does not. By attacking the argument mentioned above, this case has aroused a great number of people in the free world, especially in America. It’s quite a shock to believe that someone persecuted in Russia would still prefer to remain there rather than move to the U. S. Therefore, we figure, there must be some other reason why he refuses to leave, and through innumerable stories of the methods of the terror state, we can be certain that someone close to him is being threatened by the leaders of Russia, someone who will be worse off if he should leave Russia.
Melodramatic as this suggestion seems, however, it is probably the case with Boris Pasternak. For him, the attachment transcends the ties of family or friendship; His ties are to Russia, and all its people. This attachment to his native land is one of the most striking and essential features which he instills in the hero of his novel. Dr. Zhivago accepts degeneration and the loss of his two loves rather than considering leaving his Russia.
Here is an author who does not criticize in order to destroy. He is an example of a true social critic — not an emigree who throws insults back over his shoulder from an alien refuge, but the courageous defender of principles who stands tall in the midst of the society he examines. In such a rare instance, the cry should be, “He criticizes
honestly and constructively; may he sta; with us,” not the sneering condemna tion, “He can get out.”
Social criticism in itself forms a vita part of society. No government can con tinue unless it is constantly aware o: the needs of its people.
If the strength of a government de pends on the fulfilling of these needs then it is logical that the governmenl which allows the greatest amount oi constractive criticism will be the strongest. On the other- hand it appears equally valid that the society which mus1 suppress criticism is inherently weaker. This is the problem in Soviet Russia today. The decisions are made by men over whom the people have no control. The only way in which the people can change the government is to overthrow it, so the government must be increasingly careful about criticism. It is a matter of self-preservation.
Russia suppresses her critics, because she can’t let them leave and form a propaganda machine against her. The logic runs like this:
If you don’t like it here, you can leave.
But you can’t leave.
Therefore, you like it here, and if you don’t like it, don’t say anything about it.
A man like Pasternak is out of place in such a society.
In Russia, the critic has been ostracized, for Russia has a society which cannot tolerate criticism. America does not enjoy criticism either, but it can accept it and grow stronger through its constructive suggestion. If rale by and for the people is to be maintained as an ideal, the concept of criticism must not only be tolerated, but encouraged and extended. When the people point out areas for improvement, the society will respond and improve. We in America cannot afford to ostracize our critics— it is to them we owe the continuation of our freedom.
Boris Pasternak’s case is an example and a warning. May it never happen here.
Job facts from Du Pont
YOUR INTERESTS, SPECIAL ABILITIES ARE IMPORTANT WHEN DU PONT MAKES YOUR FIRST JOB ASSIGNMENT
BENEFIT PROGRAM MEANS ADDED INCOME
by A. F. Hartford, Jr.
DuPont personnel representative
Don’t forget the “extras” of an employee benefit program when you compare the job offers and salaries of different companies. At DuPont, these extras mean added income that doesn’t always meet the eye. They include ’ life insurance, group hospitalization and surgical coverage, accident and health insurance, pension plan and paid vacation.
In addition, the Company sponsors a thrift plan. After two years of service, for every dollar you invest in U. S. Savings Bonds the Company sets aside 25 cents for the purchase of common stock in your name. Roughly, 60,000 of our employees are now participating in this plan.
If you have specific questions on DuPont benefits, just send them to me. I’ll be happy to try to answer them. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Room 1-2421 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
PERSONALIZED TRAINING RELATES TO POLICY OF PROMOTION FROM WITHIN
Where do your interests lie? What courses have you taken? What are your special abilities? DuPont tries to match these factors with available openings to determine your first assignment within the Company.
Once the assignment is made, the Company helps you apply your knowledge to a problem right away. You learn by doing and by consulting with your supervisor and others working on various phases of the same project.
Tour performance on the job is evaluated periodically to assist you in knowing where you stand in the eyes of your management. And, as you might guess, DuPont’s personalized training is closely related to its promotion policy. Practically all promo- . tional opportunities are filled by advancement from within the Company.
It is especially important for the college student to know that management authority at Du Pont is decentralized through many departments into small groups—small enough so that the new man’s capabilities can be recognized. This type of organization, plus the Company’s steady growth, produces many opportunities.
SEND FOR INFORMATION BOOKLET
Booklets about the kinds of technical jobs at DuPont are yours for the asking. Subjects include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation and industrial engineering; technical sales, business administration, research and development. For a copy of one of these booklets write to DuPont, 12421 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MOVIE AVAILABLE
FOR A.S.M.E. MEETINGS
Just what does a mechanical engineer do at DuPont? Whether your chosen field is research, development, design, production supervision or plant engineering, you’ll find many of the answers to this question in the informative film, Mechanical Engineering at DuPont.
From start to finish, this film has been prepared with the young engineer in mind. Its express purpose is to show him where he fits into die picture—what kind of assignments he will be called upon to handle in the chemical industry.
This is a realistic on-the-job film, without frills and falderal. No professional actors appear in it. All photography was done right in DuPont plants and laboratories, and everyone you will see in it is a working DuPont engineer.
If you would like to learn in considerable detail what mechanical engineers do in the chemical industry, arrange to see this DuPont film. Mechanical Engineering at DuPont is available at no cost for A.S.M.E. chapter meetings, fraternity house and dormitory showings. Write to Room 12421 Nemours Building, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Wilmington 98, Delaware.
>
A new idea in smoking!
Crtotod by t J Reynolds Tobacco Company

menthol fresh rich tobacco taste modern filter, too
Ever dabble in a brook on one of Spring's first balmy days? That's how a Salem cigarette refreshes your taste. You get rich, full tobacco taste with a new surprise softness. The smoke feels comfortable as never before. Through Salem's pure-white filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed . . . smoke Salem!