/-/oia/ /he s/ars gof~sfar/ed.
.i
R. J. Reynold* Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
50:
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
William Holden says: “My Dad, a chemist, wanted me to follow in the business. But I got the play-acting bug in school and college. I was in a small part at the Pasadena Playhouse when they picked me to test for ‘Golden Boy’. I never worked so hard in my life! But the success of the picture made it worth it!”
i'm for camels !
l'VE FOUND THEY GIVE ME EVERYTHING I LIKE IN A CIGARETTE -GENUINE MILDNESS, REAL FLAVOR. YOU'LL LIKE CAMELS,TOO!"
Star of “The Bridges at Toko-Ri"
Mikkes wf Rewr
Camels agree with more people
li
Coeds Rush College Men in Arrow White Shirts
Smarter Styles, Smoother “Lines” Attract Gals
A guy in an Arrow shirt here... and everywhere a pretty coed—a typical scene on our college campus and from coast to coast. When asked why they go for men wearing Arrows, the gals agreed that Arrow shirts do more for a man’s appearance.
»»-------------------------►
TRADE ® MARK
---- SHIRTS • TIES * UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR —
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Scholastic
Vol. 95 MAY 14, 1954 No. 24
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ..............  Features
FRED C. ECKART ................. News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS .................. Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER............Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation JERRY D. BAIER ......  Advertising
BOB FOWLER--------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE-----Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton, Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason. James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion, Jim Morris. John Phelan, Bob Ruhl.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANTS: Ken Woodward, Pat Logan.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Maestro Ralph Marterie will hold sway tonight at the Senior Ball, the last and biggest dance the class will hold.
Amid the' Vienna city square decorations of the Drill Hall, some 600 couples will blissfully dance the evening away from 10 to 2. The setting will closely tie in with the appropriate theme for the last-year men: “Auf WiedeTsehen.” For it won’t be long Till the final departure.
So, to the Seniors and their fair dates, we wish a most enjoyable Ball and weekend.
May 14, 1954
^FARLWS^OSDICK ®
V by AL CAPP
DON'T SHOOT HAFHAtfl KNEW YOU FOSDICK-1 WERE RIGHT 0LD PAL-CONFESS/T _ HOW'D 'YOU SPOT
THAT MESSY HAIR.7 HE'S L BUT THAT NEVER SMART ENOUGH TO] WOULD BE USE WILDROOT CREAM- )LLEGAL,r OIL,WHICH KEEPS HAIR NAME
NEAT, BUT NOT-^Hf-	is
Shame On Us!
Editor:
In regard to the article about mixers in the March 19th Scholastic we would like to bring to your attention the following misconceptions concerning students of Holy Cross Central School of Nursing:
1.	St. Joseph’s Nurses Residence has been erroneously referred to, both verbally and in print, as St. Joseph’s Nursing Home. It is not a home for the aged and infirm, but a residence for young student nurses.
2.	In the same article it was implied that the “nursing home” at St. Joseph’s High School were one and the same. St. Joseph’s High is one of the best, but our only similarity is, “The name’s the same.” We are students in Nursing Education which is on a college level and we are considered college students.
This letter has been written to clarify any misunderstandings and to prevent future mistakes.
Sincerely yours, Jackie Reed Barbara Sebasky Millie Stevens St. Joseph’s Nurses Residence.
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL. keeps hair NEAT- ButNQT-
GREASY" GET WILDROOTJ ELROY? CREAM-OIL,CHARLIE"
-ar

UGHf- GREASY. NONALCOHOLIC. CONTAINS LANOLIN.RELIEVES DRYNESS. REMOVES LOOSE ^^DANPRUEFTr T

""'"nun II
WILDROOT
rnnn.oil MH WK
Broadside For Musical Veto
Editor:
An article which appeared in the April 2nd Scholastic reports that a three-man committee in the Department of Speech rejected the three submitted student musicals and accordingly announced that there would be no student musical this year. Its reasons?
“The first, and most important, is the question of time.” There would be only four weeks within which to cast, stage, and direct the show. “The committee felt this circumstance would be unfair to the production itself.”
This is true: four weeks are not enough time, and consequently such a preparation would be unfair to the production, but there could have been more than enough time. The deadline for submitting scripts was the first day of December, 1953—only four months ago. The committee told the submitters at that time that it would reach its decision and make notice thereof shortly after the Christmas Holidays! Hence, it is not the circumstance of having only four-weeks which would make the production unfair; it is the circumstance of the committee’s procrastination that makes the whole thing unfair.
The committee has another reason.
(Continued on page 33)
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
W» Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH RH’AIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Opportunity
For Unique Experience In Human Relations
A limited number of positions as Psychiatric Aides are available to college graduates at one of America’s foremost psychiatric clinic-hospitals. If you are interested in psychiatry-, psychology-, personnel work, teaching, or social work, this is a valuable opportunity for practical on-the-job experience in the basic areas of human relations. You will also enjoy the benefits of living in a stimulating atmosphere with congenial people. You will have complete room, board, recreational and social facilities plus a cash salary-. For further information, write to: Barbara St. John, Director of Personnel, The Institute of Living, 160 Retreat Ave., Hartford, Conn.
4
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
It’s bound to warm up foi’ the senior ball . . .
There's Nothing Like A Goil
You have undoubtedly become aware of the fact by now that there are some members of the species known as girls in the old column this WEEK. We decided that, since the West Point rag can devote an entire issue to what the kaydets lovingly refer to as femmes, the least we could do was lend a small particle of a column to them.
Besides, they sort of add something to the makeup of the page, wouldn’t you say? Like new curtains on a broken window, or something of that sort.
Anyhow, here they are — the girls who have distinguished themselves by exhibiting enough courage' to accept dates to the senior shindig with members of the staff. Okay girls — you’re on. . . .
JEAN	JOAN
Jean, on the left, has valiantly consented to let Associate Editor Bill Noonan step all over her feet come 10 p.m. tonight. Joan, on the right, is the friend of columnist Gordon Bergquist. It is feared, however, that Joan may not be able to make it tonight — all depends on whether or not she gets the Back Page written for him in time.
JoAnne, on the left, is the fiancee of (blush) yours truly and will be gunning
for some sort of a school record tonight by making it four for four — four class dances in four years. Bernie, on the right, will be the guest of Sports Editor Bob Frolicher, which should make for an interesting weekend in the pressbox.
____ -
CAROL	JUDY
Carol, on the left, is coming all the way from Joisey to waltz around with Jack Sand, ex-Sports Editor and currently Sports Publicity Director Charley Callahan’s left hand man. Judy, on the right, is just nuts over editors and consequently will escort Editor Pat Carrico to the Auf Wiedersehen. Confidentially, we think she’s just plain nuts.
So there you have it, gang, the greatest thing that’s happened to the Scholastic since we scooped the other midwestern papers on Father Sorin’s landing on the banks of the mighty St. Joo. And always remember — the kaydets have nothing on us. Nothing that a couple' of football games won’t cure.
Who Covers the Waterfront?
Was over covering the outdoor track meet the other night. In fact, it was the night of the Junior Prom. Man, was it cold! But those poor thinclads are the ones that suffered. They were really in a hurry to get out of there — in fact, such a hurry that they broke eight meet records.
We understand that it wasn’t the cold weather that was the driving force behind ace hurdler Harv Newquist, though. Seems Newk had a date to the Prom. He must have been afraid he was gonna be late — clipped three-tenths of a second off his previous record in the 120 yard highs.
John’s Other Sack
Rumor has it that one John Connaughton, the new Spiritual Commissioner, lias been campussed for failing to make the required number of morning Mass checks. Obviously a case for the Saint. He could call it “The Case of the Checks That Bounced, or Who Put the Sleeping Pills in John’s Alarm Clock.”
Absent Suitor Loses Ground
To Grid Player
The above heading appeared in a recent lovelorn column of one of the big city’s noosepapers. The poor guy’s plight went something like:
“I am a junior at a boy’s college in Indiana. My girl is a sophomore at the University of Wisconsin. She joined a sorority and I hear from friends that she has been dating a football player with distressing regularity. My own opportunities for social life are limited so I can’t get even with her. What do you advise?” It was signed “HELPLESS.”
Well, gee whiz Helpless, we really feel sort of bad about all this and would like to help you out if possible. Maybe you could fix her up with Johnny Lattner. Or, better yet, why don’t you start dating some of the football players from St. Mary’s. That’ll fix her.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . because it can’t rain unless it warms up.
Pakistanian Student Receives Grant for Asiatic Research
Kamal Hossain, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Dacca, Pakistan, has received an undergraduate research grant from the Social Science Research Council to study the problem of Asiatic illiteracy. In his research Hossain will concentrate on the problem of illiteracy in Pakistan, using material from the Pakistan census and other documentary sources.
Hossain’s research grant provides a stipend of §600 plus an expense allowance of $100. He will begin the research this Summer and expects to complete it during his senior year at Notre Dame. John E. Hughes, instructor in sociology at the University, will serve as faculty sponsor for the project.
May 14, 1954
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2^-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
I
I
f
UNITED
South Bond: for resenrationr, call 2-1401 or on authorized travel agent.



Bt HOMB HOURS1*

FLY
UNITED AIR LINES
You can travel aboard United’s luxurious 1st Class Mainliners at fares comparable to traveling by rail with berth.
AND
You get full-course meal- | time service for no extra cost. There’s no tipping and | you enjoy many, many | extra vacation hours at I home.	f
MAY 14
WASHINGTON HALL (10:30 a.m.)—The annual Engineering Open House opens with General Electric’s House of Magic show.
STUDENT CENTER (3-5 p.m.)—An open house for the seniors and their guests. Bob Brown and his Spotlighters will be on hand to provide melodies for those who feel like dancing.
DRILL HALL (10 p.m. to 2 a.m.)—Ralph Marterie plays what we hope to be smooth danceable music as over 600 seniors bid “Auf Wiedersehen” to their Notre Dame social life.
AVON (through May 18)—One of the most celebrated movies of all time, The Best Years of Our Lives, starring a whole cart load of famous people. When it. first appeared seven years ago, the picture won nine Academy Awards.	.
COLFAX (through May 19)—Carnival Story (B) is definitely not designed for family entertainment. It’s a suspenseful melodrama that gets a little rough. Anne Baxter and Steve Cochran have the main roles.
GRANADA (through May 20)—CinemaScope takes a week’s rest and is replaced by a rather weak double feature, Playgirl (B) and White Fire. Shelley Winters, who seems to be on a picture-making rampage this year, plays the lead in the first pic.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—Act of Love (B) is a none too happy love story which takes place in war time France. Kirk Douglas is the one big name. The co-feature is Black Glove.
MM 15
STADIUM (3:30 p.m.)—We get our first real look at “Terry’s Terrors” as they are tested by a rugged bunch of “Old Timers.” We hate to disagree with our Sports Editor, but we think the veterans might take this one. 26-20?
WASHINGTON HALL (2, 6:40 and 8:30 p.m.)—We’re beginning to wonder if J. Arthur Rank is an ND graduate. In any case, another of his productions, The Titfield Thunderbolt (A-l), appears at the local cinema. This one’s a bit of all right, chaps.
STUDENT CENTER (8:30-11:30 p.m.)—Bob Brown returns to the bandstand for the “Senior Send-Off.” The dance is reserved for seniors and their dates, it says here.
’ MAY 16
PALACE (through May 19)—Geraldine (A-l), a musical comedy, and Siege of Red River (A-l), a western spy drama.
STATE (through May 18)—The management begins its new policy of bringing back pictures that played in town recently with Money From Home (A-l) and Inferno (A-2).
MAY 17
FATIMA SHRINE (8 p.m.)—An evening Mass closes the Marian Year Novena.
MAY 18
WASHINGTON HALL (8:15 p.m.)—The concert and lecture series presents Emily Frankel and Mark Ryder, a widely acclaimed dance drama duo.
MAY 19
AVON (through May 24)—The Living Desert (A-l) is a full-length Disney true-life presentation. There are some really fascinating shots.
STATE (two days)—Against All Flags and Horizons West.
MAY 20
COLFAX (indefinite run)—Elephant Walk (A-l) is love story-drama that unfolds on a plantation in the wilds of Ceylon. Liz Taylor and Dana Andrews are the stars.
PALACE (through May 22)—Another pretty unattractive double bill, Pride of the Blue Grass (A-l) and Jennifer (A-2).
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The first night of Where's Charley?
6
The Scholastic ;
stum pm
A GLANCE THROUGH CLIPPINGS from major newspapers indicates that pressmen took special pains to record the powerful rumblings of churning intellectual machinery in the nation’s colleges during last February.
One story;, for instance, told of a poll which was taken at a small college in Pennsylvania. The results showed that nine out of every ten interviewed students knew nothing about the Bricker Amendment. Another release, dealing with a large university in Texas, disclosed that prizes in a beard-growing contest were to be awarded for the “bushiest, the sexiest, the most unique and the fuzziest” entries. Behind the tradition-hallowed halls of one of the Ivy-League schools, another story noted, a fourth-year Humanities student won a $30 bet after slipping a couple of goldfish into his highball glass and gulping them down. Another write-up dealt with students of two other colleges who, when polled, voted exactly opposite to one another with regard to whether cheerleaders should be girls or boys.
Intermingled in this flurry of sensational press releases was a three-line article with a Washington, D. C.. dateline, announcing that Senator Homer Ferguson of Michigan had introduced a Senate resolution calling o	o	o
for inclusion of the words “under God” to the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag. The Pledge would be made to “one nation indivisible, under God, with liberty and justice for all.”
We suggest: writing or -wiring a message of support for the proposal to your Senators and Congressmen immediately, referring to the measure as Senate Joint Resolution No. 126, calling for addition of the words “under God” to the Pledge of Allegiaiice. Don’t let this resolution remain forgotten and buried in Committee—like so many other things these days.	.
PLAUDITS OF THE WEEK—go to a group of 70 school children in Syracuse, N. Y., who are currently waging a “clean-up” campaign on the city’s newsstands. Working in teams of threes and fours, the children are asking proprietors’ permission to dump the indecent and obscene literature that clutters up their shelves. Their efforts, according to the NCWC, have been helped by the fact that most proprietors are cooperating without reservation.
. . . and just think—all of this being accomplished without even a single “point of order.”
SENIOR BALL CHAIRMEN at Notre Dame, who don’t sleep nights worrying about what the few disgruntled students who are never satisfied will say about their efforts, should find some consolation after recent happenings at the University of Utah.
Enterprising students there produced what was thought to be one of the most unusual proms in the country. The big dance was held in the historic rotunda of the Utah State Capitol. That wasn’t enough. More than 2,000 orchids were flown in from the Hawaiian Islands. To complete the theme, palm fronds, fishing nets and sailing ships were used to convert the massive rotunda from the dignified center of state legislative affairs to a replica of an island hotel club. Hawaiian-born I Utah students, strumming ukeleles, welcomed the evening’s guests as they arrived for the “Hawaiian Holiday,” .and coeds were presented with imported flower leis.
Despite all the magnificence, the dance chairmen did not go uncriticized. Several students later submitted formal complaints of “disappointment” because the music—which was provided by a local band— was not that of a “big name” one.
The seniors this year have the “big name” in Marterie. It won’t be too surprising, however, if our letters column next week registers some sort of preference for the capitol building in Indianapolis instead of the Navy Drill Hall. .
7 '
May 14, 1954.
I
I
GILBERT’S FAMOUS TRADE NAMES are trademarks of quality
Featuring	Fine Oxford
Wilson Bros.	Shirts
Wear this handsome
PINK SHIRT
with Charcoal Gray
Charcoal Gray Tie, $1.50
PINK, it is, with charcoal gray suit or slacks. We have these wanted Pink Oxford Shirts in round or widespread buttondown collar styles. Choose yours now.
Open Evenings until 9
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
The Scholastic

mm
Volume 95, Number 24	Notre Dame, Indiana	May 14, 1954
AUF WIEDERSEHEN’ FOR SENIORS TONIGHT
Mar+erie 'Downbeat' Fills Musical Vienna
Six hundred last-year men and their dates will uncap a long-awaited weekend tonight when they don formal attire for the 1954 Senior Ball in the Navy Drill Hall.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, will crown the coqueens of the Senior Ball, while Ralph Marterie and his orchestra play to the musical theme of “Auf Wiedersehen” in the quaint Vienna city square setting.
Miss Kathleen Kremer of Dayton, 0., and Miss Angela McTighe of Louisville, Ky., will reign over tonight’s Ball. Miss Kremer is the guest of George Pflaum. She is employed as a private secretary in Dayton. Miss McTighe, a senior at Nazareth Colle'ge, is the guest of Ron Mazzoli. The queens will be crowned atop the bandstand by Father Hesburgh.
The seniors will dance to Marterie’s “downbeat” from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. The Four Friends, Coral recording artists, will provide additional entertainment for the Ball-goers. Late 3 a.m. permissions have been granted.
The Drill Hall has been remade to resemble a Vienna city square. The seniors will walk into a typical village street with shops and stores as they enter the Drill Hall. Cafe and shop backdrops, twelve feet high, extend the length and
SENIOR MEMORY BOOKS
Photo Memory books for Senior Ball-goers and their dates will be ready in approximately ten days. Watch your hall bulletin board for information on how they will be distributed.
breadth of the building. There will be four cafes, one in each quartei- of the building, with chairs and tables in front.
In the center of the? floor there will be a three-tier fountain, some nine feet high, with red lights coloring the water.
MISS KATHLEEN KREMER	MISS ANGELA McTIGHE
Ascend Throne Tonight in Senior Ball’s Viennese Setting
Two streets meet at this fountain. The first extends from the main entrance to the bandstand, and the second crosses it perpendicularly and leads to the patio on the side of the Drill Hall. The ceiling will be decorated with wide blue strips of crepe paper to form an arch.
This is the first time the Drill Hall has ever been entirely enclosed. The twelvefoot-high store and cafe fronts bordei-the length and breadth of the hall.
There will be' a 10:30 Mass offered in each senior hall chapel Saturday morning foi- the convenience of the seniors and their dates.
No formal outing has been planned for Saturday afternoon since the Old Timers game will immediately follow the Armed Forces Day parade.
The Senior Send-off dance will be held in the Student Center Saturday night from 8:30 to 11:30. Bob Brown’s Spotlighters will provide the' music.
Center aisle pews will be reserved at the 9 o’clock Mass Sunday in Sacred Heart Church for seniors and their dates. The Moreau Seminary Choir ■will sing.
Following Mass in Sacred Heart Church there will be a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn at 10:15. Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall, will speak; Father Hesburgh and Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, will be the guests.
The co-chairmen of the Senior Ball are George Pflaum and Ron Mazzoli. Other committee members are William
DANCE TRAFFIC
Seniors are requested to use the driveway at the rear of O’Shaughnessy Hall and proceed north to the Drill Hall where they can discharge their passengers immediately in front of the hall.
Meyer, business manager; LeRoy Baz-any, decorations; Thomas Stabler, tickets; Tony Trigiani, entertainment; George Williard, refreshments; Dan Motz, art director; Jack Rosshirt, publicity; and James Bouley, hotel rooms.
May 14, 1954

AB Curriculum Revision Affects Fall Frosh; College Adds Seminar, Changes Languages
Fall freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters will be affected by an overall revision in the liberal arts curriculum to become effective in September, it lias been announced by the University. The new plan of studies for the Bachelor of Arts degree constitutes the first major curriculum change in the University’s College of Arts and Letters in more than thirty years. Announcement of the program conies less than a year after the dedication of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, the new home of the college.
“Notre Dame has always regarded its College of Arts and Letters as the heart of the University,” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, said in announcing the program. “The University is fortunate in having splendid facilities and a fine faculty to implement the new curriculum. It is our conviction that this curriculum will advance the students’ intellectual maturity and their interior development as men of intelligence and integrity,” he said.
The new liberal arts curriculum differs substantially from the series of courses previously offered. It is characterized by a compression of courses and activities and the collaboration of instructors of varying specialties in dealing with the students’ problems.
Frosh Math Required
Among the program’s chief features are a required course in mathematics in the freshman year as well as an intensive foreign language course taught six days a week in the first year. Formerly, students had the option of taking mathematics or one' of several natural sciences as freshmen. They will now take mathematics in their first year plus a natural science the following year. The intensive one-year language course replaces courses formerly taught over a two-year period. Students will have a choice of eight classical and modern languages.
Under the new program the freshman English and speech courses will be merged with a view to developing articulateness both in the students’ writing and oral presentation. Another major change is the' establishment of a sophomore social science course replacing courses in economics, sociology and political science formerly taught separately in the sophomore and junior years.
While the sophomore English course will be devoted to the study of literature, a seminar on the masterworks in all the areas of knowledge will be required of all juniors in the' new curriculum. Third-year students formerly were
permitted to elect two specialized courses in literary forms such as poetry, the essay and the short story.
The new curriculum also provides for the study of philosophy and theology alternately throughout the undergraduate’s four years. They have been included in the program not only as areas of knowledge profoundly important in themselves but also as integrating influences furnishing the liberally disciplined mind with certain governing prin-
FATHER SHEEDY
Dean Explains New AB Program ciples for the unification of knowledge and life.
As in former years, European and American history will be required subjects for Notre Dame liberal arts students in their freshman and sophomore years. Physical education courses will no longer be required of students who are enrolled in one of the three campus ROTC programs and who have passed certain physical proficiency tests.
Soph Camps, Senior Essay Required
Students will take five courses each semester instead of six, it was pointed out by Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College. A comprehensive examination covering all previous work will be given at the end of the sophomore year, he said, and a senior essay will be a requirement for graduation. Father Sheedy said that the senior essay will consist of an exercise in inquiry-in-depth appropriate to the student’s field of concentration. In the past, students majoring in certain subjects were required to
write a thesis while others took senior comprehensive examinations.
In addition to the traditional 15 departmental majors, Father Sheedy said that new interdepartmental majors will be offered in such areas as Christian Culture', Communications, Public and Foreign Service and Teacher Training.
The new Notre Dame liberal arts curriculum evolved in part from a self-study of the College of Arts and Letters made possible' by a $23,600 grant from the Ford Foundation’s Fund for the Advancement of Education. Many of the recommendations embodied in the report of The Committee on Self-Study, The Curriculum of a Catholic Liberal College, have been adopted and included in the new liberal arts program.
The Committee’s research included interviews with faculty members, outside consultants and students, surveys, panel discussions and visits to other educational institutions. The' research was directed by Dr. Vincent E. Smith of the Notre Dame faculty. He was assisted by Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., and Dr. Herbert L. Johnston, both faculty members.
•i
Name Three Seniors ’ For Fulbright Grants
Three Notre Dame seniors have been awarded Fulbright scholarships for grad- >: uate study in France during 1954-55, according to Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School and Fulbright Program Adviser. They are David B. Burrell, Akron, 0.; Edward F. Doyle, i Jr., Rochester, N.Y.; and James J. Cannon, Jr., Glen Rock, New Jersey.
Burrell and Doyle -will go to the Univ- , ersity of Lyons where they will study ; philosophy and international relations, respectively. Cannon will study theology at the University of Lille.
During his four years at Notre Dame, , Burrell has been active in several campus « organizations. He is president of the Wranglers and a member of the Bookmen. He is a member of the board of editors of the' Juggler and has contributed a number of essays to the publication.
Doyle, who will receive a Marine Corps 1 commission upon graduation, has served h as president of the Rochester Club of Notre Dame and as vice-president of the French Club on the campus.
Cannon has been a member of the Wranglers and the Bookmen and is active in the work of the Catholic InterRacial Council.
Fulbright scholarships are made available to American students under the * United States Educational Exchange Program.
10
The Scholastic
Seventh Annual World Trade Confab Tuesday Will Discuss Development of Foreign Markets
By TOM NEVILLE
Tuesday morning, afternoon and evening the Department of Marketing under the direction of Prof. Wesley C. Bender, will sponsor its 7th Annual World Trade Conference, entitled “Sales and Sales Promotion Abroad.”
The all-day conference will begin at 9:15 a.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, fe&turing a panel discussion on the Latin-American, European and Far-Eastern markets. At noon there will be a luncheon-conference in the Morris Inn. At 2 p.m. a second panel will be held in the Engineering Auditorium, featuring a discussion of the finance, advertising, and commercial aspects of foreign trade. At 6:30 a dinner will be held in the Morris Inn which will conclude this year’s conference.
Mr. Edward J. Hoyt, ’37, will be' chairman of the morning panel. Mr. Hoyt is Assistant Credit Manager for U.S. Rubber International and a member of the Foreign Trade Staff of City College of New York.
At the luncheon, Mr. John D. J. Moore, vice-president of W. R. Grace & Co of New York, will speak on “Are We Holding Our Gains in Latin America?” Mr. Moore, a Yale graduate, was a U.S. delegate on the Capehart mission to South America in 1953.
Scott on Dinner Rostrum
John Scott, associate editor of Time International, will speak at the conference dinner on the topic, “The Future of East-West Trade.” Mr. Scott has lived in Russia for over eight years. He worked in Russian steel mills and chemical plants before he became a correspondent in Moscow for- HAVAS, the French news agency. Later he worked on London’s News Chronicle before' joining Time in 1941.
A year later Mr. Scott published Beyond the Urals, the story of his life as a Siberian industrial worker; this volume was followed with Duel For Europe and Europe in Revolution. Mr. Scott has traveled through the Balkans, the Middle-East, Asiatic Russia and Japan and has written many reports on these areas.
Scott also covered the State Department’s activities in Washington prior to becoming chief of the Time and Life magazine bureau in Stockholm. Mr. Scott has spoken from coast to coast.
The Notre Dame World Trade Conference originated in 1948 under the direction of Profs. Weisley C. Bender and H. T. Bott, both of the Department of Marketing. Notre Dame was first to sponsor
such a conference. There are several other conferences which are all held in conjunction with National Foreign Trade Week.
The purpose of this year’s Conference will be to determine the best means of increasing sales in foreign markets. This issue has gained importance because of the slack in the domestic market. There is also a problem of security in which President Eisenhower recommends an increase in U.S. foreign trade with non-
JOHN scon ‘The Future of East-West Trade’
Iron Curtain countries so that these countries will not be forced to trade with Russia or her satellites. This is contrary to the Republican Party’s traditional high-tariff policy but is gradually being adopted for defense reasons.
Another topic for discussion at the Conference will be the St. Lawrence Seaway project which has recently been approved by our government in cooperation with Canada. The seaway will greatly affect the relationship between domestic production and foreign trade.
ROTC Branches Will March In Forces Parade Tomorrow
The three campus ROTC branches of the armed forces will join the' University Band in representation at the Armed Forces Day parade tomorrow afternoon in South Bend.
Veteran and patriotic organizations, the National Guard, and various local reserves will take part in the parade
which will begin at 1 p.m. in downtown South Bend. The reviewing stand will be on Michigan Street at the center of the city.
Maj. Gen. Frank Allen, USA, member of the Inter-American Board, is being engaged as speaker for the day. Mayor Scott and many civic and business leaders will be in attendance.
The Mayor’s luncheon will inaugurate the observance. Then the parade will be held, followed by ceremonies including the placing of a wreath on the memorial in front of the Court House. Taps will end the ceremonies in the middle of the afternoon.
Armed Forces Day was proclaimed by. President Eisenhower to honor the armed forces of the U.S. Such an event first came into existence in 1950 when the Secretary of Defense combined the former individual celebrations into one major event.
Two Seniors Receive Fr. Cavanaugh Grants
The first recipients of the John J. Cavanaugh scholarships in the College of Law were recently designated by Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr. Robert P. Gorman, Tiskilwa., Ill., and John C. Strickroot, Palm Beach, Fla., are the initial winners of the honor grants. Both scholarship winners will be graduated “magna cum laude” in June.
The scholarships, which provide tuition in the Law School for three years, w-ere established by Rev. Theodore M. ■ Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the Uni- ' versity, in honor of his predecessor in i that post, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, j C.S.C. Fathei- Cavanaugh was Notre j Dame president from 1946 to 1952. j
Both Active in Campus Activities
Gorman is an English major in the College of Arts and Letters. He has served as business manager of the Juggler, vice-president of the Bookmen, and a staff member of the SCHOLASTIC. He also received a numeral in track and cross-country as a freshman. Gorman has earned more than two-thirds of his college expenses by working during the school-year and the Summer months. "
Strickroot has majored in business administration in Notre Dame’s College of Commerce. He is president of the Manpower Management Club on the campus; a member of the Commerce Activities Council; secretary of the Notre Dame Barbell Club; and a member of the University’s Weightlifting team. Strickroot also has held several jobs to help finance his college education.
May 14, 1954
II
Four Seniors Win Annual 'Dome' Awards; Include Field, Guilfoile, Harrington, Howley
Presentation of the 19-54 Dome Awards took place at the annual Publications Banquet Wednesday. Men receiving the honors were: Tom Field, Bill Guilfoile, Jim Harrington and Gene Howley.
The Dome Awards are presented by the Dome, Notre Dame’s yearbook. Winners are chosen from the graduating class by a committee of Juniors from leading campus organizations and the Dome.
Scholarship, character, participation in extra-curricular activities and service to the' student body and the University form the basis for judging the awards.
Tom Field is noted for his work in student government, both here and nationally. He was president of the Student Senate this year and a former vice president and AB senator. Tom was
Modern Dance Team To Perform Tuesday
The Concert and Lecture Series will bring to the Washington Hall stage Tuesday night at 8:15 the widely acclaimed dance drama duo of Emily Frankel and Mark Ryder with their varied interpretations in modern choreography.
The young couple has been applauded as the most gifted and engaging duo among America’s young dancers. In their extraordinary approach to choreography and theatrical presentation, they bring to the University a brilliant combination of drama and dance — humor, satire, folk, jazz, ballet and fantasy.
A program of humorous, fantastic and dramatic dances will be presented by the husband-wife combo. Their program features a dance done entirely to sounds, entitled “Haunted Moments.” It is a humorous and horrible fantasy of people and sounds, demonstrating how ordinary sounds of living — telephone, trains, clocks, etc. — compel us to act.
12
elected to “Who’s Who in American Colleges” for the second time this year.
Bill Guilfoile is president of the Senior Class and a member of the Student Senate. He served as secretary of his Junior Class and is a member of “Who’s Who.” He promoted this year’s senior retreat and Marriage Institute.
Jim Harrington is co-editor of the Technical Review and the outstanding senior in the College' of Engineering. He is also the year’s top collegiate pole vaulter and listed in “Who’s Who.”
Gene Howley is chairman of the Blue Circle and parliamentarian of the Student Senate. He is listed in “Who’s Who” and has served as head of the University Welcoming committee and chairman of the Mardi Gras Ball.
Each dance of the' evening’s program will be entirely different in style and in story. A Biblical dance about Jacob and Leah will be enacted; a ballet of death and a maiden which uses three Bach prelude's for accompaniment will be danced; and a story of a puppet who transforms a foolish woman into a creature like himself is told in dance movement.
Emily Frankel was formerly a member of the Charles Weidman Dance Company, and Mark Ryder was a soloist in the Maitha Graham Dance Company.
All seats for the performance are reserved. Admission for ND students is 50 cents, for others, one dollar. Tickets will be on sale at the Washington Hall box office today, Saturday, and Monday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and all day on Tuesday.
Students, faculty and guests are invited.
Teletype Machine Completes University"s Library Facilities
Library facilities have been greatly increased with the inception of teletype •, machine connections with all other member schools and the main depository of the Midwestern Inter-Library Center, j library sources here have revealed. ?
The machine was installed and has j been operating as of April 1. Only a . moment’s time is now needed for trans- -mitting requests for rarely used volumes , not available at the library.
The Midwestern Inter-Library Center comprises 16 schools and was formulated to grant each member access to one central depository where infrequently used books are kept. This eliminates the necessity for each university library to ' purchase the numerous important, but not heavily used books.
Books Number Half-Million
Each school has also deposited many of its owm books in order to obtain more
space in its own library. These books.
now totaling approximately one-half million, are kept in a modern building
in Chicago. The teletype machines are 5 then used to replay requests to the main I, depository or another school, saving £ much time in obtaining the desired f;'
volume.
A book ordered before 3 p.m. will be ready for use the next morning at 8:30 a.m.
Lab Slides, Anatomy Models Given to Biology Department
Thousands of laboratory slides ’and several anatomical models valued at a total of more than $6,000 have been given to the Department of Biology by Dr. J. B. McCormick, Chicago pathologist, it was announced recently by Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., department head. Dr. McCormick, a 1947 Notre Dame graduate, is owner of the Histo-slide Co. in Chicago.
The collection includes approximately 10,000 slides for use in the study of embryology, microscopic anatomy, general zoology, botany, parasitology and other fields of biological science. The models consist of 12 excellent unbreakable plastic reproductions that are currently used in standard courses in general botany and general zoology.
Dr. McCormick learned model and slide-making techniques from Dr. John D. Mizelle while an undergraduate' at Notre Dame. He received his medical degree at the University of Illinois and later established the Histoslide Co.
The Scholastic
Fifty Year Date Book Retraces Senior Ball; Prof. Peterson Yields Bandstand to Marterie
When? 1904. Where? The Old Gymnasium. Who? Sixty capped-and-gowned seniors, their best ladies, and Professor Peterson’s orchestra. What? The very first Senior Ball, replete with pink lemonade and ten-cent cigars.
Tonight, another link will be added to that chain of senior socials that started a half century ago, a long chain of glamorous social extravaganzas reaching through years of war and peace; from the time of flapper girls to torchy blues singers.
Later publicized as the “spontaneous brainchild” of a group of fourth-year men who hadn’t had the privilege' of participating in the day’s activities, the Senior Ball was christened after the Senior Class play on Easter Monday of that year.
During the initial six years of the Ball, Seniors relied on underclassmen to help them fill the house; and only the first dance of the evening was reserved 1 exclusively for Seniors. It wasn’t until 1910 that the fourth-year men had an exclusive farewell formal.
Editor is Official Escort
The Senior Ball generated enthusiasm among a growing student body during the next 13 consecutive years and blossomed gloriously in the post World War I period.
In 1923, the campus, bubbling over with 1480 students, saw the dance weekend changed to early Spring. The w’hole campus had been converted to the fad for bigger and more elaborate “social functions”; even the Scholastic. In fact, the editor of the Scholastic had become
RALPH MARTERIE
Senior Style for 1954
traditional escort of the “queen of the Ball.”
The weekend itself was a gala and lengthy affair. There was a “warm-up” dance in the Chippendale Room of the Oliver Hotel on Wednesday night, followed on Thursday night by the Ball at the Palais Royale'. Isham Jones’ orchestra, which had just finished a stand at the famous Kit-Kat Club in London, provided the melodies until the wee sma’ hours of 3 a.m.
The 115 Seniors, who had paid §25 each for twin ducats, were not deprived of the “extras” either. Intel-mission entertainers were imported from Chicago’s prominent Marigold Gardens.
The remainder of the weekend was filled with miscellaneous activities: the Glee Club presented a concert — and a dance — at the Oliver Hotel on Friday night. . . . Saturday, a track meet was scheduled . . . and “there were rumors of another dance, as well as the marriage of Cyril W. Neff, of the Class of ’23 at Sacred Heart Church. Most of the Ball-goers were present.”
. . . foremost in the chaperones’ roles in the late' 20’s were the names of “Professor and Mrs. Knute K. Rockne.” . . . the class of 1931 set a “stay-out-late” record with 4 a.m. residence permissions.
Top Bandsmen for ’30’s
. . . Fischer’s World Fair orchestra, the Benson Dance Orchestra, and Freddy Martin we're among the many prominent musical outfits to grace the early ’30’s bandstand of the Palais, the Indiana Club, and Place Hall.
... in 1943 there were rumors of Glen Miller, but he went to war like everyone else, and the popularity of the Ball dwindled. Sorely hit for attendance, the upperclassmen settled for Ted Fio Rito at the Palais and the unprecedented Junior-Senior Prom.
Following in the footsteps of such prominent band leaders as Ray Anthony, and Freddy Martin, Ralph Marterie will step into the Drill Hall limelight tonight to serenade the last-year men and their dates.
Marterie’s “Downbeat Orchestra” cannot boast of a history quite as long as the' Senior Ball, being organized only since early 1951. But Marterie can produce a background as varied and colorful as many of the country’s current best band leaders.
Marterie, dubbed “Caruso of the Trumpet” and the “man born for the horn” was playing professionally at the age of 14, a musician’s son. By his 17th
(Continued on page 33)
JOHN O’MEARA In the Center of the Circle
Circle Members Pick O'Meara as President
John O’Meara, junior English major, was elected chairman of the Blue Circle honorary society in the group’s recent elections. Also elected were vice-chairman George Carhart and secretarytreasurer Forest Brown.
O’Meara has served as campus representative for the Notre Dame studeht insurance plan during the past year. He I is also on the president’s advisory com- I mittee of the Student Senate and the I student activities council for the i NROTC. He is a member of the I Bookmen and has worked on the dance committees for the- freshmen frolic, sophomore cotillion and junior prom.
“We intend to cooperate fully with the Student Senate in carrying out our function as the executive arm of student government at Notre Dame,” O’Meara said. He went on to point out that, “The Blue Circle has been very pleased with the advances made in. student govern- I ment during the year and what with the solid foundation this year’s senate has made, student government should reach new heights next year,”
The new circle chairman also emphasized that he was extremely optimistic -about all of Notre Dame’s student activities for the coming year. “With such a good start as we have made, next year should be the culmination of many years’ work along this line,” he said.
New members selected in the recent Circle drive include freshmen Jerry Hornback, Bert Millen, John Moynahan, Ron Tripi, Pat Logan, Tom Shehan, Art Johnson, John Reardon, and Bob Bran-ick; sophomores Pat McCartan, Dave
(Continued on page 32)
May 14, 1954
13
Thespians to Present ’Charley' on Thursday
The smash-hit Broadway musical, Where's Charley?, wll make its Washington Hall debut Thursday night at 8:30 when the University Theater presents an all-star cast in the first performance of a four-day run.
The riotous comedy will continue Friday, Saturday, and Sunday nights at the same time. The show is not the student musical, but will be student-produced with a cast comprised of students from the University, St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses Home', and South Bend.
Tickets are on sale in Washington Hall and will be available at the door each night. Student tickets are 75 cents.
The cast will include Jerry Godwin as Charles Wykham; Dalis Ann Yoder as Amy Spettegue; John Noland as Jack Chesney; Myra Roberts as Kitty Verdun; Taylor Benson as Sir Francis Chesney; Dick Robison as Stephen Spettegue; Mimi Scanlon as Dona Lucia D’Alvador-ez; Leland Groghan as Brassett; William Bleakley as Wilkinson; and an allstar chorus.
The student director is Marion Lesz-czynski; choreography by Allan J. Powers, and musical direction by Dudley Birder. Prof. John D. Tumpane will supervise the production.
First nighters will be able to purchase two ducats for the price of one. Only on the first night, though, will the public be able to use these cut-rate tickets.
SMC's No-Sox to Baffle ND's Sweat-Sox Friday
What happens when the unstoppable prowess of the' Notre Dame gridiron clashes with an immovable obstacle from St. Mary’s hallowed halls? Saunter-across the Dixie next Friday afternoon at 4 and find out.
That’s when the No-Sox of St. Mary’s battle the Sweat-Sox of Notre Dame in their annual softball fracas, starring the top grid lettermen from the 1953 Fighting Irish squad.
The annual benefit extravaganza will raise a financial purse for foreign students on St. Mary’s campus. Tickets will be 25 cents and will be' sold in the residence halls starting Monday. '
The No-Sox will feature' four sluggers from each class. Although the inclement weather of the past week has curtailed practice, the No-Sox are reported in fire shape, and will rate a slight edge over their muscular counterparts who have found practicing impossible due to preparations for the Varsity-Old Timers football game next Saturday.
14
Leonardo daVinci Exhibit Depicts Research Of Famous Pioneer Inventor in Miniature
Forty-three working models of inventions conceived by Leonardo da Vinci nearly 500 years ago are currently on exhibition in the O’Shaughnessy Hall galleries from 2 to 5 p.m. daily. The exhibit will be one of the feature for weekeiid guests, and will continue through May 23. Famous the world over for his paintings of the “Last Supper” and the “Mona Lisa,” da Vinci was also the most prolific inventor the world has ever known. He is credited with 300 inventions.
Included in the exhibit are models of da Vinci’s airplane, parachute, spring-driven car, military tank and two-way canal lock. The canal lock, still in use in Milan, is much the same type to be found in similar waterways throughout the world. Da Vinci also invented a time device similar to a grandfather’s clock.
An earlier set of models was built by Dr. Roberto Guatelli for an exposition at Milan in 1938. Later the models were shipped to Japan where they were destroyed by bombs during World Wai- II. Dr. Guatelli himself, who had accompanied the exhibit to Tokyo, was confined to a concentration camp. When he returned to the' United States after the war, he began constructing the models currently on display.
Da Vinci’s most spectacular inven
HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL WITH TRANS-DIXIE SOFTBALLERS
They'll Try Again to Defeat the ‘Sweat-Sox’
The Scholastic
tion, the ornithopter or flying machine, was less successful than the Wright brothers’ venture several hundred years later. It consisted of a wooden frame, two huge wings, a series of ropes and , pulleys and a windlass. The operator of the device was required to lie prone in the frame, his feet in leather stirrups connected by pulleys to the wings. The flyer moved his feet up and down to flap the wing, at the same time operating the windlass with his arms.
The' flying machine required a man of i great strength to manipulate its controls I and the strongest man to be found was da Vinci’s porter. According to legend, the plane was taken to a high hill where ( the ship was catapulted by bent saplings operated like' a giant slingshot. It gained < some altitude and then crashed with the porter suffering two broken legs.	I
Many of da Vinci’s other inventions were more successful. He invented a machine gun consisting of three tiers of -twelve barrels each. The tiers were ar- . ranged in triangular shape' so that one might be fired while another was being loaded and the third was cooling. He also designed a spring-driven car, the first known self-propelled vehicle, a military tank, and a double-barreled ship • that would stay afloat in battle even : when an enemy damaged the outer hull. ; *
Cookson Reassigned To Army Staff School
Lt. Col. G. M. Cookson, C.E., commander of the Army ROTC at the University, has recently announced his departure from Notre Dame, effective August 1. He is being reassigned in conjunction with the army’s three-year rotation system.
Colonel Cookson will enter the Aimed Forces Staff College at Norfolk, Va., after which he expects an overseas assignment.
A successor to Cookson has not yet been formally announced.
In. summing up his years at the University, Cookson commented, “This is one of the most satisfactory tours of duty I have had since' entering military service. Student response to the program has been very gratifying. Their help and cooperation have made possible every success we‘ have enjoyed.”
Colonel Cookson was graduated from Montana State College in 1936 and entered the army in 1940 with the 7th Infantry Division. After a year with the infantry, he transferred to the' Corps of Engineers. He served in the Pacific during World War II and participated in the Aleutians campaign when the Island of Attu was taken from the Japanese; in the Marshall Island campaign at Kwajalein; and the Leyte operation in the' Philippine Islands campaigns.
Following this, Cookson was a member of the Board of Engineers at Fort Belvoir, Va. He served three years as Post Engineer in Hawaii. Returning to the U. S., he served two years as the Executive Officer of the Chicago District Corps of Engineers. On July 1, 1951, he assumed his present position here.
William Huebsch Is Awarded National Science Fellowship
William M. Huebsch, who will receive his Ph.D. in mathematics at the University in June, has been awarded a National Science Foundation post-doctoral fellowship for the' 1954-55 academic year. In September he will begin studies and research in topology at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J. During the coming Summer he will study at the University of Chicago.
Huebsch is the' son of Mrs. William Huebsch of South Bend, Ind. A native of Buffalo, N. Y., he was graduated from Fosdick-Masten Park High School in 1939 and received his bachelor of science degree at Canisius College in 1943.
From 1944 to 1946 Huebsch worked as a physicist with Carnegie Institute of Washington, D. C. He later served with the Army on Okinawa.
Howard Dedicates Sculptured Group Sunday; Rosary College Guests to Join in Ceremonies
Howard Hall will step into the limelight Sunday with the formal dedication of a recently-donated sculptured edifice portraying’ the Pieta, the Sorrowful Mother. Day-long festivities will accompany the dedication.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will perform the dedication in Howard Hall chapel at 3 p.m. Assisting him will be Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs; Rev. Charles W. Harris, C.S.C., rector
‘PIETA’ De Marco Statue Donated to Howard
of Howard; Rev. John C. Blommestein, O.S.C., and Rev. Alfred F. Mended, C.S.C., prefects of Howard. The dedication will be open to the public!
The sculptured group was the gift of an anonymous donor and will be placed in the Hall chapel.
In the Spring of 1953 the well-known sculptor, Jean de Marco, was commissioned to design such a group suitable for the chapel. Of the three excellent designs submitted, the present was approved.
Limestone Group Acclaimed
The group, finished in March, 1954, is done in limestone and is an excellent example of modern ecclesiastical art. Mr. de Marco’s Pieta was exhibited at the 129th annual exhibition of the National Academy of Design in New York City and was characterized by Howard Devree, art critic of the New York Times, as one of the most notable pieces of sculpture' on exhibit. It has also been
awarded the Herbert Adams Memorial Medal of the National Sculpture Society.
The Sunday afternoon dedication will take its place among a group of Marian Year observances on campus. Sunday evening, the' Marian Year Novena will come to a close at the Shrine of Our Lady of Fatima.
Forty students from Rosary College, River Forest, III., will visit the University, joining Howard Hall men in the afternoon and evening festivities. There will be a noon luncheon in the MoiTis Inn for the girls and their dates. Father Hesburgh will be the main speaker. Following this, a tour of the campus will be conducted.
Evening events will include a meal in the Student Center at 5:30 pan., to be followed by a party lasting from 7 to 10 p.m. The top feature of the party will be entertainment by the “Massachusetts Hungry Four,” novelty songsters composed of Fighting Irish Football Players Pat Bisceglia, Jack Lee, Minnie Mav-raides, and Frank Varrichione.
All the festivities, excluding the dedication, are exclusively for Howard Hall men. Admittance will be by ticket only. Tickets may be obtained from Phil Bradtke in Room 332 or Dutch Huber in Room 300, who are in charge of the festivities.
Seniors Zangerle, Burns Win Wilson Graduate Fellowships
Joseph Zangerle of South Bend and John A. Burns, Jr., of Lanikai, Hawaii have been awarded National Woodrow Wilson Fellowships for graduate study during 1954-1955.
Zangerle, a senior history major in the College of Arts and Letters, will study modern European history at the University of Pennsylvania. A 1950 graduate of South Bend’s Central High School, Zangerle received a four-year scholarship from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, South Bend. He is a member of the History Club at the University.
Bums, who has majored in English in the College of Arts and Letters, will continue studies in that field at the University of Chicago. He is editor of The Juggler, campus literary quarterly, and has written a number of poems. Bums was graduated from St. Louis College High School, Honolulu, in 1950.
Woodrow Wilson Fellowships were awarded this year to 119 men and 25 women in 101 colleges and universities in the United States and Canada.
May 14, 1954
15
GERRY SCHOENHERR
' and ‘Technical Review’—Top Editorial Posts
FRANK FLORIAN
FRANK MAIER
Appointments Announced to ‘Juggler
Engineering Displays Highlight Open House
The Third Annual Engineering Open House began this morning -with the showing of the General Ele'ctric “House of Magic.” The displays will remain on exhibition for the general public until tomorrow evening.
Among the highlights of the two-day affair will be an Air Show on Blue Field tomorrow morning at 9:30. The plans for the show were made pending approval from the Civil Aeronautics Board.
Tomorrow afternoon at halftime of the Old-Timers Game the annual Engineering chariot race will be held in the football stadium. Seven chariots, representing the departments of the College of Engineering, will vie for top honors. Each carriage will be drawn by two students over a 100-yd. course from goalline to goal-line. ■
Also during halftime', Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will present trophies to the department winning the chariot race, to the department with the best decorated racer, to the department with the finest Open House display, and to the winner of the Student Senate technical project contest.
Ford Motor Co. is sending several motors down for the exhibit. The Buick Wildcat will be on display under a tent in front of the Engineering Building. Several production models will be shown along with the Wildcat.
Tours are being conducted through the Open House from 3 to 6 p.m. today, from 10:30 until 3 o’clock and after the' game until 9 p.m. tomorrow. Bus transportation to the aeronautical building and to the power plant will be provided.
16
'54-'55 'Juggler' Editorship Goes to Maier; Florian, Schoenherr Will Head 'Tech Review'
Staff appointments for the 1954 Notre Dame Juggler and the Technical Review were announced Wednesday night at the Annual Publications Banquet.
Frank Maier, junior English major
University Glee Club Poises For May 24 Campus Concert
The University of Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, will present a concert on Monday, May 24, at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
The concert will be given in three parts. Ave Maria by Vittoria, How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place by Brahms, and Thanks Be to Thee, Alleluia Amen, and Let Their Celestial Concerts All Unite, by Handel are the selections that will introduce the program.
They will be followed by The Lost Chord by Sullivan, When Children Play by Fenner, Mine Alone by Strauss, Siesta by Cain and Prayer from “Lohengrin” by Wagner which will comprise the Glee Club’s offerings for part two of its presentation.
A medley of twelve' tunes, ranging from classical to popular, will be sung in the final third of the show. Negro spirituals and folk songs will also be rendered in this medley which aims to satisfy every musical taste.
Three solos are' included in the presentations of the Glee Club. Baritone Dan Coleman will sing Si Puo? from “Pagli-acci” by Leoncavallo. Ballad in G Minor by Chopin will be played by Pianist Richard Casper, and John Noland, tenor, will sing the final solo of the evening, Macushla by Macmurrough.
from Oak Park, .Ill., will assume the editor’s post on the Juggler. A member of the board of the magazine this year, Maier ■will succeed John Burns who edited the magazine this year.
Frank Newman, anothe'r junior English major, hailing from Brooklyn, N. Y., was named to the post of associate editor. A newcomer to the Juggler this year, Newman ■wrote book reviews.
Co-editors will again handle the Technical Review, succeeding this year’s duo of Jim Harrington and Harvey New-quist.
Frank Florian and Gerry Schoenherr will share the editorial duties.
Florian, a junior mechanical engineer in industrial option, is from Washington, Pa. He was a member of this year’s editorial board of the magazine.
Gerry Schoenherr, junior chemical en-gineier, calls Rochester, N. Y., his home. Schoenherr was also a member of the editorial board of the magazine.
Managing editor will be John Brown, and features head William Brehl.
William Leonard, junior electrical engineer major from Waterloo, la., will succeed William Carson as business manager for 1954.
Advertising head will be sophomore James Carson from Haddonfield, N. J. Circulation chief is another sophomore, Robert Moore, from Kilgore, Tex.
Named as editorial board head was Henry Burke, sophomore engineer from Tacoma, Wash.
Administration head will be' another sophomore engineer, Robert Minck, Defiance, O.
Art and layout will be headed by Jim Mitchell; Dick Carroll will be copy head.
The Scholastic

William Hank Snares New Memorial Award
The newly-established Joseph E. Conwell Memorial Award has been won by senior commerce man, William J. Hank. The award, to be given yearly to the “University’s outstanding man in the field of forensics,” was established by friends and neighbors of Conwell after his death in Marine Corps service.
Forensics, a term designating every major field of speech, is a field in which both Conwell and Hank were very active here. Conwell, ’52, won a national oratory title for Notre Dame, was a member of the Debate Team, and founded the Speaker’s Bureau on campus.
Hank, president of the Debate Team, is the Breen Oratorical Medalist for this year. He has also won many trophies, medals and certificates for the University in the fields of discussion, extemporaneous speaking, and debate. He and debate teammate Charles Doherty are members of the “Golden Circle of Debate,” a group of the top teams in the country. The' eligible field numbered some 7,000-10,000 speakers, before eliminations.
Hank and Prof. Jerome Fallon of the Department of Speech accompanied Conwell when he delivered his national titlewinning oration. “I remember very well Joe’s oration that day,” Hank stated. “He made a plea for ‘Peace in Our Time,’ and yet he' died in the service of his country. He was a man Notre Dame can
A FRIEND REMEMBERS
Bill Hank Wins First Annual Joe Conwell Speech Award
Prof. Sullivan Gets Montana U. Post
Prof. Robert E. Sullivan of the College of Law has been named assistant dean of the law school at Montana State University, Missoula. His appointment, effective Aug. 1, was announced by Dr. Carl McFarland, president of the Montana institution.
Sullivan received his arts degree from Notre Dame in 1940 and his law degree in 1946.
Vetville Mayoralty Nominations Open
Nominations for Mayor of Vetville will begin tomorrow, Jack Gruenenfeld-er, acting mayor in the absence of the
long remember and be proud of.”
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, in announcing the award, stated, “In searching for the man to win this honor, we looked for someone who was not only a superb speaker; but one who, like Joe, was proficient in all the major fields of speech. We are happy that the man who fits these qualifications, Mr. Hank, was a personal friend of Joe.”
The award will be given on Senior Day, June 5.
incumbent, Harry Weisbecker, has announced.
Elections for the position will be conducted Sunday, May 30. Ballots will be passed out to the various apartments in the village.
Fr. Lauck Receives Cantor Prize
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., has been awarded the Leonard Cantor Memorial Prize for sculpture in the 47th annual Indiana Artists Exhibition at the John Herron Art Institute in Indianapolis recently.
His prize-winning terra cotta sculpture, “The Visitation” portrays the visit of the Virgin Mary to St. Elizabeth.
Third Order Elections Sunday
Elections for the Third Order of St. Francis will be conducted Sunday afternoon at 4 in Cavanaugh Hall, with Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., as celebrant of the benediction services afterwards.
Offices to be filled include: prefect, master of novices, vice-prefect, and treasurer.
Last SS Test Thursday
The last Selective Service College Qualification Test of the semester will be held Thursday for those who were unable to take the April 22 test. Any information concerning the test can be obtained from the Department of Guidance and Testing, Room 251, Main Building.
Met Club Elects Heads
Newly elected officers of the Met Club, who were installed at the annual Club dinner last week, are: Robert Kunze, president; Edward F. Kelly, vice-president; Walter Arnold, secretary; and Edward F. Keenan, treasurer.
Plans were discussed for the annual summer dance at the Georgian Room of the Hotel Statler, Friday, June 12 and a beach party at Jones Beach, Field 2, on Saturday, June 19.
Senior Art Exhibit Continues
The Senior Art Thesis exhibit will continue this week in the art galleries of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The exhibit features the work of nine seniors.
Tiddy Wins Bass Contest
Dan Tiddy of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Morrissey Hall won this year’s bass fishing contest with a prize catch of a 17-inch largemouth.
The fish was taken on a twelve pound (Continued on page 32)
May 14, 1954
17
Large cases display transplanted museum collection in Biology Building.
When the University decided on the Old Science Hall as the site for the new Student Center, the problem, of distributing its museum pieces became more momentous when their value was estimated at over $100,000.
This happened two years ago. Today, the Student Center has taken over the Old Science Hall; and the' priceless museum pieces are handsomely housed in ten huge show cases on the first and second floor corridors of the biology museum. Since the cases can handle only a portion of the' collection, the displays are rotated to coincide with class work.
The collection is used mainly for teaching and research along with public display. Over ten zoology courses utilize the collection; similarly, the Department of Biology is often called upon to identify or give infonnation on various fossils and living animals brought in by residents of the South Bend area.
As a result of extensive research with the various museum collections, 39 theses have been based on museum materials, and 17 research papers.
Like all competent museums, the col-
A NEW HOME
1
A lynx (North American wildcat) eyes its prey.
The passenger pigeon and Health Hen add prestige.

lection includes fossils from the dawn of civilization to a moderate collection of thousands of beautiful mollusks, skulls of pre-historic man, and the bones and teeth of animals from that era.
Dr. Robert L. Livezey, formerly of the Department of Biology and now teaching in California, was one of the men who sponsored the transformation of the University’s §100,000 musetim to its present site. Although nearly a third of the past collection was either destroyed or sent elsewhere, or otherwise disposed of, there is still much work for the' Department of Biology in cataloging and keeping up with the museum’s growth until some day Notre Dame might have a separate permanent home for its museum.
This Puffer fish looks like a balloon with spears.
A black African Monkey.
A posed fight looms between the Golden Eagle and the Turkey Vulture.
May 14, 1954
Main Library Innovations Include Circulation System With Pneumatic Tubes, Better Lighting
Plans to increase the book capacity of the Main Library and facilitate quick access to many frequently-used books have been announced by Mr. Victor A. Schaefer, director of the University Library. There will be corresponding improvements to add to the comfort of the readers in the reference rooms.
The main lobby circulation desk is to be' moved back of the entrance alcove where the card catalogues are now located. The card catalogue will be brought out into the main lobby. In the alcove behind the main desk two levels of stacks will be erected, thus making it possible for persons to have unobstructed passage from one end of the stacks to the other on every level.
Pneumatic Tubes Added
A new system of circulation is to be organized along with the re-location of the main desk. Pneumatic tubes will connect 'the circulation desk with five selected stations in the stacks where stack clerks will be stationed. The call slip will be dispatched to the appropriate station by the tubes where the stack clerk will secure the book from the shelves and forward it to the main desk by means of the booklift. Even the booklift is being modernized; instead of being hand-manipulated, it will be operated electrically.
The present doors leading into the stacks will be locked and the entrance and exit’"will be at the circulation desk to control the use of the stacks.
Mr. Schaefer emphasized, “All these changes are to be made to give more effective library service to the students and faculty. We aim to remove the barriers betweeiT^oks^andjreaders so that the^accessibility to books will be increased.”
The top floor of the library, previously occupied by the art gallery, is being prepared for library purposes. Two levels
PUBLICATIONS AWARDS
Members of the Dome, Juggler, and SCHOLASTIC announced winners of keys at the Publications Banquet Wednesday may receive them from the Publications Department secretary between 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. in the Department office.
News staff members of the SCHOLASTIC are asked to contact the News Editor because some names inadvertently were not announced.
of stacks are to be erected in both the north and central galleries, these being located directly over the present stacks. The addition of the' new stacks will increase the capacity of the library by about 130,000 volumes.
To offer the faculty and graduate students more appropriate research facilities, study alcoves will be available on both levels of the' new stacks, on the top floor, and in the west gallery.
On the south side of the top floor two special libraries are to be organized. One collection will be called “The Notre Dame' Collection” and will consist of books written by the Notre Dame faculty and any books written about Notre Dame.
The second special collection will contain the rare books and treasures of the University Library. It is the first time the rare books and treasures will be organized in one room.
Mr. Schaefer reported, “The renovation of the lighting system is only the beginning of other modifications which will be made within the next few months.” It is expected that the improvements will be completed by next Fall at the latest.
The new flourescent lights, some of which have already been installed, are' to be used in the main lobby, reference rooms, and basement periodical room. Because the new lights are' suspended from the ceiling they will replace the table lights and floor connections now in use. Consequently, the number of tables and chairs will be increased because of the flexibility achieved; the seating capacity of the rooms will be doubled.
Ventilating fans will also be installed to make the rooms more comfortable.
Many of these modifications are' the result of the library survey made in 1951. Many of the students may recall having answered a questionnaire for the surveyors at that time.
New Lighting Facilities
Mr. Schaefer feds that the changes will enable the library staff to assist and guide the student to avail himself of the library facilities for study and research. He adds, “The academic community, I am sure, appreciate's the concern of the administration in providing the kind of library service we should have at Notre Dame — a library sei-vice which has become standard among universities.”
Mr. Schaefer said that it is quite' probable that some additional changes would be announced before the end of the schoolyear.—Gene Lesmez
Three 'Scholastic' Men Receive Miller Prizes
Three Scholastic staff members and three other students, all majoring in journalism, were presented awards at the annual Press Club banquet recently.
Pat Carrico, editor, a senior in the department from Louisville, Ky., received the J. Sinnot Myers award for editorial work.
Bill Noonan, associate editor, and Bob Frolicher, sports editor, split one of four F. A. Miller awards of $25 each presented by the South Bend Tribune. They were selected for outstanding work in journalistic writing. Noonan is from Irvington, N. J., and Frolicher from Cincinnati, O.
Another of the Miller Awards went to Elmer T. Cloven, a journalism senior from Compton, Calif. He was presented a $25 award for outstanding work on the Journalist, the department’s experimental workshop newspaper.
The two other Miller awards were given to Juniors Patrick Wagner and Edward Clark, natives of South Bend and Palmerton, Pa., respectively. They were chosen for achievements in journalistic design and contribution to the Journalist.
The Miller Awards were first presented to students of the Department of Journalism in 1948 when they were established by F. A. Miller, president and editor of the Tribune. Franklin D. Schurz, Tribune secretary and treasurer, made the presentations in behalf of Mr. Miller.
Mayor John A. Scott was guest of honor and Frederick Russell, sports editor of the Nashville, Tenn., Banner, was principal speaker at the banquet held by the Club.
A graduate of the Department of Journalism, Mayor Scott spoke briefly on his experiences in writing feature articles as one of many releases for journalistic talents. He made reference to his article printed in the Saturday Evening Post shortly after his election to office.
Russell and Prof. Thomas Stritch, head of the department, discussed plans and techniques for theii- joint article on the University’s new head football coach, Terry Brennan, which will appear in the Post.
A writer of 12 articles for the Post, Russell told the journalism majors that the most effective way of presenting individual characters in feature articles is to find the “fresh approach.” “Present them,” he stated, “through little inci- . dents that express their character best. There are no short cuts,” he added.
Prof. Edward Fischer, a member of the department faculty, acted as master of ceremonies during the banquet.
20
The Scholastic
s
Ralph Flanagan’s “number 1” band highlighted the dance with mellow dance music and hit recordings.
PROM. JR.
Although dampened by Indiana rain and wind, the spirits of the Junior promgoers remained high over a weekend packed with activities. Ralph Flanagan’s melodies at the Friday dance highlighted a weekend that braved 50-degree weather and frequent showers.
The Dunes and lakes still got their quota of Saturday picnics even though some snow and hail fell. A dinner-dance at the Country Club and Communion breakfast on Sunday concluded the 1954 Junior Prom weekend.
Enclosed Caron Court kept the chill from the couples.
Queen is crowned.
A High Mass helps celebrate Mother’s Day.
May 14, 1954
21
WMII Mike Chatter
Senior Sentiment, Formal Attire Avail Not: Badinites Lose Bog Franchise to Bookstore
The last time this column appeared in the SCHOLASTIC, I mentioned something about the place of the disk-jockey in the American seelie. It was a pretty general piece and designed more as a stimulant to thought than anything else. Today, I’d like to get more specific and ■ talk about Notre Dame’s disk-jockeys, the boys who “spin the' platters and make with the' chatter” on WNDU.
As much as disk-jockey shows sound alike, they really aren’t. Each one is created for a specific purpose. Take the 12:30 Club, for instance. Coming on during the noon-hour, and handled alternately by Mike McCormick and Bob Hutchinson, the show is designed strictly for relaxation after one of the Dining Hall meals.
Bill Markley’s 4:30 Daily Express is a showcase for the latest pop tunes. Bill’s job is to select the best in the latest popular songs, while also programming the latest releases from the record companies.
Dave Pfaff’s Old Curiosity Shop, at 5:15 each day, is one for the guy who harks back to the “time of the great musicians.” The' music here is the best of those men who are now mostly a legend in the field of the popular tune and the golden-age of jazz.
Penthouse Pops, featuring Tom Cassidy, is a blending of what was good, is good, and will be good. Coming on for a full hour at 7:30 each evening, the show is delivered in a very easy manner. A feature of it is the comments, campus and otherwise, which Tom delivers between the records.
Requestfully Yours is your show. ! John McCullough is up at the station | every night from 9:30 until 9:55 play-I ing the music that you think is the best, i This show is undoubtedly the most popular on WNDU’s program schedule.
Along with these five' mainstays, Tom Knott has a program called the White Plume. The show is on the air MWF at 7:30, and if you’re interested in really fine jazz of the progressive type, I suggest that you tune' in. The format is exceptionally good, and beside the fine music, you can get an interesting histoiy of jazz along with youi- listening.
As was pointed out before, each of these shows is designed for a certain purpose^ according to your mood and the type of music you want to hear. They’re all part of the station’s desire to bring the best and most interesting to you in the field of popular music.
—John Slavick,
22
They say that all good things must come to an end; and so with the conclusion of Spring, one of Notre Dame’s traditional “bests” — Bog Ball — will bow out, forever. Its origin deeply embedded in the early history of campus activities, this popular upper-class Springtime extravaganza will cease in favor of the new bookstore' to be erected this Summer on Badin Bog.
Bog Ball is classified as a game more resembling football than softball. It is an all-weather sport that can’t be taken seriously. Its rules are as unique as its stationary home plate, a protruding piece' of steam-pipe. Any ball hitting a tree is automatically dead. Likewise a hit against Badin Hall is a home run. Bog Ball revives the ten-man team, re-
Moot Court Activities
End Year for Lawyers
Law School activities came to a close recently with four barristers emerging victoriously from the semi-final rounds of Moot Court competition in the Law Auditorium.
Wilbur Pollard, John Houck, James Kelly and Armand Deatrick will move into the Moot Court finals next October to determine the participants to represent the University in the national competition.
Two cases were argued. The first consisted of a conflict of laws question which was argued for the respondent by Pollard and Robert Maley while Houck and Mark Tolle spoke for the appellant. Honorable Luther M. Swygert, federal judge for Northern District of Indiana, Mr. Robert A Grant, attorney in South Bend, and Mr. A. S. Adelo, executive director of Moot Court, tried the case.
In the second argument, concerning the rights of a non-Christian religious sect to have' their day of worship protected by law, Joseph Gargan and Thomas Griffin represented the respondent while Deatrick and Kelly argued in favor of the appellant.
This court included the Honorable Le-Roy Wiltrout, former Indiana Appellant Judge and author of an Indiana practice book, Mr. John Pfaff, attorney in South Bend, and Mr. Joseph Helling. The latter graduated from the University’s Law School this January and represented Notre Dame in the National Competition last year. He is presently associated with the Crumpacker Firm in South Bend.
quiring a fourth outfielder. A chief obstacle to getting a base hit is the' stream of hungry students who charge across the Bog at mealtime.
This year’s Bog Ballers are mostly men of Walsh, although a few athletic Badinites and Sorinites have taken the field. The Juniors seem to favor 6:30 sunrise contests under Walsh’s windows. The regulars play under any conditions, whether it be the Hoosier monsoon season or the usual dust bowl atmosphere.
Playing attire has changed somewhat this season with pajama-tops and bathing suits coming into their own. However, now and then a more conservative player is seen wearing a vest and sweatpants ensemble.
This year some notable contributions have been made to the Bog Ball record book, among them a smashing home run to Badin’s roof by Art Nowack and the shoi-test Bog Ball game on record, a 25-minute nine-inning affair. Frank (Swish) Raith, Bog Ball’s Pat Seerey, managed 18 consecutive strike-outs for another record. Rounding out this season’s highlights was a close 22-21 pitchers’ duel.
When the date of the ground-breaking for the new bookstore was first announced as May 1, the Seniors staged a “farewell to Bog Ball” marathon which lasted six hours and featured Jim Liber-atore’s clean knock to center field, his only hit in 27 times at bat that day.
But feelings were low this week in Walsh Hall as seniors realized they were playing their last season of Bog Ball and would soon fade away. Many felt compelled to comment. Art Peterson, speaking from the sidelines where' an injury benched him for the season said, “It’s worse than missing a whole week of school.”
Dan Whelan felt a little better, remarking that his glove had been in every contest, even if he hadn’t.
In speaking of his favorite sport, Jack Nashert said, “I believe that Bog Ball is one of the key factors in the development of the Notre Dame man.”
Tiny Moran had even strongei- sentiments when he said, “I feel sorry for all the new freshmen who will have to spend their four years at Notre Dame without a single game of Bog Ball.”
Bob Green was so moved that he could only manage a “no comment.”
However, big plans are in store for the season’s finale. Closing ceremonies are slated for graduation day with the announcement of the “All Bog Team” and “Best dressed Bog Baller of the Year.”—Ken Woodward
The Scholastic

No+re Dame Promotes Thirty-One Educators
The promotion of 31 Notre Dame faculty members was announced Tuesday by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs. The promoted professors were guests of honor at the annual dinner of the Notre Dame Faculty Club in the University Dining Hall.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, addressed the gathering which included other members of the administration and several hundred faculty members and their wives.
Elevated to the rank of full professors are Aaron Abell, history; Harold Elli-thorn, electrical engineering; E. K. Francis, sociology; Raymond Gutschick, geology; and Vincent Smith, philosophy.
Newly named associate professors include Rev. Cletus Bachofer, C.S.C., biology; Walter Becker, finance; Rene De-Vogelaere, mathematics; Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., music; Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., economics; Rev. Roland Si-monitsch, C.S.C., religion; Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., English; Robert Sullivan, law; R. Catesby Taliaferro, general program; Morris Wagner, LOBUND Institute; and George Wallace, finance.
Fifteen for-met instructors have been promoted to assistant professor. They are Robert Allman and Rev. J. C. Blom-mestein, O.S.C., economics; William Bon-wich, marketing; Thomas Brown, history; Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., classics; Rev. Daniel Curtin, C.S.C., Rev. Victor Dean, C.S.C., and Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., religion; Rev. Ralph Davis, C.S.C., chemistry; Michael Delich, mechanical engineering; Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., physics; Robert Leader, art; John Lennon, modern languages; Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., music; and Wienczyslaw J. Wagner, law.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, May 15—Feast of St. John Baptist de La Salle, Confessor.
Sunday, May 16—Fourth Sunday after Easter.
Monday, May 17—Feast of St. Paschal Bayion, Confessor.
Tuesday, May 18—Feast of St. Venantius, Martyr.
Wednesday, May 19—Feast of St. Peter Celestine, Pope and Confessor.
Thursday, May 20—Feast of St. Bernardine of Siena, Confessor.
Friday, May 21—Ferial Friday.
WITH THE ARTS
It isn’t very often that we’ve heard the strains of Jumping with Symphony Sid or Perdido—not to mention a jazzed-up Victory March—in open air jam-session form around here like we did last Sunday afternoon on the steps of Sorin Hall. Darn good jam session, too. The combined combos of Don Gels and Bobby Brown sounded good together, especially those little “chases” between trumpets and drums. We were stirred out of our Sunday afternoon lethargy, went over to investigate, and were glad we did.
We started thinking about all that’s gone on around us these past four years—little things that might have entertained us or might have contributed to our appreciation of something, some of which we took advantage of and too much of which we didn’t. From Mr. and Mrs. Broadway right on up to the Silvertones. And when we looked back on all this we came to the conclusion that we enjoyed having gone to what we did and that we should have gone to more. That possibly we got something out of each of these— that everybody who went got something out of them, whether it was an increase in knowledge or an increase in appreciation of a certain medium. We definitely should have gone to more of them.	'
Take the Modem Art Exhibit last fall, for example: went over and looked at modern art for the first time, saw a painting we liked, found out that it was surrealistic, and from this got the courage to stop in the Museum of Modem Art in New York to look at some more surrealistic paintings. Or the South Bend Symphony: discovered for the first time, four years ago, what it’s like to be in a concert hall (John Adams was a concert hall for the night) with a full size symphony orchestra in front. This experience led us to buy a ticket to the Civic Music Association series during Sophomore year.
There are all sorts of events around here that are worthwhile. The only trouble is—they never seem so worthwhile as they do when you think back and see what you’ve missed. So you don’t know much about music, and think it’s for the birds—did it ever occur to you that listening to Dame Myra Hess or the Juilliard String Quartet (or the Sorin Hall Jam Session, for that matter) might do you some good in a lot of different ways? That there’s more than a slight chance that you might even appreciate it with just a little effort? This examination of conscience also extends through the Glee Club and the Concert Band, through the English Department movies and the Foreign Films series, the student musicals, student-acted professional plays, and professionally-acted plays. Even to things like the Mock Political Convention of a couple of years back. And the music on WNDU and the things around home, in some cases better and in some cases worse than what we have around here.
It seems to be a case of Notre Dame and South Bend doing fairly well on keeping up their end in trying to open our eyes, and undoubtedly if a few more eyes would open they’d do even more. Looking back on the past four years we’d say that it certainly wouldn’t have been much trouble to take in a few more of these events, even if it meant forcing a little every now and then. It seems that “appreciation” is a funny thing—it comes in pretty handy, you can never stop learning to appreciate, and it, in itself, can keep going on endlessly. You’re also pretty sorry when you think back about something that would have added to your appreciation if you’d only taken advantage of it. We have, contrary to popular campus opinion, quite a lot around us that can and should be taken advantage of. We’re sorry that we didn’t take advantage of more of them—Bruce Harrison
May 14, 1954
23
Priest Cites Industry os Major 'Battlefield'
Industrial relations is a “key battlefield in the cold war” against Communism, Rev. Benjamin Masse, S.J., associate editor of America, declared here Tuesday.
“It is up to American labor and management to prove that the Communists arc wrong in claiming that an unrelenting hatred and struggle must always exist between workers and their employers,” Father Masse said.
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
218 So. Michigan St.
WHY INCH THROUGH HIGHWAY TRAFFIC or wait until skyway weather dears? Take a train home and keep that very first date for sure! ITS MORE FUN GOING with the crowd all together on the train. There’s room for bridge or bull session. And, in the dining car, you can enjoy the next best to home cooking.
GO FOR 25% LESS than the regular coach fare by traveling home and back with two or more friends on Group Economy Plan Tickets. They’re good on trips of 100 miles or more. Gather a group of 25 or more and you each save 28% riding long-distance on the same train, then returning as a group or individually.
Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance of Departure Date for Detailed Information
EASTERN RAILROADS
The noted. Jesuit writer and authority on American industrial relations lectured under the auspices of Notre Dame’s Department of Economics.
“The only way to look at labor-management relations today is against the background of the cold war,” Father Masse asserted. Describing the ideological conflict as “the supreme, overriding political reality of our times,” he warned that America must convince the uncommitted world that our economic system and social order are preferable to the Communist way of life.
Conceding that to a large extent American employers and unions have already proved Communist economic dogma false, Father Masse urged both
TUX FOR SALE — $12.50
Size 39 regular, like new. Purchased at Spiro’s. Contact 6-3242 South Bend
groups to do it “even more convincingly” in the’ future.
“There are areas in U.S. industry,” he said, “where labor-management relations furnish all sorts of ammunition for Moscow’s propaganda corps. There is from past decades a residue of language and attitudes which offers some' semblance of truth to the charge that class warfare is normal in labor management relations.” Father Masse noted “a distressing inability on the part of labor and management leaders to agree on the' kind of law that ought to govern their relations.”
“Anyone who has had anything to do with labor-management relations in this country knows that there is on both sides high intelligence and a vast reservoir of good will,” Father Masse declared. “The time has come to forget the past and put that intelligence and good will to work. What is at stake today is not just improved industrial relations, but the outcome' of a key battle in the cold war.”
Senate Committee Chairmen For 1954-55 Name'd by Daley
Senate President Joe Daley appointed six juniors as Commissioners to sit on this year’s Senate.
The six men name'd to head the permanent Senate Committees were: Academic — Don Yeckel, a member of the General Program from Rochester, N. Y.; Physical Facilities — Jim Hesburgh, a commerce man who hails from Syracuse, N. Y.; Social — Jim Sherer, a journalism major from Bowling Green, 0.; Spiritual — John Connaughton, a premed from Wapakoneta, O.; Publicity — Jim Ehret, a commerce man in the Program for Administrators who comes from Chicago, Ill.; Off-Campus — Hugh Schaefer, a political science major who lives in South Bend. Schaefer is the only-commissioner who is an elected member of the Senate.
Daley pointed out in making these appointments that he will soon appoint for each committee a series of student counsels. These men will serve as advisors to the committees but will be without vote in the committee meetings.
A new tax-proposal was presented to the Senate last Monday by Commerce Senator Roy Belknap. Under this proposal the student activity fee of one dollar will be collected only once per year. The Senate will attempt to gain the lost revenue through raising the prices of social functions.
Belknap explained that “by placing the social activities on a pay-as-you-go basis, those who don’t attend social functions won’t be forced to pay for them.” Belknap, who is expected to call for a vote on his plan at the next senate meeting, called the tax issue “the largest single itein before the Senate this year.”
The Scholastic
24
Scholastic Sports
OLD TIMERS TEST NEW BRENNAN STYLE
Net+ers Meet Detroit; Frosh Brighten Hopes
Noti’e Dame’s netters travel to Detroit tomorrow for a match with Detroit University in their ninth match of the year. The' Irish carried a regular season mark of three wins and four losses prior to their match with Purdue’s Boileimakers at home yesterday. After the clash with the Titans, only three matches remain, Marquette, Wisconsin, and Iowa, before the National Intercollegiate Tournament at Seattle, Washington.
Wally Clarke, ND’s number one man, kept his slate clean as Notre Dame picked up wins over Northwestern, 8-1, on May 3, and Chicago, 9-0, on May 5. Clarke extended his winning streak to seven in losses to Indiana, 7-2, and Western Michigan, 6-3, last Friday and Saturday. Notre Dame’s Maury Reidy suffered his first losses of the year in the Hoosier and Western Michigan matches. However, the doubles combination of Clarke and Reidy is still undefeated after seven contests.
Against Indiana at Bloomington, the Irish scored victories in the number one singles and number one doubles matches, (Continued on Page 32)
RALPH GUGLIELMI “Big Gun” of Irish Attack
Spring Practice Closes With Annual Contest; Lemek Looms as Possible Fullback Candidate
By DAVE KILKEARY
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish ring down the curtain on Spring football drills at 3:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Notre Dame stadium wheh they take on a strong aggregation of graduating seniors and returning veterans in the annual Old Timers game before an expected turnout of 15,000 fans.
The game wall mark the beginning of the Terry Brennan era in Notre Dame football. The new head coach will get his first test in the collegiate ranks and
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
VARSITY	OLD TIMERS
Shannon ------ LE	.. Mangialardi
Varrichione .... LT .... Bush
Lemek ........ LG	  Robst
Szymanski.....C ____ Schrader
Lee .......... RG	.... Mavraides
Palumbo ...... RT......Hunter
Matz ......... RE	  Penza
Guglielmi ...QB........Martin
Heap......... LH ..... Worden
Schaefer ..... RH	   Lattner
Gaffney______FB ...... McHugh
Starting Time: 3:30 p.m.
it may well prove to be a tougher hurdle than any of the ten games on the 1954 schedule.
Brennan’s varsity will be facing as strong an array of Old Timers as any previous Irish squad has ever come up against. In addition to the 13 graduating seniors, including All-Ameiicans Johnny Lattner and Art Hunter, the Old Timers squad will have such stars of the past as Johnny Lu jack, George Connor, Jim Martin, Jim Mello, John Agnone' and Coy McGee. Other stai’s of former years who will be on hand but probably will not play include Angelo Bertelli, Frank Tripucka, Leon Hart, George Ratterman, Bob Williams, John Panelli and Larry Coutre.
Coach Brennan’s varsity squad has
been hampered by more than the usual toll of injuries through the entire Spring session. Hardest hit has been the fullback spot. The first two men, Paul Reynolds and John Gaffney, are both on the shelf and it’s very doubtful if either will see any action tomorrow. Reynolds is out with a bad knee and Gaffney has a sprained ankle. Freshman Dave Kaiser will probably be called i on to start the game at the fullback j post, although Ray Lemek, last year’s J starting left guard, has been running j at the position for the last wee-k of I workouts.	]
The starting varsity eleven boasts four | new faces for the Spring finale. Soph | Don Schaefer will be running from the j right halfback spot; Sam Palumbo will ■ be at right tackle; Jackie Lee- has nailed I down the right guard position while Dick j Szymanski will be at the center post, j Although these men are new to the starting lineup all are seasoned veterans having earned letters last fall.
The Old Timers starting eleven will (Continued on Page 32)
RAY LEMEK
Star Guard, Next Year’s Fullback?
May 14, 1954
25
ND Opposes Two Big Ten Nines Next Week; Twohy, Tremblay Deadlocked in Batting Race
By DAVE DAVIN
Next week the Irish basebailers journey to Iowa City to tangle with Coach Otto Vogel’s Hawkeyes in two single games on Monday and Tuesday. On Thursday the Klinemen return to the Cartier field diamond for a single tilt with Indiana.
Like the Irish, Iowa is dependent on some inexperienced sophomores. The Hawkeye nine is bolstered, however, by six returning lettermen, led by outfielder-Captain Eddie Lindsey. Lindsey roamed left field last season and batted .326 with five homers and 26 RBI’s. Teamed with Lindsey is last year’s leading Big Ten pitcher, Merle Jensen, who turned in six wins and two losses. Coach Vogel also has Ron Schaefer, a junior, who won five, and lost three last season.
Beside the two veteran hurlers, Coach Vogel had to build his infield and outfield around four men. This green team is currently holding down seventh place in the Big Ten, after dropping a double header over the weekend to Michigan, 8-3, and 2-1.
Indiana, in ninth place in Big Ten standings after splitting a double header with Purdue, is also in a rebuilding year. One pitcher, Ed French, and a complete infield have returned to help Coach Ernie Andre's lift the Hoosiers out of the Conference cellar, where they have finished for two consecutive seasons.
French was Indiana’s best hurler last year with three out of Indiana’s foul’ victories.
Currently leading the Hoosiers at the plate with .422 is a South Bend boy named Bob Robertson, a senior. Sophomore Emery Balog, one of Robertson’s pasture-mates, is also a mean man with the bat, hitting a neat .320.
Lately, the Irish have found the going a little tough. After the May 4 Michigan game was rained out, they took it on the chin, 8-1, on May 5 from Michigan State and then, 7-3, from Great Lakes on Saturday. However on Sunday ND came out of its slump to dump Glenview Naval Air Station at the latter’s home grounds, 4-1.
At East Lansing, the Irish were able to pick up only three hits from a trio of Spartan hurlers. The lone Notre Dame run came after Leo Linbeck hit to the second baseman with Mike Lesso on third. Lesso raced home' when the first-sacker held the ball.
Coach Jake Kline used four Irish moundsmen, but to no avail. Senior Johnny Reynolds gave four hits in 2 2/3 innings and was charged with his third loss. He has won one. The other three
pitchers, Linbeck, Jerry Spaeth and Jim Dalton, allowed five safeties between them.
Against the sailors of Great Lakes Training Base, the Irish were again weak at the plate. Sailor southpaw Claude Mitschele portioned out six hits to the visiting Notre Darners.
After an error and two bases on balls, Irish catcher Dick Gaberik singled home two runs in the sixth. The other Irish tally came in the last inning on an error and Dick Colloton’s double. Colloton led the Notre Dame batters with a double and single in five trips.
Irish starter and loser Ron Mottl was tagged for a run in the opening inning
MARK TREMBLAY
Veteran Ties For Batting Lead
after a long triple by the Sailors’ Dick Scaragia and then Bill Preston’s single. In the third, Jerry Spaeth came on in relief and could not put out the fire until the Bluejackets had rushed four runs home.
Last Sunday, behind the two-hit pitching of Ang Capozzi, the Irish picked up win number seven. The sophomore lefthander was backed up by his mates who unleashed a 10-hit barrage for the 4-1 victory. The' win was Capozzi’s second, and he has yet to taste defeat. Senior outfielder Andy Corrao led the Irish at the plate with three hits for four trips.
Rightfielder Jim Twohy and centerfielder Mark Tremblay are currently deadlocked for the batting lead with an average of .333. Third baseman and captain Hal Reilly is leading the team in (Continued on page 32)
Irish Harriers Romp In Lone Home Match
Last Friday night, in the lone outdoor home appearance of the season, Notre Dame’s improved track squad captured 13 of the 15 events, including the mile relay, and went on to crush Michigan Normal, 90-41.
Senior pole valuter Jim Harrington closed out his careel- at home, turning in the most spectacular performance of the evening. The Irish veteran, the nation’s best collegiate vaulter, cleared the 14 feet, one-eighth inch mark to erase the old record of 13-10 set by Captain Joe Springer last season. Springer attempted to soar over 14 after hitting 13-6 easily.
Notre Dame’s soph ace Alex Pe'stri-chella was the only double winner of the night as he raced home ■with a pair of victories in the dashes. He clipped the tape at :09.9 for the' 100-yd. dash and whisked off a neat :21.5 in the 220-yd. dash.
Bill Squires, stellar sophomore miler, coasted home in the opening event with an easy 4:18.2 in the mile. The Irish waltzed away with every running event except the two mile and missed a first place only in the broad jump in the field events.
Another outstanding performance by a sophomore turned a 50-yard deficit in the mile relay into a 20-yard advantage when Bill Copeland ran a tremendous third leg and paved the way for his anchorman Dennis Malec to trot home with the victory.
Senior hurdler Harvey Newquist hopped the cross beams in a fast :14.5 in the 120-yard high hurdles to win easily.
Other Notre Dame victories were turned in by high jumper Bernie Allard who cleared the bar at 6 feet 4% inches; Malec in the 440-yard run; Jack Alexander- in the 880-yard run; Jim Baker in the 220-yard low hurdles and Bill Kil-burg who threw the javelin 154 feet 2 inches.
Notre Dame’s thinclads 'rill tangle with the Pittsburgh Panthers in Pittsburgh on the 15th and enter the Indiana State Meet at Lafayette on the 22nd in outdoor action. Indoor action will find them at Cleveland on the 19th in the i Cleveland K of C games.
Hall Volleyball League Opens; First Round Scheduled May 19
The first round of the Interhall Vol- , leyball Tournament will be held on the outdoor volleyball courts beginning May 19. The semi-finals and finals will be held later at an announced date. The
The Scholastic
26
league will consist of teams from each Physical Education class plus a team consisting of Phy. Ed. majors.
Mr. Thomas Fallon, director of the league, stated that any six boys who are interested in participating as a team to come to Room 3 of the “Rock” or to the volleyball courts. He also stated that the date, May 19, will not conflict with softball or baseball games and that any members of these two leagues are welcome to join the tournament.
Lyons Captures Title in Interhall Track Runnings
Showing their superiority in the running events, Lyons’ track squad won the first interhall track meet with a total of 37 points last Sunday on Cartier field. Coached by Bill Squires and Frank Phelan, Lyons captured four firsts and placed in 11 of 13 events.
Farley finished second with 32 % points, while Morrissey was close behind with 29%. Other teams in the order of finish were: B-P, 24; Alumni, 15; Old College, 14; Walsh and St. Ed’s tied with 13; Off-Campus, 12%; Zahm, 7%; Cavanaugh and Dillon deadlocked at five each; and Howard finished last with one.
The only double winners in. the meet were John Sowa of Lyons and Byron Beams of Walsh. Sowa coasted to easy victories in the 100-yd. dash and the 220, while Beams topped all performers in the shot put and discus.
Morrissey was marked as the team to beat after early morning finals in the field events. However, Lyons roared back in the afternoon track events to gain, the margin of victory. It was a personal duel between Morrissey and Lyons until the final 880 relay, when Lyons moved ahead to stay.
In the pole vault Jim Lantis (O-C) and John Keever (Zahm) tied for first with a vault of 9' %". Bob Scoggins (Farley) and Jim Kramer (Lyons) tied for third. John Stoddard (Alumni), Lee Ayotte (B-P), and Joe Wolfe (Morrissey) were deadlocked for first in the high jump with a leap of 5' %".
Byron Beam’s toss of 43' %" was tops in the shot put, while Dick Campbell (Morrissey) and Bill Streeter (O-C) finished second and third respectively. Beams also won the discus with a toss of 113' 4%", while Streeter finished second and Keever third.
In the broad jump Jim Kramer (Lyons) gained first with a jump of 18' 2". John Henderson (Morrissey) and Franz Scheuermann (B-P) were next in order. Scheuermann came on in the 120-yd. high hurdles to edge out Pete Stager (Lyons) to win that event in 18 seconds.
Sowa outdistanced his closest compe-
(Continued on Page 30)
by Bob Frolicher
ders. Brennan s comment
JOHNNY LUJACK Old Pro Returns
Only Time Will Tell
Head Coach Terry Brennan leads his varsity forces into Notre Dame stadium tomorrow for the annual clash with the Old Timers. This game is of extra significance since it will be the first big test for the new coach’s grid-on the opening of spring practice sums up the problems faced by the new staff in the coming season. When questioned about Notre Dame’s chances next Fall, Brennan remarked that the toughest game on the schedule would be the Old Timers game.
If this comment was made with an air of pessimism at the time, Brennan fully realizes, as Spring practice draws to a close, that tomorrow could be the contest that will tell the tale for the ’54 team. A look at the Spring football roster- gives the impression that the squad is blessed with its share of returning letter-men, many of them double and triple monogram winners. As things have turned out the fullback slot presents the biggest headache in finding a capable replacement for Neil Worden. After missing a year because of a knee operation, Paul Reynolds was counted on heavily to
carry the brunt of the load. However, both Reynolds and his replacement, John Gaffney, sat out the last couple of weeks of practice because of recurring leg injuries.	'
The $64 Question
At the present, “Who will play fullback?” is the leading question. As soon as the season ended last December, many optimistic grandstanders ! were giving odds on the possibility of Ray Lemek playing fullback next season. The Lemek switch indicates how depleted the fullback candidates	■
are. There is no doubt that Lemek is fast enough to play the backfield, but	।
his presence in the fullback slot will leave much to be desired. Also, a lineman of Lemek’s ability cannot be pulled out of the front wall without the rest of the line greatly suffering. Lemek was always one of the first men down the field on punts and kickoffs and a switch either- way will leave a big hole.
One familiar face on the Old Timer squad will be Johnny Lujack. Last year the former Irish ace quarterback suffered his first defeat in the Notre Dame stadium in the Old Timers’ clash. However, anyone who saw the tilt will remember that Lujack, together with Bob Williams, another great ND signal-caller, played some great ball in a losing battle.
That his greatness still exists was exhibited by the improvement Irish quarterback Ralph Guglielmi displayed last season after working under Lujack’s tutelage. Lujack can still run and pass with the best of them, and his presence on the field tomorrow will be a real boost to the Old Timers and a real challenge to the varsity.
No Excuse Now
Undoubtedly most of the students have seen the sign in front of the dining hall announcing the day’s sports events. The idea is to remind the students of the current home sports matches and encourage their participation at these events. The idea dates back to the old days when a large bulletin board in the city square announced the events of the day.
Prediction of the Week
Once again we line up the prospects and attempt to figure out the final outcome of the gridiron clash tomorrow. All indications are that it will be a tough one and could go either way, but we’ll give the varsity a slight edge, squeezing by the Old Timers, 27-20.
May 14, 1954
Aaiunai
and
Book Sitop
We Sell Truth
N«v Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Nationally advertised WATCHES—DIAMONDS JEWELRY—RADIO Guaranteed watch repairing.
PICK YOUR PARTNER... AND

... Power like the two “Panchos,” Gonzales* and Segura* have demonstrated on their world tour. It’s the high-powered game — at its smashing best.
Play it their way this year — with the new Spalding rackets designed by and for these tennis “greats.”
ND Five Holds Spring Drills; Seek Capable Replacements
Coach Johnny Jordan’s 1954-55 edition of the Fighting Irish eagers is currently running through Spring drills in an effort to start rebuilding for next season. Candidates must be found to replace center Dick Rosenthal, forward Joe Bertrand, guard Bill Sullivan, and reserves Ed McGinn, John Reynolds, and Dick Honingford.
At present Jordan’s starting five shapes up with John Fannon, the sophomore sensation, at one of the forwards and John Smyth, a top prospect from the frosh squad at the other forward post. Lloyd Aubrey is currently one of three top candidates for the' pivot post. John Bedan and Hank Loepke, another pair from the frosh team, are the other members fighting for the slot.
Captain-elect Junior Stephens is the top candidate for one’ of the guard positions, while Steve Rebora and Bill Wei-man are vieing for the other slot. Rebora fits into the starting lineup when Aubrey is in the pivot, while Weiman plays when Bedan or Loepke handle the center post.
Feel that new surge of power, that new sense of control! Man, there’ll be no holding you!
Unbeaten Nines Capture Play In Opening Softball Rounds
Friday, May 7, marked a big day for the Interhall Softball League. The Alumni Golds, though idle, still retained their lead in the “A” League with a 2-0 record, while St. Ed’s Blues shut out Badin, 7-0, in the “B” League and the Zahm Golds increased their lead in the “C” League by downing the Farley Blacks, 11-1.
Zahm now has three victories against no defeats. In the “D” League the Zahm Greens upped their record to 3-0 by overpowering the Zahm Blues, 23-5. The Texas Club outslugged the Hawaiian Club, 20-12, to retain first place in “E” League.
Two Clubs Tied
The Milwaukee Club moved into a first-place tie with the Detroit Club in “F” Loop by. trouncing the Indianapolis Club, 26-1. Milwaukee and Detroit are deadlocked with two victories and no defeats. In “G” League the Law Club, 3-0, edged the Canton Club, 11-9, to increase their lead over the idle Knights of Columbus.
Mr. Frank Maxwell, director, stated that the Alumni Blues of League “B,” led by Marty Veith and Don Zech, look like the strongest team at the present. He added that the race between the Law Club and the Knights of Columbus in “G” League should be interesting.
28
The Scholastic
[ CANOE TRIPS
> QueticoSuperior wilderness. Only $5.00 per man i[ [per day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe [' > and food. For free folder and map write: Bill <[ [ Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box
। 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.	\
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A Notre Dame Tradition 11:30—1:30 NOON LUNCHES—75* 601 N. Niles Ave.
Tennis
(Continued from page 25) while they were winners in the number one singles, the number six singles, and first doubles against Western Michigan at Kalamazoo. Don Kennedy was the victor in the sixth single duel for the Irish against the Broncos.
A freshman squad of eleven netters now working out already brighten the tennis outlook for next season. The frosh are under the tutelage of Ken ■ Angyal, former Irish star. Several of the freshmen held high ranking in junior tennis competition last year.
A tenative-rank list of the squad consists of Harry Pagel, number one in Eastern Junior competition last year; Dean Richards, son of former tennis great Vincent Richards; Jim Rich; Harry Smith, number six in Eastern Interscholastics last season; Tom Ryan; Tom Guilfoile; Fred Gardner; Bob Kuhn; Bob Miller; Frank Hennessey and Joe Rink.
Since Notre Dame follows Western Conference rules, which do not permit freshmen participation in varsity competition, the squad has no organized schedule. They are, however, playing informal matches with local players in South Bend, and have played matches with players from other cities. Last Sunday they performed at Hammond and plan to play at Fort Wayne in the future.	.
Baseball
(Continued from page 26) runs scored with 15, while second baseman Dick Colloton and first sacker Mike Lesso are’ tied for second with 11 apiece.
Twohy also is the current RBI leader with 13, followed by Tremblay, Reilly, and right fielder Bill Teschke with 8 each. Catcher Dick Gaberik holds down the second slot in the race for thd batting crown with a mark of .324, while Colloton and Reilly are close behind with averages of .319 and .318 respectively.
Spring Football
(Continued from page 25) probably shape up with John Lattner and Neil Worden at the halves, Tom McHugh at full and Bob Martin at quarter. In the' line Don Penza, last season’s captain, and Fred Mangialardi will be at the flanks, Art Hunter and Joe Bush at the tackles, Minnie Mavraides and Art Nowack at the guards and Jim Schrader at center.
The Old Timers game was started approximately 26 years ago by Knute Rockne to give incentive and color to the winding up of Spring drills. As in the past years, the game will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley.
May 14, 1954
29
University Procures Copy of 'Vetus Latina'
Ne\v areas of research in Biblical science, liturgy and the history of theology will be opened to scholars at the University with the acquisition of a microfilm copy of Vetus Latina, the Old Latin Bible widely used by the Church prior to St. Jerome’s famous translation in the fourth century.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, recently announced the arrival of the microfilm from the Archabbey of Beuron in Germany. Benedictine’ monks there, under the direction of Rev. Bonifatius Fischer, O.S.B., have completed the cataloging of nearly 500,000 quotations from the manuscripts of the most ancient Latin Bible as well as Biblical passages quoted in the writings of the' Church Fathers in the first centuries of the Christian era.
Positive prints of the Vetus Latvia material have been entrusted not only to Notre Dame but also to the American Committee of the International Greek New Testament, University of Chicago; to the British Critical Greek New Testament Committee, Oxford, England; and jointly to the Catholic Biblical Association and the Institute of Christian Oriental Research, Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. These groups joined with Notre Dame in financing the project.
The Archabbey of Beuron also retains two sets of the positive prints. The valuable negative from which these prints were' made remains the property of the Archabbey but it will be housed for safe keeping at Notre Dame.
At the outset, Notre Dame will use the Vetus Latina collection primarily for its liturgical and theological value, according to ReV. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., director of the University’s Liturgy Program.
Interhall Track
(Continued from page 27) titor by about ten yards, as he won the 100-yard dash in 11.1. George' Keyes (B-P) and John Bozzane (Old College) finished second and third respectively. It was Sowa all the way in the 220, breezing to victory in 26 seconds.
A 4:52.3 mile captured first place for Joe Lynch (Dillon). Pete Maroney (St. Ed’s) and Bill Guilfoile (Walsh) finished next in order. Jim Mitchell (Lyons) won the 440 and Pete Maroney (St. Ed’s) grabbed the 880 with a time of 2:22.5. Art Price (Cavanaugh) won the 180-yd. low hurdles in :23.8.
Farley’s 880 yd. relay team captured 10 points and first place in that event and edged out Morrissey for second honors in the meet.
“.. . I walks into this haberdasher just off campus, see, and ask for a white shirt. He starts givin’ me this song-and-dance about that Van Heusen Century with the soft collar that supposed to not wrinkle ever. The jerk starts snowin’ me with some 14-day free trial deal, that if I’m not satisfied after wearing it and washing it for 14 days, he’ll gimme my dough back.
'Tm from Brooklyn, see, and I don’t trust nobody. I ask the guy, ‘What’s the catch, buddy?’ He says, ‘No catch. Wear it as much and as hard as you want. If the collar ever winkles or wilts, you get your money back. Wash it yourself. It’s easy. You just iron the collar flat, flip it, and it folds perfectly because the fold-line’s woven in.
If not, your money back.’
“The guy tells me it’s the only soft one-piece collar in the world, that it lasts up to twice as long as other shirts and only costs S3.95 for whites and §4.95 in colors and superfine whites. I tell him he’s nuts to make such a stupid offer. I tell him he’ll lose his shirt. It’s a kind of joke, see. I figure no shirt will live up to all that malarky.
“And y’know what? I been wearin’ and washin’ it now for a hunerd and fourteen days, and I still can’t find nothin’ wrong with it.” o
See the New Van Heusen Shirts at
RASMUSSEN men's shop
N4AJN AND WASHINGTON STREETS
30
The Scholastic
Writers' Conference Adds Anne Fremantle
Anne Fremantle, noted novelist, biographer, editor, translator and poet, has been added to the staff of the sixth annual Writers’ Conference here June 28 to July 3, Prof. Louis Hasley, conference director, recently announced. Mrs. Fremantle is a contributing editor of Commonweal, an editorial board member of the Catholic Book Club, and an instructor in creative writing at Fordham University.
Other members of the Writers’ Conference staff will include WaiTen Beck, prominent Midwest writer and professor of English at Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis.; Henry Rago, poet and critic and associate professor of humanities at the University of Chicago; Richard Sullivan, novelist and short story writer and a member of the Notre Dame faculty; and John T. Frederick, author and critic, also a Notre Dame faculty member.
Mrs. Fremantle', a native of England, is an Oxford graduate who received a master’s degree at the London School of Economics. Before coming to the United States in 1942 she had served as editor of The London Mercury, reviewer for The Neiv Statesman and the Times Literary Supplement, special correspondent for the London Times, the Manchester Gztardian and other papers, and writer and broadcaster for the BBC.
Mrs. Fremantle is the' author of seven books including Poems and a successful novel, James and Joan. She has edited five anthologies and translated two works on the lives of the saints. Her most recent book is Christian Conversation.
Italian Writer Lauds New Caponigri Book
In a recent issue of II Mondo, Rome daily, Prof. A. Robert Caponigri of the Department of Philosophy was hailed by Raffaello Franchini, for having written a book both lively and partisan. Professor Caponigri’s latest book, Time and Idea, the Philosophy of History of Biambatista Vico, was published recently both in London and Chicago.
Said Franchini: “Throughout the entire volume there prevails a truly unusual expository ability, the obvious fruit of a singular competence and of a philosophic background. There is a fine chapter dedicated to one of the central arguments in Vico, the relation
May 14, 1954
ship between philosophy and philology.” “In the very first chapters,” continues
Franchini, “one becomes aware that Professor Caponigri has set about capably to demonstrate how Vico intended in the Scienza Nuova- tp set forth a methodology of historical knowledge, and not merely to align himself sloth-fully with the old theologistic and metaphysical tradition.”
Professor Caponigri has perceived that “Vico is in reality a renewer of the humanistic tradition, in the sense that he overcomes once and for all that scorn for action which had characterized classical humanism. The old antinomies of time and idea, finite and infinite are overcome by Vico in a new synthesis.”
Before coming to Notre Dame, Professor Caponigri studied at Loyola, Harvard, and the' University of Chicago. He joined the faculty of the Department of Philosophy here in 1943, after teaching for three years at the Uni-, versity of Iowa.
Do you think you have no talent for dancing...that good times and popularity can’t be yours? Well, here’s good news for you. Whether you’re a timidsbeginner or just an old-fashioned dancer, here’s your chance to find out that you can be a sought-after partner and have more fun without risking a single penny.
You see, the Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is different, better than any other-thanks to his "Magic Step” method. You not only learn all the latest steps but develop your
ARTHUR MURRAY School ofDancmg
120 E. Wayne	2-3339
Diamonds Jowolry Watdios :
J. TreHiewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
YOU ARE SO SMART TO USE A “GENTLEMAN’S GROOM-MASTER”
For that well groomed appearance. Tram your hair to stay in place. Well made of strong cotton net with adjustable elastic neck strap to fit all head sizes. To use: Slightly moisten and comb your hair and wear your “GROOM-MASTER” while you shave and dress. Just $1—-We pay tax and postage. Imported and distributed by: HOUSE OF DIANE, 106 E. Russell St, Barrington, Ill.
■dormant personality while learning.
This you do at our Student Parties, a very important part of your course. At these parties you meet new people, dance with all types of dancers, get the feeling of being out in public. Even timid people become confident and their true, attractive personality comes out.
So don’t wait. Come in now and have your free lesson. Get started on a new life of more good times and popularity than you’ve ever had before.
Cope. iS5a—Artliv Murray, lac.
Blue Circle
(Continued from page 13)
Safe Storage
Out-of-Season Clothes
No need to ship or carry your heavy winter and out-of-season clothes home for the summer. Leave them in our safe-insured STORAGE VAULT.
Your clothes will be protected from moths, fire and theft and the nominal charge doesn’t have to be paid until you pick them up next fall.
Notre Dame men in the years past have found this storage idea to be a good bet. You can also take advantage of it.
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	First Corner across the River
Collins, Joseph Bill, Don Swiegowski, Jim Eustermann and Tom Crehan; and juniors Jim Norton, Harry Edelstein, Stephen Prevoznik, John Powers, Dick Miller, Pete Sutherland, and Chuck Doherty.
The Blue Circle has two other chief projects lined up for next Fall. Freshman orientation should be bigger and better and more' valuable to the incoming first-year men according to Chairman O’Meara. “The frosh will have more time on their hands before classes next year so we want to utilize that time to help them learn what Notre Dame is like. We’ll stress the academic side of college life during the orientation period.”
The 1954 student trip to an away-foot-ball game is already being planned. O’Meara and Dick Capka, trip chairman, both agree that the tour should be to “a place close enough so that a great many students can afford to attend, but the trip site should be attractive enough to gain student intetest.”
On the Bus Line
Wherever You Go In Engineering
you’ll find Iufkin
Measuring Tapes
In every industry engineers need specialized measuring equipment — that is why Lufkin, worldwide specialist in measuring devices, makes nearly 8,000 different tapes, rules, and precision tools.
In highway, railroad, oil, mining, surveying, forestry, and construction work, engineers specify Lufkin “Chrome Clad" steel measuring tapes to get the most on-the-job durability. In swamp, brush, desert, gravel pits, and wherever a tough dependable tape is an absolute must, Lufkin “Michigan" babbitt metal chain tapes are preferred. City engineers and construction engineers use the Lufkin “Wolverine." The line in the Lufkin “Western" is the same weight as chain tapes, but subdivided throughout, making it ideal for heavy field work. Lufkin “Lucas" mine tapes resist rust and corrosion. In the oil fields “Chrome Clad" tapes are standard as they withstand hard use, fumes, and corrosion — they are used for gaging, tank
———————————---------------——————1
THE LUFKIN RULE Co., Saginaw, Mich.
Please send me your illustrated catalog of measuring tapes and rules.
Name________________________________
AAtr—
J*1*?	■	. - State
strapping, and measuring standing casing.
When you go out on the job specify Lufkin measuring tapes—you will find one for your every measuring need. Send today for your free catalog.
the Iufkin rule company
3,1	SAGINAW, MICHIGAN
Capsule Corner
(Continued from page 17)
test nylon line on the north shore of St. Mary’s lake.
Father Baldwin, who sponsors the contest, reminds students that the bream, or blue-gill contest will not end until June 1.
Air Cadet Club Sells Chances
Members of the Air Cadet Club will be selling chances for a 1954 MG sports car to be given away at the International Sports Car races at Camp Atterbury, Ind., May 30.
Club members will canvass the halls next week. Tickets will be limited to 600.
Moot Court Execs Named	।
New members of the executive board of Moot Court were recently announced by Don Bebene'k, graduating co-direc- . tor of the Court.
They include: George Lang, director; . j Armand Deatrick, executive director; Elmer Farinella, director of public relations; Andrew Walsh, chancellor; and T. J. Bel-gan, advisor.
Picnic Ducats Go On Sale
Tickets for the Student Senate’s “Old Fashioned Picnic” will go on sale in the various residence halls Wednesday. Price for the outing will be 50 cents.
The picnic will be hold in Pottawat-tomi Park from 1:30 to 5 p.m. next Saturday. Students from the St. Joseph’s Nurses Home and St. Mary’s are invited to attend.
The Scholastic
32

Letters
(Continued from page 4)
You, Mr. Carrico, cited it in your editorial: you gave the report that “The scripts which were submitted did not represent University material.”
It may seem presumptuous for me to object to the criticism of the authorities who comprise the committee. But I shall object, nevertheless, since it is my firm— and reasonable—conviction, that if all three are not good enough, at least one is. I read the book before it was submitted, and I heard its music. Its quality would warrant its production by a Hasty Pudding Club or a Triangle Club. What’s good enough for these renowned collegiate theatrical institutions should be good enough for Notre Dame.
I know nothing of the other two scripts, yet I should not be at all surprised if one of the books, at least, is better than the one with which I am familiar . . .
Indignantly, Steve Surbrook 351 Sorin
Fifty Year
(Continued from page 13) birthday he had settled down to regular studio work with the networks in Chicago. He has played with such famed leaders as Paul Whiteman, Percy Faith, Russ Case, John Scott Trotter, Frank Black and others.
During the war Marterie served Uncle Sam in the Navy, organizing a crew .	which was known as one of the	top
■	service musical units. After his stint, he
(	returned to radio work, and had his	own
'	network show from Chicago in 1949.
About that time Mercury Records	was
1 seeking a musician and band that could , provide instrumentals which would prove a hit on long-playing platters, i After Mercury heard some masters he j	had cut with a studio crew for his own
■	amusement, Marterie was signed with
Mercury and has been their artist ever ; since.
:	Marterie and his orchestra were se-
lected as the headline band for 1954 by the Billboard Magazine. He was also selected as America’s No. 1 most promising swing band for 1954 by Downbeat magazine.
From 1904 to 1954, the Senior Ball has grown into a tradition, a long, fabulous chain of activities for the Senior Class. Tonight another link will be added to their chain by 600 Seniors, their very best ladies, and Ralph Marterie.
May 14, 1954
Every college man will be ‘Mr. Formal’
See the latest“After Six” formal wear at
Michigan at Washington — On the Comer
33
by Gordon Bergquist
I, existing in the year 1954, a college senior about to graduate, some 22 years old, may be presumed by many to know very little. Whether this is true or not, will never be exactly known, but, nevertheless, I have thought a lot. Whether this thinking has been, or will be, to any purpose, also will never be exactly known. Maybe that i's one of the vices of a college student—he gets into the habit of thinking.
And when one comes right down to it, there are only two main things that students on this campus think about— namely, Notre Dame and the World. Perhaps the reason for
so much thought or speculation on these two entities is the obvious differences
that exist between the World and Notre Dame.
Now you will all suppose that I am going to give dire warnings about the terrors of the cruel, cruel world, as contrasted with the calm, protected atmosphere under the Golden Dome.
Instead, I am going to talk about something which I have thought about, in the manner of the Notre Dame student. I am going to talk about WOMAN.
In particular, I am going to talk about the differences in the attitudes toward
Kicked in the Face
by a Bootee
OR...Who Ever Called it a “Blessed Event”?
Once there was a Sophomore who had a Sister. He also had a Girl. As Coincidence would have it, both females labored under the Baptismal Handicap of Ermintrude. Small world. The sister (call her Ermintrude I for the record) got married. In due process, she produced an Offspring. So, fraternal-like, Our Boy sat down and wrote her a Letter of Congratulations, starting “I hear you have a Baby ...” Only trouble was, he forgot to mail it. Went off for the Weekend, leaving it on his desk, where his Roommate spotted it.
The latter, being The Soul of Honor, didn’t read any farther than the leadoff .. . which was, logically enough, “Dear Ermintrude.” Jumping at a Conclusion, he addressed an envelope to Ermintrude II, slapped on a
105 N. Main St.
the female between Notre Dame and the World. You can pick up any number of the popular magazines, listen in on a good number of all-male conversations, and you can get a pretty good idea of what seems to be the modern American view of the female.
There seems to be no need to delineate this attitude. The idea seems to be that the woman is for pleasure, rather than for living. -
The curious thing seems to be that many people—women included—have de-
stamp and dropped the Missive in the Mails.
Our Sophomore still has a sister named Ermintrude. No Girl. And he still has No Idea why.
Had he but had a Telegrammar, he’d have Known Enough to send Sis and Spouse a handsome Congratulations telegram. (Telegrammar — an idea-packed, pocket-size guide to telegraph use. To get one, free, just write to Room 1727, Western Union at 60 Hudson St., New York City.) Telegrams get to the Right Destination . . . carry Good News, Invitations, Bids for Dates (or Cash) more result-fully than any other Form of Communication. When you have a message to send that Means Something, just call Western Union or sprint to your Western Union office.
Telephone 3-6101
cided that Women do not need to live. Do not need to live, that is, in the sense of having a complete life. Many men have concluded that a woman is happy if she has a man. Yet they do not seem to realize that a woman is also a human being and has a right to the same things that the male does.
A woman needs more than just mere possession. A woman needs more than a mate; she needs a friend, in the same person as her mate. In fact, a woman needs a lot of things — mostly little things, to be sure. Many men seem to think that all a woman needs is a man. And it seems logical, that if a woman needs such things, she should be given them.
But what has all this got to do with Notre Dame? As I said at the start, I’m just talking, but I’ll get around to it eventually.
Tonight, for example, some 540 seniors will take a few hours off from the cares of the classroom and dormitory and spend the evening in the company of that great rarity on the Notre Dame campus — the young lady.
The Senior Ball — or any other class dance, for that matter — doesn’t seem to be put on for the benefit of the Notre Dame man, particularly. Rather, a big dance, such as tonight’s, seems to be an expression, not only of love but of respect. This is an expression of respect for woman as woman. Because it seems that girls like and need to be wanted as total human beings. A big dance is an expression of infinitely much more than some vague biological urge. A woman needs companionship, conversation, a social life. And all of these things she has a right to.
Of course, a woman wants, and needs, to be desired as a woman, but it is impossible to separate the female from the human being — a thing which a great portion of the modern world has done.
Maybe that’s why the usual Hollywood marriage — a marriage between male and female, rather than between\nale and female human beings — so often comes apart at the seams. And maybe that’s why those people who try to follow the Hollywood standard so often fail.
Now Notre Dame has no corner on the market of respect for women as human beings. And the World has no corner on the market for contempt of women as human beings. Neither is Notre' Dame the last stronghold in a darkening world.
As I said at the start, I’m not out to prove anything. I’ve got nothing against women — in fact, I rather like them. This is just something I’ve been thinking about, and Notre Dame and the Senior Ball seemed to he pretty good examples of the difference between Notre Dame and the World.
The Scholastic
34

Ever Study
TERRESTRIAL ENGINEERING?
Probably not. As far as we know, there isn’t such a term. Even so, the terrain of a manufacturing plant may have a vital effect on the design and location of its engineering equipment.
It certainly did in the case of our Belle, West Virginia, plant, which is just across the road from a flat-topped hill, 750 feet high.
Perhaps you’d like to match wits with Du Pont engineers, for we feel that this problem was interesting— and its solution ingenious.
Briefly, the situation was this: Carbon dioxide was to be removed from a mixture of gases by bringing them into contact with water in "scrubbers” operating at 450 psi (gauge). The inlet gases contained about 25% CO2 by volume. Because of its greater solubility, most of the CO2 would leave the scrubbers dissolved in the water.
It was necessary to reduce the pressure of this water to atmospheric and recover the dissolved carbon dioxide, since CO2 was needed for use in a chemical synthesis. The degasified water then had to be pumped back into the pressure scrubbers, to repeat the scrubbing cycle.
Still like to match wits? How would you design an
economical closed system for this scrubbing water? After you’ve thought out your solution, you might like to compare it with the one given below.
Du Pont engineers made use of the precipitous terrain in this way: pressure on the water leaving the scrubbers was sufficient to force it up to the top of the hill for CO2 recovery. The returning water thereby provided a pressure of approximately 325 psi (750 feet of head) at the base of the hill. This gift of pressure on the suction side of the water pumps resulted in considerable energy saving.
Do unusual problems such as this one challenge you and stir your enthusiasm? If they do, we think you’ll he interested in technical work with the Du Pont Company.
WateA "Cavalcade of America” on television
E. I. du Pont do Nemours & Company (Inc.)
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMSKY
Today’s Chesterfield is the
Best Cigarette Ever Made!
AMERICA’S
MOST POPULA
2-WAY
CIGARETTE
Copyright 195-1. Liggett & Miers Tobacco Co.
The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.
The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want.
The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

CHESTERFIELD BfSTfOHma