HIGH LIGHTS
Cotillion Date is Set
Dean Jackson Joins the Army
CAA Begins Second Year
Arizona Bows, Indiana Threatens New Lights in Library
Interhall Football Coaches Named
VOLUME 75
NUMBER 2 OCTOBER 3, 1941
jim McDonough Notre Dame's Talent>Elect
a Third More Ink
TELEVISION
Maxima, $10 Major (illus.) or • Debutante, $8.75
Junior or Sub-Deb. $5
Writeline Pencils to match, $3.75 to $5

They all cheer Parker’s
UPER-CHARGEB Pen
•	'	I
than average of three well-known sac-type pens-due to revolutionary One-Hand Sacless Filler
The Pen with the smart Arrow Military Clip and the Oil-Smooth, Lubricated Point that won't wear scratchy in a lifetime 1
No matter what pen you may happen to be shown first, don’t make the mistake of making a purchase until you have seen and tried the Parker Vacu-matic—there is nothing else like it.
This is largely due to the Parker Laboratories, staffed by able scientists in physical metallurgy, chemistry, engineering. No other pen-maker we know attempts the research and development that go on daily here.
Today, in the world of science, it is known that Parker achievements mark the march in Pen progress.
Known far and wide as THE JEWELS of PENDOM, Parker Pens and matched Pen and Pencil Sets are the choice of 50 million people.
So remember, don’t buy until you try Parker. Parker’s Blue Diamond is a Life Guarantee Contract — makes pens so marked cost less than the poorest.
The Parker Pen Co., New York, Chicago, San Francisco. Factories at Janesville, Wisconsin and Toronto, Canada.
COPR. 1941, THE PARKER PEN CO.
FOR LIFE BY
PARKER'S BLUE DIAMOND
♦ Parker's Blue Diamond on the pen is our Life Contract unconditionally Guaranteeing to service the pen for the life of the owner except for loss and intentional damage, subject only to a 35^ charge for postage, insurance, and handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.
1—Parker's 14 K Gold Point is utterly different, finer-textured and much less brittle than ordinary 14 K Gold.
2—It is tipped with oil-smooth Osmiridium, developed under the direction of Dr. Robert Pickus, chief Parker metallurgist, former instructor of metallurgy at Yale University. .
3—Parker's One-Hand Sacless Filler—a basically better
4
principle and the easiest of all to operate—makes room for about a third more ink than the average of three well-known sac-type pens, and substantially more than any one of them.
4—Parker's patented Television barrel lets you SEE when your pen needs refilling. 5—Parker's smart laminated styling—streamlinedPearl and Jet RINGS—as shimmering as velvet—is wholly exclusive.
CLEAN YOUR PEN AS IT WRITES BY USING PARKER QU/NK, THE PEN-CLEANING INK, 15^ AND 25^
2

COLLEGE
. Sold guide tours in a tourist bureau this summer. Had one particularly embarrassing incident happen to us. An elderly man, his wife and their daughter came in asking about the local scenery. That’s my cue so I proceeded to get fluent.
I had no sooner started on my spiel when it became evident that the mother was the boss of this group. She pushed ahead of the other two and seemed to hang on my every word. Well, thought I, it’s a low thing to do but I’m going to take advantage of this fellow’s henpecked condition. I concentrated on the elderly woman and really felt good. She didn’t interrupt my sales talk with foolish questions but nodded in agreement to every one of my emphatic points. I really was going full blast and finally wound up with a flourish which reduced to, “Do you want a tour?”
Then the father and daughter looked at each other and nodded affirmatively. The daughter turned to her mother: “DO YOU WANT TO GET A GUIDE TO SHOW US AROUND?” she shouted.
The father turned to me apologetically, “Ma’s stone deaf.”
South Bend Sue
“Do you remember that night I kissed you and said I would love you always?”
“Yes, dear.”
“I was afraid you would.”
—Navy Log
What, No Open House!
The Minnesota Daily is much concerned with the social welfare of its readers. Second page of the opening issue carried an illustrated article titled, “After Registration Comes Date—Thusly.” The article then proceeded in five pictures and two paragraphs to inform the freshmen on how to be a “wolf” and get away with it. First picture shows a frosh noticing resemblance of an unknown gal to Venus de Milo. Second shows male doing a little obvious sleuthing on female’s registration card. Third and fourth show logical next move—use of telephone. Fifth shows happy ending, “The spreading bough, minus, minus, and thou.” Seemed Utopian, but maybe I’m just pessimistic.
❖
The Melting Pot
• Above is the title of the column; it’s in the Ohio State Lantern and is by Ed Glick. Sort of liked some of the quickies.
PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
Females are often credited with having a sixth sense. But we’d like to know what they do with the original five.
The moral Samson gave to the world: Never patronize the wrong barber!
Looks like the president has decided to economize. From here on in the navywill have its targets supplied free.
Thrice Thanked by Wally
Some brain of the University of Wisconsin’s Daily Cardinal concocted the grand publicity stunt of having two Cardinal reporters chase down the Duke and Duchess of Windsor as their special train went through Wisconsin and present the royal pair with a subscription to the Cardinal. The resultant interview gave the paper a number one story for the day. The reporters described everything in sight—even a button on the Duke’s vest. After being told what the Daily Cardinal was, the Duchess thanked the boys three times during their conversation.
To be congratulated, however, is the Cardinal in its all out effort to find blood donors for a sick ten-year-old boy. The boy was in desperate need of transfusions but no blood was available. The frantic father appealed to the paper, and
So you're from Notre Dame. What position did you play?
the next edition carried his appeal. By the time the next issue came out a supply of blood for the boy was assured for almost a week in advance. “This,” the Cardinal editorial put it, and we are inclined to agree, “we like to feel, is the best use to which the press could put its power.”
❖
Broken Shoelaces To—
The sad fellow who missed Gate 15 and walked into the stadium wall because of a passing blond.
❖ ’
Cut, Yelled the Director
John McCabe of the University of Detroit had a great time making a screen test, so he says in the Varsity News. John stayed at the Waldorf and went to a party at the Stork Club in New York; all at the expense of the film company. In the actual screen test there was an “embrace” fade-out which found John reluctant and the director insistent on the proper time to stop. By the way, test results won’t be announced for two months.
❖
What to Wear
The Creightonian believes in keeping the boys up on style trends. Nine-dollar sport coats with slacks to match, antique finish shoes are necessities for attending a football game. At Creighton an unofficial ruling has nullified the use of T-shirts in classes but collars are still left open.
3
THE WEEK
By JIM O’LAUGHLIN
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
Top of the Week:
“Who’s next?”. . . .
In the Nick o' Time:
Bob Richardson, the “sax-tootin” gent of “Modernaires” fame, had quite an experience at last Saturday’s Victory Dance. Bob, who also warbles for the band, stood at the mike and was just ready to do the vocals for the tune, “I Don’t Want To Set the World On Fire.” He looked at the sheet of music in his hand, and discovered it was a guitar part—no words! “Rich” grabbed the mike and .dashed over to the piano just in time to catch the second line.
Matter Over Mind:
An engineer recently labeled the Phy. Ed. men as being “almost human.” But the “Week” can go him one better. Father Cunningham conducted a quiz in his course, “The Principles of Secondary Education.” The class incidentally consists of both A.B. and Phy.Ed. students. Well, the quizzes were corrected and returned with the damages recorded numerically. Al Plotkin, an English major whose average hovers around 95%, took the runnerup position to three “musclemen”: Joe Ragolia, Herkie Bereolos, and yes—no other than smiling Jim Brutz.
❖
Whoopsi
Early last week one particular sophomore put on his Sunday - best and trampled the cinder path between here and that institution across the highway. Yes, he was sly—he was going to outsmart the wolves. He was going to renew old acquaintances right from the start. Approaching a nun, the romantic soph asked to see so-and-so. The nun looked puzzled, and then sensing his apparent ignorance, said: “Why, haven’t you heard? She’s married!”
❖
Whiffs of the Week:
Bill Sturbitts is bemoaning the expense of long-distance phone calls. He called Washington, D.C. eight times within 12 days. No, Rollo; it wasn’t his congressman! .... Who said there are no Irish at Notre Dame? The roster of of one sophomore class bears four O’Rourkes, two Quinns and a pair of Quinlans.... St. Mary’s gals staged their customary open-house last Sunday.
Three thousand hopefuls jammed the “Rock,” but veterans of similar and previous campaigns predict that the squad will be cut to 400 or less for tonight’s “shindig.”. . . Masqueraders: engineers dressed up for the first time since the beginning of school.. .. Occasion: Dean Jackson’s Farewell Tea Party—yes, tea .... George Uhl and Tom Blohm dominated activity in the volunteer dishwashing department, despite the fact that they were outnumbered 5-2 by the feminine gender....
Is There a Fireman in the House?
One suggestion as to the cause of the recent blaze in the Oliver Hotel could be that a homesick fireman wanted a little action. You see, participants in the Annual Fire Chief’s Convention were being quartered in the Oliver when the fire broke out!
Famous Last Words
“B-B-But P-please—suh! Ah wuhks fo Mistah Moreeairity!”
❖
"Time Was?"
The Coffee Shop had its usual crowd Saturday night after the Arizona game. Among the celebrities was that Oklahoma operator, Thomas “The Head” Powers. Enjoying a conversation (and possibly a “brew”) with a feminine acquaintance, Tom asked for the time. “Eleven-fifteen” was the reply. Tom jumped up and without further ado, dashed out of the Oliver and jumped into a cab. Five minutes later, the cabbie, whom Tom had bribed into breaking a few traffic violations, pulled up to the circle. Our hero covered the remaining lap to Walsh Hall in his stride. Arriving at the door, he peered at the clock in the corridor—10:20. Yes Tom, South Bend is still on Daylight Saving Time!
I out of 21:
Who said engineers don’t get around? Gearge Uhl recently strewed 21 photos of dainty misses across his desk and perused the lot for a Cotillion prospect.
❖
Bottom of the Week:
That public address system....
Saturday, Oct. 4:
Indiana vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame Stadium, sing and canter with Joe Cas-sasanter, 1:30 p.m.
Movie, “Virginia,” gee-gees on the loose, Donald Duck, the technicolor kid, news, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m.
Victory Dance, Indiana Club, music by the Modernaires, sponsored by Paul Lillis and the A.S.M.E., 8:00 p.m.
❖
Sunday, Oct. 5:
National Fire Prevention Week, 5th to 11th, douse your butts, be kind to fireplugs.
Second weekly feature, National Letter Writing Week, remember your congressman, he did you.
❖
Monday, Oct. 6:
Detroit Club meeting, sans Ray Kelly, Carroll Rec, 7:30 p.m.
Cleveland Club meeting, Badin Rec, 7:30 p.m.
❖
Tuesday, Oct. 7:
Last day for Bookmen memberships, register at 258 or 267 Alumni.
Annual Fall Swimming Meet for freshmen, Rockne Memorial pool, 8:00 p.m.
♦
Wednesday, Oct. 8:
Student Commission for Decent Literature meeting, Rockne Memorial lounge room, all members and students interested in Catholic action be on hand, 4:30 p.m.
Chicago Club meeting, Engineering building auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
❖
Thursday, Oct. 9:
Metropolitan Club of New York meeting, Engineering building auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
The presidents, or secretaries, of all campus clubs and organizations, both cultural and geographic, are asked to get in touch with this column at 304 Badin as soon as possible. Throughout the year we will list, as space permits, your announcements as concern meetings, funfests and the like. Your co-operation will be appreciated and fully rewarded.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
October 3, 1941
Number 2
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING NEW COMMERCE COURSE
Classes in the new Foundation of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Inc., will begin during the middle of October, James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, announced when he described the establishment of a permanent plan to provide formal and informal instruction in the theory and practice of the newly-developing field of outdoor advertising.
. The new foundation is sponsored and financed by the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Inc. The aim of the foundation is to train specially qualified students for expert work in the field of outdoor advertising. To this end the foundation is to provide not only regular courses of instruction but also for an extensive library collection of books, periodicals, and various affiliated materials for a series of lectures in each semester.
“At present, written applications are being received and within two weeks we expect to have selected a group of 20 seniors to receive special instruction,” Dean McCarthy stated. The classes will be conducted by the resident university staff, headed by the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Dean McCarthy, and Herbert F. Klingman, all of the College of Commerce. They will be augmented from time to time by visiting lecturers, persons actively associated with outdoor advertising today.
The special aims of the foundation are: 1) to establish a centrally located depository for published materials and original documents of historical interest in the field of outdoor advertising; 2) with these library facilities as the basis of operation, to serve as a clearing house of information concerning outdoor ad-
The cover design for this year’s Scholastic is by William C. Baader, talented art major from Chillicothe, Ohio, and Walsh hall. Bill is also responsible for the clever sketches which enliven the “Introducing” column.
James E. McCarthy
vertising; 3) to make at the university provision for research toward solution of practical problems in the field of outdoor advertising, at the request of and in cooperation with the Association or its individual members; 4) to make available to all students in the College of Commerce specific instruction relating to the outdoor advertising medium; and 5) to make available to the outdoor advertising industry selected and specially trained graduates of the Notre Dame College of Commerce.
The Foundation Library will be located on the mezzanine floor of the University Library. Periodicals, exhibits and books will be displayed there. The mezzanine will also include a seminar room and classroom, Dean McCarthy explained.
Considerable published and documentary material has already been received by the University from the Outdoor Advertising Association. Among the important contributions are: the Barney Link Research Fellowship Studies conducted at the University of Wisconsin under the sponsorship of the Association; the Reports of the Traffic and Trade Research conducted at Harvard University under the direction of Dr. Miller McClintock and sponsored by the
Outdoor Advertising Association of America, the Association of National Advertisers, and the Association of Advertising Agencies; material dealing with the establishment and operation of the Traffic Audit Bureau; and documents and publications relating to the history, policies, procedures, and activities of Outdoor Advertising, Inc.
The library material will be steadily augmented by current reports of research, the proceedings of various organizations, periodicals, and other publications concerned with outdoor advertising.
With the resources of the special library steadily growing, it is intended that the Foundation will make available to the Outdoor Advertising Association and its members reprints, of current material of interest. For this work the photostatic equipment of the university library and the complete facilities of the university press are conveniently available.—Bill Scanlan
Topics for History
Prizes Announced
The Committee on History Essays of the Department of History wishes to announce the topics for the history prizes to be awarded in June 1942. First, beginning this year, the Father Charles O’Donnell-Charles Phillips Prize of fifty dollars ($50.00) to be awarded for the best essay on the following topic: “The Catholic Church as the Patron of the Renaissance in the Fifteenth Century.” Secondly, for the Monsignor Francis O’Brien History Prize for an essay dealing with some phase of the territory of the old Northwest, the topic for this year will be: “Catholic Education on the Frontier—Notre Dame Before the Civil War.”
The competition for both prizes is limited to students who have not yet completed eight semesters of work at the University of Notre Dame. Anyone wishing any information concerning the contest can inquire of Father Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., or Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, who constitute the Committee on History Essays.
5
Let there be no end to these—
The warming sun on leaf-flecked grass, The rippling of water, the growth of trees—
'Till my whispered future comes at last.
6
ADMINISTRATION
DEAN JACKSON AND PROF. DU BOIS JOIN ARMY
Professor Schubmehl New Dean of Engineering
Notre Dame will lose a prominent member of its faculty next week when Dugald C. Jackson, dean of the College of Engineering leaves to take a commission in the U. S. Army. The dean, whose rank is that of a major, will be stationed at the Frankfort arsenal in Philadelphia, Pa.	.
Major Jackson, who originally held a commission in the coast artillery reserves, was transferred to the ordnance department and stationed at Frankfort at the request of Brig. Gen. Walter P. Boatwright, commanding officer of the arsenal. At the arsenal, it will be Major Jackson’s job to supervise the production of defense materiel. Much of this is actually being built at the arsenal, but Major Jackson will also supervise the production of equipment being manufactured under contract by private companies. Most of his work will be concerned with fire control apparatus and allied equipment. The U. S. army has developed an automatic “spotting” appa-
Professor DuBois
ratus for anti-aircraft guns. This device; operated by covering the plane with horizontal and vertical telescopes, automatically sets the fuse for the shell, aims and fires the gun. One of the major’s duties will be to expedite the production of this vital defense weapon. Major Jackson stated that there are approximately 10,000 civilian workers at the arsenal who are under the direction of 45 army officers.
Dean Jackson
Dean Jackson came to Notre Dame in Sept. 1939 from the Lewis Institute in Chicago, where he was director. Previous to that he was on the engineering faculties of Duke University and the University of Kansas. He received his engineering degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where his father was head of the department of electrical engineering.
Dugald C. Jackson, Sr., was an associate of the late Thomas Edison and father and son have collaborated in important contributions to the science of engineering education.
Major Jackson was not drafted because the job of training young engineers is considered an important one in the defense machinery. However, because of his technical knowledge and engineering experience, he was requested to join the staff at the Frankfort arsenal. His decision to leave the University was contingent on his obtaining a leave of absence from Father O’Donnell. This was granted because the University felt that in the present crisis it was a patriotic duty to release Major Jackson for work where the need for his experience and training was more urgently felt. Unless unusual circumstances ordain
otherwise, Major Jackson expects to be able to return to Notre Dame on Oct. 15, 1942, exactly one year from the date he will leave.
While dean of the College of Engineering here at Notre Dame, Major Jackson was the author of several innovations in the administration of his department. One of these was a series of lectures in which freshman engineers were given a glimpse of the practical side of the profession they had chosen and the work which they will be called upon to do after graduation. In addition, he went far afield to procure well known practicing engineers and technologists to give informal talks on their particular fields. The new equipment which the College of Engineering now boasts is the result of his activities in that direction.
During Major Jackson’s absence, the department will be in charge of Prof. Raymond J. Schubmehl.
The University suffered another loss, when Prof. Benjamin DuBois left this summer to join the country’s armed forces. Prof. DuBois, who had been a member of the faculty since 1924 has the rank of- lieutenant-colonel in the U. S. army. He was a graduate of Ottawa University and during his 17 years at the University had taught French to thousands of students. Lt. Col. DuBois is now stationed in the Canal Zone.
—Robert E. Brooks
Lay Retreat Successful
More than 1,200 Catholic laymen attended last summer’s retreats, held here on the campus. Although the majority of the retreatants came from the Midwest, more than 20 states were represented. Those attending were housed in University residence halls and their routine during the stay was largely that of a Notre Dame student, except that religious exercises took the place of the customary classes. The first group remained here from August 7-10, and the second, from August 10-12. Since 1938 it has been necessary to conduct two separate missions to handle the increased attendance.
Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C., now a pastor of St. Joseph’s parish' in South Bend, conducted the services. He was assisted by Rev. Joseph Hart, C.S.C., who made such a success of the Freshman-Spphomore Mission last week.
7
Vincentians Are Active
Charitable Organization
Rare, indeed, this year will be the Notre Dame man who is called upon in the name of charity to tear the shirt from his back and clothe the naked. But that is no indication that this business of charity will be at a standstill. Along about the middle of December, when the aforementioned shirt reaches the stage where our man crosses his fingers every time he stuffs it into the laundry bag, there will be a knock on the door, a knock that helps keep the naked from getting that way and promotes the kind of giving that isn’t too painful. That knock on the door is a campus tradition, and the bi-annual clothes drive is just one of the many activities of the Notre Dame Conference of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul.
The Vincentians are the only group on the. campus organized primarily for the woik of practical charity. The local conference is a branch of the most famous society of charity in the Catholic Church. There are conferences in every diocese and almost every parish has affiliations with the organization. Surprisingly enough, however, this is an organization founded for and by college men. Over 100 years ago six young men, led by Frederick Ozanam, united to answer the challenge flaunted by critics of the Church who scoffed at the Catholic teachings on the virtue of charity, claiming that the doctrine was one of theory without practice.
The objects of these youthful founders were manifold. They included, briefly, the personal ■ sanctification of the members themselves and the assistance, both temporal and spiritual, to those less fortunate than themselves. Today the Notre Dame Conference is striving for the same goals as an organ of charity for individuals and families in this immediate area. It functions in cooperation with the Family Welfare Bureau of South Bend to provide deserving families of little income with food, clothing, housing, medical and dental care. Vincentians help men find work through their affiliations-with the employment bureau; they offer “big brother” assistance to underprivileged boys; they are the only hope of hungry and cold transients who are ineligible for city or county aid; they supplement the mission work of neighboring parishes by organizing and instructing catechetical classes for children; they visit the friendless sick, collect magazines for hospitals and sana-tariums; their clothes bureau operates the year around.
' The society’s income is traceable to various donations from the University
administration, class dances, campus clubs; to the commissions taken through its travel bureau; to concessions which it handles at some of the dances and to several other sources. It is assisted in its work by Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., moderator, and an advisory board of laymen. John McCabe is the society’s
PLACEMENT BUREAU FOR SENIOR GRADS CLICKS
Student fears along the job line at the end of college careers have been greatly reduced by the encouraging work of the Student Placement Bureau. Mr. William R. Dooley, of the Alumni Office, announces great success in placing the last June graduates and is confident that the total reached with the present outgoing class will even exceed that record.
William R. Dooley
Notre Dame Fire Truck
Ready for Daring Work
Gone are the days when student volunteer firemen wheeled out hand pumps and hose-reel carts, and rushed to the scene of any campus fire.
In this age of motorized equipment, Notre Dame has not been left behind. Housed in a temporary building just behind the steam plant is a modern combination pumper and hook - and - ladder truck, equipped with a 750 gallon per minute pump, extension ladder, hose, and accessories.
The truck was constructed last year in the shop on the chassis of a 1940 International truck under the direction of Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., chief engineer of the University steam plant.
Personnel of the steam plant man the truck, which works in conjunction
president and Bob Kehoe is the executive secretary. Vincentians meet every Sunday morning at 11:00 in the K. C. clubroom in Walsh Hall; their office in 23 Lyons sub is open every weekday afternoon from 2-5. Membership is open at present and men are invited to drop in for a meeting.—Jack Bennett.
“We are pleased to report that we know of no 1941 graduate who is without work,” said Mr. Dooley. However, the Bureau far from seeks credit foi' the employment of all. Many students had positions already lined up for themselves; others found compulsory employment in the select ranks of Uncle Sam; a still greater number easily discovered good openings in some line of the defense program.
The work of the Bureau is to receive representatives from different companies who are seeking trained graduates for their concerns. Students who have applied for placement are interviewed separately, and if they meet with approval a job is theirs. In several large cities, such as New York, Chicago and Detroit, where a vast number of alumni are centered, the Bureau has established branches. These branches, still in the infant stage, are expected to develop into valuable aids to students of those locales.
Mr. Dooley further announced that applications of seniors will be received some time in the near future. He added: “Due to recent scientific development and need for trained men, the demand for employees is greatest for chemists, accountants and engineers, in that order.”
—Dan Downey
with the South Bend Fire department. All alarms are turned in at the steam plant.
In the old days of the volunteer fire department, organized around the turn of the century, there was considerable rivalry between the hose houses, of which there were three on the campus. Only one c.' these located at the rear of St. Edwards Hall, is still standing. Another was located behind Sorin Hall, and a third at Holy Cross Seminary.
Weekly practice was held by the various hose companies, and each spring tournaments were held to discover the winner. Since then, modern fireproof buildings have considerably lessened the danger of fire on the campus. Nevertheless, if one should occur, students may rest assured that their school is fully and modernly equipped.—Jack Anderton
8
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA OPENS SEASON
Larger membership is encouraging.
The sweep of a silver baton in the fingers of Frederic Ingersoll launched the 1941-42 concert season of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra with its initial performance last Tuesday evening at St. Mary’s College. Providing the centenary pageant “The Masque of Holy Cross” with an inspiring musical setting, this first public appearance of the Symphony was as successful as the enthusiastic reception by a capacity audience indicated. A Wagnerian overture, excerpts from Rossini’s “Barber of Seville,” the French nationalistic “Marseilles” and an orchestrated accompaniment of the beautifully expressive tenor solo “Adieu” highlighted the professionally executed program.
This year’s Symphony promises to be the finest in the history of this university. The present membership is larger than ever before, making possible a more complete instrumentation than the orchestra has heretofore presented. Especially gratifying to music lovers here will be the much strengthened string section. The enrollment of several accomplished music majors at Notre Dame including violinists Cappello, Germano, DiGiralamo, and Kline, wood-wind artists Behr and Brother John, tympanist Brother Leonard and pianist Foote has been a leading factor in the successful organization of the orchestra this season.
As in the past, however, the balance of the society is composed largely of engineers, pre-meds and accounting majors, and the toughest problem facing President John Sheedy is the struggle to find a rehearsal schedule which won’t stand between any members and his maxima cum laude. At present Sunday morning is the scene of the most important workout as anyone passing by the Music Hall from ten to twelve can plainly hear. Stringent attendance rules govern rehearsals as a basis for the tra
ditional orchestra awards at the close of the season. Moreover, two semester hours of credit in Music 19 are possible for advanced undergraduates and music majors.
The first official appearance of the Symphony on the campus is scheduled for the latter part of November. For this program the men are concentrating their efforts on a Mozart Symphony, the “Magic Flute Overture,” Strauss’ “Em-iperor Waltz,” Debussy’s “Reverie” and I several other classics. Professor Ingersoll, whose musical career has included four years of study abroad and extensive activity here as a member of the faculty and the founder of the South Bend Symphony, views the prospective season' with eager anticipation. Musically-minded Notre Dame men are advised to keep their eyes on that silver baton of his more than ever during the present and ensuing semesters.
John Bermingham Heads
N. D. Managers' Brigade
Commerce and Arts and Letters men are predominant in the Notre Dame managers’ organization.
The head managerial job belongs to John Bermingham, A.B. man, from Wharton, N. J. His associate managers are Peter Stewart, South Bend pre-med, and Ed “Doc” Walsh, tousle-headed A.B. man from Milwaukee. The former has charge of the stadium, while the latter is in charge of equipment.
Besides the above mentioned trio, the seniors in the organization are William Kelly, basketball manager from South Orange, N. J.; Frank Meehan, track manager from Newton, Mass.; Lou Bauer, golf and tennis manager from Glendale, N. Y.; and Mike Carr, baseball manager from Indianapolis.
The returning junior managers are: Ed Bums, Joe Callahan, John Cullen,
Frank Ebner, Art Keating, Jim Murray, George Thompson, and Jack Wiggins.
The list of sophomore managers is even more imposing: Nick Amato, Bill Boss, Tom Cody, Jim Crowley (his dad is not a football coach), Jim Danaher, Vince Dunken, Harold Haley, Emmett Jennings, Joe Kearney, Jim Kelley, Harry Lavery, Ben Mammina, Paul McCabe, Art McGrath, Bill O’Connor, Bernie O’Hara, Dan Stevens, and Jerry Quinn.
Thirty-nine freshmen complete the organization.—Frank L. Kunkel
Passport Difficulties
Halt Mission Changes
Due to the difficulties encountered in obtaining passports for missionaries from the British Government, there have been no assignments of priests or brothers to foreign missions since the close of the last school year, nor have any missionaries been recalled to this country from abroad. This information was revealed by the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C. S. C., Provincial of the United States Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Father Steiner explained that war conditions have forced all nations to adopt ever more stringent passport regulations. India, deeply mired in the crossroads of the Eastern field of war, is naturally being strictly policed by the British Government with regard to all travel, incoming and outgoing.
If present negotiations are successful, and the necessary passports are obtained, two priests, and possibly one or two brothers, will be sent abroad in November.—J. H. Johnston
Class of '44 Note
Few things could startle one of last year’s freshmen more than to hear of the marriage of someone who last year was a fellow freshman. Sophomores are in for at least one such surprise.
Spalding Slevin, Jr., Zahm hall freshman and Student Council representative last year, will marry a week from tomorrow in New York, many miles from his home town of Peoria, Ill. Last June Spal left Notre Dame for the Great Lakes Training school in Chicago and in August .finished the Naval Course he had taken during two previous summers and one complete school year.
Several weeks ago he entered the School for Yeomen in Toledo, Ohio and almost immediately asked for that necessary leave of absence. Spal’s brother Gene, also a. 1940-41 “Zahmbie,” is this year in Morrissey Hall and undoubtedly is quite frustrated about this New York business. That’s too far for a Notre Dame student to go just to be a best man.
9
SECOND YEAR OF CAA
Keeping in • tune with air-minded America, Notre Dame again offers elementary and secondary courses in civilian training to her students, under the direction and control of the Civil Aeronautics Board. This fall’s program began Sept. 22, and will be completed the last week in January. Another program will begin in February. In charge of the Notre Dame Civilian Training Corps is the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., former Prefect of Discipline, now the coordinator of all defense activities at Notre Dame.
Twenty elementary and ten secondary students have been accepted for the program. Applicants for the course must: (1) Be between the ages of 19 and 28. (If the applicant is under 21 he must receive permission from his parent or guardian.) (2) Be a citizen of the United States. (3) Secure permission from the Dean of his college. (4) Have completed one full year of college. (5) Pass a physical examination given by a doctor designated by the Civil Aeronautics Board. (Chief stumbling-block ’ to future trainees is the rigid eye examination required. No previous aeronautical experience is necessary.
The student receives 78 hours of ground school, which is divided into two three-hour classes per week. In these classes the elements of Navigation, Meteorology, Civil Air Regulations, and light plane construction are taught. The student is required to pass a written examination at the end of the course. Instructors in the “ground school” are Mr. Brown, Mr. Demer, and Mr. Eiken-berry, of the Notre Dame aeronautical engineering department.
Planes and flying instructors are fur.. nished by the Stockert and Indiana Flying Services. Transportation to and from Bendix Field is also supplied. Here elementary students will learn the mysteries of flying in Taylorcrafts, Interstate Cadets, and Cub 65’s. Waco’s are available for secondary students. If all is o.k. with the weather-man, the student will receive actual flight training at Bendix every day until the end of the course.
The elementary course consists of only the rudiments of flying. After successful-completion of this course the student is equipped to take the test for a private iioense. Usually about 70 per cent of the daawntary students win private licenses, secondary course the pilot learns jy^rjcate maneuvers, acrobatics, and •^oss-country flying, which may lead to > commercial license.
Ten primary and 20 secondary students are registered with four alternates in^eacji course. The alternates are per-
DRAWS THIRTY STUDENTS
mitted to receive ground school training, but no flight training unless a regular student leaves the course.
Students enrolled in the Civilian Pilot Training Corps are:
Elementary: John Bisese, William Wright, Robert Reese, Donald Martin, Robert Collins, Edward Nichos, Robert Smith, Edward Hackett, Anthony Maloney, Edward Olszewski, James Dinned, Gale Vetter, William Foster, Charles
LIBRARY UNDERGOES MANY IMPROVEMENTS
“Throw him out—leave him alone.”
By now, every student at Notre Dame is acquainted with this familiar chant which reverberates through the fieldhouse and stadium these autumn days.
Taking a page from the football book, the maintenance and library departments, using a slight variation of the cheer for their theme, decided upon several changes and innovations in the University library during the summer. Throwing some old features out, leaving others alone and also adding a few new ones.
The most noteworthy change — and there were few, if any dissenting “leave it alones” to this—is that brought about —as planned—in the lighting system of the entire library.
This alteration is partly a result of the increasing and insistent crusading on the part of John O’Dea, class of ’41, who, with Mr. Paul Byrne, University librarian, saw the necessity for a general improvement, particularly in the lighting system of the library, a focal point of college life.
Survey Conducted
A survey of the library lighting facilities, conducted last spring through the joint efforts of Mr. Byrne and Mr. O’Dea, emphasized the need for adequate lighting in the different rooms—the reference, periodical, catalogue rooms, to mention a few. It was found that the light shed by the outmoded incandescent globes came to only one-fourth of the minimum lighting requirement.
Backed by this finding and the testimony in the form of complaints of both student and faculty, O’Dea claimed that this antiquated lighting system caused severe eye strain and reduced the efficiency of the worker—student or professor—to a minimum. Following the survey, Mr. O’Dea, with Mr. Byrne’s strong encouragement, submitted a report to University officials advocating a modern system of fluorescent lighting.
As a result of this, all library lighting
McMahon, John Dunlavy, Joseph Jacobs, Richard Coad, Ted Cummings, Howard Williams, and Robert Carpenter.
Alternates: Emmet Griffin, Paul Deery, Jay Martine, and John Finnegan.
Secondary: Rex Shreve, Robert Le-vernier, Joseph Shield, Everett Adams, Perry Alexander, Charles Nelson, Herbert Beeker, John Creamer, David Johnston, and Ceylon Rouse.
Alternates: Charles Jensen, Leo Scla-pani, Don White, and Tom Logan.
—Ted Cummings
deficiencies have been corrected or are now in the process of being corrected. The first move was to install a fluorescent ceiling unit in the card catalogue room. This will soon be followed by a similar unit in the main lobby. Next, all library office desks have been equipped with fluorescent lamps, while arrangements for individual table lamps in the reference and periodical rooms have been made. Library authorities say that these improvements will “soon” be installed.
To supplement this forthcoming individual lighting system, 14 new table lamps have been placed in the reference room and six in the periodical room. Due to a miscalculation in the length of the legs on these tables, wooden blocks had to be placed under each leg in order to raise them to a satisfactory height for the lamps.
Cork Flooring
Another move urged by O’Dea was the laying of new cork flooring in the reference room. This has been done. Among the minor changes were: the remodeling of the large desk in the reference room; a new coat of paint on the window casings, and a general polishing up of equipment—all helping to enhance the library’s appearance.
Just to add that comfy touch, lounging chairs have been placed beneath the palms in the East end of the periodical room for the convenience of those overworked students who spend their hours perusing both current and time-worn journalistic bits.
And last but not least, the library has, in the words of Mr. Byrne’s bright assistant, “new personnel,” ready, willing and able to serve the student body and faculty.
Whether or not the change is for the better, remains to be seen; but it is generally agreed that the revisions and new features in the library will be of unmeasurable aid to everyone concerned, whether he be professor, upperclassman or even freshman.—K. Schwienfest
PITY THE POOR ENGRAVER
. the plate will go to the sharp-eyed fixer. . .
ative, it spreads and makes the dots very small as you can see if you will scrutinize the white areas of the pictures on this page. In the dark areas the little dots are white, because the little light -reflected from the dark portions will not spread on touching the negative.
A zinc plate is covered with an enamel which has the peculiar property of hardening in the presence of strong light. The negative is taken from the camera and placed in contact with this plate. (We’ll neglect the process of reversing the negative for sake of clarity and to prevent dizziness.) When a light is placed behind the negative the light comes through and hardens the little black dots. Then acid eats away the rest of the enamel. If ink is spread on the tops of the dots, the plate will leave the impression of the photo which the artist handed the photographer. Further applications of acid while the sides of the raised dots have been protected will etch out the metal deep enough to allow many printings without filling the etched-out areas with ink and thus rendering the plate useless.
Shortly after the crowds left the stadium Saturday, newsboys appeared on the campus with their huge orange bags full of papers containing the pictures of the game just completed. The Scholastic today contains many pictures of people on the campus this week. The Gold Coast is inhabited by gentlemen who divide their time between bridge games and magazines which contain little but pictures. How these pictures reach us so quickly is the story of photo-engraving.
Through the courtesy of B. P. Lehman and Charles Betz, partners of the firm known as the Indiana Engraving Company, (located in South Bend) we took a trip through their plant last Saturday morning during the sleepy interlude between breakfast and our . first class.
We’ll imagine, for the sake of historical accuracy, that Ed Steeb has just snapped our new navy setting out on their first cruise across St. Mary’s lake. The Scholastic, ever awake, paid 28% more than the Dome and decided to front-page the stirring picture.
Fifteen minutes later a dispatch runner appears at the engraving plant with the photo tucked safely away between the pages of What Makes Sammy Run? A clever artist picks up his air brush and prepares the raw photo for processing. One tar was carrying a huge compass which must be brightened so it will catch your eye in the final printing. An open-mouthed frosh in the background is altered so he will appear as an ever
thoughtful junior ready to part the waters with a command if there are any indications of seasickness among the crew.
The artist hands the photo to the athletic-looking man who holds the watch in the picture at the bottom of this page. He mounts it where that battery of bright lights will show every flaw in the artist’s work and then photographs it through a screen. These screens break the original photo into a number of fine dots. When white light comes through the screen and strikes the sensitized neg-
If that ever - thoughtful junior still looks as if his mouth were open, the plate will go to the sharp-eyed fixer observed in our other illustration. With a number of fine tools and a magnifying glass he can do things to those dots which would make a cosmetics salesman commit suicide in humiliation. He either raises or removes the dots altogether in his efforts to improve the picture.
The plate is then labeled to correspond to the original Steeb photo. (Editors are considerably embarrassed if a (Continued on page 23)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers .....................Managing	Editor Mark McGrath.......................Administration	Editor
William Scanlan............................Promotion	Don Heltzel............................Feature	Editor
John Dinges.............:...-...........Sports	Editor Ed Drinkard .........................Staff	Photographer
William Baader.............................Art	Editor Elmer Silha ..............................Advertising
Jack Sprague............................Campus	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address ail manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
StaS meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
THE CASE FOR HECKLERS
In three years, the percentage of wits and half-wits among the-student body hasn’t changed perceptively. There were just as many hidden hecklers at the Arizona pep-rally as there were at the opening rally of our freshman year. There seemed to be fewer wits. Perhaps that impression was due to the fact that after three years of listening to half a dozen hecklers from each of the forty-eight states, we’ve heard almost all of the inane interruptions that an individual under cover of the anonymity of a crowd can shout. Yet as this, our last active year at Notre Dame begins it does seem proper to take the time to consider one of the greatest nuisanceproblems in the fall program of student-activities.
For the past three years, the pep-rally heckler, whether he has been witty or half-witted in his interruptions, has been the No. 1 menace of the student body. Again this year we eye the probability of having our last set of pep-rallies marred by a few sophomoric interruptions. Again we look over the malignant record of the “varsity” team of hooters, whistlers and pseudo-comedians. We recall the long list of visiting coaches, athletes and alumni who have been insulted and confused by a few student-hecklers and a longer list of visitors who have gone away from our pep-rallies unable to resolve the disorderly interruptions they found there with the spirit of Notre Dame. And now we wonder if the time hasn’t come for some definite student action to eliminate or at least curb this definite student threat.
Every student has many times in past years been conscious of the annoying wit or half-wit who insisted upon interrupting the /rally for the purpose of making himself heard. A-heckler; then, is the sordid individual member of an audience who insists ;upon shouting or whistling during the time that die.. rightful speaker is attempting to address that group. The nuisahce value of a heckler is very high at a pep rally, due to the fart that the group is unusually responsive and unusually sensitive to any spoken word or gesture. This accounts for the unfortunate fart that two or three strong-lurked but well-hidden voices are all that is needed to put in disorder any respectable rally, and to distract or confuse any speaker.
And because the heckler is such a hidden threat, the only way in which this nuisance can be eliminated or at least curbed is through direct action by the students themselves. If it were not for the unusual position of this most effective trouble-maker, the problems he has created would have been dealt with by the university administration.
The clue to the most important factor in eliminating the rally-menace lies within the characteristic of the dangerous individual. The heckler is an individual whose first wish is to be heard but whose last wish is to be seen. He is dangerous only as long as he can remain anonymous. What he fears most is to be noticed, identified or scorned by the very crowd he insists upon heckling.
Every thinking student should assume some measure of responsibility for the task of removing and keeping the heckler-nuisance away from every student gathering. At the rally tonight every freshman, sophomore, junior and senior can do much to defeat the heckler menace by politely dropping a word of caution to the nearest student who fails to exercise the necessary pep-rally etiquette.
Above all, let the caution come with courtesy and dignity. The heckler knows full well that if he has any message to give to a pep-rally, he can obtain the permission of the Student Council president, Eugene Schumacher, to stand on the speakers balcony and give that message. The heckler is also aware that he can have his opinions printed in the Scholastic merely by signing his name to the opinionated article. Furthermore, the Scholastic makes a valiant effort, with each issue, to gather the wit on the campus into the column of The Week,” and will gladly accept for publication whatever quips ring worthy of being read. The Student Council will welcome suggestions that will contribute to genuine spirit. Best of all, the students themselves will make better rallies possible by their cooperation in a manner that becomes gentlemen and partakers in the cultural tradition of a great university. The solution rests, in great measure, with the student body. And a manly attempt can achieve the desired result.—Tom Powers
12
CAMPUS NEWS
SOPHOMORE COTILLION SET FOR OCTOBER 24
If you aren't in this picture — you're too big.
They’ll come from everywhere — to gasp at first sight of the dome, sigh a little as they step from the quiet dark of the log chapel into the crispness of an autumn afternoon, and to soften generally for a few short hours the hard, masculine air about Notre Dame’s 1,700 acres. And the guests of students attending the Sophomore Cotillion will arrive Oct. 24, the date set for that event.
There’ll be smooth swing for the dancers, cooked up by Jimmy Joy and his orchestra. Joy has long been a favorite with fans.the country over through his regular broadcasts on the MBS Dance. Parade and recently held forth in the Walnut Room of Chicago’s Hotel Bismarck. His work from the bandstand should leave nothing to be desired.
James O’Dea of Lowell, Mass., and Morrissey Hall, has been named general chairman; under him are the following committees:
Music — Harold Haley, chairman; Frank Garibaldi, John Lynch, Hal Smul-len, Bill Talbot, James Whalen.
Arrangements—Dick Grant, chairman, Omer Sturm, Creighton Miller, John Hiller, Paul Cunningham.
Publicity—Larry Goebeler, chairman,
Mark McGrath, Charles Patterson, Lou Burns, Ray Kuka, Frank Stumpf, John Quinn.
Programs — John Anhut, chairman, Bill Rogers, Bill McNamara, John Moore, Pete Ashbaugh.
Tickets — Bob O’Malley, chairman, Jack Thornton, Pat Kiley, Jake O’Rourke, Jim Burke, Bob Wolfe.
Patrons — Bob Galvin, chairman, Orlando Bonicelli, Angelo Bertelli, Dan Downey, Tom Eichenlaub.
Favors—Joe Shaeffer, chairman, Harry Sullivan, John Niemiera, Jim Clark.
Decorations—Bernard O’Hora, chairman, George Schneider, James Crowley, John Badjik, Edward Nugent, Dick Doermer, Bob McKahn, Bob Purcell, Don Birren, John O’Connell.
A combination ticket covering prices of the Cotillion, Notre Dame-Illinois game, and the Saturday night Victory Dance will be announced later.
Use of cars will not be permitted.
Tux or tails will be proper. The boys may wear them past “the Cinderella hour,” but must sign in at least by 2:00 a.m.—Charles J. Patterson
Notre Dame Band Members Have Tough Row to Hoe
Many of the students of the university are of the impression that the members of the Notre Dame Band have a “pur-ty soft job.” But, as in so many other instances, there is more than meets the eye. It isn’t as easy as it looks; and it’s not all play. Those men who are in the band have to work just as diligently as the members of any other campus organization. Let us take a look behind the scenes.
Last Friday evening after the pep rally, we found the band remained in the field house. Upon investigation we found that for the first time this season they were able to hold a drill practice, this one being in preparation for the Arizona game. “Why then? Why not some time during the day, or after-.the evening meal?” Simply because it is impossible to get the entire band together at any time of the day, any day of the week.
Notre Dame, unlike many prominent universities of today, has not as yet included band as part of the curriculum. No definite time is set aside, for the band. Conflicts are continually, arising which prevent 100 per cent attendance at rehearsals. Classes, assignments, tests, meetings and working hours prevent a great number of the members from regular attendance.
On the musical side of the organization, Professor Cassasanta, just “Joe” to most of the student body, plays the all important role. He’s as regular and dependable as a town clock and possesses more patience than anyone on the campus. Day after day, week after week, he puts the band through its paces preparing an ever-increasing repertoire. The members are continually handicapped because of numerous vacancies among the sections but get along as best they can. There’s no time to be lost. They’ve got to produce, and there’s only a limited time in which to do so.
Many other difficulties confront the band from time to time. They have a good time, it’s true, but they must and do put a great deal of work into it. They play an important part in university activities and have earned a nice reputation for themselves. They are reliable and eager to be of service. Like many other organizations, they are smoothing out the “bumps” along the road to success. —C. C. Coco
IS
NOTRE DAME RADIO CLUB OPENING SEVENTH YEAR
Drop in some evening at the studio in the Engineering Building and you’ll find a noisy mob of actors, announcers, script writers, et al., from all halls and classes and each one performing his duties as a member of the seven-year-old Notre Dame Radio Club. For this year, as in all years since 1935, Notre Dame students will broadcast from the campus studio, using the facilities of station WSBT in South Bend, which are donated as a part of the station’s educational policy. After its original “recruiting
. mob of actors, announcers, script writers . . ."
meeting” to be held Sunday morning in its radio studio (see announcement), this year’s radio club plans its opening program for some time during the ensuing week.
In assuming the responsibilities of president of the club last year, stocky, good-natured Bob LeJeune attempted to depart from the idea of arbitrary appointment of department heads. Instead, he has tried to give each capable member of the club leadership over that phase of work or type of program which interests him most. For example, Jim McDonough, recent winner of the Fred Allen contest, is to be in sole charge of the weekly program “Radio Stage,” which was handled last year by thespian Vern Witkowski. With other types of work a similar procedure is to be used. To stimulate interest from South Bend listeners in programs originating here, weekly quizzes are planned, using teams of students from South Bend high schools confronting Notre Dame students. The questions, of course, are to be
arranged in such a way that neither side will be at an obvious disadvantage.
Seven years ago Father Eugene Burke gave the club its start and appointed Joe Mansfield club president. Every year since there has been a new president appointed: Norbert Alexus in ’36, Art Mulhern in ’37, and Norbert Alexus again until half-way through ’38 when Ray Kelly came in to reign until the end of ’40. Bob LeJeune took over his duties at the commencement of last year’s activities.
In 1935 the most notable programs were frequent faculty talks and a student quiz program which was conducted over a two-station hook-up from South Bend and LaPorte, Ind. The next year WSBT sponsored an inter-hall talent contest. St. Edward’s won the contest and was awarded a trophy which is still to be seen in the radio studio. During the following two seasons Walt Hagen, son of the famed golfer, conducted a sportcast, and in 1938 Ed O’Connor inaugurated the “Periscope of the Air,” featuring news items from “across the way.” In 1939 “Radio Stage,” a weekly half-hour dramatic sketch, was inaugurated under the direction of Vern Witkowski. Other features of that season were half-hour broadcasts from the year’s major dances, and a visual broadcast held in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. At the end of the season the club had six regular weekly programs on WSBT. Last year the number of programs was limited. This was due partly to the fact that the ASCAP-
BMI controversy subjected popular and classical music, both original and transcribed, to such rigid control that presentation of musical programs was extremely difficult. Another reason for the limit on programs was that most of the actors were busy for a long time on the campus stage play “Outward Bound” and the South Bend production “It Never Rains.”
Planned for future broadcasts this fall are programs of campus gossip, a sportscast, a dramatic show portraying the lives of “Patriots of Peace,” and possibly round-table discussions by members of the Academy of Politics. Variety is desired, for, as Bob says, “We want to win over our highly critical campus audience by a presentation of popular rather than purely educational programs.”
Lest anyone unfamiliar with the workings of the Radio Club be confused, it is not organized as a “closed shop.” The activities are carried on in the interests of gaining experience and providing a place in extra-curricular activities for those whose abilities are of a nature suitable for radio work. Nor does this mean only actors, singers, and announcers. President LeJeune stresses the need this year of script writers and radio engineers, those men behind the scenes who are responsible for the quantity and quality of broadcast material. He urges those who want to write for radio to offer their talents this year. Others needed this season will be soloists, trios or barber-shop quartets, and experienced orchestra men. For some ingenious soul there is an opening as sound-effects man.—Tom Clemens
Notre Dame Men Frolic At First Victory Dance
A Fighting Irish football victory over the stalwart University of Arizona “Casteelians” was officially celebrated last Saturday evening, Sept. 27, with a “V for Victory” dance (sans Churchill), held at the Indiana club in South Bend. The dance, sponsored by the N.D. Commerce Forum, served as a fitting conclusion to the day which saw a successful unveiling of the first Leahy-tutored Irish grid machine.
Approximately 200 merry-makers, observing the Leahy debut, a victory over the Wildcats; and the opening of the 1941 season, enjoyed the evenings’ festivities. Members of the football squad reigned as feature guests of the evening.
That faint hearts might win fair ladies, dates for freshmen were arranged by seniors and members of the
14
I I
Commerce Forum. The blind dates, arranged with the belles of St. Mary’s, were highly praised in frosh circles. This would tend to discount the theory that the first-year men have been frightened by the voices of experience. The damsels from across the way were escorted to the ball in busses, being returned via the same method.
Although the latest Gallup poll results have not been announced, it has been adjudged that the celebration was highly successful and greatly enjoyed.
—Dave Condon
Future Admirals to
Blossom in New Togs
“You can’t tell the players without a score card” is the familiar chant at the game; but on the Notre Dame campus the saying will be, “you can’t tell a sailor without a uniform.”
Some time during the month of October the 169 successful applicants for the Naval R.O.T.C. will blossom out in their modem up-to-date uniforms. These uniforms will all be tailor-made for each individual and should attract the attention of all, including the women-folk. Each man will receive two uniforms; one blue and one white. The blue uniform will be used for daily drill and the white one will be used on special occasions.
As yet there are no student officers to take charge of the drilling. These will be chosen from the rank and file as soon as the right men show their ability and come into the limelight. Even with the absence of student officers the “middies” have been subjected to two drills and have been divided into two companies. These drills were directed by students who have had training in high schools and understand the commands.
Keep your eyes peeled for those new uniforms and remember, the fleet’s in to stay.—George White
Met Club Gets Set
The Met Club, this year, is set to swing into action immediately after the second mission. Through a series of athletic and social events both here on the campus and back home in New York City they are aiming at creating a more unified atmosphere than heretofore realized.
On the calendar are regular meetings, a communion breakfast in November, an Army Special to New York, a challenge in football and basketball to the Chicago Club, and the annual Christmas Formal Dance. The dance will be held this year the night of Dec. 26 in the Colonades Room of the Essex House in the big city. The year will be topped off by a moonlight sail early in the summer.
Morale of Knights In
Service to be Bolstered
He was a K. of C. officer and a Junior
The Knights of Columbus of Notre Dame are at it again. Always on the lookout for some new way to practice
charity and fratemalism, last w’eek they
BILL REGAN
appointed Bill Regan chairman of a newly formed draftee committee. The aim of the committee will be to discover the names of those Knights who have been called into their country’s service and to send them gifts as well as the Council
and Campus news publications.
Since, by unanimous vote of the council last year, all dues of those in the Service not above the rank of Corporal have been waived until such time as they once again enter civilian life, the draftees find themselves contributing in-no small way to the support of the council, although still receiving both the old and the newer benefits of membership in the order.
During the summer the council obtained the names and addresses of close to 30 of the Servicemen. Anyone reading this who may know of a Knight in the service is requested to hand his name into the council offices in Walsh Hall as soon as possible so that Bill and his committee will not overlook anyone.
—Ed Roney
Seniors to Meet Tuesday
Members of the Senior class will meet at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday at Washington hall, President James O’Neal announced this wefak. The date of the annual Senior Ball, plans for Faculty-Student smokers, and other activities of the class of ’42 will be discussed at the meeting.
A ticket to the Senior Ball will be given to some fortunate student as a door prize.
The Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, will have a prominent part on the program. The meeting is under the direction of Father Burke, President O’Neal and the other class officers: Paul Patten, vice president; Pete Moulder, secretary; and Walt McCourt, treasurer.
Attention! Radio Club
Recruit Meeting, Oct. 5!
All members and prospective members of the Notre Dame Radio Club are invited to attend the opening meeting of the year to be held in the radio studios on the 3rd floor of the Engineering Building at 10:00 o’clock Sunday morning, Oct. 5.
McDonough No Yearling
At Radio Broadcasting
On Sunday night, Sept. 28, Jim McDonough, winner of Fred Allen’s quest for collegiate talent, left on the 5:45 bound for New York and one more stepping stone to fame. Once in the big city this brilliant young thespian from Chicago will appear on the first program of Allen’s fall series as the “most talented student on the Notre Dame campus.” Besides this rare opportunity and the trip to New York with expenses paid, the lucky Carroll Hall sophomore wins a cash award of §200.
In order to pay homage to Notre Dame and one of her great men, Fred Allen has chosen, as a monologue for Jim, the speech from “Knute Rockne— All American” in which Rockne defends football and other sports before a board of inquiry. Besides this special performance, McDonough will be interviewed by Allen concerning his past experience on radio and.stage as well as his life at Notre Dame. Jim will stay in the city for four days, returning Friday. The program is scheduled for Wednesday, Oct. 1, at 8:00 p.m. South Bend time.
McDonough is, of course, no stranger to radio or to the stage. Since he was eight years old he has been concerned with dramatics in some way. First it was acting and speech lessons, then appearances in school plays. He received a part in “Young Hickory” a radio serial, was associated with NBC and WAAF, and played the lead in “Jimmie and his Pals,” a juvenile serial. At Campion High school in Prairie du Chien, Wis. he was president of the “Masquers” the school’s dramatic group. He obtained more experience with the Michiana Shores Stock Co. with Mike Kinnare, also a sophomore at the University. Together they formed their own stock company, the “Grand Beach Summer Theatre,” which toured the nearby towns with plays, comedies, etc.
When he came to Notre Dame, Jim immediately took up the dramatic reins again. He performed on the “Radio Stage,” started his own “Cavalcade of Plays,” a series of 15 minute dramas. His performance in “Outward Bound” made him even more well known on the campus. His next coup was to take over the job of “Campus Newscaster” on WSBT. With all this experience behind him, Jim is far from apprehensive about the forthcoming broadcast. He hopes it will be just one more step in a steady upward climb to fame in the theatre.
—Richard Powers
15
Mechanical Engineers Plot Year's Activities
Activities on the engineering front got off to an early start last week when the Notre Dame student branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held its first meeting. The large turn-out of new members exceeded even the most generous estimates of the club officers and gave further assurance to the belief that the club will have one of its most successful years.
The tentative plans for the coming year were presented by the club chairman, John W. Gilbert, and immediate attention was given to the arrangements for the first social event on the fall schedule. It will be a Victory Dance given on the night of the Indiana game tomorrow. It is the first time in many years that a football dance has been sponsored by the A.S.M.E. student branch and for that reason enthusiasm concerning the affair is quite noticeable among the mechanical engineers.
Highlighted on the program for this year is the Regional Convention of all mid-western engineering colleges and universities. This event -will take place next semester in the middle of April when the Notre Dame mechanical engineers will be host to the mechanical engineering' students and A.S.M.E. representatives of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana, Northwestern, Purdue, and many others. Banquets, plant inspection trips, student papers, and a tour of the Notre Dame campus along with a demonstration of the University’s technical facilities and research developments are all planned for the entertainment of the scientifically-minded guests.
The opening meeting was attended by the club’s Honorary Chairman, Mr. C. R. Egry, and Mr. Ernest Williams, Chairman of the St. Joseph Valley branch of the national society. Both of these men addressed the club and stressed the needs and advantages of student membership in a professional organization such as the A.S.M.E. Closer cooperation between the student branch and the local St. Joseph Valley chapter was particularly encouraged and the date for a joint meeting of these two groups was definitely set for March 17, the feast of St. Patrick, patron saint of engineers as well as of the Irish.
Membership in the student branch of the A.S.M.E. is restricted to Juniors and Seniors. Admission into the society provides these men with an opportunity to learn more fully the functions of the different fields in the mechanical engineering profession. In addition, it allows them to keep abreast of modem industry through the media of the national society publications. Many acquaintances 16
with men already active as practicing engineers can also be made which will prove very valuable to the student upon graduation.—Edzv. A. Bzienger
Edward Kelly to Guide Destinies of Law Club
The Law Club held its first meeting of the year on Monday, Sept. 22, at which the installation of the new officers took place. The task of running the affairs of the club this year has fallen to: Edward Kelly, president; Jack Barry, vice-president; Bob Sullivan, secretary; and Pete Alonzi, treasurer..
Plans for a full program of interesting activities were disclosed and well received. Meetings are to be held every month at which prominent men in the
THEY'RE WORKING FOR UNCLE SAM NOW
“We’re in the army zzozv. We’re in the army ziow.
Ah! For the leisure of Notre Dame, Well.___the beds are ’bout the same, We’re izi the army nozv.”
(Sung to the song of the same name)
At least 19 of the men who trudged Notre Dame’s campus last May are trudging Uncle Sam’s campus today.... and it’s a bigger campus and a bigger trudge. And of these 19 fellows, alumni reports inform us definitely that 12 are in the army and two are on the sea, seven have taken to the air, one in the medical corps and a last is in the signal corps. On this incomplete report alone, Notre Dame is well represented.
Most heroic of the military tasks is that of Bob Sugnet’s who is training in Canada preparatory to joining the Royal Canadian Air Force. The 1941 class president, Charlie Dillon, is in the army "somewhere in Alabama” and Bud Pog-liano, the worthy editor of last year’s Scrip, had to give up his fellowship in Catholic University to join his country’s armed forces. Jack White has stopped singing “The Song of the Free” and is “Outward Bound.” Bob Saggau is using his passing arm to polish depth charges. John Patterson, permanent secretary of the ’41 class, reports that the Fighting Irish Squadron in the Naval Air Corps consists of Bob Cox, John Reynolds, Frank Santos, Matt Byrnes, “Promoter” John O’Dea (who has nothing to do with this affair), “Hot dog” Erwin Mooney and E. O. Buddy.
Of the class of 1940, 21 Notre Dame men are in the army, 19 are in the air corps and 11 have taken to the sea. A grand total of 267 of Our Lady’s students are now also students of military or naval science and tactics.
Probably most interesting of all pro
field of law will be guest speakers. President Ed Kelly promises that the club will again have a “G-Man” as one of the speakers.
This year, the Law Cub is going to attempt something new by meeting with the South Bend Bar Association.. By means of this affiliation, the club members can receive the advice of experienced lawyers and judges, and also will be able to see the machinery of law in action. This plan is in line with one suggested by the American Bar Association.
Plans for the Law Club’s annual fall formal dance were discussed, and the date has been tentatively set for the Friday night before the Southern California game. This was to be discussed further at the club’s meeting on Wednesday of this week.—Bob Kuipers
fessions is that of Harry Flannery, ’23. He was appointed a short time ago as a member of the Columbia Broadcasting Station in Berlin. Whether he will be able to transmit anything from that country is a matter of conjecture, but he will have some stories to tell when he comes home.
Graduates are not the only new Notre Dame service men. Reports from the secretary’s office reveal that over 50 students registered at Notre Dame for this school year were drafted into other, more disciplined occupations.—Paul Carz'
[EditozJs ziote: We have been asked to print the follozving lettez' addressed to all Notre Dame men in. the military oz* naval sez'vices.]
To Notre Dame Men in U. S. Service:
We’re looking for more addresses of : Notre Dame men to whom we can send the Scholastic each week. The list of 75 names we have so far is just a > starter.
Send us the addresses of any other Notre Dame men in your camp. Whether a graduate or not we feel sure that he will enjoy this contact with the campus today.
Moreover, if you or any of your-friends have a religious question which might be covered by a pamphlet, simply let us know and we will send a suitable pamphlet if it is available.
Anything else we can do for you? We’ll do our best to maintain a campus-to-camp service.
Send all addresses to the Notre Dame Alumni Office or to the undersigned.
Sincerely yours,
Louis F. Kurtz, Chairman, Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature.
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Irish vs. Hoosiers to Highlight
Indiana Athletics this Week-end
Arizona Opener Proves Coach Leahy's Theories
An air of uncertainty hangs over the outcome of tomorrow’s tilt with Indiana. Some Irish fans were a bit worried by the outfit Bo McMillan would bring to South Bend. Detroit’s win over the Hoosiers has cheered them somewhat, but then the boys from Bloomington may be set to turn the heat on their next opponents, meaning, of course, Notre Dame. In the 18-games series the Irish have won 13, lost four and tied one.
The game will headline Indiana sports for the weekend as it brings together two old high school teammates, N.D.’s Hargrave and Indiana’s Hillenbrand who played together at Reitz Memorial high school in- Evansville. The latter is a highly-touted high school flash who seems to be really producing in his first year in collegiate circles, executing long runs and scoring on a five-yard plunge last Saturday. He gets off fine passes which deserve a bit better protection than he has been getting on those plays.
Captain Gene White, at left guard, is the standout player in the Hoosier line. Hillenbrand is not the only back that Coach Bo McMillan boasts of, fullback Bob White, quarterback Eddie Herbert, and halfbacks Jacoby and Saban can carry the mail in any league.
Tomorrow’s battle should produce a pitching duel between the two sensational sophomore left halfbacks. Can Irish Angelo Bertelli toss more strikes than Hoosier Bill Hillenbrand? Bertelli, on basis of his last week’s performance of 11 completions in 14 attempts, will be the favorite. However, Hillenbrand is expected to receive much better- support from the Hoosier inner defenses tomorrow than he received at Detroit last Saturday.
Arizona Preview is Successful
Notre Dame as a whole was a good team last week; they made a few mistakes and their reserve strength did not seem too good on defense. Coach Leahy
Student Trip
According to information released from the office of the Prefect of Discipline, Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., this year’s Student Trip will be to the Notre DameNavy game at Baltimore, Nov. 8. Complete details will be announced later.
and his aides have been working this week to correct these faults and a more polished team can be expected to don the Blue and Gold tomorrow.
“Dip” Evans at fullback appeared to be the same hard-running “Dip” that operated at left half last year. His 78-yard touchdown overshadowed all of the other masterful plays of the game. Evans is no “Moose” Piepul, but when
Not much uncertainty over this outcome.
those extra yards were needed Saturday he usually seemed master of the situation. Steve Juzwik is still the same swivel-hipped back that galloped to victory in the Army game last fall. Ber-
telli’s accuracy can make folks forget those long ones of Saggau’s to Juzwik. Harry Wright and Bob Hargrave turned in fine performances at quarterback as did Bill Earley, Jack Warner, Don Hogan, and Creighton Miller in their respective positions. In the line every man played a good, steady game with left end Bob Dove a little more outstanding than, the others.
Compared to the 1940 team, if such a comparison may be made on one game’s results, this year’s team is no bigger in the line and is slightly smaller in the backfield. However, what the backfield lacks in size, it more than makes up in speed and the line is faster this year. There is really no comparison in the blocking although the team still has room for improvement in this department. The much-talked-of “T” formation was not used to any great extent which means that Coach Leahy must have plenty in the hat to throw at Indiana if necessary.—Bill Reynolds
17
INTRODUCING
By RAY DONOVAN
his way to one of his best seasons with the Irish. And no matter who wins Saturday’s game, one thing is certain — Evansville can’t be on the losing end.
Memories of Rockne Week
The homecoming game of the Fightin’ Irish will not be played until later on in the season, but for one member of the squad this Saturday’s struggle with Indiana will be "Old Home Day.” Approximately 1,000 rabid fans will travel several hundred miles to see their favorite son, quarterback Bob Hargrave of Notre Dame, battle a crimson-clad son from Bloomington, Bill Hillenbrand, on the turf of Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow.
Hargrave and Hillenbrand, both natives of Evansville, Ind., for two years played side by side on the Evansville Reitz Memorial high school eleven. Before enrolling at Notre Dame and Indiana respectively, neither lad knew the taste of defeat, for this Reitz Memorial steam — stamped as one of the best in the history of Indiana football — paraded to some 40 consecutive victories. This same era produced All-Star Bill McGan-non, former Irish halfback.
In sharp contrast to his former teammate, the Notre Dame field general is not a colorful player. Under the Rockne system the quarterback has practically no ball-carrying assignments, thus having little opportunity to attract wide attention. Bob Hargrave is one of those quiet, easy-moving backs, designed for final results instead of color. He follows a long line of Irish quarterbacks who have been noted for their ability to block viciously and run back punts.
In his sophomore year Bob had but slight opportunity to show his wares, since Steve Sitko was holding down the quarterback post on the squad. He did, however, provide his fellow Hoosier with a worthy and capable understudy, and when Sitko graduated Hargrave was ready to move in and take over. Last season left little to be desired in the signal-calling department, and most observers claim this year holds great things in store for the youth.
Football is Bob’s favorite sport, and the one he finally decided to concentrate on at Notre Dame. During his high school days, however, the square-jawed lad won four monograms as a member of the Reitz Memorial baseball squad and two in basketball, as well as two on the prep eleven. During his freshman and sophomore years at Notre Dame Bob cavorted in the outfield for Coach Kline’s diamond squad, but last year confined his efforts to the gridiron.
18
Leadership ability of the stocky Hargrave is shown by the fact that during his senior year in high school he was elected to the captaincy of the basketball team. That same year his classmates bestowed upon him one of the greatest honors possible to a high school senior — the presidency of his class. Three years later, in his junior year at Notre Dame, Bob was elected vice-president of the class of ’42.
Bernie Crimmins, guard of this year’s football squad and Hargrave’s roommate, will testify to the fact that a great portion of his roomie’s time off the practice field is taken up laboring over accounting problems. Bob is an accounting major and hopes to follow this same line after graduating next June.
The fact that the Irish field general is the lightest man on the 1941 squad — he weighs only 165 pounds — does not alter his uncanny ability to diagnose his opponents and then proceed to pull the right play out of the hat. Neither does the fact that he stands under six feet hinder his ability to pull down a pass when the occasion presents itself.
The caravan which will journey northward from Evansville to Notre Dame Stadium to watch Bob take the field against Hillenbrand will not be disappointed. From reports reaching our ears the Hoosier sophomore sensation proved to be everything said about him against Detroit last week. Bob Hargrave is on
Sunday will mark .a year since the closing of the much-publicized Knute Rockne Week celebrations, held on the campus and in South Bend, in connec-■ tion with the world premier of “Knute Rockne, All American.” Publicized as it was, however, many interesting facts escaped public notice. But the Scholastic detected not—
A 99-year-old tradition was broken when women were admitted into the University dining hall for the public banquet honoring Knute Rockne Thursday night; over 500,000 letters left South Bend for destinations unknown stamped with the special Rockne week cachet; Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend, fresh from the premiere of “Brigham Young” in Salt Lake City, Utah, attended the U. S. conference of Mayors in Washington, D. C., and extended a personal invitation to other mayors to attend the Rockne premier; the mayor announced that the premier ■would probably bring to South Bend the largest crowd in the city’s history and likewise would pour $500,000 to $1,000,000 into the city coffers; many radio programs were dedicated to Knute Rockne, including “Kate Smith’s Hour’” and Lanny Ross’ Wednesday night songfest; Parkes Johnson and Wally Butterworth broadcasted their weekly “Vox Pop” program from the Oliver Hotel lobby Thursday night; dozens of the country’s top-flight newsmen, including Damon Runyan, Joseph V. Connolly, William Randolph Hearst, Jr., Bill Corum, Dan Parker and many others, converged on South Bend for the week of celebrations; Ronald Reagan, actor, ex-sports announcer from Des Moines, la., and “George Gipp” in the Rockne movie, broadcast one quarter of the Notre Dame vs. College of the Pacific football game which closed the week of fun on Saturday, and sent movie actors et al. on their way to Hollywood or home.
Faculty Tennis Draw
Pairings for the Faculty tennis tournament include: Langford bye; Devere Plunkett vs. Father Bednar; Smithberg-er vs. Smith; Father Sullivan vs. Don Plunkett in the upper bracket.
The lower bracket pairings are: Father Keller vs. Hasley; Calkins vs. Brother Edmund; Fagan vs. Dincolo; and Napolitano vs. Fitzsimmons.
HANDY NAMES INTERHALL COACHES
Tennis Meets to Resume;
Canale to Lead *42 Team
Dillon and Walsh Teams Are Strongest Threats
“Old clothes” practice for interhall football teams began this week with what should be the finest talent ever locally assembed for this sport. League play will begin about Oct. 12. Boys who have played against one of the nation’s top football machines will compete this year, for the days of the Fighting Irish “B” squad are over, and these boys are
____One way to stop a ball carrier....
turning to interhall football. Add to this the great number of stars produced in last year’s games and the potential power can easily be seen.
Another indication pointing to a good season is the announcement of the coaches for each of the halls, as given by Dr. E. R. Handy, interhall football chief: Sorin, Joe Papa and “Scoop” Scanlan; Alumni, Turk Rively; Walsh, Joe Ragolia and Bill Reagan; Dillon, Bill Stewart; Howard, Nick Pepelnjak and Jim O’Brien; St. Ed’s, Jerry Orosz; Lyons, Ken Gempel; Morrissey, Elmer Peterson; Badin, Frank Platt; Cavanaugh, John McNulty; Brownson, Paul Corgan; Carroll, Mike Mahon; Breen-Phillips, “Snorky” Buono; Zahm, John Jaworski.
These coaches are men who may some day find themselves winning positions in the coaching profession. Consequently, they are eager to have their charges make a good showing and also to gain valuable experience in handling players.
Last year’s co-champions were each representing Junior halls, Dillon and St. Ed’s. Many of the players from the championship teams have moved into
Walsh hall, so there is promise of an excellent hall eleven. Right on the champion’s heels were Lyons and _ Morrissey, a sizable number of whose players have moved into Dillon, which may easily put forth another winning combination. In fact, Coach Bill Stewart reports an overflow number turning out for practice. All this is without consideration of the unknown factor, the Freshmen, who invariably have enough enthusiasm to make a good showing.
Dr. Handy has been unable as yet to make up the complete schedule because each hall must have at least 18 men practicing regularly to enter the league, with today’s roster deciding whether a hall is eligible for representation.
—Coleman McGuire
Basketball Drills Begin;
Del Zoppo Coaches Frosh
Twenty-six Irish varsity eagers started their season’s drills under the direction of head coach George Keogan and his young assistant, Ray Meyer. Only comment from the veteran coach was, “I haven’t seen them since last spring,” but a glance at some of the names on his roster indicate a team that should be able to take care of itself, despite the loss of high scoring Eddie Riska, captain of last year’s squad.
Men on the varsity squad are: Barni-celli, Brenann, Butler, Curran, Dehner, Engel, Faught, Fisher, Grant, Hartford, Hiller, Kuka, Meagher, Moore, Nickson, Niemiera, O’Leary, Pope, Quinn, Rens-berger, Ruetz, Singer, Sobek, Sturm, Vinciguerra, and Wukovits.
The Freshman basketball squad was expected to be “ripe” for cutting by this weekend. Coach of this year’s Frosh aggregation is scholarly Al Del Zoppo, monogram winning member- of last year’s team. Al spends his hours off the hardwood between his off-campus residence and his English classes in the School of Education where he is working for a teacher’s certificate which will prepare him for a teaching-coaching job.
Ping!! I
Among the spectators at tomorrow’s Indiana game will be Carole Landis of Hollywood, present for an appearance on the radio Saturday night with Bill Stem of NBC and Coach Frank Leahy.
Play will resume in the annual upperclass and frosh tennis tourneys as soon
as the notorious “Indiana weather” per
mits. Before the rains came, the seedings of the upperclass tourney • were as follows: Captainelect Dan Canale, Glen Parks, Bob Faught, Bud Ford, and George Bittner, in that order. In the
dan canale frosh tourney, Jim Evert o f Chicago, Illinois is seeded No. 1. Evert holds the National Indoor singles and doubles titles, and the National Junior Outdoor doubles title. He is ranked third nationally among the Junior players of the nation. He will be pressed hard by Bill Reed of Wisconsin, who besides holding a national standing in Junior circles, is varsity basketball material.
Irish Are State Collegiate Champs
In the Indiana Intercollegiate tournament last May, Parks beat Canale to win the singles title. Both then teamed to capture the doubles crown. As a result of the twin wins, Notre Dame went home with the team title. Following this Parks and Canale traveled to Chicago to play in the qualifying meet for this district; Canale got as far as the semifinals before meeting defeat; Canale and Parks reached the final round in the doubles before being defeated by Greenberg and Richards, the combination from Northwestern University which figured in the only loss the Notre Dame squad suffered all season. In the National Clay Court meet at Chicago in June, the combination of Canale and Parks won its first round match before it ran up against the stiff seeded combination of Kramer and Schroeder, and eventual elimination from the tournament.
In the Western Open Championships at Indianapolis, Parks paired with Bobby Riggs. This pairing advanced to the fourth round in the tournament before tasting defeat. Parks also entered the St. Joe Valley tournament where he fought his way to the final rounds in both singles and doubles before being defeated.
"He's a Man"—for Capt. Canale
Captain-elect Dan Canale, who won . the frosh meet in his initial year at Notre Dame, will be pressed hard to lead this year’s squad to equal or bet-
19
ter the record of the 1941 team, which won seven out of its eight meets. This squad, which registered decisive defeats over Western State, Chicago, and Michigan, the latter eventually winning the Big 10 title, was the best to represent Notre Dame in the history of the University. Canale, who hails from Memphis, Tenn., stands only 5 feet nine inches, rather short for a tennis player, yet no one has doubted his ability on the courts. In the last two annual upper-classmen tournaments, Canale has triumphed. Besides this he won the University handball title as a sophomore and last year he stepped into an entirely new field when he competed in the Bengal Bouts program of intramural boxing and won the 135 pound division title.
Canale’s good timing and excellent coordination have made him a “natural” for athletics. Along with his participation in almost every sports program of the University, Canale has maintained an average above 90 in his three years at Notre Dame. By various persons, he has been called “the best player yet to represent Notre Dame in its tennis history.”—John Powers
Bertelli Praised By
Casteel, Arizona Mentor
If one particular theme could be found to describe the visiting Wildcats from the University of Arizona aftei-last Saturday’s game, it would probably be concerned with something like a disappointed “Four years of waiting, and now it’s all over.” But, in spite of the disappointment, there was nothing unpleasant said. Most of the conversation concerned the fine work of Juzwik and Bertelli, and the Arizona touchdown-pass from Ruman to Johnson, just before the end of the second quarter.
Coach Mike Casteel looked up over a sheaf of telegrams from Arizona to say that he was especially impressed with the playing of Bertelli. He finished up with praise for his sophomore left halfback, Bob Johnson, who had been switched over from the right halfback post just a week before (and, of course, wrapped in with all was the thought of what might have happened if the Wildcats had had more good reserves). Unfortunately for the Wildcats, those reserves just weren’t there.
Final comments told that Notre Dame had played a very clean game, and (this from a guard) that the Notre Dame first team line had looked very good, but that the second line “wasn’t so hot.”
But don’t fool yourself that the boys from the Baby State weren’t disappointed. Your writer is from Arizona, and he knew how the people had been waiting—for four long years.
—Joe Palmer
XCOCP’iN JPLINTEKJ
FROM THE PREJT BCX
BY BILL SCANLAN
ANGLING ANGIE TURNS PITCHER
Angling Angie Bertelli, the school’s top man with a hockey stick, elbowed like the answer to Baseball Coach Jake Kline’s search for pitchers next spring. . . . Sammy Baugh is Angelo’s idea of a sports hero, the latter also somewhat of a thrower. . . . Bertelli passed up Boston College and Cornell, as well as Big Three hockey invitations to play here, his schoolboy choice. . . . All Bert did Saturday in between shuffles in and out of the game with Jack Warner and Don Hogan was to snatch 145 yards tossing passes to Juzwik, Dove, Miller and Murphy—11 completions in 14 tries; average four yards per try on four runs; return a kickoff 17 yards; and kick two extra points, only one counting, and that actually traveling 37 yards. . . . Warner and - Hogan played for keeps too.
INTERHALL SQUADS BEGIN TO GROW
Notre Dame hasn’t turned into a football factory yet, it’s merely the spirit of practicing Interhall teams vying for the honor of displacing 1940 co-champions, Dillon and St. Ed’s as the campus stalwarts. . . . Rumor makers predict Walsh is the team to beat, but objectors are forming to the right in large numbers. . . . Notre Dame plays host to two top sports announcers, Ted Husing and Bill Stem—and no radios in the stadium. . . . All-American pickers.. . . Coach Leahy took a long drink of water on the bench when Jim McDonough, via loud speaker, announced B. C. trailed Tulane, 7-0. . . . Final even worse, 21-7. . . . Arizona may have been a pushover—but Navy Blues are flying high. . . . Washingtonian, Bill Kirby, reports Navy scuttled Georgetown by five touchdowns in a scrimmage affair.
FLYING FIREMAN FROM BRONX
They’re calling Tony Maloney, chummy junior trackman, the “flying fireman,” these days. . . . The New York Times, which uses “All the News Fit to Print,” recently praised Maloney as one of the top 100 to pass Civil Service tests, mental and physical, in New York City, amid a field of 26,000 applicants. . . . Among the first to congratulate Coach Leahy near the locker rooms Saturday were Father J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Father Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., top members of the Administration. . . . The team’s play well deserved the unusual honor.
HELPS PICK ALL-AMERICANS
Coach George Keogan, who relinquished a promising dental career to make football-minded Notre Dame basketball-conscious, helps select an All-American college basketball team to face the Detroit Eagles in Chicago on Friday, Nov. 28, an event sponsored by the Chicago Her aid-American. . . . That paper gets orchids for the most unusual “action” photo of the young football season—displaying at least eight men, blocked or blocking, aground as Bouncing Bill Earley tip-toes by.
DONNELLY SAYS "YES"
Latest to bolt the ranks of bachelors is John Donnelly, refugee from Michigan City, Ind., and assistant to Arthur Haley in the school’s department of public relations. . . . Donnelly, one of the most efficient football managers in the system’s history, was married last week in South Bend to comely Fanchon Thais Mullenberg, late of the University Library. ... Joe Palmer, Sorin hall author of baseball short stories, was a Phoenix grammar school pal of Charley McGowan, Arizona fullback.
LAWNMOWER PUSHER COMMENTS
When asked if he’d consent to speak at a Notre Dame Pep rally, Roundy Coughlin, the Madison, Wis., lawnmower pusher who graduated into press row, commented: “What are you trying to do have me arrested? Them guys down in Notre Dame don’t want to hear me at no pep meeting they would say how did he ever get on the campus. They might call the patrol wagon and take me to the jug house. I seen Leahy in Chicago the other day, he was so busy I didn’t have no chance to talk to him. He will be plenty busy this Fall too with the Navy, Northwestern and Southern Calif. Indiana is loaded.” . . . No punctuation needed.
WHO'S YOUR HOOSIER?
Notre Dame 27, Indiana 6; Yanks Over Dodgers in five games, lads from “Thoity-thoid” street notwithstanding.
20
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS
By "Red" Lonergan
1.	Who is called, “the father of American football?”
2.	Who holds the most amazing record in football?
3.	What noted winning streaks were brought to an end last year?
4.	What pro player who never kicked a field-goal while in college was champion of the National Pro League for two years in a row in this department?
5.	Has any team ever won the Rose Bowl game twice in succession?
6.	What professional player has the distinction of being the first end ever to lead the professional league in scoring?
(Answers will be found in “advertising” this issue.)
Father Holderith Cops Faculty Golf Crown
Due to able and almost miraculous work by the greenskeepers, the Notre Dame golf course is slowly returning to normal after the terrific thumping it received during the Faculty Golf Tournament this spring. Some fifty members of our distinguished faculty gouged and battered their way around the fairways in quest of the University championship, and we pause now amidst the excitement of the football season to pay tribute to the new champ, Father Holderith. Touring the course, shooting consistently mean golf in the high seventies, the coach of golf knocked off John Nash in the final round to annex the championship.
Several noteworthy huskies, including Frank Leahy and Johnny Druze, toddled out to the links to compete in flight B. When the dust of battle and flying turf had finally settled, it was observed that Ed Murray had conquered John Cronin in a rugged 4 and 3 match. A rather morbid style of golf was displayed in Flight C, or the sandtrap league. Competition however, was no less than terrific. Bob Cahill powerhoused his way to the championship, shooting a torrid score well under 120, and edged out Bill Turner in the finals, 1 up. Meantime, Ed Quinn plowed through the rough to win the consolation from Jim Connolly. Finally, when the titanic struggle had ended, Notre Dame’s toreadors of the golf links retired their clubs to the attic until another spring rolls around.
—Arthur Hayes
Final Exam for telephones
THS electrical mouth at Bell Telephone Laboratories is putting a new telephone to one of its final tests. Over and over, it can repeat these odd sentences without the slightest variation. They contain all the fundamental sounds that contribute to the loudness of sound in our speech. This mouth can also make tests with simple tones of known pitch and intensity.
At the same time othertelephones are being steamed,baked, frozen, lifted and dropped into their cradles by tireless machines. AH this is part of a carefully planned curriculum
that makes every piece of telephone equip-' ment prove it is capable of giving you the best possible service—under any and all conditions.
21
3,195 Students Tread University's Paths
After comparing the registration figures of the 1940-41 with the 1941-42 schoolyear, it would seem that an increasing number of young men are still under the draft age and are successfully fleeing tempting defense jobs. The total registrations for last year was 3,174, topped by the 3,195 registered for all
colleges of the University this term. There was little difference in the numbers enrolled for graduate work, 120 registering for this year as against 116 in the same work last year.
The numbers registered in the individual colleges are as follows: Arts and Letters, 1,035; Commerce, 1,015; Engineering, 563; Science, 384; Law, 78; Graduate school, 120. Total enrollment, 3,195.—Kelly Cook
There is no greater music
Frankie Carle Encores — C-70___________________________________$2.50
Overture, 1812; Tschaikowsky, X-205; Rodzinski & Cleveland Orch_$2.50
Daughter of the Regiment—Donnizetti—Lily Pons—X-206.........  $2.50
Grand Canyon Suite—Grofe M-463—Andre Kostelanetz & Orch.________$4.50
Notre Dame Men!
Before You Buy See the
PORTFOLIO
COLLEGE STYLE
in This Week’s
COLLEGIATE DIGEST
HEAR THESE NEW POPS
. Concerto for Two — Claude Thornhill	.
Joltin' Joe Di Maggio — Les Brown
You Made Me Love You — Harry James
I Don't Want to Set the World on Fire — H. Heidt
6. Don Hutson, Green" Bay Packers’ end.
largest Becord Department in Northern Indiana
HOURIS
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
You'll Find the Fashions Notre Dame Men
Voted for Exclusively at
M‘X ADLER “On the Corner” Michigan at Washington
PLEASE PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS —Adv.
22
Centennial Celebration
Is Held at St. Mary's
In one of the most impressive ceremonies ever performed in the past 100 years at St. Mary’s College, the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., blessed the cornerstone of the new Centennial library last Wednesday.
The event highlighted a final week of ceremonies which featured the first 100 years of the woman’s college approximately a mile west of Notre Dame. The celebration, which began last June, marked the centennial of the Congregation of Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Bishop Noll was assisted in the colorful and impressive cornerstone blessing ritual by the Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., chaplain of the convent, who served as master of ceremonies.
Notre Dame priests also had a part in the program. The ceremonies followed a celebration of a solemn pontifical requiem Mass in the Church of Loretto in which the Most Rev. Moses E. Kiley, S.T.D., archbishop of Milwaukee, Wis., was the celebrant. Assisting were the Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., chaplain of St. Mary’s; the Rev. Bernard Ill, C.S.C., and the Rev. James Galligan, C.S.C., of Notre Dame; the Rev. Patrick J. Dolan, C.S.C., and the Rev. Curt A. Suelzer, C.S.C., both of South Bend.
On the afternoon of the final day’s ceremonies, benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament was given with the Most Rev. Francis M. Kelly, D.D., bishop of Winona, Minn., officiating. Wednesday night a pageant, “The Masque of the Holy Cross,” in which was depicted the history of the order, was staged in St. Angela’s Hall.
PITY THE POOR ENGRAVER
(Continued from page 11) photo such as ours is captioned “Midshipmen leaving for the N.D. game.”)
After a lengthy conference with Miss Ann Regan, who is the liaison general in this type of activity, the dispatch runner retrieves the photo and plate. They are rushed to the Ave Maria press only five days before the deadline.
Despite the unfortunate fact that Scholastic lacks funnies we learned something of the processes of photoengraving in color. Here, there are as many plates as there are colors in the photo. The plates are so accurately designed they fit together exactly when they are successively printed on the same area. The next time you study Superman or Lil’ Abner please keep these painstaking photo-engravers in mind.
—Jerry Smith
Faculty Retreat Held
This week, in Dillon chapel, an unostentatious retreat was conducted for the lay members of the University faculty. At this time of year Notre Dame—both students and faculty—takes spiritual inventory and this retreat was offered to that end.
This is the third year of the lay retreat. Past speakers have been Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., once dean of the College of Arts and Letters of the University and now president of the University of Portland, and Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C. Services for the faculty are held at 6:30 each morning when Mass is followed by a short instruction, and again in the evening at 7:00 when there is a sermon followed by Benediction.
Many graduate students as well as faculty members are attending the retreat in Dillon chapel. The mission will close with a special blessing by Father Kelley on Saturday morning.
Typing Course Considered
To anyone interested in a typing or shorthand course comes this advice: Watch University announcements and Scholastic stories. Authorities are considering the renewal of a 13 week, two hour a week, course offered by the South Bend College of Commerce last year, with special rates for Notre Dame students.
New Stadium at DePauw
Tomorrow the University of DePauw at Greencastle, Ind., will dedicate its new football stadium, in conjunction with the celebration of Old Gold Day, by playing a new opponent, Carleton College of Minnesota.
The new structure, Blackstock Stadium, is the result of a gift of $80,000 given by Mrs. Blackstock. Just 20 years ago Mr. and Mrs. Blackstock, keen supporters of athletics at DePauw, had do
Marion Biddle Horn DANCING SCHOOL
Enroll for BALLROOM CLASSES or PRIVATE INSTRUCTION BY APPOINTMENT
3. Georgetown at 22; Texas A. & M. at 19, and Cornell at 18 victories.
224 J. M. S. Building	Phones: 4-1438 and 4-4922
nated the present Blackstock Field.
The new stadium is replete with modern equipment and will provide excellent accommodations for DePauw fans.
Lt. Commander Farrar
Made Commander
President Roosevelt last Wednesday approved recommendation of the Naval Selection Board elevating Lt. Commander Murvale T. Farrar, to the rank of Commander. The promotion will take place officially as soon as a vacancy occurs, which is normally a matter of three or four months after formal approval.
Lt. Commander Farrar is the executive officer of the Naval R.O.T.C. unit at the University of Notre Dame and has been in naval service for 22 years. Although on the approved list for advancement in grade, he will continue to rate as a Lt. Commander until his new orders are received.
Attention Students
Reduced prices at all times to students!
AL WISH’S PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
Open every night except Monday.
Matinee Sunday — 2 to 5 p. m.
Make money on your parties here.
Dance to CHUCK SMITH and his Indiana University Band at the
PALAIS ROYALE
Next SATURDAY, Oct. 4 from 9 till 12
Admission 50c per person, tax included.
28
Faculty Portraits
He isn’t here now, but when he was, you can be sure that he gave his all to his students at Notre Dame. No one who was so fortunate as to have him for an instructor can ever recall his past Notre Dame days without thinking of him — Professor Hull.
We can best remember him by his kind, old, wrinkled face — quite unlike that of the usual college professor — his black derby, and his quick witty chatter. Perhaps it was love of his work that gave him such a pleasant face. And his quick wit might be the result of years spent in mathematical entanglements. But the black derby, and the grey coat — we’re at a loss to discover a solution of those.
Each year he faced the same difficult task, namely, that of teaching Freshman Mathematics to A.B. students. For everyone knows that students of this latter type are not allergic to mathematical knowledge as they should be. How the students would laugh when he would answer “Could be! Could be!” to some anxious-eyed boy who asked him about the possibilities of some problem just completed. Or perhaps he would go farther and answer “That’s wr-r-r-rite!” or “That’s wr-r-rong!” Always holding the student in suspense as he waited the sound of the last note.
And oh what a weather bug he was! •—especially on the day of a big football game. The class would almost pray for rain when he predicted fair weather — just to jibe him on his error, of course. But needless to say, he was just exact enough not to make any errors. His years of science had not been wasted.
Then, too, he was inspirational. I shall never forget the glances that he used to exchange on examination day. Ours was that of mysticism and be
wilderment. His was “Sure, you can do it! Go to work!” How we ever balanced those equations is a mystery to this day. But somehow we believe the confident manner of this old man had something to do with it.
Somehow one had to admire his quick sure method of putting on his coat, cocking the derby to one side a little forward, and then strutting off toward the trolley car. No overtime for him and his boys — just fifty minutes of work and play, and then, “Oh there’s the bell! And I didn’t get to that new problem, did I?”
Even today, though he be one or 3,000 miles away, we’re sure he’s gaily joking with someone, or walking toward some trolley car, younger than the youngest, with a cheery grin for all.
Louis Kurtz Directs
Decent Literature Drive
Announcement this week from first floor, Dillon Hall, reported that Louis Kurtz, a junior, long active in the Decent Literature Committee’s program, has been appointed chairman of that organization for the coming year.
Kurtz, informed of the appointment, immediately gathered about him some of the leaders in the movement and went into a huddle. The sweeping program they decided upon for this year was announced the following day.
The committee will again distribute Catholic literature to all parts of the United States. Its best seller, No Smut, will be sent to high schools, army camps, alumni and friends of the university. Numbered among other pamphlets to be sent to army camps is “Advice to Catholic Recruits,” written by Notre Dame’s former president, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., now Bishop of the Army and Navy.
The commission will also select 20
pamphlets “particularly suited to a Catholic high school library” and distribute the set upon request. Concentrating upon keeping Notre Dame men now in the service close to old school ties, the commission has decided to mail Scholastics each week to alumni and former Notre Dame men in camps throughout the country.
Other phases of the six-point program include: a new edition of Hints for Living the Faith of 10,000 copies and an additional 10,000 of a cheaper copy to be used by chaplains in camps throughout the country. Hotels, depots and public places in the vicinity of South Bend will be the target for more Catholic literature.
Kurtz also issued an appeal for more students to aid the commission’s program. Students interested can sign up with any of the Prefects of Religion or with Kurtz at 121 Dillon Hall.
The Student Commission is affiliated with the National Federation of Catholic College Students, part of the National Commission for Decent Literature.
"SUNNY ITALY" CAFE
Genuine Italian Spaghetti and Ravioli Dishes
“Made the way it should be made”
•
ROSIE'S
Tony and Rose, Props.
601 N. Niles Ave. Phone 3-0678
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr.E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
•
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
LEARN TO DANCE!! . . . IMPROVE YOUR DANCING!!
Beginning ballroom class will start Wednesday, October 1st, at 7:00 p. m.
Private lessons by appointment.
We teach thorough foundation and the very latest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba, Conga and Tango.
Maxene Mollenhour School of Dancing
Phone 3-4079	320 W. Jefferson	So. Bend, Ind.
24
MADE BY M. UNKMAN & CO., CHICAGO MAKERS OF H-oIlycourt PIPES
THE
Huddle
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ...............$ 1.50
Yello-Bole Regular........ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ______ I -50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ----- 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ..... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran _____ 5.00
Hollycourt _______________ 3.50
Sasieni .................. 5.00
MUSIC
By J. R. C.
A rather popular classic that has been renovated or rather desecrated is Grieg’s “In the Hall of the Mountain King.” If one must pick from several evils, one invariably attempts to pick the lesser of them. Will Bradely’s version of the Grieg piece features some good brass as usual, with drums predominating but the piece is too chopped and swung to preserve any tolerable total effect. Al-vino Key’s recording is the bettei-, perhaps, because of the other side: “Harbor of Dreams,” in which the Hey guitar makes its best showing in a long time although it is not the prominent feature of the record.
Strauss’ “Emperor Waltz” with its alliterative introductory passages, its smooth, majestic and powerful rhythm is perhaps the greatest of all waltzes when treated with the full symphonic beauty of Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. This record on a 12-inch Red Seal is one of two offered for the price of one in order to stimulate interest in classical music. The other of these two excellent records offered for $1.00 is ballet music from the opera “Faust.” The usual dependable style of the rising Boston Pops makes this record as good a buy as the Waltz. Both together at this price make a great beginning to a good collection of classical records.
For several years now, the Victor people have been publishing a magazine which contains the best discussion of both classical and popular music. “The Highroad to Music Appreciation” is a feature of this September issue, and will continue in several issues of the future. It is a discussion of classical music without all the useless technical terms which baffle and disgust the average music critic. Also in this issue is an article on “The Birth of the Blues,” that should prove interesting to all. Most music stores handle this magazine either directly or through subscriptions.
Lionel Hampton’s “Chasin’ With Chase”: an ordinary drum record in which the drum performance isn’t bad but cannot come up to a drummin’ Krupa. The solo is quite different, not to say interesting near the end of the number: it sounds like the clack of train wheels heard through the ■ open sink drain of the lavatory at the end of the coach. The sextet performs admirably.
Step lively
NOTRE DAME MEN!
see the new styles in
Xntcr
Sacto
The rib's the thing in Interwoven socks for fall. Wear "Softie" — a ribbed cotton sock, with your sport clothes. . . . Blue, green, red, brown, beige, plain colors. "University" is a smooth cotton and rayon sock. Blue, brown, green, and red. 55c or 2 for $1.10.
5. Yes. U. S. C. in 1932 and ’33, and in 1939 and ’40. Alabama won in the Bowl in 1926 and ’27.
Mens Shop
WYMAN'S
25
“Now That You’re Mine” sticks to the drummer’s policy of offering something a little less maddening on the reverse side. The music is soothing and rather slow but not too smooth.
Among Glenn Miller’s newer pieces is “I’m Thrilled.” It’s a nice slow “Miller” with the usual smooth vocal by Eay Eberle. It should be popular before many weeks are gone. “From One Love to Another,” the “A” side of the record, is another “Miller” which should not only be popular but reach the top before long. Another ditty Glenn tossed off in his sleep is “Elmer’s Tune,” an old tune but a “Miller,” and so good enough. “Delilah” on-the other side isn’t bad, but in this case, a little too much of the Miller . style.
Religion Department .
Reaches Students
There are a variety of abilities regarding religion found among the Catholic students entering Notre Dame. This creates quite a pathos in the religion department. According to Father Hagerty in his text book Natural Apologetics, concerning Christian education, “How much of this wisdom may the teacher of Apologetics or any other religious subject assume has been transmitted to his pupils when they are presented to him? Some boys and girls go to Catholic schools 12 years before they enter college, others eight, others four or three or two, or one, or none. Philosophy is usually studied too late in the college course to help Apologetics. Students say: ‘Our course in Apologetics helped us in logic and psychology,’ whereas it would be more reasonable if they could say their logic and psychology helped them in Apologetics.” These opinions are
You Supply the Head...
LEE supplies the HAT-ETUDE^
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
f* Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Found only at ... .
Rvsc s Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 VrOtWC MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
echoed by Eev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., head of the department of religion at Notre Dame.
As means therefore that the student might know where he stands in his class and that the professor might have some conception of his pupil’s knowledge of fundamentals before he begins to teach him something new or more complex in his religion, a standard, comprehensive test was required to be taken by each student set on entering his first year of religious education at the University this year. Some 800 freshmen underwent the first religion test drawn up by Eev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., head of the Department of Education, and his staff. A survey of the grades was made and the students were classified into two groups. The advanced groups are taught by priests in a manner best suited for men with good basis for their religious training. A second class covers its work more slowly but more extensively.
The best mark in the religion quiz
Let the nearest store that sells LEE Water-Bloc" Hats fit your head into this new semi-telescope— the Bearcroft — with a slightly narrow hand and a hound edge brim. Wear it snapped way back. For only 5 Bucks, you’ll be a bearcat in The Bearcroft.
26
PARKER-WINTERROWD /or formal (JTtotijes; Cotillion is coming!
TAILS and TUXEDOES — $35 and up
Mid-night Blue and Black — Made to your measure.
tered to fit
. a
RENTALS
mid-
night blue or black.
At least 36 hours’ notice required — al-
Tux complete ?6.50: suit, shirt, collar, tie, 'buttons.
Tails: complete with top hat, suit, shirt, waistcoat, tie, buttons —$7.50.
Authorized representative
for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.





was acquired by a student from Dallas, Texas; he answered 124 questions correctly out of a possible 130. Generally, however, conclusions drawn from very unstable premises make one wonder if the students best fitted for advanced courses in religion are from this Southern State. “Here,” says Father Irving, “the opposition to religion might prompt a man to look more scrutinizingly and appreciatively at his Christian religion and its doctrines.
“The priest’s personal touch is the most essential factor in teaching a good course in Catholic dogma. The material is plentiful; it is the manner in which the facts are given to the student that he may quickly and easily grasp them that is important.” Father Irving goes on, “Classification of potential religion students shall go on in the future, and in time the faculty may encourage those doing particularity fine in Christian philosophy to go on in the study of that subject. Thus in future years we may expect a lay group of graduates from Notre Dame who will be future leaders in the thoughts and ideas and ideals of Catholic wisdom and apologetics.”
—Paul Carr
Minnesota WCTU has asked the Minneapolis city council to prohibit sale of beer within a mile of the University of Minnesota campus.
HEY FELLAS!
• KINNEY’S have those comfortable leisure moccasins for only —
9 to 13.____25c a pair
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115^2 - N. Main Street (Upstairs)
KINNEY'S
134 S. MICHIGAN
27
MAX ADLER “ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
It's Adler's tor Arrows!
You’ll find Arrow Doubler, together with a huge selection of favorite, long-wearing Arrows, at Adler’s. New Fall styles arriving daily . . . Make your selection tomorrow.
The Arrow Shirt
With the Dual
Doubler—a buttoned-up
idhr shirt one minute and an ri-necked sport shirt the next.
rick is in the ingenious con-collar that is worn equally i or without a tie.
Doubler comes in all sizes, made of oxford, voile, ortwillflannelinwhiteand solid colors. Double your wardrobe with Doubler today!
e ’Arrow
ARROW SHIRTS
Bewildered Frosh
So here I am. I’m supposed to he a bewildered freshman writing down the things that confuse me here on the campus. But in reality, I’m not bewildered (much) and I don’t feel confused.
Why am I an exception that all frosh should be lost in their first weeks? Well, the main reason seems to be the way that Notre Dame treats all of her students in the right way. The friendliness of everyone on the campus made me feel rather important and when I feel important it’s impossible to bewilder me.
' There were, of course, some things that confused me when I was first subjected to them. But I think I understand them now. For instance, in the dining hall for the first meal I felt rather put out when the food whizzed by and failed to come back for a second helping. Now I take what I want the first time. I realize there is plenty of good food and I don’t feel that my table-mates are greedy. •
The bells were another source of bewilderment. What did they all mean? Did I have to watch for each one? Now I do watch for them because they aren’t affected by Daylight Saving Time.
But all in all, I feel like an old timer now, attending classes and beefing about the work. I wouldn’t feel this way though if it hadn’t been for the help of the faculty members and upperclassmen who helped me. Thanks a lot.
Have Your Next DANCE or BANQUET ■	at
The Indiana Club
320 W. Jefferson Blvd.
Phone 3-5125
4. Ward Cuff, formerly of Marquette, now playing with the New York Giants.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE 1. Walter Camp.
28
Commerce Forum Tees Off
The Commerce Forum started the year off impressively by sponsoring the highly successful Victory Dance last Saturday night. This, combined with the very helpful information booths that guided new students and visitors about the campus began what promises to be a big year for the Commerce Forum.
Officers of the Forum for the coming year are: John Moriarity, president; James Osmuth, vice president; Blair McGowan, secretary; Gail Fitch, treasurer.
This board of strategy is planning many diversified activities for the Forum. A membership drive that began Sept. 29, will be climaxed on Oct. 6, by the first meeting of the year. President Moriarity expects the membership to total 300 this year.
The meeting will be held every two weeks with speakers, movies, and other entertainment relating to commercial subjects. The Forum is planning to recruit a board of three members of the College of Commerce faculty to help guide the destinies of the club.
Blair McGowan will be the editor of the. Commerce Forum’s newspaper this year. This is a new venture of the club and one expected to aid in consolidating the club.
Other plans of the club include a sports program to be climaxed by the annual golf tournament in the spring. A roller skating party is planned for the
fmo tmnw
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
. Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
2. Red Grange, who carried the ball 4,000 times for a total of 32,000 yards, averaging eight yards per try.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
near future. Of course, the Commerce Forum trip will be taken again this year, but at this writing the date has not been decided.—Bob Kuipers
Frosh to Stage Annual
Fall Swim Meet, Tuesday
The annual freshman swimming meet will be held Tuesday evening, Oct. 7, at eight o’clock in the Rockne Memorial pool. All freshmen are urged to enter the competition which will be limited to only the class of ’45. Medals will be given
A DOWNS/
WHAT DOES HE HAVE THAT I DON'T HAVE?
DOWNS
A RAINFAIR
Selection
RAINFAIR y
The ultra-smart fingertip length that college men the country over are clamoring for. Fine quality gabardine, showerproofed by Cravenette. And man, when that bold Tartanplaid lining flops in the wind, it's something to catch the eye of the most sophisticated coed! Side vents. Inside flap pockets. In bleached bone color. Sizes 32 to 44. regulars or longs.
SELECTED by COLLEGE STYLE BOARD
Bob Quenteli....................... Southern	California
John H. Sanders.................................Cornell
Wm. B. Smith...................................    Duke
Danie! H. Huyett.........................Michigan
William Belden ..............................Texas
MAX ADLER
South Bend, Indiana
for the first three places in each event.
The order of events is as follows: 50 yd. free style, 50 yd. breast stroke, 200 yd. free style, low board diving, 50 yd. back stroke, 100 yard free style, and 75 yd. medley.
The Memorial will be closed each evening between 6 and 7:15. The building-hours will be 8 a.m. to 9 pan. on week days and 9 aan. to 4:45 pan. on Sundays. The pool hours are 8 aan. to 9 pan. week days and 1 p.m. to 4:45 pan. Sundays.
o-r $1O M
29
Campus Institution Hours
For the convenience of the student the Scholastic has prepared a schedule of the “open for business” hours of the most frequented service establishments on the campus.
Library—Monday through Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.; Saturday: 8:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m. (except from September
BOILED DOWN -
There are 19
Trains Daily!
Don’t let timetables keep you in a stew—just remember this easy South Shore schedule to Chicago: The first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and on through until 9:30 P. M., there’s a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
to the end of the football season when it closes at noon on Saturdays) ; Sun-' day: 10:00 a.m. to noon.
Bookstore — Monday through Friday: 7:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.; Saturday: 7:30 to 1:00 p.m.
Post Office — Mail dispatches daily except Sunday: 6:30 a.m., 10:30 a.m., 3:30 p.m. Sunday only 6:30 a.m. Mail distributions are ready at: 7:30 a.m., 12:30 p.m., 4:30 p.m. Window service Monday through Friday: 7:30 a.m., to 5:30 p.m. Saturday service 7:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
Offices of the Prefect of Discipline and Director of Studies—Monday through Friday: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.; 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.; Saturdays: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
HURRY.'
Size
0
J QuinA
CLEANS A
& PEN AS n IT WRITES
STOPS $qWO-TH!RD5 ^OF PEN H TROUBLES
DRIES ON
QUICKER
RICH,FULL-BODIED, BRILLIANT COLORS
Athletic Ticket Office—Monday through Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Saturday: 9:00 a.m. to noon.
Shoe and Watch Repair Shop—Monday through Friday: 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Saturday: 7:00 a.m. to noon.
Western Union Office—Monday through Saturday regularly: 8:20 a.m. to noon, 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. During the football season: Monday through Friday: 8:20 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Barber Shop—Monday through Saturday: 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. During a home football game the Barber Shop closes at game time and opens immediately after the game is over.
Laundry Office in Badin — Monday through Friday: 6:45 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday: 6:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Your Last Chance to get Walt Disney's
FREE
with the purchase of a bottle of
I? No.box-tops to send —no waiting — / just get this quick-drying, pen-clean-I ing ink at your retailer’s and receive I your Song Book right then and there!
We might have known that such a swell offer would I soon exhaust retailers* supplies, but we didn’t dream I it would happen so fast. If you don’t find any left at the first store, try a second. But act without delay, to be safe.
And when you fill your pen with Parker Qu/nk, be sure to try it without a blotter. See how fast it dries ON PAPER—31% quicker than average of 4 others. And see how beautifully your pen works—a Parker or ANY OTHER. For Quink contains a secret agent that . dissolves deposits left by pen-clogging inks. That’s really why we created Quink—to guard pens from sediment and gum that stop the flow.
Quink will help keep your pen in your hands and out of repair shops.
To induce you to try it, we are giving Disney’s Song Book FREE when you buy Quink for 15 cents. Better dip out this announcement as a reminder. It’s probably your last chance.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
6 DUMBO Lyrics included
Look Out For Mr. Stork Casey Junior
Baby Mine I’ve Seen Everything Song of the Roustabouts and 94 other Favorites by these and other authors.
Quink
@ Walt Disney Productions
30
Laundry picked up—Monday: Brownson and Carroll; Wednesday: Alumni, Dillon, Sorin, Walsh; Thursday: Howard, Lyons, Morrissey; Friday: Badin, Zahm, Cavanaugh; Saturday: Breen-Phillips, St. Edward’s.
Cafeteria—All week: 6:30 a.m. to 9:40 p.m.
Huddle—Monday through Friday: 7:45 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Saturday: 7:45 a.m. until show time in the evening;
Sunday: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
Athletic Equipment Office — Monday through Friday: 9:30 a.m. to noon; 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Athletic Training Room — Monday through Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Rockne Memorial — Monday through Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (During Home football games the
Memorial will be’ open on Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.). Sunday: 9:00 a.m. to 4:45 pan. Swimming pool — Monday through Saturday: 9:00 am. to 9:00 pan. (except during the football season when it closes at 11:00 a.m. on Saturdays.) Sun lamp— Monday through Saturday: 3:00 pan. to 5:00 pan.
Golf Course—All week: 7:00 aan. to 5:30 pan.
. —Bill Talbot
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	south Beno, Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.	D.	M.D.


Have fun-be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum The Flavor Lasts
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND, IND.

■
■2'^3
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend



DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
31
\l\inufe
and I’ll give you back 15 seconds
Says Paul Douglas,
well-known radio announcer
Somebody whistles a few bars of a catchy tune. Others pick it up.
Soon the whole country’s whistling it. It’s a hit.
Somebody lights up a cigarette.
Likes it. Passes the word along. Soon the whole country’s smoking it. It’s a hit. IT’S CHESTERFIELD.
Copyright 1941, laccm & Mnas Tobacco Co.
The big thing that’s pushing Chesterfield ahead. Is the approval of smokers like yourself.
Chesterfields are definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking and Better-Tasting.
They’re made of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos Blended just right to give you more smoking pleasure.
But even these facts wouldn’t count If smokers didn’t just naturally like them. Once a smoker finds out from Chesterfield What real smoking pleasure is, nothing else will do. Yes, fellow smokers, IT’S YOUR APPROVAL
THAT’S PUSHING CHESTERFIELD AHEAD.
Everywhere you go