THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
613
sacaoa
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
1£ 1C1NTYRE, Richard Parrish, Richard Elfers,
John V.
Hinkel,
Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,
- - - News Editor [, Asst, News Editor Literary Editor ।	- - Sports Editor
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
J. F. Mahoney, Cyril J. Mullen, Arthur Stenius, John Bergan,
William Bernard
Craig Garber
David Saxon George McNally
NEWS
R. W. Munz
George A. Kiener
ADVERTISING
J. T. Bonner, - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H. J. NOON, - Local Circulation Mgr.
D. M. Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
VOL.-bV^
1872
No. 20
- - - The Week The College Parade Music and Drama - - Club Editor
John DeRoulet Raymond Drymalski
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	h. O’Bryan
C. M. Ashman	e. J. Carlin
W. E. Burchill
MARCH 2, 1928
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week................. Next Week’s Events.......
Music and Drama... The Campus Clubs ........ The College Parade ...... ...
The Editor’s Page........
Hobnails ................
Advanced Intolerance...... Commencement (A Story) . Zebras (A Poem,) ......... Trackmen Defeat Wisconsin Other Sport News..........
J. F. Mahoney
Arthur Stenius . John Bergan ..... Cyril J. Mullen ..
Allan-a-DaLe..... Cyril J. Mullen . Basil G. Rauch... Prospero Image. John V. Hinkel .
1928
.... 614
....615
____619
.... 621
...... 622
....623 ‘
.... 624
...... 625
____ 627
...... 629
...... 630 632-636
■ THE SCHOLASTIC Io published weekly *t the VnlTeroUy of Notre Deme. JtamioeripU may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC or to room* M* or 4M Morriwey Hell.

Entered. at sseoed-elan natter at Notre Doew, Indiana. Acceptance for netting at special rata of postage. Section 1109. October 9, 1917, antiurrixed June SS. ISIS.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame PubficalioM Deserve the Patronage of AH Notre Dame Men

614
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK

This week will have witnessed a stupendous Shakespearean revival in South Bend and at Notre Dame. The readings of Mr. Rice in Washington Hall, Robert Mantell’s performances the earlier part of the week, and Mrs. Fiske and Otis Skinner tonight have provided a veritable feast for admirers of Shakespeare, who has been warmly recommended by the Liberty magazine in a recent issue. It is gratifying to record that Mr. Rice was accorded a better reception than • was Mr. Strickland Gillilan of last week, a humorist in the Will Rogers manner, who had an unrivalled collection of. ancient wheezes, and who closed his lecture with . some verse that would make Edgar A. Guest green with envy.
The debaters opened the season in the traditional fashion by appearing before St. Mary’s. One side adopted the burlesque method introduced by the Australian debaters last year, and got over very well with the audience until the time was come for balloting; then the girls marched to the polls and defeated the sarcastic affirmative debaters by the score of sixty-six to sixteen.
' A Sister told Joe McNamara that the reason for the apparent contradiction was that they (the girls) are too sarcastic themselves to consider disparagement a virtue in the opposite sex.
' The Juggler appeared Tuesday night. It contained a very good joke. If you wish to compare the good joke with last month’s good joke, or the one of the month before that, you may secure back numbers in the cafeteria or down town. We earnestly advise that you get all the back copies of the Juggler you can, and save them, because in . some no distant future they will be valuable as curios, and perhaps some day your children will look at them and laugh, as we do now.	.	’
The bear of politics, which has been slum
bering quietly (except for an occasional 1 snore) all winter, begins to stir himself, and before long will be poking his head out of 1 his cave. At first he will look a little danger- J ous, but on close inspection you will see that ; he has a ring through his nose, and he will be made to dance and cavort as unresistingly this performance as he has every other \ spring when the circus opened.	■
With the growth of popularity of morning , prayer comes increased difficulty in finding a seat for breakfast/ The policy seems to be to remove several sections of tables, and let ' the devil take the hindmost, and we are in- . variably among the hindmost. We have not i yet been taken, although portions, of our • breakfast have.	'
It is evident that the majority of the students have stopped smoking for Lent: two men in a Ford who attempted to give away Lucky Strikes Tuesday noon were completely scorned; they begged and pleaded, they stormed and raved, and all to no avail, for they were unable to dispose of one package, and finally drove off in despair. Such incidents as this restore our faith in the will power of the student body.
Our heart is made glad by the sunshine and the birds and the budding flowers. The breath of spring is in the air, particularly about the quadrangle, where the summer’s supply of grass is being stimulated. All this is cheering, especially the warm sunshine—wait a minute—it has just started to rain. Well, the rain will be over soon—before St. Patrick’s day at least—and golf and bumming to Niles will have started. We have only this to say concerning the coming of spring, “Let ’er come!’’
(The Week is greatly indebted to Frank Creadon for his assistance in the assembling anc writing of this page, both in past issues and in those to come.)	—J F,M' •

:j .1


'^,'4^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
» NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS •> ❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ *><& 4 &
Friday, March 2—Debating—University of Notre Dame vs. DePauw University — Washington Hall—8:00 P. M.
Saturday — Track — Central Intercollegiate Meet—Gymnasium—2:00 P. M.
Basketball — Marquette University vs. .University of Notre Dame—Gymnasium— 8:00 P. M.
Sunday—Masses—Student Masses in Sacred Heart Church at 6:00, 7:00, and 8:30 A. M.; Parish Mass—10:15 A. M.
Interhall basketball games — morning and afternoon—Gymnasium.
. Benediction — Sacred Heart Church — 7:30 P. M.
Monday—Meeting of Neo-Scholastic Society —2:15 P. M.—Library, Journalism Room.
Meeting of Scribblers—8:00 P. M. LawBuilding.
Meeting of Villagers — Morningside Apartments—6:30 P. M.
Joseph Regan—Irish Tenor—Washington Hall—8:00 P. M.
Meeting of the Academy of Science — Science Hall.
Basketball—Gilbert’s vs. Notre Dame Frosh—Gymnasium—8:00 P. M.
Tuesday—Le Cercle Francais—Hoynes Hall —6:30 P. M.
Knights of Columbus Meeting—K. of C. chambers in Walsh Hall—8:00 P. M.
Wednesday—Meeting of Neo-Scholastic Society—Journalism Room of Library—2:15 P.M.
• Sermon and Benediction—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Concert—the University Band—Washington Hall—8:00 P. M. .
Meeting of Wranglers—Library—8:00 P. M.
Thursday — Meeting of Spanish Club — ' Hoynes Hall—7:30 P. M.
; Meeting of Chicago Club—Lay Faculty , Room of Dining Hall—7:45 P. M.
- 1	' Meeting of German Club—Hoynes Hall
. -6:45 P.M. ■
' -
615
Friday—Concert—Kerr, Soprano; Spring, Basso; Gons, Cello—Washington Hall — 8:00 P.M.	'	’
Basketball—University of Notre Dame vs. Butler University—Indianapolis, Ind.
•----------------
SCHOLASTIC OCCUPIES NEW OFFICE IN EMPLOYES BUILDING
The Scholastic moved into its new office in the employes building this week. The second floor of the building has been reserved for the offices ofk the Juggler, the Dome, and the Scholastic.
The Scholastic now occupies room 14. All of the second floor has been redecorated and refurnished to make suitable offices for the publications through arrangements made by the Board of Publications of the University. The Scholastic room has new lighting fixtures and is newly painted.
Harley L. McDevitt, business manager of the Scholastic, has planned the convenient new entrance to the offices, which now faces Science Hall.
Manuscripts intended for the Scholastic may be brought to the new office, or mailed to Rooms 425 or 334 Morrissey.
The building was formerly the home of graduate students.
HIGH SCHOOL DEBATERS TO HOLD CONVENTION HERE
Realizing the benefits to be derived from forensic activities, the Wranglers club have sponsored an Indiana High School Debating and Oratorical Convention to be held at Notre Dame the last of April.
’ The purpose of the Convention is to instigate interest in debating and oratory amongst high school students.
During the convention, an oratorical and debating contest will be held. Gold medals will be awarded by the Wranglers to the winner of each event.	.
Practically every major high school in Indiana will be represented. Arrangements for the convention qre in charge of Joseph P. McNamara, president of the Wranglers.
616
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
SENIOR BALL COMMITTEES SELECTED
John F. Frederick, president of the senior class, has announced his selection of the committees for the Senior Ball, to be held May 11. James Shocknessy is general chairman of the Ball committees.
The personnel of the committees, as submitted to the Scholastic by president Frederick follows:
James Shocknessy, General Chairman
Arrangements
William P. Kearney, chairman
Entertainment
J. Carroll Pinkley, chairman
William H. Leahy Milton J. Wagner Conley T. Murphy
John McSorley, Jr.
Vincent A. Stace Louis W. Norman
Reception
Russell A. William F. Brown John C. Fontana James M. O’Toole
Riley, chairman
Tea
John P. Considine Oskar E. Rust George A. Kiener
Dance
John E. Chevigny, chairman
Ai
B. P. Korzeneski Joseph Prelli Mervyn A. Aggeler
Edwin F. Brennan
Richard T. Trant
William E. Mahin
Edmund A. Collins Robert H. Steepler Thomas F. Lavelle
Raymond H. Mulligan
John F. Robinson John T. Cullinan
Music
George E. Leppig, chairman
Joseph S. Morrissey, chairman of the tick- . et committee, declares that the sale of tickets . ! will commence Monday, March fifth.

Howard V. Phalin Charles A. Homer Thomas J. Bov
John Cavanaugh Mark J. Fitzgerald Arthur L. Denchfield
Favors
Robert L. Nickells, chairman Herbert A. Schulz Louis F. Buckley Wm. J. H. O’Neill John D. Igoe Charles T. Schlegel Kirwin J. Williams
Programs
Joseph Troy Bonner, chairman Vincent H. Henry Joseph P. Kinneary Joseph P. McNamara Jerome C. DeClercq Joseph E. Morrissey John A. Seiter
Publicity
Leo R. McIntyre, chairman
Robert P.- Capesius John A. Mullen George H. Kelley
Lawrence J. Culliney John W. Rickord Henry H. Hudson '
Tickets
Joseph S. Morrissey, chairman
James T. Morrissey J. William Kirwin Robert M.'Ward
John J. Wingerter Ulysses J. Rothballer Francis P. Creadon
Decorations
William Hudson Jeffreys, chairman Robert F. Evans, Jr.. James J. Conmey Eugene K. Moriarity Leo J. Schultheis Francis H. Strohm Marion J. Heffernan
EAST-PENN CLUB TO HAVE “FATHER 1 DEVERS’ NIGHT”
The East-Penn Club at the University is
to hold a “Father Devers’ Night,” in honor of Father John A. Devers, C.S.C., who has' been ill at his home in Scranton, Pennsylvania, for the past two months. The affair, it has been tentatively decided, will be held in the faculty dining room of the University Dining Halls, Tuesday evening, March 13, at eight p. m.
Leo R. McIntyre, president of the club, has announced the committee in charge of the affair, as follows: Thomas A. McMahon, John F. Leitzinger, Larry Weniger, Pete Casterline, Joe Manning, Frank Flanagan, Jerry Gallagher, John McMahon, Andy Boyle, Tom Farrey, Tom Quigley, Christie Shull, Joe McHugh, Nick Maureillo, Jack Boland, Bob Mulhall, Frank McManus, and Chuck O’Malley. --------------------—
PHILOSOPHY NUMBER NEXT WEEK
The Philosophy number of the Scholastic, published under the auspices of the seniors majoring in Philosophy, will be out next Friday.	‘	'

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
617
UNIVERSITY DEBATERS AT SAINT MARY’S
The Affirmative varsity debating team defeated the varsity Negative in a debate held at St. Mail’s College last Monday afternoon-.
Members of the junior and
senior classes of that institution acted as judges. It was the most decisive victory that, has ever been staged in the annual St. Mary’s debate; the decision of the judges was sixty-six votes for the affirmative and sixteen for the negative.
Members of the affirmative team are William F. Casey, Frank McGreal and Arnold L. Williams; the negative team is composed of Thomas Keegan, Joseph P. McNamara and James C. Roy.
The question debated was: Resolved: “That the direct primary method of nominating Federal and State officials shall be abolished by the several states.”
The team is being coached by Rev. William A. Bolger, head of the Department of Politics and Economics.
The first inter-collegiate debate of the season will be held tonight. The Negative team will meet DePauw’s affirmative at Greencastle, Ind.; while the Notre Dame Affirmative will debate DePauw’s Negative team in Washington Hall.
The question for debate will again be the abolishment of the direct primary.
❖
NOTRE DAME LAWYER
DISCUSSES SACCO-VANZETTI
Joseph P. McNamara brought out the January issue of the Notre Danie Lawyer last week. The publication is as well edited as any on the campus, being attractive in appearance, and containing a considerable amount of well-written reading matter of interest not merely to the lawyers but to the students, of the other colleges as well.
“The Lessons of the Sacco-Vanzetti Case” by Judge Dudley G. Wooten features the number. This is a masterly piece of rhe-Oric, clear and concise, as well as an excel
lent bit of legal exposition. The article should interest the layman as well as the lawyer. The magazine also includes a more strictly legal article by Professor James F. Kirby.
Curiosities Of The Law by McNamara and Happer, Notes on Recent Cases by several members of the under-graduate body of the Law School, and a well written editorial page add considerably to this interesting publication.
--------*--------
HOTEL MONTHLY FEATURES
UNIVERSITY DINING HALLS
The feature article of the February number of The Hotel Monthly deals with the Notre Dame Dining Halls and with the system used in order to serve three thousand people in tyenty-five minutes, three times a day. The article discusses the million dollar builds ing, the dining halls, the cafeteria, and the service system which Mr. Borland has instituted.
Mr. John Willy, the editor of the journal, was amazed by the efficiency displayed by the service force, by the sanitation of the building, and by its beautiful as well as modern equipment. The tone of this article was laudatory, the writer seeming to be amazed at the excellence of the equipment used in the Notre Dame Dining Halls and with the efficiency shown by Mr. Borland and his employees. The fact that the school farms supply a great deal of the vegetables and most of the meat used in the refectory seemed almost unbelievable to Mr. Willy.
The general tone of the “feature” can best be illustrated by quoting from it. “The editor of The Hotel Monthly has heard many times of the wonderful catering department at the University of Notre Dame. We spent a day at the University, six hours in the Dining Halls Building, and what we saw and hope to chronicle in these pages was far beyond what we had anticipated.”
Copies of the February issue of The Hotel Monthly may be purchased from Bart McHugh at the newsstand, located in the cafeteria of the University Dining Halls. They sell, envelope included, at twenty-five cents a copy.
618	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I
MONOGRAM MEN TO PRODUCE “ABSURDITIES” ON MARCH 26-27
Final dates for the production of the annual “Monogram Absurdities,” the show staged each year by the Monogram Club, have been settled, according to John J. Wallace, manager in charge of production. The presentation will take place on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, March 27 and 28, in Washington Hall.
With Francis J. Wilson, president of the club, Wallace plans a production that, for hilarious fun, clever skits, and skillful single acts will come up to the high standard that past Monogram Shows have set. Professor Frank W. Kelly of the School of Speech will direct the show and, with Professors Vincent Engels and Vincent Fagan, will assist in writing the book.
Among the features will be a winsome chorus consisting of football Captain-elect Fred Miller, Ike Voedisch (noted for his shapely limbs), Fritz Wilson, Billy Dew, Joe Morrissey, Jack Chevigny, Bill Cronin, and Jack Sheedy. They are at present drilling under the direction of Mary Grace Mohn, of The Mary Grace Mohn Studio, South Bend, and if advance notices may be relied upon, are capable of enthralling even the jaded freshmen of Howard Hall.
Special presentations will be given by such notables as Captain John “Clipper” Smith, Freddie Collins, Tim Moynihari, Art Dench-held, and Pat “Cheerleader” Canny. Anthony Kopecky, Glee Club tenor, will sing.
The “Monogram Absurdities” are presented early each spring by the members of the Monogram Club. For the past few years, the show has taken the form of a comic revue, with several humorous skits, individual dances, monologues, and a delectable ' chorus of football, baseball, and basketball players. Some of the stars of other years have been John McMullen, in the part of a heroic Indian squaw, “Bucky” Dahman as a ballet dancer of surprising grace and beauty, Bud Boeringer as the People’s Candidate for Mayor, and Senator John McManmon. Although all of these men are now graduated, Wallace promises that they have capable suc
cessors among the present members of the Monogram Club.
ROY SECOND IN INDIANA ORATORICAL CONTEST
James C. Roy, a junior in the college of Ai-ts and Letters, won second place in the Indiana Inter-Collegiate Oratorical Contest this year. The contest was held at Purdue University Friday, February 17.
For the third consecutive year, the contest was won by a representative of Wabash College. Roy placed second last year also.
Roy was awarded the Breen Medal for Oratory last year. He is a member of the varsity debating team, the Wranglers Club, the Scribblers, and the Fort Wayne club. He is also a member of the Dome staff.
UNIVERSITY AFLOAT DONATES VOLUMES TO LIBRARY
The University Library has received during the past week from the University Travel Association of New York two volumes recording the experiences of the students on the first college cruise around the world. The books are splendidly illustrated and contain many interesting pictures of important places visited on the cruise.
Mr. Paul R. Byrne, head librarian, has placed the books in circulation and they may be seen by application through the usual method.
The College cruise is, in fact, a college with classrooms, assembly halls, gymnasium, swimming pools, dining halls, and dormitories all housed on an ocean liner, with the world as its campus. The faculty is composed of professors from the leading Universities of the United States, and the student body is limited to three hundred and seventy-five young men. The cruise is represented at Notre Dame by Harley L. McDevitt of Walsh hall.	’
Notre Dame was represented on the first College cruise by J. H. Van Devanter, Jr., who became prominent during the trip, b®' ing made business manager of the “Binnacle,” the University Afloat’s daily newspaper.
I


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
619
$	<• ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	4»	<•
MUSIC AND DRAMA .	<9>
$ $ <• ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <• <• <♦ <♦ <♦ ♦> <•
Tonight a dramatically resplendent week
draws to a climatic close when Otis Skinner and Mrs. Fiske appear at the Oliver Theatre
in the -highly successful revival of Shakespeare’s comedy “The Merry Wives of Windsor.” With two such established leaders of the American stage uniting to appear in a truly great production, theatregoers are given a distinguished association that has
not been matched since the alliance of Edwin Booth and Madame Modjeska, and for anyone to miss such an opportunity is losing a gem of the dramatic art.
A production of unusual interest will be offered to South Bend at the Oliver Theatre Tuesday, March 6. “The Beggar’s Opera,” a musical play which was first introduced to America in 1751, finds production here that evening as it makes its way to New York where it is scheduled for an extended engagement in the spring. The company is one which comes direct from London where it has had great success with the play. It is “The Beggar’s Opera” from which our modem musical comedy has developed, but the fact that this play by John Gay is the first of Its kind, in no way makes it an unfinished production. It is different, and such in itself is sufficient reason for seeing it.

Truly the coming week with its scheduled presentations for Washington Hall is one complete with interest. To say that the weekly meal of entertainment is being served in reverse order with the dessert first, perhaps, is not doing justice to the concert which is promised for next Friday evening, but surely Joseph Regan, who appears in re-ictal Monday night, can rightfully be considered as the cream of entertainment. This Popular Irish tenor, whom so many of us “aVe heard before, has an ingratiating man
ner of singing that wins his listeners with ease. With a voice that is soft to the point of mellowness, Mr. Regan sings those songs which suit him so well, and although as yet we have no assurance of his program, we are not far wrong in saying that those popular, but nevertheless, worthwhile songs which sparkle with the Irish lilt will be sung for us.
Then Wednesday evening the bank brings to reality that long promised concert for which the campus has been waiting, but we ' are promised a program which will pay us in full for the time spent in expectation. There have been many hard hours of work in the preparation of the program, and the. least that can be given in the way of appreciation is a large audience. Try to be there.
PHIDELAH RICE GIVES DRAMATIC READINGS
Last Monday and Tuesday evenings, Phi-delah Rice, the noted dramatic reader and Dean of the Leland Power’s School of Speech, presented Charles Dickens’ “Great Expectations” and Shakespeare’s “The Taming of the Shrew” in Washington Hall; the former being read Monday evening, and the latter the following night. To those who remember Mr. Rice from last year, when he gave his masterful reading of “Hamlet”, his brief return was almost the culmination of the campus concert season, while those who heard and saw him for the first time will anxiously await another opportunity to hear Mr. Rice in the future. The reading of "Great Expectations” was especially interesting, perhaps because Mr. Rice gave us both the modern and traditional endings, and like all of Mr. Rice’s readings, it was read to perfection. But somehow, when we recall Mr. Rice to our minds, we will not think of him in connection with his “Hamlet,” “Great Expectations,” or “The.Taming of the Shrew;” rather we will remember him as we saw him last year when he gave that touching but of verse by Richard Burton “If We Had the Time.” Those who listened to the reading of that short poem know that, if perfection can be reached in the dramatic art, they have witnessed it.
620
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
♦ OUR CONTRIBUTORS	♦
«j>	❖
When Cyril Mullen read his essay “Advanced Intolerance” before the Scribblers, a small storm of debate resulted. An essay of such original views will undoubtedly rouse Scholastic readers to challenge or approve it. On the point of its effective expression, however, there can be no disagreement; its sharp style is excellent.
“Commencement” is one of those thematic short stories that derive their quality not so much from the facts they give as from the atmosphere and mental changes they suggest. Its author, Basil G. Rauch, is.an A.B. freshman who made his first appearance in the Scholastic with the story “Of Historical Interest.”
The effective use of simple images in the simplest of rhythmical patterns is shown by Prospero Image in his “Zebras” with the inevitable air of modernity that always characterizes his verse.	—r.c.e.
• --------------
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS TO BE GAME PRESERVE
With the approval of the Rev. Father James A. Burns, C.S.C., Provincial, the coming of spring will see the opening of Notre Dame as a bird sanctuary. The original plans were drawn up by Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., rector of Brownson Hall and prominent ornithologist and D. K. Stephenson of the Stephenson Underwear Company of South Bend, owner of a sanctuary in Michigan.
' The school will have the distinction of being the first educational institution in the State of Indiana to take steps to protect migratory birds on a large scale and as the entire Notre Dame property is to be used, it will be one of the largest preserves in the mid-west.
NOTRE DAME IDEAL LOCATION
It has been shown that the gradual extinction of certain breeds of birds was due principally to the lack of protection afforded them, especially during their migration. As a result several states have seen fit to estab
lish preserves of ground where birds and other wild life might find refuge even during open season. The location and natural resources of Notre Dame make it an ideal place for the carrying out of such a plan and Brother Alphonsus has been working on the scheme for some time.
Having interested Mr. Stephenson in the idea the only thing left was to secure the cooperation of the Provincial and this came about last Friday when Father Bums heartily approved the plans.
With the break-up of the ice on St. Joseph lake, a flock of wild ducks, their wings clipped to prevent their flying away with the birds they attract, will be installed as the first decoy. Later on other species of birds such as geese, pheasants and smaller birds will be added to the permanent residents.
The entire school property consisting of some 160 acres will be included in the sanctuary and will be well posted to preclude any possibility of over-anxious hunters doing any harm to the feathered guests. Chief Kennedy of the Notre Dame police has promised hearty cooperation in this matter and trespassers, especially those carrying arms will be subject to severe penalties of fine and imprisonment.
In addition to being an excellent protection for the birds themselves during migration and mating season, it is pointed out by Brother Alphonsus that their presence will afford excellent opportunity for those interested to obtain first hand information concerning bird life and habits.
--------.5,-------
JOURNALISTS HEAR SPEAKERS
The members of the School of Journalism at the University the past two Tuesdays have listened to talks apropos of the editorial side of journalism, delivered by editor F. A. Miller and associate editor Cosgrove respectively of The South Bend Tribune. The talks were arranged by John M. Cooney, director of the School of .Journalism. Professor Cooney stated Tuesday that a series of talks, lasting until May, will be given every Tuesday at 12:30 p. m., in the Journalism room of Lemmonier Library by men prominent m the field of journalism.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
621
THE CAMPUS CLUBS
By John Bergan
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Connecticut Valley Club held its first meeting of the second semester, Sunday morning, February 26, at 10 o’clock in the south room of the Lemmonier library.
The first business brought before the meeting was the election of officers, who will serve for the remainder of the year. These include Thomas C. Shea, president; Willard F. Wagner, vice-president; Daniel D. Halpin, secretary, and John M. Ciance, treasurer. Following the election the new president, Thomas Shea, conducted the meeting, at which the new constitution was read.
Thirty-eight members were present at the meeting and from all indications the club has a very bright future in store for it if the present enthusiasm may be taken as a criterion.
Plans for a smoker, to be given in the near future, will be discussed at the next meeting, which will be held on Sunday, March 4th, at 10 o’clock in the Lemmonier library.
TRI-STATE CLUB
The regular monthly meeting of the Tri-State Club was held Monday evening, February 27, in the south room of the Lemmonier library. Joseph L. Apodaca, president of the club, conducted the meeting, at which plans were formulated for the club’:; banquet which will be held in South Bend within the next two weeks.
VILLAGERS CLUB
The regular monthly meeting of the Villagers club will be held Monday, March 5, at 6:30 P. M., in the Morningside Apartments, South Bend. All members of the club are urgently requested to be present as important matters concerning the activities of the club will be discussed.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB
The Grand Rapids club held its regular meeting Thursday evening at 7:45 in the south room of the Lemmonier library. Leo P. Walsh, president of the club, conducted the meeting.	,
The' chief business of the meeting were plans for the Easter Formal, which will be held in Grand Rapids on April 9. President Walsh appointed several committees, who will arrange for the affair.
DETROIT CLUB
The Detroit club held a banquet on Wednesday evening, Feb. 15, in the Turkish room of the Oliver hotel. The affair was very successful in every respect and significant of an assured and lively interest in the club’s activities. The Detroit club is becoming one of the most active of campus organizations.
Andrew Mulreaney and his Glee Club quartette rendered a few excellent selections which were well received. And the talks given by Professor Vincent Engels and Mr. John T. Griffin were interesting and informative.
The next meeting of the club will be held on Monday evening, March 5. Full attendance at this meeting is urgently requested.
THE SCRIBBLERS CLUB
The Scribblers club held their regular weekly meeting Thursday evening, February 23, in Hoynes hall at 8 P. M. Due to the absence of the club’s prexy, Walter Layne, Leo R. McIntyre condutced the meeting, at which business of the club was discussed. Richard Elpers, chairman of the poetry contest sponsored by the club, reported progress on the contest. Cyril Mullen read a paper which aroused much spirited discussion on the part of the members of the organization regarding intolerance of present day intellectuals.
CHICAGO CLUB
President Dick Halpin of the Chicago club has arranged a meeting for the club, to take place on next Thursday evening at 7:45, in the Lay Faculty dining room. A report on the banquet that was held early in February will be made, but the principle topic for the discussion of the members will be the Easter Formal. According to present arrangements, the Formal is to take place in either the Congress or Drake hotel on the night of Easter Monday. Details of time, music and favors will be settled at the coming meeting, which will- close with the serving of refreshments to the members.
ACADEMY MEETS
The regular meeting of the Academy of Science was held Monday evening, February 27, in Science hall. At this meeting two papers were read by senior and junior pre-medical members. In the first paper, Mr. Frank A. Hegarty discussed “Leprosy and its Treatment With Chaulmoogra Oil." The history, symptoms, and treatment of this dreaded malady were traced from ancient times down to the present. With the title, “Medicine as a Calling," for his well written paper, Mr. Joseph V. Sullivan portrayed in clear and precise pictures the life and work of an ideal medical practitioner in the present social and economical state.
At the next meeting scheduled for Monday, March 5 Mr. A. Lester Pierce, of the Department of Education, will demonstrate and discuss “Hypnotism.” This meeting will be restricted to members and guests, and the cards of the Academy will be re-quh'ed for admission.
There are seven persons at present in the University of Oregon Infirmary.
A fifty cent physical'examination a la Doc Powers, and pills taken by the bushel, would fix all that.
Bernice Palmer of the University of Southern California, in a column called Modern Delphi, tells of an incident that proves that there is an all inclusive brotherhood of students, and an equally all inclusive brotherhood of faculties.
.... “After three quarters of an hours waiting to get your credits” she relates with poignant realism, “the terse statement, .Tm sorry, but you owe seven cents at the library.’ ”	‘
Educational methods employed by the Ladies at the University of Minnesota: “Coeds at the University of Minnesota find that the easiest way to get through college is to work the profs—not to work at their subjects. Statistics show that of those who graduate under the present system, a girl who measures intellectually 25 on a ^scale of 100, has as good a chance of graduation as a man with a mental ability of 35.”
■	—«—
The University Daily Kansan in a subhead:
“Convicted Criminal Not Former Kansas Student.”
How strange.
—«—
I have always been inclined to think that St. Patrick was somewhat over-rated. Not satisfied with the man as an honest Saint who attempted to teach the Irish not to eat with their knives, people have insisted upon shrouding his memory with fables. One writer has him down as a snake charmer, another as a botanist with a penchant for shamrocks, and yet another as the man who discovered the value of bricks for munitional purposes. Now come the students at the
Utah Agricultural College with a new use 1 for tne venerable men. “March Seventeenth is red-letter day, or rather, green ribbon day, for the local members of the American Association of Engineers,” Student Life bubbles.
“They are planning a full day of festivities J with the criterion: ‘St. Patrick was an En- s gineer.’ ”	‘
A lecturer at Rockhurst College states that great hearts, not great minds, have always ruled. Other than a few Saints, he gave no examples, but I augment the list with con-spicious examples of great secular hearts. Alexander the great, famous as a very jolly fellow, had as his principle of life: “Make the world just one big family, and you don’t need to fight.” Alexander was never known to consciously injure anyone. Cynics will say that that was because Alexander was always unconscious inasmuch as he was always drunk, but I pass over the opinion of cynics with a pained sniff.
Then there was Genghiz Kahn, another great heart. Although Genghiz used somewhat different methods from Alex, he had a most lovable nature. “Kill ’em, don’t let ’em suffer” was his charitable, though somewhat gruff way of putting it. And Napoleon, well, we all know Napoleon was forever distributing stick candy among the children of his enemies. These stories of the Little Corporal are the most touching of all, if you except the altrustic Americans who are now pointing wayward Nicaraguan feet upon the road to civilization, the bath tub, and the five and ten cent store.
’	—❖—	’
They have found something worthwhile to anticipate at Mount St. Joseph. From the Labaruni:
“The ceremony of placing a class picture is traditional at Mount St. Joseph College; the students of each succeeding class plan the event with loving interest, looking forward to a future date when their picture will be hung in Alumna corridor.”
। V \'
THE NOTRE DA^E SCHOLASTIC
623
===. 7HE EDITOR’S PAGE	—OOI
THE REASONS FOR IT ALL
There are five principle motives behind men who come to college: a desire for learning, a desire for association with kindred spirits, a desire for the sort of experience that college activities offer, a desire for athletic fame, and a desire for amusement. Of . these, the last two may be passed over as belonging to comparatively small classes. The first three are common among the body of the students.
There is probably no man at Notre Dame who is at present activated entirely by his enjoyment of associations, study, or activities. Practically everyone has all of these in varying degree, and practically everyone is faced with the recurrent question: how am I going to go to the show with Jim, attend the state club meeting, and study for tomorrow’s exam in Ethics ?
The simple answer is, of course, that it is impossible to do all three. Something is going to be slighted; more than likely it will be the examination. Over forty men have had the misfortune to be dropped because of their scholastic standing since the semester.
The trouble lies basically in the fact that few men, when they come to college, have any definite goal in view. They have a hazy idea of obtaining an education in the classrooms; they see the concrete possibility of making friends in the men around them; and, more or less mistily, they have ambitions toward club presidencies, editorships, and places on the student governing council.
Worse still, they never come to a definite conclusion during their undergraduate years. They sail along, trying to make three almost irreconcilable goals equally possible. The result is likely to be a sense of failure in every-|Wng as graduation approaches, a feeling that there has been no real justification for the four of five years supposedly spent in obtaining an education. The failure, commonly laid to laziness by persons uncon-hected with colleges, may be the result sim-Pty of a desire to do too many things and a
lack of discrimination.
The only possible remedy, in the opinion of one senior, is to be found when men begin coming to college with their minds decided upon whether they will engage in study, companionship, or extra-curricular activity. One should be chosen, and the other two subordinated in case of conflict.
Which to choose? The old idea that men attended colleges to learn has fallen upon evil days, but it still looks best to the Scholastic. A man should undertake a task with the view of obtaining some reward that other tasks would not give him. A man should go to college with the view of taking something from it that he can not get otherwise. It is possible to learn to run dances at an Elks club, to run club meetings at the K. of C., to run publications in a small-town newspaper office, but only in a college or university can a varied, deep knowledge be obtained under men trained to impart it.
THE BAND CONCERT
Next Wednesday evening the University Band is giving a concert in Washington Hall. Since early autumn, the Band as it is now organized has been a more close-knit, efficient body of students, and a more skillful well-drilled group of musicians than Notre Dame has had in other years. It has had favorable press notices in every city in which it has played. It has made the football and basketball games more colorful and more enjoyable.	.
Wednesday night, when its members make their official concert bow to the student-body, the latter should form a large and enthusiastic audience. For the program, Mr. Casa-santa has promised interestingly varied selections ; for the rendition, the past performances of the Band make a sufficiently good recommendation. The Band asks only that it be supported by the student-body to the extent that the time and effort it has spent deserves.	J,A M’

624
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
•«n<
HOBNAILS
NOKOMIS
Buried in shrubbage and tall, stately trees, Cooling the breath of- the fragrant night breeze, Softly reflecting the moon's waning gleam, There, quietly, runs the narrow stream.
Sun of the night, the wild Indian’s god, And measure for time, the moon, poured a flood, Glorious and silver, into the still night;
A flood of charming mystery light.
Primitive beauty, innocence divine,
Fingering the strands of a low hanging vine, An Indian maiden, tall, graceful and fair,
Stands alone on the mossy stair.
And through the tall trees that melodiozisly croon, She watches the slowly descending moon.
When lol as it dropped away from her sight, She too, is vanished in the night.
Who is this maiden, so graceful and fair, Who watches the moon from her mossy stair; Who can be seen only when it’s gleaming bright, But disappears with it in the night?
Speak, 0 tall trees, keep thy secret not from me; Who can this Indian maiden be?
Then speak the tall trees that musically croon, "Nokomis, daughter of the moon"
—T. J. RYAN.
SAME REASON AS BREAKFAST EGGS EVERY MORNING EXCEPT FRIDAY
Dear Al: Will you please tell me just why it is that the bells for rising always ring and always ring so loudly, and why it is that the bells in Science Hall seldom if ever ring, and why it is that if they do ring they can scarcely be heard?
—A SOPHOMORITIC SOPHOMORE.
CHEAP AT HALF THE PRICE*
’Allo Al (As the French honey at the Palace the other week would have it): Can the Hobnails Happy , Hearts Headquarters help me out? You see my intentions are most distressingly good—all I demand is an income of about six thousand a year, a car, a chauffeur, and a valet. Grant me these along with a wife and I .shall be most amazingly faithful. But somehow or other my fine qualities go unappreciated (I do not wear red ties, nor do I part my hair in
the middle) or the ladies of my acquaintance unfortunately shy. Here I stand, a little under feet, intellectual, very, very handsome, but poverished, disposition delightful, and going to
are six im-the
highest bidder. South Bend girls need not apply.
See what you can do, will you Al, for the nights in Sherwood are getting cold, and free lunches are barred at the tavern. Success to the HHHH.
—THE IMPOVERISHED POACHER.
“WHERE NATURE TEEMS, WHERE FOOT-'S BALL TEAMS"
Dear Dale: Saw Enej Le Ref counting the strings 3 in the tassel of his cap in the w. k. cap-and-combina- ® tion, Washington’s birthday. Some people have a.<l lot of curiosity. Oh yes, me too; for I asked “Howi many?” and he told me, so then I was--- What,! JI you too? Why he said “Two forty-two.” Curiously,.7^
—THE SENTIMENTAL PUP.
SIX FEET FOUR
Beneath a peanut tree
On Thracian hills of yore I met a fair and lovely wench A languid belle of six feet four.
A scented wreath of garlic
Bedecked her pretty hair, Concealing eyes that smarted not; Indeed she was a beauty rare.
A struck with love was I
And rightly passioned too;
Her beauty smote me to my knees From whence I wobbly ’gan to woo.
And woo therewith I did	>
And won therewith was she;
But through my cooling passion saw That she was much to tall for me.
Full six feet four was she, And I but four and three, And when I would a kiss bestow I’d always have to climb a tree.
And now a son have we
Who like his mother tall
The ceiling bumps in every room And knocks the plaster from the wall.
I dearly love them both,
But yet 'twill ever be, Although a father proud am 1 I’m still the baby of the three.	—N. loti.
"’S





A Leap Year nymph, who signs herself “Lizzie ..s Ford" (one of the Lizzies that Henry made ladies’^ out of?) asks the Hobnails Happy Hearts Headquar- || ters how to know a good man when she sees one. . g Well, Lizzie, in “Merry Wives of Windsor” tonight, yg there’ll be a Mrs. Ford (no relation to the Detroit Fords, Liz) who knows a good man when she sees one, and she lays it on thus: “You are a gentle-man of excellent breeding, authentic in your place: and person, generally allowed for your many war- ■ like, court-like and learned preparations.” Don’t S know what you make of that! but Honi soit qui 7® mat y pence, and you gotta admit we know our ,,‘g Shakespeare. Hey! Hey!	—allAN-a-dale.	q
■■5
1
Advance Intolerance
The Narrowness of the Broad-minded
CYRIL J. MULLEN
FOR historical reasons the word “intolerance” usually suggests religious fanaticism. To some it means roast young Catholic; to others fried Protestant; it depends on which side of the fence one’s ancestors happened to be. Perhaps that accounts for the modern tendency to affect a sniff of disdain at even a suggestion of the word intolerance—we are all very proud of our brand new and new-brand civilization. But to some extent, there are good reasons for such sniffishness. Except for the annual threat of the removal of the Vatican to the White House, and the occasional reappearance of pajama crusaders and night-shirt messiahs, as best exemplified by the Idan, religious knifings have, of late, been few. Narrowness, we are told by learned contemporaries, is in the field of Christian endeavor almost a thing of the past. In fact, we are now confronted with an opposite, somewhat ludicrous, but entirely harmless extreme. Nothing is more amazing today than the spectacle of our right-minded brethren attempting to have a turn at all religious sects; either by the method of trial and error—hopping joyously from one to another—or by the more rapid method of embracing them all -at once. And when this fails to satisfy inner urgings, they have the alternative of organizing their own group, building up their own religion, and after the democratic fashion of the day, ratifying or rejecting the Ten Commandments by a popular vote. But to get back to intolerance.
The same learned contemporaries continue to say that intellectual intolerance, although More common than the religious variety, is confined only to the very lowest and undeveloped classes; that is Kansas Farmers, die
hard Victorians, and the business class vaguely classified as Babbitts. The peasantry outside of America are not included on this list. The reason for this consistent omission have never been explicitly stated but 1 infer, from various writings that there are certain conditions that have lifted the man with the hoe immeasurably above the man with the tractor and the man with the Ford. Loading the evidence is the undisputed fact that Europe is Europe and anything that comes from the venerable continent is superior, whether it be peasants, automobiles of an American pattern, or styles in lingerie. Then again, there are the innumerable French and Russian novels proving that the peasant is indeed a very intellectual fellow; he has, presumably a special culture contracted from his dealings in fertilizers, thatched roofs and cattle, which undoubtedly gives him an understanding of the cosmos, I have observed in my own experience that this type of intelligence reaches its highest form in the Irishman’s comprehension of the internal mechanism of the banshee.
Far be it from me to attempt to defend certain addle-brained Americans who tenaciously cling to the only one or two ideas that come within their sphere. There Is no purpose, however, in downing them. The first upward step of those aspiring to the once-thin ranks of the intelligensia, is to make strange noises of derision whenever the complacent masses are mentioned. Consequently the-oral and -written yappings of the young inteJHgents are voluminous enough, They have no need of encouragement, I suspect that fifteen per cent of the written matter on the subject represents original thought, and the rest are simply enthusiastic
626	T H E NOTRE
copiers prancing about in modified head-dress. And it is in these yappings that we encounter, another type of intolerance; one not often mentioned by learned contemporaries. It might tentatively be called the intolerance of the new intellectual. .
It all goes back, I suppose, to the unacknowledged but practically accepted doctrine that everyone is a little queer but thee and me. That may not be doing it justice. To judge by their action, the Dogmatic Dozen, alias the Passionate Few, feel somewhat like this: no one exists but thee and me —or if others do exist, they shouldn’t be allowed to. I think that is stating the case without exaggeration. There could hardly be a class, however good in their motives or accomplishments, who show so little sympathy or understanding with any ideas but their own. “Pooh, pooh, there aren’t any ideas, but their own.” Their attitude toward business, except of course when business is necessary to get their prolific brain children before the public, is characteristic. Most of the “Dozen” know no more about things industrial or commercial, than shop-keepers, capitalists, and executives know about art. And no matter how superior art is to business in the various forms, the latter could exist without the former, but the former could not exist without the latter. The intellectuals and their apprentise, have little sense of proportion, and no sense of humor—• unless mirthless cackles for,those who disagree with them may be termed humor. No one has ever heard an artist of the new
DAME SCHOLASTIC daub and splash school, or a writer f meaningless murmurings, laugh, chuckle eleven grin at his own work. Any available ' laughter is tenderly preserved for those outside the brand new and new-brand civilization, those who do not splash incomprehensible spiritual out-pourings upon canvas" and those who- do not write with the same amount of incoherence as themselves.
There is no question of comparing the newer techniques with the old. That is a matter of individual opinion. To say, however, that true art, true poetry, or true music sprang up between 1890 and 1910; that everything before is negligible, is to say that everything beautiful in the world was born with the moderns, and’that a knowledge of beauty is under the control of a very exclusive monopoly controlled by a select and God-gifted board of directors.
The interpretation of beauty is not merely a matter of startling technique. Neither is the interpretation of ideas, beautiful or otherwise. The fact that a painting is done in a style that is new; that it has all the earmarks of modernism; or that it threatens the sanity of the observer, does not necessarily. make it art. Art, that is so old, does not belong exclusively to a movement that is so young. If the moderns say, as many of them seem to say, that here is something extremely different, therefore something very modern, therefore something very worthy, they are accomplishing nothing but puerile iconoclasm—a symptom ■ common among those not quite adult.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
627
Commencement
The End of a Beginning BASIL G. RAUCH
THE air was breathless. The sun shone down fiercely, flecking the floor of the quadrangle with gold and bluish-green splotches of light and shade.
David studied the little lozenge of light which rested on the back of his right hand. He moved his hand slightly, just lifting his thumb and first finger from his black-covered knee. A ray of the sun smashed itself on the corner of his class ring and scintillated like molten gold.
For a moment the orator’s voice intruded upon David’s mind. He caught a sentence from the tide and flow of sound. “In the maelstrom of prejudice and avarice of the world, these young men will soon find themselves looked up to as the defenders of a Faith whose first tenet is love for God and Man.” David wondered how many of his classmates would ever deserve the title, “Defensor Fidei.” He thought of Mr. Kemple, a real-estate dealer at home. Every Sunday morning Mr. Kemple sat in a front pew in the dark cathedral, a picture of straight-laced righteousness. But on week-days Mr. Kemple bought up old shacks from owners who were about to wreck them, then rented them to factory workers. “He gets as much rent as the law allows—and he’s got the law ‘oiled’,” he remembered hearing his father remark.
By shifting his eyes without moving his head, David could see the two ends of the semi-circular rows of black-robed students. Out of the corners of his eyes he saw the ■ files of taseled “mortar-boards,” under each one a young, clean-shaven, face—faces that were set, faces that tried to look dignified, aware.
David turned his glance to the speaker. , The surging voice was stilled for a moment, . while its owner looked at a little paper in the palm of his hand. His somber morning’ , coat fell from his shoulders without a wrin-hie. Success was the connotation of his whole appearance. His easy movements, as
he lifted his head and again addressed the
audience, signified satisfaction, principally with himself. David felt a sudden and unreasonable dislike for him.
Looking for something new with which to distract himself, David turned his attention-to the throng of people in the audience. It was a sea of faces and brightly-colored dresses. He concentrated his gaze, studied each face. Finally his eyes came to rest upon his mother, who was sitting upright beside his father, her calm hands in her lap. She smiled to him, and nodded her head slightly, making her lazy ear-rings dance .in protest.	■
David watched the heat-waves rise from the boiling pavement that led to the city. His thoughts scampered away—away—to rushing rivers, frozen mountain-tops. He closed his eyes and imagined himself looking down on the scene around him from one of the tree-tops above his head. For a moment he visualized the peaceful, yet animated, scene—the shifting and colorful audience, the rows of cowled graduates, between the two groups the Baccalaureate orator, gesturing easily, and the group of University officials, sitting austerely behind a table piled high with white cylinders of parchment. Over it all was the beating sun, pouring heat through the odd-shaped crevices between the tree-leaves.
Opening his eyes, David was back in his seat again. He moved his left fore-arm through the folds of his sleeve until the face of the watch on his wrist peered up at him. It was twenty minutes to ten. In twenty minutes this speech, the last, would be over. In a few fleeting moments the President of the University would call his name, add “maxima cum laude,” and he, David, would take the roll of paper with a mumbled word of thanks. And his mother would nod her head proudly, making her ear-rings dance.
For four years David, had pictured that scene. Particularly had he pictured the proud
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
628 nod of his mother at the phrase, “maxima cum laude.” The picture of that nod had kept him at his desk while his room-mate philandered in the city; it had kept him awake far into drab winter nights while his classmates slept in peaceful forgetfulness of eight o’clock quizzes.
But this day, this hour, even, was his day and hour of triumph. Football heroes and philanderers, mothers and professors, must today witness his achievement, and pay tribute to it.
For all of that, David felt no particular elation. He knew only a slight self-consciousness. His chest constricted as he pictured himself walking before that battery of eyes to the table for his degree. He wondered if his mortar-board was tilted at the proper angle, if his tie was straight. He envied the grace and the assurance of those of his classmates who had spent their few .years at college in cultivating the social amenities. True, almost without exception, those men were at the foot of the class intellectually. They would be among the last to receive their degrees. But of what value would that Latin appendage to his degree be when he took his place in the world, the world outside this cloistered world of dusty professors and dustier books?
Anothei’ fragment of one of the speaker’s flood of sentences caught David’s attention. “Some will take the priest’s habit, some will plead, some will wield the surgeon’s instruments, some will return to the classroom, this time to face the students . . . .” David fell to wondering what occupation would claim him. To enter his father’s factory would be the .easiest course. There he would be sure of promotion, sure of a tolerably care-free, if monotonous, life, In time he would earn a measure of success and would become the counterpart of this eminently successful and eminently uninteresting speaker before him. But if this were to be his career, again, of what value was his. Bachelor of Arts degree, and especially, the “maxima cum laude” attached to it? He saw the degree framed and hung in the petty factory department he would govern, to awe the foreigners who would be his employees. He was tempted to laugh.
After his brilliant record in college he should, by the eternal fitness of things, pursue some learned vocation, a vocation on a higher intellectual plane than that of boss over a gang of “hunkies”. He pictured his name emblazoned on Broadway beneath the title of a great play—his brain-child. He saw it again, now beneath the title' of a novel, a novel that would live long after his death .... ’
The Baccalaureate Address was over. There was a light spatter of hand-clapping from the audience that sounded singularly flat and out of place. The President rose from his place and adjusted his pince-nez spectacles.
David’s was the second name called. He felt strange sensations as he crossed the intervening space before the President. His hands trembled, his throat suddenly became as dry as a file. Making a gargantuan effort, he controlled himself sufficiently to take his degree from the President’s hand. Afterward he remembered the beaming smile on the President’s face—a smile that seemed so wide as to be almost grotesque.
He walked quickly back to his seat. Once there, and with some sense of composure returning to him, the panicky fear in his breast died down. He sought his mother's face in the still-clapping audience. She was dabbing at her eyes with a pitifully inadequate handkerchief. She was smiling, how-even. His father began to applaud; then, with a little start, he let his hands fall into his lap again. He looked around at his neighbors self-consciously, evidently decided they had no way of knowing- he was David’s father, and began to applaud again, this time vociferously.
• ••• ••••*
Now they were driving homeward. Con- -■ versation in the speeding car lagged, as father, mother and son each ruminated over j the events of the day. David swung the car around a sharp turn, smoothly straightened it again, and settled down in his seat for the long straight-a-way that lay before them.
The blistering day had at last given way | to cool twilight. The car was hurtling over the road toward a red flare in the western J sky that marked the lower sun. Quick
,.Iu

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
629
night was already beginning to shroud the barren landscape. On either side of the road the country was so equally monotonous and bleak that the two sides might have been . exchanged without any notable change in the ’ prospect.
David’s father lit a cigar, studied the glow . at its end for a moment.
. .• “Well, son, now that it’s all over, what do.you intend to do?”
“I hardly know, dad,” David answered.
’ “I’ve got a place for you at the shop. I’d like to have you take it. I’m not so young any more, you know. Department foreman. Jf you make good you can count on a promotion in a couple years."
David did,not reply.
“What do you say, son?”
“I guess it’ll be all right. And—thanks.”
The car swerved around a corner. David’s degree, lying in state on the back seat, rolled -sideways and fell to the floor. For'several	...
miles it lay there, rolling back and forth, in-	'
effectually. Finally David’s mother spied it and enthroned it upon her lap. “I’ll have it . framed for David’s birthday,” she thought.
They were nearing Gary now. Here and there grimy smokestacks belched fire from. , ■ their flaming stomachs. The taint of the steel-mills hung like a pall over the wasted ^country.	,
David noticed little flakes of soot settling on his hands. He turned up the window by his side, but it was no use; the persistent soot seeped in until his hands took on a sinister, grayish-black, cast.	.

Zebras
My days and nights like zebras pass Before a dim distorted glass
That seeks to catch the striped file And hold them there a little while.
They never run or jump or leap But move as steadily as sheep.
Yet in them there must always be An element of oddity.
As from far lands they come and go,— Dim Africa or Mexico.
Sometimes I think that they will sing, Or do some strange exotic thing.
Or bring upon their slender backs Some loveliness this la/nd so lacks.
But always with impersonal eyes They move beneath the empty skies.
And with a slow unbroken tread, (So curiously garmented,) Monotonously mark the beat Of Time beneath their tiny feet.
__PROSPERO IMAGE,

630	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Trackmen Humble Wisconsin, Big Ten Champion, 48 2-3 To 36 1-3
“All things come to those who wait.” The Notre Dame trackmen waited four years to achieve a long-delayed and much-coveted triumph over the Wisconsin cinder’ artists in dual track competition. That this wait was not in vain, however, is attested by the brilliant victory Coach Nicholson’s crew scored over Coach Jones’ 1927 Big Ten championship aggregation last Saturday after
noon in their home gym. Notre Dame won the meet 48 2-3 to 36 1-3.
As the score indicates, the Madisonites proved very unwilling victims to the matinee sacrificial track activities and extended their hosts to the limit before they would admit defeat. While no exceptional times were recorded, the performances in every event were meritorious nevertheless. Notre Dame outclassed Wisconsin as far as the few field events went and the Cardinals just about broke even with their hosts in regards to the track numbers. In fact, it was this superiority in the field program in which the Blue and Gold performers captured first place in each of the three events, that supplied the home team with a sufficient margin to insure victory.
Perhaps the outstanding bits of action during the engagement were the performance of Elder in the sixty-yard dash; Captain Griffin, in the sixty-yard high hurdles; Arae, of Wisconsin, in the half-mile run and Damsey, of the Badgers, in the quartermile affair.
ELDER AGAIN TIES WORLD RECORD
Elder came through with his customary brilliance, in again racing the sixty yards in the world record-equalling time of 6 and 1-5
seconds. Captain Griffin scintillated when he took the sixty yard timbers in splendid fashion in exactly 8 seconds flat. The Notre Dame leader was also high-point scorer of the meet with 6 and 1-3 tallies, a tie for second in the high jump earning his other point and a third. Arne of the Madison team, turned in a fine account of himself with a sparkling victory in the two-mile run, and Ramsey, his teammate, won a closely contested quarter in thrilling fashion.
Notre Dame opened the meet auspiciously when Johnston of the Blue and Gold raised himself 12 feet over the bar in the pole vault,
thereby defeating Bov, of Notre Dame who finished second, • and Lemmer of Wisconsin who placed third.
Elder then proceeded to bring the fans to their feet with a flashy victory in the sixtyyard sprint. The Kentuckian was pressed closely all the way by Larson, of the Madisonites, and Boagne of the home team who finished second and third respectively.
Bill Brown added another five points to the rising Notre Dame point total when he breasted the tape ahead of Captain Petaja and Thompson of Wisconsin in the mile run. The Badgers extended the Blue and Gold distance ace the whole route, but Brown’s reserve strength carried him to victory in the good time of 4 minutes 28 and 4-5 seconds.
RAMSEY CAPTURES THRILLING 440
Ramsey, of the guests, and McGauley and Kelly of Notre Dame, staged a pretty race in the 440 yard affair with the Badgers proving the ultimate victor in 53 and 4-5 seconds. McGauley got off to a good start and led until the last few yards, when Ramsely’s desperate sprint gave him a yard advantage over his flying opponent, as the finish was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
reached. Kelly was a few feet behind his teammate for third honors.
Captain Griffin swept through all opposition to a beautiful victory in the 60 yard high hurdles. The Notre Dame leader, in spite of the determined running of three Badgers in the final heat, won by over a yard. Pahlmeyer and Thompson, Wisconsin stars, trailed Griffin in the order named.
The half-mile event was a thriller from beginning to end. The lead alternated throughout the entire run, until Arne of the visitors stepped out in the last thirty yards orso to nose out Abbott, Notre Dame’s star, in 2 minutes and 4-5 seconds. Wetzel of the Cardinals was third.
The two-mile run was also highly productive of some splendid running. Bullamore of Wisconsin and John Brown and Vaichulis of the hosts wages a great duel the major portion of the grind until the reserve power of the Badger enabled him to capture the initial honors over his stout-hearted rivals. Bulla-more’s winning time was 9 minutes and 50 seconds.
REPETTI AND WELCHONS WIN
Repetti, of the home clan returned to his winning ways by tossing the iron ball 42 feet 9 and 1-4 inches in the shot put. His effort overshadowed the attempts of Shoemaker of Wisconsin and' McSweeney of Notre Dame by over a foot. The Badger took second and McSweeney third.
Welchons turned in a neat performance in the high jump, being the only performer who was able to negotiate 6 feet. Captain Griffin, Konop of the Blue and Gold, and Pahlmeyer of the Madison aggregation tried valiantly but had to be content with a threecornered tie for second honors.
The Badgers retrieved some of their lost prestige in the mile relay which closed the meet. McKinney, Kelly, and McGauley, of Notre Dame running in the order named, more than held their own with Francis, Levy, and Kanaly of Wisconsin. Lahey, Blue and Gold anchor man tried hard to hold a slim lead the last part of the race, but weakened slightly and Ramsey, fourth man for the Cardinals, gradually forged ahead to defeat Lahey by several yards. .
Summaries:
Pole Vault—Won by Johnston, Notre Dame; Bov, Notre Dame, second; Lemmer, Wisconsin, third. Height, 12 feet.
60 Yard Dash-—Won by Elder, Notre Dame; Larson, Wisconsin, second; Boagne, Notre Dame, third. Time, :06 1-5.
One Mile Run—Won by W. Brown, Notre Dame; Capt. Petaja, Wisconsin, second; Thompson, Wisconsin, third. Time, 4:28 4-5.
High Jump—Won by Welchons, Notre Dame; Konop, and Capt. Griffin, Notre Dame, and Pahlmeyer, Wisconsin, tied for second. Height, 6 feet.
440 Dash—Won by Ramsey, Wisconsin; McGau-ley, Notre Dame, second; Kelly, Notre Dame, third. Time, :53 4-5.
60 Yard High Hurdles—Won by Capt. Griffin, Notre Dame; Pahlmeyer, Wisconsin, second; Thompson, Wisconsin, third. Timfe, :08.
880 Yard Run—Won by Arne, Wisconsin; Abbott, Notre Dame, second; Wetzel, Wisconsin, third. Time, 2:00 4-5.	.
Shot Put—Won by Repetti, Notre Dame. Shoemaker, Wisconsin, second; McSweeney, Notre Dame, third. Distance, 42 feet, 9 1-4 inches.
Two Mile Run—Won by Bullamore, Wisconsin; J. Brown, Notre Dame, second; Vaichulis, Notre Dame, third. Time, 9:50.	' ,
One Mile Relay—Won by Wisconsin (Francis, Levy, Kanaly, Ramsey). Time, 3:33. ■ ■ ” " _
KEOGANITES RING UP TWO MORE VICTORIES ‘
MARQUETTE BEATEN IN MILWAUKEE
Showing no ill effects from the gruelling' Pittsburgh battle, Notre Dame’s Fighting basketeers let Marquette down with four field goals in a 21-13 setback in the Hilltopper’s gym Thursday evening, February 23. The game was featured by the defensive work of both teams.	>
The Keoganites got off to an early lead that was never headed. Ed Smith opened the scoring with a pair of charity heaves and followed them a moment later with a thrilling long shot. Donovan’s short toss and free throw, and Crowe’s one-pointer gave the Gold and Blue an 8-2 advantage at the middle of the first period. After calling time out the Milwaukee sharpshooters came back with a bang and O’Donnell’s two long shots and a short one by Captain Razner, interspersed with free throws, had narrowed the Notre Dame margin to 14-11 at the half.
632
After Hamilton’s long ringer at the beginning of the second period, neither team, was able to score for eleven minutes. The Irish defense was impregnable during this half, the Murray men being held to a single basket, a long one by O'Donnell from past the middle of the floor. Crowe’s toss from the 15-foot strip and two-pointers by Newbold and Donovan completed the scoring. Incidentally, by going through the entire second half without suffering a penalty, the Notre Dame team set a record that is seldom equalled.
‘ Although the work of the Hoosier team as a whole was so good that it is impossible to pick an individual star, the great defensive •
playing of Donovan and Smith is worthy of mention.
O’Donnell was the high light for the home talent.
Line-up and summary:
Marquette (13)	Notre Dame (21)
B. F. P.	. B. F. P.
O’Donnell, f___3	3	1	Crowe, f________1	3	1
Razner, f______1	0	1	Newbold, f______1	0	0
Buggle, f______0	0	1	Jachym, f_______0	0	0
Zummach, f_____0	0	0	McCarthy, f____0	0	0
Andrews, c_____0	2	3	Hamilton, c_____2	1	3 ’
Gebert, c______0	0	0	Donovan, g______2	1	1
Padden, g______0	0	3	Smith, g________1	2	2
Schumacher, g" _0 0 2	----i —
--------Totals___________7 7 7
Totals ________4 5 111
Referee—Kearns, DePaul. Umpire—Schommer, Chicago. Free throws attempted—Notre Dame, 14; Marquette, 13.
DRAKE FALLS BEFORE SECOND HALF ATTACK
After taking twenty minutes to feel out the Drake defense, Notre Dame rode roughshod over the white clad boys from Des Moines in a thrilling second half attack on the local court last Saturday evening. The 33-12 score does not indicate the closeness of the game which was hard fought throughout and was anything but a set-up for the Keo-ganites.
Unable to penetrate the Drake zone defense during the first half, the Irish employed the delayed offense, better known as stalling, to draw out the forwards. Zvacek’s two-pointer opened the scoring and gave his team a lead that was not overcome until shortly before the half ended. This period,
enlivened by the stellar shooting of Captain Joe jachym who garnered three field goals, ended with the Irish holding a slim 8-6 advantage.
After the intermission an inspired Notre Dame five overwhelmed the Beuchjer protegees with as dazzling an attack as has been seen on the local hardwood this season. Frank Crowe’s basket on the tip-off play was closely followed by a ringer by Hamilton and another by the Lafayette flash. From then on a steady barrage of shots bombarded the Drake hoop. The Keogan short pass attack worked to perfection and the Celtic sharpshooters kept the scoreboard boys busy throughout the half.
HAMILTON’S AND CROWE’S SHARPSHOOTING FEATURES
Hamilton was all over the court. His three baskets, added to a foul toss from the opening period, tied him with Crowe for scoring honors. Smith and Donovan exhibited their usual high class brand of guarding to hold the lowans to a quartet of field goals. The reserves, who finished the game for the Irish, kept up the work started by the regulars.	.
Big Tim Moynihan again showed the fans that he can play more than one position and play them well. After going in at center he sank a beautiful side shot and a free throw in quick succession, and, at Smith’s exit, held down the back guard berth in big league style.	•
Zvacek, fleet-footed left forward, played a good floor game and turned in four points for the visitors.
Line-up and summary:
Notre Dame (33)	Drake (12)
B. F. P. .	B. F. P.
Crowe, rf_______2	3	1	Bowes, rf------1	1	1
McCarthy, rf___2	0	2	Meyers, rf-----0	0	2
Jachym, If_____3	0	0	Zvacek, If-----2	0	1
Newbold, If_____1	2	0	Parisho, c-----0	1	I
Hamilton, c_____3	1	1	Barnens, rg---1	0	3
Moynihan, c, rg_l	1	1	Simpson, 1g---0	2	2
Vogelwede, c___0 10	—• — —
Donovan, 1g____0 0 1 . Totals__________—4 4 10
Bray, 1g________0	0	0
Smith, rg_______0	1	1
Totals_________12 9 7
Officials: Refree—Lowman, Wisconsin. Umpire
Nohr, Wisconsin.	B..A. W.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CENTRAL INTERCOLLEGIATE MEET TOMORROW
Notre Dame will be the scene of the second annual Central Inter-Collegiate Indoor Track and Field Meet which will be held tomorrow in the Blue and Gold gymnasium. Approximately 125 trackmen representing more than a score of colleges throughout this section of the country will display their wares, and many new records are expected to be made by perhaps the cream of MidWest track talent outside of the Big Ten.
Thirteen events, including the one mile and two mile relays are on the day’s card. The preliminaries will be run off in the morning and the finals in the afternoon. In all events, first place will count five points; second place, three; third place, two; and fourth place, one.
Some of the officials will be Coach Knute K. Rockne, honorary referee; James • D. Lightbody, starter; John Behr, head judge; C. Sidebotham, clerk of course for field events; and Ted J. Canty, announcer.
A large bronze statue will be given to the winning team. The victorious relay quartets will receive handsome plaques, while the individual winners will be rewarded with gold, silver and bronze medals.
Notre Dame it will be recalled won the first Central Intercollegiate Indoor Track and Field Meet held here last year, but the Blue and Gold performers will have to go a long way this Saturday in order to repeat, as some of the outstanding track athletes in the country will be competing against them.
Michigan State, Ohio Wesleyan, and Marquette boast cinder aggregations which are sure to be strong obstacles to a repetition of Notre Dame’s last year’s success. The Spartans have Harold McAtee, Michigan A.A.U. champion pole vaulter, who has cleared thirteen feet, wearing the Michigan State colors in that event, and in addition, in the shot put such veterans as Paul Smith, captain of the football team, and Tillotson, both of whom toss the shot better than forty feet. Captain Wylie, Wilmarth, Lang, Henson, and Kroll , are also certain to extend theii' opponents in the distance runs.
. Ohio Wesleyan has also entered its cham
633
pion pole vaulter, Ellis Kerr, Buckeye A.A. record holder in that event. Dwight Kane, Ohio Conference champ who captured the 65 yard low hurdles and placed third in the 60 yard high hurdles last year, will be out again to repeat. Other likely-looking point winners on the Bishops’ squad, are Pettibone in the dashes, and Slovosky in the quarter.
The Marquette delegation to the meet will include, Pflieger, who is an able successor to the graduated Shimek in the mile and two mile events; Gitter, a high-jumper who shows much promise; Glaser, who ranks with the premier pole vaulters in the Middle West; Thompson, Loftus, and Joe Heineman in the sprints and hurdles; and numerous other potential point-winners.
The rest of the institutions participating in the meet will also be represented by trackmen who bid fair to make the competition as stiff as possible.	-
' Coach Nicholson has five or six veterans upon whom he is counting for points. They are: Captain Joe Griffin, who is unusually proficient in the hurdles and high jump; Jack Elder, who has twice tied the world’s record for the 60 yard dash in dual competition this season; Tom Bov, a pole vaulter who can clear over 12 feet 6 inches; the Brown brothers, Bill and John, stout-hearted distance runners who will afford splendid competition to all comers in the mile and two mile events; and other performers who should give a good account of themselves.
The following schools will have representatives in the meet: Michigan State, Butler, Detroit City College, Grinnell, Marquette, Ohio Wesleyan, Western State Normal, De-Pauw, Knox, Monmouth, Lombard, Haskell Institute, Michigan State Normal, Kansas, Drake, Kalamazoo, Iowa State, Coe, Carlton, and others.
--------*--------
SWIMMING TEAM DROPS THREE MEETS
Despite their improvement over early season form, and the fine performances of the green sophomores, the experience of the strong natatic aggregations encountered within the past two weeks forced the Gold and Blue swimmers to accept the short end
III
SHOWING AT
PARK CASTLE TAILORS • 1261-2 Washington Avenue SOUTH BEND
Monday and Tuesday March 12 and 13
Rep., MR “GIB” COLLINS
34.50 to 42.50
Tailored to your order
Nat LUXENBERG & Bro. 37 Union Square, New York , Between 16th & 17th Sts.
634	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the score in three tank meets. The Pittsburgh Panthers administered a 45-23 drubbing at the Engman Natatorium in South Bend, February 18, and the St. Paul Y.M. C.A. and the Minnesota splashers took the measure of the Notre Dame swimmers last week-end in their own tanks by 36-33, and 51-19 scores respectively. Some consolation may be derived from the fact that the Blue and Gold tankmen fought their hardest in each meet against three of the most powerful swimming teams in the country and forced their opponents to the very limit.
The veterans of the squad led the way in all the matches, Captain Brennan and Cronin capturing Notre Dame’s only first places in the Pitt meet, and Dignan and Reaume. together with Cronin again, doing the same at St. Paul. Captain Brennan was ineligible to compete in these last two attractions, but entered in exhibition events and individually scored the greatest number’ of points in both, although of course, they could not be counted in the Notre Dame score.
The sting of these three defeats was tempered by the vastly improved showing' of the sophomore material which formed the bulk of the team. Particularly noticeable were _______________ the fine performances of Sullivan in the 446 yard style and Reaume in the 200 yard breast stroke. Cassidy, likewise a stranger to varsity competition before this year, looked good in the 40 and 100 yard free style numbers. In fact, judging from the ability these men have displayed- so far, together with the other new men on the team, a little more seasoning is all that is necessary to make them into top-notch performers. J.H.z.
---------------
INTERHALL HEAVYWEIGHT BASKETBALL RESULTS
Freshmen 14; Badin 10
Freshman’s passing gave them the verdict in a hard fought game. Slattery starred for the winners and McCarthy for the Badin-ites.
Howard 2; Carroll 0
Carroll did not put in appearance and thereby forefeited to Howard.
Qiu, largest selling] quality pencil] in the world I
17 black degrees
3 copying At all dealers Buy a dozen
Superlative in quality, the world-famous
V’ENUS
PENCILS
give best service and longest wear.
Plain endr, per dor, $1.00
Rubberends.perdoz. 1.20
American Pencil Co., 215 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.
- , ^'""fVMQyEThinLead Colored Pencils in 12 cUore—$1.00 per dor.



the notbe DAME SCHOLASTIC
635
.fS^^



SO MANY SMOKERS HAVE
CHANGED TO CHESTERFIELD
We STATE it as our honest belief that the tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes are of finer quality and hence of better, taste than in any other cigarette at the price.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
”fe

and what’s more—.
THEY’RE MILD and yet THEY SATISFY!


636
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Sophomore 16; Off-Campus 14
Led by Duke the fast Sophomore quintet staged a last minute rally to take the decision. Sophomore had to come from behind to achieve the winning verdict. Walsh showed well for the losers.
Brownson 18; Walsh 14	,
In a day of hard-fought games this battle stood out prominently. The scoring power of the Arabs, combined with Stack’s stellar playing, proved too much for the Walsh performers toward the fag end of the conflict and they were forced to bow in defeat.
5
3
I .
J
HEAVYWEIGHT RESULTS
5
s
■I
3
i
i
SAWYER’S Geaulne Oiled
SLICKERS
•r« h Guaranteed ’Watertnoof
HM1AWIHVS0N riwra&l.__M1W

Howard 21; Carroll 12
With Helmuth and Knox showing the way, Howard downed the Main Building outfit in rather handy fashion. Carroll played its best basketball in the second half, but the Howard lead was too great to overcome.
Sophomore 21; Off-Campus 16
Medland’s twelve points gave a fair indication of the scoring power of the Pasteboard Palace quintet. The Off-Campus boys fought gamely but were unable to check the Sophomore attack.
Badin 22; Freshman 15
It remained for the last game of the afternoon to show what fight will do. Outscored and outplayed for three quarters, Badin came back strong in the fourth to smother the Yearlings under a barrage of field-goals to win decisively. Mock, as usual, stood out for the winners.	—J.H.Z.




SAWYERSSSLICRERS
5 I I J