NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JuxXE 9, 1888.
Vol. XXL
No. 38.
To Miss Eliza Allen Stai’r.
BY F. L. S.
“Come hither!” cried a father to his son:
“Take this; 'tis vours, and has been manv a rear, Although you knew it not”; and with a tear
• Of love and joy at a long task well done, He decked him with a jewel. So to-day My treasure is my own; and, unaware,. Has been my own, although Our Lord had care Of it for me, and there was none to say That if I would be patient He would send Aly treasure in the semblance of a friend!
Corpus Christi, ’SS.
The Universities of the Middle Ages.
BY SIMON J. CRAFT, ’88.
The great universities of the Middle Ages, are identified with one of the most interesting periods of history. The Middle Ages extend from the invasion of France by Clovis until the invasion of Naples by Charles VIII. They are known to many as the “dark ages,” or the ages of ignorance and barbarism. It is to incursions of the barbarians, by whom the Western Empire was totally destroyed in 476; to the colonization of Europe by countless hordes of savages; to the inroads of the Saracens, Normans, Danes, Huns, and finally to the civil wars which ensued after the death of Charlemagne, that we are to attribute the ignorance which prevailed during the subsequent ages. The barbarians appeared on all sides of the empire, like wild beasts attracted by the exhalation of a dead body; and at this very moment society found itself on the verge of a fearful catastrophe. Tbe greatest refinement had to contend with barbarian ferocity. Laws and customs could not withstand the
: attack. All the civilization and refinement acquired during the course of many ages was ruined. Everything is almost barren, and presents little but a catalogue of evil.
No one doubts the condition of Europe at this time. Religion, morality, public authority, laws, sciences, and arts sustained immense losses. The evils are so great and numerous that a remedy appears impossible. Knowledge, and virtue had no longer an asylum, when ignorance, corruption and barbarism rapidly extended their conquests; was it not a grand idea to erect schools of knowledge and virtue, where men destined one day to figure in the vortex of the world might come for instruction. “We begin in darkness and calamity, and though the shadows grow fainter as we advance; yet we are to break off our pursuit as the morning breathes upon us, and the twilight reddens into the lustre of dav.”
The Church through all these ages made a steady attempt to keep, up the taste for literature and learning, and this was accomplished bv having at her head such men as St. Isidore, the Archbishop of Seville; the Abbot St. Co-lumbinus; St. Aurelian, Bishop of Arles;. St. Augustine, the Apostle of England: St. Boniface of Germany; Bede, Cuthbert, Lamfranc, monks of Monte Cassino, and many others who form a generation of distinguished men. Without the existence of these men, without religious institutions, letters and sciences would not only have been lost sight of. but ignorance and barbarism would still prevail. Charlemagne established public schools in France, and invited strangers from countries where learning had not altogether been extinguished. Alenin, Clement, andTheobald came to France. Charles the Bold and Louis Debonair encouraged letters, and the schools of Lyons, Fulda, Gorbey, and. Rhems flourished in the ninth century.
606	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But it was impossible to promote learning in such a warlike state of society. Men could not settle down to the quiet pursuit of wisdom with a steady clash of arms on all sides. In the twelfth and following centuries, everything takes a new form, and assumes a character very different from that which I have just pointed out. In glancing over the pages of history during this epoch, we observe that, in spite of the intellectual rudeness which kept nations in abject silence, there was at the bottom of men’s minds an anxiety which deeply moved and agitated them. The times are ignorant; but it is an ignorance which is conscious of itself and which longs for knowledge. There is felt a want of harmony in the relations and institutions of society; this want is everywhere obvious, and everything indicates that this harmony is anxiously desired and sought for.
A formidable energy of mind, a great fund, of activity and enterprising spirit, a lively desire of independence, a thirst for knowledge; such are the trials which history exhibits among the different nations. Youths thirsting for knowledge crowded to the lectures of the famous . masters, from the most distant countries: Italians, Germans, English, Spanish and French are mingled and confounded around the chairs of Albert, Peter Lombard, and-St. Thomas Aquinas. The love of knowledge animates all; the longest journeys cannot stop them; the enthusiasm to hear these illustrious masters is carried to all the parts of the known world. It was during these centuries that a grander and greater ardor for intellectual pursuits began to show itself in Europe, and every kind of learning breaks out into a steady flame. Numbers flock to the academies and schools of philosophy. Soon the university of Paris sprang into fame. Abelard added much to its fame by his brilliant genius. “His life was the shipwreck of genius; and of genius, both the source of his own calamities and unserviceable to posterity.” The university of Paris was first chartered by Philip Augustus in 1199.. Oxford, supposed to have been founded by Alfred, was frequented under Edward the Confessor. Then for a century it is not mentioned, but in the reign*of Stephen Oxford is again known. -It may have been interrupted during the next century. In the reign ; of Henry II or Richard I it rose to prominence, and in 1201, it had three thousand scholars. - Charter, was first granted by Jolin. In the twelfth century the .revival of Roman Jurispru- ! dence brought a throng of students to Bologna.
. In 1158, Frederic Barbarossa permitted these -to' be tried in civil suits fby their own judges.
This immunity from ordinary and even church tribunals was coveted by other academies; John granted it to Oxford, and Philip Augustus to Paris. From this time began the golden age of universities. They were founded and framed by sovereigns and by Rome. Under Henry III Oxford had 30,000 scholars. At Bologna were 10,000, and at the death of Charles VII Paris had 25,000. In the thirteenth century others sprang up; Padua and Naples, under Frederic II; Toulouse and Montpelier, Cambridge and Salamanca, Orleans and Angers were incorporated in the same century. Prague, the earliest German university, was founded in 1350.
At these renowned institutions the flower and youth of every country met, and the reader is astonished with the number of students that resorted to these famous institutions for instruction. Here, in consequence, sprang up a system of religious and metaphysical philosophy, not belonging to any one nation, but common to Christendom, and under the inspection and guardianship of the Church, which was the soul of Christendom. The object of this philosophyin religion was to arrange, systematize and work out that vast fabric of doctrine which had come down to the Church from the early Fathers. It was on this ground that Peter Lombard and Albert the Great, that the angelic and seraphic doctors, and their inferior but still mighty fellowlaborers worked and aimed, the victories of which were greater “than Alexander’s feast of conquest, or Cmsar’s passion for rule.” Theirs was a noble aim; and the great workshops of this philosophy were at Taris, Naples and Oxford. The studies at these great centres were mainly the same. The Latin, as it was the language of the Church, became the language of all these renowned schools, which aimed at being in harmony with the Church. Grammar, logic, rhetoric, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy and music formed a groundwork of arts. The study of the Church’s canon law and the Roman civil law, made a faculty of jurisprudence. That of medicine was a third, and all these were viewed as the handmaid of theology, the cro.wn of all human knowledge, as uniting man with God. Thus we see that the universities, as they existed in the Middle Ages, were in harmony with the Church. They tended to efface nationalism in the greater part of Christendom. St. Thomas, the great angelic doctor, became, the common instructor of French and English, of Spaniard and Scandinavian. A.glorious result of the day, “ when Parthian’and MedeTand Elamite—strangers of Rome, Jews and Proselytes,Cretes and Arabians, heard the apostle speaking in their own tongue
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6o^
the wonderful words of God.” These exeat seats o
of learning were formed and flourished under the direction and care of the Church. “No person,” says Huber, “thought of denying the last and supreme authority concerning- the studies, belief, discipline and ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the universities. The only question was whether and how far these nearer steps in the hierarchy, the authority of the national Church, might be passed over, and the chair of Peter reached at once. Nor did the kings scruple to intercede with the popes in behalf of the universities, as often as they desired to obtain from them new papal privileges, or the papal confirmation of the old and new, papal and royal privileges.”
During all these centuries, from the rise of the universities to the change of religion, amid vast fluctuations in numbers, and with cycles of advance and decay in spirit, we find a system of study inseparably linked with that of the Church. Whether or not the universities were in favor with the laity as places of general education, they were throughout the nurseries of the Church, as is-well exemplified by the great men which they produced, namely Albertus Magnus, St. Thomas Aquinas, and Duns Scotus.
Albertus Magnus, illustrious by his descent from the Lords of Balstadt, and still more illustrious on account of his virtues and learning, was born at Loonigier in Suabia, in 1205, and at the age of sixteen entered the Order of St. Dominic. He at first succeeded so badly in his studies that he resolved to leave the Order. One night four matrons appeared and asked him why he wished to leave the monastery? He replied that he was ashamed of his ignorance; upon which one of the matrons, pointing to the Blessed Virgin, said: “ Behold the Mother of God and Queen of Heaven; recommend yourself to her, and she will obtain from her Divine Son what you desire.” He soon after eclipsed all his companions in knowledge of Sacred Scripture, theology and philosophy. He spent his life in teaching those branches with great renown at Cologne and Paris, with the exception of two years during which time he was Bishop of Ratisbon. He died on the 15th of November, 1280.
Among those who attended his lectures, both in Cologne and Paris, was St. Thomas Aquinas, who was born in 1227. He was the son of the count of that name, grand nephew of the Emperor Frederic I, and nearly related to Henry VI and Frederic II. Pie might, with equal justice, have been called the hero and angel of the universities of the Middle Ages. Placed by his father, in. 1332, when he was only five years of
age, under the care of the monks of St. Cassino where he imbibed that affection for the religious life which enabled him, in his pursuits to triumph over almost insurmountable difficulties, and that love of virtue which preserved his innocence in the midst of licentiousness. So rapid was his learning at this place that by the advice of the abbot, he was sent to the university of Naples, when only eleven years old. In this place St. Thomas studied rhetoric under Peter Martin, and philosophy under Peter of Ireland; in both sciences he made wonderful progress. The disorders into which he saw young men of the world fall at the university made him anxious to secure himself from temptation within the walls of a monastery; and he accordingly took the habit in the Dominican convent at Naples, in 1234, being then in his seventeenth year. The countess Theodora, his mother, made several attempts to have Thomas give up the religious life; but neither the entreaties and tears, nor the reproaches of his mother and sisters could shake his resolution. They tore his habit off his back and shut him up in a tower; but, he soon made his escape, with the assistance of his sister, and returned to resume his studies under Albertus Magnus at Cologne. He died on the 17th of March, in 1274, in the prime of manly life, being only forty-eight years of age. “It is but natural, it is but beautiful,” says his biographer, “that he, who in early boyhood had been stamped with the signet of St. Benedict should return to St. Benedict to die. He had gone forth to his work and to his laborer in the morning, and he returned home to his brethren in the evening-tide.” The works of St. Thomas "Were printed at Venice, in 1490, in nineteen folio volumes. The master body of all his works is called the Sumina.	!	• -r
Duns Scotus was a Franciscan Monk, and was their guide in all theological opinions. Fie was born in 1274, the year in which St. Bonaventure died. He was considered one of the most renowned schoolmen of his time; and his eulogist remarks that not only cities—as in the case of Homer—but that three nations contended for the honor of having his birth-place. He was much inferior to St. Thomas, whom it was his great ambition to rival, o	.
To these great men and their predecessors are we indebted for the preservation of the literary treasures of antiquity, and the revival of learning in Europe. The monks, in the darkest periods, spent a portion of their time in the study of sciences, and wrote upon mathematics. Their knowledge of arts is attested, not only by the glorious gothic churches and
6o8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
schools which they erected, but by their splendid illumined manuscripts, the colors of which are still unfaded after the lapse of a thousand years. But they must not be limited to mere copyists. Many of them advanced in sciences far beyond their times. They preserved and put in order the ancient manuscripts, thereby rendering eminent services to history by compiling chronicles, and by collecting contemporary history, which would have been lost without their assistance. As the monks preserved the fire of knowledge from being entirely extinguished by barbarism, the schoolmen sharpened the intellect and prepared it for triumph in every department of science. A short time after scholasticism made its appearance, celebrated schools were founded in many places, and soon after became universities. Scholasticism was the best means which could have been adopted to arouse all the energies of mind, and create a burning desire for knowledge, which has since so brightly and steadily illumined the world.
Silhouettes of Travel.
XIV.—Sax Francisco—(Continued).
“Why does not Father General come to sec us a nd encourage us by his kind words ? ‘ Hope that is deferred afflictcth the soul.’” This is the universal query, and this is the plaint of the good Sisters of Holy Cross from Laporte, Ind., to San Francisco, Cal. “ He has braved the perils of the deep half a hundred times, why will-hc not cross the broad plains and grand mountains where there is no danger to be encountered—to visit and console the far-off lambs of his flock? We cannot all be present al his Jubilee! As his loving children, we wish to offer our congratulations personally and receive his blessing. Ask him to come to the West, to behold the. wonders of nature, the miracles of grace. In Europe he has been saddened by the decay of faith visible in lands once truly Catholic. His soul has been harrowed bythe persecutions to which the Church has been subjected under infidel governments. Here he will.find everything to cheer him; in every town, in every village he can witness the rapid and healthy progrcss'of religion. He will receive a cacd millc failthc, not only from the Sisters of Holy Cross, but from the good Bishops of Salt Lake City and Sacramento, and from an bld alumnus of Notre Dame—the Archbishop of "San Francisco,—as.well as,.a hearty greeting from the clergy, both regular and secular, along the route.” :	:	■
I promised the Sisters that I would plead their
cause at Notre Dame during the celebration of his Golden Jubilee, beginning the 15th of August next. “But,” said I, “I fear that the Latter-Day-Saints, struck by his dignified carriage and venerable appearance, and hearing of his profound learning, great executive ability and deep piety will attempt to make him one of their “rulers in Israel” as they strove to proselyte Rev. Father Scanlan; perhaps they will try to install him in the high office of the First Presidency!” The Sisters of Holy Cross laughed my fears to scorn, and promised that they would be responsible for his salvation. The guarantee sufficed; my scruples of conscience vanished; I recommended them to say, in the meantime, a daily prayer to St. Viator, in order that this holy traveller would obtain for Father General a change of heart, and move him to direct his steps without delay to the Great West.
EA K LV M 1 SSI ONA R V WOR 1<.
The Golden Citv of the Pacific owes its origin to the Franciscan Friars. They were men of the same heroic mold as the Monks of the West, so highly eulogized by the great Montalembert. They attempted to carry out in the New World, on the shores of the Pacific, among the aboriginal tribes, the great work of Christian civilization which the latter had accomplished in the British Isles, and on the continent of Europe. And they would have succeeded in their undertaking, had not their efforts been thwarted by the tyranny and avarice of the Spanish and Mexican governments, as well as by the selfishness of the white men who coveted a share of the mission goods. As it is, they have left a half century’s imperishable record of the sub-limest charity and self-sacrifice, while rescuing, thousands of immortal souls from the darkness of paganism.	.
The brave sons of Loyola had begun the noble work on the.peninsula, or in Lower California, in Oct. 1697. . They had converted all the aborigines between Cape San Lucas and the mouth of the Colorado; they had founded the celebrated Pious Fund for the support of the missions, when, like a thunderbolt from a cloudless sky, the fatal decree of their suppression and banishment, blasting and blighting their work, was. read to them in Nov. 1767, by Don .Gaspar Portala, then,governor of California. The infamous d’Aranda, minister of Charles III, had persuaded the dissolute and stupid .monarch.to have all the members of the Society of Jesiis throughout the Spanish dominions, imprisoned, without trial, without the shadow of a
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	609
cause, and then exiled forever from home and country, penniless and forlorn. And yet of these confessors of the faith the freethinker Frederick the Great wrote a little later on: “That good Franciscan of the Vatican (Clement XIV) leaves me my dear Jesuits, who arc persecuted everywhere else. I will preserve the precious seed, so as to be able one day to supply it to such as may desire again to cultivate this rare plant.” Of their enemies he says: “If I sought to chastise one of my provinces, I would place it under the control of the philosophers.”
Upon the departure of the Jesuits from Lower California, the sons of St. Dominic stepped into the breach. The virgin field of Upper California was assigned to the disciples of St. Francis of Assisi. Father Junipero Serra—a man of tireless energy and indomitable fortitude—to whom was given the presidency of the new missions, began the work of planting the cross in 1769. After many labors, privations and disappointments, and the murder of Father Luis Jayme and two of his mechanics by the Indians at San Carlos, Monterey, several flourishing missions with their presidios were successively established for hundreds of miles along the Coast Range, extending from San Diego in the South to Sonoma in the North—comprising these and the missions of El Carmelo, San Fernando, San Gabriel; San Antonio, San Luis Obispo, San Francisco de Asis, San Juan Capistrano, Santa Clara, San Buenaventura, Santa Barbara,- La Purissima Santa Cruz, La Soledad, San Miguel, San Juan Bautista, San Jose, San Luis Rey, Santa Ynes, San Rafael, San Francisco Solano. The missions were usually from 30 to 40 or 50 miles apart. Each mission comprised from 1500 to 2500 Indians. The twenty-one missions established cared for as many as 30,000 converted Indians. These Indians, called “ Diggers,” belonged to several small tribes, speaking distinct dialects, and had been reckoned before their conversion as the very lowest in the scale of savage life. The men were taught by the Friars —who were often devoid of the assistance of European mechanics and laborers,—to cultivate large tracts of land, to raise large herds of cattle, to erect spacious adobe or wooden houses and mills, to make roads, build bridges, construct canals for the purposes of irrigation, cut stone, mould brick and burn lime. Many of. them learned to play on instruments of music and sing. Men and women were dressed in civilized garments according to the exigencies of : the climate. The girls, were placed under the care of trustworthy Indian matrons who taught them to'weave.wool, hemp and cotton, and instructed
them in household duties until they were old enough to many. They were all well fed on good beef and mutton, vegetables, cakes, puddings and porridge, called atole and pinole. They had their hours for prayer, for work and. for recreation, and their festival days, which were celebrated with great pomp. Their goods were held in common under the administration of the Padres. The products of the harvest and the cattle were fairly administered and distributed by their spiritual guardians. The Fathers were their procurators, defenders, justices of the' peace, as well as carpenters, architects, blacksmiths. Like the Dominican Las Casas in South America, they defended their neophytes from the fraud, brutality and immorality of the Spanish colonists. Rev. Wm. Gleeson, rector of Brooklyn, Alameda Co., has written a work of deep research and interest, entitled the “ History of the Catholic Church in California.” His beautiful description of those little Christian Utopias, the missions of Upper California, would remind one of the celebrated Reductions of the sons of St. Ignatius in Paraguay. .
. But the enemy of souls, who uses alike governments and individuals as the agents of his malice on earth, did not long suffer the good work to prosper. ' During the political troubles between Spain and Mexico in the beginning of this century, the Mexican Government appropriated to its own use, for the space of fifteen years, the funds belonging to the missionaries. In 1832, the Mexican Republic ordered the rents of the haciendas of the Pious Fund—the mainstay of the missions—to be turned into the national treasury for several years. The Congress of Jalisco stole large tracts of Church lands. In 1842 the conscienceless and unfortunate Santa Anna gave the administration of the property of the Pious Fund to General Valencia, chief of the military staff—rwhich was equivalent to its confiscation. He finally completed the robbery by selling the entire fund to Messrs. Barajo and Rubio Bros. The rich man of Jerusalem must have given the vile crew of church robbers a warm shake-hands if they accepted an invitation to his Barmecide feast. In 1834 the friars were, deprived of their authority by the decree of secularization of their missions—issued by the
Mexican Congress in 1833—which unjust: act. Dwindle in his Colonial History tells us, was the result of an understanding between the government and the leading men of California for the purposes of plunder. In 1837, another act was passed which finally arid absolutely deprived them of the last vestige of temporal, administration. The missionaries were treated with.
910
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
insult and indignity; the secularization resulted in the complete ruin of the missions and the demoralization and dispersion of the christianized Indians. Such was the result of European continental liberalism after its importation into the New World. Most of the Fathers were compelled, however unwillingly, to abandon the cherished scenes of their labors, and those very neophytes who were dearer to them than their heart’s blood.
Mexico, like every other country that has robbed the Church of those temporalities that were consecrated to the propagation of truth and morality, the civilization of the savage or barbarian, the relief of the poor, the aged and infirm, has been scourged by the hand of Divine Justice. Internal dissension,revolution, freemasonry, financial malfeasance, have made her name “an astonishment and a hissing; ” not only on the nation, but even upon the individuals who participated in the robbery and secularization of the missions, the malediction of St. Peter has fallen: “Keep thy money to thyself to perish with thee.” Had the Mexican Government, after stealing the missionary funds, left the Franciscans and their converts in the quiet possession of the fruits of their own labor, there is no doubt that all the Indian tribes living on the Tulares, or plains and valleys between the Sierra Nevada and the coast mountains, would have been eventually brought over to Christianity and civilization. At this time there were only about 5000 white people in California.
San Francisco Bay was discovered by the missionaries in 1769. Some persons, relying on an obscure passage in the chronicle of Fletcher, attribute this honor to the English sea-rover Drake; but Humboldt and Demofras, as well as tradition of the early Spaniards, state positively that the bay .in which the pirate anchored was north of San Francisco, either in Bodega Bay or Port Reyes. Father Francisbo Palou with Father Benito Cambon, was the Founder of the mission at San Francisco, called the
MISSION OF DOLORES. ;
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered for the first time in the mission of San Francisco on the Feast of SS. Peter and Paul, June 29,1776, shortly before the Declaration of Independence in the United States. It was not, however, till the Sth of October following that the mission .was formally opened on the completion of the buildings. A fort and presidio had been erected . in the meantime near the. Golden Gate. The mission buildings formed' a quadrilateral with a court fin the interior. They were' two stories high; A gallery or portico ran around upon
which the dormitories of the monks, of the overseers and of travellers, the work-shops and schoolrooms, opened. There were infirmary rooms foffhc sick and halls for the Indian girls. The church occupied one of the wings, the storerooms or warehouse the other. The facade of the church is ornamented with a portico; over the portico in the gable are two arched openings in each of which hangs a bronze bell that was cast in Spain. Judging by the eye, I took the church to be 125 feet in length, 24 in width in the clear, and 20 in height to the ceiling. A gallery running from wall to wall in the front part of the building is about 30 feet in length. The ceiling is of wood with the cross-beams or joists exposed. It is frescoed with angular stripes or bands of chrome-yellow and red. The carvings in wood of statuary, the altar and ornamentation of the reredos, though very quaint, show no mean degree of art. The buildings were all constructed of adobes which are twice the size of burnt brick, and were strengthened by pebbles or broken stone at the joints. The roof of semi-cylindrical tiles is supported by heavy timbers. A portion of the quadrilateral has been destroyed leaving only the church, pastoral residence and store-house yet standing. No one should go to San Francisco without visiting the Mission of Dolores. The present rector of the mission, Father Brennan, though a very learned mathematician and astronomer, is very polite and obliging to his numerous visitors. No insinuations here in regard to the professors of the exact or stellar sciences in Hoosier land, though the disciples of Euclid or of the ancient Chaldeans, are as a class, sometimes unjustly suspected of star-gazing or of going off at a tangent. The main portion of a new parochial edifice has been erected a little to the north of the old mission church. It will be cruciform when completed and will cost over Si00,000. It has a frontage of 85 feet. The material is of brick with stone facings and. trimmings. The o	o
general plan of all the mission buildings varied but little from that above described.
The sides of the quadrilateral, forming the mission buildings, were each about 600 feet in length; the walls about 4 feet, in thickness. The walls of the presidios dr military stations were built of adobes. They were each 300 feet long and from 12 to 14 high, protected at the angles by small bastions on each of which were mounted two pieces of bronze cannon. The presidios were, in turn guarded by castillos or covered, batteries containing a few twelvepounders.. These military., posts which were erected to protect, the Fathers and their neo-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
611
phytes from the hostile attacks of the unconverted Indians, were capable of accommodating 250 men, but rarely had that number. The pueblos or towns that grew up around the missions were civilly independent of the Fathers, and consisted chiefly of the old Creole or Spanish soldiery and their families. The mission and presidio of San Francisco were called after St. Francis of Assisi, under whose patronage they were established.
The friars, Crespi and Gomez, who were accompanied by an expedition under the command of Don Gaspar Portala were the first white men to discover the bay of San Francisco and the Golden Gate. This event occurred on November 7, 1769. Father Crespi named the place in honor of the founder of his Order. The baptismal, matrimonial and mortuary records of the mission bear the date of Aug. 1, 1776, and are to be found at the parish house in a good state of preservation.
On the Sth of October, 1876,
THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
of the founding of the Mission Dolores took place with great eclat, and formed one of the biggest red-letter days in the annals of the commercial Metropolis of the State. The religious ceremonies of the festival were performed in the open air beneath an immense gothic arch or canopy that was ornamented with luxurious wreaths of flowers and evergreens. The soul-inspiring strains of sacred music; the clouds of incense floating in the air; the gorgeous vestments of the officiating clergy, made the scene most grand and impressive. The military pageant and civic demonstration were carried out on a scale of magnificence without regard to labor or expense. In the same ranks marched the descendants of the conquistadores of Spain, the Anglo-Saxon pioneers of the Eastern states, and the ubiquitous children of St. Patrick. The governor of the State, and many other officials, as well as the representatives of federal authority took a conspicuous part in this gallant array. Over the cosmopolitan organizations, that were in line, could be seen proudly floating the Stars and Stripes, the standard of Mexico, and the Harp and Sunburst of Erin. The chief orations of the day were delivered by Archbishop Alemany, General M. G. Vallejo, and Hon. J.W. Dwindle, the historian, representing respectively the Church, Spain and Mexico, and the . United States. The address of the'Ordinary of the diocese was well worthy of such a centennary.
The' Archbishop eloquently portrayed the self-sacrifice of the sons of the Seraphic Saint—
those true benefactors of mankind of whom it may be said:
“From unremember’d ages we Gentle guides and guardians be, Of poor oppress’d mortality,”— • heroes incomparably greater than the Alexanders, Ctesars and Napoleons who have scourged the earth with
—“ The smoke
Of burning cities, the cries of female helplessness, Unarmed old age, and youth, and infancy
Horribly massacred.”
His Grace likewise enthusiastically described the giant strides which our glorious Republic had taken within a century, not only in material things, but above all in the higher sphere of a rational liberty, a broader humanity, and a wise equality in regard to civil rights and duties.
S.
—Old Students.—A number of old students of Notre Dame wrote cordial letters of greet-ing, and participated in the Jubilee testimonial to the venerable Father Founder. Among them were the following: Rev. Patrick Creighton,’53, . Brooklyn, NAG; Rev. J.B. Crowley,’59, Laporte, Ind.; Rev. Thomas Carroll, ’55, Oil City, Pa.; Rev. W. F. O’Rourke, ’72, Cincinnati, O.; Rev. Luke J. Evers, ’79, New York; Rev. John P. McManus, ’79, Battle Creek, Mich.; Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’66, Crawfordsville, Ind.; O. T. Chamberlain, ’61, Elkhart, Ind.; M. A. J. Baasen, ’64, Milwaukee, Wis.; Robert E. Pinkerton, ’65, New York; Douglas J. Cook, ’58, St. Louis, Mo.; W. T. Johnson, ’68, Kansas City, Alo.; David J. Wile, ’70, Chicago; James J. Wilson,’69, Trenton, N.J.; W. T. Ball, ’76, Chicago; John H.Gillespie, ’77/ Burlington, la.; W. PL and W. W. Dodge, ’69, Mishawaka, Ind.; Gabriel R. Summers, ’68, Clay Township, Ind.; W. P. Breen, ’76, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; AI. H. Keeley, ’64, Faribault, Afinn.; Jacob C. Eisenman, ’78, Louisville, Ky.; Walter Breen, ’86, Logootee, Ind.; A. Jones, ’85, South Bend, Ind.; Edward J. Darragh, ’85, St. Paul, Alinn.; George E. Clarke, ’84, South Bend, Ind.; George Rhodius, ’85, Indianapolis, Ind.; W. Wabrau-schek, ’86, East Lake, Mich.; Hodson & Stanfield, South Bend,Ind.; Ferd. E.Kuhn,’83,Nashville, Tenn.; W.Hardenberg, ’83,St.Paul, Minn.; D. H. Baker, South Bend, Ind.; A. P. Coll, M. D„ ’81, Philadelphia, Pa.; Will Berthelet, ’84, Milwaukee, Wis.; Fred. G. Long, ’86, Kansas City, Mb.; A. McDonald, South Bend, Ind.; W. A. Cartier, ’86, Madison, Wis.; Henry and Charles Paschel, ’86, Council Bluffs, la.; Frank J. Ashton,’86, Rockford, Ill.; .Hugo C. Rothert, ’86, Huntington, Ind.; Joseph D. Oliver, ’69; Hon, Mayor W. H. Longley, ’66, South Bend, Ind;

612
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wwseHiMsnc.
ISublistjrti rfarni Saturtan iurintj Ecnn Eintc at N. 3. iSni&crsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, June 9, 1888*
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson, ’88,
j. A. Burns, ’88,	Chas. P. Neill, ’89,
S. J. Craft (Lit.),.’88.
College Societies.
The bright future to which we all look will not be reached without meeting’ many difficulties and disappointments which lurk in many a pathway’s most guilded prize. ‘‘ Like bees in flowers, they sting us with success,” and make •lighter the hand which reaches for deeper pearls. So it is with our societies: while attending them we encounter many trials and difficulties, but in the end we find that they were placed at our disposal for a great purpose, and nobody can avoid seeing that they exert a wholesome influence upon the minds and manners of all the members. In this day when the spirit of agnosticism is abroad in the land; when reformers of all kinds are circulating their new creeds in every community; when it is the fashion, with a certain class of writers, to speak highly7 of the heroes of the past; when monopolies are ag-. gressive, and-labor clamorous; when the air is full of new and strange influences that affect the welfare of every7 citizen; when precedence for novel politics in law and government are established every7 day7—when all these things are demanding the attention of the citizen, it is most essential to the prosperity7 of the Republic that the young men who are about to enter the arena of life should be made to know just what is going on, and what is most beneficial to the welfare of. our. country.
This is the object of our societies. A grander field of tutorage there cannot be than this.. The student who leaves college without adequate knowledge of History,- Elocution, Oratory, and Public Debating, comes into his .majority, so poorly equipped for the duties, of citizenship, that the chances are hiqst decidedly in favor ofLhis proving a dangerous voter. Plunged, • immediately7 on leaving school,unto; the whirl. of business . cares and, responsibilities, ;he has neither time nor. opportunity to familiarize him
self with the necessities, without the knowledge of which, he has no moral right to act as a citizen. It has been at all times the desire of the Faculty7 of Notre-Dame to kindle in the minds of the students a desire to appear in public, to discuss the various topics of the day, knowing that by7 so doing they7 will be in less danger from plotters against society and social form; the greater will be the sense of public security, the more stable will our faith become; the stronger and more healthful the general growth. The society7 room is the place to put in practice what we learn at class. A mind that cannot command and apply7 its storehouse of thoughts and facts is not properly7 educated, for education, to be useful, must be practical. Education is not confined to knowledge obtained from books. It is society, with its attractive and thrilling interests, that is one of the plans best adapted for thought and practical knowledge. Books are the essential means whereby7 this needed education is supplied. Within their boundaries you find the results of ages of toil, the experience and wisdom of the world. They7 teach us • to perform ourwork systematically7, and to judge truthfully; and our society7 room is the place where this book knowledge is put to the test. By7 these means our minds become stored with practical and useful knowledge, and there is opened for us a larger and more flowery7 field in which to perform our work.	S. J. C.
[From the “Boston Republic
The Congregation of the Holy Cross.
Although it has yet to reach the fiftieth year of its existence as a religious community7 in the country, while the members of the Order apply7 themselves more to the work of teaching than to that of preaching missions, the Congregation of the Holy Cross,whose headquarters are at Notre Dame, Ind., can boast of a goodly7 number of distinguished pulpit orators, mention of some of whom will be the object of this article. The stoiy of Notre Dame alone would furnish abundant matter for an interesting sketch; but, as that may be told in some subsequent issue of The Republic, only7 an outline of it will be attempted here. As everybody knows, the Congregation of .the Holy7 Cross was founded, in this country7 by-:the. Very7 Rev. Edward Sorin, who still lives and is preparing to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of his ordination in a few months. Forty-six years ago this veteran missionary found himself at the place in Indiana; which is now known as Notre Dame, and it was then
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
613
and there that he laid the foundations of that magnificent establishment which is to be seen there to-day. Notre Dame University, however, during the less than half century of its existence, has not been without its vicissitudes, and these have not been all pleasant ones. The first college building was erected in 1843, a modest structure, and, that work done, Father Sorin applied himself to the task of erecting other houses required by his growing Order. A novitiate and chapel were soon added, and afterwards a.housc of manual labor and an infirmary. Fire destroyed some of these in 1849, but their loss only spurred the rising Community to replace them with larger and more commodious buildings. A new and larger college building was dedicated in 1866, only to be consumed by fire thirteen years later; but from the ashes of that another Notre Dame, and a more imposing' one, speedily sprang, and this is the institution . over which Rev. T. E. Walsh, C.S.C., ably presides to-day, and at which over 500 students are regular attendants.
Among the earlier associates of Father Sorin at-Notre Dame were Father Cointet, a distinguished French priest, who joined the venerable founder in the year 1842-3; Father Shaw, of whom it is recorded that he was an eloquent speaker himself, and took delight in fostering in the breasts of the students that love of “holding forth” which is characteristic of the American people. Rev. Fathers Curly and Gillespie are also deserving of mention, and it was the latter, whose name recalls the fact that he was a relative of Mr. James Gillespie Blaine, who added to Notre Dame’s other excellent publications that of the Scholastic,* the Ave Maria, over whose editorial management Rev. D. E. Hudson at present ably presides, antedating the College paper by a couple of years or so. On the roster of its presidents’, Notre Dame carries the names of such eminent priests as Fathers Sorin, P. Dillon, W. Corby, A. Lemon-nier, P. J. Colovin, and the present well-known .rector, Very Rev. T. E. Walsh, who recently attended the deliberations of the International Scientific Congress of Catholics held last April in Paris, where he made an eloquent address, which Le Monde commended for the ideas that it contained as well as for the perfect French in which those ideas were expressed.
Among its Faculty the University counts Fa
* The Scholastic was founded by the late Rev. Father Lemonnier, Director of Studies in the University, in 1876. , The Ave Maria was established in May, 1865, by the Very Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross.—Ed. Schol.	'
ther Zahm, who delights in spending his vacations in scientific researches in far-away places, having already visited Alaska and the IToly Land; Father Kirsch, the Professor of Natural Sciences; Father Fitte, the Philosophical Professor, and many others whose pens not infrequently contribute to the publications of Notre Dame. As before remarked, the Congregation docs not profess to be a community of preachers, but not unfrcquently is it to find some of its members called from Notre Dame to deliver sermons and lectures. Rev. Father Walsh is well known throughout the Northwest as a graceful and eloquent orator; Father Zahm as a speaker who can make a highly interesting scientific address, and the missionary works of Rev. P. P. Cooney arc sufficiently well known to the Catholics of Indiana and the adjacent states.
Besides the establishment at Notre Dame, the IToly Cross Congregation has charge of several churches in the Fort Wayne diocese, and among its best known pastors and preachers are such men as Very Rev. Father Granger, Fathers Hagerty, Fallize, Roche and others. It has also houses in some of the southwestern states, as well ■ as in Canada. In the latter country there is St. Laurent’s College, a few miles outside of Montreal, where are to be found Father McGarry, a priest well known to Bostonians and New Englanders from his yearly visits here every summer to look after the interests of the many American students who attend St. Laurent’s; Fathers Meehan and McKinnon. Another noted institution of the community is St. Joseph’s College at Memramcook, in the diocese of St. John,N. B., which was founded by the Rev. C. Lefebvre, C. S. C., in 1864, of whom a highly interesting sketch recently appeared in the columns of the Catholic Record of London, Ont.
During the forty-six years of its existence, Notre Dame and the Congregation of the Holy Cross have done great services to Catholicity in the United States, and, as an augury of still greater sendees yet to be rendered, it is pleasant to know that the Congregation and its famous institution were never in a better or more flourishing condition than at the present time.
Board of . Examiners.
. SEMI-ANNUAL EXAMINATIONS, JUNE 13-17.
(Under the General Supervision VRev.T.E. Walsh.)
Classical Board.—Rev. N. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. S. Fitte; Prof. Edwards, Prof.Ploynes, Prof. Fearnley, Prof. John Ewing, Secretary.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A;'Zahm, preside
6i4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing; Rev. A. M. Kirsch; Mr. Jos. Kirsch; Prof. Stace, Prof. Zahm, Prof. McCue, Secretary.
Commercial Board.—Rev. A. Morrissey, presiding; Rev. J. Coleman, Secretary; Bro. Marcel-linns, Bro.Philip Neri; Prof. Lyons, Prof. O’Dea, Prof. N. H. Ewing, Prof. Musgrave.
Senior Preparatory Board.—Rev. James French, presiding; Rev. J. Thillman, Secretary; Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Paul; Prof. Gallagher, Prof. Ackermann, Prof. Powers.	■
Junior Preparatory Board. — Rev. M. J. Regan, presiding; Mr. P. J. O’Connell, Mr. B. Ill ; Bro. Simeon, Secretary; Bro. Philemon, Bro. Albius, Bro. Hugh, Bro. Cajetan.
Local Items.
. 1
—Examinations next.
—Commencement is at hand.
—Joe says they were firing by file.
—Be gentlemen, even when you go in swimming.
—The annual St. Cecilia Banquet will take place on Tuesday at 3.30 p. m.
—The officers of the St. Cecilia Society enjoyed .a pleasant ride to Mishawaka last Saturday.
—Philip VD. Brownson will be the Valedic-' torian of the Class of ’88. The class has a worthy representative.
—The members of the St. Cecilia Society spent last Sunday at St. Joseph’s Farm. An enjoyable time is'reported by all.
—Those who are talentless themselves are the first to talk about the conceit of others; for mediocrity bears but one flower—envy.
—As Commencement day approaches, we think the author of “Stroke, stroke, stroke,” might make himself known, just to satisfy curiosity. . ' .	■	.
—McDonald photographed Companies^ and E and the Sorin Cadets on the 3d inst. The officers of Company A were also taken in a separate group.	.
—Mr. Gusl Cooper,Notre Dame’s great twirler of last year, will in all probability be here in time to participate in the games against the South Bend “Green Stockings.”
—-In the account, of the boat race, Minnehaha “Blues” should have read Minnehaha “Reds”; for, as it appeared in our last number, it would be rather difficult to determine -which crew was victorious?- The Evangeline - “Blues” were the winners. ;	, J \ r ;	<
: —Wehope our accomplished masons will con-
tinue their good work and extend the cement walk around St. Joseph’s circle in front of the Presbytery and towards the adjacent buildings. They will earn the gratitude of many, and at the same time enjoy the satisfaction of having contributed greatly to the beauty of the landscape in that vicinity.
—The Rev. Director of Studies lately paid a visit to the class of English composition, and he was so well pleased with the essays read that he remained the whole hour and returned the following day. He complimented the students on their efforts, and advised them to persevere in the way they had begun and they might well be assured of future success.
—Yesterday (Friday), the Feast of the Sacred Heart, the Titular Festival of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, was duly observed at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was sung at eight o’clock by Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Rev. Fathers French and Boerres as deacon and subdeacon. An appropriate sermon was preached by the Rev. Father Fitte.
—The Very Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, of Notre Dame, Indiana, President of the great University of the West, returned from Europe on Saturday last. He had gone to Paris to attend the Catholic Scientific Congress there, and his name and that of Father Gmeiner were prominent among those of the few Americans who took part in the proceedings. Father Walsh is recognized as one of the most progressive and best-equipped college presidents in this country.—New York Freemans Journal.
—The St. Joseph Cornet Band, of Mishawaka, accompanied by Rev. Father Oechtering, drove over to Notre Dame last Sunday evening and gave a delightful concert in front of the University. The music was certainly enjoyable to all who heard the boys. The band is handsomely uniformed and displays marked excellence in its playing. The members were entertained in the parlors of the main building after the concert. ’
—Very Rev.T. E. Walsh, C.S.C., President of ’ the University of Notre Dame, Ind., passed through New York this week on his return from Europe, whither he went. three months ago to take part in the Catholic Scientific Congress of Paris. We know from him that he was most favorably impressed by the deliberations of the Congress, and we know from others that the Congress was delighted to see a young American of so much promise, representing so great an institution as the University of Notre Dame. — Catholic Revieiv.	.	. .	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
---The Princes of St. Edward’s Plall are indebted to Rev. President Walsh for the Pontifical Benediction secured for them on the occasion of his recent visit to Rome. A certificate to that effect, embellished with a lithograph of the Holy Father, has been framed and placed in their Hall. The inscriptions read as follows:
Beatissime
Prreses et
Pater:
alumni classis Minimorum Universitatis
oppidi vulgo, Notre Dame, in Statu Indiana, America; Septcntrionalis ad pedes Sanctitatis Turn provoluti, benedictionem pro se et Religiosis omnibus dicta; classis curam gerentibus humiliter implorant.
Ex audicntia SSmi die ja Aprilis, 1888.	,
SSmus D’nus benigne annuit pro gratia juxta petita servatis servandis. Datum Romm ex tedibus S.'C. de Propaganda Fide, die et anno ut supra.
* D. Archiep. Tyren., Sec.
—On Sunday last the solemnity of Corpus Christi was observed in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass, coram SSmo, was celebrated by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, assisted by Rev. Fathers Morrissey and Lauth as deacon and subdeacon. After Mass, the solemn procession of the Blessed Sacrament took place winding its way, with all eclat and splendor, from the college church to the various repositories at the Seminary and Calvary. This procession each year constitutes one of the most brilliant and im-posing liturgical celebrations observed throughout the states, and forms a grand tribute from hundreds of devout hearts to God with us in the Sacrament of His Love.
—Our Holy Father Pope Leo XIII has been pleased to grant to Professor Edwards, the Director, and to all the contributors to the historical collections in the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, a special blessing, juxta preces etpcramantcr in Domino. ' This great honor was granted by his Holiness through Rt. Rev. Monsignor Straniero, who gave the document attesting the blessing to Very Rev. President Walsh on the occasion of his late visit to the Eternal City. The document is signed by Rt. Rev. Monsignor Angeli, Private Secretary to the Pope, and bears the private seal of the Holy Father stamped in red wax. Accompanying the blessing is a full-length standing likeness of his Holiness in full pontificals and bearing on his head the tiara. This special blessing of our Holy Father crowns the work already accomplished, and insures new success and greater efforts on the part of all who* are interested in
- the cause of Catholic Plistory.
—The following is a detailed description of 1 the magnificent carriage presented as a Jubilee • testimonial to Very Rev. Father General Sorin,.
bythestuderits,pastandpresent,andtheFaculty ' ; of the University:	■	:	'
“ This carriage is what is known as a Five Glass Landau.	:
It was designed by Mr. Francis, the superintendent and draftsman at the Studebaker Carriage Department.. It < combines all the good qualities that years of experience ? £ could suggest. It is as light as can practicably be built, , . weighing about fourteen hundred pounds. The axles are what are known as full Collinge with wrought boxes. This combination renders the draft as light as can pos- . sibly be attained in a vehicle of this class. The springs were made by the Spring Perch Co. of Bridgeport,	'
Conn., and are forged from Greaves’ steel. The heads	.
are supplied with composition bearings, thus rendering their action perfectly noiseless and soft. All the forgings are hand-made and are wrought from the finest Norway iron. The body is built in a manner entirely unknown to the . trade a few years ago, the framing being made from bent	.
wood wherever possible, thus avoiding joints which formerly caused so much trouble in this class of work. • The mountings of this carriage are of silver and are in keeping with the interior finish. The large lamps were made by Biemont of Paris. The interior mountings were made in this country. The interior trimmings are of . green Wulfing cloth with curtain silks to match. The laces, tassels, guard strings, etc., were a special make by Fry & Co. of Dublin, Ireland. No better trimmings can be made than are supplied by this house. They even excel the French in the matter of taste and quality. The combination of green and crimson in the broad laces . \ makes a very pretty contrast with the interior trimmings. The top is supplied with French head-lift springs. These are arranged so the top may be elevated by merely re- , leasing a spring. This is a very desirable feature as the: top may be closed by the occupant at any time without the necessity of the driver leaving his seat. The finish of the carriage is in keeping with the interior trimmings. The panels are painted a dark green to correspond with the cloth, and the edges of the panels are picked, out with ,' :, crimson glazed fine lines. The body moldings are painted . black. The gear is painted dark green, relieved by double	-
lines of carmine striping. This is in keeping with the = interior laces. On.thedoorpanelsarebeautifullyentwined , monograms of the name of the venerable Superior. They . were executed by Mr. Thomas Bulla, a former student of \ Notre Dame. The harness and lap robe were supplied by the Chicago House of the Studebaker Bros. . A silver . plate bears the following inscription: ‘ Presented by the Faculty and students of the University to Very Rev.. E. Sorin, C. S. C., on the occasion of his Golden Jubilee, May 27, 1888.”'	• .	.	<
—The old soldiers and citizens generally feel ; . under obligation to the authorities at Notre Dame for permitting the Hoynes* Light Guards to participate in the ceremonies. A finer body . ~ of young men it would be hard to find, and their gentlemanly deportment between the breaking V off ranks and the assembling after the cere- . monies, was remarked and complimented in A’j the highest terms. A common remark among the old soldiers was, they were boys of that age, . 1 as indeed were most of the soldiers who didthe . fighting in the late Civil War. The Light Guards;	:
are thoroughly drilled, and on their way to and from the cemetery were put. through various.



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
evolutions to the "rent interest and delight of o	o
the thousands of spectators who lined the streets • on cither side. On their return from the cemetery, the Light Guards and South Bend Guards held a dress parade in front of the Sheridan House, Col. Hoynes acting as commander.— South Bend Tribune.
—Hard and timely hitting enabled the “ Reds” to win the second championship game. Both nines did brilliant work in the field, but the “Blues ” were lamentably weak at the bat, finding McHenry for but three singles. Following is the full score:
Reds.	t.a.b. k. lb. s.b. p.o. a. e.
McHenry, p................
Smith, s.s................
Pender, 2d b..............
Jewett, 3d.b..............
Gallagher, c..............
Kelly, l.f................
Mattes, r.f...............
Bronson, ist b..............
Preston, c. f.............
5	2	I
621
5	o	1
6	1	3
3	2	1
3	1	1
5	1	2
■5	2	1
402
0060 0022 0 4 5' o 2.2 1 0730 0300 01 o o o 10 O I 0000
Total.......................
Blues.
O’Regan, s. s..............
Burns, c...................
White, p...................
Springer, 3d b.............
Fehr, istb.................
Tewksbury, 2d b............
Clark, c. f..........1.....
Cusack, 1. f...............
Tarrant, r.f...............
42 11 13 o 27 iS 5
T.A.B. R. I.B. S.B. P.O. A. E. 4 0	1	1432
4OOO92O 31 OOOSO 4OOO24O 4OOO7OO 4	0	1	2	4	1	3
2	O	O	I	O	I	I
4	0	0	0	1	0	0
3	2	1	IOOO
Total....................... 32 3 3 5 27 19 6
Time of game: 1 hour, 4 seconds. Earned Runs: “ Reds,” 7. Base on balls: off White, 7I Struck out: by McHenry, 4; by White, 7. Double plays: (Springer, O’Regan and Fehr); (Springer and Fehr). Two base hits: Smith, Jewett, Mattes. Three base hits: McHenry. Passed balls: Gallagher, 2. Wild pitches: McHenry, 1. Umpire: P. Frian. Scorers: Arthur Leonard and John
B. Meagher.
Score by Innings:—1 2345.6789
Reds:—2 0 0 0 0 2 0 6 1=11
Blues:—o o 1 o 1 o o o 1=3
—One of the most exciting and hotly contested baseball games of the season was played by the Minim first nines on their grounds last Tuesday afternoon. The playing on both sides throughout the entire game was almost errorless, and frequently elicited -applause from the ’ spectators. During the first three innings the heavy hitters of the “Blues” pounded Captain Kehoe’s curves ferociously; but with the exception of one excusable error by Marx, the.fielding of the “Reds” was perfect, and rendered the “slugging” of their opponents ineffectual. Williamson’s deceptive “ drops ” were frequently raised high up in, the air by the batsmen of the /.‘Reds’’; but, much to tile.disgust of the latter; .the- high, flies; almost invariably ,felL into the • hands of some, active player in the field. In the
ninth inning the “Reds” came to bat with a determination to overcome the lead which the “Blues” had gained by their superior base running; but although they batted without much difficulty, the swift balls passed over the plate. Captain Black of the “Blues,” who held the position of short stop, was ready to seize every ball that fell in the field, and by his neat lightning throws to Dunn on first base, retired the “Reds” in one, two, three order. The game lasted an hour and a half, ending in a victory for the “Blues” by a score of n to 8, the batting of Kehoe and Campbell for the “ Reds,” and Williamson and Sweet for the “Blues,” being the prominent features. The following is the complete score:
Blues.
J. Dunn, 1 st b..............
G. Sweet, c..................
C. Carlile, 1. f.............
L. Balch, s. s...............
W. Williamson, p.............
C. Boettcher, 2d b...........
G.	Franche, 3d b.............
H.	Johns, c. f........
J. Cudahy, r.f...............
Total........................
Reds.
L. Doss, s. s...............
A. Welch, c. f.............
V. Kehoe, p................
E.	Savage, ist b...........
J. Dempsey, l.f............
A. Campbell, , c...........
F.	Beerman, 3d b.'.........
H. Marx, r. f..............
A. Nester, 2d b....;.......
R. I.B. P.O. A. E. i 3 ri o o 12001 00200 22161 01720 2	2	1	1	1
■1	1310
22100 3	4	1	o	1
.12	17	27	IO	4
R.	I.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
2	3-2	4 O'
1	2	0	0	0
0	0	6	4	1
o	1	12	o	2
I	I	I	o	o
I I 4	1-2
24003 0.3. 1	o	1
11	1	3	2
Total...................   8	16 27	12	11
Score by Innings:— i 23456789
. Blues:—o '61 1 o 1 o 2 1=12 Reds:—o 1 104002 0=8
Two base hits: “ Blues,” 2; “ Reds,” 4. Double plays: “ Reds,” 1. Base on balls: off Williamson, 1; off Kehoe, 2. Struck out: by Williamson,6; by Kehoe, 6. Passed balls: Sweet, 1; Campbell, 2. Time of game: 1 hour, 15 minutes. Umpire, S. Campbell. Scorer, S. Collins.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs.'Akin, Albright, Bowles, Bancroft, Brannick, , Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Barnes, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball,-Baiyiard, Blessington, J. Burns, Brownson, Brewer, Becker, Baca, E. Burns, Boland, H. Brelsford, Graft, Chacon, Cusack, Grane, Craig, Cartier, Chute, T. Coady, E. Coady, Cosgrove, Campbell, Dore, Desimoni, Ewing, Fitzharris, Finckh,' Fisher, Fehr, R. Fleming, Goebel, Gallardo, Geisler, Gibbs; Goke, Griffin, . Garfias, Henderson, Heinemann, Hummer, Hughes,- H.
Hull;,Houck,. J. .Hepburn, M. Howard, Jennings, Jacobs, Jackson, F. Kelly,'Keating, Kerwin, J. Kelly, L. Larkin, W. Earkin, Lappin, Leonard, Luhn, Langan, Louisell, McCune, Mattes] W7McDermott; Mulkem, J. Meagher, Me-
Q
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	617
Williams, J. McDermott, Mackey, W. ^Torrison, Maloney, McAllister, McCart, McAuliff, McGrath, Melady, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, Neill, R..Newton, Nelson, Orr, O’Hara, O’Regan, O’Shea, O’Donnell, O’Connor, O’Brien, Owens, Pollock, Plato, Paschel, Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Pender, Pares, Patterson, Rochford, Reynolds, Rothert, Rudd, Read, Stubbs, J. Sullivan, Stephenson, F. Suing, Sawkins, H. Smith,W. Silver, R. Silver, D. Sullivan, Tarrant, Tewksbury, Velasco, Wilson, M. White, Wilkin, Webb, Wall, Wagoner, Welch, Woods.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anfenger, Allen, Berry, Bombeck, Bronson, Boyd, Bachrach, Beaudry, Bolderick, Blake, Burger, Brannick, Brown, Brady, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Campbell, Cooney, Crotty, F. Connors, J. Connors, Carroll, Coad, Connelly, Cavanagh, Carney, Chute, Coulter, Cullen, Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Darragh, Ebner, Elder, Fitzgerald, Falvey, S. Fleming, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, J.Flynn, F. Flynn, Frei, Grossman, Goodman, Gray, T. Greene, J. Greene, Gale, Gonzales, Girsch, Garrabrant, Grever, Houlihan, Hoffman, Henry, Hagan, Howard, R. Healy, P. Healy, Heller, Hall, Hampton, Hoerr, Huber, Hillas, Hackett, Hughes, Hartman, Hake, Hayes, Hill, Inderrieden, Johnson, Jackson, Jos-sclyn, Kinsella, Kutsche, Kahn, Lane, Lahey, Leonard, Leichnar, Moncada, Martin, Munroe, McMahon. J. McIntosh, H. Mallay, McCormick, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, McGrath, McKenzie, Mooney, McCartney, Mayer. Moon, Monarch, Neef, W. O’Brien, W. P. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, O’Donnell, Priestly, Paquette, Powers, Prichard, Pec-heux, F. Peck, J. Peck, Perkins, Pfau, Quinlan, Roth, Ricrdon, I. Rose, S. Rose, Rowsey, Ricdinger, Robey, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Spalding, A. Sullivan, L. Scherrer, Talbot, Thome, Wageman, Wade, Walsh, Welch, Wood, Wright, Weldon, Freeman.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Andrews, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, A. Bachrach, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Bates, Burns, Bradley, Boettcher, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Coilins, Connelly, Cummings, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, W. Creedon, F. Creedoh, Cornell, Conn, Carpenter, Campbell, Durand, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jesse Dungan, Doss, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, Dorsey, Des Gerannes, G. Franche, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Ferkel, Grant, . Griffin, Greene, Gerber, Goodwillie, Harlan, Hagus, Howard, Halthusen, Haddican, Jaramillo, H. Johns. Kerwin, Kutsche, Kehoe, Keeler, Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye,'A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Lansing. Mooney, H. Marx, Morgenweck, Murphy, McDonnell, Maternes, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, C. McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Minor, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, Nester, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, F. Rogers, Rickseckcr, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Spier, Stephens, Storey, Taft. Toolen, Trujillo, Tomkins, Thornton, W. Williamson, J. Walsh, W. Walsh, A. Witkowsky, S. Witkowsky, Willicn, Wilson, Young, Zieman, Zeigler, Hamilton, Silver.
O'	1
[From the “Indianapolis Record!]
Fifty Years a Priest.
Sunday, the 27th inst., was a gala day at Notre Dame. All day Saturday a busy band of students might have been observed girding' with gorgeous strips of red, white and blue, and decorating with innumerably varied fes-toonings and letterings in myrtle and evergreen the massive University buildings. A stranger would have surmised at once that something extraordinary was about to take place, and in this he would not have been deceived.
The event which did take place was indeed an extraor-.dinary one. It was nothing less than the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of Father Sorin’s ordination to the sacred priesthood. Although the great celebration of this golden event has been deferred until the 15th of August, the Feast of Our Lady’s Assumption, under whose fond
patronage Notre Dame had been placed at her birth, yet the students of the University, realizing that they would be unable to attend'the commemoration in August, and wishing in some way to bear testimony to the love and respect they entertain towards the Founder of Notre Dame, resolved to anticipate the celebration in August, and accordingly chose the very day on which the anniversary of ordination falls.
Golden jubilees are always very happy, even so rare, events. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary- of wedded life brings joy and merriment, if not festivity, to the humblest household in the land. Still more rare and even more gladsome, as is meet, is the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of a priest’s ordination—of his being wedded to the mystical, all fair, eternal Church of Christ. But when these fifty years of priestly life teem with good works and grand achievements, the recital of which somehow cannot help calling up in the mind the image of a St. Francis de Sales and of a St. Bernard, then indeed is the Golden Jubilee an event of more than usual magnitude—a time of extraordinary joy, thanksgiving and prayer. To most of our readers, we know, the name of Father Sorin is a household word, and the noble deeds of his long and illustrious career perfectly familiar. So we shall content ourselves with outlining, as space will permit, the principal events that marked the celebration.	.
On Saturday afternoon, at four o’clock, a public reception was tendered the Very Rev. Father Sorin by the students of the University. Congratulatory" addresses from the Seniors, Juniors and Minims were read by Messrs. Stubbs, McPhee and Tompkins, respectively. Mr. Robert Newton read with grace and effect “A Patriarch’s Feast ”—an ode of undoubted poetical merit from the pen of that gifted artist and authoress, Eliza Allen Starr. The St. James’ quartette rendered, to the delight of the audience, some choice jubilee selections; Mr. T. O’Regan delivered in his wonted happy style an appropriate declamation, while little Jimmy McIntosh merited and re- . ceived the applause of the evening by the display of his budding elocutionary powers in a stirring recitation. Appropriate music was rendered from time to time by the University orchestra. Father General Sorin made quite an extended speech in reply" to the testimonials of love and respect with which he had been honored. He reviewed the past history" of Notre Dame, the trials and tribulations with which he and his zealous co-laborers were in the beginning beleagured,but, with characteristic ‘ modesty, attributed the wondrous success with which his efforts had been crowned wholly to the .Mother of God, and, after her, to the silent, never wearying co-partners of his toil—the good religious of Holy" Cross.
After supper, Very Rev. Father General, together with the University" Faculty and many" distinguished visitors were seated on the College porch, conversing gaily and listening to the strains of the band; Suddenly an open barouche, drawn by two coal-black steeds carrying their heads in a manner that betokened Kentucky" ancestry, emerged from the shaded avenue leading to the city" and drew up in front of the College. In a twinkling the students were likewise there assembled.. Thereupon Prof. John G. Ewing, in a neat speech, made a presentation of the horses and. carriage to Father General as a souvenir, from the students and Faculty-, of his Golden Jubilee. It goes without saying that the surprise was ' complete, and that words could not adequately express the grateful feelings of the venerable recipient. In the evening there was a brilliant illumination of the College building and grounds.. Artillery" salutes, varied.by" en-
6i8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thusiastic college .cheers and choral echoes, kept the wonted sylvan stillness of Notre Dame in exile far into night. Later on there was a magnificent display of fireworks, after which rest and refreshment were sought in the realms of midnight slumber. On Sunday morning, at 8 o’clock, solemn High Mass was celebrated by Father Sorin, assisted by Fathers L’Etourneau and Robinson, respective, as deacon and subdeacon. An able and, at times, eloquent discourse appropriate to the occasion was delivered by the Very Rev. Wm. Corby. After Mass the corner-stone of the new building, to be known as “ Sorin Hall,” was laid. This structure is to be four stories in height, with ground dimensions of 135 x 106 feet. It is designed solely for the use of the students of the higher University classes. In the front of the building there will be three gables, at each corner an ornate round turret, and a gable in the centre of the other three sides. The court in the centre will be 60x30 feet. In addition to over a hundred private apartments, there will be in it an exquisite little chapel and several large and commodious lecture rooms. All who have inspected the plan are unanimous in asserting that, when finished, it will be by all odds the handsomest of the University buildings.
At precisely 12 o’clock the students, Faculty and guests filed into the gorgeously decorated refectories and sat down to a banquet that might have been prepared by a Delmonico. When, at length, satiety reigned supreme the toasts were read and responded to. Father General Sorin spoke on “ Leo XIII,” while the Rev. Vice-President of the University, Father Zahm, responded in glowing words to “The Founder of Notre Dame.” Col. William Hoynes discoursed eloquently on “ Our Country,” and Mr. Philip Brownson, of the Class of ’88, made a stirring and graceful response to the toast “ Our Alma Mater''
A competitive drill between Companies A and B, of the Hoynes’ Light Guards, was one of the features of the day’s exercises. Company A is composed of Seniors, • under the command of Capt. Cusack, while Company B, captained by George Craig, is made up wholly of Juniors. As may be surmised, a spirit of rivalry—just enough to lend interest and incentive to the competitive trial-lurked in the bosoms of the contesting companies and their admirers. Want of space will not permit us to go into detail. Suffice it to say, however, that not a few complex and exceedingly difficult movements were gone through with an ease and gracefulness seldom, if ever, seen outside of regulars. Both companies reflected in a highly creditable manner the careful training of their captains. To Company B, however, the judges allotted the palm of victory, and so they bore away the beautiful prize flag, under a heavy fire of tumultuous plaudits from the delighted Juniors. -
A match game of baseball was the next thing on the programme, but the rain which had been threatening all day now fell in torrents, so that the game was necessarily postponed. Solemn Vespers and Benediction formed a fitting close to what will ever be known as a red-letter day in the annals at Notre Dame.
Monday, the 28th, was devoted by the students to ath- ' letic sports and recreations. Among the most interesting* may be' mentioned the regatta, which took place' in the morning. The contestant's. in the regatta were the Minnehaha, captained by Philip VD. Brownson, and the Evangeline, under the captaincy of Henry Luhn. The • crews, consisting each of six oarsmen and a coxswain, were pretty evenly matched, as was evidenced by their close and exciting race over the mile course. The race was won by the Evangeline, having reached the buoys a boat length and a half ahead of the Minnehaha.
St. Mail's’ flsademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Children of Mary showed great kindness in rendering assistance in the preparation of the various shrines on Corpus Christi.
—The examinations in Music are in progress. The classes in Theoretical Music were visited last week by the Directress of the music department.
—A letter from Miss Catherine Heffron, who was called home lately by her mother’s illness, brings the welcome intelligence that her mother is recovering.
—The class in Mental Philosophy, was examined, on the 31st ult., in presence of Very Rev. Father General, Fathers Fitte and Saulnier. All showed careful study and a depth of thought not often found in young ladies.
—A box of fine mineral specimens from Colorado mines were received lately. Thanks are returned the kind donor, Mr. A. S. Hughes, of Denver, for the valuable addition to the mineralogical collection of the museum.
—The Graduates were favored by Very Rev. Father General in a special manner on Monday last; for they had the pleasure of a delightful ride-in his new and elegant carriage. All appreciated Father's kind thoughtfulness.
—The Juniors enjoyed an ice-cream treat under rather trying circumstances at Mt. Carmel on Friday last; for just as the pleasure was at its height, rain and thunder made it desirable to seek other shelter than a summer-house.
—There is so much to be said between now and Commencement day, that some of the young ladies are striving to facilitate means of expression by adding Volapuk to their acquirements. As in the Meisterschaft system, repetition seems to be the means of success, so in the acquisition of Volapuk, its devotees seem to be partial to a few appropriate sentences. Among them, per- " haps, there , is none rendered with such heartstirring pathos as—“Eseilon binos ofen gudi-kum ka epukon,” a fact sadly realized by many an after-supper culprit.
—The exercises for the closing of May will long.be remembered by those who witnessed them. The crowning of the Blessed Virgin im-mediately after the procession in honor of Our Lady is a special and beautiful feature of this occasion at. St. Mary’s. The Children of Mary showed: a .most edifying regularity during the month, and the close of such a season of devo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	619
tion to Heaven’s Queen was for them a solemn moment. Very Rev. Father General took this occasion to present as a Jubilee offering an elegant Volume compiled in honor of Mary, and commemorative of the Golden Jubilee of our Holy Father Leo XIII. It contains the Magnificat in one hundred and fifty languages, and is indeed a work of art. The dedication, so characteristic of the giver, touched every heart, and enhanced the value of the gift a thousand fold.
—Father Faber pictures to Catholic hearts a Corpus Christi procession; but no ideal could surpass the ceremonies of Sunday last, when the souls of all who participated were bowed in adoration. At four o’clock, just when the afternoon sun bathed the church in all the glory of the tints diffused by the rose window over the altar, was Vespers intoned by Very Rev. Father Corby. After the chanting of the psalms, the procession of the Blessed Sacrament was formed. The order was as follows: the pupils, each society headed by its banner; the Rev. clergy, the visitors and the members of the Community. Slowly wending around the river bank under the shade of the trees, the procession moved until Mount Carmel was reached where the Novitiate altar— a throne of beautv—had been reared for Benediction. Along the path and around the Rosary circle, the lines moved past numerous shrines, the choir rendering sweetest strains, birds and rustling leaves, murmuring waters and soft breezes formingthe accompaniment. The second Benediction was given at the Convent steps, where a beautiful altar had been erected. The soft incense and the odor of flowers, as they fell from the hands of the six white-robed Juniors, were but figures of the prayers ascending to the Throne of the Lamb. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Granger, Corby, Walsh, O’Connell, Zahm, L’Etourneau, Frere, Saulnier, Lauth, Kirsch, Bcerres, French, Regan, and Coleman at-
•	’	’O'.
tended; and at no time has there been a more beautiful and impressive procession than that which marked the Feast of Corpus Christi 1888.
Criticism on “The Exile of Erin.”
Scotland, the land of crag and moor, of rugged mountain and romantic dell, has produced many writers of no little fame, and among its sons of song,Thomas Campbell takes a front rank. Born in Edinburg, and educated in the university of that city, he soon distinguished himself by his brilliant intellect, and at an early age entered upon his literary career of which his poem, „ Pleasures of Hope,” is an evidence. This pro
duction foreshadowed his after success, and showed that he possessed -that talent for lyric poetry which is so prominent a feature of later poems, among which maybe mentioned “ Hohen-linden” and “The Exile of Erin.”
In one of his visits to the continent, he witnessed the battle of Hohenlinden, to which circumstance we owe the fine poem of the same name, alone sufficient to have made him famous. His life was a long one, and well occupied, for he gave to the world many literary productions, all in their own way possessing merit. He died in 1843 at Boulogne, to which place he had gone for his health.
. Among the works of Thomas Campbell, none possess more beauties than “The Exile of Erin,” the subject of our criticism. It is written in stanzas of eight lines each, and the meter consists principally of mixed iambic and anapestic tetrameters, with an occasional hypercatalectic line. The first four lines-of each stanza rhyme alternately, while in the three following lines there is but one rhyme; the last line, with two exceptions, rhyming with the second and fourth. -The entire poem is classed under the lyric, in which style of poetry the author achieved his greatest success. Though the bright star of Campbell’s genius shone in all his writings, and especially in his Jyric poems, in none was its light more brilliant than in “The Exile of Erin,” which seems to mirror the feelings of a deeply sympathetic heart. This is, no doubt, owing to the sentiments inspired by meeting,while abroad, with certain exiles who had taken part in the Irish Rebellion.
He pictures to our imagination, in simple yet beautiful terms,a poor, forlorn exile,wandering in sadness to the sea-shore, whence he beholds the; tossing waves that separate him from his distant and beloved land; while the star that faintly glimmers in the twilight sky now rises over his own Emerald Isle, all uniting to make his sad heart heavier. In these stanzas the author seems to consider the pathetic nature of the subject a guarantee of success; hence little recourse is had to ornament; but we find expressed, therein all that the most noble, brave, and devoted heart could feel for his native country. The author makes the lines more impressive bycausing the exile to speak first of the home that had known the presence of his forefathers, but this is now shattered, and, a stranger in strange lands, he muses on his.own sad fate, deprived oE that which even the wolf and deer possess—a home. That the exile’s thoughts are ever on -his beloved country is evident, when'he says:	•
“ In dreams 1 revisit thy sea-beaten shore,” ’	’
620
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
however, only to awaken to the bitter reality of finding' himself surrounded bvthe strange faces and scenes of a “ far, foreign land.” As he ponders on lost happiness, he seems to behold the cabin ' in the wildwood and vainly asks for father, sister, and brother; for the mother that guarded his childhood years, and lastly the “bosom friend, dearer than all”; finally coming to the conclusion that though his tears should fall as thicklv as the drops of rain, it would avail nothing to recall the rapture of the past. Thus, through the whole poem does he speak of his loss of home, parents, friends, and beautiful land which he calls the “Isle of the ocean.” But most touching of all is the blessing which he bestows on his country with all the solemnity of a dying benediction:
“Erin,an exile bequeaths thee his blessing;
Land of my forefathers, Erin go bragh!
Buried and cold, when my heart stills her motion, Green be thy fields, sweetest isle of the ocean!
And thy harp-striking bards sing aloud with devotion, Erin mavourneen! Erin go bragh!”
. If there be a fault in the poem, it lies in the irregularity of the rhyme; but this is lost sight of in the beauty of the whole; for Campbell has combined in this short composition tender feeling, great expression, and all that could awaken the sympathy of any heart, no matter how cold. The merit of this poem has done much in establishing the fame of its author as a most patheticand excellent poet. Fewmen who claim Ireland as their native land are not familiar with these most touching stanzas; and whether in the wilds of Australia, or on the western slopes of the Rockies, or in the cold regions of the North; its pathetic words will strike a responsive chord in each heart. *
Nora Meehan,
- Second Senior Class.
Roll of Honor. .
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AM I ABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF -	RULES.	-
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
. Par Excellence—Misses Andree, Arnold, Bub, Brewer, Burton, Beschameng, Bates, Blacklock, Belfield, Bogner, Carmi en, Clifford, Conners, E. Coll, Compagne, Calkins, H. Dempsey, C. .Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, Daube, Dority, English, Early, Flannery, Fitzpatrick,/Fenton, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, M. Horner, I. Horner,.-Henke, Hinz, Harlen, C. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, M.. Hutchinson, Hooker, Johnson,, Kearns, Kohler, Keyes', Lilley, M. F. . Murphy, L. Meehan, N. McCarthy, McEwen, McNamara, C. McCarthy,: Marsh, ^Moran, C. McFadden,. Mitchel, : Marley, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, Neff,, O’Brien, Priid-:	homme, Piper, Papin, Ouealey,' G. Regan, Rend,' Ried-
inger, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Snowhook, Sul
livan, Stadtler, Saviers, Sloman, Smith, Spier, Stude-.baker, M. Voechting, B. Voechting, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Webb, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Balch, Blaine, Burdick, Butler, M. Burns, E. Burns, Campbell, Crane, Churchill, Davis, Dempsey, Dolan, Dreyer, Eby, Farwell, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Llagus, Hull, Hughes, Knauer, Kloth, Lewis, Lauth, Mercer, Miller, McCune, Morse, Newman, G. Papin, Ouealey, Reed, Rinehart, Rose, Roger's, Stapleton, Smith, Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns, A. Papin, Reeves, Smith, Palmer, O’Mara.
{From the “Salt Lake Tribune^ May 28.)	-
St. Mary’s Academy, Salt Lake City.
St. Alary’s Academy is a glorified place now. The ample grounds around the buildings' extend from First West Temple street 30 rods deep. The trees have grown until the whole place is a mingled park and bower, in which benches, arbors, summer-houses and nooks are interspersed, while walks and lawns and all the attachments are kept in perfect order by the faithful women who have devoted their lives to the work without any reward except the warrants which are drawn on eternity. The outward attachments are but symbols of what may be expected within. There are.over one hundred and fifty boarders in the school beside many day scholars. The peace and gentleness of the outside pervades the place everywhere. All is modesty, gentleness and politeness, from the pupil just ready to graduate down to the little waifs that, fatherless, motherless and homeless, were' tossed out upon the world to find within those precincts a home and hearts so loving that the stings of orphanage are all taken away.
A Tribune representative took a look around the Academy a few days since. One of the features which arrested his attention was the thoroughness of the work going on there in the fundamental educational branches, and also in sewing, repairing, darning, etc. Examination day is coming soon, and very many of the Misses will appear on that occasion in dresses made by their own hands. And they will be worth more than Worth’s. Music is an especial feature of the school. All who have a natural aptitude for'music are being trained. Vocal music is taught thoroughly, while the variety of instruments on which instruction is given includes the piano, harp, violin and several others. In the fine Art Department some of the work is most exquisite. Besides the usual varieties of paintings and drawing, the art of'hand painting and Jixing delicate porcelain is carried up to a point approaching perfection. The life work of the patient women in charge of the educational department is education. They are thoroughly fitted for their work, and some.of them are natural geniuses in their particular spheres. The underlying thought is that when children are placed in their care, they must, so far as is in their power, fit them to become perfect women.
. This includes the training of their intellects in the mysteries of the.books and, at.the same time, giving their -minds and hearts, their, hands and eyes, the discipline which will prepare them for the duties which await them. The school is just a great, beautiful home. The summer sheds .its-comforts without; within, the buildings are heated by steam, made bright by flowers and singing birds, and fitted with all rhpdern conveniences, while an atmosphere of affection pervades the.place,like a benediction.