The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
October 5, 1934
No. 3
FRANCIS J. SHEED TO LECTURE HERE SOON
TEXAS LONGHORNS HERE FOR OPENER TOMORROW AS IRISH START 46TH YEAR
Dr. Francis J. Sheed, noted publisher and prominent member of England’s Catholic Evidence Guild, will return to Notre Dame soon, to deliver a lecture in Washington Hall. The lecture’s subject, not yet determined, will be announced later.
Dr. Sheed spoke at Notre Dame on two occasions last fall, his first lecture on “The Catholic Evidence League” being delivered on Nov. 19, his second on “The Modern Idea of God” being given the following evening. Both lectures were well received.
Founder of Guild
As one of the founders of the Catholic Guild in England, Mr. Sheed has explained Catholic doctrine to crowds of uninterested or merely curious non-believers in hundreds of open air speeches. Of necessity he has become an interesting public speaker. In this connection the Commonweal says of him, “Personally he is one of the most prominent lay leaders of English Catholic Action. . . In that group he is a foremost organizer, and a most successful public speaker.”
Such famous authors as Belloc, Chesterton, Ronald Knox, Maritain, and Christopher Dawson have written works to be published by the firm of Sheed and Ward. Mr. Sheed, an Australian of Irish parentage, is a partner in this progressive publishing company along with his wife the former Maisie Ward.
In addition to being a very successful publisher, Mr. Sheed is also an author, translator, and philosopher of some merit.
PEP MEETING
The Texas game pep meeting will be held in the gymnasium at 6:00 tonight. Supper will be at 5:30. Pep meeting speakers include Father O’Hara, Elmer Layden, Jack Chevigney and Paul Host.
Jack Chevigny, Author of “This One is for the
Gipper,” Pilots Texas Team
This is not for the Gipper.
Students To Get Purdue Tickets in Main Building
Tickets for the Purdue game will be procured at the ticket office located in the Main building beginning at two o’clock on the assigned days. Students must present athletic books to receive tickets. Seniors will get their tickets on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores on Wednesday, and freshmen on Thursday. The time (2 to 5) must be observed if tickets are to be had.
TEXANS TO ARRIVE TODAY
Special 1
Following the Texas team will be a large delegation of Longhorn students and rooters, as well as the 70 piece University of Texas band with its famous interpretation of “The Eyes of Texas Are Upon You.”
By James McMullen
Out of the far southwest comes our own Jack Chevigny with his rambling Longhorns of Texas University, all set to test and re-test Elmer Layden’s “New Deal” edition of Fighting Irish. And the entire football world waits and wonders.
The game tomorrow will not be an opener for the Texans, their club is battle tried, and by battle proven, and highly confident. Two weeks ago in their opener with the Matadors of Texas Tech, Co-Captain “Bullet Johnny” Hilliard led his underdog Longhorns to a smashing 12-6 victory.
Last week they demolished their frosh in the annual yearling-varsity game and led Texan experts to hail them as “the leading representative of the southwest to the lair of the Fighting Irish.”
Coaches are Noncommittal
The opposing coaches on the whole have been non - committal. Layden and his three assistants express pessimism if anything while Chevigny, in a few guarded words, was optimistic. It would mean a lot for Jack and his Notre Dame All-American assistant, Tim Moynihan, to defeat their old alma mater, but the outcome of the first shuffle in Layden’s new (Continued on Page 13)
The Scholastic
One

Three Hundred Italian Students Visit Campus on Tour of Country
FR. O’HARA GUEST AT SOUTH BEND BANQUET
VISITORS ADMIRE CAMPUS
By Joseph A. Bucci
Two years ago the late Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., was the recipient of the Insignia of the Royal Crown of Italy. Last year at this time, the world - famous Italian inventor, Guglielmo Marconi, was awarded an honorary degree in sci-
John J. Busichio His grin won them.
ence by the University. Last Sunday, Italians again had their day. The University campus rang with Fascist and collegiate cheers when 300 Italian university students, making a three-week tour of leading American universities, stopped here to observe student life and academic customs at Notre Dame.
The delegation was greeted at the entrance to the campus by the University Band playing the Victory March and a reception committee consisting of Italian Club members, headed by Professors Joseph J. Casa-santa and Pasquale M. Pirchio, of the Notre Dame faculty, and John J. Busichio, president of the Italian Club. Arrayed in red, blue, green, and black coats, the visitors presented a colorful picture as they proceeded to Sacred Heart church. Here, at 11:30 a.m., a special Mass was celebrated in their honor with the Rev. Edward R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., officiating. A sermon of welcome was delivered in Italian by the Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.
Following a visit to the Grotto, the Fascist students inspected the Wightman galleries where they viewed with interest the Dante collection and examples of Italian art interpreted by Professor Emil Jacques, of the Department of Fine Arts.
The Notre Dame student body and the Italian students exchanged cheers and songs as the latter approached the Dining Halls. The touring party responded to the local rah-rahing with the Fascist yell accompanied by the familiar Fascist salute.
Speaking at luncheon in the University Dining Halls, Doctor Antonio (Continued on Page 16)
Two	-
WSBT Establishes Radio
Station on N. D. Campus As
Outlet For Local Programs
Radio station WSBT has installed a broadcasting station in the Engineering Building. The studio will be used from time to time to broadcast University events of varied nature. The new studio is located in room 307 in the Engineering Building. It is a rather large room equipped with seats to accommodate those participating in the broadcasts. It was used for the first time last Sunday when the Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., broadcast a program in conjunction with the Moreau Choir.
The studio is wired with outlets to the Main building, Gymnasium and Washington hall from which programs may be broadcast through the WSBT studios in South Bend.
The management of station WSBT plans to give the University some time on the air each week. Programs such as pep-sessions and lectures ■will be broadcast from the gymnasium and Washington hall respectively. It is planned to broadcast class-room lectures of special interest direct from the class rooms.
Programs of great importance will be broadcast on a nation-wide hookup over the Columbia Broadcasting System.
Rev. E. P. Burke Announces Movie List for October
Motion pictures to be presented in Washington Hall for the month of October are as follows:
Oct. 6—“Death Takes A Holiday” —Fredric March and Evelyn Venable.
Oct. 12—“You’re Telling Me”— W. C. Fields. (Before Founder’s Day).
Oct. 13—-“Melody In Spring”— Lanny Ross and Ann Sothern.
Oct. 20—“Come On Marines”— Richard Arlen and Ida Lupino.
Oct. 27—“Stand Up And Cheer” —Warner Baxter and Madge Evans.
Two evening showings of each film will be made, one at 6:40 and the other between 8:15 and 8:30, depending upon the running time of the first program.
The Reverend Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., stated that movie selections, this year, will be taken from both the Recommended and the Acceptable divisions of Catholic Decency listings.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., will be the guest of honor at a testimonial dinner tendered him by the South Bend Chamber of Commerce on Octobei- 15, at the Oliver Hotel.
Mr. Meri Thorp, editor of Nation’s Business, a nationally known business organ published in Washington, D. C., is the guest speaker. Mr. Herbert Sharlock, president of the Chamber of Commerce, will be toastmaster. Governor Paul V. McNutt, leading industrialists of South Bend, presidents of all colleges in Indiana and other notables have been invited to attend.
The banquet inaugurates a new policy of the Chamber of Commerce whe??eby every new Notre Dame administration will be honored by a testimonial dinner, according to Mr. George Firmin, secretary of the Chamber. Administrations change every three or six years.
Prominent guests to be Present
The dinner will be given at 6:30 p.m., in the main banquet hall of the hotel and is open to the general public. The price is $2.50 per plate.
Among the invited guests are Judge T. W. Slick, U. S. district judge; the Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross; the Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation; the University of Notre Dame executive staff, including the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, Robert Riordan, registrar, the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, Kenneth Oliver, secretary, Francis Lloyd, comptroller, Brother Engelbert, C.S.C., treasurer, the Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, the Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering, the Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, Thomas Konop, dean of the College of Law, and James McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce.
Other guests are the presidents of the colleges in Indiana, including G. Bromley Oxnam, De Pauw, William C. Dennis, Earlham, Earl E. Harper, Evansville, William G. Spencer, Franklin, Sanford C. Yoder, Goshen, Albert G. Parker, Hanover, Harold C. Mason, Huntington, I. J. Good, Indiana Central, William L. Bryan, Indiana U., William F. McConn, Marion, W. P. Dearing, Oakland City, ’Edward C. Elliot, Purdue, Donald P. Prentice, Rose Polytechnic, Robert L. Stuart, Taylor, O. C. Kreinheder, Valparaiso, L. B. Hopkins, Wabash.
The Scholastic
TAILOR MISCHKER NARKS Father O’Hara Makes Inspiring THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR HERE Sermon Over Ghurch of the Air
By Joseph A. Bucci
In the small obscure shop directly above the candy store, one of the oldest campus figures last week celebrated his 38th anniversary of service to the University. He is John F. Mischker, head of the community tailoring department.
Outfitting the priests and brothers of the Holy Cross Community with robes and cassocks has been the diminutive tailor’s principal work although until four years ago, he had handled student trade which he was forced to abandon because of the increase of work involved by the growing community.
Born in Danzig, Germany in 1875, Mr. Mischker migrated with his parents to the United States in 1883, making his home in South Bend. Here, at the age of 14 he started in the tailoring trade, the occupation of both his father and grandfather. In 1896, he was engaged at the University under Brother Augustus, C.S.C., who was then head of the tailoring department.
Thirteen years later, Mr. Mischker succeeded James Fenton, the first lay manager of the tailoring shop. He was installed in his present position by the Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., at that time Provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation and who had previously been president of the University.
An enthusiastic follower of Notre Dame dramatics, this affable old tailor recalls the days when the Rev. William A. Moloney, C.S.C., was the leading figure in local Thespian circles. With the possible exception of Mr. Francis X. Ackerman, head of the department of mechanical drawing, John F. Mischker has been at Notre Dame longer than any other individual.
Metropolitan Club
The Metropolitan Club of New York will inaugurate its campus social program Sunday, October 7, when, in conjunction with the New Jersey and Connecticut Clubs, it will hold a Communion breakfast in the Faculty Dining Hall. Mass is at eight o’clock and breakfast at nine.
Included among the speakers for the breakfast are the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and Coach Elmer Layden. Tickets are forty cents, and may be procured from hall representatives.
The Metropolitan Club is planning an extensive social and athletic program for the year in an effort to create better intraclub and interclub feeling.
Jerry Foley and Howard
Barrett Will Lead Cheers At Texas Game Tomorrow
After a long series of trials which included appearances before the Freshmen convocations, the men who are to lead the cheers at the Texas game were selected this week. Jerry Foley and Howard Barnett will alternate at the head cheerleading position with Andy Hufnagel, Bob Seigfried and either Red McAlpine, Joe Quinn, or Tony Bayot rounding out the squad.
These men were selected at the final trial held Wednesday evening. A peculiar accident marred the occasion when Walt Nienaber, another candidate, slipped while attempting a flip and broke his wrist.
Knights of Columbus Plan State-Wide Drive
The Knights of Columbus throughout the state have joined together in a state-wide drive for funds for the Gibault Home. Mr. Timothy Galvin, president of the Notre Dame Alumni, and a supreme director of the K. of C., is in charge of this enormous undertaking.
The Gibault Home was taken over Sept. 1 of this year by the Holy Cross order of Notre Dame, when the former management had run somewhat of a deficit. A brother of Holy Cross is now in charge, and a chaplain, also a member of the order, is resident there. All the councils in the state, including Notre Dame, are co-operating, and thus Notre Dame contributes both funds and men.
The Gibault Home is a school for wayward and delinquent boys, and the Knights in the state have a most active interest in the institution. It is hoped that the results of the drive will do much to wipe the deficit off the books.
Economics Seminar
A meeting of the Economics Seminar will be held Oct. 16, Tuesday at 6:30 in the Law Building. The officers for this year are John Corrigan, president and Richard Balliet, secretary, the latter named will read a pper entitled, “Johnson’s Career in the NRA.”
To be eligible for membership in the Economics Seminar a student must be an economics major, have an average of 85 percent, and be approved as a member by the moderators of the club, namely, Professor William Downey and the Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C.
BROADCASTS FROM N. D.
The complete text of Father O’Hara’s sermon will be found on page 5.
By Clifford F. Brown
To initiate the completion of the new broadcasting studio in the Engineering building, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, gave an inspired radio ad-
Rev. John F. O’Hara
The nation heard him.
dress Sunday, Sept. 30 at 11:00 aan. It featured the Church of the Air program broadcast regularly over the Columbia network.
The points of Father O’Hara’s address were the criticism of modem literature, an appeal for spiritual leadership, and a call upon Catholics to heed the dictates of the Catholic church during the present national readjustment.
After touching on the political and economic problems of the world at large, Father O’Hara turned to the spiritual and moral evils that have sprung up both during the years of prosperity and subsequent years of depression.
He declared that religion must be . a solvent for the national greed, that a National Recovery Act, for example might establish a mininmum wage but that an army of enforcement boards could not remove the selfishness which made such an act necessary. He continued: “Only religion can do that effectively, only a life ordered on supernatural principles, for experience has shown the inadequacy
(Continued on Page 7)
October 5, 1934
Three
MAMMOTH PURDUE PEP MEET PLANNED BY B.C.
The Blue Circle announced this week that the Purdue game has been selected as the occasion for the annual campus pep rally.
Elaborate plans for making this the biggest event of its kind in years have been drawn up by the Blue Circle. This year, for the first time, a cup emblematic of the championship, will go to the hall which, in the opinion of the judges, gathers the biggest woodpile and displays the cleverest decorations.
Complete details regarding the rally will be posted in a few days by the Blue Circle. The different halls will stack their wood in the rear of the buildings and the various piles will be judged by the Blue Circle at 4 o’clock, Thursday afternoon, Oct. 11. This will leave plenty of time for the separate woodpiles to be collected in front of the stadium for the monster bonfire Friday evening. The matter of decorations is being left entirely up to the ingenuity of the residents in each hall.
Monster Bon-fire Rally
The climax of the week’s rally will come qn Friday night when the student body, augmented by a large pregame crowd will gather to follow the band around the campus and over to the bonfire. Night prayers will be at 7 and starting at 7:15 the band ■will lead the march from hall to hall where the decorations and stunts put on by the residents of each will be judged. Picking up the delegations of each hall visited, the band will then march over in front of the stadium where the bonfire will be lighted to the cries of “Beat Purdue.” An amplifying system will be installed to enable the speakers of the evening to reach all of the huge crowd expected.
The last bonfire-rally here at Notre Dame was held before the Northwestern game in 1932 so that the present sophomores and freshmen have yet to •witness an event of this kind. .
New Blue Circle Men .
Thle Blue Circle will supervise all phases of the program. Chairman Bill Miller announced this week the appointments of Wally O’Brien to the vice-chairmanship, and of John Clark to the secretaryship of the organization. John Neeson will have charge of arranging for the speakers at the Purdue rally. The following men have this week received honorary memberships in the Blue Circle:
Dominic Vairo, captain of football; John Jordan, captain of basketball; Vince Murphy, captain of track; Louis Dunn, captain of baseball; Geo. Demetrio, head football manager.
four
PROF. J. CASASANTA SEES A PROSPEROUS YEAR FOR MUSICIANS
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the University Department of Music, is wearing a big smile. His three musical organizations — Band, Glee Club, and Collegians are rounding into fine shape in spite of the fact
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta He wears a big smile.
that only three weeks of practice have been had by each group.
“The band is coming along nicely 1” he said the other day. When the Blue and Gold bandsmen march out on the field next Saturday for the Texas game they null present an eight bass front backed by brass and wind instruments selected and trained by Prof. Casasanta to produce the harmony of tone necessary for the proper rendition of the stirring music. Another reason for his joy was the acquisition of two fine kettle-drums. These tympani will aid the band considerably in its many concerts during the school year.
The quest for new talent to fill the Glee Club ranks diminished by graduation last June, has evidently been very satisfactory. Prof. Casasanta brought to a close, last Saturday, the period for tryouts and has announced that individual quartet tryouts will be held very shortly. As in the past, the Glee Club will have a special section of seats directly behind the Band at all home football games. This plan was inaugurated by Mr. Casasanta for the purpose of stimulating organized singing and cheering among the students.
With expectations of a busy year, the Collegians, campus exponents of modern music, have been practicing every day. Last week they entertained at a dance in the school hall of St. Joseph’s parish and on Sunday evening, Oct. 14, they are scheduled t o furnish the music for a social gathering in St. Hedwige’s parish, South Bend.
Barber Shop
The Barber shop will be closed during football season from the time the game starts until it is over. We will be open till 7:30 p.m. on these days.
WALKER STARTS TAKING PICTURES FOR ’35 DONE
Photographers for the 1934-35 Dome started taking the individual pictures of the Junior class last Tuesday. The Juniors have responded more quickly this year than usual, and Editor John Walker is gratified with the cooperation shown thus far. Those Juniors who have not as yet had their photographs taken will be given an opportunity to do so this coming week. Notices will be posted Sunday announcing the date and time.
All individual portraits •will be taken in the basement of Walsh hall, and a fee of 50 cents must be paid before the sitting is made. It is required that all students wear a coat and tie for the class photographs. Two pictures are taken and within a few days, the student is allowed to select the proof which will be used for the Dome.
Vittorio Arcadi and other staff photographers secured some excellent snapshots of the activities over the past week-end. Pictures were taken of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, as he broadcast from the Engineering building, Sunday noon. A pictorial record was also made of the many phases of the Italian students’ visit to the campus Sunday morning.
Father Boland Speaks At .
Villagers Club Meeting
The Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, was guest speaker at a Villagers Club meeting held in the Morningside Hotel dining room in South Bend last Monday night. During his’ short talk, Father Boland made a number of suggestions which he hoped the club might follow in their activities for the coming year.
‘T feel,” he said, “that the Villagers Club is the closest bond that can exist between Notre Dame and the city of South Bend...... You gentlemen are part of this city and also an intimate part of Notre Dame. There is a really fine work for you to do in keeping up the friendly spirit between them.”
Urging greater activity on the Villagers part, he continued. “I can see no use or reason for a club’s existence for mere social purposes. . . . I would like to suggest a closer cooperation between the Villagers and the S.A.G. this year, for there are numerous activities which the club can engage in with the S.A.C.’s assistance, that will be of real benefit to the University as a whole.”
The Scholastic

COMPLETE TEXT OF FATHER O’HARA’S SERMON
“If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the pit.”—(St. Matthew, 15:14)
In these days we hear a great deal about leadership. The chaos which follows a major social disturbance calls for adjustment to new conditions, and the World War surpassed any previous social disturbance of history. Hence we hear now of political leadership, economic and business leadership, social leadership, and - the like. Any movement for readjustment requires, of course, sound backing. In the present mood of society, democracy holds sway, Hence this backing must be secured by an appeal to the masses. And herein lies a danger, for history shows only too clearly that it is the way of the masses to follow a personality, rather than a principle; a man rather than a platform. A Mussolini, a Hitler, a Stalin, a Calles, bear eloquent witness to this truth.
I will leave to others more wise the discussion of economic and political leadership in the crisis through which we are now passing. My thought is for evils far worse—for the spiritual evils that waxed fat during the wild era between the War and the Depression. My thought is for the spiritual leadership that must prevail if these evils are to be corrected. For behind the War, behind the orgies of the reconstruction period, behind the Depression, runs the common evil of greed, the common spectre of selfishness, the common quest of the individual for .pleasure, possesions, power.
A Practical Solvent
Religion, not law, is the practical solvent of greed. A National Recovery Act, for example, may establish a minimum wage, but not even an army of enforcement boards can remove rhe selfishness that makes such an Act necessary. Only religion can do that effectively, only a life ordered on principles — and on super - natural principles if the effect is to be far-reaching, for experience has shown the inadequacy of natural religion to direct men in all situations of life, or to direct many men in any important situation.
I trust you see the point. Why, then, has religion not done the work it is supposed to do? If religion was on the job, why was there a War? If religion was on the job, why was there the unbalanced distribution of wealth that brought on the Depression?
The answer is simple enough: Religion was not on the job. Religion was inarticulate.
Outside the Catholic Church there was, and there still is, great confusion of thought on major moral problems. Inside the Church, there
October 5, 1934
were many, and there still are many, whose ears have been attuned, not to the voice of Rome but to the trumpets of Babylon. They have followed the advantage of the moment, not tjie ' eternal law of justice, they have become as the heathen and the publican.
Now all this has happened, strangely enough, in a world that is much given to authority; in a world wherein the chief support of an argument is not a logical reasoning pro-ces, but an appeal to the authority of so-and-so; in a world wherein the financial success of a book, for instance, is assured if five people, of whose standards of criticism you know nothing, pronounce it notable; in a land in which a perennially effective advertising device is the so-called “testimonial” of a “star” in some firmament or other.
A Law of Nature
“My people have done two evils,” said the Prophet Jeremias, “They have forsaken Me, the Fountain of Living Waters, and have digged to themselves cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water”—(Jer. 2:13.)
It is a law of nature that man must find in his conscience some justification for his actions. And if in our hearts we find only reproof, it is natural that we should seek justification in some outside authority. In the ancient world, men deified their vices and then paid worship to their custom-made gods. Nowadays, they seek their authority between the covers of a book or magazine.
It is small wonder if Catholics, infected with the spirit of the times, are long on criticism of the Church and short on obedience. In a world ' wherein every fool may speak his mind, where one man’s opinion is held to be as good as another’s, where unsupported opinion is accepted as Gospel provided it appears in a magazine or book, where logic is useless baggage because people mistake impressions for thoughts, it is no trick to fan the smouldering embers of selflove into a merry blaze. Give a man an audience of one—if it be only a simple-minded, adoring wife—and he begins to regard himself as a thinker; let four people hang onto his words and he is ready to run for aiderman. Such a man, as Bishop Spalding once saiad, “mistakes the rustic cackle of the burg for world applause.”
Defence By Axiom
He will defend himself with the axiom of the charlatan that one man’s opinion is as good as another’s, but deep down in his heart he is convinced that his own is just a little
better—and the greater his ignorance the firmer is his conviction and the more willing he is to be quoted.
Perhaps this picture is overdrawn in detail, but I tell you solemnly that in outline it is not. We are a far cry today from the Commandment that came from amidst thunder and lightning on Mt. Sinai: “Honor thy father and thy mother, that it may be well with thee and thou mayest live long on earth.” Disrespect for law has made our name a byword among the nations. It was to the Romans under the impious and dissolute Nero that St. Paul wrote: “He that resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God; and they that resist purchase unto themselves damnation.” (Rom. 5:19). Our Lord accepted the authority of Caiphas, the high priest, even though it was wantonly abused; He recognized Pilate as the lawful governor, although He reminded him: “Thou shouldst have no power over Me were it not given thee from above.” And the world needs St. Paul to come back and tell it again what he told the Hebrews: “Obey your prelates and be subject to them. For they watch as being to render an account of your souls, that they may do this with joy, and not with grief, for this is not expedient for vou.” (Heb. 13:17).	'
Blame Human Nature
Where shall we lay the blame for the disrespect for authority which is so characteristic of our age? Lay it where you please. Blame it on the weakness of human nature, which is ever prone to pride. Lay it on the home, where the bright sayings of children are treasured by fond parents who give their offspring in this way an overweening sense of import-, ance, where the Biblical injunction of correction is overwhelmed by sentiment. Blame it on the school, which acts today on the principle that children must be entertained. Blame it on the law-makers, who juggle with human rights for political expediency. Blame it on the philosophers of individualism.
Historically ,the Reformation must bear its proper share of responsibility for individualism, for it introduced the principle of private interpretation of the Scriptures as the rule of faith. Anyone familiar with history since the Reformation can discern the swing of the pendulum from one extreme to. the other in the political doctrines of Europe for the last 400 years—from the absolutism to democracy, from totalitarianism to communism—can recall the see-saw between the Charleses and Cromwell, (Continued on Page 17)
Five
COACH LAYDEN SPEAKS AT FINAL FROSH MEET
SCHOLASTIC REPORTER INTERVIEWS FR. HAVEY
The series of Freshmen convocations, sponsored by the S.A.C. was brought to a successful conclusion Friday evening, Sept. 28, when Elmer Layden, director of athletics, addressed the first year men assembled in Washington Hall.
Friday’s convocation was the third get-together for the Freshmen, the two other meetings having been held on the previous Monday and Wednesday evenings.
The speakers who addressed the various gatherings included, in addition to Mr. Layden, Tom LaLonde, S.A.C. president, who welcomed the Frosh, the Rev. F. J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, Track Coach John P. Nicholson, Bill Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, who spoke on the work of the Alumni association, and Dom Vairo, captain of the 1934 “Fighting Irish.”
Maestro Joe Casasanta was on hand each evening to play the piano and lead the wavering Freshmen tenors into the strains of the “Victory March” and the “Hike” song.
Prof. Bocskei Addresses
K. of C. Men at Meeting
“Spend your spare time standing in front of Hook’s ... if you want to miss the opportunity to gain an education which Notre Dame gives you,” said Brother Stephen Bocskei in his talk to the Knights of Columbus last Monday night. Mr. Bocskei, speaker of the lecturer’s hour, pointed out the uselessness of wasting time in South Bend when there are so many ways to spend spare time usefully and interestingly on the campus. Mr. Bocskei mentioned that there would be plenty of time to stand on street corners after you get out of Notre Dame, but, since you are here to acquire an education, why not make some effort to do so?
Brother Bocskei was honored by being elected Trustee of the Council. Mr. Bocskei fills the office that was vacated by Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., who is spending the year in Washington, D.C.
Brother Ray Martin, editor of the Santa Maria announced that his magazine will be printed in the University print shop this year. In former years, the Santa Maria has been printed in various shops, and Editor Martin is happy to have this year’s work done on the campus. Work has begun on the Santa Maria, and the magazine will be published during the first week in November.
Six
^®*cibout the camPus
«A young freshman sat gnashing his . teeth and gazing mournfully out of a window on the top floor of the Science building. His thoughts were not on the lecture but on the football
field where he was starting as a freshman manager anxious to carry on for dear old Dan Halpin and New Haven.
This same eagerness remained with this youth throughout his college career and today he is at the top of the managerial pile. Today George T. Demetrio is Notre Dame’s senior football manager. George, however, is not the type to rest on his laurels. He is as eager and as active now as he was three years ago while rushing about the field doing more work— or appearing to do more work—than any three of his competitors.
George’s success at Notre Dame is not the only one in his short life crowded with brilliant activity. The good folks of New Haven are still talking about him. They have reason to. In high school, George was the star end on the football team, center on the basketball team, center on the hockey squad, a sprinter on the track combine and, in his spare time, manager of the golf team. He also claims he worked in a drugstore. This, however, we are inclined to doubt.
Entering Notre Dame, George took up managing on a grand style and delved a bit into the social side of things. He has a great knack of making new friends and keeping the old. Just watch his mail and you will discover that he has many admirers. He receives letters daily from Shoredale, Boston, Denver, and from sundry points north, south, east, and west. His phone calls are innumerable.
This year George lives in 101 Sorin with a fellow called Thompson who claims to be the manager of ushers.
By Vincent A. Gorman, Jr.
It was a small unimposing room in the Mission House. The dim gray light from a single window, facing Sorin, strayed across the clustered rows of books, shelved from squat ceiling to bare, clean floor. A cheery grin from the priest seated behind the busy desk invited us to proceed with | our questioning.
The Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C., is his official title, but to those of us who know him as a friend, after his intimate talks during the second mission, he is — Father Havey. His first concern was for student opinion in regard to the retreat; whether the upperclassmen truly felt they derived benefit from his sermons. He apologized for the hoarseness of his voice hoping that the cold, from which he has been suffering, did not render his । words inaudible.
Encouraged By Students
Then he praised the fine reception accorded his instructions by the students, telling of the encouragement he received from their wholehearted cooperation and spirit. Only after repeated questioning did Father modestly consent to give us this information about himself.
“Born in Indianapolis,” he began, “in Bishop Chartrand’s parish.” After receiving elementary and secondary education he entered Notre Dame in 1916. Four years later he was graduated. “Father Leo L. Ward and Father Connerton were in that class, too,” he remarked.
‘‘Right after graduation I entered ■ the Novitiate and was sent to Rome in Fall of twenty-one.” From that time until 1927 studies for the degrees of Ph.D. and S.T.D. at the Gregorian University occupied his attention. “Father Brennan, Father Hope and I,” he recalled, “were fellow students while in Rome.”
Ordained In 1927	'
“Then, at Easter in twenty-seven, I was ordained by Cardinal Pompilj, Cardinal Vicar of Rome, in the church of St. John Lateran.” Upon returning to America that year Father Havey joined the foreign mission seminary in Washington, D. C. under Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., then superior. While there he taught church history at Holy Cross College.
In March, 1932, we learned, Father Havey returned to Notre Dame as a member of the Mission Band. “Almost four and a half generations of students have come since my time, but the real Notre Dame man hasn’t changed!”
(Continued on" Page 7)
The Scholastic
CASASANTA ANNOUNCES
PERSONNEL OF BAND
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
WRANGLERS TO SPONSOR INTERHALL DEBATING
The personnel of the University band was announced by Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the University department of music, last Tuesday. Presenting an eight bass section the Blue and Gold marching unit will, as in the past, play during the football season and perform various maneuvers during the halves. Following is the list of players:
TRUMPETS—E. Bernard, G. Ball, C. Burger, R. Crockett, W. Ellis, J. Gangwere, P. Guarneri, R. Halbert, M. Moran, B. Kefller, F. Theis, R. Marre, C. Schill, J. Washko, J. Lynch, J. Murphy, H. Miller, G. Kristel, C. Jansky, T. Nanfin, P. Sartoretto, G. Schrop.
CLARINETS—P.: Dougher, E, Zimmers, F. Barbush, J. Boyle, W. Gorgen, A. Huber, F. Marino, H. Tomascho, P. Haalbert, R. Trousdale, R. Smith, J. Shaner. J. Zanoni, W. Boyle, F. Hurley, J. Schwemmer, F. May, W. Mahoney.
TROMBONES—R. Norris, J. MacDonald, E. Wycoff, E. Arnade, J. Cackley, R. Richards, F. Schaeffer, J. Thatcher, H. Theis, G. Smith.
E FLAT HORNS—D. Draper, J. Ley, J. Murphy'.
OBOES—A. Hellmuth, G. Bescanceney. •
TUBAS—G. Vesey, J. Murphy, T. Flynn, A. Davidson, R. Holtz, J. Roach, J. Foy, B. Mclssac.
PICCOLO—J. McNeill
B. FLAT TENOR SAXAPHONES—R. Tin-nes, J. Bordeaux, L. Palumbo, M. Grunen-felder, P. Venderly, T. Gorman, A. Barolet.
E. FLAT ALTO SAXAPHONES—R. Pfeiffer, C. Dohnalek, C. Morris, F. Williamson, D. LeMire.
PERCUSSION—C. Clark, J. Lee, J. Argus, G. Porter, W. Demer, R. LeMire, D. Murphy, D. Murphy, H. Schoberth.
B FLAT BARITONES—L. Boyle, J. Gorman.	-
DRUM MAJOR—Louis Alaman, Thomas Grady (assistant).
RESERVES—R. Deeley, G. Geyer, R. Bugler, F. Gustafson, R. Mazanec, J. Hakes.
FR. HAVEY INTERVIEW
(Continued from Page 6)
For the inspiration of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., “who stimulated our attempts at beauty of form in language,” for the influence of Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., and . Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., “who made us write it right” his gratitude is overwhelming. “The sermons,” he added, “were only a paraphrase of Bishop Chartrand’s teachings.”
But the summers he has spent in E u r o p e — the Tyrol, Italy and France; the extensive reading he has done not only in English, but other languages as well; the brilliancy of his mind and sharpness of his powers of observation together with the valuable experiences he receives from mission after mission, have enhanced that early training. His method of conducting the retreat impressed upon us the sincerity, understanding, and wisdom of Father Havey.
October 5, 1934
Making Sure
Sororities and fraternities at U. of Cal. the other day received a formal announcement of the existence and desire for patronage of a certain orchestra. A thoughtful addenda read: ‘*P. S. If you don’t get this note please notify us immediately.”
Possessing an umbrella is regarded by the natives of French West Africa as a mark of distinction.
Let’s not get personal!
Cheer Up Frosh
Your contemporaries at Santa Clara received this editorial advice: “It is better to be silent and be thought dumb than to speak and remove all doubt.” It’s trite—yet apropos. A freshman at U. of Oklahoma enrolled in the Home Economics school. (A male it was!). Another at U. of Calif., says his name is Fordor Tudor. And at Indiana they boast a direct descendant of “Speak-for-yourself-John” Priscilla Alden in the co-ed group for ’38.
Not all the world is flat, boys, its just this part of it!
Those who exhibit fur-bearing upper-lips may be preparing for winter. They should, however, heed the plight to tvhich wagering mates have put a fourth floor Lyonite. Reaching his room, we hear, requires much agility!
Yes, Mr. Ripley
The momentous problems of how to keep students on the campus and out of taverns etc., has been solved at Wisconsin U. Sale of the 3.2 beverage in their own campus tap room has been sanctioned to the utter dissatisfaction of certain Madison proprietors. What next?
This One’s True Too
Forty - seven qualified seniors at Princeton have entered the new “NoCourse” Class at that U. They will have the opportunity, according to the dean of faculty, to “develop their interests as they see fit” and will be advised in their studies, but not commanded.
We often wondered where they achieved those “air-flow” hair cuts!
' A Scoop?
“Rumors to the effect that Loyola will engage the Notre Dame eleven in 1935 or 1936 are unofficial, but if so, they merited plenty of newspaper space the other day. Lieb denied it, however, to stop any propaganda which may arise.”—Loyolan (L. A.)
Often it seems some people never find out there’s more to life than a swelled head.
The Wranglers held their regular meeting in the auditorium of the Law Building last Tuesday evening, Frank C. Hochreiter presiding pro tem for Arthur Korzeneski.
As the most important factor of
Robert Schmelzle
Will preside at debates.
business Robert Schmelzle, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed chairman of the Interhall debates for this year. The Interhall debating activity is sponsored each year by the Wranglers. Schmelzle, who for the past two years has coached Interhall teams, should prove a capable man for his new position.
It is expected that within the next week the Interhall debate plans will be ready for publication, as the president urged an early season for this activity. The Varsity Debate proposition will again be adopted for the Interhall contests.
Last year two men were selected directly from the finalists in the Interhall tournament for berths on the varsity debate sqvad. They were John Locher and John O’Connor.
FR. O’HARA SPEAKS
(Continued from Base 3)
of natural religion to direct man in any important situation.”
After attacking the modem writers that have attempted to undermine the morals of the nation, Father O’Hara explained the . path of all Catholics must follow: “In other words, we don’t have to wreck our happiness with trial marriages; we don’t have to befoul our minds with bad books; we don’t have to wait until after the election to find out whether birth control, drunkenness or stock-manipulation is a sin.”
Under the direction of Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., the Moreau Seminary choir supplemented the program by their Gregorian chants.
Seven
THOMPSON GIVES FINE READING OF DISRAELI
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
HUGH O’DONNELL, ’94 TALKS TO JOURNALISTS
Disraeli and Downing Street were brought to life again on the campus when Dr. Edward Thompson took the stage in Washington Hall last Tuesday night.
Dr. Thompson, although handicapped by blindness, is a professor and member of the Board of Trustees of the Currie School of Expression at Boston, Mass. He ran through the whole gamut of characters from “Disraeli” in a short series of three dramatizations.
With excellent character delineation he portrayed all the varying roles and interpreted all the dialogue, weaving a colorful and entertaining dramatic tapestry.
Dr. Thompson, who was introduced by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., has built a national reputation as a dramatic reader during the course of his annual platform tours which carry him to the campus of nearly every leading American college.
Immediately after his performance Dr. Thompson left on an extensive tour covering the western universities.
Bookmen Issue Call For Members to Fill Openings
In their second meeting of the current year, The Bookmen selected their library in part. Since there was a diversity of interests to be served, and a large field from which to choose, the debate was in places very spirited. Suggestions of Harry Cozad, and of Roy Scholz were particularly provocative. As the meeting adjourned the faculty adviser had still not been definitely chosen, although most were agreed on one certain man, and are only awaiting his acceptance.
There are two vacancies in the club. Frank Shay, in 307 Walsh Hall, or Howard Cusack, in 241 Alumni Hall, will receive requests for admittance. Freshmen and sophomores are urgently encouraged to submit their names. The requirements for membership are an interest in and a knowledge of contemporary literature.
Most of the business being disposed of, it is hoped that the next meeting will find The Bookmen in full swing. One of the members is to present a paper on literary criticism in America. This will be followed at subsequent meetings by papers on current poetry, the American novel, on particular authors, and on other sundry phases of contemporary literature.
Eight	_
Scene Nautical:
This story is via a correspondent. It seems this youth was in the habit of visiting St. Mary’s of a - Sunday afternoon. On this particular Sunday, he was an hour earlier than usual. Glancing towards Lake Marion, he did see all the brightly - hued canoes occupied by the charming ladies of that school, innocently disporting themselves in their sweet, school-girlish fashion. ‘‘A lovely scene,” he mused, and went into the building.
Emerging from the same building an hour or so later, again did he pass that body of water. But this time an armada of wet and shouting Notre Dame seniors were engaged in a terrific struggle to overcome a small flotilla of canoes manned by underclassmen. All the sweet, young things had retreated to the shore line, from ■whence they cried encouraging advice to their favorite men of the sea. “A still lovelier scene,” he mused, and again went on his way.
Rugged Men of Walsh:
We had occasion the other morning to rise with the sun. Glancing at the clock, which read 5:15) we were interrupted by a trampling on the ground beneath our window. Investigation revealed Walter O’Brien and Louis Grosso, fittingly attired in sweat suits, swinging around the corner- of Walsh and headed in the general direction of the path around the lake, with knees pumping high and arms flaying the thin morning air. The first Back To Health movement of the year.
- Thoughts While Cutting:
The natty grey jackets of the male help. Jack Stanford’s bouncing ball tricks. A word you can put your hand on: Smudge. Kaley’s retorts. The triangle drama in a Sorin tower room. A day in the infirmary. Corby feels neglected. Too many steam shovels. A question that has been making the rounds: Who took the greater chance, Columbus or Lindbergh?
r Suggested Color Scheme
(by John Sagartz)
Monday: Brown trousers, monogram sweater, incidentals.
Tuesday: Blue trousers, monogram sweater, incidentals.
Wednesday: Green trousers, monogram sweater, incidentals.
(From here on start over again at the beginning.)
. Mr. Hugh A. O’Donnell, 30 year-veteran of the newspaper game who has been assistant business manager of the New York Times for 19 of them, spoke informally before a journalism class in the basement of the Notre Dame library last Friday, during which time he discussed Iris own work. . . modern journalistic trends . . and Communistic Russia.
A Notre Dame graduate of ’94 and editor of the Scholastic during the years of ’93 and ’94, Mr. O’Donnell evidenced real interest in the new Notre Dame during an interview after the conclusion of his talk.
Much of the interview’s conversation was dominated by Mr. O’Donnell’s impressions of Communistic Russia, which impressions he had gained while acting as economic delegate to the Russian government for 800 American industrialists a few weeks ago.
Russia Won’t Fight
Some of his observations were startling in their boldness. For instance he declared: “Russia is a nation that will not fight . . . even in self defense. Its leaders would let Japan conquer half of Siberia if it wished to without declaring war, even though the Reds have a marvelously organized army.”
O’Donnell backed up his statement with an explanation. “Russia’s people are in captivity. At present, the government dictates every individual’s activity and prevents growth of criticism and revolt through its spy system. However, high officials fear that in event of a real war with its accompanying confusion, that both the people and the army would look upon the struggle as an opportunity for removing the restraint and supervision of their present government. An authority destroying revolution would be the result.”
In describing Russia itself, Mr. O’Donnell said further: “The Russia of today is like no part of our country or like anything we have ever seen. There are no department stores, no grocery stores, no general supply stores; nothing but government commissaries for food, clothing, etc. In addition there are absolutely no business offices available. Even Duranty, the best newspaper foreign correspondent in Russia has to do his work in a hotel room, and he has been there 13 years.”
When asked about the Russian treatment of strangers, O’Donnell declared that : foreigners are well treated butthoroughly distrusted.
(Continued on Page 20)	■ ,-
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, October 5
October Devotions 5 P. M.; Supper 5:30; Pep meeting 6 P. M., in Gym.; Scholastic meeting after Pep rally, Ave Maria Office; Symphony rehearsal, Washington Hall.
Saturday, October G
Football game, Notre Dame vs. Texas, Stadium, 2 p.m. Movie, “Death Takes a Holiday,” with Frederic March and Evelyn Venable, 6:30 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, October 7
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. Metropolitan, New Jersey, Connecticut clubs, Communion club breakfast. “B” team football game, Buffalo, N. Y. S.A.C. meeting, 10:30 a.m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, October 8
Senior football tickets distributed, ticket office, Main building, 2:00 p.m. Blue Circle meeting, north basement Library, 6:30 p.m. October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, October 9
A.I.E.E. meeting, Engineering bldg. 7:45 p.m. Junior football tickets distributed, Ticket office, Main building, 2:00. October Devotions, Sacred Heart Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 pan. Wranglers meeting, Law building,-6:30 pan. Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Music hall, 6:30 pan.
Wednesday, October 10
Sophomore football tickets distributed, 2:00 p.m. October Devotions, 5:00. Patricians meeting,. Law building 6:30 pan.
Thursday, October 11
Freshman tickets distributed, 2:00. October Devotions, 5:00 pan.
Capital District Club Holds Smoker in Carroll Rec.
The Capitol District Club of New York held their “Smoker” in Carroll recreation room Tuesday night, Oct. 2.
At the request of Jerry Molinari, president of the club, Larry Clark gave an informal talk on his tour through the Southwestern states. In detail he described St. Edward’s University at Austin, Texas, which, he said, is known as “The Notre Dame of the South.”
After the address the members enjoyed cigars and cigarettes which were distributed, and later were served with refreshments.
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Layden and Co.
For the benefit of those who, during the past two weeks, have begun to have their doubts, we might mention that “The Week” is meant to be just that, the week at Notre Dame. And this week seems to belong to Elmer Layden. The main portion of the student body hasn’t really met Layden yet, except for an informal speech or two, and yet they’re all for him. There must be something to a man who can get the crowd on his side by proxy. And there is.
The freshman class knows it because they were in Washington Hall last Friday night. They gave Layden a two minute ovation, and for no particular reason other than that he was Elmer Layden, and they liked him. It wasn’t school spirit, because you’re not going to find an awful lot of • school spirit in two-week freshmen. It was faith in the man, and that’s what the whole student body seems to have —faith in the man. They don’t know what kind of a team he’ll have, but they do know he’ll try, and that’s enough. “The Week” says good luck.
Cheerleader
The head cheerleader problem was mighty acute last week, and unless things have changed materially since then, we stand a good chance of going into the Texas game minus the services of a central bouncing-ball. When last we heard, things had reached the semi - hysterical state where they were asking us. ....
Of course we declined the honor, because we feel certain that somewhere on these vast campi breathes there a soul who would like nothing better than to throw his arms out of place eight or nine times a month. So, if you are he, see the president of any club or other, and he’ll fix you up for a trial blast.	adv.
False Alarm
We followed, lickety-split, the fire engines last week as they went bouncing over the campus paths, looking for a fire that wasn’t. The end of the trail was the gym, where a car had sideswiped a telephone pole, accidentally setting off the alarm. We arrived with the assistant chief, who promptly marched over to the box, unlocked it, and reset the alarm.
With the rest of the engineers, we watched the whole procedure and then stayed behind to conduct our own personal investigation. On the outside of the box it reads, In case of fire, break glass, turn key, pull hook, and so on. What struck us, however, was the rather obvious absence of any glass to break.
Away we went, then, and caught the assistant chief just as he was preparing to go home. “How come,” said we, “no glass, and no key to unlock the door?”
“There’s a key hanging in every hall,” he said evenly. “We took out the glass because the boys were always breaking it and getting us out here for no reason at all.” And there you are.	•
Keep Your Shirt On
Passing the Law courts on one of the warmer September days, we noticed three men. Two were playing tennis; one was digging a trench for the underground wire system. The man digging was not a student, and he wore a heavy work-shirt.
Now, this isn’t a workers-arise-cast - off - thy - shirts agitation, but merely a suggestion that what the workers can take with their shovels, surely the students ought to be able to take with their rackets.
Ties on in the dining hall? We'll shoio ’em we’re men. Shirts off on the tennis courts! Silly.
Transmogrification
The postoffice is slowly losing its hen-house appearance and, we suppose, just , as slowly assuming a new shape—we can’t seem to place it. From the rear it resembles a roadhouse, and from the front it is nothing if not a suburban real estate office. We can only mark time, and pray that it will finally look like what it started out to be, and thereby save us a lot of worry and wrinkling of the brow.
By the way, does anyone know when they’re going to dedicate the thing?
Casualty Note
Dr. McMeel, the new University physician, will be in the infirmary one hour a day and on the football field two hours a day.
Viva!
Three hundred Fascists descended upon us Sunday; 300 Fascists in ten great busses, arrayed in admirals’ hats, medals, and pennants of all colors and description; 300 Fascists snapping cameras, taking movies, and ready to cheer at the raise of an arm.
Although ever impressionable, we disregarded the noise of the crowd, the magnificent gesture of H Duce, the tremendous social significance of the unprecedented visit, and instead went in search of a really vital fact. We found it. The Italians use Boman numerals on their wristwatches.
October 5, 1934
Nine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine ..................Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling..........Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr____________________College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS. II______________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY._________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff JOSEPH A. BUGGI_________________________.News Editor
ROY 0. SCHOLZ_____________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
JOHN W. WALKER___________________.HARRY A. BALDWIN
LOUIS H. HRUBY_______________________FRANK KELLY
CLIFFORD F. BROWN_________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER._______________JOHN J. MORAN
ROBERT L. GROGAN_______________ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL
PHILIP F. WELSH___________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST___________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER_______________JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER_______________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER___________________JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY--------------------Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ^bUesiate $ress
-31934 (Eoliogiolelftigcsf >935 s-HAIXSOH	WISCONSIN
October 5, 1934
FOOTBALL
Tomorrow Notre Dame will open its forty-sixth football season. In a sense, she will be opening a new era in her football history. The last great era was the Rockne era. That was a brilliant era filled with the exploits of Gipp, Crowley, Carideo, Stuhldreher and Layden.
An airplane crashed in the fields of Kansas. The Rockne era was over. Following the death of the great Rockne, there naturally, followed chaos. This is in no sense derogatory of the man who succeeded Rock. The results would have probably been the same regardless of who followed Rockne. The public, the students and even the faculty, had been accustomed to consider Notre Dame teams as almost synonomous with unbeatable teams. They were coached by an unparalleled genius. When that genius died, it was only natural that there should have been some letdown. It was unnatural that any coach should have been able to step in and continue to produce such phenomenal teams. In 1931 we thought that somehow Notre Dame would continue, by merely waving the magic wand of her shift, to chalk up victory after victory over suddenly helpless opponents.
Tonight, on the eve of a new era of Notre Dame football, we know differently. We know now that the struggle is no longer to stay on the pinnacle of the football world. Notre Dame has fallen from there. Her task now is to fight her way back.
Notre Dame starts tomorrow with a new coach, a new team, and a new spirit. For the new coach, Elmer Laayden, and his team The Scholastic has the highest possible regard and a full measure of confidence and support. We feel that we merely echo the sentiment of the student body when we say that we have unlimited
Ten
confidence in Elmer Layden. He has been here only a short while; few students know him personally. And yet, by some magic of association, the glow of his personality has enveloped the campus. Everywhere one hears, “This man Layden, he doesn’t say much but—I think the team will go places.”
That “Go places” symbolizes the new spirit. No longer is it the prevalent attitude that anything but an undefeated season is an unsuccessful season. Rather* there is an almost universal opinion among studuents, faculty, alumni and friends that Notre Dame can lose a game or two and still have a highly successful season.
That is a wholesome attitude. Notre Dame football is too great a thing to have its success measured by a mere record of games won or lost. Notre Dame men like victory—and that is indeed natural for football is a competitive game—but they no longer demand or insist upon it as the sole criterion of success.
This is, in no sense, a premature dirge. The Scholastic would like nothing better than a long succession of victories for Coach Elmer Layden’s first Notre Dame team. We are sure, however, that Notre Dame will not measure the success of that team by a mere column of wins and losses. Both Notre Dame and Notre Dame football are much too big for that.
COTILLION DATE	i
It is a custom of many years standing at Notre Dame ; to hold the Sophomore Cotillion over a football week-end. ; Rumors, apparently very well founded, have reached THE ' SCHOLASTIC office that the officials of this year’s Soph- ! omore class plan to hold their cotillion sometime in Nov-	;
ember. THE SCHOLASTIC believes this would be a	j
very unwise step.	!
The sophomore officials, who seem to favor a Novem- J ber cotillion, argue that unless their dance is placed in . j November, that month will be an exceptionally .dull month	i
at Notre Dame. Under analysis this argument falls com-	l
pletely to pieces. The student football trip, either to Chi-	I
cago, Cleveland, or Pittsburgh, is bound by virtue of the	:
schedule to fall in November. No matter which trip is	'
chosen, there are many who will go to the other games as	J
well. A considerable number of Notre Dame men have ^always made the long trek to New York for the Army game. Thanksgiving calls many students away from the campus. To have the cotillion in November then would not only be placing an additional event in a month already saturated with activity but would also cause an un- i necessary strain on pocketbooks budgeted strictly on a weekly or monthly basis.
The proponents of the November plan also claim the cotillion goers would economize if the dance were dated away from a football week-end as they would not be required to take their guest to the game. This argument appears to be apodictic at first but, when carefully	p
scrutinized, it also crumbles to pieces. For, if the foot-	'
ball game were not included in the cotillion week-end,	;
then certainly some other affair would have to be sub-	1
stituted for it. The only logical replacement would be	j
another dance—of the tea or dinner variety—which in-	f
variably costs in the neighborhood of three or four doll-	'
ars. By special arrangement with the Athletic Association, the cost of taking a cotillion guest to a football game	i
is about two dollars and a half.
The football game has always been an integral part -of the cotillion week-end. There is a glamour about the	i
thing which appeals. Students enjoy showing their guests	:
one of the most colorful phases of Notre Dame life.
.	’	*	i
. October 5, 1934
♦ SPCKTS ♦
RESERVES OPEN YEAR;
PLAY NIAGARA SUNDAY
LISTLESS VARSITY SUBDUES FROSH
IN FIRST PUBLIC APPEARANCE, 28-0
The Notre Dame “B” team will 4 open its season Sunday afternoon in ' Niagara Falls, New York when they I	stack	up against the powerful NiI	agara	University eleven.
;	Bill	Cerney, recently appointed
head coach of the “B” squad will be making his first start in this newly created berth. This is the first year at Notre Dame that the “B” squad has had its own coach. Cerney is well qualified for the post, being a ' member of the varsity football team ;	here in 1923, ’24, ’25. He then served
-V	two years as assistant to Roger Kiley
at Loyola University, Chicago. For the past seven years Cerney has been backfield coach at North Carolina University. Charles Collins was head coach at North Carolina during Bill Cemey’s apprenticeship.
Niagara University promises to give the “hamburghers” all the opposition they are looking for. The York state boys always have a strong lineup. Last Saturday they opened their season by humiliating Buffalo, 27-0.
Some of the players to make the trip have already been selected. They are: Nabicht, Smith, Zoss, D’mora, Hart, Lynch, Megin, McGovern, D’Arcy, Happel, Hinkle, and Schmidt.
4 This is not the complete list, the remaining men will be chosen during the course of the week based on their showing in practice.
The team will leave South Bend Saturday evening at 7:30 p.m., after witnessing the Texas opener in the afternoon. They will leave Niagara Sunday night arriving in South Bend the next morning.
Pop Warner Criticizes The Notre Dame System
Glenn S. (Pop) Warner, former Stanford grid mentor, and present head coach at Temple university, has written for the late issue of The Saturday Evening Post an article on why he believes the Notre Dame system is failing.
■ • . .
In reply to Warner’s comments, Hary Stuhldreher, head coach at Villanova and one of the Four Horsemen, has written an excellent story in the same issue of this magazine.
October 5, 1934
1934 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 6—Texas at Notre Dame.
Oct 13—Purdue at Notre Dame.
Oct 20—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Oct 27—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
Nov. 3—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Nov. 10—Navy at Cleveland.
Nov. 17—Northwestern at Evanston.
Nov. 24—Army at New York.
Dec. 8—So. California at Los Angeles.
One Hundred Report to McGrath at Rifle Meet
Competition looms high for the coming season, as far as the rifle team is concerned, with over 100 candidates reporting to Captain John McGrath in Brownson Recreation last Monday night. Having an unmarred record last year and losing only one man, the club is looking forward to producing a championship team, which will shoot in the Hearst and Intercollegiate matches.
McGrath recently received word that Notre Dame had been made a charter member of the St. Joseph Valley Rifle Association, composed of a number of teams of this section, in which they will participate against the various organizations in team matches.
Jim Byrne and McGrath will attend a meeting Wednesday night in the American Legion Hall to find out definite arrangements pertaining to the schedule, which begins the 14th of October.
An entirely new feature this year is the pistol team, a sub-branch of the rifle club, from which its members will be chosen. During the winter a series of lectures will be given, probably once a week, by army, police and firearms experts who will speak on the various problems of match shooting.
Students are welcome to watch the rifie team in practice sessions at the rifle range in the boat house on the shore of the lake.
MILLNER SCORES ON PASS
By Joseph P. Prendergast.
Coach Elmer Layden’s varsity football squad made their debut to approximately 5000 spectators last Saturday afternoon in the stadium when they defeated Jake Kline’s freshman pupils, 28 to 0.
Bud Bonar
A clear, ringing voice.
Coach Layden started the game with his first string lineup. Bonar, Pilney, Carideo, and Melinkovich made up this starting backfield. It took this quartet exactly four plays to reach the “pay-off” after the opening kickoff. Pilney ran the kickoff back twenty yards to his own 35-yard line, Carideo went over right guard for two, Melinkovich toured left end for seven, and Carideo made a first down through the center of the line to put the ball exactly on the midfield marker.
On the next play Pilney faded back to his 40 yard line and tossed a well timed pass to Millner who gathered it in on the frosh’s 10 and galloped across for the opening score of the fracas. Wayne Millner made his total seven points when he converted the point after.
(Continued on Page 15)
Eleven
Inter hall Season Gets Under Way Sunday; Strong Teams to Compete
FALL TENNIS TOURNEY NEARS ITS COMPLETION
SORIN LOOKS POWERFUL
' By John L. Glanzner
The Interhall football season opens Sunday when 12 teams clash in the first series of games for the interhall championship. Only Badin and Walsh will not compete. Sorin, traditionally indifferent, will have the heaviest eleven. Alumni, with the nucleus of last year’s championship Lyons team, will be favored to cop the title.
The teams are divided into two groups, the winners of which will meet in the Notre Dame stadium to decide the championship. The teams in the first bracket are: Sorin, Lyons, St. Edward’s, Morrissey, Alumni and Corby. In the lower bracket: Howard, Dillon, Brownson, Off-Campus, Carroll and Freshman.
Three hundred men have taken out uniforms and will clash in the opening of the interhall grid season. All the teams have been practicing daily and some smoothly functioning elevens will meet Sunday.
No games will be played on the old oval in Cartier because the gridiron has been freshly sodded.
All work hi coaching and officiating will be done by students majoring in . the department of physical education.
Sundays games—Group 1: Lyons vs. Sorin, Cartier (n), 9:15 a.m.; St. Ed’s. vs. Morrissey, Cartier (s), 9:15 a.m.; Alunmi vs. Corby, Brownson, 9:15 a.m.
Group 2—Howard vs. Dillon, Cartier (n), 2:30 pan.; Brownson vs. Off Campus, Cartier (s), 2:30 p.m.; Carroll vs. Freshman, Brownson, 2:30 p.m.
Frosh Tennis Tournament Uncovers Promising Men
The Freshmen tennis tournament is nearing completion and many skillful players are being discovered. All of the favorites advanced to the quarterfinals but not without a struggle. Rain had delayed the tournament for several days.
The finals will be played Sunday afternoon on the university courts. The seeded players for the tournament are: Joyce, Kilrain, Belanger, Selna, Dubois, McKentry, Jagoda, Brower and Lonstreth.
Joyce displayed a superior court game and a powerful service in advancing to the semifinals by defeating Lonstreth 6-0, 6-3. Brower, a powerful driver, outsteadied Regan to win 6-1, 6-4, and join Joyce in the semifinals. The other quarterfinal matches were delayed because of darkness.
Twelve
New Ball To Receive
Test In Competition;
Experts’ Opinions Vary
Tomorrow’s Texas- Notre Dame game will provide, as far as local football fans are concerned, the proving grounds for the new ball, which has been the topic of much discussion, pro and con.
One thing that seems certain, how-is that the offensive team will be aided by the new sphere. That is, their passing attack, which was originally aided by the new rules governing it, null be benefited to a greater extent by the fact that the new sphere will be easier to grip. Now even the lads whose hands were made foi' the piano will be able to execute passes of the first rank.
There has been much comment as to what the new oval will do to the kicking ability of the punters. Jack Buckler, Army fullback, predicts that every kicker will get off two bad punts a game. On the other hand, Frank Carideo, former Notre Dame All-American and present head coach at Missouri University, has demonstrated differently.
At his coaching school this summer he went into action with the new pigskin and booted it out in the coffin corner time and again just as he had done when wearing an Irish uniform. Most of the other coaches and players choose to wait until the season is under way before passing final judgment.
VARSITY-FROSH
(Continued from Page 11)
The varsity on their next chance at offensive football started a march from the freshmen 45-yard line and solely on straight running plays went down the field until Fred Carideo carried it over from the two yard line for another six points. Millner was again good which made the score now read 14 to 0 in the varsity’s favor, this was about midway in the first quarter.	.
Coach Layden sent a whole new team into the fray at this point of the proceedings. This backfield consisted of Van Wagner at left halfback; Beach, right half; Ronzone, fullback; and Caldwell remaining in the game at quarterback.
This outfit failed to go any place in the touchdown direction. The freshmen bottling up their one scoring opportunity. Another new team made its appearance for the varsity before the half ended but- this club also lacked the scoring punch.
(Continued on Page 15)
After being delayed by an incessant rain for several days, the Upperclass tennis tournament is nearing completion. Only one favorite has been eliminated up to the quarter final round. The championship match will be played Sunday afternoon on the University courts.	■
The winner of this tournament will clash with the winner of the Freshman title for the University title. Defending champion, Bill Fallon, met a tartar in George Wentworth and was carried to three sets before winning, 5-7, 6-2, 6-2. Fallon was unable to solve his opponent’s peculiar style in the opening set, but rallied to win the next two and the match.
The highly touted Ed Buchard had no difficulty in beating O’Boyle, 6-1, 6-0. Buchard’s lazy court game and tantalizing chop strokes bewildered O’Boyle.
Captain Frank Weldon, smashed out a 6-3, 6-0 victory over long Jim Kaufmann. The first set was keenly contested,’ but Weldon’s powerful drives chased the tiring Kaufmann all over the court in the second set, and he won as he pleased.
Jim Waldron had the misfortune to sprain an ankle in his duel with Joyce and had to be carried from the court after they had divided the first two sets.
George Cannon was the only seeded player to fall by the wayside losing to Feeley in three sets, 6-2, 1-6, 6-4, in the closest duel of the tourney. Feeley outdrove the favored Cannon and consistently outsteadied him. It was a duel of stylists.
Specht, seeded eighth, swept Reese ■ off the court with his deep drives and volleys to win 6-2, 6-1.
De Landero Issues Call For Fencing Squad Soon
A general call for candidates for the fencing squad will be issued by Coach Pedro de Landero sometime in the next week. All students interested in this sport are invited to try their skill.
Coach de Landero prophecies a good season as four of last year’s veterans are returning, as well as several prominent sophomore prospects. The returning veterans, C. de Landero (Capt.), H. Grosso, J. Grosso, J. Caresio, and K. Kehoe are all expected to win the majority of their bouts this season as they were among the best last season.
The Scholastic
I
IRISH PROBLEM TEAM FACES TEXAS ELEVEN (Continued from Page 1)
Late Rally Enables Win Day to Cop Fifth Annual Fall Tourney
deal is of supreme importance to thousands.
Tom Conley, after scouting the Longhorns for the Irish, reports a passing eleven superior to Southern Methodist, ace exponents of the overhead attack. To meet this Coach Layden has devoted practice during the past week to pass defense and a counter aerial attack. Blocking, the fundamental weakness of the varsity in the Frosh game has also been stressed. The Green are ready—as ready as three weeks under any coaching can make them. The test under fire will reveal their unknown strength and weaknesses.
Prominent in the Texan lineup will be their all star backfield of Haddock at quarter, Hilliard and Gilbreath halves, and Pitzer, dynamiting fullback. In the line, the Longhorns will present two of the most capable men in the Southern Conferences; CoCaptain Charley Coates “the Waco Dreadnaught,” at center and Joe Smartt veteran guard. Eleven letter men will face the untried Irish.
Notre Dame’s roll call, subject to change at the last minute, will probably find Bonar at quarter, Pilney and Melinkovich halves, and either Carideo or Elser at full. Smith and Schiralli have looked good at the guard posts, Michuta and Sullivan at the tackles, and Millner and Captain Dominic Vairo on the wings. Introduction of the players before the game will receive its inauguration tomorrow.
The stage is set—even to the arrival of a large Texas cheering contingent. Notre Dame waits—the country waits—for the thundering answer of the Blue and Gold!
'Texas Team Left Wednesday Noon For Notre Dame
Wednesday noon Jack Chevigny and his troupe of gridders, bent on destruction, waved a fond farewell to an overflow crowd in an Austin railroad station and started on their way north.
The confident Southerners arrived in Chicago yesterday afternoon and went through their paces at Soldier’s Field in the Windy City. Last night Jack tucked them into their beds in the Auditorium hotel.
Shortly after noon today, Hilliard-Coates and Co. arrived in South Bend from which point they proceeded to the stadium for a final practice session before tomorrow’s tilt. This evening Jack will again do some tucking in—Four Flags hotel in Niles. .
October 5, 1934
La Raza Club Banquets Tonight; Uncertain If It Will Have Team This Year
At its first meeting, Sept. 28, the La Raza club completed plans for its annual banquet to be held at 6:30 tonight at he LaSalle hotel. Vincent Singson, the general chairman, announced that Nestor Gutierrez will act as toastmaster and Jaime Gomez will be the principle speaker of the evening. The newly elected officers are: President, Carlos de Landero; vice - president, Sebastian Bonet; treasurer, Gonzales Valdes; secretary, Enrique Creel.
There is still some doubt whether the LaRaza Soccer team will play any games this fall. Their first practice is scheduled for next Monday, Oct. 8, and after the first few practices they will decide whether to play three or four games this fall. They are anxious to engage in some return games with their opponents of last year.	•
The team will be strengthened by the addition of three members from the Philippine Islands, one member from Texas and one member from Mexico. The team is, however, feeling the loss through graduation of Leo Brias and the Yrribery brothers. Captain Valdes will be unable to play this season because of a knee injury sustained in one of the late games last spring. An acting captain will be elected tonight.
Civic Music Association
To Give Series of-Concerts
The Civic Music association of South Bend offers to the student body of Notre Dame the best in classical . and popular music, in a series of concerts to be held in the Auditorium of Central High school.
Only memberships are to be offered, there are no tickets for the separate concerts. Memberships will be nominal for the class of entertainment offered. Adults, $5; students, $2.50. . Only 50 cents per concert, as there are to be five concerts. These memberships may be obtained from Professor Willard Groom in room 1, Washington Hall, after 9 a. m., Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays.
The schedule of contemplated concerts is: The Minneapolis Symphony, Joseph Levinne, pianist, Artilio Brag-giore, tenor; Gianini, baritone, and the Whitney String Ensemble.
WINS TITLE THIRD TIME
By Robert J. Donahue
Winfield Scott Day of Elmhurst, Illinois, Miami Beach, Florida, and Morrissey Hall Sub last Sunday became the University golf champion for the third consecutive year, and with this third triumph came into permanent possession of the William J. Burke Memorial Cup which is em- • blematic of the title. The trophy bearing the names of past champions Larry Moller and Joe Switzer will no more reside with candy bars, cookies and golf balls in the glass showcase of the clubhouse but will move on to new surroundings to make friends with other golfing prizes collected through the years by Champion Day.
History Repeats Itself
Win’s victory this year was not unlike his triumph in the tournament a year ago when, it will be remembered, he entered the final 36 holes of play trailing the leader, Johnny Banks, by a five stroke margin, only to go on and ultimately win out over the latter by a single stroke. At the beginning of last Saturday’s play Day was in fifth place, ten shots behind the pace-setting Bill Cole, and seemed definitely out of it. Saturday afternoon saw Al Mailhes, a freshman, rush into the lead with a round of 74 while the leader, Bill Cole, slipped to a bad 82. Day in his round shot a fine 75 and moved up into third place, three strokes behind Cole and six strokes behind the leader.
At the end of nine holes on Sunday afternoon Mailhes was still in the lead, but he had had his advantage cut to a single stroke by Day and Cole. At the 17th tee Mailhes, Cole and Day were all tied arid it was at this point word came from the clubhouse that Bill Taylor, another freshman, had finished with a 73 for a total of 307, thus making it necessary for Day’s threesome to play the final two holes in par for a tie.
Both Mailhes and Cole encountered trouble with their putters and took a four and five respectively on the par three 17th while Day was knocking in an eight foot putt for a deuce. On the 18th Win played a safe par five which insured him a one stroke victory; Mailhes got his par which finished him in third place, and Cole three putted for a six and fifth place.
The handicap event run in connection with the University championship was won by Bill Taylor, former Detroit District Junior champion, with a net score of 283. Day finished with 286.	•
Thirteen
INTRO DUC ING
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM OPENS SCHEDULE SOON
By Joseph P. Prendergast
Richard Joseph Pfefferle, monogram winner in 1932 and football tackle superb. “Butch,” as he was christened by his fellow classmen during his freshman year, is from Appleton, Wisconsin; 21 years of age; weighs 195 pounds; and is six feet, two inches in height. He attended Campion Prep in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin. It was here that Dick first came into prominence along the sporting line.
In 1930 Marquette University was holding its annual relay games. In the discus throw of the prep school division was entered Richard Pfefferle of Campion Prep. The favorite in this event was a youth from Milwaukee who had already heaved the disc 129 feet. “Butch” stepped into the circle, discus in hand and made his heave. When the toss was measured a new title holder was crowned. He not only beat all his competitors in the meet but established a new meet record at 131 feet.
This record, incidentally, will stand for some time; Marquette has since discontinued the relays.
Dick played three years of football at Campion, also lending his services to the track team for the same duration of time. During his last two years on the varsity eleven at this school he played both guard and tackle, one defeat is the only stain on the records of these two seasons. The captaincy of the football team was filled by “Butch” in his senior year. Ed Dunn played center .on the team. Both are now listed on the
Notre Dame roster. Jake Sullivan, star of Northwestern’s backfield the past two falls, was also a member of Capt. Pfefferle’s eleven. Jake must have regretted ever leaving “Butch’s” side, for the thud of Dick’s tackle of Jake, his former teammate, in the Northwestern game of ’32 on a kickoff near the end of the first quarter is still heard echoing in the stadium.
When Dick was a sophomore here at Notre Dame in the fall of 1932, he started off the season as the third string left tackle. Mike Leding and Ed Krause outranking him. Coach Anderson sent him into the opening (Continued on Page 18)
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame cross-country team, after a month of hard practice, will begin its fall season in a meet with the Loyola thinlies Oct. 20. The schedule also includes meets with Michigan State Oct. 22, Pittsburgh, Nov. 3, Indiana Nov. 17, and the Central conference meet at East Lansing, Nov. 24. The first two meets are the only ones in which the Irish will be able to face its opponents on home territory.
Injuries Prevalent
Coach Nicholson is not too optimistic about the team this year and while he believes that his men will be able to defeat the Loyola team, the other meets are somewhat doubtful. The team this year consists mainly of inexperienced runners and the loss of three of last season’s star performers, King, Farrell, and Duke will probably be felt greatly. Injuries suffered by two members of the team will also affect the success of the squad. Captain McFarlane will be unable to compete in the initial races because of a bad foot, but it is hoped that he will be able to return to competition in time for the Indiana and Central conference meets. McFarlane is a valuable asset to the team and one of the most consistent runners it has had in some time. John Francis is also absent from practice because of an injury but Nick predicts that he will be in good condition to compete in all of the meets.
Open Meet Oct 18, 19
The team this season is made up of Captain McFarlane, Francis, Gott, O’Rielly, Donovan, and McDevitt. All of these men have shown up well in the daily practice sessions which consist of a five mile jaunt around both * lakes and the golf course. The team has been favored so far this year by ideal weather which has enabled them to practice uninterrupted by the usual fall rains. The squad should therefore be in the best of condition for the Loyola meet.
Coach Nicholson has also announced a fall handicap track meet to be held on Cartier field Oct. 18 and 19. This meet will include all of the regular track events and anyone, regardless of class, is eligible to compete. Awards will be given to those who place in the various events.
The schedule:
Oct. 22—Michigan State.
Nov. 3—Pittsburgh.
Nov. 17—Indiana.
Nov. 24—G. I. C. Meet East Lansing.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
LiNTEDS
FROM TRE
XPRESS BOX
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
TEXAS — NO. 4
The South comes north. Texas invades Notre Dame in the Irish opener tomorrow. The Longhorns will be the fourth southern eleven to help £ open a Notre Dame football season. If past performances are an indication of what the Irish will experience tomorrow, tilings could look much rosier.'
These openers in which the southerners have supplied the opposition have been breathtakers, with one exception. In 1925 Baylor was soundly thumped, 41 to 0. On the other side of the sheet are the Loyola of New Orleans and Southern Methodist games of 1928 and
*	’30, respectively. Loyola gave
Rock’s shaky ’28 machine a scare the equal of which has yet to be seen in an opening contest here with the possible exception of the S.M.U. lid lifter two years later and the history - making Kansas spasm last fall. After a stubborn sixty minutes of play, the New Orleans crew was finally subdued, 12 to 6.
Southern Methodist, whose methodist to pass their way to victory, was the first foe of the Irish in the new stadium. The Mustangs threw so many passes that afternoon that the Irish squad had a case of stiff necks the next day. The annoying part of the attack was that it was so success-• ful it scored 14 points. A Notre Dame score in the final quarter nullified those markers and enabled Rock’s men to slide under the rope just in time, 20 to 14.
Tomorrow Texas promises to be as unmanageable as were Loyola and the Mustangs; and, in all probability, Chevigny’s passes will also be many and bothersome. For an opener the Longhorns should provide a —	mighty interesting afternoon.
v	Other than the expected pass at-
tack, Chevigny has a backfield man, Bohn Hilliard, who can run 1	through a broken field like a
pursued rabbit through a cabbage patch. Layden’s line will be gunning for him and working on the theory that ‘‘you can’t run through a broken field until j	you get there.” But, everything
!	totalled, it looks like this tradi-
-	tion of southern toughness will
>’	stand. A team from the land of
L	sunshine, however, has never
|	beaten an Irish eleven on open-
;	October 5, 1934
ing day and we think the tradition will live in that respect too.
•
WE PICK
The opening predictions netted us 22 wins, one loss, and three ties. This week 43 games are on the list, including Holy Cross, Quirk. WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME over TEXAS
West
Illinois over Washington (Mo.) Ohio State over Indiana Iowa over Northwestern Wisconsin over Marquette Iowa State over Grinnell Tulsa over Kansas Michigan over Michigan State Minnesota over Nebraska Purdue ovei- Rice
East Princeton over Amherst Army over Davidson Brown over Rhode Island Carnegie Tech over Miami Colgate over St. Lawrence Columbia over Yale Cornell over Richmond Dartmouth over Vermont Fordham over Westminster Harvard over Bates Holy Cross over Providence Navy over Virginia Pennsylvania over Ursinus Pittsburgh over West Virginia Syracuse over Clarkson Villanova over Western Maryland Washington and Jefferson over Wooster
South Alabama over Sewanee Arkansas over Texas Christian Tulane over Auburn Duke over Clemson Florida over V.P.I.
Georgia over Furman
Vanderbilt over Georgia Tech
Southern Methodist over Louisiana State Mississippi over Southwestern North Carolina over Tennessee North Carolina State over Wake Forest
Far West California over St. Mary’s Colorado over Missouri Oklahoma over Centenary Stanford over Oregon State Southern California over Washington State
VARSITY-FROSH
(Continued from Page 12)
At the start of the second half, the varsity had another untried eleven in the game. In this backfield were Layden at left half; Hanley, right half; Danbom, fullback; and From-hart, quarterback. This quartet showed more pep and power than any other previous backfield combination in the contest. The result of all this dash and fire was two touchdowns in rapid succession.
Mike Layden accounted for the first one by the neatest bit of ball-carrying exhibited on the gridiron during the entire afternoon. The ball was on the freshmen’s 36-yard chalker through the successful efforts of Hanley and Danbom. From this spot Layden went sidestepping and dodging his
NICK SETS PLANS FOR FALL HANDICAP MEET
Coach John P. Nicholson announced this week that he intends to conclude the most successful fall track campaign of his regime -with a handicap meet on Oct. 19-20. Although little attention is paid to fall track at Notre Dame there was a considerable turnout this year. The pole vault at present is giving Nicholson plenty of trouble as Edwards is the only veteran to return and the freshman team of last year was noticeably weak in that department.
Captain Vince Murphy, the mainstay in the high-jump, expects to undergo an operation on his knee. It is hoped this will enable him to better his jumps of last year. After the football season Nick will have the services of Levicki, in the javelin throw, Elser and Sullivan, in the weights, and Hocter, in the high-jump and the broad-jump.
Leo MacFarlane, captain of the cross country team, and star two-miler of last season, will not be able to participate in the former because of a bad arch, but he expects to be ready to win several points in the indoor track meets.
way until he had crossed the goal line. Fromhart kicked the extra point, making the varsity’s total 21.
The final bit of scoring for the afternoon was made by Dan Hanley who intercepted a pass on his opponent’s 25-yard line and carried it over standing up. Just before the final gun Coach Layden trotted out his number one eleven again but the game was over before they could do much in the way of scoring.
The engagement proved to be just as expected. The varsity won but not but such overwhelming scores as in previous years. Blocking, with a capital “B” will occupy much of the coach’s time this week. The varsity was woefully weak in this department Saturday. Millner’s feat of blocking off two men in the second play of the game when Melinkovich went around his end for seven yards, deserves mention.
Danbom, a sophomore, at fullback looked promising. Dan Hanley, Mike Layden, and George Melinkovich were other bright spots in the drab afternoon. Andy Pilney seems to have arrived. His passing was excellent and his running better timed than last year.
After the completion of the game, Coach Layden scrimmaged his second and third teams for half an hour.
F if teen
On Down The Line
By James McMullen
The Cards had no doubt about it! They met and divided their share of the Series money, while still trailing TERRY’S Brooklyn hatters by one game. ... A Detroit night club wants to hire MICKEY COCHRANE to play a saxophone in its orchestra this winter and is still willing to pay him “a lot more than a thousand a week.” How much is a lot? . . . JOE ZANIN, Temple University end, is helping, to pay his way through college by giving blood transfusions. . . . JACKIE FIELDS, former welterweight champion, is now a technical director on a Hollywood movie lot. . . . W. L. FLAGER, Kansas City golfer, had nine 4’s in a row, while playing the Swope Park course there. . . . Here’s a big one — The municipal museum in Charleston, N. C. has the skeleton of a 90,000 pound whale captured in the harbor in 1880. ... A statue will be erected at the Ascot race track in England to commemorate the seven victories of BROWN JACK and his jockey, STEVE DONOGHUE. . . . 8116,000 was spent to feed 1,000 horses at a recent race meeting, Narragansett Park . . . FRANK SPEARS introduced a new hold in the rasslin’ racket in the corn belt section recently. He was disqualified for rubbing red pepper in HERR MILO STEINB CRN’S eyes .... Gridders train on Mosquitoes! That’s something! FRANK CARIDEO’S outfit down Missouri way, spent the summer carrying equipment to regions infected with the beasts. . . BILL TERRY, Giants manager, believes it is good luck to be the first player to take a drink of water at the end of each inning. . .
SPRINGSTEEL, the Labrot stake horse, destroyed at Rockingham, N. H., early in the summer, is buried in the Rockingham Track infield, a granite tombstone, surrounded by a neat white fence, marking the burial spot. . .A full set of golf clubs, manufactured in 1897, was bought in a Rosslyn, Va., pawn shop recently for two bits a club. . . The mashie has a wooden face and the shaft of the dri-.ver is so whippy that it can be bent double. . . PAUL WANER of the Pirates, pulled a fast one in the last Cub series, when he failed to show up for the last twin bill. Some say— he might have been protecting that National league batting lead. ,. . 26 years ago, COACH SCHMIDT of Ohio State, was teaching a group of girls to trip the light fantastic. . . After COTTON WARBURTON, Southern California’s great quarterback graduates, it’s “cutting” in the movies over pro football, he says.
Sixteen
. . . Reason — more money. . . . BABE RUTH pitched in the longest game in the history of the World Series — a 14-inning affair between the Boston Red Sox and the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1916. . . . Eleven years ago this fall, BROWN beat Boston University, 20 to 3, the losers scoring on a field goal from the toe of one GORDON S. (MICKEY) COCHRANE. . . . 2,100,000 words went out from press headquarters on all the details of the recent America Cup races. . . . One of the last strongholds of the fine old sport of horse fighting is located in Mindaneo, Philippine Island, where two fiery stallions are pitted against each other. . . . The Cincy Reds and Chicago White Sox are in the cellar, but 15 years ago they played in the World Series —don’t forget that! . . .
The greatest news for turf fans in a decade, comes with the announcement of the “Narragansett Special,” Oct. 31. Equipoise, Cavalcade, and Discovery run for 40,000 dollars on that date. . . . CURT DAVIS, Phillies’ pitching ace, didn’t play baseball until he was past his sixteenth birthday. . . . MEL OTT, of the Giants, hit the big time when that old. . . . Open practice for spectators is being observed at Cornell this year for the first time in GIL DOBIE’S 15-year reign there. . . . FRITZ CRISLER, Princeton football coach, names RED GRANGE and the late WALTER ECKERSALL as the greatest backfield men in football history. . . . The four grappling DU-SEKS, Rudy, Emil, Ernie, and Joe, are all better than average pro wrestlers. . . . There are golf courses in England that compel golfers to wear red coats. ... It all started when they were required to warn grazing cattle of the approach of the strange white missiles. . . . Polo was played by the ancient Persians and the sport then traveled to Turkey, to Tibet, to KASHMIR and finally to our own Bengal, where English residents adopted it. . . .
To correct awkwardness in the field, HANK GREENBERG, star Detroit first baseman, took up tap dancing while a student at New York University. . . . FELIX “BETCHA MILLION” ZACZEK, Chicago gam-bier, claims clothes eat up all his profits. . . . There has been at least one postponement because of lack of wind in the America’s Cup series, in every match for the past century. . . . Orders from horsemen to FERNANDO FERNANDEZ, diminutive Cuban jockey, must be given through an interpreter. . . . The little brown boy does not understand English. . . . DICK HARLOW (no relation to JEAN), Western Maryland College
mentor, is one of the most unusual football coaches in the game. Not only did he cut his own salary $2,000, but only recently turned down a lucrative offer from Dartmouth. . . . He says the alumni don’t bother him down thar in Maryland. . . . BILL KLEM, dean of Heydler’s staff of National League umpires, has taken part in sixteen world series. ... Way back on May 27, WILLIAM PARSONS, of Detroit, ordered his world series tickets. The Tiger management returned his cash order. . . . Last Sunday, St. Louis baseball fans presented DIZZY AND DAFFY DEAN with diamond rings. . . . JACK KNOTT, serving as relief hurler, won five games for the Browns by one-run margins. . . . The Chinese army is learning boxing, from the professorial instruction of American “Leather Necks.” . . • The St. Louis Cardinals set the manager shifting record back in 1895, when they had six bosses in the single season. . . . ELON “CHIEF” HOGSETT, of the Detroit Tigers, doesn’t mind his nickname but he agrees with his mother when she said, “There isn’t a drop of Indian blood in him. ...”
ITALIANS VISIT
(Continued from Page 3)
Ferine, acting Italian Consul General who had accompanied the group from Chicago, thanked the University for their hospitality on behalf of the Italian government. The value of Notre Dame in the cultural field is greatly recognized by Italians, he said.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, formally greeted the Italians with a short speech in which he declared that some of the finest features at Notre Dame are attributed to Italian influence. He paid tribute to Italy’s Marconi and recalled that the first wireless experiments were made on the Notre Dame campus. Father O’Hara was presented with a book concerning the history and activities of all Italian universities, together with a certificate of invitation, signed by Fascist leaders, to visit the Italian educational institutions represented in the group. The presentation was made by Signor Giovanni Blanc, an official of the visiting party and author of the Fascist song, “Giovinezza.”
The three hundred visitors boarded their chartered busses for Detroit at 2 p.m., but not before they had expressed their admiration to this reporter for campus life at Notre Dame, particularly its beautiful campus. Accompanying officials included Consul G. Blanc of Rome, director of the group, Michael McGovern, amateur sports and Olympic official, and Dr. Peter M. Riccio, member of the American-Italian University Committee which is sponsoring the trip.
October 5, 1934
• TEXT OF FR. O’HARA S
CHURCH PROGRAM TALK
.	(Continued from Page 5)
5	■
between tlie Louises of France and the Directorate, between Czar Nicholas and the Bolsheviki.
But to go back to its real source we must go all the way to the Garden of Eden. In the story of the fall we see clearly who fathered individualism—the father of lies. When the serpent asked Eve why she ate not of the forbidden fruit, she replied: “God hath commanded us that we should not eat. . . lest perhaps we die.” God had not said “perhaps.” He had said “lest you die.” Eve added the “perhaps.” And the serpent answered: “No, you shall not die the death.......but your eyes shall be opened, you shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.”
Yes, the flattering suggestion that you can know only by experience, that you are the only competent judge of right and wrong, that there is no objective moral law, is as old as the human race. It is fathered by pride and mothered by curiosity, and its brothers and sisters are human misery and eternal damnation.
A Divine Church
Does this mean, then, that Catholics are not allowed to think? God bless you, no. No man is freer to think, no man is more protected from error in his search for truth, whether physical or metaphysical, than the obedient Catholic. We have a vast field of thought in which we may pick and choose, but we have a safe enclosure wherein we may rest at night. The Catholic exercises his private judgment, even in matters religious— but he does so at the logical place, in determining that there is a God and a revelation, that Christ is Divine and that He has established a Divine Church to teach men the way to salvation. The whole field of Apologetics lies in the realm of private judgment. But when he has established the fact that the Divine Christ has founded a Divine Church, he is no longer free to pick and choose what he will believe of her teachings, what he ■will fulfill of her laws; from that point on he must take her word for God’s teachings.
I wonder if we realize how lucky we are — we Catholics. The major problems of life are settled for us. We know the difference between right and wrong; we know what God wants us to do to save our souls; and we have the supreme means of grace for the fullest help in reaching heaven. Hence our minds are free to ruminate in secular fields—and even here we are spared many mistakes because many facts of philosophy are bound up with revelation.
In other words, we don’t have to
October 5, 1934
experiment in matters which authority has settled for us; we don’t have to wreck our happiness with trial marriage; we don’t have to befoul our minds with bad books; we don’t have to go to child psychologists to learn how to bring up a family in the fear and love of God; we don’t have to wait until after the election to find out whether birth control or drunkenness or stock manipulation is a sin.
The charter Christ gave to His Church is a comprehensive document: “Whatsoever thou shalt bind upon earth shall be bound also in heaven; whatsoever thou shalt loose upon earth shall be loosed also in heaven.” “Go ye into the whole world, and preach the Gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be condemned.” Is it consonant with God’s justice that He should condemn us eternally to hell for refusing to believe what the Church taught if she could teach error? Yet the merciful Saviour promised hell to those who would reject her teachings.
Common Clay
No matter that the instruments of her authority are weak mortals like ourselves—sinners of common clay. In fact, Our Blessed Lord emphasized this seeming inconsistency when He confirmed St. Peter in his primacy. It was after the Resurrection, and the Apostles were gathered one evening on the shore of the lake, in Galilee. Peter said to them: “I go a fishing.” They say to him: “We also come with thee.” And they went forth, and entered into the ship; and that night they caught nothing.
“But when morning was come, Jesus stood on the shore; yet the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.
“Jesus, therefore said to them: Children, have you any meat? They answered him: No.
“He saith to them: Cast the net on
Hhe QuickReferenceBook of Information on All Subjects Webster’s Collegiate Hh e best Abridged Dictionary
“The volume is convenient for quick reference work, and altogether the best dictionary for desk work of which I know.”—Powell Stewart, Dept, of English, University of Texas.
Presidents and Department Heads of leading Universities agree with this opinion.
The Largest of the Merriam-Webster Abridgments
106,000 entries, including hundreds of new words with definitions, spellings, and correct use; a Gazetteer ;aBiographical Dictionary;
Foreign Words and Phrases; Abbreviations; Punctuation, Use of Capitals. Many other features of practical value. 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations.
See It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.
G. & C. Merriam Co.
Springfield, Mass.
the right side of the ship, and you shall find. They cast therefore; and. now they were not able to draw it, for the multitude of fishes.”
Then the clear eye of the Virgin disciple discerned his Master, and St. John told St. Peter: “It is the Lord.” And that impetuous Apostle, whose idle boast at the Last Supper had resulted in his three-fold denial of his Master, jumped into the sea and swam ashore without waiting for the boat to land.
Superior Intellect •
They found that Christ had breakfast writing for them on hot coals, and He ate with them. Then drawing Peter away from the rest, He said:
“Simon, son of John, lovest thou Me more than these? He saith to Him: Yea, Lord, Thou knowest that I love Thee.” He saith to him: Feed My lambs.
“He saith to him again: Simon, son of John, lovest thou Me? He saith to Him: Yea, Lord, Thou knowest that I love Thee. He saith to him: Feed My lambs.
“He said to him the third time: Simon, son of John, lovest thou Me?” And with the third question St. Peter remembered his three-fold denial. He had received signal favors from his Master. He had been promised the headship of the Church. Gone now was his boastful manner, curbed even the enthusiasm that had. caused him to swim impatiently to shore. Tears came into his eyes, and he said: “Lord, Thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love Thee. Jesus said to him: Feed My sheep.”
Never be deceived by the appeal to your supposed “Superior intellect.” It was not to Voltaire or Schopenhauer or Nietzsche that Christ said: “Feed My lambs, feed My sheep,” but only to poor sinful St. Peter, who denied Him thrice and swore, “I know not the Man.”
Seventeen
Commerce Frosh
Some time next week Commerce freshman will see slid under their doors a one-cent postcard bearing the name of a professor in Dean McCarthy's college. This professor will act as faculty adviser for the bewildered frosh.
Beginning next week all seniors in the College of Commerce will be notified to report to Dean McCarthy. Purpose: to check up on credits for graduation in June.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251

INTRODUCING
(Continued fiom Pase 11)
Haskell encounter to replace Ed Krause. “Butch” made good against the Indians—so much so, that “Hunk” advanced him to a second string berth as understudy to Ed Krause. He saw service in every game that fall save one—the Pittsburgh jousting.
A shoulder injury kept him out.of school for the first semester of the last school year. An operation was performed on the trick shoulder at the Mercy hospital, Chicago, last fall. He is back in there battling this season and raring to go. Dick says, “My shoulder is as strong as ever because of a special device ‘Scrap’ has rigged up for me.”
He came to Notre Dame because he always wanted to. He is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in economics.
His only weakness is his devotion to golf. Has shot rounds of 90 several times during his jaunts around the golf course but never seems to be able to break that figure. Says he will bust it to bits on one of his golfing rounds next spring.
Worked baking pastries and driving a truck during the summer months just past. Is undecided on his future, may take up law after he receives his B. A. degree in economics.
Last Saturday, Dick Pfeft'erle showed he was ready. Stop! Look! Listen! Texas.
H, O’DONNELL SPEAKS
(Continued from Paxe S)
Personally he found the close touch kept upon his activities by Russian agents to be a new and irritating experience. Though not positive that dictaphones were used to check conversation in his hotel room while there, he was certain that all his letters were secretly opened and checked for censorable material.
Although Mr. O’Donnell has been a newspaper man for 30 years in almost every capacity, and though he believes the work to be “the most interesting profession in the world,” he resigned from his business management position with the New York Times last January and now intends to retire from journalism for good.
At present, he is chairman of the national committee on leisure, which has for its purpose the creation of useful leisure time activities for the general public. Headquarters of the organization are in New York.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
Copyright 1934, The Ampykan Tobacco Compa

CAMPUS COSTUME
BROWN Scotch-grain . brbgiiesj oxford.S jacket, dark -slacks/ darlc brown
. Hke black .bands
■siity uniform?for F^
you want. Snap the brim down; Mould the cro\^. UU to your -taste/ Right . .for . that .week?end ’..
THE STETSON BANTAM $ g*
THE SfETSONf/PiJAYBQA^^.?: /;
OTHER STETSONS $6 AND UP
Jo Eri /BWStetson® ;Go mp an y
160 Central Park South, New York City, Oct. 1, 1934
Mr. John D. Carbine,
Editor in Chief, The Scholastic University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Sir:
Your big game Saturday, Oct. 6, with Texas University looks like a thriller to me. So much so that I’m going to dedicate my nationwide radio broadcast from WJZ-New York, on Friday, Oct. 5, at 9:00 p.m. (E.S.T.) to the event.
My plan is to play in fancy for the pre-game prom and comment on your local characters and football stars on the program. I’m sure that this will be of interest to your fellow students and any steps you can take to spread the word on ’the campus will be appreciated by me. I would also be grateful for any suggestions which you think could be incorporated into the program.
I would be most happy to have you listen in on the program and give me your expressed opinion of this radio entertainment plan.
Appreciating your kind co-operation, I am
Cordially PHIL HARRIS.
P. S. Our own arrangement of your football fight song “Victory March” will be heard on this program.
**
My throat is my fortune ...that's why I smoke Old Golds*4 cup
See Bing Crosby in “SHE LOVES ME NOT/* his latest Paramount Picture
T v e n t y	.	T be S chains tic