Li
s<<
■S«3.
Sf £
■NfJ

%

klvF





M

A
&
jg Pt eWT*i
5*> Ji J 1,4 ?1
r.^1

Jr*'

SAVE 25%
>x*
!
i 'l
■4
.1
i
‘3 1
i
I
'i
k
on Famous Brand
tf.
BW


8
^s-:


<

g
B

SUITS. TOPCOATS. SPORTCOATS
during our
QUALITY
Z*
1
$
Bl


$
|&

rt.


&
Here’s the event budget-conscious university men wait for ... it’s the twice yearly chance to purchase America’s top name apparel and save one-fourth. We have all your favorite fabrics, colors and styles in sizes to fit all men. Stop in soon and take




>i
hl w
w
►V''
Of

a

3
&

^GILBERT'S


£* -J
•**
44W 4|
F*Fo
^^*3
Fw
^@ampu$^ho^
i&b 4 . v
hv»
II
। #1
I.
,t
»$



» r

X- ^5
x
k



a

&
v Fn
V
5

JUNE
^GILBERTS
4$—
JULY
AUGUST;®
NO CARRYING CHARGE
e-e-e-e-easy does
Buying your apparel the Campus Shop Way couldn’t possibly be easier . . . the selections of quality, brand name, university-styled clothing suit all tastes, and the Campus Shop charge account is designed for vour wav of life; buy and enjoy your apparel now and pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August (no service or carrying charge). We’re sure vou’ll agree . . . e-e-e-easv docs it at the Campus Shop?
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY
SHOPS
3
On Campus WShdman
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and, “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”)
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Vol. 105 February 28, 1964 No. 15
THE SLOW RUSH
Illustrated below is the membership pin of a brand-new national fraternity called Signa Phi Nothing. To join Signa Phi Nothing and get this hideous membership pin absolutely free, simply take a pair of scissors, cut out the illustration, and paste it on your chest.
Let me hasten to state that I do not recommend your joining Signa Phi Nothing. The only thing I recommend in this column is Marlboro Cigarettes, as any honest man would who likes good tobacco and a good filter, whose heart is quickened by a choice of soft pack or Flip-Top Box, and who gets paid every week for writing tliis column.
I am frankly hard put to think of any reason why you should join Signa Phi Nothing. Some people, of course, are joiners by nature; if you are one such, I am bound to tell you there are any number of better organizations for you to join—the Cosa Nostra, for example, or the Society for the Placing of Water Troughs in Front of Equestrian Statues.
But if you insist on joining Signa Phi Notliing, let me give you several warnings. First off, it is the only
fraternity which admits girls. Second, there is no pledge period: each new member immediately goes active. Perhaps “inactive” is a more accurate word: there are no meetings, no drives, no campaigns, no sports, no games, no dues, no grip, and no house.
The only thing Signa Phi Nothing has in common with other fraternities is a fraternity hymn. In fact, two hymns were submitted to a recent meeting of the national board of directors (none of whom attended). The first hymn goes:
Signa Phi Nothing, Shining star, How we wonder If you are.
* * *
We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, promise smoking enjoyment, and we think you’ll think we deliver it—in all fifty states of this Union. Marlboro Country is where you are.
4
The second hymn, rather more poetic in content, is to be sung to the tune of Also Sprach Zarathustra:
.4 Guernsey’s a cow,
.4 road is a lane,
When you’re eating chow, Remember the mein.
Pending the next meeting of the national board of directors (which will never be held) members are authorized to sing either hymn. Or, for that matter, Frenesi.
Perhaps you are wondering why there should be such a fraternity as Signa Phi Nothing. I can give you an answer—an answer with which you cannot possibly disagree: Signa Phi Nothing fills a well-needed gap.
Are you suffering from mental health? Is logic distorting your mind? Is ambition encroaching on your native sloth? Is your long-cherished misinformation retreating before a sea of facts? In short, has education caught up with you?
If so, congratulations. But spring is upon us and the sap is rising, and the mind looks back with poignant longing to the days when it was a puddle of unreason.
If—just for a moment—you want to recapture those careless vaporings, that warm, squishy confusion, then join Signa Phi Nothing and renew your acquaintance with fecklessness. We promise nothing, and, by George, we deliver it!
© 1904 Max Shulman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager
Mel Noel
. . . news editor
James Morgan Callero
. . . features editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor
Larry Sicking	-
. . . layout and art editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy
Pat Ford
. . . photography
E. Brian Graham
. . . circulation
John Souza
. . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett, Jim Clare, Al Dudash, Robert Haller, Brian Jorgensen, Jeremy Lane, Frank McConnell, Bill McGuire, Bill Smith, John Twohey, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag, Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Brian Cass, Lee Cass, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Dave Grophear, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Bernard Kompare, Rex Lardner, Carl Magel, Rich McQuaid, Bill O’Grady, John Phillips, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte. Pete Siegwald, Frank Smith, Rick Weirich, John Whelan
. . . staff
The Scholastic
The Time
Is Out of Joint
Earlier this week, someone wrote a message on an Easter Bunny for Student Body President poster: “Don’t do that, you fools; you’ll never get it changed.” At the same time, a member of the administration was sincerely expressing his bewilderment at the adverse student reaction to the new University calendar.
The point illustrated is the uneasy misunderstanding that exists between the students and the administration. Every student who read the message on the poster knew what the “it” was that the writer wanted changed; nothing has been so widely discussed among the students this year as the calendar change. And the administrator was at the same time genuinely at a loss to understand the reasons for student disapproval. The calendar controversy is only a symptom of the perennial breakdown in communications between the administration and the student body.
In this particular controversy, the students as a group acted in a more reasonable and mature manner than the administration. From the students’ view, they were presented with an impossibly inadequate and unreasonable calendar that seemingly was spewed forth by a petulant administration as a fait accompli. Immediately, WSND, which had reported the news of the calendar change, broadcast editorials that presented the students’ objections in an intelligent way and urged that only calm and thoughtful action be taken. Flyers circulated by a candidate for office in the upcoming election reaffirmed WSND’s advice, and urged that students write to Frs. Hesburgh, Soleta,
or McCarragher and “present, in a rational way,” their objections.
The administration was fortunate that the students have so advanced in maturity that their first concern was to present their objections rationally. Although the administration may have considered the new calendar to be perfectly satisfactory, it was tactless to release it in such a way so that it seemed to the students that their opinions on it were being disregarded. (It is a fact that SBP Dave Ellis and one other student leader were shown the new calendar before it was passed by the academic council. Ellis outlined objections to the calendar, but the academic council disregarded these in approving the calendar.)
The administration cannot consistently ask us on the one hand to work for self-discipline and an honor system, and on the other hand make decisions in areas intimately concerned with student life without consulting us. Either we are to be granted responsibility or we are not. This is the same unescapable truth that Notre Dame’s administration has always obstinately denied: that the students cannot be treated like children and asked to behave like adults.
Student-government leaders have devised a plan for an alternate calendar that will be submitted to the administration. It is unfortunate that this plan, too, has its defects, for the administration may conveniently point to the drawbacks of the student government plan as an excuse to keep the calendar that was passed by the academic council. The proposed reading period to be placed between the end of semester classes and semester exams is highly experimental. In view of Notre Dame’s peculiar situation as a largely self-contained University without any significant cultural or entertainment center nearby (the bars and movie theaters of South Bend would be hard pressed to accommodate the students who might choose not to read during the reading period, particularly the one occurring in late May), the reading period could result in a massive debauch. This is exceedingly unfortunate, because the concept of a reading period is thrilling if one imagines the benefits if it should work, but the real probability is that it would not work, and the administration consequently may not be willing to take a chance on it.
It would be unfortunate if the student government leaders’ insistence on the inclusion of a reading period would destroy any possibility of the new schedule being altered to accommodate the very real student needs and rights that are violated by the calendar passed by the academic council. We hope that the administration and student government will be able to cooperate on a schedule that is close to the one that the University has used for the past several years, for it has proved itself to be the one most amenable to student and University needs at this time.
February 28,1964
5
COVER
This week's cover depicts the real Republican Convention. It will be followed next summer by a larger, less competent affair which will dully and mechanically confirm our presidential nominee.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 18 East 50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). The special subscription rate for St. Mary’s students and faculty is $3.00 a year.’ Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
Editorial .................. 5
Letters .................... 7
Senate...................... 9
Campus at a Glance......... 11
On Other Campuses.......... 14
Peiffer ................... 14
John Glenn.................. 15
William Scranton........... 16
Richard Nixon............... 17
The Condemned of Altona .. 18
Tom Jones................... 19
Innsbruck Program............. 20
Discussion and Dissent, An Introduction................21
Disarmament for Survival ... 22
Larry Sheffield ............ 25
Track Photo Spread........... 26
Voice in the Crowd ......... 28
Scoreboard................. 28
Describing the Circle	29
Freshman Year.............. 31
The Last Word............... 34	I
6
The Scholastic
Letters ...
I WANT TO GO HOME Editor:
I realize that this letter will be just one more drop in the torrent resulting from the recently announced ’64-’65 academic year. I would, however, like to comment on one area of student life affected by this announced change. The area I refer to is that of vacations, particularly those in the second semester.
The Administration prides itself on the wide geographic background of the students here at Notre Dame. Hasn’t it occurred to the Administration that many students, precisely because of their wide geographic background, will be prevented from going home during the second semester next year?
This situation affects students from the West Coast, the Southwest, and even some Eastern and New England areas. Obviously, three days’ vacation at Easter is not enough time for anyone to go home—except those living very close to Notre Dame. Even the eight-day “spring break” is too little time for many, especially those from the West Coast. For many in this area, the cost of flying is prohibitive. This leaves only the train or car. The train takes forty-seven hours to the West Coast. Such a situation means that many students must use half of their “vacation” merely for travel. A mere four days at home seems ridiculously inadequate for the five months from January 4 to June 2.
I do not presume to be wise enough to offer a solution for this problem. Yet, it would seem more sensible to give the student body one single, longer vacation instead of two “vacations”—one of which is useless. At any rate, I think it unfortunate that the Administration would overlook such obvious geographic, temporal, and financial factors in deciding when the students should have their vacations.
Lewis Homburg 131 Dillon
CRITICAL DISSENT Editor:
May I express a few uneasy feelings about the review of Tartuffe which appeared recently on your pages? Its author, Frank D. McCon-nel, seems to me highly accurate in praising this admirable production; but I find his review surrounded— framed, as it were—by certain dubious comments on the University Theatre itself. '
I do not think, as Mr. McConnell does, that “most of us”—that is, regu
February 28,1964
lar student, faculty, or town subscribers to the Theatre’s annual offerings— consider that we have been patronizing the work of a cluster of “obvious amateurs” dominated during the past few seasons by “one competent member” under whose “regime” of solitary “virtuoso” performances there were occasional successful productions. Nor do I think that to “most of us” the absence of that excellent actor this year presaged disaster. Nor do I think—as is suggested by Mr. McConnell, somewhat paradoxically — that that actor’s absence resulted in the truly fine “orchestral” quality of this production of Tartuffe.
Indeed, I believe that the remarks surrounding Mr. McConnell’s review do injury—unintentionally, of course —to the whole complex and dedicated organization which we call the University Theatre: an organization which —despite its inevitable and constant turnover of student personnel—has for many, many more than the past few seasons consistently put upon the stage in Washington Hall plays notable for “intelligent and efficient” direction, and “wringing”—as Tartuffe so surely did—“the last possible degree of stage effect from the talent level of the actors.”
In short, I think it is possible to exalt the brilliant present without clouding the shining past.
Richard Sullivan Professor of English
FAR FROM DOUBT Editor:
That Governor William Warren Scranton of Pennsylvania is actually the choice of Republicans nationally is far from doubtful; support for him has existed since his election in 1962, and now numbers such prominent Republicans as President Eisenhower, Chairman William Miller, Senator Hugh Scott, Thomas McCabe, Governor Love of Colorado, Thomas Gates, and the leaders of the party in Iowa, Connecticut, and New Jersey. The movement upon which political columnists have commented is a concrete reality deserving of the attention of observers of the national scene. The bulk of the publicity, in point of fact, has included such national publications as the Saturday Evening Post, Fortune, Look, Life, Think, Newsweek, the Greater Philadelphia Magazine, not to mention syndicated newspaper interviews in Denver, Boston, Kansas City, and St. Louis papers, as well as the expected state and local journals. It is patently absurd to pretend that the enthusiasm for Governor Scranton is a liberal artifice to ensure President Johnson’s easy re-election. It nearly approaches libel to accuse re
sponsible columnists of such Machiavellian cynicism.
It should be dear to any intelligent analyst of practical politics that a qualified candidate with a broad appeal is essential if the Republican Party is to compete successfully in November; William Scranton, as conscientious observers have repeated time and again, is precisely such a candidate. His popularity on the Notre Dame campus may, perhaps, owe -something to efficient utilization of limited resources, but only the sincere recognition of his quality can explain the extraordinary dedication and enthusiasm of his active supporters here. The curious scheme manufactured in “The Last Word” by devious misrepresentation borders on outright insult to the many intelligent delegates who have chosen Scranton after careful consideration of all the facts.
J. Peter Clark 445 Lyons
BARRY REASSERTED Editor:
The Goldwater Campaign Committee would like to thank the Scholastic and its political commentator, Jack Rowe, for what we consider an attempt at a sincere and objective analysis of the Goldwater phenomenon. Unfortunately, even objective scholarship often is found wanting, for such scholarship is not exempt from error. And we of the Goldwater Campaign Committee believe Mr. Rowe’s article is possessed of errors —both errors of fact and errors of logic. To cite a few examples:
1.	It is very easy to state that Barry Goldwater won his Senate seat by riding in “on the coattails of the victorious General Eisenhower” but it is most difficult to prove. The fact is that Goldwater won in 1952 when he was not expected to and was re-elected overwhelmingly in 1958. Goldwater has proven himself an able politician and a vote-getter. Indeed, he has aided in their campaigns several Republicans who went on to win.
2.	Recently farmers were called upon to vote on an increased wheat subsidy program. The bill was rejected by a substantial majority of the farmers. Yet Mr. Rowe implies that Goldwater’s call for a gradual removal of government farm programs will hurt the Senator in the Republican farm states. The wheat referendum seems to indicate the contrary.
3.	Though Mr. Goldwater is, admittedly, “less experienced” in foreign policy than he is in domestic policy this does not mean, as Mr. Rowe im-
(Continued on page 32)
7
CRADUATING ENGINEERS 4 SCIENTISTS:
Some sound reasons why you should consider General Dynamics! Astronautics for a challenging and rewarding aerospace career are pictured here.
We urge you to learn still more about Astronautics—the important completely space-oriented division of General Dynamics Corporation—by listening to the 33VS rpm recording offered below and by following news of Astronautics’ activities and accomplishments in your newspaper, trade magazines and technical journals.
For more information and a personal interview, visit the Astronautics representative who will be on your campus soon.
Inspiring Achievements More pay load tonnage has been lifted into space by Astronautics-developed launch vehicles than by any other family of launch vehicles in the free world. Pictured above is the historic, late-1963 flight of the liquid hvdrogen-fueled Centaur boosted by an Atlas launch vehicle. The high-energy Centaur is planned for soft-landing the nation's first instrument package on the moon.
Modern Facilities More than $50 million have been invested in Astronautics’ plant and equipment. Complete laboratory, test and computer facilities are established in-plant to enhance the performance of Astronautics’ engineering tasks.
Ideal Location San Diego. California is the capital of moderate climate in the nation. Outdoor sports and recreation are year-round activities for enjoyment of your leisure hours. There is an abundance of academic and cultural opportunity in this city of more than 600,000 — a vigorous and growing community.
WE Will VISIT YOUR CAMPUS MARCH 9
HEAR “THE GENERAL DYNAMICS | ASTRONAUTICS STORY" as mid by the men who have had major responsibilities in the direction of such dramatic technological advancements as the Atlas-Mercury manned orbital flights and Centaur, the free world's first liquid hydrogen-fueled space vehicle. See your placement office for your personal copy of this 33 VS rpm recording, or write to Mr. R. E. Sutherland, Chief of Professional Placement and Personnel, Dept. 130-90, General Dynamics | Astronautics, 5881 Kearny Villa Road, San Diego. California 92112.
GENERAL DYNAMICS | ASTRONAUTICS GulWluihD
An Equal Opportunity Employer
5
The Scholastic
Academic calendars were the subject of a special Student Senate meeting last Tuesday in the Amphitheater. A discussion of relative merits and the search for means of effectively voicing student opinion followed a brief history and outline of both the Administration plan and the Tom O’Brien-John Gearen proposal. This comparison of the two calendars probably best serves to explain Senate involvement in the current controversy.
Two Seniors, Dave Ellis and Paul Tierney, saw the Administration plan a day or so before its passage by the Academic Council in January, and Ellis has said that other, unidentified campus leaders also saw it. Some of these students favored the plan, while others, including Dave Ellis, opposed certain aspects. Nevertheless, the Council passed the plan, but it was not released to the students for three weeks, to allow time for the appropriate persons (faculty, etc.) to be informed of it.
According to that plan, the 1964 academic year will begin Sept. 23, and vacations through the first semester will remain the same as at present. Finals’ week and semester break are eliminated, however, in favor of tests on the last class day of each sequence (i.e., on Thursday and Friday), with the next semester beginning on the following Monday. The maximum worth of these tests would be 1/3 of the total grade, the class period immediately preceding them would be free for study, and registration would be handled at current preregistration times. Finally, Easter vacation would include only Good Friday, Holy Saturday and Easter Sunday, with an 8-day spring vacation supplanting the present break, and finals in May would share the fate of January tests.
The rationale for these changes is: 1) a need to avoid “test mania” by deemphasizing finals; 2) a desire to delete one of the vacations (Thanksgiving, Christmas, semesters) concerning the frequency of which parents have reportedly been writing Fr. Hes-burgh; and 3) a desire for stable vacation dates midway in each semester.
The meeting clarified a number of disadvantages to this plan, and they bear repeating here. The new plan in fact emphasizes finals, since 1/3 is still a significant portion of one’s
mark, and one class period hardly suffices for an entire course review. “Test mania” could easily increase, since avoiding more than three finals a day would now be totally dependent on some student-teacher arrangement. Relegation of Easter to a weekend celebration would lead to a deemphasis hardly appropriate at a Catholic university, might find more students in Chicago pubs than at campus services, and would result in spring breaks during the Lenten season, formerly reserved for abstention from social activities.
Perhaps the only way to retain semester break is to have more parents write letters favoring it than those opposed; the other two major aspects of the new plan, however, appear to be inherently disadvantageous. At any rate, overwhelming student disapproval greeted the plan, and was voiced mainly through a petition circulated by Frank Smith, which was delivered at the meeting with some 2,800 signatures on it. Student Government’s response to this reaction was the O’Brien-Gearen proposal, which contains the following provisions: 1) an earlier starting date (Sept. 14), to retain the present length of vacations while still ending the year on a reasonable date; 2) a
— TYPING — Papers — Theses at Catalog Department
MAIN LIBRARY
REASONABLE RATES QUICK SERVICE
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
reading period of 4 days combined with a 4-day exam period and the same maximum value of 1/3 on finals, to enable both adequate review time with a deemphasis of finals; 3) a semester break of at least 5 days, to relieve the tension accumulated during the semester; 4) an Easter vacation from Holy Thursday to Low Sunday, to keep a religious and family emphasis on the central feast of Christianity while also providing a vacation outside Lent.
Some important objections to this proposal were also presented: it does not ensure stability of Easter vacations (at least until that feast day is stabilized), it would result in fewer football practices, and it slightly extends the academic year, with possible attendant increased cost to the University. The basic philosophy, however, appears sound; if adopted in its entirety, it would at least probably represent the feelings of most students.
The dominant student objection to the new plan, however, was apparently the “killing of the Easter Bunny” by the new schedule. The 3-man committee of O’Brien, Gearen and Ellis will hopefully keep that view uppermost during their upcoming presentation of the student case to the University. The Senate, however, failed to definitely endorse Easter as the most important element to be changed in any negotiation. Thus, while action is progressing and the calendar will probably be changed, the Senate should have been more definitive in establishing the student viewpoint on the entire matter.
DR&W TURBOW
\OPTOMITRISV
GLASSES REPAIRED
“Bring in the Pieces"
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana 233-2409
February 28, 1961
9
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: TOM BENSON
When Tom Benson (B.S., Engineering. 1956) joined Michigan Bell in I960, he was asked to put a new method of handling telephone repair assignments into operation in his Detroit Plant District.
So expertly did Tom prove out the new method, his company soon put it into use throughout the Division and promoted Tom to Staff Service Supervisor.
On his new job, Tom introduced a new cost results plan
to the field force. Another success, another promotion ... this time to Supervising Foreman. Now Tom is responsible for installation results in the entire Wyandotte District with 50 installers and five supervisors reporting to him.
Tom Benson, like many young engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
10
The Scholastic
Industry Trends Trented
“New Directions in Industrial Relations” will be the theme of the University of Notre Dame’s twelfth annual Union-Management Conference. Sponsored by the Dept, of Economics in cooperation with the Notre Dame Law School, the conference opened here today at 10 a.m. Six hundred industrial relations specialists, from both industrial and labor organizations, will attend the sessions to be held in Washington Hall.
Principal conference speakers are William E. Simkin, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C., speaking about “The Government’s Role in Industrial Relations”; Emil Mazey, secretary-treasurer of the United Automobile Workers of America, discussing “Future Problems Facing Unions”; and Gerald E. Balsey, vicepresident for industrial relations at Kaiser Steel Corp., describing “Some Recent Trends in Sharing Programs.”
There will be several panel discussions among high-ranking labor and management officials. The first, dealing with the impact on the construction industry of contracting out. and the contribution of the human relations committee to industrial rela
February 28, 1964
tions in the steel industry, will be moderated by Harry H. Platt, umpire for the Ford Motor Co. and the UAW. The second panel discussion on the evaluation of contract developments will have as chairman Peter M. Kelliher, president of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
The participants will receive an official welcome from Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., Vice-President for Academic Affairs. Presiding at various times will be Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C., head of the economics department; Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Notre Dame law school; Prof. John J. Broderick, assistant law dean, and Rev. Edward R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., founder and director of the conference.
Pick Your Person
With two of four offices uncontested, the Notre Dame student body will go to the polls on Thursday, February 27, to elect Student Government officials. As usual, the elections will be held in the residence halls during the noon and evening meal hours.
Running unopposed for the office of Student Body President is John Gearen. Bob Guenard is also unopposed in his campaign for the office of secretary. Students will decide, however, between Paul Meagher and Steve Walther for next year’s VicePresident, and between Tom Mc-Manmon and Alex Garlo for next year’s Treasurer.
Ho-Hum Podium
The Twelfth Annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament is being held in the LaFortune Student Center this Friday and Saturday, February 28 and 29. Fifty-four schools representing a cross section of the nation have gathered to debate a topic of special interest to college students — Resolved: that the Federal Government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to all qualified high-school graduates.
Such universities as Redlands, Pittsburgh and Northwestern are represented among the teams which will debate in the preliminary rounds Friday in the Student Center. Saturday morning, octo-finals will also be held in the Center, with quarter-final and semi-final rounds taking place in rooms 118, 123 and 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall in the afternoon.
The final round will be held in the Library Auditorium Saturday beginning at 4:30, and will be taped for broadcast by WSBT. Presentation of awards to the top four teams as
well as to the two best individual debaters will immediately follow this championship round.
The Notre Dame Debate Council will be represented by Larry Petro-shius and James Cavnar, who, coached by Leonard Sommer, have compiled a fine record in intercollegiate competition this year. The Tournament Director, Dick Jaskunas, has indicated that the other top debating schools in the country will be opposing them, and extends an invitation to all Notre Dame and St. Mary’s faculty members and students to observe the forensic clashes.
AuH^O perations
The Goldwater supporters for the Mock Convention have been busy. Their big move last week was a presentation of three speakers in- the Engineering Auditorium to explain the case for Goldwater in 1964.
The first speaker was Marilyn Manion, a recent St. Mary’s graduate and an avid Goldwater fan. She explained Goldwater’s rise to prominence not as a political effort, but as a result of his belief in American ideals. His rise is due to the will of the people, who first showed their support in the 1960 Republican convention, coming to Chicago by the thousands to encourage him in a convention which was supposed to support Nixon without question. Miss Manion described Goldwater as the man who will stop the government’s invasion of freedom and restore the natural order. On the international scene he takes a firm stand against Communism — appeasement leads only to downfall; Goldwater wants an active program aimed at the reduction of Communism rather than a “co-operation” with it. Thus Goldwater’s presence permits a clear choice; until now the choice has merely been which liberal to accept, but the Republicans can now offer a candidate who offers an alternative to the liberal position.
The second speaker, Mrs. Ralph Mullins, of South Bend, explained why she, a Negro, supports Goldwater. Goldwater’s stand on civil rights has been often attacked, but Mrs. Mullins explained that it is the only possible position he could assume consistent with his beliefs. According to Goldwater the only rights which are civil are those incorporated in the law. Thus a Negro child does not have a civil right to an integrated school. "Goldwater does not feel that the Supreme Court decides the law of the land: we must return to the Constitution for our laws, and not allow a
11
court to trespass into extraconstitutional areas. Goldwater believes in integration, in integrated schools, but he is not prepared to impose that decision on the people of Mississippi or Alabama. Goldwater continues to support civil rights, but only in a manner “consistent with the Constitution.”
The third speaker of the evening, Mr. William Sparrenburger, an Indianapolis attorney, came very close to undoing what had been accomplished by the previous speakers. He presented an incoherent oration about our forgotten freedoms, punctuated with unfunny jokes and anecdotes, and colored by his personal prejudices. Those who stayed to hear him finish left confused and disappointed, hoping that Goldwater is a more rational person than this particular supporter.
The effect of the whole evening, if -one discounts Mr. Sparrenburger, was good. The two female speakers brought to light the consistency present in Goldwater’s views, and left their listeners with the impression that perhaps there is some substance to Goldwater’s position.
Another effort of the Goldwater bloc was a coke party Sunday in the Fiesta Lounge. The attraction of food, Goldwater Girls, and the Four Winds was difficult to resist,-.and a large crowd attended. True to promises, there were no boring speeches, but simply entertainment and a chance to talk. And when a charming lass comes up and asks if you would like some literature on Goldwater, who can resist? The party was the most unusual and probably one of the more successful gimmicks used to date in convention politicking.
Simone Alone
“Where is everybody?” Nina Simone justifiably asked last Saturday, Feb. 22, as she stood before a group which seemed to huddle together more for warmth than entertainment. The old Notre Dame problem again exposed itself with full effect, filling only onefourth of the Stepan Center’s 2500 available seats.
The evening proved to be enjoyable, however, through the combined effects of outstanding talent and a receptive audience. Armed with its own lights and sound system (which still couldn’t cover the defects of the Stepan Center’s acoustics), the Ford CARavan of Music was able to stage one of the more professional shows to reach campus.
The “folk” part of the program started with the appearance of the Moonshiners. This typical collegiate folk group encountered what at first
12
seemed to be an impossible situation with such a small audience, but through their good repertoire the Moonshiners gave an enjoyable performance. Following this group, one of the more pleasant surprises of the show came with Israeli folk singer Ron Eliron. A particularly personable fellow, Eliron delighted everyone with a variety of ethnic songs, including a parody adapted to the tune of “Abilene,” interestingly called “Tel Aviv.”
Finally getting to the main feature — jazz — the whole evening moved to an exciting end. Flutist Herbie Mann and his group displayed the talent that has made them world-famous, especially in regard to their specialty, Bossa Nova. Mann’s quintet hit with each number, the act culminating with the great, as Mann termed it, “Brazilian National Anthem, ‘Desafinado.’ ”
However, the most must be said about Nina Simone. Beyond her concern for the “whereabouts” .of the absent Notre Dame students, she undoubtedly became the highlight of the evening, seizing the attention of all with her deep, highly styled voice. With songs ranging from the moving “If You Knew” to her raucous finale, titled (with due regard for Dave Ellis and his delegation) “Mississippi, God Damn,” which represented in the end a poignant statement on the present civil rights question, Miss Simone created a highly emotional atmosphere, well worth the money and time spent at the concert.
World Poor, Not Full
“Overpopulation is a problem of an overconcentration of people in a specific area, and does not necessarily mean that the world’s resources are running low.” Fr. Edward McCormack echoed this much-used Catholic viewpoint in his lecture Thursday, Feb. 20, in the Law Auditorium.
The English priest elaborated on this point by saying that poverty is the essential problem. He stated that 75% of the world’s population is in underdeveloped countries; some experts feel that by 1980 half the world population will be Chinese. Fr. McCormack mentioned such areas as Africa, Indonesia, Latin America, Canada, and Australia, which have regional overpopulation with a vast amount of space left unused. He believes agriculture is the key to instilling economic strength into these countries. With this as a base, they will then have the capital to industrialize.
The social structure, such as in Latin America, hampers economic
Fr. Edward McCormack
The Scholastic
advancement if the control of much of the land lies in the hands of a few. Another cause of poverty he cited are religious taboos such as those in India which declare that cows are sacred and cannot be eaten by a starving populace. A final cause was given as a lack of desire to improve. Fr. McCormack concluded that, if we could wipe out poverty, the population increase would no longer be a problem.
Diplomat Discusses Germany
K. Heinrich Knappstein, German Ambassador to the United States, will speak at Notre Dame next Monday, March 2. After being honored by the Committee on International Relations at a private dinner, he will speak on “Germany’s Role in the Free World” at 7:00 in the Morris Inn. The German Ambassador is the first of a series of diplomats who will speak at Notre Dame this spring under the Committee’s auspices. .
Knappstein has had extensive experience in the United States. As early as 1930 he was an exchange student at the University of Cincinnati. He later became an editor of the Frankfurter Zeitung until Hitler suppressed the paper in 1943. In postwar Germany Knappstein served as a deputy minister for reconstruction in the State of Hesse, and entered diplomacy in 1951 as German consulgeneral in Chicago. Before assuming his present post, he was the Federal Republic’s permanent observer to the United Nations between September, 1960, and June, 1962.
Grand Old Party
Next Monday Notre Dame’s Mock Republican National Convention will convene in Stepan Center. The delegations will spend three days, including probably six sessions, determining a platform and nominating candidates for President and Vice-President of the United States.
The first session will begin on Monday at 2:00 with entertainment by the Notre Dame Lettermen. Reverend Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, the Honorable Lloyd M. Allen, Mayor of South Bend, and Dave Ellis, Student Body President, will greet the delegates after the call to order by the Chairman. Convention organization will be the business for this session. Roll will be taken, the temporary Chairman and officers of the convention will be elected, temporary rules will be adopted, and committees on Credentials, Permanent Organization,
February 28,1964
Rules and Order of Business, and Resolutions will be appointed. William E. Miller, Chairman of the Republican National Committee, will address the convention.
On Monday evening the second session will begin at 7:00. Thomas E. Woods will address the convention, and Eugene F. McGuire will introduce the permanent Chairman. The Honorable Leverett Saltonstall, Senator from Massachusetts, will give the keynote address after Joseph Lee McCarthy’s student keynote address. The committees appointed at the first session will give reports.
The third session will begin Tuesday at 2:30. The Honorable Donald
Convention Mood Overtakes Campus
C. Bruce, Representative from Indiana, and Michael R. Dillon, permanent Chairman, will address the convention. Michael W. Albin, Chairman of the Platform Committee, will present the party platform prior to a roll call of the states for nominations for presidential candidates in the seconding speeches.
The delegations will begin balloting for presidential candidates in the fourth session Tuesday evening. The balloting will probably carry over into the fifth session Wednesday afternoon.
Roll call of the states for nominations for Vice-President will take place at the sixth and last scheduled session Wednesday evening. After the nominating and seconding speeches for Vice-President the delegations will ballot. The campaign manager of the candidate selected as vice-presidential candidate will make an acceptance speech followed by one from the
presidential candidate’s campaign manager.
Scarlet Utopia
“Communism: The Contemporary Mystique” was the subject of a lecture given by Father Virgil Trelo, O.S.B., last Thursday in the Academic Commission lecture series. Fr. Trelo is professor and dean of philosophy at St. Procopius College in Lisle, Illinois.
An understanding of the communist mystique depends upon an understanding of the communist philosophy of history, dialectical materialism. This view is founded on a conception
of matter as a self-sufficient, active principle rather than as a passive agent of a higher power. All nature is in a universal ferment leading inevitably to perfection.
Although this progress is inevitable, it is not automatic. It requires the efforts of man arising from an imminent necessity. This motivating necessity works on society as a whole, and on the individual only in that society molds the individual mind. This force is man’s struggle with nature for the means of subsistence; the struggle gives rise to society, which in turn gives rise to the state. Man can develop to his fullest extent only when he has mastered his struggle with nature. How the mastery comes about is explained in the dialectical movement of history.
All history thus is explained in terms of a broad dialectic in which the thesis is a primitive form of com-('Continued on page 30)
13.
on other eampuses
• Legislators in two states and the governor of a third have made proposals in the last few weeks which proved unpopular at the universities affected by them. In Colorado, Governor John Love asked for a tuition hike at all state-supported colleges and universities. Students at the University of Colorado, who would suffer an increase of $38 a semester to S142, reacted in two ways. The first was a petition presented to Governor Love bearing nearly 7,000 signatures of the University’s 17,000 enrollment. The second was a class boycott and rally sponsored by student government, which had the effect of reducing class attendance during the period to about 50 per cent. Love intends to take advantage of the increase in tuition by reducing state support of the eight state colleges. This section of the proposal was unanimously opposed by the eight college presidents.
. The University of Pittsburgh is fighting a state legislator’s proposal to eliminate Pennsylvania’s $100 million presently invested in its private colleges. Referring to the university, the legislator, Edward D. McNally said that the costs were becoming so high that the only ones able to afford to go there were the “carriage trade.” In reply, the university chancellor said, “The average family income of the Pitt student is $7,500. I would not call that the carriage trade.” McNally prefers using the money to created more state colleges, which would be less costly.
feiffer
A Michigan legislator proposes to limit enrollment at the state’s universities to 30,000 each. This received criticism due to fact that the state’s two main universities, MSU and the University of Michigan, each have an enrollment of about 26,000. This means that worthwhile students soon would not be able to get the quality of education they desired.
• The Daily Northwestern’s persistent criticism of various areas of school policy proved unsettling to at least one member of Northwestern’s administration. Al From, news editor, phoned the director of admissions, William C. Reily, to discuss admissions policy. Reily (who has since apologized) said that he would not discuss the matter with a reporter who was trying to run a malicious campaign. He also threatened From’s scholarship to the university.
The Student Senate passed a resolution condemning Reily’s action as “totally unbecoming an admissions officer of a great university” and added further that “a man committing such alleged behavior has no place in such a position.”
Reily, in his apology, said that he was injudicious in some of his remarks to From, and regretted the use of intemperate language, which, he said “is not my general habit.”
• As a result of a weekend longdistance phoning spree, a large number of students at the University of
Wisconsin are hoping that their numbers will not come up before the Wisconsin Telephone Company.
An unknown student discovered a faulty electrical relay which permitted any dialer to call long-distance, bypassing the operator, and, presumably, any phone bill. News of the discovery quickly blanketed the campus, and by the time repairs were completed, over 2000 long-distance calls had been made. One student chatted three hours with a friend in Los Angeles, but another kept his call to Alaska down to ten minutes. A popular gag was phoning the White House with free advice.
But telephone company officials announced that they had a record of all calls, and that by contacting the number at the other end of each, they hoped to obtain the names of most of the callers.
• The Sigma Chi house at Michigan State has acquired a new resident named Oscar. He is five years old, four inches long, and eats worms. Oscar is a Texas tarantula.
His owners, John Colina and William Warner, are quite proud to have Oscar as their roommate. Colina praised him as an ideal pet, and Warner explained that he’s very even-tempered: “Oscar hasn’t bitten anyone . . . yet.”
Oscar’s third roommate, James Edwards, is somewhat less enthusiastic about the overgrown spider. He has learned to tolerate Oscar, but, perhaps thinking of the tarantula’s potential thirteen-inch length, says, “I’d much rather have a monkey.”
hes.it^
SINGS'"EACH WEEK FEATUR-
SONGS OF FREEDOM,# COH-RADESHIP OF AMERICA/ WHO'S ' OUR FIRST
i
THf GREATEST FOLK ARTISTS SINGING THEIR FOLK
FOKSIMS-iNseexie KIP?
GEE, LES, ITS k little Em-ragsing.our next e^oup-
THE CHAN GANG GUYW 6A|£-WEIJT0N A FREEDOM RIDE LAST WEEK- THEM ARE NOW ON A CHAIN 0AN6-
WELL, LES, OUR FIRST GUESTS TONIGHT MEfRE GOING TO BE THE INDEPENDENCE caroleers, but thet REFUSED TO SIGN THE UMALTN v OATH SO\ WE HAP TO CANCEL THEM!
A FOLK ZINGING WW! BUT AMERICA pemamps its SOUL MUSIC.1 LET5 ERIN5 0U OUR WEXT GUESTS K(P!
WELL, LES OUR NEXT SCHEDULED GUESTS WERE TO EE THE LIBERT/ BELTERS. BUT ALL THE SONGS W KNEW WERE
BLACKLISTED WRITERS SO WE HAD TO CANCEL THEM?
A RHYW\:C SHAME/ gUT OUR DEMAND WILL NOT 3t STIFLED' BRING ON OUR NEXT ARTISTS/
well, ha ha i guess ILL HAVE TO 5W6 10 AMERICAMySELF-
SORRT. LES.L HAVE HERE A SUBPOENA FROM THE HOUSE WMERICM ACTIVITIES COM MITFEE-THE TITLE OF TRIG SHOU) HAS BEEN CITED AS A COMMUNIST fftOHT. I'M HERE TO WARN WU THAT ANYTHING HOU 5IU6 WILL
THIS IS KIP RAVAGE SATING 6C0DBTE FOR NOW ANO WARNING WTO TONE IN NEXT WEEK FOR OUZNE#

The Scholastic
Something for Everyone
by Jack Rowe
A Spectator came to see the Washington Day Exercises last Monday night. He watched the traditionbound ceremonies, the presentation of the flag with its accompanying speeches and band performances. But the focal point of the evening, the most important reason for his attendance, was the presentation of the annual Patriotism Award to Lt. Col. John H. Glenn, Jr., the first American to orbit the earth.
The applause reverberated as Col. Glenn stepped to the podium to accept the plaque and scroll and address the crowd. As the ovation died down, the spectator, aware not only of the past exploits of John Glenn but of his intentions for the future as well, wondered ’ which he would hear discussed: space flight or national politics. He got more than he bargained for; Glenn spoke on both topics.
The U.S. space program was described, compared with that of the Soviet Union, and put in perspective with our total national effort. The speaker used astronautical terms for analogy, and in an easy digression from his address, entertained the audience with a description of the effects of weightlessness. John Glenn was using his fame well.
The newly retired Marine was not yet at liberty to discuss campaign issues, but the attentive spectator could not fail to realize the importance of the speech in defining Glenn’s political stance. He cautioned against the acceptance of either political extreme. The speech itself was neatly divided between praise for the American virtue of individual freedom and encouragement toward the necessarily “public solutions” to problems of our time. Something for everyone, perhaps; or at least, for everyone but those whom he soon hopes to call his colleagues. For in what may well become the heart of his campaign messages, Glenn digressed again to condemn “politicians” whose sole interest is in garnering votes and views extend no farther than the next election.
But as the speech continued, the spectator could not be so cynical as not to realize that he was hearing neither a campaign speech nor a promotion of the national space program.
February 28,1964
The speaker was rather making a personal appeal to his audience to reflect on and implement the principles upon which this country grew to greatness. First, he spoke in general terms: a call to guard the freedom of the individual, to renew our interest in the firm establishment and pursuit of national goals, to rededicate ourselves to the guidelines — religious, moral, patriotic — which are our inheritance from the Founding Fathers. The generalities were explained in two particulars applicable to his student audience. The first: to carry out the goals of the university, that is, to accept responsibility not only for spectacular advance in isolated areas, but for the balanced progress of civilization. The second recommendation was for political activity and awareness. He warned that whenever a people loses interest in acting to maintain its freedom, it will soon lose its freedom as well. Political concerns must be the spheres of interest not only of government officials but also of an informed and active citizenry.
As John Glenn left the stage and made his way through the crowd, the spectator needed to ask himself for a judgment, “Is this man a ‘Patriot of the Year’?” A glance at the list of former recipients of the honor makes it plain that Glenn is quite different.
While the others generally had been notable public figures for a period of some length, John Glenn owed his fame largely to the events of February 20, 1962. Beyond this, the others had been acclaimed for accomplishments which were thought to be of their own doing. Instead of this, it is more commonly realized, and Glenn consistently emphasizes, that he was but part of an organization of thousands, whose united efforts had put an American in space.
But this, it seemed, was superficial criticism of the choice. The Patriot, first of all, need not be a figure who is before the public eye. The name has nothing to do with popularity, but with devotion and service. More important, however, the times are changing rapidly. Glenn himself referred to the lessening of opportunity for wholly individual achievement which accompanies the increasing complexities of the space-age world. There could be nothing more representative of this change than the choice of Glenn for special recognition. This is the patriot of the present and future, a specialist whose contributions of skill, courage, dedication were joined with those of many others to serve their country well. The spectator had indeed seen and heard a deserving bearer of the title — Patriot of the Year.
75
CANDIDATES, W: Part III:
WILLIAM SCRANTON
■ by Frank Smith
T f but three years ago a nationwide * poll were taken asking the question: “Who is William Warren Scranton?” perhaps 95% of the country would have been stuck for an answer. Today, with Goldwater support ebbing since the assassination of Kennedy, with Rockefeller finding the comeback trail long and rocky, with Nixon getting only lukewarm support and with Romney’s inability to stir up significant nationwide support, Bill Scranton has become a strong contender for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. This rapid rise must be regarded as a political phenomenon unequaled in recent times.
Scranton was born on July 19, 1917, in Connecticut but reared in the town in Pennsylvania which bears his family’s name. As was John Kennedy, Scranton was born into a rich family and a political career. His mother was a Republican National Committeewoman from Pennsylvania for 23 years and first sparked his interest in politics. After receiving his B.A. degree from Yale in 1939, Scranton went on to Yale Law School. He took his law degree in 1946, aftei' his education had been interrupted by service in the Second World War. For the next 12 years he practiced law and worked as an executive in several Pennsylvania business concerns.
In 1958 Scranton first entered public life as a special assistant to Secretary of State Christian Herter. In this position he administered the Secretary’s private office, interpreted United States foreign policy for the press, and represented the United States at conferences in Latin America, NATO, and the United Nations. Scranton’s first venture into political life took place in 1960 when he was drafted to rim for Congress as a representative of Pennsylvania’s Tenth District. His opponent was a Democrat, a Catholic, and a Pole in a district heavily populated with Democrats, Catholics, and Poles. Although this was Scranton’s first campaign, his success was truly impressive. He beat the incumbent congressman soundly despite the fact that he was opposing a ticket which was headed by John Kennedy.
Scranton’s next campaign was even
more impressive than the first. With the urging of prominent state Republicans and of General Eisenhower, Scranton carried the Republican banner into the battle for governor in 1962. Again the opponent was extremely formidable. The Democratic candidate, Richardson Dilworth, had acquired a reputation for his work as mayor of Philadelphia where he had spurred a political and physical renovation of the city. But once again Scranton emerged victorious, rolling up a 486,000-vote plurality.
IVTow the governor stands on the threshold of another campaign, this one for the big political prize. Scranton has not yet declared himself a candidate for the Presidency, but the Scranton movement is becoming stronger as time goes by. He has received the support of Eisenhower, and Scranton For President committees are being organized nationwide. Scranton himself is leaving the door open. He has declared that he will accept a “real and honest” draft and, perhaps more significantly, has taken hold of the Pennsylvania delegation and has offered himself as the state’s “favorite son.”
Scranton is also beginning to act like a candidate. His policies are
slowly emerging but still remain rather general and vague. On the foreign scene Scranton favors a hard line toward Communism and is willing to take risks to attempt to stop its spread in the world. He wants to cut defense expenditures, to initiate a more concentrated effort to win the war in Vietnam and to administer foreign aid more efficiently so that it will get to the people who need it. His domestic. policy includes federal aid to higher education, a strong civil rights bill, more tax revenues for the states and less for the federal government, and a balanced budget.
Scranton’s backers point to the fact that he has proven his executive ability as governor of Pennsylvania. In this position he has reduced unemployment and has halted the state’s galloping industrial decay. In addition he has begun an extensive highway modernization program, has raised teachers’ pay and has made available state funds for cities or school districts to set up their own technical schools and junior colleges. Scranton supporters also believe that he is the only Republican who can beat Johnson next November. They tab him as the “logical candidate” with Nixon being too defeat-ridden; Goldwater, too radical; Rockefeller, hurt by his divorce; and Lodge, having very little support. They also point out that Scranton has emerged victorious from an underdog position twice before.
On the other hand, there have been severe criticisms of Scranton’s move toward the nomination. The most pointed criticism emphasizes that he has only six years of public experience and that his glances toward the White House are too bold for a “novice.” Criticism also centers around the fact that he has not taken specific stands on important issues and has confined his statements to the “I’m for the American people” category. It is also pointed out that Scranton is not well known nationally and for this reason will have little chance of defeating Johnson. Furthermore, many Republicans point to his reluctance to run and fear that such heel dragging indicates a lack of self-confidence and will cause him to lose time in setting up the efficient machine necessary to capture the nation’s biggest office.
On the local scene, it seems that Scranton and Goldwater will be in a pitched battle to win the nomination of the Mock Convention. Both have their strong support in different geographical sections. The one who picks up the delegates who are now committed to the other candidates will emerge victorious.
16
The Scholastic
As E. B. White has said, “The L residents of New York are to a large extent strangers who have pulled up stakes somewhere and come to town, seeking sanctuary or fulfillment or some greater or lesser grail.” These words well suit a man who is one of the more recent “strangers” to settle in New York, Mr. Richard Nixon.
A native of the West, Mr. Nixon was born in Yerba Linda, California, on January 9, 1913. He moved at an early age to Whittier, California. Here he completed his elementary and secondary schooling and, in 1934, graduated second in his class from Whittier College. Mr. Nixon attended Duke University Law School on a scholarship, receiving his LL.B. in 1937. The next five years were spent practicing law in his home town of Whittier. It was during this period that Richard Nixon first served the public, as Deputy City Attorney. During this five-year period, Mr. Nixon met his wife-to-be,2Pat Ryan; on June 21, 1940, they were married.
In 1942 Mr. Nixon came for the first time to Washington. The stop was a brief one and, after five months as a member of the legal staff of the Office of Price Administration, Mr. Nixon received a commission as a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy. In a period of thirteen months in the South Pacific, the lawyer-turned-sailor earned two battle stars and two letters of commendation. Lieutenant Commander Richard Nixon was discharged from the Navy in January of 1946.
Just prior to leaving the Navy, he was approached by a citizens’ committee to oppose incumbant Congressman Jerry Vorhis. In defeating his opponent, Mr. Nixon conducted a series of debates as a method of campaigning. Once again in Washington, the new Congressman labored in a conservative but conscientious manner. As a member of the Herter Committee, he spent two months in Europe studying the Marshall Plan. He also participated in the drafting of the Taft-Hartley Labor Relations Act. By 1948, his hard work had earned for him a re-election to Congress.
Mr. Nixon first gained national notice as a member of the House UnAmerican Activities Committee. In introducing material to expose Alger Hiss, he introduced at the same time a reformed procedure for the committee which he hoped would protect the rights of the individual. “It is essential also to be extremely careful in this field ... to distinguish between an individual who is a voluntary participant in the Communist conspiracy
February 28, 1964
mm
by Pete Siegwald
and one who innocently may have had contact with it.” The words are Mr. Nixon’s.
A two-year tenure in the Senate preceded Mr. Nixon’s selection as running mate for Dwight Eisenhower in 1952. In the next eight years VicePresident Nixon gained an unprecedented amount of responsibility. He served as a statutory member of the National Security Council and as Chairman of the President’s Committee on Government Contracts and of the Cabinet Committee on Price Stability for Economic Growth. As the personal representative of the President, Mr. Nixon traveled to some fifty countries throughout the world. True, he was not always well received, as his South American trip will attest; but the calmness and ability he displayed at all times is indeed to his credit. At the same time,
he has had a true firsthand look at the effects of America’s foreign policy.
When the 1960 Presidential campaign drew near, there was little doubt whom the Republicans would nominate. Once again, Mr. Nixon used the debate as a means of presenting his views. There were two important differences however: first, the debates were carried over nation-wide television; second, instead of strengthening his position, Mr. Nixon made a poor showing against Mr. Kennedy. However, of the 68 million popular votes cast, the margin of defeat was only 119,000 votes.
Defeat once again haunted Mr. Nixon in 1962. A strong bid for the governorship of the state of California proved fruitless. It is in connection with this that the now famous Nixon news conference, blasting the press, occurred.
A s the 1964 Republican National Convention draws near, Mr. Nixon has once again become politically active. One of his biggest weaknesses at the present seems to be his national image. Reminding the public that the former Vice-President is a proven vote-getter seems an important issue in his campaign. On matters of domestic policy, Mr. Nixon has continued to support the position which the Republican Party assumed in the 1960 platform. On the matter of foreign affairs, he is a conservative, declaring that he would “like finding out what is right for America rather than what may be popular at the moment abroad.” Mr. Nixon favors aid to education in the form of aid for school construction, and also favors the Kerr-Mills Bill of voluntary health insurance. Again, in the area of civil rights he is rather conservative, calling for less coercion from the federal government.
With this platform, then, and boasting of a vast reserve of experience, Mr. Nixon is seen by many to be the candidate that is needed for a Republican victory in 1964. The question, however, is still open to discussion. For Mr. Nixon has gained the reputation of a loser during the past four years, and a bad loser, at that, crying “unfair” at the press after his defeat in California. Going further back, the rock-shattered windows of a black limousine in South America remain a vivid picture to many. Will Mr. Nixon be able to overcome this bad foreign image? Finally, some have said that the former Vice-President is unable to inspire confidence in his followers. This final doubt as well as the others, his supporters feel, will be overcome before the start of the Republican National Convention.
17
ovie director Vittorio De Sica has been directing movies ever since World War H — The Children Are Watching Us, Shoeshine, Bicycle Thief, Umberto D— and has won much critical praise for the flawless construction of these films. But until his Two Women (1961), De Sica did not have the large audience influence or the power of directors like Alfred Hitchcock, John Huston, and David Lean. His early films were carefully wrought neo-realistic stories about average people with crucial but not exciting problems. Then, in Two Women, he directed Sophia Loren through the terrors and tragedy of the Italian liberation and embodied in her all of mankind’s hopes and fears in a world from which there could be no escape. With Les Se-questres D’Altona he has made a very different kind of picture, but one that is equally absorbing and relevant.
In 1960 Jean-Paul Sartre’s Les Sequestres D’Altona was first performed on the stage and in 1963 the motion picture was released in Europe and then America. Both the stage and the film productions have received mixed receptions from the critics, many of the adversely critical comments springing from a misunderstanding of the intentions and the meaning of the play. Both Sartre and De Sica were trying to portray man’s differing reactions to guilt; they were not condemning Germany. The Nazi background is only a background, not the substance of the story (as has been frequently asserted or implied when Altona is compared to Judgement at Nuremberg). For De Sica, Altona is “about a man who is in (a) prison of his own.”
Sartre took five “self-sequestered” Germans who were isolated and condemned by their retreat from reality and put them in close proximinity to each other, ending their isolation and exposing their illusions. Albert von Gerlach, an immensely powerful Krupp-like industrialist, discovers he has an incurable cancer of the throat and asks his hostile son Werner to return to Altona so that he can settle the estate.
As a boy Werner’s interests were always subordinated to those of his older brother, and in reaction to this he jealously rejected everything his father stood for. Leaving Altona he became a lawyer of principle; but when he is offered the previously unobtainable power of the dying old man, Werner’s principles wither before the temptation and he readily embraces the monopolistic forces he had fought in the courts.
Meanwhile Johanna has discovered that Franz, allegedly dead, has been
THE CONDEMNED OE ALTONA
by Robert Haller
hiding in the attic for fifteen years; half-mad, he has been dictating tape recordings to the “decapods” he says will rule the earth in the thirtieth century. Franz’s only contact with the outside world has been through his sister Leni and she has encouraged and supported his belief that Germany is a wasteland peopled by orphans, the starving and the dead. Bearing the Nazi guilt, Franz feels that this is just, but is unable to face it because he loves Germany (which is why he fought for Hitler and later became “the butcher of Smolensk”), so he hides in the walled-up rooms, living on champagne, oysters, and benzedrine. Leni maintains this illusion so she can continue their incestuous relationship, the only meaningful (and also sequestering) part of her life.
Johanna steps into this nether world with her principles and desire for truth. She finds it, but cannot face it, and flees, leaving Franz with a watch (symbolizing time, which he had needed five years to destroy) and the news of his father’s impending death.
Franz hates his father because he collaborated with the Nazis. Yet he loves him at the same time because
he too has wielded the powers that have almost destroyed Franz. Together they drive away to their death — Franz because he cannot live a lie, and his father because he has nothing to live for. At the end of the play Franz delivers his own epitaph:
There are no red corpuscles, for the accused is dying of hunger. But I will tell you the secret of these multiple incisions. The century might have been a good one had not man been watched from time immemorial by the cruel enemy who had sworn to destroy him, that hairless, evil, flesh-eating beast — man himself. One and one makes one — there’s our mystery. The beast was hiding, and suddenly we surprised his look deep in the eyes of our neighbors. So we struck. Legitimate self-defense. I surprised the beast. I struck. A man fell, and in his dying eyes I saw the beast still living — myself . . . Oh, tribunal of the night — you who were, who will be, and who are — I have been! I have been! I, Franz von Gerlach, here in this room, have taken the century upon my shoulders and have said: “I will
(Continued on page S3)
18
The Scholastic
“It is said that wine dulls the desire of a man; that is true, in a dull man.”
Right from the start, saying something about Tom Jones is more or less saying something about oneself. A fellow reviewer in this magazine suggests that the movie is underdeveloped, and it is. But it is underdeveloped in the same sense that the novel Tom Jones is under
Jones and sometimes even about the writing of the book Tom Jones. Not quite so windy, but just as witty, the narrator of the movie is roughly the equivalent of Fielding himself, the narrator of the book. Moreover, the irony of the book, peculiarly contrived so that even very dramatic scenes have the touch of comedy, is carried out in the movie by the use of music—here again a very primitive
in the movie achieves this effect as much as anything else; his unhealthy skin and dusty wig give his life just the pallor it was meant to have. On the other hand, Western never was so much the grandiose vulgar man as here. As in the novel, his vulgarity throws Tom into relief from the other side, for Tom is never a boor, however much he resembles Squire Western otherwise. Thwackum
developed with respect to the novel Ulysses. In another sense the technique of the movie is extremely ingenious and daring, especially, for example, the characters’ asides to the audience. And the photography is masterly, always seeking to render the vivid realism of the novel as nearly as it can, and giving us a sense of action rarely achieved by a camera, as in the expert hunting scene.
It is precisely because the movie does not really seek to develop but simply to present itself that some of us might find it unsatisfying. Technique in this movie is in no sense an end in itself, but only a thoroughly competent means by which the spirit of the novel is captured. The novel is a long affair which begins with Tom’s childhood and presents episode after episode of his life in a grand pica-( resque which is the earliest successful i form of plot. The story is thus first of all a structure, a plot, and the i. varied and somewhat discrete epi-1 sodes are linked together only by Tom Jones himself and the ideas he lives out, largely because the narrator keeps placing them on his shoulders. One extremely significant technique of the novel is the narrator’s witty and learned discourse to the reader, in which he speaks with us about Tom
technique and thoroughly ingenious, for the music is the music of the early silent films, very artificial and funny, which makes even pathos somewhat comic and throws Tom Jones into relief as being thoroughly unartificial.
Certain variations on characterization are telling, and they establish the film as not quite history from history’s vantage (not the eighteenth century quite from its own vantage) but inasmuch as it is there for us.
Sophie Western, for instance, is far more the contemporary woman than she was originally conceived to be. In the novel she is a bit severe, and never quite so spontaneous — in a twentieth-century view of spontaneity — as she might be. In the movie she is gay and effervescent and her coy air just serves to accentuate her vitality. And Molly, the devil herself in appearance and quite masculine at that, is far less an intriguing girl and far more a seductress. On the other hand, Blifil and Squire Western are notably like the characters of the novel. Blifil is always dressed in black, always away from the mainstream of action, anemic, and possessing the prudishness that conceals a dangerous lust and a vengeful, spiteful temperament. His make-up
and Square are important' in the novel mostly because they are Tom’s tutors. In the movie, which begins, effectively, with Tom’s adulthood, they have little importance. Yet they do fill out the set of characters of which Blifil is the prime example.
np HE QUESTION OF PROPRIETY is Central to both the novel and the book. Squire Western’s behavior is always a bit extravagant and uncontrolled; and all he can say for himself is that he is honest and does not cloak his prurience in deceit, as does Blifil. Against Western, Tom Jones possesses a real, acute sensitivity and sense of propriety. It is with Squire Allworthy that Tom must justify himself. But Squire All worthy, sincere and intelligent, never demands of Tom the sort of piety that he sees in Blifil. It would be sufficient for Squire Allworthy that he knew what we know about Tom Jones, that he is free, exuberant, and that he generously assents to the life of any other person.
As it did originally, so even now the story of Tom Jones intends to elicit a new kind of ethical behavior by showing the virtues of that behavior from the start. This ethic does (Continued on page SO)
February 28, 1964
19
Pre-Innsbruck
Evaluation
As A former participant in the
Innsbruck German Program for freshmen, I strongly feel that both the structure and the purpose of the program should be examined closely. The “disillusioned freshman” in his letter in the January 17 issue of the Scholastic spoke of “impossible odds, cutthroat grading, tremendous and unreal work loads. ...” His approach, perhaps, was slightly emotional. All of these elements were present to some extent; however, they were shared equally by all in th^ program, and, considering the ac- • celerated nature of that program, perhaps can be justified. The writer also mentioned the “discouraged and defeated freshmen” who could not keep up with the work load. In fairness to the program, all freshmen who were failing were allowed late in the semester to withdraw passing from the course. While this consideration possibly overlooked the “discouraged” students, it certainly provided the “defeated” ones with an escape.
I think that the program, although basically a sound idea, has suffered sorely from a lack of organization. Moreover, I wonder if the program, as it is now formulated, will be able to achieve its ostensible goals: first, to enrich the liberal education of the 55 students who make the trip to Innsbruck by exposing them to the culture of a foreign country, and second, to enable them to speak the German language fluently.
There were several areas in which lack of organization was apparent. Taken individually, none of the shortcomings are extremely serious; considered as a whole, they definitely hampered the success of the program.
Each section, except the one composed of students who had had highschool German, was supposed to advance at the same rate, covering the same material. Yet several teachers presented additional information to their classes. Thus occasionally the material in weekly departmental quizzes had not been taken up adequately in every class. The textbook used in the program was distributed in small installments as each new section was printed. Discrepancies in the numbering of pages and typographical errors were common. Also, several chapters contained informa-
by Rich McQuaid
tion that would be useful mainly for an advanced language major, as, for example, descriptions of the various sections of the mouth when forming a particular sound.
The use of the language laboratory posed problems for many students. The lab was open for only a few hours each day, and often at incon
venient times, as, for example, after dinner. More important, on many occasions, especially during weekends, no one was present to open the classroom for scheduled lab periods. Finally, there was a discrepancy among the teachers in grading of weekly quizzes. Along with an entire class, I witnessed two of the German instructors arguing loudly about the way in which these quizzes should be marked. They apparently never settled their disagreement, and this was reflected in the grades they gave. Certainly in a departmentalized course, grading should have been standardized.
In addition to considering the way the Innsbruck Program has functioned at Notre Dame, I feel the purpose of the program should be discussed. Will the year in Austria actually enrich the liberal education of the students who go to Innsbruck? Will it give them real fluency in German? I have some serious doubts.
The Innsbruck students, chaperones, and teachers will be housed in a large, modern hotel in Innsbruck. For
providing comfortable surroundings, alleviating the fears of worried parents and University officials, and keeping a close check on the students, this group-housing arrangement is ideal. However, I think that there is a serious drawback to
this plan. I find it difficult to conceive of 55 English-speaking students living closely together and conversing exclusively, or even frequently, in German. Thus, for the hours that they are together (a good portion of each day), the students will be speaking English rather than German — an obvious impediment to progress in the foreign language.
Finally, an integral part of the Innsbruck Program is the idea of “cul
tural exchange.” I fail to see where ’ the Notre Dame “ghetto” will have many opportunities for exchange — except within itself. A few side trips and guided tours are obviously not enough. Certainly there are those students who will be able to overcome the disadvantages of this arrangement, who will truly mix with the Austrian people, learn to speak and “think” German. However, for many of the Innsbruck students, this will be their first trip abroad. After one year of college most of these will not have matured fully as students. For this reason I feel that, for the most part, they will group together in the security of the “ghetto.”
The Innsbruck Program was rushed into existence and is still in an embryonic stage. For this reason, perhaps, its organizational problems can be excused and, hopefully, remedied. The group housing problem is, however, very relevant to the final success of the program. I feel that serious consideration should especially be given to modification of this aspect of the program.
20
The Scholastic
Discussion and Dissent*
!
I
i
I
an introduction
by James Morgan Callero
I i
Attempts to define a Catholic ( university are usually made in > terms of the subjects which it teaches ; or its unique contribution to society. • Such definitions are never very substantial or informative inasmuch as it is not at all unusual to find secular universities offering the same cur; riculum, including theology and scholastic philosophy. And the manner in which a university benefits society ' depends upon the particular conditions . and requirements of particular so; cities, factors constantly changing in the course of time. The most pene-, trating and valuable insights into the ", nature of the Catholic university are found through analyzing the values which it embodies.
The highest value in the academic ' tradition is given to truth, or science. But this is an ideal goal. Because even i the very finest human intellects are j subject to the possibility of error, as ■ is often shown, the presentation of ' science in the university is not dog’ matic; students are encouraged to ! question, to criticize, to evaluate and ■ to investigate. In the practical order then, maximum value is ascribed to ; the spirit of free inquiry, the cele-• brated “academic freedom,” or, ren; dered in a single word, honesty. j The Church also places great value on truth, which she teaches is one, and of which she is possessor and guardian. The truth of Faith however, unlike that of science, is ul-’ timately grasped in living rather than ( verbalizing. Unity of confession must not be confused with unity of ex’ pression. The truth which Catholics j prize above all else is a practical one, I which is to say it is lived. That truth
is charity.
The Catholic university integrates the supreme values of Faith and reason: charity and honesty. It is the institutionalized synthesis of two historically great and traditionally rich ways of life, the religious and the scientific. It is a community of persons dedicated to the scholarly life and mutually engaged in the search for and articulation of science, while espousing the Christian standard of social conduct.
Disagreement does not scandalize such a community. Therefore the fact that there is a minority of unbelievers among the student body at Notre Dame in no way compromises its integrity as a Catholic university. So far from reflecting the failure of its departments of Theology and Philosophy, the presence of intelligent and sincere atheists here actually attests to their high quality. Dialectical response depends in large measure upon intellectually adequate provocation. It the instructors at the University succeed in stimulating serious theological speculation, whatever its conclusions, they prove after all their ability to make these issues meaningful to their students, an accomplishment which ought not be minimized.
The position here is not that truth is a relative thing and that one philosophical point of view is as good and valid as another. This is denied most emphatically. We do insist however, and with equal fervor, that any profound truth accessible to discursive reason is seldom if ever grasped without great effort. It is historically the case that not a few of the great theo
logians have undergone periods of great philosophical upheaval and religious turmoil before finally embracing the Church. There is no reason to assume that today’s sincere doubter has attained to irreversible opinions concerning religion. The possibility of discussing these matters in an atmosphere of charity and personal concern is the greatest advantage which the Catholic university offers to believers and unbelievers alike.
To deny those who disagree with us the right of free expression is to create the illusion of unified opinion which in fact does not exist here. If we really believe, as we say we do, that the end, no matter how good in itself, can never justify using evil means, then we are forced to condemn just this sort of illusion as dishonest and, depending on the motive, even fraudulent. To threaten coercive reprisals or otherwise intimidate those who voice dissenting views is not only dishonest but uncharitable, and hence absolutely irreconcilable with all that is stood for by a Catholic university.
With this in mind, we are initiating a new feature page in the Scholastic, or rather we are reviving a format used some years ago. Under the heading Forum we will present a series of articles about controversial topics ranging from religion and politics to theory of aesthetic criticism. We welcome contributions from our readers, asking only that they range in length from 1,000 to 2,000 words, relate to issues which properly concern the intellectual community, and are offered in the spirit of honesty and charity consistent with the principles of the truly Catholic university.
February 28,1964
21
Disarmament for Survival
Part I
by Paul Dupuis
It is difficult, especially for those accustomed to power, to realize that the happy days of successful slaughter have been brought to an end.
— Lord Russell
Without doubt the most serious problem before civilized man today is the threat of a total nuclear war, which would destroy the heritage of millennia. The question arises as to what is the best way to conserve the cultural values developed by the past and insure the continuance of a Western tradition for the future: it will be argued in this article that this goal can be accomplished only by the United States unilaterally to disarm. If the reader feels that this position is un-American and “pink,” I ask only that he read this essay without prejudice and emotion, for in a question of the gravest import such as this is, surely a polemic is out of place.
Since the issues surrounding the proposal for unilateral disarmament are complex, it is only fair to delimit in advance the scope and purpose of
moral or ethical principles, not because they are not relevant, but because most people don’t seem to want to listen to them. If the reader honestly believes that it would be justified to exterminate one billion men, women and children in a day (give or take a few hundred million), then I might advise him to reread the Sermon on the Mount. In my opinion the only apt comparison is Buchenwald on a scale thousands of times larger.
Rather it will be held that Western civilization and culture being valuable, the only way consistent with the ideals embodied in them is for the United States to disarm. Perhaps some mention should be made of the phrase “Better Red than dead.” There is a tendency to slander certain people by insinuating that they are not willing to die for these values, but only wish to save their own lives. On the contrary, the phrase could just as well be reversed into “Better dead than Red,” for they believe that these ideals are worth fighting for but not
the discussion. It would indeed be tragic if rational thought could not throw light on international topics, yet most attempts degenerate into name-calling because they talk mainly in terms of abstractions such as freedom and democracy. Space prevents any attempt to reason with certain lunatics who feel that it would be better to blow up the whole world rather than submit to a temporary Communist government. Nor will it be argued primarily on Christian
if nothing would endure. The meaning would be brought out much more clearly as follows: “Better civilization than incineration.”
It is urged by some that the gigantic struggle which is taking place today in the confrontation of East and West over freedom, democracy, religion and individual rights justifies the use of any means necessary for their survival including total nuclear war. Although a great many would die, they could take comfort that others will
22
The Scholastic
continue to uphold these ideals, for modem technology allows man to rebuild society after such disturbances have occurred.
In order to present my case I shall have to make one assumption which seems to be rather self-evident, and it is that any advanced society needs people. These people must be highly skilled in their professions, and unlike medicine, law, and teaching where some knowledge can be imparted in the classroom and from books many crafts can be learned only on the job after a period of apprenticeship. The knowledge that we possess took generations to acquire, and the task of educating whole groups cannot be accomplished in a few years. The economic miracle of postwar Germany depended on previously experienced men, and no Marshall Plan could have duplicated this result in one of the underdeveloped countries.
The discoveries of modern science and technology have allowed the building of large cities without the constant fear of epidemics and their
that only the downtown heart of a city was destroyed and so crash programs were inaugurated to prevent a flight to the suburbs insuring a person’s survival. For a while it was felt that it was undemocratic for only the urban dwellers to have to face instant incineration, but the construction of our missile bases in the farmlands has largely righted this imbalance.
However, the reader may complain at this point that I am misrepresenting the case, for the bases were built to draw lire away from the metropolitan areas. The idea of the “NoCities Plan’’ is that if the Russians bomb only military targets, we shall return the compliment. In this way it would be possible to conduct a thermonuclear war somewhat on the lines of the wars of the eighteenth century, where the civilian population was relatively untouched. Now all this is very nice, and I hate to question the guiding genius of our defense department, but there is the rather unfortunate case of Tucson.
radius. And if one should miss . . . well, we can rest assured in Secretary MacNamara’s promise that there goes every small town in Russia.
The upshot of all this is that a total nuclear war is absurd. For not only would it effectively destroy the fabric of society, it would result in a loss of most of the cultural advancements made over the centuries. Even if enough people should remain on either side after the fallout, it would take decades to reconstruct a civilization, unless a Marshall Plan is conceived by India or Ghana. In the meantime the advancement of civilization would be in the hands of enlightened despots such as Nasser and Sukarno.
I think that most people would agree that a nuclear war is wrong and that any sane man would come to this conclusion after a study of the facts involved. Yet they will disagree with a proposal for unilateral disarmament, and urge instead that we should work for a rapprochement with the Soviet Union. The diplomats
SUES
obvious economic efficiency has led to most of the trained people living in these urban complexes. Now one fact clearly emerged from the bombing raids of World War II, and it was that although the factories and homes could be destroyed, the people could still survive and rebuild. This was met with some dismay in military circles, but the wondrous effect of the atom bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki tended to alleviate this difficulty. Yet it soon became apparent
February 28, 1964
Arizona, which is ringed by a squadron of Titan missiles. Since the only reason we have them is to protect ourselves in case those nasty Russians decide to attack us, they have been “hardened” to resist a first exchange, forcing the Russians to use fairly large warheads. Assuming that they do not employ their 50- or 100-megaton monsters, but only something around 20 megatons, that would still result in some 200 to 300 megatons of bombs being dropped in a hundred-mile
are on the whole rational and pragmatic, unlike the demagogues of the marketplace, and these men have the experience to negotiate a disarmament treaty acceptable to both sides. That this will not be easy is admitted by everyone because of well-founded fears for distrusting the other side and conflicting interests. However, there is little possibility for a war since both sides realize the dangers involved.
(Continued next page)
23
The possibility of a mutual treaty cannot be lightly dismissed. Yet there are serious objections that may be raised against this plan which render it suspect. It is based on the assumption that there are certain areas of common interest and that conflicts can be reasonably resolved without violence. The trouble is that the United States foreign policy is not based on practical grounds alone, as is exfldent from our attitude towards the People’s Republic of China. If it were not for the moralisms uttered by the United States, it would be obvious that the only effective way for international agreement on arms control is to give China her proper recognition in world affairs. If the same criterion of responsibility for entrance to the United Nations that we wish to apply to China were extended to all members, then I am afraid that only Liechtenstein and Sweden would qualify.
The point is that we cannot separate the ideals for which America stands from the foreign policy of the State Department. This indicates the deeper level on which most East-West conflicts arise, for the facts are the same, a government rises or falls, wheat is sold to Russia, tanks are given to Egypt — but they are viewed from two different all-inclusive perspectives. Both are logically airtight and make it possible to praise the actions of our side, while condemning those of the other. Thus everything we do is for freedom, justice, equality, and democracy, while they are aggressive, tyrannical, against civilization and culture, and liars. (For “we” the reader may replace either Russia or America.) A rift is created across which no communication is possible.
To illustrate what I mean, suppose a madman maintains that everyone is out to kill him:
“But nobody has tried to kill you.” ‘Tve been too clever for them.” “Look at the people walking down the street. They don’t pay any atten-• tion to you.”
“I hear them laughing when my back is turned, and they have a suspicious look in their eye.”
“But they don’t even know you.” “Lies, all lies. They just try to make it seem that they don’t.”
“Why haven’t they killed you before this?”
“They are just trying to make me suffer.”
“But I am your friend, and want to help you.”
“That’s what my father said when he took me behind the woodshed.”
If the reader thinks that I am maintaining that most people’s political opinions east and west of the
24
Iron Curtain are on the same level as the madman’s logic, he will be correct. Suppose we imagine a conversation between a Communist and a Capitalist.
“You Americans interfere with the internal affairs of foreign countries, such as South Vietnam.”
“Our troops are there to protect their freedom.”
“The South Vietnam freedom fighters don’t seem to think so.”
“They have been brainwashed. Besides, you give them arms.”
“I seem to recall that France financed the American Revolution.”
“That was different. We were fighting for representative government. Everyone knows that your system is monolithic.”
“We hold elections.”
“But there is only one party.”

“How many Republicans have been elected in Arkansas in the last few years?”
“At least there is a choice.”
“We can vote yes or no for a man.”
“But with only one party, there can be no effective control by the people, if a man fails to perform his job.”
“What is the average tenure for a farm commissar?”
“But you stifle religious freedom.”
“There are many churches in Russia; quite a few are empty most of the time.”
“That’s only because a man cannot rise in the Communist Party if he is a churchgoer.”
“I suppose there are many atheistic senators.”
“But you stop the Jews from practicing their faith.”
“I’m sure the Negro schoolchildren in Alabama will be glad to know that.”
“You Russians are so secretive.”
“We have to be, since you build ten
times as many bombers and missiles as we do.”
“We built our Air Force only as a counterdeterrent.”
“Then why did you build so many more planes than we did?”
“In case you attack us.”
“I suppose the U-2 flights were defensive.”
“We had to know' where your secret missile bases were.”
“So you could bomb them after we had attacked you and when no missiles were left.”
Leaving the disputants to continue their endless debate, I seriously advise the reader to view foreign affairs for a while in Russian eyes to comprehend the intellectual chasm separating the United States and the Soviet Union.
The effect of these two conceptual thought structures is nowhere more clearly brought out than at the conference table. Both sides negotiate not for the common interest; rather they try to gain victory for their ideals and attack the other. An incident embarrassing to one party is shrugged off as an unfortunate occurrence, while the other interprets it as a sign of the other’s aggressive intentions. As far as I know, no lasting peace has ever been secured between two powers which was based on fear. Eventually there comes a time when neither side can afford to back down, even though a war would be suicidal for both parties as was the case with Russian and Austro-Hungarian interests in the Balkans which precipitated the First World War. So far there has been a surplus of countries, so that neither side has felt irrevocably committed to war if one government fell, yet there are sufficient trouble spots in the world to insure that the continuance of the present game of International Russian Roulette would lead to war. Mind you, I am not saying that a war must come, but only that the present state of affairs does not decrease the probability that one will occur between the Soviet Union and the United States. If the laws of induction are any guide, then we ought to consider the fact that there has not been in the past any agreement which has resulted in a lasting peace.
Some ground exists, then, for a proposal that the United States unilaterally disarm, and this will be examined in detail in the next installment. In the meantime I ask the reader to consider how it is possible for both sides to claim to be fighting for the same ends of democracy, freedom and truth, and yet at the same time to believe that the other side does not really believe in them.
The~ Scholastic
The new J number \	14
j I . j
W"1
To the Notre Dame student of the early 1950’s, two numerals were more important than all others: the year of his graduation and the number 14. Preoccupation with his class year — and hence with the date of his graduation — was a fascination the student of the fifties shared with all students of all eras, but the number 14 held a special significance — it was the jersey number of Johnny Lattner, legendary halfback, immortal j All-American, Heisman Trophy win-| ner.
• With due regard for tradition, num; ber 14 was retired. Now, another ' Notre Dame athlete promises to make ! it the symbol of greatness it once ; was, and there is some chance that j	by 1965 it may	be	retired from	the
j	basketball floor	as	well as the	sta-
i	dium.
i The “new” number 14 is Lawrence :	Augustus Sheffield,	Notre Dame	’65,
i a 6-1, 175-pound mechanic’s son from ! Troy, N.Y. In a season when the :	little man has temporarily supplanted
। the.rugged Bonhams and Heymans in | the headlines, Sheffield has been on a I par with the best. Experts have com-/ pared him, and favorably, with Walt । Hazzard, Howie Komives, Willie Som-i erset, and John Egan.
| At Notre Dame, Sheffield is the I	leading and most consistent scorer
j (22.5 points per game) on a team that has five players with doublefigure averages. Known to his team-
i mates as “Shuffles,” he is most adept j at ball handling and driving lay-ups;
I when he drives for the basket, he i February 28, 1964
seems to come apart in the air. Sheffield gives a defender the shoulder, the wrist, the elbow, the kneecap — all in different directions. When he has an “on” night, he is a threat anywhere within 40 feet of the basket.
The Negro guard, who rooms with wrestling heavyweight Dick Arrington, has already broken or tied a bevy of Notre Dame records. His 47 points against Detroit broke the singlegame scoring record of 43, held jointly by Tom Hawkins and Lloyd Aubrey; his 19 field goals in the same game tied the mark set by Hawkins; and he is currently in the process of ’ becoming the most prolific foul shooter in Notre Dame history, with a two-year average of 82.8 per cent.
And when he wants, Sheffield can be an excellent defensive player, as Indiana’s Jimmy Rayl found out a year ago. The Irish were down by 16 points at the half, but went on to win (73-70) when Sheffield did a great defensive job on Rayl. The Indiana gunner had 20 points in the first half, but Shuffles — sticking closer to him than his shadow — had him talking to himself in the second, and held him to a single point in the process.
Sheffield has been accused — and not without some justification — of being a selfish player, of being more interested in personal heroics than in the team’s success. And, strangely enough, he is the first to admit that his individualism may have hurt the team.
“I really don’t know what caused
our downfall. It was probably a number of things: our big buildup at' the beginning of the season may have led to overconfidence and poor play; the loss of Walt (Sahm) for six games was almost certainly a factor; and some of the fault may be mine. I never shot unless I thought I was in good position at the time, but maybe I was playing too much as an individual.
“I think I can improve my shooting with practice,” he continues, “and I know I need more work on defense. As far as my future is concerned, I’d like to play pro ball, but I don’t honestly believe I’m good enough.”
Off the court, Sheffield maintains a 2.4 average as a finance major, and pursues such relatively ordinary pas-, times as pool, collecting jazz albums, and reading.
His background, however, is quite extraordinary. He was a 9.7 sprinter in high school, and won four letters in track as well as four in basketball at Troy’s Lasalle Institute. He averaged over 25 points per game during his prep-school career, once held Barry Kramer to nine points, and upon graduation was lustily pursued by over 75 colleges.
Cocky when he came to Notre Dame, Larry Sheffield has seemingly gotten a smaller head along ■with a bigger average, and in his remaining year of competition, he may establish himself as Notre Dame’s finest guard. Tradition may have to make room for another number 14.
.	—Rex Lardner
25

Four records fell as Notre Dame drubbed Pittsburgh, 73-31, in a dual-track meet Saturday. Those to set new marks — either meet or Notre Dame indoor—were Bill Boyle in the 1/1/0 (:l/7.9), Pete Whitehouse in the 60-yard high hurdles (:07.3), Frank Carver in the two-mile (9:06.3), and Bill Clark in the mile (l/:10).
The record breakers
26
The Scholastic
February 28, 1964
SCOREBOARD
TRACK: Bill Boyle sprinted home in :47.9 to become one of the fastest indoor quarter-milers ever, and Captain Pete Whitehouse was a triple wanner as Notre Dame routed Pittsburgh, 73-31.
FENCING: The Irish drubbed defending Big Ten champion Michigan State and perennial rival Ohio State by identical 18-9 scores. Dick Marks and Steve Dreher were undefeated against MSU; Mike McQuade and Bill Ferrence led the conquest of the Buckeyes with 3-1 marks.
SKIING: Led by John Turner, Jim Sechser, and Steve Walther, Notre Dame won the NCAA Midwest Re-gionals at Duluth, and earned a berth in the National Championships at Stowe, Vermont, March 6-7.
SCORES
Basketball
Bradley 82, Notre Dame 72
Notre Dame 91, Evansville 75
Track
Notre Dame 73, Pittsburgh 31
Fencing
Notre Dame 18, Michigan State 9
Notre Dame 18, Ohio State 9
Swimming
Notre Dame 62, Ball State 32
Miami of Ohio 57, Notre Dame 38
Purdue 60, Notre Dame 41
Wrestling
Notre Dame 19, Cincinnati 10 Miami of Ohio 25, Notre Dame 5 Notre Dame 23, Wheaton 9
Hockey
Notre Dame at Valparaiso, cancelled
SCHEDULE
Basketball
Feb. 29, Creighton at Notre Dame
Track
Feb. 29, Central Collegiate Conference Indoor Championships at Kalamazoo, Mich.
Fencing
Feb. 29, Wisconsin and Illinois at Notre Dame
.	Swimming
Feb. 29, West Virginia at Notre Dame March 5, Kent University at Kent, Ohio
Wrestling
Feb. 29, Marquette at Milwaukee March 3, Chicago University at
Chicago
Hockey
Feb. 29, Lake Forest College at Lake Forest, Hl.
Voice in the Crowd
Can, and should, the Bengal Bouts be banned on moral grounds? I think not, but Joe Breig in “What’s With Prize Fighting” (Ave Maria, February 1, 1964) seems to disagree — at least by implication. A reply next week.	— T. W.
A man ... is a creature uniting the material and the spiritual in one being and person, endowed with intellect and will. It is this that makes a man a man, a woman a woman, a child a child, a human being a human being. And prize fighting, or boxing, or the “manly art,” or whatever you choose to call it, has for its prime purpose, its reason-for-existing, the damaging or destruction, for a time, of the faculties which make humans human, which give us the nature out of which grow our noble rights and duties.
To put it another way, we know by divine revelation, by God’s word in the Bible, that man is made in the image and likeness of God; and the central reason for which two prize fighters enter a ring is to inflict injuries which will damage this likeness by depriving the other person of the power of thinking and willing, at least long enough for the referee to count 10, flailing his arm up and down over the prostrate figure of an image of God who has been battered by another image of God into unconsciousness or semiconsciousness.
At least long enough to count 10; but the history of prize fighting is filled with tragic stories of men who were magnificently endowed with physical strength, stamina and perfection; whose minds were quick, and whose reactions were hair-trigger; but they ended by “walking on their heels” for the rest of their lives, their mental powers gravely impaired by the brain damage they had suffered as the result of repeated blows in boxing matches. . . .
There are substantiated cases in which even a six-year-old boy wearing large padded gloves caused serious or fatal injury by striking anothei' six-year-old boy in a boxing match.
All this being so, some theologians have condemned boxing as immoral, and gravely so. They base their judgment mainly on the central point that boxing is the only “sport” in which the prime objective is to inflict injuries, and above all injuries which have as their consequence the reduction of the victim to a state in which hd is unable to reason or to will, so that what is most human in him has been made inoperative, leaving, for the time, only that which he possesses in common with wild beasts.
Often the argument is heard that players are hurt in other sports — in baseball, football, basketball, tennis, hockey, skiing, diving, track. That is true; but the thing that makes prize fighting different from all other sports is that in boxing, and in boxing alone, the whole point and purpose of the “sport” is to inflict injury. . . .
Boxing, then, is a direct insult to the divine goodness which stamped its own image upon human beings; and so it is a grievous sin for which boxers can be excused only on the basis of ignorance. And boxing also is a violation of the law of nature — sinful in the light of reason. ... .
Prize fighting is one of the grossest prostitutions of humanity. It is simply this: It is thousands ... of men and women hiring two men to beat each other with all their strength for the delectation of the spectators. Thus it is a perversion of all that being human ought to mean. . . .
28
The Scholastic
This article has been written by the
members of the Blue Circle and is included in this issue as a public service of the Scholastic. This is not a satire.
DESCRIBING THE CIRCLE
The Blue Circle Honor Society is dedicated to furthering the ideals of the University, but this dedication is more weighted to the active than • to the contemplative. We feel that as students dedicated to service we can be effective primarily by doing tasks wherever there is a definite need for the good of the whole of Notre Dame. This “doing” is best explained by looking at just what our activities are. They may be grouped into three general areas.
The first of these areas is concerned with improving those aspects of community life most vital to the individual as a student. The efforts in this direction are initiated each year
by Freshman Orientation Week, during which time the Circle works for the Administration in attempting to ease the incoming freshmen into their new life. Interest in helping the new student to make a successful start in college does not end with this week, however, for throughout the year the Circle draws upon the time and talents of about seventy upperclassmen to form the Senior Advisory Committee. This committee continues the work done in the first week of school by giving freshmen the opportunity to become acquainted with capable, dedicated students who have survived the terrors of freshman year and are interested in giving the frosh the benefits of their experience.
Another important committee is that which has been concerned with the formulation of an honor system, an attempt to further the ideals of Christian manhood in the academic and ethical realm of student life. This semester several years of research on this problem will hopefully bear fruit from the cooperative efforts of the Circle and Student Government.
The development of student responsibility inherent in an honors sys
tem is also the concern of the Leader
ship Training Program. Each spring this committee arranges a weekend of lectures and discussion groups designed to encourage student interest in leadership as it pertains to university life and to the individual’s future role in society. A quite different but important aspect of student life is the concern of the Pep Rally and the Student Trip committees.
The second general area of the Circle’s activities is that concerned with the role of the student in the civic community, in particular with improving relations between Notre Dame-St. Mary’s and South Bend. .Each ■ December the Circle sponsors Christmas parties and caroling groups for charitable institutions such as Northen Indiana Children’s Hospital, Mishawaka Family and Children’s Center, and the County Home for the Aged.
Assistance of a more material nature is given to charitable institutions each spring during Help Week. This project, which actually lasts only a day, consists of several groups of ND and SMC students doing odd jobs and spring cleaning at places like Healthwin Hospital and the Circle of Mercy Day Nursery. To these attempts to create a better atmosphere between the University and the town has been added the Tutoring Program. The Circle, in conjunction with South
Bend authorities, is organizing groups of students to tutor grade
school and junior high children. The
projects, begun this year on an experimental basis, have been very successful and are rapidly expanding.
The third concern of Blue Circle activities is the representation of the University and the students to those outside the community. The guided tours given by Circle men to visitors, notably during Junior-Parent Weekend, and the ushering at campus
events are the two main manifestations of this concern.
Over the summer an intensive research of other colleges was done in order to find more beneficial tasks for Notre Dame. We have received replies from many of these schools. These replies and other ideas are discussed in bi-weekly policy meetings. Through policy discussion we attempt to maintain a critical awareness of our present activities and to project ourselves into the possible future through consideration of long-range projects.
It is our intention' to remain 45 in number only for the sake of efficiency in organization. Though we believe that this basic limitation is a practical good, we still hope to have as many men as possible interested in our various tasks of service. Thus, we are looking for men who believe in the good of serving Notre Dame and who demonstrate the ability and desire to perform this service. You may
apply by writing a letter of application. Please include in it a statement
of your reason for applying, past sig
nificant activities, cumulative average, major field of study (or intent), and a snapshot to aid the interviewer’s memory. A 2.5 average and a lack of disciplinary trouble are requisite for applicants. Letters are to be sent to the Blue Circle Membership Chairman, 416 Badin Hall. We promise to consider your application to the best of our ability.
February 28,1964
29
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
Longines and Wittnauer Bulova — Elgin Hamilton
106 N. Main St.	CE 2-1756
Startling National Survey:
ARE
COLLEGE ATHLETICS CORRUPT?
April SPORT presents the most important report ever published in SPORT . . . the shocking findings of financial corruption in college sports. Based on months of investigation of colleges and universities, it pulls no punches. Be sure to read this conclusion to ‘‘How Immoral Are College Athletics."’
Also in April SPORT:
“WHAT AN OLD MAN LEARNED ABOUT
FOOTBALL” by Y. A. Tittle
“HOW WE WON BACK
THE DAVIS CUP” by Bud Collins
Read all about the sport scene’s great favorite and controversial figures in SPORT, the magazine that keeps you apace of all events in college and pro sports. For top coverage, in-depth profiles, action-packed photos . . . Read
April
SPORT
Favorite magazine of the sports stars and the sports minded!
NOW ON SALE!
SKI CLOTHING & EQUIPMENT On Sale
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
Freshmen and sophomores interested in writing for the SCHOLASTIC should apply at the SCHOLASTIC office in the Student Center, Sunday or Monday evening this week.
Campus
('Continued from page 13) munism early in man’s existence. At this time there was no exploitation because no one owned the means of production. But this was insufficient to assure man the necessities of life; and from it emerged the antithesis, the two-class system. The class system, in its forms of slavery, feudalism and capitalism, was more successful in fighting man’s struggle for survival; but under it the mass of society was exploited by the few who owned the means of production. The synthesis of these two systems is modern communism. It takes the best aspects of both systems and combines them in a perfect system that will not change.
Thus by revolting and putting an end to the evil of private property, communism can enter upon its golden age; this is the mystique. With the fall of the class system will end all human antagonisms. Man as an individual will lose himself in society, his mind united to all other men in truth and his heart in fraternity. Eventually the state will disappear, its social function having become unnecessary; and “from each according to his ability, to each according to his need,” will be the unchanging rule by which mankind will live.
Lily, Love & College Life
St. Mary’s Speech and Drama Department has arranged for an original stage production, Love, Lily, during the SMC Parent Weekend. Katherine Lancelot and Karin Well-stein, of the SMC playwriting class, wrote the musical, while Katherine’s brother Charles composed the score.
The play, an original adaptation of Daddy Long Legs, involves plots, counterplots, and intrigues centered around Lily, an orphan adopted by the rich sophisticate, Daddy, and sent to college. At college Lily is caught up in the romantic events of her new friends — no satire intended, of course — and intrigues take place among the coeds and their cohorts, with a traditional happy ending to let the audience realize that all is in fun.
The cast includes Pamela Gallagher in the title role and John Healy as Daddy Long Legs, supported by Laurie A. Susfalk, Sean Griffin, Tom Rhoades, Elsie Meyer, David Sauer, and Nancy Wager; another attraction is the Barbershop Quartet from the Notre Dame Varsity Glee Club.
For those who missed the performance last night a second performance will be given tonight at 8:30 in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
Tom Jones
(Continued from page 19) not consist in precept or system; little if anything can ultimately be known for sure as to what is, so to speak, right and wrong. It is a morality of more or less, and it demands that a person plunge himself entirely into a situation and strive to make the best of it from within, rather than sitting outside contriving and working out intricate patterns of casuistry that are finally mere selfingratiation. The morality is not in advance of any situation, but mani--fests itself only in the ambiguities of what is already given. One assents to the Other, not from afar, but immediately, hand-to-hand, and the form of this assent varies with each situation so that nothing is always right or always wrong.
Most morality is construed in absolute terms not because it can be effectively employed that way, which it cannot, nor even because that is the way it is given to us, but simply because most people are quite cowardly in the face of their own freedom and would rather have a set pattern to follow, or to try to follow, than have to face given situations in their uniqueness and act. Too much morality is moralizing; it is a passive activity which points fingers or which acts blindly without sense of this particular situation, which is always indeterminate, indefinite, and changing.
Pretty nearly, Tom Jones lives out this morality. He possesses a freedom that does not hide from itself; and he has the courage that comes from self-confidence, the willingness to act more or less as himself alone, without code or absolutes, on what is always insufficient understanding. He is, therefore, in every case more or less right as opposed to more or less wrong. But it is a morality far too subtle to write about, one which requires the infinite diversity of this situation here-and-now for its meaning. It is an ethic of action, never quite utterly spontaneous, but with the brief self-criticism that does not delay its effectiveness. Tom Jones always acts for this world, in this situation, facing this ambiguity, and through the constant effort to live he achieves manhood.
This exuberance is the life of the movie, and through it the movie becomes just the commentary on our own behavior that Fielding intended the novel to be. Seeking out and dramatizing what is at the heart of all human life, active love, the movie is indeed primitive. And through this very primitive alertness it achieves a keen and genuine greatness.
30
The Scholastic
Freshman Year
WE WERE EXTREMELY pleased to get a statistical report of the present Freshman Class for the grades this group made for the first semester. The Probationary List was approximately the same ’ as that of last year, and this is particularly meaningful when one considers that there were approximately 27 more students in the present Freshman Class than there were in the 1962-63 group.
Of particular interest was the fact that the Freshman Honor Roll (3.25), numbered 146 students. This is a gain of 41 freshmen over those who achieved this high rank for the same period a year ago. It might also be interesting to note that there are over 300 members of the present Freshman Class who have a “B” or better average for their first semester at Notre Dame.
Within the next two weeks, all students in the Freshman Program with a “B” or better average will be invited to a meeting to alert these freshmen of the multiple opportunities open to them for graduate scholarship aid. There are at the present time on the Notre Dame faculty, members who have won such national fellowships and scholarships as the Rhodes, Danforth, Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, Marshall, National Science, etc. These faculty men will be present at this meeting and will speak briefly about the great opportunities these national awards hold for students. It is our hope that the freshmen with a “B” or better average will be encouraged to continue their outstanding work so that they may apply for these awards three years from now.
Within the next month, the deans of the Arts and Letters College and of the Business Administration College will address members of the Freshman Class who are presently in the AL or BA Intent. At these meetings the various Department Chairmen in each College will outline the programs available to freshmen, and will have members of their faculty and outstanding undergraduates in their programs present to answer specific questions. We wish to have this done before the Easter vacation, so that freshmen may discuss their choice of college with their parents during the Easter holidays.
Recently, congratulatory letters went out to all parents of students who made the Freshman Honor Roll.
William M. Burke, Dean Freshman Year of Studies
February 28, 1964
1. I’ve decided on the kind of job I want when I graduate.
o
Knowing vou, I’d guess it to be something modest-like Secretary of State or President of GE.
3. Well, I did run an extremely successful Nickel-a-Pickle sale.
Don’t forget to demand plenty of stock options.
Very nice. Maybe they could start you off at a hundred grand a year.
4. You think maybe 1 should lower my sights a little.
5. I’d be willing to settle for a vice-presidency.
2.1 hadn’t thought of those specifically. What I had in mind was a job where they give you a lot of assistants. I think that would be nice.
I’m afraid to tell you what I think.
Rooming with you has taught me a lot.
o
Look—why don’t you see if you can qualify for one of Equitable’s executive training programs. The work is interesting, the pay is good. And if you prove you have the ability, you may very well end up with a title and a couple of assistants.
Make an appointment through your Placement Office to see Equitable’s employment representative on March 5 or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager for further information.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 ©1964
31
Letters
(Continued from page 7)
plies, that he is not eminently qualified to speak out on matters of foreign policy. Goldwater as a member of the Senate has proven himself remarkably adept in the area of foreign policy. Many of the programs that he has long advocated and which were originally denounced by his opponents are now being incorporated into the foreign policy program of the United States. We refer you specifically to many of the provisions in the foreign aid bill passed by the Senate before President Kennedy’s death, to give just one example.
4.	Although the test-ban treaty and many of the steps Senator Goldwater advocates all involve “risks,” there is little justification for Mr. Rowe’s use of the word “paradoxically.” Many people oppose Goldwater’s foreign program because it is too “risky”; yet these are the same people who are in favor of the test-ban treaty in spite of the risks involved. Can this be categorized as paradox? Definitely not. Obviously, no matter whose foreign policy program we espouse there are risks involved in adopting that program. The question is “Which program minimizes the risks?” Avoiding
the arguments upholding our stand, we cast our votes in Mr. Goldwater’s favor.
5.	Mr. Goldwater is not a “John Bircher”; he is not in sympathy with this organization. Perhaps Goldwater did state that he does “not know of a single bad member.” The problem is, though, that when we take the statement out of context we lose the meaning of the word “bad.” When Senator Goldwater spoke at Notre Dame two years ago, he certainly did not speak very highly of Robert Welch, the Society’s founder. Many say that Goldwater should renounce the support the Society has promised him. But what good would this do? It might satisfy a few nationally syndicated journalists but even this we would doubt for these people do not satisfy so easily.
Thank you again for your article. We of the Goldwater Campaign Committee are looking forward to meeting all the delegates at the Mock Convention and will do our best to answer questions concerning Mr. Goldwater.
The Goldwater Campaign Committee
THE VOICE OF THE STUDENTS?
Editor:
Your answer to Mr. Fox’s letter in the February 21 issue of the Scho
lastic is very petty.
Mr. Fox points out that even though the Ten Best Films of 1963, presented by the Scholastic, may have appealed to the “Intellectuals” on its staff, they failed to reach the student body as a whole.
Since the Scholastic’s job is to report on the views of the STUDENTS, it should, as Mr. Fox puts it, “Either do your job or stop wasting our money.”
The editor, it seems, can’t take such criticism and attempts to discredit Mr. Fox by suggesting an alternate list, which appears to be his own slanted choices.
If you can’t take inevitable criticism without petty backbiting then you should RESIGN as editor.
William Harrigan 406 Morrissey
We find it difficult to understand why it is that a university student finds the word "intellectual” so charged with pejorative connotations. If in order to reach "the student body as a whole” you would have us descend to the lowest possible denominator., then we cannot comply. We do not take so dim a view of the student body as some others apparently do. Many students did find their opinions reflected in our original film ratings. We commend their good taste.—ED
SUPERIORITY COMPLEX NOW SELLING FOR .50
Soyou’re not a football hero, a big Brain, ora hot Hot-rodder. You can still be top man in the Girl Department!... if you let SHORT CUT take control of your top! It’ll shape up the toughest crew cut, brush cut, any cut; give it life, body, manageability. Give you the best-looking hair around —and a feeling of natural superiority.
So get with it! Get Old Spice SHORT CUT Hair Groom by Shulton...
tube or jar, on/y.50 plus tax.
■®'cGa-r SHOR> tU
32
The Scholastic
Altona
(Continued from page 18) answer for it. This day and forever. ...”
Sartre's pl<ay frequently verged on melodrama with its unusual protagonists, but rarely if ever did it slip over the line, and the same can be said for the film De Sica and screen writers Cesare Zavattini and Abby Mann have fashioned. Sartre’s essential themes are retained and the few changes that were made in the characters and situations were done for valid cinematic reasons that have enhanced the power and intelligibility of the story.
Two such alterations involve Franz leaving the house at Altona. The first time he escapes (from his own illusions which arose out of the world of his father) he wanders into Hamburg “like someone out of Mondo Cane” (Sight & Sound). Staggering through the streets in his tattered Nazi uniform Franz comes across and enters a theater where Brecht’s Arturo Ui is being performed; there he breaks up the performance by screaming at the members of the audience (who at first think he is part of the play) and alternately praising and cursing Ui. While the sequence is sensational it is also effective and it helps to clarify Franz’s twisted mind (so quickly passing in and out of lucidity).
The second (and last) time Franz leaves Altona he is with his father.
In the play they speed away in a fast Porsche to a dangerous curve; in the film Gerlach drives his son through Hamburg pointing out the new Germany, NATO tanks, and finally his huge shipping complex. A crane lifts them high above the shipyard and only then does Gerlach realize that Franz will not accept the world he could control. Instead Franz destroys himself.
The impact of these two scenes, especially the last, is highlighted to a great extent by the absence of the confining (No Exitlike) walls of Altona. In addition, Dimitri Shostakovich’s musical score (Symphony 11, Opus 103) pulls itself out of its lulling progress and rises into an ironic crescendo of victory. When the two men fall to their death, the music falls, and we descend to Sartre’s existential world — “Both your life and your death are merely nothing. You are nothing, you do nothing, you have done nothing, and you can do nothing.”
A ltona has only one weakness — the acting of Robert Wagner. He plays a weak and contemptible part (Werner) with a stiff propriety that is both inappropriate and hard to explain in view of the other performances. Maximilian Schell is brilliantly irrational playing Franz, the anti-Nazi war criminal tormented by his past and even more by the inescapable present. Fredric March’s von Gerlach is a ruthlessly human portrait both corrupt and
sympathetically portrayed. Sophia Loren’s Johanna is perhaps the most difficult role in the film, but she masters its idealism and weakness, and richly deserves Leni’s description — “as beautiful as death.” Francoise Prevost (Leni) also deserves this description for her coldly possessive part which like the others, is all too real.
De Sica’s direction often skillfully confuses fantasy and reality, reflecting the artificial world of his protagonists. The credits are superimposed over some simulated news-reel footage of the Battle of Smolensk, and then De Sica cuts to 1961. This is followed by an almost unidentifiably abstract picture of an x-ray photograph before he pans to Gerlach. In this way De Sica introduces the conflicts of Franz (past crimes do not lead to present punishment) and of Gerlach (death is the one factor he cannot influence with the power he has devoted his life to gaining). Johanna is similarly presented reciting the simple truths of the stage and Werner piping the dry legalisms of the courts. Leni’s first words are about her father’s punctual lateness and practiced deception (implicitly her own).
Altona’s dubbing and photography are both excellent; the editing is occasionally abrupt, but never too much so, and like all the other elements of this picture, it contributes to a movingly despondent portrait of the damned seeking justification, escape, and peace.
SIGN UP NOW:
We Will UnteAiUeiu On . . .
THURSDAY, MARCH 12
Engineers: • Electrical • Mechanical • Industrial
-	For Positions in	1	-
SALES ENGINEERING
CUTLER-HAMMER Inc.
(Pioneer Electrical jPanufacturers
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
February 28,1964	33
[ Tom Hoobler. . •
The i Last
Word
i
There are a great many members of the Notre Dame family who have adequate FM receivers to enjoy Chicago’s WFMT, a station that has earned national renown for the quality of its programming. Recently, the possibility has been raised that a South Bend church group will' be licensed to broadcast over a frequency close enough to interfere with reception of WFMT in the South Bend area.
In response, Mr. Thomas Stritch,
the head of Notre Dame’s communications art department, has organized an informal committee to save WFMT for South Bend. The committee, which numbers South Bend businessmen, housewives, and Notre Dame faculty among its members, protested the proposed licensing of the South Bend group, and was informed by the Federal Communications Commission that it is theoretically impossible to receive an FM signal ninety miles from its source, and so South Bend residents should not be concerned over interference with WFMT. The fact is, WFMT can be received (and in fact many citizens have invested fair sums of money in radio equipment specifically to receive it), despite the assurances of the FCC that it can’t be.
At the present time, there are three FM outlets in the South Bend area: WSND, WSBT, and WNDU. Of these, only WSND has made wide use of the facility to schedule programs that varied from the standard AM fare. It is common practice for an AM station to acquire an FM license solely for prestige purposes and to insure that it will not be left out if FM becomes popular with a mass audience. If the FCC were genuinely concerned with making FM broadcasting an oasis in the “wasteland,” it would be trying to encourage development of the already existing outlets as cultural forces, instead of stifling one of the few really worthwhile stations that South Bend receives.
Mr. Stritch and his committee will not surrender readily; they have definite plans to fight for WFMT, including formal petitions, publicity, and letter-writing campaigns. It is with this last that students interested in saving WFMT can help. All letters the FCC receives on specific cases must by law be put on file and considered in making the final decision. The address is:
Secretary
Federal Communications Commission Washington, D.C.
As if to disprove Joan Benz’s comment about Republican folk singers, the Four Winds of Notre Dame entertained the alternates and delegates who had come to the Coke party last Sunday afternoon in the Student Center, which was sponsored by, of all people, the Goldwater backers.
We don’t have to tell the story of Notre Dame graduate Tony Bill’s sudden rise to stardom; it has been sufficiently publicized in other places, and is fast becoming a campus legend.
His talent was unappreciated by at least one source while he was here, for he never was cast in a production of the University Theater. Last Saturday was Tony Bill’s first appearance in Washington Hall, but he did it the hard way — in a movie, Come Blow Your Horn.
Rumors of behind-the-scene machinations have filled the pre-Mock Convention atmosphere. The most persistent story is that three student leaders plan to oust the chairmen of the convention and replace them with some of their friends who will railroad the convention in favor of one candidate or another.
In actual fact, the rumor is halftrue. The three student leaders, all of whom hold high positions in other campus groups, had threatened such a move — not, it should be added, out of a simple desire to control the convention themselves, but because they had come to believe that the convention would not be run in the way they thought it should be run.
It did seem at times that the Political Science Academy members who are in charge of the convention were being slightly bullyish about the importance of doing things correctly — which, of course, meant the way they thought things should be run. For instance, when one faction began getting its own way rather regularly in the platform committee, the rules committee chairman (who was appointed by the general chairman of the convention) began calling leaders of state delegations and pressuring them to replace their state representatives on the platform committee. It is hardly surprising that the political sympathizers with the people affected wanted to retaliate.
The supporters of the Political Science Academy members point out that they have been at work on the details of the convention for many months, and that to displace them after they have done virtually all the work is grossly unfair. Moreover, what appears to be high-handedness stems from a sincere desire to see the convention run smoothly.
At this writing, it appears unlikely that any of the chairmen of the convention will be replaced, but only that the threat of replacement will be held over their heads by the factions that disagree with their policies. Perhaps all this furor simply is caused by the committee doing its job too well in simulating actual convention conditions. All the anticommittee group is doing is playing politics somewhat ruthlessly. And politics, after all, is the name of the game.
34
who prefer to remain shiftless!
Four-on-the-floor is fine but not everyone's cup of tea. If you’re an automatic devotee, we think you'll be cheered by what Ford Motor Company transmission engineers have designed in the way of exciting goodies to go with our new hotter V-8 mills in the medium-displacement class.
It's a spanking new 3-speed automatic drive that adds more hustle without extra muscle in Comet, Fairlane and Ford models for '64. Among its many virtues: less avoirdupois . . . fewer parts . . . smoother take-offs . . . up to 35% more go in Low . . . extra braking in downhill work . . . whisper-quiet in Neutral . . . quarterback-style passing performance!
The men at Ford who design such intricacies as transmissions are not just walking slide rules or talking computers. They're men who get excited about cars and the fun of
driving them. They enjoy meeting challenges like “Design a new automatic drive with 4-speed stick-shift performance built right in.” Frankly, they are among the most avid car buffs around and it shows in their work!
More proof of the exciting things that happen at Ford Motor Company to bring brighter ideas and better-built cars to the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
A lot revolves around GTE
Today, ii takes the efforb of many people in many diverse fields and professions to build an active corporation such as GT&E.
Because, at GT&E. we’re involved heavilv in research, manufacturing and telephone operations.
For instance, we have telephone operating companies in areas of 32
states. And in manufacturing, our subsidiaries produce a wide varietv of products for business, industry and the consumer.
A diversified program such as this calls for the best administrators, operating personnel, scientists, engineers and production managers. And unity of purpose.
With so much revolving around o
GT&E, it is small wonder that we have become one of America’s foremost corporations.
As a toting- and aggressive com-j O	OO
pany with no limit to its growth, GT&E is an organization vou mav wish to think of in the light of your own future.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE NEW YORK 10017
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: Telephone Operating Cos. • GT&E Laboratories • GT&E International • General Telephone Directory • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products