WEMRE them AU!
Philip aa orris ■. ■■ leading brand ta^ 6"9^ other n<l ,o basest this test
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!

1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?


A-
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice, that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
no cigarette hangover
C""‘"°“	PUa"E,
■PHILIP UORR IS

I
2
The Scholastic
fatten*—
Recognition for Infirmary Nurse
Editor:
I would like to see a certa'n person, here on the campus, receive a well-deserved pat on the back for the wonderful work she has done. Her name is Mrs. Norma Peterson and she works from 3 p. m. to 11 p. m. as a nurse on the second floor of the Student Infirmary.
She is one of the most wonderful women you would ever want to meet. It is almost a pleasure to get sick just so you can be around her. All the troops eagerly look forward to 3 p. m. when she comes on duty. . .
There are two other fine nurses, Miss May Carrol and Miss Ann Marron, but Mrs. Peterson is everybody’s favorite.
Sincerely yours, 55 Sorin	Lss Halsema.
Aid Requested (See page 11)
Dave Yer ex:
In your comprehensive article—Touche (Scholastic, Feb. 23)—you gave a well defined presentation of a despairing problem—student lethargy in the extra-curricular sphere (the practice field of academic know-how).
This same problem prompted the American Catholic Hierarchy to establish the National Federation of Catholic Students a few years back. The ultimate aim of this expanding organization is to get an ever increasing number of Catholic students “into the extra-curricular act.”
Too many of us seem to forget that the object of Catholic education is the development of the “whole man.” We tend to concentrate on one or two requisites, instead of striving for the desired balance.
Many horse and buggy educators actually advise their students to steer clear of extra-curricular activities— let’s call them co-curricular—“which,” they say, “serve only to distract the collegiate from his academic pursuits.” Many students regard the co-curriculai" activity as a waste of time and talent. There is an evident need then for a vigorous wising-up program. Of course there will be opposition, but don’t worry about it—it’s lethargic.
So, Mr. Yerex, since you stated the problem, it is half solved. Now what about the other half? How can we dissolve the lethargy? Do you, or does anyone, have any constructive criticism to offer? The National Federation of Catholic College Students Campus Council is ready, able, and eager to put all concrete plans into action. Jim Garvin,
Senior Delegate, N. F. C. C. S.
It’s BRITISH-R for Spring!
TAILORED BY GRAMERCY-PARK
Suits that make headline news on the campus — perfect for business too!
NEW Checks,. Sharkskins, Nailheads, All-Wool Worsteds, Gabardines beautifully tailored by Gramercy-Park. •
Presented for Spring and Easter in rich Tans, Browns, Greens, Grays and Blues.
Open Evenings
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan
Mar. 9, 1^51
3
-----at	---------------
Choice of two delicious meals
70^
Daily from 11 to 1:30
No waiting
Free parking on
North side of building
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
4
The Scholastic
by
versation that went something like this:
“Hi stranger,” we yelped. “Came back early this year, eh?”
“Whatcha’ mean early?” Roberto snapped.' “We’d have been back two weeks earlier if it hadn’t been for those strong head winds from the North.”
This goes to prove that the early robin will always get something depending on his taste and the worms he knows.
Top of the Week
Begorrah, its Saint Patty’s Day next week . . .
Bunny Time
Since this is the last issue of the Scholastic until after Easter, we would like to scatter a few brightly-colored eggs on the Main Quadrangle before everyone goes home or on Glee Club and Band tours. Everyone who finds a “gold” one can turn it in to this office and receive an autographed copy of the Student Council Constitution.
The history departmentals this term are being well-received by history students as usual, and we look for a new ruling to do away with “pinkies.”
If you’re a member of either of the University’s two travelling musical organizations, have fun and don’t let the busses get you down. If you have to travel home for Easter to family, girlfriend, etc., hurry back and don’t forget to bring back your roommate’s tie you left there at Christmas.
Sports and Hobbies
Everybody who has even partaken in any sort of sport or been addicted to any sort of hobby will be interested in what is going to happen in the University Drill Hall tonight, tomorrow night, and Sunday night. From 1 p. m. till 11 p. m. all three nights, the South Bend Jaycees are presenting their first annual Sports, Hobby, and Travel Show.
On tap is everything from bait casting demonstrations to beautiful trained dogs. Of particular interest to all red-blooded American youth will be the personal appearance of Miss America of 1951. Her name slips our mind at the moment, but listen to this ad in the South Bend Tribune: “See Miss America of 1951. This glamorous and youthful exponent of American womanhood will be with us all three days!”
We usually don’t engage in betting, but we’re going along with the smart money that says the beautiful trained dogs won’t stand a chance at the Jaycee show, especially if Miss America can do stunts.
The local chapter of the SPCA could do well to pay a visit to the ND Drill
Hall over the weekend. A group of trained dogs without an audience will probably need it.
Minor Miracle
Turning from old dogs to old hat, we bring up the subject of Northern Indiana weather. The past week has been unbelievable even to veterans of this clime and it deserves more than just passing comment.
On Wednesday we strolled around the campus, without books or jacket, sniffing deeply and keeping a weather-eye open for Roberto, ND’s traditional first robin of Spring. We found him struggling with a stubborn worm near the Library. The worm was getting the best of the battle and as Roberto released his hold and pulled his head out of the ground we struck up a robin-type con-
Q3llsluortl)’s
New Shipments of SpOttshirtS
by Arrow and Puritan
4.95 to 8.95
Plaids
Solid Colors
Checks
How Now Brown Quadruped
A moving spirit overwhelmed the editors of the Chicago Daily News last week and they began publishing “Pogo,” our nominee for Time's “Possum of the Year” award, in color in their expanded Saturday comic section.
All the gang from the Okefenokee swamp were on hand and it was delightful. Of particular interest in last week’s strip was a disgusted rabbit, who was going to Australia because Americans had lost sight of the real meaning of Easter, Peace, and had substituted eggs in its place—artificial eggs at that.
Would any anti-Pogo ingrates like to criticize that observation?	■
Bottom of the Week
. . . classes as usual on the glorious feast, even for the Notre Dame “Irish.”
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
Mar. 9, 1951
5


MARCH 9
LAW AUDITORIUM—The fifth session of the annual Marriage Institute features Dr. Sherman Egan who will give a talk on The Medical Aspects of Marriage.
COLFAX (through March 14)—Call Me Mister (Legion of Decency Rating B) was the first post-war musical to hit Broadway. In its original form it was a fast, sprightly revue. Padded with plot and some routine performances by Betty Grable and Dan Dailey, it turns up as mediocre fare in the filmization.
AVON (indefinite run)—Susan Hayward and William Lundigan are the stars of I’d Climb the Highest Mountain (A-2), an episodic ■ tale of a preacher in the Blue Ridge mountains of Georgia. Technicolor and some beautiful and realistic settings help the movie a lot. Following the run of this will be The Mating Season (B). This is a wacky, but adult, comedy and although Gene Tierney and John Lund are listed as the stars, it is really Thelma Ritter’s picture. She’s the actress who played Bette Davis’ maid in All About Eve and all but stole the show from the veterans. In this comedy she even tops her previous performances.	.
■	PALACE (through March 15)—Jane Wyman puts aside her heavy,
I	dramatic roles for* a change of pace as the romantic lead in Three
;	Guys Named Mike. This one’s a glossy comedy without much sub!	stance but with a goodly share of belly laughs. Van Johnson, Howard
l	Keel and Barry Sullivan all vie for Miss Wyman’s hand. Highway 301
(B) purports to be a true story but that’s hard to believe.
MARCH 10
FIELDHOUSE—The finals of the 20th annual Bengal Bouts will draw a packed house. The opening bout of the last card will start at 8 p.m. sharp.
WASHINGTON HALL—Those who remember the fine job done on Robin Hood about ten or twelve years ago will be slightly disappointed in Rogues of Sherivood Forest (A-l). John Derek, Diana Lynn and their cohorts are pale substitutes in this attempt to catch the vigor and adventure of the original.
MARCH 15
LAW AUDITORIUM—Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, c.s.c., will share the sixth session of the Marriage Institute with Mrs. Dennis J. O’Neill. Father Sheedy will talk on The Moral Problems Between Husband and Wife with Mrs. O’Neill following with a talk concerning Sex Instructions for Children.
COLFAX (through March 21)—Each year always produces one or two memorable film musicals. This year chances look good for Royal Wedding to be tagged one of the winners. It has practically everything — a captivating musical script and score by the authors of Brigadoon, eye-catching technicolor, and a swell cast. Jane Powell, Peter Lawford, Sarah Churchill and Keenan Wynn are all it — and Fred Astaire heads it. Some of his dance routines in this entry are unbelievable. This is truly light entertainment at its best.
MARCH 17
WASHINGTON HALL—Twentieth Century-Fox spent jillions on their production of The Black Rose but still couldn’t come up with a film to equal the fascinating historical novel from which it was derived.
ST. PATRICK’S DAY—Green'elephants will roam South Bend — if you see a fellow NDer astride any of them just turn your head.
Vol. 92 March 9. 1951 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN *51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53 ____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51 Features
JOHN F. MEANEY *52______________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52______Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, '52__Photography LEON GARDNER, '52_______Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51____Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '51__________Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51___________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes, John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady; Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Harry Siemonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz. Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: As a fitting close to the winter months, the Scholastic presents its annual basketball issue. Several members of this year’s squad are shown during a practice session, playing the backboards. The special section runs from page 15 through page 26. The next issue of the Scholastic will be published on April 6.—Photo by Jerry Sheehan.
The Scholastic

No Whitewashing This Year
A large portion of this week’s issue is devoted to the annual resume of the basketball season. Perhaps this editorial should go along and follow suit of previous basketball editorials. No matter what the overall record of the team happened to be, the editorials always glanced over the facts and proclaimed the season and team, alike, to have been great.
Well, this year this practice of deliberate disregarding of facts cannot be followed. Everyone would see right through such an attempt. Mostly because this year’s net season has been, granted, anything but great. (Maybe this sounds contradictory to what was printed in this space just a few weeks ago. But it must be remembered that that editorial was written within minutes after the St. Louis game and during that game the team did actually look downright great.)
And therein lies a clue to this year’s team and their season. At times they played good ball. The next game they would flub up and look awful. And then the following game they’d look wonderful. If nothing else, the team kept its fans in suspense. It was hard to know what to expect of them. They were hot; they were cold.
For some reason they showed up best on the home court where they won all nine of their encounters. Student support supplementing familiarity with the home base, undoubtedly had something to do with this record. The student body was behind the team in great force, especially during the last half of the season. No team could help but be encouraged on to victory with such spirited rooting and feeling giving them a boost.
But no whitewash can be applied to the student body, either. The mediocre season was mirrored in them. For instance, it wasn’t until the halfway mark that the students — to a large extent — decided the team needed some support. When interest in the season did finally flare up it was to the student body’s credit that they kept it at a peak until the end.
Such wild enthusiasm, however, led to something that was far from being exemplary of a Notre Dame student body. This was the occasional poor sportsmanship demonstrated during the games. At times you can’t help but let your spirit spill over. If it’s a tight game with minutes running out poor sportsmanship from the stands can be excused.
It can’t be excused, though, when it is not the direct result of over-excitement. Booing, waving handkerchiefs, making noise while an opponent attempts a free throw, and similar acts would not be tolerated at most high school games. But they were practiced here this year. For a change, such antics cannot be blamed solely on the
Mar. 9, 1951
Freshmen. They are usually tagged the scapegoat. This season, however, there seemed to be just as many Seniors as first year men practicing such rotten sportsmanship.
This sort of thing could easily develop into a reputation. Notre Dame has never had one like it but if something isn’t done to correct such behavior next year the school might quickly get one.
To get back to the team . . . one charge could never be lodged against the players: that being, they didn’t try. They did try in every game and they tried hard. The odds were against them, though. They just didn’t have it. Some vital players were sidelined because of injuries. There were other reasons that also contributed to this year’s team’s poor showing — but let no one say it didn’t try.
Notre Dame has seen far better squads than that of the 1950-51 season. It will see far better ones in the future. It’s even improbable that this year’s team will be remembered vividly for very long. Parts of the season will, though. Like the St. Louis game, or the game with Loyola, and the initial bout with Marquette. And when these games and highlights are remembered the team which never stopped trying will come to mind.
It will be thought of as the team that never made excuses. They accepted their defeats but never let them affect their attitudes towards winning that next game. Now that the season with a 13-11 record is over and in the books, you don’t hear any alibis, either. This rather black year is quickly being forgotten.
All anyone is looking forward to is next year.
And what a year it should be!
O	•
ND's 'Moose1 Krause
It is never so hard to say good-bye to an old friend when you know he’ll be back shortly. And.that’s how it is right now with Coach Edward “Moose” Krause. As a matter of fact, “Moose” isn’t even going away, which makes the task of saying so-long even5 less difficult.
If this man, who has become practically an institution at Notre Dame, was leaving the University, rather than making a shift in jobs, it would be hard, indeed, to see the big guy go.
In so far as he is leaving the helm of the Notre Dame basketball team he deserves some words of praise for the many seasons he has put in as Irish net mentor. He has gained a high position of respect in the world of sports and this reputation will follow him into his full-time position as Athletic Director. “Moose” is a man the University can be proud to have on its roster. May the fine association continue for many years to come.
7
An Arrow Shirt
Makes A Man Look His Best
Choose your VAN HEUSEN
from the complete selection in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor
MWtTSOFS
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CNIUNUN
209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Before you leave for Easter vacation, be sure to get a supply of your favorite Arrow white shirts and Arrow ties . . . at your 'Arrow dealer now!
Shirts S3.95 up
Ties SI up
® ) ARROW SHIRTS&TIES
ARROW ) UNDERWEAR
HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
1851 -1951
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
BLOCK BROS.
Comer Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to Notre Dame
/or more than 25 years.
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92. NUMBER 19
MARCH 9. 1951
John H. Phelan Awarded Laetare Medal; Business Leader Becomes 69th Recipient
John Henry Phelan, Sr., Beaumont, Tex., business executive and philanthropist, was named last Sunday as the 1951 recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually since 1883 by Notre Dame to the outstanding American Catholic layman.
The announcement was made by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.C., University president. Mr. Phelan is the 60th distinguished American to receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest American Catholic award, annually announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. lit was founded by Rev. Edward F. Sorin, c.s.c., founder of the University.
Mr. Phelan succeeds General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army, as recipient of the medal. General Collins was the 1950 recipient; the 1949 medal was awarded to movie actress Irene Dunne.
Father Cavanaugh, in announcing the award, said: “Mr. Phelan is an outstanding example of a successful business executive who is humbly devoted to his faith. Throughout his career, Mr. Phelan has shared his material wealth with the Catholic Church, not only toward the construction of new Churches throughout the nation, but toward the development and upkeep of struggling parishes in small communities. His philanthropies always are marked by a deep humility and seldom are made public. In addition to his contributions to the Church, Mr. Phelan and his family are daily Communi-
MEDALIST’S REPLY
It is with sincere appreciation and humility that I acknowledge your telegram of March 3rd informing me of the high honor bestowed upon me. I pray that I may prove worthy of being Laetare medalist for 1951. And humbly appreciate the thoughtfulness of yourself and others in recommending me for so great an honor. With regards and best wishes
/s/ John Henry Phelan, Sr.
cants and exemplary members of the Catholic faith.”
Born in Charlotte, N. C., on Dec. 11, 1877, Mr. Phelan was educated at St. Peter’s Convent in Charlotte. He was
MR. JOHN HENRY PHELAN, SR.
married on June 15, 1905, to Hannah Cunningham, of Braidwood, Ill. The Phelans have three children, John H., Jr., Anthony McDade and Margaret Myers (Mrs. Randolph C. Reed), and 23 grandchildren.
Mr. Phelan was general manager of the Phelan Grocery Company in Beaumont from 1913 to 1926, and now is chairman of the board of the company. From 1916 to 1933, he was secretarytreasurer of the Yount-Lee Oil Company in Beaumont, and during the following year served as vice-president and treasurer1 of the organization.
Mr. Phelan is currently serving as chairman of the board of the Phelan Company in Beaumont. He also is director of the First National Bank and of the Norvell-Wilder Supply Company in his home town, and of the Standard Brass and Manufacturing Company in Port Arthur, Tex.
Conservative estimates indicate that Mr. Phelan’s charitable contributions to the Catholic Church have exceeded
Naval Ball Heads List of Post-Easter Dances
Tony Rulli and his band will provide the music for the Naval Ball, for Notre Dame NROTC midshipmen, slated for April 6 in the Drill Hall. The annual affair will last from 9 to 1, and 2 a. m. and car permissions have been granted.
In addition to Naval officers and midshipmen, all Air Force officers .and AROTC cadets are invited. The dance will eb formal with uniforms and bow ties the prescribed dress.
According to general chairman Andy Walsh, arrangements are being made whereby the future officers may import dates from St. Mary‘s-oft-he-Woods in Terre Haute, Ind., Barrett College in Chicago, and Nazareth College in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Bid price has not been decided as yet, pending a decision as to whether flowers will be included in the cost or bought separatedly 'by the individual.
Paul Bruggeman is in charge of decorations for the nautical Ball, and other committee heads include Ed Sullivan, bid sales, Jerry Gruber, design and procurement of bids and favors, Larry Ash, refreshments, and Dave Newsome, publicity.
All to Fulfill Easter Duty Friday: Prefect of Religion
Easter Duty Day for the University has been set by the Prefect of Religion for next Friday. Regardless of whether or not he has already made his Easter Duty, every member of the student body is expected to receive on this day.
The Novena for a Happy Marriage which started yesterday, will last until the feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, also Friday.
St. Andrew Missals are still for sale at reduced prices at the Prefect of Religion’s office.
$1,000,000. A particular hobby of the Phelans has been furnishing altars, organs and statues for Churches throughout the United States. They have donated approximately 225 altars to various .Churches.
The Phelan family also has contributed generously to the spreading of the Catholic Faith through donations for the construction of new Churches and other Catholic organizations.
Mar. 9, 1951
9
Words and Music by Marshall and Carey; First a Hobby, Now a Full Musical Comedy
By DICK CODY, ’52
If one were to drop in at the rehearsal of “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway” this afternoon, he would be rewarded by the sight of a song writer who can’t read a note and a lyric writer who has never written anything more than jingles, working with a producer-director who dances. He would see a Charleston routine. He would hear a dozen songs, both rhythmic and romantic. And he would probably decide that this is one show he just couldn’t afford to miss.
But a year and a half ago, “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway” was only one forlorn tune written by Bill Carey and Dick Marshall, two fellows who thought it would be nice to write a song. Then they wrote another one to keep it company.’ Neither had any previous songwriting experience, although they had written the variety show for Pittsburgh’s Central Catholic High School in their senior year. Some radio acting by Carey on WENR of Chicago and KDKA of Pittsburgh, together with a few musical jingles which Marshall wrote for the Red Cross, marked the waterline of their splash into show business. But with a couple of songs, a little experience, and an idea, the natural result was a musical comedy.
Then the work began. A score had to be composed, a plot conceived, dialogue to be written. As both had some writing experience, the music proved to be the hardest part. “Oddly enough,” Carey mused, “Dick, who can play the
DICK MARSHALL AND BILL CAREY, co-authors of student musical scan their work.
piano, wrote most of the lyrics. I did many of the melodies, and I can’t tell one note from another.” Finally everything was down on paper, the songs were arranged by some friends, and half the job was finished.
The young authors submitted their show to the Student Council. It was quickly approved, committees were chosen, and a sum of money allotted. The show will cost twice as much as any campus production in the past several years, since it is not a revue, burlesque, or variety show, but an actual musical comedy, with a plot in addition to the songs and dances.
With the assistance of the Student Council and the Speech Department, things moved swiftly. Bud Powers was chosen producer-director. Besides being in charge of the production, Powers, a senior and a professional dancing instructor in South Bend, will handle the choreography, and also do a dancing role in the show. The cast, which was chosen at last week’s tryouts, includes approximately 15 speaking roles, a mixed chorus of 20, and a vocal chorus of about 30. Rehearsals began Friday.
The plot of “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway” revolves around a musical comedy star and her producer-husband. They have separated, but while working together on a new Broadway show, a reconciliation is accomplished by their agent. “We have tried to write something,” Carey said, “that would have a few laughs,
that would be original, and yet would rise above the burlesque one sees so often.”
“We hope that our show is successful,” he continued, “not only for our own sake, but also because we’d like it to be the first of a series of annual, original, student musical productions.”
An indication of the quality of the music in “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway” is the fact that Chicago TV star Johnny Paul has already used one of the songs on his program, and night club owner Tip Tipton has built an entire show around another of the tunes. Marshall and Carey are hoping that their songs will soon be published by Broadcast Music, Inc., and also that several will be included in the Glee Club’s repertoire for its Easter trip.
Glee Club Goes East For Vacation Tour
Thirty-six members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will leave South Bend with Daniel H. Pedtke, their director, and Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c. s. c., Glee Club chaplain, for the annual Easter Glee Club tour of the East.
The singers’ first appearance in New York, their initial destination, will be a repeat performance on Ed Sullivan’s television show “Toast of the Town.” The Glee Club will join with Phil Spit-alny and his All Girl Orchestra on Sullivan’s show to sing The Battle Hymn of the Republic. Scheduled for a Notre Dame solo after the ND-Spitalny offering, is Handel’s Hallelujah Chorus, from the oratorio Messiah.
The singers will be billeted at the Biltmore Hotel while in New York. On Easter Monday night they will give a concert in the Big City sponsored by the New York Alumni Association.
Tuesday, March 27, will find the Glee Club up in Pittsfield, Mass. Tuesday evening concert is sponsored by the New Rochelle College Alumnae Association.
From New England the group will move mid-Westward to Cleveland, Ohio, singing a concert in that city on Wednesday for the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland.
The final concert of the Easter tour will be presented in Buffalo, N. Y., on Thursday, March 29, under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo.
The singers will return to Notre Dame in time for classes Saturday, March 31.
One of the 36 men in this semester's Glee Club, Bill Sahin, has recently been elected president of the organization. Jack Powell, business manager, has been in charge of traveling arrangements and accommodations. The Glee Club will do all their traveling by bus.
10
The Scholastic
An Answer to "Touche —
Yes, Mr. Yerex ...
I
CERTAIN professor delayed his lecture one morning, a few weeks ago, to say something he had obviously
felt like saying for some time. His statement came in answer to a student’s remark which contained the word “fiag-wavers.”
“What do you mean by ‘flag-wav-ers’?” the professor asked. (He had served in World War II.) “If you ask me, we haven’t got enough of them. Patriotism in this country is just—nothing, especially if you compare it to the patriotism of the French or of the English. We are put to shame by the average European’s love for his country.
“A classic example is right around us. What is everyone in the University looking- for these days? Deals; am I right? The best ‘deal’ is to stay away from the shooting, get an easy commission of some sort. Anything else is ‘flagwaving.’ Do you know anybody who just wants to lend a hand?”
n
A sociology professor had this to say about life in the American community —reproduced here as exactly as I can remember it:
“One of the easiest kinds of work to get into is the job of being a ‘civic leader,’ for it doesn’t seem to appeal to anyone. It is surprising, how pathetically low is the number of people in a community who actually work for the benefit of their social organism. Most of the others respect these few, but hardly anybody cares to be in their shoes. The question most often asked is not ‘How can I serve the community?’ It’s ‘What can I get out of the people in this town?’ ”
m
In the Scholastic of February 23, Mr. D. K. Yerex pointed out that:
“Most of the work done on this campus is accomplished by a very small group. And while these few are willing to take responsibility for action on their own shoulders, the herd is willing to ride along.
Also:
By JAMES KINGSLEY, ’51
“Individual consideration is primary in the Notre Dame student’s consciousness. . . . The egotism I refer to provides the individual with means for escape from restrictive customs and ideals of the group.”
Those three selections of nice prose mean something to me. But first let me explain why I am collecting them here.
Mr. Yerex wrote his article Touche with the sincere hope that it might— just might—prick somebody in the right place, cause a little serious reflection or “re-examination” if you prefer. A more interesting reaction has taken place. I am in possession of these facts because being pleased to call Mr. Yerex a close friend, I have a fortunate access to his secret files on “Student Reaction to Touchet”
No less than fifty readers of Scholastic made the general remark: “Nice article, Dave.” And two men from Walsh wrote an indignant letter.
The letter was not altogether penetrating, as I will presently show. But even if it were sheer blathering nonsense, isn’t it worth more—as a sign of health—than the vacuous dead-fish grins of all fifty of those Decent Fellows? The two men from Walsh are at least alive; they were pricked. The others merely took a pill—tasted it from curiosity, swallowed it with a sour expression, and looked up grinning at the doctor. “Nice pill, doc.”
How can we all, including myself, be so ungodly complacent? Do we agree or disagree? Or are our stomachs as sour as the pill, so that once it is swallowed we are no longer bothered? “Nice article, so-and-so,” we say casually and generously, implying by our tone, “Oh, I m a broad-minded chap and not offended by what you say, no matter what the others may think.”
This reaction is, at any rate, living proof of what Mr. Yerex says in Touche: “He (the student) egotistically believes that the idealized dictates of what should be done by everyone in the group, apply to everyone but himself. The divorce of the individual from the
statement of the ideal, makes impassioned idealism very easy.”
This seems so much more correct now—in view of the facts just cited— than it did upon publication two weeks ago, that I am compelled to try and do justice to what is suggested by it.
WSAT Mr. Yerex has done is to put his finger on a characteristic proper to Americans, and not just to Notre Dame men. When I was searching for a better way to express this characteristic, I could think only of a certain man who was in an insane asylum, whom I was told about once. This man desired nothing more than to be a mushroom. All the others were Napoleon, Caesar, George Washington or the like, but this man sat in his chair all day, holding an umbrella over his head, being a mushroom. Nothing else interested him. The doctors exhorted him and scolded him, but nothing, absolutely nothing, could deter him from continuing to be a mushroom.
That is how Americans differ from Europeans. We jeer at “flag-wavers” for the-same reason we respect “civic leaders” but would not be them—for the fact is that most of us are, and deep in our hearts know we are', mushrooms. We vegetate, living off the fat of the land, taking what manages to seep through our roots and yielding nothing in return. It is not even selfishness, for selfishness is a lively habit and implies a certain degree of stimulation, of effort, of get-up-and-go. The old-time “robber barons” managed at least to achieve a virile nastiness; they were toadstools. But we are not that noble. We merely exist, uninspired and unresponsive. Kick us and revile us, and we will not budge. We are determined not to serve our institutions—country, community, or university—until one of them should pull us out by the roots in order to sustain itself. In short, we only want to be what we already are, which is to say, mushrooms.
I think that is the “pernicious sterility” to which Mr. Yerex refers. He does not say whether Notre Dame students are more or elss sterile than the
Mar. 9, 1951
11
whole American character, but if he implies that we are not much better I will agree. For if Americans live off the fat of the land, there is a group of Americans at Notre Dame, Indiana, U. S. A., which has the choicest cut. And if we are as ungrateful as the rest, we are more guilty than they.
There is still another reason, besides the fact of our enviable position, why our guilt must be deeper. For behind the visible framework of the University. behind the architecture and the statuary. the account-books and the executive offices, the methods and the philosophy—behind all this there is an idea. The idea proposes to make us different from all other students in all other universities. The idea is: Dedicate yourselves. live and act for something outside of yourselves. Be more than mert mush rooms. Be men.
Live and act for what? For God? But that is the idea of all Catholic universities. In that respect we are no different from Villanova or Loyola or Marquette. Their idea is to live for God, too.
I answer: but we are still special, for though it may be difficult to live for God, whom we can neither see nor draw a picture of—here it is made easy. Art Jesum per Mariam. That is the formula, the strength, and the idea. You can draw a picture of Mary, you can make a statue of her and set her on a dome for all to see, so that seeing her wc may be moved outward. At Villanova they have St. Augustine, at Loyola and Marquette they have St. Ignatius, but you cannot dedicate yourself to a saint. They all have the cross, and we have the ci oss too, but what is accomplished by rhe cross, on a supernatural level, is intensified by what Mary can accomplish on the human level in the hearts of men—Mary, greater than St. Augustine or St. Ignatius, is just as human. She makes it easy. For her we can become extroverts, in the sense of turning our intentions outward. That Is what the Juggler of Our Lady did before her statue: “I cannot read your hours nor chant your praise,” he said, ‘‘but at the least I can set before you what art I have.” And he commenced to leap and play.
This particular mode of “turning outwards” is special at Notre Dame—as an ideal. It is my understanding of the Notre Dame Spirit.
Mr. Yerex speaks of this Spirit by naming one of tis aspects: “a code of honor pervading the consciousness and molding the actions.” The pitiful fact, he says, is that no one has more than a vague impression of it, and it is not practised. The two men from Walsh, in their letter to Mr. Yerex, made several excellent points—unfortunately there is
12
not room to reproduce them here—but then went on to say he could not see the Spirit because it is ■’right before his nose”—that the Notre Dame Spirit is, simply, “the spirit of Our Lady.” Period.
Really definitive! Though I will agree that Mr. Yerex’ definition is rather cloudy, I think the two men from Walsh might have done better than to translate from the French. The popular impression certainly is, as Mr. Yerex says, “vague and indistinct.” And what do we see “right in front of our noses”? I see practically nothing but vegetables. Mushrooms, divorced from the ideal ancl looking instead for “deals.” Guiltier than other Americans because we are Notre Dame men. Dedication is made easy for us, and we still live inwardly.
I do not wonder that everyone is getting tired of hearing about “Spirit.” Horribly misused, mercilessly exploited by the publicists, we are made conscious of it every day. Some of us try frantically to live up to it by getting our and cheering. Others of us buy white buck shoes and go out to serve the polity in some organizational status. Most of us just relax.
We are frightfully conscious of this Spirit because it is not part of us. But when we constantly reflect on our own state of mind, there arises a suspicion that no real state of mind exists; we only wish it did. That is the condition of Notre Dame students. We feel we ought to be inflamed when we realiy ought to be permeated.
The proper condition will exist, I think, when a student in some classroom looks up at the Figure stretched on the cross under the “No smoking'' sign and thinks, “This is for You—this, and everything”—without being conscious of his own thought.
. . . After half an hour, I have found the quotation I wanted. It is from the Spanish philosopher Jose Ortega y Gasset, in his book The Revolt of the Masses:
“Human life, by its very nature, has to be dedicated to something, an enterprise glorious or humble, a destiny illustrious or trivial. . . . Mere egoism is a labyrinth. This is quite understandable. Really to live is to be directed to-, wards something, to progress towards a goal. The goal is not my motion, not my life, it is something to which I put my life and is consequently outside it, beyond it. If I decide to walk alone inside my own existence, egotistically, I make no progress. I arrive nowhere. I keep turning round and round in the one spot. That is the labyrinth, the road which leads nowhere, which loses itself, through being a mere turning round within itself.”
Journalism Majors Plan Weekly Paper
As a part of its program for Junior journalism majors, the Department of Journalism has begun the organization of this year’s Journalist, a student publication printed weekly in the spring.
The Journalist is a two-page experimental newspaper introduced two years ago by Professor Thomas J. Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism, and Mr. Edward Fischer, now serving as a Captain in the United States Army.
Mr. Morton Linder, present adviser for the publication, stated that the mam
MORT LINDER helps student journalist.
purpose of the paper is to put into practice the journalistic theories acquired in last semester’s studies. The entire work on the paper from assigning news stories to the actual page make-up is done by the students in their newsroom, 241 Main Building.
The student body has little first-hand acquaintance with the Journalist since only about 250 copies are printed, these being- limited to members of the faculty, administration, and students in the Journalism Department.
At the present time the class is divided into three groups, each of which will make one “dry run” before Easter. This “dry run” involves constructing the paper in its entirety except for the actual printing. Beginning with the first week following Easter vacation the reshuffled groups will each put out two printed issues, making a total of six in all.
Heading the ten man staff of the first week’s dry run is Maurice Carroll, managing editor. Others are Thomas Bennett, city editor; Gerald Burblage, copy
The Scholastic
editor; and Joseph Deiss, sports editor. Publishing the paper takes the place of class work for the group assigned each week and demands as much as ten hours of working time from each individual.
At the end of the year the F. A. Miller Tribune Awards of $20 each will be made to the Journalists who submit the most outstanding work in news reporting, feature writing, page make-up, photography, and editing.
Irish to Be Featured In History Discussion
The History Department will commemorate St. Patrick’s Day this year by featuring Irish history in their monthly discussion. The meeting will be held in Room 101 of the Law Building at 7:45 p. m., Tuesday, March 13.
Professor Thomas E. Downey, one of the foremost authorities on Gaelic at Notre Dame, will open the forum with a paper entitled “The Gaelic League." He will be followed by Professor Thomas N. Brown who will treat “The Parnell Movement.” Professor Brown instituted the course in Irish History-on the campus last year.
Chairman of the discussion will be Rev. Leo R. Ward, c. S. c., author of “God in an Irish Kitchen” and other studies about the Irish, both in Ireland and the United States.
Retreat Ends at St. Joseph's Lake
SOPHOMORES CLOSED
their Lenten retreat last Sunday with stations of the cross.
Alumni to Celebrate Universal ND Night
Monday, April 2, the traditional one week after Easter Monday, marks the 88th annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
Local Alumni Clubs, in 122 cities, provide the network which will bring the story of Notre Dame into 114 U. S. centers and foreign countries. Clubs exist in 7 of the States, and in India, Cuba, Mexico, Hawaii, the Philippines, Panama and Puerto Rico, and a newly formed Club in Peru.
Founded in 1924, when the late John H. Neeson, ’03, of Philadelphia, was president of the Alumni Association, the Night was planned for the spring of the year to bring to alumni and friends everywhere an emphasis on phases of Notre Dame other than athletic. The far-seeing program appreciated, in the Four Horsemen era, that the fall of the year would bring national and international headlines to Notre Dame’s athletic program.
Campus speakers are already booked for many of the Clubs in the East and Middle West and these are being supplemented in other Clubs by prominent local speakers, and by films of the campus provided by the Director of Public Relations and the ND Foundation.
EXAM NOTICE
For Senior economics majors scheduled for June 1951 graduation, the comprehensive written examination will be held Thursday, April 5, at 1:15 in Room 109, Social Science.
The examination will cover the six required courses and also general economics principles. The examination will last about three and one-half hours. Careful review is, of course, expected.
Seniors scheduled for August graduation who are in process of completing all required courses now may also take the examination, if they leave their names with John H. Sheehan, department head, by March 30.
Annual Essay Contest Offers Winners $400 in Cash Prizes
“Americanism and Catholic Thought” will be the theme for the four hundred dollar essay contest now being sponsored by the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes for any- undergraduate attending the University.
This general topic is to be narrowed down by treating either the religious, philosophical, historical, political or economic aspects. It is, however, first necessary to register the proposed approach with the respective dean.
The winning paper will receive §250, second place pays $100, while thii'd takes $50. All material must be at least 5,000 words, and two copies turned into room 220 of the Main Building before April 30.
Old Sod Emigrants to Feast At St. Patrick's Day Banquet
March 17, a traditional feast-day for all good Irishmen, will be honored by the campus Irish club at their annual St. Patrick’s Day- Banquet. The affair, honoring Ireland’s patron Saint, will be held at 6:30 p.m., in the Faculty Room of the Dining Hall.
Co-chairmen Pat Shanahan and Bob Klein said that the $1.75 admission price includes a turkey dinner, a talk on Irish culture and entertainment. Rev. John A. O’Brien will be the speaker.
Permission has been granted to St-Mary’s students and students are invited to bring guests. Other committee heads include Ernest Buckley, publicity, and Frank McGinn, tickets. The clubs moderators are Rev. Cornelius J. Hagerty-, C.S.C., and John J. Broderick, Assistant Dean of the College of Law.
Mar. 9, 1951
13
Nucleus of Architecture Students Seek Help In Study of Christian Community Project
By ED VASTA. 52
Fiom the mysterious Architecture buildint’ this week come.- a call to arms directed to Notre Danie’s professors and students — both graduate and undergraduate, to lend their knowledge and intelligence to a solution of one of man’' most pressing needs — housing. Students of Sociology, Economics or Journalism have rarely given more than a passing glance at a newly-built hou.-e, but the realization has been made, finally, that a .</««'/ house cannot be built without the integration of principles of Sociology. Economics, Law, etc.
This realization has budded into a research project — perhaps not as big but certainly as important as research done at Lobund or m the basement of the Science building.
The problem is simply this: Some students of Architecture have been concerning them-elves with “rurban” Community Planning — a problem seldom considered by Architects or builders until recent years. But a house is made for a Jamil a. and both the house and the family are part of a community. When one begins working with a community, he necessarily encounters >uch problems as social interrelationships, education, recreation.
THIS NUCLEUS OF MEN—I. to r. are Prof. Vito Girone, Ed Malo, Bob Lynch and Al Como—interested in Community Research project make plans and seek help.
health: cooperation in building, buying, working — and innumerable other economic and social problems.
And if he .-trives to design houses of laic cost, the architect must grapple with issues concerning new and inexpensive materials, new inventions, strength and quality of all materials, and simple yet durable structures. In other words, to design a good house, a house that will create and preserve good Christian character as well as shelter it. he must be not only an Architect but a man versed in every phase of knowledge that affects the home. It is wrong to trifle with the lives of people without taking all these things into consideration.
This project was given its initial stir by Ed Malo and Bob Lynch, both students of Architecture. They began a year ago to interview students and professors of every college on campus. A number have already enthusiastically offered their services but a problem of such scope needs many men. These two men have further created a formal organization known as the Architectural Research Council on Housing, or simply A R C H. A constitution has been drawn up and approved by the Student Council and a grant of land to
be used for experimental purposes has been given to ARCH by the University of Notre Dame. Already materials have been purchased and engineers have been doing research on a new type of cement block wall construction. Within the next year it is expected that a modern, attractive, functional and socially desirable house will be built complete by students of Notre Dame. This house and its eventual successors, besides having all the features mentioned, will be of such a simple design and will cost so little that almost any man, whatever his income, will be able to house his family—even if he mu.-t build it himself.
Other Universities, have gone far ahead in this field. Many have generous money grants with which to work. But Notre Dame, as has been proven time and again, can do well in research while it insures the safe-guarding of Christian principles through its own research. Thus the call is issued to all of us. For example, men of engineering are asked to contribute knowledge of such phases as deflection of minimal materials, new materials and machines, labor- and expense-saving ideas, and dozen.- of others.
History students are called upon to furnish information concerning the history of community ventures and to present information leading- to the creation of community cooperative plan of working together. Law students are needed to anticipate problems of forming good communities. Education students could contribute techniques of adult education to ideas of cooperation and community thinking. Phy Ed majors might workout a program of community recreation and necessary facilities. Pre-Meds know about mental and physical hygiene as well as sound preventative medicine. But especially can Economics and Sociology majors contribute to a well-planned Community life. Only then can the Architects design in the light of this needed information.
The only requirement is interest in some phase of this probelm—interest and willingness to help in some way to enable man to control his environment. If you are interested, please write to Architectural Research Council, Box 408, Notre Dame. Simply state your field of study and what interest you would like to pursue in relation to this problem. Remember, this invitation is issued to everyone at Notre Dame, professors and students, graduates and undergraduates. An impressive store of information is being- acquired and this knowledge is invaluable if it is put to use. Most everyone is someday going to be in need of good homes for themselves and their families. Planning- for it can be started now. . . .
14
The Scholastic
EDWARD W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE, Notre Dame’s personable Athletic Director and basketball coach, was born on Chicago’s south side Feb. 2, 1913. He was active in four sports while competing for De LaSalle high school under Norm Barry, an ex-ND star of bygone years.
Matriculating to Notre Dame in 1930, Krause won three letters each in football and basketball and one in track. A three year All-American in the cage sport, an honor equaled only by two others in basketball history, the “Moose” set single game, single season, and three-season scoring records. On the gridiron he was an unmovable lineman and in 1933 Krause played 521 minutes out of a possible 540, an outstanding iron man feat.
Krause moved to St. Mary’s college in Winona, Minn., where he reigned over seven sports. After five successful years, Holy Cross beckoned and the young coach became the assistant Crusader football mentor. Then in 1942, eight years after leaving the Notre Dame campus, “Moose” returned to the Golden Dome as assistant to Frank Leahy. During the winter of 1942-43, on the death of the great George Keogan, he succeeded his former teacher as head basketball coach.
Krause spent over two years in the Marines and it was 1946 before “Moose” began his first full season at the helm of the Irish basketeers.
The 1947-48 team had a 17 won and 7 lost record, and that was matched by the 1948-49 quintet. Last year the Kevin O'Shea sparked squad won 15 out of 24. Including the 13 wins which the newest edition of the ’ Irish chalked up “Moose’s” teams triumphed 98 times.
Among the stars which shone so brightly in the basketball heavens due to Krause’s patient training were Billy Hassett, Leo “Crystal” Klier, All-American Leo Barnhorst, the spectacular O'Shea, John Brennan, who coached with “Moose” the last two years, and Dan Bagley.
Krause will turn over his court worries to Johnny Jordan next year, and devote his time to his duties as Athletic Director.
Player, coach, and founder of ND’s celebrated “Moose” dynasty, the ever smiling Krause will continue to serve the school which has given him so much, and which he has so faithfully repaid.
16
The Scholastic
DAN BAGLEY . . . another contribution to the Irish basketball squad from Chicago where he played at Leo High School ... is a Senior with one monogram to his credit already . . . starred in this year’s Notre Dame-St. Louis game as he led his teammates to a 77-70 victory with his 31 points . . . in this same game he achieved a personal triumph as he tied the Notre Dame scoring mark for a single game set by Vince Boryla in 1945 ... a
Marketing Major, Dan
wants to continue playing ball after graduation.
NEAL FICHTEL . . . Senior forward .
LARRY EATON . . . Sophomore in the College of Commerce . . . major in Business Administration, but expects draft to interfere . . state honors while playing for Greeley, Colo., High School .
probable
. won all . . also
lettered in golf . . . one of biggest sports thrills was just coming to Notre Dame and being able to play basketball for the Irish . . . alternated between guard and forward this year.
. . hails from Aurora, Illinois . . . before
coming to Notre Dame he attended Marmion Academy where he lettered in both basketball and football ... he won his first monogram last year as a reserve ... a Marketing Major, Neal is uncertain of his future after graduation ... if the present crisis continues he intends to re-enlist ... he
saw service in the last war with the Navy, serving most of Aleutian Islands ... at 23, has the distinction of being the on this year’s squad.
JIM GIBBONS ... a squad this season . Lewinski under next
his time in the oldest member
Chicago Sophomore, Jim played guard with the Irish . . played at Mt. Carmel High School with Norb
year’s Notre Dame coach, Johnny Jordan . .
his
biggest thrill—“The great ovation we received from the students when we came on the floor for the St. Louis game.” . . . finds movies one of his favorite past-times and is thinking of making Speech his major subject . . . besides his activities on the court, Gibbons was a member of the Student Council last year.
Mar. 9, 1951
17
best player he faced this year . . . ball club but had a little hard luck . main hobby ... his athletic hero is Blackhawks.
LEROY M. LESLIE ... a Johnstown, Pa. Junior . . . Leroy was second to Kevin O’Shea in scoring last year ... his .349 field-goal shooting average was the highest on the team . . . looking back, he picks the Kentucky game of last year as his greatest thrill . . . considers Ed Scott of St. Louis the best player he has ever faced . . . collecting stamps is his hobby . . . Leroy is in Commerce with Marketing as his major . . . assumed the forward position
with no difficulty, despite the fact that High School.
he had only played guard in
NORB LEWINSKI . .
only a Sophomore .
.“Gootch” played regular center this season
. . hails from Chicago and Mt. Carmel
. . . his biggest thrill was beating St. Louis this year for they the best in the country ... he singles out Chuck Darling of
High were Iowa
and is School among as the
stated that Notre Dame
had a good
. . is in A.B. and picks softball as his his brother, Ed, who played with the
JACK NEUMAYR . . . Gave the Irish through in many tight spots with key
strong bench
this year, coming
po.ints ... a Junior in Arts and
a
Letters majoring in Philosophy . . . like Kevin O'Shea, an alumnus of St. Ignatius High School in San Francisco . . . lists as his favorite hobbies sports and reading . . . won first monogram last year as a Sophomore . . . also a high jumper on the track team . . . calls the Marquette game of last Feb. 3, in which he scored 16 points, mostly on driving lay-ins, as most memorable sports thrill.
MARTY
squad .
O’CONNOR . . . Only three time monogram member of this year's . . smallest man on team ... a Senior majoring in Speech (pre-
law) . . . was recipient of Ellas Award for athletics and scholarship upon graduation from Kewanee, III., High School in '47 . . . has an unusual hobby—studying maps and railroad schedules . . . rooms with Irish quarterback Bob Williams in Walsh Hall . . . sinking winning basket in last second of play against Butler in his Sophomore year is his most exciting cage experience.
18
The Scholastic
DON STRASSER . . . Sidelined for most of the season with a broken ankle suffered in game against Wisconsin . . . rooms with another Irish cage star, Leroy Leslie ... is a Junior in Arts and Letters with a Political Science major . . . does woodcarving in his spare time . . . was fourth top scorer with last year’s team . . . names ND's 64-51 upset win over Kentucky last year as biggest sports thrill ... an outstanding defensive man, held high scoring “Buckshot” O’Brien of Butler to two points in game last year.
HUGHES WILCOX ... At 6’6” is the tallest man on the squad . . . hails from Council Bluffs, Iowa . . . alternated at center and forward this year . . . is a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in-Economics . . . like teammate Jack Neumayr, is a high jumper on the track team in the off season . . . “being a member of the team and a representative of such a fine university” was his choice as his greatest thrill . . . names Ernie Beck of Penn as the outstanding player he has faced-this year.
BOB WRAY . . . Center from Brooklyn, N. Y. . . . says that everything he knows about basketball he owes to "Moose” ... is an Arts and Letters student with History as a major, but would like to coach after graduation . . . picks Chuck Darling of Iowa as his toughest opponent . . . names as his greatest thrill the upset win over St. Louis this year . . . loves to watch Broadway plays . . . “hard luck guy” of this year’s team . . . injured his back at the beginning of this season and has since injured both legs.
JOHN BRENNAN, ASSISTANT COACH . . . “Moose’s” right arm for the past two seasons . . . product of “Hoosier Hysteria”, from Bedford, Ind. . . . paced the Bedford eagers to third place in Indiana state tourney in his Senior year . . . One of the roughest competitors ever to grace the Irish court . . . led Irish eagers in scoring in 1946-47 as a Sophomore with 289 points . . . forced to sit out greater part of last two years due to injuries ... is married, a vet of Eighth Air Force ... is working for Master of Science degree.	-
Mar. 9, 1951
19
DAN BAGLEY hits the deck during the torrid action of upset win over St. Louis.
Home, Sioeet Fieldhouse
Gym Streak Extends Through 16th Game;
Courtmen Take 13, but Tagged 11 Times
Text by JACK VARLEY, 52
Photo by JERRY SHEEHAN, ’54
Nobody will probably ever know just what happened to the Notre Dame basketball team in the 19-50-51 season. The record books will show 13 wins against 11 losses. Still, there were times during the season when the Fighting Irish looked like they could beat any team in the nation. Then there were other times when they looked miserable. In their second game with St. Louis they were great. In their home games against Marquette and Loyola they played the kind of ball that people thought they were capable of after their first four wins. But it just seemed that they could win only on their home court.
Here they accounted for nine of their 13 victories, but when they got on the road they seemed helpless, defeating only Purdue, Butler, and Northwestern twice. One thing that might have hurt the Irish greatly was the loss of guard Don Strasser for the season in the
third game because of an injured ankle.
He was one of the spark plugs of last
year’s team and his injury seemed to handicap the eagers greatly. Edward “Moose” Krause saw his last season as Notre Dame coach, before he assumes only the duties of Athletic Director, to be one of his worst.
Irish Take First Four
The Irish opened the season December 6 with a victory over Franklin and within the span of ten days had amassed a record of four wins and no defeats as they downed Anderson, Wisconsin, and Northwestern in quick succession. They looked like a team that had great potentiality as they beat the Franklin squad, 67-44, in the Notre Dame Gym. Sophomore Norb “Gootch” Lewinski was the star of the evening as he garnered 19 points.
Then, three nights later, the Gym was the scene of another victory for Krause’s quintet as they ran over a hapless Anderson College five, 72-46. Leroy Leslie led the night’s scoring parade with 18 points and despite the fact that they had a miserly .263 shooting average Notre Dame demonstrated that they could run up a score. Ander
son kept fairly close for the first few minutes of the game but by half-time they were behind, 31-23, and in the second half they were just the other team on the floor.
Wisconsin was the third team to feel the wrath of the Irish on their home court. The Badgers led, 33-30, at the end of the first half on the basis of very sharp shooting. In the second half things were different and the Irish had copped their third victory by the tune of 67-61. Leslie was high for the night with 23 points. Marty O’Connor starred at the free throw line as he dropped in seven in a row.
Leaving their home court for the first time in the season, Notre Dame traveled to Chicago to meet and beat Northwestern, 82-76. The Irish had a 44-36 half-time lead which was sufficient to keep the Wildcats behind for the rest of the game. Krause’s eagers went wild, scoring. O’Connor had 22, Leslie 19, Dan Bagley 15, and Jack Neumayr 12. Ray Ragelis led the Cats with 21 points.
Lost First to Iowa
Two nights later the Irish were in Iowa City as the guests of Iowa and here for the first time in the young season they were to taste defeat. Iowa hadn’t been beaten in 48 games on their home court by a non-conference foe and they kept their record intact by freezing the ball for the last minute and a half to eke out a 63-60 victory over the Fighting Irish. It was close all the way. The lead changed hands 11 times in the first half which ended with Iowa ahead 36-35. When play commenced again, Iowa found little trouble for the first few minutes and went ahead, 41-35. The Irish tied it at 48-all, and tied it twice more, but the Hawkeyes were successful in their stall and were the victors. Bagley was high for the night with 21 points.
During the Christmas holidays, Krause took his quintet to Indianapolis to participate in the fourth annual Hoosier Classic. The Irish met Purdue first and subdued the Boilermakers, 83-70. Leslie led the scoring parade with 23 points. On one play he gained four. He was fouled intentionally as he made a basket and then proceeded to make both free throws. The following evening the Irish played their second Classic game as they met Indiana. The Hoosiers had little trouble until only seven minutes of the game le-mained and they found themselves tied, 48-48. From here the lead bounced , back and forth until Indiana led 57-56. Then the Hoosiers surged ahead and won, 64-56.
Still on the road, the Irish went to Evanston for a return engagement with
20
The Scholastic


tucky’s 6’2” guard,
Bill Ramsey, was
JACK NEUMAYR
JIM GIBBONS stretches on
flicks a layup goalward against Mich. State.
ing splurge by Leslie and Bagley put Notre Dame back in the lead which
30-22 at the half, high for the night
the year built up six wins
they built up to Leslie again was with 19.
ended, the Fighting Irish had a fairly impressive record — against two losses.
man-55-48 early scor-
St. Louis
Notre
Cops at Kiel
Dame then traveled to Kiel
lost ten of them, but they still aged to make the Irish earn their victory. Butler took a 12-6 lead in the game, but an eight-point
Northwestern. The result was the same as their first meeting — an Irish victory. And, like their previous meeting, it was O’Connor that led the South Bend lads in the scoring column as he accumulated 16 points. It was a hard fought game all the way with the lead changing hands 15 times. The largest lead in the game was Notre Dame’s half time advantage—23-17. So as
auditorium in St. Louis and turned in one of their worst exhibitions of the year as they fell before the Billikens of St. Louis, 56-47. Both teams looked ■ sloppy, but the Irish managed to be sloppier and the 11,000 partisan fans were quite happy over the victory, but not the play. Ray Sonnenberg led St. Louis with 19.
Two nights later found the Irish at Butler. The Bulldogs had played 11 games so far in the season and had
Krause then brought his five home to meet Loyola and for the first time in many a day they looked impressive. By the end of the first half, Loyola trailed, 42-27. Krause cleared the bench in the second half in an attempt to keep the score down. Bagley scored 23 points and led his team to a 78-67 win.
With the season almost half over and seven victories under its belt, Notre Dame’s quintet took another road trip and, like most of this season’s trips, it was disastrous. They dropped three in a row, to Xavier, Kentucky and Michigan State. With the score tied 28 all at the half Xavier poured on the coal and upset the Irish, 60-52. Lewinski’s 17 points was high for the Irish while Boswell of Xavier was high for the game with 18.
Two nights later, Coach Adolph Rupp and his powerful Kentucky Wildcats played host to the Krausemen before a capacity crowd of 15,000 fans in the new Memorial stadium. The Irish kept within striking range in the first half and trailed, 29-23, at the first gun, but the second period found a cold, cold team facing the Wildcats. In that second half the Notre Dame quintet was able to hit on only four out of 25 shots and only once in the first 14 minutes. Star for the Irish was Lewinski who held seven-foot Bill Spivey to 10 points and scored 12 himself. Ken-

LEWINSKI takes pulse of Butler man.
high for the evening with 21 points as he and his teammates raked the Irish, 69-44, for their 92nd consecutive victoi’y in Lexington.
Continuing their losing ways, the Irish hoopsters traveled to East Lansing where Michigan State bolstered their season’s record by running away with a 60-43 triumph. Notre Dame just couldn’t penetrate the Spartan defense and were held to two field goals in the first half. The 27-17 halftime score looked decent only because the ND hoopsters got to the foul line and could hit from there. Bagley was high for the evening with 12 points, eight of which were charity shots.
tiptoe to witness fast basket play.
WRAY neatly blocks out Billiken Sonnenberg as Bagley fires another one in.
End Losing Streak at Butler
A return with Butler wound up their road trip and their losing streak as the Irish scored 75 points, watched Butler score 65, and shared the 62 fouls called against the two teams that evening. Notre Dame had little trouble; they led 33-24 at the half as Leslie again led the Irish.
February 3 and Marquette invaded the Old Gym. The home court must have looked good for the Irish hoop-sters put on their most impressive show of the season as they outscored and outplayed the Hilltoppers, 82-56. The game had hardly started when the Milwaukee lads were behind, 7-0. Bag-ley was outstanding as he collected 15 points during the 32 straight minutes he was in action. Leslie was high with - 17 and Neumayr collected 16, all but ’ two of which were in the second half.
Notre Dame’s shooting average for the evening was a sensational .413.
Just one week after their great
showing against the Hilltoppers, Notre Dame went to Chicago Stadium and were batted all over the court by DePaul’s Blue Demons. Notre Dame never really challenged, and by halftime, Ray Meyer’s quintet had riddled the hoop for a 39-26 lead. DePaul in general and Bato Govedarica in particular were very deadly at the free throw line. Govedarica, the leading scorer for the night, accounted for 11 of his 17 points via the charity line as he led his teammates to a 68-54 victory over the Irish.
Win Last Three at Home
Now Notre Dame returned home. They were to face three teams in quick succession and all three had beaten them earlier in the season. The first was St. Louis who at that time was ranked fifth in the nation and had a 23-4 season’s record. The Irish were definitely the underdogs, but a cheering student body and really outstanding play baffled the Billikens to the extent
that they were behind, 46-20, when the half ended. The Irish had a .500 shooting average in that half. In the second half Hickey’s crew outscored the Notre Dame hoopsters, 50 to 31, but it wasn’t enough and the Irish had Avon their 14th home game in a row, 77-70. Bagley was outstanding as he scored 31 points to tie the Notre Dame single scoring mark set by Vince Boryla in 1945 against Detroit. Leslie accounted for 20 points.
Still thirsty for vengeance, the South Bend eagers met DePaul and trounced them, 61-55. The Irish had to come from behind twice — once in the first half when they trailed 14-21 and again in the second. Govedarica was high for the evening with 20 while Leslie was high for the Irish with 15.
Krause’s lads added another notch on their victory staff a couple of nights later as they played for the last time before their fellow students and beat Michigan State, 56-46. Unlike their previous meeting, the Fighting Irish were able to penetrate the Spartan defense and led after a very slow first half, 21-17. State just couldn’t hit. They scored only 11 buckets all night and only their 24 successful free throws made the score respectable. State had a .186 shooting average as compared with Notre Dame’s .365. Neumayr was high with 15 as the season record stood at 13 wins against seven setbacks.
Lost Last Four on Road
With only four- games remaining, Bagley, Leslie and crew swung East to play three of them. First Canisius, then New York University and Penn. They met them all and were defeated by them in one, two, three orderi At Buffalo, four of the starting Irish five found themselves out on fouls before
O’CONNOR gets free for a soft one.
The Scholastic
22
the game was over and saw their teammates come off the floor when the final gun sounded, beaten to the tune of 60-53. Notre Dame led 32-31 at the half, but the fouls were too much for the Irish and for the second time in two years, the Golden Griffins had beaten them.
Two nights later, Krause saw his eagers on the wrong end of a rout as a record low crowd watched NYU dump the Irish in Madison Square Garden. Bagley had 23, but Abe Becker and Dick Bunt each scored 24 and that was just about all the Violets needed for an 87-72 victory. Bagley hit on 11 out of 22 attempts for a .500 average that night.
The following day in Philadelphia, Penn thwarted any ideas the Irish had of salvaging their Eastern tour by defeating them, 71-60, and chalking up their first win over the Irish in 15 games. Penn led, 32-28, at the half, but Notre Dame came back to tie it up at 56-all with six minutes and seven seconds to go. But, as usual, the Fighting Irish just couldn’t score enough in the last minute and Penn became the tenth team of the season to mar the Irish record.
Milwaukee was the scene of the final game of the season for Notre Dame’s quintet as the guests of Marquette. The Hilltoppers were still smarting from their humiliation by the Irish earlier in the season and were really out for vengeance. They got it as they handed their guests a 55-50 setback. Notre Dame led at halftime, 29-25, but after four minutes of play in the second frame, Marquette had tied their opponents at 37-37. The game was then tied at 39-39, and 41-41. Then the Hilltoppers went wild. They scored ten points while the Irish did little more than watch. From there on in Notre Dame never threatened. Bagley’s 22 markers was high for the night.
So, while the Irish looked great as they won their first four games of the season they looked just as miserable as they dropped their last four. And in between the first and last four they did little better than win half to post a 13-11 record for the 1950-51 season, one of the worst in Notre Dame basketball history.
The outlook for next season isn’t a bad one, thanks to a strong group of Frosh ballplayers. Graduation will take Marty O’Connor, Dan Bagley and Neal Fichtel but the first year men should more than take care of the gaps they’ll leave. Notre Dame’s new Head Basketball Coach, Johnny Jordan, will have a wealth of experienced material to go along with the new crop. Providing the draft doesn’t interfere too much, Notre Dame should have one of its best cage squads in history next year.
Mar. 9, 1951
The Team and Its Statistics
THE OFFICIAL photograph of the 1950-51 ND basketball team. First row, I. to r.: Fred Curto, manager, Leroy E. Leslie, Donald J. Strasser, Martin O’Connor, Daniel M. Bagley, Robert L. Eaton, John W. Neumayr, James V. Gibbons, second row, I. to r.: Gerald L. McCloskey, Edward F. Condon, Joseph J. Dombrosky, Robert Wray, Hughes Wilcox, Norbert E. Lewinski, Neil Fichtel, and Daniel F. Farrell. Photo by Bruce Harlan, University photographer.
Individual Hoop Statistics	Scores
	Games	FGA	FG	Pct.	FTA	FT	Pct.	PF	TP	Avg.	Notre Dame, 67: Franklin, 44 Notre Dame, 72: Anderson, 46
Bagley 		...... 24	340	120	.353	118	78	.661	88	318	13.3	Notre Dame, 67: Wisconsin, 61
Leslie 			 24	393	123	.313	112	70	.625	91	316	13.2	;	Notre Dame, 82: Northwestern, 76
Lewinski ..	...... 24	295	92	.312	95	55	.579	92	239	10.0	Notre Dame, 60: Iowa, 63
O’Connor	94.	190	59	.311	99	62	.626	83	180	7.5	Notre Dame, 83: Purdue, 70
Neumayr ..		 24	180	58	.322	59	38	.644	60	154	6.4 i	Notre Dame, 56; Indiana, 64 Notre Dame, 76: Northwestern, 73
McCloskey	.... 17	121	43	.355	24	16	.667	49	102	6.0	Notre Dame, 47: St. Louis, 56
Gibbons ....	22	72	25	.347	50	30	.600	77	80	3.6	Notre Dame, 55: Butler, 48
Wrav 			 18	60	18	.300	28	16	.571	39	52	2.9	'	Notre Dame, 78: Loyola, 67
Fichtel 				 16	26	8	.306	16	11	.688	35	27	1.7	!	Notre Dame, 52; Xavier, 60
											Notre Dame, 44: Kentucky, 69
Strasser ....		34	7	.286	10	9	.900	7	23	7./ j	Notre Dame, 43: Michigan State, 60
Wilcox ....		 16	20	3	.150	5	3	.600	19	9	.5 i	Notre Dame, 75: Butler, 65
Condon ....		 5	11	4	.364	3	2	.667	6	10	2.0 i	Notre Dame, 82; Marquette, 56
Eaton 				 18	13	2	.154	3	3	1.000	11	7	.4	;	Notre Dame, 54; DePaul, 68
Osterman			 1	6	2	.333	0	0	.000	3	4	4.0	;	Notre Dame, 77; St. Louis, 70 Notre Dame, 61: DePaul, 55
Farrell 			 1	1	0	.000	2	1	.500	1	1	i-o i	Notre Dame, 56: Michigan State, 46
Dombrosky	2	0	0	.000	0	0	.000	4	0	0.0 i	Notre Dame, 53: Canisius, 60
ND Totals		1762								i	Notre Dame 72: NYU, 87
	.... 24		564	.321	264	394	.631	665	1522	63.4	;	Notre Dame, 60; Penn, 71
Opponents			 24	1669	520’	.312	711	450	.633	524	1490	62.1	|	Notre Dame, 50; Marquette, 55
24
The Scholastic i
i
Bengal Finalists Clash Tomorrow Night
K of C Youth Leader To Get Annual Award
An overflow crowd is expected to jam the Notre Dame Fieldhouse tomorrow night to watch the 14 survivors out of over 50 entrants slug it out for championship crowns in the 20th Annual renewal of the Bengal Bouts.
Tom Kigan, promoter of the Bouts, has announced that the Annual Bout Recognition Award will be presented to John J. Contway, Executive Director of the Knights of Columbus Supreme Council, Boy Life Bureau, at a ceremony immediately preceding the seven final bouts.
Contway has been associated with boys’ work since 1924 when he came to Notre Dame for the first Knights of Columbus Boy Guidance Course. A graduate of the University of Ottawa, Canada, Contway received his Master’s Degree from Notre Dame in June, 1926.
In July, 1926, Contway was made assistant director of the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus in New Haven, Conn. Upon the death of the director in 1929 Contway was named to succeed him and has headed the program since that time.
Before moving- to New Haven, the youth program of the Knights of Columbus was administered from Notre Dame. Contway has had many connections with youth activities throughout the country and was a member of the International Boys’ Work Council, The National Recreation-Education Council, The National Boys’ and Girls’ Week Committee.
Contway is a graduate of the National Training School for Scout Executives and served for eight years as a member of the Boy Scout Council of New Haven, Conn. Contway is a member of San Salvador Council No. 1 of the Knights of ’ Columbus and of the John Barry Fourth Degree Assembly of New Haven, Conn.
This year marks the third year for the Bengal Bout award. The first winner in 1949 was Tony Zale, former world’s middleweight champion, who
was cited for his work with the Catholic Youth Organizations in Gary, Ind. Bishop Bernard J. Sheil, auxiliary bishop of the archdiocese of Chicago, received the plaque last year for his founding the C. Y. 0. and its boxing program.
Monday Night
A lightning-like TKO by Brendan Cryan highlighted the action as the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts opened their five night stand in the fieldhouse last Monday night. The 127 pound sophomore dropped Ted Prahinski with a solid right half way through the first round of their featherweight clash. Earlier in the round Cryan cornered Prahinski on the ropes and staggered him with a vicious barrage of rights and lefts which set the stage for the finishing blow.
Three fights in the 137 pound division started off the evening’s festivities.
BATTLERS LINE UP. (I. to r.) Bill Flynn, Dick Cotter, Joe Brown, Tom Chisholm, Bernie Baute, Dick Windishar, George Chopp, B. Cryan, Gene Perry, Sal Fiorella.
In the first, Pat Drew won a split decision from fellow Sophomore Leo Hickey. Drew, from New York City and Cavanaugh Hall, spotted his opponent an early lead, but he took the initiative with two lefts in the second round that brought blood to Hickey’s nose. Hickey continued to press the fight in the final two minutes, but Drew countered nicely to preserve his advantage and cop the match.
In a crowd-pleasing slug-fest, Bob Weber from Appleton, Wisconsin, captured another split decision as he punched out a bristling win over Alumni’s Charles Paquette. Weber powered his way during the opening round with a series of rights to the head. Round two saw Paquette charge back and battered Weber’s face with three sharp lefts. The third round was a toe to toe fight with Weber, though bleeding badly, smashing a hard one-two, followed
(Continued on page 29)
Mar. 9, 1951
Grid 'Whether' Forecast: Continued Drought: Frank Leahy Eyes Fall With Apprehension
By FRAN MEANEY, ’54
•‘There will be perhaps more Sophomores On this fall’s starting eleven than on any other football team in the history of the University.”
So spoke Coach Frank Leahy. Not with the proverbial tears welling in his eyes, but matter-of-factly, as a cool, considered statement. He expects to field a green team, eager and spirited — but inexperienced and young, “possibly the youngest in the nation.”
Spring practice, then, which traditionally begins on St. Patrick’s Day — the 17th of this month, will be a vital factor in fashioning the team for the coming season. Mr. Leahy is firm in his belief that his players will need all the work they can get, and he intends to see that they get it. Most of the time will be spent on fundamentals, but some attention will be given to experimenting with men and formations.
The importance of the spring workout was emphasized by Coach Leahy, who asserted that last year’s trouble could be traced in part to inadequate preparation in the Spring of ’50. For one reason or another, quite a number of the men were able to attend practice sessions only for limited periods. This situation made necessary frequent, bruising fall scrimmages, with the inevitable and unavoidable results that some of the players received injuries that continually hampered them throughout the entire season.
Continuing, he compared the molding of a football team, to the building of a house. “You need a firm, stable foundation; spring practice gives you this. But, as was the case last year, if the foundation be weak and insecure, the whole house will tumble and crash to earth.”
When questioned about the system that Notre Dame would use this fall, Coach Leahy replied that he planned no radical departure from last year. He added that this did not necessarily mean that the Irish would stick exclusively to the straight “T.” “For example, we utilized variations of the split “T” in ’50 and we’ll probably continue to do so. We do not contemplate any wholesale abandonment of our formations. All I can say is -that we will employ nothing that Notre Dame has not used in the past.”
And, as far as opponents go, it looks like a rough season for the Irish gridmen. Mr. Leahy rattled off team after
team that had had their best Freshmen squads ever in 1950 — Purdue, Pittsburgh, Navy, Southern Cal, North Carolina, Michigan State. Then there’s ever-potent SMU with deadly Freddie Benners doing the throwing, and Iowa with Glenn Drahn. No, that side of the picture doesn’t appear too rosy.
In general, the prospects aren’t encouraging. “When you lose two AllAmericans like Bob Williams and Jerry Groom, it’s bound to hurt. Honestly,” said Coach Leahy, “if those boys hadn’t been around last year, I’m afraid to think what our record would have been. Their loss is going to be sorely felt.”
On a happier note was the news that Bill Barrett’s leg had completely healed and that the chunky speedster should be in his 1949 form come September. Bill’s unfortunate injury had much to do with the poor showing last year, opined Mr. Leahy. “With Barrett out and with Petitbon injured several times during the season, we just had no one in there to carry the ball. Both boys are fine now and they can help us considerably.”
Not too much concern was noticeable over the quarterback vacancy, however. Coach Leahy believes that Johnnie Mazur, off his ’50 showing, can step in and do a creditable job. “I have confidence in John. He performed very well for us, and I have no doubt that he will do the same this year.”
Turning to the Freshmen, the head coach refused to accept the opinion that this was “the greatest squad of first year men ever assembled at Notre Dame.” He agreed that they were good, very good, and that on occasion they had looked extremely well against the varsity. “But,” he remarked sadly, “who didn’t?”
Still, the Frosh figure strongly in his plans. Big Joe Katchik with his 250 pounds could bolster the “underweight” line in no small degree. John Lattner, Freshman fullback, rates a favorable nod as do several other first year men. Added to these are some transfer students who came here when their schools gave up football, and who will be eligible to play next semester.
At best, the outlook is cloudy and uncertain. The universally-held myth of Notre Dame and her tremendous wealth of material is unfortunately just that— a myth. In numbers alone the squad is relatively small and disappointing.
As Mr. Leahy admitted, “We’re pretty thin all around.”
However, one thing appears definite. With the sudden turn of events for the Irish — from National Champions to a mediocre team in one short year, it seems certain that Mr. Leahy will cease to be regarded as the eternal pessimist, but rather be thought of as the frank realist.
But seven months before the first game is not the time to pass judgment on the team. This group will not equal the great squads of the ’46-’49 era. It’s difficult to say what it will do. We only know that it will be giving its best, and “no one can ask for more.” In any event, Sept. 29 will tell the story.
Declining to offer any prediction on the possible win-loss record for ’51, Notre Dame’s head football coach leaned back in his chair and drily commented over the tent of his fingers: “I hope we lose our 1950 title—‘Flop of the Year.’ ”
He straightened up, and—becoming serious once again—spoke slowly and close to his heart. “As we look forward toward the 1951 football season at Notre Dame it is the fervent hope of the entire coaching staff that we can produce a team that will be worthy of the wonderful Notre Dame student body. In every practice session we will work with the idea of reciprocating in full for the unparalleled support accorded the 1950 Notre Dame team by the student body. Their loyalty has left an indelible mark on the coaching staff and we will do our utmost to show how much we appreciate it.”
Trackmen+o Compete In Milwaukee Relays
It’s up to Milwaukee tomorrow night for the ND trackmen. They will compete in the Milwaukee Relays, a brand new meet along the lines of the Madison Square Garden Meets and the Chicago Daily News Relays, which a group of Milwaukeeans are trying to make an annual affair.
Notre Dame will send a mile and a two mile relay team, and possibly sprinter Bucky Ewing, and hurdlers Ed Powell and Leo McKillip for the individual races. The two mile relay team has the best chance to snatch some laurels. John Mohar and Vai Muscato, one-two in the Central Collegiates 880 last week and Sam Hoover, who might have been third in that race had Notre Dame been permitted to enter more than two men, are sure bets to run half mile legs on the two mile relay team.
26
The Scholastic

hy JAEE MEAMEY
^0^
A Look Back
A Notre Dame basketball team just finished the worst season an Irish quintet has had in 26 years, with the exception of the war year of 1943-44. Not since the season of 1924-25 has the ND cage team hit double figures in the loss column, and in that year, too, they lost 11 games. The cold facts show that this year’s squad was not anything to gladden the hearts of its supporters.
Yet, sometimes the cold facts are too cold—they fail to give a true evaluation of a team’s worth. This year’s record of 13 wins, 11 losses is one of those times. The 1950-51 eagers were a better team than their performance indicates. They could have done much better. Why didn’t they?
Well, injuries hurt them a lot, almost as much as overzealous officiating which seems to be even worse in the East
will repeat itself as it did after the aforementioned 1924-25 season. In the two years following, the Irish eagers won 38 out of 40 games, and started the late George Keogan out on his long string of great Notre Dame teams. Every season since then has been a winning one, with Notre Dame teams posting some of the most impressive records in the country. Maybe next year will see the beginning of another great era in Notre Dame basketball.
A Look Ahead
A few weeks ago, the “Out of the Past” column of the Scholastic carried an item about one Paul Harrington, Captain of the 1926 Notre Dame track team, setting an intercollegiate pole
vaulting record of 13’ 1%” 25 years ago. This is a pretty good leap, even by today’s standards, and almost amazing when you consider the techniques and rigidity of the poles of that time.
Harrington is now a Chemical Engineer with the Standard Oil company, and has two sons on the present Notre Dame track team, Sophomore Paul, Jr., and Freshman Jim.
Although Paul is his father’s namesake, it is Jim who is following most in the elder Harrington’s footsteps. Paul is a sprinter, and is enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, while brother Jim is a Chern Engineering student and a pole vaulter—a pretty good one, too.
Right now he is vaulting around 12’ 9”, which is two feet higher than any of the varsity vaulters can go. But he would have to go another two feet higher to equal, by today’s standards, the effort of his father 25 years ago. That would put him close to the 15 foot mark, and although it is a long way up (no collegian has ever vaulted 15 feet) there are a lot of people who think he could get up around that height. With the excellent coaching of Alex Wilson, we think there is a possibility he might, too. If he ever could clear 15 feet, he may hold the same record that his father held back in 1926.
than here in the Midwest. Losing Don Strasser in the Wisconsin game was the big blow. Taking a man off the bench to replace him weakened the Irish on the bench as well as on the court. When the going got hot and heavy, there just wasn’t anyone to put in to carry the load. Ed Hickey of St. Louis must have realized this fact, because he shot more men into the game against the Irish here than the Billikens took shots at the basket. His plan was to wear the Irish down and it almost succeeded. St. Louis was able to come within seven points of winning after having been 26 points behind at the half, simply because six oi- seven Irish couldn’t run with ten or 12 Bills for 40 minutes.
This trouble wasn’t confined to the St. Louis game. The last four losses of the season can be attributed mostly to this fact. In two of the last four games, the Irish held the lead at half-time, while in the other two, they were within easy striking distance. But they didn’t have the stamina to go all out for 40 minutes, and that cost them the ball games.
Things should be better next year, though, providing the draft doesn’t interfere. A strong frosh team is coming up, one of the best in years. The Irish are losing only three players, but the frosh strength in numbers should make up for the loss. And, maybe history
Bengal Bigwigs Hold Pow-wow
FIGHT MOGULS iron out final details. (I. to r.) Bill Hubbert, programs; Bob Finnegan, tickets; John Gillis, concessions; Bill Riley, publicity; Tom Kigan, promoter.
Mar. 9, 1951
27
NOTRE DAME MEN say:
Read Faster...Learn More...Improve Grades!
REV. JOHN A. OBRIEN
“The Foundation For Better Reading in South Bend is admirably equipped to assist people in doubling and even tripling their speed of reading . . . enabling them to read a great deal more literature than they now find possible . . . and thus increasing their efficiency, culture, and pleasure,” says Rev. John A. O’Brien, noted author, educator, and expert in the field of improved reading habits. (Author of Reading; Its Psycshology and Pedagogy.)
Excerpts from Notre Dame students’ statements on file:
“I was amazed to find how easily my normal reading rate was raised from 325 to almost 1200 words a minute without losing comprehension ...”
—E.J.B., Soph., Commerce
“— doubled reading speed and comprehension ... now
I actually enjoy reading.”	—J.W., Freshman
“— was surprised ... reading vastly improved . .. now have improved habits and know how to help myself.”
— J.C., Senior, AB
“ — can truly say that I believe that I received more results from this course than any other I have ever taken.”	—G.F., Soph., Comm.
“ — an experience to see speed grow lesson by lesson . . . comprehension increased steadily with speed . . . now an indispensible aid.”	—M.L., Freshman
“ — now more able to be informed on current affairs . . . can read more serious reading faster, too, with even better understanding.”	—C. S., Soph., A.B.
“I had been wasting an average of from 5 to 10 hours a week in needlessly slow reading... this course will be of tremendous benefit to anyone who reads very much.”
— M.G., Jr., Science
“— was surprised and gratified to learn that three months after the course... my speed had accelerated even more ...”	— E.S., Freshman
“ — these good habits will continue to improve.”
—L.M., Sem.
“In addition to more efficient eye movements, I learned to grasp better main ideas, distinguishing them from subordinate ones ...”	J.B., Junior, A.B.
“I have learned to read easily and accurately at a rate three times faster than before.”
—T.M., Soph., A.B.
“— can honestly say that after four years of college, this was the most outstanding course . . . benefits have been so great that they can not be measured in terms of dollar worth.”	S.H., Senior, Comm.
“I not only doubled my reading speed, but I developed such smooth eye movements that I can now read twice as long without eyestrain,” writes Edward A. Fischer, professor of Journalism, now a Press Officer with the U. S. Army. “In other words, during the next year I will probably read as much as I totaled during the past four years. That’s saying a lot for only 20 hours of instruction.”
EDWARD A. FISCHER
Ask for our special Reading Skill Survey. In just a few hours of your time, you can know how well your present reading skills compare with accepted standards — how easily and quickly you, too, may more than double your reading capacity.
A special tuition discount and a prior choice of starting times and training hours available to those who register IMMEDIATELY. ACT NOW!
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 East LaSalle Avenue	(next to Aquinas Bookstore)	Phone 3-0077
28
The Scholastic
Bengals
(Continued from page 25)
his Rhode Island opponent.
The final 137 pound bout saw Morrissey’s John Lucy easily defeat Frank Valente. Lucy caught the Peekskill, New York, junior on the ropes and pum-meled his head and body. Though Valente fought back in the final two rounds, Lucy coasted to the win.
Brooklyn’s George Carden from Dillon Hall won the first fight in the 147 pound class. He was the aggressor all the way in his battle with Jim O’Toole. Punching well with both hands, Carden upset O’Toole’s style and made the Sorin Senior miss repeatedly.
Another split decision went to Bernard McNulty in his clash with Don Lanfried. Lanfried charged out of his corner and had McNulty on the ropes, but the winner fought back with a good exhibition of ring skill to earn the close win. A hard right was McNulty’s best punch.
Freshman “Iggy” Moriarity decisioned Walt Landry in the first match at 157 pounds. The Maspeth, New York, lad used his height advantage, in this battle of two left-handers, to win. A strong second round in which “Iggy” staggered Landry with two lefts and a’ right was the margin of victory.
Ted Garland from Cavanaugh Hall opened fast with a series of head punches and easily won over Cliff Collins. Collins was in trouble in the last two rounds, which turned into two toe to toe slugging duels.
The ninth fight of the evening saw the blue corner finally win. Dick Windishar, a Walsh Junior battered Don Bergman in another crowd pleaser. Both boys were nearly out on their feet at the close of the hard fought match. The last bout of the night was won by Tom Chisholm from Walsh, who decisioned Breen-Phillips Freshman Joe Bandiera. Chisholm was the aggressor and flashed a good body attack to capture an unanimous win.
Tuesday Night
A wildly cheering crowd of around 1800 people turned out Tuesday for the second night of the 1951 Bengal Bouts.
One K. 0. and three T. K. O.’s brought the screaming audience to its feet more than once as they saw only 4 out of 8 rocking slugfests go the distance.
The first fight of the night matched Eugene Perry of Brooklyn and Bill Balok of South Bend a 127 lb. There was little to choose between the two as
they slugged toe to toe through three rounds, but Perry picked up the decision on the basis of his sharper punches.
A couple of lefthanders, 127 lb. Geary Becker and 147 lb. Leonard Lopinski, made short work of their- opponents Chuck Sheerin and Joe Martin. Becker knocked Sheerin out of the ring with a savage left and won a K. 0. victory at 1:08 of the second round. Lopinski had a tougher time with Martin who slugged it out with him on even terms until late in the second round when the stingleft hand caught up with him. Lopinski won by T. K. 0.
Bob Bickert served notice that he will be a tough man to beat at 167 lb., when he smashed Larry Saxe at will to win an easy unanimous decision last night. Bickert was an expert counterpuncher as he broke up every attack Saxe launched and scored himself with lefts and rights.
The big boys went to work for the first time this year and they turned in quite a show. Frank Hamilton T.K.O.ed Joe Schriner in the third round and Lee Getschow won via the same, route from Jim McInnis in two light-heavy battles. In the heavy-weight division Jerry Hagman and Bill Flynn slugged their way to close decisions over Frank Tripodi and Charley King.
Hamilton held a slight lead going into the third round and it appeared to be a pretty even fight until Schriner tired. Hamilton, using rushing tactics and a quick right hand, finally dropped Joe Schriner to the canvas and although Schriner got up the fight was stopped.
The best fight of the night was a wild slug-match between Lee Getschow and Jim McInnis. The two men stood in the middle of the ring and pounded each other with lefts and rights for two
For College Graduates with Executive Ambitions
RETAILING OFFERS YOU A CAREER WITH A FUTURE *>
Interesting, responsible positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching await men and women graduates of the foremost School of Retailing. A one-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience — with pay — in leading New York stores. Special programs for bachelor's degree candidates and for non-degree students.
Request Bulletin C-57
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square	New York 3, N. Y.
rounds. Going into the third round McInnis was ahead but he couldn’t keep the pace and the fight was stopped with about thirty seconds to go.
Jerry Hagman outfought Frank Tripodi to win a unanimous victory in the first heavyweight fight of the season. Hagman was on the attack the greater portion of the fight as he took the battle to Tripodi 'and scored the more telling blows. Tripodi’s quick left was far overshadowed by Hagman’s wicked right cross.
The final fight of the night turned into a brawl as Bill Flynn bulled his way to a unanimous triumph over Charley King. King was far the better boxer and sharper puncher but he could not cope with Flynn’s wild swinging rushes that kept him off balance most of the time.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only §4.50 a day per man for complete camping equipment, canoes and food supplies. For Booklet, write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS — Ely, Minnesota.
Mar. 9, 1951
29
Oxford Circle ties, $1.50
meet the new
OXFORD
champs
stroke:
Traditional oxford button-down, in white
no. 2 man:
Button-down color oxford
, no. 3 man:
Van Ron collar in Oxford. New, soft, rounded collar, in white only no. 4 man:
Van Chick Oxford .. . not a stitch in sight on collar, cuffs, clean-cut front $450
Van Hensen .
”the world's smartest' Ullll I/O
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Two Bands to Play For Engineers Ball
On April 13 the Engineers will hold their annual Ball at the Palais Royale, from 8 p. m. to 1 a. m. Gene Hulks fifteen-piece orchestra and Harlan Hogan, musical director of WSBT, will proride continuous music for the dancers.
Jill Harris of Hamilton, Ohio, has been selected queen of the affair. She will be the guest of co-chairman Joe Lotta. The price is $3.80 and those attending will be granted two o’clock and car permissions. The dance will be formal and is restricted to Engineers. Favors will be provided.
The committee heads are: co-chairmen, Joe Lotta and Bernie Larins; Hall and Decorations, Roy Strickfadden ; Publicity, Fred Kaufman; Ticket Committee, Chuck Linsenmeyer; Program Committee, Tom Moorman; and Personnel, Peter Skerrett.
The main theme of the dance has not been decided upon as yet but co-chairman Joe Lotta thinks the date of Friday the thirteenth offers some possibilities.
NFCCS Convention To Be Held at ND
The La Raza Club and the InterAmerican Action Club, have been granted the NFCCS Fort Wayne region chairmanship for the Inter-American Affairs commission.
The Notre Dame clubs, in conjunction with the Milwaukee and Chicago Regions of the NFCCS, have completed plans for the seventh annual Tri-Re-gional Conference in observance of Pan American Day. The Conference is to be held April 14-15 at Notre Dame. St. Mary’s College will act as co-sponsor with the Notre Dame clubs. The Conference Theme is to be “Spain And The Americas Today.”
Chairman of the Conference will be Tom Murray of Notre Dame. The officers of the Tri-Region this semester, elected at a recent meeting held between officers of the Notre Dame clubs and El Club Santa Teresa of St. Mary's are: President, Carl Ish; Secretary, Adolpho Calero; and Recording Secretary, Mary Lou Hegger.
A majority of colleges from each Region are expected to attend the Conference. Some of those colleges participating are Rosary College, St. Francis College of Joliet, Ill., and Aquinas College of Grand Rapids, Mich.
The program will consist of campus tours, three student panels, lectures, and a dance the Evening of April 14.
30
The Scholastic
ND to Observe May Day In Its Own Special Way
May Day, an occasion for anti-Communist as well as Communist demonstrations, will be commemorated by the Notre Dame student body in its own special way.
Sponsored by the NFCCS Apostolic Chapter, the May Day ceremonies tentatively include Missa, Ganata in every hall chapel on the morning of May 1, and a twilight-candlelight procession and assembly at the Grotto. The services will include an address by a well-known speaker, renewal of baptismal vows, dedication to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, and benediction.
The impressive effect of the gathering will be heightened by the lighting of individual candles by each student.
Dan Collins and Bill Hubbert will serve as co-chairmen for the May Day program. Arrangements are under the direction of the Liturgy Club, while the Third Order will supply the candles and YCS will handle publicity.
Student Council Considers Sites for Fall Student Trip
The Student Council at its meeting this week considered the games for next year’s student football trip. The possibilities were narrowed down to one game in October, the Pittsburgh game at Pittsburgh, and three in November, the Navy game at Baltimore, the Michigan State game at East Lansing, and the North Carolina contest at Chapel Hill. The Council delayed making its recommendation to the University officials until a later date.
The meeting, which was originally scheduled for 7:10, was delayed for 20 minutes while the members attempted to assemble a quorum of ten. Finally a tenth member arrived and the meeting was able to begin. An eleventh member arrived later but four were still absent. The absentees were Jim Manion and Jack Hynes, Junior class representatives, John O’Connell, Sophomore president, and Joe Gallagher, Frosh vicepresident.
At the meeting, the Councilors who were present heard reports on the profits of the Mardi Gras dance which came to §375.21 which was deposited in the Student Council treasury. A budget was approved for the University to send three delegates to the National Council on Discrimination in Higher Education to be held in Richmond, Indiana, later this month.
Tom Reedy, Council office manager, announced that his office in the Main Building would be open now four days a week in the afternoon.
... better get going by GREYHOUND
Save Coming and Going .. with Low Round Trip Fares
One Way	One Wav
CHICAGO.._______ $ 2.00 ST. LOUIS_______	$ 6.50
BOSTON... .....	18.60	NEW YORK_______	16.65
BUFFALO________	9.35	PHILADELPHIA...	15.25
CLEVELAND______	5.40	DETROIT._______	4.30
LOS ANGELES_____ 41.75	MEMPHIS_______	11.05
WASHINGTON......	13.85	GRAND RAPIDS..	3.00
DALLAS_________  18.60	KANSAS CITY ...	9.75
MILWAUKEE......	3.30 MADISON___________ .	4.20
NEW ORLEANS......	16.30	OMAHA.........	11.80
MINNEAPOLIS_____	9.05	DENVER.......... 21.85
Plus U. S. Tax
Main at Western
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
greyhoun:
Phone 3-8233
Mar. 9, 1951
31
shirts
3 zOum
foundry I
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neckwear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs.
Symposium Discusses Media in Advertising
Three more sessions remain to be given in the College of Commerce’s advertising media symposium. “Advertising Media’s 1951 Story.” These three remaining sessions will be spread over the late Spring months, each one dealing with an advertising medium and the business man’s problems in effectively utilizing that medium for his advertising needs.
The most recent session was conducted on March 1. The topic of this meeting was a consideration of the problems and complications of using national and sectional magazines as advertising’ media by both the small and large business man.
The session, the third in the series of six, was handled by two of the more prominent men in the periodical publication field, Mr. Frank Braucher and Mr. W. H. Mullen.
Mr. Braucher is the president of the Magazine Advertising Bureau, a position he has held for more than seven years. Such publishers as Scribner’s, Crowell-Collier, and the Periodical Publishers Association have, during his more than forty years of publishing experience, utilized his services.
Mr. Mullen is Director of the Magazine Advertising Bureau. He serves also as Director of the Publishers Information Bureau. He has been associated with magazine publishing since leaving college, working through these years with Liberty, True Story, and Crowell-Collier. During- the second World War, Mr. Mullen served with the OWI as assistant chief of the Bureau oi Overseas Publications, working on a leave of absence from Crowell-Collier.
NROTC Elects Members of New Activities Council
Eight NROTC men, two from each class, have been elected by the Navy unit as members of a new student activities council. The election was the climax of two weeks of work designed to revitalize the social activities of the unit.
At a smoker held last week Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C. s. C., the unit chaplain, spoke of the need for promoting spirit in the unit and of making the Navy group the best on the campus. Lt. P. H. Hegarty, U.S.N., presented the nominees. The winning candidates were: Seniors: Thomas Carroll and James Schmitt; Juniors: Thomas Bennett and James Garvin; Sophomores: James Gruber and Gerald Marshall; Freshmen: Laurence Ash and David New. some.
The Scholastic
British Scientist to Give Reilly Chemistry Lecture
Dr. M. J. S. Dewar, eminent British chemist, arrived this week at the University to deliver a two-month series of addresses in the Peter C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry.
Dr. Dewar will lecture each Tuesday and Thursday during the months of March and April. His talks will treat recent developments in theoretical organic chemistry.
The British scientist, who now is associated with Courtaids, Ltd., in Berkshire, England, formerly served on the staff at Oxford University, where he received a doctorate degree. Dr. Dewar has conducted most of his research in the field of theoretical organic chemistry. He is the author of a book on organic chemistry entitled Electronic Theory of Organic Chemistry.
The Reilly Lectures in chemistry were established at Notre Dame through a gift from Peter C. Reilly, president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Ind. Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame.
Naval Research Labs Seek Capable Engineers
Scientists representing various Naval Research Laboratories of California, will arrive at Notre Dame, March 12, at 8:30 a. m., to seek capable engineers needed by these Research Laboratories.
These organizations, whose staffs total several thousand, are the Naval Air Missile Test Center at Point Mugu, the* Naval Ordnance Test Station, Inyokern, at China Lake, the Naval Electronics Laboratory at San Diego, and the Naval Civil Engineering Research and Evaluation Laboratory at Port Hueneme.
Since much of their work involves complex technical research, design, or development, these scientists are interested in hiring students with advanced training. Electrical and Mechanical Engineers are needed mostly, but all those in the fields of physics, chemistry, biology, bacteriology and meteorology are also needed. All must possess a B. S., by June or August. Those who have a M. S. or a Ph. D, will warrant a higher salary.
Anyone interested in these opportunities should contact Mr. Dooley in the Placement Office. Interviews will begin at 8-: 30 a. m. March 12. If these interviews can not be completed the first day the scientists will remain March 13.
Mar. 9, 1951
33


Music All Around
Looks like time is plummeting along again. First thing you know it will be the Easter vacation and shortly after returning the Student Musical is scheduled for production.
The cast has been picked. We don’t know much about the female lead, but the male leads are not unfamiliar around the University.
Jack Broderick, who will sing the vocal lead, has an outstanding and compelling voice. He should do a fine job. Jack Powell, male acting lead, is no stranger to the stage nor to Washington Hall audiences. Both men promise a worth-while performance.
One of the supporting cast is Lou Garippo. Lou is another Washington Hall favorite, having played the leading role in last year’s University Theater production, A Gentleman from Athens. Lou, by the way, holds the added (one might say dubious) distinction of being a Scholastic cover man.
Gene Hull has been chosen, and wisely, to take over the instrumental music for the production.
On the basis of the men involved, the Marshall-Carey musical promises good things/ The Student Musical has - stooa out in our mind since the year began as one of the probable highlights of the social year. We are glad to see it give-appearances of being well handled ana we cannot but expect a “representative production,” to change a Leahyism.
Odds and Ends
We take our hats off to the Knights of Columbus, “Nappy” Napolitano, the Bengaleers of 1951, and all who haa any connection with this year’s Bengal Bouts. True to tradition, the Bengals were a worthy offering.
We would like to point out the painting and rejuvenation of the Sacred Heart Church. The “new look” is refreshing and conducive to devotion.
We are glad to see the return to the campus of the perennial favorite, the Juilliard String Quartet.
Another fine offering by South Bend's Civic Music Series was last Wedensday night’s fine performance by the Ballet Theater of America.
We take the liberty of joining in th? recognition given the basketball team in this issue. A 13-11 record in the kind of competition we faced this year is a record to boast of. To the men who played on the team, and to the coach, we add our plaudits.
“The Season”
We are pleased to report that plans are under way for the much heralded and breathlessly awaited Sorin Hall Evening Summer Concert Series.
As in years past, the gaping and green-eyed student body will thrill during the pleasant Spring evenings as the Sorin Choraleers give forth their rollicking and melodious offerings. Even the frogs down at the lake know enough to keep quiet.
Several prominent pianists have been selected to be this season’s accompanists. There is rumor of a ukelele expert having been approached with an eye toward better and more varied orchestration.
Unaffected by the public awe and plaudits, the Sorin songsters are going recklessly ahead with their superb plans. We can hardly wait. Who could?
The Last Word
Since this is the last Scholastic before Easter, we offer our vacation greetings to all.
Special to-
NOTRE DAME MEN
$6.00 worth of Italian or American food for $5.00
Purchase your card from Rose Ann or Jimmy.
University identification required.
PAP ANDREA’S Spaghetti House 415 N. Michigan	Phone 3-0903
-----------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg.. 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours: Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For
students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
WHY PAY MORE!
Long Playing Records (33 1 /3 R.P.M.) 30% off
FREE COMPLETE CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST.
Write to:
RECORD HAVEN. INC. (Dept. C) 520 West 48th Street New York. 19. N. Y.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
34
The Scholastic
"Mr. Bell, 1 heard every zu ord you said — distinctly!"
75 YEARS OF TELEPHONE SERVICE
On the evening of March 10, 1876, on the top floor of a boarding house in Boston, the telephone carried its first intelligible sentence.
It seemed like a miracle to our grandparents and great-grandparents. Yet today, the telephone is a part of our everyday living. And that is the real miracle — the fact that the telephone has come to mean so much to so many people in so many ways.
The telephone is an indispensable tool of business and government — today’s tremendous job of production and defense could not be carried on without it. It serves in minor emergencies and great ones. It helps maintain family and community ties. And it keeps right on growing and improving.
Never in the history of the telephone has it been so valuable to so many people as right now.
BELL TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
Mar. 9, 1951
p LAWRENCE. KISS KARIE K BOX 25 NOTRE DAME IND
01^ PROOF Of
HESTERFIELD
*
Smoke Chesterfield and
starring in	'
HALLS OF MONTEZUMA A 20^ Century-Fox Production Color by Technicolor
STaIlF’ MARiON MARSHALL .lG«T5
RICHARl WIDMARr S CHE
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
with no unpleasant after-taste
RICHARD WIDMARK is just like you and everybody else, today. He wants the cigarette that gives him the most for the money. He makes the Chesterfield Mildness Test and Always Buys Chesterfields.
O» HAlk$ O» mO*’Uu**
7O’k CENTur fOx lO’
J®


phbve for yourself They're Milder ...Its My cigarette" ?
