
Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame; subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best wayto keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of $20 a year­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:------­Address: _______ 
· Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years = $ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 




SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136,NUMBER 'Jffji FOUNDED 1867 MARGI 30, 1995 
Perks and Privileges
4Athletes at Notre Dame may seem to get all the breaks. But the time commitments and pressures that come with being a varsity athlete may justify t,hese benefits. 



SARCASTIC 
11 
Including Stall Notes from the Administra­tion Building, Monk's nighttime attire and the infamous OZERSKER, Sarcastic is guaranteed to amuse and delight all its 
readers. 

Looking Up
20With a record of 11-7, the Notre Dame's men's tennis team is striving to once again make it to the NCAA tournament Number oneplayerRyan Simme'saggressiveplaying style will help to put them back on top. 

FEATURES 

All in the Family · Bridget Bradburn ...................................................................................-. ....................................~8 Ready for the Best, Val.Bauduin ....................................................................................'. ........... , ........................... 2r· Among the Elite •Jake. Schaller ...............................................................................................................................22 And the Winners Were· Chris Myers ....................................................................................................................25 Legends of the Falls •Chris Myers ........................................................................................,..................................26 Mad Dog• Kris.Kazlauskas ............................................................................... ; ........................................................ 31 Is America Juiced Over O.J.? •Eric Schultenover .................................... : .......................................................... .32 
DEPARTMENTS 

From the Editor .............................................................2 
Out of Bounds ................................... : ........................ ;.24 
Letters ................................ , ........................................... 3 
Coming Distractions ...................................................28 
Campus Watch ............................................................ 10 
Splinters from the Press Box .....................................19 
FROM THE EDITOR 

Welcome 

Ithappenseveryyearinthe spring. A wholenewstafftakesoveratScholastic, bringing chaos as well as enthusiasm and new ideas. And this year is no different We had many fresh faces working behind the scenes on this issue, and I'd like to welcome them all to the magazine. Quite a few ofthe new positions have been filled by ambitious assistants, including Chris Myers in entertainment, Bridget Bradburn in campus life, Jake Schaller in sports and Aaron Skalicky in photography. The news department will be headed by junior Michelle Cox, who wrote a number of stories this year, including the cover story on grade inflation, and Mike Tecson will take over as systems manager. Scholastic has also hired two new advertising managers, Adam Stehle and Melissa Mapes, as well as Kym Kilbride to handle_ the business aspects ofthe magazine. Finally, we have created a new position, layouteditor, to work on improvingtheoveralllookofthe magazine. The layout editor for '95-'96 will be Steve Myers. 
This Week's Cover Story 

WhenmyroommateMary,avarsityswimmer, firsttoldmeaboutalltheperksofbeing an athlete, I was impressed. Freetutoring, advisors who tell you whichprofessom to take, an early DAAT time and free clothing from sponsors. What more could you ask for, I wondered. I soon found out 
As many as three mornings a week, my roommate rolls out ofbed at 5a.m. and makes the long trek to practice in the J.A.C.C. Then, after going to breakfast, she spends all momingandpartoftheafternooninclass. Beforeshecancatchherbreath,it'stimetohead over to the J.A.C.C. again, this time for afternoon practice. As ifthat wasn't enough, she is also supposed to condition in the weight room two to three times a week. Allof this is on a typical week. The weeks when she has a meet are a whole dffferent story. Practices· aresteppedupand,inaddition,shehastotalktoherprofessomandfigureouthowtomake up all the work she is going to miss while she's at the meet 
Maybe athletes do get free tutoring, an early DART time and other advantages. And, sure, some athletes probably abuse these privileges. But after living with a swimmer for a year, the perks don't seem nearly as good as they used to. And every morning when I hearmyroommateheadingtopractice,Ilieinbedandsmile-pe~ornot,I'mgladI'm not an athlete. · 

ANote About Sarcastic 

On pages 11 -18, you'll find a Scholastic tradition, our April Fool's Day satire, Sarcastic. Although we usually devote an entire issue to April Fool's Day fun, a tight budgetand the desire to bring the Notre Damecommunity news as well as entertainment convinced us that eightpages would more than satisfy the funny bone ofour readers. So read, enjoy and remember-it's only a joke. 
Michelle Crouch 
Editor in Chief 

Cover photo of Steve Misetic by Stan Evans Table of Contents photos by Stan Evans and Aaron Skalicky. 


Cheers and· Jeers for the Gipp 
Dear Editor: In a recent editorial·, you conveniently quoted parts of the student media policy, 
. misleading your readers. · The administration's demand-for Scholastic to print the author of the Gipp column seems to be a deinand for responsible journalism and consistency in editorial policy. Neither the Obser.vernorScholastic havein thepast printed columns or letters without authors, with the exception of the Gipp. Similarly, reputable news magazines print, or make available to their readers, the authors of all printed material. 
I remind you that this past fall, some hall newsletters were strongly attacked by stu­dents and administrators because they were tasteless and sexist.. You did not ~ry censor~ ship then! You have one-upped the hall newsletters by being tasteless, sexist and racist and ageist Of course, I doubt this will beprintedasldidnotincludemyrealname. 
The_ Gipp's brother 

Dear Editor: 
I write to you with reply to the From the Editor which appeared in a February issue. lam not astudentofNotre Dame Univer­sity, liowever I too find the administrative · bodyofNotreDameto be quite overzealous in their demands. I applaud your defiance and your devote dedication to the First 
· Amendment 
With all due respect for what you may or 
ma:y not already know about college cam­
puses and the First Amendment, as I read 
about your situation, the law is on your side. 
In closure, I wish to leave you with an 
inspirational quote by Albert Einstein: 
"Great spirits are often challenged by the 
innovations of mediocre minds." Keep up 
the spirit to fight. This world needs more 
peoplelikeyou, withintegrityandafirmly­
grounded belief in principles. 
TimLahrman 

From the Vatican: · What Church Doctrine Really Says about Homosexual Groups 
In Praise of Clashmore Mike 
Dear Editor: 
I hope I might provide some insight into the Irish Terrier as a mascot lore raised in your Feb.16 issue. 
As the head football manager for. the 1958 team, I was responsible for bringing ClashmoreMikeIV over for the team photo. Clashmore was not happy around human beings. The inevitable delays occurred in setting up the picture, and Clashmore fi­nally decided to lift his leg on the goal post I believe that legendary shot still exists in the archives of the Sports Information Of-. flee, though no one would admit it. 
When I attended law school at Notre Dame, I lived in the stadium and one of my jobs was to watch over Clashmore, who lived with me in a small room. Clashmore IV was a terrible roommate. I would take him for extended walks around campus in the early morning hours, but he would still be yipping for attention just after sunrise. 
In spite ofmy own involvement with the last terrier, I belong to thatrapidlydiminish­inggroup which believes that an Irish terrier may have a place as part of the mascot corps. 
Ihaveforsometimelongedtocomeback to the campus, check out the latest ties at "Gilberts on the Campus," perhaps stop for a cocktail at Woodward's Taveni on Eddy St., and proceed to dinner at Eddie's Steakhouse. But those establishments are gone forever as, I lament, probably is an Irish Terrier as part of the university's tradi­tion. Pity. 
John H. Leahy, '59, '64L 

Below are excerpts from a letter to the world's bishops written by the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine oftheFaith, sent to Scholastic by the St Thomas More Society, Notre Dame Law School._ Dated Oct 1 and released Oct 30, it was ·ap­provedby PopeJohn Paul II and signed by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, congregations prefect, and Archbishop Alberto Bovone, congregation secretary. 
On Homosexuality in General: 
"Although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered to-. ward an intrinsic moral evil and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objec.: tive disorder. Therefore special concern and pastoral attention should be directed toward those who have this condition, lest they be led to believe that the living out of the orientation in homosexual activity is a morally acceptable option. It is not" 

On Ministry toHomosexuals: 
"Devoted ministers should have the con­fidence that they are faithfully followin the will of the Lord by encouraging th homosexual person to lead a chastelifean by affirming that person's God-given dig­nity ·and worth. With this in mind, this congregation wishes to ask the bishops to be especially cautious of any programs which may seek to pressure the church change her teaching, even while claimin not to do so." 

On Homosexual Groups: 
"Special attention should be given to the [issue] of scheduling religious services 
·and to the use ofchurch buildings by thes groups, including the facilities of Catholic schools and colleges. To some, such per­mission to use church property may seem only just and charitable, but in reality it is contradictory to the purpose for which these institutions were founded; it is mis­leading and often scandalous/' . 




Free merchandise, early DART times and a special advising system lead some to question whether athletes at Notre Dame 
. 
are given unnecessary special treatment 





ttention 
and pressure that come with participating in student has to miss aclass, they are not to be by Bridget Bradburn a sport, the university tries to make some penalized, because they are traveling on accommodations for athletes. official university business."
Everyone "knows" that athletes get For instance, sometimes there is a time Senior soccer player Jean Joseph finds special treatment at Notre Dame. conflict between athletes' responsibilities that "when I have a legitimate excuse for Everyone "knows" that athletes to their team and their responsibilities to having to miss a class, I feel like professors 
have early DART times, that they get free their schoolwork, and they must miss class. think I am trying to pull something over on textbooks and thatprofessors raise athletes' The official university policy, as explained them." In an attempt to alleviatesuspicions, grades if they are doing poorly in a class. by Dr. Kate Halischak, director of academic the Athletic Department sends a list to pro­These kind of assumptions are common at advising in the Department of Athletics, is fessors ofall student-athletes who will miss Notre Dame, but are they really accurate? that "student-athletes are officially excused class on a specific day, so that they can 
The life of an athlete at Notre Dame is, in when they travel for a team event ... So ifa verify that these students are absent for many ways, vastly different from that of other students. In many ways, too, the athlete's experienceis similarto that of the average student. The uni­versity strives to integrateath­letesandnon-athletes, butalso sets up several programs that are for athletes only. 
Perhaps the most obvious difference in the experience of an athlete is the time com­mitment The Athletic De­partment imposes a limit of 

20 hours of practice each l:'>c:>,,th,;,;;;;,,,,;;.;,,t.,' ,,.;ff,,.,..,.,.,, week. But as Missy Conboy, associate director of the Ath­letic Department, explained, "A lot of things don'tcountin those twenty hours: voluntary activity, conditioning, travel, timein the trainingroom, time just getting dressed in the lockerroom. There'snodoubt they go over twenty hours." Because of the time, energy 



Above, freshman Matt Eisler, a hockey goaltender, takes advantage of his early DART appointment time. Righi, senior Linda Sinclair tutors Melvin Dansby, a sophomore football player. Free tutoring and early DART times are two ways the university accommodates student-athletes. 
legitimate reasons. 
For some professors, however, the re­peated· excused absences of athletes has become disruptive. Professor of Accoun­tancy Chao-Shin Liu said, "The swim team has been out of my class for a week now. It is becoming excessive. It is a problem." 
, In order to help student-athletes perform their best in both arenas, the· Athletic De­partment plays an active role in academics. "We try to provide the academic support that is not available to just any other stu­dent," said Conboy. ''We feel the additional help is going to get student-athletes a more meaningful degree by the time they leave here." 

The NCM mandates academic support if a school receives grant money from it, whichNotreDamedoes. "ButNotreDame had a program set up far before the NCM startedgivinggrantsforacademicservices," according to Conboy. Such programs at Notre Dame are quite strong. ''There is peer pressure among colleges and universities to provide the ~t academic services when recruiting student-athletes. It is certainly something that we're proud of in our pro­

gram," Conboy continued. 
In signing up for classes, athletes do, in fact, get prior­ity DART times. "The ath­letes are randomly given times on the first two days [of the four days allotted totheirclass] to DART," explained Halischak. ''This policy is in place because it is necessary for athletes to have a bit more flexibility in choosing their classes. Their schedules have to accommodate training times." 
In addition, the Office of Academic Advising in the De­partmentofAthletics provides free tutoring to all student­athletes, cheerleaders, man­agers !}Ild trainers. ''They just have to request a tutor and we proviµe one," said Halischak. "We do some small grc:iups ... the others are all on an indi­vidual basis." 


The Office of Academic ingaschedule. "Athletes get Advising also provides all into easier classes, and they scholarship and non-schol­get more help from qdvisors arshipathletes withadvisors, telling them which profes­both on-and off-season. sors to take," he said. "The role of the advisors is According to senior to help ensure athletes are Aimee Terry, a former soft­meeting NCAA require­ball player, the advisors will ments. We have to make "recommend a professor sure each player takes so based on how well you're many hours, is so far along. doing. If they think that a 
We have to monitor these class or a professor is going students very carefully," said to be too advanced for you, Halischak. they will suggest another The money for these ser­one." Katryna Gaither, a vices comes from the Ath­sophomore basketball 
letic Department. "We have player, explained it differ­a directive from Father ently: "Theadvisors arehelp­Malloy that athletics is to be Stan Evans _fulin pickingprofessors who self-sufficient in its funds," Leon Blunt, a freshman football player, tries to make time for both 
understand that sports is like 

practicing and studying. The time commitment required for athletics 
Conboy said. "If we were 
not able to pay for the aca­demic services we off er through athletic­generated revenue, we'd either have to cut some ofthe academic programs or some of the athletic programs. We'd probably cut funding to one of the sports first." 
Oneconcern is that such extensive advis-

makes effective time management essential. 
ing gives athletes an unfair advantage over other students. For instance, Sean Olsen* (asterisks indicate names which have been changedtopreserveanonymity),anathlete's roommate, notices that athletes have an advantage over other students when chaos-
a job to the athletes." 
Just as the Athletic De­

partment prioritizes and praises their aca­
demic support services, many student-ath­
letes do too. "The advisors and tutoring are 
wonderful. The program really helped me 
-I would probably have flunked out oth­
erwise," said senior golfer Cole Hanson. 
He continued, "It'sjusthard to find the time 
to study with an athlete's schedule. Every­
one I know uses the tutoring option." 
Basketball player Ryan Hoover, a junior, praised the convenience of the tutoring sys­tem, but finds it intrusive at times. ''They keep a close watch," Hoover said. "When going to the tutor is mandatory, it places restrictions on your personal life." 
Depending on the team and the student, · tutoring may or may not be mandatory. "Westronglyrecommend tutoringfor some ofthe athletes, the ones not doing as well or freshmen. Their attendance is then moni­tored," said Halischak. She was also quick to note that "we don't look at tutoring as a punitive thing. An athlete does not have to be doing badly to use a tutor." 
Many people see possibilities for abuse within the tutoring program as well. The fear is that going to the tutor could take the place of going to class or doing homework. Football manager Ken Devlin believes that there is "potential for this kind of abuse." Olsen has witnessedit. "Athletes definitely abuse the tutoring program," he revealed. "Many of them don'ttakeitseriously. They go because they have to sign in. My room­mate did go to mandatory study halls and did do work. But other athletes who we know ask him to sign them in." 

Joseph, however, disagrees. He claims that the athletes heknows"rarelyrelyon the tutors instead of going to class and working on their own. They use it more to supple­ment their own work." 
The nature of the tutoring sessions and the interactions between the athlete, the tutor and the professor are important issues when looking at possible abuse of the tutor­ing system. Halischak explained that "it is up to the tutor whether they want to work with the student's professor or not. Some do, some don't." Halischak was also quick to assert that she does not think "there's any 
· faculty member on this campus who would ever give a tutor a test question in advance in order to help a student-athlete." Tom Blackburn*, a student trainer, suggests that this may not be thecase. "The athletic tutors are very well-informed. It seems like they get test questions ahead of time." There is also a concern that professors may not treat athletes the same way as they treat everyone else. This could work either to the advantage or disadvantage of stu­dent-athletes. According to senior soccer 

"The advisors are · helpful in picking professors who understand that sports is like a job to. the athletes." -Katryna Gaither 

player Jodi Hartwig, the attitudes of profes­sors she has encountered "go to either ex­treme. They either love or hate that you're an athlete." Hoovercomplained that "some professors are stricter with athletes because they don't want us to think that we can get away with anything." 
Professors may act this way because they feel they are fighting a system which lets some athletes get away with things. Statis­tics professor Byung Cho, for instance, once had to stand up to such a system. "About six years ago, a football player in my class was aflunk. I was asked in a letter by the Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies to change his grade. But I refused to." Cho emphasized thatsimilarincidents have not occurred since that time. 
As long as talk persists about the advan­tages and disadvantages ofbeing an athlete at Notre Dame, and about whether policies are fair or not, it will likewise remain difficulttodispelmythfromrumor. Devlin points out, however, that no generalization aboutthe role of athletes can be completely accurate. "I've seen some athletes who do coast by," said Devlin. "And that's not fair to the other students. I've also seen a lot whomaybewouldn'thavegotteninhereif they were not a scholarship athlete, but who,oncetheywerehere,reallyputinalot of hard work, both in the classroom and on the playing field." 
To non-athlete students, it may look like the advantages of being an athlete out­weigh the hardships and sacrifices. Some athletes would agree, others would not. As Gaither said, "When you're an athlete, you are a product of Notre Dame. You live within certain limits, and you can't go beyond them." Or can you? 
D 

BRUNO'S 

,,at 

:eruiio~s:1Sorth 

Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. , from 4 -1'0 p.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** / 115 u.s~ 31 Uust north of campus) 261 O Prairie Ave. 
·213-3890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" 
We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 

Some Notre Dame students have more to worry about than just keeping their grades up 

by Kate McShane 
For many students at Notre Dame, the sound that woke them up this morning was not the sharp buzz of an alarm clock or a loud roommate's voice, but the noise of a baby crying. These students must perform the daily tasks of a college student -studying, socializing and participating in activities -but they also have the added responsibility of tak­ing care of their families. The life of a student who is married with a child differs in many ways from the lives of other students. However, having a family is not necessarily a disadvantage bymostofthesestudents. "Youcan'tlook at your situation negatively," said Ryan Bohr, a junior accounting major. "You do miss out on a few things but these things become unimportant once you see your baby." His situation is not unique, and neitheris his new outlookonlife. Thereare several undergraduates with families at Notre Dame who share this view. SophomoresRobertandJamieKennedy were married right after their senior year of high school, even though they had decided to attend separate universities. After fresh­man year, however, Jamie transferred to Notre Dame. Their daughter Anna was born in April, and is now eleven months old. The couple will graduate early next year, and already has plans for the near future. Robertplans togo tomedical school, and Jamie hopes to attend graduate school as well. 
Both Robert and Jamie attend classes during the day, so they must find a baby­sitterwhen they arenot home. "Wearevery lucky because Robert's aunt lives in Niles, and she takes care of the baby when we are at class," Jamie said. "Ifhis aunt isn't abie to come, friends are always volunteering to baby~sitand help out" 
Students such as the Kennedys are lucky to have family orfriends in the area to baby­sit while the they are at school. However, for those who do not, the university offers 


"I now know how my parents started out, and I feel old. I feel like I'm 39 instead of19." -RobertKennedy 

child care services. The Early Childhood Development Center, across from the Fischer Graduate Residence, was built re­cently by the university to serve the Notre Dame/St Mary's community. Faculty, students, alumni and any member of the · staff can register their child. For anyone who can not afford day-care facilities, there is.also the possibility of being selected for the Center's tuition scholarship program 
that is based on income. 
WhileJamieandRobertareluckytohave 
a baby-sitter, they still want to spend as 
much time with Anna as they possibly can. 
On a typical day, both ofthem go to classes 
and do undergraduate research, then come 
home to play with Anna until her bed-time. 
Once she is sleeping, both do their school 
work. Sincethe weekis sobusy ,Robert and 
Jamiedevotetheirweekendstofamilytime. 
They spend as much time as possible with 
their daughter. However, they must also 
catch up on sleep and do work during the 
weekends. "It is very difficult getting all 
our work done but you learn·to make due," 
saidJamie. "This has becomeeven more of 
aproblem because their daughter learned to 
sleep through the nightrightaway, but once 
school started, she unlearned that skill;'' 
Robert added. 
8 
demands ofschool, work, home and a fam­
ily, there is really no such thing as a typical 
day: If the baby gets sick or the baby-sitter 
cancels, these students might have to miss a 
class. "Our professors have been very 
understanding. Sometimes we have to 
juggle or mix our classes," said Jamie. 
"Last semester, my husband and I both had 
a final at eight a.m. on Saturday and no one 
could help us out to baby-sit. So my profes­
sor allowed me to change the time of the 
final." 
The Kennedys do ask theirprofessors for 
assistance, but have not utilized any of the 
programs the university offers. ''The uni­
versity didn't do much either way because 
we had done a lot of things on our own 
already," Jamie said. "I came out last 
spring, and my husband and I went out and 
looked for apartments ourselves." 
Although Jamie and Robert found a place to live and learned how to take careof afamily on their own, places on campus do exist where students in similar situations can go. The Office of Residence Life can provide pregnant students with informa­tion about counseling, local charities, fi­nancial aid and a list of doctors in the area who can help them. 
''There is no disciplinary response," said Jeffrey Shoup, directorofResidenceLife in the Office of Student Affairs. "What needs to happen is a pastoral response not a disci­pline response. We wouldn't throw a preg­nant student out of the hall. Students are allowed to live in the dorms but the rectress of the dorm must be very watchful of that student formedical reasons." 
University Health Services provides pregnancy testing for.those students that request it. They also refer pregnant stu­dents to outside specialists in the South Bend area and provide insurance informa­tion. In addition, there are various counsel­ing services available to married or preg­nant students at the University Counseling Center. 
Students seek counseling for a variety of reasons. According to Rita Donley, assis­tant director of the University Counseling Center, "Girls are worried about their bod­ies changing, they are fearful of their new responsibilities,andfearfulabouttheirhealth and finances." Individual counseling is available for anyone who is a Notre Dame student. However, spouses who are not students do not have access to counseling 
"My professors from last semester were very understanding while my wife was having the baby." -Ryan Bohr 

unless they are willing to meet as a couple. ''There are no supportgroups at this time for undergraduates with families because there is no demand for it," said Donley. 
Bohr is.married and has one son, Austin Jacob, who is four and a half months old. WhileBohrattends classes and works at the LaFortuneGameRoom, his wifestayshome taking care of their baby. 
Life with a family is, of course, much different from the lifoofa singlestudent "I have to be more productive with my work now," said Bohr. "I must keep up daily. I can'tputthingsoffanymorebecauseldon't 

Junior Ryan Bohr's life has greatly 
changed since the birth of his son, 
Austin. 

havetimetodocatch up work," Bohradded that his professors were very understandihg while his wife was pregnant last semester, allowing him to make up tests when he was not able to come to class. However, this semester his professors do not know about his family. "My situation has caused me to 
focus more in school, and my grades have 
risen," said Bohr. ''This summer I will 
attend summerschool so that I can alleviate 
my schedule for next year and have more 
time to spend with my family." 
Bohr's family, as well as his wife's, have 
been very supportive. However, he said 
that it is very hard being away from his 
relatives at this time. "You miss your 
family, and they miss you as well. I'm 
trying to get done with school as soon as 
possible and after thatmove to some place 
thatiscloserto my family." As forhis social 
life, Bohr said, "Most of my good friends 
live off campus around us. My wife and I 
sometimes take turns when we go out but 
our social life has definitely diminished." 
There are also undergraduate students who are married and have no children. One ofthese students, who has chosen to remain anonymous,hasbeenmarriedfortenmonths and said that he does not find life much different as a married student. "Life isn't thatmuch more difficult tojuggle," he said. "I have maintained my G.P.A and have continued with my extra-curricular activi­ties." The main difference in his life as a student is the fact that he now lives off campusandhissociallifeisalittledifferent. "I don'tgo out every weekend, butmy wife and I do go out with friends often. My friends want to see me more, but I thinkit is just to taste my wife's cooking!" 
This student, however, does see a need for a change in the misconceptions and attitudes regarding students who get mar-· ried before graduating. "In today's society, we need anewvalue system, and I think it's important that people should learn to re­spect the institution of marriage more." 
Robert Kennedy has also gained a new perspective. "My perception of finances has changed a lot," he said. "I am realizing that this is doing what you usually do when you get out of college. I now know how my parents started out and I feel old. I feel like/ I'm 39 instead of 19." 
These students deserve respect for man­aging to balance their school life andactivi~ ties in additionto a family. "It's very hard to balance all aspects of school arid family life, but I feel it's very important for one to get their education and that is why I contin­ued going to school," said Jamie Kennedy. "I love Notre Dame, and I think that it is the mostunderstandinginstitution Iwould have found." 

Attitude, Allegations, and Innuendo 
Greetings and salutations, kiddees. Once again, its that time of the year when the old Gipper steps down and a new one arises from his ashes, much like the Phoenix of mythological fame. Usually, part of this passing of the torch includes the revelation of the identity of the old Gipp. However, fearing his life and well-being, after the publication of his final Gip~r column the old Gipp disap­peared to parts unknown somewhere in the Philippines. The Gipp will honor his re­quest not to be revealed until the adminis­trative dogs have lost his scent and picked up my own. Here, boy! 
WE SURE SHOWED IIlM 
A lawsuit is due to arise in May against "... the University ofNotre Dame, it's trust­ees and several unnamed members of the universitysecurity/policedepartment"con­cerning an event which occurred in April 1993. It was a beautiful spring day, when suddenly, from somewhere in town, a men~ tally handicapped individual found his way into the Kresge Law Library, ready to per­form acts of unspeakable evil. 
Enter: our fearless Notre Dame Security SWAT team. Using the patented Stormin' Norman flanking maneuver, security was able to neutralize the overwhelmed man before he could successfully set into action his diabolical plans to make a copy at the copy machine. They proceeded to forcibly detain the man and chalk up acomplaint list from him a mile long. All in all, security should get a pat on the back for saving us all ten cents. 

YOUMAKEMEWANTTOSHOUP... 
It wc:iuld appear as if yet another Domer has recently had a run in with the disciplin­ary powers that be. One fan revealed to the Gipp thatJ eff Shoup; DirectorofResidence Life, sent him a letter requesting he that be 
a witness at a hearing concerning a certain 
incident at his Turtle Creek apartment. 
Unable to attend, a warning from Shoup 
was hand delivered to our unnamed victim 
byourveryownNotreDameSecurity. The 
letter stated that failure to attend the hearing 
would result in possible "disenrollment" 
(Huh?) from the university. 
The Gipp is willing to overlook Shoup' s 
brutal hacking oftheEnglish language in an 
attempt to sound intelligent. (You do not 
"disenroll" someone, Jeff, you expel.) The 
Gipp is, however, slightly disturbed by the 
fact that ourNotre Dame Security is provid­
ing dc:ior-to-door mail service for members 
ofthe administration. Little did the Gipper 
know that while he is slowly losing his 
inotor skills due to the repeated stun gun 
attacks he has been a victim of in Taser 
Alley, Notre Dame Security is delivering 
various sorts of junk mail for the adminis­
tration. That's OK. The Gipp understands 
the old saying, "Neither rain, nor sleet, nor 
dark of night ..." 
GIVE THAT MAN THE CHECKERED FLAG 
It has come to the Gipp's attention that Monk "Mario Andretti" Malloy was spot­tedbarrelingdown Saint Mary's Street and, consequently, running a stop sign near the grotto. Butdon'tthinkthatheisgettingany special privileges from· security. With the recent outburst ofmving mentally handi­.capped people wandering campus and with the new Victoria's Secret spring catalog 
coming out soon, Notre Dame Security is . 
pretty busy right now. 
SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD TO 
The Gipp has noticed a disturbing trend that will, according to his sources, continue into next y~ ugly '_'The Shirt" designs. Evidently the prototype for next year is so 
New Proposed Leprechaun (April Fool's!) 

atrocious that it makes this year's kelly green monster look like a limited edition Giorgio Armani special. Ignoring ugly layoutand ugly pictures, there is apparently a very large and very heinous-looking hot pink and purple lightning bolt on the back. Rally the troops! If you wish to express yourdismayconcerningthislip andcoming abomination, contact Gayle Spencerin Stu­dent Activities at 1-7308. I'm sure she'll be more than happy to field your calls. 
MOTHER MAY I? 

So long as you are penciling in things to do in your notebook, the Gipp has another mission for those ofyou who have nothing else better to do. There have been numer­ous complaints made to the Gipp concern­
. ing a certain security guard at the North Gate. Apparently, no matterhow valid your excuse is, the guard will not let you on campus until you ask him nicely and in proper English. This is reminiscent of the . Gipp's third grade teacher, who wouldn't let him go to the bathroom until he used the phrase "may I" in a civil tone. Sounds like someone has a little bit of an insecurity complex about his own position, which is on the same IQ level as a toll booth atten­dant. So whenever you need to get onto campus, use North Gate. Talk and act like a New York taxidriver;andifhedoesn'tlet you on campus, utter a few tasteless mother jokes and drive away feeling fulfi~ed. 
Well, that's all for now. With all the negative publicity given to the Notre Dame Security, the Gipp would like to add one thing in their defense. At this very moment, the Gipper is enjoying the ten cents saved by our campus police by chewing on three brand new pieces ofBazooka Bubble Gum. Heck, there's even has one cent to spare for the Gipp's,Alumni contribution .. Thank ·. you,ND security. >POF!< 0:. 




10 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ MARCH 30, 


MAGAZINE 



(or UHow Ed Sorin robbed me blind") 


Letters: Drama in Real Life! Breaking up with the Home Town Honey 
Dear Sean, 

I remember our senior year in high school, when you got your letter of acceptance only five seconds after applying to Notre Dame, having been born Irish, Catholic, obnoxious and intellectually-gifted. I for my part -Polish, Protestant and the product of a broken home ---::-was spurned by the Golden Dome Admissions Bureau. I kept my chin up, though, packed my polo player-less shirts and substandard SAT scored, and headed for the University oflllinois thatfall. Youpacked the 16pairs of NDshorts that you've owned since second grade and, kissing your nuclear family good-bye, headed off to South Bend, Indiana. Youknew as one of the Fightin' Irish that there were two things which you'd never lose in college: football games and your virginity. 
Meanwhile, my own lewd and lascivious initiation into the tribe oftheFightingillinihadbegun. Theguyswerenotfat(asyourgirls are); myclasses wereentertainingandinformative. Icosmopolitanly mingled with blacks, Jews and Lutherans. Condoms were free in the infirmary, and the football teain wins. 
Not that I care, ofcoure. My affinity for football was a quaint and quixotic relic of my youth, something I had hung up with my cheerleading porn-pons. I had abandoned screaming, yelling and throwing up at football games for the quiet and satisfying pleasures of the mind, reading Kant 
Now we are in twb different worlds. Your virginity remains intact and I, for my part, can sum up my life in ten words or less: · Illini. Rose Bowl. Eat doo-doo and die, Fighting Irish. 
Notthaticareaboutfootball. TherearestarvingpeopleinKuala Lampur, and I think I'm just the gal to go feed them. 
Sincerely, 
Betsy 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

Dear Betsy, 

It's so good to hear that my Illinois tax dollars are hard at work. That you find your classes "entertaining and informative" (not unlike Hollywood SquaresI might add) is encouraging, but I fail to see how anyone gets anything done down there, what with all those free condoms in the hands of so many strapping, com-fed young farm boys/scholars. 
I have always found your obsession with virginity and its loss to be your most endearing neurosis. I remember when I first met you in eighth grade, how you used to reminisce about the distant days of your childhood celibacy. 
I must commend you in the wannest terms for the new turn your life has taken. Surely you should not be blamed for getting a late start, for so many of the mind's enjoyments had to be bypassed in high school while "shaking your booty" in front of hundreds of rabid fans every Friday night Thesituation was aggravated further when you became a cheerleader. Now however, I can only recon myself astounded by your erudition and your eloquence. Such words as "cosmopolitanly" come glibly tripping off your tongue . 
almost as quickly as you can make them up. 
While your progress has indeed been substantial, I confess myself a bit confused over your undeniable obsession with your university's football fortunes. Perhaps you share the common opinion that the recent gridiron successes of the Big Ten may portend something of a greater significance than drunken revelry on rural campuses. Checking the New Testament carefully, though, there appears to be little to warrant the belief that a winning record for the Illini is a first sign of the coming of the Messiah and the New Kingdom. It must be admitted that something similar did occur that last time Illinois went to the Rose Bowl. 
All things considered, I congratulate you again and offer you my encouragement in your efforts. As for the future, I think your idea of becoming a waitress in Malaysia would be perfectly suited to your degree. Before you go jetting off to Kuala Lumpur, however, I suggest you learn to spell it correctly.· · 
Ever devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
Sean 
12 




¦ NEWS 

Class Cancelled 

SPEE 378 "Free Speech and Student Life: A Study and Practice" has been CANCELLED for the Fall 1995 semester. Prospective class members had lots to say about the situation: Iwana Talkalot expressed her frustration, "I really think that it was a wonderful decision by the university. After all, we are at a university, a place where the administration is the sole source of truth and justice and an enjoyment of rules and regulations is supposed to take place between all non-commmunist students." Disappointed teacher Imona Short-Leesh said that ''The department in which I work is run by the finest Individuals on the face of the earth. The university by which I am graciously employed is spectacular!" The official university statement is that "It is not appropriate for our university students to have a forum in which they are encouraged to develop their own opinions. This is an institution ofhigher education, not a bastion of thought and learning. Students need to remember that this is a Catholic Institution, the peons are not to make any decisions for them­selves." 
DART UPDATE 

Cancelled Classes for the Fall 1995 Semester: 
SPEE 378 Free Speech and Student Life 

BUS 412 Dealing with Pressures of Football Championship 


De' Planes De' Planes 
TherenovationofMichianaAirportholds good things for the future of ND football. In appreciation of the fact that the team is the sole reason anyone flies into this town, airport officials have invited the university to park the football team's fleet of jets on its grounds free of charge. The university thanked theairportwith a fruitcake stamped with the ND insignia. They also issued a statement promising to buy yet another jet using tuition dollars. 
Next Week... 
"Driving Under the1nfluence ofPatty" 
'The Day the Glee Club Mauled a Townie" 
"I Got a Car" · 
"Damnit, Everyone, Here is My Age" 
"Graduation March ofthe Damned' 
"My School Admissions Forgot to Weed Out 
the Really Big Tools'' 
"Waiting in Linefor a Sandwich" 
(a love poem) 
'The 'Where's Waldo' Field Sobriety Test" 
"Kaptain Kerk Touched Me" 

S A R C A R. S T I C ¦ M A R·c H 3 0 , 1 9 9 5 

Golden Tool 
In a surprise move, the administration agreed to sanction GLAND/SMACK after a team of workers restoring the dome discovered that Mary is actually a man in drag. However, the group must meet on top ofthe dome rather than in the counseling center. 
Patty O'Furniture Comes Out Of 
The 


Closet! 


/'!:i ~µµjity,W~t·•·'\ ... «~a4t}t~rn~;[~¢II. .







gyitllli;J;;;::
· :Wejust.liav~J:iomopl:J.obiaf~g).);
,,,,,·•.:... ·:.,-:--.=,~•'.C::(·::::.,,:::··: .i•.>•.••:·: ..:· .;.;.: :-.·:. :i·... ·.;.:,,,, ..... ,,-,::· 
/ 


Ill SPORTS 

JOLTZ FINDS FAME AND FOR­TUNE AFTER LEAVING ND 

Boo Joltz received his star on the Holly­woodWallc ofFameforhisworkon the new NBC hit show 'The Other Coach" yester-·. day. The honor came after only a few episodes of his new sitcom in which Joltz. · has made his mark as "an incredibly tal­ented actor. " 
Hisfellowactors lavishedhimwithpraise. "I want to do a sequel to Pulp Fiction with Booasthestar,"saidadmirerJohnTravolta. 

However;hemay have to waitfor Joltzto sort through the hundreds of offers he has received since ditching N.D. for the bright , lights of Hollywood. "Acting is my call­ing," Joltz said. "I like a job where the people I work with are talented and the pressure is non-existent. During my time . herein Hollywood not one person ha$ called ·• for my resignation. 
'The Other Coach" focuses on Joltz as a football coach who happens to wi.n all the tight games. It is currently smashing its · competition "Coach," which Jaunched Joltz's career, in the ratings. 

VARSITY PLAYERS LOSE IN FIRST ROUND OF BOOKWARE TOURNAMENT 

The Bookware Basketball team made up · ofthestartersfromthisyear'smen'svarsity basketball team was defeated21-2 by Nuns · on the Run, the team comprised ·of fiye rectresses. The scholarship players could not even set up a play against the Nuns' incredible defense. 
One of the two Irish points came when RyanHooperyelled, ''We'remissingMass!" and the nuns left. When the game resumed, the nuns' brutal defense resulted in several fouls on Marcis Younger. However, Younger missed all 38 free throws. 
Down 18-2, their hopes for a come back were dashed when Hooper, who had the easy lay-up, pulled up and missed the jump shot. And another. And another. And an­other. 
One reason given for their poor, but typi­cal, performance was that Irish were trying to chew gum and run down the courts at the same time. "We tried to give them a chance 
14 
toscoremoresotheyweren'tsohumiliated, . buttheyjust didn' tmake the shots," one nun said. 
"We want this tobea learning experience for the poor boys, so we're going to teach them what the word 'rebound' means," commented another nun. 
You want 'em, We Got 'em. 



Morrissey Foodsales 
"We'll settle for number two next year, 






Dome Notes 
Welcome to the bathroom, boys -you too, Paddy. Well did we ever get off lucky during that hall notes controversy. Heh heh. Good thing nobody thought to snag a copy from Under the Tarnished Dom~, huh? I think I confiscated them all, but we'll have to be more careful next time. 
Maintenance has been complaining lately about the deep kick marks in the basement vending machines. Ifthe machines fail to dispense your twinkies & pretzels, please remain calm and call the emergency number engraved on the right side of the machine. An emergency technician will assist you shortly. 
The Fisher Regatta is coming to campus on April 23rd and we have to work · on our entry. If you want to set sail on the S.S. Gestapo let Bill know some­time this week. Munk has already threatened mutiny if he can't be captain. 
The room picks list for Grace Hall is hanging up in the downstairs lobby. All rooms will be chosen based on a lottery system in which you have about as much chance of hitting the jackpot as the kids do of getting financial aid here. HA HA. Good luck anyway. 
·· We would like to announce the results of our third annual horrible haiku . contest and congratulate Bill Kerk for his exciting entry about his origins: 
Biological • Ribonucleic Acid That is what spawns me. 

Oh kids, I almost forgot Food Sales is offering a new spring menu featur­ing items like the "I Can't Believe it's not Meat" Pattie 'O Burger and Chips. Malloy Cookies. You will no longer be able to purchase items on credit though, since some of us aremnning up quite the tab. 
Please come to a meeting this Wednesday afternoon to vote on an amend­ment we're thinking about slipping into du Lac, a proposal to make Notre Dame coed by quad (North quad for women, South Quad for men). There will be lots of free food and karaoking. · 
That's all for this week kids. Please remember to wash your hands before you leave. 


Today's Bridge Tips . 
Opening lead: What's your sign? Here's another hand from the famous Belgian victory in the 1927 European Champipnships, occurring in the match against Germany. The Germans retaliated by invading 13 years ·rater. Grabda Titzen and Biggen Assen led off by dropping their cards, allowing Eimay Bidet and Hercule Poirot to peek. Bidet started the bidding with a slightly mildewed garden hose. Titzen-Assen complained and immediately made potty in his lederhosen. Titzen became declarer at three diamonds and bought a very nice and inexpensive sofa at the auction. The defenders started with three rounds of.Guinness. North drew three trump and a trollop and a very pretty landscape to boot. Screaming, "I didn't know that she was only 12,"South repeatedly trumped the queen. Poirot flicked boogers onto the floor and complained that his underwear was too tight. Bidet offered to stretch it for him, but on realizing that his fly was open, immediatley left to get a yardstick. North ruffed up the queen and East mumbled that he prefered Black Jack to Steve. Then the Belgians discovered that they could boost their score by adding zeroes to the right hand side. They promptly won the match and got a lovely matched pair of lace brassiers as a door prize. 
Love Is 
Love is dewdrops on your lips Licked off morning grass; Love is a bunch of pansy flowers Stu(fed sideways in a vase.* 
Love is a big red combine harvester Dancing through the rye; Love is a drunken vagrant Who always zips his fly. 
Love is taking pictures from the station wagon Of a lithely leaping doe;** Love is coming home late at night And not being mistaken for a burglar 
And having your head blown off (Although your SJX)use is a member of the NRA and would feel peifectly justified in Doing so).*** 
Love is a 9-year-old housing project With beige-colored service elevators; Love is a self-cleaning waffle iron Sing glory to the Creator(s).**** 
Love is a big buttered hamster With 3,000 miles on his radial tire warranty; Love is never stuck to the carpeting Nor is itsupercilious,***** for that matter. 
Love is a many blendered thing A winking, outboard tree; 
But even my orthodontist admits That love is you and me. But mostly me. 
*Pronounced "vahz" to sort of rhyme with "grass." **The station wagon is not of the doe, the pictures are. Sorry about this. ***Rhymes with "doe." ****You're going to have to use your imagination a bit with this one. *****Pronounced "Hosanna," to rhyme with "lasagna" which should have been in the second line. Sorry. 
. "• ,... 
.. ~. 't•i
!/,. Ii " ..., 



~ '-l
~/t 
Q:, 


Thursday, April 1, 199: 


Josh OJerksky in co11 
By JOSH OJERKSKY Incessant Rambler 
Front page at.last! My loyal readers knew itwas 
· only a matter of time 'till my cream rose to the top of this first-rate, daily college rag. And, like the child foisted upon me in that paternity suit last month, it now bears my name (which be~the question ofhow I managed to get a woman to · spend the night with me in the firstplace-trustme,youdon'i: want to know). To the seem­. ingly endless parade oflaw stu­. dents and faculty whom I left behind on the Viewpoint page, I only have one thing to say : :BITE MEI! And bite Quentin Tarrantino too, you right-wing, 
¦ LE'ITERS 


· Yet Another Random Letter Supporting GLA-ND/SMACK 
fascist boneheads. You couldn't possible un~erstand the depth of coolness to be found in Pulp Fiction, not with your Forrest Gumpian view of the world. The way I see it, law students are like chocolates; you have to slice them in half to know what you're gonna get. Heh. Quentin Tarrantino would prob-
Dear Editor, . I'm a thildent at Thyracuthe Univerthity, and I wath writing to exthpreth my dithcontent with your homophobic and in­herently evil attitude toward gayths and lethbianth. When my hair-drether told me about your totally rathitht officialpolithy,lflippedmy lid. I have embarked on a perthonal protetht not only againtht the 

lovely furths I used to wear, but altho agaimt the Univerthity of Notre Dame and all the nathty priethths who run the plathc. Pleathe forward the quiche I have thcnt along to the GLAND/ THMACK thupporters and tell them that I and my long-time companion are behind them all the way. -Quentin Feny 
ably like that 
just a joke, me 
it to him ifhe]: 
self to the eve 
pwople who: 
orders agair: 
within 100 yai 
crasha few pru: 
you're a parial 
It goes with1 
have an endl~ observations you, but they wait My air, · ego has swell~ undreampt-of just a few mox cause a climrui And if that your chik:en pal ing hall, reme you ofhow I si 
Freshman Stu1 spring day. 
SPO 



The Rebel's Cry 
Athletes ofSmall Sports GetRevenge on 


Ozersker Sports Editors .Boos~ 
by WANDAB. ATHLETE fonns would be mailed across 
Sports Gal the nation to anyone with at bea -w Boo Joltz announced today least one year of NCAA eligi­byJACKSTI that the job of kicker for next bility. Sports Guy year's Irish squad would be "The job doesn't pay any­
Boo Joltz 

given away in a contest, very thing, of course," stated Joltz. that the job o
similar to the Publisher's Clear-"But you will get to be on na­year's Irish·
inghouse Sweepstakes. tional television. given away
"Why the heck not?" Joltz Yeah, we know this is the text mumbled at the press confer-that belongs in the next article, similar to the 
. 

but we couldn't bear to report 
inghouse Swt 

ence. "We couldn't do any on those unimportant peones 
"Why the worse than we have in the last that don't play football or bas­mumbled at

couple of years." ketball (or swim for St. ence. "We
Joltz explained that the entry ,/}ferry's). 
.-~--.·"­


; • Rated XXX No foolin' 


ltrol 
joke (and it was ,stly), and I'd tell 1adn'taddedhim­:r-growing list of have restraining 1st me coming rds of.them (boy, ties and suddenly 
lll). 
out saying that I :s supply ofwitty to bestow upon ·'11 just have to eady-impressive i up to heretofore proportions, and ·e strokes should 
made you puke tty across the din­mber: I spared red an offspring! 
IF YOU SEE A BET­TER NEWSPAPER HAPPENING. DON'T RE.AD 'THE----o OZERSKER. 
I·IMPERSONALS 
(Cont'd from page 10) $$ TURN YOUR MISTAKES INTO CASH$$ Knocked up? 
Despernte? Everyone coming down on you? Not us! We're glad you didn't use birth control. Help make your loss our gain. Good, white, Catholic family for your white Catholic bastard. 
Call (208)LEECHES 
Top 10 quotes from the GLAND/SMACK Group Shower: 
10. Ooops, dropped the soap. 
9. I'll wash that for you. 
8. Rubber duckie, you 're the me! 
7. Woah, dropped the soap. 
6. Not squeaky clean,just squeaky! 5. This is better than Mr. Bubble! 4. Oh, no! It's Fr. Berchell 3. Using the whole I1St, Doc? 2. Why don't you fill me in. I. Damn, dropped the soap 

AGAIN!. 

WANTED:BODYGUARD Sarcastic's anonymous 
colwnnist also known as "the 
Gipper needs a big, burly man 
to protect him from the , 
administrative KGB. 
WANTED: Kicker for most hyped football team in the universe. Almost rio experi­ence necessary (our last 12 had none!) Call 1-800-NBC-TOOL 
111 QUOTE OF THE DAY
'Idon't want anybodyeb-e
.-andwlxn I think aboutyou I touch myself. 
-Bill Beaucramp 

Ron Powerless: Injured Again? 
by BIFF JOCKO Sports Guy 

announced today kicker for next squad would be 
a contest, very ' Publisher's Clear­:epstakes. heck not?" Joltz the press confer­couldn't do-any worse than we. have in the last couple ofyears." 
Joltz explained that the entry fonns would be mailed across the nation to anyone with at least one year of NCAA eligi­bility. 
"The job doesn't pay any­thing, of course," stated Joltz. "But you will get to be on na­tional television. So c'mon, send it in!" 

How the heck should we know? Call him up and ask him yourself! 



''I've Never Felt So Free!'' 
Are you balding? Thinning? Tired ofthe same old style? 
The

Then get buck wild with the hot new look everyone's raving about at 
O'Hair-a Club'\i~ri·? for Men® 
At worlc orplay, O'Hair-a hair never loses its bounce or shine. 
ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi 


Tired of the same old . boring mass? 
The Church of Jesus Christ and Dollar-Day Saints has a solution: 


DRIVE-THAU MASS 
SPECIALS: 

• 
Come in after the bars close for instant absolution! Only $9.99 

• 
Two sermons and a Hail Mary TO GO for only $3.99 (1 


ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi 
18 SARCASTIC ¦ MARCH 30, 1995 



SPLINTERSFROMTHEPRESSBOX · 
A roundup of the week in sports 
March 21 to March 28 · edited by Jake Schaller 
Women's Hoops Third in WNIT: 
Behind Beth Morgan's game-high· 21 points, theNotreDame women's basketball team defeated the University of Massachu­setts to place third in the Women's National Invitation Tournament. Though disap­pointed about not making the NCAA Tour­nament, the Irish madethebest of theWNIT, and put together arguably their best game. The squad shot 53 percent from the field, and raced out to a 44-25 half-time lead that they would never relinquish. 
The game marked the end of Letitia Bowen's remarkable Notre Dame career. Notre Dame's all-time leading rebounder pulled down seven in the consolation game win to give her 999 for her career. 
Bowen's graduation will hurt, but the Irish can feel fortunate thatshe IS the lone senior on the squad. 

Baseball Escapes Miami with One: 

Matched up ·against the number three team in the country this past weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team performed ad­mirably. After losing the first two games 9­3and 12-4, the Irishbounced back to collect a 5-2 win this past Sunday. 
CraigAllen,aseniorright-hander, pitched for six and two-thirds innings, giving up only one run and five hits. Allen earned the win. 
The Irish stand at 9-9 as they prepare to begin their home season. 
· Schafer Resigns: 

The rumors and speculation as to the future of Irish hockey coach Ric Schafer can finally be put to rest. The embattled coach resigned last Friday afternoon end­ing his eight-year reign. Schaefer was a player and an assistant coach for the Irish before becoming head coach. 
After greeting two outstanding recruiting classes, Schafer and the Irish placed a dis­appointing ninth place this year, with their lone highlight coming from an upset of Michigan. 
Irish Lacrosse Evens Record: 

The seventeenth-ranked Notre Dame la­crosse team upped their record to 3-3 this weekend with a 10-7 triumph over rival Hobart. After falling behind 6-5, the Irish usedfivestraightsecond-halfgoals to over­power the Statesmen. SeniorRandy Colley led the Irish with four goals. The Irish will meetButlerthis Saturday at2 p.m. atMoose Krause Stadium. 



Predictions:· The Final Four 
.• 

Schaller's Schot: The marquee match-up here is obviously Arkansas vs. UNC, which pits college basketball's last two National Champions. The Heels put up with Kentucky's press and slowed down their running game, so the'Hogs won't disrupt them, but Wallace will haveto have his first big gameofthe tournamentfor UNC to advance. UCLA is hot,and should be able to shutdown OSU's dynamic duo of Big Country and Randy Rutherford.· In the finals look for Dean and the Heels to outsmart the Bruins. UNC 65 UCLA 58 
Ball's Boast: The competition in Seattle will be intense as four very talented teams vie for the national title. Throughout the tournament Wallace has failed to make the big plays for UNC and will again come up short against Arkansas, who will pull out the victory at the buzzer. UCLA's defense will neutralize OSU's stars en route to the finals. Nolan Richardson and his Razorbacks will not be able to stop the Bruins in their march to the top. UCLA 73Arkansas 64 











Right Back at 'Ya 
After an unbelievable run to the NCAA finals in 1992, men's tennis looks to repeat its magic 
by Val Baudoin 
Down 2-5 in the second set after losingthefrrstset3-6inhissingles match,junior Jason Pun was strug­gling against the cold and a solid Illini player when Notre Dame faced Illinois at the Eck Pavilion on March 4th. At the changeover, it looked as though Illinois would clinch thepointforthis singles match. Beyond anyone's reasonable expectations, however,Pun mounted a miraculous come­back built around penetrating ground strokes, crisp volleys and admirable pa­tience to push the second set into a tie­breaker, and then win the third set for the match. "Jason showed a lot of guts coming back like he did," praised men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss. 
It is this kind of individual performance that Bayliss has gotten from the Irish squad all season. With a record of 11-7, Bayliss said, "We're a whisker ahead compared to last year, because we are playing a tougher schedule." With wins overthen 15th-ranked NorthCarolina,and20th-rankedKentucky, the Irish execution has been, at times, flaw­less. There have been a few disappoint­ments during the season, though, notably a 4-3 loss to Minnesota. ''We really wanted to beatthem,"recalledBayliss. "We lost by one bounce of the ball, literally." 
Lastyearsawthegraduationoftheteam's number one player, All-American Andy Zurcher. The play and leadership ofZurcher 

Sophomore Ryan Slmme shows off his lethal forehand. Simme took over the number one singles spot after Andy Zurcher's departure. 
and his doubles partner Todd Wilson have been greatly missed .. Even with the gaps in the lineup left by these players, Bayliss still has a very talented team. "The squad is deeperthanlastyear's,"hesaid.. "Notmany teams can say that eight different players who played have won a match for them." 
In the singles lineup, sophomore Ryan Simme has assumed the number one spot, while Mike Sprouse's commendable play at number three singles last year earned him the number two spot this year. 
Bayliss was pleasantly surprised by the performance of junior Brian Harris, who broke into the starting lineup for the first time this year. Harris won both of his matches. "He came through for us in the clutch," remarked Bayliss. "He isprobably the best striker [ ofthe ball] on the team, and he's got the best backhand." However, Bayliss pointed out that some aspects of Harris' game could be improved. "We're working on his movement on the court" 
Bayliss was also quick to praise senior captain Horst Dziura. "Horst is a terrific captain," he said. "He is the hardest worker on the team, and he'll do whatever it takes to help the team win, whether it be playing on the court or cheering from the stands." 
It seems as though the pivotal factor for the Irish, both in singles and doubles, is their style of play. "In general, our players are more comfortable at the baseline," said Bayliss. "We're working on being more aggressive as a team, and that means taking the short balls and coming to the net" D 



20 

...,,.,,,_ 


A schedulefull oftop-twenty opponents ensures that Notre Dame women's tennis must be ... 
Ready for the Best 
by Val Baudoin 
The numbers do not seem to favor the Notre Dame women's tennis team so far this season. At 9-8, he record 
of the nation's 22nd ranked team looks unimpressive. How­ever, Coach Jay Louderback has beenpleasedwithhis team'sperformance. "I think we've played really well," he said, pointing out that the Irish are in the middle of a very tough schedule, playing 14 ofthe top 28 teams in thecoun­try. 
The good news, however, is that the Intercollegiate Ten­nis Association's Coaches Poll has been changed to a 
computer ranking Aaron Skalicky 
system that is likely to work in favor of the Irish. "The computer takes into account your record -,and schedule," explained Louderback. 
The tough _schedule has provided the Irish with good competition and afew very satisfying wins. Louderback was particu­larlypleased with theIrish win overthethen tenth-rankedKan~Jayhawks. "They beat us pretty soundly last year, and I'm from Kansas, so it's gotten to be a pretty big rivalry," he said. The '95 season has also seen its share of disappointing los~es. At onepoint, the Irish held match pointagainst WilliaD1 & Mary, but eventually lost the match. 
The loss of last year's seniors has had a significant impact on the Irish early in the season. "It's made a pretty big difference, especially in doubles," said Louderback. Last year's number one and two doubles teams were hurt by the graduation of All­American Lisa Tholen and Christy Faustmann. 

In singles play, two freshmen have made an im~ mediate impact. Molly Gavin and Kelley Olson broke into the starting line-up, and are currently playingatnumber five and six singles. ''They've made a big impact because there's not the pressure on them to play high in the line-up," said Louderback. 

Furtherup theroster, Louderbackpraised theperformancesofboth junior SherriVitale and senior captain Laura Schwab. Accord­ing to Louderback, Schwab has made an impact on the team both with her play and her leadership. "She really has done a great job, especially as a senior," the coach re­marked. "Laura's very outgoing, and it's not hard for her to be a positive leader" 
Towards the top of the line-up, Lord has made significant contributions at the num­ber two spot. Ranked for the first time during the course of last season by the ITA, Lord earned a spot in the NCAA singles draw in Athens, Georgia. Lord performed quite well, and wasjust one win away from garnering All-America honors. 
At this point, post-season prospects look promising for the Irish. "IfwebeatIndiana, we'll go [to the NCAA Championship]," explained Louderback. The Irish faithful can besure that women's tennis will peak at the right time. By playing such a hellish schedule, they have learned what it takes to play with and beat the nation's best . 


Thanks in great part to All-American seniors Randy Colley and Mike Iorio, 
Notre Dame's lacrosse team now finds itself ... 




by Jake Schaller 

FreshmenAlexCadeandBurkeHayes entered the 1995 Notre Dame la­crosse season with high hopes of seeing considerable playing time in their rookie seasons. They had reason to be confident Both players received All­Conference, All-County and All-State honors as seniors in high school, and Cade was an All-American. While Cade hasworkedhimselfintothestartingposi­tion at goalkeeper, and Hayes plays a great deal as a second-line midfielder, both of the rookies were somewhat humbled thanks to two Irish veterans: All-American seniors Mike Iorio and Randy Colley. Hayes recalls a ground ball drill in which he faced Iorio. Both players were to lie on the ground ten yards from each other ,and then go fora ground ball on the coach's whistle. Losing a step to Iorio, Hayes received a trademark hit from the punishing defenseman, losing his chance at the ball. "He's a very physical player," said Hayes later. "He does that to every­one." It may often seem like offense players in sports overshadow their defensive counter­parts. Because a defenseman's job is to prevent scoring, many only pay attention to them when they make a mistake. Iorio is impossible to ignore, however. The senior from Chester, New Jersey, is a four-year starter, and Notre Dame's first two-time All-America selection. Iorio stands at a menacing6'2", 200 lbs., and bench-presses 385 pounds. A simple glance at number 35 makes attackmen ner­vous. What is even more frightening to potential goal scorers, however, is Iorio's athleticism. In addition to his size and 

Aaron Skalicky 
"He's gone from being a great athlete playing lacrosse to a great lacrosse player," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan ·of Mike Iorio, here shown blanketing a Hobart attackman. 
strength, Iorio has quick feet and runs the 40-yard dash in 4.5 seconds. "He's the kind of athlete Coach Holtz has," remarked Head Coach Kevin Corrigan. 
However, it is not Iorio' s size and physi­cal ability alone that make him formidable. His experience and excellent instincts al­low him to anticipate the moves of those he defends. "I have a lot ofexperience, and I. know what the other guy is going to do," he said. 

Iorio' s abilities give him the responsibil­ity of guarding the best offensive player on the opposing team. 'They put me on their best guy. If he's better than me I at least 
neutralize him; ifl'm betterthanhim,I'm · taking the ball away from him, and that frees up [defensemen] Chris Bury and Billy Gallagher to take what would be their weaker. attackmen, and get some turnovers from them." 
Kevin Corrigan recalls Notre Dame's tournament game versus Johns Hopkins Universityiniorio'sfreshmanyearasthe tumingpointin thedefenseman'scareer. Matched up with Brian Picolla, oneofthe top attackmen in the country, Iorio domi­nated, making theBlueJ ays star a relative non-factor. Since that game Iorio has gotten even better. "He's developed the skills, and he's developed the checks t6 go along with his tremendous athletic ability, and it just makes him a very imposing lacrosse player," said Corrigan. 
WhileHayessufferedfromaheadache after a brutal Iorio hit, Cade suffered whiplash after first facing Colley' s shot "For the first couple months I couldn't even see the ball," recalled the freshman goalie. Sidelined with a knee injury. during his 

rookie season, Colley had tirrie to perfect what is now, according to Corrigan, one of thebest~hotsin college lacrosse. However, like Iorio, Colley has many strengths in his game. Over the past four years, Colley has improved his lethal shot and overall game to become one of the best attackmen in the country. "He's gone from being a great shooter to a great lacrosse player," said Corrigan. At 6'2", 194 lbs., Colley can use 
22 

his build to overpower defen~men. "He's big and covers his stick really well," said Iorio. 
Unlikemanyattackmen who need specialized plays to free them for a shot,· Colley can create his own. Because of his success (he is Notre Dame's all-timeleading scorer), Colley receives extra attention. Most teams thatface him will present defenses designed specifically to stop the offensive jugger­naut With 124 goals going into the season, he has hardly been hampered. "The . thing that's been amazing is how consistent Randy has been," remarked Corrigan. 
Colley and Iorio find them­selves teamed up with what is in their opinion the most tal­ented Irish squad since their 

arrival. Although often over­On your mark ... Get set ... Irish midfielder Greg Glenday gets rea,dy for another face-off. Glenday, a Junior from Lido Beach, New Jersey, has handled face-offs for the Irish for the past two years. 
shadowed by Iorio, seniors 


GallagherandBury, alongwith Todd Bialous, help form a rock-solid de­fense few teams can match. "As a unit, they are as good a defense there is in the coun­try," said Corrigan. 
The midfield and attack are also solid. 
Staying out of harm's way, senior Randy Colley maneuvers around a Hobart defender. Colley holds Irish career records In scoring and goals, and Is Just six assists away from the assist record. He also holds single-season marks for goals and scoring. 


Senior midfielder. Willie Sutton, despite missing all of the 1994 campaign with a stressfracture,leadsthemiddies. Themissed year didn't seem to hurt him. In his first game back from the injury, against Penn State, Sutton exploded for five goals and two assists. 
Corrigan thinks that the overall athleticism of the team has helped them to cut down on the number of opponents' possessions. He was also pleased at the increased efficiency of the offense. 
Although such senior leadership and ex­perience is essential, new faces and impact players always help. The Irish greeted an outstanding freshman class this year. Cade became the starting goalkeeper in the sec­ond game of the season. He stepped in against national powerhouse North Caro­lina and performed well in the tough Irish loss. Cade then helped hold Maryland­Baltimore County to two goals in an Irish victory, and National Champion Princeton to six in another tough loss. Likewise, Hayes and Jimmy Keenan have stepped up and seen considerable time at midfield, both scoring goals. 
For the last three years, the Irish have won the Great W estem Lacrosse League title and advanced to the NCM tourna­ment During those three years, the Irish had the third-best winning percentage in the country. Last year's squad compiled a 10-2 record, and finished 14th in the na­tioIL But this is the year that the Irish have their best chance to break into the nation's elite. 
Although their record stands at a some­what disappointing 3-3, the losses have come to Penn State, North Carolina and Princeton, three top-twenty teams and pe­rennial powers. "We're learning what it takes to compete ata top-ten level week in and week out," Corrigan said. "We're [3]­3, but we just played four consecutive ranked teams on the road, and in each game, with ten minutes left in the game, we were either ahead, or down by a goal with a chance to win the game." 
With a tough schedule and an excellent freshman class, Notre Dame seems to be headed for the pinnacle of college la­crosse, the NCAA tournament champion­ship. Iorio and Colley believe that if the Irish build on their already strong play, they have the best chance in their careers to win the tournament this year. As Colley said, "This is my last year. We gotta' do it now." 0 



: I 
24 

And the Winners Were... 
The results are in and this year about the only surprise at the 67th Annual Academy Awards was aGerman shepherd raking cen­ter stage to spin around in circles. (Of course with Letterman hostirig, is itreally thatsurprising?) This year the fashion police made fewer arrests, morered ribbons appeared on the back of Academy enve­lopes than lapels and political content was kept at a minimum. Here's the final tally on the best and the worst, plus plenty of pointless statistics from Mon­day night's ceremony. 
BestDressed: With all ofthe high-profile actresses trying to one-up each other, BestCostume Designer 


Lizzy Gardner proved you can charge your way to the top, wearing a dress made completely of gold American Express Cards. Bizarre, tasteless, tacky, but fun. 
Worst Dressed: Virtually all of the guys looked dapper in their blackpenguin suits, butTim Robbins' blue-glitter tux?! What, was there a Doctor Who audition after the show? 
BestLine: Speaking of Tim Robbins ... when introducing present­ers Robbins and Susan Sarandon, host Letterman quipped, ''Pay attention, I'm sure they're p-ed about something!" 
Celebrities seen auditioning for "Cabin Boy" 


role: 15.
The '95 Oscars 

Run Time: 3 hours, 35 minutes and 5 seconds. Commercial Time: 29 minutes. 
Time elapsedbefore thefrrstOscarwaspresented: 
25 minutes, 10 seconds. 
Amount of time given to Awardee's speeches before cut-off: 45 seconds. Amountoftime thedirectorofRussia's "Burntby the Sun" (Best Foreign Film winner) spoke: 2 
minutes, 1 second. 
Time devoted to opening "Make 'Em Laugh" sequence: 3 
minutes, 39 seconds. Mistakes made in opening "Make 'Em Laugh" sequence: 3. 
Times Dave Lettennan introduced Oprah Winfrey and Uma Thurman to one another: 6. 
Winners who thanked the Academy: 17. Winners who thanked "Gump" director Bob Zemekis: 7. Winners who thanked God: 0. 
-by Chris Myers 


1994-95 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE · PRESENTS



OUR COUNTRY'S 
. liMBERLAKE


GOOD BY 
WERTENBAKER 

DIRECTED B y REGINALD B A I N 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 ........ 8 P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 6 .......... 8 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7 ............... 8 P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 8 ........... 8 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 9 ........ 2:30 P.M. 
RESERVED SEATS $7 
STUDEITT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY. liCKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE IA"ORTUNE 5TUDEITT CEITTER liCKET 
OFFICE. 
, 
MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128. 

T 0 N H A L 
VIEWERS MAY FIND SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS PLAY OFFENSIVE. 

ii§lliili-i•i•S•iiii 
Dolores Claibornefeatures Kathy Bates as a Stephen King cha,rqcter tha,t 
succeeds both on and off the silver screen 
Legend of the Falls 
"Sometimes all a woman has to hold onto is being a bitch." 

¦ Book Review 
by Chris Myers 


llowmeto getsomething 
out in the open before I go on about Stephen 
King's Dolores Claiborne: I am 
notaStephenK.ingfan. Onocca­sion. Ihave tried to read some of his books, but each time failed to get beyond the f'rrst 100 pages. Whetherintimidatedbyitslength or unimpressed by its so-called · horror, the works ofStephenKing nevermanaged to make the top of my reading list. . 
So when the writer I had as­signed to do this review backed out at the eleventh hour,.! was pleased as punch to pick up the slack. This past beautiful week­end. Iwas stuckreadinganauthor forwhomlhadnoparticulartaste to make aSunday night deadline. I had every reason to hate this book. 
Having said that. lreport with great pleasure that Dolores Claiborne is one the inost im­pressivenovelsl'veread. Avoid­ing the supernatural horror so prevalentinhisotherworks,King attempts a complex character 

study of a sixty-five-year-old woman suspected of murder. The result is a book that you simply cannot put down. 
King colors his title character as a shalp-tongued. no-nonsense housewife facing the personal demons thathave haunted her past. At · a police confession. Dolores begins explaining how sheis connected to the death of her employer, an elderly woman shekeeps house for. The stoxy then jumps into flashbacks of two key events in Doi.ores' life: the summer of 1963 when her husband was killed. and her employment under Vera Donovan, the woman she is accused of murdering. Is it just coinci­dence that both took fatal falls in Dolores' presence? The re­sult is a solid King novel, more mystery than horror. in which 
. the topics ofeuthanasia.female roles in society and abusive re­lationshipsareaddressedinsus­penseful,funnyandoftendown­right shocking ways. 
Even though Dolores' life is as depressing as an episode of "thirtysomething;" the story is filledwithcaptivatinganecdotes aboutevexythingfromDolores' abusive husband to a comical high point that is unprintable in thesepages (I'llonlyreveal that it involves human feces and leave itat that). These keep the reader enthralled andprovethat Dolc,res is as skilled and enjoy­able a storyteller as her creator. 
At the climax of the book, Doloresmustdecidewhetherto kill her husbandin the.darkness of a total eclipse. Like that scene, King's book is about people coming out ofthe dark­
ness and into thelight. When we _ finally see them in the clear, the result is extraordinary. Butitwasthe toneofthebook 

·that left me so impressed. It doesn't evolve into some horrifying, sci-fl monster stoxy. All ofthe charactersinvolvedare 100%human, and theonly monsters theyface are their own dark memories. King ultimatly proves that sometimes these memories can be even more terrifying than a killer.dog, car or promqueen. Hismaincharacteris soordinary,soeasy to identify with and feel for, that getting involved inDolores Claiborne requires only the first few pages. IfStephen King's Gerald's Game, which shares some of Dolores' plot , is anything like this novel, he may make a 
convert out of me yet. Grade: A· 
26 









Coming 
Distractions 
From March 30-April 6 
\: Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
'!'­
Baseball: ND vs. Butler, Saturday and Sunday, both double 
fl 
1i headers starting at noon, Eck Stadium. ND vs. Indiana State, Tueday, 4:00, Eck Stadium. ND vs. Chicago State, Wednesday, 7:00, Eck Stadium. 
Track: ND Men vs. W. Michigan, Saturday at Jake Kline Field. 
Tennis: ND Men vs. Northwestern, Sun., 1 :00, Eck Pavilion. 
Lacrosse: ND vs. Butler, Sat., 2:00, Krause Stadium. 
Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars: "Furniture Design," by John McNaughton, at the Snite Museum, 7:30. 
Entertainment: Film, "Four Weddings and a Funeral," Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, Thurs.-Fri., 7:00 and 9:30, Admission price unknown, Call SMC information for prices. 
Film, " Lethal Weapon 1, " Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune, Fri., 8:00 and 10:30, Admission price unknown. "Artmoves," a dance concert. O'Laughlin Auditorium at SMC, Fri.-Sat. at 8:00, Sun. at 2:30, Admission $2. Film, "Pulp Fiction," Cushing Auditorium, Fri.-Sat., 8:00 and 10:30, admission $2. 
A Taste of Asia & Variety Show, Sun., noon in LaFortune Ballroom. Food and entertainment provided. Admission is $5. 
"I'm on a Mission From Buddha," a one-man show by Lane Nishikawa, Mon., 8:00, LaFortune Ballroom. 

On the Silver Screen 
March 30 -Apr/16 
University Park West: 277-7336. "Tommy Boy," PG-13, 10:00, 2:15, 4:30, 6:45, 9:00. "Candyman 2," R, 10:00, 2:30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:40. "The Brady Bunch," PG-13, 10:00, 2:00, 4:30. "Losing Isaiah," R, 10:00, 7:00, 9:30. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Oubreak," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:50. "Muriel's Wedding," R, 2:40, 5:10, 7:25, 9:45. "Tank Girl," R, 2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00. "Pulp Fiction," R, 2:00, 5:15, 8:45. "The Madne~s of King George," NR, 2:15, 4:40, 7:20, 
9:40. "Man of the House," PG, 2:35, 4:50, 7:10, 9:30. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "Legends of the Fall," R, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45. 1 :15 weekdays. "Hoop Dreams," PG-13, 4:30, 8:00, 1:00 weekdays. "Last Seduction," 4:15, 7:15, 9:30, 1 :30 weekdays. 
Scottsdale: 259-9096 "Major Payne," PG-13, 9:00, 11 :30, 2:00, 4:30, 6:45, 9:15. "Tommy Boy," PG-13, 9:30, 1.2:00, 2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45. 
"Man of the House," PG, 9:30, 11 :45, 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:30. "Tall Tale," PG, 9:00, 11 :15, 1 :45, 4:15, 6:45, 9:00. "Outbreak," R, 10:00, 1 :15, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00. "Candyman 2," R, 10:00, 2:45, 5:15, 7:45, 10:00. 
Cinema at the Snite: 631-7361 "Hoop Dreams," Fri.-Sat., 8:00. "Khush," "Surname Viet, Given Name Nam;" Monday, 7:00. "Waiting for Fidel," Tuesday, 7:00. "The Nasty, Girl," Tuesday, 9:00. 
28 








0 
REAK! 
Pigeon poop is on its way toward killing a nation, 
and America mourns. 
.Death By Pigeon Poop 
A professor from Southern Oregon State is ruffling her feathers to the tune of $100,000. She claims that she got sick due to pigeons using her building's roof for target practice. 
Evidently, the pigeon droppings were elevating the levels of bacteria in . the building's air via ventilation ducts, thereby causing respiratory problems for some of the people who work there. Since then, the college has cleaned the building and in­stalled netting to encourage the pigeons to heed nature's call elsewhere. Personally, I think the lady's story is a bunch of crap. 

.Now That's Wiggedy Wack 
ThesequesteredjuryoftheOJ.Simpson trial was treated to a concert by pianist RogerWilliamsrecently,in which heplayed all of their requests. 
Among them were "Misty," "Unforget­table," "Jingle Bells" and the Notre Dame fight song. This shouldn't be surprising, however. Undocumented tests in 1978 confinned that the fight song has been popularwith sequesteredjuries for years. In addition, tests done by myself have con­firmed that common grey squirrels experi­ence a therapeutic effect when exposed to the music. 
&-b •t 1· 
....._,..trying to out-chant the other.

eautiiu polytona 

I called the legend himself to hear his 

Try this experiment the next time your roommatementionsthatheorsheisstressed. Watch them closely, and if they don't start feeling better, increase the volume. 
Peace through music. It's a beautiful thing. 
. The Amazing Gynecological Scholarship 
Your G .P.A.' s not so good? Fear not! Springfield, Missouri's prosecutors have discovered a man who offers scholarships towomen-butonlyaftertheyhavesubmit­ted to a gynecological exam. 
Apparently, a 19-year-old Central Bible College student decided that this offer was not such a bad idea, and went to the man's motel room out of naivety, stupidity or both. 
Oddlyenough,theman'sonlycrimewas amisdemeanorfor deceptive business prac­tice. That's funny, because when a lady offeredme a scholarship offer that required a hernia check, she wasn't charged at all. And I never even got the money she prom­ised, damn her! 
.The Power ofRudy 
At the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, students recently expressed their enthusiasm for the 24-hour campus movie channel they receive in dorm rooms. 
One night, after the movie Rudy was shown, students in one room of a high-rise · caughtthe fever and began to chant, "Rudy! Rudy!"Likecancer, thechantran its course through the entire dorm and then over to the next building. It culminated into a shouting match between the dorms, with each one
Th . · f ·h [· 
IJ eun1query .aun Ing 
by Kris Kazlauskas 

yocilJ.,music from theplains of CentralAsia 
:r~·s!!!~::~nh~!ra:~~j:~::; 
-· 
to show you, there'salittlebitofRudyinus all. Godbless us, everyone. . 



MAR 





WE ENJ'DYED Sl<.IINC,.••. We 6VeN llAll A HOf 
Rtlf MV F,:).1/oRITE ?M<I WAS TVB /IJ ovR CABll-l-.. 

,He st-ioWERS ... wE DtDNT HAVE MVlK \-IDT WATER··· 
Tliaf h.,I
r1,.,., /\rt: yol,( sure 
bd+er b~ 1
+h<•e·s wqfer ii\ 
. Y'"r lej.
here? 
\ f -~ 
. "l 'I
.·:.•. 
foils .S?KtNC:, °5ii:EAI<., MY fRIE,NDS ( 13 oHheM) A/Jb :C. \JENT ,o A. STATE CAU.E)) 
C.OLORADo. 
Ir-WAS A Lor OF FUAJ, 

•I 
Grist for the Mill 


TlvO GUl-'.S ~"fVMfJ(:, CATCH .I.J(T{-\ TitlS !lliR.1> ;£0!-\ llE °BALL, jtJST A LITTLE tll~t. n\A1') A"fENl-j\5 "BA-LL. IT 
EVEJJ HA!) l.la.S I l<JNl)A 
Lll'..E. A FOO~ALL. 

RICK GREY 




AtJb NOW, A 
I.rot /if A. CU~HJT 
CAMPOS /5SUE, "PUT TO ntE. TUNE OF nlE V/LL!.6E 
1'EO"PLEs YMCA ( 

'tOOND HE.RE. f'. HOMOP//OBIC$ A1?,ro,l) YOO 1:/J0w TIIEV WILL ' 
lJ"R.IVE YOV 1/JTO THE 61:W/.Jl:>1 THEE.E AlZ.E 
lDT.5 OF 

QJy5 l0ID TII/Nt LIKE. JAY TC().)/\J IF l-'00'2.E. UN-HAP-PY 
,­
liIDU~Sb ,J 

WU JOST · 
MEE.TING 
.,, 
(C~O?.IJ.s) 

IT'S I.JO FUN GDl/0' HEU 
WHY DO 'i'OO STAV 

ljO<,) C.A"1 \'Ou STAND IT HEi?.E_. AT NOTRE. DA-AME. . TliOUGH <,b(J'vE. KJT UP It FlbHT 
N.D. TRAHPLES yc,o~ 'R.!GI-\TS CA/\J rlX.> ST,,\/JD 11 FOR:. ONE. HOE.'E. Nlt;HT' ~ 
IT'.'.'> /00 RJ/J 601101 HERE . . ·-p
WHV 00 Yoo STAY . iw. .J 
HOO) CAN 'tlXl 1711'.E rr NOW .,­
AT NOTRE. DA ·AME 

AtlMtN. 'BOIL.DING WILL SAY ~ You~ ALL t:DING ro HEU ~ 
l3o1 'i\?U'R.t:. HE/J'ING. To "PAY Ti-lEM WELL-E.LL ! 
. J' 
30 

• 


He thought he was making a routine visit to Grandma's house. He never suspected that he'd come face to face with the 
Mad Dog! 
By Kris Kazlauskas 
It happens every year. The horrific com­bination of black spandex and ghostly whitethighsspreadslikeaplagueacross the Indiana countryside, an ox gives birth at thePotawatomi zoo, and the Lunker's fish­ing extravaganza sends Michiana natives into astate of frenzy. For many college students, it is time for the annual pilgrimage toward wanner climates, wherealcoholand ultratjoletraysmercilesslyravishAmerica' s youth like raptors at a goat farm. Now, I could ramble on about Spring Break '95, but the most exciting thing I did was volunteer to donate plasma at a lab in downtown South Bend. This in itself was no small feat, but my motives for such a solicitation ofmy bodily fluids was purely financial (I made $35). In many ways; I suppose that I am not much higher on the social ladder than a prostitute, and for this reason, I am ashamed and do not wish to elaborate on thjs topic. Rather, I invite you to take ajourney back to 1993, a time when "Baby Got Back" was the anthem ofSYRs, the fad of"crimping" hair finally made its way to Indiana and a Meijer in Mishawaka was just a gleam in someone's eye. I wasafreshman,andspring break was just around the comer. "Son," my father said with concealed zeal, "How would you like to spend break with your grandparents in Omaha?" Al­ways a man of adventure, I knew he had something up his sleeve. He continued, his voice assuming a seri­ous tone,"Let's face it son, you're not a kid anymore.My grandfather diditYourgrand­father did it Hell, Aunt Betty even tried it 

when she was twelve, andyour cousin Zeke 
did it all the time. The road to manhood is a 
trial by fire, and the only way there is on a 
Greyhound." 
"Sweet Jesus!" I cried in anguish. But 
fate had ordained it, and ·in retrospect I 
realize that every Karate Kid needs to face 
his own Cobra Kai at one point or another. 
Sitting in the bus terminal, I anxiously awaited the arrival of my manhood, which was scheduled to roll in at 6:55 p.m.. Well, manhood was running late-real late. As 8:30rolledaround, the Greyhound courtesy clerk told me, "I don't know where the hell it is," and then he locked the doors and went home. Another hour passed. 
Feeling distraught, I sought comfort in the bus station arcade. After an emotional battle with a "Knight Rider" pinball ma­chine, I was startled to hear footsteps be­hind me. Turning around, I bumped into a ZahmiannamedTomMiller,andbystrange coincidence, he was also on a quest to earn his manhood by taming the dog. Adding to his struggle, Tom had lost the button of his pants in a urinal due to weak threads in his cotton Dockers. I lamented.his misfortune, and for me, the mystery of the button in the jon, which had caught my eye a few hours earlier, was solved. 
Attacking manhood as a temn, we pro­ceeded to track down our bus via the magic of fiber optics, and discovered that it was sidelinedataDenny'sin Ohioonaccountof mysterious bomb threats. We didn't actu­ally see our dog until 1:30 a.m., and at that point we realized that the limits of our mental tenacity were going to be stretched far beyond our expectations. 
J?espite the wait, the bus ran smoothly and quickly to Chicago-just like a grey­
hound. Although Greyhound hospitality 
left us with no room for our luggage, we 
found that it fit nicely in the bathroom. Of 
course, nature had called halfof the bus by 
the time we reached Gary. The experience 
was obviously scaring the crap out ofevery­
one-but the dog was going to have to try 
harder if she wanted to break our spirits. 
Occasionally however, there are events 
which rattle even the most Herculean of 
men. At the Chicago station, we watchedin 
terror as an old man proceeded to wedge 
himselfin the small opening for bags under 
the baggage counter. Disregarding his men­
tal instability, there could be no denying the 
awesome flexibility of this man, probably 
attributable to some Far Eastern meditative 
philosophy. But this event was nearly the 
straw that broke the camel's back. 
Faced with the agony ofhaving to spend the night in the Chicago bus terminal, Tom and I sought solace in the arcade where we met Her. She played Ms. -Pac Man with lightning-quick reflexes, completing maze after maze with unbreakable concentration. She was definitely a regular, as her Grey­hound windbreaker, attainable after 10,000 miles, could attest Maybe this was her escape -an opiate for dealing with the devil disguised as a bus company. 
Rejuvenatedby this Pac-playing triumph of the human spirit, Tom and I parted ways at 6:00 AM, he to St. Paul and I to Omaha, vowing to reunite in Chicago a week later. 
The dog had punished me for almost twenty-two hours by the time I reached Des Moines,butbythen,Iwasrunningon100% adrenaline. W asittheChick-o-stickl picked up in Davenport? Regardless, two hours later the journey was complete. Omaha. The Promised Land. A caterpillar yester­day,abutterflytoday.Spreadingmywings, I announced my transformation from fright­ened child to confident man. I waved at my grandparents, gave them each a hug, and then put one on each shoulder as we headed out to the car. 
"Kris, what happened? You used to be such a pansy, but now you have the look of a Spartan god!" 
"Grandma," I said with a sexy, deep voice, ''TODAY I AM A MAN." D 
This is a hwnor column. Thses views are not necessarily the views oft~ editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 


Is Ainerica Juiced 
by Eric Schultenover 

OverO.J.? 
Eric Schultenover is a junior history and government double major, with a concentra­tion in the Hesburgh Program. He resides in Grace Hall. 

In June of 1994, the people of the United States were shocked to see one of America'sfavorite sonsandrolemodels, sportstar OJ. Simpson, arrested and charged with the murder ofhis ex-wife Nicole Simpson and her "friend," Ron ·Goldman. The public witnessed OJ. and his famous run from the cops in the white Ford Bronco. They saw the shamed OJ. being arraigned. There were questions of drug use, wife beating, bloody gloves, DNA, mystery envelopes, racist cops and lousy jurorsas the media circus descended uponLos Ange­lesand theL.A. courthouse. Every tabloid, magazine or TV program, featured story upon story about the case. Today,thismediablitzcontinuesasArnericans tuneinthetrial,andthetabloidskeepcrarikingoutthe speculation, rumors and opinions. What can be said of this case? Well, on one level, it comes down to two dead bodies and an immense amount of evidence against the defendant On a second level, this case represents another celebrity tabloid story with the usual trash media descending uponajuicystorylikevulturesonroadkill. Butthere is a third level to this case. Toe sheer magnitude of the coverage of the case in traditionally respectable forms of media place this case on a unprecedented level in American legal and media history. This case has been covered more than any in the history of the world,in terms of magnitude andforms of coverage. While serious developments in world events such as the wars in Bosnia, Rwanda and Chechnyaraged, Americans stayed tuned to the trial. While Republicans swept through Washington, OJ. remained in the back of everyone's mind as the case maintained the second or third story spot on the nightly news. The United States "intervened" in Haiti, but who cared -OJ.'s jury was racially 
biased. The conditions. of the American psyche must be 
. examined. Are people really entertained by all this junk? Do people in this country really care? If so, why? Something must be seriously wrong with a society that feeds on the misfortune of two dead people and their families. Who cares ifOJ. diditor he didn't. 
People in this country who actively follow this story must really lack anything meaningful in their ownlivessothattheymustfilltheirtimewithothers' misfortunes. Come on people, read a book, jog a mile, call a relative, take responsibility for your children, make a life. Something must seriously be wrong with the average American when he or she must justify the pathetic nature of his or her life by continually watching the downfall of another and reveling in it. The media plays the American people like a flute and the OJ. Simpson case proves it When one examines the vast impact this case has on the lives of Americans and the quality of their free time spent watching and discussing this case, one must wonder about the degree that the media ma­nipulates the lives andminds of the American people. 
As the trial continues through the next year, hope­fully, Americans will see the tragedy of the case and the even larger tragedy associated with the media spectacle which took the deaths of two fairly average people and plac¢ them, their lives and their suffer­
. ing families on display. The sickness of this caseand the coverage of it only reflects the sick state of American society. The American people can take this society back: from those who push the buttons, play the tapes and write the stories if they begin thinking for themselves and seeing the coverage for what it is. Trash. D 


8:00 AND 10:30 @ CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
MARCH 31, APRIL 1 $2 ADMISSION 
TONITE @ MONTGOMERY THEATRE 8& 10:30 $1 ADMISSION 






