THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 72, No. 2 j	September 30, 1938
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
for war, and how blockade-proof it really is. PLUS...Pratty Boy, the story of an unwilling gigolo, by Sophie Kerr ... The Gypsies Get the Business, in which Ben Hibbs tells what truckers are doing to the small-town merchant...Unamuno Commanding by Leonard H. Nason.. . Editorials, poetry, fun and cartoons.
tAing could Ar so Andeous agio Aaunt a mans whole life andmate him t
career
• What is behind millionaire Starke’s mad dream,
that makes even his own daughter dread his pres-
ence? At Starke’s bidding, three people speed to
him by plane. One knows the weird secret of his
lifelong obsession. A second carries the $100,000
reward. And the third passenger is Starke’s daugh-
ter, who is one day to face her father... with a
shotgun. Here is the first installment of a remarkably
compelling novel.
BEGINNING A NEW NOVEL
The Noise of Their Wings
by MacKINLAY KANTOR
TRICKS THAT CAN WIN A WORLD SERIES
• You don’t see all the baseball game on the diamond. A man in the dugout raises his scorecard — and saves his team from
____________________________a double play. A coach hollers, “Come on, Joe, old boy, old boy”—and the batter gets set for a curve. But watch out when the signals are shifted! One of baseball’s canniest strategists tells you the secrets of
Winning ’Em in the Clubhouse by CONNIE MACK
AND “WHERE I FOUND THE ORIGINAL MR.
TOIT.** Arthur Train tells in My Day in Court, the account of his early days and experiences in the
Criminal Courts Building.
“YOU CAN’T BLOCKADE GERMANY," says Adolf Hitler. Or can you? In Germany Processes War, Stanley High reports how Germany is streamlined
TUGBOAT ANNIE
MILSAGAIN
Remember Tugboat Annie Brennan? The
hearty skipper of the Narcjssus is back again,
and in trouble as usual. This time she’s walked
into the toughest assignment of a battle-scarred — to compete with her hated rival, Bull-
winkle, without losing her temper. One slip will
cost her job! Everything goes smoothly until Bullwinkle slyly stretches a hawser across the channel.
FIRST OF A NEW SERIES
by NORMAN REILLY RAINE
HE TRIED ID WDO
AJHTEJtBUG
7 -with the wrong music!
• How do you like your music-
sweet, or hot? Johnny Dolan liked it hot, blew his young heart out with it on a darinet. And of all the jitterbugs in the world, he had to fall in love with Marjory, who was ga-ga over Bunny Gilbert's “Sweeping Sweet Swing ! Here’s an account of the calamity, in four-four time.
Johnny, Go Blow Your Horn
by WILLIAM FAY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
September 30, 1938
No. 2
KANSAS RALLY OPENS ’38 FOOTBALL SEASON
FORMER IRISH REBEL TO LECTURE HERE
By William C. McGowan
A poet who is a politician, an economist who is a philosopher, and a responsible state officer who was a rebel, is coming to Notre Dame in October. His name is Desmond Fitzgerald, and he’s coming from Ireland to lecture on the philosophy of politics to juniors, seniors, and graduate students for six weeks.
Mr. Fitzgerald is a short man with a black moustache and seems too slight of build to have done the things he did. And he has done much! Twenty-two years ago he sneaked from house to house in Dublin while British tommies stood in the streets and. watched with nervous triggerfingers for a sign of him. When the chase was too hot he took to the mountains for his life and watched his pursuers beat the country-side in fruitless search. But there was work to do in Dublin and he had to go back. There the British took him finally and threw him, a member of the British Parliament from Ireland, into a London jail, along with other Irish insurgents of whom one was William Cosgrave, and the other Eammon de Valera.
Mr. Fitzgerald no longer sneaks from house to house in Dublin, but enjoys the happy fame due a member of the Dail of the Irish Free State. Nor does he have any more disputes with British tommies. As minister of defense from 1927 to 1932 he outranked their generals and showed from all reports an amazing alacrity for his job. The military has not been predominant in his life, but rather has proceeded from his acute interest in the philosophy of politics. He saw the justice of the Irish demand for independence in 1916 and was willing to fight with a gun to back his con- viction. And he did fight with a gun! And though he was jailed for his attitude he nevertheless lived to see the things he fought for take material shape. He saw a 700 year old tempest calmed after a comparatively (Continued on Page 22)
"The March is On" In Gym Tonight
By F. G. Barreda
Football fever climbs to a record height tonight with the first pep rally of the year as the entire student body throngs around the Notre Dame band in a stirring torchlight parade to the gymnasium. Dan Donavan, prexy of the Students Activities Council, has called for the general assembly at 6:30, immediately after supper. This early hour has been set in order to allow sufficient time for the pep meet-
To jam the gym once more.
ing before the second Mission in the Sacred Heart Church at 7:30.
As excitement mounts throughout the campus in anticipation of the first football game, cries of “Beat Kansas!” and “Junk the Jayhawks!” are pouring from every student intent on surging that mania, otherwise known as football spirit, to .the top flight at tonight’s rally. More than 45,000
Continued on Page 23)
Applicant* for the SCHOLASTIC staff and those desiring to submit writings for publication are invited to visit the SCHOLASTIC Editorial rooms evenings, Sunday through Friday, between 7 and 8, or room 328 Main Building mornings between 9 and 11, or evenings between 8 and 9.
PLAN LECTURES FOR WASHINGTON HALL
Washington Hall has been booked for a splendid fall entertainment program filled with first class attractions, including prominent lectures and classical comedies and plays, according to the announcement released this week by Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., director of the programs. First in the presentations will be a lecture by Maurice Leahy on “Dominating Personalities in Contemporary Irish and English Literary Life,” to be delivered Tuesday evening, October 4, at 8 o’clock.
Mr. Leahy was for many years secretary to the Catholic Poetry Society of London, and was intimately acquainted with such famous personages as G. K. Chesterton, Father D’Arcy, Wilfred Meynell, Count Plunkett, Hiliaire Belloc and others. He visited Notre Dame last spring, speaking informally to several of the English classes and delivering a public lecture on the Irish Constitution.
On Thursday, October 13, the Jitney Players present “Dear Old Alma Mater,” the classic comedy of American college life. The Jitney Players, who seek to further the movement of a genuine American Theatre in contrast to a theatre limited solely to New York and a few other large cities, come to Notre Dame on their current tour of twelve weeks which takes them into 20 states.
Thomas B. Morgan, chief correspondent for the United Press in Italy, the Vatican, Albania and North Africa, and author of “A Reporter at the Papal Court,” will appear in Washington Hall on Monday, October 17. Morgan will lecture on “Assigned to the Papal Court,” in which he describes the organization of the Vatican City, a complete state with ministries, armed forces, passports, postage, police and a jail.
“Historical Significance and European Issues in the Spanish Civil War” will be discussed by Miss Aileen O’Brien on Monday, October 31. Miss O’Brien, honorary captain in the Spanish Foreign Legion, has spent 16
Continued on Page 23)
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WRANGLERS TUNED FOR TALK TILTS
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
With a smile on their lips but a triple - barrelled syllogism in their hearts the Wranglers, Notre Dame’s honorary forensic society, will hold their first meeting of the schoolyear in the Seminar room of the Library next Wednesday evening at 8 o’clock.
President Bill Mahoney
The arguments start again.
President Bill Mahoney, who has been sitting around the campus’ most aristocratic cracker-barrel for three years now, will greet the newly elected members, outline briefly the program for future meetings, and—if necessary—pass out lozenges for recalcitrant tonsils.
Tentative fall plans call for intensive discussion of the present European crisis—should the crisis still exist—and diligent probing of the muddled Sino-Japanese situation. “Dictatorships vs. Democracy,” “Self-Determination,” and “Government Intervention in Business,” are likely ' topics for early discussions — which leaves no room at all for the World Series.
The Rev. Norbert Hoff will again guide the club in his office as chaplain. Father Hoff will speak Wednesday evening to the new members, out lining the achievements of the Wranglers in the past and their hopes for the future.
Brownson Ceremony
Under the auspices of the Brownson Club of Fort Wayne, Ind., a memorial ceremony in honor of Orestes Brownson, one of the most eminent men outside the clergy that has yet been produced by the Church in America, will be held by them at the University on Oct. 9.
A pilgrimage to the gave of the distinguished Brownson in the basement of Sacred Heart church, will be conducted by the members of the club during their visit here.
Cross-eyed Cupid
An agent of ours in Brownson Hall reports what we’re inclined to regard as the funniest story of the week. It seems that one of his roommates over in Brownson has been blessed with the same name as our Notre Dame track coach, John Nicholson. That wouldn’t make much of a story in itself, of course, but when you add a girl named Martha addressing heavily-perfumed letters (the “xxxxx” kind, our agent reports) to “John Nicholson, University of Notre Dame, Indiana,” you really have something. Naturally Brother Post Office is unaware of this new usurper of the sacred name of Nicholson, and the letters have been going to Nick himself. The second time that Nick had to carry a letter (opened and, judging from the twinkle in his eye, thoroughly read) to the desk of his namesake, he ran his fingers through his hair with the same worried gesture he uses for big track meets, and said, “You’d better give that girl your address pretty soon or my wife’s going to run off on me.”
•
Bottom of the Week
12 Noon to 12:30 every Friday.
•
Neatest Trick in “The Week”
It happened in an English class. The professor was making an important point about the Platonic view of art that says it is merely an imitation of appearances, an inferior copy of nature, revealing nothing beyond what is open to the senses, etc., etc. His voice kept rising to the appropriate pitch for an important conclusion, and we all knew that he was working up to a concrete example that would crystallize the point for us. Finally it came. “For example,” he said, “in accordance with this Platonic conception, a good artist copies a bird so exactly that we see it as an actual fish.”
It wasn’t quite clear to us because we wondered just what that bird would have looked like if the artist hadn’t been so exact about it. We’re sure the picture would have been a beaut.
Innovations in Indoor Sports
We noticed in the bulletin that the tuition and general fee for this semester entitles the student to the use of the Rockne Memorial. Consequently we looked over the place to see all the fun the students could be having if they weren’t so polite about disturbing the workmen. We are ticked to report that for you rafter swingers
and girder hurdlers there is more than enough material on which to do your stuff. For you who want to express yourselves creatively there are plenty of wow-provoking sand piles perfect for tunnels and all that sort of thing. And we particularly noted what a fine handball court the swimming pool makes once you get used to the slanting floor.
•
“U”
On the football schedule that balances the magazine rack over in the cafeteria, Kansas is the only team that deserves a “U” that hasn’t got one. Army and Navy have none, of course, and obviously neither Carnegie Tech nor Georgia Tech rate one. But Illinois, Minnesota, Northwestern, and Southern California all have their “U”s. Northwestern’s is in the rear but all the others are in the front. Perhaps the brain that pieced together the schedule was stumped over whether Kansas deserved its “U” fore or aft, and consequently just let the matter slide. But no matter what happened, we look on it as a definite slight to the Jayhawkers. And after what they did to Texas last Saturday, they don’t deserve to be taken so lightly.
•
Notes and Comments
Our existence at the University was given a nice homey touch the other night when, while we were returning . from a late per, the Walsh watchman stuck the wrong key in the door and then fumbled around for a few minutes before he could find the right one. . . . The green (come ahead, everything clear) light over the student’s side of the Dillon confessional is appropriate enough, but the red light (red always signified danger to us) over the priest’s side is far too pessimistic. . . . The boys from Alumni have figured out that under the new punch-hole laundry system, they will have to leave for school a day early after the Christmas vacation to get their laundry in on time. The -first time they brought their laundry over to Badin this fall they each had two holes punched because they didn’t get a crack at it last week. They don’t want that to happen again. . . . There is another a few Alumnites tell concerning the senior engineer who believed their rib that the new “license” system in the library had been in use for the last two years. Evidently he had been getting all his reading (he can read, they tell us) from the left side of the caf maga- -zine stand.
SEPTEMBER 30. 1938
5
MR. FIREBUG OBLIGES WITH TIMELY ARSON
•
September 27, 1938
Dear Mr. Firebug:
Thanks very much for that minor conflagration in Walsh Hall last night. You really started something when you flipped that cigarette butt down the laundry chute. Some of the fellows had been waiting ever since Freshman Hall to swing one of those warped fire axes, and it isn’t every night you get to unravel the fire hose and wash the guy next door out of bed.
Of course, fire will out, so you’ll be caught and punished. Bill, the policeman, has the case right now and he expects to make an arrest within forty-eight hours. Bill, you’ll remember, is a veteran of Old Chicago and is rumored to be the guy that finally slipped the manacles on Mrs. O’Leary’s cow.
Bill has the guilty cigarette which he officially terms Exhibit A. Already he has limited the list of possible culprits by dividing Walsh Hall into smokers and non-smokers. Eventually, he will further reduce the field to those who smoke the particular brand of cigarette found in the laundry chute. So, watch out.
We’re tipping you off because this story comes in handy since we were a column short this week. Fires always make nice reading—incidentally, we’re usually hard pressed for news around the first of November— just a suggestion. If possible have any additional fires either of Saturday or Sunday night—in that case all we have to do is rewrite the local papers.
Thanking you for your lovely fire, we are,
Sincerely yours,
The Scholastic.
P. S. An anonymous note scribbled on a dirty envelope stating location and time of fire will bring our staff photographer, Mr. Starkie. If possible we would like to give you a front page spread.
P. P. S. By the way, our Mr. Starkie, is very forgetful; so would you mind bringing a flash bulb, too—just in case. Thank you.—W.C.F.
Pull Up Thine Ear!
Our common schools are the foundations of America’s free institutions. (Applause). They are the bulwarks of our liberty, and the pride and glory of our great republic. (Great applause). It is there that the youth of our land learn the rudiments of greatness, — and how to throw a paper wad with unerring precision. (Apple-sauce).
Flash! Oakville Irishman Wins Irish Sweepstakes;
McGowan—-Bingo King—Eyes Local Banknites .	By Jerry Flynn
“Well, Bill, how’ve things been with you?”
“Oh, nothing extra,” drawled Mr. McGowan from his Badin cot. “Had a
“One million and one....”
fair summer. Picked up a small prize on the Irish Sweepstakes—you know, nothing much — about nineteen hundred dollars.
“That’s not bad. Oughta keep you in pin money for a little while even if you are a Notre Dame man....”
That’s how it started. My curiosity got the best of me, so I started to look up this guy McGowan. It seems Bill is a sophomore in Arts and Letters and he’s from Waterbury, Conn., which is appropriately named right now. His chief claim to fame is that he not only won a prize in the Sweepstakes but he is also Irish. Irish, mind you. This gives him a first mortgage on a Nobel prize, because he’s the first Irishman to get anything out of the British Isles in a long time.
We mentioned pin money somewhere above and that reminds us that when Mr. McGowan received his
Campus Law Club Plans First Legal Aid Society;
Attorneys to Cooperate in Furthering Program
Preliminary discussions were being held this week by a committee of the Notre Dame Law club to organize the first legal aid society at the University. The committee was selected by Stewart Koche, president, at the first meeting of the year held last week.
Spurred on by the wholehearted sanction of Dean Thomas F. Konop, the committee hopes to form a society of student lawyers for the purpose of aiding indigents who seek legal counsel. Prominent local attorneys have already expressed their desire to cooperate with the Law club to further this program.
Oct. 19 was set as the date of the first monthly Law club smoker at
small bequest he was in the employ of the Oakville Pin Corporation; he immediately resigned, pinning a two week’s notice on the pin president’s door.
We also understand that Mr. McGowan started on his bank busting career by promoting marble games in Oakville at the tender age of seven —and they’re still saying to the little kids around Oakville: “McGowan will get your marbles if you don’t watch out.” From marbles it was but a small step to the annual bingo games at the church festival where, it is rumored, McGowan won enough stuff two nights running to completely furnish a two-story house.
Kight now the good South Bend citizenry are organizing the vigilantes to keep McGowan out of town on Tuesdays and Fridays to make Greater Michiana safe for banknites.
Not that Mr. McGowan had all the Irish luck cornered for the summer — there’s another guy named Joe Shelly of Carroll Hall and Avon, New York. Mr. Shelley is one of the better jitterbugs up that way and was wont to get around a bit to the various dancing emporiums. In one of these temples of the two-step Joe grabbed off the winning ticket on a Packard sedan.
We asked “the man that owned one” how he felt that same evening and he replied, “Uh-huh.” We wouldn’t know about that. All and all I guess we were lucky this summer. Joe won a car but he can’t drive it out here so he feels bad. Bill won nineteen hundred bucks but the government got most of that, so he feels bad. Whereas we didn’t lose either the car or the money. We feel pretty good. Lucky, lucky, us. •
which will appear legal lights of the Middle West in discussions of current topics of court procedure and sub- > stantive law. Harold Kienecke, head of the Indiana bureau of the F.B.I., is slated to be the principal speaker.
Welcoming the 111 students in the Law school, Roche outlined an ambitious program of events culminating in the two social highlights of the year: the annual Law ball and the Col. Hoynes testimonial dinner, in honor of the founder of the College of Law.
Other officers of the club are Frank Donlon, vice-president; John Deane, secretary; Edward Grogan, treasurer.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Our Daily Bread
"Peace, Brothers, Ain't it Wonderful!" Henegan's "Cats" Send Jitterbugs to Heaven!
Liturgy
The Liturgical or Church Year, as distinguished from the civil year, begins with the first Sunday of Advent. It coincides with the seasonal divisions of the year. Within this cycle the Church relives the principal mysteries of religion. It is the work of redemption and sanctification ceaselessly renewed. Another cycle honors the saints in whose person were realized supremely the fruits of the redemption. Feast days of the Blessed Virgin are given preeminence as befits the Mother of the Redeemer. The arrangement of the Missal corresponds to these divisions. Pius XI in the encyclical Quas Primas thus characterizes the importance of the feasts of the church in our lives:
“People are better instructed in the truths of faith and brought to appreciate the interior joy of religion far more effectively by the annual celebration of the sacred mysteries than even by the weightiest pronouncements of the Teaching Church.”
Mass Calendar: October 2 to 8
First Class, Double, Semi-double etc., indicates the quality of the feast. V. R. means that a votive or a requiem mass may be celebrated, easily recognizable by the color of the vestments. Ordinarily the requiem mass, except at a funeral, will be the one designated in the missal as, the Daily Mass for the Departed. There are usually three Collects, the last one always the one for all the Faithful Departed. The first two may be taken from the Various Collects section of the missal.
Sunday 2 — Seventeenth Sunday after Pentecost. Semi-double. 2d Collect of the Holy Angels. Credo.
Monday 3—St. Teresa of the Child Jesus. Virgin. Double.
Tuesday J—St. Francis Assisi, Confessor. Greater Double. Founder of the Friars Minor and the Poor Clares.
Wednesday 5—St. Placid and his Companions, Martyrs. Simple. V. R.
Thursday 6—St. Bruno, Confessor. Double. Founder of the Carthusians.
Friday 7—The Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin. Double of the second class. 2d Collect of St. Mark, Pope and Confessor. 3d St. Sergius and Companions. Credo. Feast instituted to commemorate the victory at Lepanto, Oct. 7, 1751.
Saturday 8—St.. Bridget of Sweden, Widow. Double. Founder of the order of Bridgetines. Died 1373. In the. Chapel - of the Relics in Sacred Heart Church is an ornate grille from her. chapel in Rome.-.
By Joe Perkins
“May we have Music Maestro Please ?”
The orchestra and vocalist oblige.
“Tonight I mustn’t think of her
Music Maestro Please
Tonight, tonight I must forget—” “Who is that fellow singing? His
voice "is swell! Listen—
—“No more memories
Swing out, tonight I must forget
So Music, Maestro Please.”
There is a burst of applause, muffled whispers of pleasure and admiration and the dancers once more
Ex-Maestro Atkinson
Was leaderman in one band.
swing into the smooth rhythm of “Breathless.”
Happy revelers at the “New Ocean Casino” at Virginia Beach, Virginia, enjoyed the soft rhythm and gay swing of the Modernaires from the University of Notre Dame this summer.
The Modernaires, a recently popular dance orchestra, was organized last year under the direction of Fred Williamson and “Hook” Kerwin, and completed several successful engagements at St. Mary’s College, football Victory Dances and St. Joseph’s Academy in South Bend. The orchestra at that time was under the direction of Tommy Atkinson. Its climax of success last year was reached in the presentation of the “Notre Dame Jamboree,” a program which was broadcast from Washington Hall, and met with the approval of the entire campus as well as its great radio audience.
The “boys” went “on the road” this summer. Touring to Virginia Beach, they opened what was to become a successful one-month engagement at the “New Ocean Casino.”
Besides playing their regular evening programs the members also engaged in a “Battle of Music” on July 4th with several of the local dance bands at Virginia Beach. The Mod
ernaires from Notre Dame won the “musical battle” by unanimous popular consent. A few days later they joined with the local bands, under the direction of Ray Keating in a “Jam Session.”
The three most popular selections which the Modernaires were called upon to play were “The Notre Dame Victory March,” “Music Maestro Please,” and “Flat Foot Floogie.” It is said that Bob Henegan’s interpretation of “Music Maestro Please” became so popular at the Casino, that he was called upon several times an evening to sing it. Carl Hunn’s arrangement of “Flat Foot Floogie” was the most popular swing number with the lovers of modem swing. Incidentally, Carl Hunn obliged some of the aspiring musicians at the beach one afternoon by giving them lessons on the piano and saxaphone during the “Jam Session.”
Credit for the successful engagement is due not only to Tommy Shields and Fred Williamson, who directed the business end of the trip, and to the unique arrangements by Carl Hunn and the very popular singing of Bob Henegan, but also to the other eight members who joined enthusiastically in a program which may be termed one of the most successful accomplishments made by any group from Notre Dame during a summer vacation. A very great measure of credit must be attributed to the guiding enthusiasm of “Hook” Kerwin, whose every effort was directed toward the success of the group and whose encouragement spurred them on when success seemed hopeless. The Modernaires from Notre Dame were truly successful and popular at Virginia Beach.
Members of the orchestra who made the trip were: Fred Williamson, Julius Bercik and “Doc” Sherrod, saxaphone players; Francis Schmeid, Ed Cavanaugh and Gene Quinn, trumpets; Rod Trousdale, trombone; Carl Hunn, string bass and musical arranger; Charles Butler, pianist; Tommy Shields, drummer; “Hook” Kerwin, guitar; and Bob Henegan the “front man” and popular Modern-aire vocalist.
New members who have joined the Modernaires because of vacancies attributed to graduation are: James Bocheim, guitarist; Carl Quinn, drummer ; Bob Richardson, saxaphone; Bob Sinon, pianist; and Bob Robinett, trombone.
The Modernaires hope for a successful school season which opens with the music for the Notre Dame Victory Dance, October 1.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
7
ORATORS AND 6-GUNS VIE IN MAIN ATTIC
By Edward Huston
Have you ever seen the museum? Did you even know that Notre Dame had a museum? Well, there is a museum, and it is on the fourth floor of the Main Building. If you ever decide to go up there, close your eyes as you walk up the long flights and imagine that you are going back through the years to Civil War days.
One side of the museum is devoted to war and soldiers, and the other side is given over to Indian lore. Thus, you can imagine yourself to be either a soldier of an Indian fighter. Above the museum cases, paintings depict various gory Civil War battles.
There is a flag of the Spanish government taken at Santiago, and there is a Confederate flag from the Civil War. A log, which we imagine has dried out sufficiently to burn well, was taken at the battle of Chickamauga. Ancient rifles, swords, and a derringer bristle with enmity. The Reverend E. W. J. Lindesmith, Chaplain of the United States Army, wrote explanation for all the guns, swords, and other eqnuipment. Unfortunately he wrote so illegibly that it would reguire a handwriting expert to explain his explanations.
General Sherman’s coat, which he wore during the march through the South, is the most interesting of these Civil War relics. What tales that shiny blue coat with the shiny brass buttons could tell! It would tell of pillage and plunder, laughter and tears, and of the stout old heart that beat beneath it.
A squaw dress, belonging to some long forgotten Indian belle, hangs next to a frontier suit that might have belonged to her man. The fellow who wore the suit must have been a red hot dandy in his day. The coat is decorated with a fringe of rawhide thongs and a fur collar. Except for a few moth holes, the size of half-dollars, the fur is brand new.
Flaming red pants, ornamented with beads, hang in an adjoining cabinet. Maybe the Indians, too, had to wear flannel underwear. Indian artistic skill is demonstrated by pictures drawn on a hide. Horses are-the pervading theme, and while they are not anatomically perfect (bellies too long, and legs too skinny); still it’s pretty evident that they are horses. The colors in the drawings maintain remarkable vividness and life after all these years.
Two peace pipes come next. One is obviously a pipe. The other is long and flat and looks like a paddle to be used on freshmen. Two books, published long, long ago, tell stories (Continued on Page 20)
f"——————————,
Man About the
Campus
By Graham Starr
The story of Joseph Francis Dray, New Haven, Conn., is the story of another man who has reached the top. As a freshman he became a football manager and, after tenaciously holding that position for three long years, the little bud burst into full bloom and became Head Football Manager.
Joe is small in stature, his title is middle-sized, but his job is a big one.
Some misinformed campusites have wondered how he takes care of the big football players. But Joe’s job is much more difficult than that. He has to contend (this year he sees that his cohorts do the “dirty work”) with unintelligent, inanimate things. (Let’s define these “things” quickly before someone mentions metaphysics.) A small part of his work is supervision of football equipment transportation. One of the rewards of being manager last year was a trip to the Notre Dame-Army game at New York.
“Chum,” as he is known to intimate friends, lived in a suite of rooms in Howard hall last year. “Sweetie,” ( short for suitemate), Frank Fitch of debating fame, had a room directly across the corridor from him. The two got together, put both beds in one room, both desks in the other.
Joe has a brother here on the campus, and a sister in Louisville who is a nun. Even though he is majoring in accounting, he has a hard time accounting for his interests in the St. Joe and Benton Harbor (Mich.) Blossom Festivals. He seldom misses one. Last year, strangely enough, he (Continued on Page 20)
FORUM BEGINS DRIVE FOR NEW MEMBERS
By G. J. Neumann
On Monday evening, Oct. 3 at 7:45 pan. the 1938-39 season of the Commerce Forum will be officially opened with a general meeting in Cushing Hall auditorium. The guest speaker for the evening will be Dean McCarthy; Mr. L. H. Ells, faculty advisor for the Forum, will also give a short talk.
The importance of this first meeting to new and old members will be not only in hearing the dean, but in becoming acquainted with the activities which President Dave Meskill plans for the ensuing year. Of primary importance at the beginning of the season is the- membership drive under the direction of Ed Disser, executive chairman.
Announcement will be made of several trips to interesting plants both in South Bend and Chicago which are part of the Forum schedule. Several guest speakers have already been contacted for the regular meetings throughout the year and President Meskill is already making plans for several smokers.
An innovation during this season will be a Commerce Forum Formal, the plans for which are already being formulated. The tentative plans for a formal dance are the result of the very successful football dance sponsored by the Forum last fall. President Meskill, having been an officer of the club last year, and having had experience in running the informal dance, will be well qualified to make this important occasion a highlight of the social season.
The Discussion Group, inaugurated last fall, will be continued this season under the chairmanship of Frank Fitch. The date of the first meeting of this group will be announced at the meeting, at which time applicants will be received by the chairman.
The membership committee will contact eligible students before Monday night. Those desiring to apply for membership may do so by giving notice to the committeman assigned to their hall: Dave Meskill, Freshman; Ray Schleck, Lyons; Harold Boisvert, Dillon; Ed Disser, Cavanaugh; George Neumann, Alumni; Joe Rizzi, Sorin; Jim Metzler, St. Ed’s; Tom Reardon, Walsh; Herb Connelly, Zahm; Phil Donahue, Badin; Greg Rice, Morrissey; Tom Reardon, Brownson; Phil Sandmeier, Howard, and Ed Disser, Carroll.
The DuPont Company of Wilmington, Delaware, spends $5,000,000 a year in industrial research.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VINCENTIAN CRUSADE BEGUN BY OZANAM
HEUTHER IN CHARGE OF STUDENT TRIP
BAND BEARING DOWN FOR OPENING BLOW
Frederic Ozanam was the man who answered the taunts of the St. Simonians, a group that asked the young Catholic men in the University of Paris to show what they were doing as members of the Church. The cry was “Show us your works.” The St. Simonians looked upon the Church of their day as an institution in ruins, ruins that reflected her triumphs in the past. These they admited, but they wanted to be shown what she was doing in their time. Ozanam took up the challenge, and founded the St. Vincent de Paul Society in 1833. He said that the taunts of the unbelievers must not be answered by pointing to the Catholics’ achievement in philosophy and poetry. “Two wings” were needed he said, “the wings that bear the angels—faith and charity.”
The founder of the St. Vincent de Paul Society was bom in Milan, in 1813. His father, a doctor, returned to his native Lyons when the Austrians retook Milan, and in Lyons he built up a good practice. He and his wife did marvelous charity work among poor patients. On the dark stairs of one of their mean abodes, the Doctor fell and died the day after the accident. This was the father of the man who has been called “the greatest apostle of charity which the Nineteenth century has produced!”
The life of Frederic Ozanam is truly a striking one! It is impossible to tell what a great man he was in a single column. Let us, therefore, consider now his early life in Paris. He went to the city in 1831 to study law. Yet he was uncertain about his vocation; he believed that the greatest do not look ahead to their ultimate work, but rather “let themselves be taken by the hand of God and led.” Frederic did not have to wait long before he was given a mission by Providence. The young man found that the professors at the Sorbonne thought little of ridiculing the Church so that they might gain some crude popularity. Ozanam built up a little army of students fortified with Catholic teachings, and the war was on.
Gotham skyscraper residents will look down on a walking field of shamrock again this year when the Notre Dame band leads the student trip contingent down Broadway towards another battle with the Army in Yankee Stadium. Beginning early Saturday morning, Oct. 29, Notre Dame’s famous “subway alumni” will toss aside their traditional “Sidewalks of New York” in favor of an off key chorus of the “Victory March.”
Before the student special pulls away from South Bend — probably Friday afternoon, Oct. 28 — the Student Athletic Council has a lot of spade work to do in the way of scheduling trains, distributing tickets, arranging hotel accommodations, and fixing budgets. Bob Heuther is the S.A.C. financier in charge of the trip, and yesterday he tentatively set the McAlpin Hotel (located at Broadway and Thirty-fourth street) as Notre Dame headquarters for the week-end.
Students living in New York may spend the week-end with their parents. No definite date has been set for the return trip. All Saints’ Day, an open date on the school calendar, will enable travelers to stretch their holiday over to Wednesday morning. However, there will be classes all day Monday, and cuts will be served up to those who stay over in New York.
Two weeks ago the announcement went out: “Wanted, all band men.” Then came the horde on Monday the
President Higby “Wanted: All Band Men."
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
There will be an important meeting of the Academy of Science in room 101 of the Biology Building, Monday evening, Oct. 3, at 8 o’clock. All member* are urged to make a special effort to be on hand for the first club meeting of the year.
Looking up the family tree often results in funding the whole crop was a failure.
TOMORROW LAST DAY OF SECOND MISSION
•
Tomorrow morning at 6:30 o’clock the second of the annual Notre Dame student missions will close with mass and instruction in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver the final sermon to students from Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Howard, Morrissey, and Lyons Halls.
. Beginning last Sunday evening Father O’Hara spoke simply to the students, reminding them that their ultimate purpose in life was the salvation of their soul and that Notre Dame was a University dedicated to that principle. From that starting point Father O’Hara gradually moved to other topics, Sin, Death, Judgment, and Passion of Our Lord. Tonight he will speak on “Perseverance.”
A retreat for the lay faculty was held in conjunction with the second student mission. The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. conducted the retreat in Alumni Chapel. Faculty members attended mass and instruction each morning at 6:30, and returned for benediction and a sermon in the evening.
19th. New men, old men, fat men, thin men, all came streaming into the third floor practice room of Music Hall. Soon there was standing room only, and the sound of a few scattered horns grew into a great din. Then appeared the Bandmaster, “Joe” Casasanta, who promptly brought all into order. Once again the soul stirring “Victory March” was played—once again the band had started a new season.
Approximately 120 men have entered the competition of seeking a “berth” in the band. The new men are learning the music “by heart”— a strict requirement of all Notre Dame bands.
Several night practices have been held in order to be prepared for the opening of the official football season tomorrow.
Tryouts have been conducted to determine who this year’s drum major will be. The position is now to be filled by Joseph Pawlowski, who will be assisted by Stanley Littizette.
A late spring event of the band was the election of officers. The campaign was a “hot” one, with five men running for the presidency, and many more seeking the other offices.
Kenneth E. Higby, Jr., of Ripon, Wis., was elected president; William H. Hake, of Gary, Ind., was chosen vice-president; and Martin S. McGinnis, was selected as business manager.
FIRST" DOME" MEETING
A meeting for all the Freshmen and Sophomores who wish to try out for the “Dome” staff will be held in the “Dome” Offices in the Ave Maria Building at 7:00 o’clock on Monday, Oct. 3. Any underclassman, regardless of whether he had had previous experience in this work or not, is welcome to try out for a position on the staff.
SEPTEMBER 30. 1938
9
/-------------------------------\
Music Notes
<—______________________________f
By William Mooney
The music faculty at Notre Dame deserves to be introduced. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department, teaches theory, organ and advanced piano. Mr. Pedtke also has charge of the Glee Club. He has a fine background in music. His ability as a pianist is shown in the fact that he has appeared as piano soloist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
Joseph Casasanta directs the band and teaches classes in the theory of music. Joe has been an important figure at Notre Dame for many years, and his popularity is widespread. His office door is always open, and he is a personal friend of every student on the campus. Violin students are guided by Mr. Ingersoll. Elton Cra-peau is in charge of those studying voice. This year Cletus Schommer has been added to the faculty as graduate assistant. He will conduct the reserve Glee Club and will teach beginners piano. All of these men are experienced teachers, and they are all trying to build up the department.
On the suggestion of Mr. Pedtke the library has enlarged its section devoted to music. Approximately 300 volumes are now available. These books are written for the uninitiated as well as for the advanced musician.
Swing and the Classics
Arguments have been carried to great lengths on this subject, and it is impossible to reach a fixed decision. But we can be sure of one thing—the classics will never die. Swing is important now in the world of music because of its great popularity. The question of how long swing will last cannot be answered. The controversy should be discussed from the point of view of composition, interpretation and enjoyment.
The great symphonies were years in the making, but a top-notch hit tune can be composed in a very short time. Likewise, the great symphonies maintain their greatness through centuries, while most popular songs lose their appeal in a few months.
The greatest difference lies in the matter of interpretation. Each dance orchestra interprets the numbers in its own way, and each interpretation is legitimate. But in symphonic interpretations the composer is supreme. The imagination of the conductor enters only slightly. The question is always, “Is that what the composer intended.”
The appreciation of dance music falls into three classes: those who (Continued on Page 20)
'LAWYER' ORGANIZED FOR COMING YEAR
Meeting for the first time with its new editor-in-chief and its new faculty advisor last week the board of editors of the Notre Dame Lawyer, University legal quarterly, adopted far-reaching changes in its editorial arrangements for its fourteenth year of publication.
Editor - in - Chief Frank Lanigan, senior lawyer from LaPorte, Ind., announced the appointment of several
Carl Doozan
Note man for the “Lawyer”
assitant editors to facilitate the adoption of these changes. They are Ernest Lanois, legislative editor; Carl Doozan, note editor; Martin Husung, case editor; book review editor, John Cain; and article editor, John Vicars.
Attempting to start a section never before appearing in the Lawyer, Lanigan said that the legislative editor will discuss recent legislation, stressing particularly how canon law is affected by it.
The legal note department, well-known to the readers of the Lawyer, studies principles of law tracing their origin, development, and present status in relation to new cases found? in the sheets of the advance reporters.
Publication dates were set for November, January, March and May.
Professor James Kearney is faculty advisor of the publication with David Gelbertas managing editor and John A. O’Leary, business manager.
The board of editors consist of Roberto Benevides, Edward Boyle, John Cain, Carl Doozan, Martin Husung, Ernest Lanois, Edward O’Malley, Stewart Roche, John Vicars, and Robert Weaver.
Carole Lombard earned $465,000 in 1937. She paid the government $397,575. After paying her press agent, business manager and other professional expenses she had left for herself $20,000. Said Carole: “Twenty thousand is plenty for me . . . why not give what I don’t need to the government for the improvement of the country.”
College Parade
By Frederick E. Sisk
Lights Out
Leave it to college professors to find out something. Most of them can tell you anything from how much water flows through a drain pipe on a southwestern Kansas farm house during a drouth to the proper number of steps to take in running from the dining hall to the movie in Washington Hall on Saturday nights.
Now a “prof” at the University of Wichita tells the world the average amount of sleep we college-learners use each week. He conludes it’s 56 hours “on the pillow” each week. (What’s the college again, professor?)
Here are some averages to dream about: students sleeping the least number of hours spend the most time studying and “a girl sleeping 60 hours does no outside work and studies but 10 hours.”
—o—
Geometry in “a la logic” installments Given: I love you.
To prove: That you love me.
Proof:
1.	I love you.
2.	Therefore, I am a lover.
3.	All the world loves a lover.
4.	You are all the world to me.
5.	Therefore, you love me.
—The Alabamian.
—o—
Dentists’ Etiquette: Mark Twain
Recently added to an autograph collection in the library of the University of Loyola at Los Angeles was the following short note signed by Mark Twain: “Dear Mrs. Fields: I am just taking a short rest from the dentist chair. I have thoughts but it is too near Sunday to put them on paper.”
Well, far be it from us to put your thoughts down on paper, Mark; after all, we’ve made a good many excursions to the “Dentist Chair,” and besides this Scholastic has to go through the U. S. Mail.
—o—
“Floats” in the College Parade
When bigger and better Christians are made, Loyola at Los Angeles will make them; they call their student manuals, “Frosh Bibles.” ... if Indiana University’s Marching Hundred band goes to Boston on Nov. 5, 3,000 greenbacks will have to march in the band coffer between now and then for travel expenses. ... . WLB, the U. of Minnesota station, begins its 13th year of “air-casting^’ this year. . . . only 83 days until Christmas vacation and just 65 days until “College Parade” makes its football predictions; that’s Dec. 4th, the day after the So. Cal. game.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HENNESSY SETS DATE OF SOPH COTILLION
By Thomas C. Ferneding
Notre Dame men of “41” will this year usher in the social limelight, the initial dance of the season—the Sophomore Cotillion. Under the leadership of Joseph Mulligan class president, and Jack Hennessy, general chairman of the dance, the Palais Royale ballroom has already been engaged for the occasion on Friday, Oct. 14 from 9:00 to 1:00. Tickets will be $3.00 and only 400 couples will be admitted.
For all sophomores, juniors, seniors and graduate students attending the University, the week-end of Oct. 14 holds many a pleasant surprise in the line of entertainment, for those attending the Sophomore Cotillion. Beginning the round of activities will be the Cotillion on Friday evening, followed by the Notre Dame-Illinois football game on Saturday afternoon, and a tentative football dance scheduled for Saturday night to be held at the Columbia Athletic Club.
Cotillion patrons and their guests will have reserved for them a special section in the stadium for the Notre Dame - Illinois game. Announcement of the date for student ticket exchanges in the rserved Cotillion goers section, will be made at a later date.
The Sophomore class this year has adopted the policy of sending personal invitations to all faculty members, instead of merely issuing a general invitation.
General chairman of the Cotillion is Jack Hennessy. The committees and their chairmen are: Decorations, Frank McGroder, chairman; Bill Mulvey, Bill Carbine, Phil Gallagher. Tickets, Jack Burke, chairman; Ray Quinn, Jerry Hammer, Andy Pinckney, Leo Hillebrand, Harry McLaughlin, Emmett Necas. Music, Bill Cotter, chairman; Charles Dillon, Bob Oden-bach, John O’Laughlin, Bill Wilson. Programs, Thomas Reis, chairman; Bob Sagau, George Rassas, Jim Hannigan, Bob Cronin, Bill Hoyne. Publicity, Dick Ball, chairman; Roy Kelly, Bill Malaney, John Coppinger, Ralph Gerra, Vern Wilkowski. Patrons, Jack Patterson, chairman; John O’Dea, Dick O’Connor, John Sievert, Jim McInerney.
DEPT. OF COINCIDENCES
Harvey Swindler, Marion, Indiana, was fined $20 and costs, and sentenced to serve 30 days in jail on a charge of chiseling on Unemployment Compensation.
Radio
The purpose of this column is to keep the student informed on Campus radio activities, commenting from time to time on new program addi-
COMMENTATOR FEENEY
Radioman turned author.
tions and interesting radio personalities. Space will alse be devoted to reviews of latest network experiments and significant technical and production developments that may arise.
The first news emanating from the local studios is that the Campus Radio Studio is celebrating its fifth anniversary. A larger production schedule has been assembled this year in connection with other student activities. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., director of the studio, has announced that additional musical programs will be presented by The Linnets, new Freshman organization supervised by Mr. Orville Foster. Also, staff members will cooperate with Mr. Thomas Mills and the University Theatre in the presentation of the “Notre Dame Playhouse of the Air” series and preview broadcasts of Washington Hall plays.
President Norbert Aleksis, in charge of production, has announced the opening meeting will be held Wednesday night, October 5th, at 8:00 o’clock in the Cushing Hall of Engineering. Everyone who is interested in learning announcing, script writing, or radio dramatics is invited to attend. Freshmen are eligible.
The new year’s activity will be ushered in with a special inaugural program to be broadcast on October 13th, Founder’s Day. Tentative plans for this will be announced next week. Already, extensive arrangements are being made for two full-hour variety shows to be presented from the stage in Washington Hall during the year. Last year’s program originating from that point was favorably received by a capacity student audience. The Campus microphone will again feature rhythms of “The Modernairs,” popular student dance orchestra, in a weekly series of half-hour broadcasts. Fresh from their successful summer tour in Virginia, “The Modernairs” are busy rehearsing Director Carl
S.A.C. KANSAS DANCE SATURDAY NIGHT
By Harry Penrose
Rejoice and be glad all you students who await with impatience the aesthetic ecstasies of the dance. Tomorrow night at 9:30 the Notre Dame Moderaires will swing loose the timbers of the Columbia Athletic Club at the first football dance of the season.
From 9:30 until 11:30 the Student Activities Council has decided to allow every true Notre Dame man (who can muster up 50 cents) and his “Drag” to glide over the waxed mahogany and celebrate our expected victory over Kansas.
As this is the first football dance of the year, the S.A.C. is doing everything possible to make it the best. An experienced swing band, a nominal price, and a joyous occasion are its foremost inducements.
Even the freshmen are coming in for special attention. Heretofore, they have been allowed to take in the dazzling wonders of South Bend’s Great White Way and sparkling night life but once a month. However, granting the plea of the S.A.C., the University has decided to give a free midnight permission to all the frosh who attend the dance.
Tickets are as easy to get as is a head cold from the Indiana rain. Merely wave 50 cents under the nose of any S.A.C. man, and before you can flick an eyelash there will be a piece of pasteboard in your hand that will admit the bearer and his date to the dance.
With a month’s summer playing at Virginia Beach and boasting of a new organization of the brass section, the Modemaires have become a top-notch band. Old “Swing and Sweat” Robinett with his triumphant trombone, and “Tom-Tom” Bill Dunham, Notre Dame’s edition of Gene Krupa, are this year’s new additions to the band.
Tomorrow night’s dance is the first of a series of dances that is to continue after home games throughout the year. Different campus organizations will take turns sponsoring these affairs.
The dance will be conducted under the usual regulations as laid down by the Faculty Dance Committee.
Hunn’s latest musical arrangements. Through the efforts of Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Vice President of the University, new control room facilities are expected to be installed before the end of this season’s activities. These technical aids will afford higher production efficiency. In view of all these recent additions, Campus Radio looks forward to a successful fifth anniversary.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
Theatre
By R. J. Sadlier
Last week the University Players announced try-outs for the coming season. With the first production scheduled for mid-November, it is imperative that rehearsals get under way sometime during the first week of October, at the latest. Graduation has left many openings in the ranks of the Players, and consequently they must be filled if the year is to be a successful one. So far the turn-out has been very slight, especially among the freshmen. Unlike many other universities, where the freshmen are considered no more than amoeba wallowing in the primal ooze and are tolerated through necessity, Notre Dame cordially welcomes freshmen participation in extra-curricular activities. Our motto is, “train them for a year and then sit back and enjoy them for three years.” So, here’s an open invitation to the class of ’42! Come on out and see what you can do! Get that well-known ball rolling now! There’s no time like the present, and there’s a big year ahead!
Professor Thomas E. Mills, Direc-of the University Players, is going to attempt a~ unique thing in the way of radio dramatics this year. In cooperation with the campus radio studios, the Players will present a series of productions over the airwaves. From the looks of things, Orson Welles will be lacking sponsors once the Notre Dame Radio Playhouse of the Air gets under way. But, being “simon-pures,” all professional offers will have to be refused. W. C. Shakespeare once said: “If it were not for the amateurs the theatre could not be. Food costs money!”
It was pointed out in this column last week that good - fellowship is essential to life. With the Players this is a requisite. Long gruelling hours of hard work line the road leading up to an “opening night,” and, without harmony and the like, it would be a rough trip. Those long, hard hours are worthwhile though. When the houselights go down and the footlights come up, a little world, apart from our normal one, comes to life on the stage. For a moment there’s a dead silence . . . then the rustle of the curtains as they slide back into the wings. The show is on! Hours pass like minutes to the actors. . . . the last line . . . curtain . . . the show is over. Backstage, cold-cream is being smeared on grease-painted faces. Everyone feels nervous and jumpy. Perhaps more so than when they were doing the show. Then reports begin to trickle in. It clicked! Those driving rehearsals are forgotten. Everything is forgotten by the
PHILOSOPHY SCHOOL PLAHS SYMPOSIUM
Adolph Hitler, of recent note, has combined his personal philosophy with his personal politics and he’s having a fine time. The department of Politics and the department of Social
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
Will have charge of Philosophy-Politics Symposium.
Philosophy are taking a hint and planning a fine time themselves. It will take the shape of a Symposium, wherein will be gathered the best men in politics and philosophy, and the dates set for the occasion are November 4th and 5th.
A Frenchman, Dr. Jacques Mari-tain, lecturer, outstanding Catholic philosopher, and author of Art and Scholasticism and Things That Are Not Caesar’s, will deliver the feature lecture. A native of Germany and present economist at Georgtown University, Dr. Goetz Briefs, author of The Proletariat, will also lecture. Reverend Leo Richard Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, is in charge of the Symposium.
triumph of the moment. Unless you’ve actually experienced this, it’s a hard thing to describe. But, if you can picture a football team coming through in the last two minutes of play to score that winning touchdown, maybe you’ll come close to the feeling the actor has when a show goes over with a bang.
You know, this theatre-goin’ crowd is a funny outfit. For some reason or other, they all come from Missouri. But here on the campus Missouri is just a drop in the bucket. N. D. isn’t satisfied with something that is merely good. They want the best. And that is what the University Players are known for—the best! The best or nothing! It’s up to you. So, if you can act or even think you can act, come on out and let us see if you have what we’re looking for. Adios amigos! Houselightsup!
JACQUES PAINTINGS HANG IN LIBRARY
By Dick Metzger
In the Wightmann Memorial Art Gallery, located on the third floor of the Library, Notre Dame possesses one of the finest art collection in the Middle West. Such a collection affords great pleasure to anyone who appreciates art and is familiar with such names as Poussin, Bartolommeo, Vallejo, or Van Dyck—to mention a few of the artists represented in the collection. However, there is one name which should interest all Notre Dame men. That name is Emil Jacques.
Emil Jacques died a year ago last summer. He had been a familiar figure on the Notre Dame campus from 1929 to 1937 as the head of the University Art Department. Juniors and seniors will remember him as the little man with the waxed mustache, the goatee, and the piercing eyes who invariably sat in the middle of faculty row to witness the Saturday night shows in Washington Hall.
Emil Jacques is represented in the Art Gallery by eleven paintings. All but one of these are located in the mezzanine. Here one may see his working studies for the murals that now adorn the sanctuary walls of St. Mary’s Cathedral in Portland, Oregon. Their neat, careful workmanship will impress even the most doubtful observer. It is hard to believe that they are but studies for the murals themselves. His large painting, “Mary Magdalene,” a beautiful piece of work in itself, is also connected with his murals. Her repentent figure may be seen at the foot of the large panel studies. The other paintings on the mezzanine, such as “High Water” and “Tobacco Pickers,” are not so realistically detailed as the mural work; rather they offer a more general impression of the scene depicted. They are, however, done in the same clear, thoughtful style which characterizes Emil Jacques’ work.
On the second floor to the right of the stairs is Emil Jacques’ “Resignation.” One cannot look at this picture without some emotional reaction. The painting has great depth of feeling, of humility, of submissiveness. It is difficult to explain such a painting and its effect. One must see the work itself to appreciate and understand it.
One of the purposes of an art gallery is to aid and encourage the public to know and appreciate fine art. The Wightmann Memorial Art Gallery has such as this purpose. In Emil Jacques’ work it has a special attraction for Notre Dame students. His paintings are more than works of exceptional merit. They represent the sincere efforts of a Notre Dame man who devoted his entire life to art.
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C............Faculty Advisor
MARK J. MITCHELL...................Editor-in-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY__________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney____________________Literary Editor
William A. Donnelly_______________________The Week
Frederick Sisk________________________College Parade
Graham Starr_____________________Man About the Campus
William Mooney____________________________Music Notes
Andrew Wilson_________________Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff_______________________________Introducing
Nenas Staff William C. Fay_______________________-_________News Editor
F. G. Barreda___________________________Assistant News Editor
John Kohn_________________________,________Harry Penrose
George Haithcock___________________________Joseph Perkins
Thomas Ferneding___________________________Joseph Miller
George Neumann_____________________________Stephen Smith
John Ferneding_____________________________Thomas Marker
Edward Huston______________________________Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett___________'_______________________Sports Editor
Robert B. Voelker_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Clarence Sheehan John Quinn
James Newland John	White
Francis Kennedy________________________________________Frank	Aubrey
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 72	September 30, 1938
No. 2
"Sapientis Est Ordinare"
IT IS almost a futility for anyone to comment on the situation in Europe at the present time. Conditions are changing every hour, and no possible outcome would be very surprising.
However, The Scholastic would like to point out that one primary principle can be affirmed safely no matter what the future brings. This principle is not “Peace at any price.” No more is it “Hitler must be stopped.” It is a principle of universal history — the unalterable truth that wisdom brings order out of chaos.
If there had been wisdom at Versailles, there would not be chaos today. If wisdom reigned today, there would be order — not only in Germany and Spain and Italy, but throughout the world. One wise man, given the opportunity to use his gift, could have saved millions of lives in the past thirty years; could probably save billions in the next thirty. Instead, we have innumerable fools, vieing with each other to see who can be the biggest. That is civilization, a civilization which not only permits, but sanctions
the wholesale slaughter of non-combatants on the grounds that everyone is a potential combatant, which allows unprincipled dictators to establish totalitarian states where and when they please in opposition to all laws of God and man.
Briefly, it is obvious that we have chaos. We must establish order. And as our own Dr. McMahon has been telling his classes time and again, Sapientis est ordinare.
—Mark J. Mitchell.
Listen Irish!
YOU’RE hopping right into the fire tomorrow afternoon against Kansas and there isn’t even a frying pan in sight until after the last game with Southern Cal. The football experts have your obituary typed and filed but obituaries still have to be signed on the line—on the goal line.
You’re a young team this year and most of you will be starting your first game for Notre Dame. Some of you will be pulling on gold varsity pants for the first time. Maybe you’re a little worried about what the experts have been writing — that a young team will crumble before Navy and Minnesota and Army.
But you Sophomores are the Freshmen that swung the lanterns and rode Puplis and McCormick and Sweeney across campus the Monday night after those dismal afternoons against Illinois and Carnegie. You’re the same fellows that stole the Navy goat from Dogtown, “no meat tonight, steaks tomorrow!” You juniors and seniors were on the bench when the varsity finally skidded through the mud for nine quick points in that last quarter against Navy. You heard the rest of the squad — 3100 of them — that roared hoarse encouragement from the stands through three blank periods and brought the snow down faster when McCarthy finally slipped into the open from the Navy thirty-three.
You know that the Notre Dame football season was a success right there — not because Notre Dame had won but because a Notre Dame team had shaken off a good beating and came back fighting. You’ll probably take a couple of beatings before the season’s over but you’ll come clawing back too — because that’s Notre Dame football.
There’s something behind Notre Dame football. The students — you’ll see them tonight in the gym. The alumni— you’ll hear them from the stands in New York to Los Angeles. And there are other things. For instance, there’s the story of “Buddy” Keddie.
He was a thirteen-year-old kid living on a farm near Boston, Pennsylvania. He won’t report to Jake Kline in ’43 because he died this summer. Now there’s a miniature grotto by his grave. Working late at night and early in the morning his father moved ten tons of stone and five tons of sand to build a nine foot replice of our grotto to Our Lady of Lourdes. His reasoning was simple. “Buddy” couldn’t go to Notre Dame; so, he brought Notre Dame to “Buddy.”
This isn’t a mundane plea to go out and win for “Buddy” like they do in the movies. But the fighting spark Notre Dame has found each year in the shadows is ignited by the perfect belief that a thousand “Buddies” have in the “Fighting Irish.” That’s a heritage of Notre Dame teams—and it belongs to you now.—W. C. Fay.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
13
—
3n jWmoriam
PATRICK CARDINAL HAYES 1867- 1938
A university student is a privileged student. He has received a talent and we have the right to expect that he is going to use it. The most essential thing in America today is a sound public opinion, and the university bred man has failed in his mission and betrayed his training if he does not contribute to the creation of a sound public opinion. He must be true to a lofty ideal. An ideal is not always arrived at, because you are going to run into the human average all the time. But without an ideal to shoot at we wouldn’t get anywhere.
From an address given by Cardinal Hayes at the dedication of the Law building, Oct. 7,1930
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Actor
By William Cullen Fay
Monahan always thought he could have been a great actor even after he knocked out Spud Leary for the heavyweight title. He was always telling the story about how he and Metro’s David Lance grew up together on the same block in Flatbush.
The comparison was so funny you laughed, inside. You thought of the gorgeous Lance profile that caught the Academy Award in “Triumphant Heai-ts”—and then you took another look at Monahan’s square Irish face and thought of the bumpy crust on a potpie.
But Monahan could act, sometimes. . . . The Wop’s hard right banged him flush below the heart. His knees sagged truthfully but his face was stolid perjury—only his lips thinned slightly. “Creampuff,” he sneered, and flailed his left. The Wop backed off, hesitant, and Monahan broke through into the center of the ring.
The ninth round was almost dead. He began to work towards his own comer. The Wop followed, his right cocked, but Monahan got inside, sank a short left, and clinched. The bell clanged and he shoved the Wop away hard. The sham of strength was for Mcllvenay. Mcllvenay was one judge who scored on condition.
Mike shoved the stool under him, fished his mouthpiece, dropped the waterbottle in his lap — tri-motion. He rinsed and watched the Wop glide across the ring. Strong young muscles padded Vitelli’s shoulders. He was a fighter, contemptuous of stalling and clinching. He sat light on his stool, shuffling his feet impatiently in the rosin, and glowered at Monahan.
Monahan spat disdainfully, looked away. He had been young and eager, once—five years ago when he belted Leary over the ropes in three heats. That was in this same ring, he remembered. Red’s fingers slapped and tingled his cheeks. Mike rubbed ice up and down his back. For a shock of seconds his legs were light.
Nervous sweat beaded Mike’s flat bald head. His breath wheezed up from an abrupt sphere of stomach. “How d’ya feel, Champ?” he asked hoarsely, juggling the sal ammoniac under Monahan’s nose.
“Great,” Monahan lied, and sniffed deep. Little knives cut the fog behind his eyeballs.
“That last right hurt any?”
“Naw, it’s a feather-duster—just keeps the flies away.” He laughed and spat red into the rosin. “Little water on the scalp, Michael.”
The water trickled into his ears.
Mike toweled vigorously. The rubbing made him sleepy.
“One more round, Champ. Ya got him wrapped up on points.”
“Yeah.”
“But that right’s lullabye-music. Stay away. No sucker punches.”
“OK, but I could knock him out easy.” B-u-z-z-. The ten second warning. He relaxed completely. C-l-a-n-g-. He was touching gloves with the Wop.
The Wop was alive like a spluttering fuse. Sweat oiled his corded stomach. Monahan led a left but Vitelli slapped it aside and banged him hard with a right. Monahan felt tired all over again. He knew he couldn’t knock the Wop out — not even with a ringpost.
Up in the Garden was the red swarm of cigarettes. The smoke sandpapered his lungs. Salt cut his tongue, and his cheeks were wet and sticky. One of the Wop’s jabs had opened up the old cut over his right eye.
The Wop’s glove were splotching red blurs along his stomach. He couldn’t see the Wop so good any more. Maybe Mcllvenay wouldn’t score too heavy on the eye cut. The Wop came inside with a right and he dug his chin into the Wop’s shoulder and clung.
“Six—Seven—Eight.” Mike and Red were screaming. Get up? Hell, no one ever knocked him down. “Nine”—the sleeve flashed by in a white arc—“Ten.”
Mike and Red were bending over him and picking him up. Mike was crying. They got him back on his stool and the Wop came over and hugged him. ... It was clearer after the shower with Mike’s pudgy fingers slapping him awake on the table.
“I’ll get him next time, Mike,” he mumbled.
“Sure, Champ.”
“I ain’t the Champ anymore. . . . The Wop’s the Champ now.”
“Nuts,” said Mike and slapped him harder. “It was a lucky punch.” W-h-a-c-k-. “Roll over.”
“What d’we do now, Mike?”
“Take it easy for a while—knock over a cup-la contenders — get the Wop again — hell, you’ll have that crown back for a Christmas present.”
“Dempsey didn’t.”
“Who’s Dempsey? Besides he didn’t have a dummy for a manager. I should’a let ya knock that bum over in the tenth like ya wanted. Right?”
“Right.”
“Atta boy.” Mike patted his back. “Now get your clothes on and scram outta here. Get drunk if ya wantta
—you’ll feel better tomorrow.”
He didn’t feel like getting drunk and feeling better tomorrow. He felt like talking to Mary. Mary would never make the front line at the Paradise, but her eyes were .deep blue and her hair red gold and her last name was properly Callahan. Callahan’s Cafe put out the best pies in Manhattan and Mary baked them.
Lots of ex-champs went into the restaurant business. Dempsey and Braddock — even ballplayers like DiMaggio. If a guy wanted to do that a wife like Mary would be a good lead.
She spotted him as soon as he sat down at the counter. “What’ll it be, Champ,” she asked. “Apple?”
“Monahan’s the name.”
“Forget it,” she laughed. “I listened to Clem McCarthy. It was a lucky punch. Coffee?”
“Yeah, black.” He had to steer the pie carefully between his swollen lips. The coffee burned and warmed. Gradually he forgot the thudding rights, the smoke, the wobbly knees and wondered, apprehensively, how David Lance would propose to a girl in a restaurant.
“More coffee, Mr. Monahan?”
“Champ’ll do.”
“OK, Champ.” She slid the cup towards him. “Champ, I want you to meet the new manager of Callahan’s Cafe. Eddie Casey, meet the Champ.”
“Hiya, Eddie.” He shook hands with a tall stand of freckles and a wide grin. “What’s the matter, Mary? You sellin’ out.”
She blushed. “Nope, just merging. Eddie and I are getting married.”
“Gettin’ hitched, huh? That’s swell. Congratulations.” Carefully, he divided the last crumb of crust before standing up. “That’s swell pie, Mary. Don’t forget to drop up to my place some time and try mine. Soon as I get even with the Wop I’m opening up one of these joints myself, only classier — you know, like Dempsey and Braddock.”
“Good luck, both ways, Champ.”
“Thanks, Mary. S’long, Eddie.” He saluted them snappily from the doorway, fighter-fashion, shaking his hands over his head. It might have reminded you a little of David Lance’s farewell to Marian Dawn as the transport sailed, reel 4, “Triumphant Hearts”—it might have, that is, if you hadn’t seen the wet puffiness that was Monahan’s eyes.
“Let me know when ya set the date,” he waved back. “I’ll send ya my boxin’ gloves. I guess you’ll be needin’ them more than , me.”
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
SWORDSMEN OUT FOR FIRST PRACTICE
•
Confronted with the problem of keeping the most experienced fencing squad he has ever coached from becoming overconfident, Coach Pedro de Landero issued his first call to 30 men this week. Captain Sal Scar-lata, Charlie Colgan, Jim Graham, Johnny Gavan, and Bud McEneamy are returning lettermen, while Joe Leising, Gerry Donovan, Joe Smalley and Bob Sayia are experienced men.
Captain Jack Zerbst, Pierre de la Vergne, and Vic Mercado, lettermen, and reserve Bill Mahoney were lost by graduation. Russell Harris and Michelson failed to return to school.
Because of the losses, Coach de Landero must rebuild a complete new foil team around McEnearny, Leising and the sophomores, John Gaither and Hubert Schlafly.
“It is too early to make any predictions,” the coach explained. He is fearful that the lack of experienced foilsmen and the possibility of overconfidence are obstacles to a successful season. The coach stated that every place on the squad is open, and the men who work the hardest and improve the most will get the team call.
The call for freshman fencing will be made in November.
Interhaliers Start
Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their hall.
The chips are down and the play is ready to begin in both fall interhall sports. In the soccer league there are teams from all the freshmen and sophomore halls and one representing the juniors. The juniors have been given the odds by campus sports followers, although they say “in interhall competition picking favorites just doesn’t go.” Last Sunday morning the junior team played a warmup affair with the La Raza club and was held to a 1-1 tie.
The touch football league has teams from most of the halls with great interest being displayed by all. From dehydrated Badin Bog to the wild prairie behind Freshman Hall, prospective all-stars get ready for the drop of the flag. The boys from Brownson and Zahm couldn’t control their eagerness and engaged in a preseason contest with Brother Patrick’s boys, winning by 12-0, in a well-played game.
VETERAN KANSAS GRID TEAM HERE TOMORROW WEIGHT ADVANTAGE FAVORS LAYDENMEN
By Clarence Sheehan
The eyes of Notre Dame students, alumni, and friends will be focused hopefully upon Coach Elmer Layden’s Fighting Irish tomorrow afternoon in their season’s opener with the University of Kansas Jayhawks. This year’s varsity, labeled by “experts” as the weakest team to represent the Irish in the
Sheehan Again Wins Fall Golf Crown
By John White
Golf competition bowed out for the current season at Notre Dame last Sunday afternoon as 25 young links-
Captain Tom Sheehan Shows his boys the way.
men completed play in the annual Fall University Open Golf championship, held under the direction of Rev. George Holderith, C. S. C., varsity golf coach.	•
Leading the large field, representing the very best in undergraduate talent, Tommy Sheehan, varsity golf captain, defending titlist from Chicago Heights, Illinois, finished the slowest course of the tourney two above par with a 72, and bringing his score for the 72 holes to 286, six ahead of par. Pacing the repeating champion through the final rounds, and just behind Sheehan at the turn was Sammy Nield, slamming Sophomore from Rhode Island. Nield, in his tourney debut at Notre Dame was brilliant with a card of 291.	.
Finishing in order after Nield were Pat Malloy in third position with a neat 298, and Charlie Bennett, close behind, stroking 299. Just over the 300 mark, with knotted scores of 303 were Bob Smith, Bill Castleman, and Milo Wolfe.
Sheehan was victorious over a starting field of 54, who had driven into action Saturday before last. Play (Continued on Page 20)
last five years, will enter the contest with but one holdover from last season’s outfit — Ed Beinor, burly left tackle. A glimpse at the visitors’ starting lineup reveals that Coach Ad Lindsey will have five of the regulars on hand from the team which staged one of last fall’s major upsets when it held Nebraska’s Cornhuskers to a 13-13 tie.
The Jayhawks successfuly opened their season last Saturday when they defeated the University of Texas Longhorns, 19 -18. Kansas pushed across 19 points in the opening half while holding the visitors scoreless but due to the terrific heat and a great weight disadvantage they were unable to stave off the late thrusts of the Texans. Chet Gibbens, 145 pound sophomore dropkick artist who was sent into the game after two of his mates had failed in their attempts to convert the extra point and who proved to be the hero when the final score was posted, will bear watching tomorrow in the event of a Kansas touchdown or an advantageous spot for a field goal.
Paul Masoner, senior signal barker, will be at quarterback with Ed Hall in the fullback spot and Dick Amer-ine and Ralph Miller running at the halves. Miller, who topped his splendid performance against Texas with a 90 yard run back of an intercepted pass, is being heralded as another Sam Francis out Kansas way. This brilliant halfback is a shifty, elusive, hip-throwing runner who can slip out of a tacklers grasp with the greatest of ease. As a sophomore he is expected to be a sensation in Big Six circles.
For Notre Dame, Brown and Kelly, ends; Beinor and Kell, tackles; Capt. McGoldrick and Bossu, guards; and Longhi, center will probably make up the forward wall. If McGoldrick is unable to go Joe DeFranco will step in at left guard. Sitko, Stevenson, Zontini, and Tonelli will be in the backfield with Ben Sheridan certain of seeing plenty of action due to his sensational job of ball toting against the frosh.	.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
KANSAN EDITOR GIVES JAYHAWKERS 'CHANCE" IRISH PASS ATTACK WORRIES VISITORS
"B" TEAM OPENS AT JORDAN COLLEGE
By Lester B. Kappelman
Sports Editor, The Daily Kansan
LAWRENCE, Kans., Sept. 29.—(Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic) —In wake of the thrilling 19 to 18 opening victory over Texas by a rejuvenated football Jayhawker, conjecture now arises in the Kansas grid camp concerning the success of the new season, and especially that of the immediate engagement
with Notre Dame.
Majority of opinion out here in the combelt rules that the season should be good, and that against the Fighting Irish, Kansas does have a very definite “chance.” Outside of this prediction, prognosticators refuse to go further.
Two vital question marks about the Kansas team were pretty definitely settled by the end of the Texas fray Saturday. The Jayhawkers will be offensive-minded this year; and Coach Ad Lindsey will have a more plentiful supply of reserves than heretofore.
One reason for this is the number of good sophomore replacements who will reinforce the 16 battlescarred veterans for what promises to be the toughest campaign in Kansas history.
Heading the list is a brilliant sophomore candidate for the 1939-40 AllAmericas, Ralph Miller, who runs, kicks, and passes equally well. Other sophomore satellites who are proving stars of the first rank are Burge, Renko, Massere, and Crowell in the line; and Hall, Bunsen, and Bukaty in the secondary.
Considering the completion of the Texas aerial circus of 27 out of 46 passes, it is expected that Notre Dame will also take to the stratosphere in their attempt to storm the Jayhawker goal line. This weakness in pass defense is the one most noticeable flaw in the Kansas armor, and it is to this department that this week’s attention will probably be given.
Veterans whom the Irish and other opponents will have to stop include Replogle, Masoner, Sullivant, and Amerine, backs; and Shirk, Chitwood, Bosilevac, Anderson, and Warren in the line. Several of these men have already visited South Bend and have a good irea of what is in store for them.
“Cinderella-man” of the squad is 145-pound Chester Gibbens, a tiny sophomore dropkick artist, who suddenly came out of oblivion to kick the point which defeated Texas. Gibbens had been lost in the rush until a day before the game, not even being listed for a game jersey. His number will be 25 at Notre Dame.
Jayhawker Miller
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
KANSAS defeated Texas, 19-18.
ILLINOIS lost to Ohio U., 6-0.
ARMY defeated Wichita, 32-0.
NAVY defeated William and Mary, 28-0.
MINNESOTA defeated Washington, 15-0.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA lost to Alabama, 19-7.
THIS WEEK:
KANSAS plays Notre Dame.
GEORGIA TECH plays Mercer.
ILLINOIS plays DePaul.
CARNEGIE TECH plays Davis and Elkins.
ARMY plays Virginia Polytech.
NAVY plays Virginia Military.
MINNESOTA plays Nebraska.
NORTHWESTERN plays Kansas State.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Oregon State.
Sunday, Oct. 2, the “B” squad makes its first, and last, northern trip of the season. The team plays Jordan College, at Menominee, Michigan.
The team enjoys the peculiar status of having one coach during the week and another coach for the games. Mr. Bill Cerney is the official coach of the “B” squad. He has the distinction of being one of the few coaches in the country (perhaps the only coach) who has never seen his team work against an opponent. Mr. Cerney, as well as being coach of the “B” team is also one of our best scouts, and when Saturday rolls around we usually find him watching the Varsity’s next opponent in action. Jack Kline takes over the coaching activities when the team plays a game.
A squad of a little over two teams will make the trip to Jordan College, and while the roster has not been decided upon as yet, a fair guess at the starting lineup would be: Ends, Liston and Blake; tackles, Kerwin and Miszerski; guards, Windheim and Ryan; Bond at center; Harrington at quarterback; Lynn or Saffa at left half; Kuhlman at right-half; and Da-har at fullback. This lineup cannot be regarded as definite, as Coach Cerney informed us that thus far he has not had a chance to see all of his boys in action, and therefore was not certain that the large squad did not contain more than a few potential “All-Americans.”
Sunday’s game is the only one on the schedule that is not with the “B” team of a Big Ten school. The other games are with Illinois, Northwestern and Purdue.
The squad is expected to win the game, but not without a hard fought battle. Although Jordan College is not a top-ranking team, it does have some husky boys in the lineup. Because the main purpose of the “B” team is to give experience to potential “greats,” this kind of competition is just what our men need.
To those who think the “B” squad is a permanent burial ground for hopeless football players, it might be appropriate to point out that many of our present varsity players served a term on this team. Notable examples of those who worked their way up are: Ed Broscoe, Paul Morrison, and Frank Biagi. These men, who starred on the “B” squad last year, found their experience a great benefit when they finally made the varsity grade.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
17
0
IRISH HOLD EDGE IN JAYHAWK SERIES
•
Shortly after the turn of the century, Notre Dame journeyed out to Lawrence, Kans. Equipped with canvas vests, corrugated shin - guards, and thick shocks of hair, they trotted out on old McCook field and proceeded to show Kansas how to play football. As an added attraction Capt. Shaughnessy—his long, curly hair streaming in the breeze, picked up a Kansas fumble and raced 107 yards to score. The lesson lasted only a half—because Kansas caught on fast, so fast that in the second half they rolled over their “profs” for 24 points and the ball game. But this was back in 1904. In the modem era the Irish have changed things. Hunk Anderson, using the Rockne formula entailing shock troops and perfect plays, chose the year 1932 as the occasion to demonstrate how well he had learned from “Rock.” Although Kansas reversed the charge on his “shock troops” in the first quarter, Hunk’s Nick Lukats, George Melinkovich, and Joe Sheeketski tore off long runs for scores. As an after thought Mike Koken bucked over another tally all by his lonesome. This was the year Notre Dame wound up with five men either “All - American” or “Half -America n.” Melinkovich, Harris, Kurth, Krause, and Koken got the nod from the press box habitues.
In 1933 Notre Dame decided to tune up with the Jayhawkers as the intended victims, but the Kansans put a discordant note in the tuning process by holding Hunk’s unfinished symphony to a scoreless tie. The Daily Kansan will probably claim that “we” held them to a tie, but don’t you believe a word of it. Except for the fact that the Irish had buttered com on the cob for dinner and omitted wiping their fingers—we would have won in a walk. Yeah— eleven fumbles trickled from the hands of Irish backs that afternoon. Nick Lukats ran wild, but never reached Bill Munday’s “prahmised la-and.” At end Hughie Devore was the comer stone in a stonewall defense. Johnny Peterson, Kansas’ ace broke loose for several twisting runs, but not by Hughie.
The most recent Kansas game, 1935, found Elmer Layden directing the Irish play—and the direction was goalward, four times. Fred Carideo broke through the Kansas line twice to score. Big Johnny Michuta blocked a punt for a safety. A Shakespeare to Millner pass for 60 yards added to the count as 20,000 chortled for the Irish to “roll it up.” Vic Wojcihovski, despite a tough beating at the hands of the hard-tackling Kansans, drove 60 yards in a series of plunges for the final touchdown.
r	'
Introducing
By Eddie Huff
He towers six feet, two inches; he balances 207 pounds, he is an addict of contract bridge, and he affects garments of a brown hue—your man is Joseph Edward Beinor, varisty left tackle and double monogram man from Thornton High School in Harvey, Illinois, who was named All-American by the “Board” and likewise by NEA news service last season in his junior year.
“You may observe Joe saunter about the campus, “toeing-in,” his
“beefy” frame topped by unruly blond hair, and his non-perfect eyes borrowing aid from spectacles.
To visit Beinor’s room in Alumni Hall, then to question his buddies about Joe’s conversation, you would never suspect that he had been showered with blanket, sweater, and medals in toto as a climax to his success in ’37.
As “Lefty” Gomez boasts of his “slugging” ability, Joe likes to tell you of his driving propensities off the golf tee. Only one other feat gives him a bigger thrill: a long kickoff from his right boot into the end zone, to be followed by a body-bruising tackle in the 20-yard vicinity.
Joe comes from a solid Lithuanian background, and the recent summer saw him perform in the Lithuanian Olympics over-seas. Among his teammates was Joe Prokop, freshman sprint and hurdle candidate from Cleveland. Beinor tossed the shot 47 feet, 11 inches to win first place. A later exhibition meet gave him the opportunity to reach 50 feet, 4 (Continued on Page 21)
IMPOTENT VARSITY BEATS FRESHMEN
For 26 minutes Jake Kline’s inspired green-jerseyed freshmen held a rather ragged varsity scoreless in football’s debut here last Saturday. Although the varsity finally overcame the freshmen 20-0, the No. 1 men failed to score on the first-string frosh, as 7,000 watched for points to pile up. Mr. Elmer Layden squirmed and scratched his head.
Ben Sheridan, left junior halfback, scored off left tackle after 11 minutes of play in the second period. Ben proved himself an able candidate for the key post at left half. He aver-abed better than six yards per try.
Failing to score against the “reserves” Mr. Layden had given Coach Kline to “ease the strain” on the freshmen, the yearling mentor sent his No. 1 lads in to start the second half. The third string varsity scored early in the period. A 15-yard run by Bob Saggau, a pass from Saggau to Paul Morrison, and then Milt Pei-pul’s seven-yard plunge did the trick, Morrison kicking the goal.
In the fourth period the varsity first team returned, and after considerable trouble, managed to help Harry Stevenson score on an end sweep. Harry converted, and the score was .20-0. The varsity didn’t even come close again.
The first touchdown scored was the result of a straight march down the field, with Sheridan leading the parade. Starting from his own 23 yard line, he carried the ball for long gains seven times, and passed to Burnell besides. In 11 minutes he traveled the 77 yards to a touchdown. The varsity attempted two field goals, one by Stevenson in the first quarter, and another by Jack Sullivan in the third, but both failed.
The final touchdown, the only one scored by the No. 1 varsity, started with the ball on the varsity 42 yard line, and they kept it until they had marched 58 yards, Stevenson going over from the five yard line.
Outstanding in the freshman back-field was fullback McNeill, who showed he could follow interference as well as back up the line. Jim Brutz, an Ohio boy at left tackle, dug in and confused the varsity when they-tried repeatedly to run plays through his position.
Throughout the game the varsity-lacked coordination. Time and again they lost yardage for being offside. The blocking that went with Stevenson’s fine tosses was splendid, hut often was absent on the end runs and line play. Sheridan and Saggau both looked good as runners and passers.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
As you have already heard, Kansas has a tough football team this year. A large minority of experts are picking the Jayhawkers to beat Notre Dame tomorrow, and they have any number of fine reasons.
Very impressive is the fact that Kansas has a letterman for every position, and twenty altogether on the squad. And in spite of this abundance of veterans, Kansas has some sophomores good enough to rate the starting eleven. Outstanding men are Dave Shirk at end, strong on defense, and fine at receiving passes; Fred Bosilevas, Dan R h u 1 e , and Monte Merkel, tackles; Dick Amerine, an outstanding broken-field runner and pass-catcher, at right half; Paul Masoner, quarterback, a good passreceiver; Ralph Miller, a fine passer, at tailback or left half; Bill Bunsen, 195-pound sophomore, at fullback.
As a whole the team is light, with only two men listed at 200 pounds or over. It is a fast team, and with several passers and good receivers should concentrate on going over and around, rather than through the heavier Irish. Last spring Jayhawk Coach Ad Lindsay himself stated that “we want to develop our passing and make a more open game. We have some ends who can catch the ball, and all our passers of last year will again be on hand, with three or four good sophomore prospects.” The Kansas air-attack has certainly had time to develop, and should trouble Notre Dame a great deal (for Notre Dame is still notoriously weak as ever on pass-defense).
Finally this veteran Kansas team is the same that tied Nebraska, 13-13 ■—and the Cornhuskers were tough enough to hold Pitt to a 13-7 score.
However it seems to me this Nebraska game has been overemphasized in estimating the Jayhawkers’ ability. Nebraska is their greatest rival, they played in midseason, and Kansas, on the rebound from a 16-0 defeat by Michigan State, was exceptionally keyed up for the game. Indeed the Cornhuskers were lucky to sneak through with a tie in the last three minutes. But the only other noteworthy accomplishment of the Kansans was a 6-3 win over Oklahoma. Altogether, Kansas won three games, tied two, and lost four. Even Wichita, the team that lost to Army, 32-0, last week, trimmed them, 18-7. The Jays won none of their last five games, and ended up in a dull scoreless tie with Missouri.
I think Notre Dame will win tomorrow, and here are my reasons:
The Jayhawkers had a hard 19-18 game with Texas last week; they ran
themselves ragged piling up a 19-0 lead and only managed to win out when the stronger, heavier Longhorns failed to kick a single point after touchdown. No team, especially a light team, can stand up under two tough games in a row, and along about the third quarter tomorrow, Notre Dame’s force should begin to tell.
Notre Dame has more weight in the line than Kansas can match. The Irish forwards may have trouble at the tackles, but should be able to make that running attack click. And in spite of what you saw in the FroshVarsity exhibition last Saturday, Stevenson and Brown can combine well on passes at any range. There should be a lot of scoring—unless fumbles slow up both teams—with Notre Dame at least one touchdown better than the Jays. The one ominous thing in all the facts-about-Kansas is that note on the visitors’ passing ability; they may pass us silly.
Anyway, we shall see tomorrow. It’s an important game for both teams, being Notre Dame’s opener, and the 400th game to be played by a Kansas team since football was begun out at Lawrence in the ’90’s.
We must advise those of you who were somewhat shocked at the sour things seen in the Stadium last Saturday not to regard any such exhibition as a genuine display of the var-
I e>t-Pocket
ll 'hum
HOW MANY CAN YOU ANSWER? ThiibooHustluAiumtotkx andsam of other Questions: I
1. Ohio has 24 electoral votes. (True or False?)
2. The area of Kansas is twice that of Kentucky. (True or : False?)
3.	President McKinley was assassinated in 1902. (True or False?)
4.	Shanghai is the Capital of China. (True or False?)
Over 1000 useful facts including Postal Rules; U. S. Presidents; Population of principal Cities and Countries; Facts about the
sity’s ability. It might have been that the freshmen were too tough to be easily handled; that number one frosh team seemed capable of giving trouble to almost any team on the varsity schedule. It might also have been that the freshmen knew the varsity plays, knew what to expect. They didn’t have many variations to watch out for, after all, for the varsity was obviously holding back, sticking to about six fundamental plays—one buck, one off-tackle, one end run, one reverse, one pass, one punt.
The varsity, using no deception, thus had to rely on power and blocking. The blocking, though fair, was still erratic, and the offense was consequently sluggish. Certainly the blocking and running and passing will improve and the trick plays will appear as the tight games come along.
A coaches’ bible on “Breaks of the Game” could have been compiled from the newspaper accounts of last week’s big games. In almost every contests, fumbles, interceptions or blocked kicks led directly to scores and upset victories. Three teams on Notre Dame’s schedule were directly aided or victimized by such “breaks.” Minnesota, though piling up magnificent yardage by rushing, still won out only by a field goal, a long runback of an intercepted pass, and the recovery of a short Washington punt. The Huskies stalled their own attack with six ..fumbles. Southern ..California, soundly trimmed by Alabama passes, finally scored by recovering a fumbled punt one yard from the Tide’s goal.
THIS FREE BOOK HAS THE ANSWERS
ANSWER BOOK
Thousand-Fact Reference and
DAILY MEMO-DIARY
with purchase of a bottle of Parker QuinJt at 15c or 25c
—the derating New Fritiez hi That Ends PesMoggan
Now! Accept this offer! Made solely to induce yonto tryParkerQuinfe —thenewmiraclewrit-ing ink that makes any pen a self-cleaner. Quint dissolves deposits left in a pen by ordinary inks—ends clogging. Always rich, brilliant—never wa-
tery. Get Quint and Free Answer Book to-dayat any store selling ink. Offer good only in U. S. A
sent* tn Ue M»fn Co.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938.
19
KEEN COMPETITION MARKS NET MEET
By James Newland
Notre Dame’s annual upperclass tennis tournament got underway last Saturday in grand style and judging from the large number of entrants and by the close scores registered, this year’s tourney easily surpasses those of previous years.
Varsity Coach Pedro de Landero, director of the tournament, comments as follows concerning the tennis carnival which ends Friday or Saturday, “I believe there is far greater competition this year than in any interclass tournament ever held at Notre Dame. Besides good competition, we are also blessed with perfect weather conditions.”
For the purpose of creating greater competition, a few freshmen were granted the privilege of entering this year’s tournament. And from the style of tennis these lads are presenting, they are pushing the Sophs, Juniors and Seniors to the limit.
Bookstore
Bargains
•
15% Discount WAHL EVERSHARP PENS
With Lifetime Guarantee
STUDENT’S DESK LAMPS
Latest Indirect Type $3.75
DOME PLAQUES
For your Room— For the Folks at home
98 cents
• ■
FREE
While they last — a bookcover with each purchase.
•
THE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE in Badin Hall
A young chap by the name of Dan Canale, at the present time rated the sixth ranking Junior tennis player in the United States led the Freshmen through first round competition. Other freshmen entered are Olin Parks, and Ed Moore.
Jack Joyce, present state champion of South Carolina, gave warning that he is a ranking contender for this year’s crown. He had little difficulty in surviving his first three matches. He is a sophomore. Johnny Walsh is another sophomore who bears watching.
Varsity Captain Fred Simon and Bill Fay are being watched as possible winners of this year’s tournament as a result of their first round victories. Harold Bowler, Whit Gregory and Dan Gottschalk are other men who are out seeking this year’s crown.
With freshmen being permitted to participate in this year’s tournament it undoubtedly is the largest tournament from the standpoint of entries ever held. In previous years only
$5*250
IWaterman's
MODERN STYUNG...“Superstreamed**.
Modern colors. Grip fits your fingers.
YOUR PENPOINT... Handcrafted, 14 kt., solid-gold, iridium-tipped points suit your writing.
CONSTANT INK CONTROL ... One stroke fills pen. Fast-starting. Steady ink-flow. INK-WINDOW.
'vrJbaJL. ..a
ONLY
REMEMBER—THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR WATERMAN’S INK

Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors were permitted to take part in this annual tennis tourney.
If the tournament is over by Saturday Coach de Landero stated that matdies between leading Freshmen players and the Varsity team will be held Sunday.
A prominent Notre Dame tennis star of last year is missing from this year’s affair. He is Charlie Rodgers of Detroit, Michigan.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 7) got caught behind a radiator in Benton Harbor. For details ask the Dray man.
Joe’s genial disposition wavers only slightly when some one of the fellows label him “suck sess,” but they’re only kidding. His spare time last year was spent playing bridge and getting into heated arguments. We won’t divulge his address, as he already gets too many letters from newly found “friends” who would like to see Notre Dame games free.
On Time ..
.... EVERY TIME when you go by SOUTH SHORE UNE
•	Timing and speed are important in travel, too. South Shore Line dependability consists of just that— there's a train leaving soon that can whisk you to your destination in a big hurry, and do it safely.
•	No traffic to stop you. No driving fatigue. No highway dangers. Just step aboard—we'll get you there, on time. It's the fast, dependable way to travel.
THE FASTEST, SAFEST, MOST
DEPENDABLE WAY TO CHICAGO
5OUthnsehor[-
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 9) enjoy slow music, those who prefer a mixture of slow music with the moderately fast, and the jitterbugs. Contrast this with the limitless scope of the classics.
The word symphony suggests to so many a monotony of sounds which can be enjoyed only by those who are well educated in music. But education, in the sense of long years of study and practice is not necessary. All that is required is a willingness to listen. A popular song to be a hit must be instantly attractive. But a symphony is made of a multiplicity of moods and shades, of subtle nuances in color and symmetry. Realization of the beauty and greatness of a symphony comes only after repeated hearings. One person in a hundred has ever heard Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony; one person in a thousand has heard it more than once. The melodies of a symphony are given full freedom, unconfined by the limits of rhythm.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
L E M O N T R E £ S
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
YOU’VE NEVER TASTED A PIPE LIKE THIS BEFORE
GOLF TOURNEY
(Continued from Page 15) continued the following day, last Saturday, and last Sunday, with Sheehan leading all the way, after he carded a spectacular 69 in the very first round.
As a result of his victory, Sheehan’s name will be inscribed in the ninth green on the William J. Burke-Memorial Plaque that hangs in the Library. Trophies, donated by William A. Burke, will be awarded to Sheehan and to Nield, this being the first time that the runner-up has received a prize.
The contest results follow:
1. Sheehan, Thomas 69-73-72-72—286 2. Nield, Sammy ------------70-76-73-72—291
3,	Malloy, Pat' -----------74-73-77-74—298
4.	Bennett, Charlie ________74-78-74-73—299
5.	Smith, Bob ______________72-80-76-75—303
6.	Castleman, Bill _________72-83-73-75—303
7.	Wolfe, Milo ________________ 228-75—303
8.	Butsch, Bob _____________73-75-81-76—305
9.	Stulb. Joe _____________80-79-76-74—309
10.	Wilson, Harry __________79-79-76-76—310
11.	Costello, George _______76-80-78-76—310
12.	Schaller, William _____73-78-83-77—311
13.	Galbraith, Bill _______79-72-81-81—313
14.	Centlivre, Bob ---------78-79-78-78—313
15.	Bronsfield, Bob ________78-78-84-74—314
16.	Donahue. Phil __________78-83-76-79—316
17.	Hagen, Walt -----------77-80-83-77—317
18.	Carroll, Phil ---------80-84-75-78—317
19.	Schreiber, George ______75-85-82-77—319
20.	Schleck, Ray ----------82-81-79-79—321
21.	Aubrey, Ed ____________80-79-83-82—324
22.	Bischoff, Robert ______90-82-80-78—330
23.	Fahrendorf. Bill _______79-83-82-91—335
24.	Anderson, Norm _________81-87-83-84—335
25.	Cosgrove, John ---------81-90-91-84—341
MUSEUM
(Continued from Page 7) about the Indians. In addition there are the usual relics: tomahawks, moccasins, purses, buffalo horns, and flints; and the more unusual relics of scalplock and leather shield. The Indians made quaint playthings for their papooses — grotesquely painted dolls and animals carved out of stone.
Yes, fellows, it’s a great exhibit. You really ought to go up to the fourth floor some day. But first get yourself a gas mask to protect you from the dust, a pair of ear muffs to shut out the oratorical din, and a pair of dark glasses so you can’t see the arty fellows look on you with disgust.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
21
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 17) inches, a distance he had never reached previously.
It would have been tasty to watch Joe in the water polo finals as he assisted his American squad to the championship.
Joe remembers: Illinois and Pitt as his toughest opponents; Van Every, Minnesota, best rival passer; “Red” Morgan, U.S.C., blocking standout; and Pitt’s “Biggie” Goldberg as best runner and all-round back into whom he has bumped — to which may be added, “Mad Marshall” was jolted often and hard by “Whitey Joe.”
Beinor is an accountant major and plans to further his education in law school when he is graduated next June.
Preview of the Next Great Raincoat Fashion
How come? The feet and hands of British girls are three or four sizes larger than they were 100 years ago.
An Absolute
FORGERY,
My Dear Watson!
• “This will is dated 1894. Utterly impossible! It couldn’t have been written before 1937, because my chemical tests prove it was inscribed with Penit, the remarkable new ink created by Sanford only last year. Elementary... my dear Watson!”
Amazing, Sherlock! For the benefit of Dr. Watson and other students in the Crime Detection School, may we add:
Penit is a free-flowing, troubleproof ink. It has an attractive greenish blue color. You can count on it for smooth, easy-writing ... always! Because it’s pen-tested for all makes of pens.
CASUAL TYPE CONVERTIBLE COLLAR!
PLENTY OF SWANK IN THIS DRAPE!
Univers ity Coacher
BY ALLIGATOR
FULL85-INCH SWEEP FOR SMARTNESS!
ROOMY POCKETS— AS YOU LIKE THEM!
Campus Shops "Beat the Gun” With Advance Showing . . .
The New

2-oz. bottle, 15c; 4-oz. bottle with chamois penwiper, 25c.
Forecasters predict nation-wide popularity for this smart new fashion. But now, it’s exclusive with the smarter young men’s shops. See the University Coacher ... note its lines, and remember—waterproof, windproof and dustproof for fall days and nights. Be ahead of the parade ... get yours now!
' THE ALLIGATOR COMPANY. St. Louis and New York
Other Alligator Raincoats $5.75 to $25
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FITZGERALD TO LECTURE (Continued from Page 3) minor squall and was proud of the part he had played.
Desmond Fitzgerald’s work as propaganda chief for the Irish rebels assured him the editorship of the Irish Bulletin. His wide acquaintance with contemporary intellectuals made the Bulletin the most widely read publication in Ireland during his three-year tenure, from 1919 to 1922. William Butler Yeats, probably the finest Irish poet alive and certainly the most gifted conversationalist in the British Isles — of whom G. K. Chesterton speaks with open admiration—knew Desmond Fitzgerald and liked him, and influenced much of his thought. T. S. Eliot, Christopher Dawson, and E. I. Watkin are his intimate friends. And it is not surprising, for Desmond Fitzgerald is a superlatively effective conversationalist and discusses with high intelligence even the remotest phases of philosophy, economics, politics, or poetry, and especially religion. He defends the Roman Catholic Church with fiery vehemence that is uncommonly convincing when the gifted intellectual abilities of the speaker are considered.
British tommies stuck the warrant
for the arrest of this man on a bayonet and went out to serve it in 1916, convinced they were hunting a vicious traitor. They didn’t know their prey was capable of the sensitive thought essential to the writing of a poem like “The Night,” nor that this “wretch” had in his mind the best of modern Continental thought, including even the Russian viewpoint. Nor could they have known of his familiarity with the literature of all countries, both past and present. Perhaps they weren’t to blame, for his collection of poems, The Daily Life, wasn’t published until after the great war; and his latest book The Philosophy of Politics, is as yet unfinished.
Notre Dame has been able to engage Desmond Fitzgerald, probably only because Eamon de Valera doesn’t agree with him. Mr. Fitzgerald likes ex-President Cosgrave who disagrees with Mr. De Valera, and therefore Mr. Fitzgerald finds himself in the Irish Dail and not in the Irish cabinet. But the cabinet’s loss is Notre Dame’s gain, and we agree with both sides. First with Mr. De Valera that Mr. Fitzgerald should be at Notre Dame and not in Ireland; secondly with Mr. Cosgrave that anyone who has Mr. Fitzgerald ought to be proud to have him. Desmond Fitzgerald is at Notre Dame, and Notre Dame is proud.
A NEW LOW PRICE
Father and Son ...
Two generations of Notre Dame men have found the Gilbert Store to be the clothing establishment best suited to replenish a college wardrobe — at prices that fit a college man’s budget.
Two Generations can’t be wrong!
* * * * #
Notre Dame Special ... A complete selection of the famous Manhattan shirts and shorts — regularly 50 cents — for this week 25 cents per pair.
GILBERT’S
“One Student Tells Another’*
813-815 S. MICHIGAN
Douglas now scores another triumph on the famous Notre Dame campus. The cheers for Douglas Scotsman Shoes resound throughout South Bend —and all those added rah-rah-rahs are for the new low price!
Our South Bend store has a complete line of shoes styled for college men—and priced to he easy on their pocketbooks.
Call Mr. Carmi Belmont at 1020 N. Francis Street. He will introduce you to high style at low cost!
DcuqtaiSIwe^ $3.50	$4.40	$5-85
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE
IN SOUTH BEND
210 South Michigan Street
Open Saturday Evenings
SEPTEMBER 30, 1938
23
LECTURES
(Continued from Page 3) months in the war-torn country and is an authority on the new social reconstruction program for Spain.
Fraulein Anny Rutz, of the Oberammergau Passion Play, presents her illustrated lecture “A Pilgrimage to Oberammergau” on Friday, December 2. Miss Rutz, who speaks fluent English, gives a delightfully intimate and personal view of Oberammergau, the spirit of its people, and the meaning of the Play, that is as fascinating as it is unique.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
MACK'S
MUSIC BOX
228 North Michigan South Bend, Ind.
Used Records...15c
New Decca’s....S5c
Popular, Standard Sheet Music, Orchestrations, Band and String Instruments, Drums and Accessories.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST Successor To Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our oivn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PEP MEETING
(Continued from Page 3) football fans are expected for tomorrow’s initial season encounter with the pigskin men from Lawrence, Kansas.
A host of speakers headed by Coach Elmer Layden are scheduled to hit the platform tonight. Every true son of Notre Dame will be on hand to cheer the team to victory in opening the nine-game schedule of the 1938 Irish grid season.
First In Style First In Performance
First in the Hearts of College Students
PENS
=VACUMATIC^
Paiau to oaitx:
S3J0,$3.75,$4,$5
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
The Pen that Has What It Takes to Put You on Even Writing Terms with Anyone Else in Your Class
If you want the Pen that ranks No. 1 in America’s schools and colleges—that will help you rate as no other pen you can carry—go to any nearby pen counter today and see and try this pedigreed Beauty in shimmery circlets of Pearl and Jet—smart, exclusive and original.
The Parker Vacumatic won’t cramp your style by running dry unexpectedly in classes or quizzes. For held to the light it shows how much ink you have to spare—shows when to refill. A Pen that requires filling only 3 or 4 times from one term to the next, due to its copious ink supply.
Its Scratch-proof Point of Platinum and 14-K Gold is tipped with Osmiridium, twice as costly as ordinary iridium.
Go and ask for it by name—Parker Vacumatic. The smart ARROW clip identifies the genuine.
The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin.
TELEVISION
>875 *10

Cheer leaders Johnny Celia, Frankie Farrell and Jerry Flynn, AllAmerican timber in their own capacity, will direct the student throng in the traditional Irish yells and cheers, peppered enough to create the fighting fury of a Notre Dame team backed solidly by 3,000 wild students. The Notre Dame band, under the direction of Joe Casasanta, completes the fever point with the “Victory March,” “The Hike Song,” and “On Down the Line.”
Straight to more pleasure ...that’s where Chesterfield makes a solid hit every time
. . . gives smokers what they want
Paul Whiteman Every Wednesday Evening George	Gracie
Burns	Allen
Every Friday Evening AU C. B. S. Stations
Eddie Dooley Football Highlights Every Thursday and Saturday 52 Leading N. B. C. Stations
. . . refreshing mildness and better taste and here’s the big reason . . .
It takes good things to make a good product. That’s why we use the best ingredients a cigarette can have. . . mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper. . . to make Chesterfield the cigarette that SATISFIES.
Chesterfield
..morepleasure for millions
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myess Tobacco Co.