Vol. XXXII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 29, 1898.	No. 8.
Ireland —1798-189 8.
PATRICK J. DWAN, igoo.
81-
>NE hundred years have quickly fled— > Another morsel in the horde of Time— And Ninety-Eight, so darkly red, Is held for feast in every’ clime.
The headlong sweep of streams and fountains
’ Bear water-lily and eglantine From the peaceful lea, With crashing roar o’er deep incline, To the ever-heaving sea, Among wrecks of ages and torn barges—
-Cruel dogs of war the works of sages— Where crested the mad wave rages And knows no curbing hand save peace. Thus mated forever must they stay— The wave-lapped wrecks and the flowers of May.
II.
But not- alone on ocean’s foam Are the wrecks of nations at unrest; For if history tells how an empire quells A minor kingdom at its best, It sings in .another key that country’s dirge; It tells of undying valor of the conquered dead, And weaves a crown for. each warrior’s head; But when ruthless tyrants rave O’er a vanquished nation’s grave, And cast to the breeze its hallowed dust, While history calls it meet and just, Then stern Might Holds captive Right, And Truth has perished in its rust.
'	:	Hi- .	..
The gentlest breeze to the poet’s soul, • Is messenger of some far-off melodies, And the thunder clap and rumbling roar , Give voice to God’s omnipotence the more, - Arid strike sublimest chord within the soul— Reverence and Fear.’
But the poet harps on one lone string x Which sings of Faith and Love,	.
And is always touched with sorrow’s ring—	-
A heavenly sorrow from above.	*
But the hero lives in many tones, His memory sends a thrill
Of glory’ for noble deeds Through young Ambition’s breast, And brings to the galley-slave chained at his rest The God-like thrill for Freedom or for Death.
IV.
While nations wail o’er battlefields '	'
And sing to the memory of glorious deeds, And garland the graves of the gallant dead, The nodding rose	~
Peacefully’ sweet subtle fragrance blows O’er friends and foes.	- -	'
Triumphal arches crown the conqueror’s way And cannons’ roar proclaims a festive day:
. But that voice of joy is bound—
A mere echo—by the huge waves that sound	~ i
In never-ceasing murmur on its shore.	,
v.	.	-
.But thou, sad Island!	.
Thy rock-bound coast, O Innisfail!	' -
Can not restrain thy piercing ■ wail,	’	" ' .
Thy cry for Liberty. ,
In that great synod of justice, ~	;
Where nations seek a nation’s needs,	. J
Thou stand’st alone in widow’s weeds;	J
Thysceptreis abranch of reeds;	.	.. -J
Thy . crown is shattered at- thy feet.	J .	. ’ !
But your faithful sons in distant-.lands .	.	.. . ... - I
Have laurels won and golden bands,	_	; \
And Irish banners wave where’er a shrine	!
Is raised in Freedom’s cause.	/ .	’ 1
At Gettysburg'where hand to hand, ' '	s .
The Gael and'Saxon take their stand, .. . : t .
•- '	. -	: j
146	NOTRE DAME
And wrest Columbia, noble, grand, From civic desolation;
In Spain among Granada’s hills . The pagan Moor with horror fills
At sight of Erin’s banner;
The French proud monarchs placed again Upon the throne of Charlemagne
By swords of Irish valor.
While Austria’s eagle proudly waves
Athwart the blood of Irish graves
Who lowered the haughty Russian heart, And showed the Turk how Ireland dead, Could rise again and play its part—
A Christian Resurrection.
SCHOLASTIC.
NX: '
Live on! O Niobe! Live on!
The deep blue dawn of Freedom rise/
And Heaven’s calm shore is mirrored in thine eyes, Be strong! Be brave!
Thy glory is yet to come.
Live on! and bear the cross
To heathen souls inforeign lands, And place it where the idol stands; Nor wish a nobler crown to wear Than that thy thorn-helmed Master bare, And hear thy mission from above: “Go, teach all nations how to love
•	As Thou hast loved.”
The Drama.
JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, 99.
HE drama is an expression of the " J beautiful by an imitation of action.
ABT*	J
41a Action and passion, cause and effect ’	are essential parts of the dramatic art,
-s! jb**' and serve to distinguish it from the other branches of poetry, the epic and the lyric. The former narrates an heroic event; the latter portrays the personal emotions and feelings of the poet.
Considered as to its origin, the drama comes after the epic and the lyric. The first works of a nation in verbal art were poetic. The lyric precedes, as is well shown by the odes and songs sung by the bards of a people before they had either an epic or a drama. The epic is next. The transition of the lyric poem into the epic is not very,striking, for the latter is in many cases evolved.from the former by a succession of traceable changes. In no country, however, do we find a drama before the other forms. Beside, a nation may have a , drama without a dramatic literature. This is easily seen when we reflect that every drama is not classical and only the classical constitute a dramatic literature.
The drama maybe tragical or comical, and many variations of the two forms occur. In ■ the seventeenth century Rinnucini introduced music into the romantic drama, and the result . was what is known as the melodrama. It has attached to it the idea of something romantic and unusual, and on this account easily drops . into improbability; "
. The tragi-comedy is both grave; and comic, and by many authorities is not recognized, . because these two elements, like oil and water, . v can never mix. There is something significant
in the fact that Shakspere uses comic passages in tragedy with great caution that only his genius could rightly appreciate. The opera, which is a play put to song, is a modern invention. Music in the drama was used to some extent in ancient times, as we see from the choruses of Greek plays; and in China the principal character always sang his part.
Of the great authorities or. critics of the dramatic laws Aristotle and Lessing, Corneille and Dryden are foremost. Even the Indians had their Aristotle in Bharata, himself the founder of the Indian drama. He has formulated rules surprisingly correct. Although it is true that some rules are essential, yet rules are secondary. A great genius like Shakspere is never a slave to technical formality.
The three great requisites of a good play are unity, completeness and probability. Unity of action, does not necessitate unity of event. Several events may take place, but they must be subordinate to the one main action,—they must explain and lead up to the denouement. A play of one event is not common nowadays; in fact, we are more inclined to go to the opposite extreme. One event is almost incompatible with an intricate plot. “ Prometheus Bound” by ^Eschylus approaches as near as any drama does to the play of one event.
There may also be a bye-plot in a play, but it must be carefully interwoven into the main action. Beside, unity of hero is not necessary. “Romeo and Juliet” has two, “Seven against Thebes” has still more. Unity of place was -in ancient times .necessitated only bywant of , sufficient scenery to produce the rapid change.
The" Indian drama, however, did riot possess
\ctHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this unity. It went even further, so that a character in its plays could perform on . the stage a journey of many miles in sight of the audience. The French imitated the Greek unities of place and time, and we admire Moliere’s “Miser” the more because under this restriction the workmanship of the play appears all the more ingenious.
Dramatic probability is more restricted than what actually takes place in ordinary life. A person was asked his opinion about a play,and answered “ that from a literary point of view the plot was so improbable that you would think that it was taken from actual life.” It is very strange, that we become so sceptical when we witness a play. If the same incident took place around us, we should not be surprised at any occurrence as far as probability is concerned; for facts are naturally convincing. The least flaw in the play, however, stands forth many times - magnified.
Completeness in a drama requires that it be. one in itself. It must hold together and have one main central idea around which all other circumstances cluster. It should leave on the mind one main impression. For this and other reasons, custom and good authority limit a play to five acts. Horace in his letter to the Pisos repeats this injunction of Aristotle. We have very few instances of good dramas of more than five acts for still another reason, that it is too difficult to keep up an increasing interest longer.
The French Academy in the time of Corneille would not accept a play unless it conformed almost slavishly to the laws of the Stagyrite. Other nations followed this law by an instinctive knowledge. The Indian drama generally conformed to it, while the Chinese limited a play to four acts. They were, however,' not always so exact. The “Nataka” is an example of the Indian post-classical drama, and comprised fourteen acts. A Chinese, playwright insisted that his piece should be played as it was, without leaving anything out, even though it required more than a day to perform it.
The Sophoclean system was one long action not artificially divided into acts, yet, at times, the actors proper all leave the stage, and there is a time during which'the action is interrupted by the songs of the chorus. In . this way the . play was‘actually divided into parts which served functionally as acts. Their number, too, is not very great; it agrees very strikingly with the number of modern subdivisions. It may be remarked that although some of the
Greek dramas were written in three parts, yet- , - -these were distinct plays, and were never bveh ".	,
acted successively. In this respect they were ,	?
more distinct than the two parts of Shakspere’s King Henry IV. They had the principal char- _ acters in common, but each had a separate plot and action that was taken from a different part in the life-time of the hero. Sophocles’ 9 “ CEdipus Tyrannus ” and ^Eschylus’ “Prome- • . ' theus ” are examples.	'	_
Every act in a drama should end with.a, . minor climax. This division is not arbitrary. '< The act should be complete in a certain sense,, and there must be a reason for the division. A rest for the minds of the audience is hardly a . -sufficient reason for dividing aplayinto acts; / . for the parts of the Sophoclean system were -more than this.	.	-	" '
According to Aristotle the drama before the . . climax ought to make an effect, and after, the climax this effect must not be marred. He ’ \ calls the first part the desis, or tying of . the , knot, and what corresponds’to our fall.in the . .. action or denouement, was known as the lysis, dr loosing of the complication. In ancient and -.. 7 also in modern dramas, in which character- - • ization is not the main point, this growth.is	<
important. The Spanish plays and most of the \ French would be shallow productions if close . attention were, not paid to this rule. Euripides . sometimes weaves his plot so intricately that ' he can not unravel it satisfactorily. ^Eschylus, .	.
on the other hand, has very little.plot, but-he	:
makes up for this by strong characterization ' . and other means.	.	' .	. ..
The weaving and unravelling of' plots are -done in various ways. Sometimes obstacles,, are raised after the climax to keep up the	?
interest to the end and thus make the result	' >
* ■ . -unexpectedly effective. In “Macbeth” the * hero at times appears as if he could escape the doom awaiting. In other cases obstacles . ' r / are removed, and the discovery is gradually; and sometimes unexpectedly made. This ere- . ates a pleasing and reasonable surprise. In all cases there must be a-satisfaction at the - -end of the play.	.	.	\	.
It is not necessary to add that in modern , times poetical justicerequires thepunishment ... V of evil and the reward of good.’ Whatever" we V;. admire in CEdipus we can not'see why ffe>is . V constantly suffering without having done any- C1 tiling to merit his doom. It seems that‘‘Pro-metheus, if we consider the Trilogy asCohej " is* in conformity.with' modern poetical justice;T; -T ' ? for after all his. misfortunes he is, in the eh^ .V.^
148
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
given a place among the gods. We must, however, refrain from considering the whole as one play, because it does not constitute one play.	•
In the modern drama Shakspere showed the weight of good characterization. He was not the first, however, to attach importance to this. jEschylus and Euripides excel in characterization—the former in the lofty character of .a god or the sublime endurance of a hero; the latter portrays and traces out minutely the working of passions in his characters. In fact, Euripides relies to a great.extent upon characterization for effect.
We should know a character in a play from what he does, not from what is said of him. We know Cordelia, Macbeth, and Iago better than our life-long friends. Play-wrights — as some one has expressed it—that write only intricate plots ' waste time by building an elaborate scaffolding around a common house— o the latter is to last.
• The Teutonic peoples surpass the Romance nations in power of characterization. Shakspere and Calderon well illustrate the antithesis. When we see a character on the stage we are interested in him because he is individualized and does what is peculiar to himself. Besides this, he must be ideal. The stage is more than a photographic camera. Distinctiveness of characters can only be recognized by the manner of acting under different circumstances. We do not believe what is said of a character, but we are interested in what he does. Distinctiveness of character must be early marked in the play, because we wish to know a person as soon as we see him. Besides we have only at most several hours to become acquainted with a dramatic character, and it shows skill in the playwright to be able to make him known in so short a time.
There are various ways in which the great artists emphasize the characters reproduced. Sometimes different traits are represented by antithesis. We know Othello better because Iago acts with him.
Other things enter into the drama that are not so essential. These are manners. A play might succeed very well in one country, while in another it may appear very commonplace. These are circumstances of time and place. Real art and beauty, however, are not restrained nor advanced by this means, because they are above trivialities and are not indigenous to any. place. Therefore, the drama of pure man-.
. nefs is a contradiction in* terms.
Gregory VII. Justified, in the Deposition of Henry IV. -
JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99.
Since the days of primitive simplicity and fervor, when Peter, a poor fisherman of Galilee, ruled the Christian world, innumerable kings and emperors have bowed in humble submission to Christ’s Vicegerent. This Vicegerent has always been acknowledged as the visible representative of that invisible kingdom whose supreme Ruler liv^s in heaven. His one great duty is to guard the doctrine entrusted to his care and to guide his subjects in matters of faith and morals. The faithful discharge of this sacred duty won for Pope Gregory VII. the crown of eternal life and the honor of posterity.
When Hildebrand ascended the throne of Peter, the Christian world was quickly relapsing into the chaos of pagan idolatry. Nothing, apparently, could stem the foul current of immorality that flooded the souls of a people once besprinkled with the precious Blood of God made Man. This filthy stream found its way into the very sanctuary where the Ark of the New Testament was kept, and where the Sacrifice of the New Law was daily celebrated. It flowed freely in the hearts of those Levites that God Himself had chosen to serve Him in the odor of sanctity and not “ in chambering and debauchery.”
Such was the state of society when Gregory VIL bade the current of corruption to “stand still,” and such was the lewdness of people and clergy when this iron-willed Pontiff pronounced sentence of excommunication against Henry IV. King of Germany. It is my purpose to show that the Pope was fully justified in acting as he did.
The evils that I have just mentioned grew out of an abuse of investiture. “The right of investiture,” says Archbishop Spalding, . “ claimed chiefly by the Emperors of Germany, was the principal cause of these evils of the Church. The emperors having richly endowed the bishoprics and abbeys, claimed the, right of nominating the incumbent and of investing the subject thus appointed with the insignia of his office. The new incumbent took an oath of fealty which required, among other things, that he should join the standard of his sove-. reign with his armed. retainers, whenever called to do so. In the appointment to bishop-.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
rics more regard was often had to birth and military talents than to the virtues and learning required by the canons.”
When viewed in this light, investiture was a mere usurpation by the German Emperors and other princes, and consequently was regarded by Pope Gregory VII., St. Peter Damien, St. Anselm of Lucca, and other holy men, as the mainspring of the many evils of the times. Investiture was strictly prohibited by the canons of the Church. The fourth canon of the Council of Nice, A. D. 325, regulates the election of bishops -by prelates from the province, but makes no mention of any right of the people, or of their temporal rulers, in this matter. Again, at the second Council of Rome, under Pope Gregory VIL, A. D. 1075, ^ie following decree was sanctioned: “ If anyone henceforward shall accept from the hands of any lay person a bishopric or an abbacy, let him not in any way be reputed among bishops or abbots, and let no audience be granted to him as to a bishop or abbot. And, moreover, we interdict to him the grace of Blessed Peter and the entry of the Church, until he abandon the place he has taken through the crime of ambition, as well as disobedience, which is the guilt of idolatry.”
This decree was vigorously enforced by Gregory VIL, and finally led to the excommunication of Henry IV. King of Germany. Here begins the unsettled controversy of nearly ten centuries. The king’s defenders are forever hammering with this objection in particular: What right had the Roman Pontiff to depose the German king? I see a twofold reason for his acting thus: politically and spiritually he was fully justified in pronouncing sentence of deposition. Gregory VIL lived arid reigned in the eleventh century, not in the nineteenth. In those days the Pope was recognized by all Christian nations as possessing supreme authority over Christian sovereigns; for since he was considered “the spiritual-head of the entire Christian world, communion with him was deemed an indispensable condition of the Rulers of Christian States receiving and preserving the allegiance of their subjects.” Fenelon thus expresses the same thought:
“Gradually this sentiment became deeply impressed on the minds of Catholic nations; namely, that -the supreme power should be committed only to a Catholic prince, and that this was a law or condition established between the people and the prince, that the people faithfully obey the prince, provided the
149
prince himself obey the-Christian religion.” An interdict was something more awe-inspiring than the mere ceremony whereby the Pontiff declared a sovereign separated from the communion of the Church. When this solemn sentence was pronounced, the churches-of the nation were closed, the bells ceased to ring; the sacraments were administered only to infants and to the dying, and the dead were buried without any religious cerernony.
That these national interdicts were effective and universally recognized may easily be seen . from two remarkable instances in the reign of Pope Innocent HI. The first was A.DJ 1200, when the whole kingdom of France was laid ; under an interdict, because Philip Augustus had repudiated his wife Ingelberga of Denmark, and married in her stead Agnes de -Meranie. In eight months Philip was obliged to yield, sending away Agnes and taking back his lawful wife. The second instance was when John, King of England, opposed the Pope’s nomination of Stephen Langton to the See of Canterbury, persecuted the clergy and seized _ on their revenues. John, too, was finally compelled to yield in the May of 1213 after five years of obstinate impenitence.
Even Voltaire recognized and approved the political power of the Roman Pontiff: “The interests of the human race,” says he, “ demand a check to restrain sovereigns and to protect the lives of the people. This check of religion could, by universal agreement, have been in the hands of the Popes. These first Pontiffs, in not meddling in temporal quarrels except to appease them, in admonishing-kings and ' peoples of their duties, in reproving their offences, in reserving excommunication for greater crimes, would have been always re-gafded. as the image of God upon earth.”' . Guizot, a Protestant writer, remarks: “ In general, whenever liberty has been wanting to mankind, its restoration has been tHe work of religion. In the tenth century the people were not in a state to defend themselves, or. make their rights available against civil violence, and religion came to the rescue in the name of Heaven.”	.
That Gregory VII. had reasons of a supernatural and religious character for deposing .. Henry IV. is very evident. These simple words -alone, “ Feed my lambs, feed my sheep,” would oblige the visible head of Christ’s. Church* to . root out vice and sow in its place the seeds of virtue. Had not Pope Gregory VII. defended the spiritual rights of his people, and sought
T
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
earnestly to extirpate the evils of his time, his fate might be that-of another Heli, and these terrible words would toll the knell of his condemnation: “And the Lord said to Samuel: Behold I do a thing in Isreal; and whosoever shall hear it, both his ears shall tingle.... For 1	o
I have foretold unto him [Heli] that I will judge his house forever; for iniquity, because he knew that his sons did wickedly and did not chastise them.”
Another objection to the Pontiff’s conduct is this: he was ambitious and aimed at supreme dominion in ecclesiastical and civil affairs. The writers that offer this objection are candidly •refuted by men of their own religious denomination. Guizot, whom I have already quoted as a'protestant writer, frankly states in his “History of Civilization in Europe:” “We are
Varsity Verse.
LOVE. .
BUD amid the tossing leaflets green Trmb Half-hid its crimson glory: soft the wind ' Caressed her drooping head, but could not find • Though sweet it begged, a way to change her. Too modest far this wind: it should have been
More bold. Full on the bud the June sun shined— Forgotten was the morning breeze so kind, And o’er the flowers the rosebud burst,—their queen.
Too oft our passions in our hearts are bound
And, hidden, die: we whisper love songs low To those who long to hear a grander sound;
’Tis not their fault! Alas! they never know.
The light that fills their eyes falls to the ground Where at- their feet- a love more fair may grow.
'	.	. J- F. F?
accustomed to represent to ourselves Gregory VII. as a man that wished to render all things immovable, as an adversary to intellectual development and social progress, and as a man that strove to maintain the world in a stationary or retrograding system. Nothing can be so false. Gregory VII. was a reformer upon the plan of despotism, as were Charlemagne and Peter "the Great. He wished to reform the Church, and through the Church to reform society, to introduce therein more morality, more justice, and more law; he wished to effect this through the Holy See, and to its profit.”	’
• Finally when we reflect on the antithetic .
. characters of Gregory VII. and Henry IV the strength, sincerity and noble ideals of the former will bear no comparison to the ambitious and hypocritical conduct of the latter.
. Henry’s simoniacal transactions and hypocrisy alone can never be justified in the mind of ah unprejudiced thinker. The mortifications he suffered and the severe penances which he performed on his way to Canossa, were
. merely a repetition of those external prac- , tices that the Pharisees of old were - wont to glory in. .
Listen to the concluding words of M. Voigt’s history: “It is difficult to bestow- on him .
‘ [Gregory VII.] exaggerated eulogy; for he has laid everywhere the foundation of solid glory. But everyone should wish to? render
^justice to whom justice is due; let no. one cast 'J a stone at one who is innocent; let everyone
respect .and Honor a man who has labored for . > his age with views so grand and sb generous; . -
Let him who is conscious of having calumniated him re-enter intpjhis .own conscience.”’ .
REVERY
-	I
Though skies are dark and life seems drear, With bird songs sweet and blossoms bright,
To me dead summer days appear.	,
ii
Faint memories of my childhood cheer,	-
' And through life’s storm help, guide me right, .
Though skies are dark and life seems drear.
•	.	' in
Adown my cheek there slips a tear	.
When ’mid the musings of the night
To me dead summer days appear.	-
iv
Upon my dead love’s black-draped bier, ” The candles shed a holy light,
Though days are dark and life seems drear.
And when into the past I peer, .
And count the moments of Time’s .flight, .. To me dead summer days appear.
. ..	■	- ..vi '	,
When we sailed o’er the ocean clear, ,	.
And when I dream ’tis with delight;
Though skies are dark, and life seems drear,
To me dead summer days-appear.
. J. F. F.
_	DISCONTENTMENT.	■
When all the earth, is wrapt in Summer’s glow, .
We, discontented, pine.for other, things.	.
We are not pleased by soft, melodious flow Of. brooks; but yearn for Winter’s snow, ’	’
..	And .for the lusty joys that Boreas brings. * -
:But when the air is filled. with fleecy flakes, ... And skates ring merrily, bn frozen ponds, -	■
We long to' pull, the oar on- mboh-lit Jakes, ■ To watch the. humming bird in bosky brakes -. . By rippling rills; unloosed from(Winter’s bonds. ;
And so -the present verse,is incomplete: > . ■' .. ;We long for that1 which stands without bur reach; .
Ea.ch moment has its pleasures: all-too fleet : ,. < They pass! We yearn for them, and fondly cheat. .
. Ourselves full pft-^of each. . / M. C; D.
♦

I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Cardinal Wiseman.
MATTHEW A. SCHUMACHER, ’99.
On the second of August, 1802, was born in Seville, Spain, Nicholas Wiseman, “ the man of divine Providence for England.” Mr. Wisemam an English merchant, died shortly after the birth of his son Nicholas who was then left to the care of his Irish mother. At six years of age he was taken from invaded Spain to Ireland. After two years’ stay at Waterford, he went to St. Cuthbert’s college at Ushaw, England. Here he became acquainted with Dr. Lingard, the historian, who was then VicePresident of the college. A friendship was formed between them that lasted for life.
The fairest flower of this garden of eight years’ work was the divine call that was heeded. Fortunately in 1818, Pope Pius' VII. restored the English college at Rome after it had been desolate and uninhabited during almost the period of a generation. Six students were sent from St. Cuthbert’s to Rome, and Nicholas Wiseman,.then sixteen years of age, was one of that number. Though young he was gifted with a healthy ambition for noble deeds. Already his future mission seemed to confront him. He employed every minute of his time, and, it is said, he never took the midday rest so prevalent in Rome.
Pius VII. and several cardinals had been his protectors at Rome, and when Consalvi, the last; of these, died, Nicholas presented himself to Leo XII. and said: “I am a foreigner who came here at the. call of Pius VII. six years ago; my first patrons, Pius VIL, Cardinal Sitta De Pietro, Fontana, and now Consalvi are dead; I therefore recommend myself to your Holiness’ protection, and hope you will be a father to me at this distance from my country.” ‘
At-last in the Jubilee year, 1825, the sole object of his life was attained, he was ordained a priest? His success in a public disputation in theology had won for him the title Doctor of Divinity before this event. From this time dates his active life. In 1828 he became Rector of- the English College after acting as Vice-Rector.the two preceding years. In 1827, he was appointed Professor of Oriental languages in the Roman University, at the same time he was commissioned^ to preach English sermons in the .Gesu. He was as much embarrassed in his-s firsts attempt Jas .most novices are, a fact
I5I
that he acknowledged himself. This practice, -no doubt, was a good preparation for his work in England.	, x
As a teacher at the University he maintained that the sciences should be taught as well as theology. In support of this view he wrote an article, afterward developed into a book, on “Science and Religion.” When he came to present a copy of the work to- Pius VIII., the Pontiff, who had already secured one, said to him: “You have robbed Egypt of its spoil and 1 shown that itbelongs to the people of God.” •
The kindness shown to him by the Popes touched his manly soul. In gratitude for their. consideration regarding his welfare he .wrote a book called the “Last Four Popes”—they were Pius VIL, Leo XII., Pius VIII., Gregory XVL, and reigned during his stay at Rome. The book is the result of personal observation on the men treated of. Here are his words before leaving Rome: “It was a sorrowful . evening at the beginning of autump, when, after a residence in Rome prolonged through twenty-two years till affection clung to every old stone there like moss that grew into it; thus strong but tender ties were cut, and much of future happiness had to be invested in the -mournful recollections of the past.” '
In 1840 he began his work in England. He labored zealously till 1850 when he was made the first Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster. His life in England was one of continual suffering— for a decade of years caused by his surroundings, for the remaining five years by bodily complaints. He was a stranger among a strayed flock that blamed his every action. The people were diametrically opposed to him for many reasons which Cardinal Manning enumerates: “ He was a Roman Catholic; he was a Cardinal; he came from the Pope of Rome; he was born in Spain; he was Irish by race; - he was an archbishop in England without our leave, and head of an episcopate unknown to the crown.” These considerations did not fail to arouse the land of his mission. For ten years he was sadly misunderstood, and was the object of unjust attack—in public by writing, in private by conversation. Like many another powerful mind before, he then stood alone on* the safe rock of principle which is immovable, . though the crowd be frantic. Here he stood calmly awaiting the homage that prejudice and ; blindness must pay to truth.	'	.
From i860 till his death public opinion was . j turned into the.right channel. Cardinal Wise- - ? man’s true qualities were brought to light, and -
i52	NOTRE DAME
taking.... It was understood to be a condition he was appreciated accordingly. God, however, tried his servant’s patience to the end by sending him a dragging illness which lasted till his death; this occurred at his residence, York Place, London, Feb. 15, 1865. His funeral was simple in itself, but the attendance could easily compare with the number that is seen at the burial of one of the royal blood. The procession to the cemetery seemed endless.- Thus was publicly manifested the reverence for a man who for ten years suffered a real martyrdom in England.
His kindness and disinterestedness dispelled the clouds that overshadowed the prejudiced minds of the English people. He was at the disposal of any one that needed help or sought enlightenment in matters of faith. Many a one embraced the true faith owing to the consideration and patience of the Cardinal. Those two master minds and holy souls, Manning and Newman, were received into the Church by Wiseman. His paternal feeling likewise extended to the religious of the land. While Archbishop he opened seventy churches, introduced thirty-five religious communities; and he obtained for the religious communities in Great Britain the right of training their own novices instead of sending them to novitiates abroad where their own language was not spoken.
The busiest life has moments when man can let the rest of the world know what he thinks, feels and sees, just as the densest forest has an opening through which its dwellers may enter the outer world. It is one thing to have an opportunity, but it is quite another to avail oneself of it. Not every man finds the opening in the forest, hence the fact that many die without doing any service to mankind. Cardinal Wiseman saw the chance given him and embraced it; this fact may be called the crowning point of his wonderfully active life, for by his writing he stimulated thought; from thought truth was brought forth; from truth many articles professed by the Church of England had to be given up—at least by those who followed their convictions— hence his writing purified or rather drew from error those that sought the truth.	.
The Cardinal is a joint-founder of the Dublin Review. “It was in 1836,” he says, “that the idea of commencing a Catholic Quarterly was first conceived by the late learned and excellent "Mr. Quin, who applied to the illustrious G’Connell and myself; to join in the* uiider-
SCHOLASTIC.
of this association that no extreme political views should be introduced in the Review.” The Cardinal used this magazine to great advantage. His articles at times made Cardinal Newman—before he was converted—and his. circle of friends, who were closely examining the strength and groundwork of the English Church, think very seriously. They were looking for the truth, but they wished to find it embodied in their own Church; they did all in their power to find proofs in favor of their Church, but in the end their own researches forced the conviction upon them that truth is to be found but in the Church that Christ founded — the Roman Catholic Church. Hence, Newman, following his convictions, entered the true fold. '
Most, of Cardinal Wiseman’s productions have been published. His principal works are: “Lectures on the Connection between Science and Revealed Religion,” in 2 vols.; “Lectures on the Doctrines and Practices of the Catholic Church,” in 2 vols.; “Essays on Various Subjects,” in 3 vols.; “ Recollections of the Last four Popes, and of Rome in their Times”; “Fabiola, a Tale of the Catacombs.” He also wrote a play called the “ Hidden Gem.” All his works were produced for instruction, and are consequently of a serious nature. Fabiola, 5^, however, is interesting reading.	■
The Cardinal delivered many sermons and lectures with great success. He was a remarkable extemporaneous speaker; his friends tried him .one day. While at a dinner given in his honor. at Roulers College, near Bruges, in Belgium, the conversation turned on extempore speaking. One of the professors that knew the Cardinal mentioned the Cardinal’s wonderful power in this respect. The others wished to test him, and so they asked him to say a few words at the Public Reception in the college hall that was to take place after the dinner. His Eminence left the choice of subject to them; after much discussion “Logarithms” was.hit upon. In fifteen minutes Cardinal Wiseman appeared before the great crowd that had gathered .in the hall, and discoursed for three-quarters of an hour on “ Logarithms;”: This fact shows more the profound erudition- of the man than any glory to be derived from the mere matter of talking.
The Cardinal spoke nearly all the continental languages with ease and fluency; was well skilled in Hebrew and Oriental tongues, and this, with his knowledge of science, marked him as one of the. best scholars in Europe.
s
NOTRE DAME
The Latin Medal.
JOSEPH P. SHEILS.
“Go up to my room and fetch the magazine that’s on the table near the door,” said Professor Burke to Tom Carroll.
It was the day of the triple competition in ; Latin, the last one of the year. This competition counted for as much as three ordinary :	ones. No matter what percentage a boy got
;	it was multiplied by three and added to the
J	sum of all the percentages he had received in
t	the other competitions during the year. Then
r	the whole amount was divided by the number
?	of examinations, counting the triple as three.
The result decided to whom the medal for the s class would be awarded.
£	Up to this time Tom.Carroll had done very
j well. He was one of the best in the class.
The only boy he feared was John Hopkins who was a few points behind him. At the beginning of class, about an hour before, the I teacher had given out the questions, Tom looked them over carefully.
|	“The last is the only one in the whole lot
that I’m not sure of,” he exclaimed. “I don’t f remember what case follows that verb. We [ used the same words last week when Hopkins | was at the board. He’ll be sure to get it right. I Well, I fear my chances are gone now.” Just then the Professor told him to go after the magazine. As Tom walked from the room he said to himself:
.	“ Surely, I’ll be able to find a Latin grammar
up there.”
He hurried upstairs and found the magazine. As he had expected he saw a Latin grammar near at hand. It didn’t take him Ion? to decide o
whether to make use of it or not. Hopkins was certain to have this sentence correct, and it ’ was doubtful if he would make a mistake with any of the other questions. He picked the grammar up quickly and found the word he ; wanted.
“ My chances look a little brighter now,” he said as he ran down stairs. .
The teacher wondered what had kept him ' so long, but said nothing.
; Tom set to work immediately and soon he J had . answered all the ‘questions./After, class
! was oyer he approached John Hopkins and i said, to him: .
• “What did, you think of the competition, John? ..Did you answer the last question?”
• ■ «
x	-	-	-
SCHOLASTIC.	153
“Oh yes!” John replied. “You know‘1 was ’ at the board the other day when we used that .	:
verb. So I put the word following it in the dative case.”	.
Tom laughed to himself as he walked away.
“Well, I beat him after all,” he ejcclaimed. . ’ “ I think the grammar knows a little more .	.
about Latin than John Hopkins. That verb governs the accusative'.'	'
Commencement day came, and all the students flocked to the college hall. Tom sat in -his seat waiting for the Latin medal to be : , awarded. He was half sorry now that he had -won it. Small credit was his that -he had won . -	‘
it. It really belonged to John Hopkins.
“ Gold medal for Latin awarded to”—as the reader bent forward to see the name Tom was .. about to rise from his seat—“John P. Hopkins,” he concluded.	,
Tom sat quite still during the burst of ■ applause that followed. How did it happen? Didn’t John miss one question and didn’t he get it right? Besides he was sure of all the other questions. But, after all, he was better satisfied than if the medal had been awarded to him. As it was, he was a little ashamed of himself; and how would he have felt to hear, the boys praising him' for what he had not done honestly? '
“ I’ll see Professor Burke, though,” said he. ’
At last when he did see the Professor he asked: .
“ Did John beat me badly, Mr. Burke?”
“ No, not very badly, Tom,” was the answer. “You see, you missed one question—the last, I believe—and John got. the correct answer. Don’t you remember, I told you last week to look out for that verb. I said the grammar had made a mistake, and that it governs the dative -instead ..of the accusative.
Flowers and Incense.'	-
Seeking in vain
For some dear little flower	‘
To place at our loved Mother’s feet, - .
But the chill blasts of Autumn
Have ruthlessly nipped them .	.	-
And scattered their petals so sweet. '
But flowers we have
To present to our .Mother	.	.	*
.Whose beauty and fragrance .	;
No breath can destroy:	, .
They’re the incense of prayer	.
With our heart’s best devotion	.
We. lovingly offer	;	;
Our Mother with joy,	C. of M. ; .
.	■	I
154	NO7RE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	I
m dm seHowsFE.
Notre Dame, October 29. 1898.
}9ublfst)cti tbtrn Saturtrag turintj Emn Eimt at D. Hnibtrsttg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $1.^0 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
SHERMAN STEELE, ’97; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98,-RAYMOND O’MALLEY,’98; F. HENRY WURZER, ’98; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99; JOHN J. DOWD, ’99;
EUGENE A. DELANEY,’99; EDMUND C. BROWN, ’99;
JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99; MAT. A. SCHUMACHER, ’99;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, ’99;
JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99; LOUIS T. WEAD0CK, ’99; -LOUIS C. M. REED, I900; FRANK O’SHAUGHNESSY,I900; THOMAS J. DILLON, I900; ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, 19OO.
F. X. MCCOLLUM, H.' p. BARRY,	I Reporters.
HENRY S. FINK,	)
of Fra Angelico’s pictures to illustrate her remarks; and an excellent test of her ability was that the youngest students present followed her faithfull}'-, and after the lecture examined every picture.
Bishop Hurth of Dacca, Doctor Zahm, the Faculty, and the upper-class men were present at the lecture.
—As announced in our columns of last week, Bishop Hurth of Dacca, Bengal, India, preached the sermon last Sunday. He chose for his subject the~work of the missions and referred more particularly to that done in -India, where he was sent five years ago.
—In our last issue Mr. McDonald, our trainer, was inadvertently referred . to as “Coach McDonald.” Some persons have taken these words to refer to our first baseman, Mr. Angus D. McDonald. We wish to inform the public of the mistake. The gentleman referred to is Mr. W. W. McDonald, the trainer .of our Varsity, and as the two men spell their names alike, we would not wish to have him confused with our baseball man.
Miss Starr’s Lecture.
On last Saturday Miss Starr lectured in St. Edward’s Hall on Fra Angelico, and the thoughts she offered were unusually valuable. Her quality of intense earnestness was never more marked. She imparts much of her own enthusiastic admiration for Fra Angelico to the coolest man in her audience. The strength and resonance of voice would be noteworthy in any woman; and certainly we have seldom heard a more eloquent lecturer, man or^woman, at Notre Dame.
’ Her extemporary, remarks are. as precise in language as carefully written text, and the womanly tenderness and frank admiration are -even more pleasing than the skilful presentation of what is really good in Fra Angelico’s .work. Love for aft with her, as everyone that has had the pleasure of hearing her knows, is hot.an affectation: it is part of her life.
, Apart from what she teaches on art itself, - . the charm of a.good lady, that has grown old v - beautifully is always evident in her manner. ~	It is difficult to speak of her without risk of
. 5 - • ‘ being misunderstood—an honest statement has < - the air of exaggerated praise.	,
: She had a large• collection of photographs
—Local writers, if you would hold your .place in pur fraternity, brace up! Your fifteen or twenty lines of matter fall into six columns like a small potato into a barrel. The novelty of the ■ position, should be worn off now; your eyes should be trained to discover local material, and a little pride in your college paper should encourage you to spend a few idle minutes in contributing to the columns entrusted to you and for which you get the credit. Everybody that takes the Scholastic reads the locals first of all. Contribute your share, then, and do mot pile all the work on one man.	•	.
‘—Those that, heard Dr. Nugent’s baccalaureate sermon last June will be pleased to learn that' he has been selected to conduct our retreat. He is an able and pleasing speaker, and his instructions will doubtless be very beneficial. . It is to be hoped that the students < will fully realize the importance of a retreat. A .word of instruction from us would perhaps be out of iplace: We leave it to you to follow the dictates of your .own conscience in’ the matter, and Ao fteed the advice of the learned gentleman that; has fthe ? services in hand. 7 '
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J55
Notre Dame, 32; DePauw, 0.
Michigan, 23; Notre Dame, 0.
The Varsity has taken a resolution to make good whatever it lost in the Michigan game. With this resolution our “rushers” fell into their canvas and went out to meet DePauw. From three o’clock until half-past four the visitors were treated to all the courtesies that accompany a football game and when time was called they had • given our men thirty-two points. The first half.of the game was characterized by some of the snappiest and fastest ball ever played by a Notre Dame team. At the close we had scored five touchdowns. In the second half the play was not so fast. A pleasing feature of the game was the good work of Hayes and Lennon, who replaced Farley and Fleming. The first time Hayes got his fingers on the ball he went for twenty yards and a touchdown. His work of catching the ball on a kick-off and returning it was especially fine. Lennon played at right half and did best on defensive work; he tackles well, and with more experience will make a valuable player. Without detracting any from the other men, Angus McDonald was. the player that won the. crowd. .
For the first time since the famous Purdue game, he put on a.suit and took his old position at half-back. It was no trouble at all for him to gain eight or ten yards whenever Captain Mullen chose to give him the ball. In the second, half his good punting kept the ball at safe distance from dur goal. DePauw played a nice game, but they were clearly out-classed arid never once came near scoring. Our limited space will not permit a detailed account of the contest. Suffice it to say that it was a good game and that the Varsity showed the “rooters” that they will wallop Indiana when they line up against her. The teams were as follows:
The Line-up: -
	DePauw
Left End . . ‘ Left Tackle Left Guard ' Centre	.	' Right Guard Right Tackle . Right End	,	Fisher Donahoe Ellis Weik Swallen- • Stoll	. - Pierson Blakely Walker	.
■ Quarter Back..	Haynes (Capt/
Right. Half Back	Davis
- Left Half Back	Kuykendall '.
Notre Dame Farley ,. Hayes McNulty Bennett
. Eggeman .
Murray
Fortin . •
Mullen (Capt.) Fleming
; McDonald • Lennon . McDonald Kiippler:	:
Monahan. •	.	-	. .	-	.	.	.	-	,	. -	-
Umpire, Brown, Cornell. Referee, Moore, Purdue, doubt, our boys would have proven better “mud-larks”: had they been 'thus prepare^
Notre Dame was, indeed, surprised at the ’ result of last Saturday’s game on Regent’s , Field: but, judgingfrom reports around south- >• eastern Michigan and more particularly from ‘ the hilarious jubilations of the U. of M. stu- .. dents , after the victory, it was still more of a surprise to them. 1	-	. , ■
. It seems hardly pdssible that our hopes and , speculations on a victory should have been so decidedly blasted. Still we were not; all. , wrong. We were beaten fairly and squarely; and while it would not sound well to make excuses, especially since we have none, it is true, nevertheless, that our mistake does not , lie in overrating our team, but defeat came largely because of the poor exhibition of football that our boys put up. Something was -radically wrong--and the Varsity . might be \ said to have had a day off.
Eggeman was strong at his post, despite the fact that they played three men against him. Mullen played hard, but not so hard as some ■ . of us have seen him play. He plucked admira- ' tion from his adversaries because of his.iron-handed determination. The Michigan men-said, "He made us fight hard for every inch, even to the very last of the game.”	.
Kuppler. and Lins were always .in the game, and Monahan was as stubborn a ground-gainer as ever. Although Monahan fumbled once, and Fleming, several times, and that at critical -moments, it must all be taken as part o£ the ' game. Coach Ferbert said, to the Scholastic correspondent that it would be-no more than " fair that, attention should be called to the , manner in which they made several of their? , touchdowns, — that Notre; Dame practically gave them to Michigan by bad fumbling.
Farley did good .work, and made the only end run for Notre Dame. Although Michigan * repeatedly massed on tackles, Fortin and -Me- \ . Nulty held .them dow;n to very small gains* . . At guard Bennett and Murray’.had to help : Eggeman take, care of the trio .Michigan had pitted (against our big. John.. When. our boys reached the field it Ayas soft, soggy and slip, 5 / pery. The Michigan men knowing this condition were prepared for it, each one wearing “rainy day” shoes with larger cleats, and the soles heavily covered with stove polish to
prevent the mud from sticking to them. No

156	NOTRE DAME
THE kick-off:
.	Captain Bennett won the toss-up, and chose
to let Notre Dame kick against the wind. Fleming sent the ball fifteen yards into the right half of Michigan’s territory; Franz got it, but did not advance. Steckle, Weeks and Widman were sent against our line for short gains, and then Notre Dame was penalized for interfering with centre, giving our opponents another ten yards. Widman circled our end for forty-five yards, and though he slipped when he had gone thirty-five, the Michigan ■	men were on hand to carry him for another
: \	ten. Caley was called back, and he hit the
;	. line for a yard, and the second time he placed
!	it back of the line. The first touchdown was
>	scored in five minutes and twenty seconds.
i	Snow failed at goal. Score, 5-0.
i	Fleming kicked forty-eight yards to Talcott,
p	and having made no advance, Snow punted
1	thirty-five to Monahan; Monahan rammed the
i	centre for two yards and again for one, and
!	Fleming punted thirty-five yards. Barabee,
j	Widman, Weeks and Caley kept covering the
;	necessary ground to keep the ball, and in addi-
j	tion got another five yards as Notre Dame’s
i	penalty for holding. Steckle made another
j	two yards, and Michigan lost the ball for hold-
|	ihg. Monahan was sent through the centre for
' .	small gains, and Farley gave encouragement
i	by circling the end for eight yards. The mass
P^y yielded no gain; we hit their right for i!	one yard, and then lost the ball on a fumble.
Snow sent the ball forty yards to Fleming.... Farley’s gain of two yards was followed by an i .	exchange of punts which left the ball where it
•	was, save that, much to our disadvantage, it
5	had changed hands on account of Monahan’s
j ' fumble. Widman again cut loose, and went around our end for twenty-eight yards. Bara-
i .	bee did the same for ten, and Caley bucked .
|	twice, scoring the second touchdown. Snow
!	kicked goal. Score, li-d.
’ With one minute to play, Fleming sent the ! ’	ball forty-five yards to Snow, who advanced
i	fifteen. The ball being nearly on the right line
of Michigan’s territory, Snow made an excellent j . punt of sixty yards squarely into the middle 1 * ' of the field. Fleming fumbled it, and Captain I	Bennett got it. Time was called with the ball
in-Michigan’s possession on Notre Dame’s ' twenty-five’ yard line.	1
second half:
. Notre Dame had the wind in her favor for this half. Caley. kickdd high in the air, the ’ ball dropping straight down on’our twenty-five
SCHOLASTIC,	j
yard line, and on our fumble, Caley got the # ball that he kicked off. Barabee, Steckles and g Widman hammered at our line. Widman was q pushed in a revolving play for seven yards, and Barabee covered the remaining yard, scoring another touchdown in two minutes and f. fifteen seconds’ play. Snow found the goal. J Score, 17-0.	j
Monahan proceeded to pad the ground nicely, W so the oval would stand high and dry for a	f ;
clean kick. Fleming sent the ball sixty-five	I i
yards, giving Michigan a free kick from the fl twenty-five yard line. They sent it forty yards through the air, and Capt. Bennett captured the ball on our fumble. Caley, Snow, and 0 Widman advanced the ball to Notre Dame’s	fl
twenty-yard line, where it went over for hold-	B
ing. Fleming sent the pig-skin forty-five yards S and out of danger. Michigan again advanced;
Widman made a yard; Barabee did not gain,	M
and Snow punted fifteen yards to Fleming, on	j
whose fumble Caley tucked the ball under his	1
arm and proceeded to the goal. He was called	j
back, however, and the ball was given to	1
Notre Dame for holding. Michigan got the ball	fl
back immediately for foul interference. At	3
this point Street relieved Weeks at full-back.	3
Barabee, Snow and Widman made a short	fl
gain each, and Teetzel went in for Bennett at	g
end; Michigan kept on hitting our line for	h
short gains, and when Barabee fumbled he	8
was fortunate enough to get the ball back and	H
gain two yards.	H
Notre Dame took the ball for off-side play.	fl
Signals were called, but no one took the ball	S
from Fleming. Farley gained a yard; Fleming	H
punted, thirty-five yards to Talcott who ad-	S
vanced fifteen. Michigan hit our line for two	j
and a half yards, and Barabee tried the end	g
for eight. McDonald went in for White. 7 I Widman, Caley, Barabee and Street brought	I
the ball to our ten-yard line. Blencoe took	|
Barabee’s place and helped to carry the ball	I
for the other ten yards. Caley hit the. line	|
for another touchdown. Snow kicked goal.,	fl
Score, 23-0.	fl
Two and a quarter minutes	left. Fleming	fl
kicked forty yards and Michigan lost the ball g for holding/ Captain Mullen decided to try	II
a place kick, and the spectators stood and	M
admired our formation. Fleming placed his	fl
leg squarely on the pig-skin, but it went two	' S
yards to the left of the goal. Snow had the	fl
ball for Michigan’s free kick from the twenty- fl five yard line, and sent it to Mullen in the	fl
middle of the field, where time was called.	fl
jfOTRb dame SCHOLASTIC.
157
Notre Dame	The Line-up:	Michigan
Mullen (Capt.)	Right End	Snow
Fortin	Right Tackle	Steckle
Murray	Right Guard	Franz
Eggeman	Centre	Brown
Bennet	Left Guard	Caley
McNulty	Left Tackle	White McDonald
Farley	Left End	Bennett (C.) Teetzel
Fleming	Quarter Back	Talcott
Lins	Right Half-Back	Barabee Blencoe
Kuppler	Left Half-Back	Widman
Monahan	Full Back	Weeks Street
Time of halves, 20 minutes. Touchdowns, Caley, 3; Barabee. Goals from touchdowns, Snow, 3. Referee, J. C. Knight, Princeton. Umpire, Paul Brown, Cornell. Linesmen, Simmons and Vernon. Timers, Weadock and Pell.
Books and Magazines.
—The Rosary Magazine for October, contains a very interesting article on the “ Birthplace of the Rosary,” by the Countess de Curson. C. A. Malone has an essay on Father Ryan and his works. The social conditions in London are discussed by Alice Worthington Winthrop under the title “ The Problems of the Poor in Great Cities.” “ Flowers for the Altar” is an article that deserves attention. Rose Halley Clarke makes some very good suggestions in it. There are many good things in the Fiction department.
—The Literary Digest of the current month has its usual number of articles that are of general interest. Ex-Secretary Carlisle’s views on Imperialism are given; Mr. Frederick Harrison’s criticism on Froude as a historian and a writer is thoroughly discussed. Henry James’ latest word puzzle, “ In the Cage,” is com-mentedon. “ Do Physicians Know too Much?” is asked. If they don’t they think they do. From a clipping we learn that the New York Observer has made a discovery, and under the, title “ Romanizing Rituals,” it becomes frantic. This wide-awake organ talks as though it had ' just awoke, and is making up for lost time.
—Le Couileux Leader for October continues . Gregory Barr’s story, “Strength in Weakness.” ; The “ Evolution of the Harvey’s,’’ by Henry > Coyle, is a clever article with a point to it. j That,the Archbishop of Manilla waa slandered I - is shown by a clipping from different dailies.
. —The Students' Journal for October contains 1 many things that are both pleasant and useful, i ex-Minister Denby gives us some important facts concerning China’s future.
Exchanges.
The Georgetown College. Journal, mechanically, is a thing of beauty, and its contents . are in keeping with its exterior. The paper on the Supreme Court is an able one, and, as for the essay that was dashed off in the classroom and printed without further correction, it is almost too good to be true. The different departments in the Journal are also a notable and pleasing feature. We are glad to learn from the athletic columns that the ban against football has been removed. A college without football, to use a hackneyed phrase, is very much like the play of Hamlet with the title character left out.
* ’
* *
From the far East—the land of the wise— comes the Princeton Tiger. The Tiger lays no claims to wisdom, its goal is cleverness; and that the Tiger is clever no one familiar with it will gainsay. We have before this expressed oursevles rather strongly against the average “ Back Again ” editorials, and we are happy to see from the Tiger that our criticisms in this regard were not unreasonable, for the opening editorials of the Tiger prove that trite remarks need not necessarily be stereotyped, and that an opening editorial really can be fresh and clever. The Tiger s witticisms and drawings are up to its standard. The “ Freshman Daze ” is good. That striking portrait of the editor of a well-known paper is a work of art. We intend to frame it, for the editor in question is an old friend (?) of ours. He once wrote us up.	.	,
* * * .
“After a few years of rest the Echo, again awakes on the hills of Austin, and makes its bow before the college public.” Thus does the St. Edward’s College Echo announce its awaking from a Rip Van Winkle slumber, and that it is very wide awake the initial number is ample proof. The leading article is upon the “ Manifold Beauties of Nature.” It is an erudite, and most interesting review of the manner in which great minds of all times have been® impressed by nature’s wonders, and of the many writers that have taken for their theme , the beauties of . creation. The editorials are timely and to the point, and, altogether, the Echo may be assured of a hearty welcome from its old friends, and may count upon making many new ones. ~
t	'	-	-
. • - • - *
tcS	NOTRE' DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our Friends.
Local Items.
—The Rev. James J. Durick, of Brooklyn, called upon the President during the past week.
—The students of the University extend to Mr. Joseph J. Sullivan their sympathy for his loss in the death of his brother.
—The Misses Hamilton and Miss Nash of Omaha and Miss Myers of Dubuque, were the guests Sunday of Mr. Louis Nash and Mr. D. Myers of Sorin Hall.
—Mrs. M. Dukette of Mendon, Mich., attended the Lafayette Day exercises, and spent ' several days at Notre Dame, the guest of her son, Mr. Frank Dukette.
—Hon. A. L. Brick, LL. M. ’95, of South Bend, spent Monday at the University, and dined with Dean Hoynes of the Law School. Mr. Brick is the Republican candidate for Congress from this district, and he has many friends at Notre Dame who feel assured of his election.
—An Oregon paper in mentioning a recent speech delivered at Antelope by Mr. N. J. Sinnott, of Dallas, says of Mr. Sinnott: “He showed by his eloquence, logic and forcible • manner that he is one of the most able orators in eastern * Oregon. His speech has seldom been equalled, and never a better one was heard in. Antelope.” Mr. Sinnott is a Notre . Dame man, and the Scholastic is happy to learn of his forensic success.
—A recent issue of “Sporting Life ” contains a large and excellent likeness of Mr. Michael Powers, Litt. B. ’98, our last year’s catcher. The accompanying sketch of our favorite ath-. lete gives his career upon the college diamond, and, recites- his successful playing with the Louisville League team during the past season. Mr. Powers is fast gaining prominence in the baseball world; arid he is the same good fellow and prime favorite upon the League diamond that he was upon our. own college field.' /
—Mr. Thomas D. Mott, LL. B. ’95, after a visit of several weeks in South Bend left Tuesday for Santiago de Cuba. Mr. Mott for two , years past has been practising law in Los , . Angeles, his home, but he thinks that there are great possibilities for a yourig “man in our ; newly acquired territory, and he proposes to . get in bn the ground floor. Mr. Mott speaks Spanish fluently and is a very talented young man, and the Scholastic prophesies for* him ; a brilliant future in his new field of labor
—Lost a fountain pen. Finder, please return to Emil J. Ernst, Carroll Hall.
—The sernon delivered by Rt. Rev. Bishop Keane is now for sale in pamphlet form at the University Office.	'
—A telegram came from Worcester the ■other day, asking if their representative had secured a ‘‘chew”.yet.
.—“Pat” is getting into condition for the-athletic sports next spring in Carroll Hall. He “ Shags ” around the campus every, morning after breakfast about eight times.
—Theparty who borrowed for a few moments the bound volume, No. 23 of the Scholastic from the foreman of the printing office will confer a favor by returning it immediately.
—The Specials of Carroll Hall defeated the Anti-Specials for the third time on October 23 -by a score of 11 to o. The Specials are somewhat strengthened by the addition of Morgan to the team.	'
—Henricus' of Detroit (helping himself to a plate of dried Perch): “Gee whiz! these fellows must have bucked the line, eh, Eddie?” (=N. B.) The joke was too much, and Eddie, unable to answer, rolled under the table.
—The manager of the Scholastic iriakes another appeal for numbers 1 and 3 of the present year’s Scholastic. Those parties that can spare said numbers, please leave them at the Students’ Office. Don’t forget, numbers 1 and 3. .	•	.
—Master Max. Palm, Jr. of Cincinnatti, O., has the best thanks of the University for a donation, of a geological collection of superb specimens consisting of stalactites, stalagmites, polished and fibrous gypsum formations, from the famous Mammoth Cave of Kentucky.
—Reverend President Morrissey visited the classes in St. Edward’s Hall during the week. The examination showed that the Minims have been doing goocL work. The Reverend President said it was always a pleasure for him to visit the Hall, and to meet so many bright, happy, boys.	'	.
—The Executive Committee of the Athletic Association held a.meeting last Friday. Rev. T. Crumley has been selected to act as Chairman; Messrs. Wurzer and P. Follen represented Sorin Hall, Messrs. A. D. MacDonald and John Farley, Brownson Hall. The committee elected Mr. John Eggeman as manager of the track .
- team for the ensuing year arid Mr' Thos. Dwyer alternate.^ Mr. A. MacDonald .will manage the basket-ball .team with Martin O’Shaughnessy as alternate.	.	* ' .
—All thoughts of the, coming, examinations were put to flight in Sorin. Hall last Wednesday night, and' all hands made ready for a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
jolly old “smoker.” Invitations were extended to President Morrissey and members of the Faculty, and they were present to make the occasion a success.
At 7:30 the Sorin Hall orchestra,—which, by the way, is alright — began a grand march in one corner of the., hall, and this was the signal, for the ceremonies to begin. Those that didn’t feel like playing billiards sat down to a quiet game .of cards, chess or some other - amusement. Others took up some of the.many magazines or laughed, behind clouds of smoke, • at the jokes and cartoons in Puck-Judge Life, etc. Lunch was served at ten o’clock and after this cake, walks and dancing were the order of the evening. Everything went merrily until the clock marked the middle of the night, and then the members retired to their rooms after the most pleasant evening of the year. To the committee of arrangements, to Father Ready, Bro. Gregory, and members of. the orchestra much praise is due.
—Only two of the boat crews have been working hard this fall. It is customary .to have a regatta on the thirteenth of October, but as the time for preparation -is so short, our rowers do not work with the same spirit that is shown in spring. Many of the rowers are members either of the scrubs or of the Varsity, and this, too, is a reason why so little interest is taken in the crews. The. two crews that raced this^year were the Minnehaha and the Evangeline, the former winning by about two lengths. The men took their positions in the boats as follows:—
Minnehaha—J. G. Shane, No. 1; E. A. Sheekey, No. 2; L. J. Burg, No. 3; W. A. Shea, No. 4; A. J. VanHee (Capt.) No. 5; C. J. Baab, Stroke; R. A. Krost, Coxswain.
Evangline—M. Morales, No. 1; M. L. Beltram, No 2; F. J. Kasper, No. 3; R. J.. Emerson, No. 4; E. E. McCarthy, No. 5; S. J. Sullivan (Capt.), Stroke;, E. L. Guerra, Coxswain.
The annual banquet of- the boat club will occur on the evening of November 12.
—Higgins and Murray were disputing as to which of them was the stronger. Higgins declared that he was, while Murray was willing to put .it to test. In search of something by . which they might put their strength to the test they came upon some shovels resting against the gym,-when'a brillianLidea flashed across Higgins’ broad mind. He said that he could .dig a deeper hole in five minutes than Murray could dig in three. Mr. Bellinger being appointed time-keeper and judge, they began their work. Soon dirt began flying around. in every direction, and in a few minutes after they had started they were' entirely hidden from view. Bro. V. who chanced to ■ pass by fearing that the foundations of the gym, which were near at hand, would cave in, ordered them to postpone their, operations until further : notice. Being interrupted by this order they : ceased digging, and hoped that it would not ■
J59
be long until one of them should prove himself the stronger.	-
—For the benefit of our readers we ifisert
the following	.	‘ .
PROGRAM OF THE RETREAT,
TO BE CONDUCTED BY
The Rev. Joseph F. Nugent, LL. D., ’95.
OPENING SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 29, 1898."
,	SATURDAY.	-
Opening Sermon.	•	7:30. p. mi
■	■	SUNDAY. -	
Mass and Instruction,	- 8:00 a.m.	.
. Rosary,	'	10:00 a. m,
Sermon, "	10:15 a. m.
. Dinner,	12:00 m.
' Instruction,	-	130 p. m.
Way of the. Cross,	3:00 p. m.
Instruction,	4:30 p. m... .
Supper,	6:00 p. m.
Sermon and Benediction,	7:30 p. m.-"4
MONDAY.	, • • -
Mass and Instruction,	8:00 a. ,m.
Rosary,	-	io;oo a. m.-
Sermon,.	10:15 a-	.
k Dinner,	12:00 m.
Instruction,	.	1:30 p. m. .
Way of the Cross,	3:00.p. m.	-
Confession,	’	3:30 p. m. *
Instruction,	4:30 p. m.
Supper,	*	6:00 p. m.
Sermon and Benediction,	7:30 p. m.
'	. TUESDAY.	-
Mass and General Communion,	6:00 a. m.
■ Celebrant Rev. President Morrissey, C. S. C.	’	
Solemn Pontifical Mass and Sermon,	8:00-a. m, .
Celebrant Rt. Rev. Peter Hurth, D. D., Bishop of	
Dacca, East Bengal.	
Vespers, Sermon and Organization of	Temperance
Society	.	2:00 p. m.
. The American Republican College
.	League.	. -
National Convention.—The seventh annual convention of the American Republican Col- ,■ lege Leage, which was postponed in May last, on account of the war, will be held at Indianapolis, Indiana, November 17 and 18, 1898A The reporting of the work of the past year, . the. adoption of a revised constitution, and the regular annual election of officers, constitute . the chief items of business for transaction. The official program of the convention’s meetings will be issued about November 8th.
All clubs expecting to send delegates to , i, this Convention are urged to notify the President on or before Nov. 7, in order that the arrangement of the program may be facilitated.
Arnold L. Davis, President. _	.
‘	' Denison' House, Indianapolis, Ind.. C
. F. Henry Wurzer, Secretary. . ‘	\
.	-	. Notre Dame, Ind.	.
State Convention.	■
A convention of Indiana college republicans is' also called for Nov. 16 at 2 p. m. to be held-in the Dennison House, in Indianapolis V for the purpose of organizing the various col- :
160
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
lege republican clubs of Indiana into a State League. Every college in the state ought to be represented at this meeting, whether they' have a club or not. For information relative to the conventions, or other matters connected with the League work, address either the President or Secretary.	•
- F. Henry Wurzer,
Notre Dame, Ind.
—Many of the students who have their ’ headquarters in Sorin Hall posed, as it were, some time ago for a seldom picture. Prof. Green was patient enough to sacrifice his time to represent this swarm of bipeds on a picture card. Of course, as is natural, everyone endeavored to throw out his front and if possible to be the most conspicuous member of the group.
Luckily John “Adipose” was not there or the sale of the pictures would be limited to one. “ Heine” is most charmingly represented. He stands firmly on both upholders, with arms akimbo, vainly endeavoring to see whether or not the photographer has his eye on him alone. / The framework of a horse, I would judge, held in position by the thills of a small wagon forms a most appropriate and pleasing back-
ground. The long red engineer completes the . ,	.	_,	_ ..	.	-
national, colors. The white horse, the “red” - of the question The following program was
berry “undt dem blue sthripes what all the while run de pantz-legup and down” on our “Heine.” “Red” extended anywhere from the base to the peak of the picture, while little , Sherman must be content to be so minimized that his jowls are constantly erasing the polish from his leathers. Yocke is all there, and as anyone would suppose has brought hither his linguistical surroundings. The sun, shining directly on “Dupe’s” prickly shape, reflects a vaseline tint over the whole group, and casts ' a sallow radiance over Josh’s “pups” which he had arranged with mathematical accuracy for this particular happening. “ Corck,” with one arm in the infirmary, held out in the other * a faded shin-plaster in the vain hope that the mere sight of something once exchangeable would enliven his countenance. Jack Mullen
side. By Mr. Trentman’s strong arguments the judges decided in favor of the negative. Mr.
_	Higgins told what, he would do if he were
remarked that he didn’t feel half bad as long President of Notre Dame. Messrs. Althoff, . as.it was not an X-ray that could expose the Giffin and Wessler were admitted as mem- •
bers. A very interesting program has been announced for the next meeting.
Sorin Society.— President, Prof. Carmody; 1st Vice-President, Irwin L. Weis ; 2d VicePresident L. Abrahams; Recording Secretary, Wallace Hall; Corresponding Secretary, A.
,	. ,	■	- . ,	, , .	McFarland; Treasurer, Jasper Lawton; Critic .
foremost characters which would impress, a WaiterBlanchfield; 1st Censor, Hugh Hueleatt;
stranger that might chance to criticise the jd Censor, Grover Strong. Program: Address, - -group-	Clement Paul; Piano, Eddie. O’Connor; Story,
~ Society Notes.	Jasper Lawton. Debate: “ Resolved, that the
The Columbians held an enthusiastic meet- • navy is more useful in war than the, army.” \ ing; on Thursday: evening with Prof. Carmody Affirmative, L; Abrahams, Butler, McCarthy; . in the chair. The work of the society is very • negative, VVeis, Fleming and Hart. ,
condition of his bony nature. Shag was there meat and all, fully determined to look like somebody. “ If at first you don’t succeed, try, try, again.” Jimmie was not absent because the all-smiling orb of “Runt” was plainly
visible through the oval space ’twixt Jimmie’s lower extremities, etc., etc., etc. These are the
promising on account of the interest and goodwill manifested by the members. Mr. Collins opened the program with a choice reading that met with the cheerful attention and hearty appreciation of the meeting. Mr. Crumley’s recitation, entitled “The, Artist,” was so well delivered that it was received with much favor and liberally encored. Mr. Crumley responded with his celebrated and popular “ Charley Bourke.” The extemporaneous address by Mr. Barry d.id not worry him in the least, and he handled his subject after the fashion of a Webster or a- Clay. The debate: “Resolved, That Dreyfus is innocent” was so vigorously contested by Messrs. Murphy, R. Barry and Fetherston on the affirmative, and by Messrs. Danaher, Lennon and Smith on the negative, that we had difficulty in grasping all the arguments. The decision was awarded to the affirmative speakers.
The St. Cecilians held their sixth regular meeting Wednesday evening. A most enjoyable program was rendered. Mr. Hinze’s impromptu speech, “Winter Sports at Notre Dame,” was amusing. The debate, “ Resolved, that the Chicago papers are better than the New York papers,” was closely contested. The house decided in favor of the negative side
arranged for the next meeting:—Mandolin selection, Friedman; clarionet accompaniment,
Petritz; a reading, Mulcare; declamation, Land; impromptu speech, Noonan; a debate: “ Resolved, that outdoor exercise is more . beneficial than indoor exercise.” Affirmative, Messrs Quinlan and Carney; negative, Messrs. Slevin and McGuire.
The Philopatrians of Carroll Hall held their sixth regular meeting last Wednesday evening, October 26. A subject, “ Resolved that -Dewey is a greater naval hero than Farragut,” was debated. Messrs. Clarke and Lockwood spoke for the affirmative side and Messrs. Trentman and Rush spoke for the negative
\ -
