•of Gambling at Notre 

FALL CONCERT 
:JJdday, (9~ 27 
8:00 9'-M, W_ajfiitu;tan :Jlall :iJtee Cldm,b4}i(m 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 7 FOUNDED 1867 OC1DBER 26, 1995 
COVER STORY 


Covering the Spread 
From the students who stay up all night playing euchre to those who participate in the NCAA Finals basketball pools, there is no doubt that gambling occurs at Notre Dame. Forsome students, though, gamblingbecomes not just a pastime, but a way of life . 
..................................page 12 
Get With The Program 

"PROOOGRAMS! Get your prooograms!" Sev­enth-grader Michael Clements has become an intrinsicpartofeveryNotre Dame football weekend. 
................................page 8 

Weekend at Rockne's 

From the marching band's Saturday morning concert to the painting ofthe play­ers' helmets, here's a por­trait of the Texas football weekend in pictures. 
..............................page 18 
FEATURES 

OutgrowingLaFo~une ........... ~ ............................... 4 
by Laura Merritt 
About Last Night..................................................... 6 
by Whitney Wishon 
Too Closefor Comfort............................................10 
by Arianne Westby 
TheBigPayback?...................................................16 
by Jake Schaller 
ARevolutionaryldea ................ !............................21 
by Chris Myers 
Movies: His and Hers...........................................22 
byAndrewWeimerandMichelleHempel 
DEPARTMEN1S 
FromtlleEditor....................................................................................... ~ .................2 
:Letters.......................... ; ............................................... 3 CampusWatch..:'.......................:...........................;.....11 Splinters from the Press Box...................................15 Out ofBounds.........:...~ .............................................24 On Other Campuses.................................................25 ComingDistractions ................................................ 26 WeekinDistortion .................................................... 27 FinalWord................................................................28 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ OC T O B E R 2 6 , 1 9 9 5 


More Than Just A Game 
Ilove going to sporting events. I may not know what adown is, and I may have trouble differentiating between the offense and the defense, but I continue to attend these events for their fun and excitement. 
Although people have tried to teach me thebasics of various games countless numbers of times, each attempt has proved unsuccessful. I have simply learned to live with (and quite honestly enjoy) the fact that for me, attending an athletic game is comparable to attending a large-scale social gathering. 
Thatiswhyitisso hard for me toimaginewhy anyone would be willing to bet hundreds of dollars on a game. But it happens. And according to many Notre Dame students, it occurs right here on this campus. News writer Corrine Burnick takes a look at this undercover phenomenon on page 12. · 
In Memoriam 
The staff of Scholastic would like to offer their condolences to the family and friends of senior Rob Adams, who lost his life in a car accident on the morning of October 13. 
Theresa M. Hennessey 
Managing Editor 
Cover photo by Stan Evans 

15 Years Ago... 
Fifteen years ago, in the May 2, 1980, issue, Scholastic ran the following ad on the inside front cover of the magazine. Whatfour words could be used to sum up Notre Dame in this day and age? 


2 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 26, 1995 


GLND/SMC still unrec9gnized 
Dear Editor: 
Richard Hunt's letter (Scholastic, September 28) mentions his surprise, upon returning to Notre Dame after a five-year absence, at finding a somewhat more open discussion of gay and lesbian issues on campus. I believe he is correct in his observation but wrong in wanting to credit the president and administration ofthe university with any improvement in the climate. 
GI.ND/SMC is still forbidden by official administration policy from posting notices, from advertising in the Observer, from reserving a meeting room or from organizing events on campus. Flyerspostedby GLND/SMC have in thepastbeen systematically tom down by watchdogs of the Office of Student Affairs. The occasional survival of GLND/SMC postings does not reflect a change of official university policy. The GLND/SMC booth at activities night appeared without official sanction and was even­tually shut down by the authorities. 
What has actually begun to produce some small changes in the acceptance of gays and lesbians here are the concerted efforts of gayand lesbian students themselves alongwith significantsupport from many other students, dedicated faculty, gay and lesbian alumni andkey campus organizations. The university administra­tion and the Office of Student Affairs, which only eight months ago made a ~ial point of ejecting GLND/SMC from_ the one place on campus where it had tacitly been allowed to meet, have so far made no change in their policy. With regard to meeting space, the official policy has actually become more repressive. 
ThomasO'Neil'sSeptember21articlecorrectlypointedoutthe strange silence on this importantissue on thepart of the university president Since Father Malloy is presumed to be an experton the subject of homosexuality, having dedicated his doctoral disserta­tion to the matter, the silence is all the more stunning. But he has been of no help here. 
Is it too 'much to hope that the country's leading Catholic university and its president might begin to lead the Church toward a more positive resolution ofan issue that so deeply affects the life oftheuniversity, thewider Catholic Churchandits leadership,and our society as awhole, notto mention the live of the many gayand lesbian students here? 
Do You Have Something to Say? 

Write to Scholastic 303_ Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 



Outgrowing LaFortune · 
With the number ofstudent organizations on the rise, there's just not enough office space to go.around 
CLOSE QUARTERS. Formerly a multicultural student lounge, nine ethnic organizations now must share this cramped office space. 

BY LAURA MERruTr hat has four walls, a floor, a 
ceiling, a desk, aphone, afiling 
cabinetanda door? Whilemost people would correctly guess an office, some Notre Dame students could not rely on personal experience to solve the riddle. 
LaFortune stands as the official student center on campus, and one of its primary functions is to house Notre Dame's clubs and organizations. It has become increas~ inglyapparent, however, thatit cannot serve every group's needs. 
Mary Edgington, Student Activities as­sistant director in charge of facilities, out­lines the dilemma at hand. ·1n 1986, she explains, LaFortune was expanded and re­furbished with the aim of accommodating all of Notre Dame's student organizations, then totaling 40. Since this augmentation, the number of clubs has risen to 200, yet there h_as been no concurrent expansion to meet the growing needs of such groups. 
KatieLawler, Student UnionBoardman­ager, perceives thesituation athandas asort of phenomenon. For a school with about 8,000 students, she indicates that the exist­ence of200 organizations is absolutely re­markable. "We have a very active student body," she says. "But without adequate office space, how do we keep that going?" A number of other student leaders, both those with and without offices, share her concerns. 
W 

The struggles and reasons for desiring officespaceareasdiverseasNotreDame's organizations themselves. The Women's Resource Center, for instance, has fought an uphill battle for the space it presently holds. Chairperson Erin Trahan expiains that the Center was first granted its space, . which is a conference room in the Student Govemrp.ent Office, in the fall of 1993, and has had ·to overcome subsequent conflicts to keep it 
Trahan is thankful for the fact that the Centeroccupies an office, especial}ywithin the "high accessibility" ofLaFortune, but is displeased with the fact thatanyone who wants to visit the Center must walk through the Student Government Office. "Our is• sues are sensitive," she explains, "so the situation is very awkward." More specifi• cally, privacy is an absolute necessity, so the location "is a total detriment to the services we want to offer." 
Ethnic organizations, run through the Multicultural Student Affairs Office in LaFortune, likewise represent clubs which have had to struggle for space. Director Iris Outlaw explains that in spring of 1991, a group of Notre Dame students known as StudentsUnited For Respect(SUFR) united in an attempt to achieve mutual respect . between the administration and its ethnic students. One of the demands was for a multicultural center that would provide of­fice space, an auditorium, congregational space, library space, lounge space and study rooms. ·While SUFR never saw this de­m.and entirely fulfilled, they were given a room within the Multicultural Student Af­fairs Officeknown as theCoalitionLounge. It was used primarily as social and study space, and a few ethnic organizations were able to hold meetings there. 
As the need for regular office space has skyrocketed, however, the lounge has been revamped into an office. Outlaw reports that nine ethnic organizations now operate out of the room, which can fit only four desks, a file cabinet, and a telephone that everyone must share. Meanwhile, approxi­mately 10 other ethnic groups are waiting for a home-base of their 'own. "We have outgrownLaFortune," Outlawdeclares,"not just ethnic groups, but everyone." 
Jose Gonzales, assistant director of Multicultural Student Affairs, concurs. He states, "Office space is necessary to feel like we'reapartofNotreDame, butitiscramped, crowded and not conducive toprivacy.'All groups suffer from this," he asserts. 
The benefits ofhaving an established 
office are ple~tiful. as voiced by student 
leaders themselves. As Kevin Minbiole, 
co-president of Foodshare, explains, "Of­
fice space, first and foremost, provides ba­
sic tools of organization, including ~ecessi­
ties such as a telephone, computer and 
desk." Minbiole's organization shares a 
sinall space with a handful bfother groups, 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ 0 CT O'B ER 2 6, 1 9 9 5 
but heis satisfied that he has an option other than working out of his own room. 
Kevin Kuwik, senior class president, agrees. "You have to have one," he states, "nolonly as a site al which Lo store files and class merchandise, but as a place to hold office hours." The class and its officers get good use ofthe office, he explains, because individuals are able to stop by knowing that there will always be someone around who can answer questions and address concerns. 
MikeGaglia, president of College Demo­crats, says his organization does not have office space, but would like to have some simply as a general resource place. "It would be a good location to keep current congressional material so that club mem­bers could easily access it," he explains. 
Dave Lykins, president of Tau Beta Pi, echoes Gaglia's wish. After applying for space last spring and not receiving it, Lykins must now store the club's supplies in his dorm room. 
While not every organization finds ades­ignated office space necessary, a general meetingplaceprovesessential to eachclub's functioning. Lawlerremarks thatLaFortune, along with Stepan Center, are the only sites on campus that student organizations may reserve free of cost for meetings and other functions. 
Sharon Einloth, coordinator of the Club Coordination Council, explains that each spring as many as 100 organizations re­quest LaFortune office space for the ensu­ing school year. With only 40 viable spaces in LaFortune, simple arithmetic indicates that a significant number of clubs walk away empty-handed. 
Einloth, who works in coordination with Edgington, must read all the space alloca­tion requests and then present Student Ac­tivities with written recommendations for the groups that she finds most deserving of offices. This proves a difficult task, be­cause, she admits, there is just "not a whole lot of space to be had," and "you want to be able to give it to everyone." 
Edgington agrees that the process is chal­lenging. Whilethere is no establishedpolicy for deciding who receives office space, she and the Club Coordination Council attempt to remain consistent from year to year in their general guidelines. For example, they first analyze exactly what type of space each club requests. Secondly, the implica­tions of each group for the student body are discussed. Finally, if the organization is actually allocated space, Student Activities must then decide which particular office it should be assigned. 
Edgington stresses that of these factors, one is not more important than another. Instead, she and the Club Coordination Council compile all the components, as wellasspeakwithclubheadsthemselvesso that they are able, as Einloth states, to get "a feel for their needs." Yet even after the whole process is completed and "every nook and cranny" is in use, says Edgington, "we just don't have enough space to allo­cate." 
The recent erection of the College of Business A~inistration has proved some­what valuable for ·some organizations in 
that it included student office space in its blueprints. Consequently, a few student groups, including the Marketing Club, the Entrepreneur Club and the Notre Dame Council on International Business Devel­opment, have been able to move from LaFortune to the new building, opening up office space for others. 
As students continue their involvement in a number of organizations, the question becomes where those groups will actually find more space to organize. Even with the towers preparing for conversion to admin­istrative and faculty office space, Mike Smith, director of Facilities Engineering, reports that there is no plan at this time to include student office space in either of those buildings. 
Smith does say, though, that "there is a possibility for expanded student space on the developing quads." Indeed, the Collo0 quy 2000 recommends that "the university should seriously consider a plan to create additional social space for students in a centralized location." Perhaps a part of that projectshouldincludetheallotmentofspace for student offices; 
WhileEdgingtonacknowledges thatthere 

has been "Qo official word that we're going to get more student space," she maintains that the issue stands as "something every­one needs to look at" "You pay tuition," Gonzalesasserts. "Speakupandbeheard".O 

"We have a very active student body. But without adequate office space, how do we keep that going?" .;_, Katie Lawler 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 
I· 

ll.§J)lii•J.iiiiiill----------------------'-­
About Last Night 
From fires to bad music, students recount their experiences after a wild weekend ofdances 
BY WHITNEY WISHONSophomore ReneRimelspach took a last glance in the mirror, and anxiously clutched a plastic pumpkin filled with candy. She had just spent a chaotic afternoon shopping for gifts at Meijer's, and then proceeded to move furniture and all breakable items out of her room so she and her roommates could prepare for their party later that evening. Finally, after hours of decorating, primping and sharing a drink with friends, she was ready to brave the chilly weather and pick up her date. Like many Notre Dame students on the weekend of October 6, Rimelspach was going· to attend one of the numerous dances on campus. With good tales and bad, Notre Damestudents recall their interesting experiences from that weekend, start to finish. Decorating. Many students spend hours 
converting their sections into fantasy worlds for a dance. Some dorm sections are espe­cially competitive about the ritual decorat­ing. "Sections get vicious when their deco­rating ideas are not met with approval," joked sophomore Marty Harris. Her section in Breen-Phillips rebelled when told that. 
they couldn't use "Miniature Golf' as their. section's theme. They hung Styrofoam golf balls from the ceiling, cloaked the walls in green and even built a golf cart out of re­cycled cardboard boxes. 
One group of Pangborn girls added a special touch to their room that night "We decided to make our dance memorable for ourdates,"saidsophomoreMeganMassucci. "So we rented a cotton candy machine." 
Getting Ready. Though many people 

planned the evening far in advance, some SAY CHEESE. Cameras go Into overdrive on dance nights as eager students try to were still getting ready at the last minute.· photograph everyone at their best. 
"Some of my friends and I got lost in South Bend looking for gifts that evening," said freshman Doug Gottlieb. "Finally we found a place that sold teddy bears. We bought more than we needed and came back and auctioned them off to our friends." 
While some dance-goers were still perfecting their hair or makeup when their dates walked in, others did allow enough time forthoseunfortunatemishapsthatoccasionallyoccur."lhaveshort hairand I sprayed a lot of hair spray on niy hairand then put in my curlers," said freshman Ginny Wilbert "When I took the curlers out, I had an afro. I had to take a shower and start over." 
The girls in Badin also had a surprising mishap. "When we were getting ready, the fire alarm went off. A lot of people were in their 
6 
robes and curlers. Everyone was half ready as we stood outside the dorm," said freshman Peggy Wolf. 
Meeting the Date. As the time came to get their dates, several students found themselves making last-minute alterations to their agendas. "We were supposed to go and get our dates [from Saint Mary's]at9:45p.m.,"saidseniorsTomDehmerandTimMcGovern. "We were late, so we called them up and asked them to meet us half way. Obviously, they were really mad at us." 
Another dance-goer had an unusual situation. "There is nothing more bizarre than going to a dance with your roommate's boy­friend," said junior Rebecca White. Her rooommate was out of town for the weekend, so she played the part of the substitute girlfriend. 
Exchanging Gifts. Once the dates united, many took part in the ritual gift exchange. In an effort to impress their dates, many students exchanged not-so-ordinary gifts. Some got in the holiday mood. "One of my friends gave his date a pretty good-sized pumpkin," said freshman Ken Stalzer. 
Others gave their dates gifts with a companionship theme. "One of the guys in my group got a five-foot blow up doll," said Massucci. 
Along those same lines, freshman Dan Prince r~eived a bottle of"Suddenly Stud" pills to "bring out the stud in him." Dining. While dining can be an impressive way· to begin an evening, several students discovered that such high-class plans can 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 26, 1995 
DRESSED Tb KILL Students often spend hours preening and primping for the big event. 
backfire. "We went to Colorado Steak House, and they completely messed up the order. Ittook two hours," said Gottlieb. "We missed the bus and had to find another way home." _ 
Others didn't eat out, but did eat together. Senior Yvette Castro of Pangborn went to her date's apartment for dinner. As they were dining, his pet iguana and his pet hedgehog wandered freely around the room. 
Partying. While their friends_ dined out, many Notre Dame students opted to socialize in their rooms before the dance began. "We had a cocktail party," said Stalzer. "It was more sophisticated than usual, not wild and out-of-control." 
Others were not quite under control. After having several drinks, senior Ann Olekremembered with embarrassment, "I tried to stand on my head in the middle of the room with my dress on." 
One Flanner resident prepared Flaming Dr. Peppers for his date. As he made the drink, the flame caught on his arms and spread. He quickly put it out with his hands. 
Dancing. For some students, the actual dance was their least favorite part of the evening. Several had complaints about the musical selections. Some dorms had bands rather than the usual DJs. "George and the Freeks didn't play music that you could dance to," said Prince. ·"It's good to sit around and groove to, but for a dance, a lot of the guys and_ I would have preferred a DJ." 
But most students had a good time. "My roommate Andy taught me every possible dance. He made them up and gave them names, like. the. shopping cart, the lawn mower, stir the spaghetti, the alligator and the sprinkler," recounted senior Paul Berrettini. 
Saying Goodnight. Though most people said goodnight at the witching hour of 2 a.m., some couples ended their dates early. "Thinking it was already 2 a.m., Colin walked me home at 12:30," commented White. "But I didn't really care, because there's only so much you can do with your roommate's boyfriend anyway." 
Overall, the dances were successful social events for those who attended. For a few students, however, the night was one they would rather forget. "After my friend dropped off his date," one Flanner resident said, "he went to pray at the Grotto that his next date would be better." 0 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 
__ ,r;-:::it~:7,:'''<'\l}?;:~~}ftP~:?-'~7';•::':'>1·:-~;;.-,,. 
..-, ...... . .:-­

...AND BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Ln 
277-7744 
52577. US Rt.31 
' '277-1024 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 



renditionof'ToeNotre EXTRA! 12-year-old Michael Clements makes his trademark cry "Prooogra~sl Dame Victory March." Get your Programs!" before every home football game and pep rally._ 
BY BRIDGET BRADBURN
Most people love him, but some mock, insult and harass him. Hehas regular friendly custom­
ers who know him by name, and he has had apple cores thrown at him while he works. He has been offered tips for his ambitious sales technique, and he has been offered money to abandon this 
weekend ritual by sellingfootball programs before pep rallies and home games. 
Clements began sellingNotre Dame foot­ball programsat theageofnine, even though he had wanted to start when he was only eight. "My mom's friend's son sold pro­grams,andialwayswantedajob,"Clements says. "Butmymom wantedmetowaituntil get a job. He used to make things and grow vegetables in ourgarden to sellin the neigh­borhood."· 

"He bugged me about this," she contin­ues. "He was adamant about it. So I told him I would call and inquire." When she was told by Director of Program Sales Paul Hessling that he usually does not hire any­
one under the age of 12, Mrs. Clements asked if her son could have a box of 25 programs to sell on a trial basis. Kessling agreed on the condition that Clements' father would accompany him whenhesold theprograms in the event that a prob­lem arose. 
"But my dad lets me do it," says Clements proud!y. "He's just there because I have to handle a lot of money, and I also have a tag that gets me 
il:' into the games [that could [ get stolen]." 
"Michael'sfatherstays to the side, or in the back­ground," explains Mrs. Clements. "We under­
His trademark call of "PROOOOGRAMS! Get your proooograms!" has become as well-known to Notre Dame students, alumni and foot­ball fans as the leprechaun and the Irish Guard. Without fail, Clements makes him-I was at least nine." 
'This was all his idea," says Deborah Clements, Michael's mother. "He has always been one to look for more jobs, for more money. Since he was four or five, he 

stand that it's his job, his responsibility." 
On his first day at the job, Clements not only sold his trial box of25 programs,buthe kept going back for more boxes, selling a total of 125 programs. So far this year, he 
8 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

has sold over 500 programs each weekend. 
Program vendors keep 10 percent of the five dollars charged for each program. And in Clements' case, he also keeps the tips he occasionallyreceivesfromalumniandother regular visitors. It all adds up to quite a healthy salary for the 10 or 12 hours of work in one weekend. The first year that he worked, Clements used his money to buy a Super Nintendo set for himself. Now, how­ever, he usually keeps $20 for spending money and saves the rest for his future college years which he hopes will be spent at Notre Dame. 
Right now, though, Clements is a 7th grade honors student at the Montessori School in Mishawaka, a goalie on his soc­cer team, a drum player in his school band and "a great big brother to his brother Chris­tian, who is five and his sister Catherine, who is almost two," says Mrs. Clements with typical motherly pride. 
Clements' bedroom is cluttered with Notre Dame memorabilia and souvenirs. Fighting Irish blankets cover his bed, and his walls are decked with a framed note from Lou Holtz, Tim Ruddy's autograph, the 1993 series of Notre Dame collector's cards and a program from virtually every home game in the past four years. "I've only missed one game," says Clements. "It was the Florida State game in 1993. They start selling programs at 3 p.m. I got there at 3:30 p.m., right after school, and they were already out." 
"He takes this job very seriously," says Mrs. Clements. "He is out there in the rain and snow when no one else is out there." 
Clements admits that the frequent bad ended up walking off with his coffee instead of giving him a program." 
In another inci­dent, Clements no­ticed severalkids his own age imitating him while he was selling programs during the first year he worked. Several years later, he moved into a new neighborhood, and atthesametimethat his friends realized he was the program boy, Clements real­ized that they were the ones who had mocked him. They had a good laugh about the situation, says Clements. "And now my friends think it's cool [that! sell pro­grams]." . 
Despite these mi­nor embarrass­men ts, though, Clements believes that he has built a 
MAKING A LIVING. Clements keeps 10 percent of every program he sells, plus the occasional tips he receives. He says he ls saving the 
money for college. 

good rapport with the football crowds. "My For someone who has gone to more con­customers are usually out-of-towners and secutive home games than the students them­alumni," observes Clements. "Students selves, Clements still believes that the best usually don't have any money." part of his job is being in the middle of the Clements finds the Notre Dame student spirited crowd in the stadium. "Mydadand 
"PROOOGRAMS! GET YOUR PROGRAMS!'' 
weather in South Bend is the worst part of the job, but it has worked to his advantage atleastonce."LastyearatthePurduegame, itwas raining and a lady came up to me and asked to buy my hat," Clements recalls. She offered me$15, but I told her it wasn't for sale. Then she offered me $30, so I accepted it. When I told my dad, he turned around and bought me a new one for $15 at a stand just a few feet away." 
Sometimes the moments of humor in Clements' job are at his own expense, though. "A guy once asked me to hold his coffee so he could get his money," remem­bers Clements with a sheepish grin. "I body friendly for the most part, and he doesn't let the occasional apple cores and bribes stop him from selling programs. In fact, Clements believes he sells more pro­grams than anyoneelseeach weekend. "Paul Hessling has told me that Michael is one of the best salesmen aDd that he's glad to have him back every year," Mrs. Clements adds. 
But Clements claims that there is little competition between the vendors. "We respect each other. There are no assigned territories," he says. "On game mornings, we approach the cars as they come in. If someone wants to buy a program, whoever is closest will sell it to them." 
I get in for free, and we walk up and down the aisles," says Clements, smiling from underneath the brim of his favorite Notre Dame baseball cap. "When Notre Dame scores a touchdown, the people go crazy jumping up and down:" 
According to Mrs. Clements, by selling programs, "Michael really feels like he is a partofthe Notre Dame spirit and tradition." And he certainly has a legitimate claim to this spirit and tradition. After all, not many students can imagine a pep rally or a foot­ball game without hearing the unmistak­able cry of "PROOOGRAMS! " at least once during the weekend. 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•OCTOBER 26, 1995 


I,---_____ 
' ..___________--....:: 
¦¦)SiiU.-M•ii+I
'· 

Dorm life is not all fun and games. Sometimes, life with a roommate can become 



Too Close for Comfort 
BY ARIANNE WESTBY
MikeMcNallystumbled back to hisroom inStanfordHall. He had enjoyed a wild night on the town while his roommates, Steve Weger and Jason Prescott, stayed home to study for the exams they had the following morning. McNally threw open the door and announced his return by spitting on both of his sleeping roommates. He proceeded to punch Weger in the face, and then get sick on the floor. Unfortunately for his roommates, the show didn't stop there. McNally wiped up the mess with Prescott's towel and topped offthe incidentby whipping him repeatedly with it. If you're like most students at Notre Dame, you have a few roommate stories of your own, even if Mike McNally doesn't live with you. With students residing in such close quarters, there are plenty of opportunities for entertaining roommate situations to arise,. It can beratheramusingtotakeadvantageofaroommate'shabit of talking in his sleep. Weger related, "With a little prompting, (junior] Brian Cloud can carry on an entire conversation." One weekend night, Cloud was sound asleep in his loft when his friend asked him ifhe had "hooked up." "Yeah, yeah," he breathed excitedly from under the blankets. Entertained by the evolving conversation, Wegerprobedfurther, "Does she like you?" "What's not to like?" he r~ponded, still in a deep sleep. Junior Maria Frei burger also knows how it feels to wonderiftoo much information was revealed while sleep talking. She once startled her unsuspecting roommate by screaming, "Oh my God, there's a man in the closet!" in the middle of the night. Some of the most memorable roommate events happen when practical jokes take on a life of their own. Prescott and Cloud, for example, once doused McNally'sroom with shavingcream. Itwas everywhere-in thephone, under the sheets and in all his drawers. They then left a message about the fiasco from Weger's phone, making an innocent party bear the brunt of their prank. McNallysoughtrevengebyfillingeveryspaceinWeger'sroom with shredded paper. But McNally soon discovered that Prescott was behind the prank, so he and Weger decided to move Prescott's room to the study lounge. All of his belongings -the stereo, the . bed, desk, lamp, posters -were moved to prove that they weren't 
abouttoletanyonegetawaysuchanegregiousprank. Luckily,this string of events eventually blew over without any hard feelings. 
For some reason these practical jokes seem to take place in male dorms more frequently than in female dorms, as juniors Joe Cruz and Jack Rusina would agree. Last year, Cruz promised a friend that he would be at a party she was having by 10 p.m. He wanted to take a quick nap first, so he asked his roommate to wake him up at 9:30 p.m. 
While he was sleeping, Rusina set all the clocks in the room ahead so that they read 2 a.m. and arranged to have the host of the party call Cruz and act hurt that he had never shown up. When Cruz woke up to the phone ringing and realized that his roommate had "forgotten" to wake him up, he saw red. "Jen did a good job of convincing me that shy was hurt that I didn't come to her party like I promised to," said Cruz. "I felt so bad about it that I took it all out on Jack. I threw thephoneacross theroomathim." Butdespitethe broken phone, their friendship remained intact, and Cruz made it to the party after all. 
Often, rooming together can bring out personality quirks in 
people that were once not so noticeable. For example, three 
roommates from North Quad were sitting around one afternoon 
whenasectionmatecameinwithhisfingemailalmostfallenoff. 
This roommate offered to add it to his nail collection, much to the 
shock and disgust of his other roommates. One of his beleagered 
roommates commented, "We thought we were rooming with a 
normal guy." 

Another student had a fetish for conserving energy. While her 
roommates agreed that it was important to be aware of energy 
conservation, she took it to the extreme. Eventually they got fed up 
and decided to spend the evening just sitting in the dark rather than 
argue against her notion that it took too much energy to use the 
stereo, TV, or even to have the lights on. As one oftherooinmates 
explained, "I almost had to get aperm because she wouldn't let me 
plug in my curling iron in the morning." 
Good and bad, the memories made with a roommmate last a lifetime. So even if your roommate took the "Screw your Roommate" concept a little too literally or thought it V(Ould be .funny to paint your face with peanut butter while you were sleeping, try to take it all in stride. This is the stuff college 
memories are made of. D 
10 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 26, 1995 
• • I • , 
.-. / . . ~ -, .. , . ' . . . 

gipper.1@nd.edu 


Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 

Oedipus, put your mother down. You'll poke your eyes out. -from Mystery Science Theater 3000 
COLOR ME YELLOW

For those ofyou who have been com­plaining about how the Notre Dame football team isn't perfect, or those of you who leave the game after the first quarterbecauseyoucan'trefrainfromdrink­ing for four entire quarters, enjoy the foot­ball games while you can. After you gradu­ate, tickets will probably cost you a mini­mum of $20,000 in alumni contributions per annum. However, if you are like the Gipp and owe everything, including your firstborn son, to banks and student loans, consider becoming an employee of Notre Dameas a stadium usher. Rumor has it that alumni of this highly selective profession get a "gold card" which allows them entry to any and all home football games, after only IO years post-retirement. Albeit un­fair, that's not a bad employee benefit, if you ask the Gipp. Do veieran security officers get unrestricted permission to drive on campus? How about veteran dining hall workers? Do they get a "golden ID" which gives them unlimited dining hall meals? The Gipp thinks that Notre Dame students are getting the short end of the_ stick here. 
100 PERCENT PURE CLASS 
Ifyou want fleshy stimulation in the form ofhigh-quality interactive cinemaand don't have the $6.50 to go see Showgirls, just follow the USC football team. Confused? A few Gipp fans were stuck in bumper-to­bumper traffic on US 31 after the game on Saturday, and they happened to drive lip next to the charter buses hauling away the thoroughly embarrassedUSC football team. As the students rolled up to oneofthe buses, instead of seeing the expected sullen and distraught faces of a team disgraced, they saw a busload of rowdy, cheering, happy Trojans. Why, you may ask? Playing on the overhead TVNCRs in the bus was not recent game footage, but rather a licentious display ofcarnalpleasure(i.e. a porno flick). Ifthat's what they watched after the game, whatdid they watch before thegame,/shtar? No wonder they couldn't score. 
HOOKED ON PHONICS 

TheGipp wasperusing through theNotre Dame media guide the other day (as he often does considering his non-existent so­cial life) and he came across a rather amus­ing, yetpractical, sidebar. The media guide has a little section listing the hard-to-pro­nounce names of players and how to pro­nounce them phonetically. TheGipp thinks this is agreatidea. Hereare afew ofthe hard names, with the correct pronunciation, fol­lowed by popular mispronunciations: 
Paul Grasmanis: 
Pawl Grass-MAN-iss 
Pawl GRAB-some-ass 
Pawl Graish-MAN-ish (Lou Holtz rendi­
tion) 

Pete Chryplewicz: 
Peet Crip-PLEV-itch 
Peet Chip-wich 
ge-ZOONT-heit (popular reaction when 
hearing name pronouncedwrong) 

Derrick Mayes: 
DER-ick Mayz 
Tim BROWN 
GOD (Ron Powlus rendition) 
DRUNKS AND VAMPIRES 

Perhaps this is a little outdated, but Scho­lastic did not have an issue planned for Alcohol Awareness Week, and the Gipp can'tletanythingamusing go unmentioned. The Gipp supports the efforts of the Office ofDrug and AlcoholEducation to promote safe drinking, but he could not help feeling a little befuddled by the last event listed on , their table tents. The Gipp is notreferring to the Disoriented Domer Dash, but the view­ing of the movie Dracula followed by a discussion likening alcoholism to vampire­ism. The Gipp' srespectforthe whole week were washed right down the proverbial porcelain god with that event. If that event was the best idea they had, the Gipp can only speculate as to what the competition was: 
•
A viewing ofStrange Brew followed by a discussion of how excessive drinking makes you say stupid things, slur your speech and end all sentences with 'eh.' 

•
A two-hour session oflistening to coun­try music followed by a discussion of how drinking leads to losing your wife, yourjob, your dog, your truck... 

•A 
viewing of Aliens followed by a dis­cussion of how binge drinking is like hav­ing an alien in your stomach -you never know when you'll burst. 


Good-bye, Gipp fans. Keep your tips rolling in and remember: just because you may drink more than three beers in one sitting doesn't mean you are a vampire. A werewolf,maybe,butnota vampire. Think about it. Most men wake up on Sundays with a really hairy, unshaven face. Dis­missed as coincidence ... . 

SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  ¦  OCTOBER  26, 1995  11  
'  :,,  '  I  ~~~  ---­ -­ -- 
t'.  





Covering the Spread 
The "line" .on student gambling at Notre Dame 
BY CORRINE BURNICKL.ines,pointspreads,over-unders,bookies ...Wordsunfamil­iarto many, buttheodds are thatsomeNotreDamestudents are quite familiar with such gamblingjargon. As more and morepeoplein theUnitedStatesfeel the allureofgambling,college students have gotten into the game. A three-part series in Sports Illustrated last year contends that"gambling-in particularsports gambling -is the dirty little secret of college life in America, rampant and thriving." In some circles of Notre Dame students, gambling is indeed a thriving pastime. And while some believe that gambling is a very popular pastime on campus, others say that relatively few students participate and it is not a problem. Sports gambling seems to be the mostpopular form ofgambling at Notre Dame. Kevin*, who estimates that one-third of his friends gamble regularly, suggests that most people gamble to spark interest in a game. "I only bet on professional football because it is not as exciting as other sports -putting a few dollars on a game makesitmoreinteresting," he says. Butthe"few" dollars hespends on gambling actually amounts to $40 to $100 a weekend. Chris*, who typically bets similar amounts, agrees. "I guess I'm what you'd call a social gambler. It's just something to do while you're hanging out, helps pass the time. It makes the sport more interesting," he explains. Mike*, who usually bets $100per game, says, ''The size of the bet doesn't matter. Knowing there's money riding on a game, no matter how much or how little, makes it so much more interesting." Some of these students place their bets through a bookie, either on campus or from home. "You call them up and they give you a line from Vegas on the odds. Some will let you bet more money 

than others. Some want payment every week, and some will keep a running tab," explains Kevin, who uses a bookie on campus. 
Mike often acts as one of these on-campus bookies. Fifteen people bet with him, and he only takes bets from people he knows fairly well. "I take bets on Saturday mornings. It's kind of a pain that I can'tgo out and tailgate, but it's worth it when I turn a profit," he says. And he does seem to tum a profit; Mike reports that he makes $40 to $50 each week without risk when he takes a 10 percent commission. "Over the long haul, it's impossible for someone like me to lose," he says. 
For some bookies, though, it''s just not worth it. Last year, Chris served as a bookie on campus, but he has since quit "It was a lot of time and effort and just not worth it for the profit I was turning," he says. For him, taking bets from 15 to 20 people was not enough. 
"KnoNing there;s ITIOneyriding on agame, 110 matterhow much or how little, ma/fes it so much moreinteresting." 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 


"You need a larger clientele in order to take bets," he says. "Ideally 
you want someone to bet on both sides. It's hard ifyou don't have 
many people.'' · 
Tom* and Adam*, two bettors who are frustrated because they 
can't find a bookie on campus, use bookies from home. "It's hard 
when you have to wait to get your money from out of state; it takes 
so much longer," says Adam. 
Greg*, who gambles 
about $2000 during foot­
ball season and at tourna­
ment time, also uses an 
out-of-state bookie, whom 
hehasusedsincehisfresh­
man year in high school. 
The amount of money 
spent on gambling varies. 
Senior Tiltku Perkin, who 
does not· participate but 
watches many of his 
friends gamble, estimates 
thatbetsonsportingevents ~ 
range from $10 to $1000. l 
Scott*, who bets on foot-~ 
~--­ball, baseball and . horse UPPING THE ANTE. For some racing, says that what students, the stakes for card games started as a couple of dol-can reach as high as $200. 
lars a week has evolved into $20 to $30. Steve* typically bets $200 
every weekend on football, while the most he's ever bet on one 
game is $500. While amounts of individual bets vary, many of 
these student gamblers follow the golden rule of gambling: ''Don't 
bet more than you can afford to lose." 
Unfortunately, not everyone follows this maxim. Just like 
gamblers in the general population, students are subject to the 
downside of gambling. Sports Illustrated reports that "for every 
college kid who derives nothing butentertainmentfrom his betting, 
there is another who cons his parents to get money to cover his 
gambling losses, another who becomes so consumed with betting 
that he tosses away an education and another who plunges into 
gambling addiction." 
.Brian* became aware of the dangers inherent in gambling by 
watching others run into trouble. Three of his friends from home 
are currently down $800. They began by putting down $20 on a 
game, lost, and felt they should put down another $20 to cover their 
losses. Thus began a cycle of desperation betting that eventually 
led them into major debt Brian vows never to follow in his friends' 
footsteps. · Junior Larry Mohs, whose New Jersey high school was men­
tioned in the Sportsl/lustrated article, has also witnessed some 
severe gambling problems. "Everyone in my high school, .both 
students and teachers, gambled," he recalls. One student he knew 
was physically threatened when he found himself $5000 in debt 
Another friend had to move out of state with his family because he 
was so far in debt and couldn't pay it off. 
There may be other more subtle problems associated with 
gambling in addition to financial hardship. One gambler says that 
he doesn'tknow anyone who has gotten into financial trouble, but 
he believes that "gambling can be a problem if you let it get out of 
Wild cards 
While sports betting may be the most popular mode of gambling on campus, it is not 
the only one. Many student gamblers put their money on cards and other-games. Others take their chances in casinos and at the track. 
In dorm rooms all over campus, cardsofferanevening'sentertainment Andforthosewhoputafewdollarson each hand, the excitement and the money quickly add up. Card games may be organized and scheduled, or they may be pick-up rounds designed as a break from studying. 
Greg* plays poker with the same group of 5 to 12 friends every other week. They play with cash on the table, and each player puts in $10 to $20ahand. "Weendupgoingthrough 
a couple of $200 pots a night," he says. Adam recalls one poker game last year in which the limit on bets was set at five dollars. Somehow, the ceiling was raised to $20, and by the end of the night there was $300 in the pot. Chris has also found playing cards to be quite profitable. He says he has won over $1000 playing euchre at Notre Dame. 
Betting is not limited to the card table, however. Ken, who says he plays darts as well as cards, reveals, ''The most I'd wageron one throw ofadartorcutofthedeckis$20 to$25." The golf course can also be a place to play the green. Steve bets on golf"to make it more exciting." His favorite way to wager on the game is to have each member of the group put $5 cash on each hole, and the leader on that hole collects the money. 
· Some students travel farther than the golf course to gamble. Many, especially those who live near gambling centers, go outto gamble while on breaks. SteveisfromNew Jersey,and whileathome,hefrequents casinos, race tracks andriverboats. He reports that when he goes to the horse track, he generally puts $5 to $10 on each race and typically leaves the evening plusorminus$50to$100. Steveprefers,however,togamble at a casino or on a riverboat. That's where he finds his favorite game-blackjack. "I play blackjack because ifyou know enough about the game, you have the best odds of winning at that table," he says. But he hasn't quite mastered the game yet. Steve usually puts down $15 a hand and typically loses about $200 a night. But the way he looks at it, "It's fun, and I have a good time there. You always spend money on doing something entertaining." 
·And for a few students, gambling is the perfect form of entertainment. AsKen says, "You name it,I'll gamble on it." Apparently just about anything can be turned into a wager. Moneycomes and money goes ... it's just the roll ofthe dice.. 
-by Corrine Burnick 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

hand and it affects other parts of your life." Right now, Steve says that every Saturday, Sunday and Monday he is consumed by football and thebets heplaces on thegames. Duringbasketballseason, when moregames are played more often, he expects that bet­ting on and watching games will be a daily 


betting is illegal, and straight sports bookmak­ing is legal only in Nevada. It is a federal crime for five or more individuals to oper­ate a gambling business that is illegal under state law. And many college gamblers may be affected by the law that forbids the use of a means of interstate communication, such as a telephone, to place illegal bets. 
Most student gamblers, however, appear unconcerned with the legal issues of gam­bling. Many believe that betting is gener­ally condoned by the public and do not understand why it is illegal. "I'm not caus­ing anyone any harm. I'm not damaging anything. I'm just having fun," says Steve. 
Apparently, many authorities do not con­cern themselves with the illegal actions of college gamblers, either. According to the Sports Illustrated article, "Law enforce­ment is usually loath to chase student book­makers. The requirements for conviction are stringent (typically a bust requires the 
PICK 'EM. Students use point spreads 
like this one published In the Chicago 
Tribune when making their bets. 

in college by a lack of talent), a community in which to share their betting tales (usually a fraternity house or dormitory) and a little resourcefulness. They are bright, if often naive ... These kids are young and often affluent and always vulnerable." This por­trait seems to fit very well into the character ofthe typical Notre Dame student, and may predict that this campus is indeed home to a numberof people with active betting habits. 
Perhaps gambling is not a problem at NotreDame, though. ''Whenevermyfriends and I talk about how the whole gambling 
. system works here, surprisingly enough, many people are oblivious," says Chris. And Mike points out that· "betting is growing in popularity here, but it is no­where near as bad as soine other schools. Compared to other universities, gambling at Notre Dame is definitely not a problem." Perhaps as more people become aware of gambling and as society starts to accept the practice, even more students will be­come involved. Tom indicates that when students in his dorm learn that he has a bookie at home, they often ask him to place bets for them. Ultimately, it is for the individual to determine whether the fun and excitement of gambling is worth the risk oflosing. As Kevin says, "You win some, and you lose some. Everything catches up with you in the end." You can bet on it. 
*Names have been changed. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports 
October 17 to October 24 
edited by Shannan Ball 
Volleyball Drops Four Games Irish Prepare for Big East Meet 
Fall break was rough for the volleyball The Notre Dame men's cross country team, which faced three top-25 teams in a squad, ranked 15th in the nation, placed row. The Irish lost to 25th-ranked Georgia sixth last weekend in the Iowa State Classic. Tech, 11th-ranked Texas, fourth-ranked The team was led by Derek Seiling, who StanfordandLongBeachState. Asaresult, finished 18th ·overall. the Irish fell to 14th in the polls. The women's team struggled for the sec­
Notre Dame stopped the skid with 3-0 ond week in a row, as the Irish managed to victories at home over both Syracuse and register a 17th place finish as a team. Co­Pittsburgh. Those wins kept the Irish in first captain Maureen Kelly finished 21st over­place in the Big East, a position they share all and was the only Irish runner to finish in with Connecticut. the top 50. 
In the comingweekNotreDame will take The squads are now preparing for the Big on Rutgers and Seton Hall. The Rutgers East Championships on Saturday. Lady Knights are last place in the confer­ence and the game should be a confidence Women's Soccer Falls booster for the Irish, as they try to return to The women's soccer team traveled to their previous fonn. Texas over break for the Houston Cup 
Challenge, a tournament featuring some of 
Men's Soccer Continues to Struggle the best teams in the country. Notre Dame 
Notre Dame dropped three Big East road first faced Duke, who took advantage of a games this week, losing to St. John's, West slow Irish start and managed a 2-2 tie. Virginia and Pittsburgh. The Irish then faced top-ranked North 
St.John's shut out the Irish 6-0. The six Carolina, the defending national champi­goals are the mostNotreDamehas given up ons. The Tar Heels shut down the Irish in six years. The Irish fell 2-1 to the offense and went on to a 2-0 win. Moutaineers and 3-0 to Pittsburgh. The remainder of regular season play is 
The team hopes to end the slide with this week. The Irish are pitted against victories against Western Michigan and Xavier, Boston College and Butler, all of Connecticut. . which are home games. 
We are ND: The Ireland Trophy, which will go to the winner of the ND-BC game annually, will be presented at halftime to BC. That should give them about two hours to savor last year's victory before Notre Dame takes it back after the game. 
Quote of the Week: "The USC game was a great win for our players. But I expected to wake up Sunday morning and see it was worth three or four wins, and itwasn't. It was only worth one, and we have to do itagain next week." -Lou Holtz·· 
Schaller's Schot: If the Irish were playing a team other than BC with talent equal to the Eagles, I would say Notre Dame would blow them out. But it will be none other than the National Championship-destroyers coming in to South Bend this weekend, so their curse plays a part. Also playing a part is a possible Notre Dame letdown after the huge win over USC. But Holtz has not lost to the same team three years in a row since joining the Irish in 1986, and he does not start this week. Despite not playing their best, the Irish offense has its way with the Eagles, piling up 400-plus yards.· Powlus throws for three scores, and the defense returns an interce tion for a touchdown. Notre Dame 31 Boston Colle e 14. 
15

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II OCTOBER 26, 1995 

/ 

¦ ------------­
1993 1994 
After two heart­breaking defeats, can the Irish finally deal the Eagles. ..
CD 

iii ;,; 
a,
:a ~­
i 
::, 
;,; 
a, ii, ::, 
C: 
BC30 NDll 

The Big Payback? 
BYBRIANHIRo 
the greatest games in Notre Dame Stadium Ireland Trophy until next year, it will re­I:you look strictly at its win-loss record, history. A third straight win over the Irish quire an inspired effort of '93 proportions. 
the Boston College football program would go a long way toward salvaging The Irish are brimming with confidence 
appears to be regressing under second­Boston College's '95 season, one which after their 38-10 thrashing of previously 
year Head Coach Dan Henning. After all, started off with so much promise. unbeaten USC while BC will limp into 
in his debut campaign with the Eagles, This year's game marks the debut of the Notre Dame Stadium coming off a 49-7 
Henning· followed up former coach Tom IrelandTrophy as theprize that will go to the -loss to Army, a team it hadn't fallen to 
Coughlin's 17-6-1 mark over the 1992-93 victor. Instituted by Notre Dame Student since 1985. 
seasons with a disappointing 7-4-1 record. Government to create a friendly rivalry be-. The Eagles have been plagued all sea­
This year, great expectations around Chest­tween the schools, the trophy will be pre­son by an inconsistent offense that has yet 
nut Hill have been replaced by greater dis­sented to BC before Saturday's game and to tally more than 21 points in any game. 
appqintment as BC has gonejust 2-5, likely will change hands depending on the game's They rank near the bottom of the NCAA 
ending its streak of three consecutive bowl outcome. It follows in the tradition of the • with an average of just 270 yards a game. 
appearances. The going doesn't get any Shillelagh, which goes to the yearly winner The main culprit has been junior quarter­
easier either, as the Eagles have yet to play of the Notre Dame-Purdue game, and the back Mark Hartsell, a player Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Miami and Syracuse. Victory Bell, which passes between cross­ardentlypursuedcomingoutofhighschool. But then, maybe a matchup with Notre town rivals USC and UCLA.· · After an impressive sophomore campaign DameisjustwhatthegroundedEaglesneed If the Eagles are to gain possession ofthe which placed him near the top echelon of right now. A funny thing college quarterbacks, has happenedov~r thepast Hartsell has struggled few years, much to Irish this year, completing fans' dismay. WhileBC's just 52 percent of his · overall record has gotten passes and tossing four 
progressively worse, the moreinterceptions than 
team's performance in the touchdowns. The run­
annual Notre Dame game ning game has done 
has gotten progressively little to help his cause 
better. In a short two-year though, as the Eagles 
span, theEagles went from average just over 100 
a 54-7 humiliation at the -· yards per game on the 
hands of the Irish in 1992 ground, which Notre 
to a 30-11 humiliation of Dame would consider 
the Irish in '94. In be­i subpar. for one half. 
tween, of course, was the .. ~ Senior tailback Justice 
41-39 victory that has al­
ready gone down as one of 



SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 26, 1995 
144 yards and two touchdowns in last year's game, ran for just three yards a carry before injuring his knee against Michigan on Sep­tember 16. Omaki Walker has filled in admirably, posting two 100-yard games. Wideout Steve Everson and tight end Todd Pollackleadthereceiverswithjust16catches apiece. 
The early defection of Irish-killer Mike Mamula to the NFL and a season-ending injury to starting middle linebacker Brian Maye have crippled the defense, which last ] year ranked among the best in the nation. Without the outside pass rush provided by
I Mamula, the Eagles have recorded only two sacks all season. Against Army, BC made the Irish defense look like the "Steel Curtain," surrendering almost 4 50 rushing yards and 42 first-half points to the Cadets. The standouts on the unit are senior defen­sive tackles Chris Sullivan and Tim Morabito, junior linebacker Matt Haf and senior strong safety Rob Clifford, who has picked off three passes. The Irish coaches and players will try to downplay the revenge factor, but in the back of their minds it will be there. They 
ON HIS WAY TO PAYDIRT. Justice Smith ra 144 yards and two touchdowns last year. 
realize they are facing a team that is not exactly sure of itself in the aftermath of the 
· Army loss.. A convincing win over the Eagles, while hcould never erase the pain of the last two losses, would give Notre Damebragging rights, as well as possession of the Ireland Trophy, for the next year. "This game is really important to us," ·saysjunioroffensivetackleChris Clevenger. "There's no doubt that they [the Eagles] have hurt our pride a little bit over the past two years. In '93 they ruined our chance at the national championship and last year they beat us badly. I think this year it's our turn." 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

...ii•J4¥--------------------­

A photo essay ofthe Texas football weekend at Notre Dame 




SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 
/, 1 
THEY KEEP GOING AND GOING AND ... The Notre Dame Marching Band plays their concert on the steps of the Administration Building before marching to the stadium. Notre Dame's band is the oldest collegiate band in the country. 

ATTENTION. Notre.Dame's Irish Guard looks sharp, but they must be hot. Each member of the guard is wearing 25 pounds of wool on this sunny, warm day. 

OH, IT'S YOU. Two Texas Cowboys flash the "Hook 'em Horns" signal while walking across campus. 
FUTURE FIGHTIN' IRISH STARS? Three young Irish fans practice their tackling skills in hopes of cine day running through the tunnel and playing in Notre Dame stadium. 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E • 0 C T O B E R '2 6 , 1 9 9 5 
LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION! Even Notre Dame has to wait occasionally. Before bursting onto the field, the Irish wait for the NBC cameras. 

CELEBRATION. Derrick Mayes receives a victory ride, courtesy of Irish offensive linemen, after a touchdown. 
52, 53, 54 ... The Notre Dame leprechaun completes an exhausting day. When the Irish roll up a big score, the little green guy's job becomes tougher. 
FAKED OUT. Texas defensive back Tre Thomas is unable to corral running back Randy Kinder. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 




A Revolutionary Idea 
JohnF. Kennedy Jr.'s new magazine has plenty ofstyle, hype and glamour. But will people subscribe to a pop-political periodical? 
versy, a piece on Washington's biggest leakers and JFK Jr.'s 
BY Onus MYERS interview with former Alabama governor George Wallace (accom­panied by some striking photos). 
" Politi~ ha~ rnigr-ated into the 
But, like a presidential candidate, George promises too much. It strives to make politics cool and appealing to the 18-35 demo­graphic set, but winds up trying too hard. Guest contributors add 
tealtn ofpop-culfute, andfolk!! can't· 
unique style to their pieces, especially Mark Leyner' s coverage of 
. // 

Dick Lugar's campaign and Caleb Carr's essay on the popularity 
futn away. 
of politics, but too often the articles are mere filibuster. For a0 r so says John. F. Kennedy, Jr.; editor in chiefof George, political spin magazine, the content is surprisingly untimely (or, if 
the new political magazine that sells itself as "not just you will, un-Time-ly). Another problem is the magazine's obses­
politics as usual." Indeed not. Justflipping through the sion with profiling everyone. George could use a little editorial near-300 page bi-monthly, it's apparent that this is no Time or mandating when deciding who to write about -this issue is all Newsweek. Aspirin and insurance advertisements have been over the map, including pieces on Detroit mayor Dennis Archer, replaced by Versace and J oop!. To further prove its yuppie-. Iowa legislator Chris Rants, the Republican campaign strategists, hipness, there's everi a topless Calvin Klein ad thrown in. senator Bill Nighthorse Campbell, Newt Gingrich's lesbian half-
Flipping through, it's a Cosmo meets Congress, but when you sisterCandace,FBIDirectorLouisFreehandSenatorJohnHeinz's actually pick up and read George, you find some real S\lbstance .· widow Teresa. While these people all have some political ties, do between the cologne fold-outs. Kennedy notes that his non-· youreallywanttoreadaboutthem?Thelonepresidentialcandidate partisan publication is actually a "lifestyle magazine ... illuminat-· profile, Lamar Alexander, is reduced to a one-page question and ing the points where politics converges answer session answering puffball with business, media, entertainment, questions on his likes and dislikes fashion,artandscience." George puts (It'~ subtitled "Oprah orUma?"). a political spin on everything in our Ultimately;thepoliticalanglegoes culture and, for better or worse, sue-too far, reaching the mundane when ceeds in doing so. Cindy Crawford and designer Isaac 
The first 100-plus pages are merely Mizrahi•converseaboutWashington filler, stuffed with department pages fashion faux-pas. (Mizrahi onNewt: andsoundbytes. Nothingparticularly "That hair can't be real, can itr hard-hitting, but some fairly interest-Crawford on the former first ladies: ing stuff nonetheless. There's a piece "I think the light [panty]hose are on Russell, Kansas, hometown ofBob freaky.") Please, some people should Dole and Arlen Specter, a state-by-be seen and not heard. state breakdown of federal taxation, George is a good time-passer, one clips from Pete Wilson's voicemail publication you '11 read, but get little and, a personal fave, a shot-by-shot outof. It'spolitics' answertoPeople. sidebar on Wilson removing a Dole Like the magazine's final article, a. campaign button from a girl during a department called "IfI Were Presi­photo shoot. dent" written this month by Madonna, 
Things finally mature and take form Geargeishumorous, well-written and midway through,with a pieceexamin-contains some genuine political sub­ingthefailedSenatecampaignofDavid stance. But in the end, it comes Wilhelm that shows how the nice guy across as another gimmick, wallow-finishes · last in ·Washington. Other ing in the shallow American ·. pop­

tabl aru. 1 . 1 d -..: MODEL PRESIDENT. C.lndyCrawfordgraces the inaugural culturei·tstn·vestoeducateanden•er­
no . e C es me u e a expo:sv on issue of George. She Is also a featured writer, co-scripting " · the Time Wainer/gangsta rap contra-a piece on fashion In DC; tain. C+ 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 26, 1995 

li§ilisiiil§•lil§IIIIII-------------------------­

• 

____s

oVIes: 
Killer Instincts 
Stallone and Banderas.aim to please in the surprisingly good Assassins 
use the Internet to communicate their hits, BYANDREW WEIMER 
and other than afew somewhat fake special
Boring, stupid and slow­effects (a guy getting blown out of a three­moving -that is what the story window -and living!), the movie numerous commercials, criticsand comes across incredibly realistic. It's con-
promos forAssassinsportrayed it to be. They could notbe more wrong. As it turns out, Assas­sins is an exciting adventure story with a plot full of twists and turns. Those staying away fearing a sub-standard Stallone bullet-fest need not worry ­Assassins is a genuine action thriller. 
Forced into his occupation, Richard Rath (Sylvester Stallone) becomes the best as­sassin in the world. Throughout the story, however, he tries to get out of the business, hoping to live a normal lifeand wanting to be the good guy for once. 
He decides to finish just one more hit and retire, but every~_ thing starts to go wrong. His bossdoublecrosseshim bysend­ing in Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas, Desperado) to steal the hit (Julianne Moore, Nine Months). But Rath then be­friends her and, ironically, be­comes the hunted and not the hunter. 
girl. Thankfully the film spares us of any romantic action be­tween the two, deciding instead to concentrate on the intense relationship of Rath and Bain. It's no Rocky, but Assassins is another episode in the long line of great Stallone action movies (not counting Judge Dredd). It's even better than _manyotherStallonemoviesthat attempted to appeal to a wider . audience, including flops like Oscar and Stop! Or My Mother Will Shoot! or the mildly suc­cessful Cliffhanger and Demo­lition Man. Like some of his latest work, one does not have
IF LOOKS COULD KILL Stallone, Banderas and Moore in the 
promo for Assassins. · 
ceivable that this story could actually hap­
This basic plot has been done a thousand pen anywhere in America. times before, but never like this. There are Stallone plays an extraordinary role as so many plot twists, combined with a sur­the good-guy hit man, while the emerging prise ending, that the moviegoer can never star Banderas supports him well. However, predict what will happen next in the con­the movie is held back by Moore, who does stant struggle for power between the·two an average job as the pretty love interest of hitmen. Rath. Her supporting female role begs for 
Surprisingly, themovieas awhole comes someone stronger --she, unfortunately, across as very believable. The characters comes across as a one-dimensional pretty to love blood and violence to 
see this movie. 

The guys I saw this movie with thor­oughly enjoyed it, and though the females may nothaveappreciated itas much as, say, Now and Then, it was clear that the softer side of Stallone makes for an enjoyable time for all. 
Both Now and Then and Assassins are both currently playing at Movies JO Mishawaka. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

••• and Hers 
Girls' Night Out 
Now and Then is the latest "chick-flick" to examine the joys ofwomanhood 
BY MICHELLE HEMPEL 
y favorite part of the

M
movieNowandThen waswhen 

Bonnie Hunt, playing a small role as a mother of a 12-year­old, tries to explain sex to her wide-eyed daughter. Her gar­dening metaphor is as funny as itis unprintable, but there's also a certain innocence and charm to it. Such is the case with the film itself -funny, innocent and undeniably charming. 
Now andThen, the new movie with Demi Moore, Melanie Griffith, Rosie O'Donnell and Rita Wilson, is the story offour women who return to their hometown for the birth of Chrissy's (Wilson) first child. 
In the line with movies like Steel Magnolias and Fried Green Tomatoes, itis not on the "to see" list of any guy I know. But many critics have called it Stand.By Me for girls, since the majority ofthe movie is aflash­back to the summer when the women were 12years old. They adventures. She's tough on the outside, it's extremely well-done. Wars against the never letting her friends know that her par­neighborhoodboys,an unsolved town mys­ents are getting divorced. Thora Birch (All tery, secret codes with flashlights and IWantForChristmas,youngGriffith)plays walkie-talkies -we've seen it all before. Teeny, a girl who stuffs her bra and reads The themes are old as well -growing up 
c ..o~tST!NA Ricci 
YHOi'<.A f.HRCH GABY HOFFMANN ASHLEIOH ASTON MOOR!!; . 
MELANIE GRIFFITH. 
Df!Ml,MOORE 

ROSIE O"DONNBLL 


aren'tsearchingforadeadbody, LOVER GIRL. Banderas' latest love Interest Melanie Griffith, 
but they're trying to find out et al., in Now and Then. 
how a young boy and his mother were murdered in their town 30 years ago. Surprisingly, theolderactressesdon'tadda lot to this film; rather, their younger alter­egos are the real treat. 
Theyoung actresses whoplay the women as children are the movie's true asset. Gaby Hoffman (The Gaby Hoffman Show, play­ing the young Moore) is the ringleader of their group. She plans their seances in the graveyard and leads them into their summer Cosmopolitan atage 12. Shegrows up to be an Emmy-winning sexpot who arrives for their reunion in a stretch limo. Christina Ricci (The Addams Family, young O'Donnell) is the neighborhood tomboy, stillsufferingfrom hermother' s tragicdeath, and Ashley Aston-Moore (Wilson's child­hood incarnation) is thechubby,fussy, butt­of-her-friend's-jokes. 
NowandThenisnotentirelyoriginal,but isn'teasy,lifeisn'talwayswhat you'd expect, good friends are forever -but all of the young actresses arehilarious and make thesesituationsseemnew. One of the best scenes is when the four girls are riding their bikes inarow,singingalongtogolden oldies on the radio and smiling at each other. Cheesy? Of course, but oh-so-entertaining. 
I went to see Now and Then withmymom,mygrandmaand my best friend. All of us had a great time. We loved the jokes about breast size, the cheesy singing and hugging scenes. We 

loved remembering the time when 12-year­old girls could kick the crap out of 12-year­old boys. We loved watching them lean on each other for support, and we loved all the sex jokes. This is a movie to go to, girls, on a night when the guys would rather play Sega or watch Baywatch Nights. It'll be a hit with females everywhere. • D 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•OCTOBER 26, 1995 

24 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 26, 1995 
a 

BY JOHN rnFRANCA 
. Boisterous Bikers Beware 
Two universities have recently begun to crack down on irresponsible bicyclists. At the University of Illinois, parking viola­tions for cyclists have been instituted; those who do not park their bikes in official bike lots will receive a $5 citation. And the University ofUtah has instituted a 10 m.p.h. speed limit on sidewalks. The limit will be enforced with the use of radar. It affects not only cyclists, but also skateboarders and in­line skaters. 
One question: how are you supposed to keep track of your speed while roller skat­ing? Rumor has it that one enterprising student has begun research on the develop­ment of a radar detector for skateboarders. Another student has been seen riding his horse atwell over 10 m.p.h. Fortunately the law does not affect four-legged modes of transportation. 
. Sun-powered Shears 
The next time your neighbor's lawnmower wakes you at 7:30 a.m,, don't pray that he will run out of gasoline. In­stead, tell him about a new invention-the solar powered lawnmower, the brainchild of Sweet Briar College math professor Stephen R. Wassell. Not only is it cleaner than gasoline-powered mowers, but it is also much quieter. The $600 mower is powered by photovoltaic cells and even has a battery for those un-sunny days. With this contraption, instead of a gas shortage you' 11 have to pray for an eclipse. 
. Fruity Fuel 
Columbia College just held a month­long seminar designed to help non-science middle-school teachers learn science. The · program is designed for those teachers who arenot trained to teach science, but are now needed due to school budget cuts. One skill they learned was how to tum ordinary oranges into electric batteries. 
With this under their belts, it probably won't be long before they market a lawnmower which runs on oranges. Con­sidering the abundance ofsun and oranges there, I assume people in Florida will no longer have to worry about tall grass. 
. Discount Degree (for Dolls) 
Looking for a good role model for your daughter or younger sister? Then look no further than the shelves of theUniversity of Mississippi's bookstore. The store now sells "The Cheerleader Doll With a De­gree," a )3arbie-like doll thatcomes with her own college diploma! According to Mary Lou Moss, a buyer for the bookstore, the dolls stress the importance of a higher edu­cation for young girls. The dolls, which wear Mississippi's red and blue, cost $20 and are the store's hottest item. 
Heck, considering we're paying nearly $100,000 for a college diploma, who wouldn't buy one for 20 bucks? And to think, we don't even get a leprechaun with our diploma! 
. Sneaky Steers Slip Away 
Two steers at theUniversity of Wisconsin recently escaped from a livestock pavilion near the school's agriculturalbuildings. One was captured quickly, but the other made a quarter-mile loop around the campus. He ran through traffic, rammed a police car and then headed down a bike path (hopefully underlOm.p.h.)intoalake. Theuniversity's crew team coach used a boat and a paddle to push the steer back to shore. After an hour, the animal was finally herded into a trailer and captured. In light of this news, you would hope that university officials have "beefedup" (excusethepun) securityaround the livestock's pen. 0 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 


tlFJ-tiiiEi•iis ¦ 
Coming
Distractions 
October26-November1 
Field, Court & Alley 
Football 

• ND vs. Boston College. Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
Hockey 

• ND vs. Boston College. JACC. Friday, Y p.m, 
Women's Soccer 

• 
ND vs. Boston College. Alumni. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
ND vs Butler. Alumni. Sunday, 12 p.m. 


Men's Soccer 

• ND vs. Western Michigan. Alumni. Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
Swimming 

• 
Notre Dame Relays. Rolfs. Friday, 4 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Boston College. Rolfs. Saturday, 10 a.m. 


Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars 

• 
Lecture, "Public Service, Politics, and Life." Marc Racicot, governor of Montana. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Frid~y, 11 a.m. 

• 
Booksigning, Holding Court by Dick Vitale. Hammes Bookstore. Friday 4-6 p_.m., Saturday 10:30-12:30 a.m. 


Entertainment 

• 
African Modern Music Concert and Dancing, "Foday Musa Susoand the Manadingo Griot Society." Stepan. Thursday, 7 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Concert, "India Classical Music, "featuring Sitar Shahid Parvez. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Firday, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
Concert, "Notre Dame Glee Club." Washington Hall. Friday, Bp.m. 

• 
Film, "Red Firecracker, Green Firecracker." Snite. Friday and Saturday, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Casper." Cushing. Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m. and 


10:30 p.m. Sunday 2 p.m. Admission. 
On the Silver Screen 
October 27 'to November 1 
University Park West: 277-7336. 
• 
"Too Wong Foo," PG-13, 2:00, 4:20, 6:45, 9:10. • "Jeffrey," R, 2:15, 4:30, 7:00,9:20. '· 

• 
"Never Talk to Strangers," R, 2:30, 4:45, 7:1 ~• 9:30. 


University Park East: 277-7336. 
• 
"Get Shorty," R, 2:00, 4:20, 7:30, 9:45. • "Powder;" PG-13, 2:10, 4:40, 7:10, 9:30. 

• 
"Copycat," R; 1 :30, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45. 

• 
"Vampire in Brooklyn," R, 1 :45, 4:10, 7:20, 9:35. 

• 
"The Big Green," PG, 2:00, 4:30. . 

• 
"Devil in a Blue Dress," R, 7:10, 9:25. 

• 
"Home for the Holidays," PG-13, Sneak Preview: Satur­day, 7:15 P·'!l· Replaces 7:10 "Devil in a Blue Dr~ss." 


Movies 10: 254-9685. 
• 
"Now and Then," PG-13, 1:10, 3:25, 5:40, 7:55, 10:15. ~ "Halloween 6," R, 1 :25, 3:30, 5:35; 7:40, 9:45. 

• 
"Assassins," R, 1 :00, 1:45, 3:50, 4:35, 7:00! 7:30, 9:50, 10:20. 

• 
"Strange Days," R; 12:55, 7:05. • "Jade," R. 3:55, 10:05. 

• 
"Dead Presidents," R, 1:35, 4:15, 7:10, 10:10. 

• 
"To Die For," R, 2:10, 4:45, 7:45, 10:15. · 

• 
"Three Wishes," PG, 2:00, 4:30, 7:15, 9:55. 

• 
"How to Make an American Quilt," PG-13, 1 :20, 4:00, 7:20, 10:00. 

• 
"Dangerous Minds," R, 1 :00, 3:20, 5:50, 8:05, 10:20. 



SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

Just when you thought it was safe to go out on the quad: 
®~th by fri~bflfl 
BY CASSIE THOMAS 
y recurring nightmare begins

M
something like this: I am stroll­

ingdown South Quad after class on a warm and sunny South Bend afternoon (hey, it's a dream -work with me). The familiar sounds of birds chirpingandplanes roaring overhead fill theair. Lostin thought, I find myself pondering unique ways that I can sneak an extra piece of fruit out of the dining hall. Suddenly an ominous voice shatters my concentration. 
"Hey you, heads up!" yells the hulking figurein the distance. B uthis warning is too late. All I can do is tilt my face towards the sky and watch in slow motion as the spin­ning frisbee of death rushes closer and closer to my head. 
It is usually at this pointin my nightmare that I wake up in a cold sweat with my heart racing. I try toreassuremyselfthatitis only a dream, but I know that I am comforted 
with a false sense of security, and it is only Brady gets totally smacked in the face by (though a ban on all unorganized quad a matter of time before the inevitable hits Greg's flying football, and her nose swells sports would be nice). Instead, I only have me in the face. up to gargantuan proportions. And to make one small plea to make in the interest of my 
I remain unsure of how exactly I acquired matters worse, the scene is played over and mental health and the delay of my recon­this intense fear of being nailed in the head over, accompanied by poor Marcia's cry of structiv.e rhinoplasty. by a projectile. I can not remember any "Oh, my nose!" When you see me heading down the unfortunate kickball experiences as a child, By the third time Isaw that episode, I was quad, how about calling for a time out or and I do not recall ever losing an especially so traumatized that I could barely restrain taking a water break? If nothing else, please vicious round of the "bet I can make you myself from shouting a cry of warning to make sure whatever you're throwing goes flinch" game. On the contrary, I have spent Marciafrom theconfinesofmy living room. in the opposite direction. Oh, and how will my entire life avoiding any sport that in­While I think the episode may have ended you know it's me? There are a few simple 
volves the throwing, kicking, hurling or with some moral lesson about how inner ways to pick me outofa crowd. I'm the girl pitching of anything in any direction. beauty is what really counts, any meaning whocheers for cold weather andrain, stands 
The only possible explanation that years other than a severe phobia of flying objects lastin line for football tickets (so lean beas of introspection and counselling have of­was lost on me. far as possible from the field and the ball) fered me is that I used to watch a lot of With this in mind, imagine the sense of and thinks theinventoroftheNerfproduct­
television when I was young, and I was ·panic and dread that fills me each time I line deserves a Nobel Prize. 0 
very partial to The Brady Bunch. I love all approach South Quad and hear the distant theepisodes, but one classic Brady moment rumblings of a feverish frisbee game. While This is a hwnor column. These views are has been forever etched in my mind. I tis the I suspect Imay notbe alone in my affliction, not necessarily the views of the editorial 
fateful episode in which perky little Marcia I don't want to propose anything too radical staffofScholastic Magazine. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 
27 

'I 
....• 

¦ ilitl(ii le---------------­
All Because 
by Kevin Klau 

of A Puppet 
Kevin Klau is a senior government major with a concentration in the Hesburgh Program. He lives offcampus. 

Walking through Harvard (pronounced Hah-vahd) Square in Cambridge, Mas­sachusetts last week, a few friends and I ,werepuzzled when we caught sight of a puppet with · his arms in the air and a sign hanging from his neck that read: "])ally Poll: Capitalism Subverts Democ­racy?" At the puppet's feet were two trays, one saying 'yes' and onesaying 'no.' A handful bf coins had been placed in each tray, and we felt obligated to cast our own votes. After discussing it for about 15 n;iinutes, it was apparent that this question was more c_omplex than we had anticipated. · We found ourselves discussing how capitalism and democracy appeared to be consistent, with dol­lars acting as votes in the marketplace. When con­sumers want to purchase a product or service, a friend suggested, they can essentially cast their "vote" in favor of that good by shelling out a few bucks for it. Yet as my friend and I finally decided to drop a nickel apiece into the no tray, we wondered aloud how the responses were being measured. A man. hiding behind the display responded by saying that the votes would be counted by the value of the coins in each tray (as opposed to counting the number of coins). As we walked away, wewerestiuckbythefactthat this man had essentially provided us with the answer to pis own poll. Consider this example: If I felt stronger than someone else that capitalism did indeed subvert democracy, and accordingly dropped $20 in the yes tray, the puppeteer's system of measuring the votes meant that my vote would countfar more than the 25­year-old accountant who dropped a quarter in the opposite tray. After all, it would take 80 votes of a quarter apiece to equal my vote of $20. Our capitalist economy, we argued, encourages the open exchange of goods and services and forces individuals to make decisions regarding what is in their best interest. The natural by-product of this system is the reality that it will create economic winners and losers. As we considered the question of whether or not this economic model subverted our democratic system of government, I began to formu­late the.argument for the yes tray. As our culture has grown increasingly obsessed with material wealth, I have grown to understand how much more significant consumer choices have become compared to our votes in the political sys­tem. I have come to realize that the most powerful Bill in America is not named Clinton, but Gates. The co-founder of Microsoft is in a much better position to affect the future of our country, for better or worse, than is our incumbent President. 
Providing jobs, sustaining economic growth and staying on the cutting edge of the technological revolution were all key aspects of President Clinton's campaign in 1992. However, one could make a strong case for the position that Bill Gates has deliv­ered on these promises far better than Bill Clinton in the past three y~s. Ultimately I decided that what the puppet really wanted to kriow was whether or not the market and government could work together ..yithout having the former subvert the latter. 
As we left John Harvard's Brew House that after­noon, the microbrews and clam chowder had satis­fied our appetite but had· unfortunately left us no closer to having an answer for that puppet. We wondered what the response would be to that same puppet were he placed outside of the newly finished College of Business Administration building one week, O'Shaugnessy the next and Decio the week after that. Maybe the real question we should have been considering that day was asked by the only business major in our group, when he said, "Why does it matter? It's not like we can do anything about it!" As a government major, I do not share the pessimism expressed by my friend, but I realize the significance of his statement. 
America has a short attention span, like it or not. And unfortunately, most people walking by that puppet probably spent little time in making up their mind. Yet as I returned to school, with the question still lingering in the back of my head, I decided that had we been able to substitute the word "comprises" for "subverts," I would definitely have dropped my nickel in the yes tray. And as I returned to classes this week, I brought with me a new perspective on issues and principles that I have been struggling with for years·. Somehow I find it ironic that I owe all of this deep inquiry to a puppet. Maybe that was his point after all. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 26, 1995 

DINE-IN Delivery Service 
KXCLUBIVK 


Announcing .. . NEW.1 EXTENDED HOURS 
33 Area Restaurants 
Delivered To You Anytime Between 10 am -10 pm 
Macri's Deli • T.G.I. Firday's • Hacienda Coaches• Oriental Express • Wings, Etc. Starlite Pizza • Chili's • Francesco's 

. • ........2_72_-_2-_E_A_T,.,
•. .,. 272-2328 
BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
III! JIEI 

BRUNO'S NORTH BRUNO'S SOUTH 
Open for carryout and delivery only 
Accepting reservations on weekends.
4-1 Op.m. weekdays, 4p.m. to midnight weekends. 
Available for private parties and banquets.
• 2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH TWO ITEMS 
, 2 12-INCH PIZ-ZAS WITH TWO ITEMS
OR 
OR

ONE 14-INCH PIZZA 
ONE 14-INCH PIZZA
WITH UP TO SIX TOPPINGS 
WITH UP TO SIX TOPPINGS
FOR ONLY $10.50 
FOR ONLY $10.50 115 U.S. 31 Qust north of campus) 
2610 Prarie Avenue
273-3890 

288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELI VERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Campuses. 

F1,1JDAY, OCTOBER 27 

A >--v,
o,-:-2. 
-o~-­
g Q) 
...c ..c. 
u-1­
Q)
I--0 
u::: g, -1­
> ·s;iJ
> ·-0
:> l? ....c 

This Sunday on SportsTalk: Marc Edwards (he pl!JYs football). 9PM on WVFI-AM640 








