The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
December 14, 1934
No 12
PRODUCTION OF STUDENT THEATRE IS POSTPONED
FATHER O’HARA URGES NATIONAL
CRUSADE OF PRATER FOR MEXICO
Illness of Father Hope is Cause Of Delay
LEADER
INTERVIEWED BY TIMES
By Mitchell C. Tackley
What might have been an attraction of unusual interest to Washington Hall goers was postponed this week because of the illness of the Reverend Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., director and composer of “Five Nuts in Four Acts,” the satirical semiopera parody on the current Stein vehicle. The show, the first offering of the newly organized Student Theater (formerly University Theatre), was scheduled for Monday and Tuesday of this week.
Professor Frank Kelly, of University Theatre fame, was in charge of the dramatic side of the show, and Father Hope handled the musical parts. Whether or not the show will be rehearsed further or entirely abandoned could not be gleaned. Father Hope’s health is so impaired that the possibility of any further work on his part is very doubtful.
Professor Kelly is planning to present a three-act drama after the holidays, the nature of which will be announced at another time.
Prof. Tunney Speaks To Arts and Letters Faculty Club
Prof. Hubert J. Tunney, of the Department of English, addressed a dinner meeting of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty club on the subject of the narrative poetry of John Masefield, at the Morningside hotel Monday night. In confining his treatment only to the narrative poetry, Professor Tunney explained that the reputation of the present Poet Laureate of England rested mainly upon it rater than upon his lyric poetry.
Making no pretensions to a scholarly treatment, the speaker intermixed a discursive talk with a refreshing sense of humor. Of Masefield’s narrative poems, Prof. Tunney was inclined to favor “The Everlasting Mercy,” “The Widow in the Bye Street,” and “Dauber.”
December 14, 1,93 4
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Against American Intervention.
RADIO FANS HEAR U.S.C.
GAME OVER N.B.C. CHAIN
AFTER MANY REQUESTS
Through the efforts of National Broadcasting Company officials and the courtesy of the Associated Oil company of San Francisco, students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame were enabled to tune in on a coast to coast broadcast of the Southern California game last Saturday.
Although the broadcast was originally scheduled only for the Pacific coast, a nationwide demand during the days preceding the game focused attention of broadcasting officials on the interest throughout the country.
The Associated Oil company had purchased exclusive air rights of the game for a coast network, but at the request of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, they released a channel for the benefit of friends of Notre Dame who were not able to make the journey to Los Angeles.
(Continued on Page 4)
Novena Begun
Students at the University began a novena of prayer last Wednesday, December 12, as part of a national crusade among American Catholics to alleviate the religious persecution now raging in Mexico.
The novena, fittingly enough, was begun on the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, patron saint of Mexico, with a Mass celebrated in Sorin Hall chapel, at the request of the Latin-American students of the University.
In an inteiwiew granted the New York Times, the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, said that any form of intervention by the United States Government in the Church-State controversy in Mexico would be resented not only by the Mexican government but by other Latin-American nations.
Father O’Hara, an authority on Latin-American affairs, made this statement in an interview at the Biltmore Hotel in New York, where he had come to receive the Star Pro Juventute Medal of the Catholic Boys brigade of the United States for his work among boys.
“Anything like an attempt at intervention by the United States in the internal affairs of Mexico would be distasteful to all Latin-American nations, and would result in more harm than good,” he said. “These nations for generations have been suspicious of the motives of the United States, both in regard to the Monroe Doctrine and in its interference with their affairs.”
Father O’Hara explained that relations between the United States and Latin-America were improved greatly by Secretary Hull’s frankness at the Montevideo conference. But intervention by this country in the Mexican situation might awaken half-
(Continued on Page 21)
One
Symphony Orchestra’s Initial Concert Gets Good Reception
TWO NEW SCHOLARSHIPS OPENED TO STUDENTS
PLAY A VARIED PROGRAM
By Roy O. Scholz
Presenting the finest concert since its organization three years ago, the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, under the direction of Professor
Joseph A. Bucci They call him Rubinoff.
Richard Seidel, opened its concert season in Washington Hall last Thursday night. The applause of the ap-reciative audience gave ample testimony of the fine interpretations of Haydn’s “Symphony Number 12” in G sharp major, and Peter Tschaikow-sky’s “Sleeping Beauty Waltz.”
The concert was opened with the “Light Cavalry Overture”of F. von Suppe, a military overture which has been proved to be very popular in the past. The rendition was more complete this year because of the addition of tympani to the instrumentation of the symphony.
The “Symphony in G Sharp major” by Joseph Haydn was played in its entirety for the first time in this vicinity, Professor Seidel’s interpretation bringing out the full beauty and tonal quality of the music.
After the intermission Moskowski’s “In Germany” from his suite “In Foreign Lands” was played. This was followed by the “Sleeping Beauty Waltz” which was included on this program by popular request.
The program was concluded with the famous march “Carmen” from Bizet’s opera “Carmen.”
Calumet Club
The Calumet club of Notre Dame, composed of students living in Lake county Indiana and vicinity, will give its annual Christmas dance, Thursday evening, December 27, in the Crystal ballroom of the Gary Hotel, Gary, Indiana.
Rev. Maurice F. Griffin, Litt.B., ’04; LL.D., ’22; To Be Made Monsignor
The Reverend Maurice Francis Griffin, Litt.B. ’04, LL.D. ’22, was recently notified that he will be made a monsignor. Father Griffin is pastor of St. Philomena’s Church in Cleveland.
A member of the class of 1904 and a native of Youngstown, Ohio, Father Griffin has been active in hospital work ever since he graduated from Notre Dame. At present he is vicepresident of the Catholic Hospital Association, trustee of the American Hospital Association, and president of the Ohio Hospital Association. He is also state chaplain of the Ohio K. of C.
Was A Debater Here	.
When attending Notre Dame Father Griffin was a member of the debating team in 1903 and won an oratorical contest in 1904. He was also a member of The Scholastic in 1904 and was awarded the Breen medal for debating in the same year. As a student he helped to pay part of his expenses by being in charge of the food cars.	.
The following, concerning Father Griffin is taken from the Commence- . ment number of the 1922 Scholastic: “The Degree of Doctor of Laws has been conferred on an alumnus of Notre Dame who has attained distinction for zeal, eloquence, charity, —every priestly excellence, and whose indefatigable efforts on behalf of hospital organization and development have been crowned with gratifying success, the Reverend Maurice Francis Griffin of the Class of Nineteen hundred and four, of Youngs-, town, Ohio.”
PRE-REGISTRATION NOTICE
Students in the College of Arts and Letters are hereby reminded that the last day for pre-registration for the second semester is Monday, December 17. Failure to pre-register before that date will involve no little inconvenience and embarrassment.
Freshmen or sophomores whose program of studies is in any way not identical with the program in the catalogue should report to the office personally for pre-registration.
Announcements of two scholarships, one in the field of aeronautical . training, were made during the week. Both are open to undergraduates now in attendance at the University.
The first scholarship offers an interneship in practical government in which each student will serve as an apprentice to a governmental official, receiving instruction at the same time. The scholarships are being offered by the National Institution of Public Affairs. The winners of the appointments will be brought to Washington for practical experience designed to supplement class room study of political science in the preparation for leadership in public affairs and general citizenship.
Faculty Committee In Charge
The appointments for this training program, planned for February and March, 1935, will be made by faculty committees at the different universities. Mr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of politics, is chairman of the local committee, which is composed of the Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., Dean James McCarthy, and Professor William Downey.
The candidates, nominated by the committee, will compete for final appointments to be made by the institution on a regional basis determined by distribution of student population.
Requests for application forms and information regarding the institution’s interneship should be addressed to the National Institution of Public Affairs, 1001 Fifteenth Street, Washington, D. C.
Information Available
The second scholarship offer comes from the Boeing School of Aeronautics, at Oakland, California. It includes two aeronautical training courses with a tuition value of $5,800 and $1,000, respectively. The scholarships will be awarded on the basis of a thesis competition. The thesis may be technical or non-technical in nature, of not over 2,000 words, on any aeronautical subject which the contestant chooses.
The scholarship competition will close March 15, 1935, and theses must be mailed before tBe close of that day. Winners of the 1935 scholarships may enroll at the Boeing School in the quarter beginning July 1, 1935, or the quartet beginning January 2, 1936.
A circular, giving detailed information on the W. E. Boeing Scholarships, may be obtained by writing to the Boeing School of Aeronautics, Oakland, California.
Two
The Scholastic
LAW BALL IS JAN. 18;
COYLE NAMED CHAIRMAN
Senior Smoker Includes Business, Entertainment and Refreshments
Paul F. O’Neil, President of the Notre Dame Law Club, announced to The Scholastic today that the annual Lawyers Ball will be held on January 18. This is the first event on Notre Dame’s post-holiday social calendar.
In making this publication Mr. O’Neil announced the appointment of Michael T. Coyle, of Tawas City, Mich., as general chairman of the Ball. Mr. Coyle, a senior in the College of Law, ascends to this position by virtue of his active participation in Law Club activities.
Since their inception as an annual event the Law Club dances known as th.e Lawyers Ball, have enjoyed an envable reputation among dances in the minds of Notre Dame’s socially inclined. Naturally, the lawyers point to it as the best dance of the year and in their favor it must be admitted that they have never been called upon to debate the issue.
According to Mr. Coyle plans are being made not only to keep this year’s Ball on a par with those of the past but to make it stand out as the most successful one yet. Success, he says, will be measured in terms of student enjoyment. The Law Ball has been characterized in the past by many novelty numbers and it is planned to feature them again this year.
Mr. Coyle announced his selection of the committees to aid him but said that publication of the list of patrons and patronesses, of the selection of a band, and of the price of the tickets will be made at a later date.
The officers of the Law Club are lending all possible co-operation to him to assure the success of the dance. Besides Mr. O’Neil as president, the officers include Frank Mat-avosky as vice-president, Arthur A. Sandusky as secretary, and John S. Montedonico as treasurer.
The committees named are: Arrangement: Charles M. Ryan, chairman; John A. Berry, James J. Boyle. Door: Marcel C. De Beck, chairman; Martin C. Moran, John L. Towne. Publicity: Robert H. Kenline, Louis F. Fautsch, co-chairmen; William H. Curran, Thomas A. Hughen. Reception: John 0. Lagoni, chairman; Thomas R. Connor, William F. Dona-ghue. Music: Anthony W. Crowley, chairman; William J. Kennedy, John B. Crowe. Programs: Herman T. Cohen, chairman; Stephen P. Banas, William A. Burke. Entertainment: Charles G. McNichols, chairman; Stanley A. Rosenstein, William L. Wolters. Tickets: W. Lawrence Sexton. chairman; Eli Abraham, Robert B. Devine.	,
December 1 4, 1 9 3 4
Campus Groups Plan Many Holiday Dances During Vacation Lull
City, state, and district clubs will stage their traditional Christmas dances with the assistance of their local Alumni groups during the coming vacation. A list of clubs which have announced details of their dances follows:
December 26
Club: Buffalo
Place: Hotel Statler
Music: Jack Albin’s orchestra
Club: Minnesota
Place Minneapolis
Music: Jack Mulerich’s and Norvey Mulligan’s orchestras
Club: Indianapolis
Place: Indianapolis Athletic Club Music: Hal Denman’s Orchestra
December 27
Club: Fort Wayne
Place: Catholic Community Center Music: Clyde McCoy’s orchestra
Club: Metropolitan Place: Roosevelt Hotel Music: George Hall’s orchestra
Club: Vermont
Place: Ethan Allen Club, Burlington Music: Shep Whalen’s orchestra
Club: Chicago
Place: Congress Hotel
Music: Tweet Hogan’s orchestra
Club: Calumet
Place: Gary Hotel, Gary
December 28
Club: Capital District Place: Hotel Ten Eyck, Albany Music: Jack Albin’s orchestra
Other clubs which will hold dances during the holidays but that have not decided on dates as the Scholastic goes to press are the Pitt club, which will dance to the music of the Paradise Harbor orchestra at the Pittsburgh Field club, and the Central New York club which will hold its dance at the Club Dickman, Auburn.
SENIOR BALL IS DISCUSSED
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
“It’s things like this you will be talking about when you return to Notre Dame after many years of absence.” This statement, made by the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., kept ringing in the ears of some four hundred seniors as they treked from the
J. Aloysius Breen From president to chairman.
Law auditorium, Wednesday night. The occasion of the gathering was the highly-publicized and extremely successful Senior Class Smoker.
Through the efforts of the various committees that worked under Franklyn C. Hochreiter, general chairman, a varying program was presented. The evening included a business meeting, entertainment, and refreshments, the latter being graciously supplied by the University.
Senior Class President, Thomas G. Proctor, made preliminary remarks of welcome before the actual program was inaugurated. Proctor stated that the two-fold purpose of the gathering was to provide a vent for the discussion of business pertinent to the class as a whole, and to enable the class members to meet in a social get-together.
In the main, business centered around the Senior Ball. In connection with this function, two things were thoroughly discussed. By a substantial margin the Seniors voting expressed their preference of holding the Ball at the regular time early in May. It had been suggested that the social bow of the class be made the week following exams.
There was considerable discussion regarding favors, programs, and the price to be paid for an orchestra. By open ballot it was decided to continue the time-worn practice of giving favors. Louis H. Hruby, contending that the orchestra makes the dance, had previously moved for the abolishment of favors and programs so that
Continued on Page 22)
Three
COX AND DONOGHUE READ SCIENCE PAPERS
Two highly interesting and timely papers were presented at the regular meeting of the Academy of Science, Monday night. The first of these papers was read by Fred Cox, a junior in Science, and was entitled “Insulin.” Beginning with a short history of the original research on diabetes, Cox traced the development of knowledge in the field up to the discovery of insulin by Banting, Best, and their associates.
Insulin is the active principle derived from the islet tissue of the pancreas of animals. It has saved many lives and, to date, is probably the best means available to the medical profession for use in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. At the Mayo clinic, before the advent of insulin, 73% of all cases of diabetes was fatal, and since its discovery and use, only 4% have been fatal.
Edmund Donoghue, a junior in Science, gave the second paper entitled “The Life and Work of Madame Curie.” In the opening of his talk, Donoghue asserted that Madame Curie through her work had “opened up more fertile chemical soil than any other discovery in the history of science.” To illustrate the importance of her discoveries in the radio-active chemical field, it is significant to note that she is the only scientist who ever received the Nobel Prize twice.
This noted woman was riot only the first person to isolate radium salts, but also to see the element radium in a free state. Radium has many uses in medicine, chief among these being its administration in cases of cancer. In the future, its value will no doubt be greatly extended. The principal objection to its wide use today is the prohibitive cost. In 10,000,000 parts of uranium ore (from which radium is obtained), only three parts are radium. Its • price is 90,000 times that of gold.
After these papers had been read, two sophomores, Lawrence Burnett and Edward Wilson, served as critics for the presentations. An open discussion followed, and the meeting was adioumed by President Francis Schlueter at 9:30.
Missouri Club
President John J. McGrath presided at the banquet of the Missouri Club held at the Club Pierre last Friday evening, December 7. A committee composed of Bill O’Connor, Paul Arnold, and Peter Vivianb arranged the banquet. Plans were made for getting together during the Christmas vacation.
PROFESSOR CLARENCE MANION TOASTMASTER AT K. OF C. INITIATION
Professor Clarence E. Manion will act as toastmaster at the banquet following the Knights of Columbus initiation next Sunday afternoon. Prof. Manion is not new in this capacity, and you can be certain this his in-
Prof. Clarence E. Manion In an old capacity.
troductory remarks will sparkle with interest. Tentative announcements state that George O’Brien, former state deputy in the K. C. will be the principle speaker. Mr. O’Brien has long been connected with the K of C. brotherhood, and his words will prove interesting to all present.
These men will be assisted on the program by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., who will represent the University; Tim Galvin, supreme board director and president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will represent the supreme office; and O. D. Dorsey, state deputy, who will represent the state council. Need more be said than mention of this, array of fine speakers to insure full council attendance?
The exemplification of the degree will begin at 1:30 Sunday afternoon, and the banquet will be held immediately thereafter. Approximately 70 candidates will be initiated into the second and third degrees during the ceremony.
Proper support of the council at large will be necessary to make the initiation successful. It will be held in the Jefferson Plaza, which was formerly the South Bend Knights of Columbus building.
The newly initiated candidates will be personally welcomed into the council at the usual follow-up meeting Monday night. Business will be suspended at that meeting, and the new members will be entertained and served refreshments. Members, old and new, are expected to be present Monday night.
WALSH WINS INTERHALL
DEBATING TOURNEY
The negative team of Walsh Hall was awarded the championship in Interhall debating at Saint Mary’s College, Tuesday evening. In their victory ovei- St. Edward’s affirmative team, John Lynch, George Krug, and John Donovan, of Walsh, met one of the finest interhall teams that spoke on the platform this season.
Reverend William Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Economics, was critic judge of the debate. There was, however, an audience decision rendered and this was overwhelmingly in the favor of St. Edward’s team, composed of Robert Lochner, Charles Meyers, and Robert Weaver.
Though the men from Walsh presented a smooth stage presence and a studied argument the debaters of St. Edward’s deserve much praise for their showing as they had debated the negative case throughout the preliminaries and semi-finals and only in this the final debate did they present an affirmative case.
Arthui' Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers, presided at the debate, and arrangements were in charge of Robert Schmelzle, chairman of interhall debating.
Korzeneski, at the end of the debate, presented the Lemmer trophy to the coach of Walsh hall, Richard Ballman, senior Wrangler. John Locher was coach of St. Edward’s hall.
The faculty and students of Saint Mary’s College served a buffet lunch to the members and coaches of both teams after the debate.
U. S. C. BROADCAST
(Continued fi-om Page 1)
As finally arranged, practically the entire blue network of the NBC was cleared for the game with additional stations added in the mountain and northwest areas. In addition to Stations WENR at Chicago, and WJZ at New York, twenty-four stations from Boston, Mass., to Butte, Montana, were given the game as a special Saturday afternoon feature.
NBC officials who took an active part in arranging the program included Mr. Niles Trammel, vice-president in charge of operations at Chicago; Mr. Aleck Robb, assistant program director there; and Mr. Don Gilman, vice-president at San Francisco.
Mr. William F. Humphrey, vicepresident of the Associated Oil company, relinquished their air rights at the request of Father O’Hara.
The Scholastic
Four
, GEORGE GIPP DIED FOURTEEN YEARS AGO
CASASANTA ARRANGES VARIED PROGRAM FOR BASKETBALL CONCERT
Notre Dame was leading Northwestern by three touchdowns, but that wasn’t enough. The crowd was shouting. They wanted something elst. They wanted Gipp. Why wasn’t Gipp playing?
Gipp was the great western back of the previous season. And now sports writers everywhere were call-I ing him the best ball carrier in the country. The best all-around player. Rice and McGeehan added their praises. Rice declared he was a team in himself. He had scored 63 points thus far that season. Against Army he had accumulated a grand total of 236 yards. He was unanimous AllAmerican choice, and here he was sitting on the bench wrapped in a blanket. So the crowd continued to shout, and Gipp went in.
Gipp wasn’t fit to play that day. * The week before, against Indiana, he had played with a dislocated shoulder. Since then, he had contracted a bad cold and was even then running a slight fever. But still he went in, threw three passes — for three touchdowns — and the game was over.
The crowd filed out. They had seen Gipp play, and they were happy. They went back to their firesides, discussed the game a little, and then forgot about it. The following day, Gipp had tonsilitis. Two days later, pneumonia. Two weeks later, he died. And the country was shocked!
Telegrams and letters of condolence poured in. William Lyons Phelps wrote from Yale. A fund was started for a memorial. Poems and columns of eulogy appeared in the - papers from coast to coast.' The fame of the boy from Laurium had spread over the entire country. He died young, at the very outset of his life, but he died at a time a great many men would choose i I they could. George Gipp died in the flush of victory.
And why did George Gipp enter the game against Northwestern? They didn’t need him — the game had been won while he was still sitting on the bench, wrapped in the blanket. Was it that he had delusions of grandeur ‘	—an exaggerated sense of his own
importance? Was it to satisfy the shouts of the people who had come to see him play?
Very likely, no. On the campus, Gipp displayed no signs of self-wor-' ship. In those days it would have been close to suicide to do so. On the contrary, however, Gipp seldom took things seriously. He was easygoing, and somewhat erratic, but his self-effacing manner was unmistak. able.
He was a whimsical fellow, this (Continued on Page 21)
December 14t 1934
Prof Joseph J. Casasanta, who received such fine applause for the showing of the University band at the opening game of the basketball season, last Friday, announced his
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta His men are good.
program for the Albion game, tomorrow night. The concert will begin at 7:30 sharp.
In selecting his program for the second basketball concert, Prof. Casasanta, has decided to feature the works of “America’s March King,” John Philip Sousa. Besides this the band will introduce a new composition, “The Irish Toast,” written by Professors James E. McCarthy and Vincent F. Fagan, and arranged by Prof. Casasanta. According to those who have heard this new tune in rehearsal, it has everything necessary for a huge success.
Many requests were received for a repetition of the beautiful “Selections From the ‘Student Prince’,” which Prof. Casasanta promises to include in a future concert program.
Following are the numbers to be played at the concert tomorrow night:
Before the game
March—“The Washington Post”_________Sousa
“Cheerio” (sing and whistle) ___Goldman
Descriptive Dance:
“Echoes from Germany” -----------Giesen
“Three Quotations” (“King of France
Suite”) Sousa
Comedy Song—“Cross Eyed Kelly”	—Brockton
(sing and whistle)
Fight Songs—“Hike, Notre Dame” -Casasanta “Victory March”----------------------Shea
During Intermission
March—“High School Cadets” ______Sousa
“Stand Up and Cheer”-----------Brown
“The Irish Toast”______McCarthy-Fagan
“Song of the Vagabonds"----:-----Friml
Santa Maria
The third issue of the Santa Maria will be distributed on the campus tomorrow. Editor Ray Martin announces that this issue will be a four page magazine — an enlargement of the usual single-sheet bulletin.
SULLIVANS LEAD IN DIRECTORY TABULATION
The honor of the Irish has been upheld in the new Student Directory. Though the invading Smiths offered strong competition to the Murphys and the Sullivans, the Irishmen came out on top again on the strength of 24 Sullivan names registered at the University.
The Murphy clan made the victory more complete by tying the Smiths, Phonebook champions, for second place with a marshalled strength of 21 names in the new, enlarged University Directory released last week. Strangely enough, the usual running mate of the Smiths, the Jones tribe, didn’t even place, being able to develop a futile strength of only three names on the whole campus. Another champion of old has fallen.
Strange Names, Famous Names
Strange names, famous names, trade names, just plain names appear at random among the 2,491 student ■monickers listed. A gentleman by the name of Love provides the romantic touch. Shine, Smart, Wise, and Best indicate superiority. Beer, Blunt, Bragg, Foohey, Funk, Heckler, Lemons, Nau, Nee, Nix escape classification. Cain appears but we couldn’t find his brother Abel. Toothaker pursues a science course, possibly determined to be a dentist.
Irishmen with names that ring of the auld sod—Clancy, Duffy, Duggan, Mulligan, Murphy, O’Reilly, O’Toole —insure the glory of the “Fighting Irish” for at least another year.
Famous last names flash here and there, but never a’famous first name to go with the famous last. A fellow named Grant should certainly have been called Ulysses by proud parents, and a Bacon certainly should have been christened Roger, and a Cooper named Fennimore, and a Standish called Miles, but not once did it happen.	.
‘ Thus down the whole list of famous names—Bacon, Cooper, Grant, Hart, Hughes, Milton, Morley, Mix, Scott, Sheridan, Standish, Wagner, and Whitman—there wasn’t a famous last name tied to the appropriate first, save in three instances.
The two William Shakespeares provide one exception, a Jack Coogan, possibly corruptible to Jackie, provides another, and Jack Dempsey comes through with the third. ■
Every rank of church authority is represented from Pope, Cardinal, Bishop, down to Parsons’ Vicars, with even a Sexton thrown in, and State royalty is well represented with King, Kaiser, and Duke.
.. Five
HAYES TELLS COMMERCE STUDENTS OF RECOVERY
The recovery from the present depression is irregular, an outstanding contrast to depressions of the past, Mr. Hayes, of Moody’s Investment Company, told commerce men at his address last Tuesday evening. The government pensions, planned economic society, and the threat of unemployment insurance are the factors which the speaker found contributing to this irregularity.
Scoring the government’s interference in private business, he said that the government’s regulation of security and commodity exchanges has been too drastic. It is government prompting which is causing uneven recovery in business, an upturn which in previous depressions has always come uniformly. Mr. Hayes believed this irregularity was a dangerous obstacle to a government trying to foster a spirit of confidence.
Speaking of the present cycle of business, he said the nation was on the verge of an upturn, to reach the height in March, 1935. Since last June business has been deslining, and is now picking up.
Government credit is still quite sound, according to Mr. Hayes, even though the national debt is $32,000000,000, larger than it was during the World War. However, he remarked that, after all, one can’t borrow forever.
Mr. Hayes was secured by Mr. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce. The lecture was given in the auditorium of the Law building. Juniors and seniors of the College of Commerce were required to attend.
Publishers Ask Fr. Johnson’s Permission to Reprint Poetry
Rev. Nonnan Johnson, C.S.C., associate editor of the Ave Maria and professor of English at the University, has received a request from the Paebar Company, New York publishers, for permission to include his poem, “As Gold in the Furnace,” in their forthcoming issue of Anthology of Magazine Verse.
The poem originally appeared in the November 1932 issue of Scrip, the University’s literary publication. Other works of Father Johnson have frequently been published in the Ave Maria and in Commonweal.
Rugby Introduced
It is only fitting that Notre Dame, home of the Fighting Irish, should indulge in that famous Irish game, rugby. Rugby, a new sport at Notre Dame, will be introduced this year under the sponsorship of the Irish club.
JK' JU
about the camPus
Do you remember when you chased fire engines and played with electric trains? If you do, drop up to 329 Walsh any afternoon and Thomas Jefferson Foley, Jr.—Jerry of the patriotic Foleys to you — will bring it all back to you with Tootsietoy illustrations.	.
Though politically inactive in his
freshman and sophomore years, he was busy making a host of friends. Last year he matured politically, and the “right gees” elected him President of the Tennessee Club and placed him on the Prom Committee. This fall his loud voice, his pleasing personality, his gymnastic gyrations— resulted in his being appointed head cheer leader. In this capacity he gave his all! “he cheered without eating” (without eating for a week), and was the most conspicuous casualty of the Northwestern game.
First chased fire engines (if there are any) in Greenwood, Mississippi some 21 years ago. Prepped in Fairhaven, Mass., and then enrolled at Notre Dame. Was first assigned to a spacious and airy double in the “cardboard palace” — old Freshman Hall. Was the chief waker-upper in Morrissey and Lyons. Last year he doubled with Bob Scott in Alumni. He is still with Scott — they have never had an argument.
Jerry is particularly well adapted to nicknames—the maid call him “my baby”; and among his friends “the master” heads the long list, the most recent of which is “Cohasset Junior” — Chicago’s contribution from the last Northwestern game.
Has as many admirers as does Dan Hanley, judging from his nationwide
ALUMNI DIRECTORY
LISTS ALL GRADUATES
Right-hand man of the President of the United States, a track star in Canada, an engineer in Central America, another engineer in Cuba, an artist in Czecho-Slovakia, a doctor in England, a journalist in France, a teacher in Ireland, numerous engineers in Mexico, a representative of the Singer Sewing Machine Company in Brazil, and a farmer in Peru. These are a mere few of the alumni listed in the “University of Notre Dame Alumni Directory,” which recently made its appearance as a supplement to the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Almost every state in the Union is represented by either a ‘Thomas,’ a ‘Murphy,’ a ‘Flynn,’ a ‘Kennedy,’ or an ‘O’ something or other. There are pages and pages of names of men who have at some time or another trod the walks of Notre Dame du Lac. Some come from the get-permission-to-go-to-the-dentist downtown era. Others have cheered Rockne-coached teams which displayed their skill on the sod of old Cartier field. And more recent ones have enjoyed a brisk trot across the campus of a cold January night to a Washington Hall movie.
Seventy-five pages of men of Notre Dame who literally dot the world. Insignificant in the seemingly endless list is the name ‘Torbett,’ and beside it stands the bustle-and-two-seated-bicycle-date of 1873.
This directory, published just twelve years after the last one, includes the present mailing addresses of all known graduates of the University, and those non-graduates who have been elected to the Alumni Association through the provisions of the Constitutions of the University.
A special section is given over to the honorary degree holders. Such well-known names as Edward N. Hurley, Dean William Hoynes, founder of the Notre Dame law school, Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., Charles A. Wightman, Guglielmo Marconi, Cordell Hull, Owen D. Young, and Gilbert K. Chesterton are found in this honorary section.
4
fan mail this fall. Ask him to show you the picture of the latest which came from the feminine cheerleader of Commodore, Penn.
Memphis is the home of the Foleys. Jerry is going to parade “the boys” there next Easter. He was the hit of the Charity Ball last Christmas in Memphis because of his impromptu crooning; thrilled the Prom Dinnerdance guests in the same manner; has (Continued on Page 20)
4
Six
The Scholastic
- ST. VINCENT DE PAUL NAMES ADVISORY GROUP
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
JOHN CORRIGAN READS PAPER TO PATRICIANS
Greater progress in charitable work and the Christmas program is the aim of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, according to the meeting’s discussions last week. John Sharpe, sophomore, has been appointed to take charge of
Professor Thomas Madden His advice will be welcomed.
the twenty Christmas baskets of South Bend’s needy.
Organization of an Advisory Committee was completed by the officers last week. Mr. Edward Cleary, Professors Thomas Madden, and Francis Flynn compose this committee. They will give practical advice in determining the needy recipients of charity. Already they have approved the report on the Walsh recreation room conducted for charity.
Committees have been appointed to canvass the halls during this week. John Gallagher and Joseph Mangelli will supervise the magazine collections. Carmi Belmont has charge of old clothes.
President August Petrillo has announced that the local society has applied for membership in the International Conference of St. Vincent de Paul Societies, which has its headquarters in Paris. No reply has been received yet.
By pledging some of its receipts from Christmas dances to the society, city clubs can avoid the pleasure tax imposed upon all formal affairs. Five clubs already have agreed to give at least ten per cent of their receipts to the society.
N. Y. U. Game
Reserved seats for the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. basketball game, to be played in Madison Square Gardens on December 29, may be procured at the Athletic Office, or by writing to the Alumni Association in New York. Tickets will also be on sale at the Garden, at $1.65, $1.10, and $.55.
Those expecting to attend the game are requested to notify the Metropolitan Club or the Athletic Association as soon as possible, so that the approximate number of tickets to be reserved may be known.
December 14, 1934
EDITORIA-LITES!
Terrifying expenditures by nations for military purposes are listed in Minnesota Daily, and the question asked: “Why?” Since the topic of disarmament is particularly current, the editor appropriately appeals: “Populations should assert the sanity we all know they possess; by a mobilization of public opinion they should show once and for' all that they do not believe that the cause of peace can best be served by armaments.”
The Michigan Daily says: “War destroys everything and transforms nothing. War reproduces war. War is man’s outlet for the restraining steels of civilization and convention; the more civilized the nation, the rottener and dirtier it will fight. War is hell.”
Speaking of the senate munitions investigation, Oregon Daily Emerald trusts that: “Educated people who pride themselves on their acquired level of civilization cannot understand what type of person will sell and take profits for machinery which deals out so much misery.”
From Syracuse Daily Orange: “Students of 150 leading American colleges will receive, some time next month, ballots from The Literary Digest to determine how undergraduates stand on the matter of peace.”
EQUALITY
Fussy co-eds at U. of Washington (Seattle) insisted on powdering and rouging during a certain prof’s lectures until he contacted a male student in the front row. The dollies resorted to artificial means no longer, after the student entered class next day, sat down, pulled out a razor and shaving mug, and slowly proceeded to lather up before the constricted audience I
Neivs-Ances
At Northwestern the men have organized a knitting course . . . Only 25 per cent of the men who apply to the student date bureau at U. of Toronto prefer blondes . . . ’Tis said that when Sweetbriar lasses reach the stage where they can stick in a French word once in a while they begin to criticize educational systems. . . . Harvard’s fatigue laboratory advises a pinch of salt to relieve that “ho-hum” feeling. . . Most U. of Penn students, male and female, said they didn’t favor the “dutch treat” date idea. . . . An insurance company, after 30 years of study, found that honor students live longer than athletes. ... If a student is caught drinking at U. of Col. he is sentenced to Sunday School for three years!
Members of the Patrician society met for the last time before the holiday season to hear John Corrigan, Arts and Letters senior, present a survey of the Greek and Roman the-
John Corrigan He rooms with his brother.
ater from the viewpoints of costuming, scenery and acting.
The evolution of the stage and theater proper, from its crude beginnings on the Athenic hillside to the introduction of scenery and the construction of the bowl or amphitheater, was first described. The use of curtain and flaps on the Roman stage, and of intricate trap-doors, sound effects and cranes on the Grecian stage were then cursorily treated.
The eversion of individual parts from the chorus, followed the discus-chori, which were distinguished by sion of the Comedy and Tragedy their respective numerical sizes. Duties and burdens of the chorus patron, how acting developed, the social rank of Greek and Roman actors and the use of masks to portray character types were then described.
Following this realistic picturiza-tion of the masks and costumes, Corrigan concluded: “One thing is certain. Grecian productions vied with many of our modem spectacles in elegance and splendor. The Greek and Roman theater depended, for the most part, on the imagination and interpretation of the audience. . . we have departed almost entirely from the conventional and implication of the ancient theater to a realism undreamed of in Greece and Rome.”
Father Bolger Speaks On “Economic Order”
The Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of Department of Economics of the University, addressed a meeting of the National Catholic Alumni Federation Thursday, Dec. 13 at the University Club in Chicago on the “Purpose of the Economic Order.”
The address was followed by an open forum on Catholic current topics. All the Catholic college alumni of Chicago and the Middle West region were represented.
Seven
4
PROF. LOUIS HASLEY WINS POETRY PRIZES
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
LANGUAGE CLUB HOLDS CONNUNION BREAKFAST
Professor Louis Hasley, an instructor in the English department at the University, has been awarded two first prizes in the Patrons of Poetry contest recently conducted throughout northern Indiana by the Progress club of South Bend.
Prof. Louis Hasley For him, more prizes.
Because of its adaptability to a musical setting, “Evening Song,” written by Prof. Hasley, was awarded a first prize in,the lyric group. A poem by William Stephens, a newspaperman of East Chicago, Ind., entitled “Words at the Shrine of Poseidon” was also given a first prize in the same group. Both poems will be cited for musical setting in the Progress Club Patrons-of-Music competition, January, 1935.
In the group classified by the judges as “general” two first awards were again found necessary, one going to Prof. Hasley for his “Zavis,” and one to Miss Marcella Hartman, South Bend, a teachei' of French in the Indiana University extension course, for her “Heritage.” Professor Norbert Engels, of the Department of English at Notre Dame, won an honorable mention for his entry.
Professor Hasley was also given third and fourth places in the sonnet group. Two hundred and ninety-three poems were submitted to the judges during the contest.
Prof. Hasley has been very active in poetry contests in the past several years. In February, 1933, he won first prize in a contest sponsored by the Catholic Poetry Society of Amerr ica for non-academy members. His poems have also appeared in Spirit and other magazines.
Foreign Commerce
With its reorganization completed, the.Foreign Commerce Club initiated the year’s activities Monday evening, December 11, when Mr. Joseph Neff, associated with the City National Bank and the comptroller’s office in Washington, spoke informally before the club.
Eight
We take this Opportunity to extend a merry Christmas to the English majors, the post grads, the lay. faculty, waiters at the head tables, Mr. Lloyd’s ditch diggers, and the Met Club; to all who made the Army trip, Engineers, seniors, freshmen, juniors, sophomores, bridge addicts and those who live in tower rooms in Sorin; ‘
To off campus students, laundry girls, hat check girls, cafeteria‘.girls, best girls, prom girls, town girls, and St. Mary’s girls; to the visitors-to the library, to the people who have seen the dome for the first time, to football players, hand ball enthusiasts, Chicago club members, and the golf team. To the ushers in the stadium, the S.A.C., the blue circle, the French club, the cop at the gate, the faculty dance committee, and phy ed students.
To all rectors, prefects, roommates, policemen, firemen, post men, night watchmen, street car conductors, cab drivers, law students, and finchleys; to dates in Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee, New York, Grand Rapids, Brooklyn, Peoria, Toledo, Cleveland, and Indianapolis. To the band, the glee club, the clerks at Hooks, pre med students, the nuns in the infirmary, the boys in Walsh, and the Villager’s club; to class presidents, stooges, members of the rally committee, football managers, play boys, good boys, bad boys, town boys, new boys, old boys, smart boys, sharp boys, dull boys, and boys who are campused.
To the registrar, the man in the street, the forgotten man, the man behind the throne, the man behind me in class, and the one man who tells another; to the night clerk at the Oliver, the engineer on the nine o’clock South Shore, the cheer leaders, the patricians, the Commerce Forum, the brother in the book store, and the fellow across the hall. To my teachers, your friends, my friends, their friends, Friends of Liberty, Friends of Ireland, and the girl friend.
To the alumni, the trustees, the officers of the board, the University council, the committee on scholarships, Dr. Powers, Coach Layden, his brother Mike, the track team, their coach, the maid on the third floor of Alumni, Alex of Sorin, the philosophy majors, and Guimont’s uncle from Minnesota; to the editor of Scrip, the citizens of South Bend, the ‘Week,’ the speakers at the pep meetings, the managers of the cafeteria, the fellow with the loud radio, the fellow with the blind date, and the fellow who drops in every morning to read our newspaper.
To those who take weekends, those
Following their attendance at a special eight o’clock Mass in the Main Chapel, on Suiday, December 9, a representative group of students who are members of the Italian, French,
Louis Grosso 'He fences too.
Spanish, or German language clubs, attended a Communion Breakfast in the Lay Faculty Dining hall.
The affair was very successful. There were approximately fifty persons in attendance. Mr. Pasquale M. Pirchio, faculty adviser for the Italian Club, congratulated club officers and members for fostering such a commendable activity. Mr. Earl F. Langwell and Mr. Pedro A. de Lan-dero also expressed favorable opinions on inter-club relations on the campus.
The presidents of the French, Italian, and Spanish clubs each gave a brief talk. John Busichio, president of the Italian Club, spoke very pertinently on “Mothers” in whose honor the Mass and breakfast were attended. There was no discussion of business matters.
Date For Arts and Letters
Faculty Meeting is Changed
Since the date for the regular meeting of the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters will fall on Wednesday, Dec. 19, the beginning of the Christmas holidays, the meeting will be postponed until Wednesday, January 16.
who take twenty hours, those who take out our girl friends at home, the man on the flying trapeze, those who didn’t make our all American, those who did, and those rugged men from St. Ed’s; to the prof who flunked us in freshman English, to the one who passed us in philosophy 3a, to the waiter who always knocks our coat off the back of the chair, to the fellow on the end of the table who grabs all the salad, and to those obliging chaps who are always saving that extra seat in Washington Hall for a late 1 friend. Merry Christmas to all!
The Scholastic
I
Voice of the Campus
I________________________________
AZZ letters to “Voice of the Campus” should be addressed to the editor of The Scholastic, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana, and must bear the full name of the writer. Initials will be used in print if requested. The pziblication of any letter in this column does not necessarily mean that The Scholastic agrees with the vieivs expressed by the writer.
Mr. Gallico's Apologies
Editor of the Scholastic:
You have my permission to print my apology concerning the “Hail Mary” episode, which I genuinely regret. It was wholly unintentional and a piece of carelessness.
However, I wish you were all not quite so sensitive about Notre Dame. As a matter of record I picked Notre Dame to win. Also as a matter of record I wrote a column about the real Notre Dame men versus Synthetic self-appointed Notre Dame men a few days before the game, which should be sufficient indication to anyone that I am neither bigoted nor antagonistic to Notre Dame. I can understand your resentment over the “Hail Mary” and apologize for it, but always reserve the right to call the football play of any school as I see it.
Most sincerely yours,
PAUL W. GALLICO
The Alumni Answer
Editor, The Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
My attention has been called to an article in The Scholastic, headed “Detroit Campus Group Joins Danceless Clubs.” In fairness to the Detroit Alumni, I would like to point out some of the misinformation in the article.
The Scholastic piece says, for instance, quoting the head of the Detroit Campus club: “Repeated letters to the Alumni leaders in Detroit petitioning for the required permission (for a Christmas dance) have brought no response. We are not only without plans for the dance, but we are absolutely without any reasons for the failure of the Alumni to communicate with us.”
I do not know who these Alumni leaders mentioned by Mr. Stringer may be. They are not among the officers of the Detroit Alumni Club. Neither Mr. Higgins, who retired a month ago as president, nor I, who succeeded him, ever has been approached by any one from the Campus regarding a dance.
Plans have been, and are, under way for a Notre Dame dance in De-
(Continued on Page 17)
December 14, 1934
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Campus Socials
Quite a week, that. Made the rounds no end. Out every night to one affair or another — nine, ten, or 11:30 o’clock—we’ll look like a dissipated old roue when we get home. What have you been doing, Aunt Bessy will say. We remember she said that last year, too, and then choked on an olive pit. “Stop your infernal grinning,” Uncle Charlie said, and it wasn’t until she began to get black in the face that we—
Well anyway, Monday there was that revival meeting; Tuesday, almost the campus show, about which we have a bone to pick; and then on Wednesday, the much ballyhooed Senior Smoker, which was free. We liked the Senior Smoker the best, and you guess why.
As the speakers spoke, and the entertainers entertained, and the discussions lagged and flared and droned on, we were struck with the thought of how rotarian are the non-rotarian guests at an avowedly-not, but essen-tially-so, rotarian smoker. You must bear in mind that we were smoking a cigar at the time.
•
Diggers
We didn’t fare so well in another case of inquiring. You’ve noticed those men digging in front of the dining hall last week — just two of them digging in the one spot, all alone, all week? We despatched one of our lieutenants to ask them what they were doing. He returned in somewhat of a hurry. “They said it’s none of my blasted business!” he reported.
•
Basketball and Apples
We gave Coach Layden our columnar blessing at the beginning of the football season, and we thank him for not letting us down. Now we are faced with indoor football, or what is technically known as basketball, and an entirely new set of blessings must be dragged out and put to work. Coach Keogan and his gand may have them at their earliest convenience.
We loitered through a half of the Kazoo game, just missing, we are told, seeing some of the finest foulshot practicing of the new-born athletic semester.
We did make some observations, however, and the first was that the band sounds rather good. We heard three people say it sounded better than last year, but we don’t see how anyone can carry the sound of the band in their ears for twelve months. That is, without going mad, which possibly they might have been.
Adolph made his rosy debut with a new apron, labelled “Adolph, the Apple Man.” So did his helpers, which made four Adolphs, the Apple Men. This aroused our suspicions, but we asked one to make sure. He said his name was Jim, and did I want an ice cream brick. We replied they call us Bill and ice cream gives us indigestion. Next game, Albion.
Prizes
The campus prize system goes blithely on its mythical way, and nothing is done about it. Perhaps it is an S.A.C. matter, although we aren’t quite certain just what constitutes an S. A. C. matter.
The idea is to offer prizes. Prizes for everything, prizes for anything. That they are never heard of again is unimportant. It means more publicity for the venture, whatever it may be. Get the boys to write, get the boys to sing songs, get them to sit on the church steeple, or get them to do anything whatsoever, but in any event, get them.
They have a notice circulated to the effect that “suitable prizes were awarded.” Then forget about the whole thing. Or perhaps come right out and cancelled it. And as before, forget about it. Millions for ballyhoo, but not one cent for prizes.
The latest retrencher seems to be the K of C, who have decided that one skit wasn’t sufficient to qualify for the advertised prize of §35, and would everyone please forget the matter, and oblige? As far as we can learn, the announcement bf the contest made no mention of cancellation of the awards if only one skit was submitted. If we’re wrong, let us know.
Jingle Bells
The Christmas spirit is breaking out all over this wonderful land of ours, but nowhere, we feel certain, as much as right here in our own Howard Hall, where, on the windows at either end of the first floor corridor, iron bars have been installed.
Not much else, except that if there is snow on the ground those Sorinuts will probably drive home in sleighs; and that throughout the entire vacation we will be haunted by the thought that one Eli Abraham had charge of the money for the Irish Club Smoker; and so, Merry Christmas and please leave those bow ties home.
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor. 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE....................... Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING______________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI-----------------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN__________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr----------------------College Parade
WUAAAXL V. ELLIS, II_________________________Art Editor
MITUHElL C. TACKLEY____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN.........................  ^^News	Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN—-----------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL--------------^—Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN___________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER--------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS_______________________FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI-----------------------------FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST___________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-------------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN-----------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY-----—_______________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ^bUesiate ®ress -=1934	1935 s-
MADiSOW	WISCONSIN
December 14, 1934
SUCCESSFUL SEASON
Elmer F. Layden completed his first season as Notre Dame’s head football coach last Saturday. The Scholastic congratulates Mr. Layden on his accomplishments during this first season although we know full well that in doing so, we are merely echoing the sentiments not only of all Notre Dame men but also of all those who know anything about football.
The night before the opening game against Texas, The Scholastic expressed its pre-season opinion of Notre Dame football in this way: “We know now that the struggle is no longer to stay on the pinnacle of the football world. Notre Dame has fallen from there. Her task now is to fight her way back.”
Coach Layden has carried on that struggle in a manner which is deserving only of praise and commendation. He battled against all sorts of adverse factors. He had but little personal knowledge of his players; a spirit of
pessimism enveloped the squad; graduation and injuries had thinned the ranks of the veterans; a gallant but fortunate Texas team won the opening game by a single point. And yet this man Layden, undiscouraged, fought on. He produced a team which was a worthy guardian of a fine athletic heritage—a team which met the sting of defeat in its very first game but which rallied to greater heights than many a team with an unsullied record.
The first Notre Dame team coached by Mr. Layden won six games and lost three. It should have lost one— but that is neither here nor there. The point is that Elmer Layden’s first team has been universally acclaimed as a successful one. It had a snap and a cohesion which have been lacking in Notre Dame teams of the immediate past. The Scholastic again congratulates Mr. Layden, and, of course, his invaluable aides de camp, Joe Boland, who did wonders with a supposedly weak line; Tom Conley who developed two fine pair of ends and Chet Grand, the silent, forgotten man, who coached the back-field.
ONE MAN’S PRODUCT
Another Notre Dame activity, the symphony orchestra, this week scored an outstanding success in its particular field. Ever since September this group of musicians has practiced two nights a week. They give only a few concerts a year, but the excellence of those concerts proves that the time spent in rehearsal is scrupulously used.
The Notre Dame symphony orchestra is largely the work of one man—Professor Richard Seidel. It was he who four years ago first conceived the idea of a Notre Dame symphony. At that time a string ensemble provided the University with its classical music. That Mr. Seidel has moulded the symphony into a fine musical unit is a remarkable tribute to his perseverance and ability.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
“The Voice of the Campus” in this week’s Scholastic $ is, perhaps, the most comprehensive “Voice” that has ever been printed. Mr. Gallico’s letter is the most noteworthy of the three published. The New York sportswriter owed Notre Dame an apology and he paid — or at least he tried to pay — his debt. There’s something admirable in a man who will see his error and admit it no matter how inexcusable his error may be. Mr. Molz’ letter contains a very thorough and interesting treatment of the Christmas dance problem from the standpoint of the Alumni. The letter deals with a flagrant current abuse.
The response to the Voice of the Campus is most • gratifying. We hope that the excellence of the contributions will continue.
SEASON’S GREETING
We know that it has been said before, that it will be said again and that it’s probably being said by someone right now. We know all that, but regardless of it, we’re going to use these last few ems of 1934 to wish our readers—and even those who are not our readers—a merry Christmas and a prosperous and wise New Year.
Ten
The Scholastic
I
♦ SPCKTS ♦
NTCPS
FROM THE
iLPRESS BOX
3
CAGERS WILL SEEK SECOND VICTORY IN ALBION GAME TOMORROW NIGHT
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
GRID FINALE
A bit of comment on the 1934 Fighting Irish is our purpose at this point. It should be understood, however, that remarks to follow are based on both direct and indirect observation. It was our privilege to be a spectator at six games. For what happened in the Pitt, Army, and Southern California scrapes we referred to W. B. who knows what transpired on the field if anyone does.
When speaking of a team's accomplishments the Rotarian’s question is how many did they win? For the Rotary clubs then, it will suffice to say that six victories was the record of this year’s Irish. That in itself is enviable when the harrowing circumstances that confronted Elmer Layden are taken into consideration. Before the Texas game we predicted five to seven wins so we cannot kick. Nor would we want to. It’s our honest and frank opinion that this year’s eleven was at least on par with anything seen here in four years. They played smart football. What constitutes that type of play is something intangible. It’s perhaps best expressed by saying it’s the kind of play that ' sends you out of the stadium with that feeling the team did its best, win or lose. That’s the thing that remains in our mind as the outstanding accomplishment of Vairo and mates. They played smart football — did their level best in every game.
We went searching for the most improved player of the year and found him with little difficulty. Rocky Schiralli impressed us as being that man. In his first two years of play “Satch” was little more than an average guard. This fall improvement was so great and noticeable that his name was on everyone’s lips. He seemed to find some speed some place — a thing he lacked previously. His sixty minute stand against a punishing Pitt backfield, his fifty-seven minute performance against the Wildcats,
* (Continued on Page 15)
FINALLY DEFEATED
Howard Jones
His Trojans drawn and quartered.
MUCH INTEREST IS SHOWN AS HALL CAGERS PRACTICE
The campaign for inter-hall honors in the annual basketball race, promises this year to be one of the toughest ever conducted by the Phy-Ed authorities. No less than 90 men reported Sunday afternoon for tryouts on Freshman Hall’s quintet. The coaches, representing the different halls, state that a large number of candidates have signified their intention of battling for the first five places on both weight division teams.
There is an increased interest in the lightweights this season due to the improved condition of the floor up stairs. The schedule will be officially opened immediately after the holidays are over. All boys displaying talent on the hardwood are urged to come out, while there is the possibility of those with exceptional merit being promoted to the varsity squad.
The coaches for the various halls are:	.
Freshman—Donnino and Zoss : Badin—Connor and Hawley; Sorin—Underkofler and Gaf-ney ; Corby—McGrath and Pilney; Off-Campus —Hauser and Paikovic ; Walsh—Michuta and Tancredi; Alumni—Pagliasotti and McGinley; St. Edward’s—Hughes and Martin ; Morrissey —Krause and Stiliey ; Lyons—Sheil and Kop-zack; Howard—Dunn and Saffa ; Dillon— Walker and Crotty: Brownson—Velcheck and McKernan ; Carroll—Commisa and Mitchell.
PETERS AND ELSER BACK
Irish Have Won Twice From Albion in the Past Two Years
By Cy Stroker
To-morrow night the Notre Dame basketball team will meet the Albion College quintet in the gym for the second scheduled game of the season. Although the Albion men usually put up a good battle in the first half, it should not be difficult for the Keogan-ites to add the coming game to their list of victories.
Albion has been, for the last few years, more or less of a warm-up for the tougher teams that follow it on the Irish schedule. Last year Ed Krause and mates overwhelmed the team brought here by "Coach Dougherty to the tune of 48-25. The preceding year the score was 41-20, also in favor of the Irish.
Albion Has Small Squad
In both of these games, however, the visitors gave Notre Dame a stiff fight for the first half and kept the score to a close margin. The reason that the Albionites fall down so completely in the second half is that they have a perennial handicap in their small squad, and the first team does not get a chance to draw its collective breath by the use of substitutions.
The performance of the Irish in last Friday’s game with Kalamazoo left much to be desired in the way of finesse, but George Keogan seems to have the knack of instilling that virtue in his teams as the season goes along. The individual performances of the players clearly showed that they have the ability to duplicate the feats of their widely heralded predecessors. .
Johnny Jordan’s play was little less than spectacular, while George Ireland held up the other side of the Irish defense with his usual good work. The forward combination of Ford and O’Kane clicked beautifully and had little difficulty in breaking (Continued on Page 16)
Eleven
December 14, 1934
Mike Layden Scores Twice
As Notre Dame Topples Trojans
GIANT WILDCAT FIVE MEETS IRISH TUESDAY
FROMHART KICKS GOALS
By James A. Waldron
There was a “revival meeting” in Los Angeles Coliseum last Saturday, as a fast resourceful Notre Dame team won a well-deserved 14-0 victory over a fighting band of Trojans.
Mike Layden
This is the one that plays.
Playing with a dash and smoothness that at times recalled the Irish club of 1930, the big “Green” team outclassed their Southern California opponents in every department and gained sweet revenge for the “Trojan” superiority during the last three years. It was a return engagement for the name of “Layden” in the “land of sunshine.” Ten years ago another Layden, who is now Notre Dame’s coach, Elmer, was intercepting and catching passes all over the field to score three touchdowns as the Irish won the Rose Bowl championship from Stanford. Saturday, Elmer’s brother, Francis “Mike,” wound up behind Southern Cal’s goal-line twice as his contribution to the “meeting.”
Quite properly the first great “play” of the annual Gridiron Classic was produced by the hand’of William “the Bard” Shakespeare. Almost at the start of the game Notre Dame fumbled on their own 36 yard lino and Southern Cal recovered. The Cardinal and Gold, with Wotkyns leading the attack, drove to the 13 yard marker where an attempted placement’by Cal Clemens went low and wide. Into the spotlight stepped Shakespeare. With two exchanges of punts, he set the Trojans back on their own 20 yard line. "Inky” Wotkyns, who played a marvelous game for the men of “Troy,” was forced to kick out of bounds on the Notre Dame 49 yard line. The alert Irish field general, Wally Fromhart, saw the Trojan defense in too close and' called for a pass on first down. Bill * the, Bard” faded back and tossed a brilliant 40 yard pass to Francis
Twelve
Trackmen Go Through First Workouts; Nick Gives Lineup of Squad
As things look now, Coach Nicholson’s cinder artists have quite a busy season ahead of them. Three indoor meets are scheduled with Big Ten teams, among them Illinois, Chicago, and Iowa. Marquette’s thinlies will also furnish the opposition in a setto against the Irish. The Central Conference meet will be held here in the gym on March 8-9, while the Armour Relays are at Chicago, March 16, and the Butler Relays at Indianapolis, March 23.
As to the prospects for a winning combination, the Irish mentor promises a fair team with plenty of fight —the last being characteristic of Notre Dame’s representatives in athletics. The squad last year was handicapped by numerous injuries, which naturally handicapped the Gold and Blue to a great extent. It is hoped that Leo McFarlane will be in first class shape, after having trouble with his arches during the cross country season.
The distance running, mile and two mile, looms up as the weakest link so far on the squad. The half is well taken care of by Jim Shiels, Joe McGrath, Kavanaugh, and Deacon, the latter copping second place in the 1934 state meet. Bob Bernard, another lad with a bad arch, will run the quarter mile, having run number two in the state meet. He owns the reputation of being the second best 440 man in Notre Dame track history.
Joe Sullivan will be relied upon in the shotput as Don Elser no doubt will confine his activities to basket, ball. The high jump will be handled by Captain Vince Murphy, and the broad jump by Meagher, who placed fifth in the National Collegiate last year. The sprints look good with George Moore, Jordan, and Ed Boyle all new men, in the lineup. The relay team looks onlly mediocre. Mike Layden and Carl Link have the hurdles assignment, the former being one of the most consistent pointgetters that Nick had in ’34. Edwards will do the pole vaulting, and Levicci will throw the javelin.
“Mike” who had sneaked past the Southern California secondary. Elmer’s “kid” brother caught the ball over his shoulder in full stride on the 20 yard stripe and galloped across for the first score. Wally Fromhart converted with a perfect placement.
(Continued on Page 16)
On next Tuesday evening in the local gymnasium, followers of the hoop sport are in for another great contest. Northwestern University, of Evanston, Illinois, is scheduled to make its annual court visit to the campus. Last year’s game at the local gymnasium was a wild affair; the score favoring Notre Dame 27 to 24 at the end of the battle.
Have Won Two
Northwestern comes back this year with what is reputed to be a much stronger club than that of last season. If their two games, played to date, give any indication of their strength, Notre Dame will have to play a wonderful brand of ball to stress the “Purple Tide.” Carlton and Wabash were beaten by the Wildcats, 48 to 33 and 35 to 29 respectively. In the first fray, Fisher, last year’s center who has been shifted to forward, scored 21 points. In the Wabash tilt he hit the hoop enough times to ring up 17 markers. He is a six foot four inch man-who was one of the leading scorers of the Big Ten last winter.
Davis teams up with Fisher in the other forward berth. Two sophomore stars find their way into the present Wildcat lineup. McAnally, center and former all-state man on Greencastle Indiana’s high school five, and Mercer, an Oak Park, Illinois boy, who is making good with plenty to spare. Vance, another sophomore from Indiana, plays both center and guard. For reserves Northwestern has Kawai, Pendergast, Grossberg, and Rosenfeld, all veterans from the last campaign.
Rifle Team Loses First Match In Three Years /
The Rifle Club met with defeat when South Haven, Michigan, upset them by the count of 853-837 last Friday. It was the first defeat of Gunner McGrath’s men in three years of, competition, during winch time they had compiled a run of 29 consecutive wins. The extreme cold in the Boathouse contributed largely to the defeat of the Irish. Their opponents, though inferior marksmen, were less affected by the coldand banged out a victory. £
Captain McGrath, Minarick, Connell, Leiser, and Maher-composed the Irish team. Minarick again had high score. Thme McGrathmen will meet the Rifle Club of Christian, Michigan tonight and hbpe to renew their string of victories. :	’
* }
The Scholastic
IRISH GRIDHEN PICK ALL OPPONENT ELEVEN
Notre Dame Downs Kalamazoo
In Poorly Played Inaugural
Left tackle—Heldt—Purdue
Left guard—Hartwig—Pittsburgh
Center—Coates—Texas
Right guard—Ormiston—Pittsburgh Right Tackle—Cutter—Navy Right end—Lewis—Carnegie Tech. Quarterback—Mun jas—Pittsburgh Left halfbacak—Nicksick—Pittsburgh Right halfback—Clemens Southern California Fullback—Stancook—Army
In a poll, conducted by The-Scholastic, of 14 members of the Notre Dame football squad, who had played the greatest amount of time during the past season, an official allopponent football team has been selected. Pittsburgh, one of the three teams to defeat the Irish, seems to be adjudged the strongest eleven by virtue of the number of men placed on the all-combine. They placed no less than four men, Hartwig, left guard; Ormiston, right guard; Mun-jas, quarterback;'and Nicksick, left half; out of the possible eleven.
Three of these Pittsburgh men were unanimous selections at their respective posts, namely: Hartwig, Ormiston, and Nicksick. Co-captain Coates, of Texas, nosed out another Pittsburgh man, Shotwell, for the center job by two votes. Two oilier close contests were waged over the right end and full back berths.
Tabulation follows:
LEFT END: Rooker, Pittsburgh, two; Dornin, Navy, one; Henderson, Northwestern, two; and Shuler, Army, nine.
LEFT TACKLE: Heldt, Purdue, eight; Harper, Southern California, four; Lambert, Navy, one; and Pa-cetti, Wisconsin, one.
LEFT GUARD: Hartwig, Pittsburgh, 14.
CENTER: Coates, Texas, eight; Shotwell, Pittsburgh, six.
RIGHT GUARD: Ormiston, Pittsburgh, 14.
RIGHT TACKLE: Fehring, Purdue, four; Olijniczak, Pittsburgh, two; Cutter, Navy, seven; and Chambers, Northwestern, one.
RIGHT END: Loebs, Purdue, three; Lewis, Carnegie Tech, five; Mini, Navy, two; and Bescoe, Southern California, four.
QUARTERBACK: Munjas, Pittsburgh, eight; Borries, Navy, one; Warburton, Southern California, five.
LEFT HALFBACK: Nicksick, Pittsburgh, 14.
RIGHT HALFBACK: Carter, Purdue, four; and Clemens, Southern California, ten.
FULLBACK: Clark, Navy, one; Duvall, Northwestern, four; Stancook, Army, five; and Wotkyns, Southern California, three.
Sport Writers Praise Irish Showing Against Southern Californians
“It was Notre Dame’s ball on Notre Dame’s 49 yard line, and it was late in the first quarter of a game in which Notre Dame eventually defeated Southern California, 14 to 0. William Shakespeare, Notre Dame left halfback, received the ball from All-American Jack Robinson. . . . Then he turned, stood there a moment and howitzered a long pass to Francis (Mike) Layden, brother of Notre Dame’s coach, Elmer Layden. Mike was running like Elmer the Great Layden used to run. When he reached the Southern California 30 yard stripe his upraised arm met the swooping ball in a brilliant leaping catch under full steam. And it was full steam ahead for Layden as without a moment’s pause he raced on over the goal line for’ Notre Dame’s first touchdown.” by Maxwell Stiles in the Los Angeles Examiner.
“Too many Laydens put a convincing capper on Southern California’s most disastrous season as Notre Dame scored a 14 to 0 victory before 55,000 persons.
“Although the younger Layden was christened Francis by his fond parents, he’s known only as Mike. . . . The Trojans knew Mike’s name all right, but they didn’t have his number yesterday, and the slim 178-pound halfback from Davenport, Iowa, scored the only touchdowns of the battle. Added to his two tallies it was Mike who prevented Inky Wotkyns from scoring from the one-yard line just as the first half ended. So ■with Brother Elmer making his Los Angeles debut as coach of the Fighting Irish it was Layden day in a large way. Only my aversion to puns prevents me from saying that the Trojans were just too heavily Layden.” by Braven Dyer in the Los Angeles Times.
“A classy pair of halfbacks—one a namesake of the bard of Avon and the other a brother of Notre Dame’s coach—today led the Irish to a 14-0 victory over the Trojans of Southern California. . . All the Irish were bad news as far as Southern California was concerned but William Shakespeare and Francis (Mike) Layden, furnished the real headaches to Troy supporters. . . Troy had several scoring chances but lacked the punch to tote the ball across. Once they lost (Continued on Page 15)
FORD AND IRELAND STAR
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame basketball team won an easy victory over the Kalamazoo quintet in the local gym last Friday night by a score of 35-18. The Irish showed themselves to be the
Johnny Ford
He’s one of the speed boys.
superior team at all times and the lead which they rolled up in the early part of the game was at no time seriously threatened by the Hornets’ at-attack.
The game began in the usual first-game manner with both teams playing cautiously and both having difficulty finding the hoop. Keogan’s men took possession of the ball early in the first half and had control of it for almost three quarters of the time. The Irish had little difficulty breaking through the weak defense of the opponents, while their own defense was strong enough to keep the Hornets well outside of the danger zone.
The Kalamazoo outfit, seeing the Irish in the lead at the half 15-4, began the second half with a desperate attempt to catch up. Shooting from outside the Notre Dame zone of defense, the visitors tried again and again to ring the bell but their efforts were in vain most of the time. Both teams played a rough and tumble brand of ball in the second quarter and the resulting scrimmage would have done justice to any football team. The result was a great number of fouls called on both teams
(Continued on Page 15)
December 14, 1934 .
T hirteen
INTRO DUC ING
By Joe Prendergast
GOPHERS, MARQUETTE MEET IRISH IN JANUARY
From “way down east” in the land of the famous potatoes, huge snowdrifts, and sauntering pines comes the last football luminary this department will introduce this year.
Francis Joseph Gaul better known
as “Touchy” to the thousands of Maine sport followers who knew him when he was attending Waterville High School and increasing his athletic conquests in a phenomenal nature. He is the subject of this article.
During his prep school days, Frank did loads of things along the athletic line and did them all well. For four years he was quarterback on the varsity football team. When as a freshman, Frank first won the signal calling job he only tipped the beams at a mere 140 pounds. Two of these four
years his club won the Maine State championship and he received allstate honors in his last two seasons at the Waterville school, besides captaining the outfit in his senior year.
After hanging up his gridiron togs,
Frank devoted his spare time for the duration of the winter months (and this is quite a long seizure in Maine) to ice hockey. He played four years at center in his school’s ice team and his work sparkled with brilliance. The “big boys” in hockey have been keeping a watchful eye on Frank in case he ever considers turning his thoughts to a professional career in the arenas.
With the coming of spring, Frankie took over his back-stopping duties on the baseball nine winning his ensignia four years in this sport. In track
Cage hostilities between Notre Dame and Marquette will resume here on Jan. 5. Last year the Keogan-ites clinched the game in the last 80 seconds of a bitterly fought battle when Voegele sunk a two pointer which resulted in a 30-28 victory. An excited crowd of 5,500 saw the score tied six times and the lead change five times.
Marquette won its first game from the Milwaukee Teachers, 40-13. Morstadt, Rasmusen, Robado and Blask, veteran eagers, form the nucleus of the speedy Hilltopper’s quintet.
Minnesota
A strong and experienced squad from Minnesota will meet Notre Dame at Minneapolis on Jan 8. Baker at right forward, Roscoe, left forward, Norman, center, Svendsen arid Barnum at guards compose the Gopher squad. All saw service in the Notre Dame encounter last year. The Irish whipped the Gophers last year 43-34. All-American Ed Krause, alone registered 22 points. He sank ten field goals from all points on the court and two from the foul line. George Roscoe who is in the line-up this season totaled 16 points for the Gophers.
Minnesota conquered its first opponent, Hamline, 31-24. The Gophers are one of the strongest squads in the Big Ten and expect to prove their power to Notre Dame.
Frank ran the 440 when his limited time would permit.
In February of 1931 the amateur boxing championships of Maine were being held in the Colby College field house. The heavyweight crown had just been won by a rank outsider, a dark horse, Touchy Gaul was the new champion and his weight was 177 pounds, winning the bout by a k.o. in the third round. Another award had been won by the leading schoolboy athlete of Maine.
Frank came to Notre Dame because —“Ever since I can remember I followed the doings of Notre Dame’s teams and hoped that some day I would be able to attend the University.” As a freshman Francis Joseph alternated with Bud Bonar on Jake Kline’s freshman eleven. Frank won the light-heavyweight boxing championship of the University as a first year man.
The first varsity football game he ever played in was the Kansas engagement of last year. Frank has some interesting observations to make concerning his auspicious debut. He (Continued on Page 15)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
KALAMAZOO GAME
(Continued from Page 12)

and the sharp eye of several of the Kalamazoo men at the free throw line added materially to their score.
High scoring honors for the Irish were divided equally between Joe O’Kane and George Ireland, both making eleven points by four field goals and three foul shots. Weiss was high man for the visitors with four points from two field goals, and Kreikland came next with three points.
A total of 35 fouls was called on both teams, 16 on Notre Dame and 19 on Kalamazoo. As a result of the latter four of Coach Bernard’s men had to leave the game because of four personals, but not a single Irish man had to leave.
The lineup:
a
Kalamazoo (18)
Notre Dame(35)
B FT P
Ford f  2 2 2 Cunha f _____ 0 0 2
Mettler f ___ 0 0 2
O’Kane f ____ 4 3 3
Hopkins f --- 0 0 3
De Mots c .... 12 0 O’Connor c .... 0 11 Ireland g ___ 4 3 2
Wade g ________ Oil
Jordan (C) g 0 0 1 Bonnei' g____ Oil
Total 11 13 16
B FT P
Sui"villa f ___ 0 2 4
McClellan f .... 10 4
Weiss (C)	f	..	2	0	0
Finlay e ______ 0	0	2
Deleeuw c______ 10 0
Kreiklard	g	-	1	1	4
Koesner g___ 0	0	0
Kreilick g	__ 0	0	1
Cameron g	__ 0	10
Gast g -------- 0	4	4
Inglis g---- 0	0	0
Total ....... 5	8	19
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
says: “I was feeling pretty panicky starting my first game. We won the toss and elected to receive. I don’t recall which one of the men did the kicking but I will never forget the boy who did the tackling. I received the boot and started up the field. Everything was going along smoothly for about ten yards then something happened. Mehringer, who played tackle for the visitors came roaring down on me and hit me so hard that I thought it was all over. I saw stars and everything else. I shall never forget the way that guy hit me.”
Frank saw much action during the course of last season, playing in five of the nine encounters on the list. This past season has seen Frank tending to his duties in creditable style, doing a fine job of signal-barking when called upon. In the Purdue and Wisconsin games, Frank was in there when most of Notre Dame’s tallies were made.
Last spring Frank won another Notre Dame monogram, on this occasion it was baseball. In the Iowa game of last spring he hit a home run that is reputed to be the longest ever hit on Cartier field. He lives in 11 Corby with genial Phil Arnheiter as a room-mate.
December 14, 1934
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11) and his play on the whole was so superior to that of other years that he gets the call without hesitation.
Most valuable, without a Chinaman’s doubt, was Jack Robinson. An accurate diagnostician of enemy maneuvers, a standout in defensive line play, an accurate passer, are only a few of his claims to success. Add to this the fact that this All-American was so consistently bothered by an annoying ailment of the eye. If you’ve stuck with Robbie you haven’t lost.
We’ve been accused of raving in excess about a certain scoring play which won the Northwestern game. May we continue to annoy by calling it the outstanding play of the year? There were undoubtedly plays more complicated and more difficult to execute, but that one sticks because of the element of strategy involved.
It would be unjust to drop individual pay-offs with mention of Robinson and Schiralli. Who, other than Walsh’s night watchman, doesn’t remember Melinko-vich? They played around with Shakespeare’s name until it hurt, but there was no playing with Bill when kicking, running, or passing was his assignment. Sparkling Dom Vairo and Wayne Millner, not to mention consistent Joe Sullivan, Johnny Michu-ta, Bill Smith, Rey Bonar, Wally Fromhart, Andy “Sleeper Play” Pilney, Mike Layden, who likes Californian climate, Don Elser, Fred Carideo, Hank Pojman, Fred Solari, and others previously named can pat themselves on the back for their work.
On the other side of the ledger there were, naturally, a few spots not so smooth, but why reopen old wounds. We might mention Pitt’s ability to haul in Irish passes. But for other things on that side of the ledger, just ledger imagination guide -you.
WE PICK
With one win in three attempts at last Saturday’s games we call it quits on guessing for this year. The totals show we picked 211 correctly, messed up 59, and tied 15. Disregarding ties, which incidentally is the logical way to figure, the percentage reads .781. With ties unjustly figured as losses the book reads .740. Not bad.
CAGERS TO PLAY FULL VACATION NET SCHEDULE
By John I. Flanagan
Three important games and the possibility of a fourth grace the No-ter Dame basketball card for the Christmas vacation.
Holy Cross, after a three years lapse from the hard-court game, will be among those to test the speed and skill of the Irish. The Worchester school coached by “Hop” Riopel, himself a graduate of Holy Cross, where he won three letters, is one of the best teams on the Eastern coast. Among the squad of twenty men who are practicing daily are Rex Kidd, varsity quarterback in football, and Don Herlihy also of football fame, who is likely to start at a guard position.
Stanford, which usually plays Southern California for the Pacific Coast championship, is making its first eastern tour in the history of the spoi-t. The powerful coast aggregation is all that the former teams were and will keep Notre Dame plenty busy. They will be without the services of several of their stars because of the classic Rose Bowl game against Alabama, when they will be playing football instead of basketball.
The game with New York University will be viewed with interest by followers of the hard court game because of the challenge issued to the Keoganites after the Violet’s victory over City College of NeNw York last March. Both athletic boards thought it unwise to play a post-season game after the players had undergone a long and difficult schedule.
The game with St. Ambrose College of Moline, Illinois is still tentative. The present date for the fray is December 21.
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 13)
the ball on the one-inch line. . . The last two periods were scoreless though Shakespeare’s passing made Notre Dame a constant threat. U. S. C. could make little headway in the final half.”
—George H. Beale, Pittsburgh Press.
“The Layden brothers provided the vital spark as Notre Dame defeated Southern California 14-0, today before 50,000 spectators in Memorial Stadium. . . Notre Dame entered the game a 2 to 1 favorite to beat the Southern Californians after the home team had won the last three games and the Irish left no doubt the odds were justified. The victory also gave Notre Dame the edge in the nine games played, 5-4. . . .”
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
All hail BILL HOOLAHAN, Irish diamond in the rough, whom experts hail as the coming heavyweight champion of the world! He’s been in the California mountains getting ready, and his trainer is no less than the famous “JERRY, THE GREEK.” ... DR. RALPH WAGNER, Hollywood sportsman, is the Irishman’s backer . . 1 Speaking of fighters JACK SHARKEY, former bantamweight, engaged in more than 400 bouts during his career, and one week fought every night but Sunday . . • and MICKEY WALKER looms as the foe of champions . . . has met 13 top men in the various divisions, as a campaigner . . . MAE WEST’S father, JACK WEST, was a leading lightweight of his day . . . According to SAMUEL HARDY, famous Davis Cup captain, it takes $10,000 and ten years to develop a ranking tennis star . . . Payoff for a hurdle race at Haddock Park in England, once netted the boys who lay it on the line, $1,750 for 50 cents ... The Irish basketeers now have a fine chance to get the lowdown on Pitt ... DR. H. C. CARLETON, Panther mentor, has invented a toy basketball game that old Santa will be discovering this Christmas . . . and W. C. GEER, of Ithaca, New York, has discovered a chemical that he guarantees will keep golf balls white at all times. ... The Detroit Tigers used a black ball for infield practice the past season. . . .
•
Automatic JACK MANDERS can take his hat off to JIM PREAS, of the state of Tennessee . . . for didn’t he kick 16 field goals in one half against Cumberland University back in 1916? . . . His team, Georgia Tech, won that game — score 222 to 0 ... if you believe that one you will believe this — R. E. WYANT played in 98 college games without missing a minute of play . . . FRANK HANNA, playing halfback for that sensational Kirksville College eleven, has played three years in both college and high ..school ..competition, ..but ..has never been on the losing team. . . .
•
Next season the Irish meet the “Bucks” of Ohio State — not the “Buckeyes.” COACH SCHMIDT of that school has requested the change in monicker ... Says “Bucks” sounds more “rip-snorti’ ”... Official reports from walled-in Sing Sing report a profit of better than $5,000 for the past football season ... The reecipts ought to fall off with the graduation of Alabama Pitts . . . The much-publicized football eleven of the college
Sixteen
of Western Maryland played Mount St. Mary’s on Thanksgiving Day, then traveled to Baltimore to play Georgetown that Saturday . . . Two one-day’s rest ... Minnesota’s Galloping Gophers traveled nearly two miles on the gridiron this year . . . Alabama’s freshman coach, whose teams have won 18 out of their 20 games, always wears a green hat when the boys play . . . We find that since 1925, Notre Dame has placed 11 men on the Associated Press All-American . . . That’s exactly five more than any other school . . . Something unique in the way of pigskin justice came when JIMMY LAWRENCE, of Texas Christian, voluntarily punished himself for pasting an official, by remaining out of the Southern Methodist game ... What’s next? ... MILT TREST, Marquette tackle, has been writing cowboy stories for dime magazines, all unbeknown to his teammates . . . Shakespeare’s got nothing on this lad. . . .
The jockey on a winning horse always throws his riding crop (whip) to the steward in the judges’ stand? Why? . . . because back a few years it was the old Spanish custom to fix a tack or tiny electric battery to the end of the whip ... no race is official now till the crop has been examined . . . REGISTER AGA KHAN, Indian Prince, as the prince of English horse owners . . . his hay eaters have . brought him $400,000 this year . . . These facts are important because there is no chance of the horse ever becoming extinct . . . There is said to be 2,000,000 horseshoe pitchers in the country . . . GEORGE SUSCE, scrappy backstop of the Milwaukee team in the American Association, has taken part in 37 fights since he has been in organized baseball . . . George has won but one of them . . '. ADOLPH CAMILLE, the big leaguer, has done a little better . . . but of 12 fights in the Cub locker room, they have lifted Dolph’s hand a dozen times . . . The champion stogie smoker of baseball is JIMMY DYKES . . . which means he knows his stogies . . . Dykes’ new outfielder, BUD HAFEY, is a nephew of the famous CHIC HAFEY . . . CONNIE MACK, in 1902, managed the professional football champions of the country . . . the PHILADELPHIA ATHLETICS. . . . Girls, here’s a good way to re-duce . . . VIRGINIA VAN WIE loses 15 pounds every time she participates in a national golf tournament . . . CARL SNAVELY, coach at North Carolina, writes all the members of his team, after each game points out all their mistakes . . . Chief trainer, JACK NEVILLE, of six-day bike fame, averages three hours sleep per day during the contests . . . Which reminds us, that more than 526,000 persons have witnessed the eight-bike races staged in Canada and the U. S.
ALBION GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
through the Hornet’s defense. The only possible weak point in the unit was the center, but the return of Marty Peters to that position next week will bring back the Irish strength to the pivot berth.
The lightness of the team results in a faster game and this should help the Keoganites materially in their offense by offsetting the lack of height. The only possible trouble the team may have is in its defense against such heavy teams as Pitt and Stanford, but it should be able to effectively turn back any onslaught from the Albion team tomorrow night.
U. S. C. GAME
(Continued from Page 13)
Fumbles nullified another touchdown march which was featured by Layden’s 14 yard dash to the U.S.C. 14 yard marker. As soon as the Irish regained possession of the ball brother “Mike” cut loose for a 12 yard run from about midfield into Trojan territory. This time Notre Dame wasn’t fooling and a touchdown drive began in earnest. Andy “Hunch” Pilney, Shakespeare’s alternate, passed on first down to Wayne Millner, who made a sensational catch after Warburton had batted the ball into the air on Southern Cal’s three-yard line. With the Irish line splitting open the Trojan forward wall, “Mike” Layden hurdled over for his second touchdown. Again Fromhart kicked the extra point.
Southern Cal had a golden opportunity to score when Warren Hull recovered a Notre Dame fumble on the Irish 20 yard line. “Inky” Wotkyns and “Cotton” Warburton combined to make it a first down on the Notre Dame eight yard stripe. On fourth down and one yard to go, Wotkyns hit a stone wall as the whole Irish line smothered him six inches from a score. Bill Shakespeare made a beautiful kick to take the “Green-clad” team out of danger. Neither team came close to scoring in the third quarter although Southern Cal was put on the defensive most of the time. Twice in the last period, with nearly every Notre Dame man getting in the game, the Irish grid machine knocked at the gates of the “Trojan” goal-line, but incompleted passes in the end zone blanketed any scores.
In a gesture such as the late Knute Rockne would have made, Coach Layden allowed George Melinkovich to hobble out on the field for one play in the last game of his career, and then was taken out with the plaudits of the vast audience ringing in his ears. Despite a heavy “California dew” which fell on Friday night, the Notre Dame running plays clicked with precision and deception.
The Scholastic
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 17)
troit during the holidays. But they have been made on the basis of Alumni responsibility. It is common for the Campus Clubs to criticize the Alumni units about social affairs conducted in the home cities. We have heard that in Detroit before. -
I know that rivalry among the Campus clubs is such that successful dances are much to be desired. I know from experience, also, that the affairs conducted in Detroit by the students have often brought their deficits. Thereupon there has been mueh sobbing on the shoulders of the Alumni. We have been called funny names because an affair didn’t “go across.” I could produce some correspondence from the files of our own club that would be entertaining.
From the standpoint of the students, it would be an impressive thing, if they were permitted to hold their dances without verbal or written approval from the local Alumni. In ten years in Detroit I have watched many Notre Dame affairs. There always has been less friction, I must report, before and after parties sponsored by the Alumni. I think the affairs always drew better attendance. They did not always follow the elaborate hopes of some of the students, but they were within the hopes and, I might say, the means of the Alumni.
There are in Detroit several hundred Notre Dame men. I do not know the exact figure for the Detroit contigent at Notre Dame; I assume it is not more than two score. A happy question is, why cannot two groups of this kind work in harmony with the seniority of the Alumni still recognized?
This letter is long, perhaps. The situation is worth reviewing, however, because the troubles that arise between the Campus Clubs and the Alumni Clubs are not peculiar to any one city. In the case at point with us at Detroit, certainly the Campus club started its criticism a little early. If the proper persons had been approached, the hue and cry of the Scholastic article might have been unnecessary. All we hope for is a little tolerance on the part of the students toward Alumni efforts. We in Detroit can show that toward theirs. So long as I am head of the Detroit club, any request of the students will get merited attention.
The Detroit Alumni hope that the Notre Dame dance during the approaching holidays will be well attended. The students can be sure that the party will be as much theirs as it is ours. The Alumni trust that if any glory is to be garnered from a successful party, there will be enough for both Alumni and students to share.
CHARLES 0. MOLZ President. Notre Dame Club. Detroit December 14,-1934
“CATALYZER” ISSUED
Richard A. Weppner, M.S., ’30, wrote the featured article contained in the November issue of the Catalyzer. Under the title “Petroleum Naphthas,” Mr. Weppner discusses the different fractions of petroleum. He differentiates between the various substances obtained from petroleum by giving their several physical properties such as distillation range, color, odor, evaporation point and solvent power. In the conclusion of the article, the author gives the uses of the substances under consideration.
The editorial for thise issue is entitled “Empiricism in Engineering” in which the trend. of engineering toward the scientific rather than the theoretical solving of prdoblems is
HOME, JAMES!
For Christmas Holidays
FARES REDUCED
If TIMES THE ONE WAY FARE FOR
X ROUND TRIP
TO MANY CITIES
DEC. 14 - JAN. i
RETURN LIMIT JAN.. 13
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 South Lafayette Boulevard	Phone: 3-8283
Campus Agent: JOSEPH F. POLCEK, 225 Corby Hall
outlined. News of the campus scientific organizations, personal columns listing activities of the Alumni, and the Freshman Page complete the November issue. •
CHEMICAL SOCIETY
Dr. Charles D. Herd, professor of Chemistry at Northwestern University, was the speaker at the Wednesday night meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society. Dr. Herd is an authority on pyrolysis and therefore was well qualified to speak on the subject “Pyrolysis of Unsaturated Compounds.” The lecturer has written a monograp hon the topic which was published by the American Chemical Society.
Congratulations, students 1 You need no longer fear that your cellmate — in an unguarded moment — will pawn your extra pair of pants or hock your jewelry to raise the fare necessary to go home Christmas. Greyhound’s excursion rates eliminate that danger.
This Christmas you can make the trip home in a modem, comfortably-heated coach, piloted by one of the finest drivers on American highways. Join in the good fellowship aboard, or recline your deeply cushioned chair to the most comfortable angle and let the miles roll by unheeded. Greyhound’s frequent schedules enable you to leave almost as soon as your last class is over — and stay until the last possible moment before you return.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 9)
ONLY 4 DAYS LEFT
to do your Notre Dame Christmas Shopping
1934	DECEMBER	1934
SUN MON	TUES WED THUES	FBI SAT
		14 15
16 17	18 19 20	21 22
23 24	25	
And that means gifts that only you can buy — and monogrammed gifts that you can only buy here.
So hunt up your favorite Jewelry Representative on the campus (you have six to choose from). Go through his complete sample line while it’s still intact. Choose directly from the kit — if the compact, -bracelet, cigarette case or lighter bears the particular seal or coat-of-arms you have in mind, pay down your money and take it with you. If you want the crest changed and your order is in by December 17th, the L. G. Balfour Co., Attleboro, Mass., will make it up expressly for you and guarantee that it leaches you at home before Christmas. (Of course, for this extra service there is a slight additional charge to cover the mailing and special attention necessary.)
Bracelets	Compacts	Keytainers	Necklaces
Belt Buckles	Cigarette Cases	Knives	Novelties
Charms	Cigarette Lighters	Leather Goods	Rings
Cuff Links	Jewel Boxes	Pendants	Swank Sets
Cravat Chains	Key Chains	Powder Boxes	Wrist Straps
WALTER J. BECKER	MARCELLUS GEERTS
407 Morrissey Hall	203 Badin Hall
CHARLES A. BRAGG	PHILIP PURCELL
210 Walsh Hall	106 Walsh Hall
GERALD P. DOYLE	GEORGE A. SHIELDS
117 Sorin Hall	225 Walsh Hall
Editor, The Scholastic:
Evidently the recent appeals for decent conduct which appeared in this column and your editorials have been totally disregarded by those few individuals who pose as Notre Dame gentlemen and students.
After the first show in Washington Hall last Saturday evening these same ruffians came plunging down the stairs and promptly proceeded to dive, push, and trample their way out of the doors with utter disregard for those around them. A friend of mine was caught in the crazed scramble and as a result had his left forearm badly bruised and nearly broken by the violence of these supposedly cultured college gentlemen. Furthermore, I saw a priest being shoved around in the rush.
Something should be done to curb the animal instincts of these men. If repeated warnings as to their personal behavior, steps rarely taken in a Catholic institution, have been of no avail, then I suggest that drastic action be taken either by the University authorities or by the S. A. C. before some serious injury occurs.
Yours for safe and sane conduct,
J. B.
New Jersey Campus Club
Adopts New Constitution
The clean-up campaign of campus clubs continued last week when the New Jersey Club adopted a new constitution which they claim will eradicate the evils existent in the organization in past years. A heated debate was held by the members and resulted in a majority vote for the new constitution as outlined by Emilio J. Gervasio, president of the club. *
In the course of the meeting a favorable report was made by Treasurer Tobias Cramer who stated that the club was in good standing apropos the charter financial requirements. It was further announced that the Christmas dance will be run in conjunction with the Alumni Club of New Jersey.
President Gervasio concluded the meeting by selecting an activities committee, composed of John Hopkins, William Farrell, Joseph Costa, and William Quirk, to organize a club basketball team.

NOTICE
For your convenience the Barbershop .will be open after supper to-night also Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday nights until 8 o’clock. We wish all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
Eighteen
The S c hoi as tic
Juernj Christmas

A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to all of you and a kind "thank you” for your patronage during 1934. May you continue to enjoy the warm, speedy trips via South Shore Line.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY ROUND TRIP FARE TO CHICAGO
from Tickets on sale Dec. 17. £
CAJTTn 1934 to January 1.1935. ▼ ■
Final return limit Jan- M BEND uary 8. 1935.
For more information, phone 3-3111 or write C. W. Veach. City Pass Agt„ 301 N. Michigan St. South Bend.
00
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
December 14, 1934
N ineteen
COLLEGE SPECIAL FARES CONTINUED FOR HOLIDAYS
The “College Special” fares which the railroads of the United States and Canada initiated over a year ago have been much appreciated by students; also by the faculty and staffs of all educational institutions. It is a recognition by the railroads of the immense travel business in connection with the educational industry and their desire to cooperate with students, parents and all colleges and schools in cutting the cost of education.
The individual comfort, convenience and safety of the students in travelling by rail, from home to school, has been increased over a period of years. Marked improvement in equipment and time schedules are important progressive factors.
Further evidence of cooperation by the railroads is shown in the announcement that the purchase date from home station after Christmas holidays has been extended from January 10 to January 16, thus creating a special convenience for a student who may be unavoidably delayed at home after the holidays.
The “College Special” far is one and one-third of one-way first-class fare for the round trip and liberal stop-overs going and returning have been arranged with the offly restriction that each single trip shall not take more than ten days.
Returns east for vacation — summering on the Cape. Is a senior in the Commerce School; and is to receive a B.C.S. in June. Plans for a post graduate course at Harvard. Jerry will continue the family name in the cotton business, but before that he has high hopes of returning to Greenwood and being the second Thomas Jefferson Foley to be elected mayor-of that Mississippi metropolis. The natives need not be alarmed — it is only another of the “master’s” numerous plans which, as the rest, probably never will be executed.
Last call for intelligent Christmas Shopping//
SHOP NOW in Notre Dame’s and South Bend’s two finest men’s shops — the Campus Shop and Livingston’s downtown store.
Why not shop for those gifts for Dad, Pal or Brother here before you leave on the 19th. Avoid that Christmas rush in the home town—select from our complete stock now.
Newberry Wins Award
William J. Newberry, of Alliance, Nebraska, a graduate student in the Department of Architecture, received second medal in the Emerson Prize Competition, which is given annually by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design. The competition is a problem in decorative design, and this year was “A Shop Front” for a jewel dealer of international reputation in one of the exclusive business districts of a large city. First prize was awarded to a Yale University undergraduate named Sturgis.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 6)
hopes of crooning at the Ball.
Jerry is the present dance master of Walsh — teaches “Gunner” McGrath all of Arthur Murray’s latest steps in preparation for the latter’s Sedalia debut. As the genial host he sang at the unveiling of his “collection” this fall; has a flare for interior decoration, but not always confines himself to interiors.
Bid three spades in the most famous bridge game on the campus; likes skating; never smokes; seldom studies; spends considerable time in the infirmary; eats on the diet table; never minds the South Shore, ride back from Chicago; and is one of the few Notre Dame men who never gripe.
His ability to discuss fire engines, ambulances, and cotton (his favorite theme) helped Jerry to secure a place in the circuit across the road — he still bats in the league. Has recently introduced several of the Sweetbriar gals to Santa Claus whom he visits frequently.
Twenty
Mufflers — plaids, woolens, silks and satins.
Ties — foullards, crochets, rabbit-hair, military stripes, solid colors.
Hosiery — woolens, rabbit-hair, silks, and even lisle.
Gloves — dress, pigskin, shark-skin, fur-lined, silk-
I
Handkerchiefs — monogrammed, linen, silk, and fancy patterns.
Shirts — Wilson Brothers, Arrow — eyelet collar, tab-collar attached — the latest patterns and fabrics.
Notre Dame Novelty Gift Jewelry—a selection.
JuMnaAlond
ON THE CAMPUS AND AT 123 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
The Scholastic
FR. O’HARA
(Continued from Page 1)
buried resentments and undo all the the good work Secretary Hull accomplished.
Attendance of many prominent American Catholics at the recent Eucharistic Congress at Buenos Aires also made a deep and favorable impression on the South and Central American countries, he said. This good impression likewise, he added, i would be nullified in great part by any unwarranted meddling by the United States in Mexican affairs.
Father O’Hara advocated a crusade of prayer on the part of American Catholics as the best means of bringing about an alleviation of the persecution in Mexico. He suggested that such a crusade undoubtedly would be taken up with enthusiasm throughout Latin America.
“While the principal benefits would be spiritual,” he declared, “the movement probably would be the basis of the best understanding possible between the United States and her southern neighbors.”
Students at the University will be asked to begin such a crusade on next Wednesday, the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe, patron saint of Mexico. “We always have a Mass on that day for Latin-American students at the University,” he added, “and I will ask all students to begin then a daily recitation of one decade of the rosary for the welfare of Mexico. I shall offer Mass myself on that day for the same intention.”
He said he had no doubt that the Catholic Church eventually would succeed in its struggle in Mexico, for history, he pointed out, shows that no [ government that persecutes the Church has endured very long.
Father O’Hara spent many years in South America both as a student and in the diplomatic service of the United States before entering Notre Dame. He studied at the College of San Patricio, Buenos Aires, and in the Jesuit College of Montevideo.
From this interview the Philadelphia Evening Bzilletin published an editorial commending this rational defense of the faith, concluding that such spiritual protest might bring Mexico to a realization of that fact that it is wounding consciences and alienating sympathy.
no matter if he knew the other players or not. But always he did things with that easy-going, disinterestedness that amazed everyone.
He knew few of his fellow students by name, because as soon as he would learn a name, he’d forget it. This made no difference to the others. If anything, it merely increased their inability to completely understand him. And this, in turn, increased their interest in him.
Gipp seemed oblivious of all this interest. Or, if it became too evident, he passed it off in his customary light and nonchalant manner. But he never acted before his fellow students, he never posed. Therefore, his decision to play in the Northwestern game could not have been formed out of a selfish motive.
It must have been spontaneous. It must have been something he wanted
to do for the boys. Something for Notre Dame. It wasn’t selfish delusions of grandeur that he saw. Maybe he just wanted to play football. Maybe he didn’t give a hang about football. Maybe he didn’t perceive the awful consequences of his act — that it might be the end of his earthly life. Maybe in the heat of the excitement and the noise of the crowd, he forgot that a thousand football games are not worth one human life. Maybe he was just a boy after all, and rash, and thought the fellows needed him, so the only course for him to take would be to get out there and Play.
But whatever it was that prompted him, he went out there in the colors of Notre Dame, and played, and won, and died. And fourteen years later, Notre Dame ,is proud to remember him.	•
For Students and Faculty Rail Fares Reduced
The railroads appreciate the enthusiastic responses of students and faculty to the “College Special” fares which combine economy with the great advantages of rail travel—safety, speed, comfort and convenience.
If you bought one of the reduced fare round-trip tickets when you came to school this Fall, the coupon is good returning home between December 10 and 25. When coming back after the Holiday, be sure to take advantage of this one and one-third fare ticket, the purchase date for which has been extended to January 16. Diagram below shows going and return dates.
GOING TO SCHOOL
RETURNING FROM SCHOOL
Round-trip ticket may be purchased at Home Station during any one of the periods named below:	Return portion of ticket may be used to Home Station during any one of the periods named below:		
	Christmas 1934	Spring 1935	Close 1935
Dec. 25,1934-Jan. 16,1935 Mar. 15-Apr. 23, 1935	Dec. 10-25	Mar. 9-Apr. 20 Mar. 9-Apr. 20	May 15-June 30 May 15-June 30 May 15-June 30
Going trip must begin on date ticket is purchased—limited to reach school station within ten days. Return trip must begin on date of validation of ticket by railroad agent at school station— limited to reach home station within ten days. Tickets good over same route both ways. Stop-overs will be allowed in each direction. Tickets good in coaches, also in Pullman cars, upon payment of regular Pullman charges. Baggage will be checked under the usual regulations. No certificate or other form of identification necessary.
• ‘
TRAVEL BY TRAIN
Assuring your comfort with speed Your convenience with safety.
CENTRAL PASSENGER AND TRUNK LINE ASSOCIATION RAILROADS
GEORGE GIPP
(Continued from Page 5)
Gipp, and his slow ,casual, and apparently lazy way of doing things was taken for granted. He slouched about the campus, occasionally dropping in the “Rec” for a game of pool with his friend, Banna, or, if he passed a room where they were playing cards, he’d stop in for a couple of hands —
December 14,1934
Twenty-one
Rochester Club Plans A Formal Christmas Dance
President John Gillooly presided at the meeting of the Rochester Club nual Christmas Formal to be held at the Sagamore hotel were discussed.
A joint stag party of the Alumni and the students will take place Dec. 20 in Rochester. The purpose of this party is to create a more friendly attitude between the Alumni and the members of the campus club.
In the near future, the members will organize a basketball team to play games with other city clubs during the winter.
The club will meet again on Jan 15.
Mr. Keogan gave an interesting and beneficial talk on what a father owes his son as far as physical education is concerned.
Notre Dame JEWELRY . .
ready to take home with you
You’ll find a complete selection of Notre Dame Jewelry at our Campus Shop — come in, make your choice, and we’ll be glad to furnish you with an attractive gift box. We go farther than that even — we’ll wrap them and mail them for you.
Choose from our stock of
Pins, $1.00 to $15.00
Compacts, $2 to $6.50
Bracelets, $2.50 to $5.00
Necklaces, gold and silver $5.00
Drop in before you leave—and a Merry Christmas to you John H. McCulloch, Mgr.
LIVINGSTON’S CAMPUS SHOP
SENIOR SMOKER
(Continued from page 3)
more money could be spent on music. He recommended that the proper authorities be petitioned to allow the committee to pay a larger sum for an orchestra and thus obtain one of higher ranking.
Also in connection with the Ball, the suggestion was made that a dinner* dance be substituted for the usual tea dance. This matter, as well as other minor points, did not go beyond the discussion stage. The Seniors, judging from their many comments, are in favor of excluding nothing from their final function and gave little thought to the price of the Ball.
Other business concerned the supposed lethargic condition of the Notre Dame spirit and the problem of providing for the return of caps and gowns. President Proctor urged that the class cooperate with the committee for the prompt return of the
Cigarette Cases, Cigarette Lighters, ' single or in combination
$3.00 to $6.50
Rings, all sizes
$4.00 to $6.50
garments after Commencement exercises. He appointed a committee to handle caps and gowns. The group is composed of Walter Powers, chairman, Matthew Ronzone, John Lively, George Maddock, James Bartley, and Phil Arnheiter.
The intangible subject of Notre Dame spirit was capably handled by Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers, who addressed the gathering on the subject. He explained that the Notre Dame spirit is not a collective tiling, but rather something existing in each individual. The spirit, Korzeneski stated, is traceable to the religious training received by the student at Notre Dame.
Equally as delightful as was the remainder of the program, were the refreshments served at the conclusion of the entertainment. Chocolate milk, x ice cream, and sandwiches were added to the abundance of cigars and cigarettes distributed prior to the meeting.
Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, famous philosopher and humorist, chose the latter as subject matter for his part of the entertainment. His readings from the works of Max Bierbaum and impromptu humorous remarks were well received.
Father Burke was enthusiastically applauded for his clever comparison of the use of tobacco at Notre Dame in past decades and today. He concluded his interesting contribution with a humorous recitation.
Former Linnet stars also provided entertainment for the evening. John Ryan sang two popular songs, and Paul Dasso did hi tap dance specialty. A quartet, composed of Eugene O’Brien, James Corrigan, Tony Yar-ro, and Tom Flynn, sang a group of numbers; Tom Bott and Jim Keough gave rhythmical interpretations of popular songs; and Pat Quigley rendered two numbers on the accordion. Motion pictures of the Northwestern game, with its famous sleeper play, was substituted for the Army game, the film of which Elmer Layden has with him on the coast.
Civil Engineering Banquet
To form a closer association between the students and faculty members of their department, eleven juniors of the civil engineering department held an informal banquet at the Morningside Hotel, Wednesday evening, December 12. The engineering faculty was represented by four professors at the banquet which was the first successful social function of the school year not sponsored by a campus organization.
Professor Walter Shilts, assistant dean of the engineering college, gave the main peech of the evening. Other engineering professors attending were ProfessorsEdward Maurus, Frank Horan, and Francis Ackerman. Thomas Hines acted as toastmaster.
T wenty-two
The Scholastic
Ellsworth’s Men’s Shop—Headquarters for ARROW Shirts
Arrow Mitoga  $2.00 - $2.50 Arrow Trump Shirts.$1.95
Arrow Cravats  ....$1.00
Arrow Trunks.65c to $1.00
EUswnrtlfs
The Style in Gifts
Speaking- of gifts for the Miss, we might mention the rather unusual selection of Givables that our local jewelry concessionaires have on hand this year. We refer to the sample cases you’ve seen toted around the campus by Walt Becker, Charlie Bragg, Gerry Doyle, Marse Geerts, Phil Purcell, and George Shields. There’s a right smart assortment of compacts, pendants, key chains, cigarette cases and lighters, bill folds, and what-nots, all bearing a Notre Dame - crest or monogram. Our observation has been that the prices asked are astonishingly low for the quality of merchandise.
The sale of the official Notre Dame jewelry, supervised by the Comptroller’s office, has been exceptionally good this year. Everywhere the samples have been displayed they have met with the approval of the students.

Engineers’ Club
President Cushing called to order the fifth meeting for the Engineers’ Club, at eight o’clock, Wednesday evening, December 5. Plans concerning a smoker were considered; an announcement was made to the effect that the club had obtained its Club charter for the year from the Student Activities council.
Frank Joyce, a junior in the chemical engineering school, and Robert Shields, a senior metallurgy student, both delivered papers. Their respective subjects were “The Manufacture of Paper,” and “Metallurgy.” Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, the principal speaker of the evening, talked on “Physics and Metaphysics.” Among other things, the different theories held concerning metaphysics were pointed out. Mr. O’Grady also explained the course pursued in teaching this subject at Notre Dame.
After suggesting the formation of a club basketball team, to be called the “Spheroid Pushers,” after the Christmas holidays, the president adjourned the meeting. Refreshments were then served.
"Don't worry, fellows, this shirt won't shrink”
As streamlined as a tarpon — the Arrow Mitoga shirt is scientifically tailored to conform to the contour of your body. Large roomy shoulders, narrow waist and tapered sleeves—no bunching or bulging anywhere. If you like something just a bit different, you’ll favor the full-fashioned MITOGA. $2 and up
ARROW SHIRTS
SANFORIZED SHRUNK
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., TROY, N. Y.
December 14, 1934
Twenty-three
ON THE SUNLIT SLOPES OF BERKELEY, FACING THE GOLDEN GATE, THE MEN OF CALIFORNIA MAINTAIN STANDARDS OF APPAREL ON A PAR WITH THE STANDARDS OF CALIFORNIA'S MARVELOUS CREWS.
It is significant that California's best-dressed men, like the University's foremost tailors, prefer the invisible seamline Kover-Zip closure on trousers and slacks.
. famous Berkeley tailor to California men.
says-.—"For clients who prefer zippers, we find the Kover-Zip
to be far superior to the old type. It is smooth, and no
metal shows.”
(Clothes
another famed Berke-
.	ley tailor, says:—In
our shop we recognize the demand for fine-tailored smoothness in custom-built clothes. We know that Californians insist
upon style in every detail. The exposed metal zipper proved utterly unsatisfactory—that is why we use Kover-Zip on our tailor-made clothes.”
college latten, aztilezs enJLezse K^ovez	^Le eutij sltil
-^ez ^Lue emtem cletles
e,
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR, INC., LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.
PARIS PRAGUE DRESDEN WARSAW BARCELONA LONDON
MARKED PREFERENCE AMONG COLLEGE MEN FOR KOVER-ZIP
The one fastening device for the fly which meets the requirements of good taste, Kover-Zip, is the choice of college men from coast to coast. Though the ordinary zipper gives a smooth flat effect when compared to the crumpled buttoned fly, it has the defect of showing an unsightly strip of bare metal. Kover-Zip corrects this, in Kover-Zip you cannot see the metal. Its advantages are widely recognized among “best-dressed” college seniors, as is indicated by expressions such as these:
Arthur H. Lund
. Minnesota, 1935
“The ordinary zipper with uncovered metal does not belong on a single piece of clothing of a well-dressed man. Personally, I’ll take the completely covered fly with Kover-Zip.”
Thomas S. Hinkel
Pennsylvania, 1935
“This invisible closure, Kover-Zip, keeps the trousers flat and smooth in front, yet no metal shows as in the = ordinary zipper. I pre! fer Kover-Zip for trou-S sers of all types.'
Willis Stork
Nebraska, 1935
“The neatness and efficiency of the Kover-Zip fly will soon make the buttoned fly for i trousers as anachronic istic as buttoned shoes on a college man of nineteen thirty-five.”
Richard Helms
Williams, 1935
“The ordinary slide fastener gives a better fit than the buttoned fly, but everyone objects to the uncovered metal. With Kover-Zip, a smart closure, no metal is visible.”
Kenneth Krepps, ’32, Speaks To Bookmen on Magazines
• Undoubtedly the best known Bookman of past years is Kenneth Krepps, ’32, who frequently returns to the campus to read his timely papers to the Bookmen. At their weekly meeting last Thursday night the Bookmen heard his article, soon to be published in Manuscript, on the “literary magazines.”
T wenty-f our
Mr. Krepps surveyed the history and growth of these publications in general and discussed the aims of the more outstanding magazines, such as The Blast, The Midlander, the Periscope and the Westminster. Mr. Krepps envisages these magazines as the proving grounds for young authors who lack the literary reputation required by the larger publications in this field.
The speaker named numerous popular writers of the present day who
received their first literary acknowledgement from the little magazines. He discussed the recent fame that has come to William Soroyan, a young man who wrote short-stories for six years before one of the literary magazines recognized his merit.
An informal discussion followed Mr. Krepp’s talk, in which the merits and objectives of the modern school, best represented by Gertrude Stein and Soroyan himself, were examined and explained.
7 he S cholastic