O
BEND'S LARGES
NITE- LIFE BEGINS at GILBERT’S
in Tuxedos with all the tailoring “know how” of years of experience fully apparent in the ease with which they fit the wearer. The size range is complete with regulars, shorts, longs, extra-longs and portlys. Prices start at
.50
FULL DRESS
ail sizes starting at $60
Tuxedos bought before 3 o’clock will be ready for you by 6:30 the same evening!
GILBERT'S
r O R E FOR
14
E
813-817 S. Michigan
Street
2
The Scholastic
Letters
What Now, Fritz?
Dear Editor:
Since Michigan State has been accepted in the Big Nine, Michigan no longer can use the excuse that it has no room for Notre Dame on its schedule. Michigan plays State in 1950 as a Conference opponent, along with other Conference foes, a team from the East Coast and a team from the West Coast. This is a total of eight games, and according to Big Nine rules, teams are permitted to play nine games.
Because everyone is tired of the argument that has gone on for the last two years as to the relative merits of the teams, a game is the logical conclusion.
The way is clear no tv, and all that is necessary is for somebody with a little influence to instigate such a move — how about yourself, Mr. Editor? Since “Notre Dame will play anyone, any time, any place,” action should be taken now, while the Big Ten is making up its schedule. If action is not taken immediately, dates will conflict. Why not go
all out for Michigan vs. Notre Dame in 1950?	Bill Anhut,
264 Morrissey
A Freshman Protest
Dear Editor:
It was not three weeks ago (This letter was written before Christmas—Editor) that the Freshman Class was severely criticized for its inactivity. So, by means of a petition, the freshmen were given the privilege of holding class elections supposedly backed by the student council. What was the result?
A. The upper classman Master of Ceremonies for the introduction of the candidates to the class failed to put in an appearance.
B. The only publicity, announcing the election and meeting, was a poster put up in St. Edward’s by the St. Edward’s Hall Council.
C. The arrangements for the meeting were very poor. Such things as physics tests, history papers, pre-holiday tests, and the excitement of the trip home did not help to boost the attendance at the meeting.
It is obvious from this that the reason for the disorganization and inactivity of the Freshman Class is not due to the freshmen themselves, but to the lack of support of the Student Council.
Claude A. Zweber, Mike Collins, Ro
land Camlis, John R. Degan, M. H. Mattocks, Brian Duff, Clarence Gilpatric.
And many other members of the Freshman Class.
From the Tomahawk
Dear Editor:
I’m probably the one thousand apd first to notify you of it, but I just couldn’t resist the urge to mention your slip-of-the-comma on page 7 of the Dec. 17 Scholastic. The last line of the cover notice should read, of course, “God rest you merrie, gentlemen ...”
I might add that we here enjoy reading your very excellent publication — it is outstanding both from the point of view of Catholicism and of journalism. It reflects my previous views of Notre Dame — doing well whatever is worth doing at all.
Best of luck to you and to the Scholastic.
Sincerely,
Bill Duffy,
Associate Editor,
The Holy Cross Tomahawk
A bow and a blush to Comrade Duffy and the Tomahawk.—Editor.
Football Issue
Dear Editor:
You and your staff deserve the warm-(Continued on Page 25)
FAMOUS VAN HEUSEN $3.50 WHITE
SHIRTS NOW ONLY . . . $2.95
Here's big news for your budget! Van Heusen announces a new low price! The same fine quality . . . the same smart styling . . . the same wearable broadcloth . . . the same famous Van Heusen collar styles . . . the same fine shirts that have been so popular at $3.50 are now only $2.95! Come in tomorrow and stock up!
BROWSER WINNER OF THE TUXEDO
R. C. LANG ... 118 CAVANAUGH
I
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
Slaves Return
Slaves, 5000 of them, back from the slushy snow of Ogden and Buffalo, back from the neon-lit back booths of Brooklyn and Boston, back from Mom’s sizzling steaks and Sue’s sweet hometown kissing. Back to the hordes of chaffing profs, term-papering at the mouths; back to the kitchy-koo Saturday nights in cobwebby Washington Hall; back to the maddening racket of high school basketball broadcasts; back to the dining halls. Urp!
Heavens Rain Blue Books
Brochures, pretty little ones with exam-booklet blue covers, showed up like the late Christmas cards right after New Year’s in most homes. Timed to coincide with the income tax forms, the booklets told the tantalizing tale of Notre Dame, “the school that nobody knows (especially when it comes to endowments).” The idea was cooked up by the Notre Dame Foundation as their predictions of things to come in 1949, 1950, 1951, ad infinitum. Right up there on top of the list was the new Chemistry Building project. Far below, under the proposed tool shed for the power lawnmowers, appeared the heartening words “Student Union.”
After reading about the $3,080,000 jostling that skinflint Jack Benny is going to take from Uncle Sam in his four million dollar deal with CBS, we simply forwarded our brochure to Waukegan.
Gridder Spurns Rockets
The New Year brought with it a flock of resolutions, everything from promises of being nicer to St. Mary’s girls to oaths of quitting taking crib notes. Every Notre Dame student who has toyed with the idea of changing his habits of study by resolution knows that leaving school is easier and, usually, the result. One resolution, however, struck us as being well-intentioned enough to stick. A beefy senior footballer, who begged us to spare the wife and two kids by withholding his name, said he was looking a little beyond 1949 when he stacked up the bibles. “I’ve made up my mind,” he told us firmly, “to leave all letters from the Chicago Rockets unopened.”
Hoosier hysteria took a screaming, screeching leap skyward last weekend when the Blue Sox Usherettes, composed of the wintering Blue Sox baseball (and we use the term flinchingly) team, entered the hardwood cult. Their baptism of frenzy came last Saturday night when they downed the Kokomo Labor-ettes, a rugged aggregation if we ever saw one. Watching the gals in their ear-opener was a grotesque assortment of howling college students and frazzled old gents the likes of which have not been seen since the Frances Shop’s spring showing. Missing was the inimitable Frank Crosiar and his play-by-play.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream>0il Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
THE hair that bothered this tortoise didn’t run him a race, as they “tort-us” back in school. His hair just kept getting in his eyes! Being naturally slow, it took some time for him to try the Finger-Nail Test. But when he did, brother, did he move fast for a bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil—and look at him
now! No more dryness and loose, ugly dandruff! Wildroot Cream-Oil keeps his hair well groomed all day long.
What non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil containing Lanolin did for Sheedy, it can do for you. So get a bottle or tube today at the nearest drug or toilet goods counter. And have your barber give you professional applications. You’ll like what Wildroot Cream-Oil does for your hair—so mock this turtle and start using it today.
* of327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Ina, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
A survey of the calendar situation disclosed that bleached blondes are up there ahead of giggling babies and purring kittens in the race for supremacy. We opened up an envelope from the Strati-gon last week and were dazzled by one of those calendars which illustrates every month with a differently-dressed dame. Above the January number was a picture of a lean, Rita Hayworthish maiden tossing snowballs at a middle-aged man, who, it seemed, didn’t mind. Frankly, we were a bit let down by the picture. We’ve yet to run across a young woman, during January, prancing through a fresh fall of Indiana snow in one of those Jantzen two-piece get-ups.
Weather Trips SMC Gals
Indiana’s unpredictable weather got in its first good lick of 1949 by making last Saturday’s Winter Carnival at St. Mary’s simply a carnival. According to reports, the gals were the frostiest items on hand.
Jan. 14, 1949
5
CALENDAR
JANUARY 14
COLFAX — Fighter Squadron. Warner Brothers come up with an all-male cast headed by such mew stars as Edmond O’Brien and Robert Stack in a film about flyers. The story isn’t too different from the usual run of such pictures, but it moves quickly. The best parts of the picture are found in the excellent shots of aerial combat which show up extra good in color.
JANUARY 15
HOBBY SWABBIE — The Drill Hall serves as the scene for the NROTC ball featuring the music of Gene Hull and the lovelies from South Bend and vicinity.
JANUARY 16
ROCKNE MEMORIAL — This is the last Sunday before exams and the day’s basketball card should feature the roughest, slugginest tussles of the current season. The frosh now have the idea. No longer do they cry “foul” as they slide into the radiator, but rather “force out — gimme the ball, you big *!*!’ Come early!
JANUARY 17
MONDAY BLUES — There’s really nothing to do, which doesn’t make it very different from any other day. If the “comings” are all neatly tucked away, mayhap you’d flick the switch and dial WHOT come 7 bells. The attraction is Naughty Marietta with host Gordon McRea and guest star Jeanette MacDonald.
JANUARY 18
FIELD HOUSE — The Irish basketball crew plays host to Tony Hinkle’s fine aggregation from Butler with such familiar Irish monickers as Doyle and O’Brien who are expected to give the Irish a real ball game. The apples are still the best buy when the score gets close.
JANUARY 19
CLASSROOMS —FINIS! FINIS!! FINIS!!! Today it’s all over, and both profs and students slap themselves on the back for edging through another semester. The prof sees many ivories shining from the rows as the “boys” finally realize this is the last try at passing Diatetics 22.
JANUARY 20
FOOTBALL BANQUET—Frank Leahy’s lads get a final salute for- going through another great season. Here’s hoping the tribute matches the performances — which would make it AAA.
DISEASE — The biannual affliction of all studes comes upon this fateful day. Usually called “examinitis,” it strikes with the swiftness of a tiger, although the symptoms are usually constant distress and mental anguish with occasional signs of “pinkus slippus” which appears about half way through the sickness. The good doctor Professor usually advises a stiff antidote which will be followed by unabated joy should the victim pull out, or either suicide or homicide should the remedy fail.
Lost
NOTRE DAME RING
Lost around Thanksgiving on campus — Black onyx, diamond center, engraving inside.
Reward
Contact: Edw. T. Cassin 709 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST J
Hours: Mon. 9-12	Fri. 1:30-5
Thurs. 9-12	Sat. 9-12
1:30-5
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
Fine Repairing •
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
$2.00 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS 214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
6
The Scholastic
Noite 2>tun* SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 January 14, 1949 No. 13
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH A. DOYLE
Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN________________News
VICTOR DORR_____________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER_______________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK_____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN______Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The otherwise beaverish young physics student procrastinating on this week’s cover is Larry Corr, a second-floor Breen-Phillips man. Larry exemplifies most of us in remembering “the things we did last summer” and various other things while the dread specter of exams comes peering over many an unready shoulder. It is already the eleventh hour. Man those books! Oil up that slip stick! Microfilm those cribs. Into the valley of collegiate death ride the 5000 . . .
—Photo by Harlan
Ui&
The Rebels Surrender
A most regrettable announcement came from Bill Slavick, president of the Rebels Club, this week. Most of the Rebels knew it, but now it’s official: there won’t be any Mardi Gras dance this year. The reasons— lack of interest among club members and the failure of the Student Council and the Department of Student Welfare to grant permission for the dance until it was too late to get a publicity campaign started. The Rebels will also not sponsor any guest lectures this year—like the Ellis Arnall talk last winter. Club-sponsored lectures haven’t been approved yet. (This is January.) Notre Dame is supposed to develop Catholic leadership. Its leaders have little chance to lead anything.
A Couple of Slurs
Two interesting and somewhat irritating slurs against this University have turned up within the last month or so. One was a letter to an Indianapolis newspaper protesting the officiating in ND’s recent basketball games with Indiana and Purdue. The writer, who called himself a Notre Dame alumnus, leveled the charge that Irish sports teams always hire their own referees.
The other was a remark in the Sporting News. Referring to a school in Florida which will teach nothing but baseball, the writer said it would be the “Notre Dame of baseball.”
The first slur is easily disposed of. As far as can be learned from the alumni office here, the peeved basketball fan is not an alumnus of Notre Dame. He is also not very bright if he seriously believes what he says. The Irish football team this year was penalized more times and for more yardage than, any other team in the history of the sport. The Nebraska game alone should prove the point; we lost 170 yards on penalties in that one. Everytime Leon Hart sneezed, the Irish were served with a 15-yard penalty for unnecessary roughness. Admittedly, the basketball players go at the thing in a rather brutal fashion, but the whistle-tooters never fail to pounce on their peccadillos.
The second insult is a little harder to talk about because its reasons go a little deeper. The comparison of a baseball school with Notre Dame (for which read “football school”) results from a deep-rooted and full-flowering idea still held by an awful lot of people. They think everybody at ND—all 5000 of us—plays football all the time. They believe Frank Leahy is president of the University and Emil Sitko vice-president. Classes, in the estimation of these people, are practically ignored. They’re held for fifteen minutes each day between practice sessions, and all the students show up in their football uniforms to learn about elementary rail-splitting. And for recreation, Notre Darners go around throwing fore-arm shivers at each other.
All this, in case you haven’t noticed the final exams coming up, is not strictly true. Notre Dame is still what it started out to be: a school of higher learning—oddly enough, a better one than many universities that have very poor football teams. The Sporting News writer—who probably wasn’t aware of his misconception—and everyone else who sees Notre Dame as a large factory devoted to the full-time production of national champions should get rid of the idea. It just ain’t so.
Jan. 14, 1949
7
It Troubles Trouble
This newly developed electronic tester looks for trouble . .. discovers trouble before it becomes serious. With it, every telephone line in a Central Office can be checked and tested at the rate of 5,000 per hour. Breaks and weaknesses in wire insulation can be spotted miles away and the trouble eliminated before it interferes with telephone service.
In the telephone business the search never ends for new equipment and new methods that will help make good service even better and keep it low in cost. That’s why America enjoys the finest telephone service in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic

SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 13 JANUARY 14,1949
Toledo Mayor Chosen To Address Graduates
Sen. McCarron Addresses Lawyers Tonight; Expected To Reveal Proposed Legislation
The Honorable Michael V. DiSalle, mayor of Toledo, 0., and originator of Toledo’s widely acclaimed Industrial Peace Committee, will deliver the commencement address at ND’s mid-year graduation exercises, it was revealed yesterday by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University. Approximately 450 undergraduate and graduate students are scheduled to receive diplomas at the Jan. 30 ceremonies.
At the Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9 a.m. in the University Drill Hall on Commencement Sunday, Jan. 30, the baccalaureate address will be delivered by the Most Rev. John K. Mussio, J.C.D., Bishop of Steubenville, Ohio.
Mayor DiSalle has served as chairman of the Labor-Management-Citizens Committee since he inaugurated the program for industry harmony in 1945. Since its inception, the group has obtained the peaceful settlement of numerous labor disputes.
Bishop Mussio, the Baccalaureate speaker, received a master’s degree from Notre Dame in 1925. After his ordination in 1935, he obtained a doctor of canon law degree from the Angelicum in Rome. After holding the offices of assistant chancellor, chancellor, papal chamberlain and defensor vinculi of the matrimonial court in Cincinnati, he was consecrated Bishop on May 1, 1945.
Graduates will assemble in the Main Building on the morning before commencement for the traditional procession to Sacred Heart Church, where they will attend 9 o’clock Mass.
Moreau Seminary choir will present a Sacred Concert at 8:00 p.m. Saturday evening in Washington Hall. Following the performance, the administration will hold a reception for the graduating seniors and their parents in the parlors of the Main Building.
Sunday’s program will begin with the Academic Procession from the Gymnasium to the Drill Hall for Commencement Mass. Degrees will be conferred at 2:00 p.m. in the Drill Hall. Admission to the Pontifical Mass and the afternoon commencement exercises will be by ticket only.—Joe Dukert
SENATOR McCARRAN
Outgoing Seniors and an Upcoming Law
Freshman Elections Name Hull President
After a prolonged delay the freshmen were finally given the go ahead sign for their election of class officers the week before the Christmas vacation started. The frisky frosh went to the polls a thousand strong with four parties and one independent listed on the ballot.
When the smoke had cleared the election stood as a decisive victory for Gene Hull of St. Edward’s, the sole independent. Gene and his campaign manager, Brian Duff, built his platform on the contention of its being highly improbable that the four best men could all run on the same ticket, deeming it wise for the constituents to vote for the individual rathei- than the party. They did.
As the best from the rest of the candidates the freshmen chose three men from Zahm. Elmer Layden, Jr., of the Forty-niners’ Party got the nod for the vice-presidency. From the Shamrock Party came Hughes Wilcox to occupy the treasurer’s slot. As their secretary, the class picked Jack Harrington of the Representative Party.
One of the leading statesmen in the United States Congress will address the Notre Dame Law Club, this evening in the annual Hoynes banquet. United States Senator Patrick A. McCarran of Nevada will be the principal speaker of the event which will honor graduating senior law students in the Indiana dub.
Senator McCarran will be introduced by Dean Clarence E. Manion of the law school, and the title of his address will be “Total Justice and Administrative Procedure.” The Senator is also expected to announce a legislative bill not yet presented to the Senate concerning administrative law.
Senator McCarran is a graduate of the University of Nevada and is a former chief justice of the Supreme Court of Nevada. He is beginning his fifth term in the Senate, and currently is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He is a member of the Nevada State Bar Association and the American Bar Association, of which he was vicepresident in 1922 and 1923.
Senator McCarran is also a contributor to the Notre Dame Lawyer. His most recent article was entitled “Insurance as Commerce — After Four Years.”
Charles J. Perrin, a freshman in the law school, will be toastmaster for the banquet. The program will also include talks by Dean Manion, Rev. Charles F. Sheedy, C.S.C., professor of legal ethics in the law school, Lancaster Smith, who will deliver the farewell address to graduating seniors, and George Bans-cillo, senior, who will make the graduates’ response. The co-chairmen of the banquet are Joseph Conerty and James Ferstel.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, and Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Student Welfare, are among the guests invited to attend the banquet. Others include Dean Emeritus and^Mrs. Thomas F. Konop, the members of the law faculty, Federal Judge Luther Swy-gert, Judges J. Fred Bingham, John S. Gonas, Leon Kowalski, J. Elmer Peak, and Dan Pyle, and the members of the St. Joseph County Bar Association..
Jan. 14. 1949
9
COUNCIL NEWS
O'Donnell Trophy
Rebels Drop Mordi Gras; Sophs Offered Date
It is the hope of the Student Council that this column of its weekly activities will help familiarize the Notre Dame student with the work of his council.
The Rebels, having found the interest of its members in a Mardi Gras dance nil, surrendered the date (February 25) and dance to the Council. The Council, in turn, proposed that the Sophomore Class officers be given the opportunity to ran the dance in order to make up what they lost on the cotillion.
A report on the Dollar-a-Student campaign, a benefit for Student Relief, was submitted by Chairman Dempsey. Dollars donated: $831.74 (the 74 cents offered, undoubtedly, by a student not quite inundated with the spirit of the thing).
Mr. John Moorhead, chairman of the Mardi Gras carnival (to be held the evenings of Feb. 28 and March 1), reported that all was well with the world. Thirty concessions will be on hand to match wits with (and wheedle dollars from) the merrymakers. Profits from two of the booths will go to the Married Vets’ Maternity Fund.
Councilman Peter Brown reported that movies of the 1948 football games and several basketball games would be shown next semester. Mr. Brown was considering the rumor that football modes had to be shown in local B & K theaters at least three times before a campus premiere.
That dragon of discussion, the NS A (translated it means National Student Association) was tossed around a bit, then buried beneath other business when it was learned the University would have no part of paying membership and delegate fees. It will come back for another round next meeting.
St. Mary’s College has been showering the council with considerable data on a proposed student purchase card system, which works like a charge-o-plate at the Frances Shop, Robertson’s, and various other places. To be successful, St. Mary’s says, Notre Dame must get in the thing from the start. From the action taken, St. Mary’s will probably be showering the council with data throughout the rainy season.
President James Cassidy announced, somewhat solemnly, that he was being forced a bit by several law professors and, as a consequence thereof, would like to vacate the presidency at the end of this semester. His resignation was
acknowledged. Vice-President Kevin P. Harrigan was elevated, constitutionally, to the chair.
Treasurer Jack Kennedy reported that the council wallet was well-heeled. During the week, $25 had been given to the campus bowling team for tackle for their intercollegiate tussles. Also, a check for $250 went into the Married Veterans’ Maternity Fund. The balance on hand: $998.51, and no debtors knocking at the door.
N.D. Scholarship Fund To Honor '95 Grad
A $5,000 scholarship, which will provide annual income for deserving students at Notre Dame, has been established in memory of the late Charles M. Niezer, of the class of ’95, by his family.
Mr. Niezer, a Ft. Wayne attorney, was a former vice-president of the American Bar Association and was prominent in Catholic charitable and fraternal organizations. He was a trustee at Indiana University at the time of his death in 1941. The scholarship fund is given through a trust established by Mr. Niezer, his two daughters and his son, Louis F. Niezer, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1929.
DuPont Fellowships for Chem Majors
Notre Dame chemistry students may compete for the 1949-50 post-graduate fellowship awarded to the University by the Du Pont Company of Wilmington, Del. The fellowship provides $1,200 for a single person or $1,800 for a married person, plus an award of $1,000 to the University. The competition here will be for one of 77 fellowships offered this year by the Du Pont Company.
Selection of candidates for the grant and the choice of problems on which the winner will be assigned to work has been left in the hands of the University. The individual selected will be under no obligation with respect to employment after he completes his work under the fellowship.
Howard Hughes Offers Awards
Advanced technical students at Notre Dame have been invited by the California Institute of Technology to apply for the new Howard Hughes Fellowships in Creative Aeronautics. Each award includes free tuition and research expenses at the Institute, an additional gift of
Above is a sketch of the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell trophy, emblematic of the national grid championship, which will be awarded to the University of Michigan by the Notre Dame National Monogram Club at ceremonies in the near future. This trophy is the fourth to be established in the history of the mythical football championship. Notre Dame retired the lack F. Rissman trophy after having won it in 1924, 1929 and 1930. The Knute K. Rockne trophy was put in circulation by the Irish and retired by Minnesota following wins in 1934, 1936 and 1940. Last year Notre Dame bounced back to capture the Dr. Henry L. Williams trophy, donated by the Minnesota "M" Club, for their national crowns in 1943, 1946 and 1947.
The trophy will be awarded annually by Notre Dame to the winner of the Associated Press national football championship poll until one school wins it three times. A triple win entitles the team to permanent possession of the trophy and implies an obligation to arrange for a new trophy for the grid championship.
i
$1,500 or more, depending upon the qualifications of the recipient, and a salary of not less than $2,000 for actual advanced development work at Hughes’ Culver City, Calif., aircraft plant.
Application blanks for the fellowships can be obtained by writing the Dean of Graduate Studies, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 4, Calif. Applications must be received before February 15 to merit consideration.
10
The Scholastic
WRANGLERS : PROBLEMS OVER COFFEE
If you want to shoot off your mouth every week and make sure somebody will be listening — brother, here’s the opportunity of a Notre Dame lifetime. There’s an organization on campus not only ■willing to listen but, twice a semester, they’ll give you a free feed in the process. And, if you join up with this outfit, you’ll be a member of the “most exclusive club on campus.” (The quotes are from the 1932 Dome).
We are here talking about the talking-est collection of students in this hamlet — the Wranglers. The Wranglers, an ancient, respected and little known forensic organization, is conducting a recruiting drive foi' new members at the moment. They are trying to fill some gaps that will be left in the ranks after the January graduation. They may very well be looking for you.
At this moment there are 17 Wranglers. They wrangle once a week commencing at 7:30 in the Law Building. They wrangle over such things as the present situation in Europe; the feasibility of turning the U.S. economy into a guild-system of enterprise; or over the state of education in the U.S. And they wrangle in style.
A Wrangler meeting is a serious affair. It is carried off with a high degree of solemnity and consciousness of purpose. It is intended to “develop the intellectual potentialities to the full” of each member. (The quotes are from the Wrangler constitution). Here’s how that noble project is carried off.
The meetings are begun, appropriately enough, by the president. He addresses the secretary who like all the members “cognizant of the dignity of the occasion” is “suitably attired.” (The quotes are again from the constitution). The secretary in turn reads the minutes of the last meeting. “Old Business” precedes “New Business” and then, the trivia having been swept out the door, the real business at hand is gotten down to. The President introduces the speaker of the night who is a member (in good standing) with a paper. These papers are, essentially, the real purpose of the Wranglers’ existence as they are constituted today.
It is to hear and discuss these papers that the members meet weekly. The papers are “thorough and usually positive and ‘contributing’.” They are prodigious and definitive in their exploration of the subjects. Members average weeks in preparation of them. They must be prepared to defend them in the open session which follows. They are original in idea but solidly backed up by author
Jan. 14, 1949
ity. They attempt to “remove intellectual apathy and arouse in others a zeal for truth; a truth unclouded by prejudice, passion and ignorance.”
When the speaker has finished “arousing” his contemporaries, the President gives the floor to other members for discussion. Once they have had their say, they are through for the evening. When they are all through for the evening, the man who presented the paper may have a few final words in his defense. The topic for next week is announced, the speaker files his paper with the secretary and wrangling goes out of season for another week.
The Wranglers have a rather short, but nevertheless honored history. They began in 1925 as an organization to encourage students in things forensic. At the time, to be a member of the Wranglers you had to be a member of a debate team at the University. The organization took upon itself, at the outset, the task of conducting an interhall debate tournament. The tournament finals were held on campus and a trophy was awarded to the winner. Expanding its activities the club undertook in successive years to run an Indiana Catholic High School Oratorical contest, the finals of which were held here. Somewhere in the shuffle of future expansions these ac
tivities were dropped and the club became the discussion group it now is.
If you would like to discuss with it, here’s the way to start the red tape unraveling in your direction. Write a letter stating name and campus address, class year, college and major or probable major and your scholastic average, and address it to Mr. Chairman, Wranglers Membership Committee, 203 Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame. You will be called before the membership committee which has in turn been called into being by the president, and having been “put at your ease,” (The quotes are from the constitution) you will be gently prodded as to your inclinations towards the various situations the world finds itself in and a few contemporary events. If the committee approves of this performance they will ask you to deliver a five-minute paper before a regular meeting. Here you are subject to a three-fourths majority vote for the final O.K. By the way, if you haven’t an 85 per cent average you might as well forget the latter, the speech and the whole thing.
Professor Frank O’Malley of English Department fame moderates the Wranglers at the moment; Ernie McCullough, who also plays a violin, is president and William Pfaff, secretary.
Walker Receives Laetare Medal
Frank C. Walker, ND alumnus and former postmaster general, receives the 1948 Laetare medal from Cardinal Spellman in New .York City ceremonies. Cardinal Spellman, representing the hierarchy of the United States, awards 66th Notre Dame Laetare Medal to Mr. Walker. His Excellency John F. O'Hara, Bishop of Buffalo and former president of Notre Dame, looks on.
Bridge Players Seek Free Trip to Chicago
A free trip to Chicago and a stay at the Drake Hotel with all expenses paid! That’s the goal for all local bridge players who want to enter the 1949 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament.
Notre Dame has been entered in the Great Lakes Zone along with Northwestern, Illinois, Wisconsin, Purdue and 15 other schools. The early phases of the tourney will be conducted by mail, with all players playing prepared hands under the “Duplicate” system of scoring. Under this system, you get a chance to play not according to the luck of the deal, but with certain hands that -bridge experts have chosen.
To familiarize the students with the ’ mechanics of this system and to further explain the tourney, practice sessions are being held each Wednesday evening at the K. of C. clubrooms. Entry blanks may be obtained there or at the,Student Council office in the Main Building.
Official play will not begin,until 'next semester, but the better bridge players are getting warmed up now. Eight men will he' chosen to represent Notre Dame and the first mail eliminations will be -held on February 23.
ND Students to Tackle TV Problem Over WHOT
Where will television be in 1955? How much will good, modern sets cost in the near future? How. big a part will'TV play in everyday life in the future.. ’
Four students of the ND “Radio in Education” class will pose answers to those and other similar questions in a specially prepared panel discussion over WHOT at 2:30 Sunday afternoon. The broadcast is being arranged by Mr. Orville R. Foster, Director of the Department of Audio-Visual Aids, as a climax to the semester’s work in classroom radio.
Those participating in the program, to be based on a consideration of the various phases of television, present and future, include John W. Guddie, Francis Harty, James E. Murphy and Dennis J. Starck. The Rev. Maurice L. Sullivan will act as moderator.
REQUIESCANT IN PACE
The SCHOLASTIC extends its sympathies to the parents and friends of Bob Skoglund, *46, John Leo Cawley, '48, and Todd Schaffner, *52, .who died over the holiday vacation.
Second March Gras Set To Precede Lent
By VIC DORR
As the 1948-49 Student Relief Campaign rolled into the second month of its current charity drive last week, definite plans were being hatched for this year’s gala Mardi Gras Carnival, scheduled for the Navy Drill Hall Feb. 28 through March 1. At the helm of the intensive carnival planning program is John Moorhead, arts and letters senior from Atlantic City, N. J., who was recently appointed by Jack Dempsey, campus chairman for this national relief campaign.
Mardi Gras Follows '48 Plans
According to Moorhead, plans for 1949’s big Mardi Gras will proceed much in the same fashion as last year’s highly successful carnival. As in the past, the geographical campus clubs of Notre Dame will sponsor booths for games of chance, and will offer prizes to the winners. Inflated play money (to be purchased at the door at the rate of ten phoney bills for a buck, or 10c each) will be the only legal tender acceptable in the Drill Hall booths. Prizes for the booths are usually furnished by South Bend merchants. Bob Cannon has the tedious job of soliciting them.-
The carnival, providing much fun, will reach its crescendo Thursday night, March 1, when some fortune-blessed student will walk away the proud possessor of a sleek 1948 Plymouth convertible, and some other lucky person finds himself the new owner of a 1948 Chrysler New Yorker sedan.
Deadline Set for Donation Returns
Feb. 28 has been set as the deadline for the return of donation books by .Ed Donohue, awards chairman. A collection booth to facilitate these transactions will be set up in the basement of the Dining Hall after the mid-semester vacation, Donohue said. Already many of the books, which were distributed campuswide prior to the Christmas holidays, have been sold and returned, and still more extras have been issued to eager students. Even if a student does not win the convertible, there is still an added incentive to peddle the donation books, for ten monogrammed Notre Dame blankets will be awarded to the students having sold the highest number of books.
Donohue was quick to emphasize that January graduates and post-grad students are equally as eligible to win the auto as any other students. The fact that they might not be on hand for the drawing has no effect on their being the lucky winner.
12
The-Scholastic
YOU WILL I LI XK!
A Timely Warning on an Unfortunate Subject
The following is intended for the enlightenment of the Freshman Class. It is an effort to acquaint the freshmen with an old and peculiar Notre Dame tradition known as the final exam.
Scholastic learned this week that, despite a flood of petitions by the Student Council, come storm, fire, or another war there will be exams this semester. They will commence next Thursday and end a week later.
An exam at Notre Dame is a unique thing. There are two kinds — departmentals and college type. The latter, though less publicized, are more frequent. Pay close attention and we’ll tell you all about them.
Like all social movements these exams are subject to current trends and fashions. It is the rage among the ND professorship this year, we believe, to favor the essay type quiz. The essay type is subversive. We feel it only fair to warn you of this. It is a sneaky, insidious way of exposing your profound ignor
ance, and it is fiendishly efficient. In your innocence you are asked to write “all you know” about some selected topic of the day, like the “Mennonites in Manitoba.” You may not be an intimate of the Mennonites. You may never have heard of Manitoba. Few have. You
will flunk. That is the brutal, frank truth.
If you have been lucky enough to have been thrown a fish of your acquaintance to dissect, you have a task ahead of you. You are about to write your first manuscript. It will be bound in a blue book and will consist of more pages than “Remembrance Rock.” It will tell everything in the text book and more. If you miss anything — you will flunk.
The spirit of cooperation among students which is fostered so judiciously during the regular school year is strictly forbidden during exam week. Exams are a private affair between you and
Political Science 31. An eagle-eyed instructor is there to see that things are thus. Any attempt to unite your efforts with those of a contemporary will result in disaster — you will flunk.
Having already flunked three exams before they even begin you may become discouraged. Do not. Have faith. Maybe your next test is from one of the Commerce profs. The latter have developed a system of evaluating their students called the True and False or Multiple Choice test. In the True and False you have a 50-50 chance. You have a choice between the absurdly false and the outlandishly true. You cannot miss.
On the Multiple Choice the odds are . stacked against the contender. But don’t let that worry you. The choices are of such a nature that a relationship between them and the control statement can easily be established by any well-trained corrector.	,
As for departmentals.	.
They are being investigated by the j House un-American Activities Commit-' ; tee and may soon be on Tom Clark’s list, j Until that time — you will flunk. j
.	I
So much for exams. The best advice i Scholastic editors can give you is to • study hard, get plenty of sleep, be hon- I est. And you,will flunk.—Greg Halpm I
■	.13I
■ 1
t
Jan. 14, 1949
Beauty and the Books
By A. J. Scriba
In most schools the big effort is to make students use the libraries. At Notre Dame the men don’t need any help. Ever since the present contingent of energetic young women arrived to take over the departmental libraries there has been no lack of spontaneous book interest.
At present there are five young women in charge of five special libraries on campus.
xhe Bonnicelli twins run the science and architecture libraries, Ida, architecture; Irma, science; Mildred Segan has charge of the biology building library, including biology, geology, the Nieuwland and the Green collections. Mary Jo Strobel guards the engineers’ log tables and papyrus. Janet Vernon
BONNICELLI NO. 1
Irma in the Science Library
MISS SEGAN — Main Library
is in charge of the chemistry library annex, (that odd looking brickpile stuck on the north side of the building.)
Each of the girls has from two to four student assistants who work in shifts at routine jobs. All five libraries are open evenings, with students in charge.
In general, the girls have a free hand but also considerable responsibility. Besides taking a complete inventory once a year, they catalogue new material, send old books to the bindery, keep the card files in order, keep their assistants busy, and keep things quiet. They all watch publishers’ booklists for new additions in their fields. On recommendations from professors they do all the buying and keep up a good part of the research correspondence.
Orderly Desks and Potted Flowers
Their work desks are probably the most well ordered at Notre Dame — and each has one small but ambitious potted plant sprouting tidily in the corner.
Starting from the north end of the campus and working south, Mildred Segan is doing a fine job in the biology building. Mildred comes from Toledo, Ohio, went to Mary Manse college in Toledo, and finished at Rosary in River Forest. She has two degrees, an A.B. and a B.S. in library science. “The Bookworm,” Mildred’s contribution to minor journalism, is greatly appreciated by the biology and geology boys who like to keep track of new books in their subjects.
If you can qualify for a graduate biology seminar you may qualify for a cup of her* afternoon tea — so long as you don’t annoy her bowlful of hybrid guppies with your cigarette ashes. On duty Mildred wears the medics’ white smock, the Irish smile—and she was born with red hair.
Irma Bonnicelli doesn’t claim to know too much about nuclear fission. But if you’ll drop by the science library, she’ll be glad to get you a book on it. . . more
14
The Scholastic
books on it than anyone this side of Oppenheimer is likely to read, as a matter- of fact.
High Ceilings and Atomic Energy
Irma came to Notre Dame with sister Ida in 1946. Both graduated from Saini Catherine’s college in St. Paul, Minnesota with A.B. degrees in library science. Irma says she’s rather allergic to the high ceilings and dusty antiquity of the old science hall, and envies sister Ida in the new architects’ annex. Still, she “likes the science department.” Quote, “Why don’t the Scholastic write a good feature article on the Atomic Energy project here? etc., etc.” And the scientists don’t mind having Irma around either.
Ida Bonnicelli started the architect’s library with a mound of badly mauled volumes piled in a corner. Today between Ida’s enthusiasm and the new, modernistic annex to the architecture building, the architects have the library siuation neatly made. Ida likes her job “very much,” is currently very busy with a general re-cataloguing, and can be found almost anytime within reaching distance of sister Irma.
Ida is convinced that Frank Lloyd Wright and the moderns are here to stay and that the Goths will have to go. She likes architects and architecture. Judging from the nine people who dropped by during a short interview the architects seem to like Ida.
BONNICELLI NO. 2
Ida in the Architecture Library
working fellows I ever saw,” she says, “I enjoy helping them. I’m not too much up on engineering but I’m learning. When I first started a year ago last November I thought steam tables had something to do with restaurants.”
Mary Jo reads a lot and told at least one A.B. student a lot of things about Tolstoy that he didn’t know. Like the rest, Mary Jo has a number of willing and ambitious assistants.
In all, library assignments are getting more popular at Notre Dame.
Middies Ball Breathes Air of Summer Cruise
Resplendent in dress blues and formal bow ties, the campus NROTC unit will shove-off tomorrow night for their annual dance. Hawaii, the scene of last summer’s cruise, has been chosen for the theme and the decorations committee has promised everything to remind the middies of their fond memories save authentic hula misses and an erupting volcano.
The sailors are calling their soiree “A Night at Trader Vic’s” and it will be held in the Drill Hall with doors expected to swing open at 9 p.m. Gene Hull and his orchestra will provide the palm-scented rhythms.
Queens of the affair will be two 19 year old Saint Mary’s sophomores from Chicago. Genevieve Joyce and Helen. Kuhn will share their monarchial duties with the co-chairmen of the dance, Lou Lorou and Ed Meagher, respectively. The guests of honor will be Captain. Anthony L. Danis and Lt. Colonel Leonard W. Palmer, the heads of the campus Navy and Air Force ROTC units.
Jim Curran and a crew of over 49 helpers have been working since Tuesday to turn the Drill Hall into a replica of Trader Vic’s famed Hawaiian night spot. Crepe paper streamer walls and a fake roof have cut down the spacious barn to a reasonable size.
Charley Mouch, transportation chairman, has arranged for busses to run. from Saint Mary’s to the Drill Hall.
With Odors and 'New Yorkers'
Janet Vernon has made a very small space hold a very large number of books in the chemistry library. Janet is so busy right now trying to keep everything old straight, and everything new together, that she hardly has time to keep her potted plant watered. “The chemistry department isn’t bad once you get used to the way it smells,” was her one comment as she dashed away down the corridor waving a swirl of papers. That Janet is a wonderful influence on the chemistry department is proved by the stack of New Yorkers she keeps on the study table.
Way down south on campus Mary Jo Strobel in engineering has a. real setup with fireplace, panelled walls and all. The fact that the fireplace is only decorative and that the panelled walls crowu the books doesn’t bother Mary Jo too much. She likes her big picture window over the quadrangle and has a scheme afoot to get more bookshelf space.
Mary Jo likes her engineering job and admires engineers. “They’re the hardest
ACTIVITY BEHIND THE STACKS —Main Library
Jem. 14, 1949
15
Donovan Takes Helm As Publicity Director
Raymond J. Donovan, assistant director of public information at Notre Dame for five years, was named to succeed John V. Hinkel as director, following Kinkel’s resignation last month. Donovan assumed his new duties on January 1.
Charles M. Callahan, Kinkel’s other assistant, has been placed in complete charge of all sports information at the University. Dale Francis, chief feature writer, and other members of the Public Information staff will continue in their present positions.
Mr. Donovan, a native of Hammond, Ind., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1942. Except for 1945, when he served as an editor of the Pharos-Tribune at Logansport, Ind., he has held the post of assistant director since 1942. He is a member of the American College Public Relations Association and of the Knights of Columbus, and is active in Boy Scout leadership work.
A 1938 graduate of Notre Dame, Mr. Callahan is a native of Lexington, Massachusetts. He was director of publicity for the Academy of Sports at the New
RAY DONOVAN
New Publicity Chief
York World’s Fair in 1940, and also is a former director of publicity for the New York Yankees of the old American Football Professional League. He has been an assistant director of Public Information at Notre Dame since February, 1945. He belongs to the American College Public Relations Association, the Football Writers Association of America, and the Knights of Columbus.
16
GRADUATE RECORD EXAMS
After next Thursday at noon, no more applications for the graduate record examinations will be accepted, it was announced this week by Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, chief examiner for the exams. All applicants must register with Dr. Kuntz in Room 125 of the Social Science Building.
Audio-Visual Slates New Film Program
Last Monday, the Department of Audio-Visual Aids inaugurated the first in a series of daily film showings for the student body and faculty of the University. These films are the first of a series of educational services to be offered by this department, under the direction of Orville R. Foster.
The program is designed to provide an enriching background for the students and is correlated closely to the various subjects being taught at the University. The subject matter is carefully chosen and varied to provide interest for all who attend. All performances will be held in the Audio-Visual Center- (Room 219 Main Building) .
The initial showing last Monday featured Rehearsal, the story of radio network broadcasts with soloists Ezio Pinza and Blanche Thebom. Also on the program was The Telephone Hour, the filming of a great musical program of radio featuring Josef Hofmann, pianist. Tuesday’s program was the same as Monday’s. On Wednesday, three films Nature of Color; Form and Color Matching in Nature; and Curves of Color were shown. This trio illustrated the principles of color reflection, showed Nature’s method of protection through color and camouflage, and explained the photo-electric spectrophotometer. Thursday afternoon this same program was viewed again. This afternoon’s presentation will be Electrons On Parade, the story of vacuum tubes and Unseen Worlds, an interesting explanation of the electron microscope.
The following is the schedule of next week’s programs: Monday, Jan 17: Paris, City of Art, color interiors of the Louvre, etc., Brittany, color portraits of ancient cities; Journey to Provence, French dialogue in this film. Tuesday, Jan. 18: same as Monday. Wednesday, Jan. 19: Deep Horizons, the story of oil in beautiful color. Thursday, Jan. 20: same as Wednesday. Friday, Jan. 21: Working for Fun, the manufacturing of athletic equipment.
Sportswriter Wallace Headlines Grid Fete
Francis Wallace, noted sportswriter of the Saturday Evening Post and other-periodicals, will be the main speaker at the Annual Football Testimonial Banquet which will be held in the Dining Hall next Thursday night Jan. 20. The affair is under the auspices of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph’s Valley.
Jerome Crowley, president of the club, will deliver the opening remarks. After the invocation, dinner will be served with music supplied by the Notre Dame Concert Band. Mr. Crowley will introduce toastmaster of the evening, John J. Lavelle, director of the CYO, New York City, and long time supporter of the Irish.
Alumni and Friends of ND Donate $350,000 in 1948
Gifts totalling more than $350,000 were contributed to Notre Dame during 1948 by alumni and non-alumni friends, according to a tabulation released by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., assistant to the president of the University.
Alumni contributed nearly $275,000 of this amount, an increase of about $32,000 over the 1947 total, while the numbei- of non-alumni contributors more than doubled all previous marks. The average alumni gift during ’48 was $40.33, showing an increase of $8.78 per alumnus over the previous year.
According to officials of the ND Foundation Program, the record donation during 1948 will play a large part in offsetting previous handicaps to new building plans due to Notre Dame’s comparatively low endowment of less than four million dollars.
One unusually large bequest was indicated last year, and several other persons indicated that the University will benefit substantially from their estates. The Natural Law Institute, held here in December, was financed by Alvin Gould, prominent Cincinnati businessman. A Chicago business leader has also agreed to equip one of the laboratories in the new Science Building.
This new Science Building, to cost $1,750,000, is the 1949 objective of the Foundation and its 60 Governors, 225 City Chairmen and more than 1000 Committeemen of alumni and friends throughout the country. According to the list of annual University operating costs, the Foundation officers point out that the new building cannot come from the present income of the University but must come from donations.
The Scholastic-
SCHOLASTIC SHORTT
Butler Five Invades Fieldhouse Tuesday
NEWARK'S MAN OF THE YEAR —Frank Tripucka, battered but affable Irish quarterback, is visited in the Infirmary by teammates and Coach Johnny Druze (third from left) upon his return from Los Angeles shortly before the Christmas vacation. The cast has been removed, but Frank is still heavily taped. The Newark, N. J., Junior Chamber of Commerce recently named Tripucka the - outstanding young man of the year from the Newark area.—Photo by Kunkle.
Probable Irish Grid Schedule Named for '49
While official silence envelops the 1949 Irish football schedule as far as the Notre Dame athletic office is concerned, the grid picture for next fall is slowly being fitted together like a jig-saw puzzle from whispers and rumors originating far off campus. Several Notre Dame opponents have already released their schedules which show the date and place they will meet the Irish. In many a sports editor’s fertile mind many another rumor and prediction is filling in the blank spaces in the schedule.
The Middies are still having trouble with the city officials of Baltimore. The question about the renovation of the Babe Ruth Stadium still hasn’t been settled by the city fathers and Academy officials are reluctant to inflict the pres
Jan. 14, 1949
ent inconveniences on their fans again. Another big blank spot in the schedule is the naming of the tenth opponent. The Irish will definitely play a ten-game schedule and the strongest contender for the honor is North Carolina — but site trouble is also hampering the final arrangements on this one.
Based on these sources the following tentative schedule has been published by Bill Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis News:
Sept. 24—Indiana here Oct. 1—At Washington Oct. 8—At Purdue Oct. 15—Tulane here Oct. 22—Open
Oct. 29—Navy (site undecided) Nov. 5—At Michigan State Nov. 19—Iowa here
Nov. 26—Southern California here Dec. 3—At Southern Methodist
Irish Cagers Block Bulldog Title Claim
By RALPH WRIGHT
Currently one of the hottest teams in the midwest, Tony Hinkle’s Butler Bulldogs will be out to gain top ranking in Hoosier college basketball when they visit the Notre Dame Fieldhouse Tuesday evening.
Already victorious over Indiana State, Purdue and Indiana, Butler needs a win over the Irish to make it a clean sweep of Indiana’s leading cagers. The Bulldogs won their grudge battle from State’s Sycamores, 52-49, then humbled Purdue, 47-43, and handed Indiana its first loss, 64-55. However, all of these games were at the familiar Butler Fieldhouse where the Bulldogs are much more difficult to handle. Last year Notre Dame just managed to squeeze by with a two-point win in Indianapolis, but really took Butler apart up here. That score was 71-47.
Seven Straight Victories
Coach Hinkle’s sharpshooters opened this campaign on the road, losing tough games to Illinois and Ohio State—two of the best anywhere. Since then, they ' have rolled over, in succession, Indiana. State, Wabash, Long Island (in the Garden), Indiana, Purdue, Indiana Central and DePauw—seven straight.
With the exception of “Big Jawn” Barrowcliff, a 6’6” senior center, the Bulldogs have a comparatively small team. But they have lots of speed and fight.
Deadliest Butler sharpshooter is Ralph “Buckshot” O’Brien, the midget forward who will have far surpassed the school’s all-time, three-year scoring record by the end of the season. Although only a junior, Buckshot is starting for the third straight year; he tallied 251 points last season.
Second to O’Brien as a scorer and second to none as an all-around ballplayer is slender Jimmy Doyle, the other starting guard. The fast and clever junior was selected by Indianapolis sportswriters as Butler’s best man in 1947-48. Notre Dame and powerful Cincinnati picked him on their all-oppo
17
nent teams. And, in the recent Hoosier classic, Doyle once again made the allstar selections easily.
Same Lineup for Irish
Barrowcliff, Bob Evans, Bill Shepherd and Captain Charlie Maas round out the
BRENNAN AND BARNHORST Two B's of Irish Basketball
group of “six regulars.” Barrowcliff’s main forte is rebounding. Maas, holder of the school’s one-season scoring mark— 259 points—plays fine defensive ball too. Evans and Shepherd, both seniors, are hard driving forwards who garner more than their share of points. Chief subs are Dee Baker and little Marvin Wood.
Notre Dame, now ranked high by the sports scribes, still hasn’t approached the finesse shown by practically the same group the last two years. Kevin O’Shea and lately John Brennan have been the only consistent scorers. Kevin has 124 points for a 13.8 average with a low of nine points. Brennan has averaged 12.1 on 109 markers. Coach Ed Krause has kept the same starting lineup with John Foley and Dick Kluck the only reserves seeing much action.
INDIVIDUAL SCORING (DePaul Game Not Included)
O'Shea 		FG 	48	FT 28	T 124
Brennan			37	36	109
Barnhorst 			37	13	87
Gordon 			 25	21	71
O'Halloran			19	18	56
Foley 			15	8	36
Kluck	..	....	.. 10	3	23
Kaufman 			2	2	6
Loftus			 2	0	4
Fichtel 			 2	0	4
Giedlin	...	.. 1	0	2
O'Connor			 1	0	2
		— —	-
Totals 			396	128	524
Distance Runners Called Strength of Squad As Gruelling Season Faces Irish Thinlies
Again this year, the Notre Dame track team will rely on balance and depth in the distances and middle-distances to carry them through a rigorous indoor schedule and a gruelling outdoor season.
Leading the list of performers for the fourth year is Captain Bill Leonard, crack miler and rugged middle-distance runner. Bill, who was elected to head the squad at a meeting last spring, will again figure as the strongest Irish runner in the mile and 880-yard run. He will be backed in the half-mile by threetime monogram winner Ray Sobota and veteran Pat Kenny. Sobota is one of the ablest middle-distance runners on the squad, and mentor Handy plans to use him to advantage on many relay combinations. Last year was the first time Kenny ran the 880 and he performed brilliantly with a time of 1:54.7 against Michigan State. The half-mile group is rounded out by Vai Muscato who is running his first year of collegiate competition. Vai is outstanding in the 600-yard run and was invited to the Cleveland K. of C. games last year.
Monogram Men Back
Three able monogram winners support Leonard in the mile field. Lou Tracy, Jim Kittell and John Lyons are all credited with pei-formances under 4:25. Irish strength is also bulwarked by two strong sophomore runners who were regular members of the cross country team; Tony DaDamio and Lou Lepry. Tom McGuire and Gerry Johnson are strong contenders for the mile group.
Star distance runner Jim Murphy again heads the list of two-milers. The Rhode Island redhead is beginning his last season at Notre Dame, where for four years he has successfully carried the weight in the long distance runs. Jim has paced the harrier squad in its two greatest seasons, and consistently blazed the two-mile run in 9:40 or better. California Jim Kelly, noted for his terrific lasting power, is also running the two-mile. Lou Tracy, the iron man who constantly runs both the mile and longer distances, and Jim Kittell, who almost represented the U.S. in the 3000-meter Olympic steeplechase last summer, round out the well-packed distance group.
Five quarter-milers capable of running under 50 seconds give Coach Handy one of his potentially strong mile relay quartets. Sobota, Kenny, Steve Provost, Paul Schwetschenau, and Bob Smith should make the 440 an Irish strong
point. Last year’s captain Ernie McCullough will be missing by reason of January graduation.
Fleming Tops Timber Toppers
Last season’s top scorer, Bill Fleming, will head the Irish timber toppers, and also serve as the main high jumper- for the track team. Also in the hurdles, Bob McDavid again gives the Irish strength in these events, and two sophomores John Worthington and Tom Devine are expected to make this field top flight.
From the sprinters and middle-distance men Coach Handy plans to fashion some top sprint-medley relay teams. These teams are especially important during the indoor season when the squad competes in numerous invitational relays featuring these events.
Tentatively the first Irish cinder spectacle will be the Michigan State Relays at East Lansing, Mich., on February 5. —Jim Hoivard
BILL LEONARD
Irish Harrier Cops Fourth In Sugar Bowl Track Meet
Fourth place in the 120-yard high hurdles at the Sugar Bowl Invitational track meet went to Bill Fleming, University of Notre Dame ace hurdler and high jumper. The meet held in the City Park Stadium in New Orleans before 2000 persons unofficially opened the current track season.
First place was won by Jim Gehrdes of Penn State who turned in a time of :14.9 for the race run into a 15-mile-per-hour headwind. Last year in a dual meet here, Gehrdes won three events, and is credited with being the major cause for the Irish loss to the Nittany Lions.
Although he did not win a trophy, Fleming was presented with a miniature pair of track shoes attached to a small sugar bowl.
18
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
Expensive Wallpaper
We hate to start the new year on a discouraging note, but we think Curly Lambeau has bought several thousand dollars worth of press clippings and very little else. While they may look good in the locker room of the Green Bay Packers they won’t be much help on the gridiron. If Stan Heath’s performance in the Harbor Bowl game in San Diego, California, on New Year’s Day is any fair indication of the brand of ball he is capable of, Mr. Lambeau has our heartfelt sympathies.
Nevada’s inept playing against Villanova in the Harbor Bowl and against Santa Clara during the regular season earns the Wolf Pack the title as the most over-rated team in the country. And Heath completes the picture as the most over-rated player. In the only two stiff tests of the season, both failed to come through.
Maybe Stan had a bad day against Villanova when we saw him play. Even on a bad day, however, he should have shown some signs of field generalship. His passing was inaccurate. In fact he and the Nevada second string quarterback had a better completion average to the Villanova backs than they did to their own teammates. His ball handling on running plays lacked poise and deception. Of course the spectators didn’t see too much of Heath that day as he threw a block at a 235-pound Villanova lineman, came out second best and did not play in the second half.
On the other hand the Villanova squad looked tough and capable. Their hard-charging forwards ripped the Nevada line to shreds and kept Heath and the Wolf backs busy picking themselves up off the ground. The Villanova secondary had a close pass defense — verging on interference at times — that successfully blocked the Nevada trump card.
Sorry, Curly, but we still think you’ve bought a press agent’s All-American and one who will give you little help next season.
Musings at Halftime
Jim Howard, our track enthusiast, is back again, this time predicting an undefeated indoor season for the Irish harriers. He also saw Kentucky and St. Louis in their recent cage clash, but only
shakes his head sadly when asked about Notre Dame’s chances against the champs. ... If the rumor that a Long Beach, California, high school grid star has changed his mind about coming to Notre Dame proves to be true it will come as no surprise to this department. The fraternities at the University of Southern California have been entertaining the youngster quite handsomely, complete with limousine service to the frat parties. And we understand that Tommy Trojan can really throw a party when he puts his mind to it. Oh, well, the boys at Santa Clara were surprised when O’Shea moved to South Bend, so we are still ahead of the game. . . . Memo to Coach Krause and his boys: When did the body block and flying tackle come into basketball? We understand that the Indianapolis fans didn’t appreciate the innovation even a bit. Take it easy, boys, it’s only a game. . . . The wolves were howling down Akron way recently, but Jim Schlemmer, sports editor of the Akron Beacon-Journal, successfully polished off those who were throwing bricks at the Irish. The controversy centered about the use of the nickname “Fighting Irish” by Notre Dame. Jim used the Scholastic football issue editorial as part of his ammunition against the critics.
Tourney Trumpet
This may be dividing the profits from poultry sales before the eggs are laid, but we would like to recommend that the athletic board relax its ban on postseason games for the basketball squad. The football team can capture national honors during the course of the regular season. The tennis, track, golf and fencing teams have the opportunity to win national titles. But only in the post-season tournaments are any cage crowns awarded. It looks as though St. Louis and Kentucky have all honors sewed up this year, but we think the Irish five deserves a chance to try to unseat the kings.
Prediction of the Week
To the wall with all bowl games! Four predictions and four wrong — how perfect can you get? And there are still the Bengal Bouts and the Old Timers’ Game to go!
Irish Gridders Cop Nationwide Award and Headline Honors
Navy came up with many a surprise this season, but the biggest one as far as Irish fans are concerned was their choice of Bill Walsh on their All-Opponent team. Walsh beat out Chuck Bednarik, everybody’s All-American center, for the spot on the Middie eleven, adding more fuel to the campus opinion that Walsh was one of the most underrated men on this year’s squad. The Middies also picked Leon Hart, Marty Wendell and Emil Sitko.
In San Francisco a pair of Irish gridders sparked the East squad in its 14-12 win over the West in the annual Shrine charity game. Bill Fischer was singled out for his brilliant line play. It was “Pep” Panelli Day, however, as far as the top honors were concerned. He was awarded the Kaufmann Trophy as the most valuable player in the game. Johnny Lu jack won the trophy last year.
But Bill Fischer didn’t come out empty-handed. A few days earlier the Football Writers Association of Amer-
JOHN PANELU
ica voted him the Dr. John H. Outland trophy, awarded annually to the outstanding college guard or tackle. This is the second time that the captain of an Irish eleven has won this honor. George Connor, 1948 captain, received the award in 1946, the first year the trophy was presented. Fischer added another trinket to his collection just the other day when the Touchdown Club named him Lineman of the Year and presented him with the Knute Rockne Memorial trophy.
Football’s civil war, the North-South game in Miami, saw a trio of Notre Dame players reinforce a flashy, but outclassed, North eleven. Bill Walsh, Terry Brennan and Jack Fallon showed up well even though the Southerners romped off with victory.
Jan. 14, 1949
19
Irish Cagers Complete Successful Road Trip; Indiana and Weatherman Prove Obstacles
By RALPH WRIGHT
Their travel weariness compensated for by additional basketball prestige, Notre Dame’s cagers finally returned from the far west last Sunday after vacation games in Chicago, Indianapolis, Dallas and San Francisco. Completely baffled only by the weather man, Coach Ed Krause’s boys won four of the five holiday contests to make the season mark stand at seven wins and two losses.
The day after school let out, the Irish paid their second visit to Chicago Stadium and came home with the bacon again. This time they put the finishing touch to Navy’s winless midwestern tour by defeating the Midshipmen, 70-62. It was another big day, his biggest of the season, for Kevin O’Shea. He hit seven times from the field and totalled 21 points for the. evening. Notre Dame led at halftime, 33-29, but Navy never allowed the lead to grow too large. For* a change, Notre Dame won a ball game at the free throw line; the Irish had 18 of 23 whereas Navy had a miserable 14 in 31 tries. Captain John Barrow wheeled in 19 markers for the lost cause.
Scribes Pick O'Shea
On December 27 and 28, Notre Dame participated in the annual Hoosier- Classic at Butler Fieldhouse, winning over Purdue, 51-50, and then falling before Indiana, 50-47. Butler outlasted both of these teams to grab most of the glory. Notre Dame placed only one man on the All-Hoosier Classic squad chosen by
GAELS OUTGALLOPED Hometowner O’Shea Shines
Indianapolis sportswriters. O’Shea was the man, per usual.
Free Throw Is Decisive
Purdue had Notre Dame, 28-26, at halftime, but Leo Barnhorst made good before the hometown people when his free throw with ten seconds remaining gave the Irish the victory. The Boilermakers looked like they meant to preserve their unbeaten string when they hopped to a 41-33 lead. There were only nine minutes left then, but John Foley and Barnhorst started to hit and the rally tied everything up, setting the stage for the crucial free toss. Barney paced the scorers too; he had 14, O’Shea had 11 and Andy Butchke tallied 11 for Purdue.
Although they had a comfortable margin early in the game, the Irish weakened against Indiana and the five-game win streak was ended. Notre Dame was ahead at the half, 24-21; after that, the Hoosiers showed tco much speed and the Krausemen were too inaccurate at foul shooting. O’Shea scored 14 and Captain Paul Gordon made 10; Bill Garrett and Tom Schwartz of Indiana bagged 11 points apiece.
Texans gave the Irishmen a fine welcome in their first visit to the Lone Star-state on December 30. Coach Krause got a 10-gallon hat, everyone received greetings from the Dallas Club of Notre Dame and the team was rewarded with a not-too-difficult triumph over Southern Methodist. Leading only 26-21 halfway, Notre Dame romped in the final 15 minutes and Krause emptied the bench in a 58-45 decision. John Brennan’s 12 points were high for Notre Dame, Gordon and O’Shea both having 15. Monstrous Johnny Zatopek with 17 and sophomore Jack Brown with 12 topped the losers. The game dedicated the new hardwood at Fall Park Recreation Building in Dallas, and 5,500 fans—a record for the area—watched the affair.
St. Mary's Proves Easy
After watching John Panelli star in the East-West football contest, the ND basketbailers toppled St. Mary’s of California, 70-66, on January 3 before 10,-992 people in San Francisco’s Cow Palace. The large crowd came to see the duel between Kevin O’Shea and Frankie Kudelka, both Frisco boys, but John Brennan crowded his way into the limelight by scoring 22 points. The big center from Bedford, Ind., looped in nine fielders and four charity tosses, making 15 of his counters in the first half. De
spite the fact that Notre Dame was in front most of the way, the margin was never more than eight points and the score was 38-29 at half time. O’Shea managed to score nine points for his spectator friends; Kudelka, the Galloping Gael All-America, hit for 17 though constantly hounded by Gordon.
En route back to South Bend, the local team ran into a real obstacle—the weather. After being marooned in Ogden, Utah, for several days, they finally made it back to campus Sunday —just in time to get ready for DePaul. All twelve men who made the trip saw action. They were: Barnhorst, John Brennan, Neal Fichtel, John Foley, Dick Giedlin, Paul Gordon, Frank Kauffman, Dick Kluck, Jack Loftus, Jim O‘Hallo-ran, Marty O’Connor and Kevin O’Shea.
QUAKERS QUIETED Leo and Kev Team Up
Veterans Bolster Swordsters* Ranks in Season's Opener
Tomorrow afternoon at 2 the fencers of Coach Herb Melton hope to open the 1949 season just the way they closed the 1948 campaign — with a victory over Illinois Institute of Technology. The final match of last season saw Notre Dame run up its highest score in fencing history to smash the Tech-Hawks, 26-1.
Melton has 11 monogram winners from the 1948 team, including Mike DiCicco, Lou Burns and Bob Bosler, three dependable veterans. Both Burns and DiCicco won monograms in 1947 also. The monogram men are pretty well divided — four each in sabre and epee and three in the foils.
Last season’s team won nine and lost one for one of the most successful records in the sport’s history here at Notre Dame.
20
The Scholastic
Traditions Fall Jan. 28 With 'June in January'
Two weeks remain before the January grads will topple tradition by staging their own Senior Ball, in their own East Dining Hall, to the notes of their own campus orchestra.
Dance Chairman John Fogarty offers proof that staying at home is sensible by lopping one-third from the usual price of bids. $3.60 is the sum total charge for the Jan. 28 dance.
Gene Hull’s orchestra will serenade the silent swayers from ten till two, and springtime will be the mood. “June in January” is the theme that has inspired set-men to new ideas in transforming the familiar walls of the campus eatery.
The curfew extension for dance-goers is 3 a.m. Those fortunates possessing vehicular locomotion must, as usual, register their license plates with Father Kehoe.
Chairman Fogarty advises that hotel rooms should be secured immediately. Rates are $4.50 for single rooms, $6.50 for doubles, and $7.00 up for doubles with twin beds.
Ducats are being sold in the Dining Hall basement from 12:00 to 1:00 six days a week. They are also available at the rooms of Hall Representatives Dick Hamilton (Ticket Chairman), 101 Walsh;; Tom Dowd, 230 Dillon; Larry McLafferty, 318 Badin; Bob Worthington, 115 Sorin; Barnie Bannon, 27A Vetville; and Carl Dickinson, Off-Campus.—Jim Kingsley.
O'Connor's Stanford, Student Problems in Newest 'Concord'
“Inflation Goes to College,” a survey of student economic problems, tops the list of student features in the January issue of Concord, now on sale at the cafeteria and bookstore. Student government at Stanford University is pictured in words and photos in an article by John O’Connor, former Scholastic editor, in the same issue.
In a symposium on “Trends in Higher Education,” the Rev, Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, joins three other prominent educators in a critical appraisal of current ideas and ideals of American colleges and universities. Joining Father Ward in the forum are Robert M. Hutchins, of the University of Chicago; President Harold Taylor, of Sarah Lawrence College, and John Julian Ryan, noted Catholic educational thinker.
Other features in the January issue include book, movie and play reviews, a short story, and two other features by ND students, “The Testimony of Poverty,” by Vincent Giese, and Valdemar Olaguer’s poem “The Gravediggers.”
Rasmussen Men's Shop
South Bend’s Best
ANOTHER GREAT JANUARY
OF MEN'S FINE CLOTHES
OUR ENTIRE STOCK OF SUITS-COATS EVERY ONE IS REDUCED — NOTHING RESERVED
It's an old, not a new story at the Men's Shop. Our Sales Selections are all our Regular Stock, and ALL ARE Reduced Liberally.
If you know our clothes nothing needs to be added. . . . If you don't know our clothes, this is an excellent time to discover their quality.
Rasmussen
MEN'S SHOP 106-108 S. Main	130-132 W. Washington
Ian. 14, 1949
21
Names Make News
The United States Supreme Court admitted to practice Mr. THOMAS J. MURRAY, of San Francisco and a graduate from the Arts and Letters College of Notre Dame. Murray, who was sponsored by Louis J. Frick and Daniel L. Boland of the Supreme Court Bar, was chief tax counsel for the Rural Electrification Administration before the war. He served during the recent conflict as a special agent in the Counter-Intelligence Corps, and as an officer in the Transportation Corps in the European Theatre. Aftei* his discharge, Murray was associated with the Federal Works Agency as a regional attorney in San Francisco. He is presently serving as special assistant to the General Council in drafting the legislative program of the Federal Works Agency in the 81st Congress.
BOB SKOGLUND
The Notre Dame squad of 1961 or thereabouts will have some representatives straight from the Emerald Isle if J. MARION ROBERTSON, of Marshall, Mo., and a graduate of Notre Dame, has his way. Robertson has just returned from Ireland with three “sons” whom he adopted from orphanages in Dublin. Robertson claims that his new-found sons will make up for his own failure to make the ND team when he was attending the University. Says Robertson: “The three boys are going to Notre Dame, my Alma Mater. I played football there, but never made the team. I’m determined that my three sons will be on the varsity.” He and Mrs. Robertson also adopted a tiny Irish lass.
JOE SIGNAIGO, graduate of ND and star guard on the football team, is engaged to Miss Thelma Louise Pier-oni, of Memphis, Tenn., Signaigo’s home town. Miss Pieroni is a graduate of Catholic High School, where Signaigo also was graduated.
Following close upon his announcement, was another which may see Joe in Hollywood, appearing with Edward G. Robinson in a prize-fight picture. The present guard of the New York Yankees took a movie test at 20th Century Fox in New York and is being groomed to play the part of a prize-fighter in Hollywood’s latest story of the New York East Side.
BOB SKOGLUND, a ’46 graduate of ND, died on the first of the year of a kidney infection. Skoglund played end on the ND football team of 1944, ’45 and ’46, and had been holding down the same position with the Green Bay Packers since his graduation. Skoglund’s funeral services, held in Chicago, were attended by several members of this year’s team.
The death of anothei* Notre Dame student occurred over the holidays when TODD J. SCHAFFNER, of West Lafayette, Ind., and Breen-Phillips hall, was killed in an automobile accident on the Chicago to Indianapolis highway. Schaffner was killed the day before New Year’s Eve while driving a car containing three other occupants. The other riders escaped with minor bruises.
A. J. SCRIBA, a junior in the Journalism school here, has had an article on the Audio-Visual center reprinted in the December issue of the magazine Educational Screen, a trade magazine with a nation-wide circulation. The article was reprinted from a fall issue of the 1948 Scholastic.
BOB LANG, of Cavanaugh hall, will be married to Miss Helen Ann Urischas in St. Bernard’s Church, Mount Lebanon, Pa., on Jan. 29.
Vetville’s BERNARD BANNON, who recently won a prize watch for recruiting the most converts to Chesterfields, has come up again in the nationwide
TODD SCHAFFNER
contest with the result that he is now the owner of a portable typewriter. This time his record was 152 new Chesterfield smokers at Notre Dame. It may be that he likes Jo Stafford’s voice.
DICK HYLAND, a junior from Greenwich, Conn., became engaged to Miss Joyce Kinross of Stamford, Conn., over the holidays.
Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, Professor of Political Science at the University, and noted authority on Soviet Russia, was elected first vice-president of the Catholic Historical Association at the recent meeting of the association in Washington, D. C.
Professor A. ROBERT CAPONIGRI, of the Department of Philosophy, spoke at the University of Virginia during the holidays at a Christmas dinner. Professor Caponigri also wrote an article entitled “Ethical and Sociological Basis of Italian Politics” for the current issue of Ethics.
Dr. ALBERT F. ZAHM, ’86, a former prof, at Notre Dame and one of the first American aviation engineers, was struck by a cab the day after Christmas in Washington. Police said Zahm slipped when approaching a street car loading platform and the cab ran over his leg. The scientist who has lived in Washington for the last 25 years, was one of a small group of pioneers who helped develop the modern airplane. He retired in 1946 after 16 years as chief of
22
The Scholastic
the Aeronautics Division of the Library of Congress. Earliest reports named Zahm’s condition as “undetermined,” but later word was he was making “satisfactory” progress.
Another holiday engagement concerns a member of our own happy family. BRUCE HARLAN, a senior in the College of Commerce and a photographer for the Scholastic, is engaged to Miss Juanita Marsh, of South Bend. Miss Marsh is a graduate of the St. Joseph’s Hospital School of Nursing.
The United States Steel Corporation has announced the appointment of FRED E. LINK as general works manager for Oil Well Supply Company, a subsidiary of U. S. Steel. Link, a 1926 graduate of the College of Engineering here, has served for the past year as assistant to the president in charge of “Oilwell’s” manufacturing department. After graduation from Notre Dame, Link was located for 14 years in Detroit, working for Utely Construction company, General Motors Fisher Body division, Campbell-Ewald Co., and two years as a private consulting engineer. He came to Dallas, Texas, in 1941 as chief industrial engineer for North American Aviation’s large aircraft factory, remaining with the plant until its close in December, 1945. He joined the Oilwell division of U. S. Steel in January, 1946, in Dallas.
JOHN LEO CAWLEY, of Chisholm, Minnesota, and the class of 1948, died in St. Joseph’s hospital, Milwaukee, last month following a ten days’ illness with an intestinal condition. Cawley attended Notre Dame in the V-12 Navy program during the war and returned, after serving in the Pacific, to complete his education. He was graduated cum laude last February from the College of Arts and Letters. Cawley had started a Law Course at Marquette University when he was taken ill.
Featured in last month’s issue of Extension Magazine was an article by the Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, Professor of Religion at Notre Dame. The article, entitled “No Easy Matter,” told of a ‘China’ within the United States where the percentage of Catholics is smaller than in the Orient. After citing facts, figures and personal experiences in the counties and sections of the country where no priest is resident and where the dearth of Catholics is alarming, Father O’Brien advocates this as a ripe field for conversion work by priests, sisters and “zealous lay Apostles.”
PARKER -WINTERROWD, Inc.
Announces a
Store-wide Clearance
of Superior Quality
Suits-Topcoats Overcoats
OUR FAMOUS MT. ROCK COAT INCLUDED
50 to 60	SUITS & COATS $37.50
65 to 70 SUITS & COATS $4730
75 to 80 SUITS & COATS $5730 85 to ioo SUITS & COATS $6730
Included are personally selected finest quality worsteds, sharkskins, gabardines, flannels and imported tweeds; all sizes including regulars, shorts, stouts, longs.
ALL SPORTS COATS —HALF PRICE
ALSO TUXES and TAILS — RENTALS
PARKER-WINTERROWD. Inc.
115^2-117/a N. MAIN S. (Second Floor) SOUTH BEND
Tan. 14, 1949
23
Biondo, Pedtke Give Beethoven Recitals
In line with the music program for Washington Hall this semester, attention has been drawn to a series of six lecture-recitals covering the violin-piano sonatas of Ludwig von Beethoven. Daniel Pedtke, head of the Music Department, is the pianist for the series; and the violin part is in the hands of Mr. Charles Biondo.
Mr. Biondo will deliver a lecture preceding the performance of each sonata in conjunction with the music appreciation class of which he is the instructor. This lecture will cover the historic significance, as well as a formal analysis, of each sonata and each movement.
The first of this series was presented last Friday and included both Sonata No. 1 Opus 12 in D Major and Sonata No. 2 Opus 12 in A Major. On Wednesday, Jan. 12, the gentlemen performed the second concert, consisting of Sonata No. 3 Opus 12 in E flat Major, and Sonata No. 4 Opus 23 in A Minor.
The remaining four concerts are scheduled as follows:
Wed. Jan. 26—Sonata No. 5 Opus 24 in F Major; Sonata No. 6 Opus 30 No. 1 in A Major.
Wed. Feb. 16—Sonata No. 7 Opus 30 No. 2 in C Minor; Sonata No. 8 Opus 30 No. 3 in C Major.
Wed. March 9—Sonata No. 9 Opus 47 in A Major; (Beethoven’s most famous sonata).
Wed. March 30—Sonata No. 10 Opus 96 in G Major.
All performances will begin at 8 p.m., in Washington Hall.
Choristers Will Travel South After Semester Exams
Plans for a 3,000-mile concert tour covering four states and half a dozen cities were announced this week by Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Forty members of the ND choral group are scheduled to make the trip between the end of semester exams and the resumption of regular second-semester classes.
The long jaunt will begin at noon, Jan. 27, when the warblers leave by chartered bus for their first performance that night at Nazareth College, Kentucky. Next stop will be Greenville, Mississippi, followed by an eastward swing through Birmingham, Alabama, and then to Florida. Concerts are slated at St. Augustine, Tampa and Miami, with a three-day stay planned at Miami.
Performances on the tour will be sponsored by local ND alumni groups and Knights of Columbus units.
Sunny Italy		
A /	^otre Dome Tradition	
		4 •	' "Rosie's." Here You’ll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
		SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	5 Barbers Manicurist	
CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOB APPOINTMENT		
W.*E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
[LLWIII5
Headquarters for
ARROW
White Shirts and ARROW Patterned Shirts
3.65 up
24
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
est congratulations for the outstanding job that you did on the Football Issue of the Scholastic. It is a remarkable accomplishment.
All of you have been doing the same sort of good job on the Scholastic all this year. I like it very much and I’m sure that everybody else is equally pleased with it.
William R. Dooley,
Assistant Alumni Secretary
Our thanks to Mr. Dooley and others for their kind words on the Football Issue.—Editor.
PENGUIN AT THE PROG
The lassies of the Co-Hop Organization will roll out the red plush carpet tomorrow for social-minded ND men in the first dance of the new year. Theme of the affair will be "Penguin at the Prog," though the hostesses declare that there will be no icy welcomes at the Progress Club, where Bud Simpson's tune-sters will make with the music from 8 to 11 p.m. Admission for any students who can spare the time from the dubious delights of pre-exam cramming is 75 cents per person.


ARROW
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
From Harvard to Hawaii ARROW WHITE SHIRTS score highest with college men year after year.
Good reason, too, for Arrow's policy of finest quality, smart styling and honest value makes sense to college men.
When you need a good white shirt, one that will fit well, look, wear and wash well—see your Arrow dealer.
Browser's Column
their eyes while they are making the attempt.
While the subject is warm, may we offer the suggestion that the Senior Prom in June be held the Friday night before graduation as has happened this January? This permits the dates of graduates to attend both the prom and graduation and makes the last weekend here that much more memorable.
PREDICTIONS OF THINGS TO COME
A new year at Notre Dame. The year of Our Lord nineteen hundred forty-nine. And the Browser, without fear of contradiction, lifts the dark veil of the future to reveal the days ahead for this little academic cosmos.
1.	There will be a steady increase in student apathy at the University in 1949. This will be due, as in the past, to a deep-seated belief on the part of this body of men that things will always be the same here and there’s nothing you can do about it.
2.	The Student Council will meet ■weekly, argue mightily and do nothing. It "will continue to batter away fruitlessly at minor grievances and refuse to go after the heart of the matter. It will make no attempt to construct a firm basis for student-administrative relations, to break down the wall between the two; to unify the University.
3.	Campus Clubs will plunge ahead on a progressive schedule of beer brawls, smokers and dances. They will ignore all suggestions for unification of their organizations under a strong central group. As such they will remain small, ineffectual segments of student activity and pass up a real opportunity of moving some very big and very stubborn mountains.
4.	Class officers will stick with tradition. They will run their dances and maybe a dinner or two and consider themselves successful. They will, by their actions, mire their offices even more deeply in stagnation.
5.	The Freshman Class, having been aroused in part by things said in this column, will rush into a series of really good activities, will march into next fall well-unified and ready for big things and may even, by stint of great spirit, hold on to their enthusiasm through their sophomore year.
6.	The Sophomore Class will continue to be the most active on campus.
7.	This column will continue to offer itself as an expression of progressive student action, as much as it is permitted. It will try, with all fairness, to judge the value of student activity; suggest improvements; throw its personal, extra - Scholastic efforts into any worthy cause upon -invitation.
26
HERE AND THERE
The Christmas Dances were a big success. They are more important than most will give them credit for. To most clubs they mean financial support for the coming term. It has been well-proved in the past that only those clubs with strong treasuries can function effectively. We know of two big clubs which pulled themselves out of a hole with their Christmas Dances. More power to them.
It has been suggested to this column that it offer a suggestion to those powers who control the Rockne Memorial. The installation of window shades on the windows of the basketball court would, it seems, be greatly appreciated. It is difficult enough for most of the athletes who frequent that gymnasium to find the basket ■without the sun streaming in
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. AU answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
QUESTIONS
Said Mr. A, “They’re good and mild, you see, Said Mr. A, “It’s years and years for me.”
The sequence two, five, five when solved, Shows a smiling D. A. with sins absolved.
Working backward where this man dwells, You make one change for fragrant smells.
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS
A The sock which Arthur Godfrey is holding with his white mitten.
B The Chesterfield carton whose last five title letters show out of the green sock.
C Always Bring Chesterfield. The central word of the famous slogan has been revised from Buy to Bring.
Neophyte ND Law Body Elects Francis Jones President
Francis Jones, prominent South Bend attorney, has been elected president of the newly-formed Notre Dame Law Association, composed of more than 1,500 law graduates of the University. A 1929 ND graduate, Mr. Jones is a member of the law firm of Jones, Obenchain and Butler. He is also a past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley.
Other officers elected at the first meeting of the Association were Charles Vaughn, of Lafayette, Ind., vice-president; Hugh E. Wall, of Dayton, 0., secretary-treasurer; and Robert Sullivan, ND law professor, executive secretary. Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame College of Law, was named honorary president.
The Scholastic
a giant on the farm
Products of the laboratory are saving time, toil, money for the American farmer
Through chemistry, farmers are gaining control over many of nature’s uncertainties. Costly losses of crops and livestock are being curtailed or prevented. Efficiency is increasing. New applications of chemistry to agriculture are becoming more important than ever as demands for more production increase.
Today, new organic insecticides and fungicides help control insects, plant diseases and blightsthat threaten crops. Seed disinfectants and protectants help guarantee bountiful harvests by protecting crops in the critical period after planting. Plant hormones hold fruit on trees until fully ready for picking.
Days of labor saved
Du Pont weed killers and explosives accomplish in minutes tasks that . used to take hours or days of backbreaking labor. With 2,4-D farmers can kill weeds without harming certain crops. Dynamite removes stumps, digs ditches for draining and irrigation, and loosens the soil to forestall erosion.
New fertilizer formulations meet the changing nutritional requirements of plants during the growing season. Thus the farmer has better control over crop development, and he can utilize his materials, labor and
For growth insurance, farmers treat seeds with disinfectants. "Ceresan” treated wheat gives up to 20% better yields.
Spraying orchards controls infestations of insects or plant diseases or holds fruit on the trees until it is fully ready for picking!
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING _____________THROUGH CHEMISTtr
Du Pont agricultural specialist Dr. Arne Carlson, M.S., '40, Ph.D., U. of Minnesota, '48, helps develop sprays and dusts to control fungous diseases.
Phenothiazine kills more kinds of livestock worms in more kinds of animals than any other drug.. . promotes normal growth.
equipment more efficiently;
Feed compounds, developed by industry, are making poultry flocks and livestock herds vastly more productive. Research on chemicals to control animal diseases and internal parasites is making great progress. Control of insect pests is already changing livestock management practices.
Turning ideas into products Achievements such as these are the result of Du Pont’s team research. An idea may start with one or two individuals. But many specialists— chemists, physicists, biologists, plant pathologists, and entomologists— must contribute their skills before a new product is ready for market. Normally, engineers—chemical, mechanical, civil, and electrical — develop the commercial processes and plants for making the finished products.
The new Du Pont employee, whether he holds a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctor’s degree, enters into this cooperative effort. Yet the immediate group with which he is associated is small and congenial, offering him every opportunity to display individual talent and capabilities.
Find out more about Du Font and the College Graduate "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate” is just off the press in a completely revised edition. Fully illustrated, it describes opportunities in research, production, sales, and many other fields. Explains the plan of organization whereby individual ability is recognized and rewarded. Write for your copy today. Address: 2518 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
More facts about Du Pont— Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Jan. 14, 1949
27
*/MG
^estCrf
" Vo«test^.p
*«®e 2^

WiLD
good.


(FROM * SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS) “Liggett & Myers buy more of my best tobacco than anybody else. They’ve always paid top prices.
“I’ve been smoking Chesterfields ever since they used to nut them ud in a cardboard box. I never found
YOUk
