THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Welcome Notre Dame!
Indiana ^e£uxe
Gab Company
The newest sensation in the field of reasonable, rapid transportation has struck South Bend and Notre Dame by storm.
‘‘'Hail one of our cabs anywhere'’''
INDIANA CAB CO.
The new Hi-Way between
South Bend and Notre Dame
Call 3-7147	Call 3-7147
0leliability! Safety! Courtesy!
__________________________.__.____.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Welcome
Men of Notre Dame!
SINCE 1887 this establishment has tendered this message to men from far and near who came to this great institution, Notre Dame.
Come and see us often whether to buy or just to look, we’ll try to make you feel at home, for here we endeavor to carry out the spirit of the Gold and Blue.
Society Brand Clothes
Dobbs Hats
Florshiem Shoes
Adler Brothers
Apparel for Men, Women and Boys
105-07-09 S. Michigan St.
108 W. Washington Ave.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GREETINGS
TO you men, who have just matriculated at Notre Dame—and to our
old friends, the upper classmen—we extend a hearty greeting and a cordial invitation to drop in when you are downtown and inspect our large and complete showing of new Fall Suits and Topcoats—in the styles and coloring that college men prefer.
For your convenience we maintain a campus store, in Rockefeller Hall, which is open daily from 9 until noon.
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Fashion Park, Charter House, Hickey-Freeman Suits and Topcoats— Stetson, Mallory, Finchley, Society Club Hats—Notre Dame Pins, Rings, Belt Buckles, Watch Fobs, Cigarette Cases, Memory Books and Pennants.
MAX ADLER
C O M P A N Y
On the Corner	Michigan and Washington
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	5
eNow, a new-shade ^Parker at $^50
Blue-and-White, Non-Breakable Barrels in the Ultra Modern Style!
You have never held a sweeter pen— so light, so well balanced, so responsive, so easy and so sure in use.
We showed scores of different pens to hundreds of pen-users and asked,“Which do you like best?” They picked this one.
You’ll do the same among pens at this price at any counter.
A Modern Blue-and-White
Of the latest modem design—trim, neat, beautiful in color—you’ll want it for its looks alone.
And after you have written with it, it will be yours for life. And only $3.50, too!
Try it at your nearest pen counter today.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin OFFICES AND SUBSIDIARIES: NEW YORK ' BOSTON • CHICAGO ATLANTA • DALLAS ' SAN FRANCISCO TORONTO, CANADA ' LONDON. ENGLAND
Parker ‘ ' Blue-and-White’ ’ Pencil, to match Pen, $3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
l&W--------	-	i
fe) . r	~ ~6her
1872 Notre Dame -Scholastic 1928
Disce-Quasi-^emper-Victuru.y-Vivc-Quas'i-Craj-Moriiuriis'
JOHN V. HINKEL. ’29..................Edi tor-in-Chief
HARLEY L. McDEVITT, ’29.. Business Manager
THE EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON. ’29.Managing	Editor
VINCENT McINTIRE, ’30 Ass’t	Managing	Editor
JOHN BERGAN, ’31............News	Editor
JOHN DeROULET, ’29 .....Literary	Editor
DANIEL D. HALPIN,
HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR., ’39.. Sports Editor
CYRIL A. MULLEN, ’30..........The	Week
BERNARD A. WALSH, '29..The College Parade
JAMES J. WALSH, ’30.....Music and Drama
’31......Club	Editor
CONTRIBUTORS
MURRAY YOUNG, ’29
JOHN GILTENON, ’29 MURRAY HICKEY LEY, ’30 BAYARD KURTH, ’30
J. GIBERT PRENDERGAST, 31
ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31
JOHN H. ZUBER, ’31 .
THOMAS A. CANNON, ’31
THOMAS R. ASHE, '31 EMIL TELFEL, ’31 JOHN KIENER, ’32 JAMES COLLINS, ’32 MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’3:
BUSINESS STAFF
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30.. Local Adv. Mgr.	HARRINGTON J. ,NOON, ’29.. Local Cir. Mgr.
JAMES L. RIZER, ’30 ..Foreign Adv. Mgr.	CHESTER M. ASHMAN,’30 Foreign Cir. Mgr.
JAMES H. RORKE, ’31	EUGENE J. CARLIN, ’29 JOHN BLANDA, ’31
SEPTEMBER, 21, 1928
No. 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week..........................Cyril A. Mullen_________________ 8
Our New President ________________Baajard Kurth __________________ 9
New University Officials._________________________________________10
Music and Drama___________________James J. Walsh_________________ 14
Next Week’s Events_______________________________________________ 15
The Campus Clubs__________________Daniel Halpin _________________ 16
The Editor’s Page ______________________________________________  17
Opening Sermon ___________________...Rev, Charles L. O’Donnell,___ 18
Supplication (A poem) ____________Virginore Hughes_______________ 20
Football Prospects _______________Harry A. Sylvester_____________ 21
Football Schedule ________________J. Gibert Prendergast --------- 22
June Baseball Trip	...____________John H. Zuber ----------------- 25
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may he
addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Pubheations Deserve the Patronage of Ail Notre Dame Men
I	.	1
JG)	(Oj
—------------- ■■ ............................
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
It is only Christian and charitable that the Freshmen come first in the first Week. Partly because there is nothing more conducive to thought than a contemplation of their activities—particularly if the active ones are two Brownsonites lugging mandolins or furniture to their room in the Main Building; partly because freshmen are sometimes neglected by the press. Freshmen comparing the cake in their three-day-old pipes . . . Freshmen in Smith’s practicing first day savior-faire . . . Freshmen with that hope, that, no doubt, springs eternal, looking diligently for a pretty girl in South Bend . . . Freshmen, always open to suggestion, looking for the Notre Dame Library in South Bend . . . Freshmen walking nonchalantly up the white steps. . . coming down the white steps not so confidently . . . Freshmen in the dining room committing the unbearable social error of asking gently for someone to pass food that is easily within spearing distance . . . Freshmen becoming suddenly popular with upper-classmen; sitting at their tables; giving them a few pointers on football . . . Freshmen, enjoying that democracy and good-fellowship famous at Notre Dame . . . admitted to all the best secret societies • . . initiation, including physical and mental examinations, free . . . getting in on special sales of last year’s Domes, last year’s Scholastics, radiators, locks of Rockne’s hair ... Freshmen haliers expecting only one room mate and getting two extra . . . Freshmen not coming in at ten o’clock because they thought someone was trying to goof them ... And one prophecy: Freshmen, next May, still looking for a pretty girl in South Bend-
Off-campus students living in the Harter Heights district are already nursing blisters on their feet. Although a straight line is
the shortest distance between two points—a bit of information any fourth year engineer can give you—the straight line is useless when it becomes part of an embryo golf course.- Consequently, though the golf course deposits a very fine grade of sand-dust on a windy day—appreciated by those walking to the Niles road—it is not an unmixed blessing for the Harter Heights student who are nursing blisters. But after all, the new course has brought with it more blessing than curses. It doesn’t develop the exotic odors in hot weather that used to remind the students in Lyons and Morrissey that a pig is a pig. Perhaps newcomers cannot see the connection between pigs, golf courses, and Harter Heights students. It should be explained that the new scotch playground has only lately been notable for its paths and its porkers. But to return to our theme, a golf course is, aside from the question of absent aroma, a symptom of chronic gentility. Besides, somebody may want to use it.
South Bend still has the old attraction. Just at present the lure consists in cretonnes, toothbrushes senile arm-chairs, orange floats, note books that are given away, note books that are taken away and palatial showhouses, with or without the mighty Wurlitz-ers. Added to the city’s charm is a new stock-company and a place called the Colfax ; both started, no doubt, with the educational interests of the student body at heart. The threatening tong-war between taxi companies will eventually result, we trust, in the reduction of rates to the point where we can ride there as cheaply as we can walk. But by the time that happens St. Mary’s girls will be driving their own airplanes with the hearty approval of the faculty.
—c. A. M.
9
- n i / THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '■ A A O J
Our Neu) President
On July thirteenth the announcement was made of the election of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Ph.D., to succeed the Reverend Watthew Walsh, C.S.C., Ph.D., as president of the University of Notre Dame.
Father O’Donnell entered the Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in the fall of 1899, and even at that time his literary ability was manifest as he edited the first Dome ever published. He was graduated with honors from the University in 1906 and spent four years at the Catholic University at Washington where he was graduated ■with the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. In the same year he was ordained to the priesthood and returned to Notre Dame where he was a pre
feet in Corby Hall for two years and Professor of English. When he was made Associate Editor of the Ave Maria he transferred his residence to the Presbytery but continued to teach in the Department of English. In 1917, -with five other members of the faculty, he was commissioned as a chaplain in the World War. Father O’Donnell served for five months in the forty-second Division, as Chaplain of the 117th division of Engineers, at the front in France. He was then transferred to the 332nd infantry and served with them for nine months in Italy. For his activities he was awarded a distinguished service cross by the Italian government.
At the end of the war he returned to Notre Dame where he resumed his duties in the English Department and as Associate Editor of the Ave Maria. A year later he was elected as Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, in which position he succeeded the Very Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., who was at that time advanced to the position of Coadjutor-Superior General. At the end of his term of six years, Father O’Donnell was appointed First Assistant Superior General, a position which he occupied until his appointment as president of the University.
Although he has held many important offices, Father 'O’Donnell is, perhaps, best known as a poet. He published “The Dead Musician” and Other Poems in 1916 and “Cloister” and Other Poems in 1922; two-volumes of verse that were very finely written and received considerable attention from the literary reviews. He was coeditor of Notre Dame Verse in 1927 and Longmans, Green and Company have announced for publication this fall “The Rime of the Rood and Other Poems.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
10
NEW UNIVERSITY OFFICIALS APPOINTED: OTHERS RETAINED
IN SUMMER CHANGES.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., nationally known poet and educator, was elected to succeed the Reverend Mathew J. Walsh, C.S.C. as president of the University at a meeting of the Order held at Notre Dame during the past summer. The election was in accordance with canon law which decrees a single six-year term for each president of the University. Father Walsh will remain at Notre Dame as Professor of Medieval History.
At the same meeting, the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., for the past five years Professor of Economics at the University, was elected to succeed the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., as vice-president of Notre Dame. Father Carroll will continue at the University in the capacity of Professor of Poetry and Religion.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. will again assume his duties as prefect of discipline for another term. The Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., was reaffirmed as registrar of the University. The Rev. Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., will remain as director of studies. Mrs. Mary M. Beyer was reappointed secretary.
FATHER ALBERTSON AGAIN HEADS SCIENCE SCHOOL.
The Rev. George Albertson, C.S.C., will continue as dean of the College of Science in the absence of the Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., who has been granted another year’s study in Europe. Dean Thomas Konop remains in the College of Law as will Dean James E. McCarthy in the College of Commerce. Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., will again head the College of Arts and Letters.
The Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., assistant dean of the College of Engineering, will act as dean of that college in the absence of Dean Martin J. McCue who has been granted a year’s leave of absence to act as administrator of the estate of a brother recently deceased. The Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., succeeds the Reverend Kernt Healy, C.S.C.,
as associate editor of the Ave Maria. Father Healy has been appointed Master of Novices. The Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C., has proceeded to Oxford where he will do graduate work during a two years’ leave of absence.
The Mission Band will be directed by the Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C., who succeeds the Rev. James French, C.S.C. Father French will continue in Mission work, however. Mr. Paul Byrne will remain as chief librarian.
SORIN HALL HAS NEW RECTOR.
The Rev. Walter Lavin, C.S.C., will be rector of Sorin Hall in place of the Rev. James H. Gallagan, C-S.C., who has gone to the College of St. Thomas in Minneapolis. Corby Hall again finds the Rev. Dominic O’Malley, C.S.C., as rector, and Walsh Hall will once more have the Rev. James Stack, • C.S.C., in charge. The Rev. Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., continues as rector of Morrissey, and the Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C., ■will remain as rector of Lyons for another year. The Rev. John Margraf, C.S.C., will again serve as rector of Howard for his fourth consecutive year. Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., as usual will continue as rector of Brownson, with Brother Maurilius, C.S.C., rector of Carroll. The Rev. J. Alan Heiser, C.S.C., succeeds the Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., as director of Off-Campus students, and will be assisted by the Rev. Philip Beaghan, C.S.C. The Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., has been transferred from Freshman to Sophomore. He was succeeded in Freshman by the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., registrar at St. Edward’s last year.
The office of Assistant Superior General, left vacant by the election of the Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., to the presidency of the University, was filled by the Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., superior of Moreau Seminary. The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., former president of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon, was elected Assistant Provincial and will also teach in the Department of Philosophy-
St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, will again be directed by the Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
REV. LOUIS KELLY ELECTED PRESIDENT OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
The Rev. Louis J. Kelly, C.S.C., professor of Philosophy last year, was elected to succeed the Rev. Joseph N. Donahue, C.S.C., as president of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. Father Kelly will have as his assistant the Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., who was elected vice-president of the same school. The Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., for the past two years director of Off-Campus students at Notre Dame, was also appointed to Columbia, to serve as rector of Christie Hall. The Rev. Patrick McBride, C.S.C., former registrar of the University, goes to St. Edward College, and the Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., will serve on the faculty of the Oregon institution.
Among the younger priests, the Rev. Thomas Kelly has returned to Washington for further study; the Rev. Leo Flood, C.S.C., has been appointed assistant pastor of St. Patrick’s in South Bend; the Rev. Raymond Pieper, C.S.C., has joined the faculty at St. Edward’s; the Rev. Paul Doherty, C.S.C., has become a member of the Notre Dame faculty, and the Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., recipient of a Ph.D. at the Catholic University of America in June, will also serve as a member of the faculty at the University.
DEATH TAKES HEAVY TOLL DURING SUMMER.
Death cast it’s long shadows again during the past Summer and claimed three of last year’s students. A like number of the faculty also lost some member of their family. Richard Harrington, Boniface Conway and James Powers were the students who answered the call.	•
Richard “Dick” Harrington, a sophomore of Richmond, Ind., passed away in June. He was forced to give up his duties as artist on the Juggler staff in April, and by May he had become seriously ill; in June he died. Harrington was popularly known among the
11
student body for his cover creations for the Juggler.
An epidemic of poisoned milk claimed one of the most promising members of the freshman football squad in Boniface Conway, of LaSalle, Ill. Much was expected of Conway, both as an athlete and as a student, having the reputation in Brownson Hall, where he lived, as a most quiet and studious youth.
James Powers, of Urbana, Ohio, in Freshman Hall last year, died in August after an unsuccessful operation for appendicitis. Powers, a popular and cheerful student, was one of a large number in his family-that has attended Notre Dame.
Among the faculty, Professor Weir’s mother passed away, and Professor Weiland Col. Hoynes lost brothers.—R. I. P.
FRESHMAN MISSION ENDS TOMORROW; UPPERCLASS MISSION STARTS SUNDAY.
The first student Mission of the year opened last Sunday evening with services for all freshmen and off-campus sophomores. It will be brought to a close tomorrow morning at 6:30 with Mass and the Papal benediction. On Sunday evening the mission will be opened for students of the upper classes and will continue with morning and evening services until Saturday morning, September 29.
The morning services consist of Mass at 6:30 followed by a short instruction. Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., and Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., gave the instructions during the week. Father Thomas Irving, C.S.C., will give the instructions next week. The Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., delivered the sermons for the Freshmen mission and will preach the mission for the upper-classmen next week.
The missions given at the beginning of each school year are among the highlights of the religious life a^ Notre Dame. They are welcomed by the Notre Dame man as a chance to clear up his spiritual difficulties and to make a successful start.
12	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CONDOLENCES
The Scholastic, on behalf of the officials, faculty, and student body of the University offers condolences to the following relatives of friends of Notre Dame who died during the past summer:
To Mrs- M. A. Wharfield, of Toledo, Ohio, and Messrs Thomas E. and John W. Donahue of South Bend, on the death of their brother, the Rev. Joseph D. Donahue, C.S.C.
To Colonel William J. Hoynes, Dean emeritus of the College of Law, on the death of his brother.
To Dean Martin J. McCue, head of the College of Engineering, on the death of his brother.
To Professor William Middelschulte, of the Department of Music, on the death of his ■wife.
To Professor David A. Weir, of the College of Commerce, on the death of his mother.
To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Conway, of LaSalle, Ill., on the death of their son, Boniface.
To Mr. and Mrs. Jolin Harrington, of Richmond, Ind-, on the death of their son, Richard.
To Mr. and Mrs. Richard Powers, of Urbana, Ohio, on the death of their son, James.
S.A.C. ANNOUNCES “HELLO” WEEK‘S
Monday, September 24, to Saturday, September 30, will be the official “Hello” Week this year, according to a recent announcement made by the Student’s Activities Council of the University. Signs and cards appropriate to the week have been ordered and will be ready for distribution on the campus by next Monday. Joe Jachym will be chairman of the S.A.C. committee which will have charge of the week- He will be assisted by Frank Leahey.
For the information of freshmen and other new students at the University, “Hello Week” is an annual institution at Notre Dame. The primary purpose of the week is to sponsor a better feeling of friendship and mutual fellowship among the various students and classes at the University. During this week students are expected to speak to other students on the campus, in the halls, etc., regardless of being acquainted or not.
ENGELS AND LAYNE HONORED WITH EDITORIAL POSTS
Two Notre Dame graduates have been signally honored during the past summer by receiving appointments to the editorial staffs of two of the leading magazines of this country.
Vincent Engels, ’23, for the past three years assistant Professor in the English department of the University, has received an appointment to the editorial staff of the Com-moniveal a leading Catholic magazine published in the United States. He 'will be the second Notre Dame man to receive such an honor.
Walter Layne, a member of last June’s graduating class; editor of the Juggler, president of the Scribblers, and a prominent student while at Notre Dame, was the other graduate honored. Layne was made associate-editor of Life.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS OPENS NEW OFFICES.
The offices of the Board of Publications formerly located in Rockfeller Hall, have been transferred to the second floor of the Administration Building. The present location in the old Athletic offices affords the members of the staff of each publication modern and spacious headquarters. In addition, the Faculty Board of Publications 'will also make its headquarters in the new offices.
MADISON TO BE OFFICIAL STUDENT TRIP
According to an announcement recently made by the Student's Activities Council with the approval of University officials ,the Wisconsin-Notre Dame game to be played at Madison, October 6, will be the official student trip for this year. The decision was made at a special meeting of the S. A- C. student trip committee last Tuesday evening.
Prices of tickets for the game and railroad transportation will be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
KRIEG ELECTED S.A-C. CHAIRMAN— ANNOUNCES COMMITTEES
William Krieg, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters of the University, and former president of the junior class, was elected chairman of the Student’s Activities Council
for this year at a meeting of the S. A. C. representatives, the latter part of May.
The new chairman has already appointed the heads of the various S. A. C. committees on subjects pertaining to the interests of the student body during the year. They are follows: Blue Circle, Larry Moore ;
Dances, Tom Ryan; Elections, Fred Miller; Concessions, Jack Flanagan; Hello Week, Joe Jachym; Publicity, Phil Tompkins; Student trip, Moore and Ryan; and Gridgraph, John Nash.
. COLLEGE OF ST- THOMAS ACQUIRED - BY HOLY CROSS ORDER
During the past summer the Congregation of Holy Cross took over the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. The college was taken over at the invitation of the Most Reverend Austin Dowling, D.D. Archbishop of St. Paul. Most of the St. Thomas faculty of secular clergy and laymen will be retained, but the Order has placed a brilliant staff of executives at the head of the northern institution. The Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., former president of St. Edwards and a nationally known philosopher and educator is the new president. The Reverend William Bolger, C.S.C., former head of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, an outstanding authority on the social sciences and a nationally known debator, is vice-president. Rev. James Gal-lagan, C.S.C., former prefect of discipline at Notre Dame and rector of residence halls for
many years, is director of student welfare. Rev. James J. Boyle, C.S.C., a former member of the Mission Band and well known for his development of the Laymen’s Retreat at Notre Dame, is director of religious activities ; Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., prominent educator, is at the head of the department of education. Brother Tobias, C.S-C., who had been in New Orleans, is also at St. Thomas. Several Notre Dame graduates have been added to the faculty, among them George Keiner and Robert Fogarty of the class of 1928, who are instructors in the Department of Philosophy.
St. Thomas was founded by Archbishop Ireland in 1885. It has been a diocesan institution, conducted by diocesan priests. The College is fully accredited by the North Central Association, and offers courses in liberal arts, pre-medic work, and-law. St. Thomas Military Academy is the high school department. The Most Rev. Austin Dowling, D.D., Archbishop of St. Paul, is chairman of the Board of Trustees. The enrollment is approximately one thousand students.
FOOTBALL TICKET DEMAND HEAVY
So great has the demand been for tickets for the Army and Navy games that practically all of the choice seats have been taken, according to J. Arthur Haley, Business Manager. Box seats for both games were sold our three to four weeks ago. Some good reserved seats may still be had for the Army game but these are limited, eight to each applicant.
The distribution of student tickets for the three home games will start about two weeks before each game. All students should watch the various bulletin boards, as to when and where distribution is to take place. Student athletic books must be presented on application for the tickets.
Manuscripts submitted for publication in the Scholastic, should be mailed or brought to the Scholastic office, old Athletic offices, second floor, Main building.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
/ !/
*5* *7*	***	•••	❖ *♦* *♦* & ••• *♦*
❖ MUSIC AND DRAMA *
It is rather early to attempt a forecast of the coming theatrical season in South Bend. The Oliver Theatre will remain dark until late in the Fall and its first attraction has not as yet been announced. Several preChicago openings are expected, however, and while this season may not attain the heights reached last year, it will no doubt, prove, on the whole, satisfactory.
The past summer witnessed a severe blow to the theatre. Those of you had the good fortune to see the brilliant performances of Robert Mantell during his week of Shakespearian productions last Winter will grieve his passing. In him the stage has lost a great artist; the drama a devoted friend, yet this unforgettable characterizations will remain as one of our most cherished memories.
Due to the excessive costs of transportation, many of our prominent legitimate producers are discontinuing the practice of sending road companies of New York and Chicago successes throughout the country. This is, of course, to be regretted but we are somewhat compensated by the fact that South Bend now has its own stock company. The well-known Gifford-Jackson Players, occupying the Blackstone Theatre foi' an extended engagement, are decidedly worthwhile. Their first two productions “The Best People” and “Laff That Off” served to illustrate the admirable versatility of the troupe. They follow next week with Ann Nichols’ astoundingly successful comedy “Abie’s Irish Rose.” This you will recall, is the play that packed the Republic Theatre in New York for almost five successive years despite the many and varied protests of such eminent critics as Mr. Robert Benchley and Mr. Alexander Woollcott. Some of you may not have seen it. Eventually, why not now?
We have one annoucement to make which we feel certain will prove intensely interesting to the entire student body. It concerns the new Colfax theatre which, as you probably know, deals in dramatized and synchro
nized movies. The management of this theatre has obtained for a week’s engagement, beginning Saturday, September 29th, “America’s Premier College Glee Club, directed by Joseph Cassanta.” We should all welcome this opportunity of hearing Notre Dame’s famous musical organization which is second to none in the country, and especially since this movietone reproduction is reputed to be one of the finest things done along these lines. Their program includes “The Victory March,” and “Hike Notre Dame.” “Excess Baggage” with William Haines will be the feature picture.
James J. Walsh.
-----------------
ENGINEERING BUILDING PARTIALLY DESTROYED BY FIRE
A destructive fire during the early morning hours of last June 29, severely damaged the Engineering building at the University and for a time assumed serious proportions until finally brought under control. The blaze was caused by a bolt of lightning which struck a high tension wire leading into the building during a severe thunder storm. Before the watchman could summon aid the entire upper story was a mass of flames.
Several fire companies were immediately summoned from South Bend, and together with the Notre Dame volunteer fire department were soon playing a continuous stream j of water on the burning building. After ; gamely fighting the fire for some time the • j flames were at last subdued, but not until j the entire top floor of the structure had been i completely gutted.	J
J
Besides causing several thousands of dol- j lars in material damage the blaze also caused	I
severe personal losses when it was discovered	j
that many valuable and irreplaceable records । belonging to Professors Benitz and Capero, 1 were destroyed.
There will be no interruptions or cessations in the work of the classes in Engineering, however, as the University has constructed a temporary roof over the first floor of the structure. Class rooms have also been laid out in the basement of Badin Hall.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
❖ NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS *
SATURDAY, September 22—Freshmen vs. Varsity football game, Cartier field, 2:00 P. M.—Movies, Washington Hall, 6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00; Mass at 8:00 for Off-Campus students.—Meeting of Cleveland club, University Library, 10 A. M.—Meeting of Connecticut Valley club, University Library, 10:30, A. M.—Beginning of Upperclassmen’s Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 P. M.
TUESDAY—Knights of Columbus Meeting, Council chambers, Walsh Hall, 8 P. M.
WEDNESDAY — Upperclassmen’s Miss-sion, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30.
THURSDAY—Pep Meeting, University gymnasium, 6:30 P. M.—Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30.
FRIDAY—Meeting of Buffalo Club, Library, 7:30.—First Scholarship Dance of the year, Playland Park, South Bend, 8:30 to 11:00—Meeting of Scholastic staff, Scholastic room, Main building, 7 P. M.
SATURDAY — Upperclassmen’s Mission closes, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30.—Football,Notre Dame vs. Loyola, Cartier Field, 2 P. M.—Movies, Washington Hall, 6:30 and 8:30 P. M.—Football Dance sponsored by Junior class, Knights of Columbus ballroom, South Bend, 9-12 P. M.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS INSTALLS OFFICERS
Officers for the current year of Notre Dame Council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, were formally installed last Tuesray evening. The ceremony was performed in the Law Building.
The following men were installed: Grand Knight, Edward McKeown; Deputy Grand Knight, George Brautigan; Chancellor, Bart
McHugh; Advocate, Jos. Scales; Treasurer, John Mahoney; Recording Secretary, William Doyle; Warden, John Chevigney; Inside Guards, Robert Dockweiler and James Lyons; Outside Guard, Nick Boehling; Trustees, Father Reynolds, C.S.C., and Ray Hoyer.
Past Grand Knight Howard Phalin made a trip from Rochester, N. Y., to be present at the meeting. He addressed the members of the Council and urged them to continue their good work. All of the newly installed officers were called upon for speeches.
Plans were made at Tuesday’s meeting whereby the Council would bring John Philip Sousa and his celebrated 100-piece band for a concert on December fourth.
JUNIOR CLASS TO SPONSOR LOYOLA HOP
A dance will be held in the K. of C. ball room the evening of September 30 in honor of the visiting members of the Loyola University football team- The Junior class has taken active charge of arrangements fcr the affair, and expect a large attendance. Negotiations are under way to secure a prominent orchestra. Further details of the dance will be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic.
“PEP” MEETING NEXT THURSDAY
An old fashioned “pep” meeting will be held in the gym next Thursday evening, September 27, to arouse enthusiasm for the approaching football season, particularly the opening game with Loyola which will occur several days later. Coach Rockne, Coach Mills, Professor Manion, and one or two others well-known speakers have been invited to address the gathering.
The rally will climax a parade around the campus from hall to hall led by the band.
Registration in the University has surpassed any previous record. On the closing day of registration over one hundred applicants had been turned away, with many applications still coming, according to Rev. William Carey, C.S.C., Registrar of the University.	’
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
£P5H525H5E5BSH5a5H5aS25E5a5a5aS2S2SBSHS25aS252Sa5B5H5a5a5H5H5a5aSE5e52525E5B52Ea5H5E5E5H52525a5B5K I THE CAMPUS CLUBS - - - By Daniel D. Halpin I S5ESE5H5H5E5E525252SE5E5E5E5H5a5E5ESE5E525B5252525HSE5EEE525ESE5E525ESES2SH5E5E525a5E5252525a5H5d
CLUB SECRETARIES, ATTENTION!
The Scholastic staff for this year desires to give special notice to the various clubs and other campus organizations. The cooperation of the secretary of each club is necessary if the group is to receive the publicity due to its activity. Notices of meeting, banquets, smokers and dances should be given to the Club Editor, Dan Halpin, 138 Sophomore, or be left at the Scholastic office, second floor, events column.
In addition if you want the membep: of your club to know when a meeting is to be held, notify the Scholastic and it will be announced in the coming events column of the Scholastic.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
Though the youngest of campus clubs, the Connecticut Valley Club has the distinction of holding one of the most unique affairs in the history of campus organizations. On Saturday evening August 18, members, prospective members and Notre Dame Alumni, met at the Hotel Bond in Hartford for a get-together and banquet. Besides being the first meeting with the alumni the main purpose of the gathering was to acquaint incoming Freshmen with boys who were already on the campus.
From reception time until the strains of the “Victory March” marked the close of the function, it was most enjoyable. Prominent alumni and undergraduates addressed the' gathering. Music and other entertainment contributed materially toward making this initial meeting extremely successful.
The first Fall meeting of the Connecticut Valley Club will be held on Sunday morning, September 20, at 10 A. M. in the University Library. Plans are under way for the Christmas Dance to be held at the Hotel Bond, Hartford, Conn., Friday evening, December 28.
CHICAGO CLUB
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame held its annual mid-summer informal party at the Hotel Sherman, on the evening of August 10, 1928, in the Crystal and Louis XVI. rooms. Elmer Kaiser and his Radio Melody Masters furnished the music for the affair at which some three hundred couples attended.
This dance marked the first work of the new officers elected early in May, and under their excellent supervision the Club carried on the fine standards raised by the former president, Richard Halpin.
It would be well here to mention the names of the officers previously referred to, so that those unfamiliar with the activities of the Club may know in whose hands this prominent organization looks forward to another successful year. They are: Honorary President, Knute K. Rockne; President,
Edmund A. Collins; vice-president, Michael E. McGeogheghan; secretary, John T. Houlihan; treasurer, Thomas M. McNichola.
The first meeting of the Club will take place in the Faculty Dining Room on Friday evening, September 21, at 8:30 p. m. Plans will be discussed for the* dance to be held after the Navy game at a leading hotel in the city. All freshmen residing within a twenty-five mile radius of Chicago are asked to be present for the election of their class’ vice-president which will be decided at that time.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
John Ruthers as Chairman, assisted by Peter Morgan, Sam Caloruso and Edward Phiefer was responsible for the success of the Annual Spring Dance of the New Jersey Club held at the Hotel Suburban, East Orange, New Jersey. The dance was held in honor of the club members who graduate this year. Members of the Notre Dame baseball team were also guests on this occasion.
Joe Abbott, prominent Jersey Club member and Varsity Track man, is expected back in several days after having recuperated from his serious illness.
ENGINEERS
With approximately sixty members in attendance, the Engineers Club gathered in the Faculty Dining Hall to listen to Father Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former President of the University. He stressed the importance of Engineers in everyday life and the very optimistic future, that lies in front of those men equipped to think ahead and conceive new projects. From beginning to end his talk was most enjoyable' and appreciated by the technical men.
Refreshments were served and the meeting was closed after a few routine business matters were disposed of. (Always noted for its progressiveness the Engineers Club was the first to meet on the campus this year./ Plans are underway, to be announced shortly, regarding initiation and banquet in honor of new members of the club, according to President Karl Matersteck.
FORT WAYNE CLUB DANCE
One of the outstanding Notre Dame affairs of the summei’ months was the dance held by the Fort Wayne Club on September 8. Music furnished by Jack Ferris’s Orioles and the staging of the affair at the Elks Country Club aided riiaterially in providing a typical Notre Dame Dance. Bernard Kearns was General Chairman, assisted by Bob Eggeman, Bill Kink, Paul App and Walter Dillon.
The newly elected officers of the Fort Wayne Club are Frederick D. Schoppman, President; Frank Cor-bott, vice-president; Paul App, treasurer and Robert Vogelwede, secretary.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
AVE.
The opening of the school year presented to returning students a new face in the President’s office. We use the word new not in a literal sense, because Father Charles O’Donnell is not an unknown figure at Notre Dame. All his priestly life has been spent here, and much of it has been actively connected with the University. So we greet him as one of us and not as a stranger. We need not tell him we set no limitations to our welcome, no qualifications to our loyalty. He is our President, leader, and friend.
Even if it were in good taste it would be altogether supererogatory to surround our new President with a bodyguard of encomiums. His merits have been many times recognized and his services have been called for in very important positions of administration. He comes to us as a Notre Dame man, bringing with him a practical mind for a difficult position. He has achieved a name in poetry without the fostering of any patron. But should beloved parents begin to wonder if disquietudes about sons confided to the alma matership of Notre Dame be answered in rimed couplets, we beg to assure them Father O’Donnell also uses prose.
And so if we do not pursue further our President with laudation it is because we are certain he prefers to go unaccompanied. And so a safe journey to him. May the good mind that is his and the human kindness and the experience and the quieter energies he possesses stand him in good stead in every pressure of work. We wish him and the coworkers of his administration God’s guiding and blessing all the days of all the important years ahead.
VALE.
We anticipate your thought, of course, when we say our good-bye to Father Walsh. And the mercy of repression we exercised in favor of Father O’Donnell we shall also exercise in favor of Father O’Donnell’s predecessor.
Father Walsh has conferred a number of great benefits upon this University for which we shall always remain grateful. He built us three splendid dormitories in which to live and a sumptuous dining* hall in which to eat. All of us who have memories can recall other additions and improvements—but we are not writing a directory of the University. What is said of the physical developments of Notre Dame under Father Walsh’s administration may also be said of the spiritual and intellectual growth with equivalent truth. And through all this work of doing one could not but observe the self-effacement of the doer.
And now Father Matthew Walsh goes back to his meanderings in mediaeval history, tutoring eager freshman along winding ways where the great and the near great travelled and labored. It will be delightful work for him, much more delightful than deciding department conflicts or responding to an invitation for “a few words from the President.” It will be a great surcease surely to have no more meetings and no more discussions and no more problems of traffication to determine which suggestion shall have the right of way. School is out. Good luck to Father Walsh!
NUMBER FIFTY-SEVEN
With this issue the Scholastic enters its fifty-seventh year. As a vehicle of student expression it has successfully withstood the vicissitudes of the years until now it is ready to inaugurate one more year of devoted service to the interests of the great University which first gave it birth.-
A difficult task is ahead of the 1928 staff; but we ask no favors; desire no privileges! We will encounter the usual troubles attendant upon any college paper of this type. But we rest content in the knowledge that the students of Notre Dame appreciate that the 'Scholastic is a publication by and for them.
THE REVEREND CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., PH.D.
The head of every man is Christ.—I Cor., XI; 3.
FOR us who believe in God and in His Christ, life must have at least two dimensions. Two planes there are on which our. life is lived out, two worlds, if you wish, in which we have citizenship. We live and move in a world of sense whose reality better than almost all other men we know, whose origin we alone can satisfactorily explain, whose present use and whose ultimate significance can never be accounted for except on the basis that makes the beginning of our Faith. For indeed, one view of this world is not enough. Life is a riddle to the watcher whose vision is bounded by the limits of tinie and space- Of bulk, of movement, of growth, of historical processes of development, he may give fairly accurate report; he may study the play and interaction of those forces that enter into the composition of the human scene, and of these also our studious observer may venture some account and some explanation that approach the truth. Nevertheless, if he sees only the material world, he will not see even that; if to him man is only a product of earth, and with no destiny beyond the earth, then for this scholar even the palpable human day will be a night of mystery whose secret he cannot solve.. This is not theorizing merely. Already, for many centuries, this sort of scholar has toiled over the problem of human destiny. And, whether he be ancient or modern, he has left, squat and heavy on the sandy earth, his monument and a symbol cf his quest. It is sphynx, whose stony face, less baffling than baffled, seems to confess: “Here I am stopped. My science, my his-
Sermon delivered at the Solemn High Mass, Sun- . day, Sept. 16, the official opening of the school year.
tory, my philosophy, turn at last into stone, stagnant and static. I give up the riddle of life. Let the winds blow and the sands run. It is all the same—Nothing.” Unfaith, thus, ends in negation and in contemptuous scorn of those very things to which, and that very being to whom, it had limited its entire concern and dedicated all its devotion.
Now, my dear professors and students, the act which brings us together this morning is an act of faith. We have accepted a solution and embraced a way of life not without difficulty to the reason, and not without effort to the will. For faith is a venture. Indeed, your Christian is your colossal gambler, as seen by the world’s cautious eyes. “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you.” “God and His Kingdom—where are they?” ask the disciples of unbelief. “These things we know, and we know them ultimately for rubbish, but still they are all we do know and we take them at their conventional value. But since the poverty, the worthlessness of all things is only too plain, why create fictitious values, why multiply myths? God and His Kingdom say nothing to us.”
“What doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his soul?” Again, the scholars of unfaith will answer: “It profits nothing to gain the whole world, that we grant you. It is a long time since we have gained the whole world, as it seems to us—and ‘what is it all but a trouble of ants in the gleam of a million million of suns?’ But, as for soul and its loss, in all our study and in all our investigation, we have discovered no such thing as a soul. We have no soul to lose.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
And once again they challenge us: “You say ‘We have not here a lasting city, our conversation (that is, our citizenship), is in heaven.’ We hold no brief for the eternity of matter, the everlastingness of time. Still, the only cities we know are cities built by hands. Heaven is but a dream, a myth, an opiate. At least we take life as we find it, without quailing, without cringing, without delusion. You, on the other hand," they say to us, “risk an immediate and certain present, staking all upon a remote and improvable future. You take the supreme chance. You throw away your life for nothing.” Our only answer is one which but increases their difficulty: “He that will save his life shall lose it: and he that shall lose his life for My sake, shall find it.” And this answer brings us to the central core of our Catholic Faith which is neither an abstraction nor a formulary of belief, but a living Person who is at once both God and man.
I have no intention of proving the Divinity of Christ. Rather, I shall simply state the tremendous doctrine of the Incarnation, for the bearing it has upon our common purpose. This, then, is the doctrine and the fact. The Second Person of the Blessed Trinity became man. We know what man is, a finite creature, with a body that is animal and a soul that is spiritual, being in his own person neither the one nor the other, but a third something, the resultant of the union of these other two. Now, Infinite God assumed finite human nature. He became that particular Man known in history as Jesus Christ. He took a finite body of flesh like ours. He took a finite rational soul like ours. These He joined to His own all-sufficient Person and to that Divine nature which He could not lay aside. Thus, to the nature and the Person of God were united a human nature to make a being who was, accordingly, both God and Man. So that contemporaries of Christ in Galilee could point to Him and say, “That Man walking there is God. . God is that Man.” Observe, there were not two persons in Christ. There was only one Person, and that Person was the Second Person of the Trinity, the Son of God.
Once upon a time, therefore, was born of
a human Mother a Child who had no human father, because the Child was Himself Almighty God, the Unbeginning One. He looked out of dying eyes, who was Himself Athanatos, the Undying One. He knew things, He even learned things with a human mind who was, in Himself, the Uncreated Wisdom. He obeyed laws, those physical laws which are an expression of the order of nature,—the laws affecting the growth of His own body, for example—and civil and religious laws, who was Himself the Supreme Law-giver and Ruler of the universe. He walked our earth, eating our bread, and working with His hands and with His mind as we work with ours; He suffered pain of body and soul, (mysteriously enough, since He had before Him always the Beatific Vision,) and, finally, He suffered that violent though temporary separation of soul and body which we know as death. He was completely man, except of course that He had no human personality and that being God He was without sin. It is easy to imagine worlds beyond our own, populated either with beings like ourselves or different from us. It is possible to imagine that upon these other worlds occurred some special manifestation of God equivalent to His Incarnation on our planet. That, however, is in the realm of pure conjecture. What we know for certain is, God did become Man. Mars and other heavenly bodies may surprise us, at the end of time, with their revelation of God, supposing them to have had some special dispensation. We need not fear for our honors. The race of man, we men, shall show them Jesus Christ.
That God became man is the most important, and I think, the most heartening of all truth. Granted that man has a lower nature which he shares with the brutes. Granted that he abuses this and his higher nature, that rational spirit which is in him somehow a partaking of God’s nature- Granted his ignorance, his folly, his weakness, his wickedness, his malice, all of which makes such sorry reading in the history of the race: nevertheless there is this one shining, blazing, incontestably triumphant fact, God is his actual Blood-Brother. A creature of clay, kind
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
red to the beasts of the field? Even so. “Behold the Lamb of God,” said John the Baptist. “Behold the Man,” cried Pilate. And to this Being St. Peter made confession for us all, when he declared, “Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God.”
“Qui propter nos homines et propter nostram salutem descendit de cselis,” we read in the Credo of the Mass. It was for sake of us men, to save us, that there was this Incarnation. We may hold that there would have been no such figure as Christ in the history of our race except the redemption of man had been both possible and desirable. Men have given their lives that others might live. Men have become slaves to set other slaves free. By this we judge the value they set upon life and liberty. So when God becomes man—I do not now speak of His death for us—the invested worth of man receives its ultimate and unassailable demonstration. Man, the thief; man, the profligate; man, the murderer, is none the less man, and to the all-knowing mind of God was somehow worth the Incarnation.
I suppose this is the broadest principle upon which we can unite in our special work of education. For the student no less than for the professor it is the starting point and the goal. “The head of every man is Christ.” In the pessimism of our time—which is little different from the pessimism of any other time—it is important to remember, and it is important to make much of the value of our
common humanity. Man is somebody. Strip him of all personal possession, you can not rob him of this glory, that he has the body and soul which God took on, that he is a man as God was once a Man.
To see in ourselves, then, to see in others with whom we live and work, this essential kinship with God should be the great inspiring force in education. We are not and can never be just so much clay, just so many brain cells that are to be taught to function. Body and soul can not alienate themselves from their social history, can not disavow their relationship in the human family, the head of which, naturally and supernaturally, is Christ Himself.
Therefore we seek to know truth for love of truth and to improve ourselves for love of goodness. For us education can have no other ultimate aim. Whatever academic conflict and confusion there may be, we still gave heed to those voices calling: from an ampler ether, a diviner air:” “Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His justice and all these things shall be added unto you.” “What doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his soul?” “We have not here a lasting city; our conversation (i. e. our citizenship) is in heaven.” For Catholic education, like Catholic life, moves in the infinity of God, brought down to us and kept close to us by the Incarnation of His only begotten Son, in Whom we live and move and are.
SUPPLICATION
Life, thou art pregnant with designs That keep the heart and hand of man apart, Since Fate, your minister, declines To abdicate; but cruelly stands athwart The way betwixt man’s dreams and deeds.
I, though, implore no pardon from Your tyranny. For I must live. And you, xvith all your tedium, Prepare us for what earth-gained virtues give To subjects just, when Death succeeds.
But, oh! I ask of you just this-.
That you, in kindness, will that it be mine Then hardships will be drowned in bliss, For I’ll have heaven—even before my time.
—VIBGINORE HUGHES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	21
Football King, As Irish. Gird For Battle
Once more a band of stalwart, sweating youths have gathered together to forge a new link in the mighty chain of football tradition which is the heritage of Notre Dame. Once more the hallowed turf of Cartier echoes with their shouts and the dull thump of cleats on pigskin. Once more a bald, stocky, familiar figure barks orders and runs the large squad by the sheer, smashing force of his dominant personality alone. For the great god football has awakened and his devotees, under the leadership of the high priest, Rockne, have begun to pay him homage.
The Irish have no cinch this year, not that they ever have had, but this year’s schedule is, if anything, tougher than ever before. Nine hard games with the pick of the nation’s best teams: Loyola of New Orleans, Wisconsin, Navy, Georgia Tech, Drake, Penn State, Army, Carnegie Tech, and Southern California. But the sturdy wearers of the Blue and Gold are not dismayed, for inspired with the same fighting spirit which made Gipp, Salmon, and Walsh what they were, they will enter into each contest not “to die fighting, but to fight to live,”—to win!
Fourteen of last year’s lettermen have forever put away their collegiate moleskins. They are John “Clipper” Smith, Captain and All-American left guard, who has returned this year as line-coach; “Christy” Flanagan, he of the snaky hips and winged feet; “Joe” Prelli and “Bucky” Dahman, as clever a pair of right halves as ever donned cleats; McKinney and Riley, two brainy quarterbacks ; “Chile” Walsh, “Joe” Benda, “Ike” Voedisch and “Jim” Hurlburt, four crashing ends; “Bull” Poliskey?- a powerful tackle who will coach this year’s freshman team; “Chunky” Murrin, a hard working guard; John Fred. erick, a light but clever center; and Elmer
Wynne, one of the best defensive fullbacks Notre Dame has ever known.
A redeeming feature of the Notre Dame 1928 football outlook, however, is the fact that approximately the same number of monogram men are back, namely, “Fred” Miller, captain and left tackle; John Law, George Leppig, John Cannon, and “Gus” Bondi, guards; “Jerry” Ransavage, “Jack” McGrath, and John Doarn, tackles; “Tim” Moynihan, center; John Colrick, end; “Butch” Niemic, John Chevigny, and “Billy” Dew, halfbacks; “Fred” Collins, fullback; and “Jim” Brady and “Joe” Morrissey, quarterbacks. With these as a nucleus, together with men from last season’s reserves and several promising sophomores, Rockne ■will mould together another great team. Every position, save that of right end, has at least one monogram man to fill it, but none, except perhaps Miller, Collins, Chevigny, Moynihan, Leppig, Law, and Niemic, are sure of their berths. A large number of very determined, very earnest young men are daily battling mightily to break into the select circle-
Prominent among the reserves and freshmen of last year who are striving for the team are “Joe” Nash, “Frank” Leahy, “Gil” Prendergast, and “Tom” Yarr, all intent on giving Moynihan a battle for his position; “Bill” Jones, “Joe” Locke, “Bert” Metzger, Norman Herwitt, and Peter Bee are giving last year’s veteran guards something to think about; “Dick” Donoghue, “Gene” Mahoney, “Al” Culver, “Ted” Twomey, and Tom McManmon are waging war among themselves to see who will understudy the four tackles left from last year; “Eddie” Collins, Frank Kersjes, and John O’Brien are pressing Colrick for his berth at left end, while Manford Vezie, Tommy Murphy,
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
George Vik, and Tom Conley are striving among themselves to see who will fill the vacant job at right end. “Tom” Kenneally, “Frank” Carideo, and “Bud” Gebert are ready to step into Brady’s or Morrissey’s shoes if occasion demands; “Jack” Montroy, “Jack” Reilley, and the diminuitive “Hooley” Smith are striving to displace Chevigny and Dew at right halfback; “Jack” Elder, “Jim” Bray, and “Moon” Mullins, are battling to understudy Niemic, and “Dinny” Shay, Walter Covington, and “Pat” Conway are working hard to displace “Freddie” Collins at fullback.
These then, are the men who, with one or two others, will carry the standard of Our Lady into nine hard-fought, interesting battles. Theirs is no easy task even with the
“master mind” of modern football guiding their destinies. Theirs is no sinecure, for every team, be they from the East or West, North or South, dreams and hopes, nay, prays for the day when the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame shall bow in defeat before them. Most teams have two, or at the most, three opponents who point for them. When Notre Dame plays a nine-game schedule, nine teams point for Notre Dame.
Win or lose, this team will know that it has the school behind it. Win or lose, this team will rest secure with the confidence that it has done its best. It will accept praise modestly in victory and will have no alibi in defeat. It will win, but will not be victorious ; it will be defeated, perhaps, but never beaten.	—H.A.S., JR.
1928 Notre Dame Football Schedule
Sept. 29—At Cartier Field, Loyola (New Orleans) vs. Notre Dame
Oct 6—At Madison, Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame
Oct. 13—At Chicago, U. S. Naval Academy vs. Notre Dame
Oct. 20—At Atlanta, Georgia Tech vs. Notre Dame.
Oct. 27—At Cartier Field, Drake vs- Notre Dame
Nov. 3—At Philadelphia, Penn State vs. Notre Dame
Nov. 10—At New York, U. S. Military Academy vs. Notre Dame
Nov. 17—At Cartier Field, Carnegie Tech vs. Notre Dame
Dec. 1—At Los Angeles, Southern California vs. Notre Dame.
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE TRUE TO PRECEDENT
From all corners of the nation they come, the country’s foremost elevens, each determined to fulfill the lifelong ambition of every football coach—to lick Notre Dame. Nine strong teams will oppose the Irish gridders this fall, and of these not one can fairly be regarded as a set-up^ but rather, any one may develop into an up-set. The schedule presents a remarkable example of geographical distribution: The East is represented by four of its best football aggregations, Army, Navy, Penn State, and Carnegie Tech; the banner of Dixie is to be borne by Georgia Tech and Loyola of New Orleans; in the Mid
dle West, Wisconsin and Drake will entertain the Rockmen; and far out on the Pacific coast, the Trojans of Southern California will attempt to stem the Hoosier tide.
On September 29, the Saturday following the annual “Freshman Frolic,” eleven husky gentlemen from New Orleans will try to disprove the ancient tradition that Notre Dame cannot be beaten on her home field. Although Loyola was generally regarded as a disappointment last season, having encountered two defeats by very close scores, it must be remembered that the southerners had previously experienced three successive years without a single set-back. The New Orleans club is coached by Clark Shaughnessy, the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
old mentor who in years past turned ou the wonder teams of Tulane. Louisiana fans have explicit confidence that their “Maroon Cyclone” cannot be stopped. Certain it is that the Wolves will afford stiff opposition to the Irish in the opening fray.
Ever since their defeat at the hands of the great Notre Dame team of 1924, the Badgers of Wisconsin have been snarling for a chance to avenge themselves; and hence the game at Madison on October 6, is regarded by them as a golden opportunity. Coached by Glenn Thistlethwaite, the genius who developed many strong elevens at Northwestern, and by Tom Lieb, the old Notre Dame star, the men of Wisconsin have become prepared to meet the Irish attack. After this fray, the Rockmen will play their third successive game in the Middle West, having the Navy as an opponent on Soldier Field, Chicago. Inspired by the “Don’t give up the ship” traditions of many great seamen, the middies will certainly fight to the final whistle. Captain Burke of the Navy, a powerful guard, is expected to provide formidable opposition to the Irish forward wall.
Next the “Golden Tornado” of Georgia Tech will sweep upon Rockne’s men down in sunny Atlanta. For the past six seasons, the southern gentlemen have battled unsuccessfully against the Irish offense; but this year, with a veteran team, they hope to turn the tables. On October 27, the Drake team will perform its annual song-and-dance act on Cartier Field. The Bulldogs from Des Moines were greatly displeased by the whitewashes administered them during the last two years; and now they are growing to sink their teeth in Notre Dame victory hopes. On the Saturday following, the Nittany Lions of Penn State will play hosts to the Irish on Franklin Field, Philadelphia. Hugo Bezdek will surely have his big, powerful team primed for this contest, too-, because the Keystoners also have previous defeats at the hands of the Irish to attempt to atone for.
Then follows the three so-called “crucial” games with Army at New York, Carnegie Tech on Cartier Field, and the University of Southern California at Los Angeles. These three teams alone would comprise a card stiff
23
enough for any eleven, but coming as they do, at the conclusion of a strenuous schedule, they will be extremely hard indeed. The Army Mule, guided by Captain Sprague and augmented by the shifty hips of the AllAmerican halfback Cagle, is determined to kick the Notre Dame machine to a second consecutive defeat. This will be the fifteenth annual meeting of the time-honored rivals. But November 17 will be the red-letter day on the Rockne program. At that time, the “Fighting Scotch” of Carnegie Tech will wage war with the “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame. The Tartans have a line which averages 200 pounds; a backfield averaging 185 pounds; and a reputation that has no regard for averages. This game will probably be the most intensely-fought contest on the Irish schedule.
The final chapter of Notre Dame football history for 1928 will be written at Los Angeles on December first. The Trojans, who in the last two years have discovered the value of every single point, are determined that no one-point margin shall separate their score- from Notre Dame’s this time. Great things are expected of Howard Jones’ charges this fall. Jesse Hibbs, an All-American selection of last fall, will be back at his old berth at tackle; and the usual U.S.C. offense, with smashing wing-backs, will be functioning again.	—J.G.P.
INTERHALL PRACTICE TO GET UNDER WAY SHORTLY
With the opening of what will probably one of the greatest Interhall football seasons ever enjoyed at Notre Dame but a few days distant, Father Vincent Mooney, Director of • the School of Physical Education, who will again have charge of the season, and his staff of assistants are hard at work getting everything into working order. Equipment is being collected at the central supply room and the Interhall gridders will be outfitted much in the same manner as the varsity. Pants, jerseys, shoes, and helmets are being reconditioned and new equipment will be bought to replace that destroyed or worn out-
As last year, the teams will again be
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fOLFAY
THEATRE/W
Home of Paramount Pictures
Vitaphone Presentations SEE and HEAR The Premier Collegiate Glee Club NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB Direction JOS. J. CASASANTA
EARL BURTNETT ORCHESTRA
Connolly & Wenrich
Starting Saturday
SEE
and
HEAR stace.,heBat-
The Greatest Mystery Since	in
Another
talking picture
The Terror
—With—
MAY McAVOY and HOLMES HERBERT
T„u-n THRILL! Y.u’n BAM!
YnuHHOWL^^HU
Impelling Mystery Play.
coached by Physical Education and Boy Kuidance men, and officiating at all the games will again be taken care of by the varsity reserves. Using the fine season enjoyed last year as a criterion, small fear is entertained that any snags will arise to interrupt the smooth operation planned for this season. Men desiring positions as coaches should apply to Father Mooney.
The schedule is now being drawn up, and will be of the Round Robin variety which proved so successful last season. Each team will meet every other team once; the championship to be decided on a games won and lost basis. The schedule will be available shortly and will be published in an early number of the Scholastic.-
NICHOLSON CALLS HARRIERS FOR FIRST WORKOUT
First call for cross-country practice was sounded Tuesday, September 12, by Coach Nicholson, and a promising squad of harriers responded. Led by Captain Bill Brown, a veteran of two seasons, the squad shows great promise of developing into a better team than last year. Six monogram men and several reserves from the 1927 team, together with a number of last Fall’s freshmen cross-country men will form the nucleus of this year’s combination.
Tre first meet is scheduled for October 6 when the team travels to Madison, Wisconsin, for a dual competition with the strong Badger harriers who ranked second in the Big Ten last year. This meet will be run during the halves of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game.
In addition to the Badgers all of the outfits met during the last season will be on the 1928 card. These include Northwestern, Indiana, Michigan State, Marquette, and Illinois. The team will also participate in the Central Conference and Indiana State meets.
Captain Bill Brown, John Brown, Bob Brennan, John Vaichulis, Charles Schlickert, and Tom Hopkins are the letter men back, while Ryan, Smith, Ladner, Biggins and one or two others are counted upon to press them closely.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
NOTRE DAME EASTERN DIAMOND INVASION SUCCESSFUL
EDITOR’S NOTE:—Although the following baseball games were played in June, they were played at a time when the entire student body was away from school. Therefore, the editor feels that a short prite-up of each would not be apropos in this issue.
JUNE 7—BOSTON COLLEGE 8—N. D. 1
With their start against Villa Nova on June 5 and their second tilt at Holy Cross June 6 rained out; Fate decreed that the Notre Dame squad should make the first game at Boston over into a model of Shakespeare’s Comedy of Errors. Oscar Rust on the mound for the Hoosiers proved no puzzle at all to the men from the Bean City and he was relieved by Jachym after the fifth but not before Boston had touched his delivery for seven runs and practically cinched the game. All the blame for those seven runs does not rest on Rust’s broad Shoulders though, for his team-mates aided the Bay State outfit in making a gala day of it by contributing seven errors—most of them at critical moments. The Irish fielding was bad, their hitting was off,, and, all in all, they looked very little like the team that had successfully conquered the Middle West.
JUNE 9—NOTRE DAME 20—HARVARD 1
Slump forgotten and still smarting from the sting of the Boston defeat the Fighting Irish lived up to their name when, with blood in their eyes and powder in their bats, they clouted the offerings of Barabee, Harvard’s ace, to every corner of the field to so completely demoralize the Cambridge lads that the game was in the bag at the end of the fourth inning; Notre Dame leading at that time 16-0. Behind the perfect pitching of Ed. Walsh, who fanned ten men and let Harvard down with seven well scattered hits, the Gold and Blue batsmen, led by Schrall, Lordi, and Walsh had a Roman Holiday until the fifth frame when, tired of the orgy, they rested until the eighth only to boom again and push over four more runs. Harvards lone tally came in the sixth.
JUNE 11—NEW HAMPSHIRE 9—N. D. 0
With the thunder of the big guns stilled by the wizardry of Slaton, who allowed the Irish sluggers but two hits, the Mountaineers fathomed Walsh’s offerings and clubbed out
GYM SHOES SWEAT SHIRTS
BERMAN’S
“If it comes from Berman’s it must be good.”
126 North Michigan Street
RADIO	RIFLES
'/PJ jI'oi'P/i y/Zdru
TRIMBLE HATS AND CAPS
Scheyer-Tailored Suits and Topcoats
Adler-Rocheste r Suits and Topcoats $48.00
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear.
26	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HELLO BOYS!
WELCOME HOME! ------6-
Brubaker’s
Restaurant
Home of Tasty Foods --------o- Corner LaSalle and Hydraulic Sts.
six runs before Jachym relieved him in the third. Jachym proved more of a puzzle and for four innings held the Easterners at bay only to be nicked for three runs in the eighth. As later events proved, these were a mere formality for Slaton had the Indian sign on the Gold and Blue bats and sent them down hitless inning after inning. He was accorded a network of fielders through which it seemed nothing could pass, and was never in a position even hinting of danger. •
JUNE 14—PROVIDENCE 6—NOTRE DAME 1
In a game marred by player-umpire and coach-umpire arguments, Providence College, defeated Coach Mill’s performers in the fourth game of the trip, 6-1. Ed Walsh pitched good ball for the Hoosiers but was inclined to wildness walking six men and letting in two runs on what were officially wild pitches. He was credited with nine strikeouts and allowed but five hits; but as only one run of the game was an earned one that meant little.
JUNE 15—NOTRE DAME 1—AMHERST 0
An errorless pitching' duel that went twelve innings before Pithie, Amherst hurler weakened and allowed the Irish to score on Griffin’s single, Moran’s sacrifice, and Bray’s single to right was the high light of the trip. Jachym was on the mound for the Gold and Blue and outdid himself. Fifteen of the Amherst men who faced him walked back to the bench without having hit anything heavier than air and only two were able to connect hard enough to get on base. Until late in the eleventh inning it looked like no hit game for Jachym but the gods of baseball willed otherwise and he was nicked for one bingle in this frame and for another in the last.
JUNE 16—NOTRE DAME 7—CORNELL 5
With Rust atoning for his disastrous washout of the Boston game by pitching good ball, and allowing but eight hits, the Notre Dame bats crashed again and pounded the slants of Lewis for three runs in the third and four more tallies in the sixth to wind up the trip in a blaze of glory. Schrall and Sullivan averted calamity and probably extra innings in the eighth when a neat double play nipped a Cornell rally in the bud and ended their last serious threat.	—j.h.z.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	27
Identify the Lifetime pen by this white dot
Others lower
Skrip, successor to ink, makes all pens write better, and the Lifetime pen write best.
The seal of approval
A recent survey of leading universities and colleges conclusively showed that in forty-one per cent of them Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 writing tools are first in favor. LIGHTEST TOUCH response, yet a nib fortified to produce easily three carbons of notes, correspondence, confidential matters, ^ives the Lifetime pen first place wherever pen values are carefully considered. Unconditionally guaranteed for a lifetime, the beauty and economy of these writing twins have easily earned them the seal of approval.
"Lifetime” pen, $8.75
Lady "Lifetime’, $7.50
"Lifetime Titan oversize pencil to match, $4.25
At better stores everywhere
SHEAFFER’S
VX PENS- PENCILS •SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON,IOWA
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CARL D. LOVE, Mgr. H. CLIZBE KING
THE
LITTLE DUTCH CLEANERS
Campus Representatives
Suits Pressed and Delivered for Fifty Cents
Hotel LaSalle
Telephone 3-5687
LET US PLAN YOUR CLUB BANQUETS AND PARTIES
Quotations Gladly Furnished.
Hotel LaSalle
South Bend’s Newest Hotel
J. KENNETH QUALLEY—’27 JOS. E. WHALEN—’29
He wanted a comfortable
Room—
—so he visited Wyman’s third floor for help. He selected some small Axminster rugs ($3 to $8) and several plump cretonne pillows ($1.75) for a little “home” atmosphere. Then he chose a red card table with black top at $4.75. And now he is having curtains made for his windows in the drapery department at a very nominal cost. If you are wise you will follow his lead 1
WYMAN’S ■.. . »
KNUTE ROCKNE
TAD JONES
Advisory Coach at Yale
GLENN WARNER
Coach at Stanford University
—And—
FRANKLYN E. DOAN
Sports Editor of the New-Times
Write Exclusively for the
SOUTH BEND NEWS-TIMES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
29
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WELCOME BACK
NOTRE DAME!
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST ’
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
V	-	—
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
v-	■
ORTHOPHONIC”
NEW VICTOR SOC AUTOMATIC PORTABLE	stop
c	..	-
Welcome Notre Dame!
Outtodau
Calais
Victor Records
104-06 S. MICH. SOUTH BEND
Indiana's Most Beauiftul Ballroom
30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The great grand-daddy of your Fish Brand Slicker
It was made in 1836—a husky-piece of oilskin built to fit the broad back of a Grand Banks fisherman.
The modem descendants of these old-time slickers are college bred, sophisticated. But under their stylish exterior is the old, dependable stuff.
The “Varsity” model is big and roomy, keeps your legs dry right down to the ankles. Your choice of colors and styles—buttons or buckles—strap-collar or plain.
Get a Tower’s Fish Brand Slicker—" The Rainy Day Pal”— and be ready for rain. A. J. Tower Company, Boston, Mass.

_ __ _ tendency to
l\pommate 5™“
Rooming with a Remington Portable adds
to the enjoy-
ment of college life. It is always ready to help with your work. Long reports and theses can be turned out in far less time, as compared with laborious long-hand methods. Then, too, think of the greater neatness and legibility of typewritten work ! Any prof, being human, will have a
marks.
Remington Portable is the recognized leader in sales and popularity. Smallest, lightest, most dependable, most compact standard keyboard portable. Weighs only 8/^ pounds, net. Carrying case only 4 inches high.
You can buy it on easy payments.

PHONE 3-1254
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
Notre Dame University
Remington Portable
Kcmington-Rand Business Service, Inc. 221 West Washington St., South Bend, Indiana
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
261 ASSOCIATES BLDG.
— ---------
Off-Campus Students Patronize the UNIVERSITY CAFE
Sodas Candy Cigars Newspapers .............
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
Off-Campus Students!
J_|AVE you got your smoker or a study lamp for your room? 1 1 These and other things can be had at low prices at Robertson’s.
Study Lamps, colonial design...........$2.95
Study Table, good size.................$5.95
Comfortable Chairs and Rockers........$10.95
Metal Smokers .........................$1.50
Other Smokers, to $25.
Fifth Floor—Furniture.
Robertsonwothers Co.
Open 8:3O-Close 5:30	Saturdays Open until 9
209-17 South Michigan Street, South Bend.
THE OLIVER
BARBER SHOP
Forever introducing the New—
COMPLETE COURTEOUS SERVICE
Manicuring
205 W. Washington Ave. THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
Ositoortfj’jS
32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OFFICE 2-1067 RESIDENCE 3-4041
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
DENTISTRY
701-702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Dr. Frank M. Powers
UniversityPhysician
ESTABLtSHEP ENGLISHUNIVERSITY STYLES.TAILOREC)^YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOL-ELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE	STATES.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OCR STORE IS THE
Office: 3-6978 Residence 2-6741
f South Bend
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
nr1" .......
MAX ADLER CO.
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.. ■ . .
Aint It a Grand and Glorious Feelin? : :	: By briggs
© P. Lorillard Co., Em. 1760	.
not a cough in a carload
4
I