The Notre Dame Scholastic
677
Qmiimiiiiiiimmiimimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiimiiiitimtiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiitmtiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiimiiimumtivg
NOTES ON LIVING
Some months ago we were standing on^the western edge of America. North of us, San Francisco, a tale told by a mellow man of the world, softly tossed its many hued words over the Golden Gate; south of us, Los Angeles, a realistic story written and re-written by an ultra-modern author, shouted exclamation points and cried semicolons—but never a period!
Between the two city-stories we stood, looking out over the ocean, conscious of the lands piled up like boxes of iron behind us.
Noire Dame Scholasi io
Disee- Quasi- Semper-Viciuvus-Vive-Quasi-CTas-MorituTi»
Founded, in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel..... Joseph B. Reedy.... J. Archer Hurley. .. Walter Langford .... William Knapp...... Ramon G. Smith..... Paul J. Hallinan...
EDITORIAL STAFF
Edward
E. Brennan
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
.......Managing	Editor Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor .................The Week .......The College Parade
.........Music	and Drama
.............Campus	Clubs ...........Features.Editor .’...........Script.Editor
We had always thought of the world as an orchestra; and there we knew we were right. The terrific plunges of the Pacific were massed brasses, the shrieks of the sea-gulls wild calls of wilder flutes.
James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Neil Hurley Lawrence Dunda George Allan Richard J. O’Donnell James Kearney
Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody Leslie Raddatz
William J. Magarral Harry A. Sylvester,
Jr.
SPORTS STAFF John A. Kiener, Sports Henry B. Asman
Editor
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Thousands of miles away the Orient boiled over the enormous vats of water in a pear-colored vapor; inland, in back of us, the hills were like fat candles, burning with the dark flame of the trees, their ferns lumps of green wax. And all the time the great rocks took the continuous foam-tipped blare of the sea—and shed it, calmly and quietly, like sleeping lions shaking the drops of a shower.
But it was not a scene calculated to produce calm in the mind; rather it occasioned in us a strange stirring, and a rather smiling regard for those who saw what we saw as the only thing present—the only reality—saw only the sea as the sea, the hills as the hills, all there because they happened to be.
An Englishman of the past century who usually saw things as they moved (as they are) rather than as they stood (as they seem), said that what to others a trifle appeared filled him full of smiles or tears.
He was laughed at—by many. And yet, standing there on the edge of the Pacific it struck us that he, after1 all, knew the only things worth knowing. For life is too short to know (if we know at all) anything but the really worth while!
—M. H. L.
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman. .. .Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis James L. Rizer. ...
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
Vol. LXIII
Ek.
___Local Advertising Manager Foreign Advertising Manager
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy Joe King
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
z
E
MARCH 14, 1930
No. 22
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—J. Archer Hurley.
Coming Events___________
The Wink________________
Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith—------------------- College Parade---------------------------------
Editor’s Page__________________________________
Trackmen Win Fourth C. I. C. Title—Henry B. Asman
Blue and Gold Five Trim Quakers
Baseball Captain Sees Good Season Ahead—William J. Magarral—
N. D. Again Sponsors C. I. T. Tournament—William J. Magarral—
Interhall Items_____:--------------------------------------
Program of Events and Entries for Interhall Track Meet.
Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester, Jr._ On Down the Line______________________________—•------------
678
679
686
687
688
689
690
690
692
692
693
694
701
704
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
i
▼V ITH regrettable familiarity the commoner kind of sandal shuffling Persian addressed magicians as magi. A magi was a hybrid, garden variety of priest, philosopher, and conjurer. His powers were limited only by his salestalk and the curiosity of the rabble. Magicians in our day have to compete with college educations, John Erskine, and the sort of young man who believes nothing inexplicable except his own genius. The sleight of hand performer who braved us Monday night was rather handicapped because he slighted his magic. Guild members back in the age that was dark enough to put light in glass and tone in a violin had a slogan to the effect that the cobbler should stick to his last. Magicians were also to keep their hands occupied with the wand and not pry deft fingers into the dusty oblivion of the Bible, or to wrench the lid from mouldy mummy cases. Our entertainer made the mistake of summarizing the encyclopedia in his lower Wisconsin dialect, before he realized that we had hoped for hats and rabbits, rather than for chronologies and reminiscences.
/^^TTILA and his Huns poked their fierce eyes and wild beards into many a colorful great hall window, to rout smugness with panic. Later Von Hindenburg promised his men the wine cellars of France, but the odds untimely knocked the bottom from the beer keg of the Fatherland. Goose-stepping, large bodied men of that race invaded our marts; sometimes in lusty thirties, often in lonely threes they followed squat, puffing bandmasters. Sausages, wandering red whiskers, Daschunds, and long curled pipes came with the German bands in their humanness and homeliness. Bands now are too apt to be brought out with firecrackers and military reviews—they are for occasions only. “Pomp and Circumstance,” rather a harsh name for a musical masterpiece, as it was played by Casasanta’s bandsmen Sunday night was a revelation that rolled through Washington with the rumble of thunder and softness of shower. Faint echoes still ring in the dell of memory, a tribute and a joy to our conductor.
^2) NE should not expect too much of a world where weeds grow quicker than cabbages, where women outnumber philosophies, and where loafing and leisure are considered ungainly, twin-born rogues. Not long ago the newspapers, those foster-fathers of eccentric brain storms, carried the story of a sincere loafer. Though in perfect health, this man had not left his bed for twenty years, and when officials came to take his old mother to the poor house, they also brought the languid son—by carrying him on a bed. To a sociologist who takes his statistics seriously such an instance is distressing. But to the believer in leisure the humour and pathos of this egregious loafer is worth more as a lesson to humanity than all the standardization in Woolworth’s. Sociology in its ideal sees humanity in neat little tin soldier rows. Tin soldiers have generals, perhaps because they are too heavy; and the difficulty is that we shall be angry if the plume isn’t in our hat, and shall cease playing at being sociological. Nothing ever- happens to a patent milk bottle—its life is filled with emptyings. But a street urchin has a spark in his eyes that will sometime light a holocaust, though it singe nothing but his own soul.
^^RASS and weeds clumped about the bottom, leaning leisurely to the North, a wooden lamp-post stands on a lonely street. Green paint is chipping off, the iron top rusty, and a shattered gas mantle trembles with every gust. Drunkards leaned on such posts, little girls scampered through the gloom from one lighted haven to the next, and in the early morning crows and blackbirds asserted then- < dominion over civilization by jauntily preening their tails atop the iron lamp. Neat, new poles with frosted globes have ousted the old regime, and this solitary guards the . office of an aged and sentimental doctor. Melancholy haunts	.
reminders. Old patriarchs hate to die, though life for them	j
has only living. Bases are piling for the new stadium, and Cartier is fading. We shall sigh when we come back for . the memory of cheers that rang from the old boards. School, | buildings; men, and friends will weaken in time. But a beam will ever rise from this ground higher than the hoped	I
for top of Babel; a rainbow of ideal, prayer, and aspiration	■
reaching to eternity. We are putting the colors in that beam, deep, delicate—and only dreamers who see visions can know it is there.	.	O
The Notre Dame Scholastic
679
-----------------------------$
Coming Events
♦--------—---------------------
FRIDAY, March 14 — Scholastic staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Publications office, Main Building.—Pacific Northwest Club meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m. — Fashion Number of the Juggler on the stands.
SATURDAY, March 15—Track, Illinois Relays at Champaign.—Movies, “This Is Heaven,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Finals, interhall track championships, 1:00 p. m., University Gymnasium.
SUNDAY, March 16—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m. —English Major Qualification Examination.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
MONDAY, March 17—St. Patrick’s Day.—Rocky Mountain Club meeting, Law Building, 7:15 p. m.— Dead-line for Campus Club Section of the Dome write-ups and pictures. —Joint meeting Engineers’ Club and the A. S. M. E., Badin Hall, 8:00 p. m— K. of C. St. Patrick Dance, K. of C. Ballroom.
TUESDAY, March 18—Akron Club Smoker, Brownson “Rec” Room, 8:00 p. m.—Notre Dame Academy of Science, Presentation of Keys, Science Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “Rec” room, 7:45 p. m.—Wranglers Club meeting, Walsh Hall Public Speaking room, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 20—Spectators meeting, Journalism Room of the Library, 7:45 p. m.—Spanish Club meeting,'Law Building, 7:30 p. m. Editorial Staff meeting, Publications office, Main Building, 7 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 22 — Movies, “The Winning of Barbara Worth,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
ATTENTION SENIORS!
All orders for senior invitations must be in by March 20th. Orders are to be placed with the various hall representatives, and must be paid for in advance.
MATERIAL FOR “DOME” BEING RECEIVED
Jerry Parker, feature editor of the Dome, announces that the feature section of the 1930 Dome will be known as “The Year,” and 500 snapshots are needed, to appear in this section.
A prize of five dollars is being offered for the best snapshot submitted. Prints, not negatives, are to be handed in.
Seventeen pages are to be reserved in the Dame for the feature section. The drive for this section closes Sunday, March 23, after which the award for the best snapshot will be announced.
The following is a list of the men in the various campus halls to whom snapshots and other material • may be submitted: Jerome Holland, 347 Sorin Hall; Henry Tholen, 134 Sophomore Hall; Austin Rigney, 127 Howard Hall; Thomas Medland, 123 Walsh Hall; Norman Duke, Brownson Hall; Chauncey Branfort, 119 Freshman Hall; Edward McCrimmon, Off-Campus; Edward Ackerman, Carroll Hall; Alfred Gall, 123 St. Edward’s Hall; Edward Madden, 332 Morrissey Hall; Edward Ryan, 253 Lyons Hall; David Barry, 331 Badin Hall; Al Shipacasse, 217 Corby Hall.
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SO-
CIETY MEETS SOON
The next meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society will be held in Washington Hall, on Wednesday, March 19th.
The speaker of the evening will be Mr. R. A. Hayward, general manager of the Kalamazoo Vegetable Parchment Company, of Kalamazoo, Michigan. His talk on “The Manufacture of Paper” is to be supplemented by moving pictures.
This meeting is open to the public, and no admission fee will be charged on that night. The affair should be of particular interest because of Mr. Hayward’s experience as a chemist and as a member of the University of Michigan faculty.
A dinner at 6:30 in the University Dining Halls will precede the lecture. All those wishing to attend the dinner, the charge for which will be one dollar per plate, should make reservations with Professor Froning, in Chemistry Hall, not later than March 19th at noon.
FATHER LEO WARD AGAIN APPEARS IN “MIDLAND”
The Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., who is one of the most consistent short story writers among the younger members of the faculty, is the author of a short sketch appearing in the March-April number of the Midland, the magazine edited by John T. Frederick of Iowa University. This latest sketch, entitled “The Rain,” is one of the two sketches appearing in the “Sketch Book,” the section devoted to short articles such as Father Ward’s.
ENGINEERS TO HOLD JOINT MEETING MONDAY
The Notre Dame Branches of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American Society of Electrical Engineers will hold their first joint meeting in Chemistry Hall, at 8:00 o’clock next Monday evening. The principal talk of the evening will be given by a representative of the Standard Oil Company, who will speak on “Lubrication.” Several student papers will also be presented.
NEW SONG ENTHUSIASTICALLY RECEIVED
“When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” the new Notre Dame song written by Prof. Joseph J. Casa-santa, head of the Department of Music, and director of the University Band and Glee Club, has been very favorably received by all those who have been privileged to hear it. It was formally introduced to the student body at the band concert last Sunday evening.
This is the third song which Prof. Casasanta has written for and about Notre Dame, and each is known as one of the best college songs of the United States. “Hike, Notre Dame” and “Down The Line” are the other two songs.
The Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C. editor of the Are Mana and noted composer, wrote the chorus of the new song. The words of the chorus are:
And when the Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For- Notre Dame men are marching into the game.
Fighting the fight for you. Notre Dame.
And when that Irish line goes smashing through.
They’ll sweep the foeman's ranks away: When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and
Blue,
Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
680
BAND CLIMAXES PRACTICE
IN SUNDAY CONCERT
The consummation of weeks, almost months, of practice was witnessed by the student body Sunday evening. For many nights strains of music could be heard from Washington Hall between 4:00 and 5:00 o’clock, and many students lingered, merely to listen. It was probably because of the variety in the program that the concert of the University Band was so much enjoyed. The whole evening was climaxed by a stirring composition, “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” a new piece by Director Joseph Casasanta. Its martial air brought continued applause. The Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., has written the words and it is hoped that the students will soon become acquainted with them.
Whistling, humming, and singing added to the variety of the program. Messrs. Meroni and Sullivan were to render a cornet duet; but because of the sickness of the former, Mr. Dum-mermuth took his place. Next to the “Songs of the Campus,” the medley of Victor Herbert’s works (as arranged by Lake) seemed to be the best received number.
So great has been the success of Director Casasanta’s other two pieces, “On Down the Line,” and “Hike Song,” that both have been recorded by the Notre Dame Glee Club, and the latter has been played for Brunswick by the band. This, coupled with the fact that so many thousands of people see our football games every year, has made Notre Dame’s songs and Director Casasanta’s compositions recognized the country over.
ENGLISH MAJOR EXAMINATION GIVEN
The first part of the qualification examination for the English major was given last Sunday morning in the Law Building. Forty-one sophomores took the examination in Writing. The second part of the test, Literature and Miscellaneous English, will be given next Sunday in the same room. Students who so desire may start the second part of the test at eight o’clock Sunday morning. As it is to be rather an extensive and lengthy examination, some students will probably wish to start it early in order to be finished by twelve o’clock.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT TO BE GIVEN MARCH 30
The University Glee Club will give its first campus concert of the school year in Washington Hall, on the evening of March 30. The concert at this time of the year has become one of the features of campus productions.
The club is composed of many veterans, who have two or three years experience, appearing under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Dean of the School of Music, and director of the club.
This year’s club established itself early in the year when it sang over the National Broadcasting system during Armour Hour, the evening preceding the Notre Dame-Southern California game. Many letters and telegrams of a congratulatory nature were received by the club officers following this recital. The men have not made a public appearance since that time, owing to the cancellation of the Christmas trip.
Plans for the Easter vacation trip are gradually taking shape under the capable direction of H. Jerome Parker, business manager of the club. The exact itinerary has not been drawn up, but it will be completed soon, Parker said this week. The general plan is to have the club appear in cities along the eastern seaboard. In the past few years, the club has traveled from the Atlantic seaboard to- the Pacific coast and from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. The trip this year will be of about ten days duration.
Intensive work on the program has been under way since the semester examinations and Director Casasanta expects to have his men in fine voice for the first concert. Daily practice has been held all year, and only the club’s interpretation and technique need polishing, before it is ready for its public concerts.
“DOME” PLANS ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
At a meeting of the business board of the Dome, held last Friday in the Publications Office, a definite plan for an active advertising campaign was decided upon. Raymond Manix and Nicholas Bohling addressed the board, informing members that during the last month they were to put forth every effort to secure the necessary advertising to complete this section in the Dome. Various assignments were made to staff members, and a large local advertising section is anticipated.	*
TARBELL CLARIFIES MYSTIFIED INTELLIGENCES
For nearly two hours Monday night a thin, loquacious magician mystified a thousand persons in Washington Hall. He was Dr. Tarbell, one of the best-known of magicians.
Dr. Tarbell introduced himself and his deceptions with an interesting history of the art of magic, of the evil types as well as of the parlor variety, from the pagan Black Magic, evil eyes, Hindu fakirs, and charlatans to parlor sleight-of-hand and the Society of American Magicians. He touched on the favorite deceptions of different parts of the world and proceeded to illustrate the different methods with actual examples.
There was that most essential magic wand; there were the usual • colored silks, eggs, and a dei'by, but they were all used in new ways. Cards and eggs flew from hand to hand and from pocket to mouth; roses grew in sawdust; oranges changed easily into kerchiefs; and tom paper became whole again with but little effort. Aided by two students with natural stage presence, the magician had the crowd in an uproar. The climax came with a blindfold exhibition involving taped eyes, a black velvet mask, and thinking with the fingers, supposedly. The performance ended with the favorite trick of the fakirs, that of joining a severed rope.
The performance was indeed a novel one and was heartily enjoyed, in spite of the fact that Dr. Tarbell neglected to bake a cake in someone’s hat.
CHAIRMEN FOR PUBLICATION DANCE CHOSEN
At a meeting held Monday, March 10, in the University Publications Of- f fice John L. Nanovic, editor-in-chief of the .higgler, was chosen chairman of the Publications Formal Dinner	-
Dance. His co-chairman is Robert L. Prendergast, editor-in-chief of the	--
Dome. The dance, recently aproved by the Faculty Board, will be held sometime during the month of May. The announcement has occasioned considerable interest among the staff » members of the various university publications.	*
The chairmen of the dance are to meet the Faculty Dance Committee ~ sometime this week to establish the necessary relations with that body and to set a definite date for the f dance.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
681
“SENIOR BALL DECORATIONS TO BE BEST EVER”
SAYS PARKER
“The decorations of the Senior Ball will surpass anything ever attempted in any of the class dances of Notre Dame” is the announcement made by the committee of decorations. “Plans have been entirely re-arranged, and a spectaculai* motif has been adopted, which will not only be unique, but entirely different from anything ever presented at the Palais Royale,” the chairman stated.
The 1930 Senior Ball will not be decorated by a commercial company; the ornamentation of the dance will be entirely the work of members of the class. Jerry Parker has done the decorating for all three of the class dances of the class of ’30, with the result that the work of decorating the ball is progressing very efficiently under his experienced guidance. The scheme of decoration for the ball is one with which the chairman is very familiar, and one which he has been working on for the past year.
The chairman has been selecting his committee over a period of two months and considers it one of the best committees ever selected. He had the opportunity of selecting from the entire senior class and he is the only committee chairman allowed to select his own committee. As a result, the decoration committee includes the best architects on the campus, as well as the best students of fine arts, construction engineering and electrical engineering. Places for construction have been secured and the army of decorators is at work.
The committee has been sub-divided into four units to facilitate the handling of an extensive program of work, and the list of members follow:
Head Chairman, H. Jerome Parker.
Construction Committee—Charles T. Smallwood, chairman; Thomas Litzswan, first assistant; John Zee-dick, Jerome Holland, Paul Heidkamp, James O’Keefe.
Ornamentation C o m m i t t e e— Charles E. Pahl, chairman; Arthur J. Kane, first assistant; Steve Nolan, Ronald Sullivan, Arthur Gallagher.
Effects Committee — Edward J. Dempsey, chairman; James Malloy, first assistant; Royal Higgins, Edward Conroy.
Requisites Committee — John A. Bitter, chairman; John Cummings, Chester Ashman, Norman Hartzer.
QUIN RYAN TO ADDRESS
PRESS CLUB BANQUET
The Press Club has succeeded in securing Quin Ryan as its guest of honor* at the banquet to be given in the Faculty Dining Room, on Thursday, March 27. Mr. Daniel O’Grady is to be toast master at the gathering of the University’s journalists, and the Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Mr. Charles Phillips will be among the prominent speakers of the evening.
Jack Motz, President of the Press Club, had been trying to get in touch with Mr. Ryan for some time, and finally received a wire from him this week in which he accepted the invitation to appear at the banquet. Mr. Ryan has been in New York for several weeks on business, and will return west in time to be present on the evening of March 27.
The name of Quin Ryan is rather well known throughout the Middle West as the result of its bearer’s activities as announcer for WGN, and writer for the Chicago Tribune. Mr. Ryan has also done articles for various magazines, the latest issue of College Humor containing a feature story of his on Coon-Sanders’ famous orchestra. He is known as an able and interesting speaker, and should prove a real attraction for the banquet being arranged by the Press Club.
The ticket sale for the banquet will open soon. Dick O’Donnell is chairman of the ticket committee, and the pasteboards may be secured from him in Morrissey Hall, or from any of the officers of the Press Club. Attendance at the banquet will not be limited to the members of the journalist’s organization.
PROFESSOR ZABEL TO TEACH IN SUMMER
SCHOOL
Graduate students who are planning to attend summer school this year will be glad to learn that Morton A. Zabel from Loyola University, Chicago, will be a teacher in the graduate school. Professor Zabel is an associate editor of Poetry, a well-known magazine of poets and poetry. At summer school he will teach two graduate courses, Literary Criticism and Contemporary Poetry.
ROCKNE TO SPEAK AT BASKETBALL BANQUET
MARCH 25
Knute K. Rockne, Director of Athletics at the University, has accepted an invitation to speak at the fourth annual testimonial banquet for the Notre Dame basketball team given under the auspices of the Villagers Club, in the Faculty Dining Hall, on the evening of March 25.
This affair will mark the first appearance of Coach Rockne since his return from Florida. It is expected that the popular football mentor will have a real message for the occasion.
Coach George Keogan and his entire squad will be the guests of the club, and the new leader for 1930-31 will be elected at that time.
Plans for the banquet are being completed by the committees in charge, under the direction of Norman Hartzer. Many prominent coaches, officials and newspapermen will be present to pay homage to the Conquerors of Pennsylvania, Northwestern, Indiana and others. Among those expected at the affair are: Arthur Lonborg of Northwestren; Walter Meanwell of Wisconsin; Nick Kearns prominent referee; Jimmy Fox, columnist of the Indianapolis News, and Jimmy Corcoran of the Chicago American.
A limited number of tickets are available to students of the University. Those wishing to attend may secure them from any Villager.
KUHN, PRENDERGAST AND REARDON AT STUDENT
CONGRESS -
Robert Kuhn, chairman of the Blue Circle, Gilbert Prendergast, member of the S.A.C., and Raymond Reardon, President of the Senior Class, represented the University at the Fourth Annual Student Congress held at Northwestern last Saturday, March Sth. The purpose of the congress was the discussion of the problems confronting college students and college organizations. The Notre Dame representatives took no formal part in the convocation, but were present merely by special invitation of the Northwestern undergraduate leaders.
The S.A.C. is considering holding a similar convention of student organizations here on the campus in the near future, and the ideas gained by Kuhn, Reardon, and Prendergast should contribute to the possibilities of this tentative plan.
682
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DR. DERRY ADDRESSES N. D. PHILOSOPHERS
“Do not contradict yourself!” is a warning—a warning to heed when answering the four Aristotelian questions, "What is that? Why is it? What is it for? And who made it?” The trick is not in the answers but in “why” they are the answers. So “why” is the first of the simple monosyllabic words of philosophy’s “big four.” “Why” holds the same important place as “cause,” “soul” and “God,” each the end of different branches of philosophy. Common sense alone can explain three principles, that of “existence,” that of “cause” and that of “contradiction”; all else must be proved, but above all “don’t contradict yourself!”
So did Professor George Herman Derry of Marygrove College, Detroit, remind the men of Notre Dame that they must go through life, the "Bible in one hand, St. Thomas in the other” no matter what the "climit” be.
Dr. Derry’s lecture of Wednesday night was the second of the offerings of the Department of Philosophy. Again we compliment this department’s director, and anxiously await the next speaker.
ST. PATRICK’S DAY PLAY POSTPONED
Due to the recent and prolonged illness of it’s director, Professor Frank Kelly, the St. Patrick’s Day play has been postponed until some time following the quarterly examinations. The play to be presented by the University Theatre is the “Imaginary Invalid” by Moliere, and is one of the better- known comedies of this noted French playwright.
The definite selection of the cast will be made within the next four-weeks, and in the meantime the drama is being revised for student production by Professor Charles Phillips. Because of the limited facilities of the University Theatre, and because the play itself is a translation, the revision of it is in itself quite a task. However, with Professor Phillips managing this department, the student body is assured of a very presentable and interesting comedy.
NOTICE!
All seniors must turn in a list of their activities to John Bitter, Sorin Hall, at once, if they wish to be represented in the Dome.
Invitations must be ordered by the 20th of this month.
CHEVIGNY NAMES CONNOR
DANCE CHAIRMAN
Edward D. Connor has been named chairman of the Spring Formal which will be held under the auspices of the Knights of Columbus on Friday evening, May 2. Mr. Connor, who is from Hammond, Indiana, is a senior in the College of Arts and Let-
Edward D. Connor
Chairman, K. of C. Formal
ters. He has been a member of Notre Dame council since his freshman year and during that time has been a consistent worker. In past years this affair has proven itself to be one of the most popular dances on the social calendar and it is thought that this year will be no exception. Further plans and committees will be announced in the near future.
Several prominent men were guests at the meeting last Monday night. Among them were District Deputy Otto Dorsey, of Laporte, and Grand Knight John Egan, of South Bend. Professor Raymond Hoyer related a few of his early experiences at Notre Dame. The entertainment for the evening was furnished by Ted Huebsch, soloist, and Joe Karnes, pianist.
Announcement was also made of a special “Open House” meeting to be held on the evening of March 18th. An excellent program of entertainment is being planned and several prominent men will speak. Every member is allowed to bring two friends who are Knights as his guests.'
WRANGLERS PLAN FOR HIGH SCHOOL DEBATE Plans for holding the Northern
Indiana State High School Oratorical contest are rapidly nearing completion. The members of the Wranglers Club, who are responsible for the event and are the conductors of the undertaking, are working hard on the Retails of the plans. President James J. Walsh reports that the members of the campus organization feel that the contest this year should surpass those of any other year.
The individual members of the club are planning to go to nearby points and explain the contest to many high school principals. It is expected that many of the best prep school speakers within quite a large radius will be present to give their speeches, and endeavor to win a prize.
If present plans materialize, President Walsh promises one of the best spectacles yet seen in the state, in display of high school forensic talent.
The awards for the contest are being donated by Joseph MacNamara, former editor of the Juggler and former president of the Wranglers. Medals and cups are on the program for awards.
LAW COLLEGE TO HOLD “HOYNES NIGHT”
Following the annual custom of the students in the Hoynes College of Law, next Tuesday night, March 18, will be known as “Hoynes Night” in honor of Colonel William J. Hoynes, dean emeritus of the College of Law. A banquet honoring the colonel will be held at seven p. m. in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
The guests will include Colonel Hoynes, the faculty of the Law School, headed by Dean Thomas Konop, and a number of Law School graduates from South Bend, Chicago, and other nearby cities, who will be at the speakers table to felicitate the Colonel on this occasion. The students of the Law School will attend in a body.
DEBATERS DEFEAT MICHIGAN STATE
In a debate marked by their demonstrable superiority in practically every dapartment of forensics, Notre Dame, last night, defeated Michigan State 1 to 0. The Notre Dame team is composed of Thomas Keegan, Frank McGreal, and Walter Stanton. Professor William P. Sanford, of Illinois University, was the critic judge.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
683
TWELVE BOUTS ON S. A. C.
BOXING PROGRAM
TONIGHT .
Thirty-six rounds of fast action will be presented in the University gymnasium this evening under- the auspices of the Students Activities Council. Twelve bouts ranging from the bantamweight to the heavyweight classes have been arranged. First eliminations were held Wednesday afternoon in the boxing room and all of- the bouts were hard fought, giving evidence of the fact that some very close and exciting battles will be waged this evening.
Assistant Coach “Hunk” Anderson has been selected as the third man in the ring; two judges to be announced later will aid Anderson in deciding the winners. Tire bouts will consist of 3 two-minute rounds, and in case the judges and referees cannot decide on a winner at the end of that time, an extra round will be called for.
Three bouts are slated in the heavyweight group with a trio of the contestants weighing well over the two-hundred mark. Johnny Preece of Walsh, an experienced boxer in amateur circles, will mix with T. Edei- of Off-Campus in one of the feature lightweight contests. Eliminations were held Wednesday for the purpose of narrowing the field to a limited number who will fight this evening. A special ring has been installed in the middle of the basketball floor and bleachers erected round it. Arrangements have been made for loud speaker attachments near the spectators from the public address system which was used during the football season in conjunction with the gridgraph. Phonograph recordings will be played between the bouts; announcements will be made directly from the ring, however.
The preliminary eliminations held Wednesday afternoon resulted as follows:
147-Pound—M. P. Hull (St. Ed.) won decision over J. C. Munn (Bro.); Louie Godoy (Badin) won decision over J. R. Sullivan (Sorin); Harold Shumate (Off-Campus) won decision in four rounds over Harry Magner (Off-Campus). Each boxer won a round, with the odd one even; Shumate took the edge in the extra round, finally solving Magner’s solid southpaw punches. It was an exceptionally close fight with both boys deserving entrance in the finals.
SANTA MARIA RELEASED LAST MONDAY
The initial issue of the Santa Maria for this year made its appearance on the campus, Tuesday, March 11. The publication, which is the official organ of the local Knights of Columbus council, contains some meritorious material which is a real contribution to the literary output of the University. The contents of the latest number include several praise-worthy articles, poems, and a short story.
John T. Frederick, Editor of the Midland, has written the feature article of this issue. It is entitled, “Some Impressions of Student Life at Notre Dame.” Mr. Frederick has been the guest of the University on several occasions, and will be remembered for the lecture he gave recently in Washington Hall. He says that the feature of life at Notre Dame which impressed him most is the relationship between instructor and student. He writes, “The fact is that teaching at Notre Dame seems to me to be more largely a matter of personal relationship between instructor and students than is generally the case.”
“Success and the College Man,” an article by Professor Charles Phillips, brings to light a new definition of success Mr. Phillips believes that “Success is not prosperity, but the process of winning prosperity.” He outlines his beliefs in this regard with his characteristic precision and literary grace.
Franklin Hopkins has contributed to the worth of this issue of the Santa Maria, with his impressive essay on the poetry of the world war. He dilutes his praise of the warrior poets with a graphic description of a “hillock near the Marne” in the midst of the great conflict which took place there. Mr. Hopkins extols the men who composed their war songs while taking part in the great struggle, and says that their poetry will live as long as the English language itself.
“Don Pablo,” by Walter Langford, is a well written, wTell arranged short •story. It is a character sketch rounded out with some pleasing local color touches.
The poems by Charles A. Lee, C.S. C., and Don O’Dea are promising and delightful bits of verse. William Crawford’s article on Francis Thompson manifests a real appreciation of the genius of the author of “The
Hound of Heaven.” Other features of the number of the Santa Maria which make interesting reading are: “Function of the Catholic Press,” by John J. Kennedy, “On the Book Rack,” by James J. Kearney, and “For the Gpod of the Order” by Frank McGreal.
John E. Bergan is editor-in-chief of the publication, and is assisted bj' James Kearney, James K. Collins and William C. Brown, associate editor. Joe Wilk is the circulation manager.
DEBATERS WIN FROM MICH-
IGAN AND FLORIDA
The debating season is at its zenith at the present time. So far the debaters, still discussing the pros and cons of the disarmament question, have had the best of the argument in three out of four meets. Although the Affirmative team was defeated at Detroit last month, the Negative team —James Walsh, William Kirby, and Jack O’Keefe—was successful in winning from the City College of Detroit when its representatives appeared here on March 6.
Last Monday the same Negative speakers journeyed to Detroit, where they debated Michigan State. The debate there was very well received, being held in the Eastern High School Auditorium to accommodate the large number that attended. Professor N. J. Weiss, of Albion College, served as critic judge for the occasion. On Tuesday evening Charles Hanna and Jack O’Keefe upheld the Negative before an audience of some hundred students in Washington Hall against a team from the University of Florida. Although the Florida speakers, Mr. Dixie Beggs and Mr. Harold Wahl, presented especially forceful and convincing speeches, their arguments were successfully capped by Mr. Hanna and Mr. O’Keefe; and Judge Cyrus E. Pattee of the South Bend Circuit Court awarded the decision to Notre Dame.
The Affirmative speakers—Walter Stanton, William O’Malley, and Thomas Keegan—held a return debate with Michigan State in Washington Hall on Thursday; on Sunday the same team is scheduled for a meet with Purdue.
684
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROFESSOR EMIL JACQUES TO DISPLAY PAINTINGS
Professor Emil Jacques, Director of the School of Fine Arts, has been invited by the South Bend Art Association to display part of his paintings in the gallery of the First National Bank, of .South Bend, from March 15 to 30.
The Art Association was recently organized by interested citizens of South Bend, and is considering a proposal to incorporate an art institute, (the proposed articles to be presented to the secretary of state within the next week).
The initial exhibit is scheduled for Saturday, March 15, when approximately thirty figures in landscape, the work of Professor Jacques, are to be set up for review.
Professor Jacques came to Notre Dame last September from Portland, Oregon, where he served as supervisor of art classes at the University of Columbia since 1913. Previous to that 'time he was instructor in the department of fine arts in the Royal Academy of Mechlin, and later inspector of arts schools throughout Belgium.
FATHER BROOKS HAS UNUSUAL EXPERIENCE
IN MISSION FIELD
Word comes from India of the experiences of the Reverend Christopher Brooks, C.S.C., who is a missionary in the region of Bengal, India. It will be remembered that mention of Father Brooks was made some time ago in the Religious Bulletin in regard to the building of a native chapel in the Indian jungle.
Father Brooks was working in his little church, when excited natives told him of a tiger that was menacing them. Before he could get his rifle the tiger was upon them, knocking down and clawing an old native. Father . Brooks attempted to kill the beast with a spear, but he was knocked down himself and badly clawed. An assistant finally killed the tiger with a rifle shot. Now, aftre a month of suffering, Father Brooks is completely recovered.
Father Brooks is a graduate of the University, having gone from here to the Gregorian University in Rome, and thence to Holy Cross College, where he was ordained.
“LAWYER” RECENTLY PLACED ON SALE
The February number of the Notre Dame Lawyer has recently been placed on sale. In this issue there are three articles, the authors of which are Hon. M. M. Oshe, Professor Forrest Revere Black, and Mr. Arthur Lawrence May.
The first article in the February issue appears under the heading of “Title Insurance as Protection to Investors in Real Estate and Real Estate Securities.” This treatise was written by Hon. M. M. Oshe who is an alumnus of the Hoynes College of Law and is now associated with the Chicago Title and Trust Company, Chicago.
In view of the fact that the average person can best understand an explanation of a subject if it is compared and contrasted with a similar subject, the author of this article compares Title Insurance with other systems .of title protection, such as the lawyers’ opinions of title and the guaranteed certificate. In the course of the article the reader becomes acquainted with the history of titles, the varied opinions of lawyers
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
❖--------------------------------❖
The Notre Dame Academy of Science held a meeting open to pre-medic stu-' dents, Monday evening, March 10, at 8:00 p. m. Dr. J. B. Berteling, South Bend physician and surgeon, was the principal speaker. Dr. Berteling chose as his topic, “Some Commonly Misunderstood Disorders of the Human Body.”
Dr. Berteling is an alumnus of the University, graduating with an M.S. in the class of ’87. He studied medicine at Cincinnati Medical College, and later returned for graduate work. At present he is secretary of the South Bend Board of Health.
The doctor- used diagrams to illustrate his talk. In addition to the technical matter presented, Dr. Berteling gave the doctor’s “in potentia” some valuable professional hints. .
The lecture was well attended. All business of the Academy was postponed until the next meeting. At the next regular meeting of the Academy, March 18, keys will be distributed.
concerning them, and he learns how the system was developed and how it has evolved to such an extent that at the present time the title insurance policy is quite an extensive one. Again, the reader learns of some five or six disadvantages of the abstractlawyers’ opinion system, the disadvantages of the guaranteed certificate of title, why title insurance is superior to the two afore-named systems, and the legal aspects and practical advantages of the guaranteed certificate of title.
“The ‘Right of Castle’ and Prohibition Enforcement” is the title of the article by Professor Black, a law professor at the University of Kentucky. The subject of prohibition at the pres-- ent time is one which is discussed by the people in general as much as any other, and Professor Black reminds his readers that the “right of castle” is being undermined by attempts to enforce the prohibition law. The author does not state any point which are unfamiliar to the average reader, for he merely cites several actual cases in which the “right of castle” was not by any means strictly respected by prohibition officers. Again, he presents ideas of numerous judges concerning these cases.
Mr. Arthur Lawrence May, an alumnus of the Hoynes College of Law, and a prominent member of the bar- of Saint Joseph County, Indiana, discusses “Ultra Vires Contracts of a Corporation.” Incidentally, this is the subject of the thesis which Mr. May submitted for the degree of Master of Laws at Notre Dame.
Reading the thesis, the reader is informed that an ultra vires act is one which is not within the scope of a corporation’s authority, that there is a difference between the legal terms “illegality” and “ultra vires,” and that there is a great divergence of opinions among the competent authorities as to what really constitutes an ultra vires act.
The editor of the Lawyer, Francis T. Ready, chooses for his editorial comment the subject of “De Facto Municipal Corporations.” The basis of the editor’s comment is the fact that recently the acts done under the commission form of government in Michigan City for the past five years have been declared by the Supreme Court of Indiana to be unconstitutional. Using this for his subject matter, he speculates as to the effects of the recent decision.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
685
'CHESTERTON POSTPONES / LECTURE COURSE
f J	_
■	Because of illness, Gilbert Keith
i Chesterton has been forced to cancel L his plans to conduct lecture courses at Notre Dame this spring. The physician of the noted English author has warned Chesterton against making the trip to the United States, and has advised him to postpone his visit here until next fall.
Mr. Chesterton was to have given ic, two courses here during the last six weeks of this school year. One was to have been in English Literature and the other in English History. The 'Xf same courses, however, will be given in the term next fall in the period from October 6 to November 15.
Chesterton was originally given a choice of the spring or the fall terms “ ’ in which to lecture here, and at first agreed to begin the courses about the middle of April. His sickness, however, is serious enough to warrant his changing the arrangements so that he will arrive several months later than he had originally planned.
PETTIT REPRESENTS UNI-
•> VERSITY AT CONFER-
ENCE
Mr. Maurice Pettit represented the Department of Sociology last Friday at the Regional Conference of the Child Welfare League of America, held at the Auditorium Hotel in Chicago. While there, Mr. Pettit made tentative arrangements for placing students majoring in Probation Work at Notre Dame in summer-vacation field-work in the cities of Chicago and Cleveland. Similar arrangements have already been made with probation departments in Buffalo and New ' York City.
Mr. Pettit, in addition to teaching several of the Probation Work courses and directing student’s field work in South Bend, is Boys’ Probate tion Officer at the Juvenile Court in South Bend.
PROFESSORS ATTEND DEDICATION
The Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, together with Professors Fron-ing and Mahin and Mr. Frank Mootz, all of the Department of Chemistry, will attend the formal dedication of the new Reilly Research Laboratories in Indianapolis. The dedication is to take place this evening.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR “ABSURDITIES” TO BE
COMPLETED SOON
At some time before the first day of April, Joe Abbott, Johnny Quinn, and Clarence Donovan will have completed arrangements for the annual Monogram Absurdities, and will have ready, for the first performance, a well-trained troupe of performers. For more than three weeks now the monogram men have been preparing (in secret) for their appearance behind the footlights, “dancing” with enthusiasm, and laboring over the lines of the numerous skits.
The promoters of the show have not revealed any of the actual material of the chorus work or the sketches, but it is known that campus incidents will be featured in parody form. Besides the new songs written by Joe Casa-santa, there will be words and music by Jack Folks. John Beljon and Zeno Staudt will make their first public appearance since the composition of their popular song, “Prom Sweetheart.” The Absurdities, this year, will be more in the nature of a musical comedy, and melody and lyrics will be written to fit the action of the players. The feature of the show is the Monogram Trio, made up of “Moon” Mullins, Nordy Hoffman, and Art McManmon.
“FASHION NUMBER” OF
JUGGLER OUT
TONIGHT
Tonight the year’s sixth issue of the Juggler, the “Fashion Number,” will be on sale in the halls and on the news-stands. Editor John L. Nanovic promises that the written material and art work will be fully up to the standard set by the “Alumni Number,” so far considered the year’s best issue.
Joe Lopker has drawn a striking cover in his usual clever style. Variations of the cover idea will be treated by the six other staff artists in a cartoon each, throughout the pages of the magazine.
Two special features of the “Fashion Number” will be a book of campus etiquette, telling you how. not to do what, and a fashion parody of Longfellow’s famous poem, Evangeline. The rest of the written material and art work by staff members and contributors will, as usual, be highly entertaining.
❖------------------------
Gleanings
❖—-----------------------••
Among the Notre Dame rooters at the Notre Dame-Penn basketball game last Saturday night were: Pat Canny, former custodian of the University gymnasium and pugilist deluxe; Vince McNally, former cage captain, and at present coach of bas-keball at Roman Catholic High; Joe Maxwell, end on the 1927 football team and Bill Gorman, ’29, a practicing architect of Philadelphia.
Word comes to us that the DeClerq brothers, Ed and Jerry, graduates from the University in ’27 and ’28 respectively are “Yeast” men. Both boys are working for the Fleischman Company. Ed is in Chicago and Jerry in Milwaukee.
Michael Nyikos, ’27, has re-signed as coach of the St. Louis University basketball team for the next two years. Mike had a great season this year the “Billikens” winning 14 of their 20 starts.
The University postoffice recently received a letter written by two maidens and addressed to “the best looking boy at Notre Dame.” The letter was a request for some Notre Dame stickers.
Horace Spiller, a graduate of a few years back, is flying mighty high at present. He is taking a course in aviation at San Antonio.
The Notre Dame golf course has proven itself popular during the past two weeks. Last Sunday there were about seventy-five students playing. Art West and his genial assistant, Bill Frawley, are looking forward to a busy Spring if the students continue to patronize the course with the same regularity.
Hugh L. Campbell, ’27, an interhall football player and ardent Ba-denite, now has the distinction of being one of the youngest Brick Company superintendents in the Keystone State. He is working for the Hazelton Brick Company.
686
The Notre Dame Scholastic
After weeks of wrangling and quibbling, the athletic board of the Augustus Umlauf Institute of Technology has finally decided to present monograms to those men having athlete’s foot. The argument which won the day for the monogram enthusiasts was the one advanced by Peregrine Pumdetear, when he pointed out that such a step would encourage the taking of showers more than once a month, due to the fact that the rare scarabeus, causing the infection, is found most frequently in shower rooms. Perhaps this will explain to Mr. Absorbine Senior, why his son Junior has gone bankrupt.
—o—
The Scotch joke of the week undoubtedly goes to the one concerning the fellow who refused to attend wakes because of the fact that he would be forced to give consolation. ... In a joke it’s humor .... in the Wink it’s awful.
—o—
“BELLS”
(Sorry Rudyard)
We hear clang-clang-clang-clangin’ down the corridor! Bang-bang-bang-bang-bangin’ down the corridor— (Bells-bells-bells-bells-ringiri every now and then!)
There’s no relief in the hall.
Six-eight-ten-twelve-nine and twenty times to-day— One-three-five-thirty-two the day before— (Bells-bells-bells-bells-ringiri every now and then!)
There’s no relief in the hall.
Don’t-don’t-don’t-don’t think of what’s in front of you. (Bells-bells-bells-bells-ringiri every now and then!) Men-men-men-men-men go mad with heariri them
And there’s no relief in the hall.
Try-try-try-try to think of something different— Oh-my-Lord-keep-me from going lunatic!
(Bells-bells-bells-bells-ringiri every now and then!)
There’s no relief in the hall.	'
We-can-stick-outriunger, thirst and weariness, But-not-not-not the chronic sound of them Bells-bells-belts-bells-ringin’ every now and then.
There’s no relief in the hall.
—o—
* THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUE
Cameo Pete,’our cameraman, again capitalized on his uncanny sense of foresight. Here he has set before us a most unique picture. Aside from the fact that the specimens in the picture have never before faced the camera, their position represents an experiment which has never before been performed by a human being, and perhaps never will be again because of the disaster which resulted. " Note the humorous tinge to the picture in the form of the little sign which some practical joker placed on the apparatus shortly before the experiment. Alas ano alack though, it
was not the end, at least of the buns because they remained intact and hurled themselves through the walls of the building, landing on the spacious lawns outside, still unscathed. The experiment proves without a doubt the long debated question: whether or not the bun is hardier than a rock. Let it be here stated that a bomb, such as the one pictured, will easily break rocks of any size.
—o—
OMEN”
A cloud is wafted ’cross the sky, A thought across my mind;
A shadow steals across my sight, III omen meets my eye.
’Tis strange
For love had made a rosy vision Take its place within my mind, And work had made the future Appear most dear and kind.
Care naught for cloud across the sky, Or thought that mars your vision. It is the crucial test of you, The Heavenly opposition That makes you pause a moment, Then pass with all the rest.
Meet it, and leave it, And leave it behind.
—Wazmus.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	687
. Campus Club members, now that they find Lent scarcely as bad as they thought, have awakened from their lethargy, and are beginning to attend club meetings. This time last week, we were in a quandary as to what to say about Campus Clubs that would flatter them, since the greater part of them were doing nothing!
The GRAND RAPIDS CLUB at a meeting held March 6, appointed Vassar B. Rosewarne,-Chairman of the Easter Dance. For another banquet, to be held before Easter Vacation, Joseph Deeb was appointed chairman, Edward Rich and Gilbert Gaudie acting as Mr. Deeb’s assistants. At this banquet, to be held within the next two weeks, a discussion will take place concerning the Easter dance.
Last Monday night the ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB held its first meeting since Christmas vacation, and although the attendance was not large, the members enjoyed themselves to such an extent that another meeting will be held next Monday. It is necessary to hold a meeting early next week so that the smoker scheduled for the week following will be well planned. The affair will be gratis to members, and members of other Clubs may attend for a very nominal fee.
Wednesday evening at 7:30 in the Lay Faculty Dining Rooms, the METROPOLITAN CLUB held a meeting. President Fogel of the Club informed us that he was especially well pleased with the attitude of the members. The Club decided upon a date in the very near future, very likely within the next few days, for a Communion Breakfast. Smokes, eats, and speeches were all of the best, and Club members hope for more meetings of this sort before Lent is over.
Thursday evening was a busy one for- the CHICAGO CLUB and the TEXAS CLUB. The CHICAGO CLUB held its first meeting for several weeks, in the Faculty Dining Room. An Easter Dance was decided upon, and plans are that it will be a typical CHICAGO CLUB affair—the kind that the men who stay about the campus Easter Vacation go to Chicago to attend. The Club is not content with that only, for they have also scheduled a huge program for Universal Notre Dame Night. The Club also considered the advantages of having Interclub sports, and discussed an outdoor baseball league. The success of the CHICAGO CLUB of two years ago in sponsoring such a league, was debated.
Thursday evening, the TEXAS CLUB held their “SpringRound-up.” The meeting, announced for several days be-forhand with huge posters stating the fact that the Club was going to have all the fun in the world that night, was most certainly one of the best the club has ever had. Eats, smokes, and speeches took up the greater part of the entertainment. The boots and spurs which were sup
posed to have been donned for the affair were somehow lacking but their absence at no time dampened the show. Guns were checked and mavericks branded at the door.
Tonight, Friday, at 6:30 the PACIFIC NORTHWEST CLUB will hold a meeting in the Law Building. Within two weeks a banquet will be held by this Club, and it is the plan to select committees this evening. For entertainment, President Sullivan has decided on some very novel features, all innovations in the activities of the Club.
Next Tuesday, the AKRON CLUB will hold a smoker. The Club has selected for the affair, Brownson “Rec” Room, made famous by other smokers, Club and otherwise. Plans for an Easter Dance to be held in Akron will be discussed at the smoker and Committees will be appointed. All students of the University who live within twenty-five miles of Akron are cordially invited to attend. The customary smokes and refreshments have been arranged for.
Among other clubs not confined to campus activities alone, The PHARMACY CLUB,’ The ENGINEERS, The A.I.E.E., The A.S.M.E., and The A.S.S.T., have been active. Last evening in Chemistry Hall Mr. W. E. Dillrich, Head Metallurgist of the Inland Steel Company addressed the AS.S.T. on “Sheet Steel and Its Attendant Metallurgical Problems.” No topic could have been of greater interest to the STEEL TREATERS than this discussion. As is customary in scientific discussions of this sort, numerous questions were asked Mr. Dillrich, who was only too glad to answer them. The CHEMIST’S CLUB is-.to hold a meeting next week, the exact date of which we do not know.	„
Monday is the dead-line for Dome write-ups and pictures. If it has not been called to the attention of the Club officers before, the Club Editor of the Dome proposes to enable club officers to select their own type of write-up and to help with the make-up of the page as much as possible. In addition to the group picture and the write-up, small pictures of “points-of-interest” about the homes of the club’s members will be placed on the page. Although the greater part of the club officers have made arrangements for securing- these pictures, there are some who have not as yet consulted the club editor on the matter. For their information, these pictures may be made from snap-shots, picture post-cards, cuts from magazines and even roto-gravure sections in the newspapers. So far we have been handed everything from illustrated time tables to Chamber of Commerce literature. After next Monday, the club which has entered nothing -will have nothing on the page but write-up and group picture. These group pictures may be seen by calling, during the after-noon or evening, at Room 7 or 8 on the North side of Science Hall.
688
The Notre Dame Scholastic
It seems that the interhall athletic department is overlooking something, for at Haverford College they are having considerable success with the sport of intramural tiddle-de-winks. The various dormitories are in the midst of a tournament to determine which is supreme with the buttons. One of the games was reported as follows in the school paper:
“Skilled in their attack and showing a fitness that could only come from constant practice, Merion Hall’s first tiddle-de-winks team invaded Founders last Monday night to defeat the up-campus dorm’s team, 3-0, in the first of a series of challenge matches for the championship of the college.
“Although the Founders team played under protest, claiming that all three Merion men were ineligible, the visitors clearly showed an all-around superiority. Their game was faster, and their handling of the tiddies in moments that counted characterized them as standing among the best proponents of the sport seen on the campus in recent years.
“The playing of Captain Dempsey, of Merion, at left tiddle, was the feature of the matches. At one time, when Founders threatened to take the first match, his run of three put his squad well to the fore.”
Wednesday is “Bush Day” at the University of Florida. Some upper-classman at that institution of the semi-tropics recently burst forth with a new idea, the outcome of which is that on every Wednesday all freshmen are obliged to seek refuge behind trees at the approach of upper-classmen and to remain in hiding until their elders and betters have passed out of sight.
—o—	•
The police force of Bethlehem has made it plain to the students of Lehigh that the indiscriminate appropriation of signs must cease immediately. A certain doctor of another-village not too far away, after grimly watching the young vandals steal his signs for more than two years, has finally decided that he has not quite the patience of Job and will henceforth prosecute any and all offenders. The commander-in-chief of Bethlehem’s imposing array of upholders of the law has threatened to issue warrants for individual students if circumstances necessitate it, and this ultimatum has almost thrown certain of the fraternities into a panic, for they fear thatthe sacking of Rome would appear but an amateur affair in comparison with what would happen if the officers ever entered their houses.
—o—	"
Other Lehigh students—or perhaps the same ones—have • come into rude contact with the law through their practice of gathering outside the seminary for women and attempting to get the attention of the very unromantic inmates by calling or by tossing pebbles at the windows. This little act was being carried out one night while Winter still held the upper hand, and a Special Officer was sent forth to handle - the situation. But alack and alas! The students exhibited a rather disconcerting lack of respect for the law. Instead
of dispersing in a quiet and becoming manner, as suggested by the minion of- the law, they calmly proceeded to snowball that individual. Finding himself subjected to a deadly fire, the officer brought forth his gun and fired the weapon into the air by way of self-defense. Before the reverberation had died away, all but one of the students had departed in a delightful exhibition of the cross-country art. Elated with the success of his little trick, friend officer once more fired at the moon, and this time his single remaining opponent suddenly remembered a pressing engagement that compelled him to leave in unqualified haste.
—o—
In the University of Cincinnati Bearcat we found this rare little bit of inspiration:
HEY, YOU BEARCATS’.
See how many points you can make Saturday night against Miami. Bearcats making most number of points receive a box of Joe’s famous Easter eggs.
Basement Joe.
President Hoovei- considers prohibition as a noble experiment, and, in like manner, we consider these regulations of Trinity College as an equally noble experiment:
1.	Victrolas may be played from 4 p. m. until 8 p. m. on week days and from 4 p. m. Friday afternoon until 8 p. m. Sunday.
2.	In rooms on the floor above classrooms and in rooms overlooking the court, Victrolas may be played only from 6 p. m. until 8 p. m. on week days and from 4 p. m. Friday to 8 p. m. Sunday.
3.	The proctor for the day will assume responsibility for the observance of the rules regarding Victrolas.
And it is our guess that the proctor for the day has just a little more than he can well handle. These regulations sound something like the radio rules in Morrissey— only of course we abide by ours.
At the University of California they recently held what they called “the Ice-Box controversy on beauty,” in which many phases of the subject seem to have been discussed by the students through letters. In the course of the discussion someone made several belittling remarks about stenographers, and one of them saw fit to reply in a letter from Oakland. She yields nothing to the coeds, and upholds the dignity of the working girl in a vigorous, rather logical manner.
—o—
An editorial in the Oklahoma Daily asks for credit hours in hiking, particularly during the spring semester, on the plea that the health of a student is much more important to a university than any number of credit hours he might pile up. And we agree perfectly with the writer of the editorial. Just think of all the credit hours we would have now! There would be at least enough to bring us a master’s degree in hiking instead of a mere A.B. in English.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
689
EDITORS PAGE
The Passion Play
Again the eyes of the world are turned upon the little village of Oberammergau. On May 11th P	the performance of the famous Passion Play, which
y	is produced every ten years, begins. Alois Lang,
who is to play the part of Christ this year, has written an article which tells us of the interest that the residents of this village take in the fulfillment of the vow made by their forefathers in 1634 " to enact the stirring drama of the Passion every decade. The vow was made in order to show the !_ gratitude of the inhabitants of Oberammergau for their deliverance from a plague.
’	Outsiders wonder how the unlettered inhabi-
; tants of this hamlet can produce a play at whose splendor and realism the world marvels, but the explanation is to be found in the inborn desire of L every resident of Oberammergau to live up to the glorious tradition of his ancestors. Every villager f longs to become a worthy participant in the play.
Only a few villagers can be actors, but all of them help in the making of costumes and in the prepara-Jtions for the play.
Rehearsals start about six months before the F performance of the play begins. The actors must | practice very hard, and their performances are I kindly but firmly criticized by former players who are very anxious to maintain the high standard of p former plays. The making of garments is a task r which keeps the women of Oberammergau busy for | almost a year. The designing of costumes and the 1 selection of materials is an important matter over । which village artists must ponder.
[.	All Europe is interested in this play. Already
[ European papers advertise special trips to Oberam-I mergau. The people of the village, however, can-| not attend the play except'as actors or helpers, ’ because tradition forbids it.
What a slap in the face for modern cynicism - and dis-belief is the production of this play. The sight of these simple villagers persisting in the r ways of their fathers and producing a play which attracts the attention of the whole world is con. vincing proof that in some matters, matters of faith especially, it is the wiser course to be conservative.	—E. e. B.
Our New Song
’ The enthusiastic encore which greeted the premiere of our new campus song Sunday evening, places the number definitely in Notre Dame’s repertoire of battle songs. The title is “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” and the author is the energetic Professor Joseph Casasanta. The dispute over “Irish” as applied to our varsities seems to be at an end; the name of the song has commemorated in lyrical history the 1929 activities of those doughty Celtic side-steppers—Carideo, Schwartz, Elder, Brill, Gebert, and Mullins.
Professor Casasanta has the gift of producing melodies from an odd note here, a bar there, and at intervals there comes from his little office in Music Hall the announcement of a “new campus song.” In 1924, “Hike, Notre Dame”—from his pen—won tremendous popularity as a swinging, vibrant football song. “Down the Line” followed in 1926. Now comes “When Irish Backs Go Marching By.”
Primitive music was chanted to the rhythm of war-drums; the most colorful, if not the most significant, music of nations has been the songs that accompanied the march of men to battle. This has been true at Notre Dame. But for those who think that the University has stressed the war-whoops and neglected other fields of musical composition, we can point to reams of liturgical works by Girac, Father Lilly and Brother Basil; scores of worthy melodies by later men, such as the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and the Reverend Michael Shea.
Due to the manner in which the band members sang the lyrics of the latest song, it was impossible to learn the words at the first hearing. But we are looking forward to many pleasant moments—in a world full of harmony, rhythm and campus bands and glee clubs—when the song becomes well known. When four rows of Glee Club singers chant a Notre Dame song; when columns of blue-uniformed bandmen play and march to Notre Dame music—then we forget the ubiquitous campus grinds and gripers, and we hike along, down the line, cheering her name, and glad that Irish Backs are marching.	—P. J. H.
690
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5 PORTS
Trackmen Win Fourth Annual C.I.C. Title
Blue and Gold Five Trims Quakers
Cagers End Season With 24-17 Win Over
Pennsylvania.
HURDLING the final obstacle on the twenty - game schedule, Coach George E. Keogan led his Blue and Gold five to a decisive 24-17 victory over the strong University of Pennsylvania quintet last Saturday night. A crowd of 9,000 fans ■ jammed its way into the Palestra to see the Quakers, Eastern collegiate league champs for the past two years, taken into camp by Notre Dame for the third successive time in as many years.
Pennsplvania took the lead at the start of the game as Al Brodbeck, forward, slipped in a goal from the field making the score 2 to 1 in favor of the Quakers. Ed Smith dribbled down the floor to sneak one in under the basket giving Notre Dame a 3 to 2 advantage. Johnny McCarthy then made a charity shot good and this was followed by a pretty field goal off the finger tips of Billy Newbold.
Brodbeck sank another goal from the floor bringing the score to 6 to 4 in favor of Notre Dame. Captain ”Ooney“ Donovan raised the count a notch with a heave from the foul line.
Using the pivot play to perfection, Ray DeCook slipped under the net and dropped in a clever shot which gave the Blue and Gold a 10-4 lead. With about five minutes of the first half up, Donovan elected to preserve the narrow margin by dropping back into the delayed offensive style of play. McCarthy and Donovan found opportunity to mesh a brace of field goals before the half was over, however. The score at half-time was 147 in favor of Notre Dame.
During the first half the Eastern official was finding difficulty with the Notre Dame style of play, especially with the pivot, and several field
goals were ruled out as a result.
The Quakers came out for the final period with blood in their eyes and quickly annihilated the Notre Dame advantage by scoring nine points against the Blue and Gold’s single tally. With the score 16 to 15 in favor of Penn, Notre Dame was left in a bad way and matters took a turn for the worse when Captain “Ooney” Donovan was evicted from the game via the four personal rule.
After this sequence the Quakers were able to garner only a single point more, the Notre Dame forwards clicking in basket after basket. Tom Conley, subbing for Donovan, contributed two field goals to ■ the rapidly rising count, and as the final gun fired Notre Dame nestled a 24 to 17 advantage over the Quakers.
The victory over the University of Pennsylvania not only marked the fourteenth win of the twenty-game schedule, but also the last court appearances of Captain “Ooney” Donovan, Ed Smith, Jack McCarthy, and Marsh Kizer. McCarthy closed his career by again taking the high point honors for his team, with two field goals and two fouls for a net of six points. Al Brodbeck, speedy Quaker forward, netted four baskets and three free throws to garner eleven markers and the lead honors for the evening.
The score:
NOTRE DAME (24) B F P
Newbold, £110
Crowe, f 0 0 1
Gavin, f 0 10
McCai-thy, f 2 3 1
DeCook, c 2 0 3
Donovan, g 0 1 4
Conley, g 2 0 3
Smith, g 12 1
PENN (17) Brodbeck, £431 Sander, f	12 1
Peterson, c	Oil
Lobley, c	0 0 2
Tanseer, g	0 12
Manager, g	0 0 4
Totals 8 8 13 Totals 5 ' 7 11
Referee—Feezle,	Indianapolis; umpire —
Degnan, New York.	' ’
Score 38^2 Points to Cop Meet; Marquette Runs
Second
THE Notre Dame track team failed to show any of the qualities of a polite host last Saturday afternoon and maltreated their guests to the extent of five firsts out of twelve events in the fourth annual Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor track meet held in the University gymnasium. The Blue and Gold also chalked up a sufficient number of second, third, and fourth places to bring the total points to 38% more than double the score of Marquette, their closest rival.
Marquette, touted as one of the strongest teams in the Midwest, failed to come up to expectations; but due chiefly to the efforts of the Waiterbrothers and Thompson, Coach Jen-ning’s boys did take second place with 16% points. Drake, scoring all of her points in only the high hurdles and the pole vault, finished third with 14 2/3. Western State Teachers pulled a mild surprise by scoring 12 points to beat Butler, Michigan State, and Michigan Normal for fourth place. Of the fifteen teams competing, only three, DePauw, Detroit, and Loyola, failed to score. Lombard College did not appear for the meet.
Central Intercollegiate conference or gym records were broken or equalled in nearly every event on the program. In all, four C.I.C. records were cracked and three more tied, while three new gym marks were made.
Alex Wilson won a beautiful race from Lewis, colored Olympic star from C.C. of Detroit, in the 440-yard dash to clip two-fifths second from his own gym record and nearly two seconds from the old conference mark. Loving, colored flash from Western State Teachers College had the honor of holding the conference record in the 65-yard low hurdles for a shorter period of time than any man in history. After clipping one-tenth second from the mark set by Kane in 1927. Lov
The Notre Dame Scholastic
691
ing stood by to see Roy Bailie, Notre Dame, run over the sticks one- tenth second faster, just three minutes later, in the second of the semi-final heats. Roy’s time, 7 1/5 seconds, is also a new gym record.
Butler's great team of middledistance and distance men, Urbain, Allen, Kistler, and Sivak, running in the two mile medley relay, chopped seven and two-fifths seconds from the conference and gym marks set last year. Michigan Normal finished second in this race, a scant fifteen yards behind Butler’s anchor man.
The most sensational race of the day was, perhaps, the mile relay. Captain Abbott, running first for Notre Dame, slipped on the initial turn and before he could right himself his four opponents had raced into a thirty-yard lead. Joe, coming down strong, cut this handicap to ten yards before he passed the baton to Brant Little. Little moved into third place on the first lap and then quietly took the lead on the back stretch of the second lap to give Winston Bradley a twelve-yard margin at the start of the third leg. Brad managed to hold on to his lead, although tiring fast at the end, and passed the rod to Wilson who raced to a new C.I.C. mark in 3:29 4/5. This time also tied the former gym record. Had not Captain Abbott suffered his spill, the Blue and Gold runners would undoubtedly have broken the gym mark by almost two seconds.
Bill McCormick was clocked in 61/5 seconds in the second semifinal heat of the sixty-yard dash, to tie the gym and conference mark. Mac got off to a bad start in the finals, however, and fared no better than a tie for third with Treps of Marquette. Boagni and Cummings finished one-two for Notre Dame. McCormick’s time was the best record in the gymnasium since Elder’s last race there last year.
Vossler, Miami University, won the shot put with a heave of 46 feet 11/4 inches which tied the conference mark made in 1927. Notre Dame failed to place in this event despite the fact that three of her men were doingbetter than forty feet.
Snorf, Drake, tied the conference record held jointly by Griffin of Notre Dame and Kane, Ohio Wesleyan, in the high hurdles but was one-fifth second slower than Johnny O’Brien’s best gym time. Drake scored the only slam of the day in the high hurdles when Podrebarac took second and Bailie, Notre Dame, and Muneo, Michigan Normal, were disqualified.
The showing of Bert Nelson was a distinct disappointment to those who expected to see the slim Butler sophomore clear the bar in the neighborhood of his own world’s indoor record. Having one of those off-days peculiar- to all champions, Bert was able to do no better than 6 feet 1% inches and gain a tie with Russel of Bradley for first place. Abernathy who was Notre Dame’s chief hope, owing to Darling’s illness, cleared six feet to enter into a triple tie for second place.
The work of the Walter brothers, teammates of Alex Wilson and Brant Little on the Canadian Olympic team, was outstanding for the visiting team. They finished one-two in the mile run and then came back on in the afternoon ot take third and fourth in the 880-yard event.
TOTAL TEAM SCORING FOR SEASON
	Goals	Fouls	Totals
J. McCarthy	35	36	106
DeCook	36	21	93
Newbold	31	18	80
Smith	30	14	74
Donovan	24	15	63
Crowe	22	6	50
Gavin	19	7	45
Heenan	6	3	15
Host	4	5	13
Kizer	5	0	10
Busch	2	2	6
Conley	3	0	6
O’Connell	1	■ 2	4
Burns	1	2	4
Duwan	1	2	4
Carideo	1	0	2
W. McCarthy	0	1	1
Forsee	0	1	1
Totals	221	135	577
Total scorinjr of opponents: 431			points.
Lauren Brown of Michigan State took a hard race from Arnett, Michigan Normal, in the two mile run. Howery was hard pressed for third by Rohan, but Gene’s “kick” on the last half-lap was too much for the game Marquette runner.
Roy Bailie’s victory in the finals of the low hurdles is all the more noteworthy in consideration of the fact that it was his eighth race of the day. The absence of Johnny O’Brien left Roy as Coach Nicholson’s chief hope in both the high and low “sticks.” Two preliminaries in each event on Saturday morning and the semi-finals and finals in the afternoon gave him quite a stiff workout. He reached the
finals in each, however, being disqualified in the highs, and winning the lows as mentioned previously.
60-Yard Dash—Won by Boagni (ND); Cummings (ND), second; Treps (Marquette) and McCormick (ND), tied for third. Time :06.2.
Mile Run—Won by P. Walters (Marquette); J. Walters (Marquette), second; Mcllrath (Grinnell), third; Quigley (ND), fourth. Time 4:33.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Wilson (ND); Lewis (C. C. of D.), second; Abbott (ND), third; Gordon (Miami), fourth. Time :50.2..
60-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Snorf (Drake); Podrebarac (Drake), second; third and fourth men disqualified. Time :07.8.
880-Yard Run — Won by Little (ND); Gaines (West St.), second; J. Walters (Marquette), third; P. Walters (Marquette), fourth. Time 2:00.4.
Pole Vault — Lansrud (Drake), Collins (Drake) and Olsen (Mich. St.), all tied for first; Fishleigh (ND), fourth. Height, 12 feet, 7 ins.
Two Mile Run—Won by Brown (Mich. St.); Arnett (Mich. Norm.), second; Howery (ND), third; Rohan (Marquette), fourth. Time 9:39.2.
65-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Bailie (ND) ; Thompson (Marquette), second; Beauvis (C. C. of D.), third; Loving (West. St.), fourth. Time -.07.4.
Shot Put—Won by Vossler (Miami); Harper (West. St.), second; Rader (Mich. Norm.), third; Barnhill (West. St.), foui-th. Distance, 46 feet, 1 1/4 inches.
High Jump — Won hy Russell (Bradley) and Nelson (Butler), tied; Abernathy (ND), Loving (West. St.), and Opfei- (Ohio Wesl.), tied for second. Height, 6 feet, 1 1/2 inches.
Two Mile Medley Relay (880-440-440-MiIe)—Won by Butler (Urbain, Allen, Kistler, Sivak) ; Michigan Normal, second; Notre Dame, third. Time 8:18.8. ’
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Abbott, Little, Bradley, Wilson) ; Western State, second; Grinnell, third; City College of Detroit, fourth. Time 3:29.8.
High School Medley Relay—Won by Froebel of Gary (Smith, Perrota, Mullins, Antoni); South Bend, second; Elkhart, third. Time 4:58.
692
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAPT. JOE LORDI SEES GOOD BASEBALL SEASON .
NO position is more advantageous for directing the defensive play of a baseball team than the catching position. In Captain Joe Lordi, this year’s Notre Dame baseball team is favored with a capable and heady leader whose experience will place much confidence in the less experienced hurlers as well as steadying any threatened wobbly play in the inner defense.
Joe gained his diamond schooling at Dewitt Clinton High, New York City. It was here that he sharpened his batting eye and nurtured ambitions of teaming up some day with his compatriot, Tony Lazzeri, of the Yankees.
While in high school he played right field, but on his advent here the freshman receiving material was woefully weak, and Father Mooney, then freshman coach, saw possible backstop strength in Joe. Lordi developed so rapidly that he became first string catcher in his sophomore year and never relinquished the job thereafter. The 1930 leader is above the average sticker, as collegiate catchers go, having compiled a noteworthy .380 average last season. Joe is especially
adept at blocking off runners at the plate on throws from the outfield and has frequently cut down attempted scores.
This is Lordi’s final year, and the vigor with which he has been whipping himself into shape bespeaks his determination of topping off an already brilliant college career in an even greater blaze of glory. Daily handball has put Joe into the proverbial “pink,” and he is straining at the leash impatient for the opening game.
Although the present hurling prospects do not shape up well on paper, Captain Lordi says that in the past pitchers like Walsh, Rusk, and Donohue made it difficult for others to break in, though real strength existed. Manix, Dilley, Smith, and Dorwin, he insists, from having caught these candidates in practice and exhibition games, display possibilities which may startle skeptics before the schedule is half run. With several likely looking freshmen to bolster this group, not to mention Lefty Lisicki around whom the staff will be built, Joe can see little to be alarmed at in the pitching department.
Notre Dame Again Sponsors C.LT. Tournament
The second annual Central Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament this year will again be held under the auspices of Notre Dame. Last year this event drew a large entry list throughout the middle-west and it is expected that the forthcoming spring competition will interest an even greater number. The opening date has not been definitely
Gene J. Kennedy Set but is thought that initial play will begin about the middle of May. It is likely also that the courts of the Chicago Town and Tennis Club will again be the scene of the contests. AiTangements are being completed by Gene J. Kennedy, tennis manager.
The entrants last year numbered fifteen colleges and universities of this
section. Those who strove for the titles were: Notre Dame, Northwestern, Marquette, Michigan State, Ypsilanti, Western State Normal, Oshkosh Normal, Lombard, Chicago Normal, and Kalamazoo College. The tournament is open to all colleges and universities of the middle-west, including the Big Ten schools.
The individual entry list for last year’s meet found the cream of the mid-west racket wielders in Cog-geshall and Stowe of Grinnell, Wilson of Butler, Broody of Drake, and Captain Griffin and Markey of Notre Dame. Though a few, perhaps all of these faces will be missing this year, the competition will be every bit as spirited as before.
Bud Markey, one of the leading junior tennis players of Indiana last year and No. 1 man on the Notre Dame squad, teamed up with Captain Griffin in this meet. Markey won his way to the final round in the singles play and was finally beaten by Cog-
geshall, the Grinnell College ace, who came from behind after dropping the first set 6-3, and in the rear by a 5-2 count in the second set. He then overtook Markey and finally won by a 7-5 score. After this the Notre Dame racketer wilted and the two succeeding sets went to Coggeshall 6-3, 6-2, to win the championship.
, In the doubles play, Markey was coupled with Griffin and this pair went as far as the semi-finals before being eliminated by their Grinnell jinxes, Coggeshall and Stowe. This latter pair ultimately went on to win the double crown, and took back to Iowa both first place trophies presented by Knute K. Rockne.
Although the Gold and Blue representatives who so splendidly upheld those colors in the last tournament will be missing in the forthcoming meet, prospects for another pair of equally successful entrants is predicted.
The University will present silver loving cups to the winners in the singles and doubles matches. The runners-up in both singles and doubles will also'receive prizes.
The. Notre Dame Scholastic
693
[■Jiiniittiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiti'iiniuiiiiHtiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiitiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiuiiiiiniiiiiiiHiiniiiiiuitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiisfiiiiintirfiiiffft Q
| INTERHALL ITEMS |
The interhall basketball protest committee has awarded the Sopho-more-Sorin game played Sunday March 2, which Sorin won 18 to 16, to Sophomore because Father Lavin’s boys used John Forsee, an ineligible man.
They also ruled that the Lyons-Corby game, played Thursday, February 27, which Corby won 16 to 15, be called no-contest. Heenan had received permission to play in this game due to a misinterpretation of the interhall rule. He was ineligible for the same reason as was Forsee.
* * *
With the excellent calibre of basketball displayed in the interhall loops this year the men who have earned place on the All-Interhall teams are well deserving of the honor they have merited for themselves.
* * #
Sophomore Hall with its double win of both championships has gained a monopoly on the interhall basketball trophies for the 1929-30 season, at least. Father- Margraf’s minions won for him not only the lightweight title but also the heavyweight crown.
* * *
The championship of the heavyweight league rested in the balance between three teams, Morrissey, Sophomore and Badin, with the possibility of a playoff being necessary until the protest committee decided that Sophomore’s gome with Sorin

INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDING
should be turned into a victory for the Horsemen.
* * *
The failure of the fourth-floor-Badin track team to crash into the interhall finals tomorrow is looked upon with sadness. The fourth-floor team of Walsh, not to be outdone, however, in the matter of actual competition is represented by Henry Frey in the broad jump, so all their practice was not in vain anyways.
* * *
The possibilities of interhall baseball are very promising and despite the shortage of playing fields the return of Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics, may bring good news for baseball enthusiasts. Playground ball will soon be in full swing and an excellent season will no doubt be in store for the players.
* * *
There will be a meeting of all the interhall track coaches in the Physical Education Building this evening at 8 o’clock, relative to the final interhall track meet tomorrow afternoon. The rules of the meet "will be gone ovei- at this confab with the coaches and the starting assignments will be arranged. The individual names of the contestants ■will be given the team coaches at the meeting.
* * *
In next week’s Scholastic, will appear the final list of the leading scorers in both divisions of the basketball league.
| Go Grade A : : tourist third I : cabin ... I
LEVIATHAN
This season, brand new Tourist Third Cabin on theLEVIATHAN, World’s Largest Ship... tlie entire second cabin assigned to '’Tourist Third”... all its beautiful public rooms and staterooms______its elegant, open upper deck social hall which gives you a full sweep of the sea... its charming cloistered smoking hall... its vast open and enclosed decks for play and promenades ___________________luxuries and spaciousness exceeding former standards for this class. Second Class, as a class, abolished ... new Tourist Third Cabin rated "Grade A” and the LEVIATHAN the only liner to offer this peerless rating! Make haste in booking this new, luxurious way on the mightiestfiveday flyerto Cherbourg and Southampton. Rates low.
Excellent Tourist Third Cabin. Accommodations also on United States Cabin Liners ... for as little as $10.25 a day!
OFFICIAL FLEET OF 103 COLLEGE ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS FOR EUROPEAN TRAVEL
ic Consult your local steamship agent or £ i UNITED STATES f i LINES . I T CHARLES KRCILEK, General Agt. T J 61-63 W. Jackson Blvd, Chicago, Ill. *
Heavyweight Division Games Won Lost Pct.
Sophomore	12	*11	1	.917
Morrissey	12	10	2	.833
Badin	12	10	2	.833
Lyons	**11	7	4	.636
St. Edward’s	12	7	5	.583
Sorin	12	6	6	.500
Carroll	12	6	6	.500
Brownson	12	5	7	.416
Howard	12	5	7	.416
Freshman	12	4	8	.333
Corby	**11	3	8	.272
Off-Campus 12	3	9.	.250
Walsh	12	1	11	.083
*	Sophomore 2, Sorin 0 (ineligible player used).
*	* Corby vs. Lyons (ruled no game).
Lightweight Division
	Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
Sophomore	12	12	0	1.000
Lyons	12	10	2	.833
Off-Campus	12	9	3	.750
Badin	12	8	4	.666
St. Edward’s	12	6	6	.500
Brownson	12	6	6	.500
Corby	12	5	7	.416
Freshman	12	4	8	.333
Carroll	12	4	8	.333
Howard	12	4	8	.333
Walsh	12	4	8	.333
Sorin	12	3	9	.250
Morrissey	12	1	11	.083
FORMER NOTRE DAME STAR DIES
George M. Fitzpatrick, member of the football and basketball teams at Notre Dame in 1916-17, died last Saturday, in Alpena, Michigan, after a brief illness of complications which followed pneumonia. Fitzpatrick for five years was coach of basketball and football at Catholic Central High School, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He left there for Dayton University, Dayton, Ohio, where he prepped the cage teams and assisted Harry Bau-jan, another Notre Dame graduate, with the football squad. Fitzpatrick was 35 at the time of his death.
A
694
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HERE IS PROGRAM FOR INTERHALL TRACK MEET .
OFFICIALS FOR MEET
Honorary* Referee—Knute K. Rockne. Referee—Hartley Anderson.
Starter—Raymond Hoyer.
Clerk of Course—John J. Quinn.
Head Tuier—Con. J. Carey, Jr.
Inspectors—J. T. Masterson, Janies Scannell. Head Field Judge—Bernard Conroy.
Field Judges—Brown, Janiskeski, Dilley. Head Judge at Finish—Robert Hellrung. Judges at Finish—Reaume, Moroni, Eaton. Manager of Meet—Daniel D. Halpin.
Announcer—Robert C. Balfe.
Judges—John F. Saunders, John M. Hughes.
Timer—Bourke Motsett, Joseph Lauerman, Tom Ashe.
Scorer—A. Richard Schreiner.
Sophomore Managers—Colville, Grams, McKean, Ross, Weiss, Spangenburg.
(Scoring: First, 6; second, 4; third, 3; fourth, 2; fifth, 1.)
1:45
Pole Vault
Interhall Record—11 feet, 3 inches; made by Robert Russell (Fr.), March 11, 1929.
Malan (Fr.), Vessely (Fr.), Len-nartz (Bro.), Behrman (Soph.), St. Clair (How.), Simmons, (Bro.), Buri ch (Soph.).
2:00
60-Yard Dash (Semi-finals)
Interhall Record—6 2/5 seconds; made by John Elder (Fr.), March 24, 1926; John Abbatemarco (How.), February 20, 1930.
First Heat—Garrett (How.), Eagan (Bro.), O’Malley (Soph.), Bunch (How.).
Second Heat—Dilling (Bro.), Abbatemarco (How.), Scholl (Morr.), Kempf (O.C.).
X 2:15
Shot Put
Interhall Record—41 feet, 10 % inches; made by Charles Bachman (Corby), January 29, 1914.
Brantford (Fr.), LeJune (Fr.), Beaudin (How.); Sweeney (Cor.), Groves (Morr.), Cavanaugh (Morr.), Dilling (Bro.), Frey (Walsh).
2:15
880-Yard Run
Interhall Record — 2:05 minutes; made by Cyril Caspar (Walsh), March 23, 1916.
MacBeth (Fr.), Masterson (Fr.), Woods (Lyons), Monahan (How.), Gilfoile (St Ed.), O’Mara (Bro.), Heil (Soph.), Powell (Bro.).
2:30
65-Yard Low Hurdles
Interhall Record — 7.7 seconds; made by Robert O’Connell (Fr.), March 11,1929.
First Heat—Garrett (How.), Hani-find (Bro.), MacBeth (Fr.).
Second Heat—Gough (Carr.), Corcoran (How.), Redmond (Walsh), Schricte (Fr.).
2:30
High Jump
Interhall Record—5 feet, 9 inches; made by Fred Reiman (Bro.), March 17, 1928.
Kenney (How.), O’Hara (How.), Abbatemarco (How.), Hughes (Fr.), Dilling (Bro.), Hayes (Bro.), Frey (Walsh), Behrman (Soph.), Burich (Soph.).
2:45
Mile Run
Interhall Record—4 minutes, 41 2/5 seconds; made by Robert Brennan (Badin), March 21, 1927.
Troy (Fr.), Hoyt (How.), Dore (Sorin), Moriarty (Lyons), Lane (Soph.), Guiffre (Soph.), Renier (Soph.), Duke (Bro.).
3:00
60-Yard Dash Finals
3:15
Broad Jump
Interhall Record — 21 feet, 9% inches; made by Edward T. Gough (Car.), March 1, 1930.
Vejar (Fr.), Garrett (How.), Bice (Fr.), Abbatemarco (How.), Gough (Carr.), Dilling (Bro.), Groves (Morr.), Frey (Walsh).
3:15
440-Yard Dash
Interhall Record—53 seconds; made by Edward Meehan (Corby), March 23, 1916.
Kelly (Fr.), McKeever (Fr.), Gilfoile (St. Ed.), Schricte (Fr.), Foxen (How.), Schneller (Carr.), Cavanaugh (Morr.), Fagan (Bro.).
3:30
65-Yard Low Hurdles (Finals)
3:45
Three-quarter Mile Relay
Interhall Record—2 minutes, 28 2/5 seconds; made by Sophomore Hall, March 17, 1928.
Point scoring for relay—5, 3, 1.
Freshman—Kelly (1), Schricte (2), Masterson (3), McCarthy (4), Troy (5), MacBeth (6).
Howard — Bunsch (1), Monahan (2), Lourex (3), Pugliase (4), Hoyt (5), Larkin (6).
Brownson — Furlong s (1), Hanifin (2), Thompson (3), Egan (4), Collins (5), Dilling (6).
Morrissey — Dunleavy (1), Locke (2), Groves (3), Sefera (4), O’Neil (5), Scholl (6).
This is the only printed program of events and entrants for the track meet tomorrow. Bring this copy of the “Scholastic” with you. The events will start at 1:45 p. m.
ENTRANTS
217—Malan	237—Cavanaugl257—Renier
218—Jaskwich
219—Vesseley
220—St. Clair
221—Lennartz
222—Simmons
223—Behrman
224—Burieh
238—Frey
239—MacBeth
240—Gough
241—Han if an
242—Corcoran
243—Woods
244—Gilfoil
258—Hoyt
259—Moriarty
260—Duke
261—Guiffre
262—Kelly
263—McKeever
225—Garrett	245—Masterson 264—Foxen
226—O’Malley	246—Monahan	265—Schneller
227—Bunsch	247—O’Mara	266—McCarthy
228—Eagan	248—Redmond	267—Thompson
229—Dilling	249—Schricte	268—Collins
230—Scholl	250—Kenny	269—Dunleavy
231—Kemf	251—O’Hara	270—Locke
232—Brantford 252—Hughes		271—Sefera
233—Le June	253—Hayes	272—O’Neil
234—Beaudin	254—Troy	273—Lourex
235—Sweeney	255—Dore	274—Pugliase
236—Groves	256—Lane	275—Larkin
ALL-INTERHALL BASKETBALL TEAM
HEAVYWEIGHTS
First Team
Right Forward—Law (Morrissey) Left Forward—Izo (Sophomore) Center—Igoe (St. Edward’s) Right Guard—Callaghan (Lyons) Left Guard—Smithers (Carroll)
Second Team
Right Forward—Gasey (Off-Campus) Left Forward—Reese (Howard) Center—Medland (Carroll)
Right Guard—Daley (Sorin) Left Guard—Melchione (Morrissey)
■ Honorable Mention
Sheeketski (Sophomore), Campbell (Brownson), Lazio (Howard), Conti (Sophomore), Kosky (Badin).
LIGHTWEIGHTS
First Team
Right Forward—Thompson (St. Ed’s.) Left Forward—Consolati (Sophomore) Center—Waterson (Sophomore) Right Guard—Duke (Corby)
Left Guard—McCarthy (Sophomore)
Second Team
Right Forward—Nash (Badin) Left Forward—Reaume (Walsh) Center—Rohrback (Badin)
Right Guard—Gorman (St. Edward’s) Left Guard—Smirthwaite (Sophomore)
Honorable Mention
Kigali (Howard), Smith (Badin), Staunton (Brownson), Oaks (Lyons). -----------------------------------❖
The Notre Dame Scholastic
695
INTERHALL SWIMMING MEETS ARRANGED
The annual indoor Interhall Swimming Meet will take place in the University Natatorium, on April 11. Three preliminary swimming meets will be held for the purpose of qualifying for the final meet.
The preliminaries will be held as follows:
Friday, March 21—Walsh, Badin, Lyons, Morrissey, Howard.
Friday, March 28—Sorin, St. Edward’s, Brownson, Carroll.
Friday, April 4—Corby, Sophomore, Off-Campus, Freshman.
A suitable trophy will be awarded the Hall scoring the greatest number of points in the final meet, and medals will be given those scoring first, second and third. Numerals will also be given Freshmen whose time equals or betters that posted for Freshman Numerals.
Every student in the University will be eligible to compete with his Hall team on the night assigned.
Only those winning first or second place in their respective events will qualify for the annual meet.
Each Hall will be limited to three entries in each of the following events: 40-Yard Breast Stroke.
40-Yard Back Stroke.
40-Yard Free Style.
Plunge for Distance.
100-Yard Back Stroke.
100-Yard Breast Stroke.
100-Yard Free Style.
220-Yard Medley Relay' (80 yard breast, 40 yard back, 100 yard free).
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
And dull care
withers on the vine

MILLION
affairs too seriously. It will only end by proving you know less and less of more and more.
The neatest trick you can pull is to slip into the nearest soda fountain or refreshment stand—around the corner from anywhere—and invite your soul to the pause, that refreshes. There and then, seen through a rose-colored glass of delicious, ice-cold Coca-Cola, all things fall
into true perspective and you become a man amongst men once more.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-4
■ *	■ A B TO BE
« O O B TO C E T W ■ E B E
IT IS
696
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Say it With Flowers
South Bend Floral Company
114 S. Mich. St.
Flowers telegraphed anywhere on Short Notice
11 If S. Mich. St. Telephone 3-8227
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
MIAMI...
No frills on this oxford .... just an aristocratic looking shoe reminiscent of the French custom artisans and their finished handiwork. A shoe that fits right.... feels right .... is'right.
Made from Royalite Calf.
—0—
Indiana Trust Company
-0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
—o—
122 NORTH MAIN STREET
SPEED MODELS...
Not indicative of fast living .... merely proof that you are keeping up with the procession of America’s well -dressed men. Whatever your choice .... we have it.
WALKOVER
SHOES FOR MEN
One - One - One South Michigan Street
The Notre Dame Scholastic
697
CULVER LOSES TO FROSH; ♦ SCORE 63-32
Winning eight firsts out of eleven events, Freshman Hall’s tracksters scored an easy victory over the Culver Military Academy cadets last Saturday afternoon at Culver, Indiana. The cadets won the low hurdles, mile run, and the high jump, and took enough seconds and thirds to run up 32 points. The Blue and Gold yearlings scored 63 points.
Abbatemarco, Freshman, was high-point man of the afternoon with 12 points by virtue of his victories in both the broad jump and the 40-yard dash and a tie for second in the high jump. Brantford tossed the 12-pound shot 48 feet, 5 inches to take first place from his team-mate Lejeune. Malan won the pole vault with a jump of 11 feet, 7 inches, the best vault he has made this year in competition.
Macbeth and Kelly won the 880-yard run and the 220-yard dash respectively, both in fairly good times.
The only slam of the day was scored by Freshman Hall in the broad jump when Abbatemarco, Vejar, and Gough finished in that order.
The results:
Shot Put — Won by Brantford (ND); LeJeune (ND), second; England (C), third. Distance, 48 feet, 5 inches.
40-Yard Dash—Won by Abbatemarco (ND); Dilling (ND), second; Schultz (C), third. Time :04 7/10.
Half Mile — Won by Macbeth (ND); Devlin (C), second; Schrichte (ND), third. Time 2:06.
45-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Schultz (C); Gough (ND), second; • Brown (C), third. Time :05 4/10.
45-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Corcoran (ND); Spiers (C), second; Brown (C), third. Time :06 5/10.
220-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly (ND); Jackson (C), second; Gough (ND), third. Time :24 4/10.
Broad Jump—Won by Abbatemarco (ND); Vejar (ND), second; Gough (ND), third. Distance, 21 feet, 2 ins.
Mile Run—Won by Cuthbert (C); Troy (ND), second; Grimes (ND), third. Time 4:44.
Pole Vault—Won by Malan (ND); Chaibai (C), second; Ruchman (C), third. Height, 11 feet, 7 inches.
High Jump—Won by Richardson (C); Abbatemarco (ND) and Hughes (ND), tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.
1000-Yard Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Schrichte, Gilfoile, Macbeth, Kelly). Time 1:52 2/10.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that lets you sleep.

A bowl of Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes with milk or cream makes you “sit up and take notice.”
They are so much crisper. And what a flavor! It’s the famous flavor of PEP. As you eat each spoonful remember that you are getting the nourishment from the wheat. Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes be served at your fraternity or campus restaurant.
BRAN FLAKES
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
Bring your hat to be blocked and your suit to be pressed when you go to the show and both wall be ready when the show is over.
Suits pressed while you wait
| THE UNIVERSITY CUT i
|	“THE most popular style for	|
=	• this spring has been award-	I
|	ed to the two button	notch	|
|	lapel coat. The unused third	I
1	seems to have been	drop-	I
|	ped — at least temporarily. ♦	|
|	Light colors dominate	to the	I
|	point of monopoly. Creamy	|
|	rich shades—extremely light,	|
|	both in color and price	I
1	To Retail	I
|	$35	$40	$45	|
|	with two trousers	=
| | |	New Braebum Topcoats	i
I MAX ADLER I
|	inc. '	I
I	MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON I
255 UNIFORMS ISSUED AS SPRING FOOTBALL BEGINS
Seventeen monogram men and a far greater number- of varsity players ‘ who will again don the moleskins for Notre Dame next fall have reported for spring football practice. Coaches Hunk Anderson and Jack Chevigny have begun to teach the pigskin maulers a few new tricks with the arrival of the spring grid training period. Knute Rockne will return within two weeks, it is said, and until his arrival his assistants will run the Fighting Irish gridsters through their paces. A total of 255 uniforms have been issued and two hundred or more players are reporting daily.
Vezie and Cannon, from last season’s team, are assisting Anderson and Chevigny in ironing out the kinks and teaching the new timber the rudiments of the game. The first cut will be made after Rockne has had a chance to survey the field, it was mentioned. The length of the trainingperiod is indefinite, its termination depending upon time necessary to whip the material into shape.
That a great amount of interest is being shown by present freshmen who will be eligible for varsity competition next year was evinced by the strength in the number of the first year men who reported for the practices this week, it was pointed out. About 80 freshmen composed the yearling squad at the end of the last season and the number that responded to the call for spring training was 85.
TOM CONLEY RECEIVES HONOR REWARDS
The trip of the Notre Dame basketball team to Philadelphia last week proved profitable to Coach George E. Keogan’s eagers but also to Tom Conley, individually. The Quaker City is Tom’s home town and the entire team was taken on a tour to view the Liberty Bell and other points of interest about the town.
After the game Saturday night, a banquet was given in honor of Conley by the Big Brother’s Club of Philadelphia. Conley, Notre Dame’s football captain-elect, was presented during the banquet with a large traveling bag by the club, and a traveling kit by the boys whom he had in charge last year, in the summer camp supported by the Club.
Washington, D. C. was the next stopping . place of the basketball squad and the team spent four hours touring the Capitol.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
699
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
Duneland
Perhaps you are like many other people—living close to some remarkable place but unfamiliar with it.
Get acquainted with Indiana’s Duneland—Nature’s unique wonderland.
Take a South Shore Line train to Tremont, Gateway to the Dunes, and enjoy a day rambling. Take your camera for a permanent record of your outing.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
QUALITY BY KUPPENHE1MER
Matchless Value at $35
The
Duffel Topper
by Kuppenheimer
Top-coat extraordinary —has that slip-on and slip-off easiness so necessary in any top-coat. It has smart style, too, that will stand up under all kinds of knockaboutusage —Here now.
others 25 to 75

Good Clothes For Every Man
700
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FINAL INTERHALL BAS-
KETBALL RESULTS
Heavyweight League
Wednesday, March 5—
St. Edward’s 18; Lyons 17
Howard 18, Freshman 9
Sorin 20, Corby 17
Thursday, March 6—
Brownson 18, Carroll 17
Sophomore 21, Morrissey 15
Badin 16, Walsh 7
Sunday, March 9—
Badin 15, Corby 14
Morrissey 27, Lyons 22
Lightweight League
Wednesday, March 5—
Lyons 20, St. Edward’s 7
Howard 26, Freshman 9
Corby 17, Sorin 12
Thursday, March 6—
Brownson 17, Carroll 13
Sophomore 20, Morrissey 7
Badin 21, Walsh 18
No Sunday games for Lightweight League.
JOHNNY NIEMIEC SIGNS AT RICE INSTITUTE
Johnny “Butch” Niemiec, star halfback on the 1928 football team, and
a graduate of ’28, signed a contract last week to be assistant football coach at Rice Institute, in Houston, Texas.
TRACKMEN IN ILLINOIS RELAYS; CANADIAN
MEET SOON
Sixteen members of the track squad headed by Coach John P. Nicholson and Senioi- Manager, Anthony Kego-wicz, left today for Champaign, Illinois, where they will compete in the annual Illinois Indoor Relays tomorrow.
Following their great showing in the conference meet last week, “Nick” decided to give the boys an opportunity to run in the relays where they will buck up against the stiffest opposition the Big Ten and the Midwest can offer.
Included in the squad making the trip is the mile relay team whose wonderful race last Saturday stamped it as one of the best in the country. Captain Abbott, Wilson, and Little will run again in the two-mile relay with either Joe Quigley or McConn-ville as the fourth man. Coach Nicholson is counting on this team to lower the Illini fieldhouse record for
that event. The odd man of this team will probably run in the medley with Bud Tuohy, Jack Scanlan, and either Jim Biggins or Gene Howery.
Three sprinters, Ken Boagni, Bill McCormick and Rog Cummings, who scored 9% points out of eleven in the dashes last week, will match their strides with such men as Ford of Northwestern, Useman of Illinois, Root of Chicago, Tolan of Michigan, and Simpson of Ohio State
The dash at Illinois will be over the 70-yard distance, ten yards greater than the Notre Dame spTinters have run in competition aat any time this year.
Ken Fishleigh, “Dutch” Johnson and John Abernathy are the only men entered in the field events, the first two in the pole-vault and the latter in the high-pump.
Coach Nicholson’s one-mile relay team, composed of Captain Joe Abbott, Brant Little, Winston Bradley, and Alex Wilson, is scheduled to run a special race against a team of picked Canadian runners and the New York University team at Hamilton, Ontario, next Wednesday evening. These men, together with Ken Boagni, who will represent Notre Dame in the sprint series of the meet, will leave early Tuesday for the Canadian city.
Very happy to be home again—May I have the pleasure of entertaining you some evening soon at the
OLIVER
THEATRE
Sincerely, KIRK LUCAS
NOW PLA YING
New York Daly Theatre Hit— Made Famous by Grant Mitchell— A Hilarious Mystery Thrill Play.
Sunday and Monday DOLORES COSTELLO IN SECOND CHOICE WITH Chester Morris—Jack Mulhall a VITAPHONE ALL-TALKING PICTURE
Tuesday thru Thursday
NOW The MARVEL of the LIVING TALKING SCREEN!
Friday a’nd Saturday “THE GIRL IN THE SHOW” WITH BESSIE LOVE ALL TALKING
One of the Publix Theatres
The Notre Dame Scholastic
701
❖——-------------------------❖
Splinters from the Press Box
4---------------------------*
Whenever one speaks of real “tough men,” Harry McNamara’s name must be included. The scarred and battered Australian is on the shady side of forty, but there is no more consistent competitor in the six-day bike racing game. McNamara has survived enough accidents to completely ruin the whole entry in a six-day bike race, and still he carries on. Practically every part of his body carries at least one scar, and broken bones are just an ordinary occurrence to him. This sounds a bit extraordinary, but it is altogether true.
The latest story has it that Herman Phillips, one of the greatest “440” men to compete, and now coach of Butler, had something to do with Pay Barbuti’s 400-meter triumph in 1928. The tale has it that Tom Kane, coach of the “400-meter” men, asked Phillips, who had drawn the outside lane in the staggered start of the final, to go out fast and draw the other competitors out. Phillips did this and Barbuti drew away in the home
stretch. He started his kick a bit too soon, however, and only his heroic lunge at the tape enabled him to beat blond Jimmy Ball of Canada, as the wearer of the Maple Leaf came on like a startled thoroughbred. It is not too late to twine a wreath of laurel for the brow of little Herman Phillips and place him on a pedestal next to the giant and courageous wearer of the Orange, Raymond James Barbuti.
The Yale hockey team defeated Harvard last Saturday night to even up the current series. The game was played before a crowd of fifteen thousand people, probably the largest gathering ever to witness an amateur hockey game. But the game was unusual in other respects also. . In the third period there were three Eli’s in the penalty box, but the remaining three successfully held the Crimson in check, and maintained the Blue’s lead, which was not exactly an everyday occurrence.
Avery Brundage, thrice All-Around Champion, and now president of the National A. A. A. thinks that there is a grave possibility of the United States losing its track and field superiority in the next Olympics. In
terest in athletics has reached a point in many European countries that it never held before, and countries whose sole sport in the past was mountaineering and yodelling, have gone • athletic. Perhaps Mr. Brundage should have said we were in danger of losing our field supremacy. The track supremacy seems to have been pretty well gone, ever since the war.
One of the best- runners around these parts is little Lauren Brown of Michigan State. For consistency, tenacity, uncanny judgment of pace, and sheer “guts” he has few equals. Those who saw him win the two-mile at the Central Conference meet last Saturday, saw one of the finest pace judger races ever run. Time and again he has run that kind of a race, letting someone else set a fast early clip, but all the time holding to his own steady pace, and along about the third half-mile his opponents come back to him. He rarely increases his pace, the ones who have gone out fact coming back to him: American runners could profit by his example. Nurmi was about the last runner of any note to use this system with great success, although it is quite a common practice in Europe.
- FOUR DAYS -STARTS SATURDAY
“THE COHENS and KELLYS
IN
SCOTLAND”
With
George Sidney and Charlie Murphy The Season’s Funniest Feature Comedy
Wednesday to Friday BILLIE DOVE AND
GRANT WITHERS
—in—
“THE OTHER TO-MORROW”
A Sensational Drama of Modern Society
702
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
60c KOOLSHAVE
SHAVING CREAM _____________
39c
Giant size tube. This new beard softener contains also Bay Rum and Menthol.
and Colfax
See the new
“St. Moritz”
-very narrow brim
—snap in front
—curled in hack
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
HAT STORE
118 N.MICHI GAN ST.
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot Tamale
Ice Cream
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG .	327 North Michigan Street

The Notre Dame Scholastic
703
Right now, the race of the century as far as colleges are concerned, would be a 440 with Engle of Yale, McCafferty of Holy Cross, Wilson of Notre Dame, Record of Harvard and Walter of Northwestern as the entrants.
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building, New York Co-Educational
Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission
Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
OPPORTUNITY FOR SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2853
A group of eight men will be selected from the University of Notre Dame to represent a large Eastern concern in a national advertising campaign this summer.
A weekly salary of $24, plus commission and transportation expenses for those who qualify.
For particulars see Mr. London, at LaSalle Hotel, Friday afternoon and evening.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. EdgarS. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE
ANNUAL
MID WESTERN
UNIVERSITIES
TOURS TO EUROPE
homMONTREAL
ANDANIA
JUNE20^
ATHENIA
JUNE 27*
59 DAYS
52 DAYS
Send Coupon below for Complete Free Information.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.
70 E. Randolph St. Chicago, III.
Gentlemen : Please send me, without any obligation on my part, complete details on the Third Annual Midwestern Universities Tours.
Name__________________________
Street _______________________
City_______________ State_____
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
261 Associates Bldg.
Good tobacco
in a pipe
That’s what you want!
WHY do you hunt high and low and everywhere, when all the time here is good tobacco waiting to be smoked in your pipe? Why not discover Edgeworth and be done with your hunting?
Light a pipeful of Edgeworth. Roll on your tongue the full-bodied smoke that never bites and is always cool. Taste the Edgeworth flavor—the flavor that never changes. Learn for yourself why Edgeworth is the choice of so many critical smokers all around the world.
You simply must meet Edgeworth somehow. Buy a can of it, or borrow some, or let us send you several pipefuls, free, just to taste. Use first the coupon and then restraint until the postman comes with the Edgeworth. You’ll bless the day, for good tobacco in a pipe is what you want.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavornever change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15c pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SHORING TOBACCO
LARUS & BRO. CO.
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
Ill try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
Name___________________ . -
Street	-
Town and State	-----
Now let the Edgeworth come! V21
a 1 I l i l I ■ ■ I 1 1 I 1 1 l l
704
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1855	’ SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY •	1930
Harnessing Niagara Falls to the washing machine
Cheaper power! Groping after this modern touchstone to wealth, deluded inventors slaved over perpetual motion machines ... informed inventors evolved the turbine.. .broad visioned men harnessed the rush of waters... engineers raised pressures and temperatures to produce more power without corresponding increases of cost.
While, step by step, this progress has taken place, the many men who have contributed to it could not know what far-reaching results it would have. Now the ultimate boons grow clear. Water power development becomes a national policy, steam bids fair to rival water power for cheapness, economically produced power brings more plentiful goods, lights houses and hauls crowds in cities, is carried to rural sections to lift washday drudgery from farm women’s shoulders.
Among the many industrial victories that are behind this revolution, none is more important than wider knowledge of piping materials and better materials. One of the highly prized chapters of our histoiy is the contribution that Crane research and valve engineering has made to the general advance. The results of this researchare embodied in a Crane book,Pzon^r-ing in Science. It is a fascinating stoiy of engineering development and a valuable reference work for engineering students. A request will bring you a copy.
< h-----------------:----------
On Down the Line | i «------------------------------«
. . . LEON SEE, manager of the giant Italian, PRIMO CARNERA, received a $100,000 offer to match his boy with GEORGE GODFREY, the cullad heavy . . . The fight to be held at the Sesqui-Centennial Stadium in Philadelphia . . . The careful Mr. SEE remarked, “We need a little time to think things over . . .” BUDDY HACKMAN, Tennessee halfback played three years at Montgomery-Bell Academy, with the freshman team at the university, and with the varsity two years, and he never saw his eleven beaten ... or even headed in the score . . .
. . . Dave Livie, prominent golf pro says, “Don’t go about trying to improve your golf game without any plan or purpose . . .” The 30th annual American Bowling Congress started last week in Cleveland ... It will last 38 days . . . 1422 quintets of out-of-teams entered . . . this sets new record . . . Over 12,000 bowlers will compete . . . entry fees amount to $151,210 . . . prizes total $100,806 . . . There are 350 bowling alleys in Washington, D. C. used exclusively for duckpin or small ball tenpins . . .
. . . GEORGE VEZINA is acclaimed the greatest goalie hockey has known . . . He started his career at 18 years of age and played 18 more for “Les Canadiens” . . . Senior athletes at the University of Pennsylvania who make the honor roll the first semester are not required to attend classes during the second semester . . . providing they maintain their first term average of 85 or better . . . Eighteen amateur and professional golf tournaments are to be held in St. Peters* burg, Fla., during the present winter season . . .
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM, LIQUIDS OIL GAS, CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 W. 44TH STREET Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety Cities
. . . Lacrosse is known to be the roughest game in the entire list of athletics . . . yet there has never been a fatality which may be directly attributed to that game ... A pair of football shoes was added to the grid collection in Duquesne University’s museum ... They were worn by Capt. BUFF DONNELL, 1929 captain, famous for his right and leftfooted kicking . . .

The Notre Dame Scholastic
705
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
Citizens National Bank
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
JEFFERSON NEAR MICHIGAN
$7.50 values
All makes of typewriters rented
Special Student Rate $3.00 per month
—0—
THE
OFFICE ENGINEERS
126-128 S. Main St.
Shave with it. It’s the greatest shaving improvement in 26 years. All Gillette razors are Gold Plated.
Price of New Razor............  98c
Package of five Blades___________39c
Package of 10 Blades.............77c
Price of New Razor............  98c
Package of five Blades___________39c
Package of 10 Blades.............77c
Comer Michigan and Colfax
706
The Notre Dame Scholastic
X
/
SUITS TOPCOATS
z/z accord with Spring
i
J
OT only are they attuned to the new season, but they embrace every desirable feature of quality wanted in good Clothes. Style never was so important—and style you get from authentic sources. Woolens never were finer, never more pleasing in appearance or in wear—and these are the woolens you get. Tailoring is of the custom variety—and such is the tailoring that is given you.
on the new styles
The Collegian will favor the three-button model, two to button ; notch lapel with a long roll. Broader shoulders with the slimmer waist line and hips. These suits are bound to give you the desired athletic effect. -
r
ADLER BROTHERS