
• Wire Service • Corsages • Gift Items • Arrangements • Plants • Silk Flowers • Free SMC· delivery ­50c ND delivery · • Centerpieces • Accessories ~~ -~-[t-t>)----1~;:::::::--l IF10RAFAXI "THISWl..lPI\IU10'1.0WU Fl0'111.l:!.lllOPI..UTSO"l.l'.' GUARANTEED FRESH I SERVICE WORLDWIDE  



ACE 

ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
272-7535 
FREE PARKING FRONT & REAR 
219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN ROSELAND 


LAMP SHADES -LAMP REPAIR -LAMP PARTS GLASS PARTS -LAMPS -LIGHTING FIXTURES 
Village Lamp Shoppe 
NORTH VlllAGE MALL 
52577 US 31 North South Bend, Indiana 
(219) 272-0600 

Custom Lamp Shades 

• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL. SUPPLIES 

• 
GARDEN SUPPLIES 

• 
HOUSEWARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 






SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 123, No. 5, January 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 
3  Notre Dame Football: The Rainy Season A recapy of Faust's first ...  
6  Volleyball: A Decade of Experience Saint Mary's captain reflects on her athletic career . ..  
8  An Old Game That Hasn't Changed Notre Dame Woman take to field hockey ...  
10  Jump Ball, Center Court Notre Dame Women's Basketball: Hail Mary! Let's Go ...  
11  The Rational Athlete Fencing-the assassin's pax de Deux ...  


Mike Dorociak 
Theresa Walters Kathy Ray 
Jenny Klauke Scott Thomas 

12 Fellowship of Christian Athletes: Faith on the Playing Field Seeking to understand Christ and one another . . . Dale Fronk 
14 Notre Dame Women's Tennis Serving up a successful season ... 
18 Notre Dame Volleyball Grows Up Spiking with a punch ... 
20 "I Need Two!" The competition outside the stadium ... 
22 1981 Football Statistics 


REGULARS­
2  Up Front  
16  Gallery  
24  Fiction/The Exchange Program  
25  Fiction/Getting On  

Tina Stephan Jan Yurgealitis 
Philip Allen 
Ed Kelly 
Sheila Beatty Beth Healy 

28  Poetry  Mary Francis Decelles, Kathleen Johannsen  
31  Culture Update  
32  last Word  Chuck Wood  

page 3 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre. Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. page 11 
·copyright © 1982 Scholastic·/ all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
JANUARY, 1982 
1 

Up Front 
Ladies and gentlemen ( especially ladies), welcome to this year's Scholastic "Sports Review." Those of you who have been here before re­member, no doubt, the old days when the entire sports issue was a review of football-and those watch­ing closely last year saw a change to the coverage of all sports. Well folks, this year it's all sports again, but there's a new twist, for in the center ring this month are women's sports! (Ladies, please . . . hold the applause.) Is this a mad embracing of Title IX? A despera,te attempt to shift the focus away from the un­fortunate football team? No; it's an anniversary. After ten years of par­ticipation (and little coverage), the spotlight is shared at last by the Notre Dame (and the longer-run­ning Saint Mary's) women, who by now have proven themselves to be no less competitive in the college sports 
~ ,: .. =­
..: : ·~~.., .­
r-.. :~.:-:­
;.,. .­
;_·· .· ~.;. 
L· 
,, 
Letters to the Editor 
To the Editor: 
As a suscriber to Scholastic (and a subway alumnus) I find your articles enjoyable, even when they are "off the beaten path." 
Now, a little commentary on the Notre Dame Football and Basket­ball teams' lack of success this year. A temporary detour will not deter Coach Faust or Digger from their winning ways. Those legions of fans have to remember, "No 

by Ed Kelly 
circuit than the much-lauded men. The women though, operating with­out the century of tradition to fall back on, have only just begun to fight-and this month they have an audience.... 
Naturally, however, a sports edi­tor at Notre Dame cannot abandon his football coverage . . . the good ol' football review is still alive and well, albeit in capsulized form. But for the men as well as the women athletes, 1981-82 was and is a year of building and rebuilding, and in such a case it is often best to let the athletes speak for themselves. For the most part, this issue does just that, most of the articles hav­ing been written by the participants. . . . Without further delay, therefore, Scholastic once again presents ­something different in a sports re­
view. 
pain, no gain." 
We will all rise to the occasion, I'm sure, and support the players whether they are ranked .first or fifty-first. And then we will no longer have to endure the snide re­marks from certain journalistic jackals (who shall remain name­less) who revel in our present dis­comfort. 
Sincerely, Norm Beznoska, Jr. Strongsville, Ohio 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
1981-1982 
Sports Review Editor 
Ed Kelly 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Chuck Wood 


GENERAL MANAGER 
Clay Malaker 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Jane Zwerneman 
St. Mary's Editor 
Elizabeth Bradley 

Copy Editors 
Dan McGrath 
Mark Bustamante 

Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 

Distribution Manager 
Randy Raciti 

Business Manager 
Pat James 
Layout Editor 
Mike Mulligan 
Art Editor 
Tamera Mams 

Staff 

Beth Healy, Alyson Hritz, Barbara Stevens, Bryan Cashman, Jim Wasilak, Joe Hildener, Karen Trappen, Beth DeSchryver, Ducan Meyers, Jim Rickert, Allen Brenzel, Scott Rappold, Bill Muller, Julie Wodarcyk, Mary Sloan, Greg Bachhuber, Tim Judge, Bill Mans, Bob Vanderheide, Mark Boennigh­hausen, Donna Teevan, Charles Van Rav­enswaay, Tom Wrobel, Dan Bell, Michael Meeks, Michael Marz, Daniel Ferris, Philip Allen, Pat Pitz 



CREDITS 
Illustrations: 
p. 1, Laura Stover; p, 25, Brian Mclaughlin; p, 28, 29, Catherine Gunning; advertising, Sven Johnson 
Photos: 
p. 
1, 4, 5, courtesy of Dome; p. 2, 11, 32, Mike Mulligian; p, 3, 30, Chris Barlock; 

p. 
6, 7, courtesy of Beth Bradley; p. 8, 30, 16, Bob Wade; p, 9, Cheryl Ertelt; p. 11, 13, John Reynolds; p. 14, 15, Dion Rud­nicki 


Adivsor: Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. 
SCHOLASTIC 


IJoavnstown byTim Downs 
C3U...L-, WI--\.A.T WOULD 1'0 HAVE-THE;;.CAR
WIL-1.-THE COACt-\ GD
USCI-IAS".Jusr 

'rOU 00 IFYOU WEF!E. PU~
FbRTHE."TWO-F'OINr
SCORED ANOTlt-'11:=­
IN THLS COACHING e:::
CON~ION ANO
I-IAS ~UN Otlr! THl=cY'" 
STTVATION?

YICTOR~O~WIL.LHE.
NOW Tl2AII.-•:S'IS'T~' 
.Aa::EPrA HUt-'IIL--­
OF7HEPOOR BY 

lATINu TIE.'?
ONL.-'(' ONEPOINT.1 

© Copyright 1981 Universal Press Syndicate. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved. 
Notre Dame Football: The Rainv Season 
Without a doubt, many fans of college football, including armchair coaches and subway alumni alike, thought Gerry Faust could have used a getaway car of his own to escape many of the situations he found himself in as first-year head coach at Notre Dame. As the foot­ball powerhouse of the Midwest, if not the na,tion, Notre Dame encoun­tered its first losing season since 1963, while much attention focused on the former Moeller mentor. Yet, when we stop to think, the pressure placed on today's football coaches is amazing. All of the traditionally big schools, Notre Dame, U.S.C., Ala­bama, etc., have established a win­ning tradition to which their grid­iron leaders must adhere. If they do not, then· we, as fans, automatically look for someone or something to blame. 
_As an ardent Notre Dame fan, I too had an explanation for our be­low par year in football. Somehow I jinxed the whole season. Now this simple explanation was not evident until I realized that as a high school senior, my football team suffered through its only losing season in the school's history with a dismal 2-7 record. AJlter I graduated, the team went on to finish second in the state the following year. Consequently, the way I look at things as a college senior, ·Notre Dame's losing season was entirely uncharacteristic. As soon as I graduate, the team will be able to go places. Now do not take this for granted. Two years ago, my high school team was ranked # 1 in the state. The weekend I went home, 
JANUARY, 1982 
they lost. Similarly, Notre Dame was at one time this year ranked #1 in the country and look what happened. To be honest, I did not think my jinxing ability carried that type of weight. But if I did jinx_ the football season, just think of the strategy Faust could use. He could .send me over to study at U.S.C. for a year or two, that should be enough to help dampen their football program. 
Yet, I will have to admit, I have heard more logical explanations as to why Notre Dame had an off year. For instance, many have placed the blame on Faust's inexperience and his complicated offensive system, while others have said that defen­sively we could not stop the big play. However, I believe that we can sum up the season without any excuses or explanations. Notre Dame is a school that goes far beyond a losing season, missed field goal, ten-yard 
by Mike Dorociak 

penalty. Indeed, losing can be a form of winning if it is treated right. 
Notre Dame's season reminds us that to really appreciate the sun­shine sometimes we have to experi­ence a little rain. Now I know what many of you are thinking-that the football season brought us a torren­tial downpour-but who will say that the season was not enjoyable? I for one am thankful I was given the opportunity to root for Notre Dame, win, lose, or draw, and I think most of us are grateful for the same. 
The important thing is that we be­lieve in Notre Dame, and that belief is our best insurance for the con­tinuing success in athletics and aca­demics. The next time somebody comes up to you and says, "Hey what happened to Notre Dame last year?" simply tell him, that he must be a nonbeliever. For it is the be­lievers who are true Notre Dame 
Blair Kiel calls the shots. 
fans, no matter what the outcome. With only 59,075 seats in the Sta­dium, we do not have any room for the nonbelievers. 
Above all, the final score on the scoreboard cannot take away from the memories, experiences, and en­joyment that we have had during the 1981 football season. 
In light of this, I would like to offer a brief game-by-game recap of the year, a year that gave us many highlights, but also many disappoint­ments. 
It could not have been better con­ditions for a season opener: excite­ment was in the air, the weather was friendly (a warm 80 degrees), and Gerry Faust and the rest of the Irish squad were going to experience the thrill of running through the tunnel as they kicked off the begin­ning of a brand-new season. Facing a young LSU team, the Irish jumped off to a quick start, forcing a fumble on the third play of the game. From there, Blair Kiel connected with Larry Moriarty for N.D.'s first touchdown of the season. It was Kiel's first touchdown pass at Notre Dame and Moriarty's first touch­down of his career. Tim Koegel, who was to share the quarterback spot with Kiel for most of the season, contributed a 6-for-7 passing day, in­cluding a touchdown throw to Dave Condeni, his former high school teammate under Faust. The Irish went on to dominate Louisiana State, earning a sound victory 27-9. The victory made Gerry Faust the 22nd out of 24 Notre Dame head coaches to win his first game at the school. Despite all the excitement generated on the field, Faust still managed 'to find his wife after the game and give her an all-important victory kiss. 
From Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish, now ranked as the number-one team in the nation, traveled to Ann Arbor, Michigan, where they would meet a tough Michigan squad which many preseason predictions held to be the nation's best. The results were less than pleasant for the Irish. A 71­yard scoring strike from Michigan quarterback Steye Smith to speed­ster Anthony Carter provided the only scoring of the half, as most of us who left the T.V. set at halftime were still confident of an Irish vic­tory. However, the Wolverines took command in the third quarter, and the game was never close after that, as Notre Dame went down in defeat 25-7. Indeed, this was a contest where many Irish fans yearned for some of that old magic that had pro­pelled the Irish past the Wolverines in previous years. 
Moving on to face the Purdue Boilermakers at West Lafayette, Notre Dame found themselves over­confident, and as a result, they learned a hard lesson. ·Strongly favored to win the game, the Irish 

finally took the lead in the fourth quarter behind an inspiring. 30-yard run by co-captain Phil Carter. The student body, once again glued to their T.V. sets, if not at the game, could sit back and watch-the defense go to work with only_ 2:57 remain­ing in the game. Yet, Purdue man­aged to crack the Notre Dame de­fense, scoring on a 7-yard pass play with only nineteen seconds left. Ex­citement mounted as Purdue, behind by one point, decided to go for all or nothing by attempting a two-point conversion. It was the same play, run to the other side, and the same result. Purdue pulled off a shocking upset over Notre Dame, 15-14. A dejected Irish ballclub was to return home the next week to face Michigan State. 
With Phil Carter hurt in the first quarter, Greg Bell came in against the Spartans and did more than his job. In fact, _he worked overtime picking up 165 yards in 20 carries, only to leave the game in the fourth quarter with a hip pointer. The de­fense prohibited Michigan State from earning a single first down in both the first and fourth quarters, and al­lowed them only. 8 first downs the whole day. It was good to be home, as Harry Oliver added his first two field goals of the year to give the Irish a sound 20-7 victory. The only Michigan State scoring strike came on a 63-yard pass play. The big play again hurt Notre Dame, something it would do all season. 
Although I could. not attend the Florida State game because of a wedding, I did manage to bring a pocket radio to the church. After all, it was the first meeting between the two teams, and I wanted to say that I was a part of it. However the Irish could. never get untracked, managing only 38 ·yards of passing the whole day, and only successful in 1 of 14 third-down conversions. A Notre Dame score in the fourth quarter was not enough, as Florida State rallied to break a 13-13 tie and earn a 19-13 win. In the process, the Seminoles became only the third team since 1943 to win their first game in Notre Dame Stadium, along with Missouri (1972) and Clemson (1979). 
After a week off, the Fighting Irish returned to the Stadium to con­tinue their fierce rivalry with the Trojans of Southern California. Al­though it turned out to be one of N.D.'s best games of the season, the Irish unfortunately came up short, falling to Southern Cal 14-7. It was the first time in the history of the 
SCHOLASTIC 


ND-USC series that the Trojans de­feated the Irish four straight times. Notre Dame's last win in the rivalry came in 1977 when Dan Devine's eventual national championship team switched to their green jerseys at halftime. Yet, I will have to admit, this game marked some very good, hard football. Remarked Faust, "To­day our team came of age." The game was even at the half, as both teams were unable to score. Even during the third quarter, Notre Dame responded to a U.S.C. score with a 5-yard run by Phil Carter. But the Irish, repeating a problem they faced all year, could not quite match their rivals. U.S.C. broke the tie with a 26-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter. The game ended when a late scoring drive engineered by Blair 
Kiel fell short. 
If there ever was a cure for Notre Dame's midseason slump this year, it could have been the Midshipmen from Navy. After losing the last two games at home, Notre Dame was able to blank Navy 38-0, making it the third straight shutout the Irish have placed over the Midshipmen. At the forefront .of the victory was a new name to many Irish fans-Joe Howard. The talented freshman dazzled the crowd with a reverse touchdown in the first quarter, only to keep the crowd on their feet with a 52-yard touchdown gra:b from Blair Kiel in the second quarter. All in all, Howard took in 5 passes for 115 yards. Teammate Blair Kiel also enjoyed his finest day at the Irish helm, completing 13 of 23 passes for 225 yards and two touchdowns. Tony Hunter, replacing the unfortunate loss of tight-end Dean Masztak, also caught a 27-yard touchdown pass at tight end. 
Witnesses of Notre Dame's last 1981 home football game against the Georgia Tech Yellowjackets, were fortunate enough to see the longest touchdown pass in Notre Dame's his­tory-a 96-yard scoring strike from Blair Kiel to Joe Howard. If that was not enough to get the blood pumping, Kiel hit Howard again with a 58-yard pass in the second quarter. good for another 6 points. Veteran Tim Koegel came in to re­place Kiel and threw two touchdown passes of his own. This was the last game for the senior players and senior fans and of course. it brought back many memories gathered throughout their four-year stay here at Notre Dame. In any event, the finale at Notre Dame Stadium left us with a good feeling as the Irish trounced the Yellowjackets 35-3. 
Notre Dame then took to the road for its last three games of the season playing Air Force, Penn State, and 
Miami. At the Air Force Academy 
Gerry Faust obtained his last win of 
the 1981 season, 35-7. The game 
however .proved to be a tough battle 
for the Irish, much tougher than the 
score reflected. The contest was a 
personal milestone for consensus All­
American Bob Crable as he eclipsed 
the old Notre Dame record for most 
tackles in a career which was for­
merly held by Bob Golie. Indeed, 
Crable was a mainstay of the Notre 
Dame defense all year, wherever the 
ball was, you had a good bet that he 
was nearby. 
At Beaver Stadium in Pennsyl­vania; the Irish were about to meet a ranked opponent for the fifth time in ten outings, Penn State. It was going to be a classic matchup-Joe Paterno in his 16th season at Penn State against rookie coach Gerry Faust who had struggled through an unpredictable year under the Dome. · Only thirty-one seconds into the con­test, Penn State was on the score­
(cont'd on page .'JO) 


JANUARY, 1982 

' .... . -, . ,


11111111-·­
' ' 
• ·_ ' w 
i ~' 


A Decade of Experience 
Have I been playing voHeyball for ten years? No wonder my knees are giving out. As my mother says, "Who would ever have thought that shy, skinny-legged, seventh-grader, who didn't even like talking on the phone, would be coaching a girl's middle school volleybail team?" I have learned a great deal by par­ticipating in_ this sport over the years. 
Yes, I succumbed to peer pressure. Everyone has heard of the detri­mental effects of peer pressure. From taking that first drag of a cigarette to that first drink, peer pressure has always been understood as a perni­cious enemy. If peer pressure was of any benefit to me, it was in seventh grade when two of my friends de­cided to try out for the first-year volleyball team. So, of course, I tried out too. We all made the team and then began the team-learning ex­perience. We were expected to re­frain from cigarettes and alcoholic drink and practice during our free time; so, who had time to get into trouble? A strict, gruff, but popular gym teacher took on the challenge of coaching us. We knew what was expected of us, and we learned the . basics quickly -forearm pass, set, spike, serve, etc. -so quickly that at the end of our eighth-grade season we were city champs. 
What a difference from recreation­gym class volleyball where basket­ball players slam-dunk the volleyball over the net and call it a spike! TIPVB -This Is Power VolleyBall. This past season, some friends from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame came to watch the SMC-ND volleyball match. Obviously they hadn't seen 
by Theresa Walters 

volleyball played like that before, and 'I was delighted at their surprise and enthusiasm. Of course, they es­pecially liked the spikes and dives. However, volleyball is much more than •this. If the forearm pass is not to the setter, the setter cannot set the spiker and the play is not effec­tive; it isn't a crowd pleaser. That's what I enjoy and what is so exciting about volleyball: the challenge of playing together like clockwork, the accomplishment of a play well exe­cuted. 
High school proved to be tough years for volleyball. I learned pa­tience from gathering splinters and from relating · to another coach. These years also taught me initia­tive. Even though I did a lot of bench-sitting, I made sure I sat close to the coach where she could see I was ready .to go in anytime. 
I have learned that power volley­ball is a fun, graceful sport which demands skills, concentration, quick reaction, discipline, and communica­tion. The loss of concentration dur­ing a game is less than graceful and is costly. One distraction, causing a loss of eye to ball coordination and therefore a loss 0£2-reaction time, can result in an easy point for the opposition. Discipline and self-con­trol is required not only in main­taining concentration but also in the rigorous training. Volleyball is fun, but at times it is just plain hard work and requires endurance. I re­member praying on the way to prac­tice many a time asking the Lord to give me the ~trength, skill, and con­centration to survive another prac­tice. Communication with teammates is also important. Signals are needed 
SCHOLASTIC 


Coach Terri in action 

to call plays. Words of encourage­ment, especially to players who are "down" because they made a bad hit, are very important. I will never for­get the effect fuese words have. For such diverse people, coming from dissimilar backgrounds, to obtain a common goal requires communica­tion and the putting aside of all dif~ ferences to play the game. 
Besides teaching me a lot of volley­ball skills, my -coaches have taught valuable characteristics. How a vol­leyball player can be strong and in­timidating on the court without los­ing a lady-like countenance is a trick which one can pick up. Persistent firmness in dealing with the adminis­tration to ,get more meal money, better transportation, etc., is also a 
lesson learned. 
I've seen the varsity volleyball program at. Saint Mary's develop rapidly. I remember my freshman year being on a very easygoing team which played straightforward volley­ball. I look back in surprise to see that we had a winning season. The next year a new coach was •hired who had a lot of experience playing volleyball. From this point on there were many new strategies, tech­niques, and a new coaching philoso­phy to be learned. Being a member of this team was more demanding than the previous year's team. Then, during the off-season, players had the opportunity to increase their skills and experience by playing a United States Volleyball Association club volleyball team which played in tournaments on the weekends.· 
The rapid development of varsity volleyball at Saint Mary's can also 
JANUARY, 1982 
be ,attributed to the new Angela Athletic Facility. Although I have never experienced being short­changed, it is great to be at an all­women's college where the only com­petition for courts is from other women's sports. The fan support could use a boost, but the varsity volleyball team and sports teams in general give opportunities for stu­dents to build character and friend­ship. This is one of the main objec­tives of varsity sports at Saint Mary's. Therefore, remammg a Division III team and giving no vol­leyball scholarships is adequate to achieve this objective. The academic excellence of Saint Mary's draws women with many talents and many with enough athletic talent to insure competitive teams. 

The Trinity Eagles heed Terri's words ... "Move/ Do not /et the ball hit the floor!" 
Now I coach a middle school vol­leyball team. I have experienced many of the joys and frustrations I am sure my former coaches have experienced. Why did my coach cringe when the ball hit our floor once fo a game? Why did she roll her eyes when I missed my serve? I listen to myself yell the same things that I heard from my coaches: "You can't get any points unless you get your serve over the net ... MOVE! DO NOT let the ball hit the floor! ... Here we go!" The ability to coach at the level of the players and to have the corresponding expecta­tions is a trick in itself without hav­ing to unify the varied talents into a winning team. I . found myself wanting to teach them all I know about volleyball and realized the many details of the game. There is so much to remember! 
One day, while some of the girls were doing drills, I asked. a few of the other girls if they had seen the UCLA vs. USC women's volleyball game on television. The girls' eyes lit up and twe started to talk ex­citedly about how thrilling the game was. After a while, I realized that I got so ·carried away talking about the game that I had forgotten about the girls doing drills. I had to quickly change the drill to relieve them. I can't believe how excited I got when my brother was flipping the chan­nels (like always) right before Christmas Eve Mass and found the match in progress. The match was complete with cheerleaders and a packed sports arena. This showed me that others can find volleyball just as exciting as football. The way the crowds were cheering, you would have thought that they were watch­ing the Comeback Kid throwing a winning touchdown to· Kris Haines. People recognize the gracefulness of many football maneuvers (outstand­ing catches and runs), but not many people realize that volleyball is also a very graceful sport. Someday I'd like to see the excitement and grace­fulness of volleyball captured in slow motion like football is. This, I be­lieve, would help people grow in appreciation of the sport and the players. 0 
Terri Walters, a senior Biology rna­jor, is captain of the Saint Mary's Volleyball Team and coaches the Trinity Academy Girls' Volleyball Team. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 

Terri Walters 
7 


.. 
-~--~ -~ --. ~--~--­
Field Hockey 


An Old Game That Hasn't Changed 
-What is that thing? 
-A field hockey stick. 
-What's field hockey? 

-It's a game similar to ice hockey, but played on a football-size field. -Why are you wearing that short skirt? -You mean a kilt? Well, it's our uniform. -What is this game all about anyway? 
-It's a lot like soccer in its posi­tioning and strategy, with eleven players on each side, and the purpose is to score goals. 
-I've never seen it before, is it new or something? ... 
It seems as if I have that con­versation with dozens of people at Notre Dame every field hockey sea­son. When asked why I started playing hockey, I could only answer that it had always been around when I was growing up. Then I began to wonder when and where this mys­terious game started and how it be­came the game it is today. 
I was really surprised to learn that experts believe field hockey began in Persia in 2000 B.C. It is supposed that man found an antler with a curved end or broke a limb from a tree and used them, to hit rocks as hard as he could. This belief was strengthened when, in 1922, a relief dating back to fifth century B.C. was discovered on an ancient wall. The relief portrayed two men hold­ing hooked-shaped sticks playing a type of hockey game. 
The name, hockey, describes the hooked form of the stick which is an important characteristic of the game. The English supposedly borrowed the word from the French word, hoquet, which means shepherd's crook. 
The origin of field hockey is re­lated to the fact that prehistoric man enjoyed many games usirig a stick 
8 

and ball. Sports such as baseball in America, lacrosse in Canada, polo in Persia, and cricket in England all include a common history. They seemed to have developed from the instinctive desire of men and women to strike an object with a stick. 
In addition, ball games were thought to be effective as religious ceremonies. Hockey was first played as a serious ritual with vast magical connotations. The course of the ball and the result of a competition were believed to influence nature, the pro­ductivity of the fields, and the rising and setting of the sun (which was represented by the hockey ball). 
Field hockey was also popular with the American Indians, who played the game initially as part of their ceremonies. One legend of the Vichita Indians states that primitive man created the tools for field hockey from his own body. After others acquired the skill, they split into two groups, which are thought to be the first hockey teams, and played in their first con test. 
The field hockey games of the 

by Kathy Ray 

Indians were dangerous. The players wore no protective clothing and they would block the paths of their op­ponents with their sticks. The game often became an uncivilized event which resulted in many injuries. Af­ter the game was over, however, the participants became friendly again and took part in a feast to celebrate the match. 
Present-day field hockey began in England and is similar to games which were often played in the British Isles. In particular, shinty from Scotland and bandy from Wales are ancestors of the game. Hurling though, which is the national game of the Irish, is the true source of field hockey. Hurling was a very rough game in which men would "hurl" or drive the ball as hard and fast as possible. 
Many British men quickly became interested in field hockey. Soon government officials feared that the game would interfere with men's skill as archers which was vital to the national "defense at the time. The game was banned from Britain and playing would result in a fine and three years of imprisonment. Play­ing hockey meant so mll_Gh to these men, however, .tha t even those pen­alties did noecl.eter them from the . game. The ban was repeated until finally the sticks were destroyed. Af­ter firearms were invented, archery was no longer a part of the defense and there was no potential harm in playing hockey. 
The game continued to be uncon­trolled and players were completely uninhibited on the field because there were no rules. The desire to win be­came stronger and opponents were frequently seen hitting each other with the stick to prevent a pass or a shot on goal. 
Many changes in the game gradu­ally took place. Rules were added 
SCHOLASTIC 


to better control the game and de­crease the number of injuries. Two of the earliest restrictions included a penalty for raising the stick above one's shoulder and the removal of any player who hit another with the stick or the hand. 
Field hockey became more popular and clubs began to form all over England. Yet each club played ac­cording to its own individual rules. Therefore, the Wimbledon Hockey Club defined a standardized set of rules in 1883. Thereafter the game became one of great accuracy and skill. Furthermore, there was a sub­stantial reduction in the size of the stick which helped to control the roughness and possibility of injury during the game. This change was important in making stickwork an essential feature of the game's pre­cision and speed. 
Enthusiasm for the game ex­panded from England to other coun­tries. Field hockey was first played by women in England in 1887 and thirteen years later in the United States. During these early years, women were required to wear long skirts, tight corsets, and baggy sleeves. As the styles changed, the length qf their skirts was slowly shortened to a more comfortable one, enabling women to achieve higher levels of skill. 
The Olympic Games included field hockey for the first time in 1908, al­though the United States did not send a team untH 1932. Over the years men's teams in India, Pakistan, and Germany have distinguished themselves as the best field hockey 


JANUARY, 1982 
1981 Notre Dame Field Hockey Team 
players in the world. The popularity of the game has grown rapidly in other parts of the world and field hockey is now the second most popu­lar team sport for men with-soccer as the leading favorite. In the United States, however, field hockey is believed to be exclusively a wo. man's sport and has not developed w quickly as a men's game. 
The sport of field hockey has defi­nitely undergone many changes since it was first played by primitive men nearly 4,000 years ago. Changing and raising the level of play have been very important goals of hockey associations everywhere. 
In particular, I have experienced many changes in the field hockey program over the past three years, which have improved the level of play. An important change is the movement of games from grass to astroturf, making the game faster and requiring new, more controlled skills. In addition, practices now in­clude weight lifting as part of our regular training. The team is now also holding indoor practices during the winter and attending various hockey camps in the summer to pre­pare for our faH season. 
This past year has been our most successful season since field hockey became a varsity sport five years ago. We had a winni"ng season with no seniors on the team making next year look very promising. We played in Division II ·and found that our only tough competition was against Division I schools which recruit scholarship athletes. 
One of the best things about play­
ing field hockey has been making many close friends. When I first ar­rived as a freshman, I was glad I had something to get involved with right away, because I immediately had a group of friends apart from classes and the dorm. There is a special kind of trust and friendship that grows out of playing on a team with peo­ple. When you live together, suffer together, laugh together, and win together, you really get to know a person. 
Over the past three years, I have had many opportunities which I would not have had if I were not a member of the field hockey team. Coming from Maine, I had never seen the Midwest. Each year during October break, the team travels and plays a number of games on the road. Freshman year we took a ferry to Mackinac Island, Michigan, and on the way home stopped at Gino's East in Chicago for his fa­mous deep-dish pizza. Sophomore year we visited St. Louis, Missouri, and rode around il:he Gateway Arch in a tiny elevator. 
There is definitely more to field hockey than lifting weights and practicing drills:• Most team mem­bers must admit that some of the most memorable times of the season were spent on the bus, in the hotel, or out to dinner during trips to away games. This past season was high­lighted by two major trips. 
The first trip was to a field hockey camp . in Sauk Valley, Michigan, where a· two-day tournament was 
(cont'd on page 19) 
J
9 
i 
i 
i 
. I 


Women's Basketball 





Jump Ball, Center Court 
They pair up randomly. Under­neath the boards, Schoothie takes Ruthie and Skippy guards Missy. Up top of the key, Hebbers covers Susan while T.M. takes Janice. Carrie, Jan and Lala stretch out under the bas­ket as they eagerly await their turn. Mary Joan sits at the scorer's table setting the time clock overhead to dot a bright green 3: 00. Debbi grips the ball in her hands. As soon as she releases it, the clock runs and each player gives up her individuality to become a teammate, working smoothly with the others. A medley of shoe squeaks and thumps fills the air, frequently pierced by breathy calls of: "Pick right." "I got her." "Rebound." "Outlet.'' Occasionally, a triumphant yell of "Piece!" or "Ball!" rings out, followed by a sud­den race downcourt for a well-exe­cuted (or a muffed) fast break. 
This action describes one of the many drills that the Notre Dame Women's Basketball Team practices daily. Called the "shell," this drill, like the others, demands conceqtra­tion, hustle, and teamwork. Success in basketball totally depends on teamwork. All the individual talent in the world is wasted if it is not correctly fused with others. Now, in the middle of our season, we have combined for a successful record of 9-3. A year of Division I experience for the upperclassmen and the addi­
·tional talent of six freshmen make this a more hopeful season than last year (10-18). This time around we have already beaten such teams as Northern Illinois, University of Pennsylvania, Missouri and Mar­quette and look forward to the tough comp2tition of Michigan, Ball State, Illinois, South Carolina, DePaul, and Michigan State. Each game must be-

by Jenny Klauke 

come a step of victory to lead us up to the final goal-the NCAA tourna­ment in March. 
Although we have the ability to unite when playing ball, our team encompasses an incredibly wide range of personalities. There are: the boisterous rowdies and the sweet innocents, the quiet reflective types and the joking comedians, the intel­lectuals and the students who struggle, the "ten and two" drivers and the racetrack maniacs, the Barry Manilow and the Ricky James fans. However, one characteristic that all twelve members share is sensitivity. Perhaps this common trait is the key to our motivation and blending of skills on the court. We all sense a need to improve and feel an inner hurt on days when we just can't "get it together." 
Ever-present to snap us out of these sluggish times are coaches Di­Stanislao, Knapp and Murphy. Their knowledge of the tiny technicalities of the game amazes us all. They wiH instruct us to adjust our body posi­tion on defense, bring our follow through just a little higher when shooting, or pound the ball in when dribbling. Among coaching staffs, this attention to detail distinguishes the great from the mediocre. Each coach, like each player, has a unique personality, but all three care deeply and devote themselves fully to their profession: basketball. Like us, their differences crop up away from the court. For example, after pre­paring a seven-course dinner for "her girls," one coach amuses us and herself with a five-inch-tall rubber gorilla named Walter and the other tells humorous stories about family vacations and eating oysters for the first time, while the third coach smiles as he devotes his attention to his twenty-three-month-old daugh­ter. 
Besides players and coaches, many other people contribute (the entire staff, including managers, trainers, the chaplain, families, Varsity Crowd and fans), and all have be­come more like friends than mere co-workers. 
Experiences on road trips play a big role in uniting a team like ours. So many things happen on a trip. The excitement of leaving: packing nice clothes "real'' shoes. Bumpy bus ride: dozing· in seats. Air­ports bustling past porters curious questioris, "Are you girls in a choir?" "No, we're cheerleaders." Plane ride: fights for a window seat stewardess imitations ears pop pass out glim landing. Fin­ally in a new city: plush hotel new roommate jokes unpack team meals lots of carbos. Back to hotel room darkness thinking about the game nervous stomach don't forget shoes meet in lobby. Bus ride to arena: huge foreboding building stomach tightens... 
Locker room, before the game: silence Dianne tapes her ankles pull on the blue and gold walk to the floor bright lights stretch bounce ball feel leather shoot around scrutinize opponents ease nerves. Back to locker Xing and Oing on the blackboard strategy goals gulp water. Jog to gym bigger crowd warm ups drills confidence time flicks down 
10:00. Again to the locker room starting matchups pep talk Hail Mary "Let's Go!" burst out together introductions cheers. Our final huddle: "Defense!" 
This is it, the moment that every­thing has built up to. Now is the time to display the result of many combined efforts. Running, early morning weight lifting, one-on-one baseline, "suicides," "truck and trail­ers," sprints, shooting, defensive drills and even the intense shell drill have each prepared us for this one game. 
... eyes determined muscles relax hearts beat faster . . . toss up! D 
Jenny Klauke ·is a sophomore on Notre Dame's team who hails from Glenview, Illinois. She has been iin­able to p"lay for half the season (sidelined with a stress fracture) and thus had time to ·write this article. 

Mention the word "fencing" to an average Domer. His immediate images will most likely be those of old pirate movies: swashbuck­ling swarthies swing scimitars. The imagin?.tion turns to Errol Flynn, as Robin Hood, charging up and down staircases in the grand castle, swinging from the chande­liers until the wicked Prince John is ultimately skewered by the hero in green. An alternate picture com­monly painted is that of two gentle­men in spotless white uniforms calmly attempting to poke each other, all while gently speaking un­intelligible French as befits gentry of their standing. In reality fencing is all this and more. In every bout (between two fencers, a match be­ing between two teams) there is more excitement than in any movie, as well as more courtesy, .concentra­tion and active mental work than in almost any other sport. 
The art of fencing is poetry in motion. Alphons Beitzinger says "Poetry embodies fundamental truths." Fencing also seems ·to em­body a fundamental truth of human existence. This truth is the ultimate dichotomy of human relationships: the most basic instinct of personal survival coupled with the human need to express one's inner self through art. Fencing is chess on your feet: developed from the sword­fighting skills needed (in days of yore), for mere survival. Kill or be killed was the watchword, yet this bloody necessity of Homo sapiens 


The Rational Athlete 
has transformed itself into a dance­like series of thrusts, lunges, parries and ripostes as graceful as a pas de deux from Swan Lake. 
For the sake of the layman, a word about the three weapons used. The first is called a foil. This weapon has evolved from the fighting sword of the seventeenth century, similar to those used by the French muske­teers. The original object was to kill or mortally wound one's opponent by piercing a vital organ. The idea has been carried through somewhat, as evidenced by the rules for the foil, limiting the area upon which touches (the term for legally stabbing an opponent) can be scored to the torso, excluding the arms and the head. In 
by Scott Thomas 

addition, there are rules limiting when touches can be scored. For example, either fencer may attack first. However, if the attacker misses his target, he can not immediately attack again. In essence, he must let the other fencer attack him. After defending himself he is then per­mitted to attack again. These re­strictions encourage intense concen­tration on exactly what is happen­ing during the bout. The situation must be analyzed and a course of action decided upon in a fraction of a second. If the wrong decision is made, the opponent scores . . . 250 years ago he would have died for the same mistake. 
As civilization progressed, man turned to a more rational(?) method of solving disagreements: the duel. Although some of these altercations resulted in fatalities, when fighting with swords, the winner was the "gentleman" who drew the first blood. A scratch anywhere on an opponent was enough to win. From this chivalric concession evolved the second weapon: slightly longer and heavier than the foil, it is the epee. The rules for this weapon limit neither the location on the body upon which touches may fall nor the time (in terms of attacking and de­fending oneself) during which they may be scored. 
. The third and most dangerous weapon is the saber. As the name implies, this has evolved from the sword of the same name used by the cavalry. Unlike the foil and epee, with which a touch may be scored touches with a saber may · be scored with the tip or the edge, using either a thrusting or slashing motion. Any part of the body above the waist i.s a fair target. 
(cont'd on page 13) 
11 


• ~--•~--~-~~-----=--==---------=--=---~= 
. . 

CHRISTIAN ATHLETICS 
T believe the Fellowship_ of
e:,_ 

Christian Athletes is the most effective group ·in America for passing along the influence of · Christianity.


-Tom Landry, Dallas Cowboys Coach 
,,

1 ~~~n~ @oo ij~~
I 
Iii all 

~~~w~oooo ~~~~~ 

While some people may dispute Coach Landry's belief, the Fellow­ship of Christian Athletes (FCA) does exert Christian influence in the field of athletics. The FCA, now in its twenty-eighth year, is a national organization composed of men and women from the athletic community who desire to advance the ministry of Christ in all areas of life. Apply­ing muscle and action to the Chris­tian faith, the FCA strives to strengthen the moral, mental, and spiritual fiber of America's athletes and coaches. 
The heart of the FCA is the Hud­_dle/Fellowship/Chapter program. The Huddle, which consists of cur­rent high . school athletes, and the college Fellowship, which is com­prised of current and former ath­letes, enable their members to openly discuss their concerns, doubts, fears, feelings, and faith. The common bond of sports-the thrills, the dis­appointments, .the sweat, the pain­allows teammates to share fellow­ship and their commitment to Jesus Christ. 
The next level, the Chapter, con­sists of professional ath'letes and lay­persons. Besides experiencing Chris­tian fellowship, the Chapter pro­vides the guiding force behind all the FCA activities, including ban­quets, rallies, and Super Bowl break­fasts. Their most significant con­tribution, however, is assisting in sponsoring the national conferences. 
12 
by Dale Fronk 

The national conferences exem­plify the FCA movement. Through a program of "inspiration and per­spiration," athletes, coaches, and family members have the opportu­nity to compete in their sport, share in "huddle" discussions, and hear top sports figures, such as Roger Stau­bach, Randy Gradishar, Don Kes­singer, and Kyle Rote Jr., witness to their Christian faith. Two members of the Notre Dame FCA have had· an opportunity to attend these na­tional conferences. 
Rich McLaughlin, a junior, speaks highly of the personal value of at­tending a national conference. "The best single week in my life was spent at an FCA national conference in Estes Park, Colorado. I really had the feeling of going to the mountain to be with Our Lord. Over three hundred others gathered together to share and grow in their faith. In fact 'Sharing the Victory' was the theme of the conference. In leaving the mountain, our goal was and con­tinues to be to share Jesus' love through our thoughts, words and ac­tions, as He shared His love with the world." 
Freshman Michelle Lopez expressed 
. sentiments similar to Rich's. "For the past three summers I have at­tended an FCA national conference. Each conference has left me with an insight that was spiritually and ath­letically fulfilling." 
In addition to the Huddle/Fellow­
ship/Chapter program, the FCA 
operates a National Conference Cen­
ter in western Indiana. Besides host­
ing conferences, retreats, and semi­
nars, the NCC provides resource ma­
terial for group meetings. These 
items include booklets, cassettes, and 
·biographical films. One such film 
stars former Irish gridder Ty Dick­
erson, disclosing his personal adjust­
ment to college life. 
As evident by the structure of the 
FCA national organization, the 
strength and success it displays de­
pend upon the strength and success 
of each Huddle, Fellowship, or Chap­
ter. Success at each of these levels 
insures a strong, well-knit organiza­
tion. 
As President of Notre Dame's 
FCA, I am aware that FCA has en­
joyed only moderate success here in 
the past. When I arrived here two 
years ago, I reasoned that Notre 
Dame, because of its strong athletic 
tradition and Catholic background, 
would have an impressive Fellow­
ship. But when I attended the first 
meeting, I discovered the group con­
sisted of two others besides myself. 
I could not understand why a school 
of Notre Dame's stature responded 
poor1y to a program which exempli­
fied the very ideals of the Univer­
sity. 
Prior to my second year affiliated 
with the Notre Dame FCA, I dis­covered why participation had been rather dismal. Time demands im­posed on the Notre Dame athlete are great, yielding very little free time. But FCA recognizes this and en­courages former athletes as well as current athletes, to become involved ·with the organization. Regardless if one's desire for collegfa:te athletics 
exceeds the talent, FCA caters to the · 
needs of the former as well as the 
current athlete. By appealing to the 
former athlete, we have been able 
to increase participation. 
Our FCA organization is advised 
by faculty member Ken Milani. Ken 
views his role in the organization as 
that of a facilitator. 
"I set .up the situations, then have 
the students carry out the program. 
In our speaker's forum, for example, 
I made the contacts with the coaches, 
then had the students set up the 
details." 
SCHOLASTIC 



The speaker's forum referred to by Ken has by far been our most popu­lar program. In an informal atmo­sphere, Notre Dame coaches discuss their views on the role of Christian­ity in athletics. The first semester saw football coach Tom Lichtenberg, baseball coach Larry Gallo, and bas­ketball coach Digger Phelps address­ing our Fellowship. The second se­mester features ticket manager Steve Orsini, track coach Ed Kelly, athletic director Gene Corrigan, and hockey coach Lefty Smith. 
Each of the speakers has pre­sented us with additional insights concerning the relationship between Christianity and ·aJthletics. Coach Lichtenberg stressed the importance of maintaining our individuality. He challenged us to critically evaluate ourselves, and to re-examine our goals and values. He realizes the in­fluence athletes have upon young­sters and urged athletes to dutifully accept this responsibility. "Christian­athletes have an opportunity to show what their Chri_stianity means to the young people who look up to them." 
In our bimonthly meetings, the program emphasis is on Bible study, prayer, and discussion. We generally refer to a passage in the Bible, and through a manual provided by the FCA we attempt to rela..te the read­ing to our everyday lives. The thought-provoking questions pro­vided by the manual help the mem­ber to apply his reactions and values to the passage. By sitting down and discussing our beliefs on the selected topic, we are able to reshape our values. Topics which have provided our group with valuable lessons in­clude discipline, temptation, thought life, friendship, and honesty. 
The effectiveness of these discus­sions stems from the fact that FCA members are not hesitant to share their beliefs and views on the given topic. After overcoming the initial period of shyness and anxiety, FCA members realize that their remarks will be confidential. They do not fear exposing their true feelings and ex­periences and are able to furnish meaningful insights to our group discussions. The absence of mockery and gossip alleviates any reluctancy on the part of our members to par­take in discussion, and therefore creates a cordial, responsive environ­ment. 
A typical meeting of the FCA opens in prayer. After a brief busi­ness meeting and calendar of upcom­ing-events report, the lesson begins. After a half-hour-long discussion on the subject matter, a "popcorn" prayer, in which each member con­tributes his own little prayer, closes the meeting. Refreshments oc­casionally follow. 
For the remainder of this semes­ter and continuing over to next year, we hope to expand our scope of ac­tivities. We plan to include more fun-filled activities, such as pizza parties, and athletic contests. This April we intend to send some repre­sentatives to the annual FCA spring banquet in Chicago. In autumn we would like for our members to at­tend an FCA retreat sponsored by the Fellowship of Purdue Univer­sity. Our main objective is to be­come involved with community ser­vice work. We would like to assist 
· area high schools with their FCA program, in addition to visiting the sick, the elderly and lending our services for charity fund-raising drives. The future for our Fellowship ap­pears promising. Our group is gradu­ally increasing in size, and the re­sponse to our speaker's forum has been excellent. We have a fine group of young men and women which gives us a solid foundation to base future growth upon. We have ex­perienced many laughs, shared each individual's troubles, an<;I provided fellowship among one another. While we are far from being ideal Chris­tians, we are striving to incorporate our faith onto the athletic field. After all, getting to know ourselves, other individuals, and Jesus Christ better is what. the FCA is all about. D 
Dale Fronk is a sophomore in the College of Engineering. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
Fencing 
(cont'd from page 11) 
The art and beauty inherent in fencing became apparent upon view­ing a bout. A foil bout consists of very precise movements of the feet, arms and entire body. These move­ments, although quick, must be thought out thoroughly if the fencer is to be successful. Mad, thoughtless thrusts simply won't do. An epee bout differs from a foil bout in sev­eral ways. Epee fencers generally are taller and have long arms, while their bouts seem to consist of a con­tinuous dancelike series of quick and supple probings for an opening in the opponent's defenses in an at­tempt to outmaneuver. Saber fight­ing is the most vivid of the three matches to watch. The two oppo­nents .stand at opposite ends of a long narrow strip. Suddenly, with­out apparent reason they run toward each other, colliding roughly in a massive tangle of arms, legs and sabers, complete with yells and grunts. Suddenly they disengage and calmly walk to their respective ends of the strip while listening to the president of the bout (an umpire of sorts) decide exactly what happened -who scored and who didn't. It is, despite the sport's chivalric reputa­tion, not -uncommon to see the per­son who lost the touch to bang his sa:ber against the floor while .mutter­ing unintelligible expletives to him­self. On occasion a saberman will dropkick his mask across the room in anger, athough such is frowned upon by the president. · 
In this age of technology, in which duels may be fought mindlessly with MX missiles, fencing is not simply an esoteric sport for a few impractical, misguided diehards. I prefer to sug­gest that fencing is a fine-tuned art consisting of an eclectic combination having elements of great diversity -quick calculation, graceful dance, magnanimous chivalry, and the primal instinct of individual self­preservation. If you would like to be poetry in motion, give fencing a try. 


When initially asked to write an article about the Women's Tennis Team I welcomed the idea, thinking that while relaxed on the Florida beach over Christmas vacation, crea­tive thoughts would fall into place, making it an easy task. Unfor­tunately, they never came. As I re­flect on my four years as a team member however, I first think of a tournament held in Denver, Colo­rado, after the completion of my freshman year.... 
... It was 10 p.m. when my match was finally called. A downpour had forced all tournament play indoors to several nearby clubs causing long, restless delays. Since 8 a.m., for 14 endless hours of waiting and watch­ing, one question kept reoccurring in my mind: "What am I doing here?" The match seemed to end be­fore it ever really began. I remem­ber playing on the first court and Some points were scored for the Irish, but unless most of the team partici,Rates in the tournament, it is virtually impossible to earn points for your team and place highly in the tournament. 
Last spring, after placing second at the Regional Tournament, the en­tire team qualified for the AIA W Division II National Tournament (for the first time) and travelled confidently to historical Charleston, South Carolina for a week in June. After regrouping in South Bend for a weekend of practice and prepara­tion, we left O'Hare bound for some unexpected heat and humidity, which proved to be almost unbearable. An advantage to the southern competi­tors and especially to the host school -College of Charleston-the swelter­ing (100°) temperatures and uncom­fortable stickiness were oppressive to those from northern climates. 
Arriving a day early to practice and get settled, we found the cli­mate in Charleston to be unlike any­thing we had ever experienced be­fore. Because of the intense humid­ity our clothes were saturated with perspiration. Ideally, to . be comfor­table, we would have needed a clean, dry set of clothes every time we switched ends of the court. While not playing, most time was spent either running. ice-cold water and Gatorade to those on the court or cooling off in the air-conditioned clubhouse. But, leaving the cooled­off buildings to go outside was like walking into a sauna, and we grew attached to the indoors. 
Despite the harsh weather condi­tions the entire team played well. With tough nationwide competition we placed 20th in the tournament results, after a long and rigorous few days. Sophomore . Pam Fischette 
Notre·Dame Women's Tennis 
seeing my coach in the distance, peeking around the green curtain be­hind the court, probably wishing that it ,was com:,t #4 that she was watch­ing instead of court #1. Fraught with defeat and discouragement, I stepped off the ,court thinking not "What am I doing here?" but that there are "only three years left . to show this tournament what a Domer really can do!" This being the first time anyone represented Notre Dame at the Small College National Tennis Tournament, I failed to leave behind a very impressive performance. 
The following year, Linda Hoyer, competing at the Division III level of AIAW, was our sole participant at the National Tournament in Salis­bury, Maryland. Defending the sec­ond singles position, Linda earned a first-and second-round victory before finally falling to a California oppo­nent in the third round of play. 

by Tina Stephan 

advanced the farthest to .the quarter-· finals, where she was finally defeated by a player from the University of Richmond. With one Division II Na­tional Tournament play under our belts, we returned home with newly set goals for the following year. 
The Women's Tennis -Team has come a long way sine~· its outset as a varsity sport only five years ago. Every year the depth as well as the overall ability of the team improves significantly. With just one graduat­ing senior last May (and one player ineligible because of the four-year maximum eligibility limit), five un­tried freshmen squeezed their way onto the team roster. The upper­classmen's woes over the "green­ness" of the newcomers were quickly alleviated, though, as the freshmen not only helped compile a 10-1 rec­ord in dual meets and a state cham­pionship, but also easily adjusted to their new college life. The addition of so many freshmen added in­tensity and vigor to the team as a whole. 
When the number-one singles spot opened up as last year came to a close, it was quickly filled in the fall by Lisa LaFratta, a freshman from Richmond, Virginia. Displaying great strength, agility, and unequaled consis,tency, she earned the upper­most position on the ladder and re­tained it throughout the season. A freshman playing number one? What a way to begin her Irish career. 
In addition, Notre Dame attracted another freshman from the south, Camille Cooper, number one in the 18-and-under girls' division in her homesrtate of Louisiana. With a spring trip presently planned for New Orleans, we will have the op­portunity to visit and spend a few days at the Cooper home in Shreve­port, Louisiana. A rigorous schedule lies ahead for the team during our week in the south, including compe­tition against two schools in our own division and five in Division I, all within seven days. Included on our lisrt are: Louisiana State Univer­sity, Tulane, Centenary, Louisiana Tech University, Northwestern State University, and New Mexico State. Although most of our time in the New Orleans area will be spent prac­ticing or competing, time will un­doubtedly be found for entertain­ment (in moderation, of course) on the renowned Bourbon Street. After all, our freshmen have yet to be officially initiated. 
Lisa Lafratta 

Travelling the farthest to play tennis at Notre Dame (and probably get an education too) is Laura Lee, a freshman from Agoura, California. 
Standing 5'9", most opponents find it 
difficult to return the ball beyond her 
sweeping reach. 
Lisa Gleason, a freshman from 
Oak Brook, Illinois, joined the team 
this year. After defeating two others 
in a hard-fought battle for her posi­
tion, Lisa finally found her niche at 
sixth singles. Often called "Gleas," 
Lisa has the ability (and frequently 
uses it) to entertain the entire team 
during the long, monotonous rides in 
the crowded van to away matches. 
Rounding up the group of veterans 
and adding eJQtraordinary depth to 
the team is Cathy Schnell, from 
Ballwin, Missouri. With solid strokes 
and great potential, Cathy and the 
other freshmen can use their tourna­
ment experience in their future en­
deavors. After a successful fall sea­
son the Irish put the rackets down 
for a while, but returned to the 
courts in January preparing for a 
busy spring season and .with hopes 
of winning the Regional Tournament 
and qualifying the team for the 
AIAW Division II Nationals once 
again. 
The tennis players returned not 
only to the subzero temperatures and 
blizzard conditions of South Bend, 
but also to a rigid winter schedule 
which began on the first day of 
classes. Sharing the three · indoor 
courts in the ACC with over five 
other sports, the athletes must take 
full advantage of every minute their 
space is available. Adding to the 
fieldhouse distractions are hockey 
pucks slamming into the side of the 
rink, music accompanying skaters 
during public skating, the starting 
gun at track team practice, and 
more, all of which create a true 
test of concentration. 
With eight full weeks to prepare 
for our trip to New Orleans, the 
team hikes to the ACC about five 
days a week to improve their strokes 
and gain confidence in their game. 
With limited court time assignments, 
coach Sharon Petro runs an efficient, 
quickly paced practice session. A 
unique combination of drills arid 
conditioning exercises keeps each in­
dividual continuously active for two 
solid hours. No one is ever idle. For 
every free minute there are always 
sit-ups, push-ups, a few laps, or some 
other exercise to keep us busy. Plac­
ing great stress on conditioning, 
Petro intends to have her team in 
top physical shape before· going on 
the ,road. Judging from my sore 
muscles, I think she will succeed! 
In her fourth year as Irish tennis coach, Petro hopes to fulfill her goal this year of finishing in the top 10 at · the national tournament in late May. 
Although half the team is young and unfamiliar with college competition, their tournament experience helped make a smooth and successful transi­tion into college play. The other half has been to nationals and knows what it takes to win ... and knows it is no easy feat! It takes determi­nation, preparation, and confidence in our ability. It requires much time, dedication, and the support of our teammates. But the progress of the past and the ambitions of the future make it all worthwhile. 
Returning this year to help Petro reach her goals is sophomore Pam Fischette, from Liverpool, New York. Combining a powerful well-rounded 

Peggy Walsh 

game with pleasant court composure,­Pam -is strong in both doubles and singles. Junior Linda Hoyer l"e­turned to the number-two singles 
-spot, and joined freshman Lisa La­Fratta to form a dynamic first doubles team. Also back with us for the fall semester only was senior Peggy Walsh, who graduated in De­cember but remains at Notre Dame to do research. Peggy continues to practice with us and remains a great help to the team. Seniors and co-captains Carol Shukis and myself also returned to the squad confident in our team and looking forward optimistically to­ward a trip to the AIAW Division II National Tournament in northern Colorado in late May. Looking at the success and development of the prior years, and the considerable improve­ment in the team this year, I am convinced that we can lead our team to a victory at the Regional Tourna­ment, a trip to nationals, and place in the top 10. I'd like to go out in style! · D 
Gallery 



A 


. 1' 
The still life enables me to brea patterns in which my main inte continuing along this line, seari composition through the abstr 
This concept is at the center c 
Apples on Shelves; 

\RTS: R LOOK 1 J. Farr 

>( 14 in.; 1981. 
essful monotypes have dealt 
1kthe objects down into value rest lies. My development is ching for an overall unity in action of form. 
,f most of my work. 


17




Up

Grows
Volleyball . 
Among women's sports at Notre 
Dame, volleyball has risen very high 
-and very fast. As a club sport, 
they had no coach,_ no money, and 
often not even six players who could 
travel to appear on the court. Yet 
people like Kathy Dages and Debbie 
Romo remained dedicated, and in the 
spring of 1980 women's volleyball 
was declared a varsity sport as of 
the 1980-1981 academic year. Sandy 
Vanslager, who had volunteered her 
time to help coach the club the year 
before, was hired as the coach. While 
women's basketball was moved up to 
Division .I status, given scholarships 
and became the number-one sport as 

far as money put into the program, 
volleyball was declared as Division 
IT and instantly became number two. 
The first year of varsity competi­tion is tough for any sport, and our three wins and 19 losses proved this correct. Yet, the first season was one of achievement, both for the players and for the team. After going through a week of tryouts, the team was picked, and three weeks of prac­tice began. Next, seventeen matches, of which only three were at home, and a state tournament were packed into two short months. The campus soon learned that there really was a women's volleybaH team, and at our last home game, we had a crowd that filled the pit in the ACC who had fun clapping, cheering and yelling as we served and spiked the ball. 
After a long and somewhat frus­trating season, it was time to plan for next year. -Scholarships were given to the program, and recruiting was done by Coach Vanslager.. Try­outs were held, and by March two girls had been awarded scholarships, and four recruits planned to attend Notre Dame in the fall. But the signing of scholarship athletes threatened those of us planning to play next year, even with two girls graduating. 
18 
. 

Spring training began after break for those planning to try out. It was very difficult to get "psyched" to go through all the hours of jump training and weight lifting knowing the season didn't start until the mid­dle of September. We did push each other, and once we were back in shape, we vowed we'd stay that way. Dedication was the key element that kept most of us working hard over the summer. We were given assigned workouts that took about two hours a day. Players planning to return, along with the recruits, were to mail in weekly reports of times, number of skills performed, and descriptions of our weight programs. After work­ing eight hours a day, two hours of a volleyball workout in the hot sum­mer was not that easy to get excited about. 
The 1981-1982 season began very optimistically. Team members and recruits came back to school five days early to begin three practices a day. Once school began, general tryouts were held and a new team 
. 
. 
by Jan Yurgealitis 

picked. Five players returned from the first-year team, and sev_en new additions made up our young team of two seniors, one junior, three sophomores and six freshmen. This new team was much more skilled in­dividually than our first team, and the task of combining individual skills into a team effort was ahead. 
Most people have played volleyball at one time and consider it an easy and fun game. Yet those who watch competitive volleyball realize the game involves specific skills of serv­ing, passing, setting and spiking. Many of us who played the first year did not possess all of these skills, and had spent much of the season learning them. But this year the new scholarship players came with skills mastered in high school, while those of us from the first-year team had improved considerably. 
Once the season began, all of the hours put in seemed worth it. Our first four matches were played away, and after each one we saw ourselves improving, as we often fought back 
' 




from a few points to win a match, or come to lose by only one or two points. What we were looking for­ward to most was our first home game on September 30. We were going to play a tri-match against Indiana State, a tough Division I school, and St. Joseph's. The two other teams played first and then we got on the court against Indiana State. Everyone on the team was excited, and we were confident that we were going to show everyone how much better we were than last year. We had brand-new uniforms which included "bun huggers" and a brand­new team. Yet somehow this excite­ment shifted into nerves and we lost to Indiana State 15-0, 15-5. The whole thing was over so fast we couldn't figure out if it was our team out on the court. Most of our fans left after that game, and we then proceeded to beat St. Joseph's and looked impressive. The whole ex­perience made us want to play hard­er and better, so that we could prove to everyone--most importantly our home fans-that we really were good. 
Our chance arrived the following week on a Friday evening. We had a good-sized crowd filling the pit: many were football fans who had come for the Michigan State game the next day. Many of our parents were there, including my own who had never seen me play even though they had devoted many hours help­ing me with my summer workouts. Also, we were playing Saint Mary's, along with IUPUI, at Notre Dame. 
We wanted desperately· to beat Saint Mary's; we had lost to them twice our first year,· and once already this season. We beat IUPUI and finally looked impressive in front of a home crowd. Against Saint Mary's, how­ever, we did not play well and lost the match in two games. We were extremely disappointed with our­selves, and were upset that we would not get the chance to play them again until next season. 
Our playing during the season would go up and down. In one quad­matcli., during the week of midterms, we arrived late and had only 10 min­utes to warm up. Yet, we beat all three teams and swept the match. In other matches we lost when we knew we could have played much better together and individually. 
Our season was also highlighted by a trip to upstate New York over October break. We were traveling with the women's field hockey team to play colleges in Syracuse, Roches­ter and Ithaca. We found the com­petition in the east to be fairly tough, and came out of the trip with only one win and three losses, again feel­ing that we hadn't played up to our potential. Our one win did come in Rochester where the Alumni Club came out, in. full force, to watch and cheer for us. Another highlight of the trip was a visit to Niagara Falls. 
After October break, we looked to­ward our state tournament Novem­ber 13-14. It was held in Valparaiso, and the tournament was double elim­ination. We went with great expec­tations and hopes of doing well, con­vinced that we were good. But we did not do weH, losing in the first and second brackets. We did not play well, either individually or together as a team, and most frustrating of all, we didn't know why. 
Volleyball is very much a team sport; there are no stars, no indi­vidual standouts. All six players must work together to execute a play. We were a close team: every­one got along well and remained en­couraging throughout the long prac­tices and rough games. Many of us learned that part of being on the team was to sit on the bench and cheer, watch the other team, or re­alize that you may only be playing the front row and sitting out while someone else played the back row for you. 
Varsity sports offer important opportunities for students at Notre Dame. I learned how to lose, see im­provement, and win and acknowledge accomplishment. Although we didn't accomplish everything we wanted to this past year, we did improve from the year before, and each of us has her own memories and achievements to look back on. Although I won't be back next year, I know those who will be, and women's volleyball at Notre Dame will be something that athletes will want to be a part of, c::.nd Notre Dame will be proud of. O 
Jan Yurgealitis is a Senior Finance major from Rochester, New York. She is also a member of the women's varsity volleyball team. 



Field Hockey 
(cont'd from page 9) 
held. We stayed in barracks and ate in a big dining room with all the other teams, some traveling all the way from Kentucky. The weekend took place early in the season and was. an excellent opportunity for us to begin to gel as a team both on and off the field. 
The most exciting trip was during October break when we traveled to upstate New York. Playing nation­ally ranked hockey teams such as Colgate and Syracuse University was very chalilenging, but we realized the level of play that was attainable with the right individual and team skills. The trip was not all work though. One of the greatest days was spent in Niagara Falls. We rode a boat 
JANUARY, 1982 
near the base of the falls, ate lunch in the tower overlooking the falls, and took hundreds of pictures. That evening, we travelled to Buffalo, New York, where the co-captain's parents had hot lasagna waiting for us. Our spirits were dampened when we had two games, one in the rain and mud and one in the snow, two days in a row. No one seemed to mind, however, even when we found out the showers were cold after the game. We had become a much closer team during the week, everyone un­derstanding one another a little more and just enjoying, being together. 
Field hockey is still considered primarily an . Eastern sport, prob­ably because it was first played in Philadelphia and at small New England colleges. Most of the play­ers on our team are from the East, but each year more women from other parts of the country come to Notre Dame with their hockey stick in hand. One of the greatest things about playing the game here is that those who do play hockey feel lucky to be in a Midwestern university that offers it. The game is so new to the Midwest that it is exciting to meet someone who knows about the game and who shares the same love for the sport. 
The history of field hockey illus­trates the many changes that the sport has undergone in the past. Some things never change though, and I can't help thinking that those prehistoric men must have felt the same way I do. For as long as I've played field hockey, I have always experienced the same challenge of competitive athletics, the same pain during practice, the same satisfac­tion after winning a close game, and the same joy of celebrating a victory with teammates and with friends. O · 
19 

'-", ,· . -~~~---­-----~~-----------­



scalpers in different places, at differ­ent times, for all six home football games. I found that prices often varied significantly because of the
Need Two!" different set of circumstances in­
Editor's Note: Going into a pep rally last semester, I felt sorry for some guy who was begging pitiably for two tickets.I gotagoodragging from my friends when we left the rally, and the same guy was aggressively announcing that he had two tickets for sale. This article is not meant to condone or aid and abet such actions or any scalping activity. 
-C.W. 
Football games at Notre Dame are, to say the least, unique events. I doubt many other college campuses have quite the respect and rever­ence for their football teams as do Notre Dame students and alumni. Such a simple event as coming back to school for a football game becomes the equivalent of making a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. 
by Philip Allen 

Anyone who has been to a Notre Dame football game will know that ticket scalpers also make the pil­grimage and are as common as pot­bellied alumni and tailgaters. Ticket scalpers are a vital cog in the ma­chinery of Notre Dame football games, peddling their surplus tickets to those who are without. The price the scalpers charge (and the price people are willing to pay) is deter­mined by Notre Dame's opponent, where the tickets are being sold, and at what time the tickets are being sold. The unique factors which the ND environment enforces upon the price of the tickets can also cause some variance in expected economic outcomes. The basic laws of supply and demand apply, however, they create different optimum circum­stances for both buyers and sellers. 

The prices in this graph represent average ticket prices in different places, at different times, for all six home football games (I tried to get the scalper to come down as far as possible before record­ing his price). Each entry was obtained by surveying five scalpers at a certain place and time, adding these five entries and dividing that number by five. 
20 

volved. (A few times, this empir­ical research even became profitable as I realized that I could buy a ticket in one spot and sell it in an­other for a profit.) Having done this, I realized that there were two sets of circumstances that affected the prices for tickets. 
The buyer of tickets is obviously concerned with finding out where and when to buy tickets at the low­est possible price. However, the buyer's demand is often inelastic. A buyer has traveled some distance to see a football game, and watching the game on television is not usually an acceptable substitute for being in the stadium. 
Scalpers, who would like to sell at high ticket prices, also have a slightly inelastic demand (pressure, that is, to sell their tickets sometime before the game starts). Most scalp­ers at Notre Dame football games are not professionals, and are not at the games simply to turn a profit for the day; these scalpers will sense a prevailing price and attempt to sell their tickets at this rate or a little above. They do not, however, want to be stuck holding tickets af­ter the game has started. They must try to sell the tickets they have at some safe time before the game, at a reasonable price. 
The first factor which enters into the price of a ticket is the opponent being played. A highly ranked op­ponent, or an old rival of Notre Dame, will make the game more ex­citing and more desirable to see. Such a raised desire causes an in­crease in demand for tickets. Of course, those who may think about scalping may find it more valuable to see the game themselves. than to sell a ticket for a profit. This causes a low supply of available tickets. This is why the U.S.C. game, a game against a highly ranked rival, commanded such a high price for a g.a. ticket ($33-$55). A low-qual­ity opponent, such as Navy; has the opposite effect on ticket prices. The demahd for Navy tickets goes down; and, since more people would rather have money than see a boring game, · supply goes up, causing a very low ticket price ($13.50-$20). 
For a determined scalper, such an 
opponent as U.S.C. presents an op­
portunity for a large profit to be 
SCHOLASTIC 



made. The scalper knows that there aren't many tickets available and that people are excited about seeing the game. He will then jack up the price of his tickets. Buyers come to such games prepared to pay higher prices. They, too, know supply is low and demand high. 
The opposite circumstances are present for low-quality games such as Navy; scalpers and buyers both expect low ticket prices. Usually, both buyers and sellers come to the game with a fixed idea of what the price of the ticket should be. A scalper will tell himself that he will not sell his tickets below a certain minimum price, and a buyer will predetermine a maximum price be­yond which he will not pay. I call the gap between the scalper's mini­mum price and the buyer's maxi­mum price the "bargaining zone." The price of the ticket will fall some­where within this zone. 
Whether the price will be closer to the buyer's or the seller's price is determined by whose demand is the greatest. This bargaining zone may shift up or down, depending on who the opponent is. The proximity to the buyer's or seller's price (a move­ment within the zone) is determined by other factors, such as place and time. 
The three usual places where ticket exchanges occur are the Mor­ris Inn, the parking lots, and the stadium itself. While I don't think many scalpers or buyers realize it, the place where the scalping takes place can make a difference in the price. The reason for this is the fact that certain people consistently gather in the same place, game after game. Older alumni, for example, gather mainly at the Morris Inn. They may be staying at the Inn or going there for a few drinks at the bar. Green Field, the large parking lot, is generally occupied by tail­gating alumni and visitors, includ­ing the younger ND crowd. These two groups combine, obviously, at the stadium, especially immediately be­fore game time. 
For a scalper, the Morris Inn offers the best crop of potential high-pay­ing ticket buyers. Most of the alum­ni and visitors staying at the Morris Inn have traveled a good distance to get to South Bend. This makes their demand for tickets almost complete­ly inelastic. If they need tickets for the game, they will do almost any­thing to insure their trip is not a failure. Also the scalper is lucky because anyone who would travel a long distance to see a football game 
JANUARY, 1982 
is probably well-off; ticket prices, for buyers at the Inn, are a very insignificant percent of the total amount of money spent on the trip. For these reasons, the price of a 
g.a. ticket will be closer to the scalper's maximum price, making the Morris Inn a profitable place to sell tickets. 
Green Field, on the other hand, is probably the best place for a po­tential buyer to find low ticket prices. Made up of alumni who live close enough to drive to Notre Dame for the day, the demand for tickets in the parking lot becomes a bit more elastic. Alumni here will feel less obligated to pay exorbitant prices, since this will probably not be the only game they come to this year. Since other people tailgating around them are in similar situations, they are not likely to bid up the asking price for tickets. Prices will fall closer to the buyer's desired level in the bargaining zone. Thus, Green Field is the best place to buy tickets for the game. 
Around the stadium the combina­tion of these two groups of alumni and visitors makes the competition between buyers and sellers a bit com­plex. It seems that most of the Mor­ris Inn crowd does not go to the sta­dium. until just before game time. Usually, the Morris Inn crowd al­ready has their .tickets. So while their ability to pay higher prices raises ticket prices some, it does not quite reach the level found at the Morris Inn. The alumni from Green Field help to keep the ticket price down, but not quite as low as the prices in the lot itself. Thus, the stadium is a moderate area for both buyers and sellers, with prices floating closer to the middle of the bargaining zone. 
While the place where the ticket is sold is important in determining the price, the time at which it is sold plays an even greater role. The three times I picked for surveying scalpers were: two hours ·before the game, one hour before the game, and game time. While at individual times, prices varied according to the place at which tickets were be­ing sold (as explained in the pre­vious paragraphs) prices also var­ied among the different times. 
At two hours before the game, both scalpers and buyers are some­what relaxed. Two hours seems like plenty of time to either buy or sell tickets. While scalpers don't seem to purposely withhold tickets for a more profitable hour, they are not overanxious to sell immediately. 

Philip Allen 


Buyers, while still looking for tick­ets, are not yet nervous about find­ing them at a good price (or finding them at all). For this reason, the price of tickets at this time floats closer to the middle of the bargain­ing zone. H ' 
Demand heats up on both sides at about an hour before the game. Scalpers are more anxious about sell­ing their tickets at some profit be­fore it gets too late. Buyers sense the coming of game time, and want to make sure they are not crowded out by other buyers. The scalpers, however, usually have a slightly lower demand since they may feel they can hold out longer. This high­er demand on the side of the buyer raised the price of the ticket closer to the seller's price. Obviously, this is the optimum selling time for scalpers. 


At game time, the desire of the scalpers to sell increases drastically. Since most scalpers are also fans who are going in to see the game, they want to get rid of their tickets in order to get into the stadium. For good games -such as U.S.C., F.S.U. and L.S.U. -the supply of tickets is low at game time, while the de­mand on the buyer's side has de­creased only slightly. For this rea­son prices decrease, but only by a small amount. At other games ­such as Navy or M.S. -demand has decreased sharply by game time and supply is only .lowered by a small amount. The ticket price will again go down. Buyers will find the best prices at game time (providing sup­ply is above zero) for either case. 
(cont'd on page 31) 
21 

, ,,. --·--­
-.-~--~---~~----~ -~--~ 
Fighting Irish Stats 
1981 Football Season 
1!;181 NOTRI:. iJAMI:. f-OOTBALL STATISTll.S 
lTHROUuH 11 uAMl:.S: WON 5, LOST 6) 
T i:.AM ST AT I ST I l.S Nu OPP Ti:.AM S(.QRINi:. _ Nu OPP 
TOTAL POINTS 232 160 ­
TOTAL Of-f-i:.NSi:. YARDS 3609 3228 AVl:.RA'l:,i:. . 21.1. 14. 5 TOTAL PLAYS 743 750 • TOUl.HiJOWNS 31 20 YAR JS Pl:.R PLAY 4.9 4.3 BY RUSHINu 17 12 YARDS P1:.R uAMI:. 328 .1 293. 5 BY PASS ING 12 8 BY Rt.TURNS 2 0 RUS H I NG YARDS 1985 1829 BY Rl:.l.OVl:.RY 0 0 ATTt.MPTS 491 507 f-11:.LiJ l.iOALS (MAut:-ATT) 6/13 8/14 
. 0

· YARDS Pl:.R RUSH 4.0 3.6 SAf-1:.Tll:.S 0 YARDS Pl:.R uAMI:. 180 .5 166. 3 PAT-Kll.K 28/30 14/15 PAT-RUN 0/ 0 0/ 1 
PASSINu YARDS 1624 1399 PAT,-PASS 0/ 1 1/ 4 ATT\.MPTS 252 243 l.OMPLH IONS 120 114 HAu· I NTi:.Rl.l:. PT t.iJ 15 13 
l. OM P~ . P1:.Rl.t.NTAui:. .476. RUSH! Nu G Tl. YDS AVu -T1) Lu
-· 469 

--TOUl.HiJOWN PASSt.S 12 8 l.ARTt.R 10 165 727 4. 4 --·6 43 YARDS Pl:.R ATTt.MPT 6.4 5.8 Bl:.LL 11 92 512 5.6 4 
. 41 YAR iJ::i Pt.R l. OM P • 13 .5 12. 3 SWl:.i:.Nl:.Y 10 36 168 4.7 0 13. YARDS Pt.R uAMI:. 147 .6 127. 2 SMITH 7 41 161 3.9 1 22 BROOKS 9 24 126 5.2 1 22 .PUNT I Nu YARDS 2958 3329 MORIARTY 10 20 94 4.7 1 18 NUMBt.R Qi-PUNTS 74 84 · MOSLl:.Y 9 16 75 4.7 1 20 AVt:.RAut. PUNT 40.0 39.6 HUNTl:.R 11 27 68 2.5 1 13 HAD -BLOl.Kl:.u 0 0 Kll:.L 11 31 53 1. 7 1 31 Aul:.LL . 6 10 24. 2.4 0 8 PUNT RI:. TURN YARDS 230 213 SWOBODA 2 4 21 5.2 0 12 NUMBt.R Oi-Rt.TURNS 34 36 MORRIS 1 3 20 6.7 0 · 10 
·2

AVt.RAul:. R!:.TURN . 6.8 5.9 HILBl:.RT 2 12 6. 0 · 0 8 WILL! /lMSON 3. 1 .6 6.0 0 0
10 ·. ·

t.KOfr Rt.TURN YARDS 660 62 7 HOWARD 5 4 0.8 1 13 NUMBt.R Of-Rt.TURNS 2ti 32 uROOMS 2 1 0 o.o 0 0 AVt.RAut. Rt.TURN 25 .4 19. 6 :KOl:.ul:.L 10 14 -66 -4.7 0 7 
------------------· ----------------------­
I NT t.Rl.l:. PT ION Rt.TU RN YARDS 204 75 .NOTRE DAMI:. 11 491 1985 · 4. 0, ·.17 43 _NUMBt.R Of-I NTi:.Rl.1:.PT IONS 13 15 OPPONl:.NT 11 507 1829 3.6 12 39 AVt.RAGt. Rt.TURN 15 .7 5.0 
NUMBt.R Of-Pl:.NALTI t.S 59 51 ·PASSI Nu · 1:, NO l.OMP. Pl.T INT VOS: TO P!:.NALTY YARDS 584 473 Kll:.L 11 151 67 .444 10 93.6 7 i-UMBLi:.S (LOST) 18 ( 6) 25( 10) KOl:.ul:.L 10 92 5 0 -_ •543 4 . 686 5 YARt)S Rl:.TURNt.O 0 0 l.ONul:.NI -3 1 1 1.000 . 0 4 0 B1:.L L 11 1 . 1 1. 00 0 · 0 -1 ·-0 TOTAL f-lRST DOWNS 177 162 uROOMS 2 3 0 O. 000 -o~, . o. _o BY RUSH INu 96 100 :HUNTl:.R 11 1 0 O. 000 1 0 0. BY PASSIN\:i 71 48 HOWARD 10 1 . 0 O. 000 0 . 0 0 
. BY Pt.NALTY. 10 14 MOSLtY 9 1 1 1. 000 0 -3 0 NOTRI:. DAMI:. 11 252 120 ·.• 476 15 -.1624 12. 
THIRD iJOWN l.ONVl:.RSI ONS 46/158 1.3/ 17 6 OPPONl:.NT 11 243 114 •.469 13 -1399 _8_ 'I
P t.Rl.t.NT Alli:. . . . 

.291 · • 244 ­
. . . ' .. : ' 
POSSi:.SS I-ON Tl Mt . 333: 46 326 :14 1981 NOTRI:. DAMI:. i-OOTBALL Sl.ORl:.BOARD -( 5/ 6 Ml NUTl:.S Pi:.R uAMi:. . -30:21 29:39 Sl:.P. 12 LOUISANA STAT!:... W 27·9.. 59,075 (.Sl:.P. 19 AT Mll.Hll.iAN L 7·25 105;888 (.Sl.ORt. BY QUARTl:.RS· ·-St:P. 26 AT PURDUI:. L 14-15 . 70,007 (..NOTRI:. iJAMi:. 72 · 51-' :-40 69 232 Ol.T ~ 3. Mll.Hll.iAN STATI:. W 20·7 59,075 l. OP PONt.NT 31 36 39 54 --160. O<.T. 10 f-LORIDA STAT!:.. L 13·19 59,075 l. 
Ol.T. 24" SOUTHE:.RN l.AL L 7~14 591075 (.
Ol. L_ 31 NAVY . _ W 38-0. 59,075 l. 
NOV. 7 -1.,EOR1:,fA Tl:.l.H W 35·3 ---59,075 (. 
NOV. 14 .AT AIR f-ORl.i:. W 35·7 . -361700 
NOV. 21 AT Pl:.NN STAT!:. L 21-24 84,175(C) 
NOV. 28. AT MIAMI (f-LA}:: L 15-37 50,681 
• • SCHOLASTIC 

; . 
i . 
i 
"­
"· 


Sl.ORINu : 12 TD PAT R-PA S f-u TP.. utf-,1:.NSI VI:. STATS ':*TM TL·YDS PBU f-R BK OLIVl:.R ll O 28/30 0/ 0 0 6/13 46 LRABLI:. 167 16-5 4 ·, 3 .. 2 0 LAR Ti:.'R 10 o 0/ 0 . 0/ 0 0 0/ 0 3 6 ZAVAuNI N 94 6-21 4 0 Ci Bi::L L ll 5 OZ O 0/ 0 . 0 OZ O 3 0 l:IRl·i:-i:-1TH· 63 6-2-3 ... 5 3 Q> HOl-lARu 10 4 OZ O . 0/. 0 0 OZ O 24 LLASBY 56 4-14 2 0 0 MORIARTY 10 3 0/ 0 0/ 0 0 0/ 0 18 iJUl:.RSON 55 .3-:8 5 0 0 
TORAN 54 2-9 · 4 0 0 
... ~8~[tt. -U l 8~ 8. •. 8f ,g 8 8f 8.· H . 
MARSHALL 44 9-3 9. 0 1 0 . MAS ZT AK ·· 6 l 0/ 0 0/ 0 0 0 / 0 6 KRIMM 38 -. : o-o :. 7 -· : 0 O KILL·.. . ,. ll l 0/ 0 . 0/._l .O 0/ 0 6 BONI:. . 36 O·O l O 0 
''ONul:.NI . . ·/~3. -1: 0/ 0 0/ .Q .:co at O · ·5: , RUiJZI NSKI ·· 35 2•13· 0 l · ._-o-SMITH . 7 l OZ O 0/. 0 0 OZ O . 6 AUTRY . . 30 3-30·· 2 0 0 TRI pp , .. . 4 l oz O 0/-0 -.·oo.'· 0/ 0 6 Bi:.LDl:.N 
B.ROOKS < ·9 ·1 0/ 0/ 0 OZ O . 6 ~t -:8:~!>.. -· ;·8 8 8
0 NAYLOR 
· SWi:. l:.N I:.Y l O 1 0/ 0 0/ 0 0 Of O 6 JOHNSON 22 o-o 2 2 0 
iJUl:.RSON -11 1·. 0/ o· 0/ 0 0 -O/ 0 5· uRAMKI:. 21--:2-13 ·1 0 0 BROWN. l5 o-o,. 2 0 0
~~-------~---~---------~-------~---~-----­
NOTRI;. uAMI:. 11131-28/30 0/1 o·· 6/.13 232 l:IANN .· o .
, 1112. _,oo:oo'."· oo o
OPPONt::NT. . ll 20 14/15: 1/ 5 0 8/14 160'· BOLK 0-0 LARKIN 10 1-lf O l 0 
SHfl:.LuS · ·· 
.r··-.g:g,:: .... :·g -•'-"g··g•

PASS: Rl:.C~ IViN~ l:, PL YiJs· . AVu Ti) Ll:i . 
HUNTi::R . ,, 11' 28 387, 13:.8 .. 2 ·. 35 · .~OR.12~+~ 5, 0-0· -.0 0.,0,.
HO~ARu: 10.: 17 463 27~2 ··3 -96 · . KRAMl:.R 5 . l .;;2 :· · O --O O -. LARTl:;R _. 10 _ 14 · .. 57 4~1 0 . 14 LARH.R 5. 3-29 .. · 0 0 0 MASZTAK '6 13 163 12•.5 · l 3 3 . MAS.IN! -5 u-o o O O O ., Bi:.L L . 11 11 135. 12 .-3 , 0 :. 2 4 L ILHY. 4 0-0 l O · -0 
SWt..E:.NtY.--..· . 10 .·· 9 · -124 13~8 ·.. · l.: : 38 SLH.IRO 3 0-0,. :1 .. 0 1 MOSLI:. Y. -9 ·7 79 ll.3 l 15 Lll:.Bl:.NSTl:. IN 3" o-o ···a· a a. LON1)tNI. 3 · 4 -.·.··.. ·, 5492:...-, ... 12,.2 . l . 21 AiJI:. LL· 2. o-o . 0 0 0 
BOUSHKA 5 J'. 1n3 ·:a · 25" Klt.RNAN -2 -l"-2'·'·' >o · o· o MORIARTY 10 3 30 10.0 2. 2-0 SP I1:.LMAKI:. R 2 o-o -. 0 0 0 ,. BROOK$-...· :9. 32:,'·.... ·:20•-.·6~7 .0.. ll MURPHY._ l 0-0 .. 0 O O . Abt.LL :: . '.6' · 12 ... 6\:o '' o · 10· • RWt. 1·, o-o·· · •· <o o· o BULHANAN . . ·9 -2· 10 , 5 .O O 6 f-LOOiJ 1 o-o O O 0
KILL· . ·11 2-.;.2• -LO .-:o-··.l· MOSLl:.Y l O·O O · 0 o· M ISHLtR• 7 1 25 25.• 0 0 .. 25 POZDl:.RAL 1 ·.o-o.. ··o ·o o 
TR I pp . 4 r ·. 10 · 10 ~o '·1 : l 0 
-. · -NOT~~-o~t··---7~s69~-6;-:;as·--74o'".;ia___ i -·­
-----------------------------·------__-;._ -----.
NOTRi:. iJAMI:. . -11.120 _1614·, H.4 _ 12 · 96 OPPONl:.NT. 904 46·1~6 29 6 · 1
OP.PON 1:.NT. 11'' 114 · 13 99' 12 ~3 • •'8 . 71 · .. 
. : . *iNLLUDi;S SOLOS AN1) ASSISTS 
• •• ••c ,•,:, 
P:LINT INu : . 1.1·· · NO Yi)S · AVb •· {p· 
· Kl-1:.L . 11 73 _2914 .. 39~9. 56 ·. INTl:.RL •.. RHURNS 'No y·i)s AVb Ti) Lb WHi:.LAtf >.· 2. · 1 ·.44 44·;0 · .44_ DU 1:.RSO N -2 88 44 • 0 l 88 LRABLI:.. : 2 60 30 .O O 33
-~~-----~------------~-------------~-~----· 
NO-rRi:.'i iJAMI:.: -·· -· lf :74 • ,_, 2958 . : 40.;·0 56 .. ZAVAGNIN 3 27 9.0 0 27. OP PONl:.NT 11 84 3329 '-' 39~·5 60 KR IMM . 2 26 . 13 .0 o· 15 ·, ·.--·_-. :···-., ·. . TORAN.-2 3 1.5 . 0 3 
..·BROWN--.·.. · 1--·. · 0 :o~o·-0 . 0
PUNT °Rt.TURNS NO YDS Avl' ·tu -. -Li./ -··-·JOHNSON .. 1 . 0 .Q,0 0 -0 iJUt.RSON ·. . 32 .; 221 ., 6 .9 :0 23 ------------·-------------------·--------~ 
KR''IMM' l .5 . .-5,;Q• ·i-0·--<s NOTR 1:. .DAMI:. < ·13 2·04 15 • 7 l ·88 ·. OPPONl:.NT 15 75 ·· 5,0 0 29'
§t!:~~~~~~-----__ .;._ -~ -----~-.:-~:~ ----~----~-­
NOTR1:. · uAMI:. · · 34 230 6~8 · :o·· ,· 2:f 
O.PPONl:.NL: •36·: 213-:5,;9• 0_.•38 .. 
·-KfLKoi=-.~ · R(tuRNs No·' · YilS: . AVG · .to Ll:i ·• 
Bi:. LL . . . : , 13 . 3 71 28 .5 l : 98 ·· 
HOWARi) 6 162.: 27 .O. _. --0 · 56. 
uUi:.RSON · 3 ·..•.. ,75 . 25 .o C'.o ··35'. JOHNSON. l -26 · 26 .O . 0 26 SW:ltNi:,;Y . l 22 22 .O ·. 0 22 ' KRIMM· 21• 4 . LO . ·o 3·
• 

:-·-·----·--------··--·----~-----.-~--~--~--~--~--
NOTRt iJAMh -_ 26 ' -660 25 .'4. '1 98 '• 
OPPONt::NT j\32 627 '19.tf .0 51 ,-.·:: ..... , 
' 
'' 

-23 ­






1(3(:l()fl 

The Exchange 
Program 
I 
She looked out the back seat window at picket fence whiting by. Above, telephone wires dipped and rose, separated, drew close, snapped together as a pole intervened. Sometimes summer-full oak :tops blocked the continuity, so she would climb down their venerable breadths and play running games. She would race at 35 mph the grass strip between road and sidewalk, dodging trunks, post boxes, leaping cars that waited at stop signs in her path. 
Tiring she put her chin on the front seat t~p, plopped elbows on either side.
1 "Mommy, how long till we get
' 
there?" 
Mommy turned down Mr. Reinke's morning march-to-school radio program, and inclined her head to the eleven-year-old. 
"'Bout twenty minutes honey." 

"Get over on your side, Sheila," pushed her year-younger brother. She went back to her window. A freckled counterpart with long mousy-blond hair reflected back; vacant blue eyes, in oval setting, round-ended nose, small mouth emerged tentatively from whizzing suburbia. There went Senator Holley's house; Susan Warne lived down that street; the Brothertons and Billy Cartwright -lived down this road. 
A traffic light stopped the Impala in front of Saint Mary's. Her friends were filling the sandy yard she once played in. Some raced up and down the big kids' slide; she had loved the way it squashed like an aluminum can as she laughed down. They see­sawed on the toys from which she had swung her legs up high and yelled, "Farmer Brown, let me down, and I'll give you ... a winged horse, no, a faery wand, no ... three· more wishes!" Beyond, boys stole a forbidden British ·Bulldog 
·scrimmage (teachers said it was too rough), on· the field where she had 
-24 
by Sheila Beatty 

galloped a mustang on open range, and stopped to snuff the air, whinny­ing high and snorting horse heavy. She owned the wild expanse, head high and eyes wild and-ears back, ran free forever, until the recess bell rang. 
The Impala smoothed forward again, passing Monte Sano Avenue's gracious lawns and comfortable homes. She took out some loose leaf and penciled her best approximation of wild horses-the Black Stallion reared, Black Minx faced wind on a bluff regally, Flame raced out ~f control-it was hard to draw with such railroad track bumps. She looked up. They had descended into downtown Augusta. Wong's Food Market dilapidated on one side, some old black man with a lost expression and grey stubble waited outside a window-barred liquor store. They passed a few houses on cinder blocks, chickens scratching underneath, Cadillacs gleaming in front. On one porch a fat black lady in pink foam curlers and overstretched polyester pants stood by a ripped screen door. The Impala pulled into the Georgia Savings and Loan parking lot, across from her new school. 
"Well, first big day! Chip, lock the door. Sheila, would you carry my grade book and these workbooks?" 
The .gutters were littered with soggy pink sno-cone papers, empty wine bottles, cigarette butts, sodden rags, Now-a-Later cellophane wrap­pers and patches of something like wet toilet paper. A robin soared above, then fell, settling among pigeons picking in the trash. They entered the driveway to young black children yelling, playing chase on the asphalt lot, older ones talking in groups. They walked to the grey two­story facades­
"There's your building, children. I'll see you here at break time, all right?" 
"Yes Ma'am" Chip said, and ran off to a group of boys playing soccer with an aluminum can. 
"OK." She was going to be brave. Daddy called her his little trooper when she was hurt and refused to cry. She walked the periphery of the lot. One end of the yard was closed by a decaying'cinder-block wall with an aluminum shed that reeked of urine or something dead. Beyond the chain-link fence on the adjacent side an overgrown lot gave final resting place for two battered windowless car bodies and assorted junk: a broken umbrella, a naked, idiotically smiling Baby Tender Love that missed a plastic arm and mos:t of its 
_ yellow nylon hair, retread strips, iron pipe joints and Coke, Mountain Dew and Shasta Grape cans. Next to it fencing ,guarded a bare earth yard where a 'black toddler tricycled around .car parts, dog manure and clothesline poles. Perpendicular to the barrier stretched the school buildings, where children were push­ing inside--the bell had rung. 
Inside as she sat down along a wall in the back, some black girls filled in her area. 
"Oooo, kin I platt 'chor hayer?" 
Once she understood, she dared not refuse. Tingles ran over her scalp as cool deft hands with dark knuckles and pink corrugated finger­nails gently tugged the soft length into cornrow. 
"Leave her hair alone, Valencia. . Class, be quiet." 
After Mrs. ·McCloud finally calmed the ·children, she spent the morning assigning seats, .giving out books, bookcovers and learning her students. _ 
At ten everyone rushed out for break. Sheila went to a corner of the yard, where chain link met cinderblock. Looking across to the tricycler's yard, she heard .a squeak at her feet. A mangy black. kitten mewed in the sodden tr-@h and leaves between the building and a few inches of a space to the fence. She could .not reach in to help it; it seemed stuck. Her throat hurt in the back, tightening mercilessly until she cried. She sobbed quietly, hot saltiness ran down her cheeks around to the corner of her mouth so she could taste her sorrow, down her chin, and under. 
Her mother was coming. She dried her face on her forearm. Her. mother held her, and -Sheila buried her face in the refuge's wait. 
"Mom, the children!" · 
. 
SCHOLASTIC 

longed for the freedom their anger would bring. She wanted to clear the air and then get on with the living. Two months was long enough. 
Getting On 
"The son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against God and against you; I no longer deserve to be called your son.' The fat her said to his servants: 'Quick! bring out the finest robe and put it on him; put a ring on his finger and shoes on his feet. Take the fatted calf and kill it. Let us eat and celebrate because this son of mine was dead and has came back to life. He was lost and is found.' Then the celebration began." 
Luke 16:21-24 

Mary Ann Turner watched the toothpaste foam swirl in the white sink. She reached for a paper cup, filled it with water and swished it thro_ugh her teeth. She spat once again. There, all clean. No leftover lunch anywhere. Her reflection in the mirror said, "You look tired there kiddo. You aren't supposed to look tired today." Her last night at the Center had been restless. She'd tossed all night in the hesitancy and apprehension of today. She wanted more than anything to get out, to go home. 
The guard's keys rattled at the door. "Mrs. Butler wants to see you, Miss Turner,'' said the face in the small wire window. Mary Ann's stomach fell to her toes. She'd only 
J--nn., i-n ~o-, 11/l"r(l RutlP, on~P. bP.fore, when she'd come in. She felt she was being cvi1uem,1eC1 all over again. Her knees shook as she entered the Director's office. A bispectacled, 
prudish face looked up. "Miss Tur­ner," her croaking voice said, "these past months have not been easy. We hope you have learned something. We don't wish to see you again. Understood?" 
"Yes, Mrs. Butler," she replied rubbing her sweaty palms on her skirt. Mary Ann thought back on the lectures, workshops and counseling. "Yes ma'am. I won't be back. Ever." 
"Good," Mrs. Butler replied. She opened the file drawer and placed Mary Ann's manila folder in among the others. Mary Ann watched the 
by Beth Healy 

steel drawer close. She saw that she would always remain part of the his­tory of this place. As long as her name remained in the drawer, she could never remove herself com­pletely from the Center, or her crime. It would follow her. 
"You may go now, Miss Turner. Good luck." Mary Ann closed the office door. Her heart leapt like a puppy just freed from his leash. Yet, as the sounds of her footsteps echoed off the·walls, her fear rose again. Beyond these surroundings, 

the safeguarded Center, she re­
mained confused and unsure. 
What would going home be like? What would happen? Her mother, father, brother? She didn't want to face them. For the past two weeks Mary Ann had planned and re­hearsed this first reunion. She'd prepared answers to their "How Come?"s and "How Could You?"s. She'd built up her defense even to the point of blaming them in part for her mistake. If they'd been stricter, enforced curfews and screened her friends, none of it would have happened. She expected and awaited their wrath. It had been building up for two months now and she was ready. She reasoned that once they had fought, cried and 
.screamed, they would be able to start 
forgiving and eventually, she hoped, 
forgetting. Then she could really 
start again. In a large way, she 
Mary Ann returned to her room and put the last of her belongings in the suitcase. The guard's keys rattled again as she leaned against the doorway, waiting. Mary Ann zippered the suitcase and took one more look in the mirror. She. smoothed the pleats in her skirt. How nice of her mother to buy her a "coming out" skirt. Mom is ready for a new beginning also-dressing the soiled doll in new clothes. She moved towards the door. The adrenaline pumped through her heart and head. She heard it beating in her ears, "I'm going home." She blew a mocking kiss to the tiny room saying, "Fare­well forever!'' and brushed past the guard to the hall, her first steps to freedom. 
Two months earlier Mary Ann had entered that room, screaming and sobbing as she hit the bed. The door had locked behind her, locking her in in the name of justice. Though she never denied her crime, Mary Ann hated her sentence for what it had done to her family; She could handle her punishment, but not theirs. They had to handle the shame, the stares and rumors. She'd never meant to wrong them. She'd never meant to wrong anyone, it had just happened. 
The party had been fun. Beer and pot abounded. Her indulgence had dulled her senses and reasoning. She hadn't even questioned her boyfriend when he'd suggested they "borrow" the neighbors' stereo since they were away for the weekend. He had reassured her that they'd be right back, nibbling at her ear and pulling her out the door into the dark night's chill. 
The two had darted across the street to the Barders' backyard where they slit the back screen and unhitched the dining room window. She remembered his kiss as he hoisted her through the opening and then climbed in himself. They crept across the room and there in the corner, spotted the stereo. Un­plugging the component, Ken grabbed the turntable and left Mary Ann to take the two speakers. Out­side they heard shouts and taunting cries from their friends as engines started. The two crept back to the open window, unaware that the next­door neighbors had called the police to break up the party. Their buddies 

-
. . 

now darted to their cars to escape interrogation and breathalizer tests. 
Ken climbed down first and Mary Ann handed out the speakers. He then disappeared around the corner to hide them under the front bush. Suddenly she'd heard, "Hey man, cut it out ... Stop, I was just. ..." She craned her neck out the window to hear and was instantly blinded by the crude light which now focused on her face. She was caught. "Stop right there, young lady. You're coming with me." "Ken," she'd pleaded. Her only reply was the following two-month nightmare. 
Mary Ann was driven to the sta­tion and booked for breaking and entering and burglary. Her parents had shown up an hour later expect­ing to find some mistake and raving about their good daughter. When they realized there was no mistake and that even good girls steal stereos, she remembered how their eyes pierced her in disbelief and their heads shook with shame. Mary Ann was tried, found guilty and sentenced to two months at the Cleveland Juvenile Detention Center. She remembered the judge, a stern, balding man, who pronounced her sentence and then mumbled some­thing about "spoiled brats" that insist on stealing. He too had shaken his head saying, "You've got a tough lesson to learn, young lady." 
At the Center she had served her time, undergoing workshops, re­habilitation lectures and counseling. She had limitedly continued her studies and hoped to graduate from Westbridge High in December. Her parents had often come to visit her during the period. They never brought anger or disappointment, although their disbelief still radiated from their eyes. Sometimes Mary Ann wondered if they even realized that it was their daughter confined in the two-story building. They often seemed to look at her as if she was someone they'd met in the super­market and not their own flesh and blood. They'd talk of such trivial, normal things -the thawing spring, her brother's basketball team. Such conversation seemed to her so ab­normal and unreal in that place. 
Mary Ann imagined the horrors of admitting to family and friends that their daughter was indeed serving time, was indeed a thief. She'd often seen her grandmother's face as she listened. Yet her parents remained supportive and never shared these horrors. Perhaps they figured she had enough pain and felt they could only remain faithful and count the days until her return. Somehow it just never seemed right. 
Often_ Mary Ann wished they hated her. She wanted them to re­lease their shame and lash out in anger and disappointment. She had imagined them abandoning her and kicking her out of the house. She would have done it herself. After all, she deserved it. "I guess my due time will come,'' she'd said to herself, like a rabbit waiting to be hunted down by the pack. 
Mary Ann turned the hall corner and moved from her confinement. She realized, as she passed the dining room and workshop areas, that she was also moving towards reestablish­ing the justice she owed her parents. At last she felt she would receive her punishment, for she would no longer be protected by the Center's walls. Then she would really be free. 
She'd never meant to wrong them. She'd never meant to wrong an11one, it had just happened. 

Heading for the door, she walked through a tunnel, leaving her past behind in the darkness. Miss Alan, her probation officer, met her at the end of the hall. After signing the release documents, the two of them passed through the glass doorway, outside where Miss Alan had asked her mother to wait. 
The afternoon sun warmed Mary Ann's cheeks. What a gorgeous day to be going home. She descended the stairs deliberately-as if trying to feel the hard stone through her shoe soles. She descended to free­dom and the March wind greeted her, brushing the hair from her shoulders. As the door closed behind them, Miss Alan's hand squeezed her shoulder. "WeH, lady, this is it. You ready?" 
"I guess so," Mary Ann replied. "I couldn't have picked a more beautiful day to do it." She smiled up at the brilliant lemon in the sky. How many times she'd gazed out the small window of her room, longing to feel the sunshine or taste the rain. Even in her most fanciful moments, she'd never imagined the day to be so clear and bright, to smell so clean. 
Across the asphalt parking lot a horn trumpeted as if to signal victory. Through the tinted wind­shield Mary Ann saw her mother's gleaming smile as she pushed open the car door. She is waiting. Miss Alan seemed to read her thoughts and announced, "She's been waiting for an hour and fifteen minutes." 
"I am going home," the young woman sighed. "It'll be OK." 
"You sure are M.A., and it'll be great. Now take it easy and don't worry. You are one lucky girl." 
Mary Ann turned to give Miss Alan a quick hug. Strong hands pushed her back as if to say, "Get along now." Mary Ann grasped her suitcase and turned in a trot to her waiting mother. Knowing Miss Alan stood there watching, she turned and waved. "Thank you and I'll see you on Thursday. Your office. It's going to be alright, I promise." Nearing the car, she stopped. 
Her mother moved from the front of the vehicle to welcome her. Mary Ann saw two months of pain brimming in her eyes. Or was it joy? She couldn't tell the difference, just wished it would go away. Her mother had greyed. Has it been that long and hard, she wondered? Em­bracing her daughter she cried, "Welcome home. I'm so glad to see you." Mary Ann shivered beneath her touch. She'd forgotten how in­credibly soft, like rose petals, her mother's skin was and how sweet she smelled. "Hi, Mom," she said timidly. "It's good to see you too." She pulled away from the embrace and looking to the car asked, "Could we please get out of here?" 
As they pulled from the parking lot, Mary Ann looked over at her mother. She wore an almost silly smile, like a girl that just got kissed in the schoolyard. She didn't say anything and kept her eyes fixed on the· road. Mary Ann imagined her a china doll, painted with a silly smile and posed behind the wheel. She remembered the last time she'd been in a car. The beer-bellied cop had worn a similar smile and had said nothing. At least this car was not separated by a grill and a .CB didn't blare signals like foghorns in the silence. Mary Ann's eyes turned also to the road. 
"Hey, Mom, how's everything at home?" she asked, just as she'd asked ­every other time they'd visited. 
"Just fine, dear," the smile replied. "Just as you left us. Nothing has changed at all. We're so glad you're coming home." 
What do you mean nothing has changed since I left ? Do you think I'd believe you've carried on just like before, what with your daughter sitting in a prison? Well, if you think nothing's changed lady, we'll 
just see. I'm going to be there now. 
That'll change things, won't it? Mary 
Ann felt the blood rising in her 
cheeks. You lie so, Mother, she raged. 
You know things have changed. She 
turned to the window. 
"Yes, it's just the same," the smile 

said again. 
Passing the supermarket, Mary 

Ann began to recognize the neigh­
borhood. A new pizza restaurant 
stood on the corner, probably where 
the gang hung out now. The 
Jonhan's place was up for sale and 
a few new cars lined the driveways. 
As her mother pulled to a halt at 
the stoplight, Mary Ann saw home. 
The modest two-story house 

crowned a small hill. The grass was 
neatly mowed and tulips bloomed 
around the maples. Although the 
paint seemed faded and the basket­
ball net hung in shreds over the 
garage, it all '1ooked so clean, the 
windows shimmering in the spring 
sun. "Wow," she sighed. "It looks 
so nice." 
The engine silenced in the drive­

way. "Shall we go in?" the smile 
asked. 
Mary Ann looked at the front door with apprehension. "I guess so," she chuckled, trying to act natural. "I don't want to stay cooped up in this car for the rest of my days." 
"No, I'd say you've been cooped up long enough now, don't you· think?" her mother answered, open­ing the door and getting out. 
Mary Ann shot her a hot, indig­nant glare. It's true. You do hate me. Why even let me come home? Leave me there then. I know I've caused you shame. Don't take me back. Her head spun in anguished confusion. The hour of confrontation approached. She wished she could shrivel up and never have to face them again. 
Mary Ann started as the car door opened. "Hey, sis, it's great to see you," a young voice said. An arm reached around her neck and two moist lips touched her cheek. "You look good, Mary Ann. Were they good to you there?" She glared at the twelve-year old. "What did you expect," she wanted to shout. "I wasn't in any concentration camp, dummy." He just stood there, smiling hesitantly. 
Mary Ann cleared her throat nervously. "Hey, Timmy, how are you?'' She got out and hugged her brother. She hung onto him as if trying to squeeze all the innocence and love out. "It's nice to be home," she whispered. After a few seconds he wriggled free and grasping her 
suitcase, took her hand and led her 
up the walk. "Let's go inside." 
Mary Ann walked up the sloping 
driveway half wanting the concrete 
to split open and swallow her. Her 
brother's head bobbed just beneath 
her chin. Does he remember that 
I never came home? she wondered. 
Does he know what happened? Of 
course he does, it was in the paper. 
Did his friends tease him about his 
criminal sister? How had he ex­
plained her mistake? It didn't seem 
to matter much to him now. He 
seemed happy and yet Mary Ann 
could not really see why. 
She pulled her hand from his as 
they neared the front door. Don't 
patronize me, she thought angrily. 
I'm sure you don't even want to 
touch me. She stared at him, search­
ing for his hatred. Timmy responded 
by opening the door for her and 
smiling. 
Mary Ann stepped through the 
doorwa.y. Her father's huge form 
filled the hall. He stepped from the 
shadows into the muted sunlight of 
the living room. Mary Ann felt 
extremely small and weak. Her eyes 
fell to the floor as she mumbled 
meekly, "Hello, Daddy." 
"Hello, Mary Ann," his bass voice resounded. She felt him near and soon his shoe tips squared off against 
Everything was out ·of order. First came the fight, then the friendship. Where were the arguments? The Anger? 
hers in the limited space of her vision. Two thick hands slipped under her armpits and she felt his muscles flex as he lifted her up against his wide chest. "It's wonder­ful to have you home, daughter," he said tenderly. "We've missed you." Mary Ann felt her heart beating in her throat and she reached her arms around his barrel-shaped torso. "Oh, I missed you too." 
His beard itched her cheek though she dared not move. He just held her there almost determined never to let her go again. Her mother's thin, soft hand reached up and touched her arm. Glancing over her father's shoulder, she saw Timmy by the door, smiling. She felt limp. She'd lost control. The hardened front she'd spent so long trying to build up melted around her. Everything was out of order. First came the fight, then the friendship. Where were the 
arguments? The anger? 
Mary Ann suddenly felt very silly, 
like a little girl receiving Christmas 
presents in July. She wasn't sup­
posed to have all this yet. Her guilt 
flared again. "Please put me down," 
she said dryly. The huge arms 
obeyed. She stood there gazing at 
them like they were three outer­
space creatures she'd never even 
imagined existed. The silence 
thickened. 
"I've prepared your favorite 
dinner, Mary Ann. Steaks, baked 
potatoes, salad and lemon pie, dear." 
Her mother's words cut the quiet. 
"If you want, I'll take you to your 
new room," suggested Timmy. "We 
redecorated the whole thing. Hope 
you like pink and green." 
Mary Ann blinked unresponsively. Timmy grabbed her hand and began to lead her up the stairs. She said nothing, looking over her shoulder in total disbelief. Her mother. shrugged and turned to the kitchen. Her father's eyes climbed the stairs behind them. They are trying to confuse me, she thought. 
Timmy flung open the bedroom door, singing "TA DA. How do you like it?" The setting sun played across the fields of pink and green wildflowers that papered the walls. A carpet of sea-foam green lay at her feet. So nothing has changed, huh? 
"Timmy, could I be alone for a bit before dinner?" 
He looked at her, not sure she was serious. "But you've been alone so long," she heard his eyes say. He then answered, "OK, if you want. ... See you soon?" She nodded. 
Mary Ann moved to the ruffled bed and flopped face down on the coverlet. She lay there for a long time, trying to sort out her con­fusion. Nothing has changed? Everything has changed. My room. My house. My family. They have all changed. Why aren't they like I expected them? They aren't even yelling yet. Let's fight. Let's get it over with. Why don't they? A knock interrupted her thoughts. "Come in," she responded, flipping over onto her back. Her father entered. 
"Mary Ann, are you about ready to eat?" he asked hesitantly. He shuffled across the sea-foam green towards her bed. Silence bounced off the wildflower walls. 
"We are so pleased to have you finally home," he stammered search­ing for the right words. 
(cont'd on page 31) 

JANUARY, 1982 

Poetry 

·The premature May morning, speckled with secret charms, flickers softly. Discoveries are found· in misty shadows. Familiar shades dimly penetrate dense fog. With nowhere to land, misplaced songs of delight echo in the stillness. Streetlight's glow fades into the black walls of dawn. Eruptive is the aviary of morn. 
The dawn of understanding materializes as the morning. A wakened knowledge _perceives the distinctions. Simplicity uncovers ambiguities 
that obstruct one's path. To erase unwarranted ill desires. To elucidate unknown destinations. 
Selfish thoughts impudently force opinion into the mind's dis­course. 
Then unique colors and impres­sions unite. Anxious stillness becomes expectant repose. 
by Mary Frances DeCelles 

. My heart was stitched toa purple 
·-haze, . . the tailors said T used the wrong thread. So T chiseled a laugh from pink
marble, ··. -· · 
framed jti11 gold.._ _· ·__ _ . The sculptors sn~ered that the 
marble _was flawed, the gold-impure. · My love wound sharps, and flats around my greying hairs, too muchvibrato, cut the singers. So my soulcried itself in watercolors · 


never for the painters to see. 
bylfathleen Johannsen 


28 
SCHOLASTIC 


11111··
...... 
---·
··'\ 
. 

. ;~ 
f5<.<; 
I 
I..!( 
\I 
),

//,,111 
The Old Neighborhood 
Passage Through Hell 

You fall through a maze of half­recognized fears constructed in childhood's mind­half-formed sentinals with 
bloodied visages. Demented features, bodiless, chase 
you down fiery corridors while hideous gargoyles snicker. Ahead distortions weave in the 
bloody glare, grotesque yet somehow familiar, you reach for them and feel only the burning of your skin. Omnipresent figures with eyes of 
fire dance among the hungry flames 
shrieking, laughing and beckoning; they begin to circle, enclosing, you strike out at the smirking 
. glossy faces. 

Turning to run you see mirrors­the red reflections, and hear the gargoyles laugh 
as you sink into the fiery pit, God cries. 

by Kathleen Johannsen 
JANUARY, 1982 
Worn bik({rubber knew-this road. Scuffed Keds, tired Peters,plans~-__ · 
for forts sighed atop those crunching leaves. DfJ.dS puffed home: the pedestrian 
sole k!tew each. speckled slope. The Dead End sign, a welcome 
diamond, whispered of warm kitchens only to us. A happy bubble, burst now, because my car won't fit in the 
last driveway on the left. 
by Kathleen Johannsen 
!!.. 

---;).: 
·t.-. 


Hunched over his dirty, old sneakers a little boy crouches. ' They are the results of long hours of joyful play in mud and dirt. 
His bright, eager. eyes look out of his grubby face with sheer determination. 
His chubby little fingers are inadequate . in his struggle. ,He appears to have too many; 
They stumbl~ over each other; ·· 
Long laces tangle his efforts. · But he:doesn't mind all that much; .He hums a simple tune of his own 
. while his. fingers slowly work: . Something made-up; Something his own. · by ~ry Frances Decelles 
29 . 

' 1982, here we come! 
board and most Irish supporters were shaking their heads. But the Irish sprung hope into the hearts of its fans. On the very next set of downs the Kiel-Howard connection again went to work, this time a 40­yard pass play to the Penn State 2. Two plays later, Phil Carter ran it in and tied the score. In the third quar­ter N.D. took the lead for the first time in the game, capitalizing on a key interception by Bob Crable. For most of us, N.D. had clinched the win and were on their way. That is what probably made it so disappointing when Penn Statescored in the fourth quarter, covering 82 yards in 9 plays to achieve the final victory 24-21. The loss hit hard and left many of us shocked. 
In the last game of the year, the Irish traveled to Miami where they were literally outplayed in every aspect of the game. In the end Miami beat Notre Dame, only the second time in 14 tries, 37-15. A couple of the bright spots for the Irish were Greg Bell's 98-yard kickoff return . and Joe Howard's 5 pass receptions for 77 yards. In fact, as Blair Kiel remarked, 'The game typified our season. It was up and down, steady and disappointing. I really felt bad for the seniors. We wanted to go out and assure them a winning season." 

As a senior, I will have to admit that I too was also a little disap­pointed. At the start of the season, expectations mounted, hopes flew high and visions of victory molded. At the end of the season these hopes were. gone. Granted, victory will come, but unfortunately it will not be a part of our senior year. Yet, what really touched me was what Faust said at the end of the season, something that we as fans should 
a:11 subscribe to, "... We'll be back. Notre Dame is bigger than any losing ·season." 
I guess we can say the same for us. We will be back. But this time it will be with checkered pants, 20 extra pounds, and an armload of T-shirts from the bookstore. It is sad to think that this time in our lives we will never recapture. It is a thrill to .sit in the student section and root for one of America's foremost foot­ball teams. Despite the losing season, I will have to ·admit that I rooted just as hard, applauded just as loudly, and complained just as much as any average Notre Dame student will 
during the course of a season. But the most important thing is that I had fun and in a nutshell that is what it is all about. A long time from now I will not remember the losing season as much •as the mem­ories the season gave me, and for those memories, I can always be thankful. 
I guess that here at Notre Dame, we can also be thankful that our athletes can walk off the field and become students in every sense of the word. With this in mind, we can hear what coach Bobby Bowden of Florida State said about his star linebacker Reggie Herring -"He doesn't know the meaning of the word fear. In fact, I just saw his grades and he doesn't know the meaning of a lot of words." At Notre Dame our players are able to compete on the .field and in the class­room. That is one aspect in college athletics which often gets over­looked, but regardless of a winning or losing season, it prevails here at Notre Dame. 
Finally, I would like to repeat what Lee Corso, Indiana football coach, said explaining why U.S.C. was on the Hoosier schedule--"When I took this job, I promised our fans I'd show them a Rose Bowl team." Well, this year Faust showed us a Bluebonnet Bowl team (Michigan), a Liberty Bowl team (Navy), and a Fiesta Bowl team (Penn State/ U.S.C.), all in one season. But I better stop kidding around, or I am going to be embarrassed when Gerry Faust shows us a National Championship Team here at Notre Dame in the next few years-if not next year. D 

Senior ALPP major Mike Dorociak, coming off a four-year retirement as a staff sportswriter, received im­portant editorial aid from St. Mary's senior Shaun Gallagher. 
30 
SCHOLASTIC 




Getting On (Continued) 
Mary Ann said nothing. She: .
Culture Update 
· looked info his eyes, something she 

JANUARY, 1982 
, 
MUSIC 
at Notre Dame 

Feb. 22 -Elsa Charleston, soprano -8:15 
p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium ­$2.00 

Feb. 16 -Irene Schneidemann, pianist ­
8:15 p.m. -Annenberg Audi­torium -$2.00 
ART 

. at the Snite Museum of Art 
Until April 11 -Recent Accessions: Drawings and Prints -Print, Drawing, .and Photography Gallery 
Until April 4 -Aaron Siskind's Harlem Docu­ment -O'Shaughnessy Gal­leries 
Feb. 7-March 21 -George listen: One Man Exhibition -O'Shaugh­nessy Galleries 
Feb. 14-April 14 -Harmsen's Collection of Navajo Weavings ­O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
(gallery hours: T-F, l 0-4 p.m.; S-S, 1-4 p.m.; Closed M) 
... at the Isis Gallery 
Feb. 1-19 -New West Show (gallery hours: M-F, l 0-4 p.m.; Closed S-S) 
... at Saint Mary's 
Jan. 29-Feb. 24 -Marilyn Bock-Tobolski Paintings -Hammes 
Gallery 

Jan•. 29-Feb. 24 -Hick's Etch Print Ehibition -Moreau Gallery 
(gallery hours: M-F, 9:30-12, 1-3; Sun., 1-3; Closed Sat. I 
by Sven Johnson

Frods 
... lectures at the Snite 
. Feb. 3 -Stephen B. Spiro, Curator, Snite Museum of Art -"On Collecting Prints and Drawings -8 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium 
Feb. 9 -Dr. Dean A. Porter-"English Gothic Art and Architecture: Bishop John Grandisson of Exeter" -1 2:15 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium 
Feb. 17 -Mr. Jack Sewell, Curator, Oriental Art, Art Institute of Chicago ­"Sculptural Monuments of India and Southeast Asia" -8 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium 
THEATRE 

Feb. l 2, 13 ­
Feb. l 8, 19 ­
A New Play -Directed by: Anne Patterson -8 p.m. -Saini! Mary's Campus -$1.00 
Duel of Angels -by: Jean Giraudoux -Directed by: 
Reginald Bain -8 p.m. ­O'Laughlin Auditorium-$1.00 

had feared doing since her arrival. The setting sun played in his salt­and-pepper beard and softened the wrinkles of his forehead. She focused. There was no longer any disbelief or disappointment in his eyes. His head no longer shookIn anger and shame. No, the wrinkles around his features revealed years oflaughter. · 
He sat at the edge ofthe bed and played with the dust ru,ffle. "Mary Ann, it's been alongtime coming, your freedom. You know, you are 
; not only free from the Center. You 
are our good daughter.'' · . She sat up and he stretched his 'hand to her. Mary Annstared dis-· ·believingly at the long, strong 
fingers. This is. not a fist. There will . be no fight.. She grabbed his harid ·and squeezed it tightly. Looking at him, she felt lier own piercing gaze · melt, Freedom had come, they had all paid. Getting on begannow~ 
"Yes, Daddy, I'm ready for 'dinner. .It's been long enough." · Mary Ann Turner:!1ad come home. 
., 

Scalping (Continued) 
Because of the. nature of Notre ,Dame fans, some-o_f my .projected • outcomes did not CQme to pass. When ' ' ND began· to lose games, I thought 
the demand ·for tickets would de-· crease quite a bit. Since we were : ;ranked # 1, I felt those· first few 
•losses to Michigan .and Purdue would be· enough to make some alumnilose . interest. This, .·· however, did not ; happen. WhHe there were some vis~ ible signs of displeasure .(Oust Faust 
buttons, etc.) most alumni stood be-. . hind• their teamj.· This 'kept the de­,mand for the less exciting games , .almost up to normal. Thus; ticket , prices ·generaHy remained .at ''nor­. mal'' levels. . .... 
Alumni also are in the habit of : 
' selective pricing. ..· In .other.·· words, tickets sold to students and>those sporting Notre Dame embossed , clothing are usually priced fower . than for a person carrying a U.S.C. banner. Most alumni would rather ! 
.have fellow .. ·11fD Jans have their'. tkkets even .if the "enemy's" fan · . is willing to pay more, 
:Philip Allen ·is from Chi~dio. ,After . 
•surviving the grueling footwork. in-· ,valved ·in this researchJhe.·has re.:.. 
turned for th~ second semester of 'his freshman year., Th~: is his first · _contribution, to Scholasti~. , ... 
31 


-~ ---------------­
-The Last Word------­
by Chuck Wood 
And now, the people who brought you Battle of the Daytime Drama All-Stars, NFL Superstar Bowling, and Mud Miniature Golf with Dan Rather and the entire staff of the CBS Evening News introduce a new advance in television Sports Events: The Celebrity Theologians' Tour. 
Each week, a well known theologian will appear on the show. To make this idea work as a sporting event, the producers of the show will have each theologian demonstrate how their system of belief can be trans­lated to the world of athletic competition. Then there will follow a demonstration of how well the system would work in the real world, as members of a care­fully selected professional or college team, a new one each week, try their game with the new rules. 
Two of the more important stops on the tour will be the Phil Donahue Show and the University of Notre Dame. And one of the first participants in the tour is expected to be Fr. Hans Kung, since he is sure to enjoy a "home court advantage'' at the above two stops. With the help of the Notre Dame football team, Fr. Kung will show how easily many of his concepts for reform of the Roman Catholic Church would transfer to the gridiron. This demonstration is likely to be very costly, as the network will have to construct a reasonable facsimile of the Notre Dame stadium, with one major difference: ,the seats in the new stadium will be entirely on one level. Such a structure will insure that everyone will literally be on equal ground. 
In a similar move, Fr. Kung will rid the game of the hierarchy of referees and officials; men who have held these positions will share responsibilities with those who have only theorized about the rules of foot­ball. Perhaps the most innovative aspect of this new brand of football will be the way the crowd participates in the game. For even though the former officials and the football theorists can talk about what the violations are and what the penalties may be, they have to take a poll of the crowd before a decision is made. In fact, the ultimate form of the game will en­tail a survey of the spectators to find out what they think should and should not be considered violations in the first place. 
Fr. Kung is expected to point out the close parallels in the area of penalties between his old spiritual stance and his new athletic one. For instance, pre­marital sex goes along with stepping out of bounds. Abortion and the use of contraceptives are similar to offensive interference. And many other practices which surveys show many Catholics condone or are simply indifferent to, fall under the general ca·tegory of illegal procedure in sports parlance. 
Fr. Kung hopes that the football demonstration will be a success to show that his real reforms will not result in moral and ecclesial chaos but in a Brave New Church. 
Rumor has it that the Reverend Jerry Falwell will be the second person to go on the tour. No one is sure which sport the leader of ,the Moral Majority will choose, but the structure of the stadium he will request is certain. To suit Falwell's tastes, there will be one section of the stadium where the seats are higher than anyone else's. The people who sit in these seats, Falwell among them, will decide everything about the game. 
With the same amount of good intention as Kung, Falwell will take the opposite approach to the game as does the ecumenical theologian. With Falwell's system, the people in the high seats will referee the game from where they sit. But their influence is to go beyond the game itself. They will also tell the coaches how to run their practices and sports camps. And this group of "High Seaters'' will also be able to tell the other fans how they should behave -before, during, and after the game. 
There will be no polls or surveys in Falwell's game because he assumes that most people agree with his ideas. So the conservative leader feels he is simply forcing people to do what they would want to do anyway. 
Mr. Falwell hopes the sports demonstration will be a success to show that his real ideas will not result in moral and political tyranny but in a Nice New World. 
Fr. Kung has said that he will never forget the network because it has enough courage to invite him. A network official has stated privately that most of what the network has is, "a good sense of what makes for great publicity." 
Other network officials are hoping that after the• fanfare of Kung's and Falwell's appearances, some theologians or religious leaders with more moderate and sensible ideas for change will want to join the tour. These officials note that both Falwell and Kung speak of the need for personal relationships with God. And the two men come at this idea from such opposite directions: Kung wanting to level hierarchy which he feels is unjust, too rigid, and legalistic, while Falwell calls for constructing a rigid moral code through the legal system. 
Producers of the tour noted in private that they were not sure how either system, when applied to athletics, would enhance the personal relationships of spectators to the sporting events; how well this reflects each system's value to the real world is up to viewers to decide. However, the producers are sure that both shows will attract huge crowds, because of the ex­tremism and keen sense of how to play up to an audience that both of the stars share. 
And that's all the sports news for tonight. D 

SCHOLASTIC 


The best way to guard against breast cancer is right in your hands. It's called breast self-exam­ination. Ask your doctor to teach you how to do it. And while you're at it, ask him about mammography 
l-a low dose breast x-ray. For more informa­tion, call your local ACS office. 
American "Cancer Society 
This space contributed as a public service. 


.-BIG CLUMBER l 
Your Complete 

HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER 
• 
Paneling • Paint 

• 
Lumber • Tools 


• 
Wallpaper • Shelving 

• 
Shelf Brackets • Hardware 



• Stain • mcctrical Products 
Over 5000 Hems in Stock 
Delivery Service Available 


125 DIXIEll'A V ll.ORTII-ROSELANll 
(Business 31 North) Jusl norlh or the campus 
PHONE 27l0 6SOO 
L--1-----...----~-__,._--4~ 


Seven Special Ni~hts To Spend With Friends At Steak And Ale! 
Monday: 7 PM-Closing Pitchers only $2.00, Shots $1.00, Hotdogs $.50 
Tuesday: A Mexican Fiesta With Nachos, Margaritas, pitchers, Mexican Hotdogs, Chips & Salsa Cruda 
Wednesday: Two For One 
All Night Long 
Thursday: Ladies Night Friday: 10:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. Two For One Saturday: 10:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. Two For One Sunday: Lounge & Dining Room Two For One or Mix and Match 
All Day 

Lounge Hours 
Monday -Thursday-11:30 -midnight Friday-11:30 -1 A.M. Saturday-12:00_-1 A.M. Sunday-4:00 -10:00 P.M. 
52554 U.S. 31 North 277-3766 
~ir l\icbarb'g Hair Designs 
41 7 Dixieway North 
½ mile north of campus -Across from Wendy's 
Girls and Guys 
277-0734 
Walk-in or call for an appointment 




