
i-1 NDLF
,-,

i-,---­
--7TFfC{R. f'lDV ..1-:z·
--, 
. 
-!: 
___f_S_T__vl_D_5_N_T-.-·
--, 
----···

-i--1=111':l-r-c::;-rr, =!----­

.. 
features 
4 On Self-Awareness 
1(()) The Homeless Heterodox 
The story behind the dissolution ofNotre Dame's policy studies department. 

1(6 The Best of Notre Dame 
Students weigh in on dorms, SYRs and professors in our 2009 survey. 

19 Reviews & Previews 
A guide to navigating the Fall TV lineup. 
.36 Five Foot Something . 
Mike Anello's improbable rise from walk-on to key contributor for the Irish. 

I 41 It's a Broomhall Story 
~ At !east nobody takes RecSports too seriously. 


sections 
Opinion 4 News 1 Culture 13 Cover Story 22 Sports 31 .Hu1nor 41 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 



EDNOTES 
I'll admit it: Ed Notes is an afterthought. Strange, since it sits nearly at the front of the magazine, but during my three-year tenure at Scholastic, I have never seen it completed before 1 a.m. on the last night of production. Thus, somewhere in­between performing operations on broken interview tapes and scouring D-listed. com for potential "Judgment Calls," I remember that I need to write this page. Despite desperate pleas to our triple threat former editor/standup comedian/ webmaster for help, I stand before you -somewhat frazzled and not that funny. 
Usually, Ed Notes provides a platform for corn-fed Midwestern wisdom and shameless story promotion. This puts me in a strange predicament, since for this issue I wrote the cover story and since it is a story about being a woman at Notre Dame. From faculty ratios to its men's school history to single-sex dorm life, Notre Dame's unique heritage contributes to today's culture. 
I had a good run at my on-campus alma mater, Cavanaugh Hall. There was the semester of the contraband pet, the late-night mud wrestling and the marathon heart-to-hearts in the 24-hour lounge. I look back with only fond memories ­and still a mild annoyance at the "three feet on the floor" rule in the 24 hour space. 
But even while enraptured with semi-independent living my freshman year, I remember my perplexity at the differences in dorm culture between men's and women's halls. Though the causes are widely speculated, few would deny the very distinct atmospheric rift between men's and women's halls. For a friendly face and a cup of tea, try Cavanaugh. For a friendly face and a cup of-well, something else -try another dorm. 
This is not to say that everyone, or even most people, view this difference as 
negative. It is however, a difference worth investigating. Also of note is Notre 
Dame's low female faculty population as compared to similar private schools. Turn to page 22 to see speculation as to why. 
And now for editor's picks: Page 36 features sports editor Matt Formica's profile of 5'8" football player Mike Anello, a scrappy fifth year s·enior who is easily today's Rudy. See page 4 for executive editor Mike Tresnowski's appraisal of pop culture and why we're not as doomed as we should be. And finally, don't miss page 10 for news editor Meagan Drapalik's explanation of the dissolution of the Economics and Policy Studies Department and what the future holds for those without an academic home. 
Ifyou're reading this, I must have finished before deadline. Until next time ... 
Jen Wulf, Editor in Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 

SOAPBOX 
ON 



Self-Awareness 
An Essay by Mike Tresnowski 

One day they'll ask us, "So what were 
you guys all about in the '00s?" 
\Ne usually answer this question by looking at the dominant pop culture of an age. So what were they all about in the '20s? Well, they listened to a lot of swing music and did the Charleston. This means they were carefree and loose. How 'bout the '50s? \i\Tell, they really liked "Leave it to Beaver." So, their generation was one with a strong set of traditional values. The '60s generation loved Bob Dylan and the Beatles. They must have been a generation of rebels, eager to push established boundaries. 
Bear with me here; I don't mean to get all Bill O'Reilly on everyone, but what will they see when they look back at us? You can rule out profound poets or playwrights. Our dominant form ofself-expression is the single sentence Face book update, or, ifyou are more daring, the 140-character Tweet. How about movies? Most of our popular movies consist of remakes or sequels. The Dark Knight was awesome, but we can't really claim the Batman series as our own. How about our music? \i\Thile we may be revolutionary in the ways we get our music (stealing it rather than buying it), the substance hasn't been anything new. The most unique sounding, genuinely popular song this decade was probably "Crank That (Soulja Boy)," and it's remarkable in an "I can't believe people are actually listening to this" kind ofway. There have been loads of great songs this decade but they never factored into mass culture. 
So it's hard to be confident that future generations will judge us kindly when they look back. Our generation's contributions have been insignificant, boring and probably even a little embarrassing. 
But the point I'd like to make is that, unlike previous generations, we should not be judged by the content of our culture. Rather it's our reaction to our culture that defines us. We all know how pathetic reality TV is. We all know that the summer blockbusters we pay money to see aren't anything revolutionary. None of us identify with the culture we consume. We are the self-aware generation. We're incredibly attune to our shortcomings. 
Notice the way a group of college kids reacts to a reality TV show. We sit around and make fun of it. No one actually cares about the characters on the show. No one is invested in it. The reason we watch is because it is an opportunity for us to respond in a funny or witty way. Next time you're out at a party and the new Miley Cyrus song comes on, take a look around. Sure, everybody likes it and starts dancing, but you can tell no one actually believes Miley is an important musician. We would never fill Shea Stadium and scream at Miley the way they did with the Beatles. We just think it's kind of funny to get really excited about a Disney star's pop song. I've spent hours analyzing the Fast and Furious movie series, but the point of the analysis is that the movies are so bad that they become good. In fact, the opportunity to criticize and analyze is more enjoyable than actually watching the movies. 
Other generations did not view their defining cultural achievements through these cynicism-tinted glasses. You never see a video of someone disco-dancing with a "Hey, see how goofy I look!" expression on their face. In the '70s, they thought that doing the hustle and listening to the Village People was the pinnacle of human achievement. Listen to some late 1970s­early 1980s punk rock. Bands like the Clash and the Sex Pistols actually thought that by playing power chords and yelling they could actually change the world. People bought into these movements. 
Our decade's defining characteristic is precisely the fact that we won't buy into anything. Look at shows like E's "The Soup" or the "Best Week Ever" series on VHI. The purpose of these programs is purely to make fun of the rest of popular culture. They'll show clips of other programs and point out how ridiculous it is that this is what people are watching. And it's this universal practice of criticism, more than the reality TV or the bad pop music, that will explain to later generations what the '00s were all about. We basically made fun of stuff for ten years because nothing was worth a more serious commitment. We were not music fans, but music critics. We're a generation of amateur deconstructionists, refusing to find meaning in what media companies peddle to us. Rather, we stake out our identities by the ways in which we disengage from the mass culture. 
This wholeheartedly un-romantic view of popular culture is best expressed by the music phenomenon known as Girl Talk. For those unfamiliar with Girl Talk, it's the pseudonym of Greg Gillis, a former engineer from Pittsburgh. In Gillis' spare time, he would make music mash-ups on his laptop, taking the pop music that we might hear on the radio ~nd cornbining it with classic rock songs to create. entirely new songs. Gillis released one of these mixes, Night Rippe1; on the Internet in 2006 and it took off. After the online success, Gillis started playing live shows. These concerts are literally one guy with a laptop, mixing songs and playing it for an audience. And people are having the time of their lives. People jump on stage to dance, Gillis gets into an inflatable boat and rows around the crowd, and no one sees a single note of music actually get played. It's not quite a concert and it's not quite a dance club. It can only be described as an event. Gillis quit his day job and started touring full-time. His ;hows sell out in minutes. 
What can this phenomenon tell us about our generation? We've taken a very mediocre popular culture and made it our own. We've taken the Ying Yang Twins, the Ludacris and the Britney Spears that surround us and spit it out in a new way. We've turned a general culture into our own particular creations. Gillis' mash-ups are just one form of reaction. We blog about pop culture, we converse about it, and we take these reactions much more seriously than the culture itself. 
So when future generations point out how pathetic the state of American mass culture was in this decade, I should like to point out that, yes, we were quite aware of that state. I think that was the point. 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 The views ofthis autho1· are not necessarily the views ofScholastic lvlagazine. 
': 

l America's Options in Afghanistan 
:· '' .· ' . . , /' . . . ' . .
, 
OPINION 

G
.eneral Stanley McChrystal, the 
American commande~ inAfghanistan, 
submitted in September a request 
for an additional 40,000-some troops. In 
response, President Obama ordered a general 
review of the strategy in Afghanistan. It is 
unlikely that McChrystal's request came as 
much of a surprise. He took command in 
May, after his predecessor was dismissed in 
a gratuitously humiliating manner, with the 
understanding that he would implement a 
counterinsurgency strategy. The request for 
reinforcements follows from this, and the 
strategy was so taken for granted that the 
General and the President needed to speak 
to each other only once prior to making the 
request. 
Nonetheless, the strategy review is 
understandable. The counterinsurgency 
route will lead to higher American casualties. 
Regardless of the vital importance President 
Obama accorded to victory in Afghanistan 
during his election campaign, his supporters 
are not keen on the war and his critics are 
not focused on it. The counterinsurgency 
strategy carries grave political risks, while 
abandoning it -whatever the consequences 
for longer-term American interests -carries 
no immediate risk at all. 
There are also more respectable reasons 
for subjecting the policy to review: it may 
not work. Counterinsurgency is a political 
strategy as much as a military one, its 
objective being to allow the local political 
leadership to consolidate its authority in the 
face of an insurgency. McChrystal's plan is an 
adaptation to Afghan conditions ofthe so-far 
relatively successful "surge" in Iraq, which 
is itself, despite the claims of its designers 
concerning how radical a departure it is, an 
adaptation of the military program followed 
in the last years of the war in Vietnam. 
The point about the reinforcements, the "surge" of foreign soldiers, is to stabilize 
the military situation to allow the local 
authorities to strengthen their position. 
Proponents of counterinsurgency revel 
in "paradoxes": The more you protect your 
forces, the less secure they will be (over the 
long run). We must prevent insurgents from 
organizing and recruiting among the local 
population, and protect that population from the depredations of the insurgents. This can be done only by going out among the people 
-an obvious risk-not by huddling in green zones. Also, it is better for the hosts to do something tolerably than for foreigners to do it well because the objective is to develop the capacity and prestige of the indigenous government. The key to success is held by the local authorities. The Saigon regime, for a complex variety ofreasons, in the end could not pull it off. But maybe others can. Afghanistan, however, is not Iraq; it's not even Vietnam. It is short of credible 
"hosts." It is not a nation but a collection of related ethnicities, tribes and clans, living in a more or less defined geographical area. The mindset is still very much: My brother and me against my cousin; My cousin and me against the world. But neither is it a pristine traditional society, if there could be such a thing. Modernizing impulses were introduced by the kings in the decades following World War II and by the Soviets later on, but they did not take in a healthy or integral way. Rather, they disrupted the older arrangements and created space allowing the Taliban to develop and function. Afghanistan is a crucible of formal government forces, warlords, Talibans and foreigners, each against the others and divided among themselves. For what consolation it may be, the Taliban, with their narrow bigotry and their identification with the Pashtun ethnicity, seem to lack the united front­building skills of the Chinese Communists or the Viet Cong, and will probably have as hard a time establishing a stable government as the Americans, the Russians or the English. As for the request for reinforcements, it is not difficult to imagine six months hence a request for an additional 40,000 and 40,000 more three months after that. A rationale or pretext for the strategy review is that as conditions change, so must strategy. The counterinsurgency strategy was predicated on successful political development, and the squalid farce of last summer's elections can be taken as evidence that there has been no development. But judging Afghan progress by means of elections may be setting the country up to fail. The British, ~vho like to imagine they 
are so much better at this sort of thing than Americans are, sometimes criticize Americans for putting too much emphasis on democracy as opposed to a rule of law and effective administration. Competitive elections are a necessary if not sufficient condition for democracy. But in the absence of a settled constitutional order it is hard to know what is measured or signified by an election, even in the unlikely event it were conducted fairly. 
Successful democratization requires a strong state, so state strength must take precedence over democracy. This means that some sort of constituted authority must establish the classical monopoly of legitimate violence (that'll be the day!); there must be a relatively effective and efficient administration able to provide basic collective goods, enforce relatively clear laws in a relatively impartial manner, secure a relatively high degree of personal security for those subject to its rules, conform by and large to international norms and expectations (including gaining control over and providing attractive alternatives to the opium industry), punish criminals, defend against foreigners, etc. All of this is daunting enough, especially if it is to be achieved in a finite amount of time. 
A strong state might some day evolve into a democratic state (a weak state certainly will not), but democracy should not be a short­term objective. Even less should there be aggressive and direct pushes for progressive social policies, such as women's liberation, for all that we used to berate the Taliban for their contempt for the dignity of women. This sort of thing enhances the appeal of the Taliban and annoys the warlords, chieftains and patriarchs whose support the government needs and who are already wary of demands they submit to superior authority. 
The counterinsurgency strategy, then, may well mean an open-ended commitment involving great danger to those carrying it out to a limited, unglamorous, compromised and possibly unobtainable goal. 
So is anything better? The Vice President reportedly favors a focus on al­Qaeda instead of Afghanistan. \\Te should seek to kill terrorists, for the time being 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 

0__PI_N_IO_N________________~ 
largely now in Pakistan but some still in Afghanistan, preferably by drones, cruise missiles and other high tech methods. The advantage is that this would economize on American lives. The disadvantage is that it is unlikely to achieve anything like the desired results. Al-Qaeda has devolved into a leaderless resistance network and has no vital attachment to any particular geographical base. It has become, one hopes, less capable of causing significant damage but also more difficult to root out. vVe can kill all the terrorists we like, but there are plenty more where they came from; and the preferred method, remote control, guarantees that more innocents than terrorists will be killed. 
Another alternative is a simple bug­out. Things will probably not go well in Afghanistan (or Pakistan) for those who have counted on us, but the bad consequences will develop over time and we won't be around when they happ_en. The consequences for us will be indirect and the causal chain hard to trace. As someone once said: Let the dead bury the dead. Also: Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. The large, questionably governable, nuclear-armed state of Pakistan will no doubt make its own arrangements with the Taliban and, perhaps, al-Qaeda. Disorder in Afghanistan will become the problem of its immediate neighbors -aside from Pakistan, Iran, Russia, China, and the Central Asian former soviet socialist republics. These last have no use whatsoever for militant Islam, and none of the neighbors have any special solicitude for American interests. 
For lack ofa better option, my own choice would be the counterinsurgency strategy with a focus on state-building, with as much international participation as possible and not much hope that it will be a quick or clean job. A close second would be the bug-out. Ifthe world, or America, ends over Afghanistan, it will be with a whimper, not a bang. The world will become even more wary of American commitments and more dubious that the United States knows how to define its own good. The world will become even more brutal and chaotic. What moral power the United States may still have will decline along with its physical capacities. America will become more what the world wants it to be and the world may discover, in the words of the song, that when you get what you want you don't want it anymore. Maybe that is the trend in any case. But it's not for nothing that Afghanistan is known as the graveyard of empires. 0 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I8 OCTOBER 2009 
Courtney Ball 
Even if we at times ridicule it at times, we all know and, to some extent, accept the Notre Dame story. Notre Dame is steeped in time-honored traditions and values. Entering into a relationship with a good Catholic boy, getting engaged at the Grotto, taking vows in the Basilica, and then starting a Catholic family of her own is certainly the dream ofsome Notre Dame girls. I genuinely admire that devotion to the traditional Catholic ideal and have several friends who I believe will be perfectly suited to this lifestyle. But what do we do for those women who wish to pursue other goals? What about those women, who, after spending $200,000 for a Notre Dame degree and then dedicating six years of their lives to earn a Ph.D., would like to pursue careers in academia? vVhy do we see this as less valuable than raising a family? Unfortunately, I think that the intellectual culture at Notre Dame fails to encourage women to take an academic route. As a philosophy major, a largely male-dominated discipline, I have found that teachers often respond differently to their male students than the women. While some can be overtly patronizing, others reveal their bias more subtly by tampering their criticism in response to their female students. Though additional sensitivity to women is almost certainly well-intentioned, it can actually be detrimental. There should not be an idea of what it means to be "the right kind of woman." The degree to which sex differences exist as a result of genetic influences is highly controversial. Though differences undoubtedly exist, even a general inclination cannot be applied to any given individual. To assume that women inhabit the status they do within society as a result ofpersonal preference is unjust to those women who aspire to transverse those boundaries. I do not deny that some women on campus may desire a traditional gender role, and I do not disdain them for it. I would simply hope that our culture is open to recognizing that this is not the aspiration of all women, and, more importantly, that women with different dreams are no less feminine for their divergence. 


Redefining Feminism 
Some students are horrified by the idea of feminism and imagine this entails a secret plot to corrupt the values that make Notre Dame the respected and beloved university that it is. Feminism should not be conceived as a movement aimed at punishing men for the subjugation of women in a patriarchal society. Nor should it be formulated as an attempt by women to adopt masculine characteristics and roles to acquire a more powerful status in society. In fact, I think that if women are forced to imitate men in society in order to earn respect, we have lost the battle before it even began. 
I see feminism in the contemporary perspective as the pursuit of equality for both genders, in light of and regardless of possible gender differences. If a woman feels more confident garbed in a stylish outfit complete with full hair and make­up, she ought to merit the same respect as she would attired in a power suit. Conversely, she should not feel obligated to be perfectly primped before appearing in public. Ultimately, I believe that women should have the opportunity to be judged on their skills and character as men are. 
This paradigm shift is especially challenging at Notre Dame. Catholicism has traditionally been conceived along dichotomist gender lines. In some sense, from the moment Eve tempted Adam to taste that forbidden apple, women were a damned sex. The majority of spiritual leaders within the Church are men and as a result women naturally assume a subordinate role. If a woman needs to. seek spiritual guidance within her Church community, the majority ofsources available to her will be men. Though this is not inherently problematic, this minority of female spiritual leaders poses the risk of marginalizing the experience of women within the Church. 
Despite this, I think Notre Dame is in a unique position to explore and redefine this hierarchy. Whether a female desires to be the perfect mother and wife or the next president of the United States, Notre Dame should be a place that strives to make it possible, rather than condemning any woman for following a different path. 
The views exp1·essed in these columns nre not necessni-ily the views ofScholastic Mngnzine. 


the stories we live
' ' 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 

NDH Salad Tossers 
'= 
c:::.. ..:: 
!==== Now you can eat your cake and have someone make it too. 


Jim and Pam Get Married 
Poor Toby. 

The Ryan Wildcats 
----We prefer the Ryan Razzledazzles. 
~~~~~~~~~­
--
=.. . --= 
-· 
8 ISCHOLASTIC I8 OCTOBER 2009 

Couples Breaking Up on Campus Benches 
Get a 24-hour space. 

Disguised Facebooks 
What have you got to hide? Everything? Yeah, we understand. 


HOWTO 
Score an SYR Date 
Lisa Bucior 
SYR season is upon us. As you scour the Salvation Army searching for a Catholic schoolgirl skirt or attempt to a,ssembl.e the perfect '80s outfit, here are some tips on picking up that other pesky necessity. 
1It's all about delivery. Make a frilly invitation for your prospective date and stick it on his or her bulletin board or under his or her door. If you lack the artistic gene, hire one of your choir friends to ask him or her via singing telegram. 
2Mystery date. "Have fun with SYRs and try asking a random person," senior Duda Cardoso says. "Freshman year, I had just broken .up with my boyfriend and all of my good friends had already made plans, so the day before the dance I asked the first random guy who walked into my class that morning. The guy was obviously confused, but he agreed. Turns out he was a great date and I had ~ great ti~e at the dance." 
3eHarmony. Create an online application for potential suitors, including important questions such as "What is your favorite Nickelodeon show?" or "Which team will win the World Series?" 
4Safety in numbers. Unsure which of your close friends would be the perfect date? Take them all! "Getyour friends to go in 'friend groups'," Walsh Hall rector Sr. Janet Stankowski says. "You don't feel attached to one person for the night and usually click with someone in the group you never thought you would." 
5Screw your roommate. Notre Dame loves tradition. Return to the glory days of SYRs and arrange with a friend to select dates for each other. 0 

Parental Control 
Professor Christian Smith investigates religion during the teen years 
Lauren Krick/ 
Stealing candies from Grandma's pockets, whining about who gets to hold the songbook, fussing with their spiffy church clothes -kids are easily the most distracted attendees at Sunday morning Mass. Little do they know, however, that their early exposure to faith will have a tremendous effect in shaping their lives, particularly in the precious years known as adolescence. Dr. Christian Smith, a sociology professor at Notre Dame, recently completed the third wave of data collection for the National Study ofYouth and Religion (NSYR). Funded by Lilly Endowment Inc., the project uses a combination ofsurveys and interviews to investigate trends in the "religious and spiritual practices and commitments ofcontemporary U.S. adolescents," according to Smith's Web site. An unexpected but significant finding of the study, Smith says, is "how much parents matter in the religious outcomes of their children's lives." "Many parents assume that once their kids hit the teenage years, they do not matter, and that other influences take over," Smith says. The NSYR, however, identifies parents as "the most important influence" in regards to faith-building, "even during the teenage years." Although education in the classroom also plays a role in shaping a teen's perspective on religion, school influences will most likely be unable to overcome parental influence if the two are at odds. After adolescence, most changes in faith that happen during the college years, when teens are separated from their parents, "tend to be toward non-religion," according to the study. Smith found the presence or absence of these religious commitments plays an important role in teens' decision-making. "[Teenagers] have to negotiate a lot of competing demands, identities and ideas, [and for many], faith can still fall in the background," he says. In spite of the challenges, those who maintain strong ties to their religion often employ it as a guideline in making everyday decisions. Further information on the NSYR can be found on its Web site, www.youthandreligion.org. 0 

stores we wish were in Eddy Commons 
1Another Chipotle. The line is . . . already too long. 
.
2 
. A Meijer that only sells alcohol via 
' 
. self-checkout lanes 
3 
A Pet Shop -stress relief in a fuzzy ball 

Solo cup outlet 

Overpriced ND apparel shop Oh wait... 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 

NEWS 


Meagan Drapalik 
Fifteen Notre Dame professors will become essentially homeless over the next two years as a result of the impending dissolution of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies. While these professors will not necessarily be living in cardboard boxes and facing the South Bend elements anytime soon, they will be 
. I boarding up their department's office in O'Shaugnessy Hall and deciding where, ifanywhere, they fit in at the university. Although this latest move · seems unexpected to some, for many economics professors, this uncertainty is not new. In 2003, Mark Roche, former Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, recommended a division of the economics department, which at the time was the lowest ranked in the College of Arts and Letters and in the bottom 25 percent of graduate programs nationally in rankings by the National Research Council. Vlhile economics professors voted 15 to 5 against a split in 2003, the university's 

Academic Council, which makes final decisions on major changes in academics, supported Roche. 
Two distinct departments were then created: The Department of Econometrics, 
10 ISCHOLASTIC I8 OCTOBER 2009 
which focuses on mainstream neoclassical theory and quantitative analysis, and the Department of Policy Studies and Economics, the heterodox, theoretical and social justice-oriented side. 
"\Vhile this academic divorce was amicable at first, tensions emerged soon after. In particular, the method for assigning 
ff
~k1l7 .
··• ~Notre Dame strives to be like its 'peer institutions': Harvard, MIT and Yale, all mainstream. They are caught in a game offollow 
the leader. _J}~~··f, alumnus arid economics major, warns 
ff :
-SEAN MALIN, 2009 ALUMNUS ­AND ECONOMICS MAJOR ~­
established faculty and recruiting new faculty for each department seemed to perpetuate the polarization ofthe departments. For example, Roche charged that three-fourths of the old department were inactive or not publishing in well-known journals. A standard was set in the new department that all professors must produce "a steady flow of research output" in the top 20 economics journals. Any professor who failed to achieve this output remained in the policy department and all new hires were required to meet the standard. 
It's not the case that professors in the Policy Studies Department are neglecting to publish altogether. Policy studies professor David 
Ruccio served as editor for the journal Rethinking Marxism for 12 years until this past May. Others publish in journals that deal with topics such as political economy, developmental economics or Keynesian economics. The issue is that external reviewers of the economics ~epartment expect professors to publish in more mainstream journals. 
Sean Malin, a 2009 Notre Dame 
that this publishing standard is an unrealistic benchmark of scholarly achievement and the value of a faculty member. "[The administration] puts a 
lot of weight on scholarly output, which is important, but not the only thing that goes into making a good professor, department or university. Faculty should also be generous teachers, encouraging openness and critical thinking in their students," he says. 
Current Arts and Letters Dean John 

NEWS 

McGreevy's recent announcement that the 
Policy Studies department will be phased out over the next two years seems to reflect an old debate, yet lacks any kind of explicit explanation or plan for the future. "I don't know what is at stake for the administrators who have announced the decision," Ruccio 
says, reflecting this concern. "They have 
never given a reason -not a single argument -as to why eliminating the department is necessary or desirable." 
Malin suggests that the push towards strictly mainstream economics reflects a "xenophobia" of alternative thought and that Notre Dame's dissolution of the Policy Studies department is representative of a push for national recognition rather than a commitment to the development ofstudents. "Notre Dame strives to be like its 'peer institutions': Harvard, MIT and Yale, all mainstream. They are caught up in a game of follow the leader," he says. 
Ruccio is also concerned about the implications this move will have for students and the development of a liberal arts education that encompasses a variety of viewpoints. "Non-neoclassical approaches allow students and scholars to see the flaws in such a system and to devise alternative economic and social arrangements -to-help those who are the victims of economic and social injustices," he says. 
This question of the role of Catholic social teaching within economics remains a key concern in the dissolution of the Policy Studies department. Those who support the heterodox approach argue that it teaches a unique perspective on these issues questioning the legitimacy of neoclassical models. 
Senior economics major Emily Moren expresses concern for the future of economics at Notre Dame. "We are losing the presence of Catholic social tradition which was one ofthe reasons for the creation of the department in the first place," she says. "Even if these classes are offered in other departments, they will be less accessible for economics majors." 
Economics and Econometrics professor William Evans, however, says he disagrees with the characterization of his department as "crazy, imperialist, crackpot classical economists" who are members of an "anti­reality, anti-social justice club." Instead he argues for the compatibility of social justice issues with research-based neoclassical economics. Evans points to several colleagues in the Econome~rics department involved in projects concerning · the economics of religion, the incentives for ra1smg foster children, and measuring poverty under extreme circumstances. 
Professor Nelson Mark, a member of the Econometrics department, goes a step further, asserting that the current scandal is not about social justice or the place of alternative views, but of academic quality. "The faculty [in the Policy Department] are way behind the frontier and haven't done anything useful since they got their dissertations in the 60s and 70s. They're out of date and just not doing very much," he says. 
Mark ultimately looks to the market as a deciding factor for the dissolution of the Policy Department and as a recommendation for its former professors. "If'the department were actually good, then the market would decide," he says. "Ifyou're a football player and you're not getting any playing time; but really deserve to play, you ask for a transfer and other teams will want to pick you up. Same with academia. If you feel like you're being dumped on, then send out your vita and there are a lot ofother departments that will want to pick you up." 
8 OCTOBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I11 

Starred* Sent Mail Drafts 
Follow up Misc Priority 4 morev 
Contacts Tasks 

Gone Phishing 
*Claire Reising to ND-STUDENTS 
open your e-mail and see a
Y:u 
message from your bank asking 
you to verify your account number. The e-mail looks professional, with the bank's logo in the comer, so you reply with the requested information. Later, an unknown individual withdraws $500 from your account. You have just become a victim ofa phishing scam, a rising threat in computer security. 
As updated software programs protect 
against viruses, hackers have adapted and 
are now threatening computer security by 
exploiting people's trust. Gary Dobbins, 
Director of Information Security at Notre 
Dame, says these threats often appear as 
phishing emails that ask potential victims 
for personal information. 
"The computer-based threats were 
counteracted by computer-based 
defenses, and that arms race has kept 
pace with itsel£ So the attackers [decided 
to] go to a different place," Dobbins says. 
"[They] started tricking people's trust. 
We can't automate against that." 
Phishing victims give hackers access 
to personal information ranging 
from e-mail accounts to credit card 
numbers to social security numbers. 
Dobbins says scam messages often look 
legitimate, with logos from companies 
such as Amazon, eBay or PayPal. A real 
company, however, would not ask for a 
customer's password. 
Junior Meg Smith became a victim 
of phishing when hackers accessed her 
bank account and stole her social security 
number and address. 
Smith realized something was wrong 
when she checked her bank account online 
and noticed unexplained charges. In a 
three-hour window, someone had emptied 
her checking account and had begun 
withdrawing from her savings account. 
The hackers had created a fraudulent bill-paying service Web site and were charging Smith for their "services." "They pretended to be me to buy their own product that did not exist," Smith says. "I checked back later thatday, and [the Web site] was gone." 
Smith says another member of her bank may have purchased something from an unsecure Web site, and a hacker was able to retrieve the person's information and access other bank accounts. "Personally I just know that I wasn't misusing my information online. That was the most frustrating part about it. You don't know how it happens," she says. "It's not something like leaving your car door open and a wad of cash in the front seat." 
Although Smith reported the crime, police said she had little chance offinding the hackers. "That's the issue with internet theft. These computer hackers are getting so much more capable and economical with how they spend their time doing this that they can go in a second," Smith says. "When I went to fill out my police report, they said [they] didn't want to discourage [me], but 1000 odds to one, they were not going to find this person." 
Smith's bank and credit card company reimbursed her losses, but she says the experience was frustrating and now she is even more careful with her personal information. "It's amazing how easy it is for someone to get hold of your information. I didn't think it happened to people who are generally secure about their identity,'' she says. 
While Smith says not many Notre Dame students have experienced problemsas complicatedas hers, phishing scam attempts are common on campus. Denise Moser, manager of the Office of Information Technologies help desk, says that hackers send emails asking for students' netID and password and can use this information to send mass spam emails. "We've seen a number ofpeople fall victim to that, and ofcourse it's being used by a hacker, and in some cases it's put Notre Dame services on a blacklist," she says. Last year, Notre Dame was placed on Hotmail's blacklist, and as a result campus accounts could not email Hotmail addresses. 
Dobbins says OIT constantly filters phishing scams and sends alerts to campus accounts when a widespread scam is detected. "Our main aim is to inform people as much as we can how to recognize tl1reats for what tl1ey are when they arrive," he says. 
He also warned against other disguises tliat tl1reats can take, such as software downloads. A message will appear, instructing the computer user to install software such as Quicktime, and instead, the user will download malicious software. 
Anotl1er new tlireat is "scare-ware" or "extortion-ware," according to OIT help desk consultant Clay Berkley. This is a Trojan horse posing as anti-virus software. A pop-up tells a user that his or her computer is infected and asks for a credit card number to buy anti-virus software. Berkley says it is die most common problem at tl1e help desk. 
Large computer networks, such as those of universities, may increase security risks, Berkley says. "I think university college campuses are targeted: lots ofusers, lots ofbandwidtl1, and often lots of users who aren't as security-conscious as tl1ey should be. Those factors make networks like ours popular targets, which in turn makes you more vulnerable, but you could say anyone with a high speed connection is potentially vulnerable." 

12 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 

the th.i ngs we do 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 


CULTURE 




Ove1· 150 surveys. 2 weeks. 
IB·@~t IDOl:rfAI IB@~t IDol'rfAI Cforr ~o~t 
Countless hours of tallying responses. The result? We present 
\?Ell:rtW 'u1(;J@fA1e \?Ell'rt .@~ ooot@OO .~@oot 
to you the Best of Notre Dame 2009, Scholastic's unofficial survey lJ Heaven and Hell l1 Sorin \?l'roCf@~~orrof what students are thinking fd Space Bros and Alumni right now about where the most UFhOes Zahm fl Seth Brown 
i 
attractive men a,·e located, the © Sunglasses at Night 4J Keough JimMcKenna easiest dorm to break parietals 4J Highlighters 0 O'Neill i Carl Ackermann in, and the year's best domz party 0 Toga 4J Dennis Snow song. Read on to see ifyour picks (gEl~ .@~t IDol'rfAI 0 Thomas Noble made the cut. Notable entries: 
. Rock out with your to IBl'r@t1m t'~o~t caucus out: politicians/
Worr~t ~Wt2 
interns 
\?Bl'r . @te.10~ 000 C£(;JElOO@OO~ . oo~
'u1(;J@fA1@ . Ifit ain't neon, it 
shouldn't be on lJ Alumni fl Pirate Dance ~ Zahm?J .Fisher Funk 

~ Sorin fl Shahriar Mobashery © Barnyard 4J Keough ?J .. S. Alex Kandel 4J '80s @ St. Ed's © ·Frederico Xavier 0 Super Heroes . · 4J Sunny Boyd 


·@ Marvin Miller 
Notable entr,'e.s: 
. 
Victorian Era 

. 
Lingerie with all dudes 



to IBrr@t1m
. Nude 

\?Bl'r .@te.10~ 000 Ol'rl'r@rl@WElOOt IB@~t (g~<s~~@ Any Girls Dorm ~~l1.n@<st to 
Pasquerilla West 
i
Cf01:r ~tBoodl . oo~ Welsh Family -~t~dlW
4J Ryan ~(? El[;!] ~\fe2IDElt@ 0 Old College fl Philosophy
?J Program of Liberalfl Swine Flu Studies fd Passed out ,-_§) Theology© She'sugly ( _,./41 .Contempora1:Y Topics 
4J Found a better date · .. I§ Gender Studies 0 Screwed by roommate ·Notable Entr,'e.s: 
.·. Catholic Doctrine 
Notable entr,'e.s: 
. Everything 
. 
That's the worst thing @@fAIElO@ IDol:rfAI I've ever heard. 

. 
They're not even cute fl Ryan 


when I'm drunk. ~ Lyons Notable Entr,'e.s: e., Cavanaugh . ·Bun Run 4J Walsh . Buzzed spelling bee at 
@ Welsh Family Legends 
16 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 





CULTURE 

~o@~ g,ooo~ IB@@~ ~B@@ ooo IB@@~ C?OB@@ . oo ~@(l@WBOO~ ~~B~ IB@@~ C£B~C?~@ g,o~~~ IB@OO@l 
g,~~Ji@@~ ~o ©@@@Ir.~@@ 00© 11 Basilica (rorr B d}B~@
a Alumni 
g,~~@lW fl "Notre Dame Victory ti) Dillon 11 Chocolate cafe 
March" 'ii Keough ?J Myroomll Business ?J "Party in the U.S.A." @ O'Neill © Fiddler's a Psychology © "Here Come the Irish" 1J We date at Notre ti) Math qJ "Living On a Prayer" Dame? 'ii Economics @ "Don't Stop Believing" IB@@~ g,~~@l@oo~ 0 Ritter's 0 Engineering 

Notable entires: Notable entries:
lillo~ coo
Notable entries: . "Single Ladies" . Potawatomi Zoo 
. 
Anthropology of . "Like a Virgin" C£B~C?~@ . Dining Hall sexuality . "My Life Would Suck . Lafortune Basement 

. 
CPR training Without You" ll Tour guide 

. 
Jazz ?J Library© Rolfs' IB@@~ IBB('?@ . oo 


IB@@~ ~@B@ooo qJ Teaching Assistant IB@@~ g,w~ @ Computer Cluster ~o~~~ IB@OO@l ~Q ~~~@OO@l 00© Assistant 

'TI1~@~@ Backer 
11 People Fever fl Toga t Football Weir@~ iCJ's 
?J $5 Formal Because it's Notre 41 Finny's© Pirate Dance Dame @~~@l@oo~ Jio~ @ Fiddler's 'ii Catholic School Girls 'ii Academics @ Howard Hoe Down @ Alumniand coo @B~C?~@ Notable entr:es: 
Networking . Any bar with lenient 11 Dining hall carding policies 
t'~OW.@ 'TI1.~(\@ 
Notable entries: a Reeker's (post-. The NDH salad bar ~~B~ IB@@~ . You didn't get into an parietals) . Turtle Creek Ivy ti) The Huddle ©@@@Ir.~@@ 00© . God lives here 
. The weather 
ll Rudya The Hangover
ti) 
Harry Potter IB@@~ (?(IB@@ ~o
'ii He's Just Not That Into 
You · 

~~~@lW ~~lroB@l
0 40 Year Old Virgin 
London
fl

Notable Ent,i-es: Dublin
?J 
. There's Something About © Rome Mary Australia
'ii 
. Boys in the Hood 0 Spain 
. The Land Before Time 
CULTURE 







Campus Chai:i:er 
DEPARTMENT OF COVERT OPERATIONS 
I began this column as a joke. This was the plan: an English major (me) who would never consider going into business would go to the annual event of absurdity commonly known as the Fall Career Fair. I planned on making comments about the soul-sellers, commonly known as business majors, donning heels they could not walk in. Or spotting the guys in business suits that I saw sporting Muck Fichigan shirts the night before. And let me tell you, they were there. The uniform sea of blue shirts, the faces comparable to those on death row, the guy in the pink shirt and purple tie who at the end ofthe day, with no job offers in hand, could at least say that he was himself. 
So I scrounged through my roommate's closet (who coincidentally happens to be one of these soul-sellers I speak of), found something "professional" and headed off to the JACC with my tattered green folder containing a few copies of the resume I had typed up in the computer lab a few minutes before. A friend told me as I printed them off !:hat employers want you to have your resume printed on "resume paper." Apparently all the business majors these days are doing it. I declined. Thus, with my "un-professional" resumes in hand, I walked through the doors of the JACC ready to make some mischief. 
For purely comedic purposes, I scouted out the CIA and FBI tables, planning on telling them about my whimsical dreams of becoming an agent, fully expecting to be put in my place, perhaps on a watch~ list. What a little hoodwink I thought I was! 
This was before I discovered that apparently the CIA wants me. Even without fancy resume paper. Even though I was quite open about the fact that I know little to nothing about international politics. Even despite my use of Scholastic's newest feature, the "Friend Crush," as an example of my leadership in group work during the next day's interview. Seriously. 
Let me tell you about this interview. I show up in my kelly green sweater and heels and am seated next to this generation's Sherlock Holmes. He had it all -the tweed coat with leather elbow pads, the grandfather glasses, and I would not be surprised at all if the reason he didn't talk to me was because the CIA explicitly says on 
:, their website not to tell anyone you are applying. Does writing this 
:J
:,
:I column make me a badass? I'd like to think so. 
: i The interviewer walks in wearing the ultimate power suit. She immediately demands my Social Security number and asks me if I have international security clearance. I ask what this might entail and she replies, "You don't have it." And so it begins. 

The interview ended with an open-question session and I asked what I would be doing on a daily basis my first year at the agency. 
The reply: "Gathering clandestine intelligence from around the globe and condensing it into brief reports for international policy makers." Naturally. 
But in the process of hoodwinking, I experienced a revelation. Maybe I do truly want to work for the CIA. Maybe the ivory tower syndrome I worried would infect me by going to English graduate school could be avoided by working for an organization that uses academic research to affect policy change. And so it happened that I, Molly Kring, am seriously considering working for the government, "the man," the system I despise so vehemently for killing all the passion and vivid individuality of our world. 
The next stage of the process requires an extensive background check where the CIA interviews everyone I know, a psychological evaluation, and an extensive polygraph test. This is where my plot may be foiled. But until then, I am enjoying being a beacon of hope for all the English majors ou~ there, adding black clothes to my Christmas wish list and practic~p.g new attack strategies on my unsuspecting roommates. 0 
-Molly Kring 

18 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 

CULTURE 

Clara Ritger 
Ifyou liked THE-WEST WING, then you may like: 
'!he· Good Wife 
Starring Emmy Award winner Julianna Margulies, this new CBS·drama follows Alicia Fl9rrick, the wife of a politician recently incarcerated for sex and corruption scandals. As she is forced to re-enter the work force at a law firm, Alicia is confronted with the challenge of clearing the family name. Combating disdain from those she works with; a mother-in-law and husband who can't accept her unwillingness to forgive and the needs ofher children, Alicia has to decide whether she will remain "the good wife" or finally make her own way. Watch The Good Wife on CBS Tuesdays at 10 p.m. EST. 
Ifyou liked BUFFY TR EVAMPIRE SLAYER, then you may like: 
TffE. VAMP'TRE. PTARTE.$ 
Tragedy befalls the town ofMystic Falls, Va. as two deaths and one messy bite are linked to vampires'. Paul Wesley plays Stefan, a vampire, who quic~ly realizes that his brother Damon (Ian Somerhalder) is back in town and ready to reassert his dominance. Stefan, however, wants to st~rt anew and as he enrolls at a new school, he finds himself attracted to Elena. A girl who has just lost her parents and is searching for hope, Elena struggles to reestablish her daily routine. With overly concerned friends and a brother with a drug addiction, Elena finds hope in Stefan. Ifyou liked Twilight and are searching for a slightly more scandalous carbon copy, watch The Vampire Diaries on the CW Thursdays at 8 p.m. EST. 
Ifyou liked ER, then you may like: 
Mercy 
Mercy follows the lives of the nursing crew at Mercy Hospital. Comprised of the naive, fresh-out-of-graduate-school Chloe (Michelle Trachtenberg), the sexy Sonia Qaime Lee Kirchner) and the sarcastic, recently returned Iraq War veteran Veronica (Taylor Schilling), the nursing crew combats the emotional and social toils of working at a hospital. Ifyou like a little of the scandal of Grey's Anatomy, the wit of House and the intense drama of ER, then this is a must-see. Watch Mercy on NBC Wednesdays at 8 p.m. EST. 
Ifyou liked SEX AND THE CITY, then you may like: 


Cougar Town 
Courtney Cox stars in the new comedy Cougar Town. Although 
the name refers to her son's high school mascot, it also foreshadows· 
her newfound sexual escapades. Jules Cobb (Cox) is a newly divorced 
40-year-old mom looking for a little more playfulness in her life. 
Executive Producer Kevin Biegel calls the show an addition to the 
"long, wonderful tradition of strong, middle-aged women driven 
comedies." At times, however, the pilot renders the female characters 
in a trashy light. Interested in watching mindless entertainment with 
adult appeal, or perhaps just trying something new? Watch Cougar .Town on ABC Wednesdays at 9:30 p.m. EST. 
Ifyou liked The Bernie Mac Show, then you may like: 
'©ll1!1ifl}J&fil@ 
Former NFL star Mike Trainor, played by real-life former NFL star Michael Strahan, returns home after a phone call from his concerned mother Adele. Mike renews a tumultuous relationship with his brother Chill who blameshim for his paralysis. The football family of four reunites and finds that they all need each other, no matter how much their pride seems to drive them apart. Mike and Chill move toward 11,ealing in this deep family comedy. Watch Brothers on Fox Fri!fays at 8 p.m. EST. 
. .. .• 
8 OCTOBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 19 

;';<.•.·.,.•.··.' \':C:el:iy~is:/)'./:2,:i,~:, 
i~(l987, St. ·Ed's· Players ir;i,s qi:w 
• ~t~vide entertainiilent for the' ~of , 9~V.}With productions ranging frc)lnL: ··::p~ays, St. Ed's Players provided dance§ ~~oii'forget. After the hall's rector left;ho~t i_iigdance entertainment to regl;}larly prod~c. .Ed's Players proudly proclaims their fri11g;{ 'ic~I~ a~d traditional pieces, preferring,rn .· 
'si~c:lude Romance by David Mamet,J:;h ::Jgh,aridDying City by Christophirh ...·, ,F~~½s. and _want t9 sh,a½~,)t·· '':,•r 

·. ocirilighLRciomshowi , ' 
,;.y:;--r~~1\(, :,'· .~--'_: ·, ~ ·:?:,_:...,::_:-~·-f:{"·:·,::-.)-·.'.,'.; 
.Jrtt~~:o!~iiittic-p... 
altese,a currentSorinColleMr ­~o~rided in the spring of 2008 to, , ,. i'ade school in Uganda run by thii 
Sponsored by Sorin College. Aft{ et with great success, Sorin The.a f1yerp last spring and co-produsf g~9<l theatre and helping a,gq(), · ·~ticinjnd head to. the ?ext;' ' 
-,:.j,,(§,.9~:tn_;"Eh~ii,~r,~JIW!~i: 


t±f!iiil/.Etit
•+. c·ri~p~~;,t 
.. · ast Mu~ical CofI!p~n ·.·. .. own student7run theatre g ows three 'times a year. La s' The Produclrs,was welco 
' ' ./ . 
, this year's production, co. on their yearly PEMCo. Re / 11 Broadway musicals. PE and they it be carryin .. ·••· · · 
'(!_fi~fl1l.'s·.CoI11J?any,•s.h.' ·•' '·ugton HallO: ·· ~ :.-:-:,.-:<·,,-:,• '.-~~?\\:'-':J!J.·~·'-' 
..~Jt1~}'IIai1•i>1~y~f~: 
"'~f'irtiking a valiant ccirheb ,, ,, t>wing a brief hiatus, Farley f.[~1dbetter than ever. FHP's mis~icii original, and experiment:;ltli~\ 
'on to more popular pieces. Sho'Y¢ Assassins last spring, FarleyHal( ''.eii-sjghts 011 presenting highq , , : ];t,is accessible to all. Ifyou're 
:y· ff~fpadwayfeel, loo~no/· 
>•·,Jffe%Th~1~~~~~l@~~x~i' 
e -known show keep the tradition ofc ir most recent producti ur Miller showcased th ~ pame's diverse student bcid}'. \f()rclassics or just can't .P~#.; tMldgyof Drama, do Yo{{'''\ie~ ashow by Stu,de11.i:, ... 
97, the Not-So-Roy res yearly student-. shows include The t, and, most recent 
boring? These stude . ery opportunity to -9vative. Keep 11 · 



PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
.. 

Serving the Not:u~:~:d~!::~~~ SCH O LASTIC 
1 
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
NAME:----------------­
ADDRESS:--------------­
National Pacemaker Award Winner 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:I /MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI STUDENTSHOP/ 



COVER STORY 
Junior history major Robyn Grant shares similar stories. "In one ofmy gender studies classes a freshman asked, 'I have a question: Why can't girls drink in their own dorms?' And it was an innocent question and students ask it every year." 

Grant is co-chair of the Gender Issues Committee on student council. She says that many students perceive a bias in duLac enforcement favoring men. According to Grant, it is a perennial issue and is often why students become involved with the Gender Issues Committee. "One of the reasons that__ this happens is because discipline varies so much between the dorms. We like that [rectors] can personalize their own dorm but not at the expense of their students," Grant says. 
It is not just a junior Gender Issues Committee member who is hearing complaints. Assistant Provost Susan Ohmer is a member of The University Committee on Women Faculty and Students, and she says that this is in the top three most common concerns among female students. "We certainly hear about hook-up culture, we hear about the drinking issues, and we hear about what female students describe as differential enforcement of dorm policies in terms ofdrinking," she says. "What they say is that the guys get away with more than the female students." 
Fuentes believes that there is a bias and says it is natural that students discuss it. "It's interesting because we expect [students] to be really intellectually challenged ... Naturally as internal inconsistencies or internal debates 
•:· show up, they come up in the classroom, or they come up in office hours." 
:lacu!ty pe'lspective 
Ifstudents are confused about why there is biased enforcement of duLac between men's and women's dorms, it seems that many hall staff and administrators are equally in the dark as to why this is the general perception. 
Lewis rector Linda Cirillo is aware ofthe comments, but not the cause. "I'm not sure why they say that the men's halls are more lenient. When I came to Notre Dame I was told by my current staff [that the men's halls are more lenient] and in the last three years I have attempted to find out why. And when I talk to both my male and female rectors, I find that we are disciplining them in the 
24 ISCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
same way and I constantly have to reiterate to my staff that we're not any hard.er than our brother communities." 
Senior management major Katie Motto 
is a resident assistant (R.A.) in Farley Hall. She believes enforcement is the reverse. "I just heard a comment this past weekend of a 
former R.A. where he said that if anything 
happened in his dorm it would go straight to ResLife, whereas I think that girls' dorms try to keep it more in-house and deal with it in a more pastoral way." ResLife Director William Kirk declined to comment on the 
perceived difference. 
She also says, thoµgh, that this may also be a result of the different dorm cultures between men and women. When asked why fewer women are sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, she responds, "Probably because the parties don't get to a big enough size where anything of that 
magnitude would happen. They keep them 
small so that they can keep their party under 
~one of my gender 
studies classes a freshman 
asked, 'I have a question, 
why can't girls drink in their 
own dorms?' And it was 
an innocent question and 
GENDER RELATIONS COMMITTEE 
the radar." 
Gender Relations Center Director Heather Rakoczy Russell reiterates Motto's point. "My impression is that, in a women's hall there was a lot of time spent on counseling issues. My male colleagues reported that they didn't spend that same sort of time counseling; a lot of that time was spent on discipline." 
Russell says that the issues are the same in the men's and women's dorms -they just may be manifested in different ways. For example, she says that in a women's dorm, residents often go straight to R.A.s or rectors with emotional problems. In a men's dorm perhaps the resident only admits to a problem after he has become severely intoxicated and. has punched his fist through a wall. 
;bo'lm Cu!tu'le 
And the reality of dorm culture? Senior history major Keith Ruehlman is an R.A. 
in Dillon Hall and says that there certainly 
is· truth to the perception that the weight of 
weekend traffic is in the men's halls. On an average weekend he says that he sees about 10 parties in Dillon. He says that he has friends 
who are R.A.s in Ryan, Pasquerilla East and 
Badin and has heard of only one party in 
any of these halls since the beginning of the 
school year. 
"I think it's something that doesn't 
necessarily get brought up so much just because it's not like it's something that's inhibiting parties," Ruehlman says. "They're still going on and although girls in the girls' dorms might [think], 'This isn't fair that we 
can't have parties,' [the response is] 'Well 
whatever, we'll just go to the guys' dorm.'" Ruehlman says that many ofthe men in his section tend to _stay together in the dorm on 
the weekends and throw parties and w01nen from other dorms will come to Dillon. "If parietals are broken they're done more so in the guys' dorms, and I think you can attribute that directly to the fact that most of the 
parties are in the guys' dorms," he says. 
Cirillo also said that most of the parietal iolations incurred by the women of Lewis ere in men's dorms. Grant believes that this 
pattern may create an unsafe environment. 
"When girls don't have the opportunity to 
party together in their own dorm and they 
. have to go out and find other guys' dorms to partyiii, it separates a group thatwould have normally l~oked out for each other," Grant says. ''When'you're in a smaller group or even by.yourselfin a guys' dorm it heightens the ch;nc1;s ofhaving an unsafe experience. When this culture exists and they are kind of forced to spread oui: and they don't have a safe place tci party, then sexual assault becomes more of an issue." 
Grant_.believes that this migration is damaging both to individuals and to campus mentality in general. "It's kind of contributing to a larger female stereotype that I think is unhealthy. I don't know if 'unhealthy' is the word. It's like we're doing it for the fun ofeveryone but girls are getting the short end." 
COVER STORY 

41% 39% 
II] Notre Dame 
34% 
IE] AAU Private Universities *Statistics from 2006 
19% 

Assistant 
Why the d;Jetence? 
Russell suggests that perhaps this is not a problem of inconsistent enforcement, but rather simply dealing with individual enforcement needs. For example, she recalls complaining to her parents when she was a child because she did not think that they were enforcing rules as strictly for her brother as they did for her. Theyresponded that the two were different people and had different needs. Similarly, she believes that rectors cater to the individuals in their dorm -perhaps one needs strict rules, whereas another needs pastoral care. 
Rectors reiterate this need for autonomy and license to shape the dorms on an individual basis. Dillon rector Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. believes thatpolicies regarding such issues as hard alcohol violations and parietals should be uniform from dorm to dorm. He also said, l,iowever, that rectors need at least some freedom to cater to individuals. 
Associate 
P'lofesso'l J°ype 
"It's just like parenting for goodness sake. How many parents do it the same way? Can you imagine if every parent had to do the same thing?" he says. As far as his ~wn enforcement goes, he says, "You can rriake as much noise as you want. Keep the party in your room but don't shake the pictures on my walls. I think that's healthy, appropriate, good for the community. Am I right? I don't know -I'm not God. Someone next door might not think that," says Doyle. 
And if those neighbors happen to be female, there is a good chance that their dorm will be much quieter on the weekends, Doyle says. But men certainly are not prancing about the campus carefree on the weekends either. "Most ofthe trade at Residence Life ... two-thirds of the traffic, 70 percent of the traffic comes from us [men's dorms], and if most of the parties are here it stands to reason," he says. 
Fuentes believes that differences between behavior in men and women are not biologically clear cut. "What we tend to ask is, 'Where do people fit along the sort of masculinity-femininity continuum?' There are differences between men and women, 
Full 
there are important differences between men and women. But men and women aren't two diametrically opposed opposites. There are lots ofways to be a man, lots ofways to be a woman ..:_ and a lot of those ways overlap," he says. 
Fuentes says that Western society has created expectations for how men and women should act and that those expectations would naturally carry over to Notre Dame. "There's some suggestion that young males very early in life are very jittery. Those differences ... get expanded and enhanced to these trajectories that give men more leeway than women. That's not to say there aren't differences, but the differences can be created and reinforced by society," he says. 
Fuentes cites the film Knocked Up as an example of the differential treatment ·of men and women in popular culture. "They rely heavily on this male bonding, on males as children or juveniles and as females as this external other .... Men are allowed a lot of leeway in bonding whereas women are supposed to take responsibility," he says. 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 

COVER STORY 

Joining the tanks 
A 2004 South Bend 'fribune article titled, 
"Poll sees Notre Dame Sexism" investigates 
a poll that surveyed 193 of the 367 women 
faculty members and graduate students in 
the Arts and Letters Department. Professors 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette and Joan Aldous 
found that "63 percent of the respondents 
agree that 'sexism at Notre Dame keeps it 
from attracting some of the very best female 
faculty.'" 
The article also says that "61.4 percent of 
those answering the survey agree that 'male 
faculty at Notre Dame seem not to value my 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
intellectual contributions as much as they value the contributions from other males."' 
In 2004, when the article was written, women earned nationally "just under half of all doctoral degrees" and accounted for "only. about 21 percent of all full professors and 27 percent of faculty members with tenure." 
This is not simply a Notre Dame problem. The New Yo1·k Times published a graph on October 1 titled "The Gender Wage Gap, State by State." According to the graph, women nationally earn, on average, 77.9 percent ofwhat men earn. Indiana is among the lowest ranked states,-in the "less than 
75.4 percent" bracket. In 1992 two women filed a suit against Notre Dame, claiming that they had been discriminated against and denied tenure. They tost the case, but two years later the North Cpntral Association Accrediting Agency;'6hided the university ofNotre Dame for being 'reactive rather than proactive' in adding women to its overwhelmingly male faculty," according to the 2004 South Bend Tribune article. 
In the spring of 2008, the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students released a report investigating Notre Dame's hiring of women over the past seven years. According to the report, "Astatis.tical analysis shows that during this period the percentage of female faculty has leveled off and has not 

COVER STORY 
'------------------------------------------------------------­
kept pace with our peers. Since 2001, the ratio offemale faculty at Notre Dame relative to our Association ofAmerican Universities (AAU) peers has dropped by a full ten percentage points." 
The problem seems to be with retentionl Whether because they are getting better offers or because they do not receive tenure, many women faculty leave while still at the assistant professor level. "On the faculty side what we found on the committee on the university report is that we do a fine job of recruiting women but they tend to leave. We tend to have fewer women as they rise up the ranks of the ladder," Ohmer says. 
Ohmer says this too is a national trend. "There is a national difficulty in retaining women. Why that is there we're not sure but we are not alone in that," she says. "While that's true in other universities, it is true that we are in the bottom half." 
One reason Ohmer suggests is that Notre Dame gives its assistant professors funds for research, attending conferences, etc. when they are hired as assistant professors. "It's kind of like a Catch-22 because you want people to succeed but it does make them more attractive. You can make counteroffers and the university does, but for whatever reason people may decide that they want to explore other opportunities," says Ohmer. 
Sign ofthe times 
Despite popular belief, Notre Dame is not "in a bubble." It is very much a part of the culture it inhabits, according to Assistant Professional Specialist Susan St. Ville. Women were admitted in the 1970s, when the country overall was feeling more open­
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 


COVER STORY 

llJ!1nii~v1®1~J.n~t @ff IMl~;if(~' 1tlrf~w11 ~i(Q~. iN@1br@ lid>r®11fri'@ @ff :11mY~k~l}if@l1cil f~iTirtl@@I @n1:©'illl1IT11@1nnl '11A'{@nT\(~1hl 





minded, Attitudes on campus tend to wax and wane along with the rest of the country, she says. 
St. Ville graduated from Notre Dame in 1985, and her sister was in the first graduating class of women. "'ii\Then my sister was first here, the ratio was something like 18-1. Culturally the whole country was kind ofin the upheavals of change and in some ways there was a lot of openness." When she retu.rned to campus as an undergraduate during the Reagan era in the 1980s, however, she says, "There wasn't as much openness to feminist ideas." 
Jt~ hadition 
Notre Dame is built on tradition. We kiss moose heads. We contract mercenary dates for our roommates. One tradition, however, stood out among the rest: For 130 years, Notre Dame was a men's university. 
St. Ville believes that this time as a single-sex school has left its mark on the university. "I think there's residual effects definitely in terms of the traditions. So much of the history of this place is as a single sex institution and there is a feeling of that. I think it makes a difference when the waves of alumni come back and most of them are men. I think it makes a difference when most of our rhetoric is so much the Notre Dame family and the majority of that family is 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
male," she says. 
President Emeritus Father Theodore 
Hesburgn, C.S.C., opened Notre Dame to 
women in 1972 and says that he has never 
looked back. "lwas more and more conscious 
ofthe fact that the Church had to do more for 
women -and actually we're an institution 
that is named after the greatest woman that 
ever lived," He.sburgh says. "And it seemed 
to me that I was going to meet her someday 
~much of the history 
of this place is as a single 
sex institution and there is 
a feeling of that... I think it 
makes a difference when 
most of our rhetoric is so 
much the Notre Dame family 
and the majority of that 
-P:::~~S:R;U~:~J!,
ST. VILLE 
when I hopefully get to heaven and she's going to say, 'That's a great school that you have that's named after me down there on earth but it's all men. Where are all the girls?' I decided I couldn't live with that question." 
This late admission, however, may be part of the reason that many perceive gender disparity at Notre Dame today, and why it lags behind comparable universities in women faculty. "We came into coeducation later than other universities. The fact that we were in aH men's university up until the 1960s, it adds up for that reason that we've taken longer than other universities," Hesburgh says. 
Russell echoes Hesburgh, yet seems optimistic. "I've seen progress which may be too slow for people .. .it takes time to change some ofthose traditions. When I was a student here the ratio was still four men to one woman," she says. 
Ultimately it comes down to perspective. Hes burgh points out that it was not until the 192'0s that women were granted suffrage. "Life didn't begin today in the United States ofAmerica. It's been developing all over the world for· thousands of years. Are we fully developed? I don't think so, but we are on our way. And that's what is important. 
// 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisex~al, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 · 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) . Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
corecouncil.nd.edu 

the games we play 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 

SPORTS 
IRISH EYES ON: JEB BROVSKY· 
Tommy Krcmaric 
Notre Dame jW1ior midfielder Jeb Brovsky has made a name for himself both on and off the soccer field. He made an immediate impact as a freshman, assisting on the game-winning goal against first­ranked UCLA. He was named third team all-Big East as a sophomore and is currently second on the team in goals scored. The entrepreneurship 
!i1' I major from Lakewood, CO was also named to the Big East All-Academic team after his freshman and sophomore seasons. 
Both the No-ire Dame men's and women's soccer teams have been excellent in recent years. How would you explain the relationship between the two teams? Is there a lot of competition, or is it friendly? 
I'd say we have a friendly relationship with the girls. We want the best for them just like they do for us so it's a mutual respect we have for each other. That doesn't go to say that we both don't heckle one another from time to time, but in the end we are all good friends . 
.Thu have been a Big-Bast Academic All-Star every year here at Notre Dame. How do you find d,e time to balance athletics and academics? 
I think that time management (as cliche as it soW1ds) is a student athlete's best asset. The student athletes here at Notre Dame are remarkable at how they handle it all. For all ofus it's a balancing act of getting enough sleep, going to classes, getting to practices and lifts and putting in time for schoolwork and studying. Not to mention in between all of this we need to make sure we're getting -the proper
I nutrition and relaxation time. 
What has been the most memorable soccer moment ofyour life? 
Instead ofpicking a game that I scored a memorable goal or played really well, I'd-honestly have to say my most memorable moment isn't what you would expect. When I was~ teenager I broke my tibia in a game and was out for months. The lesson I took out of that experience was really what made it memorable to me as a player and as a person. In an instant I went from being on top of the world to down and out. It taught me to always keep fighting through adversity and to never give up on what you're passionate about. Lessons that humble you are the toughest to swallow yet the most valuable in the big picture •oflife. 
Ifyou had 'IO compare your style ofplay to a professional, in d,e U.S. or internationally, who would it be and why? 
I would never say I'm anywhere close to his style or class, but Zinedine Zidane has always been my favorite player and the man I try to play like. In my opinion, he is the best futb6J player to ever walk the earth. The way he controlled the ball and took over a game was pure magic. 
Hopefully this won't end up on a bulletin board somewhere, butifthere's one team you want to beat this year, who is it and why? 
Indiana. Since I've been here we haven't·beaten them, and they got the best of us last year, so I can't wait to get them up here at Alumni Stadium. 

Asa -ieam,you have scorednearly twice as many goals as your opponen'tS, yet right now have a record of5-4-1. Do you find this discouraging or 
does it give you confidence goingforward that the team can do better? 
I think it is a great sign that we are a dangerous team and have the talent to compete with anyone in the coW1try. We have a great set of leaders on this team and amazing yoW1g talent, so we are all confident going forward. As discouraging as our record looks right now, we don't dwell on that. All we want to do now is win the Big East for a third straight year and make the NCAA tournament. 
How do youfeel about the UnttedStates' chances in this summer's World Cup? -) I can't wait for the World Cup. '.The national team has a: great opportunity to prove our worth in the world offittb6l. We have a strong core ofplayers on the national team and I'll be cheering them on for sure. I think we are only a few years away from establishing ourselves as a force to be reckoned with in the world. 
What are your personal goals for the rest ofthe season? 
All I will say is that if our team does well, personal accolades will fall where they may. We have an W1selfish squad from top to bottom this year and we all are working for one another. All of us have our personal goals written down somewhere, but at the same time we all know those aren't feasible without the guy next to us. 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
SPORTS 
Survey Says . •• 

Paul SPRINGER Taylor A pro wrestler Mu/an Football XC/Track 
Justin 
: The Andy
MORROW Beyonce Friends My dad Aladdin Tennis
! M~Funk Trio
Soccer 
.Time Travel 
Josh Flynt 

No. 1 Miami visited Notre Dame Stadium to take on the No. 4 Irish on a beautiful October Saturday, in a game dubbed by ND students as "Catholics vs. Convicts." Following a pre-game fight in the tunnel, the teams went on to play what fans voted in 2005 as No. 1 atop the list of"Greatest Victories in Notre Dame Stadium." The Hurricanes scored a touchdown with 45 seconds left to pull within one point of Notre Dame, bringing the score to 31-30. Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson elected to go for the two-point conversion rather than playing it safe with an extra point, but quarterback Steve Walsh's pass was deflected by Irish safety Pat Terrell and the Irish held on for the victory. The win snapped Miami's 36-game regular-season winning streak and kept the Irish undefeated. "This was a win by the spirit ofa group ofguys who refused to fold," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said after the game. "The spirit of Notre Dame was something we talked about all week and I congratulate our players ... It was a great game of two great teams who just competed as hard as anything I've ever seen." Notre Dame's recent struggles against Miami made the thrilling victory even more enjoyable. The Irish had lost the last four encounters by an embarrassing 133-20 margin. Notre Dame ran the table following the victory and finished the season 12-0 before defeating No. 3 West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl to secure Notre Dame's 11th national championship.0 

8 OCTOBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 33 

SPORTS 
·. . '':··:·1·­
Notre l>aMe 4th~e.5 5ee the World 
Andy Gray 
Egypt. 
Ifyou happened to attend the men's 
soccer match against Cincinnati last month and were wondering why freshman midfielder Dillon Powers and sophomore defender Aaron Maund were missing, there's your answer. 
Egypt. 
This fall, Powers and Maund traveled with the United States Under-20 National Team to the U-20 World Cup in Suez, Egypt, and they c_ertainly are not taking the experience for granted. 
"Getting to play for the-National Team is always a great honor because yo~ get to represent your country through something you love to do," Powers says. 
He and Maund are just two of the many Notre Dame athletes who have found their way to an international stage. Lauren Fowlkes, a defender/midfielder for the women's soccer team, was a member of the U.S. squad that won the FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup in 2008. Fencers Kelley Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt took part in last year's Olympic Games in Beijing, as well as the 2009 World Championships in Turkey. For these elite competitors, all of whom have long resumes filled with international competition, athletic pursuit has opened many doors few even dream of peering through. 
"[One of] the most valuable things about 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
being able t6 play internationally is the experience oftraveling throughout the world with . teammates that have become · your best friends through all the competitions,'' Fowlkes says. -"This is, for many people, a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity." 
An important part of that opportunity is the chance to play against the best athletes from all comers of the world. For athletes at the top of their game, this can be one of the most enjoyable experiences -and one of the most challenging. 
"Fencing with international athletes is a much different experience than fencing, with people from the U.S.," Hurley says. "The skill level is just incomparable, because other countries take fencing much more seriously. · They are out for blood here!" 
It's precisely this level of intensity that these talented competitors strive to find. No opportunity to hone their skills is lost. 
"Oftentimes I will stay in different countries for an extended · period of time and will train with the fencers in their club,'' Hurley says. "There are so many different fencing styles out there. Fencing all these people really helps my experience." 
Powers agrees wholeheartedly. "Playing with international players is a great experience. Each player is the best in the position for their country and playing against that kind of talent brings out your true colors,'' he says. "Playing at such a high level allows me to grow as a soccer player because i! is a notch higher that I have to become accustomed to." 
In such grueling competition, and in such an exciting new environment, it would be easy to become engrossed in one's own performance and personal achievement. Powers knows, however, this would be the wrong attitude to take as a representative for one's country on a global stage. 
"Because we are representing the United States you have to be mindful of what you do,'' he says. "Bobby Clark, the Notre Dame co~ch, always says, 'Remember who you are and where you are'. That's good to remember when you're on the road anywhere." 
International competition does not just mean a longer commute to the stadium. The opportunity to interact with the people and cult~tes of the world is one of the most significant aspects of representing one's country in this way. It means encountering different playing styles and different lifestyles, creating a growing experience for athletes and young adults. 
"On my trip to Chile, we interacted some with the other countries as we often shared hotels with them,'' Fowlkes says. "We spent the most time with the Germans and it was interesting because a lot of them are getting paid to play professional soccer, and they live on their own in apartments in the biggest cities in Germany." 

SPORTS 
As Hurley learned on a taxi ride in Beijing, though, getting fully acclimated to another society's customs in such a short amount of time can have its twists and turns -and its reversals. 
,. 
"There basically aren't any right of way rules over there, and road signs are merely a suggestion," Hurley says. "Once, I was in a cab and we were driving on the highway and he missed an exit, so he backed up in the middle of the highway! That was terrifying." 
But no matter the potential for vehicular distress, one thing never fails to impress itself upon our athletic representatives to the world: just how lucky we are as Americans to be able to live the way that we do. 
"The lifestyle in Egypt is quite different," Powers says, reflecting on his experiences in Suez. "They don't seem to have too much ... The people are very friendly though." 
Fowlkes has seen similar things in her travels, having roamed the world with the National Under-17 and Under-20 teams over the years, and she has taken their lessons to heart. 
"There is a bit of a culture shock when traveling internationally," she says. "In cities like Mexico City and Santiago there are parts where people live in great poverty and itis hard to imagine living somewhere without clean and safe water or a substantial roof over your head. 
It really does make you thankful for what you have been given." 
Humility provides perspective. For the best young athletes -some of whom we are fortunate enough to be able to watch here at Notre Dame -trips to some of the grandest venues in the world have in fact provided an opportunity to keep athletics and personal growth in the right context. 
Maybe Lauren Fowlkes puts it best. "These competitions teach you a lot about who you are as a person," she says. "They shape both your game and your character for the rest of 
your life." 0 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
SPORTS 

Mike Anello was not supposed to play college football, especially not at Notre Dame. He was never supposed to see his name listed first on the depth-chart, and he certainly was not supposed to inspire parallels to the legendary Rudy. Long before he established himself as a dominant special teams player and a fan favorite, Anello was a scrawny, 103-pound freshman wrestler at Sandburg High School in Illinois. Anello, who played organized football for the first time in eighth grade, decided not to try out for the football team as a freshman. Rather, he opted to focus on academics and wrestling, a sport in which he earned four varsity letters. The undersized Anello managed to earn a spot on the football team as a sophomore, but didn't play a single down. "My coach told me I was two inches too short and 15 pounds too light," he says. He decided to forego football tryouts as a junior to focus on wrestling, but something didn't feel right about taking a season off. Anello decided to try out his senior year and made the varsity team. He quickly earned the respect ofhis teammates, who voted him captain for more than half of their games. "Guys knew me from wrestling and knew my work ethic," Anello says. He helped lead Sandburg to the state quarterfinals, but as the final seconds of his high school football career ticked away, he figured his playing . days were over. Unlike most well-known college football players, Anello was not recruited by a 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
host of Division I powerhouses. He didn't announce his decision to attend Notre Dame in an auditorium packed with his screaming high school fans, nor did any Notre Dame residence hall ever display a banner pro~laiming "Wanted: Mike Anello." 
Rather, once Anello decided not to attend Washington University in St. Louis, where he had considered trying out for the team, any notion of strapping on shoulder pads and a helmet in college vanished almost entirely. 
After having a few conversations with his high school football coach, Anello decided he would try to make the team at Notre Dame as a walk-on. "I figured I'd give it a shot, and ifI didn't make it at least I'd stay in shape for a while .longer," Anello says. 
To prepare for tryouts, which were to take place at the beginning ofhis freshman spring semester, Anello played interhall football for Keough and performed additional sprints and agility exercises every week. Anello got creative with his workouts when he returned to Orland Park, Ill., for Christmas break, which was his last opportunity to prepare . for tryouts. "I remember running sprints through the halls of my high school, which was the only place I could find a 110-yard straightaway not covered with snow," Anello says. 
Anello returned to campus in shape and determined. For one month straight, Anello and his fellow aspiring walk-ons attended grueling 5 a.m. tryouts five days a week. "One kid quit after a minute of the first workout," Anello says. Tryouts extended into spring practice and culminated with the Blue-Gold game, concluding an exhausting three and a half months, just for a small chance to make the team. 
When Anello checked his e-mail later that day he couldn't believe what he saw. It was message from coach Ron Powlus congratulating him on becoming the most recent member of the Fighting Irish. "I remember I forwarded that to my parents right away," Anello says. "I was on cloud nine and excited to be a part ofit. It was the end of a long process ofnot knowing." 
The too-short, too-light wrestler from Illinois suddenly found himself practicing with the likes of Brady Quinn, Jeff Samardzija and the rest ofan Irish squad that was coming off of a BCS-berth the previous year. "The first time I practiced with them I thought to myself, 'I was playing video games as these guys a month ago, and now I'm practicing with them.' It was more cool than intimidating," Anello says. 
Ani:llo spent his entire sophomore year on the scout team, a role that is far from glamo~9us. Most would view the idea of getting pummeled by bigger, stronger, and more experienced members of the first­string as unpleasant, maybe even unbearable, but not Mike Anello. Rather, he viewed it as a privilege and an opportunity to improve his skills. "I got to compete against great players every day. I knew I was getting better because of that," Anello says. He .ilso acknowledges that being able to say he intercepted Brady Quinn in practice is something special. 
Anello's career with the Irish seemed to be on the upswing when his name appeared 
. 
; -. . . -/ . . . .
l . •
J • 
SPORTS 
on the depth-chart for the first time at the start of summer practices prior to the 2007 campaign. As the summer wore on Anello struggled during training camp and was removed from the depth chart. At that point, he faced an important crossroads. "I realized that I could either turn it in, which is just not me, or I could compete, get better and try to make it onto the field senior year," Anello says. 
The first two games of2007 came and went, and Anello's name remained absent from the depth chart. During a practice before Notre Dame's week three matchup against the rival Michigan Wolverines, Anello was simply unstoppable. He was double-teamed on punt coverage three consecutive times, and each time he eluded the blockers and made the tackle. The coaches rewarded Anello's outstanding 
performance not only by placing him on the depth chart, but placing him at the very top of the punt-coverage unit. 
Anello · with the team to Ann Arbor and the famous Michigan Stadium. "As soon as we called for our first purit of the game, I ran out. on the field and I wasn't going let them take me out," Anello recalls. He nearly made the tackle on his first play and didn't let the opportunity escape his second time around. After wrapping up the ball-carrier, Anello realized that he would officially go clo~n in Notre Dame's records. "I was in disbelief and I thought it wasn't going to happen. But it did and it changed my life," Anello says. 
Anello recorded a modest six tackles in eight games as a junior and remained a relatively unknown player: Nobody could have predicted the success he would have in 2008. 
He burst onto the scene with a career­high four tackles in the season-opener, and recorded his first fumble recovery against Michigan the next week. "I remember squeezing the ball as tightly as I could. Everyone got off me but I just lay there for a few extra seconds, I wanted to make sure I had the ball. I don't think there will be a better moment in my life," Anello says of the play that caused 80,000 rain-soaked Notre Dame fans to rock the stadium. 
The former walk-on couldn't believe the success he was having. "I had to pinch myself, and I would keep asking my clad, 'Can it get any better?' And it just kept getting better," Anello says. 
Anello faced double-teams on a regular basis once opposing coaches realized how difficult he was to stop. That's right, two players were assigned to prevent thenow-5'8", 180-pouncl Anello from racing clownfielcl and making the tackle. Even that didn't work. He recorded tackles on 23 of 72 returns before breaking his leg and anchored a unit that led the nation in kick-coverage. 
"I've always competed against bigger guys, so the bigger they are and the more guys you send after me the better," Anello says. Anello recalled one instance when his opponent jawed at him before the play, to which he responded, "I'm a 5'2", 110-pouncl walk-on. What are you worried about me for?" 
It is clear that Anello still views himself as an underdog, despite the fact he may no longer be one. Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis awarded Anello a full scholarship just before the start of the '08 season. But when questioned about his new status as a scholarship athlete, Anello always refuses to respond. "I never want to be called anything else but a walk-on because that means so much to me," Anello says. 
Anello even tried to show his devotion when he broke his leg making a tackle in the first quarter of last year's USC game. "I wanted to see if there was a way that I could just tape it and get back in," he says. 
It would be difficult to argue that anyone has enjoyed playing football for the Irish more than Anello has. "The feeling I get every Saturday is what a little kid feels on Christmas clay," Anello says. "You couldn't pay me a billion dollars to give these experiences up." 
When this season concludes, Anello, who graduated a full semester early with a 3.937 GPA, should have no trouble securing a high­paying job even in the midst of a recession. Then again, he could just take the billion dollars and run. 0 

8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 3 7 
! 
I 
I : 
38 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 
, l -. . . . . , . . . / . . . . . . . . . 
~---------------------c-o-m-in_g_F_r-id_a_y_.T_h_e_p_l_a_n_,-va_s_b_r_i_ll-ia_n_t-ly-se_l_f_--te_s_t-im-on-ia-1,-s-h_e_w_a_s_e_s_co_r_t_~-b-~-h-e-~-te_a_~_m_a_~_ 

Ah, the crisp perfume of the changing seasons has begun to fill the air! But ofcourse none of my diligent little study bugs would know this -you're all buzzing about the library in a self-motivated stupor, cramming for midterms and cursing the little time left between now and fall break. But fall break means the end of October, and the end of October means Halloween, and Halloween means just one thing: bondage! Ok, maybe not. Hopefully not, in fact, but bondage is in fact the uniting theme of today's unfortunate narratives. Our two tales are a bit of a throwback, but their morals are assuredly timeless. 
This first proverbial anecdote begins on an ordinary Wednesday night, wherein an inexplicably intoxicated individual-we shall call 'him "Gulliver" -stumbled clumsily into the dorm room of some friends and promptly passed out on a futon. Confused by the premature onset of behavior normally reserved for the weekend, and frankly annoyed by the immovable mass on their futon, the rambunctious roommates concurred that the clearly logical way to handle the situation was to tie young Gulliver to the futon. The goal: Teach him a lesson. What that lesson was, they weren't entirely sure, but when in a men's dorm and faced with the conundrum of an unresponsive body and rope curiously available, everyone knows that bondage is the answer. 
Our good friend Gully eventually woke up, delighting his captors with a disoriented struggle with his fetters and providing the victorious pranksters with a good laugh before everyone went back to doing what most Notre Dame male students do on a Wednesday night: polishing off a season of Gilmore Girls on DVD and spooning together with a Brady Quinn blow-up doll until they fall asleep. 
This Wednesday evening just so happened to precede an elaborately organized, all-day beverage event, coordinated by one of the pranksters ("Al," for short) to occur on that destructive: first person to finish a bottle of Jagermeister wins. The prize for the winner must not have been much more compelling than a night at Legends' "Stoplight" Nightclub because only four brave soldiers volunteered for the chicanery. However, just Al and one other contestant (known only as "The Owl") were present at daybreak to begin "riding the elk" long into the night. As the sun began to set on the dueling comrades, the two other previously absent Jager-bombers, a pair of dashing damsels always ready for a self-degrading drinking binge, shuffled dejectedly into the contestants' quad and conceded that they couldn't possibly get back into the game. But, hoping for a moral victory ofsorts, the girls allied and rallied in the spirit of the game, quickly laying waste to a bottle of licorice elixir. This immediately required a similarly allied nap-taking endeavor,-and within minutes the ladies were snoozing peacefully on the quad futons. 
It was during this half-time break that a liquored-up Gulliver returned from another of his inebriated wanderings, curious if he could sub in for a winded warrior. Upon finding the sleeping beauties, Gully cried out defiantly, "Well, why didn't you tie THEM up?" The Owl hooted in agreement and Al couldn't help but acquiesce. Naturally, none of the competitors acknowledged the impending predicaments that might arise from a dorm room full of tied up, passed out, drunken lady Domers. 
With the ease and dexterity of a running back sprinting through the Fighting Trish secondary, the drunken trio set about orchestrating a series of loops and knots that would make any schooled sailor proud. But soon after the job was topped off, one of the ladies began to stir. She opened her eyes. She wiggled. She panicked. Perhaps she needed more Jagermeister to assuage her bonded limbs -oh, wait, no! No, she needed less, much less, and she needed to purge it now. "She's going to blow!" screamed the seaman Gulliver. The Owl's head spun circles, trying desperately to help Al find some way to free her before her distilled dinner (and lunch, and breakfast) came back to the surface. 
Fortunately, she had begun her slumber in an upright, somewhat seated position. Unfortunately, she could lean only slightly forward before feeding the nonexistent nest of baby birds in her lap. Finally, scissors were retrieved, a trash can strategically employed, and the hostage situation came to a messy end. Dazed and covered in her Jager tournament 
,T;p TH6 gppp o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
who had managed not to go overboard in an untimely 8 p.m. walk of shame. 
Next we jump to a spooky scenario: two charming young men, unimposing underclassmen at their finest, who were faced with a lazy afternoon of unbearable boredom -maybe the weather was dismal, maybe their Xbox was broken, or maybe they had simply tired of lamenting the relative unattractiveness of Notre Dame girls versus St. Mary's girls for the thirteenth time that week, but they decided to go online and explore the realm of adult chat rooms. 
Giddy with mischievous curiosity, they struck up a stimulating conversation with a woman in a town not far from campus. After only a few steamy smiley-faces and saucy euphemisms, the woman cordially invited the unfledged cyber studs to pay a visit to her abode and submit to her charms. Dreaming of doubtless dorm-wide glorification (and perhaps secretly hoping to stumble across one of the well-formed townie types that might be good for more than just a few laughs back on campus), the chatters hailed a cab and set off on the rendezvous. 
They arrived at a modest house in a pleasant neighborhood -the quintessential Midwest suburban stomping-ground ­and, encouraged by the seeming lack of any pedestrian-tackling or gun-wielding foes, they climbed the steps to the front porch. As a nervous hand hovered over the chime, the door swung open to reveal a middle-aged woman draped dramatically across the doorframe. She was, to put it one way, a bit round -unabashedly curvy, we'll say-and taller than the average leprechaun. 
But apart from her imposing stature, perhaps the first thing the boys noticed washer ensemble: head-to-toe leather, a chain in one claw and a whip in the other. They took one look at the would-be dominatrix, one look at each other, and sprinted down the street in an incredulous panic. They somehow managed to find their way back to campus with a new appreciation for their ResLife-ruled dorm, knowing that the alternative was a basement dungeon. But in the end, they got whipped anyway, as the duped dominatrix tattled their tale to the university. So, my untainted undergrads, as Halloween looms near, always remember your safe word, and don't forget to be extra wary of any party invitations that require leather attire. 
I like it when you tip me, 
TheGipper 
8 OCTOBER2009 ISCHOLASTIC I39 



HUDDLE 

-·"· 
FAIR TRADE COFFEE 
CONNECTION 
EIIJOY FAIR TRADE COFFEE AT THE HUDDLE~ 
F,i,~T,,,tj e e,,,Jffr1a i-M1Jloff,, to/fee pffr16M1epr10Mote.f /u1Mt1MJ/J"i(f e6MOMivff1fia ,t,t) h.Ppe for1 JM,t//ft1Mi(j toffee ft1r1Met'J ,t,t) Hr.fir' toMM/,{lfil-ia. 

. FAIR TRADE 

OcRS' 
FAIR
·.TRADE: ~ 
..___.__ , 





"' 
.. 
Though it seems we started the semester oilly yesterday, it has been in fact almost a full six weeks since I began my oh-so-stimulating fall class schedule. Ofcourse, since then I've dropped half of this schedule upon learning that some classes required me to do actual work, and so I've spent much of my days partaking in two time-honored extracurricular activities: People-watching. And judging. 
Do you know what that means? I've had plenty of time to observe you. In Starbucks, DeBart, Fever, your dorm room, cab, etc, I'm there. I'm watching. And I'm sick and tired ofyour shenanigans. Unfortunately, you Domers are a shy bunch and way too Type A to admit you're in need of help. Luckily, I'm here to give you my unwarranted, but necessary advice. So listen up kids. Hold on to your stupid flat brims, tie your plaid Sperrys tight, and have Mommy on speed dial. It's about to get real. 
Dear Lauren, I play football. 1Vly head hurts a lot. 1Vly helmet is not big enough like last yearand year b4. Do · I need a doctor or is itjust another concussion] can play through? Thanks, Leviticus Conan LqdykillerJ1: 
·.:·• MY poor pigski11-totiilg p~t rin··.aftaid.. this•.is not just another concussion. Noi-doyou~eed a doctor; ·.· .· Yourheacr has, fofact; growri.I>on'thurfyourseif byst~ri11gin.themifi-ortcio:ha.rd;itisn'tth{5orto~.. ·.·.·.•·thing you can see:Tt'sjus~yo11r~go; Beforeyi:m get ' 
•·. tbo coritefiled, know thaf ybu.tot:a1ly dJ~efvef.o se~ ·.. l 
. yourseifas a11issueige~r-c:lad gqqamongrtieliiAfter t four completely 4ecisive, ck>n1i11ati11gyic:tdries,)'911r t ·h~ad's elCpa.11sio11is 611ly•1hgicaL1\HoNmeJohelp . 
•You've•.. in:issed•· countless.•• tackle;;·..·dropped passes; .·· faHedtO block, rari the wrong ro11tes, accumulared .. r••···. aridic~lous numqefof penalties, a11d ycm.sh,ould .. ;: ···•·.•tnarik•youfJuckyj(jcks't:i:ap·lorth.~•few·•quality.·· k 
players that make up for yo11i Inistakes. ml take•·.·. the• fact, thai: your· h()ocl is cori~fa11fly up. as a. sign·. ·•·· you're ashatned .• qo9d..G~t9v~ryqurseffand:~top····.• ·..·tryingtornowme overwithy~{iroversi~ed5UVas ,.· : you gun it past thet~nni~courtsiI lmow }'oti know you're a toqL--:J::'auren. . . ... . . . ...... 
Dear Lauren, I am an enginee1: The two nights a year I go outI can't seenzfo attract any fe1iiales of .· · 111y species.. Can you assist me with this honorable endeavor? My warmest regards, Will Fmces. 
r * 
Dear Lauren, So I'in a junior from Cavanaugh and. · my hook--upforecastfor this weekend is lookingmper k depressing. I mean, there's a long~snapperfor 
f Thursday after Feve, a safetyfor Friday at Finny's, and a Cornerback for Saturday following CJ's ... but like, none ofthem actually play. They don't even have thei1jerseymmzber inthe bookstore. It's embarrassing. But I've worked my way through most ofthe bignames · (exceptJimmy Clausen*, I mean,1 havepride) andI'm 
. worriedI'm not going to be able to live out my dream as the trophy wife ofa Pro-BowlplayerlHelp. Hugs and Kisses, 1vlary-Catherine-.Elizabeth-Nlargaret Harrington. 

:.·ct~::~fil:I;Ji:jJJ!~j[{att~~;i:1Jiik1:~t~t~:••;• ...ii~1s;1tlittri1ittJire11t!1J~t·•1 
·.. ::. Of the. tu'r{ne1 thal:-:~riter~the tOothail;stadiU~: :Ana'.: ;­
1llIIlil11~I~lt111~ti 
.• GC>lllpl.et~ly~ll11l~ecessai-y,'-fprcdas~•four;i11chiheels.;. 
··•Looff~~ t~:u11s.•thatf{~tu{~•. b~t,t~r;tur11oy~/9f. 1 ··· • : play~r~ thi-ough<?1:1t the ga111e: hock~y, l?asketl??ll; • I · . ti-ack, swill}lllin,g,:lacrpss.~; and111yper,soria\fayoji~e,... ·. f 
..iif;tt\u::i~1lJ~;:M},t~fJif¼lfffpft~t::••· 
.·..·.•:t#i-ned,.stiaplt:ss.• dress arid;oyedy)arg(!•.sunglas~es ; : ; . 
'i!fr~tl!l£iW!!l~1t1Ili!l'~!itrJ 

\Nell that's all for today kids, take it with a grain ofsalt ... or a whole margarita. And remember, I'll be watching. 
*Just kidding Jimmy! Scholastic loves you and your ability to dominate despite having tmftoe. Brady who? 

-Lauren Cook 
8 OCTOBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 43 

EXIT INTERVIEW 
CARL ACKERMANN 
Mike Tresnowski 
Car/Ackermann teaches more students than any other person at Notre Dame by a wide margin; An instructor offinancial management and personal finance in the Mendoza College of Business, Ackermann has earned awards for both his teaching ability and undergraduate advising. His career average teacher rating is 3 .94 out of 
4. He was selected by the student body to give the second installment ofstudentgovernment's ''Last Lecture"series last spring. 
On the first day of class each semester, Ackermann commits himself to memorizing each student's name, hometown and an interesting fq_ct. Throughout the semester, students report that he will go out ofhis way to let them know he remembers them and cares, despite the hundred other students in the same class. 
He is also known to spice up his large lecture classes by calling up students who have skipped class that day and putting them on speakerphone. 
While business students are already familiar with Ackermann in the classroom, SCHOLASTIC decided to dig deepe7: into his life outside ofMendoza's walls. 
What attribute do you most admire in another person? 
Warmth and kindness. 
. Ifyou could live in someone else's shoes for a day, whose would you 
choose? · 
My father's, so I could better understand what he is going through. 
What is the most useful piece ofadvice you have received? 
To deliberately place myself in new and uncomfortable situations. I've learned a lot by doing that. 
What do you think is our generation's most pressing issue? 
The environment. 
What isyottr idea ofa peifect day? 
Hanging with my wife and children all day. We never get to do that anymore! I wouldn't waste a single second sleeping. 

You can invite any three figures, living or dead, to a dinner 
party. Who would they be? 
Mother Teresa, Martin Luther King, Jr., Einstein . 
What is your biggest worry? 
The health and safety ofmy w,ife ai;id children. / 
Ifyou could have any one super/iower, what would it be? 
The ability to remember not just most things, but everything. 
What isyourfavorite quotation? 
"There comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but he must take it because his conscience tells him it is right." -Martin Luther 
You are stranded on an island and uncover a backpack with a single 
book in it. Which book do you hope to find when you reach in? 
The Bible. C'mon! 
44 I SCHOLASTIC I 8 OCTOBER 2009 







