The Notre Dame Scholastic
655
COMMENT
We have always been ardent readers of the religious bulletins issued by Father O’Hara and we all admit he is the one author who can consistently write material worth reading. Many of the students keep these bulletins for future reference, for they contain little gems of wisdom and advice which are invaluable. But now we find that the bulletins are doing “double duty.” Besides being the spiritual guide for three thousand men they are serving as scratch paper for future engineers. Last week a professor in the mathematics department received from one of his shining lights two copies of the Bulletin, on the back side of which were problems worked out to the fullest detail. (Yes, it was a freshman.) Whether or not the depression has hit the student body to such an extent that some of the boys have to use the bulletins for such purposes we don’t know, but we have the promise of the professor in the case that the next one who attempts to pull that trick will be “summarily dismissed,” as the saying goes.
Gradually the campus is beginning to take on the appearance of an Indian burying ground. The mounds scattered over Badin lake and on Corby plaza are making for excellent broken field running, judging from the increased shiftiness with which the boys from the west side of the campus are stepping around.
How can we be expected to walk the “straight and narrow” when we are obliged to zigzag across the campus? Making a bee-line to the church from the library is an impossibility. Ants could do it because they know no better than to go over the top of an obstacle; but because we do know better we look around and by the time we finish our trip we don’t know whether we’re coming or going.-
The only things lacking in green apparel last Tuesday were knickers. (Why weren’t you on the job, O’Shaughnessy?) Most of the boys who were able to muster anything containing green put it on display. Those who had nothing just turned green with envy at the real shamrocks which some honest-to-goodness Irish-
. men wore on their lapels. W. V. B.
MH»HHfllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiifiHilinllillllulllllliHlHlinilliiiiniitiiiiiiiuiiiitnniiininitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiniiiiiilliini|
I The Notre Dame Scholastic
I Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
=	Founded 1867
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
=	Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bergan Associate Editors	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
=	Edward E. Brennan Austin Boyle John Pick	James J. Kearney James Carmody William W. Corr	Edward R. Brennan Paul J. Hallinan Lloyd Teske
=	The Week Richard J. O’Donnell	Make-up Editor Walter V. Beesley	College Parade Daniel C. Williams
E	Music and Drama Frank E. Seward	Feature Editor James K. Collins	Campus Clubs W. Leslie Raddatz
=	News Staff William C. Karl, News Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant Nezos John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil Richard Molique	. Walter Johnson Lawrence Dunda		Editor Lawrence Prybylski Edmund Stephan-Joseph Degnan
=	Sports Staff Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor Cleve Carey	George Belting	T. Edward Carey James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving B. Halper Edmund Moriarty	.	Harry Burchell Business Staff John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr. Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess		
J. Aubert Smith	Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
I Vol. LXIV	MARCH 20, 1931	No. 21
j University Awards Laetare Medal—Lloyd Teske_______________657
| Theatre Group Meets at Washington Hall____________________660
:	International Peace Program Discussed_____________________661
=	University Theatre Presents Award	Play____________________663
| Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan----------------664
|	Book Reviews—John Pick___________________________________ 665
f	The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell_____________________________666
| Editor’s Page___________________________________'---------667
= College Parade—Daniel C. Williams-------------------------668
j The Wink 669
= Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz—___________________________670
| Blue and Gold Cagers Defeat Iowa—James Kearns_____________671
| Coaches Formerly Were Managers and Trainers---------------672
| On Down the Line—Cleve Carey------------------------------684
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
:	Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at
: special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
=	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage or
|	All Nom Dame Men.
|ff(f*fllf**IH|lltt|lll!*llllll 1'11111*111111 Hill HIHIHIini HHf IIHIt IIHIHH HHH HHHH tlHHIHHHHIHI IIIIHf HHMIIHI 11 Mill HHH I IHHHI I IIHttlllllH IIIIIH IHHH I It Illi Mill HI IIIIIIHI IHH III!! IIIIIII1H1 HIIIIHIIIIII t IIIIUIIIIHHIH 1111111111!! III*I*IIIIIH*I*IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII*IIII*H**IIIIIIII****IIIII**IIII*****HI***I Q
656
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Morrissey Hall—Before the Snowfall


The Notre Dame Scholastic
657
UNIVERSITY AWARDS LAETARE MEDAL TO JAMES J. PHELAN, BOSTON BANKER
Catholic Leader Began Brilliant Career as Page Boy; Is Now Outstanding Executive
committee consisted of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, chairman; Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Mr. James F. McCarthy, Mr. Francis Kervick, Mr. William L. Benitz, Mr. Clarence Manion, and Mr. Rufus W. Rauch.
James J. Phelan, Boston banker and philanthropist, was recently honored by the University when he was awarded the Laetare medal for the year 1931. He was selected in view of his worth as one of the nation’s outstanding Catholic laymen, in conformance with the traditions of the Laetare award. It is an honor which has been conferred since 1883 on men and women who have proved their worth to their country and their religion.
.Mr. Phelan was born in Toronto, Canada in 1871, but since 1880 he has lived in Boston. He started his business career as a page boy in the Boston Stock Exchange. In 1888 he became associated with the firm of Hornblowei' and Weeks, of which United States Secretary of War John W. Weeks was formerly a member. In 1900 he was made a partner of that firm. All his business activities have centered in banking interests, industrial concerns, and mining companies, in several of which he now holds a position as an executive. At the present time he is also a director of the Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company.
During the World war Mr. Phelan served his state and country in many ways. He organized the New England Saw Mill Unit, the first contribution of the United States to the War previous to its own entrance. He served on all Liberty loan drives as a member of the executive committee, and was chairman of the Boston Metropolitan Victory loan drive. For 22 months during the World War he was assistant food administrator of Massachusetts. He also acted as chairman of the reception committee on the occasion of the vist of His Eminence Cardinal Mercier to Boston. These are only several of the more important committees on which Mr. Phelan served during the War.
His Holiness, the Pope, in recognition of his work honored Mr. Phelan by making him the first Knight of Malta in the United States and also
Knight Commander of the Order of Pope Pius IX. In March 1928 he was still further honored with a Grand Cross of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.
From a view of the positions and the capacities in which he has served
Mr. James J. Phelan
his country and state, Mr. Phelan’s worth and undisputed right to the Laetare Medal can be immediately ascertained.
The conferring of the Laetare Medal upon some leader from the ranks of the Catholic laity of the United States dates back to 1883. It takes its name from the fact that it is awarded on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent..
The custom was suggested in 1882 by Professor James F. Edwards and sponsored by the Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, and the Reverend Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C...then president of Notre Dame. The inspiration for the custom came from the papal practice of awarding the Golden Rose on the same day of the year, for a similar purpose.
The medallist is chosen annually by a special committee. This year the
Since 1883 when John G. Shea became the original Laetare Medallist, Notre Dame has honored 48 outstanding Catholic men and women, all of whom are internationally known. Some of the more recent recipients are: Edward N. Hurley, Margaret Anglin, Jack J. Spalding, Alfred E. Smith, and Frederick P. Kenkel.
Season Tickets on Sale April 1
Season ticket purchasers for the 1931 season will get their money’s worth. In addition to four unusually strong games on the home field, the Northwestern game at Soldier field, originally scheduled for Notre Dame, but transferred for charity, will be included. The ’31 football schedule includes the following home games: Drake, October 10; Pittsburgh, October 24; Pennsylvania, November 7; Southern California, November 21. These games include competition from coast to coast. Season tickets for the five games will be on sale, April 1, priced at $15.20. Since the first four games are $3.00 games, and the Southern California game $5.00, with the twenty cents postage charge the five individual tickets would total $18.00. August first is the date set for the sale of individual tickets.
Faculty Men Write
Recent periodicals have contained contributions by various members of the faculty. These include the following poems:.“Joseph Speaks,” by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., published in the Ave Hana; “Arbutus,” by Professor Charles L. Phillips; “Awakening,” by Professor Norbert Engels, and “Lyric Mother,” by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., all appearing in America. In the same magazine there are two essays, one “A Note on Modern Fiction,” by Professor Camille McCole, and the other “Old Stuff About Washington,” by Professor Charles L. Phillips. Professor John Cooney, of the journalism department, has a poem in the Grail, entitled “The Lake.”
. 658
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SHAKESPEARE PLAYED
BY BEN GREET CAST
Students Attend Productions in South Bend Auditorium.
By Edward R. Brennan
Notre Dame and South Bend lovers of Shakespeare were fortunate in being able to see two of Shakespeare’s plays produced in the Elizabethan manner, by the Ben Greet players, last Saturday at the High School auditorium. The matinee performance was “Twelfth Night,” and in the evening the first quarto version of “Hamlet” was given.
The plays were presented in the Elizabethan manner with the stage settings as simple as possible. As a matter of fact, many of the scenes were enacted in front of the drawn curtains of the stage while behind them the stage was being set for another scene. This insured a smooth, continuous performance, with a minimum of delay between scenes.
“Twelfth Night” was not so well done as the evening performance of “Hamlet.” Mr. Greet’s interpretation of Malvolio, however, and Russell Thorndike’s Sir Toby Belch were especially favored by the audience. Sebastian, played by Victor Watts-Weston, was well done.
“Hamlet” was enthusiastically performed, and as well received by an appreciative audience. The outstanding performance in this play was that of Russell Thorndike in the title role. His interpretation of the part was logical, and his acting all that could be desired. The soliloquies were exceptionally well done, although the version of Hamlet that is used by this company (the First Quarto Version, 1603) is approximately only half as long as later versions, and some of the speeches are considerably shortened. This version is, however, excellent for acting, and requires very little cutting for adaptation to the modern stage.
The best performance other than Thorndike’s was that of Miss Enid Clark in the role of Ophelia. Especially did she outdo herself in the mad scene, where her rare histrionic ability, joined to a charming personality, presented a most appealing and pathetic character.
POLITICS STUDENTS’ TRIP TO WASHINGTON NOW BEING ARRANGED
Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor of politics, with the cooperation of the University officials, is arranging a trip to Washington for a group of students in politics. The trip is to begin on March 29 and will last five days.
The party will make the trip via the Pennsylvania railroad, leaving South Bend in the afternoon of March 29th and arriving in Annapolis early in the afternoon of the next day. After a visit to the United States naval academy there, the group will proceed to Washington. During the first day there the Notre Dame men will visit many of the important places in and around Washington, including the Capitol, the museums, Georgetown university, the Library of Congress,' Mount Vernon and the Lincoln Memorial. Wednesday afternoon has been left open for the students to spend as they wish. The return trip will begin at five o’clock Wednesday afternoon.
La Raza Club Seminars
At the last meeting of the LaRaza club, attended by Professor Pedro de Landero, honorary president of the organization, plans were made for a banquet to be held before or during the Easter vacation. Edward Roxas was appointed chairman of the affair by William A. Morphy, president of the club. Ramon Marti will act as assistant chairman.
It was also agreed that the members of the club should conduct a seminar during the meetings with Mr. Pedro de Landero officiating as chairman. The topics for discussion will be carefully selected by a committee of which Marcelius Garza is chairman. The seminars were organized with the intentions of increasing interest in the club, and also as a means of entertainment for the members.
Short Story Contest
Because of numerous requests for a postponement of the deadline date for the Scribblers’ short story • contest, manuscripts may be submitted up to Friday, March 27. After that date no stories will be accepted. The closing of the poetry contest has also been held over until next Friday.
WRANGLERS HEAR NOLL
Decries Freedom of the Press on Matters of Crime.
Frank Noll, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Wranglers last Wednesday evening at their weekly meeting in the seminar room of the new Law building. He chose as his topic “The Newspaper and Its Influence on Crime.”
Considerable discussion was aroused by Noll’s statement that certain phases of freedom of the press should be abolished by government intervention and censorship. Advocating that the same publicity be given to the agencies warring on crime as that given to the attrocious acts committed by moral degenerates, Noll ended his talk by denouncing the destructive attitude taken by the press of America in playing up crime news.
During the comments of the club on the talk, it was gleaned that the general opinion seemed to disagree with any form of newspaper censorship, save the right of the government to refuse the use of the mails to certain publications. All were practically unanimous in agreeing that crime stories should be taken constructively, yet few advocated the presentation of the facts completely, regardless of their influence on American life.
It was practically the unanimous opinion, however, of the members that newspapers should present in their crime stories only those facts which are constructive.
J. Edward Phelan, president of the Wranglers, announced at the meeting that the organization would not sponsor the northern Indiana state oratorical contest as has been the custom in past years.
Lawyers* Ball Invitations
Robert J. Kuhn, chairman of the ticket committee of the Lawyer’s formal to be held April 24 at the Palais Royale, announced today that two invitations would be given each lawyer and that anyone wishing to attend the dance should see a member of the Law school at once.
The invitations are in the form of a legal summons. These have been purchased in a limited number and the lawyers are urged to get them as soon as possible.

The Notre Dame Scholast
TO TALK ON MODERNISTS
Phillips to Consider Artistry in Joyce and Stein Tonight.
Professor Charles Phillips of the department of English of the University will be the honored speaker at the Scribblers’ weekly meeting tonight. He will discuss the artistry (or lack of it) in the work of the ultra-moderns. James Joyce and Gertrude Stein will be considered in particular. Much criticism has been leveled against the modernists in the field of poetry and their work will be considered tonight.
Instrumental in the founding of the Scribblers, Professor Phillips is well known for his work in the department of English. He is also a charter member of the Catholic Poetry Society of America.
The change in the time of meeting for the organization was made so that those members who have class on Wednesday night could attend. At the meeting next Friday the Scribblers will hear Rufus W. Rauch of the department of English and faculty director of publications.
New Books Added to Library
The following new books have been added recently to the University library :
Architecture: Impressions of Japanese Architecture and the Allied Arts, by Ralph Adams Cram, who received the degree of Doctor of Laws from the University in 1924; in the Architecture library.
Education: The Art of Rapid Reading, by Walter Boughton Pitkin.
Sociology: Personality in Its ’Teens, by William Ryland Boorman.
Fiction: 22 volumes of the works of Rafael Sabatini, published by the Houghton, Mifflin Company; Italian Adventure, by Isabel Constance Clarke.
History: A Vaquero of the Brush Country, by James Frank Dobie; Negro, by John Louis Hill.
Journalism: Writing For Profit, by Donald George Wilhelm; The Writer’s Market, by “The Writer’s Digest”.
Literature: Come to Think of It, by Gilbert Keith Chesterton.
Philosophy and Psychology: Ethical Principles in Theory and Practice, by Hans Adolf Eduard Driesch; Race Psychology, by Thomas Russell Garth.
KNIGHTS TO HOLD OPEN HOUSE MEETING ON MARCH 23
An open house meeting will be held March - 23 by Notre Dame council, No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, in the Walsh hall chambers, it was announced today by Grand Knight Louis Buckley. All Notre Dame men are invited to attend.
Lecturer William O’Malley has planned an interesting program, including three boxing matches with the local pugilists George Nate, Louis Godoy, Ted Wallace and Billy Magar-ral participating . Another feature of the program will be two young ladies of South Bend who will give piano and vocal selections. Refreshments will be served.
The open house meeting is one of the customs of the council and is held annually. Its purpose is to give the men of Notre Dame an idea of the bi-monthly gatherings of the council and to give them a chance to find out who of their fellow students are Knights.
Chemists to Meet
There will be a meeting of the Chemist’s club in Chemistry hall next Wednesday evening at 8:00 o’clock. Raymond McEachern will give a brief talk on the subject of “Lacquers,” which will be followed by a dissertation by Harold Bowles on “Searching in Chemical Literature.” During the meeting there will also take place a stunt act, to be given by two sophomore members of the club.
Express Office Notice
The following students and professors have packages at the express office.
Victor C. Astone, 1116 E. Madison street.
Thomas F. Doorley, Sophomore hall.
Daniel D. Halpin, Sorin hall.
James A. Withey, English department.
William E. Farrell, Histoiy department.
John M. Cooney, Journalism department.
John S. Brennan, English department.
Felix K. Boyle, English department.
-Express office hours are from 12:30 p. m. to 1:10 p. m.
i c	659
NJ). GLEE CLUB SCORES SUCCESS IN CONCERT
Numbers Well Received by the Student Body.
By W. Leslie Raddatz
Last Sunday evening the University Glee club gave its annual campus concert to a well-filled house. Three motets opened the program. “Emitte Spiritum” was by far the best offering in this group. The “Benedictus,” by the Reverend Anthony J. Hope, C.S.C., was not sung as well as the Moreau choir sings it.
Following the religious songs were two baritone solos by George Menard, Jr., a freshman. Menard was pleasing in his renditions of “Mother of Mine” and “If Winter- Comes.”
“In Old Nassau,” an old Glee club favorite, was best in the group of part songs that followed. “Matona, Lovely Maiden” was fair, while “Sea Song” would have been much better had there been more tonal quality and less shouting in the crescendo parts.
Justin Tompkins, anothex- freshman baritone, sang “Mother Machree” and “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling.”
“John Peel,” “Mosquitoes” and “Cornfield Melodies,” which opened the second part of the program, were all very well done; the first two were especially outstanding. In “Mosquitoes” the club outdid itself. A low humming was an essential part of the song, and the club kept the humming low. Fifty men can make a great deal of noise, but they can also create a more powerful impression if they hold themselves in check. The club accomplished this beautifully.
S. Jerome Roach, baritone soloist, sang “Macushla” and “A Little Bit of Heaven” to end the solo section of the program. Trained, calm, selfpossessed, Roach took two curtain calls. Only the beginning of the next group stopped the applause.
The last group of part songs began well with “The Song of the Jolly Roger,” only to lapse into “There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea.” The composer of the latter was not named on the program. Probably the arranger, Lake, did his best, but he had little to work with. “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” listed as a part song, was in reality sung in unison and should have been listed in the last group of songs of the campus. The campus songs were well done. School songs should be shouted, and the Glee club was not lacking in vigor.
660
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THEATRE GROUP MEETS IN WASHINGTON HALL
Seventy Students Enroll For Parts in Student Plays.
Last Saturday afternoon, more than 70 students met in Washington hall for the purpose of enrolling in the University Theatre. The meeting was in charge of Professor Frank Kelly, head of the University speech department. He pointed out that the men could apply for participating in any phase of theatre work, and that there were positions available in the fields of acting, mechanical production, and costume and scenic design. He mentioned the fact that the ambitious program prepared for the remainder of this year and for the coming year necessitated a strong working unit which would form the basis for the production of the plays.
“The plan,” said Mr. Kelly, “is to give each man a chance to show his ability by a series of personally conducted auditions. The results will be ■ catalogued and will form the basis of our selection of parts for coming play productions. If a man does not show adaptability to one certain phase of dramatic work, he will be given ample opportunity to try his hand at some other branch.” Mr. Kelly stressed the educational, rather than the competitive nature of the cataloguing.
He emphasized the fact that none will be barred from membership because of inexperience. The aim is to develop and draw out potentialities in the students. The University Theatre is more instructional than strictly professional in character. If interest is shown, Mr. Kelly will make plans for building a complete Elizabethan stage. Notices for appointments will be sent out in the near future to the applicants. Those who failed to attend the meeting, may make application by consulting Mr. Kelly.
Wranglers to Meet
The Wranglers will hold their weekly meeting on next Wednesday evening in the seminar room of the new Law building, according to J. Edward Phelan, president of the organization. James B. O’Shaughnessy, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, will address the club at that time.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staffs this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
EUROPEAN TOUR OPEN TO NOTRE DAME MEN
Notre Dame men who have thought about going to Europe will have an exceptional opportunity to do so next summer with a tour now being organized on the campus by Hobart Shean, a member of the senior class. Shean is acting as representative for an eastern travel concern and is organizing a party from Notre Dame and from St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods college in. Terre Haute. The tour will be made up of a limited number of Catholic college students from New Rochelle, Wellesley, Georgetown and Holy Cross as well as from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods.
The itinerary has been drawn up by a college student and only things interesting to an active group of young men and women have been planned. Three tours, differing only in length, have been arranged at a very reasonable cost.
Such places as England, Holland, Germany, the Rhine, Switzerland, the Riviera, Italy and France will be visited. After an extended trip through the Alps by private limousine, the party will visit Vatican City where an audience has been arranged with His Holiness, Pope Pius XI.
-Classicists Issue Journal
The Classical Journal, official publication of the Classical Association, will be issued before the Easter vacation. All contributions for this issue should be turned in by tonight, to Francis J. O’Malley, editor of the paper. Several papers have been received, and all contributions will be reserved until the next issue.
At the last meeting of the Association, held in the Law building, President Jack Cooper announced that the next meeting will be held on Friday, April 17. Several papers were read and James Carrico sang several songs in Latin.
ENGINEERS HEAR SPEAKER
A. M. Rose Addresses Local Students at Joint Meeting.
The annual joint meeting of the Notre Dame Engineers’ club and the local student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held last Monday evening in the new Law building auditorium with an attendant membership of 150.
Mr. A. M. Rose of Cleveland, district employment supervisor of the American Telephone and Telegraph company was the speaker of - the evening, presenting as his subject, “Transatlantic Radio Telephony.” He spoke at first of the many difficulties which were encountered in transmitting messages across the ocean, pointing out that “fading” and “static” presented the greatest obstacles. These have only been completely removed within the last three years.
After pointing out in detail how these factors affected transmission, he explained the ways and means which were used to obtain the desired improvement. Mention was made of the fact that these experiments were the first which were made in solving the aforementioned difficulties.
One of the greatest steps made in the field of telephony within the past year is the maintenance Of a ship-to-shore telephone service which enables passengers on transatlantic liners to be connected with any telephone in the United States. An experiment of interest is being made with the S. S. Belgenland on its trip around the world. By special arrangement, it has been made possible for passengers on the ship to speak with friends or carry on business in the United States by telephone throughout the entire length of the voyage.
Three reels of motion pictures, showing various phases of transoceanic transmission, were shown.
Summer Catalogue Prepared
The Summer Catalogue of the University is now in preparation and will be issued within several weeks.
Very few departures from previous catalogues are seen and these are only minor changes, chiefly in the courses offered and the members of the faculty.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
661
ADVERTISING MEN TO MEET
March 27 Will Be “Advertising Day” in Commerce School.
c
“Advertising Day” for the students of the College of Commerce will be held Friday, March 27, according to an announcement made recently by James E. McCarthy, dean of the Commerce school. A program consisting of speeches by some of the outstanding advertising men in the country is to be given in the assembly room of the new Law building. All juniors and seniors in the College of Commerce are required to attend.
The program will start at 9:30 a. m. Friday, with an address by W. K. Lamport, president of the Lamport-Fox company of South Bend. Mr. Lamport will be followed on the platform by James M. Cleary, sales-man-ager of .the Studebaker corporation. These two speeches will comprise the morning session.
The afternoon meeting will be opened with a speech by Homer J. Buckley, president of the Buckley Cement company of Chicago, while the concluding address will be given by John P. Roche, president of the Roche Advertising company, also of Chicago.
Dean McCarthy has extended an invitation to a number of advertising and sales managers of South Bend to attend the program. Representatives of several manufacturing concerns and newspapers have also been invited.
C. M. T. C. Registration Urged
Students who intend to go to the Citizens Military Training camps this summer are urged to get their applications in as soon as possible as the quota is rapidly filling. A good many go from Notre Dame each year, some expecting to secure a reserve officer’s commission, and others going for the vacation.
A new plan is now in operation whereby those who have had two years of military training at these camps may take basic tests and secure commissions. Students with R.O.T.C. training are also eligible to take these tests. All who are interested in these camps and who intend to attend this summer are requested to get in touch with Mr. Riordan in the registrar’s office.
NOTICE!
There will be an open house meeting of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus next Monday evening in the Walsh hall council chambers. Grand Knight Louis Buckley extends an invitation for all students to attend.
“DOME” WORK IS NEARLY OVER, SAYS HALLINAN
Two hundred and eighty-eight pages of this year’s Dome are now ready to go to print, according to an annonce-ment made by Editor Paul J. Hallinan last week. Finished are the sections dealing with administration, faculty, seniors, juniors, halls, underclassmen, football, publications, and clubs and societies. These are now in the hands of the Peerless Press of South Bend, Dome printers. By March 24 the basketball, track and baseball sections will be ready.
Satire Editors Austin Boyle and Don Sullivan have been instructed to have their work in by April 1. “The Year,” Dome snapshot section, will also be ready by that date. James Dubbs, in charge of this section, has been working with the editor in evolving a way of arranging the snapshots so that they will have a more attractive appearance and will give the section greater organic unity than it has had in the past.
Speak at Gathering
Official observance of Business Women’s week which has been celebrated in South Bend and other cities throughout the United States by the Business and Professional Women’s club, was concluded last Thursday evening with a public relations dinner held at the LaSalle hotel.
Rabbi William Stem of the temple Beth-El was the principal speaker at the dinner. Among the others who gave talks were Dean James E. McCarthy, James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni association, and William R. Hinkle, mayor of South Bend. The speakers stressed the relations of the club with other social and business groups in the city. The committee in charge of the affair was headed by Mrs. Mary Beyer, secretary of the University.
INTERNATIONAL PEACE PROGRAM IS DISCUSSED
Notre Dame Men Air Opinions on Subject at Conference.
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, presided as chairman at the program presented by the Notre Dame branch of the Catholic Association foi- International Peace, in Washington hall last Teusday evening.
Professor William Farrell of -the department of history, speaking on “Fascism and World Peace,” traced the history of Fascism, its rise to eminence, and interpreted the philosophy motivating it. Using Italy under the leadership of Mussolini as the outstanding example of Fascism today, Professor Farrell stated specifically and comprehensively just what Fascism has accomplished.
An “ideal nationalism” is at the root of this spirit, according to Professor Farrell, but whether it will extend farther than the nation is still a question. Those who have read the autobiography of the Italian premier have been informed very definitely that the purpose is purely national. This end, according to the Professor, is being accomplished.
James Bourdeau, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, read some interesting excerpts from the letter of Pope Benedict XV on “Peace.”
A debate between John F. Sullivan and William Kirby of the debating team furnished the peace program with the spice of argument. Mr. Kirby took the negative on the question : “International Law Has An Ethical Basis,” while Mr. Sullivan upheld the affirmative.
Father Miltner rounded out the very complete program with his speech on “The Church and War.” He is of the opinion that without Christianity any hope of world peace is futile. “That men must love God in order to love each other,” he said, “is one of the oldest laws of the Church. With regard to the stand of the Church on war, Father Miltner pointed out that “war is justifiable if necessary. The Church hates war but it hates injustice more.”
662
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DEBATING TEAM WINS OVER TWO OPPONENTS
Purdue and Michigan State Defeated March 13, 16.
In a debate with Purdue university held at Lafayette, Indiana, on Monday, March 16, the Notre Dame negative team was awarded the decision over the Purdue debaters. The question debated was “Resolved: that the various states should adopt compulsory unemployment insurance.”
The Notre Dame squad, composed of Michael O’Brien, George Allan, and William Kirby, was adjudged to be superior throughout. Dr. W. P. Stanford, head of the department of speech at the University of Illinois, who acted as critic-judge, said in his summary that Kirby gave an exceptionally fine rebuttal speech.
While the negative team was defeating Purdue, the affirmative squad won a decision over Michigan State university last Friday night, in a debate held at St. Mary’s college. Charles Hanna, Leonard Horan, and Timothy Benitz represented Notre Dame; and William Pratt, Joseph Kidder, and Richard Hutchinson debated for Michigan State.
Dr. Norwood Brigance, head of the department of speech at Wabash college, acted as judge. In giving his decision he said that the debate had been very close and that the last rebuttal had won for Notre Dame.
Italian Club to Sing
Under the leadership of Professor* Joseph Casasanta the Italian club choristers are preparing many folk songs foi- their radio concert which will be given shortly after Easter vacation. Among the many native melodies which the club members are learning are “0, Mari” and “O Sole Mio.” Mimeograph copies of the words of the song have been distributed, and the music is being played by Mr. Casasanta.
Pre-Law Club to Meet
A meeting of the Pre-Law club will be held tonight in the new Law building at 8:00 o’clock. All pre-law students are urged to attend as only members in good standing will be eligible to atend the coming Lawyers’ ball.
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change zuithout notice.
FRIDAY, March 20 — Scholastic staff meetings, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building.—Pre-Law club meeting, 7:00 p. m., new Law building.
SATURDAY, March 21—Movie, “Silent Enemy,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 22—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and ' 9:00 a. m.—Reorganization meeting, Boston club, 10:00 a. m., old Law building.—Debate, Purdue at Notre Dame, 8:00 p. m., Washington hall.—Scholastic sports staff basketball team vs. sophomore managers, 10:00 a. m., gymnasium.
MONDAY, March 23—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Music hall.— French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., 3 Main building.
TUESDAY, March 24—Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Main building. —Press club meeting, 7:00 p. m., journalism room of library.—Concert orchestra rehearsal, Music hall, 3:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 25 — Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. City College of Detroit, at Detroit^
THURSDAY, March 26—Spectators’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., journalism room of library.
FRIDAY, March 27 — Scribblers’ meeting, 8 p. m., Howard hall “rec” room; Mr. Rauch will talk.
Lost and Found Notice
The following students have articles in the Lost and Found department and should claim them as soon as possible:
E. J. Freitas
Joseph Willis Robert Lewis Frank O’Donnell There are also two watches which will be given to the owners upon proper identification.
WEEKS TALKS ON CRIME
Noted Psychiatrist Speaks to Students Last Friday.
“The background of all crime is love or money,” said Dr. Patrick H. Weeks, of the department of sociology, to an audience of students in a talk last Friday evening. Formerly physician and psychiatrist at the Indiana state prison, Dr. Weeks spoke from long experience with prison life, crimes and criminals.
After a brief survey of the general plan of the grounds of a prison, Dr. Weeks spoke of the prisoners themselves. Most prisoners, very few of whom are college men according to Dr. Weeks, have all the characteristics of the average man of the world: they talk of current topics and even tip the prison barbers, using tobacco instead of money.
In speaking of the causes of crime Dr. Weeks spoke disparagingly of the common belief that crimes are impulsive. As examples he told of many cases in which the ringleaders worked for weeks or months before committing a robbery or other crime.
Another popular misconception disproved by Dr. Weeks is that which claims that a long prison term deadens a man’s spirit. As evidence against this belief Dr. Weeks showed his audience a photograph of an oil painting of the late President Harding made by a prisoner from a newspaper photograph, and two etchings made by a man who had been in prison for more than eighteen years.
After the lecture Dr. Weeks answered questions. Concerning capital punishment, he said that civilization has not progressed far enough to abolish it altogether. At the present time, however, he thinks that it is a good means of cutting down crime. Dr. Weeks commented unfavorably on the Baumes’ law of New York. The. much publicized lie-detector, Dr. Weeks branded as being almost valueless. He stated that he knew of many men who could tell lies without affecting the apparatus. Seventy-six percent of all criminals reform said Dr. Weeks in reply to a final question.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
663
U. N. D. NIGHT APRIL 20TH
Universal Celebration Expected to Break All Records.
Radio, moving pictures, popular speakers, music, and, in many cases, election of officers for the year will all help to break the existing record for interest and attendance at the hundred or so simultaneous meetings throughout the world that will mark the Eighth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 20.
A number of local clubs are arranging with local radio stations to broadcast parts of the club program. Financial arrangements for a national hook-up are still pending, and announcement of a central broadcast has been made.
Views of the recent Notre Dame football games and several reels of campus views are much in demand. Motion pictures will play an important part in the observance of the day.
Such distant clubs as San Francisco and Havana have been working on plans, even at a comparatively early date. The largest meetings will be in the St. Joseph Valley and Chicago. At the present time the clubs are anticipating the appearance of the President of the University, Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., in Chicago, and the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at the St. Joseph Valley Club celebration.
The students of the University will participate in the observance of the Night and a special dinner will be served in the dining halls.
Library Notes
The original water color drawing of the University seal is now to be found in the front office of the library.
A new elevator has been installed in the library by the Otis Elevator company and is now in use.
The University has secured on loan from St. Agnes Academy at Nashville, Tennessee, the original letters of Brother Joseph Dutton, successor to Father Damien at the leper island of Molokai. The letters tell of Brother Dutton’s services'to the government during his early life and of his conversion to the Catholic Church. Photostatic copies are being made, to be placed in the University archives.
Campus Opinions
Question: “Do you think that Scrip, literary quarterly, receives the support it merits?”
Frederick MacBeth, Morrissey hall, sophomore—“It seems that the average Notre Dame student has failed to realize the true worth of this publication. To appreciate its value one must have a distinct liking for good literature in preference to the ordinary news items and obvious humor of the other campus journals.”
John G. Higgins, St. Edward’s hall, junior—“No. Perhaps the reason is the lack of publicity, perhaps because it is a little above the literary tastes of the average undergraduate. But in either case I do not believe that Scrip is getting the attention it justly deserves. It represents the finer things that are being accomplished at Notre Dame but unfortunately such achievements are not always rewarded with popularity.”
Nicholas M. Kalmes, Walsh hall, junior—“The Scrip that we know is a periodical of surprisingly negligible circulation upon the very campus of its origin. Because of its excellent quality, however, I believe the editors and contributors should find some consolation and reconciliation in the thought that, by comparison, seventy-five Liberties surround every one Forum that finds itself in the wastebasket.”
Anthony W. Brick, Jr., Sophomore hall, sophomore—“In my opinion Scrip does not receive the support it deserves on the campus. This magazine contains the best student literary talent. Every student should buy this magazine, for the benefits derived from it are very helpful, whether the student intends to major in English or chemistry. He may, by reading this publication, discover that he really enjoys reading short stories, poems, and essays, and in that way develop a taste for literature. In the end, he may even try his hand at writing for Scrip.”
Walter E. Terry, St. Edward’s hall, junior—“Personally I believe in advertisement. The publicity staff of Scrip has very little initiative. I prefer a magazine kept more to short stories and with more illustrations.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE TO PRESENT AWARD PLAY
Fantasy by Richard Sullivan Offered Thursday Night.
Next Thursday evening in Washington hall “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” the play that won the Mitchell award last year, will be given by the University players. The play, a fantasy in three acts, manifests the unusual abilities of its author, Richard Sullivan, of the class of 1930. Uncommon interest is being taken in the production as it is with great pride that the University presents a play both written and acted by its own students.
The title role is well taken by Harry Merdzinski, who assumes the character of Sloop, a blind old miser who passes in the three acts over the roads of greed, revenge, and finally poverty. For its melodramatic strain the play demands a villainous charac-ter in that of Jeffrey Sloop, played by Roger Bierne. The role of the weazened Gimlet who concocts the poisons for the murders in the play, has been given to J. Edward Phelan, while Miss Julia Huff of South Bend will take the part of Mrs. Flister, a housekeeper over-interested in other people’s affairs.
The fantastic spirit of the play is supported in the second act when the audience is transported to the realm of ghosts. Here the highest order of the spirits will be seen issuing permits to the murdered to materialize and return to earth that they might revenge themselves. Here the ghosts of Mrs. Flister and Thomas Sloop, murdered by Jeffrey Sloop, will present their petitions. In its highly imaginative bits of gruesome detail, in its melodramatic excitement, the play is hardly reconcilable with the work of a college student.- Richard Sullivan, its author, has been with the Goodman theatre in Chicago since his graduation.
Minor parts in the drama are taken by Dan Williams, Bob Balfe, John and George Ryan, Philip Avery, and J. F. Sullivan, all members of the spirit realm who help to lend a fantastic tone to the entire production.
Due to the humorous incidents and the witty dialogue that spice the production it is refreshingly entertaining as well as thoroughly interesting.
664
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
“THE NEW HUMANISM,” BY FATHER WARD, TO BE FEATURE IN “SCRIP”
The Reverend Charles E. Coughlin, whose Hour of the Little Flower is broadcast every Sunday at 6:00 p. m. over the Columbia chain, is described by the radio monthly, What’s On The Air, as “radio’s most sensational speaker of today.” In his weekly talks Father Coughlin speaks his mind on such controversial subjects as the present national administration, the Communists, birth control, and the duty of capital and employers in the existent unemployment crisis. He is outspoken, fearless, and leaves no doubt as to just where he stands on these issues. Joined to the personality of his own remarks is the immutable teaching of the Catholic Church, its standards, its ideals.
As a result of the frankness and straightforwardness of Father Coughlin certain persons, feeling the weight of his arguments, and wishing to avoid their sting, protested to the Columbia chain, asking that that particular feature be dropped. Father Coughlin was told to temper the tenor of his speeches, and this he agreed to do. Then for a time there was talk of eliminating his broadcast. He mentioned this possibility in one of his radio talks, and at once there began an unequalled demonstration in sup- • port of the priest. All over the chain stations began to receive thousands upon thousands of letters which insisted that Father Coughlin and his broadcast be left alone. To one station alone, WMAQ in Chicago, were sent 40,000 letters.
The officers of the broadcasting corporation thereupon conferred among themselves, and decided that the best course for them was a laissez-faire policy regarding the Hour of the Little Flower. So Father Coughlin is still carrying on his crusade from Detroit, fearless as always, and confident now in the assurance that a host of people in the radio audience are interested in his message.
Under the guidance of Cardinal Hayes a list of one hundred books recommended for Catholic readers has been made by the Cardinal Hayes Literature committee. The Commonweal is pleased to note that the list is not made up exclusively of books ,by Catholic authors, and makes this editorial comment: “There can never be that really widespread growth of true
literary appreciation among Catholics which is so desirable—and, we would add, so needed—if recommended works are confined to Catholic authors. Catholicism is universal, not sectarian, and the intellectual interests of the faithful include all that is sound and worthy in all fields.” The list may be obtained by applying to the secretary of the Cardinal Hayes Literature committee, 23 East 51st Street, New York City.
The death of the New York World has evoked more eulogies from the press of the nation than any similar demise in the history of journalism. This paper, long owned by Joseph Pulitzer, became so known for the liberality and personality of its views that a legion of friends lament its •passing. Under the direction of men such as Joseph Pulitzer (till his death in 1911), Frank I. Wilson, advisor of President Wilson, and Walter Lippmann, the World fought a courageous battle for reform. It guided the press of the nation, other papers waiting to take from it the cue for their editorial policy. A great and powerful crusader, it strove ever against the forces of “economic greed and lawless individualism.”
Many Catholics, no doubt, are not so regretful over the loss, because of the World’s editorial policy on the Mexican question. To them Mr. W. D. Hennessy, in the Commonweal, says, “I, too, disagreed with the World on that and other questions, but, for my part, I mourn the passing of a gallant, courageous, and liberal newspaper. It leaves an unfilled place in the morning newspaper field in New York. I salute also that masterful editor, Walter Lippman, who was to my mind the most incomparable, lucid editorial writer in America.”
What better evidence of the loyalty inspired by the World could be given than that gallant stand of its 2,867 employees, who when the paper was put up for sale, collected $600,000, and pledged $1,000,000 more in an effort to continue the paper on a cooperative basis. They were not simply trying to hold their jobs; they were rallying to defend a cause. However, their bid was topped by the Scripps-Howard forces, and the Pulitzer heirs sold their birthright to the latter for $5,000,000.
“The New Humanism,” by the Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., is the feature article in Scrip, University literary quarterly which will be published before Easter vacation. Monday, March 30, has been set for the tentative date of release. FatherWard is well known for his research in philosophy and is the author of The Philosophy of Value. Another book, Moral Values in the Moral Life, by Etienne Gilson, was recently translated by Father Ward, and will appear on sale very soon.
Several poems have also been received and some other prose material has been accepted. “Book Ends” is to be again included and the section which has been favorably received in many quarters is now a permanent feature of the magazine.
Joseph Wilk, circulation manager of the Dome, has been appointed distribution manager of Scrip and will take care of the campus sale of the periodical.
CHICAGO CLUB TO HOLD
EASTER DANCE APRIL 7
(
The annual Easter formal dance under the auspices of the Chicago club of Notre Dame will be held on Monday evening, April 7, at the Drake hotel. Two ballrooms, the Main dining room and the Marine room, will be used for the occasion.
Tweet Hogan’s popular Chicago orchestra, which recently furnished the music for the K. of C. formal at Notre Dame, will play for the guests. Verne Buck’s orchestra of the Via Lago club will also assist.
Edward B. Ryan, general chairman of the affair, has announced that a number of reservations for the dance are being offered to students remaining on the campus during the vacation period. Bids may be secured from Frank Holland, arrangements chairman, at Sorin hall.
150 Students See Plays
Approximately one hundred and fifty tickets were sold for the Shakespearean plays presented last Saturday by the Ben Greet players. Students showed a preference for the evening performance of “Hamlet.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
665
CIGARET CONTEST DRAWS ONE MILLION ENTRIES OF VARIED KINDS
More than one million letters were received in answer to the recent contest for prizes offered by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco company, in connection with the wrapping of their cigarettes.
So great was the response that officials estimated that it would take the judges and their staff several weeks to read all of the entries and select winners of the thirty-eight prizes offered. Every letter is being carefully read and studied, despite the enormity of the task.
Entries were received by every conceivable means of transportation, in almost every language, in tiny packages and in large express packages, and on thousands of different kinds of paper. It was estimated that more than 4,000,000 persons, including entrants and their families, or more than three percent of the nation’s population, will be interested in the announcement of the final award.
FOUR NEW MEMBERS CHOSEN BY SPECTATORS
The Spectators’, club, at its meeting-last Thursday night, elected four new men to membership, after considering more than ten applicants. The new members are: Kenneth L. Kreps, a junior in the College of Commerce; Nicholas Kalmes, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters; Robert J. Flint, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters; and Edmund A. Stephan, also a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, and member of the Scholastic staff.
These men will be received into the club at the meeting next Thursday night. Talks will be given by Mr. Daniel C. Williams on “Jazz: A Hope or a Threat?” and by Mr. John F. Pick on the subject of “The Modern Humanists.”
K, of C> Meeting
The regular bi-monthly meeting of Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, will be held Monday evening at 7:45 in the Walsh hall council chamber. Grand Knight Louis F. Buckley will conduct the business meeting. Lecturer William O’Malley states that an unusual entertainment will be offered.
Book Reviews
Reader, I Married Him. By Anne Green. Dutton. §2.50.
If you can keep from being annoyed by Miss Anne Green’s individuality of syntax, you’ll succeed in finding in her new novel, Reader, I Married Him, refreshing amusement. The chief difficulty in her book is that it goes along its way blithely, beguiling one into complete forgetfulness and then suddenly one bumps up against a sentence with no life lines such as subject and predicate.
But perhaps that’s just so much quibbling and maybe one ought to be satisfied just to have a book such as Reader, I Married Him. Certainly, few enough tales of its kind are chronicled. It is frolicsome and effervescent, gay and charming, seductively diverting-—all things which her one previous novel, The Selbys, was, and all of the things which the somber clinical fictions of her brother, Julian Green, never- were.
Paris—much the same Paris which served as the setting for The Selbys —is the scene of Catherine Douglas’ story in Reader, I Married Him. The tale is Catherine’s alone and she is the bonafide heroine of all its situations. It deals with her amorous conquests and of the complications arising therefrom. To reveal anything more of the story here would be unfair to prospective readers.
Bird Life at the Pole. By Commander Christopher Robin, as told to Wolcott Gibbs. Morrow. $2.
Commander Christopher Robin a-sailing would go. Backed by Mr. Hoibst, indeed at the instigation of Mr. Hoibst, who was the prince of the new tabloid journalism, Commander Christopher set forth in the good ship Lizzie Borden for the south polar regions. With him he took a jazz orchestra, a Forty-ninth st. speakeasy, eight electric refrigerators, six grand pianos and a Junior League girl, the latter in lieu of a Boy Scout a la Richard E. Byrd. The refrigerators and the grand pianos, let it be understood, were all contributed by the manufacturers. Appropriate ceremonies were held on their departure. Miss Junior League was photographed
playing a piano (by the Weebum Piano Co.) against a background of sugar-coated polar mountains. (You are right, Mr. Weebum would certainly have one of those mountains named after him.)
Packing the pedigreed hounds (furnished by the Meadow Brooks Kennels) in the ship’s hold, Commander Christopher and his gallant crew got off to a good start. Arriving at the Panama canal, the Lizzie Borden found Mr. Richard Burton (a la Royal Road to Romance), conqueror-of the straits of Gibraltar, the Matterhorn, the Gulf of Mexico, all the Great Lakes and the entire middle west, waiting for her, ready to tow her, by means of his famous breast stroke, through the canal to the Pacific. From time to time Commander Christopher Winchell Robin sent back to Mr. Hoibst tabloid bulletins.
And so one now adds to that of Richard E. Byrd, among the many men -who have conquered the south pole, the name of Commander Christopher Robin. Commander Christopher got to the pole and back again, though not without mishaps, an affair with a penguin and aerial jousts with ice-capped mountain peaks. But for the full story of his scientific expedition you will have to read his version as told in Bird Life at the Pole, the gayest literary frolic to appear in years.
The Man With the Scarred Hand. By Henry Kitchell Webster. Bobbs-Merrill. §2.50.
Here is another- mystery novel from the pen of the author of The Clock Strikes Two and The Sealed Trunk, which marks it immediately as a book no inveterate mystery story reader will miss. It has to do with a young man who inherits from an old eccentric grandfather a tract of land which was once the settlement of a religious cult but which has been allowed to run to wrack and ruin. How various people, including a trusted friend of the family, each with his particular motive, try to keep him from his inheritance, is the story. There is plenty of bloodshed in the book and plenty of mystery.
666
The Notre Dame Scholastic
c
♦ THE WEEK ♦
J OE CASASANTA’S golden voiced choir opened the glee club season in a manner that predicted a successful year for the songsters. It is worthy of note that Mr. Casasanta delays the premiere in Washington hall until he feels that his charges have reached the pinnacle of perfection in their work. His tactics are something like those of the show people who do not open in New York until their production has been tried in some small and not so smart community. The theatrical phrase on the Rialto used to be “Take it down to Providence and try it on the dog.” We are not sure of the meaning of “the dog,” unless it refers to the gullible citizens of that New England town. At any rate, the glee club nevei' ventures a concert on its own campus until it makes its regular appearance on another campus where the criticism is not so keen, although the appreciation may also be below the average. It is fortunate that there is an audience at hand which is suitable for this purpose. Otherwise Joe might have to go to the trouble of taking the glee club to Kokomo or Elkhart or Dowagiac for their unofficial opening night. Probably the boys would after all prefer a change of scene to any one of these towns, but as it is they will have to stick to the tradition and suffer for their art.
—o—
J ERRY (RUDY) ROACH is one of the most original soloists that has ever bowed to applause in Washington hall. He is unusual not only in the quality of his singing, but also in the lyrics that he fits to the music. Mr. Roach has sung “Mother Machree” at least three hundred times, but it is doubtful that he has ever used exactly the same words more than twice. He has more than fifty-seven varieties of rhymes to suit to any one song, and he never fails to use them. He is undoubtedly the foremost extemporaneous rhymester of the United States. A poorly functioning memory is a terrible affliction for an actor, or a public speaker, and for most singers. But it has never bothered Jerry. Last spring he was doing his bit for his Alma Mater and the Hippodrome management in New York, when the usual thing took place. All alone out there on the largest stage in the country, in front of one of the largest audiences in the country, Jerry started to roam away from the original lyric. Joe Casasanta, in the wings, broke out into frantic perspiration and held his breath and prepared to ring down the curtain in case Jerry collapsed. But the indomitable Mr. Roach pursued his placid way, filled in the forgotten words with “and so’s,” and fairly knocked the Manhattanites into the aisles, as they say in Variety. Such forgetfulness doesn’t seem to trouble him, but by the end of the spring tour the rest of the Glee club is usually in a state of nervous prostration, induced by anxiety over whether or not Jerry will successfully maneuver through the next line.
CuURIOSITY has taken a great toll of lives since the original cat of the proverb passed away. And it’s going to account for the abrupt end of an aviator in these parts some day if pilots do not soon cease investigating the condition of the Dome. Some of these intrepid adventurers of the air must be taking a census of the nation’s pigeons, judging by the manner- in which they swoop dangerously over the Main building, race about the church steeple, and chip off some of the gold leaf on the Dome for a souvenir. The only thing that can be said in favor of these flying fools is that they occasionally supply enough excitement to wake up a drowsy class for a moment or two. But they are inviting eternal sleep for themselves in this accomplishment of an academic purpose. This week the campus was visited by the passengers and pilot of a transport plane, although it was hardly curiosity which impelled the aviator to land on the local poultry farm. Snow and wind seem to have caused him to pay us a visit. For the preservation of the Dome and the top of the church, the S. A. C. or the Blue Circle should have conducted the pilot on a complete tour of the University. Then he should have been instructed to take notes on all he saw, and relate his experiences to his fellow pilots. This would do away with the necessity of their investigating for themselves, and in the future we should be spared the embarrassing procedure of climbing-under the bed while a crazy and curious airman zooms within a couple of inches of the hall roof. By the way, it was nothing more than coincidence — that serving of chicken in the dining room on the day after the plane landed at the poultry farm. The fowls were not prepared for the kitchen by accidental contact with a whirling propeller.
—o—
I N a state which specializes in such names as Kokomo, Mishawaka, and the like, a place called Oldenburg Inn is a musical relief to a sensitive ear. We much prefer it to the more handy, but less romantic sounding Kewpie Inn. Its connotation is good, too. The similarity to the word “Heidelburg” brings up light opera visions of gaily uniformed soldiers, care-free, stein-waving students, and golden-haired, blue-eyed frauleins. Unfortunately you cannot usually find any of these at the Oldenburg tavern. Last night, however, the students were' there, but without the steins. And, in spite of this, they were carefree. For the Sorin boys were out in full strength to celebrate the winning of the interhall basketball championship by the gallant subway athletes. At the risk of being accused of running advertising in on this page, we shall chance the statement that the fried chicken that was served was the best ever prepared on this side of the Mason Dixon line. According to Jack Saunders, Jack Hughes did away with several platters full, and then became sick—that is, homesick. Mistah Hughes, you know, is from the south, suh.
I
-
The Notre Dame Scholastic	667
THE LAETARE MEDALLIST
Notre Dame has again chosen the year’s outstanding Catholic layman. Since 1883 when the plan of awarding the Laetare Medal was sponsored by the Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., each year has seen one man picked from the ranks of Catholic leaders to receive the highest Catholic honor given in the United States.
In Rome the Pope awards the Golden Rose annually to an outstanding Catholic on Laetare Sunday. It is therefore only fitting that some such custom should exist in the United States. Every year the University finds at least one American Catholic doing something that brings credit to himself and to his Church. This man is the one that the Laetare Medal is designed to recognize. Alfred E. Smith, Frederick P. Kenkel, Margaret Anglin, Edward N. Hurley— all these are internationally known figures that have been honored by the award.
Last week the name of James J. Phelan was added to this distinguished list. Banker, financier, executive, philanthropist, he richly deserves the honor that has been given him. Born in Canada, Mr. Phelan began his career as a page boy in the Boston stock exchange. Nine years later he became a member of the exchange, and shortly after that a member of the firm of Hornblower and Weeks, nationally known brokerage house. For twenty-five years he has served, and served well, on every relief committee that has been formed in the State of Massachusetts. When the country went to war he was among the first to offer his abilities to the government.
That Notre Dame is not the first Catholic organization to recognize Mr. Phelan’s merit is shown by the act of the Pope in making him the first Knight of Malta in the United States, by his position as Knight Commander of the Order of Pope Pius IX, and the award to him of the Grand Cross of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.
The committee which awarded the medal had a more difficult task than usual this year. More and more Catholic men are rising to leading positions in commerce, industry and the professions. The Scholastic doubts whether a more happy selection could have been made
than James J. Phelan. In him are all the qualities that are making the United States recognize that Catholic laymen can be and are leaders. Mr. Phelan richly deserves the Laetare Medal.
THE UNIVERSITY THEATRE
When the University Theatre movement w’as begun several years ago one of its purposes was to furnish a supplement to the course in playwriting offered at the University. With the presentation of “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop” the organization is rapidly fulfilling that purpose. Since the play is the work of a student who was graduated last June, we hope that the tradition thus established will be continued by future members of the University Theatre. Although plays written by students have been produced before the occasions have been rare.
Any important movement in a progressive direction should receive the unanimous support of the students. The reorganized, rejuvenated University Theatre is a progressive organization as may be noted by its presentations. The staging of Sullivan’s play and the producing of “Journey’s End” last year show that more modem dramas will not be neglected by the Theatre. Shakespeare is always interesting but there can be “too much of a good thing,” as the Scholastic once pointed out.
Those in charge of the selection of plays for the University Theatre repertoire are praised for the choice of a student work.
There is apparent at Notre Dame today a concerted effort on the part of the University authorities to encourage creative writing. A splendid success has been already attained in the short story field, and the contest of the Scribblers’ is expected to uncover more talent among the writers of both short fiction and of poetry. Drama as a medium of expression has been more or less neglected at Notre Dame heretofore. The possibility, now present, of having one’s own play produced here on the campus is an objective which should spur on every local writer, and result in a number of plays of a merit equal to that of other Notre Dame literary productions.
668
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THERE SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN A CHANGE IN TECHNIQUE, ALL RIGHT
When pa was young and courting ma They thought it was great bliss Upon the old-time garden bench To sit apart like this.
But nowadays when dancing sheiks Drop in to call on sis, They cuddle in on the davenport Andsitapartlikethis.
EDITORIAL ANARCHY
This is the day of the militant college editor. The Horace Greeleys and William Lloyd Garrisons of the past were ultra-conservatives compared with the radical, outspoken men of twenty-one who are editors of our college newspapers. They carp against the faculty, against other colleges, against anything that admits of a little “panning.” The impression gained from reading most of these editors’ comments is, to speak harshly, that they are “going off half-cocked.” Their ideas in many cases are fine, but their constructive policies are often not only doubtful, but dangerous. The Yale Daily News, for instance, recently advocated that water polo be eliminated, presumably because Yale was losing games, and not because of any lack of material. The Daily Princetonian has been waging a campaign all winter against the policy of electing courses put in force by the university. The Nebraska student daily paper has been fighting furiously against compulsory military training, and the Lehigh daily has for one of its platforms the demand that compulsory chapel be abolished.
Now all these editorial policies contain an element of truth and correct thinking. Some of these opinions have been the basis of reforms by universities. But is it the duty of an editor to flaunt these anti-faculty opinions before the students? They are not moulding student opinion. They are destroying school morale. Matters which in former days were the secret “gripes” of a student are now open problems appearing daily in the college newspapers. Student whims are becoming fine editorial policy. .Undoubtedly these outspoken and courageous newspaper policies give evidence that the editors are active, thinking persons, but they also prove that the editors have let the heady wines of importance go to their youthful heads. Their practice of continually censuring higher authorities sometimes defies ordinary common sense.
THE PENS OF PRINCETON
Probably few universities in the country can boast such a wealth of writers among its alumni as Princeton. A special alumni supplement of the Daily Princetonian recently called attention to the fact that since the days of the Revolution, men of Princeton have been contributing to our national literature. In the class of 1771, Princeton graduated Philip Freneau, the first of American poets. With the initial push, old Nassau has continued to gather literary momentum. A partial list of their prominent literary figures includes: Henry Van Dyke, Booth Tarking-
ton, Thornton Wilder, Struthers Burt, Paxton Hibben, Eugene O’Neill, Aaron Burr, James Madison, Woodrow Wilson, Edmund Wilson, Ernest Poole, Elliot White Springs, Hugh McNair Kahler, James Boyd, Day Edgar, Jesse Lynch Williams, Robert Bridges, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Richard Halliburton, Lowell Thomas, Arthur B.	*
Reeve, and Julian Street. Harvard may be able to gather a superior group among its alumni, and so may Yale, and Bowdoin may demand a place for its Hawthorne and Longfellow, and even Virginia may claim its Poe, but we doubt if any other college could present a superior list of writing alumni.
MORE CHANGES
Abolition of the traditional four-year course at Minnesota and the introduction of courses ranging from two to ten years, depending on the financial circumstances and ability of the individual are predicted by President L. D. Coffman.
Colleges such as Pharmacy, Arts and the Business school would be abolished under the idealistic plan set forth by President Coffman. Substituting for the specialized college he would have cooperative programs between the various types of schools such as business and engineering.
Growth of the junior college will be one of the main	‘
developments in educational circles in the next ten years, he predicts. With this growth will come a separation of the junior college and the university.
“There will be a definite break between the sophomore and the junior years, and a degree of some sort may be granted to those who finish the sophomore year,” President Coffman states.	*
Under the junior college system, students who should go to take advanced university work will be selected more satisfactorily than at present, he hopes.
With the establishment of the new experimental college last fall, Mr. Coffman believes that the university has taken a significant step toward a sounder educational procedure. This college permits its students to take sub-	*
jects in any college of the university.
—Minnesota Daily
COLLEGIANA
Uruguay and Peru, who have severed athletic relations
. . . reason: five people killed in a fight after one of their	•
football games . . . the Peruvians didn’t have a revolution, so they had to find some excuse for killing people
. . . The United States government, which has lost more than a quarter of a million dollars on students who have flunked out of West Point . . . that’s not much compared to the amount people lost betting on the Army against the local talent. . . The Kansas university “White Caps,”	c
who are conducting a drive against student drinkers and campus bootleggers . . . the caps vs. the corks, ten rounds to a decision . . . Franklin college, where only one student knew that persons under 21 could not vote at presidential elections . . . Temple university, which has the most painful class room in the country . . . the practice
room in its dental school has seventy-five chairs.	. 4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
669
♦ THE WINE ♦
Let’s do away
With John J. Queazon, Whose free verse lacks Both rhyme and reason.
THE WINK ANTHOLOGY—VOL. XIV.
H. M. S. Mart (born 1795; died 1798) early attracted the attention of the literary haut monde by his sterling recitation of The Village Blacksmith. Lionized by society, he realized that his artistic nature was in jeopardy from excessive patronage. He demanded solitude and independence; so, sailing in three ships, with no companions, he crossed the Sahara desert in no time and took up residence among the tree-folk of Africa, where he can be seen swinging through the trees any afternoon that he is not in his office. The following is one of his “Translations From the Anthropoid”:
LINES FROM AN UNWORTHY ONE
Why do I think of you all through the day, Leaving my work and neglecting my play?
Maybe because you're who you are, And I'm so below you—oh, ever so far.
Why do I dream of you all through the night, Cringe at misfortune, cursing my plight?
Maybe because of the great gap between Me, humble galley slave, and you, a queen.
Some day I’ll shake off this yoke of depression, (Some say I’m good enough, but lack expression)
And lay all my cards on the table before you.
I pray you’ll accept them, for dear, I adore you.
—Mart.
The poet Trudeau has appeared before in this collection and anyone interested is referred to the critical estimate of his work in Vol. I.
TO A POEM
I moulded you zvith a feather quill, And it gave me an unbounded thrill. Then I made you zvith a fountain pen To exploit you again and again. The pen made the task somezvhat lighter, So I changed—1 zised a typezvriter With its sharp, mechanical chatter.
Quill pen, machine—zvhat matter, So long as I grasp your niceties, So long as I clasp your szibtleties?
—Trudeau.
pleasure vehicles of the C. S. B. & N. I. Ry. Co. Albie is at present engaged on the construction of an underground passage between St. Angela hall, St. Mary’s, and Badin hall, N. D. Condemned as an idealist, Albie, nevertheless, tunnels on, and hopes to have everything ready for a grand opening after the Easter recess. Details of the plan can not yet be revealed, lest the Gold Coasters take offense at being passed by and run water into the diggings.
MEMORY
Othez' times and other places, Other joys and other faces
Fade, cozne back, recede again In the maelstrom of my brain.
Nozu the maddening repetition
Of that lovely apparition
Makes me frantic zvith delight— Then slips quickly ozit of sight.
Hoiv the pulses throb zvith fever, How the znind to reconceive her
Gropes and grapples zvith the haze— Grown more thick zvith passing days.
Oh, for jzist one clear portrayal, (Then come, memory’s mocking laugh!)
Mine, in each minute detail—
A living, breathing, photograph.
—Albie Sinya.
Charles G. (“Happy”) Roger states in his autobiography: “I was born in a big city in a big house in April. I am having a fine time, and wish you were here.” He neglects, however, to tell us when and by whose hand he died.
' LOVE’S QUESTIONING
Was it jzist a night ago
You. looked into my eyes, When I knezv that you and I Had entered Paradise?
Was it just a night ago
Yozi held me close; then, too, • Awakened me zvith kisses
To life and love and you? .
Was it just a night ago
That you came to me;
Or has it been thus always Through eternity?
—Happy Roger.
Albie Sinya (b. July 4, 1912; d. March 17, 1931) is the possessor of that rare poetic gift, the seventh sense, which is necessary for a one-way ride on any of the palatial
Yes, yes, Spring is here.
—The Weary Bumper.
670
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUB/
CHARITY
Unprecedented this year has been the response of the campus clubs to the cause of charity. Since the beginning of the year the following clubs have donated money according to the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.: the NEW JERSEY club, the GRAND RAPIDS club, the CHICAGO club, the BUFFALO club, the AUBURN club, the PITTSBURGH club, the VILLAGERS’ club, and the INDIANAPOLIS club.
All of these clubs are to be commended highly for their contributions. Certainly it is far better that the proceeds of club dances should go to charity than to any of the other mysterious sources that club officers seem to hit upon.
POLITICS
In spite of the weather, spring cannot be far away. Already campus clubmen are beginning to campaign for each other or for themselves for club offices next year. In fact the IOWA club led all others by electing its officers for 1931-1932 last week (see below).
EASTER DANCES
Most campus clubs have Christmas dances; not so many have Easter dances. First in the latter group to announce their affairs for this year are the CHICAGO club and the FORT WAYNE club.
The Chicago dance will be at the Drake hotel in the Main dining room and the Marine room, and will feature Tweet Hogan’s and Verne Buck’s orchestras.' The date is April 7. General chairman is Edward B. Ryan. Tickets may be bought from Bud Grove of Corby hall.
The FORT WAYNE club’s dance is to be held on Easter Monday in the Hotel Anthony ballroom. The orchestra will be announced later.
BALL
The PRE-LAW club will meet tonight at eight in the Law building for a discussion of the coming Lawyer’s Ball. All pre-lawyers who wish to attend the dance must attend this meeting.
GENTS
Among the inactive clubs on the campus is that of VERONA (N. J.). The principal reason for its inactivity is that only two Notre Dame men hail from Verona: Don Sullivan and Andrew O’Keefe. In order to put their town more in the spotlight the Messrs. Sullivan and O’Keefe are endeavoring to persuade the University Theatre to put on a production of Shakespeare’s Two Gentlemen of Verona with them in the leading roles.
FIRST
First organization on the campus to elect officers was the IOWA club, reorganized at a meeting last Wednes
day evening. lowans who will lead the club through the next school year are: Loras Lane, president; Badin Powell, vice-president; Glen Liston, secretary; and John Locher, treasurer.
At the conclusion of the meeting members discussed plans for a smoker.
NEWSPAPERS
At the meeting of the FRENCH club last Monday evening members heard Professor Benjamin DuBois of the French department, discuss the difference between French and Canadian newspapers. With him he brought enough papers so that everyone might see the difference as he explained it. At the end of the meeting Edmund Sargus, FRENCH club member said: “I never knew before tonight that Tillie the Toiler could speak French.”
Victor Astone conducted the conversation.
SPORT
Senior Manager Daniel Halpin announced last week that inter-club playground ball will begin as soon as the weather will permit. He urges all club officers to sign up now so that their clubs will not be left out when final arrangements are made. Interclub sports have languished to a great extent during the past few years. This activity deserves all the cooperation that clubs can give it.
FOOD, SHOW
Last meeting of the WABASH VALLEY club was Tuesday evening, March 10. Discussed were plans for a banquet to be held some time after the Easter vacation. At the close of the meeting the club took its members to a free show at the Palace.
OF> MANY THINGS
LA RAZA club members talked, planned, approved many things at their meeting last Friday in the old Law building. Edward Roxas and Ramon Marti were made co-chairmen of a banquet to be held either before the Easter holidays or immediately afterward.
Many and long have been the arguments among LA RAZA members over the various countries from which they come. In order to settle matters once for all, at each meeting men will argue with others over the merits of their native nations. At the next meeting of the club President William Morphy and Secretary Anthony Diaz will defend the educational system of Mexico while Hector Canepa and Carlos Perez will defend Peru.
Approved at the meeting was the new club seal. On it are profiles of a monk, denoting the first settling of the Spanish American countries by religious orders; an Indian,, the first settler in South America; a Spanish warrior, the man who brought white civilization to the New World; and a mestizo, a combination of the Spaniard and Indian who is carrying on the work today.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
671
SPCKTS
BLUE AND GOLD GAGERS END SEASON WITH 23-17 DEFEAT AT HANDS OF IOWA
Notre Dame Team Trails Hawkeyes Throughout Listless Struggle; Gavin Stars
A long trail that carried them . through twenty hard-fought basketball games ended last Saturday for the Blue and Gold. Their final stop was at Iowa City, the home of the Hawkeyes, and the final score was 23 to 17 against them. It was the first time in six contests that the lowans have ended on the top side of a final score with Notre Dame. Johnny Baldwin and Joey Gavin led the eiforts of the Keoganites with Mowry and Riegert showing the way for the victors.
The game was a listless affair from start to finish, and the Gold and Blue squad seemed off color all the way. Late in the second half when play speeded up a little, the referee fairly breathed through his whistle in an effort to slow up the wild burst of roughness. In this melee there were fifteen fouls called. The total for the game was nineteen—eight for the home team and eleven for the South Bend invaders. In all the other columns of the score book the Hawk-eyes were on top. They outscored Notre Dame seven to six from the field, and nine to five on gratis points.
In the first half the speedy passing attack that the Notre Dame five launched was checked by the tightest defense that Iowa has displayed this year. The Blue and Gold resorted to long range attempts but were unable to find their mark with any regularity and registered only two field goals in the whole first period. At half-time the Old Gold of the tall com state was flying over the Notre Dame colors by a safe margin. The cellar champs of the Big Ten were determined to avenge the long series of defeats that the charges of Coach George Keogan have heaped on them in recent years, and they held to their close defensive game throughout the
second half to stay out in front
all the way to the end.
Baldwin scored five markers for Notre Dame and Gavin had six to cop the scoring honors for his last game in the regimentals of the Blue and Gold. Mowry tied Gavin at six points, and Williamson and Reigert each had five. Coach Keogan used nine men in an attempt to break the slump that his men were in, but none of the combinations were quite equal to the job. Gavin, and Butorac, who substituted for DeCook at center for a bit of the game, are the only members of the first contingent to close their careers. All the other men will return for another season of play. The defeat was the eighth for the Notre Dame squad in their twenty starts and the most unexpected in the whole season.
Score: Iowa (23) c	f	p
Williamson, f 1 3 1 Mowry, f	2	2	2
Willett, f	0	0	0
Kotlow, f	0	0	0
Rogers, c	12	1
Reigert, g 2 12 Reinhardt, g 1 1 2
Totals 7 9 8
Notp.e Dame (17) G	f	p
Newbold, f	0	0	0
Gavin, f	2	2	2
Koken, f	0	0	0
Crowe, f	111
DeCook, c	10	0
Butorac, c	0 10
Burns, g	0	0	3
Johnsen, g 004
Baldwin, g 2 11
Totals	6 5 11
Season’s Point-Makers
FG FT TP
DeCook, c ..............52	27	131
Newbold, f .............32	29	93
Crowe, f ...............29	11	69
Gavin, f ...............24	i2	60
Baldwin, g .............22	12	56
Johnson, g .............15	6	36
Burns, g ...............10	5	25
Schumaker, c.............3	1	7
Staab, g................ 1	1	3
Schrader, c..............1	' 0	2
Jaskwich, g..............1	0	2
Totals ............190	105	485
Opponent's totals......169	138	476
Basketball Results
Dec. 8—N. D. 26, Kalamazoo 15.
Dec. 12—Northwestern 44. N. D. 29.
Dec. 15—Purdue 34, N. D. 22.
Dec. 19—-N. D. 31, Pennsylvania 19.
Dec. 30—N. D. 24. Illinois Wesleyan 17.
Jan. 3-—Northwestern 20. N. D. 17.
Jan. 6—N. D. 27. Ohio State 24.
Jan. 9—N. D. 29, Wabash 19.
Jan. 13—N. D. 30. Marquette 23.
Jan. 17—N. D. 21, Pennsylvania 20.
Jan. 24—Pittsburgh 28. N. D. 20.
Feb. 3—N. D. 25, Indiana 20.
Feb. 7—Pittsburgh 35. N. D. 22.
Feb. 13—N. D. IS, Wabash 17.
Feb. 21—N. D. 27. Butler 19.
Feb. 28—N. D. 26. Army 25.
Mar. 2—Syracuse 28; N. D. 23.
Mar. 6—N. D. 26, Marquette 25.
Mar. 10—Butler 20. N. D. 15.
Mar. 14—Iowa 23. N. D. 17.
TRACKMEN DISAPPOINT AT ILLINOIS RELAYS
Capt. O’Brien, Mile, Two-Mile Relay Teams Are Third.
The fourteenth annual Illinois Relay carnival was held at Urbana last Saturday night, and drew athletes from almost every middle western school and a few from the eastern sector of the country. As usual, the marks set up were very good and in the course of the evening, one world’s indoor record was broken, another was equalled, and still another American indoor mark was shattered. A total of eight carnival records were broken and another one tied.
The showing of the Blue and Gold tracksters in the meet was a source of keen disappointment to loyal followers, who looked for the Fighting Irish to give an excellent account of themselves. Three third places were the best that they could garner as a result of their efforts when Captain Johnnie O’Brien took a third in the 75 yard high hurdles and, the mile and two-mile relay teams finished third in their respective events.
In the individual events, Bill McCormick, Captain O’Brien and Ralph Johnson, were counted on as being sure place winners since their previous marks compared favorably with the best in the country. Of this trio, Captain O’Brien made the best show-
(Continued on Page 6S0)
672
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COACHES FORMERLY WERE MANAGERS AND TRAINERS, AS WELL AS COACHES
FRESHMAN HALL WINS 28TH ANNUAL MEET
Managerial Association, Organized in Year 1921 Stresses Efficiency, Initiative
In the early days of Notre Dame athletics, the coach was, at one time coach, equipment man, and trainer, provided a pre-med student failed to apply for the last named job. But with the increasing attention that was being paid to the conduct of athletics, and the multiplication of duties that arose, it was found that some system had to be devised to take care of the details of practice in the various sports. Regular managers were needed.
The first manager at Notre Dame was Brother Paul, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who was assisted in the lugging of the.headgears and placing of hurdles by the athletes themselves. Later on, various students volunteered to show up every afternoon at track and football practice to help with the handling of equipment. When traveling, “Rock” himself packed the trunks, for a limited budget prohibited the carrying of extra men to handle details and equipment. The athletic program in the various sports grew with leaps and bounds, and it was soon realized that the problem of handling the men and equipment was too great for one man. And so in 1921 the Notre Dame managers’ system was inaugurated. A regular equipment man whose sole duty was the handling of the team’s paraphernalia was also assigned at this time.
The basis of the system is competition. Unlike some other methods of choosing the senior managers, where fraternity politics or personal interests influence the selection, the Notre Dame system is wholly competitive. Merit is the only consideration and it alone makes a senior manager.
Each fall freshmen are invited to become candidates for managerships. The number reporting averages about seventy men. Their number is steadily cut until only those outstanding in attendance, quality of work, and initiative remain. Their assignments cover the whole field of sports in the athletic program, each man being given an opportunity to understand the individual details of football, baseball, basketball, track and in-terhall management. In the spring
of their freshman year- the candidates are awarded class numerals, and their number again cut, this time leaving fifteen to continue as sophomores.
Tlie sophomore managers are an integral part of the organization, for upon them falls the burden of detail work, particularly important during the football season. They learn to take orders and to execute them successfully. At the same time they teach the freshman managers their duties, basing their instruction upon their own experience. Spring finds them well-trained in the handling of the various teams, both at home and on trips. They have managed the interhall trips and have assisted the junior managers on “B” game trips. The experience gained is extremely valuable to them because the men making the “B” trips rely far more heavily upon the managers than do the varsity players.
The end of the year finds the sophomores about to be weighed in the balance. The junior and senior managers vote upon the freshmen and sophomores to be retained. General attitude, reliability, attendance, appearance, and initiative—all enter into the consideration, and the seven sophomores who present these qualities most prominently are made junior managers for the next fall.
In the meantime the present junior managers are keenly watched by the senior manager and his associates. It is the “test-year” for the juniors, and everything depends upon the accuracy and dependability they show in their work. The various coaches are also on the lookout for outstanding work or general ability, and keep in mind the manager who has done the best work on their sport while a junior.
And then comes the final managers’ banquet of the year, at which time the appointment of the senior manager and two associate football managers, and the track, basketball, and baseball managers are announced by Mr. Rockne. Success in their achievement goes to the men who have survived, by. their own efforts, what has been termed “the severest intra-col-legiate competition in America.”
Howard, Off-Campus, Finish in Order; Three Records Set.
Amassing a total of 33 points, the tracksters from Freshman hall won the twenty-eighth annual interhall track meet held in the gym last Tuesday. Howard hall, with 23 points, was second, and Off-Campus finished third with 16.
Three meet records were broken and many excellent marks recorded in the St. Patrick’s Day classic. Ray Cusick of Off-Campus soared 11 feet, 4 inches to set a new record in the pole vault, surpassing the previous mark by one inch. Finkel, also of Off-Campus, broke the previous shot put record with a heave of 42 feet, 4% inches. DuPuy, of Freshman hall, had little difficulty in winning the 65-yard low hurdles, covering the distance in :07.4 to break his own interhall record by 1/10 of a second.
The Freshman haliers placed in every event but the 60-yard dash and the broad jump, accounting for four firsts, three seconds, one third and one fourth. Obergfall contributed ten points to his team’s total, taking high scoring honors, when he won both the 440 and 880-yard events.
Facing a fast field in the 60-yard dash, Kelly, of Off-Campus, ran a great race to beat Huller, of Howard, to the tape by inches. The time for this event was :06.5.
Joe Young, of Howard, came through as expected in the mile run, having little difficulty in taking first. The Howard relay team had things their own way, but failed by a single second to set a new record.
Summaries:
60-Yard Dash — Won by Kelley (OC); Huller (H), second; Egan (SE), third; Harrington (Br), fourth. Time :06.5.
Mile Run—Won by Young (H); Brust (F), second; Else (Br), third; Cline (L), fourth. Time 4:55.6.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Obergfall (F); Jones (M), second; McDonald (Br.), third; Horan (F), fourth. Time :53.8.
65-Yard Low Hurdles — Won by DuPuy (F); Grundeman (H), second; Groves (Cor.), third; Acker-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
673
1
TABLE OF POINTS
GRID PRACTICE HELD IN GYM DUE TO SNOW
Freshman_________________33
Howard___________________23
Off-Campus_______________16
St. Edward’s_____________14
Brownson ________________9,
.Morrissey _______________8
Corby_____________________2
Lyons_____________________1
Sophomore ________________1
Carroll 1
Walsh 0
Spring football practice was scheduled to get under- way on old Cartier field last Wednesday afternoon but the weather again took a hand in the matter and forced the gridders to remain indoors. Equipment was issued to the remainder of the 350 odd men out for the spring training and a short drill was held in the gymnasium.
Under the direction of Coach Knute Rockne and his assistants, “Hunk” Anderson and Jack Chevigny, the can-
didates were put through a short drill in sprinting before being divided into squads, according to positions, for special instructions in the fine points of playing the various positions. Varsity men assisted in demonstrating these points to the frosh and less inexperienced men.
Daily lectures will be continued at 12:30 p. m. in the library. Practice will be transferred to Cartier field as soon as the weather permits. It is thought that the drills will be continued until some time after the Easter vacation.
man (SE), fourth. Time :07.4. (New record.)
Pole Vault—Won by Cusick (OC); Franklin (F), second; Krack (Br), Morris (Br), tied for third. Height 11 feet, 4 inches. (New record.)
Broad Jump—Won by Vejar (SE); Bice (SE), second; Connolley (H), •third; Schidel (Br), fourth. Distance 21 feet, 5 inches.
880-Yard Run—Won by Obergfall (F); Young (H), second; Troy (F), third; Farrell (Car.), fourth. Time 2:05.1.
Shot Put—Won by Finkel (OC); Zvonkin (F), second; Robinson (H), third; Halperin (Soph), fourth. Distance 42 feet, 414 inches. (New record.)
High Jump—Won by Melinkovich (F); O’Hara (M), Loughrey (M), tied for second; Cusick (OC), fourth. Height 5 feet, 6 inches.
Three-quarter Mile Relay—Won by Howard (Grundeman, Oldham, Young, Robinson, Wenz, Condon); St. Edward’s, second; Freshman, third. Time 2:28.7.
Griffin Seeks Army Post
Professor Charles J. Griffin of the department of English, went before the army examining board last Wednesday evening at the American Legion home, in preparation for securing a commission of second lieutenant in the reserve corps. During the war, Professor Griffin was in charge of the passenger lists of the debarkation and embarkation center at Brest, France. After the armistice he was the commander of an American Legion post in the east.
The University is well represented in organizations for our national defense. Three Notre Dame men are on this board that examined Professor Griffin; and of the entire faculty, twenty-five are ex-service men and five of these hold reserve commissions.
ECONOMY!	SPEED!
The Student’s Choice
COLONIAL STAGES
TYPICAL LOW FARES	LOW RATES EVERYWHERE
One Way Ro. Trip	One Way Ro. Trip
New York ...		$19.00	$30.00	Cincinnati ...		$ 5.95	$10.70
Pittsburgh .		 8.75	15.75	Louisville ...		 6.00	10.80
Cleveland ...		 6.50	11.70	Nashville 		..... 10.00	18.00
Youngstown	.... 7.40	13.30	St. Louis 			 6.00	10.80
Buffalo 			 10.25	18.45	Chicago 			 2.25	• 4.05
Detroit 			 3.75	6.75	Columbus ...		 7.00	12.60
Toledo 			 3.75	6.75	Dayton 			 6.00	10.80
Reliable Connections
All reclining chairs	All Steel Buses
Frequent Schedules	Buses Everywhere
Tickets and information
see
Leo Kletzly, / Morrissey Hall
SAFETY!	COMFORT!
674
The Noire Dame Scholastic
Interhall Sports
BASKETBALL
Sorin, emerges from the Interhall basketball race with a record of 11 games won and one lost in the heavyweight division, while the Off-Campus lights claim the garland in the lighter division by virtue of an undefeated record in twelve games. The only setback suffered by. the , Sorin squad was handed to them by Carroll in an early season start, after which the league champions came back to down Off-Campus and capture the first position.
A survey of the standing after the termination of the season finds St. Edward’s in second place in the lightweight group with ten games won and two lost. The same record is held in the weightier section by the Off-Campus entrant, which led the bunch until Sorin’s late-season rush placed them ahead of the almost perennial Interhall champions.
Contrasted with the record of the victorious Sorin squad we find that hall’s entrant in the other section without a win, but this fact is not a discredit to the ability of the Sorin
lightweights since all of the twelve games chalked up against them in the lightweight league were the results of forfeits. In other words, Sorin had no entrant in the lightweight league.
Officials for the game and coaches for the team were supplied by the department of physical education, and the schedules for the practices, as well as for the games, were drawn up by the managers.
An all-Interhall basketball team is now being considered, and announcement of the selections will be made in the near future. ■	■
Interhall Basketball Results
Sunday, March 15, 1931
Heavyweight League — Off-Campus 21, Freshman 20; Howard 16, Lyons 9; Carroll 40, Badin 9; Walsh 23, Brownson 12; Sorin 18, Morrissey 15; Corby 21, Sophomore 9.
Lightweight League — Off-Campus 16, Freshman 11; Lyons 25, Howard 11; Badin 13, Carroll 9; Brownson 16, Walsh 14; Morrissey 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit) ; Sophomore 18, Corby 12.
Final Standings
Heavyweight League
	W	L	PCT.
Sorin 			__11	1	.916
Off-Campus 		__10	2	.833
Walsh		9	3	.750
Lyons		8	4	.666
Brownson		6	6	.500
Sophomore		6	6	.500
Carroll 			5	7	.416
Corby		5	7	.416
Howard		5	7	.416
Morrissey		5	7	.416
Freshman		4	8	.333
St. Edward’s		4	8	.333
Badin		0	12	.000
Lightweight League
	• w	L	PCT.
Off-Campus			12	0	1.000
St. Edward’s			10	2	.833
Freshman			9	3	.750
Sophomore			9	3	.750
Brownson			8	4	.666
Lyons 			7	5	.583
Carroll			6	6	.500
Corby			5	7	.416
Badin			4	8	.333
Howard			3	9	.250
Morrissey			3	9	.250
Walsh 			1	10	.166
Sorin			0	12	.000
gjaaaaa...■aiiiiaiiiua.■iiiaaiiiiiin...  iiiiiiiiii.mi...."'H	QJaaaaaaiaaaaaaai.uaa...aaaaaa.........iiaaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiliiiiiiiiu..
i hellomen! i i Don’t Look Because
You’ll never find a South Bend autoist disputing the Chicago highways with a perspiring truck driver. The South Bender prefers to use the hourly service of America’s fastest electric railway, with its downtown Chicago terminal.
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
| The Favorite Eating Place of I I	I
=	.	Notre Dame	E = Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, E
|	E E	Gary, Hammond, Chicago.	E
QaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaQ ELaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaQ

The Notre Dame Scholastic
675
PLAYGROUND BALL
Following the announcement in the Scholastic last week to the effect that an Intei^hall playground ball league was under consideration, ten clubs signified their intention of entering the competition. Those clubs are: Akron, Chicago, Cleveland, Connecticut Valley, Engineers, Indianapolis, Metropolitan, Pittsburgh, Texas, and Utica.
The schedule for play will be drawn up over the Easter vacation. Anthony Wirry, sophomore manager in charge of sport, has announced that applications must be presented in the manager’s office by March 27. The games will be played in the evenings during the months of April and May.
SWIMMING
With Freshman, Carroll, Corby, and Morrissey halls competing, the first preliminary Interhall swimming meet will take place Friday evening in the natatorium at 8 o’clock. The men who capture the first two places in each event will be eligible to enter the final tourney which has been tentatively set for May 1.
Although only the first two men will be declared eligible for the later
meet, first, second, and third places will be considered in adjudging the winner of tonight’s contests. Those freshmen who equal the qualifications which appear elsewhere in this issue of the Scholastic will be awarded numerals for their efforts.
Following the Eastei' recess, two additional preliminary meets will be held in which the remainder of the halls will be entered. Schedules for practices for these particular sections will be drawn up by the managerial department and posted later in the season.	-
The order of events for tonight’s meet is as follows: 40-yard breast stroke; 40-yard back stroke; 40-yard free style; plunge for distance; 100-yard back stroke; 100-yard breast stroke; 100-yard free style; and the 220-yard medley relay, (80-yard breast, 40-yard back, and 100-yard free style).
Officials chosen by the physical education department for tonight’s contest are: referee, Dan Halpin; clerk of course, John Grams; scorer, Frank Carideo; judges at finish, Clarence Kaplan, J. J. Griffin, and Albert Romanin; timers, Frank Leahy, William Artman, and William Taylor; starter, Joseph Mendelis; announcer, Tom
Yarr; inspectors of turns and lanes, D. Napolitano, John Kuhn, Bernard Bresson, and William Minardo; manager of meet, J. T. Masterson. Junior Managers Weiss and Grams are the men in charge of this branch of interhall athletics.
Handball Players Note!
Winners of matches in the handball and squash tournament, now under way, are urged to post their names on the bulletin board in the gymnasium as previously instructed. Anthony Wirry, sophomore manager in charge of the tourney, has issued a statement that men failing to do this will face the possibility of losing their match by default.	.
NUMERAL TIMES for Freshman Swimmers
40-yard breast stroke___:27
40-yard back stroke____:28
40-yard free style_____:21.5
100-yard breast stroke__1:22
100-yard back stroke----1:18
100-yard free style-----1:05
Length of pool, 57 feet, 8 inches.
I	DINE...	|
i	Every Evening, To The	|
I	Merry Tunes of The	j
| Notre Dame Jugglers	|
I	DINNERS ... 50c	I
I	LUNCHEONS . . 35c	|
1 SPECIAL SUNDAY | |	CHICKEN DINNER 65c	|
|	Any Name Printed on	i
|	Chocolate Easter Eggs	I
| NOBILE’S |
|	108 S. Main	I
QsniiiiiiniiiiinuitnniiiiiiiiisnniiiiiiniiiiiitiniiiiiHiniiiiiiiiiimiinuiiiiiiiiiiiuiiimtimiiiuQ]
QiitsiiiiiiitiinttuiiiiiiisiiiHiMitiiinniuttiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiHitiiiiiiiittiiiitiiiiiiiittttiiiiiiMuniiiitnQ
| Selling Out All Winter Goods |
! A Lucky Purchase of FACTORY JOBS j
=	in S8.50 to $15 values.	=
| HI-GRADE FOOTWEAR [
|	Smart Styles for the Well Dressed—“Edmonds,”	E
=	“Osteopathic,” “Musebeck’s” and	others! Black,	tan,	=
E	kid and calf. Many toe styles.	=
|	$3.85	।
|	$4.85	|
MEN’S NEW SPRING
OXFORDS
Black or Tan, Endicott-Johnson make, new toes, all sizes d»1 AC 5 to 11
NOVELTY-COLORED Corduroy Pants
All sizes, 28 to 38. Tan, Grey or Blue. Regular $4 to $5 values
GIL-BRO’S
|	FORMERLY — U. SI ARMY STORE	|
|	330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET	|
^^aiiiinaiauiiiaaaaaiiiaaaiiaaaiaiaiatiiiiuiaiaaaiiaaaaaaaiaaaiiiitaiiiaaaiiiiaaiiiiiaiaiiiiaiiiiiataaaiaaiiiiiiiaa^J
I II i
•i J i-
!<
i'
■ ।
i
Cigarettes in prime condition have a moisture content ofaboutlO% .It will be seen by the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory Chart that cigarettes in i	the ordinary
*	wrapped package
j	lose more than
half of their total j	moisture in thirty
5	days and that only
{	the Camel Humi-
,	dor Pack delivers
'	cigarettes to you
!	in prime condition
A
Smoke a Fresh Cigarette!
676	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Q
THE whole country is talking about the throat-easy mildness and the prime freshness of Camel Cigarettes in the new Humidor Pack.
The above chart prepared by the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory tells you why.
Please examine it carefully. It is an unfailing guide to cigarette selection and enjoyment.
As you can quickly see by the three upper curves on this interesting chart, cigarettes that lack the protection of the Humidor Pack lose their moisture rapidly from the day they are manufactured.
And day by day as this moisture disappears, the smoke from these cigarettes becomes harsher, hotter, more unkind to the smoker’s throat.
Not so with Camels!
The Humidor Pack is moisture proof and sealed airtight at every point. It protects the rich, flavc’ful
Camels
Artificial heat in houses and apartmentssoondries the moisture out of cigarettes wrapped the old fashioned way. It is the mark of a considerate hostess, by means of the Humidor Pack, to "Serve a fresh cigarette.” Buy Camels by the carton— this cigarette will remain fresh in your home and office.
© 1931! R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
aroma of the choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos of which Camels are blended.
Make these tests yourself
It is so easy to tell the difference between parched dry cigarettes and fresh prime Camels that it is no wonder everybody is reaching for a fresh cigarette today.
Your fingers identify stale, dried-out tobaccos at once. While a Camel is flexible and pliant.
Your ears can tell the difference too. For a dust-dry cigarette crackles under pressure.
But the real test is taste and there is simply no comparison between the rich mildness of a Camel and the hot, brackish smoke from a stale, dry cigarette.
Switch to Camels just for today then leave them tomorrow if you can.
R. J, REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WinHon-Salam, N. C.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	677
678
The Notre Dame Scholastic
cuse” thinks he’s a “So-
cial Lion” and goes
songwriter in a big way!
JACK
OAKIE
II In a picturization of the ||
I Broadway Mirth-quake- I romance by Ring Lard- I ner and Geo. S. Kauf- I man,	I
“June Moon”
A Paramount Picture with
FRANCIS DEE
Publix Presentations
VITAPHONE Sound	Vodvil
JOE ALEXANDER
At the Organ PARAMOUNT Sound News
Starts Tues.—Thru Fri.
RONALD
COLMAN in “DEVIL TO PAY” with
LORETTA YOUNG ■
Though it be your first or your hundredth
time—
Taste the glamor of a
Broadway Night!
The milling throngs, the gay laughter, the champagne air, the intoxication of a street gone mad with pleasure. Nocturne of “From Times Square north” in all its color, its fascination, its mystery. A saga of the “Great White Way” brought to you between two covers by that inimitable trickster, the FUNNY FELLOW. Its his BROADWAY NUMBER, guaranteed for a dozen laughs a page.
Meet guest funny-men of the first water pulling new gags and wiser cracks than you’ve heard for many moons. George M. Cohen, Mark Hel-linger, Ring Lardner—you’ve seen the old faces before, but never wreathed in such mirth and laughter. We tell you its contagious—you can’t escape it! So come on, there’s a big laugh awaiting you in
"The
Broadway Number" of the
The Notre Dame Juggler
For sale at Newstands everywhere In South Bend	On the Campus
Scholastic
The
SORIN CAGE CHAMPIONS FETED LAST EVENING;
MOYNIHAN PRESIDES
A testimonial banquet, in honor of Sorin hall’s championship basketball team, was given last evening at Oldenburg Inn. . “Tim” Moynihan served as toastmaster for the affair, which was attended by about forty-five Sor-inites, including the rector, the Reverend John F. Farley, C.S.C., and the guests of honor.
The personnel of the- championship squad includes Coach Johnnie O’Brien,
Notre Dame
Captain Mike Teders, Bernie Leahy, Marchy Schwartz, Ed Mahon, Kenneth Fishleigh, James Rudolph, Clarence Taeckens, George Vik, Fred Reiman, Sam Ventrano, John Dorschel, and Manager Bob Cunningham.
Dan Halpin and Jack Saunders served as general chairmen for the affair and were ably assisted by Frank Leahy, reception; Bob Cunningham, entertainment; Art McMan-mon, transportation; tickets, Roy Bailie and Bert Maloney, co-chairmen; decorations, John Lisicki and Vince Turley, co-chairman; publicity, “Judge” Telfel, Dick O’Donnell, and Jack Dempsey.
679
Mile Relay Runs in Chicago
Coach John P. Nicholson sent a one-mile relay team to Chicago last night to compete in the Banker’s track meet held in the 124th Field Artillery armory. The meet, primarily for employees of more than 100 Chicago banks, drew quite a large entry list with the women track stars in the majority. Representatives of a few Big Ten schools also took pai-t.
Charley Kelly, Mickey MacBeth, Bud Tuohy, and Jack Scanlon represented the Blue and Gold.
BEAUT^UL
tfianada
JF HOMEOFUVEENTEKTA1NMENT'
V o 17
STARTING SATURDAY
Barbara Stanwyck
Ricardo
A dime a dance . . . Youth and beauty . . . dim lights and jazz music . . . captivating smiles and glances . . . with the alluring
Monroe Owsley
A Glorious Triple Hit Show of RKO Vaudeville with
Vaudeville’s Master Salesman
Bob Robinson & Co.
Presenting
"It’s In The Box"
Two Charming’ Southern Belles of Harmony
Yorke & Johnson
Popular Songs Exquisitely Presented
Naro Lockford in A Dance Humoresque Smiling Steps in Merry Motion
On the Screen CONRAD NAGEL in “BAD SISTER” with ' SYDNEY FOX
Attend Our Saturday Bargain Mat.
25c
Till 6 P. M.
680	The Notre Dame Scholastic
WISCONSIN TO OPEN OUTDOOR SEASON HERE
N. D. Trackmen. Face Badgers in Dual Meet on April 18.
With the indoor track season at an end, Coach John P. Nicholson has given his charges a most needed rest and the majority of the squad will not return to active training until shortly before the Easter holidays begin. A few of the men will continue to work out three or foui' times each week.
. The outdoor season at Notre Dame is scheduled to get under way on April 18 and like the indoor season will give the track stars an abundance of competition against the strongest sort of teams. According to the unofficial outdoor schedule, the Badgers of Wisconsin will appear on the resurfaced Cartier field track in a dual meet on April 18. Following this engagement, the men will attend the Drake relays, at Des Moines, Iowa, on April 24 and 25, and the Ohio relays, at Columbus, on May 2. The second and last dual meet of the season will take the team to Annapolis
for a tussle with the Navy midshipmen on May 9.
The Indiana state meet, to be held this year at Purdue university, Lafayette, is on tap for May 16, and will be followed a week later by the Central Intercollegiate Conference outdoor meet at Milwaukee. In each of these two meets Notre Dame will be defending champs, and, incidentally, should be favored to retain their titles. Indiana should provide the strongest’ competition in the state meet.
The National Intercollegiates will be held in Chicago on June 6 and 7, and will bring the Blue and Gold season to a close. Coach Nicholson expects to enter quite a large squad in the meet this year and should be able to make a good showing.
The unofficial schedule:
April 19—Wisconsin at Notre Dame (dual meet).
April 24, 25—Drake relays at DesMoines.
May 2—Ohio relays at Columbus.
May 9—Navy at Annapolis (dual meet).
May 16—Indiana state meet at Lafayette.
May 23 — Central Intercollegiate Conference meet at Marquette.
May 30—Open.
June 6, 7—National Intercollegiate meet at Chicago.
PITT, PENN FOOTBALL DATES ARE CHANGED
Announcement was made a few days ago by the Notre Dame Athletic Association that the dates of the Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh football games next fall had been changed. The original schedule called for Pennsylvania to appear at Notre Dame on October 24, and the Panthers on November 7. These two dates have been reversed so that the Panthers will visit South Bend on the 24th, and the Red and Blue will attempt to gain revenge for the 60-20 drubbing administered last fall on the first Saturday of November.
The officially corrected schedule now stands:
Oct. 3—Indiana at Bloomington. Oct. 10—Northwestern at Chicago. Oct. 17—Drake at Notre Dame. . Oct. 24—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. Oct. 31—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh. Nov. 7—Pennsylvania at Notre Dame. Nov. 14—Navy at Annapolis.
Nov. 21—S. California at Notre Dame. Nov. 28—Army at New York.
QaaiiaiiafifaifaaaaaaaaaaaiataaaaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaQ
The Book Shop
|	119 N. Michigan Street	1
|	Headquarters Unexcelled	1
I	For	I
Books, Periodicals and Class Room Requisites
= =
=	Pay Us a Visit	I
| We have the Book you want.	=
THE BOOK SHOP
|	119 North Michigan Street
QmiitutiitiHHMiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiHiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiHniiiiiitiiiniiiiiittiiiiiniQ
QiaiiiaiaaiiiiiiiiiiiiiaaaaifaaaaaaaaaBaiiaatiiiaaaiaiiiiiaaaaaiaaiaaaiiiitiiiiiaaiiiiitiitiinitaiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiinQ |	t	=
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS
BANK
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
UNION TRUST COMPANY
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK
mmm«iUHniiamin«iiuuin61
The Notre Dame Scholastic
681
SPORTS STAFF BEATS
SENIOR MANAGERS 10-9
The sports staff of the Scholastic defeated the senior managers in a basketball game last Friday night by a score of 10-9. The scribes took the lead soon after the opening whistle and held it throughout. The score at the end of the first half was 8 to 4. The managers rallied in the final period but fell short by one point of tying the game.
Joe Lauerman, associate football manager, was high-point man of the evening with seven points. Eddie Moriarty was best for the sports staff. Another game is to be played
at a later date.
The box score:
Senior Managers	Sports Staff
G F P	G F p
Lauerman, f 3 1 2 E. Carey, f 10 0
Balfe, f	10 1 Asman, f	10 1
Saunders, c 0 0 2 McFeely, c 10 2
Grams, g	0 0 1 Moriarty, g 2 0 1
Ashe, g	0 0 1 Kearns, g 0 0 0
Belting, g 0 0 1
— — 	. 	 —
Totals	4 17 Total	5 0 5
RELAYS DISAPPOINTMENT
(Continued from Page 671)
ing although he was able to garner but a third in the 75 yard highs. In this event, Sentman dashed to a new world’s record, closely followed by Kellar, Ohio State sophomore star, and O’Brien. . In finishing third, O’Brien tied the world’s record, only to be beaten to the tape by his two rivals.
McCormick, who is rated as one of the premier dash men in collegiate circles this year, failed to even qualify in his event. Ralph Johnson, also had an off day in the pole vault, and was unable to soar any higher than 12 feet, 6 inches. The event was taken by McDermott of Illinois, present holder of the world’s indoor record, who vaulted to a new carnival mark.
In the two mile relay, the men of Nicholson were heavy favorites to win but were completely outclassed. Quigley led off for the Blue and Gold and ran an excellent half mile to give his mate a twenty-five yard lead. They were unable to maintain the advantage, however, and when it came Wilson’s turn to run the final leg, he was so far behind that it was impossible for him to make up the distance.
FROSH MANAGERS WIN CHAMPIONSHIP BY 17-10
The freshman managers won the championship of the Notre Dame managerial association last Sunday night when they took a hard-fought victory from the seniors by a score of 17-10. The freshmen led throughout except for a few minutes at the start of the game when Bob Balfe sank a free throw for a one-point lead. Johnny Venables, Quinn, and Miller of the frosh, and Balfe of the seniors, tied for high point honors with five points apiece. Balfe was forced from the game early in the fourth quarter with a strained muscle.
The seniors were handicapped by the absence of Jack Hughes, regular guard, who had not returned from the varsity game at Iowa.
Box-score:
Seniors (10)			p	Freshmen (17)		
	G	F		G	F	p
Balfe. f	2	1	1	Miller, f	2	1	2
Lauerman, f	1	0	0	Fisher, f	0	0	1
Saunders, c	0	1	o o	Venahles, c 0	5	o
Ashe, g	0	0	1	Quinn, g	2	1	2
Kegowiez, g	0	0	3	Goldberg, g 1	0	1
Halpin, g	1	0	1	Rubin, g	0	0	0
		 -					—— .		—
Totals Referee,	4 2 9 , McQuaid:			Totals	a umpire. Asman.	7	S
B
|	Buy Your Kodak Film	|
i	and have them DEVELOPED	i
I	at the NEWS STAND in the	|
Notre Dame Cafeteria j
I	When in town visit our store	I
|	with a complete line of Photo-	I
I graphic Supplies	j
|	Schillings Photo Supply	|
I	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	I
I	South Bend, Indiana	I
J PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE j
QaitiiiaHiiuiimiiinmiiiiiiiiitiiiiisiiimtiiimiiiiinimimiiiiiiiaiiiiimmiiinmiaimiaiaiumtaiQ
Meyer’s Luncheonette
« « «
Sandwiches
The heart of every sandwich contains the best can be bought.
that
Whole Wheat, Rye or White Bread
Ham Salad American Cheese Baked Ham Kay Cheese Egg Salad
10c
10c
15c
10c
10c
Chicken Salad Swiss Cheese Pimento Cheese
Boiled Ham Peanut Butter
15c 10c
10c 10c
10c
| I * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
682
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In every college town there is one outstanding
At Illinois it’s
ALONG Green Street, where A campus leaders stroll ... in the great slate-roofed fraternityhouses of Champaign . . . there is one pipe tobacco which always rolls up the biggest vote. At Illinois it’s Edgeworth, every time.
A pipe—Edgeworth. That is the smoking combination which has won the college man. Harvard, Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth — all agree . with Illinois. Natural merit has made Edgeworth ' the favorite tobacco in America’s leading colleges and universities.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their verdict: try Edgeworth yourself. Find it at your nearest tobacco shop—15(5 the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address: Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
EXTRA
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive "eleventh process.”Buy Edgeworth anywhere in twoforms—"Ready-Rubbed,” and"Plug ---- Slice.”All sizes, 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
THIS CONFIRMED ANKLE HUGGER
THE DRURY
The new DRURY—an English type oxford of smooth Black Calfskin—leather tailored to hug the ankle and instep. Under the foot you'll feel the firm yet gentle upward thrust of the "Main Spring Arch," adding custom comfort to custom appearance.
UUALkOVCR
111 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
The Notre Dame Scholastic
683
t4
USHERS’ CLUB TO HOLD BANQUET ON THURSDAY
The first annual ushers’ banquet will be held next Thursday night, March 26, in the University dining hall. Plans have been made under the direction of Daniel D. Halpin, senior manager of football and president of the Ushers’ club, who announced that approximately 800 men are expected to attend. Coach Knute K. Rockne will be the principal speaker on the evening’s program.
The Usher’s club was organized at the beginning of this year and served at each of the five home games on the 1930 schedule. Their work throughout the season was of a high order and the banquet next week is to show, in a measure, the appreciation of those in charge. The handling of the crowd is a big problem at most games and will be even greater next
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
a healthy body is constipation. Its poisons undermine the system, and cut down your efficiency.
But you can banish constipation so easily. Just eat a delicious cereal: Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN. Two tablespoonfuls daily are guaranteed to give relief. You will enjoy it with milk or cream-----fruits or honey added. Ask that Kellogg’s All-Bran be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
Salesmen Wanted!
No house to house proposition. $460.00 guaranteed for 70 days’ work. Selling experience not necessary. For particulars send name, address and phone number to Box 117, Notre Dame, Ind. Personal interview required.
^9^
All-Bran

year with such teams as Southern California, Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania scheduled to appear in the new stadium.
, INDIVIDUAL SCORING
HEAVYWEIGHT
LEAGUE
LIGHTWEIGHT
LEAGUE

* It is your taxi in the cities an open sesame —,	to countryroads and towns
▼	where old customs linger
and people are friendly ... it is an imitation to mountains and valleys and the secrets of undiscovered Europe .. . Best of all a car is not a luxury ... we have cars to drive yourself from §5 a day on a monthly basis . .. Reserve a car NOW for your trip abroad and make your summer a success .. . We arrange all details . . . Write us or see your local agent.
EUROPE-WHEELS
'.A.,V, ; .INCORPORATED	", ,
218 Madison Ave., New York
11 Rue Poudreau Paris
93 Regent St. London
New Golf Professional
Chester R. Keeley has been secured by University authorities as professional at the University Golf course which is scheduled to open April 1. Mr. Keeley, for the past five years professional of the Cass County Country club, Dowagiac, Michigan, succeeds Arthur West who was in charge of the course last year.
The profesional, now living in South Bend, is already at work on the course. The work on the two new residence halls has necessitated moving the thirteenth green. At present the workmen are constructing a new one under the direction of Mr. Keeley.
“Old Age” Conquered
Dick Mahony, varsity football man, and Jack Chevigny, assistant grid coach, rolled the mineralite this week and the younger blood came out on top as usual. Mahony took two out of the three games bowled to beat his mentor.
Teders (So) ......S3
Bognar (OC) ......S3
Townsend (Fr)	..53
Palt (Cor) ......50
Igoe (L) ........47
Kolski (Cor) ....47
Seidl (Wal) .....47
Sandera (How)	..46
Fishleigh (So) ___46
Mueller (Car) ____46
Consolati (Ba) ___45
Law (Wal) .......45
Szeckley (OC) ____42
Dolan (Wal) .....42
Baldwin (Mor) ____41
Fahr (SE) .......38
Osborne (Br) _____36
Reiman (So) ....34
Dixon (Car) .....33
Dyniewicz (Mor) . .33
McNerney (Br)_____33
MacGrath (Soph) 30
Callaghan (L) ...30
Herold (Br) .....29
Kane (Car) ......28
Casey (SE) ....102
Rodriquez (OC)___93
Horan (Fr) .....86
Vitt (OC) ......80
Tunney (SE) _____66
Dorsey (Car) ...62
Forastiere (Br)__55 Dorschel (H) . —53 Hayes (Soph) ____52 Montg’ery (Soph) 48 Thompson (Ba) .. .42 McLaughlin (Cor) 41 Brennan (Cor) ___40 O’Farrell (Fr) ...39 Foley (Wal) ___36
Rahaim (Cor) ____34 Sargus (Soph) ___33 O’Malley (SE) ...31 Malloy (Br) __31
Joyce (SE) .....30
Morrow (Car) ____29
Brown (L) ......27
Moriarty (L) ....26 Bansbach (Mor) . .26 Smith (Mor) .....26
Walsh “Rec” Repaired
The floor of Walsh hall “Rec” room has been undergoing repairs during the last two weeks. Joseph Holbach is at present in charge of the room.
684
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
”... and say, Mother, this call is almost as good as a trip home. I’ll sure call oftener, now that I’ve found out how cheap it is!”
The 'Economical No ice of Millions
. . . The first Harvard-Yale regatta on Lake Winnepesaukee in 1852, is said to have been instigated by JAMES N. EIKINS for the purpose of getting advertising and more traffic for the Boston, Concord and Montreal railroad . . . JOE BROMILOW, old-time middle distance runner, won his first senior championship when past the thirty year mark, after finishing second to the immortal MEL SHEPPARD about 33 times ... It is said that LUIS ANGEL FIRPO weighs 375 pounds . . .
. . . FRANK LUCE, captain of Yale’s hockey team, is the only Blue player who has been a starting regular for three seasons and has never played in a series lost to either Harvard or Princeton . . . FREDDY JACKS, former English featherweight, is now peddling papers in the Grand Central station, New York city . . . GUS SONNENBERG, former football player, played to almost $2,000,000 worth of customers in less than two years while he was heavyweight wrestling champion. . .
. . . The papers say that KNUTE ROCKNE has a chance to choose from 800 students, who play, football at Notre Dame university . . . this figure is supposed to include varsity, freshmen, scrub and interhall players . . . the rest of us go to classes with footballs tucked under our arms . . . WADE “RED” WOODWORTH, Northwestern’s all-American guard in football last fall, holds several world speed records for short distances in outboard motor boat racing
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
DO YOU EVER THINK ABOUT THE ADVERTISER?
He Needs Your Patronage, and Deserves it, Too.
. . . JIMMY McLARNIN, one of the best right-hand punchers the ring has ever known, has broken his chief bread winner five different times . . . MAX SCHMELING, the heavyweight champ, was fined $25 of the money he received for refereeing a wrestling match by the Louisiana state boxing commission for appearing at the arena later than '8 o’clock, even though he was not scheduled to appear in the ring before 9:30 . . . Practically every worthwhile boxer in' the Chicago Golden Gloves tournament will turn pro at the completion of said tournament . . .