Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus,
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY. 17, 1883.	No. 23.
The Law.
Winter.
Some there be, in song and story, love to celebrate this time;
Love to praise the cold, bleak winter with the music of their rhyme:
Love to see the snow’s white bosom ’neath the sun’s diminished light;
Love to hear the sleigh-bells jingling in the silence of the night. ,	o
But the season comes tempestuous, and at war with all mankind;
And I hear a thousand dirges in the moaning of the o	o
wind;
Dirges for the rich and learned, whom it giveth seeds of death;
Dirges for the poor and homeless, in the town and on the heath.	■
Think ye, poet, who hath sung Old Winter and his hearty praise,	'
That ’tis grief and sin and famine that you honor with your lays? .
But yourself the while forgetting, take you gentle pity’s hand,
While together and in sorrow you traverse th’extended land.
See the winter, and the suffering to our brethren it has’ brought;
See the grief and degradation on man and woman it has wrought!
For the1 things that are, seem stronger than the things that are to be;
Cold and famine drive the noblest to a vile extremity.
Sing the May time and the summer, rip’ning ’neath the lusty, sun;
- Sing the autumn time romantic, ere the winter hath begun;
But the cold and frosty season mark unworthy of your lay;
While, with hopeful hearts,- we’re waiting for the coming ' of the May-.
'	•	S., ’84.
REMARKS RELATING TO ITS ORIGIN AND . DEVELOPMENT.
[A Lecture delivered'Feb. 5th, by Prof. W. Hoynes.]
Law is defined by Blackstone as “ a rule of civil conduct prescribed by the supreme power in a state, commanding what is right and prohibiting what is wrong.” This definition is open to objection, and, indeed, many objections have been urged against it; but it would be supererogatory to repeat or comment upon them in this connection.
Plutarch invests the law with the plenitude of power, recognizes it as exercising unqualified dominion over all things, and refers to it as “the king; of mortal and immortal beings.” The ancients, as you are aware, believed in a power greater than the gods, a power to which even-Jupiter himself had to yield, the inexorable decree of Destiny. Though they might implore Jupiter and all the gods to avert impending wrath or remove imminent danger, though they might offer sacrifices and have recourse to every recognized manner of atonement for their ’ misdeeds, still the wrath came, and the danger took its course. The gods did not interpose, and to Destiny, therefore, that implacable order of things was ascribed. It was a species of “foreordination”—such as came to figure so conspicuously in connection with a well-known religious sect some 2,000 years later. Whatever happened uniformly and continuously was believed to be an immutable manifestation of supreme power; and to their minds this was law—Destiny—“ the king of mortal and immortal beings.” Hence, they believed that law moves, acts and is manifest in the operations of matter. Indeed, Pythagoras apotheosized all- matter and regarded the divine element as existing in everything. %
The mistake of the ancients consisted in confounding- law with the Power that conceives, applies and enforces it; “There is a Primitive Reason,” as a modern writer expresses it, “and laws are the relations subsisting between that Reason, or First Cause, and: all subordinate and dependent beings, as- well as between those beings in their intercourse with one- another.?’ What we recognize as'the supreme power in the state puts’
354
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
into effect the laws that direct and govern men • *
in their multitudinous relations with -one another. And the laws that direct and govern matter in all its countless manifestations of energy and motion, that embrace in their never-ceasing operations all things animate and inanimate, are put into effect by the Supreme Power in the universe. Viewed as a physical being, man is governed by these invariable laws; but, from the standpoint of an intelligent being, one exercising free-will, he is left to his own direction, and may devise, enact and enforce such laws as his customs and surroundings suggest.
In a political sense the supreme power—the power to determine what the law shall be and enforce it—belongs to the dominant influence, party or person in a state. Of the several forms of government,- the most noted are those known as a despotism, an aristocracy, a monarchy and a republic.
A despotism is a government without a constitution, where absolute power is exercised according to the will or caprice of an autocrat.
An aristocracy is a form of government in which the supreme power is vested in the principal persons in the state, or in a privileged order.
A monarchy is a government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of a single chief ruler, it being ordinarily exercised with reference to precedents and constitutional restraints.
A republic is a state in which the sovereign power abides in the people; but for all the necessary purposes of government it is delegated to and exercised by representatives elected by the popular vote.
You are all aware that laws are by no means ' uniform throughout the world, nor even through-out the United States. They are enacted and enforced with due regard to the customs, circumstances, condition and range of intelligence of the people of each nation, as well as the form of govenment under which they live. However, there are certain fundamental principles that are measurably analogous everywhere, and they are recognized in • one form or another as entering into the structure of all laws. They are the principles which secure to men the right to life, liberty and property. They are essential to the formation and cohesion of society. Without them, government would be impossible, and contention, bloodshed and rapine would prevail. But as to laws not essential to the security of life, liberty, and property, great differences exist. These are formed and enforced with reference to the local customs of the people in the different nations of the world and the manifold peculiarities, physical and otherwise, that distinguish them and their countries. But the laws of any one of these nations, no matter how wise and humane, no- matter, how conformable with reason and fully sanctioned byr experience, have no obligatory weight or influence outside of its own jurisdiction. The sovereign power of every country claiming to be independent peremptorily denies its subordination in any particular to other powers. This principle, goes so far, indeed, that
it. is recognized even as between our states. The laws of Indiana, for instance, have no obligatory force in Ohio, Michigan or Illinois, nor have the laws of surrounding states greater force or efficacy ill Indiana. Of course, this remark applies to the statutory laws of the states in question, and not to the common law, which is common to and recognized in all the states, with the exception of Louisi.-ana. And here we may inquire briefly into the origin and development of the different kinds or classes of laws recognized by the people of our country in their diversified relations with one another.
First, let us deal with international law; second, the common law; third, the statutory law; fourth, the canon and civil laws, and, fifth, the military and . martial laws.
Such subdivisions as criminal law, commercial law, admiralty law, probate law, etc., would trespass too much upon the brief time at our disposal on this occasion if specially considered.
First, then, as to international law. This system of law dates back to the time when Greece and Rome were flourishing states, and when the Israel-ites ruled in Canaan. However, all admit that it was exceedingly crude at the time. Most of its rules were associated with religious observances. The laws of peace and war, the inviolability of heralds and ambassadors, the right of asylum and the obligation of treaties, were all consecrated by religious rites. Ambassadors, heralds and fugitives who took refuge in the temples or on the household hearths were deemed inviolable, because they were invested with a sacred character, and the symbols of religion. War between nations of ’ the same race and religion was declared with religious observances. The heralds proclaimed its existence by devoting the enemy to the infernal gods.
, The international law of that time was not only crude in its provisions, but it was also harsh and selfish. The obligation of treaties generally rested upon an exchange of hostages; and, where treaties were violated, the hostages, in most instances, were cruelly put to death. This law, or the jus gentium, as it was called, was confined in its operation almost exclusively to the Roman Empire. It proved to be convenient in enabling that power * to treat in accordance with established rules the various nations and peoples tributary to it.
After the establishment of the Christian religion the jus gentium was remodelled—in fact, radically changed and improved. Its harsh and selfish elements were scrupulously eliminated. This great amelioration in the provisions of international law was founded upon the following circumstances: - First, the. recognition.by Christians of one spiritual head, whose authority was often invoked as the supreme arbiter in controversies between sovereigns and between different nations. Under the auspices of Pope Gregory IX the canon law was reduced to a code, and this code served as a rule to guide the decisions of the Church in public as well as private controversies. Second, the revival of the study of the Roman law and the adoption of this system of jurisprudence by nearly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
355
all the nations of Christendom, either as the basis of their municipal code or as subsidiary to the local legislation of each country. It was due to these causes that international law was rendered broad, liberal and humane. Thus it was exalted to the plane of substantial utility to mankind. It made rights uniform as between nations and peoples, assuring to the weakest the same immunities and liberties that it accorded to the strongest. And that law is recognized by our Government in its international relations. It tends to promote a fraternal feeling and foster a common spirit of progress among men throughout the world.
Second. As to the common law. This system of jurisprudence is derived from and based upon the customs and usages of the people of Great Britain. It begins properly with the invasion of England by the Saxons and Angles, in the fifth century. The customs that for ages had prevailed among them in the forests and on the plains of Western and Central Europe were, transferred to England, and the common law grew up and developed with reference to those customs and the altered conditions of their new abode. The earliest common-law compilation is known as the Doni Bok or Liber Judicialis, and is ascribed to King Alfred. It was designed to serve as a code for the government of the whole kingdom. Next appeared the Mercian laws, which prevailed in the counties bordering on Wales, and which recogo	7	o
nized some of the old British customs—that being ,	a	o
the region to which the Britons had generally withdrawn after the Saxon invasion. In some localities on the eastern coast, the Danish law was recognized and obeyed, many ’Danes having settled in that quarter. In the time of Edward the Confessor, a compilation of all the laws, both customary and statutory, was made, and it obtained great celebrity. The country was divided into counties, the counties into hundreds, and the hundreds into tithings. The county courts and those of the hundreds were popular tribunals. The witenagemote' was the highest assembly, and was thoroughly aristocratic in character. The king presided, and it met by his summons. It made laws and voted taxes. The bishops and abbots formed a large element in it. The sher-iff-and a bishop presided in each of the county courts. Following the Norman conquest great changes were made in the law. These changes were most sweeping in matters affecting the tenure of real estate. An aula regis, comprising the king,and his council, was formed for the transaction of legal business. The Norman language was introduced as the language of the courts, though the pleadings were conducted in Latin. The people throughout the kingdom indicated a strong preference for the county courts, and it was found practically impossible to abolish them. Hence they were tolerated, and itinerant justices were appointed, under sanction of the king, to visit them at stated, times and superintend the trial of causes. In course of time, the exigencies of growing commerce and increasing population rendered additional ’ courts necessary, and the courts known as King’s
Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer, were organized. These were located at Westminster, and they may be regarded as the first genuine and generally recognized common law courts. Criminal cases on behalf of the crown were: adjudicated in the court of King’s Bench. Criminal cases in Great Britain, as you are aware, are begun and prosecuted in the name of the king or queen against the defendant. For example, the indictment reads “Rex v. Richard Roe,” or “Regina v. John Doe.” In this country, the word “People” or “State” is substituted for “Rex” or “Regina.” Actions between subjects and suits affecting real estate were brought in the Court of Common Pleas. Cases affecting the revenues of the Government and the king’s pecuniary interests were begun in the Court of Exchequer. From time to time the jurisdiction of these courts became enlarged, and the result is that, as to many subjects of litigation, it is not now material in which court complainants start suit. When an appeal is taken from any one of these courts it goes to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, where sit for the time the judges of the two other common law courts. These pass upon the points in issue, but their ruling is not conclusive. An appeal still lies to the House of Lords, which is the supreme tribunal in Great Britain. Cases involving questions of fact, whether of a civil or criminal nature, and requiring the services of juries, are mainly tried in the nisi^rius courts, which are distributed throughout the kingdom, much the same as circuit courts in the United States. . _ (to be continued.) .
Clouds.
O clouded sky! O dismal day!
Dismiss yourselves for aye!
My soul is sad, all life seems dead. .
Besone, I sav, awav!
Bright, shining sun, thy course still run, Forget not us below;
Illume my heart, bid clouds depart,.
Bring joy instead of woe.
. What, dismal still ? - My heart’s achill, And must it ever be?
Oh, Saviour come! Thy will be done. Through time and eternity.
William H Arnold, ’83.
History. -	T	' r
History is a moralist which follows close upon the footsteps of the great and all-powerful teacher, the mysterious agent of omnipotence, death. .It presses close upon his dark shadow, and, with a diamond point, blazes forth in the face of day the virtues or the vices of a buried race. It rends the mystic veil that floats between .the present and the past, and, inexorably just, shows us the virtues which beautified or the vices which disfigured its subjects. Historic fame is nearly always posthu
356	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -
mous, for rarely does the historian guide the pen, until the Lordling and the dependent have alike paid the universal debt of nature. Then, when the pampered satellite, the flattering courtier, the poet, and the orator, who.prostituted their talents at the shrine of sensuality, and who sought, by reflecting their own genius upon their patron, to raise up for him an ephemeral fame, a mushroom popularity, a pretty distinction, which his own virtues or talents never would have accorded him,—does this' stern monitress, this keen scrutinizer divest the motive from the act, and unfold to our view all the mazes and subterfuges of which the human soul is capable. Men are no longer dazzled by the bold daring, the martial prowess, and the high fame of the great man who would have snatched the wreath from Fame’s high brow, who grasped at gloiy’s fleeting phantom, who rode foremost on ambition’s car, whose gifts were thrones, whose vassals kings. The colored medium in which his actions' once appeared has been removed, and now he stands, stripped of his glorious appendages. Posterity, arraigning him before her inexorable tribunal, he answers to the charge. Too often, indeed, are the laurels of the warrior dyed in the life-blood of the widow’s and the orphan’s all, and while fame exults in victories won, humanity weeps over her children slain.
It is a great privilege, that of calling up the illustrious dead from their vaulted chambers and rendering them the due which jealousy, pride, or . prejudice prevented them before from receiving.
We may sit in oui‘ easy chairs, surrounded by friends, and yet, as if by the waving of a magician’s , wand, our will alone can unto mb them. Death hath no power over those whom history claims— theirs is the true elixir, which gives an immortality of life, a perennity of youth.
History is like a vast storehouse; it gathers up the collective knowledge of' the past, and from it gives mankind the results of experiment, the science of political legislation, the causes of the rise and fall of nations, the characters and the passions of men and-their influence on man. In short, it is a mirror in which we may gaze at will. Centuries may have rolled by in their swift and circling march, but the historian’s pen is supreme over time. What a profound view is thus given us of the human heart, its motives, its acts, its incentives, its springs of action, in fine, its entire mechanism? How widely does the-mind’s horizon extend as it wanders with the historic muse o’er centuries ' flown? No Lethe flows where history dwells, her stamp is memory; she shakes the dust from old antiquity, and familiarizes us with the past. We may sit beneath the sacred shades of Academus, listening, as did the disciples of Socrates and Pythagoras, to the golden maxims that fell from their lips. We may gaze upon Greece and Rome in their-proud supremacy and pristine magnificence, or we may meditate upon the mutability of man’s handiwork, amid fallen fanes and classic ruins1. Philip of Macedon- rejoiced more that his son- was bqririn the time of 'Aristotle,' than that an heir was given'hiin to fiis-titles and his kingdoms; but we,
through the medium of history may enjoy not only the wisdom of Aristotle, but that of all the host who have appeared since his day, all the investigations of science, all the developments of philosophy, all the wisdom of antiquity. Where once the loud Pean was sung, in honor of the brave, and the triumphal arch was raised to perpetuate the hero’s glory, the wild beast now seeks his sustenance, and makes his lair, the traveller vainly looks amid the fallen relics which desolate the scene for some faint memento of the past, a drop of ink conveys to posterity that which the graven monument and lofty obelisk have vainly attempted to preserve.
Yet do we often find history unable to account for evidences which abound in different parts of the globe, of a people who live only in their colossal remains, whose history is beyond the reach even of traditionary legend. We are carried back beyond all date, while gazing on the massy monuments of India and Egypt, the cyclopean walls of - Italy and Greece, the ruins of Uxmal Palmyra, those Herculean remains, so different in their rude grandeur from the divine simplicity of the classic age or the elaborate elegance of a more modern day. It is strange that the most durable’ monuments remaining are those erected by a people who have long since passed away.
The greatest effects in history have seemed to depend almost entirely on chance. If the Persians had not been defeated at Marathon or Salamis, if Ctesar had not crossed the narrow Rubicon, if William of Normandy had been defeated at the battle of Hastings, if Emmet, the brave, noble Emmet, had been successful, if our own Washington had been surprised at the crossing of the Delaware, how changed would have been the tide of history. The ai'ts and sciences had never been transplanted from Egypt to Greece, millions had been spared Rome, England had never been the flourishing nation she is, poor Ireland would havfe unloosed the girths that bound her to the tyrant’s car, and Washington, liis country’s savior, and the . nation’s pride, had' died a traitor’s death, and slept, perhaps, as Emmet sleeps, unepitaphed.
Europe, in her juvenility, flinging off as she did almost miraculously tile attempted subjugation of Asia, taught the world a lesson. Who will say that the history of: successful struggles which Greece in her disparity showed us, may not have incited the valor of a few, in a far-distant land, to do and dare for liberty and rights, against tyranny and oppression; A Leonidas of Greece may have as well inspired a Leonidas of America, as a Bozar-ris of his own land. The land of Columbus unknown slept in the tomb of the future, while Greece was mistress of the intellectual world; but now the tide is changed, and Greece is indebted to America for the intellectual culture of her children;’ she is reviving on her fallen shores that taste for science and literature which despotism and anarchy had well-nigh deprived her of.
In comparing the history of our country witli that* of many others, we find that we have much to rejoice over,- much* to? be thankful. for; but
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	357
while glorying in our growth, and rejoicing in our strength, let us not forget to return thanks to Him, from whom all our blessings, all our privileges emanate.	M. T. H.
।	Scientific Notes.
1	—The restoration of the feudal castle of Heidel-
berg is being agitated in some parts of Europe.
—Masks to protect the face in glass-blowing, metal-working, etc., are now manufactured of mica, which is a non-conductor of heat, and resists all acids.	•
‘	—From the deposit discovered in 1872 on the
Appomattox River at Bermuda, Va., there are ;	now taken 1,000 tons annually, or about a third of
[;	the fine ochres used in the United States.
!	—Prof. Ayrton, of London, has successfully ap-
;.	plied electricity to the propulsion of a trycicle by
<	means of the Faure accumulator. The added
weight was equal to that of another person.
.	—The deposit of salt discovered in the Wyo-
.	ming Valley underlies a tract fifteen miles long,
and two or three wide. It has a depth of from
•	1,200 to 1,600 feet. The vein at Warsaw is sev-
enty feet thick.
.	—The new volume in the French edition of the
'	“ International Scientific Series ” is on the “ Origin
of Cultivated Plants,” by M. de Candolle. It appears from this author’s researches that, out of ?	about 40,000 known species of plants, mankind
‘	make use of only about 300.
1	—A freight-wagon has been patented in Ger-
many that can be drawn on rails or on ordinaiy ■	roads to the water’s edge, when, by unscrewing
four nuts, the body of the wagon is freed from J	the wheels, and can be towed to any distance, bet	ing thus transformed into a stout boat.	’
t	—Diamonds, Mr. A. Griffiths considers, had
|	been formed by the action of highly-heated water
|	or water-gas, aided by great pressure, on the car-
|	bonaceous matter of fossils in the sedimentary
I ’ rocks, followed by cooling and consequent deposi-i	tion of carbon in the crystalline condition.
’	—Recent experiments made in Paris have been
I’	successful in producing artificially in the labora-
I	tory specimens of almost all kinds of rocks of ig-
;	neons formation, such as lava, basalt, etc., thus im>	itating nature in her most secret processes, and
|	completing, on a small scale, in a few days, what
j	she requires years to accomplish.
—The expression “white as snow” is not strictly accurate, for there is such a thing as red snow. Aristotle, in his writings, mentioned the
• phenomenon, but could not explain it. M. Sos-sure, a French scientist, observed red snow on the
’	Alps, and, upon examining it with a microscope,
i	discovered that the snow owed its red hue to a
minute plant, Protococcus Nivalis, .which consists
*	of a single cell. Red:snow has been observed in
this country on .the Wasatch Mountains, ten thou-and feet above the sea. It looks like snow that !	has been sprinkled with fresh blood.
£
—During the deep excavations at Messrs. Drummonds’ banking-house, at Charing Cross, London, some extremely interesting fossils, were discovered. These have been identified and put together, and form about 100 specimens of the ponderous animals which mark the pleistocene times, coeval with the earliest appearance of man. They include bones of the cave-bear, tusks of the mammoth, tusks and bones of extinct elephants, remains of extinct Irish deer, rhinoceros, and of extinct oxen, from the pleistocene gravels; also bones of the horse, the sheep, and the Celtic shorthorn, from recent deposits.
—The astronomers of Europe have paid a tribute to the diligent and accurate work of Harvard observatory by joining in a request that it be made the centre of astronomical observations for the United States. During the last year the observatories of Europe recognized the advisability of systematic astronomic research, and fifty of them formed a union under the presidency of the observatory at Kiel, Prussia. During observations of. the late comet, the propriety of extending the same systematic organization to the observatories of this country forced itself upon the European union, and the Harvard observatory was agreed upon as the one most capable of filling the position in this country occupied in Europe by the Kiel observatory.
Books and Periodicals.
A Latix ■ Grammar. By Thomas Chase, LL. D., President of Haverford College, Philadelphia: Eldridge & Bro. Price, $1.35; to teachers, for examination, $1.00.	.
We commend this work to the attention of teachers and students. We think it a great improvement on other Latin Grammars, especially in the arrangement of the Svntax.
—The Century Magazine for February is at hand. The best articles are those on K American Etchers”; “My Adventures in Zuni”; The beginning of a novel—“A Woman’s Reason,” by W. D. Howells; “Features of the New Northwest.” Among the stories may be classed an Essay on “ The Jewish Problem,” by Miss Lazarus; it is decidedly a work of fiction.
—Owing to the ilLhealth of the former proprietor, the well-known and popular Canadian dollar magazine, The Harj>, has passed into the hands-of Messrs. Callahan and Co., and will hereafter be published by them at Montreal. The Harp has already obtained a pair circulation, and the new management promise that neither time nor expense shall be spared to make it one of the most attractive of magazines. Wb are glad to notice that Mr. Joseph.K. Foran and other of the old .contributors are retained by the new managers.
—The American Catholic J^iarterly Resnem begins its eighth year with. undiminished vigor. Its able .editorial management has raised it to a high standard of excellence, which, the publishers de
358	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
clare, will be sustained at any cost and even, if possible, be improved. The Review well deserves the encouragement and support of an enlightened public. The January number presents a number of articles, each one of which is interesting and instructive—such as: “ Social and Moral Aspect of Italy and Other Catholic Countries”; “ The Influence of St. Francis of Assisi in Mediteval Art”; “ Frequent Communion”; “The Irish Situation”; “Church Architecture in the United States”; “Religion and Life”; “ The Public Press and Public Morals”; “The Observance of Sunday and Civil Laws for its Enforcement”; “Is Spiritism a Development of Christianity?”
Exchanges.
—The Lantern, from the Ohio State University, Columbus, visits us for the first time. Notwithstanding its unpropitious name, The Lantern is fairly edited and neat in appearance. The personal and local departments are well attended to.
—The January number of The Phonographic Meteor, a London literary magazine in stenographic characters, edited by James Herbert Ford, F. R. H. S., asserts that “fonografv in rhe United States is fast becoming an incoherent mass of hieroglyphics, and has no hesitation in saying that the day is not far distant when the systems operating in the two countries will be as widely different as it is possible for the most fanciful to conceive. In every portion of the enormous Republic there appears to be a hebdomadary rising of phonetical enthusiasts inspired with the Quixotic notion that Mr. Pitman’s invention requires remodelling at their hands, and, mirabile dicta, there are numerous bodies of so-styled phonographers who embrace the views of these would-be improvers with an earnest avidity truly astonishing.”
—The ’ Varsity for Jan. 27th has a sensible editorial on “XDollegiate Journalism,” from which we clip the following sentences:	’
“ Everything should have a reason. What reason can we give for having a college.paper? There is a social world, a political world, a religious world; there is also a college world. It has its inhabitants, it has its rulers, its laws, its politics; then why not its press? There arise as important questions in college politics as are ever debated on the floor of the House of Commons. There should be a college paper to discuss and ventilate these questions as they arise, in order that those interested should have a means of.finding out about them, and again, because tilings are better decided for the free discussion of them. College life, too, has its own budget of news, of small public interest, perhaps, but of great moment to the inhabitant of the college world, which ivould be left unrecorded but fora college paper. Great, however,, as’the advantages named are, there are others which we believe to be much greater. Happily the idea is passing away that the one great end ’ of college life is to pass examinations. Broader—more liberal-views are gaining favor. Men, at least .men with common sense, believe they come to college to develope their faculties so that in after life they may use them to good efiect. - Now for this object two things are. all-important, viz., to think well arid to express one’s thoughts well. The former of these is, to some extent, taught by lectures, examinations, and study; but the latter is certainly wanting to a lamentable extent even in our best educated gradu
ates. Now, a man learns to play on the harp by playing on the harp, and so one of the best ways of learning to express oneself well is to write a little for the college paper. This, we believe, is one of the main advantages of having such a paper. We would like to see this advantage more generally appreciated. Most surely any under-graduate who neglects this most necessary branch of his training will live to repent it.”
The editor of the “ Five o’Clock Tea” in the ’ Varsity quotes the words of the Scholastic and not those of Academica in the item on ancient punsters, but the Scholastic is not mentioned..
— The Harvard Crimson has again taken up the Exchange department, after having for some time allowed it to fall into disuse. The Exchangeeditor says it is with a feeling of despair and dread that he puts on his over-alls and prepares to “ slash around.” From such a well-ordered, high-toned paper as The Crimson, “slash around” sounds rather harsh, but it is not at all out of place. That is just what an Exchange-editor must do sometimes, unless he would have himself and his paper offered as a bloody sacrifice to so pie of the wooden gods of the college press; and, of course, no high-spirited editor could stand that. The exchange department of The Crimson is, as we judge from a remark in its notice of the Cornell Era, started as an occasional feature, but we think it will be found so interesting that it will become a permanent one. It certainly adds to the interest of a college paper at home, as well as abroad; for those who have not time, inclination or opportunity to scan the college papers, like to know what is going on, what is thought of such or such a paper that they know of, and, if they be editors or contributors, how their own efforts are received. The Crimson editor says: “The Notre Dame Scholastic is, on the whole, interesting, though peculiar, and gives the impression that it is not entirely free from censorship.” Oh, dear no; it is not free from censorship, as may readily be inferred from the Georgetown College Journal, the University Magazine in its last number, the Oberlin Review, the Monmouth College Courier, etc., etc. But the Scholastic can stand all that, and more, too, without wincing. In fact, it serves to throw a spice of life and excitement into the business that breaks-the monotony of the thing. True, there is too much of this spice at times, with an overdose of pepper and mustard occasionally, or too strong a taste of vinegar to be agreeable; but that cannot be helped, it seems, with a lot of green cooks and quill-drivers having a hand in, and these determined to run all the business according to . their own notions. As a rule, Exchange-editors think themselves admirably fitted for the.position, of emperors of the college press; they therefore wish to recast ’all other papers in their own mold, however defective that may be; then the trouble begins, and the cooks and butlers and quill-drivers tumble each other into hot water, in -which some get so severely scalded that they retire in disgust from the business. Inter alia, we must give the Exchange editor. of the Niagara Index credit for finding a single error in five of the Scholastic’s hastily-written exchange notes. If there were other errors
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	359
of course he would have seen them, or it may be that he was charitable enough to say nothing about the others. We are at a loss for his meaning in the statement that the Ex.-editor of the College Journal does not mean what he says. We can hardly believe the Georgetown man is not responsible for what he says. Although he betrayed woful ignorance of one of the greatest scientists of this century, and a clownish awkwardness in attempting to cover up that ignorance, we have a I	better opinion of the Georgetown man than that
held by the Index's critic.
To the Exchange Editor of the University Magazine.
Dear Sir:—My attention was recently called to some strictures of yours on an article of mine. I will quote your words, if you will allow me:
“ The leading article, ‘ Ingersoll’s Astronomy,’ is of a character that would almost seem to justify such men as Ingersoll in the hearty contempt that they profess for ‘ the theologians.’ We have no sympathy with, nor liking for, cavilers like Ingersoll, but while we should naturally expect to find opponents of religion taking advantage of inaccuracies to scoft at those deep truths of which the. mistakes are but broken lights, yet it is a shameful thing when those who stand forth as champions of religion will devote a whole article to ribald exultation over a mere slip of the pen of their opponent.”
So that is your idea of a mere slip of the pen! Here is a man who comes before an audience with ,	the avowed intention of showing how much more
11	he knows on a special subject than a certain other .
man. So far, however, from showing any superiority, he shows himself to be absolutely inferior to the other man in correct information on the subject. He shows, moreover, so little respect for the discrimination of his audience, as to neglect to post himself on a matter that he could have found in an ordinary school text-book. And you say that such a man is not a legitimate object of mirth!
That Moses, the adopted son of a Princess of Egypt, was carefully educated in such branches of science as were studied at the time, no one can doubt. That’ he was an apt and diligent pupil we will not question. That he could calculate an eclipse of the moon, or the position of a planet at a given time must, then, be granted. The fictitious importance which the doctrines of judicial astrology gave to the planetary aspects would ensure assiduity both in the teacher and learner. .Had Moses been the impostor that Ingersoll represents him, his books would not be free from i'	the taint of astrology. Had he followed the dic-
tates of education rather than those of inspiration, he would have spoken with greater particularity of the planets Saturn and Jupiter-than of the Sun and Moon, as Saturn and Jupiter were then supposed to exert a more powerful influence oyer human destinies. Is it not a mark of superhuman intelligence that, having mentioned those two heavenly bodies which are bf real value to humanity, he dismisses the follies of astrology and planet worship in the simple phrase: “he made the stars also.”?
I	When I say real value, I do not mean to ques-
tion or deny the value of the ideas of sublimity and grandeur we derive from the contemplation of the starry heavens and from the .study of astronomy; I would merely intimate that there is no one of the heavenly bodies, -except the sun and moon, that might -not be instantly annihilated without appreciably affecting the sum total of human happiness.	>	- I
Tainted though it was with astrology, the astronomy of the Egyptians in the time of Moses, was not to be despised. Astrology itself was useful as giving an additional motive to the study of the heavenly bodies. That the moon, alone among these, was occasionally immersed in the earth’s shadow, afforded them an idea of her comparative proximity. That her angular distance from the sun was equal to a quadrant when half her illuminated surface was visible, conveyed a notion of the sun’s -immense distance and magnitude. That the orbits-of Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn enclosed the area occupied by the Sun, Moon and Earth was also correctly inferred from their motions. In fact, if Moses, according to his humanly acquired, knowledge, and a superficially educated modem, like Ingersoll, were called up together before a scientific board of examiners, and such questions put to them as: “In what sign of the Zodiac was Jupiter ten years ago?”—“What will be the date and magnitude of the next eclipse of the Moon?”— the chances are that Moses would pass the better examination. From my acquaintance with persons of Ingersoll’s stripe, I am inclined to doubt whether he could even identify Jupiter , if confronted with him among the “host of heaven.”
Allow me, in conclusion, to rectify mistakes into which you have (incomprehensibly to me), fallen. I am not a theologian, nor connected with theolo-gians, except as having an uncle by marriage who is a beneficed clergyman of the Church of England, but as I have never had the pleasure of his personal acquaintance, I presume you will not score that up against me. Neither am I a champion of religion. If religion needs a champion against such blunderers as Ingersoll, she has only to select among the numberless capable men who have consecrated themselves to her service. As to the contempt of Ingersoll, why should it be deemed a misfortune to play “ me too ” to the “ lunatic of Patmos”? The true calamity would be to Incur the esteem of Ingersoll, from which may Heaven protect both you and me.	.
And now, my serious friend, answer me. Re-consider the subject, and tell me what is Ingersoll that he should not be laughed at when he commits an absurdity ? What is the’peculiar sanctity that attaches to his character? Has he even the human sanctity that belongs to every honest, earnest .inquirer after truth, and protects his very blunders from ridicule? Has he the merit of originality? Is he anything but a. mercenary mountebank who parades his infidelity for the purpose of extracting money from‘the pockets of the-gullible? Write soon to	•
Your most obedient, veiy humble servant,
Jim Gimblette.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, February 17,1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends .that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the.day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	'
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their .general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr .50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic-regularly he.will -confer .a favor by sending, us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office.of-publication, as,usually, but few copies-in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The.Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and grad-uates-of the,University.
Our :Staff.
George E. Clarke.
Albert F. Zahm. ’83.
T.^Ewing Steele, ’84.
Wm. H. Arnold, ’83. 3 kJ
R. M. Anderson, ’83
J. Larkin, (Law) ’83
—-We have good news.for the Preps, this week. Mr. George Mason, of the {Excelsior Iron Works, Chicago, has made up his-mind to oiler them something .to .work ?f or, as .well worth their best efforts .as any of the promised first-class premiums that are now exciting the .emulation of the Seniors. -With the consent of-the College authorities, he has -therefore ^promised the Juniors a medal—f ully as -valuable as the.Quan, the English or the Philoso--phy prizes. . It-goes without saying that the Juriiors wilhreceive the.;announcement with perfect enthu-siasm,and.weareconfidentthat the“Mason Medal” 'wilbbe .the;.means .of stirring up.a vast amount of ih'ealthy -rivalry;among Them; ' rltswill-jbe. awarded to the student whose record shall have been the best during thewholescholastic year—classstandingand deportment-being, of course, both taken into ac
count. Our Junior friends would therefore do well to keep a sharp eye bn the “Roll of Honor” and “List of Excellence ” in future. As all can secure mention in the first list—if-they only choose to do so,—and as all have about the same number of classes to attend, and a good working chance to get “ First Places ” in the monthly competitions, it will -be quite evident that the race for the medal is to be a “ free-forrall,” and that the student who shall have obtained the greatest number of honorable mentions will be the most deserving one. To encourage all to do their very best, we learn that not onljr will the luck)r winner be mentioned in next year’s catalogue, but also a certain number of the foremost competitors. Pull off your coats, therefore, preps., and get ready for serious work; may the best man win! and there is not the slightest doubt but that he will.
—The first Art Entertainment of the season, given by Rev. Father Zahm in the Academy of Music, on last Wednesday evening, was the most brilliant affair of the year. Of the many similar exhibitions that he has given, this was one of the best. All speak of it in the highest terms and say that they never spent a more pleasant evening. The audience was a large one, among whom were President Walsh, members of the Faculty, and many others. The Academy was a great improvement on Phelan Hall. The drop-curtain—its rich ornaments having magically disappeared—admirably answered the purpose of a screen. It should be preserved for future entertainments of this kind.
The views shown were about one hundred and fifty, selected from some seven hundred which had been received that morning from Mr. E. L. Wilson, of Philadelphia. This gentleman is an artist of rare talent. His beautiful works of art prove -that photograph}- affords as great a field for the artist’s genius as either painting or sculpture. The photographer has to contend with the greater difficulties. To imitate the colors of nature is easier than to .successfully interpret her charms in a single color. While the painter can place' in fiis picture only the pleasing parts in the scene before him, the photographer is forced to copy nature as she is; but, fortunately, her most common objects appear beautiful through the eyes of an artist like Mr. Wilson. We hope the day is not far distant when we will have more such artists in his profession, instead of the mere manipulators that now disgrace, it. He has shown wonderful skill in selecting his points of view; All his pictures, when subjected to the most innate art rules, are found to be perfect. , His perspective, shades, shadows, and the grouping of his figures, are alike admirable. J
. The views sent to Father Zahm are ones taken by Mr Wilson last summer, in his travels through Egypt, Arabia, andJhe.Holy Land, together with superb copies of the-finest statuary, including the productions of that prince of modern sculptors, tT-horwaldsen. -Father Zahm selected those of .Syria, Egypt and Arabia, that would .give his audience the best idea of these historic countries and The habits and < customs, of Their inhabitants.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-No one left the hall without receiving.some benefit from his instructions,, which were .vividly impressed on the mind by the beautiful pictures before them. To give a pleasing variety, the comic .and statuary views were scattered’ among the rest. He grave a E	#	O .
complete natural history of the burro family, high and low, from all climes, and including some of its wonderful metamorphoses. Towards the end, f '	many local views were shown, which caused great
। ‘	amusement. We understand that Father .Zahm
has many more reserved for the next entertainment.
At the close, the Professor said that he had been able to show but a small portion of the views he had on hand, but if-the students desired he would cheerfully give another entertainment .at as early a • date as possible. By all means, let us have it.
The Faculty of Comparison.
Of the intellectual gifts with which man is endowed, there is none more useful and important than the faculty of comparison. When quick, fertile and accurate, it serves to endow its possessor with unusual brilliancy and extraordinary power to convince by argument. Aptly employed in that behalf, its effect is almost conclusive. ’ Everybody has noticed that when two persons dispute long and earnestly in reference to any particular question or thing, the matter in controversy will be almost immediately decided by a third person joining in the discussion and positively agreeing with one or the .other of the disputants. The effect is somewhat analogous to that of a fresh army coming upon the field of battle during a fierce action and entering at once into the contest. In such a case the wearied and outnumbered enemy gladly withdraws as soon as opportunity to retire is offered. A similar effect attends the apt use of consonant comparisons in argument. As between two disputants they are almost as decisive in their bearing upon the issue of a controversy as the positive concurrence of a third person with one of them.
But not in argument alone arc comparisons available. In oratory, descriptive writing, the domain of fiction—everywhere within the scope of mental labor—they serve a most useful purpose. All the way between the tenderest feelings of the human heart and the most ponderous conclusions of logic they find room and are appropriately employed ; and everywhere in that wide range they serve to embellish, touch the sympathies, or convince. Refer to Shakespeare, for instance, and it will be noticed that some of the most beautiful passages in* his ever-admired dramas are in the language of comparison and metaphor. But, above. all, refer to Him who spake -as man never speaks, and the .plenitude of .figures .and comparisons in His language wilbbe found remarkable. Some.of. the most important of the lessons, and injunctions - thatfell from His lips—thatjare preserved to{ mankind in. the Scriptures:—come ..to.us in the -form pf comparisons or .parables. The»inimitable rbeauty
of ;the; sacred writings is measurably due .to the felicitous comparisonsin which they ubound.
.Upon this -important -faculty is ordinarily bestowed less attention than it deserves. It should ” be encouraged in the young and cultivated ’-by* the grown. Its development cannot fail - to produce a beneficial effect upon-the mind. Indeed,.it may be -regarded as the basis of correct reasoning-powers.
--------- Q ------—	.
In Memoriam. '
Rev. J. M. J. Graham.
We see it announced in the papers that the Rev. J. M. J. Graham, for many years a priest in -the diocese of Kingston, Ont., and for some time, we believe, connected with the True Witness, died last week. Years ago, while Father Graham was located in Kingston, he became a frequent con-, •tributor to The “Are Maria” under the nom de plume of “ Mariaphilos,” and his contributions both in prose and poetry, and especially the latter, attracted much attention at the time. They-evinced a deep and well-trained mind, and poetic genius above the ordinary. Father Graham .afterwards resided for a time at Notre Dame, and contributed occasional articles to the Scholastic. Father Graham was a man of fine address and personal appearance, and an able lecturer. Like most.men of genius, he was somewhat erratic at times, 'but alwavs amiable and obliging in manner. :Onerin-cident in his life is characteristic. He had engaged with the pastor of certain .missions in the Westito deliver a lecture for charitable purposes, the subject chosen being the-“ Temporal Power of the Pope,” a subject that then, even more than now, was greatly misunderstood by non-Catholics. .On the evening appointed, the priest came imgreat trepidation and informed Father Graham.that he had better postpone the lecture. He had been to the hall, and found all the “roughs” of*the place congregated around the-doors. A fine audience-had assembled. The large hall was literally ^packed. The subject was at that time.an exciting.one, and all the non-Catholic ministers for miles around had come to hear the lecture. Trouble was rife at such assemblies in those days, when the Know-Nothing spirit was still rampant, and . the .priest feared trouble. Notwithstanding' his.entreaties.for a postponement,.Father Graham was inflexible; he said the lecture was promised, and should be delivered. And so both pastor and-lecturer wended their way to .the hall. Father Graham took in the assembly at a glance, the “ roughs” at the door not escaping attention. A temporary platform had been erected for-the lecturer. As he ascended it, he tilted a board, which had been left .suspiciously' -loose, and stumbled, but recovered;his-equilibrium without falling. The least misstep ori his jiart .would, :he/knew, -.be-the signal for -the young bloods at the door to; begin; a fracas,-but ;.t^^ rturer had .no sooner assumed .the .perpendicular than he said, laughingly,. “. Ladies ..and .-gentlemen,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
if to-night I had no better platform, morally speaking, than the material platform on this stage, I should be in rather an ugly predicament.” This little incident at once made him en ra/frf>ort with the respectable part of the audience, and he was greeted ■ with applause and good humored smiles. He had not proceeded far, however, when a tumult arose at the door. There was an evident intention' fo raise a disturbance, and the lecturer at once, curtly but politely, appealed to the audience and said that unless the disturbance ceased he would stop speaking. He knew, he said, that no gentleman present—and he was glad to see so respectable an audience—would countenance such boisterous and ungentlemanly conduct. “You are right sir,” said a dignified personage, rising from one of the front seats, “ in supposing that those £ roughs ’ do not represent the feelings of our town, and they shall immediately leave the hall.” And they did, for the man who spoke was the mayor. When, in the course of the lecture, the speaker drew a graphic picture of the tyrannical oppression of the ruling powers in’Europe and brought out in bold relief the majestic form of the Roman Pon till', the friend of the down-trodden and oppressed, the only man in Europe who dared to raise his voice and boldly denounce oppression, the only democratic personage, so to speak, on “ the whole face of Europe,” the lecturer was applauded to the echo. The students who in days gone by listened to his eloquent voice in the lecture-hall at Notre Dame, and the numerous friends he formed wheresoever he went, will, we doubt not, breathe a prayer for the repose of his soul. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Thaw!	-
—Valentines!	.
—“ Cheek ” is mightv!
—Send in your local items.
—Did vou get a Valentine?
—Our pretty boy looked nobby.
—"What is Veal but dressed calf ?	'
—“When shall we three meet again?”
:—The Marshal was natural and life-like.
—The stereopticon display was immense.
—The Cairo bird was all that could be desired.
—The Juniors have procured a new billiard-table.
—“Dem brogans” still walk the boards with great eclat.
—We saw ol'Cooh catch a' canary bird, last Monday morning.	’	•
—Competitions will be held next week in the Preparatory Course. -	'
—Ye. would-be winners of the Mason Medal, prepare for the fray!	‘	‘ 5 ’ .
—The hall was rather uncomfortable, last Tuesday evening. Whose fault?	.
:—“ How. is your moustache ? ” “ Pretty well; I 'think it will be ready by June.”
—The “boss” debate of the season was the Minims’ debate “ On Colorado.”
—Let all remember that “ye eds.” will be glad to receive local or personal gossip.
..—Very elegant invitation cards to the Entertainment, on the 21st, have been sent out.
—To-morrow, the 2d Sunday in Lent, Alissa Parvulorum will,be sung. Vespers, p. 48.
—Richard Reach has the reputation of being the champion checker-player among the Juniors.
—The “ Grads.” have indulged in lace curtains and landscape paintings for their reception room.
—The Thespians are making great preparations to assassinate the mighty C<esar. Videprogramme.
—It may have been owing to the depression caused by the low temperature, but the jokes fell flat.
—The British Lion can hardly survive the ordeal. A flank movement would put a speedy end to his misery.
—The Post-Office is flooded out! All ye seekers of mail, are requested to procure swimming-drawers—or rafts!
—We recommend to the attention of our friend John the following:
'	“ Utamur ergo parcius, somno cibis et jocis.”
—There are indications that navigation will soon open, but it may be that crafts will be seen plying about the fields before the boats are launched upon the lake.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Mr. Elliot Mason for a collection of Indian relics, and to B.John Chrysostom for another donation of specimens.
—Prof. Gregori has begun work on the new mural painting in the Columbus series. The subject of the new painting will be “The Planting of the Cross.”
—The Preps, of the 1st Grammar Class mean business. They have begun a spirited contest as to whether the Americans or the British speak the better English.
—There is a constant stream of visitors to the “Palace” to see Gregori’s “Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Founding Notre Dame.” They say it is his chef d'oeuvre	-
—A young man, hailing from the “ Hub,” entered the Post-Office in Chicago and inquired for “ the next train east,” at the same time remarking: “What a magnificent depot this is! ”
■ —A problem for our young mathematicians:
- ■■■ 1, 2, 3, 4?	6, 7, '8, 9, — too.
What .sighs of. addition-or multiplication (none others to be used)‘ must be placed between ,the numbers of one member, to make the equation true.
—The Pafer World for March (Holyoke, Mas.s.) says of the Annual: “ The Scholastic Annual for 1883 has, just been issued for the eighth time by the. University of Notre Dame, of Notre Dame, Indiana. It stands at the head of publications of its kind, and the publication for this year is even better than its predecessors. Price 25 cents,”
' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	‘ 363
—Our friend John asks if the Minims’ examination was sufficiently satisfactory to deserve the oranges Father General had promised? Yes, John, he was so highly pleased that he got not only a bushel but a whole box of oranges for his Minims and they were doubly sweet because they were the reward of merit. The Minims present their best thanks to their kind patron.
—At a meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity, the following officers; were elected for the second session: A. Browne, ist Vice-President; D. Taylor, 3d Vice-Piesidcnt; W. Mug, Recording Secretary; F. Johnston, Corresponding Secretary; J. Halligan, Treasurer; M. Dolan, Censor. 'Returns were not all in, up to the time of going to press. The other officers elected will be announced in our next.
—Messrs. Ed and Tom Fenlon have lately returned from Leavenworth, where they attended the wedding of their- sister, Miss Hattie Fenlon, to Lieut. W. J. Nicholson, U. S. N., son of the well-known Admiral Nicholson. The ceremony was performed on the 6th of this month. On the same day was married the bride’s cousin, Miss Alice Blaine, eldest daughter of Ex-Secretary Blaine, to Col. Coppinger, U. S. A. Mrs. Coppinger is soon to become a Catholic.
—Ven nor, DeVoe, Wiggins, et al., have all taken back seats and have retired from business; but our Astro.lo.ger still survives with undiminished vigor, and holds his own proud position as the head and chief of weather-prophets. We have alread}' called attention to the fulfilment of his predictions for the month of January, and now we chronicle the fulfilment of another important prophecy, in so far forth that the great thaw for the second week in February came as announced. Such facts speak for themselves.
—From Prof. J. A. Lyons, we have received a copy of the Notre Dame Scholastic Annual, and we do not hesitate to pronounce it superior in every respect to the more pretentious and showy annuals that have been issued by some Eastern Catholic publishing houses. Its articles are well written and well chosen, and its mechanical finish is excellent A feature of this publication is a thoughtful and scholarly critique upon the writings of Denis Florence McCarthy. We regret, that a lack of space prevents a reproduction of it.— Catholic Examiner.
—-A reader writes as follows:
Editor Scholastic:
Dear Sir:—It is stated, among the predictions for 1883 in the Scholastic Annual., that a “ new washing-machine will be patented on the nth” of November. Now, the nth falls on Sunday! Is this prediction to be understood in a mystical sense, or is your astrologer no more reliable than Hazen or Wiggins? Anxiously awaiting an answer, I am,
Sincerely yours;
•	A Constant Reader.
Will our astrologer please explain?
—Last Monday evening, Mr. Otis Spencer was made the recipient of a valuable testimonial of esteem from his friends of the Crescent Club. .The
tesimonial took. the form of a moustache cup— a gift which is at once both useful and oma-mental. The hirsute adornment, which threatens to permeate his super-maxillary cellular integument, is now at a period when every possible care is required; and on this account the attentive kindness of his friends becomes the more gratefully appreciated. The gift was accompanied with a characteristic address, to which Mr. Spencer gracefully replied. Denver papers please copy. -. -	’
—One of our bright Minims sends us the following effusion, which he respectfully dedicates to the Class of Zoblogv:
WHAT I KNOW ABOUT A BURRO.
A burro is a wonderful animal; his pleasure is kicking and backing. One day there were five of us Minims.on a little brown one; he rode us around the Minims’ yard three times, and then lay down, with his back up, and I was on behind and he let us slide down his back over his head. A burro has very long ears: the rest of his body is very small. There are a great manv of them in Colorado where I live. A burro is a very strong animal; some of them can pack 1,000 lbs. tied on their backs. Father Zahm brought two of them for us from Colorado. In Colorado burros pack baggage up and down the side of mountains. Once my sister and I went riding on burros; my sister on one and I on another. The man who had charge of them let the saddle loose and the burro bent down to eat some grass and my sister fell over his head. (Hence the solicitude of our friend from Massachusetts.) And that same day, when we were a long way out Ute Pass, another burro lay on his back and began to kick and to roll all around, and the boy that was on him had just jumped oft*
“Half-Past Nine.”
—There are many notorious tables in the Senior refectory. One, in particular, has become so for its. yarns. Last ’Sunday evening, when topics. were as scarce as half dollars in a church collection, the students on this particular table turned • to the discussion of the weather. One surprised his hearers by relating his experience in a hail-storm, in which, he asserted, hail-stones were as large as cannon balls, and fell with a like velocity. They often entered through the roofs of dwellings and : found a lodgment in the cellar, where they were preserved for the summer use. Among his astonished auditors was a Texan (of burro fame), who supposed the honor of the “ Lone Star ” State -was at stake. He said on one occasion his beautiful little town, on the Rio Grande, was visited by a terrible hail-storm, the like of which could not be remembered by the oldest inhabitant. The hail fell in great quantities, and such were the dimensions that many resembled cakes of ice. The enterprising natives housed the largest specimens and enjoyed the benefits thereof during the summer months. Having a superfluous amount, they also shipped many car-loads to their less fortunate neighbors across the border!
—The 12th regular, meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Feb. 5th. Well-written compositions were read by Masters J. Krause, J. Kelly, C. Metz, J. Beall, J. P. Devereux, E. Schmauss and C.' Cain. Declamations were delivered by ,W. Stange, J. Chaves and L. Young. A most interesting debate was held on the question, “ Is Colorado more interest- -
i
364	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ‘	‘
ing than any other State in the .Union”? On the affirmative side were B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Geo. Costigan, T. Wright, W. McPhee, T. P. Dever-cux, and on the negative R. Papin, W. Welch, J. J. McGrath, C. Harris, F. Nester and P. Johnson. The debate was well sustained on both sides; those on the side for Colorado being from the State, brought out to the best advantage its beautiful scenery, its rich treasures, etc. Mr. Geo. Costigan kept the floor for an hour recounting the advantages Colorado has over all the other states. His effort was spread over 122 pages of manuscript and met with special praise. B. Lindsey, J. P. Devereux, W- McPhee and J. Wright were no less enthusiastic in the praise of their native State; while R. Papin, P. P. Johnson, C. Harris, W. Welch, J. J. McGrath and F. Nester each gave glowing accounts of the superiority of their respective States. The debate las'ted four hours; at some points it was rather stormy, but oil was poured on the troubled waters by the Chair. Rev. Father Zahm and some, members of the Philopa-trian and St. Cecilia Associations were present. Very Rev. Father General was invited but was unable to attend on account of a previous engagement. After hearing both sides, the chair decided in favor of Colorado; and to their honor be it said the decision was well received by those who were defeated.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given by the Thespian Associa--tion on Wednesday, Feb. 21st, at 5.30 p. m.
PARR FIRST.	.
Grand Introductory March (National)......N. D. U. B. Song and Chorus...............'..........Orpheonics
-Oration of the Day....................W. H. Arnold
Prologue..............................J- P. O’Neill
Overture—“ Semiramis	.....N. D. U. Orchestra
PART SECOND.
■ JULIUS CAESAR.
A Tragedy in Five Acts, Arranged for the Thespian Association.
Dramatis Person.ee.
Soothsayer.........................  John	B. O’Reilly
Lucius)	. .. j ,	.	( D. C. Saviers
1...........Attendants on Brutus....I V, c -Varro ).....( E. J. Fenlon
Artemidorus—Attendant on Marc Antony, O. B. Spencer Servius.................................B. Scholfield
Dardanius.............................F.	AV. Wheatly
Citizens, Ensign-Bearers and Guards—by J. R. Marlette, J. C. Ashford, J. E. Walsh, G. Smith, N. Comerford, J.
Kleiber, H. Whitman, 11. Ratterman, A. Coghlin, J. Conway, C. C. Kolars, A. Jones, B. Eaton, J. Start, E. Yrisarri, and J Guthrie.
Grand Journeymen and Coopers’ Chorus, introductorv to Scene First of the Play.	'
Grand Tableau.
Epilogue..............................W.	J. McCarthy
[During the Tragedy, Chopin’s Funeral March and other appropriate music will be played by the Orchestra.]
Julius Cassar..... Octavius Cresar ) Marc Antony t
M. Aemil. Lepidus )
Marcus Brutus'!
.................Elmer A. Otis
Triumvirs ( Harry Noble after j W. S. Cleary Caesar’s death, ( Albert Zahm.
Chas. A. Tinley
Cassius Casca Cinna Claudius Trebonius Mettelus Cimber Ligarius Claudius 'Popilius J Crito | Cicero -Lapidus .Massella ;
-Volumnius Titinius. J Strato I -Lucilius J ^Pindarus I Clito ' J Flavius ) ’Marullus j
Conspirators against Caesar,
Senators,
Friends of Brutus and Cassius,
Tribunes,.
Geo. E. Clarke Joseph O’Neill T. Ewing Steele ’ H. W. Morse W. S. Bolton
W.J. O’Connor Frank A. Quinn
Thos. J. Flynn * . f . F. E. Kuhn M. T. Burns Jas. Solon
M. E. Donahue J. ,C. Larkin
J. Malloy f Jos. F. Greyer I R. 'M. Anderson . - S. Dickerson
.	A.P.Call
I J- A. McIntyre ( ‘ J.’Peters J W.-F? Gallagher
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, Austin, Brooks Black, Bowers, Brady, Bolton, V. Burke, Browne, T. Car-’ roll, G. Clarke, A. Coghlin, Conway, Campbell, Clements, Craig, Chelini, Cole, Jas. Delaney, Dickerson, Eisenhauer, Eaton, T. Flynn, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fleming, Farrell, W. Gray, Grever, Golonski, Godfrey, Gooley, Grout, Johnston, Kleiber, Kane, Keller, Kuhn, Larkin, Molloy, W. J. McCarthy, Mason, Monohan, McErlaine, Mullen, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Martin, Mathers, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Piefer, Quinn, Rodgers, W. Ryan, Stull, Spencer, Stover, C. Smith, Solon, Saviers,'G. Smith, Twohig, Vealc, Whalen, Wall, Yrisairi, Zahm, Zahnle, Zurbuch.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo, Arnold, Brice, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Bush, Curtis, Cain, Chirhart, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Duffin, Darling, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, H. Foote, Fehr, Fishel, Foster, Grothaus, Gerlach, Hagerty, Halligan, AV. Hetz, C. Hornaday, H. Hess, Hannavin, Howard, Handy, Kahmann, Kerndt, Kengel, M. Kelly, Livingston, McCawley, Mug, Metz, McGordon, McDonnell, Murphy, McGill, D. O’Connor, J. O’Donnell, Porter, Rhodus, J. Ryan, Reach, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Seegers, Stark, Subert, Wilkinson, Weber.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Chirhart, Dirksmeyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Harris, Hopkins, Johnson, A. Kelly, Kellner, Keeffe, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, McNaughton, McPhee, McGuire, Morrison, Moss, Masi, Metz, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, Spencer, Stange, Schmitz, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss,-Shicker, Thomas, Whitnev, Welch, AV. AValsh, L. Young, C. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following’list may. be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.].
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters F. Otis, G. Costigan, Harris, Hopkins, Moss, B. Lindsey, Krause, AA7. Prindiville, Gummings, AVelch, McGordon, Johnson,'Schmitz, Papin, J. J. McGrath, Nester, Devine, Kelly, AA7alsh, Stange, Schmauss, AVright, Morrison, McPhee, -Dirksmeyer, Rebori, Masi, Colwell, Cain,’Huestis, Sonimers, Stamm, Prindiville, AVhitney, McGuire, Fix, Coad, Roberts, A. Otis, Costigan, Quinlin, A, -Devine,‘Kellner,' Doherty, -Noonan.	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.365
Saint Gary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Classes have been resumed, and the pupils are ambitious to study even harder, if possible, than during the last session.	«
—One Ash-Wednesday, not many years ago, a. ■young girl went to a large church in W-to re-ceive the “ ashes ” on her forehead; returning home in the street-cars, she was accosted by a strange lady: “Pardon me, Miss, but your face is dirty.” “ Thank you, kindly,” returned the girl, “ but I walked twelve squares, this morning, to have the dirt put there.”
—A friend, one of those wise men who know the truth of the saying, Dulce cst desipere in loco, narrated to us the following: A tiny little girl had a Protestant mother and a Catholic aunt. Mamma and aunty were always disputing about religion, of course, to the great confusion of the small person’s ideas, till one day short-skirted innocence, toddling over the floor, seeing that human authority and human reason would never end this great difference, demanded, in her broken treble:
“Say, aunty, is Dod a Tatholit?”
Aunty, taken aback, and smiling: “Yes, my dear, God is a Catholic.”
Innocenza, with fervor, “Oh, den, ma! if Dod is a Tatholit, we all oupht to be Tatholits.”
Ma went out, exclaiming: “I do believe that cow is in the garden again! ” o	o
The Semi-Annual Entertainment.
On the 1 st of February, Very Reverend Father Superior-General, Reverend Fathers Shortis and Saulnier, the Superiors of the Convent and Novitiate, and members of the administration, the Musical Faculty of Notre Dame, Profs. McSweeney and Edwards, also from the University; Mrs. Wallace, of Montana, Mrs. Costigan, of Colorado, Mrs. A. Abeytia, of New Mexico, Miss Meyers, of St. Louis, Misses A. Cortright and H. Rosing, of Chicago, assembled to witness the closing exercises of the Semi-Annual Examination. The programme, was given in the Scholastic of Feb. 3d, therefore we mention only the numbers, so beautifully rendered, and the success of the young candidates, which will be rewarded after five months of hard work by the reception • of Graduating Medals. The Vocal Class opened with Schumann’s fine chorus, “ To Earth May Winds are Blowing,” sweetly sung according to the subject—with just enough crescendo to express the gentle zephyrs of May. Miss Caroline Sullivan, of Michigan City, played Franz Liszt’s arrangement of “ Gounod’s Faust there were so many technical and sesthetical beauties in this piece, it is difficult to say which most claimed the attention.of the appreciative audience. The brilliancy of the first part, and strength in the finale showed skill in execution, while the sweet,-.
pleading tones in the “Garden Scene,” with,elegantly-rounded phrases, were a surprise. It is sufficient praise to say the young lady did full justice . to the trying selection. The essay, “Die Noth-wendigkeit -Religioser Bildung,” was’ read by
. Miss Agnes Dillon, whose excellent pronunciation rendered clearly the main idea of her theme; that Religion alone forms the basis of a thorough education. A vocal duett “When the Wind Blows in From the Sea,” by Sr. Henry Smart; must have been a balmy southern breeze, so gently was it wafted to the ear by the sweet voices’of Miss Jane Reilly and Miss Elma Wallace. Von Weber’s “Perpetual Movement” was also one of those instrumental pieces which test executionary powers, requiring evenness of touch, and unfaltering tempo throughout—rolling onward in steady legato, which keeps in bounds the impetuous spirit that at every phrase threatens to leap forth, but , the resistless continued presto movement flows’ like lava, overwhelming all obstacles. Miss Maude Wiley entered into the spirit of her task, and her success was the more pleasant, as many in the audience heard her before, and have followed her upward progress. Mrs. Hemans’s well-known poetical gem, “ Bernardo del Carpio,” was recited by Miss Anna Murphy, bf Chicago, whose sympathetic voice brought out the. touching filial love of Bernardo, his frustrated hope and undaunted bravery, in strong contrast to the cold; treacherous accents of the faithless king. Handel’s great song, “ I Know that my Redeemer Liveth,” needs no earthly praise. Miss Wallace .showed in this song her study had been severe—she has good notes in her voice,, and time will doubtless overcome the timidity which frequently mars their full effect. Miss Mary Campbell, of Washington, Ind., played a “ Valse Impromptu,” by X. Scharwenka. This composer is becoming, known in this country through the scholarly rendition of his_ compositions by that highly classic artist, Ernest Perabo. The style of this morceau is bold, filled with irregular rhythms and unusual accents: at times perfectly ferocious, then hushed and wailing in plaintive minors, alternating with strains of light abandon, which is purely fascinating. The finale is in broad.’ full harmonies, which succeed one another in rapid modulations to a vigorous sequence which,-in this case, held’ all breathless. “ If Amitie Veritable, est le Chemin du Caur™ read'by Miss Lancaster, with a perfect Parisian accent, the more creditable,' as this young lady, together with Miss Dillon mentioned above, have acquired these foreign tongues at St. Mary’s. The next number was a vocaltrio, a “Barcarole” by Gordiane, sung by Misses Reilly, Wallace and Hinz, sprightly, and suited exactly to the fresh young voices, each in her own register clear and melodious, while the harmony combined their varied tones in true intonation. A poem written by-Miss Clarke, “ Sedes Sapient tire,” being the last of the literary part of the entertainment, no one expected less than- excellence, and we are happy to' say none were disappointed. It was very beautiful? and : applicable. The touching allusion ’ to that favored' spot'- conse* ’ '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
crated to the Blessed Virgin as “ Seat of Wisdom,” was one of those strokes which, rising' from a grateful heart, penetrate the soul. The song, “With Verdure Clad,” by Haydn; like Handel’s song, we dare not even praise, being another classic gem; but we may say Miss Reilly sang it with taste and expression, the words were as clear, as the music was extatic. Miss Laura Fendrich played, in a masterly manner, a Fantasie by Dreyschock, a virtuoso whom the Londoners dubbed “ The man with the two Right Hands,” a name applicable on account of the heavy labor entrusted to the left hand in all his concert pieces. The one heard on Thursday contained many of such passages so peculiar to this composer; tremendous crescendos and wearying murmuring finger basses, alternating with powerful octaves, and heavy chords, combining wrist and arm motion. The singing tones were well sustained, and passages of broken thirds flashed throughout the extent of the key-board with such equality that the ear could not detect at which point the hands exchanged. When Miss Fendrich finishes in the “Advanced Course,” she will be a musician of whom any conservatory might be proud. The Vocal Class ended with Schumann’s “ Gipsey Chorus,” which is full of life, and energy; piquant and bright little solos seem to be tossed from one to another, in true Zingara fashion. Certainly, in this splendid chorus the Vocal Class surpassed themselves.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Beal, Clarke, M. Campbell, Chirhart, Comerford, Dillon, Duffield, Dunn, Dickson, Durphy, Qolan, Edgerly, Eldridge, Feehan, Fendrich, Gove, Gavan, Hoag, M. Heneberry, Hamilton, Heckard, Hunt, Harrigan, M. Hawkins, Halter, Johnson, Keenan, B. King, M. King, Kirkham, Kearns,' Laffer, Lancaster, E. Mohl, Munger, Madole, McCoy, Murphy, McCarten, McKenna, Mooney, Maginn, Neu, O’Brien, O’Connell, Quinlan, A. Ryan, M. H. Ryan, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Ramsey, Reiser, Sullivan, Shickey, Semmes, E. Slattery, Sawyer, Stackerl, Schmauss, Steinen, Todd, Van Patten, Wright, Walsh, L. Wallace. 2d Tablet—Misses Adams, Barlow, Black, Babcock, C. Campbell, Call, Crawford, Donnelly, Danforth, L. English, B. English, Fox, Gallagher, L. Hawkins, Hinz, Leydon, Legnard, Myers, Pick, Pampell, M. A. Ryan, Spotwood, Unger, Wiley, Williams.
?	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Coogan, Chaves, Dignan, Donnelly, Duffield, Dillon, Fritchen, Hibben, T. Haney, B. Haney, Johnston, Luna, the Misses Luca, Moshier, Naylor, Otis, Richmond, Spengler, Shephard, Snowhook. 2d Tablet—Misses Best, Coyne, Ewing, Fehr, Grist, Hetz, B. Halsey, Hawkins.	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Burtis, Chapin, J. English, T. Haney, Lindsey, J. McGrath, McKennon, Otis, Prescott, Paul, A. Schmauss, G. Wallace.	.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
,,	HONORABLY MENTIONED. ~
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Campbell, Sullivan, Wiley.
ist Class—Miss J. Reilly.
3D Division—Miss M. Beal.
2D Class—Misses Barlow, C. Donnelly, Gove, M. A. Ryan.	'
2D Div.—Misses M. English, Fenlon, Hunt, Kirkham, Keenan, Neu, L. Wallace. '
3d Class—Misses Bathrick, Fox, Leydon, Shephard, Unger.	.	*
2D Div.—Misses A. Dillon, Durphy, Ginz, Shickev. Van Patten.	’	'
4TI1 Class—Misses Adderly, Crawford, M. Dillon, C. Lancaster, Mohl, Morgan, E. Slattery, Todd. Walsh.
2D Div.—Misses M. Ducey, L. English, Evarts, Fehr, Feehan, Gavan, M. Heneberry, Halter, Laffer, Leach, Pick, Ramsey, Schmauss, Van Horn.
5th Class—Misses Babcock, Dolan, C. Ducey, Grist, Hibben, Munger, Malbceuf, Murphy, V. Reilly, M. H. Ryan, Snowhook, E. Wallace.	"
2D Div.—Misses Chirhart, Call, Clarke, Coogan, J. Duffield, A. Duffield, Fisk, M. Hawkins, Hamilton, Lucas, B. King, Morrison, Moshier, McCauley, T. Slattery, Stackerl, Spengler, Taylor, Williams.
6th Class—Misses Comerford, Chaves, Danforth, Dunn, Dickson, B. English, Johnston, Keifer, McKenna, Myers, Nevius, Schmidt.
2D Div.—Misses Adams, Barry, Black, E. Donnelly, A. Gallagher, Harris, B. Haney, L. Heneberry, Martha Hawkins, Johnson, Legnard, O’Brien, Mary Otis, O’Connell, Otero, Richmond, Rodgers, Reiser.
7th Class—Misses Bowman, Browne, A. English, M. Eldridge, L. Fritchen, Harrigan, M. King, Kearns. Mooney, McGinn, Quinlan, C. Sawyer, Spotwood.
8th Class—Misses D. Best, J. English.
9th Class—Misses M. Ducey, Prescott.
ioth Class—Misses Burtis, Campau, Lindsey, Naylor, Martha Otis, Robinson, A. Schmauss, G. Wallace.
harp.
4.TH Class—Miss M. Dillon.
5th Class—Miss Leach.
6th Class—Misses M. Ducey, Neu.
GUITAR.
6th Class—Miss C. Ducey.	•
VIOLIN.
Miss M. Hawkins.
Exercises at Sacred Heart Academy, Ogden, Utah.
There is hardly anything more pleasing to the eye and ear of one who has not become callous to all the gentler emotions, than the sight of a number of happy children gathered together and the sound of their sweet voices (for the voice of a happy child is always sweet) raised in song. When to these is added the pleasure of hearing those who have passed the stage of childhood, gratifying their friends and relatives with music of a higher class, with recitations and original essays, one has an entertainment. of a truly delightful character and is appreciative not only of the efforts to please, but also of the skill and patience which .developed the powers of pleasing. .
Last evening a reporter of the Pilot accepted the kind invitation of the Sisters of the Sacred Heart Academy and attended the closing exercises of the Semi-Annual Examination of that Institution. Of the school itself it is unnecessary to speak. It tells its own story of good work performed and benefits rendered, not only in its pupils, but in its own material prosperity. Our pleasing duty now is to chronicle the successful efforts of the young girls and children who made the evening pass so pleasantly away.
I,	.
•	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	367
The chorus by the vocal class was very pretty and sweetly rendered, the fresh young voices ringing out joyously. The duet for piano, by the little Misses Helfrich and Kiesci, was well rendered and was really a remarkably good performance for such very young ladies. Miss Furlong’s essay on the “ Study bf History,” was brightly and pleasantly written and modestly delivered. We will give the young lady the credit of avoiding that self-assertion and disposition to lecture her hearers which characterize so many school-girl and school-boy essayists. The instrumental piece by Miss Hayes was very well rendered. Little Miss Hurley distinguished herself in her recitation of “Our Own.” The vocal quartette, next on the programme, was very sweetly given, while the pretty little piece of dialogue from Mrs. Hernans was pleasantly rendered by Misses Edwards and Bingham. The duet “Le trot du Cavalier,” was well rendered by Misses R. and N.’Kimball, and Miss Hayes gained great credit by her German selections. The sweet notes of Claribel’s ballad, “ We’d better bide a wee,” were sweetly rendered by Miss Horrocks who, later in the evening-, sang Reichhardt’s beautiful song, “ Thou art so near and yet so far.” Mendelssohn’s Wedding March was brilliantly rendered by Misses Furlong and Hayes. Of Miss Wilson’s essay on the advantages of education, the same remarks as in regard to Miss Furlong’s will apply. Matti’s Grand Waltz was very creditably rendered by Miss Furlong, and Von Weber’s “Invitation a la danse,” was performed by Misses Furlong and J. Hayes in a very pleasing manner. The performance closed with the well-known “Nancy Lee,” given by the class.
Taken as a whole the entertaiment was creditable • alike to teachers and scholars, and while, as one gentleman remarked, not half the talent was brought forward, fully enough was shown to prove that the Sisters have not neglected their charges in any way.
We are indebted to the Sisters for a very pleasant evening, and, from what we heard and saw last evening, as well as what we see and hear every day, we can most cordially and conscientiously recommend the Sacred Heart Academy. .	—O^den Pilot.
G. K NEVIUS,
DENTIST.
Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. : .
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The- Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
St. Mary’s Academy, CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAIN TIA G and SCULPTURE. Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Tn the Academy the course is thorough in.the Preparatory; Academic, and Classical grades.	*•
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A larse Musical Library in French. German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Mnsic, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE .
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Aits in English, French. German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.	•
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ina.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.	. -
Price, postpaid, -	-	-	-	$1.00 .
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
- Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is.imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children-of tender years?-. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special, attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	-	■	■.	.	-
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S.C.,	.
Notre Dame P. O., Ind. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of ‘	CLASSICS,	LAW,
'	MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained-in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always'received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty ot the Institution. In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted'and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address	•
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S.
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES. THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL LINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for Zoological Specimens for- sale.
Address
RUDOLPHBORCHERDT,
eol-83	DENVER, COL.
L S. & 1. S. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. i, 1SS3, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:	.
2:32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.10 pirn., Atlantic Express; over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2:45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo; 5.4b p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
6-35 p.m. Limited' Express. Arrives' 2t Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, U45 aim.; Buffalo, 7.25 aim.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.35 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago,. 8.20' a.m:
8.02 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W: CARY, Genl. Ticket Agti} Cleveland.
* J. Hl PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland: JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger; Cleveland: