^he. Motte ^bame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 82
July 28, 1944
No. 3
• Plans for Law Ball Progress
• Adams and Miller fo Play With All-Stars
At attention in front of the Rockne Memorial are the 3,000 trainees of the Naval Training Station at Notre Dame.
The College Parade
I	By EMMETT HASSETT
^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
This little notice appeared in the Indiana Daily Student. . . . “The students are reminded that the parking’ regulation in regard to cars still stands. Student cars are not to be parked on the campus from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.” . . . However we notice that there is no regulation after 5 p.m. Well, such is life at Indiana.
From the Purdue Exponent we quote the following: “The Student Senate has announced the approaching elections for Soph, and Junior representatives. To he a candidate for these elections the interested student must obtain a petition from the Student Senate office. The cost of these petitions is only one dollar, payable when calling for the petition. . . .” They must have Commerce men running the organization.
The following from the Carnegie Tartan is a plan which seems to have a lot of merit. . . . “The recent formation of the Student-Faculty Liaison Committee has just been announced by the members, six students and three members of the faculty. This committee originated at the beginning of this semester by a few students with the purpose of becoming a channel of mutual aid and information between students and the faculty. The aims of the committee are:
“1) Calling attention to problems which the students believe merit consideration.
“2) Providing a source of student opinion in matters requiring student-faculty attention.
“3) Helping to improve teaching methods. ’
“4) Making investigations and obtaining information that will assist in pursuing the preceding aims.”
The following are excerpts from an editorial from the - Purdue Daily Exponent. . . .
“1) When the president of a large western university recently said that education should get back to the disciplined education of our students, and that freedom must always be exercised under discipline, he did more than merely split an infinitive. He proved that this creed is still followed by some in the one place in the country where it should exist ... in the colleges and universities.”
We say to that: Is not the university your home while you are there, and should there not be discipline in the home?
*
“2) Freedom can never be exercised under discipline, particularly when it is imposed by a minority. Freedom can only be freedom, something besides hypocrisy, something other than a traffic farce, when the discipline is subordinate.”
The time that we put in college is a training period for later life, and should not all training be subject to discipline? We can’t have all the officials handing out decisions.
“3) The ego, the lack of democratic ideals the danger, as shown .by the idea of disciplining freedom is immense. How one individual or even a group can set themselves above freedom is answerable only by one word — dictatorship.”
How, though, does this apply to education? Isn’t discipline necessary in education? Think of the class room where half the class is talking about last night’s dance, while the instructor tries to expound chemical theories to the other half! (Continued on page 18)
2
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON
Associate Editor, Marines
AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BELL WADDINGTON DICK MURPHY -BOB O’TOOLE
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM REGAN -EMMETT HASSETT ROBERT RIORDAN PETE BROWN HARRY LE BIEN
Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Circulation Promotion
- Observations
Know Your Navy
The Green Banner - Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters - The Periscope
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY jack McCarthy JOHN BUTLER TOM DINGES JIM CAREY GEORGE GORMAN JACK CAHILL JIM MELLETT JOHN MORRIS JIM McNALLY FRED MYLES
GEORGE KRAUSER JOHN FEENEY JIM HECK GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIEN JOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL L S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS R. L. VOSBERG TOM SHANAHAN
BILL LESSARD C. STONEBARGER f. KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. HERGSTEIN JIM FOY BILL OVER JIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEORGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD	TOM WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, I91S.
VOL. 82
JULY 28. 1944
NO. 3
Lew Diamond to Play for Civilian Law Ball
Knights on Picnic Sunday
Sunday morning at 8:45 sharp, will see the local campus council, Knights of Columbus, leave from the circle at the entrance to the University for a daylong picnic at nearby Lake Christiana.
Plans for the picnic were drawn up by the officers last week. Tonight a meeting in the Law Auditorium, at 7:45 will see final arrangements completed. The men in charge of the outing are Messrs. Lovely, Miller, Murphy and Mammina. All members of the Council are invited, and have the privilege of bringing along as guests those who are prospective members.
Christiana Lake, near Edwardsburg, Mich., has long been a favorite spot for similar outings in the past. This year, the same facilities as in the past will be at the disposal of the Notre Dame contingent. There will be swimming, boating, baseball games, entertainment; and the cooks promise a bountiful dinner. Transportation, long a problem, has been arranged to the satisfaction of all involved. Service men on campus will arrive back on campus in ample time to make the Sunday evening muster. Only a nominal fee is being charged for the day’s outing. Officers of the Council urge all members to avail themselves of the opportunity to enjoy a full day of fun in diversified activities.
Co-Hop Saturday Nite
The second of the summer Co-Hop Dances will be held Saturday, July 29. This time it will be at the Progress Club. There will be maps in the freshmen halls, for the benefit of those who do not know the way. The music starts at 8:00 p.m. and lasts until 11:00 p.m.
Marty Ross’ orchestra will supply the music; there will be free refreshments served for all.
Entertainment slated for the evening includes campus talent as well as a girl vocalist from South Bend.
The admission is 50 cents; there will be girls there, so it’s proper either to come stag or bring a date.
❖	COL. HENEBRY VISITS CAMPUS ❖
❖	Last Monday, Col. John Henebry, ❖ war hero and alumnus of the Class
❖	of '40, visited the campus and called ❖ upon a few personal friends. He ex- ❖ ❖ pressed a desire that his presence ❖ •fr be kept a private event, and that ❖ ‘I* photographers and interviewers re- *1* frain from molesting him at this time.
❖	as he plans to return at a later date.
•	I* when more time will be at his dis-❖ posal. The SCHOLASTIC representa- ❖ ❖ five who welcomed him to the cam- ❖ ’J1 pus and escorted him about the •1° grounds, respected his wishes, re-
•I* trained from requesting an interview, ❖ ❖ and warned the University publicity ❖ ❖ department of the Colonel's wishes ❖ *♦’ on the matter.	•••
That no story on his visit appears ❖ ❖ in this issue is the result of SCHO-LASTIC's respect for Col. Henebry's ❖ ❖ desire to avoid interviewers at this ❖ time, and not an instance of negli- ❖ ’I* gence on the part of SCHOLASTIC * & reporters. This explanation is be-lieved necessary because of a story 4* by one James Schaeffer which ap- 4* peared in a South Bend paper on 4’ ’I* Tuesday evening, in violation of the 4* ❖ Colonel's express wishes—that he be 4» 4» subjected to no interviews.	4>
*** *•* *•* *♦* & & & & & *& &
New Student Dance Band
Musicians are gregarious people. Perhaps this explains how quickly the new freshmen have gotten together a dance orchestra. After holding a few meetings in saxist Pat Wagner’s room, they have started practicing and may soon emerge in the music world and give the navy some competition there. Any musicians interested in joining, drop in at 409 Breen-Phillips some night.
—Dick Gorman
Two a. m. Permissions Granted
From the nationally known night spots and top hotel dinner rooms of Chicago to the Rockne Memorial at Notre Dame is the musical itinerary that brings a famous musical aggregation to the 1944 Law Ball. For on that night of August 18 it will be the music of Lew Diamond and his great band direct from the Chez Paris, the Empire Room and the Blackhawk playing for the social event of the semester for Notre Dame students.
The announcement that Diamond’s nationally known band would be available was made late this week by Music Chairman Tom Bremer after a series of long distance phone calls and a personal trip to Chicago. Diamond and the band, currently the music sensation of the Windy City, long has been a favorite of dancers in the East and this will mark his first appearance at Notre Dame. Versatility is the band’s forte so it is of little concern what type of music the dancer’s prefer as all are assured music in wholesale lots, sweet or swing.
Co-chairmen Sam Alonzi and Ted Ryan further assured the success of the affair when they announced that the Prefect of Discipline, manifesting his usual co-operative spirit in anything Notre Dame, has granted dancers 2 a.m. permissions. Such an opportune situation makes it possible to enjoy the danceable, music of Lew Diamond and his great band until the small hours of the morning.
Tickets for the gala affair are still available from any member of the Law Club or at the Law library. With the ticket is included an important legal looking summons which is used by the purchaser to summons his dancing partner. The summons are unusually authentic appearing and are included with the ticket for the minimum price of §3.50.
Since the Rockne Memorial will accommodate but a limited number of couples, all are urged to procure tickets as soon as possible, because no more than the quota will be sold.—Francis J. Paulson
3
&or £ove of Country
The University’s gold star flag for this war was brought to over twice that of world war No. 1 when word was re-
c e i v e d of the
death of Lieut. Col. Joseph McCaffery, of Chester, Pa.; Capt. George R. Dempsey, Oshkosh, Wis.; and Don Currie, Staten Island, N. Y.
Death in ac-ti o n of Lieut. Col. Joe McCaf
fery, younger brother of the late Lieut. Col. Hugh McCaffery, the first Notre Dame man to be killed in this war, was reported this week. Hugh met death in the crash of an army transport plane in California a few days after the at
tack on Pearl Harbor. Joe, his younger
brother, met death on Guadalcanal leading his' Marine battlers into action there. For his valor he was awarded the
Navy Cross posthumously.
Service Men's Center Solves Financial Woes
BY SEAMAN LEONARD HERGSTEIN
Spending too much money lately? Or aren’t you getting enough? Well, there is a solution to your financial and entertainment worries, as most seamen and the marines of the.-V-12- unit have already discovered.
The solution takes the form of a pleasurable weekend which is made available by the South Bend Service Men’s Center at 107 West Colfax merely for the price of a few bus tokens — or if morning calisthenics aren’t sufficient, extra exercise may be secured by walking into town.
The chow line at the Center offers almost unlimited quantities of the best cake and cookies in South Bend to the ■visiting sailors and marines.’ After participating in the chow line, one can view the presentation of the “Stars and Stripes Show,” a radio broadcast over Station WSBT.
Under the direction of Chief Broderick of the V-12 unit and sponsored by the Studebaker Corpoi-ation, the_show is
4
115* Don Currie will be remem-
** bered by many for his great running ability. He was one of the members of the famous Notre Dame milers consisting of Maloney, Conforti, Currie, and sometimes Hunter. He participated in the broad jump, and in some of the shorter distances as well. His was the enjoyment of being one of the most popular men on the team or on the campus. His death came as a shock to all. Death came in Italy to this paratrooper in action.
The total list of casualties to date of Notre Dame men is 117 killed, 13 captured, and 24 missing in action. Some of the recent former students killed are:
Don Currie, ex. ’44, paratrooper, Staten Island, N.Y., killed in Italy.
Pvt. Louis F. Curran, ex. ’44, Dorchester, Mass., killed in Italy Feb. 2, 1944.
Capt. Geo. R. Dempsey, ’39, Oshkosh, Wis., killed north of Rome, June 28.
Notre Dame is proud of these and all others of her family who have died in the duty of their country. Theirs is a sacrifice supreme.
an all-servicemen’s participation program, during which prizes are given to the most talented. Anyone wishing to show his entertaining ability should see Chief Broderick, company commander of Co. F, either personally or through the duty office, 144 Dillon.
The big ballroom of the Center is the hub of activity on Saturdays and Sundays, when it is the scene of the servicemen’s dance. On Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon, an orchestra is provided. The many pretty hostesses are picked from the hundreds who apply. Their references are checked and their interviews must be satisfactory. One requirement is that they serve at the Center at least once a week. Before they are admitted, however, they must show their “LD.” cards
Prior to the Saturday night event, an hour’s dance instruction is offered to non-dancers by competent hostesses. This is an opportunity for the less courageous to sharpen up their steps and get a chance to meet some of the host-
"Aeros" Hold Meeting;
Plan Full Activities
The Aero club held its first meeting’ of the semester last Tuesday evening in the Engineering Building; this initial meeting drew a representative number of new members as over 35 attended.
John Parchem, civilian Aero senior, who expects to get his navy commission at the expiration of this semester, took over the presidency of the club, having been elected to the post last semester.
After an introductory talk by John Parchem, the club settled down to a discussion of plans for the coming month; plans were formulated for an early issue of the Burble, Aero club news paper; plans were suggested for a picnic, a softball baseball team, and for a method of choosing men to present technical papers on aircraft work. Prizes for the student presenting the best paper of the semester were offered; the plan has only to be passed by Mr. Brown, head of the department of aeronautics of the University.
The usual cokes and cookies, aero jokes and gossip filled the rest of the program, along with movies of the production line methods used in building a modem bomber, and a picture of the Tennessee Valley Association power project.
esses before the hep-cats arrive.
For those who haven’t recovered from the obstacle course or the review, the Center provides ping-pong tables, cards, games, a library, writing rooms, and a record room, where they can sit and hear their favorite recordings. Also included in the facilities are pianos, a snack bar, and tables where a serviceman can just bat the breeze or study his physics (you eager beavers).
In addition to these various features, the Service Center maintains a “stitch in time” corner where that jumper which split because it was too tight (this has yet to be seen) may be mended. A limited number of theater tickets are available, and a room rental service has been established to arrange for accommodations for parents and girl friends visiting V-12 students. The Center brightens the lives of boys in sick (Continued on page 13)
V-12 Mourns Loss of Built-in Clothes Line; Individual Washing Machines Are Next?
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN "Scholastic" Associate Editor
"Chick" Maggoli
It was in the dark days of the Ides of the March—the restricted March of 1944—that Achilles Fred Maggoli first sky-rocketed to fame. This new found glory was not due to his ability as a sportsman, a lover, or a champion snooker player, but rather due to his leadership of the USMR’s favorite band—the “Maulers.” The cry each Saturday was “It’s Cavanaugh Hall tonight,” and the third deck rocked as “Pappy” Maggoli led his Muscrat Maulers to heights never before achieved in the annals of music.
The Maulers have gone, but “Pappy” or Chick (whichever name you prefer) remains. Chick is a local Hoosier claiming Mishawaka as his home. Being of Italian descent his favorite gourmet is spaghetti-a-la-meat-balls, enjoyed in his favorite haunt, a quaint place in Mishawaka called Baldoni’s.... smokes “the pack with the circles on the back”... partakes of that renowned “Dago-red” wine.
Strumming a guitar is but one of the many talents. Chick was graduated from Mishawaka High school where he garnered in letters in football, track, and basketball.... went one year to college where he continued to play football under the cream and crimson colors of Indiana university.... enlisted in the E. R. C. and later transferred to the marine reserve.... came to Notre Dame in July 1943 and continued to play football until an argument with a math book arose (an argument which Mr. Brink won). But this semester again finds maestro Maggoli ready to don the Irish colors.
Claims to have no pet peeve, and no outstanding thrills or experiences.... when asked about the fairer sex Chick’s reply was, “Why make one miserable when you can make them all happy.” The majority of his travelling has been to Mishawaka and back, which of late has been curtailed. — T. Dorsey plays music to suit the Maggoli ear... both he and the president have a common bond— both being philatelists.
Chick claims a record that has seldom been equaled, and never to his knowledge been duplicated—out of the 12 months that he has been a V-12er he has been restricted for five months. Consequently if there is any part of the campus you would like to know about, he is your-man.	_
Familiar to the boys about town was
Even as this issue goes to press one of the household characteristics of each little V-12 “apartment” at Notre Dame may have been removed — that is, the clothesline, which has been a bane to inspection parties and a service to the laundering sailor.

Although the clothesline was a necessary part of the sailor’s equipment even during the freezing Indiana weather, it became almost a source of affection when the order of the day publicized the wearing of summer whites. With the exception of a few capitalists, who could patronize the laundry, each pair or group of roommates bought or created a line which would be strong enough to bear the weight of wet skivys, whites, socks, and towels. The line, as each man -soon was made to realize, had to be erected in such a fashion that no telltale evidences of wet clothing were visible through the window.
Now, however, at the result of an order of Comdr. Walter S. Gabel, executive officer, clotheslines within rooms
the trio of the “Terrible Three”—Maggoli, Lubarsky, and McLaughlin — but with the end of the past semester the trio was broken-up. Chick commented on this to the effect, “Since ‘Terrible One’ and ‘Terrible Two’ are gone—I’m lonesome.”
may soon be discarded until the arrival of colder temperatures. Between the two wings of Alumni Hall have been erected posts and lines which will be available to seamen of Alumni and Dillon Halls. Similar arrangements are being made for- drying facilities in the quadrangle north of Zahm Hall.
This is the first official recognition of one of the most important industries on the Notre Dame campus—the personally-conducted laundry service of the V-12 seamen and marine. Much of his time and effort, especially during the spring and summer period, have been devoted to the success of his system.	•
Finding that the campus laundry could not provide him with the swift sei-vice necessary to keep four pairs of whites ready for daily inspections, Uncle Sammy’s lads of the white garments were forced to convert sinks and showers into “wash machines,” operated by hand. The bookstore and downtown establishments have found the seamen a valuable customer in various types of soap chips and flakes and bleach.
It is to be expected that many a V-12 seaman will resent hanging his clothes out-of-doors. He will hate to part with that in-doors line, which, when holding up the wet wash, allows water to drip on the deck or gives the visitor a vivid reminder of man’s wartime resort to household drudgeries.
The final step in his laundry service is the pressing department, which consists of a desk as an ironing board, a pressing rag, and an iron (usually owned by an individual but used by a community). This department is responsible for* the sharp creases which some seamen boast or the yellow scorchings which set off others.
This department also will soon be given a change for the better, reports Lt. J. J. Collins. An effort is now being made to secure ironing boards which will ease the V-12 “householder’s” condition considerably, it is believed.
As yet, there is no confirmation to the rumor that each room will in the near future be equipped with a fluid-drive washing machine. The scuttlebutt claiming that Waves will be invited to do washing for V-12 seamen also bears the odor of falsehood.
5
Marines Enjoy Food and Entertainment at Picnic
For 13 months the Marine Corps has been stationed at Notre Dame eating what the Navy refers to as chow. It is rumored that chow is the slang for the word food. This is doubtful. However now in our 13th month the marines have again viewed food and good food at that. The humanitarians in this case were the Marine Mothers Club of South Bend, who gave the 170 remaining marines a . picnic at Pattawatomie Park on Sunday, - July 16.
With dungarees the uniform of the day, over 75 marines really had a fling. There was food, baseball, food, volley ball, food and more food. The MOMS club filled four long tables with every kind of food imaginable. The tables were so long, Dale Wares encountered no end of trouble in maneuvering to the end of each table. He discovered that six plates of food were hard to handle over such a distance. Miles Nelson played it smart though, what he couldn’t eat there, he took back to school with him. The celebrity Bob Newgard was there. He came to eat, then left. He said he had business to attend to, nice business, Newgie.
They had a nice show too, I might add. A good little three piece band, a girl, and Chuck Arnold entertained the boys for quite awhile. Then by request of a woman marine, a second lieutenant at that, the marines rendered a very good version of the Marine Hymn.
Probably the greatest single feature besides the food was the baseball game. To make things even it was decided to have two fine young ladies choose the teams. One girl choose Captain Finney, the other chose some private. Incidentally, this man Captain Finney makes a fine man to have in right field—a classy fielder with plenty of chatter. At bat his record was not so good, but his teammates were doing no better. The Captain’s team went down to defeat though. The battery combination of Nelligan and Pavlin, an airtight infield, and an outfield which ranks with the best was just too much. Rademacher is, beyond a doubt, one of the most promising young ball players in this part of the country. But back to baseball, it is the first inning, Nelligan pitching, the Captain at bat. After four pitched balls the umpire yells, “Yere out.” “Moose” immediately begins to have visions of “Dago” and other horrible things like that. The Captain, however, merely states that he figured it would be a good idea to put “Moose” on the restricted list to prevent such a thing from occurring again.
However, in all seriousness, if it be
possible, the picnic was a huge success. There was plenty of food for everyone for a couple of days or more. There was also plenty of entertainment of all kinds. The fact is that the marines would really like some more duty like that. All were agreed that the marines should really salute the marine mothers for providing all that wonderful food and entertainment.—Bill Over
Commerce Forum Meets
With the co-president, Tony Bristol, in charge, the Commerce Forum held its regular meeting on Tuesday evening, July 25. Reports were given by various social committees on the coming activities of the Forum.
Richard Murphy delivered a talk on the ways to avoid inflation after the war. Mr. Murphy sub-divided his talk into four phases: what he believed the situation was today; what we are heading for; what the effect will be upon the nation; and his remedy to avoid the catastrophe.
It is Mr. Murphy’s belief that inflation exists in our country today. He pointed out to the members cases he has seen and heard of, dealing with the vast waste and squandering of money today. He believed that if the American people do not curtail their spending and wastefulness in the future, that someday the nation will awake to the greatest depression in its history.
The speaker was hesitant in forecasting what he believed would happen to this Republic if so severe a depression took place. He advocated in his address a form of enforced savings by the government. According to the plan the government would draw a certain percentage of money from each wage earner’s salary. This money would be kept in a savings fund in Washington to be given back when times become bad. The speaker advocated this theory as one small step in helping the country avoid depression and suppress inflationary trends.
Steam Plant One of
Most Modern in State
By JOHN M. FREESE
Few except those who work in it and those who commute to the power and printing buildings, realize there is more to the Notre Dame steam plant than the huge smoke stack towering over the Biology building.
An interview with Brother Beatus revealed that in the summer this small city consumes more than one million gallons of water a day—this is in addition to the drinking water from two 175 foot wells near the dining hall and laundry—and 100,000 gallons goes for showers and the Dining Hall.
Water for the plant comes from St. Joe’s lake which is fed by underground springs and a well at the west end. The water is pumped to the plant at the rate of 850 gallons a minute. All the water to enter the plant is chlorinated. The hot water used for domestic purposes is softened and heated in two 2,000 gallons hot water heaters, then directed into pipes laid in the two and one-half miles of man-sized tunnels running under the campus. Beside the building is an 1800 ton stock pile of coal; and nearby a big International fire truck in case of any possible emergency.
It is admitted, with pardonable pride, that the plant is one of the most modern in the state. With equipment in reserve, it easily handles the water supply,, and the steam supply which is considerable in winter. The building—kept shining— is run by a crew of 10 laymen and four Brothers, who have done an excellent job. •
4»	❖
4« "SCHOLASTIC" SUSCRIPTION ❖ fr	CAMPAIGN	❖
4-	---- 4-
* The SCHOLASTIC Business Office ❖ 4* wishes to inform prospective sub- ❖ scribers that it is not too late for 4* them to enter their names on the list 4‘ and to have the magazine delivered 4* 4» to their rooms, or be mailed out, ❖ 4> each Friday evening. The procedure 4* fr —Inclose one dollar with your name ❖ 4* and address, and mail to Publica- 4» $ tions Office, Box 185, Notre Dame, 4» ♦ Indiana.	4*
4* Meantime, the SCHOLASTIC takes 4» <• this opportunity to thank Seaman 4* ♦ Dunn, and his group of V-12 co- ❖ 4* workers who engineered the sub- 4* 4* scription campaign on the campus, 4* fr and who made valuable contribu- 4* 4> tions to the first issue of the maga- 4* 4 zine published this semester. 4* 4>**4»*4>«««*««««4>4>4>
6
Swimming Classes Continue in Rockne Pool;
Must Pass Test Before Splash in St. Joe Lake
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
As maintenance men roughen the waters of St. Joe Lake and learn the principles of functional swimming, about 160 non-swimmers remain within the walls of Rockne Memorial acquiring the fundamentals necessary for passing the second and first class swimming requirements.
Guiding the transition of non-swimmers from the shallow depths of the “little pool” to the deeper waters of the “big pool” are Chief N. Marx, Al “Zeke” Zuckowski, Sp 1/c, and Gil Burdick, civilian instructor. Their job in overcoming the fear of water in the minds of budding officer candidates may well rank as one of the most important courses the Navy is offering at Notre Dame.
With one eye suspiciously eyeing the magnitude and known depth of the “big pool,” the beginner is first encouraged to splash around in the shallow water and to get his bearings. As time progresses, he is taught the various kicks and strokes and finally their coordination into types of swimming.
The biggest job facing the instructors is to encourage the student to keep his mind off the water—to relax. Only with the aid of relaxation on the part of the beginner can the instructor hope to drive home the actual swimming fundamentals. Wings, “kicking boards,” and the emergency pole all come in handy as a means of helping the future Weismuellers to get the feel of the water.
Once the men are introduced to the deeper water the real intensive work begins. Jumping, diving, and swimming for extended intervals become part of the daily routine. The dog paddle, the
breast stroke, elementary back stroke, and side stroke are all drilled home to the water pupil. Diving or jumping off the ten-foot board prevents life from becoming too monotonous.
When the tireless tutors thinx their charges have advanced sufficiently, they are given the second-class swimming test, which consists of floating for 12 minutes and swimming for 200 yards using a combination of strokes. They must also tread water for a minute and jump off the high board.
Through these men over 500 nonswimmers during the three semesters of V-12 existence have received training in the “Rock” and have emerged with a successful passage of the first and second class swimming requirements chalked up for them in their records.
At Notre Dame a well-organized and balanced program was built up by Dr. John Scannell, head of the University physical education department, and Ens. C. L. Brewbaker, head of the Navy physical education program. All non-swim-mers who entered the school were placed in separate classes; whereas, men who could pass the minimum requirements were given a chance later in basic “phy. ed.” classes to pass the first and second-class tests.
During the first two semesters, nonswimmers were given one class in swimming five days a week. However, when the midshipmen decided to invade the pool also, the non-swimming classes were given actual practice in the water only three days a week. On Tuesdays and Thursdays they were given a well-earned rest by running the obstacle course or by hiking double time around the lake.
Captain's Inspection and Regimental Review Held
Last Saturday, Executive Officers’s inspection and a Regimental Review climaxed a week of preparation in the V-12 unit. A band composed of trainees had been selected and put through maneuvers. A meeting of trainee company officers had been held with Chief Warrant Officer Banashek, drill officer, in charge, at which time the battle plans were briefed. Battalion and regimental officers appeared for their final orders.
Field Day Friday night and Saturday morning prepared all rooms for inspection. Door knobs and shoes looked like mirrors and mirrors looked like a Norris paint job. Each company was inspected by an officer, chief, or n.c.o., followed by company officers, who jotted down such irregularities as dust on chair rungs and lockers.
After the inspection had been secured, companies fell in alphabetically to march to the midshipmen drill field for the review. Guide-ons and ensigns flapped noisily and dust clouded the marching men. Maneuvering into position, the companies stood facing the reviewing officers. Orders of the day were published, a decoration Avas made, (the Purple Heart to Seaman Bernard J. Meddleton), the band maneuvered, and the companies passed in review before the reviewing officers, Capt. J. R. Barry, USN, and Cmdr. W. S. Gabel, USNR.
After passing the reviewing stand, the trainees marched back to their barracks. The review was over and weekend liberty began. This was the first of four such week-ends. Once each month, Captain’s Inspection and the review will be held.—Seaman Bill Byington
Organize ND Symphony
Mr. Ingersoll, director of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, announces the first meeting of the orchestra Friday, July 28. This organization is open to both civilians and Navy men, and all who are interested are to report to the Music Hall at 7 o’clock. This includes players of all instruments, especially strings.
Brennan New Editor
Paul C. Bartholomew, head of the Politics Department and president of the Lay Faculty, appointed Mr. John Brennan as editor of The Listening Post, Lay Faculty organ. The first issue under Mr. Brennan’s editorship will appear August 15.—M. V.
7
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	Present and Fall Quotas for V-12: Vice Admiral Randall N. Jacobs, USN, announced that in November 1944 an over-all national average reduction of 25% would be made in the quotas of V-12 units, and that in some institutions, the largest ones, the reduction would be larger, but in the smaller ones the reduction would in no case bring the quota below 250 men. The men who succeed in their studies and maintain satisfactory military records will continue in V-12 for the number of semesters their classification originally called for, without change. The number of incoming new men, however, will be small. Only one thousand men from the Fleet, for instance, will be ordered to the V-12 units each semester, beginning this November. The number of incoming civilians has not been announced. In summary, the present V-12 seamen and Marines at Notre Dame, a total of 1519, are distributed as follows:
SEAMEN	MARINES
Basic ______813 Basic ....... 87
Engineering _404 Engineering ....79 Pre-Medical ..136	---
-----	166 1353
Of the 1353 seamen there are 117 who are scheduled to complete their normal number of semesters in V-12 this November. The number of Marines completing their scheduled semesters in V-12 this November is 76. There are 224 seamen and Marines now in their second semester of college who will be screened to upper-level specialties at the end of this term, and who thus may be ordered to report for their remaining semesters in V-12 to the college units offering their specialty. An undetermined number of these men will remain at Notre Dame as upperclassmen in deck on/in an engineering specialty. An additional number will be transferred to N.R.O.T.C. here or at some other N.R.-O.T.C. unit.
2.	Excerpts from the SERVICEMEN’S READJUSTMENT ACT of 1944 (Popularly known as the “G.I. Bill of Rights”): The following excerpts are from the bill which has become law.
Public Law 346—78th Congress Chapter 268—2nd Session
Chapter IV—Education of Veterans Part Vil!
One
Any person who served in the active military or naval service on or after September 16, 1940, and prior to the termination of the present war, and who shall have been discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable, and whose education or training was impeded, delayed, interrupted, or interfered with by reason of his entrance into the service, or who desires a refresher of retraining course, and who either shall have served ninety days or more, exclusive of any period he was assigned for a course of education or training under the Army specialized training program or the Navy college training program, which course was a continuation of his civilian course and was pursued to completion, or as a cadet or midshipman at one of the service academies, or shall have been discharged or released from active service by reason of an actual service-incurred injury or disability, shall be eligible for and entitled to receive education or training under this part: Provided, That such course shall be initiated not later than two years after either the date of his discharge or the termination of the present war, whichever is the later: Provided further, That no such education or • training shall be afforded beyond seven years after the termination of the present war: And provided further, That ■any such person who was not over 25 years of age' at the time he entered the service shall be deemed to have had his education or training impeded, delayed, interrupted, or interfered with.
Two
Any such eligible person shall be entitled to education or training, or a refresher or retraining course, at an approved educational or training institution, for a period of one year (or the equivalent thereof in continuous parttime study), or for such lesser time as may be required for the course of instruction chosen by him. Upon satisfactory completion of such course of education or training, according to the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the institutions, except a refresher or retraining course, such person shall be entitled to an additional period or periods of education or training, not to exceed the time such person was in the
active service on or after September 16, 1940, and before the termination of the war, exclusive of any period he was assigned for a course of education or training under the Army specialized training program or the Navy college training program, which course was a continuation of his civilian course and was pursued to completion, or as a cadet or midshipman at one of the service academies, but in no event shall the (Continued on page 19)
Glee Club Shows Talent
A few weeks ago, Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, of the music department put out a call for glee club practice. About 50 men answered the call and are now hard at work. Mr. Pedtke says they reveal more talent than he has had for several semesters.
Membership in the glee club will be closed as soon as a few new freshmen with1 first tenor voices come out. The Glee Club plans many concerts this semester and, if possible, a trip to Chicago.—Dick Gorman
Officers Plan Party
Navy officers stationed at Notre Dame will gather on August 31 for a roller skating party at Playland Park. The affair will take place Monday .evening.
The dance held in the drill hall last Saturday evening was attended by over 1,000 couples, including many officers on the base. Bud Simpson and his orchestra provided the music. So successful was this initial venture, that it is planned to hold similar' affairs monthly.
Leaving Notre Dame this week was Lieut. Commander C. W. Myers who arrived here in March, 1942, 'from Washington, D. C., Lieut Commander Myers graduated from Annapolis with the class of 1922. After two years on the Arizona, he returned to civil life and was engaged in the oil business. On Dec. 8, 1941, he volunteered, and was called into active duty in March, 1942. From Notre Dame he goes to Ames, Iowa, as commanding officer- of the Electrical Diesel School, and the V-12 School of the College of Medicine and Dentistry at Vermillion, S. D.
. »*♦	♦J*
& With Zahm Hall already boasting ♦♦♦ ❖ a new recreation room, the other ❖ ❖ halls occupied by the Navy may ❖ ■J* soon expect to find themselves fur- ❖ •S' nished with similar rooms, according ❖ ❖ to Ens. C. L. Brewbaker. As soon as
possible, he also added, the halls * will have another area set aside as ❖ music - practice room where sailors $ and marines may unfurl their weird $ noises.	❖
*5* ❖ & &	❖ ♦J* ❖
8
A STRANGE RACE
Having- seen one of our teachers approaching, and wishing to make a good impression, we dropped into the Library last week. While admiring one of the youthful librarians and her technique of brushing off an insistent marine, our eye was caught—by one of the posters announcing new books.
The interesting piece of publication was a new calamity by John X. Gun-therburg whose previous attempt, Inside Jersey City, we had^read and so much enjoyed. Emblazoned in five millimeter Sanscrit was the second title in Gunther-burg’s nature series: Unusual Flora and Fauna of Hackensack, Haiphong and Surrounding Lands. Browsing through the table of contents one chapter especially was intriguing: Eagerus Beaver-us, a new member of the animal family as discovered in its natural habitat near South Bend, Indiana.
We herewith print a few of the more choice paragraphs from this chapter. (Permission granted by the author and Kiddies Horror- - Murder - Gruesome -Bloody - Backstabbin’ Comics, where the book first appeared in serial form.) Eagerus Beaverus (Eager beavers to you guys) by JXG’burg.
. . . my first contact with this unusual species occurred in South Bend where I happened to be intransient. A brisk thing in a white suit and black neckerchief came striding along, and desiring company, I stopped him. “Come with me,” I invited, “I’s buying the drinks.” He seemed actually bothered at me. “Can’t do it,” he said. “Gotta go! Yup, gotta go.” Naurally astounded at this refusal of an infallible proposal, I questioned why. His answer was amazing. “I’ve got to get back and practice on my facings. Drill comes up tomorrow and I’m a little rusty on my about faces.” With this he hurried off. . . .
. . . my hunter’s instinct now fully aroused I followed this thing, and today am able to report fully on his strange antics. He takes many and varied forms, and the tests to identify him are numerous. Here are a few of them, the results of a year’s strenuous investigation.
He’s the guy who does an extra jumping jack after the chief has called halt; the one who leaves town an hour early
just to make certain he has enough time; he constantly goes out to muster five minues early, double time; he is a perpetual volunteer for any extra duty; he takes down the slightest uttering of every teacher, and politely asks the name of any book, no matter how remote, referred to; he always runs the obstacle course as if it were a race; he thrives best when in sight of authority, the effect being that of remote control ear banging.
There, then, is the eager beavers. A strange, and not too numerous race. As one sorrowing seaman summed it up, “Sometimes ... it gets discouraging.”
QUOTE
From the marine column of last week:
“As a certain young worker from the Caf once said, ‘No kidding, fellow*, some o’ me best pals is in the Marines.’ ”
Bragging or complaining, boys?
REVIEW
You certainly don’t realize just how-big a V-12 unit Notre Dame has until they all get together on that parade ground.	•
I still think intercompany competition w'ith extra liberty for the winner a good idea.
Wish they could do something about all the dust raised, marching back and forth to the review' field.
APOLOGY	.*
The lack of names in this column will end next issue. We've got a big deal lined up wrhereby all companies will be represented.
❖ 4* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ 4> ❖ 4* ❖ ❖ ❖ 4* ❖ The V-12 Executive Committee met ❖ 4* briefly Thursday, Jouly 20. A tenta- ❖ 4* tive group- was formed to make up 4* 4* this semester's committee. Pvt. Larry 4» 4* Smith and Seaman Ray Nichols will 4* 4* be acting chairman and vice-chair- ❖ 4* man, respectively. Other members of $ 4* the committee who will act as chair- 4* 4* men of sub-committees for the com- 4* 4* ing V-12 Ball will be chosen at a 4* 4* meeting to be held soon. The com- & 4* mittee will be larger this semester ❖ 4* than it has been in the past. 4* •♦♦♦♦♦	♦** ❖	*2*	**•
New V-12 Band Creates Mild Campus Sensation
With the purpose of discouraging the grunt and groan cadence language of Marine N.C.O.’s and an eye for the transformation of each and every chowformation into a regimental jam-session, a new' V-12 band has been formed to give daily recitals on the quadrangle. Each recital is intended as an aid to that unfortunate group of trainees who were bom with two left feet and other individualists such as the slew foot,’ the pigeon toe, and the staggerer.
The new outfit is vastly superior to its predecessor both in quality and in quantity. Last semester’s limited supply of music has been widened to include a good repertoire of well-arranged Sousa marches, well handled. The organization itself now' numbers some 64 men, who manage some trick manuevering despite the burden of tubas and base drums. Directing the band in its four rehearsals each w'eek are Mr. Hope of the University music staff and Chief Barbes. Codrum majors are Ray Kopituk and Jim Kress.
Besides its monthly review assignments, the band is planning weekly concerts and possibly a joint program with the new' glee club, now forming. October 7 wall see the assimilation of the group into the Notre Dame marching band for the football season.
This larger outfit has a quick-tempo subdivision led by Seaman Kopituk and featuring Bill “Hot Licks” Braun on the drums, which is to function as the V-12 dance band for various campus social functions.—Seaman Gene Diamond
Chem Grad Wins Medal
Ensign W. P. Webb, commissioned at Notre Dame in Feb-
ruary, 1944, with the first group of NROTC’s, has been awarded a medal for scholastic achievement in the field of chemistry.
These medals are presented annually to outstanding graduates in chemistry
Ensign Webb or chemical engi-neeringrjby the American Institute of Chemists.—ill. V.
The first college basketball game was waged between Yale and Pennsylvania forty-eight years ago.
9
Langfordmen Tie For Tennis "Team" Title;
Samson Defeated in Finals by Segura
BY BILL WADDINGTON “Scholastic" Sports Editor
Not content to rest with a Western Title claim to tennis supremacy, the Notre Dame tennis team made the jaunt ■ to Evanston between terms and cut themselves a piece of the national horn ors in tying Texas and the University of Miami (Florida) for the team title at the National Intercollegiate meet.
Although none of the singles’ contestants or the doubles’ entries actually won top spots in their respective divisions, still they tallied enough points in getting past the quarter-finals to bring the Fighting Irish into a three-way tie. ■ Charley Samson, a transfer from Ohio ’ State before being sent to the V-12 program at Notre Dame and the No. 1 man for the Langfordmen all through their nine-game campaign last spring, put on an exceptional exhibition of tennis skill and managed to get all the way to the finals where he encountered Francisco (Pancho) Segura from the University of Miami finally being subdued in the best three out of five, 6-0, 6-4, 6-0.
Long Way Up
Samson’s climb on the victory ladder was even more mentionable than his getting to the finals. Undoubtedly one of the standout players of the middlewest during the regular college schedule, hav
1944 Western Tennis Champions
ing never lost a set, Samson was denied a “seeded” position by the committee in charge of pairings. His first opponent, Phil Glotzer of Chicago, went down, 6-2, 6-2. By an identical score, he next triumphed over Robert Lewis of Utah thus qualifying for the quarter-finals. A well-regarded racketeer from Georgia Tech, Howard McCall went down in two sets, 6-2, 6-3. The man who was “seeded” No. 3 in the tourney, Harry Likas of Gonzaga, loomed large as the man to clip Charley’s wings but after all was said and done, the match fell to Samson’s favor, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5. Up to this point Samson had not lost a match but the potency of Segura in the finals proved more than enough and thus Samson became the 1943 Intercollegiate singles’ runner-up.
Jerry Evert, Notre Dame’s No. 2 man, was pitted against Harry Tully of Chicago in his first match, winning handily, 6-0, 6-4. His second tussle of the tourney proved to be his last as Stanley Clark of California Tech accounted for the defeat, 6-1, 7-5. The No. 3 man, Bill Tully, won his first booking from Elden Yeck of Brodley, 6-2, 6-1, but found the Naval Academy touch too much as R. A. Davis from Annapolis eliminated him from play, 7-5, 7-5. The fourth and final man to constitute the four-man
team that Notre Dame sent to the tourney was Jim Griffin, the regular season’s No. 4 man. Coming up against Northwestern’s No. 2 man in the opening stanza, Bill Roper, Jim won out in the best of three matches, 6-1, 5-7, 6-3, but the story saddened from that point on as Nick Buzolich of Pepperdine came through with lop-sided wins, 6-0, 6-1.
Doubles Duty
The luck of the Irish did not hold in the draw for doubles competition as
Tully and Griffin drew the “seeded” No. j.l 2 team, Willett-McCall of Georgia Tech, as their opening opponents, the Tech-1| men winning, 6-3, 6-2. The Southerners’ victory was short-lived, however, as they | were bounced out in the next round by I Buzolich-Ruby of Pepperdine who went | on to be finally defeated in the finals
by Hickman-Kelley of Texas. -
The pairing of Samson-Evert took on the Crawford-Davis combination from Annapolis, the locals gaining the nod, 6-2, 6-4. With bright hopes, they found themselves bracketed against Druliner-Beisser from the College of Pacific and .pounced upon them to win the best two
out of three, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. Then that fateful day came round in which the highly publicized boys from down Texas way were hooked up with- Samson and Evert. The Longhorn duo took command from the start and were never headed, 7-5, 6-2, 6-3, going on to win the doubles play with a victory over Pepperdine.
§
Gain Toward Garland Bowl
In garnering three tourney points, I the Blue and Gold added more prestige I to their already established one point’ I toward the Garland Bowl, a trophy pre-- I sented in 1942 that will go to the first I team to attain 25 points. At present, I Stanford eads with 11, Texas is next ,1 with seven, Miami has six, and Notre Dame four. The Irish institution is the L only midwestern school that has been I able to acquire any points toward the [ trophy; and also Notre Dame has been | the only middle-western school that has I sent a man past the quarter-final rounds I in the last two years.	I
The Fighting Irish annexed their first point last season when Captain Jimmy Evert, now of the Bainbridge Navy team, went to the semi-finals in the singles.—(Turn to page IS)
10

Miller, Adams Chosen
■; For All - Star Berths
| Creighton Miller, Notre Dame’s unani-£ mous All-American choice in the 1943 ift
। polls and named captain of the 1943 All-| Americans by Christy Walsh, will team g	.
g up with John “Tree” Adams to present I their wares in the 1944 renewal of the | All-Star game to be played at Dyche B; Stadium in Evanston, August 30.
Creighton Miller
( The Chicago Tribune, sponsor of the event, under the direction of Sports Editor Arch Ward, has requested the services of the two Blue and Gold stalwarts and they will answer the opening roll call for practices which start early in I August.
,! This will be Miller’s second nomination to the affair, having been chosen last year along with Camille Piccone, Bill Huber, Angelo Bertelli, Corwin
. Clatt, Walter Ziemba, and Frank Szymanski. Miller’s return to Notre Dame . for last season’s play was a bit of a i surprise as Creighty was honorably discharged from the Army because of high blood pressure. Having received a degree in June of this year,| he is now at home in Wilmington, Del., deliberating over the opportunity to go on to law school or play pro football with the Brooklyn Dodgers who got him in the football draft at the end of the pro season. There •is also a chance that he may make a movie called “The Millers of Notre Dame.”
(Continued on page IS)
Diamond Nine Face Three Game Week-End;
Split Squad and Win Two on Sunday. 7-1.9-2
BY JOHN FEENEY
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s baseball nine with three wins to its credit against one loss and one tie, opens a heavy week-end schedule tonight at Hammond, Ind., by opposing the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co., leading club in the Calumet Industrial League. Big Paul Lammers, already the holder of two mound decisions, is Coach Jake Kline’s choice to handle the pitching duties.
Tomorrow will find the Golden Domers at Peru, Ind. with Jack Barrett scheduled to twirl against the powerful Bunker Hill Naval Air Base team in an afternoon tilt.
The third game in as many days is carded for Sundajr, as Baer Field of Fort Wayne comes here for a return engagement to be played on the Cartier Field turf at 2:00 p.m. In the season’s opener, Notre Dame turned back the boys in khaki, 12-4.
Double Victory Last Sunday
Last Sunday Coach Jake Kline made the daring move of dividing his squad into two teams to meet different opponents simultaneously. The strategy was perfect as both aggregations turned in handy victories.
At Fort Sheridan, Paul Lammers cut down his opposition with but six while his teammates were connecting for 17 blows to cement the 7-1 victory. Pitchin’ Paul whiffed 11 soldiers and would have been credited with a shutout but for Dunigan’s round-tripper in the sixth.
For the Blue and Gold, Jack Tree,
“What the Ump says. Goes"
Dick Balbierz, and Vince Laurita were the big guns in the important third inning when singles by Balbierz, Jack Mayo, Ken Manarik, Jim Karthall, Laurita, and Lammers coupled with an infield out and an error* produced five runs. Another came across in the fifth frame on Lammer’s second hit and Tree’s triple. In the ninth, Laurita singled to drive home Art Fitzgerald who had doubled.
Plymouth Beaten, 9-2
Meanwhile at Plymouth, Ind., the remainder of Notre Dame’s squad, under the direction of Bob Cianchetti, trounced the Plymouth Athletic Club, 9-2, behind the four-hit pitching of freshman Gifford Rich. Billy Albert and Rich himself paced the batting attack with two hits apiece, while Ray Fitzgerald, Jim Donovan, John O’Rourke, George Rebman, and Bob Walsh connected for one each. The Irish put the victory on ice with three counters in the fourth frame.
Irish in Stalemate. 3-3
The Irish and the Knights of Pythias from South Bend struggled through seven innings of play on Cartier Field in a twilight contest last Tuesday only to see darkness halt proceedings with the score 3-all.
After the Knights had opened with a pair of tallies in the first frame and a single counter in the second, Jack Barrett, Notre Dame’s moundsman, held almost complete sway, allowing only two additional runners to reach base. He fanned five.—(See page 17)	•
11
Summer Grid Practice Surges Forward As Determined Prospects Make Their Bid
BY GEORGE KRAUSER "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Under the direction of Ed McKeever and staff, some 200 grid aspirants have been going through their paces every afternoon on the green, cleat-torn Cartier Field. With the summer football sessions two days short of the half-way mark, 14 more days of practice remain. Coach McKeever said that there will be a couple of weeks layoff after the close of the practice program and that the team will begin again in dead earnest in September.
“The present squad turnout is the largest in recent years,” stated youthful Ed, “and no one will be cut from the squad. Our coaches, Crowe, Walsh, Devore, Ziemba and Nolting are doing a good job.” When asked concerning the availability of Pat Filley, McKeever replied that “Pat will be unable to participate in the present practices, and the doctor will have to decide if Pat’s knees will be all right for the fall season.”
Plenty of Emphasis on ”T"
As the “T” depends upon the success or failure of its quarterback, the signalcallers have had hour upon hour of practice in the art of making the ball vanish. Heading the list at the present time is Joe Gasperella, second semester student, who seems to be the logical successor to Bertelli’s passing wizardry. Standing a good 6' 2", Joe stood out in practice sessions as he hurled passes up to forty yards with seemingly effortless ease. With a year’s experience behind him, Frank Dancewicz is well advanced in the ball handling department and with Steve Nemeth, who earned his football spurs at Riley High of South Bend, round out the quarterback picture.
Shifting over to the left half position we find Georgie Terlep, who has been changed from quarterback—the position he played last season—to the skatback position to take advantage of 165 pounds; Joe Bartos, a hard driving rangy back who has shown up well in practice; and Don Doody, the fleet Chicago V-fiver. John Agnone, halfback from Youngstown, Ohio, stands out at defense and an offensive opportunity should prove his real worth.	’
With Bob Kelly back from last year’s National Champions, the right half spot seems to be capably filled. The 5' 10", 188 pound Irishman is counted on to do
most of the punting for this year’s squad. Nunzio Marino, another back with a lot of drive, Elmer Angsman, back from last year, and “Chick” Mag-gioli, another speedster, round out the halfback picture.
At full, powerfully built 215 pound Frank Ruggerio, hard-smashing Jim McGurk, and Rudy Krall are battling for the position left vacant by Jim Mello.
Linemen Galore
In the line the most fortified position seems to be the tackles, with four men from last year’s eleven returning for
Trainees Watch “The Art"
the.coming pigskin season. George Sullivan, who last year was understudy to ’ All-American Jim White, is probably the outstanding lineman on the Irish squad. His 6' 2%" is laden with 205 pounds of hard driving humanity. With George on the left side of the line, we now turn to the right tackle spot. Johnny Adams, with two years playing time on the Blue and Gold squad, is a top-notch prospect for this spot. Others who have merited
Leahy On Notre Dame Scene; Spectator Only
Lieutenant Frank Leahy
Having finished his indoctrination course at Princeton University, Lieut. Frank Leahy has returned to South -Bend awaiting his transfer tb~ San Francisco next week where he will receive more definite orders.
Now wearing the Navy Blue instead ; of the familiar football togs, Leahy has = been witnessing the goings-on of the ( 1944 Irish grid squad under the direc- » tion of head coach Ed McKeever who has f taken over in that capacity as well as $ athletic director during the absence of 1 Mr. Leahy.	|
The course at Princeton consisted of § a rigorous physical and academic pro- ” gram that started at 5:00 a.m. and ended at 10:00 p.m. and Lieut. Leahy admits that his waistline has been trimmed a little.	*
While he is away serving under the Navy, his family will continue to reside in South Bend.

special attention are Ken Schuster and Bob Welsh.
Ed Mieszkowski and Mike Manzo, 205 pounders, both with a year of service, are battling for the guards positions' but they are being hard pushed by Johnny Mastrangelo and Mike Ganey. At center are Art Statute, member of last season’s squad, Fred Rovai, Johnny Ray, and Dick Bernhart. The latter three are without experience but filled with determination to cop the spot on the first eleven.
Netmen Open Summer Bill at Chi Tomorrow
By JIM CAREY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Tennis coach Walter Langford announced this week that the varsity tennis team will play its first match of the summer schedule Saturday, July 29 against the River Park Tennis Club of Chicago. The team will make the jaunt to Chi for the event.
According to Coach Langford, the team will have to be at its best to top the Windy City aggregation which has a number of ex-college stars of known
ability and also several high caliber amateur players on the roster. The summer team will be a reasonable facsimile of the undefeated spring squad. Chuck Samson, runner-up in the National Intercollegiate singles event, will lead the team and will be aided by former mates, Jerry Evert, Bill Tully, and Jim Griffin who are also back from the spring squad.
There is still a question mark hanging over the fifth and sixth man positions but they probably will be filled by either Joe Wood, Stan Warshawsky or Bart O’Brien. All of the top six racketeers of last spring were recipients of major monograms, the first time that major awards have been made for this sport. All are members of the V-12 except Jim Griffin of the NROTC unit.
Campus Play Progressing
After a week-end of several important matches, the Notre Dame Open Event Tennis tournament is steadily progressing toward the finals. The favorites have been winning as expected and the tour
ney will move along at a faster pace since only the better class of players is left.
A minor upset was scored by Ed Ku-kuk when he defeated Len Buchstaber, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. Buchstaber was a member of Notre Dame’s spring varsity outfit, Chuck Samson, kingpin of the Irish tennis royalty, conquered Bob Gesler of Alumni by the easy count of 6-1 and 6-0.
Bill Tully and George Ratterman, both “seeded” players among the racketeers, had little trouble in winning their matches. Tully triumphed over R. R. Shaaf, 6-2, 6-2, while Ratterman eliminated R. J. Shirl, a freshman from Breen-Phillips, 6-2, 6-1.
C. W. Clessler lost to Curran but not until he put up a strong bid to the tune of 5-7, 8-6, 6-3. Bill Kush of Zahm defeated R. F. Gorman in two straight sets 6-2, 6-0. Charles Hebener, a frosh contender from Carroll, nosed out F. Ricker of St. Ed’s in three hard fought rounds, 4-6, 6-2, and 6-3. Bill Moore of the NROTC won over John Head of Dillon, 6-4, 6-4. Bill Glass, after losing six straight games, came back to down A. Rigling, a Navy V-12er, 0-6, 6-1, and 6-0.	'
Softball. Volleyball Leagues Being Formed
Both softball and volleyball leagues are being organized to run throughout the summer semester, the softball teams being in charge of the Physical Educa-
Softball Starts Again
tion department under Mr. Maxwell while the volleyball set-up is under the direction of Gil Burdick.
The softball aggregation will be accepted representing halls, clubs, or other civilian units. The volleyball units will be formed in an open league consisting of halls, clubs, companies, or other civilian or service units.
Servicemen's Center Appreciated by Men
By GEORGE NUTO.
Liberty is here! 1300 Saturday on the good ship Notre Dame there is a large group of trainees that go ashore with the SMC as their major objective.
When they arrive they discover that there will be dancing from 1500 to 1730. The influence of a fine group' of young women is ever present to make our stay a happy one. Having a group of trainees from a large number of states indoctrinates the dancers with their own individual styles. Here the renowned jitterbug has a haven all his own.
Immediately after dancing, evening chow is served. Gracious ladies spend their liesure moments here preparing sandwiches and coffe. Cakes, cookies, and milk are also available for the trainees. The food is excellent as all trainees will verbally testify. Free tobacco and soft drinks are avaiable for all.
After supper the music is again resumed for all who wish to dance. From 2045 to 2115 a radio program, “Stars and Stripes” is produced by the Studebaker Corporation and sent on a long hook-up over WSBT. Prizes are given for various forms of entertainment, under the supervision of Chief Broderick who has devoted much time to making these shows successes.
On Sunday the center is open from 0900 to 2200. There is dancing from 1500 to 1730. Supper is served afterwards and our young men must once again aboard the Notre Dame—by 1915—or else!
Our center is open all during the week and populated by our men during the midweek liberty days of Wednesday and Thursday. Though no dances are held during the week, the book and music rooms are available for the enjoyment of all.
To the people that have made the Service Center possible: a snappy salute and our sincerest thanks.
CENTER SOLVES PROBLEMS (Continued from page 4) bay with cookies, fruit, stationery, magazines, and books.
The Center has been maintained through the work of the patriotic citizens of South Bend and vicinity, who donate their free hours to its success. Financially supporting it are the South Bend War Chest and private donations.
The Service Men’s Center requests that visitors and trainees using its facilities should be careful in keeping the place clean. Men drop paper plates, straws, cigarette butts, etc., on the deck and make additional work for those who operate, entirely voluntarily, the excellent Center that it is.
13
KKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY	.
BxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXk*
teria, and Bob Sinkle and Ernie Rausch-er were down to make Mass checks at six o’clock. An hour later, Harry Ryan and Joe Brady were off to their first classes even before the laundry girls had thought of tearing off buttons from our last shirt.	‘
X
A TREE GROWS IN SOUTH BEND
South Bend, over a week-end, and in the summertime, was best summed up by John “The Tree” Adams, when lie said that last Saturday night, he spent a typical Freshman midnight. After the picnic for the football squad, which was given' by Coach McKeever and his assistants, John and Pete (“My line runs out after half an hour”) Berezney strolled downtown via a Notre Dame Ave., bus (We say strolled because they walked up and down the aisle, trying to talk the dining hall girls into giving them their seats). Once in town, the boys headed for Walgreen’s Corner, leaned against the lamp post, and prepared to watch the passing parade. This manner of relaxation didn’t last long, because the police officer directing traffic on the corner told them that they would have to move along. It seems that Adams’ head was interfering with the illumination from the lamp post, and that he (the copper) had nearly been run down (physically, not mentally) three times in the five minutes they were lounging there.
Moving west on Colfax, the gents speeded their pace when approached for alms by a charity worker, but slowed down while passing the Service Men’s Center. “Dollies kept a-going in, and a-cumming out.” Their first stop was the Arcadia—the Poor Man’s Stork Club— and they were disappointed, so we believe, because the place was virtually lifeless. Even George and Gus, No. 1 and No. 2 men in charge of production, had taken the evening off. Left watching the till was John—the No. 3 man. And aside from “Hello, nize day,” or “Abbie, strumberrie, pech, plumbbb,” John doesn’t say much. So we repeat, the place was virtually lifeless.
Disappointed, the lads sauntered back to Michigan Avenue, slowing down their pace while passing the SMC, and making tracks when approached once more by the alms collector. Having a desire to revisit haunts of their freshman days, they peered into the Bowl-Mor, and then dropped up to Kewpie’s for a hamburger and a frosted malted. Picking up several magazines in Walgreen’s, (and one nearly slipped from Berezney’s jacket when Pete was walking out), the boys came back to school to hear an hour and a half of music before the lights were turned off. Coach Devore null be
glad to know that his tackles are spending safe-and-sane week-ends.
COMES THE PURGE
Local Gestapo Headquarters warns: “Keep off the grass in front of the dining hall and elsewhere, or it gives nobs on der head.”
FASHION PLATES
Dick Sadowski spent last week-end with Tom McCoy at a resort somewhere in Michigan. He was absent from the University for 36 hours, but even so he provided himself with a satchel containing three extra suits.
Incidentally, about this thermos bottle Dick lugs around with him (not McCoy). He has informed one and all that the one contains milk and the other cream. A likely story!
EARLY RISERS
Johnny Holman was at it again, last week, but this time he limited his activities to Sorin’s third floor. After the early risers had adjusted the alarms on their clocks, he managed, without their notice, to turn a few of the clocks an hour ahead. The result was that Tommy Burns was off to his duties in the cafe-
So you think this raft is small huh! You should have seen'my room at Notre Dame!
Speaking of tearing buttons from shirts, some glunks are so fed up with this trick that they wear nothing but T-shirts. Incidentally, they are the ones that go to the farthest serving lines in the dining hall, i.e., the farthest from the head table.
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE
Dick Murphy and the credit manager of the Stevens Hotel are carrying on a definite one-sided bit of correspondence. He (Murph) believed that he was paying the hotel a compliment by accepting their hospitality when he dropped in on them one night on his way back to school. The accommodations were perfect, and Murph wasn’t too small to tell the maid so. He even left a dime tip on the window sill, as he stepped out on the fire escape and headed for terra firma. When Dick reached the ground, light brown bags in hand, and with dark, heavy bags under his eyes, the credit manager *was waiting for him. “Chum(p), if times are that rough, we’ll forget the bill for a time,” said the credit manager. The only conception of time that Murph has is a long time— thus the bit of one-sided correspondence.
❖
HERE AND THERE
At Rosie’s, Friday, the crowd was very poor, disgracefully so (What are
14
you fellows doing, studying?). On Saturday, however, business picked up a mite when Frank Paulson, Bud Walker, Bob Morrissey, Barney Slater, and that guy Fabe, sat down and sent the wait-ery scurrying as of yore. We doubt if the joint showed ten cents profit—a bird in the hand is bad table manners.
McDermott and Filley are comparing and talking about knee operations daily on Sorin porch.
Scouts tells us that Georgia Kelly, Scholastic entry in the St. Mary’s Handicap for a number of years, will go to the post on August 5. Yep, it’s a Notre Dame man who will meet her in the middle aisle. (Those gals get all the breaks, don’t they?). We shouldn’t be at all surprised if Orry, her old reliable running mate, should come up with something equally startling any day now.
Harry Berliner and Bob Riordan threw caution to the winds (along with their classes) last week, and took in the Democratic convention. We don’t recall hearing either of them on the air, seconding a nomination, or presiding over a caucus; but you can be sure they didn’t keep their mouths shut all the time they were there.
A college education, we learned from an old Confusian friend of ours, never hurt’ anyone willing to learn something afterwards.
COMMERCE BUILDING REPARTEE
Mr. Smith: “Why are you late?”
Harry Walters: “Class started before I got here.”
ABOUT THE LAWYERS BALL
We’ve got our tickets; have you got yours?
❖ .
THE UNINVITED
When Pinkie Gadle came into his room in St. Ed’s, one day last week, he discovered an intruder lying on his bed. Straightway he began to hurl such powerful projectiles as Webster’s New Abridged, The World Atlas, and Western. Civilization (both volumes). If you haven’t guessed it by this time, the disturbing element was in the form of a black cat. The cat departed.
The Perfect Golf Course built at Atlanta (Ga.) by Bobby Jones, is really a composite of links on which the former champion has played in other lands . . . every hole is in part reproduced from some favorite hole Bobby has encountered in his search for golfing honors.	.
By PETE BROWN
Head Coach McKeever was greeted by 25 service men at the first day of practice. Several of these men will be ineligible because of the Navy’s first semester jrule. Illinois and Massachusetts are the states with the most representatives on the team. Illinois has 14 and Massachusetts 12.
A Cincinnati radio station is again negotiating plans to broadcast Notre Dame home football games this year. Dick Bray will likely do the announcing. Several years ago “Red” Barber, then of Cincinnati, broadcast the Irish games. Since then his name has become synonymous with the Brooklyn Dodgers, which goes to prove something or other.
Marty Brill, halfback on the National Championship teams of 1929 and ’30, has agreed to coach the Oakland Hornets of the newly-formed American pro football league. Brill was recently discharged from the service.
The All-Star season is here again. It seems slightly possible that Lynn Waldorf, Northwestern University coach, will get the nod as head man of the AllStars. They will face the Chicago Bears in Dyche Stadium, Evanston, on July 30. Waldorf has served as assistant coach, official or volunteer in most of the previous games. He has also made the training and practice facilities at N.U. available to the All-Stars. As yet there have only been about 15 men named to the squad.
Marchy Schwartz, All-American halfback from N.D. in ’31, is now working for an oil concern in the southwest. He does business out of Wichita, Kansas. He took the job when Stanford gave up football for the duration.
Line coach Adam Walsh set an example for all future N.D. men when he was a member of the ’24 team. Playing center he played most of the game against Stanford in the Rose Bowl with both hands broken.
Bob Dorgherty, athletic director at Harrison Tech in Chicago, attends to his duties there, teaches physical education classes and works in a war plant at night. Somehow he managed to participate in a Chicago golf tournament and reached the final round, losing to
Lou Esposito in the finals. Harrison Tech can be remembered as sending Andy Pilney and Andy Puplis to Notre Dame.
Puplis also performed one of those superman acts. Last year he coached Proviso Township High School in Maywood, Illinois, and played quarterback for the Chicago Cardinals of the National Pro League. After Proviso’s games on Saturday, he would hop on a plane and fly to the place where the Cards were playing.
George Martz, Coach Kline’s freshman catcher, caused no little amount of commotion for his coach last Sunday in Chicago. The baseball team was playing Fort Sheridan on their field. Somehow Big George wasn’t awake when the train pulled into the station at the Fort, and when it started up he was still on it. About the fourth inning he strolled into the ballpark after hitchhiking back from the next stop.
Does anybody remember when the National League was being overrun by the great team from Brooklyn? Do you remember that they were called “Glorified Bums” by the people of the nation of Brooklyn? Now they are just called “BUMS.”	*
People have been asking questions this year why the Chicago Cubs have been drawing crowds that fill their ballpark. I think that the question was answered last Sunday by one William Nicholson when he equaled the National and Major league records for (1) Most consecutive home runs in official times at bat, four, (2) Most home runs in a double header, four. It has been exactly fifty years since the first feat was accomplished in the National League. In the second game of the double header the Cubs scored three runs without a hit or the aid of an error.
George Connors, tackle on the famous Holy Cross football team that upset the Boston College eleven, two years ago, is now a member of the V-7 unit. Too bad these men are not eligible for competition on the varsity teams.
Clark Griffith, president of the Washington Senators is said to be the best golfer among owners of the major baseball clubs.
IS
PEOPLE AND STUFF:
Why does G. G. Tobleck shed tears over the photo of the beauteous lady on his desk every Saturday at 1300 and scream, “Why isn’t life a bowl of cherries?” But I guess it’s tough on all the boys.
John “Red” Garwin likes the Army, particularly the Nurse Corps. Red’s engaged, now I said engaged and not married to a lovely Elkartian Lt. now serving overseas. Garvin keeps singing, “We’ll be over, we’re coming over . . .” And somehow, we don’t think he’s kidding!
And another thing under discussion: Is it true Earl Broden doesn’t fight to get the line over to the “Rock” any more? Well Earl, other girls have had careers and made good wives too, but couldn’t she convince you?
Evald “Evie” Rodin continues to hang out his window for hours on end and shout, “At ease fellow, come in out of the rain,” at the man continually standing at attenion between Zahm and Cavanaugh. Bob B. Ross, his roomie, keeps saying, “But Evald old man, do I have to keep telling you that’s a statue?” Poor Bob, poor Evie! .
FROM ME TO YOUSE:
I looked through the “Periscope,”
And what did I see?
A nasty old swabbie, just glaring at me!
“WhaVcha want?” he did menacingly belloiv,
“Just the guy who ivrites that column, he’s the fellow!”
“Le Bien’s his name, and oh, what a whizz!”
“Who cares what he’s Bien, look ivhat he is!”
And to explain to the Isolationists:
“I,” says Gizmo, “am a tool of the masses. They demand blood, or won’t let me go to classes!” But it’s all the right kind of spirit!
❖
STUFF AND PEOPLE:
John “Whitey” Kalapos refuses to swoon over the Sinatra records with the
sailors at the Service Center. Says Kalapos, “If the V-12 Band keeps playing Anchors Aweigh I’ll retaliate by refusing to listen to their hero in action.”
NOW LOOK—
We’re going to try hard to get something on each of the Marines in the Detachment. NCO’s included; and so, if you have any contribs, I guess you know where to throw them. Now good-by, and remember what Warrant Officer Banashek said, “Keep it clean.”
Announce Regimental . and Battalion Staffs
By SEAMAN AL BROTEN
As the V-12 unit prepared to present its first review of the semester last Saturday, the new temporary regimental staff was announced with P. E. Amundsen of the Navy as regimental com-
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS *	SANDWICHES
THE HUDDLE
mander. This staff, composed of student officers, takes charge of the reviews which will be staged once each month. They are supervised by Chief Warrant Officer S. Banashek, drill officer.
Other members of the regimental staff include R. Bosler of the Navy as sub-regimental commander; Pottebaum, Marine Corps, adjutant; W. A. Waage, Navy, and R. C. Moon, Marine Corps, aides.
The first battalion, composed of Companies A and B of the Marine Corps and M, N, 0, and P of the Navy, has the following officers: Okleshen, Marine Corps, battalion commander; McCarthy, Marine Corps, battalion sub-commander; G. W. Garey, Navy, adjutant; and
i BUY WITH CONFIDENCE I
at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
|	A wide selection of	=
|	Desirable Gifts	. i
|	on display.	e
1	Use our lay-away plan. |
TOBACCO
PIPES
STATIONERY
16
L. E. Bedient, Navy, and Dackins, Marine Corps, aides.
The staff of the second battalion, including Companies G, H, I, J, K, and L of the Navy, is composed of the following: F. Cardinal, battalion commander; J. K. Zimmerman battalion subcommander; R. W. Leamy, adjutant; and B. M. DePauw and J. V. Buehrle, aides.
Heading the third battalion, composed of Companies A through F, inclusive, are L. H. Marengo, battalion commander; K. J. Damewood, battalion subcommander; R. H. Forester, adjutant; R. A. Hudson and M. D. Morang, aides.
Servicemen's Lounge to Offer New Services
By SEAMAN AL BROTEN
The Service Men’s Lounge, located at 320 S. Main Street in South Bend, this week announced future added attractions for Notre Dame’s servicemen. The plans were announced through Lt. J. J. Collins, welfare and recreation officer of the V-12 unit.
On. Saturdays, the Lounge will serve hot meals to the men between the hours of 1800 and 1915, free of charge. The meals will be of the excellent home-cooked variety.
“In order to provide sufficient food, the Lounge will have to be notified by Thursday each week, of the number of men who wish to have the meal,” said Lt. Collins. “Tickets for this meal may be secured at my office by merely requesting them. However, the ticket must be used. Make the request before 1600 on Thursday of any week.”
The Lounge also is preparing a mending service done by volunteer ladies, and a laundry service, which will furnish the equipment which will enable the men to do the laundry themselves. Other facilities of the Lounge include badminton courts for the sports-minded and a jukebox for the footloose. Hostesses intermingle with the liberty-hounds to add charm to the surroundings.
The Lounge has been prepared and maintained by the Federal Council of Churchwomen, through the additional aid of private citizens of South Bend.
IRISH IN STALEMATE (Continued from page 11)
The home club evened matters by getting a trio of runs in the third. With one gone, Tree and Ciczszon singled successively, but Balbierz forced Tree at third. Then Jack Mayo slashed a two-bagger to center, scoring Ciczszon, and he and Balbierz crossed the plate a moment later when catcher Styberski’s attempted pick-off went wild. In the fifth with the bases loaded and none away, and again in the sixth with three on and
I HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS JI.OO.
Phone 4-1481
I HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
IgJuiHIHIHIIHMIHIHIHnniimiHHIlimHinUHHtHHl
THE NAVY'S SWEETHEART
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
TAILOR MADE BLUES
Iwnna^x:
iMCICNTl
snipped to
FAMOUS
■DANDY” 4-0
B ue Block :00*', AH Wool More Satin Lining Hand embroidered eated ’'Ot to shrmi or lade Handsomely ‘inisned 9 en^y o‘ extra oocxetr*
Postal -equiotions reqvire
14-15 01 SERGE	$32 50
1 6-1 7 ox SERGE OR WHIPCORD 35 00
18-19 ox SERGE	37 50
17 ox. GABARDINE OR WHIPCORD 42 50
MINIMUM deposit $5 - BALANCE c o 0
MAILED, INSURED, ALL OVER THE WORLD 3 DAYS AFTER RECEIPT OF ORDER
HIPS
D - Except ;
Deposit $2- Bo<
2Sc 'or eocn □ddif'ona'
«9
50c
INCLUDING RATE AND CHOICE OF NECKERCHIEF OR WHITE HAT
FAMOUS "DANDY"
WH1TES1
TAILOR MADE NECKERCHIEF INCLUDED WITH EVERY UNIFORM
WAIST
THIGH
KNU
LEG Wt
$1.25 I	$16.50
YOUR MONEY BACK GUARANTEE—We occupy 4 buildings—the largest organization devoted exclusively to outfitting Sailors. See our ads in the Navy magazines. We unconditionally guarantee our uniforms not to shrink or fade and to fit you right or we*JJ refund the price.
Dandy Naval Tailors
Mail orders to
DANDY NAVAL TAILORS MANUFACTURERS
39 Sands St., Brooklyn 1, N. Y. Near Irooklyn Navy Ford MAfa 4-OMC

17
only one retired, the Irish looked like sure winners. But a double play and inability to hit in the pinches cut short both threats.
The visitors, who led the Northern Indiana Industrial League with 11 consecutive wins, connected for only seven hits, all one-baggers, while Notre Dame tagged Chuck Seger for ten.
Fielding gems of the evening were turned in by Notre Dame outfielders Mayo and Art Fitzgerald, both of whom made brilliant catches to rob opposing
The Navy Store is now equipped with a stock ot
Slate grey Regulation Navy Shirts
batsmen of potential extra-base hits.
Line scores:
Notre Dame ________________ 005 010 00 1—7
Fort Sheridan _____________ 000 001 00 0—1
Lammers and Laurita ; Essex and Phipps.
Notre Dame	 ........... 001	302	03 0—9
Plymouth A.	C. .......... 001	302	03 0—9
Rich ami Rehman ; Plymouth not available.
Knijrhts of Pythias ---------- 2	10 0 0 0 0—3
Notre Dame ____________________0	0 3 0 0 0 0—3
Sejxer and Styberski; Banett and Laurita.
MILLER, ADAMS CHOSEN (Continued from page 11)
Ground Gainer De Luxe
While fully acting the part of a standout back for the 1943 National Champs, Miller carried the ball 151 times and gained 911 yards for a 6.03 average and at the same time carried the ball more than any other back. He was given an honorary “C” from Creighton University for his “contribution to the fame of Creighton on the gridiron throughout the nation.” Miller received his first name from the name of Creighton University where his father, Harry “Red” Miller formerly coached. Miller specializes in tricky open field running.
John Adams, another monogram member of the ’43 champion outfit, who will be a strong factor in Notre Dame’s forward wall this season at right tackle, stands 6' 7" with 225 pounds built around his frame. Adams, who comes from Subiaco, Arkansas was named on the all-state prep team in 1939 and 1940. He won monograms in 1942 and '43 and during the past spring, he was presented with the Frank Hering award for the most improved player.
LANGFORDMEN TIE FOR TITLE (Continued from page 10)
At the outset of the semi-final rounds, Notre Dame was the only team with contestants left both in the doubles and singles events. In the initial play of the tourney, Georgia Tech had succeeded in sending their men successfully through the preliminary rounds and the pressmen who covered the event touted them as the ones to beat. After the semi-final round, this premature bit of prognostication had withered, as Tech failed to go beyond the semi-final mark.
There were fifty entries from all over the country with strong contingents from California. One of the pre-tourney favorites was Harry Likas of Gonzaga who was seeded the No. 3 spot in the singles but was defeated in the semifinals by Chuck Samson. Likas was formerly the California Junior champion and the National boys champ.
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from page 2) “(4 . . . democracy is not a reality in American education. . . .”
If this is the case, if discipline should not be an integral part of your education, then the Army and the Navy have a completely wrong setup, then even Notre Dame, though turning out well trained men for over a hundred years, has been working on a completely undemocratic system. . . .
Freshmen . . . The grass is to be admired, but not walked on!
To CHICAGO*—and BEYOND
Socks
Handkerchiefs
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
NAVY STORE
Zero Deck, Dining Holl
50Uthnsehor[
18
OBSERVATIONS
(Continued from page 8) total period of education or training exceed four years: Provided, That his work continues to be satisfactory throughout the period, according to the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the institution: Provided, however, That wherever the additional period of instruction ends during a quarter or semester and after a major part of such quarter or semester has expired, such period of instruction shall be extended to the termination of such .unexpired quarter' or semester.
Three
Such person shall be eligible for and entitled to such course of education or training as he may elect, and at any approved educational or training institution at which he chooses to enroll, whether or not located in the State in which he resides, which will accept or retain him as a student or trainee in any field or branch of knowledge which such institution finds him qualified to undertake or pursue: Provided, That, for reason satisfactory to the Administrator, he may change a course of instruction: And provided further, That any such course of education or training may be discontinued at any time, if
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
"O. 1" NIX
Tin I VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B, (G)-C-Bg
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B=” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be AS MUCH “Bg” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as ¥> lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS $3.50
it is found by the Administrator that, according to the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the institution, the conduct or progress of such person is unsatisfactory.
Five
The Administrator shall pay to the educational or training institution, for each person enrolled in full time or* part time course of education or training, the customary cost of tuition, and such laboratory, library, health, infirmary, and other similar fees as are customarily charged, and may pay for books, supplies, equipment, and other necessary expenses, exclusive of board, lodging, other living expenses, and travel, as are generally required for the successful pursuit and completion of the course by other students Jn the institution: Provided, That in no event shall such payments, with respect to any person, exceed $500 for an ordinary school year: Provided further, That no payments shall be made to institutions, business or other establishments furnishing apprentice training on the job: And pro- .. vided further, That if any such institution has no established tuition fee, or if its established tuition fee shall be found by the Administrator to be inadequate compensation to such institution for furnishing such education or training, he is authorized to provide for the payment, with respect to any such person, of such fair and reasonable compensation as will not exceed $500 for any such school year.
Six
While enrolled in and pursuing a course under this part, such person, upon application to the Administrator, shall be paid a subsistence allowance of $50 per month, if without a dependent or dependents, or $75 per month, if he has a dependent or dependents, including regular holidays and leave not exceeding thirty days in a calendar year. Such person attending a course on a part-time basis, and such person receiving compensation for productive labor performed as part of their apprentice or other training on the job at institutions, business or other establishments, shall be entitled to receive such lesser sums, if any, as subsistence or dependency allowances, as may be determined by the Administrator: Provided, That any such person eligible under this part, and within the limitations thereof, may pursue such full time or part-time course or courses as he may elect, without subsistence allowance.
Chapter VI—Employment of Veterans Section 600 (a)
In the enactment of the provisions of this title Congress declares as its intent
and purpose that there shall be an effective job counseling and employment placement service for veterans, and that, to this end, policies shall be promulgated and administered, so as to provide for them the maximum of job opportunity in the field of gainful employment. For the purpose there is hereby created to cooperate with and assist the United States Employment Service, as established by the provisions of the Act of June 6, 1933, a Veterans’ Placement Service Board, which shall consist of the Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs, as Chairman, the Director of the National Selective Service System, and the Administrator of the Federal Security Agency, or whoever may have the responsibility of administering the functions of the United States Employment Service. The Board shall determine all matters of policy relating to the Administration of the Veterans’ Employment-Service of the United States Employment Service.
Editor’s Note: If you wish to apply for the benefits of this Bill, and if you desire further information, you may call Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Studies at Notre Dame, and Academic Counsellor for Returning Veterans. He will be glad to give you information and advice.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. INO.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406.4OS TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
19
COMBINATION WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS.
COMBINATION WORLD'S E
Chesterfield
Cigarettes that SATISFY
Back from the war zone, Carole also says... "I saw thousands of cartons of cigarettes given to our boys overseas and can say without reservation Chesterfield is always a favorite."
Discover for yourself the meaning of Chesterfield’s 5 Key-tvords to more Smoking Pleasure . . . RIGHT
FOR MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE