
Fro01 Michigan to 

Advertise in the 1988 Scholastic Football Review issue 
Submit advertising copy by 1127/89 
Contact Dianna Billings or Heidi Traupman at 239-7569 for information. 

,, " --. , 
~'V ----~•-;-,• •--~--~---...,~,• < • ,' • • 


Scholastic 
•:~;J•:•·••·•·••·•··••·••····.•·· ;~W~ijJii~~••d:· ..·• ctMik
·· 

1
: P~~s~;i991c:p~~kon t~einfirsrs~ i~sH1e. 
iJ/o,irrm~cb) llyLaµra.<i~~fz/ Pa 

Features 
The Wild Life Irish Outdoors gives students a taste of life far away from the Dome -and the rest of civilization. By Ed Kromer/ Page 14 
When in Rome ... or London.•. or... Notre Dame students abroad find fun and competiition 
as Yanks on rugby clubs. By Ed Kromer/ Page16  , Copy: JoeMc1.loney .. Mit<;!:!~11{•·· , .. -~\~:'._,,.· Padil.lat Traupma,1  
Sports A Major Reversal Notre Dame's biggest game of the year will see the Irish in an unusual position for an important game -favorite. By Terry Lynch/ Page 18 Sportsweek A weekly roundup of varsity sports./ Page 20 1--------------------------------------1 Departments Week in Distortion The guide for studying for Finals Week '88. / Page 4 Music The Waterboys get the nod over some big-time greats./ Page 6 On Other Campuses Rice had an election, but Cotton Bowl officials aren't happy./ Page 5 Ernie Pook's Comeek "Who Are the Dogs"/ Page 24 Final Word Amnesty Intemational's Jim Farley wants you to drop a line. /Page 22  
Editorials/ Page 23 A pleasant surprise Tom Doyle and Mike Paese had a shaky start, but they've held their own An ounce of prevention There are ways for students to avoid the crime wave off-campus  

EditJr iri Chief: : 
Kathleen·. Mckernan 

Maiiifoing Editor: 
Teriy;l.yi"lch •,; ,< . 
Executive ,Edlfor: Mike Farnan•·· 
•··• .....· · • iditorial Staff:; 
SpQrti.: JS:eyin Boug~al ... Assi~tant: :Jim Maggio · · 

News: Andy Hilger, Mike Wielle1\ · · ·· · •·F¢atures:Maggie;$ieger '"••····· .......• Assfotant: Dreama Kay Whitaker, la9 • 
\ ....··.. . L< ,cc: ' 
Dep_lirtrnents: AmyW~b'3F ,. 
. ·: ... :Prci'dti_Cti_~-Jt:, :' =----~=-··: 
Sysle!JlS Manager:Matt Lan~i~.'.< ,t Graphic Arts: Manager: .. ViviEi#ii~.;t ;;:.,. '. } . : i ..·... )fio't\ . 

Pho~Q Manager:Mari Okuda •· . . . .. Ad p_esfg1,1:•.8osWipb~r, . Busiiiess:Jirn Fitzgerald~•::'\•'•., . Advertsing:rnanria, Billings,IH~idi . · .. ' . 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are 
welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1988 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in pan without pcnnission is prohibited. 
December 8, 1988 
. -­
·-----~-=·~ ...... =~-, ----...~----­

Letters 
Scholastic naive, writes Anti­Apartheid Network chairman 
Dear Editor, 
As chairperson of the Notre Dame Anti­Apartheid Network, I feel the need to reply to the Nov. 17 editorial "Search for divestment, not conspiracies." Although both I and Pro­fessor Peter Walshe were singled out in the article as "conspiracy hunters," I will speak onlyfor myself and the steering committee of theAAN. 
I was disturbed by the editorial' s sugges­tion that the Anti-Apartheid debate on cam­pus had "sunk to new lows." As I have stated before, the Anti-Apartheid Network does not, nor will it ever as long as I remain 
r 

chairperson, indulge in rumor, half-truth, ad­hominem argument or any other unprofes­sional rhetorical tactic_. My information regarding an institue reflecting the Pagan­Sheli initiative was taken from both a report issued by the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, and Rev. Williams' own assertion that he had -according to his ver­sion of the events -spoken casually to James Armstrong about such an institue. I believe that the validity of my sources, coupled with the fact that I have met personally with Rev. Williams to discuss this matter, demonstrates that I in no way have been engaged in any form of argument that might be considered "low," and I resent the characterization ofthe Network's role in the debate as such. 
I was surprised and saddened by the editorial's summary of the two sides of the argument On the one hand, according to the editorial, are Peter Walshe and John-Paul Checkett, the irresponsible "conspiracy hunters" -one with his mysterious "leaked report" and the other not even granted the 
I t: benefit ofa source -hurling allegations with­
out regard to fact. On the other side, we are told, is Rev. Williams, consistently protest­ing his innocence. What was not mentioned in the editorial was Williams' own admission that he had discussed the possibility of such a network with James Armstrong -the for­mer Pagan employee who was assigned re­sponsibility for the Pagan-Shell religious strategy. 
Although Armstrong maintains that his "views on South Africa ... were not dictated 
by Shell, Pagan or anyone else," it is clear that Pagan would not assign responsibility for the Shell religious strategy to an individ­ual whose views were inconsistent with the objectives of this strategy. The fact that Armstrong was willing to accept a role in the Shell-Pagan strategy clearly marks him as an individual who has estranged himself from the legitimate Anti-Apartheid movement. An institute suggested by such an individual, whether employed by Pagan or not, would clearly reflect the ideology behind the Nep­tune Strategy-to divert attention away from the support that U.S. corporations give to the aparthied system -and thus would be unac­ceptable to anyone of good will. 
I am saddened that the editorial chose to ignore this aspect of Rev. Williams' argu­ment, for it reflects a certain naivete that Scholastic has had a tendency to exhibit when dealing with the Notre Dame admini­
. stration . A clear example of such naivete was this publication's acceptance (in the September 1 issue) that the gold for the gild­ing of the dome comes from Germany, when 
it is common knowledge that Germany does not mine gold. 
I resent the editorial' s assertion that "the argument has been conducted . . . like a presidential campaign ... with accusations and conspiracies being more important than issues." I believe that the possibility of an institute reflecting the Pagan-Shell initiative -that is the values of the Neptune Strategy ­
at this university is an issue, and an issue that strikes close to home. Furthermore, I am not interested in conspiracy or unmasking dubi­ous intentions on the part of the administra­tion. All I, and the rest of the network, hope to achieve through this debate is the assur­ance that an institute reflecting the values of those who are ideologically linked with companies such as Shell will not apppear at this university. As of yet, we have not re­ceived sufficient assurance. 
Finally, I refuse to accept the role that the 

editorial wishes the Network to play -that of 
an impotent group ofindividuals whose only 
purpose is to let out a quiet moan twice a year 



Letters 

when the board of trustees discusses Notre Dame's investment policy. While I appreci­ate Scholastic' s coverage ofthe Network and applaud the editors for their consistent calls for divestment, this publication must realize that the war against Apartheid mustbe fought on several fronts, and that this process some­times involves confrontation -not in the interests of unmasking conspiracy, but for the greater good ofthe oppressed in South Africa. 
John-Paul Checkett Chairperson, Anti-Apartheid Network English/psychology Flanner Hall 
Graduate student social options falsely represented 
Dear Editor, 
In the interview (Nov. 10) with Victor Krebs, president of the Graduate Student Union, he was quoted as saying: "As it is, there is no place where grad students can go." The editorial at the end of the issue repeated that statement by saying: "Gradu­ate students should have a place oftheirown on campus to socialize, drink coffee or rest. Aside from carrels in the library, nothing exists for graduate students campus." 
Other Stunning Designs: 
o WORK IS HELL O LIFE IN HELL ITl1t· Cla.,~if/ 
• 
BONGO 

• 
I SWEAR TO GOD 



I DIDN'T DO IT 

These statements are utterly false. The Grad Club has existed for several years to serve exactly this purpose. It offers a social meeting place, a soda fountain and snack bar and entertainment. It is located in Wilson Commons, which is not only very convenient for the townhouse residents, but also for other students who don't have to walk all the way onto campus to get to it. The member­ship fee of two dollars is nominal, and not mandatory. 
Mr. Krebs and others in the Graduate Student Council have known about the Grad Club for quite some time. I have seen Mr. Krebs at the Club. I cannot understand why he and others in the GSC continue to play down the Clubs's existence, and then com­plain about a lack of social space. 
Many of the grad student activists have called for more "community" between grads, whatever that means. We certainly will never have community as long as our student organizations are acting at cross-purposes with one another, and with the student body. I urge the Graduate Student Council to stop complaining about grad student social space until it at least acknowledge the existence of the Grad Club. 
Francis J. Deck Graduate Student Physics department Member, Grad Club board 
Lynda Barry's "Ernie Pook's Comeek" is wasted space 
Dear Editor, 
If Lynda Barry has a sense of humor or any artistic talent, it is not to be found in Ernie Pook's Comeek. Her "work" (ifl can be so bold as to call it that) is put to shame by the neigh boring strip, Life in Hell. Please re­consider your use of space for this kind of trash. 
Bradley P. Luetkenhaus College of Arts and Letters 


Week In Distortion/ Chris Fillio 
The Crush Is On 
With a wealth (?) ofexperience under his belt, junior Chris Fillio offers "Exam Guide '88 

I t is now time to face reality. Do you have little more than a snowball's chance in Lebanon of passing each and every class by the skin of your teeth if, and only if, you get a perfect score on every single final exam or paper? Ifso, then I suggest that you cash in all of textbooks you can and purchase a one-way ticket to Tempe. Your college career is over, pal. But if you're going to hell in a bucket, at least you'll enjoy the ride. All others with a glimmer of academic hope, read on. For those prepared to weather the storm (or monsoon, hurricane or tsunami as the case may be), the next step is to place the upcoming final exams into perspective. Though the next week or so will not be a proverbial cakewalk, the issue of world peace does not rest in the balance. Granted, these tests will be will be slightly longer and more intensive than the true-false quiz on chapter One. Ifat any time you feel yourself blacking out amidst a sea of DNA double-helixes, production possibility curves and Platonic existence of God theories, hold fast! It is but an illusion, a hallucination of the worst kind. Besides, think of all the loot and presents that you' 11 beraking in on the 25th. How should you study? Hmmm. Good question, one which I haven't quite figured outyet. Buticanprovideafewpointers. If you haven't realized by now, all instructors and administrators are highly trained in cunning and trickery. For example, do you · need to know metric-English measurement conversions for your theology exam? Maybe. I heard that HIST 217 final exam is all multiple choice and no essays. Don't count on it. Is it true that if I pass the biology final, then I pass the class? Yeah, right. 
The moral ofthe story is that you should be prepared to dress in full academic battle gear when you study for an exam, and I don't mean the plastic pocket protector or . slide rule. You must expect the worst pos­sible scenario that could be presented to you in a two-hour period, and thus should study accordingly. Proper time allocation in studying, as well as normal study hours with plenty ofrest, will ensure that you will be in top test-taking form when it comes time to pay the piper. You certainly don't want to get measles or laryngitis the week before the big one. 
It goes without saying that cheating and all forms of"questionable external or aux­iliary assistance" for exams are out. The term paper hotline is 1-800-YOU-LOSE when your professor notices that your revo­lutionary ideas of economic monetary pol­icy are almost identical to those outlined by Milton Friedman in the July issue of Forbes. Likewise, in the amount of time it takes you to write the Constituional Amendments on your Nike's shoelaces you probably could have memorized them. 
Next, where should you study? In the springtime, it's fine to sack out on the quad and get a tan whileyousoakinsomeknowl­edge. However, TV advertisements say that winter is "almost here in South Bend, "so it's probably not going to impress your friends or make you anymore ofa cool dude to study outside. Ifyou are hovering on the edge offailing, it may be helpful to study in Sacred Heart church, though the lighting leaves a little to be desired and the hourly chimes are somewhat of a nuisance. 

Say, how about the library? Where's that, you ask? Just look for the tallest building on campus, the one without the big electric "#1" sign on its roof. Once inside the storehouse of knowledge, one study . suggestion is to prepare for exams on the appropriate floor. For example, you should study for an economics or business test on the second floor, but you should write your philosophy paper on the 13th floor. These methods have no scientific support and are probably less creditable than a sailboat built by Gilligan and the Skipper. However, if the knowledge is going home to you, then you might as well go to the knowledge. 
Almost everyone has his or her own opinion about study breaks, so I will leave them to the reader's discretion. A few general suggestions, though, would be to avoid Tequila slammers make sure the breaks are no more than two days in length. Once you have exited from your last exam ordropped offyour last paper, give a hearty campus-reverberating scream to let all of your friends know that you are finished. Former Los Angeles Dodgers third base­man Ron Cey once said that the only time in life that you get presents is your birthday and at Christmas. For the other times, you have to make your own breaks. 

On Other Campuses 
Who Does Wear 
the Pants? 
Rice University 's real homecoming queen has made life for the Cotton Bowl officials a real drag 
M 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY ind if I borrow your Nair? As if their football team 
wasn't enough of a joke at Rice University this fall, 
Rice came up with another one. Cotton Bowl officials, however, aren't laughing. Junior Daniel Grubbs, winner of the school's homecoming queen election, has been snubbed by bowl officials from representing his school at the January 1 football game, the Rice Thresher reported. Grubbs, who won the election by 29 votes over senior Nancy Jones, will now serve as Jones' escort "He'll be our queen, but she'll be wearing the dress," said Andy Karsner, Rice Student Association president. But Grubbs, who was refused recognition at the Nov. 9 homecoming game, isn't upset. "I was kinda hacked I didn't get presented at the homecoming game, but I'm not mad at the athletic department," he said. All of this is nothing new at Rice, which in the past has elected a dog and a refrigerator. No details were reported about electing a new 
football coach. 
Thinking on your feet. Having problems remembering something or solving a problem? Well then, stand up. Studies by researchers at the University of Southern California are showing that people tend to think better-or at least faster-on their feet, The Chronicle of Higher Education reported. In the most recent experiment, subjects were asked to perform certain computer exercises, twice sitting and then twice standing. According to one ofthe researchers the speed of the subjects' decision making increased by as much as 20 percent 
LSU rocks the house, literally. Who hasn't heard the exclaima­tion, this place is really rockin'!? Well, when Louisiana State Uni­versity beat rival Auburn Univerisity in the final two minutes of their October 8th Southeastern Conference game, the crowd went so wild that the Earth moved. Really. The College Press Service reported that the fans cheers were evidently so powerful that they registered on the LSU Geology Department's seismograph, which usually measures earthquakes. 
Bush out, Iacocca in. In a poll c<;mducted on the University of North Florida campus Lee lacocca, Chrysler Corporation Chair­J!lan, was chosen to be the next President of the United States. 
Accoriding to an article in The Beacon (Portland University's student newspaper) a "random" survey of 12 university students lacocca received two votes, St. Francis of Assisi, Harry S Truman, Teddy Roosevelt, Mickey Mouse, Whoopi Goldberg and a "dead cat" each received one vote. Although he did not have a majority of the votes it was decided that his plurality was enough to recognize lacocca as the victor. 
Football in Red Square? On September 2, 1989 the University of Illinois will play the University of Southern California in the first American-style football game played in the Soviet Union. The Daily Illini revealed that the game dubbed the "Glasnost Bowl" will be played in Moscow's 50,000 seat Dynamo Stadium and will be televised worldwide (ABC will handle the chore in the United States). 
Leapin' lizards. It seems the Saint Mary's College (of Moraga, Calif.) football team owes its first perfect season (10-0) in history to some small reptiles known to frequent their campus. The Collegian (St. Mary's campus newspaper) reports that two days before the Gael's season opener on Sept. 3 against St. Joseph's of Indiana, Jim MacDonald, a St. Mary's assistant coach, offered sophomore center Matt Foley $5 to swallow a live, two-inch long lizard, which had craw led onto Foley's shoe during practice. Foley picked up the wriggling reptile and downed it whole without any liquid to wash it down. After the Gaels destroyed St Joseph's 34­0, Foley's teammates, albeit a little superstitious, felt a tradition had been instilled. They, therefore, insisted that Foley swallow another one before their next game against Humbolt State. They won big again. Chalk another one up for the lizards. For the remainder of the season at least one player downed a lizard before each of St Mary's games, and the Gaels went undefeated .... Gulp. Ill 
Music/ Keith Tadrowski 
The Waterboys Earn Their Letter 
Keith Tadrowski gives The Waterboys the edge over greats like The Stones, U2 and Springsteen 
S ome bands can make you want to Irish heritage, straining for some vain at~ sensuality. "Strange Boat" strives for the splatter your feet across a dance 
tempt of Americana by exploiting our cul­"changing ofbody into soul," not the glori­floor. Some bands can make you ture with the adoption oficons (Las Vegas, fication of the flesh. want to scream and thrash around wearing 
Musically, the album couldn'tbe better. leather wristbands. Some bands can even 
The first side, recorded in 1986, is typical of make your intestines itch. But these 
the Waterboy's past output with the are not signs of a great band. 
addition of a prominent fiddle. A great "classic" band is one that 
"World Party" (the group World makes you feel as ifyou're right there 
Party was started by their departed next to them, the spit almost flying on 
keyboard player) rocks toa thumping you before it hits the microphone. 
piano and a distorted mandolin. "We They make you feel as if you're in a 
Will Not Be Lovers" builds and completely different environment, 
builds with a swirling harmonic vio­rich with atmosphere, thick with soul, 
lin and guitar riff until it seems im­instead of the dull four-walled room 
possible to reach a higher zenith. you're in. For example, the Stones 
"Sweet Thing" is breathtaking, make you feel as if you're drinking 
weaving countermelodies back and Pabst in a crowded party while some 
forth. voodoo priestess plays Twister with a 
The second side, however, ex­chicken. U2 can place you at a politi­
plores different territory. Having cal rally, flags raised high to a sky of 
recently rejected the "stifling" forms silver and gold. Springsteen takes 
ofrock as he called it, Mike Scott has you drag-racing down the Jersey in­
recorded his recent output in the form terstate while your girlfriend watches 
of Irish folk. After the initial shock, for cops in the back seat 
this new material proves just as re­But one recently released album 
warding as the old. The side ranges creates more feeling and atmosphere than any of these groups combined. The Water­boys' new release, Fisherman's Blues, is the year's best album and possibly one of the best ever made. 


The Waterboys have been releasing incredible and moving albums for years, but haveneverseemed to obtain the recognition they truly deserve. Originally sharing stage bills with U2in the early 80s, the Waterboys have remained on the college circuit while U2 has gone on to international stardom. The Waterboys have consistently filled their albums with the emotions and power that U2 have strived for for so long, but constantly failed. 
While U2 has seemingly revoked their fully immerse themselves in Irish culture, true to their hearts, for their new album ­lyrically, musically, and thematically. The album makes you feel as if you're in a Dublin pub, a pint of ale in your hand, watching your girl Molly dance to a sprightly jig. The hills outside are rich and green and God roams the land through Celtic ruins. That is what it means to listen to the Waterboys. 

Like fellow Irishman Van Morrison (whose "Sweet Thing" is covered on the album), leader Mike Scott is constantly striving for the essence of the soul; and the majority ofthe time he succeeds. "We Will Not BeLovers" is not about the rejection of lust, butaccepting what is pure in a world of from instrumental Irish jigs ("Jimmy Hickey's Waltz" and "Dunford's Fancy"), the spirit of Irish drinking songs ("Has Anybody Here Seen Hank?"), traditional Irish ballads ("When Will We Be Mar­ried?"), and a musical adaption of W.B. Yeats' poem "The Stolen Child." 
The only negative aspect of the album is that it was originally intended to be a double or triple album, and the record company has trimmed it to a single disc and and an hour­length CD. Now, somewhere in a vault is probably sitting another classic LP. 
Experience this album. Even if you're not Irish (I am), buy it. If you don't, you're cheating yourself out of a great disc. Trust me. II 
ON 
EIR 

As students move off-campus, they taste the harsh realities oflife 
BY MIKE WIEBER 

17 hink for a moment what it would be like to come home one afternoon and find the back door of your house open. Now think what it would be like to walk inside an:d find the stereo, the VCR, a leather coat, and a set of house keys gone. This is what goes through the heads of off-campus residents like Jim Higgins who have been robbed. For him, this incident, along with two subsequent robberies, was enough to convince him to leave his house on Corby Street in South Bend. "It seems things are worse this year than they have been in the past," said Higgins. "People get jumped just walking down the street when they come back from the bars." He also mentioned an incident in which three students were confronted by three men who pulled guns out and fired shots into the air. No one, however, was robbed or injured in this confrontation. Events like these obviously have not done much for improving students' feelings about 
beyond the Dome 

South Bend and its residents. However, people who have spent much oftheir life here have also expressed some feelings of dis­

neighborhoods. This naturally leads to feel­ings of suspicion, distrust, and animosity. These strained relations and lack of un­derstanding have been the subject of some 
concern and thus addressed by the South Bend Police and Notre Dame Security in recent months. The area surrounding Corby Street has been the focus of the program. 
Eugene Kyle of the South Bend Police Department has organized several meetings with the people in that area. "We've been trying to develop a better relationship be­tween students and the police and residents of South Bend," said Kyle. 
The first meeting was a forum for discus­sion. Approximately 40 to 50 students were present at this gathering. "Students and citi­zens could air complaints," Kyle said. Pat­rick Doran, an assistant director of resident life in the student affairs office, said, for example, an agreement was reached between students and local residents that parties would end at 1 :00 on any particular night. He added that in a gesture of good faith the students decided to not have a party for a week from the time of the meeting. 
The second meeting was held recently at Logan Center. Kyle explained that the pur­pose of this· second meeting was to teach students safety precau­tions, especially in light of the upcoming break. Doug Way, another member of the local police force who has been heavily in­volved in the admini­stration of this pro­gram, said that at the meeting discussions about deadbolt locks, marking property, and the housewatch pro­gram were held. 
In particular both Kyle and Way stressed the importance of knowing the local resi­dents to form a useful 'neighborhood watch 
program. "Don't just Students face new problems when they move off-campus. isolate yourself. Go ~----------------------~ 

I 

next doorand introduce yourself," Kyle said. He also said at the first meeting one of the residents said, "Ifyou ju,;;t stop in and intro­duce yourself, I'll be willing to bake you cookies." Kyle added, however, that there was not a good turnout at the homewatch program saying that approximately ten to 12 students were present. 
Way said that residents would be much more likely to pay attention to people prowl­ing around students' homes if the neighbor­hood relations were stronger. He said that he felt ihatmostpeople would say that it was not their problem if they· saw a house being robbed and they did not even know the resi­dents. Headded, "They [students] are usually in school in the daytime and people can monitor them [their houses]." 
Another point Way stressed was the rela­tively higher risk of robbery for students. "They're not the first class of students that have been in South Bend. They are a prime target of a burglar," Way said. 
It was, in fact, through this close network of the housewatch program that permanent residents were contacted to participate in the meeting with the students. "In our neighbor­hood watch program, we have a block captain for every block," Kyle said. 
,,
,,,
,,, 

The police have played a central role in coordinating the meetings with the residents 
8 
and the informational meetings for students. They did, in addition, express some concern about developing stronger relations specifi­cally between the department and the stu­dents. 
An assault recently occurred outside the home ofone ofthe residents in the Northeast neighborhood, an area including the 700 to 800 blocks of St. Louis Street near Corby Street. Some students were involved in a fight outside their house with some youths in the neighborhood, according to Way. "We responded and took a report," said Way. 
Following this incident students went to Phillip Johnson, assistant director ofsecurity at Notre Dame, to discuss the matter further. "I think it is exciting that this program was organized on students' request," he said. 
"I think it was an obvious example of students not thinking about the South Bend police department," said Way, who is, in addition to working for the resident/student issues, a leading proponent in the drive to strengthen student/police relationships. 
"What I am concerned about is that stu­dents...are reporting crime so that the police can react to it," said Johnson. He noted that students may be afraid to call the police after an assa_ult if, for example, they have been underage drinking. Johnson added that such fears should not outweigh reporting the as­sault saying it would be unusual that police. would cite such a person. unless they were acting unusually obnoxious. 
Way discussed the party procedures as an example of how the police try to work with students at off-campus gatherings. "We don't look for parties...[but] we have a responsibility as a police department when we have complaints from residents," said Way. "Usually our first response .. .is to issue a verbal warning." He·added that students . would then be iven time to break up the 
party before police entered the resi­dence. 
He praised the students for their ef­ficient disbanding in most cases but added, "The prob­lem is that we have a group of people that spoil it for every­one." He feels that these less pleasant aspects of his job have led to strained relations. "I think we have the bad expo-
see 
OFF-CAMPUS, page 13 


BITING CRITICIS 


The South Bend Police Department comes under fire after an incident involving a-police dog and a graduate at an off-campus party 
BY ANDY HILGER 

f F: mm my perspective, it was the 
weekend of the Michigan game, 

and we had gone to this party [ on the 500-block ofW. Marion Street] to meet Tom [Thomas J. Abood, 1985 graduate of Notre Dame's] brother and his friends. Somehow, 
of Tom. The policeman jumped on me, knocked me to the ground, knelt on me, put handcuffs on and arrested me. "He then proceeded to call me a punk among other things that weren't true. Tom was requesting medical attention but his answer was: 'Shut up, punk, you're under 
when the young man was bitten by the dog," noted Captain Eugene Kyle, South Bend police department commander of the East sector. The dog is used only in situations where the security of the police officers is threatened according to Kyle. The decision is made by the supervisor as to whether the 
I had gotten separated 
dog should be brought from Tom and was out. sitting on the hood of "We had the dog the car waiting for him out then [September 
========== 
to return. 9th] because the num­
"Several police ber of students was a cars began to arrive, threat to the safety of and then a police car the police officers," with a dog showed up. said Kyle. Evidently, I saw a large number seven parties were of people on tlie left broken up by the South side of the house. Bend police depart­That's when I heard the dog start to bark. I arrest.'" 
ment on that Friday evening but, the gather­saw Tom screaming and being pulled down Such is the account of Thomas A. Fink, a ing on the 500-block ofW. Marion Street was in the crowd. Then he disappeared. 1985 graduate ofNotre Dame arrested along the only one in which the dog was utilized. 
"I ran from about forty yards and saw with Abood on Friday, September 9. 
Lieutenant Richard Kilgore explainedTom lying face down with the dog biting him.· "We haven't had areal problem [with off that if the police dog doesn't sense resistance I then kicked the dog in order to get him off campus parties] other than the one incident from the subject that it is apprehending it merely clamps down on him. If, however, "the subject resists, the dogs may release their hold and bite them again," said Kilgore. 




"The dog was taken from the police car on a leash. The young man [Abood] was or­dered to move and refused, so he was moved," said Kyle with regard to the inci­dent. 
Camille Abood, father of Thomas, dis­agrees with Kyle's version of what occurred. "My son did nothing wrong. That's the 
horror story," said Abood. 
Camille Abood, a prac­

-----------~ 
ticing attorney and lawyer for the diocese of Lansing Michigan, felt that the inci­dent was far from settled. "I am very concerned that not enough is being done to pre­vent this from happening again. The leadership of Notre Dame, preoccupied with fundraising, is neglect­ing the safety and welfare of students and alumni," said the elder Abood. 

"To take dogs for crowd control is ample indication -'-=~"""""'=""-='-'.c..="" of very low respect for the 
The only time South Bend Police will de­cide to break up a party is if they've been receiving several phone calls from discontent neighbors, said Kyle. "We look the situation over to see if it's out of hand. We'll usually offer the owner or the person renting the houseachancetosettleitdown. Ifthatcanbe done by turning a stereo down, then that's fine." 
Problems arise when there are too many people in the house, thus presenting a fire hazard. "Ifthere are too many people, we tell the owner he must disperse the party. We don't have too many problems," said Kyle. Following the order ofdispersal, police allow about twenty-five minutes for everyone to clear out of the house. 
The students are usually very cooperative in leaving the premises. "The lights go on and the owner tells everyone that the party is over," said Kyle. In almost all cases, the students will soon after exit the house. 
The problem with the party on W. Marion Street arose from the great number of people in attendance. "There's always a possibility of bringing the dogs out," said Kyle. "We don'tjust bring the dogs out on Notre Dame students, they are trained for protecting the officers. They are a part of the force," stressed Kyle. 
The prosecuting attorney decided that he was not going to file charges against Abood and Fink. In exchange for the expungement of the record, they traded away their right to civil liability. "A court battle wouldn't have been a good thing for our careers," stated 
Fink. 

university. Attack dogs are used only for tracking. It's frightening but it's only a matterof time before it happens again. I hope I'm wrong," continued Camille Abood. 
The relationship between Notre Dame and the South Bend Police Department has always been on delicate ground. "We are currently trying to better our relationship with Notre Dame students," said Kyle. In addition to sponsoring a home watch pro­gram, the police department participates in meetings with different neighborhoods. 
Abood's father, however, indicated that he thought that simply having meetings falls short of alleviating the problem as he sees it. "The current leadership [of the university] is having conversations with officials. Until a public statement is made by South Bend Police Department that no police dogs will be used in the future these are insignificant." 
Future use of police dogs in the breaking· up of Notre Dame parties or in any other context, however, will not be influenced by the incident involving Fink and Abood. "It will have no effect on [the South Bend Police Department's use of] the dogs. Any time the need is felt, they will be used," said Kyle. 
One point stressed by Camille Abood is that police dogs are unnecessary for crowd control. "In the Lansing/ East Lansing area, there are 17,000 students living on campus and 27,000 living offcam pus, yet no dogs are used to break up their parties and they're partying every night of the week," com­mented Abood. 
He maintains serious doubts about the relationship between Notre Dame's admini­stration and the police department. "The police don't respect the· university or the leaders of the university. Those are the hard facts. Two fine men are in the leadership positions. Are they exercising the power of the university? Are they preoccupied with fund raising?" 

The elder Abood also took offense at an article run on September 15th in the Observer entitled, "Alumnus bitten by dog while re­sisting arrest." "The incident raises very strong emotions within me. The Observer struck at our [family's] honor," said Abood. "It was a double whammy. Within six days the South Bend Police Department and a student newspaper attacked my son. Is that justice?" 
The Observer later printed a story which stated that the charges against Abood and Fink were dropped but Camille Abood, ex­pecting a retraction, called this "a feeble clarification. 
Chris Murphy, editor of the Observer, standing by the original story, said he had no . comment on the subject. ¦ 
• • t " ~ ,.-, ''" • "" r ., " ~-~ 
HOW MUCH 
BETTER IS· THIS GOOD THING? 
Tom Doyle and Mike Paese look back on their first semester in office and assess their performance 
I 
BY LAURA GRITZ 
n February of this year, Scholastic interviewed the prospective 
candidates for student body president and vie~ president con­
cerning their views and goals. Among the candidates "."ere Tom Doyle and Mike Paese, who would go on to be elected pres1de~t and vice president, respectively. Now, as the first semester of their ad­ministration comes to an end, we look back at what Doyle and Paese said in February and examine how that has applied to their actions as Notre Dame's student government leaders. 
In general, considering the promises of his and Paese's platform, Doyle says, "I think we've been honest and fair in what we said we were going to do. A couple of times this year we pulled out the platform and looked at it. We've found that everything on our platform has been dealt with or carried out, addressed, or is currently being dealt with, without exception." 
"When they first took office, I was a little apprehensive because they didn't seem to have a lot ofstudent government experience," said Mike Carrigan, who ran for vice president and is currently student senate parliamentarian "and I've been pleasantly surprised because they accomplished a lot of their goals." 
IMPROVING STUDENT LIFE 

Doyle and Paese said one of their main goals would be to address the issue of student needs and wants. They talked about improving transportation and starting a .24-hour student lounge. 
"We just did a comprehensive report on transportation needs of students," said Paese. The report included recommendations to add a special events shuttle and to increase transportation funding. 
As for the 24-hour lounge, "It's here. It's done," says Paese. 
"I commend them highly for getting a 24-hour lounge,"_Carrigan said. "Last year as a student senator I tried to do it, and it's not easy to get a 24-hour lounge. 
Mark Chapman, student senator for District 3, views the lounge issue differently. "I thought it was doomed at the start," he said. "If they really wanted to go forit, they would set up some kind oflounge area where food wouldn't be served. I'm disappointe~ in the fact that it wasn't pushed farther." ·. ·• · 
As for the issue oftransportation, Hall Presidents' Council did most of the work. "One of the topics the board of trustees discussed was transportation. It discussed Weekend Wheels [a weekend ~huttle service]. I don't think the board·oftrustees took the reportsenously. The first question they asked was, 'Why are you coming to us?'" said Chapman. The report to which he referred wrui"prepared by Steve Bishop, chairman of the student government transportation commit­tee. 
COMMUNICATION 
Student government's relations with both the administration and the student body were focal points of Doyle and Paese's plans for improved communication. . . . 
"What we'd like to try and do is develop a workmg relauonsh1p (with the administration)," Doyle said in February. To accomplish that goal, he and Paese have met weekly with administrators in the 

Still, Doyle and Paese point Mike Carrigan expressed his opinions on Doyle and Paese. 
Doyle and Paese said in Febru-

For the national election,1-------.;.;:':::a¼=•·-----------------"""""' 
Tom Doyle feels that the current year has been a success. 
Office of Student Affairs. "That's helped a lot of things progress this year," said Paese. Doyle added: "That's a fantastic office. They've been very coopera­tive." 
Concerning communica­tion with the student body, Paese said in February, "We should be completely vis­ible." Does he think he and Doyle are? "We're tied to the office more than we want to be," Paese admitted. "We could never have anticipated the amount of time we have to spend here up at the of­fice," said Doyle. (He esti­mates they each spend more than 40 hours a week there.) . . 

student government sponsored an information drive in LaFor­tune, published issue charts and set up table tents in the dining halls. It also coordinated the Hiler-Ward congressional de­bate and helped fund Phil Donahue's visit in October. Next semester, student govern-•1 ment is sponsoring the Iceberg Debates, which will deal with social justice issues. 
"It shows great step forward. It shows the tremendous role the university plays in the commu­nity," said Carrigan. Chapman also supported the "continued university desire to be involved in the community." 
WORKING AS A TEAM 

ary that their greatest strength is the ability to work as a team, that their pairing wasn't just a political matchup. "We don't think that this experience should be a time for us to get to know each other," Paese had said. · 
Looking back, Doyle says, "I couldn't imagine coming into this job not knowing the person. I really believe that ifyou're going to do this job, you have to know the person you're working with." 
"We know each other better than anybody," said Paese. "I think we're open and honest with each other." 
"I think that they complement each other well," said Carrigan. "That's something that Mike and Tom have done well ....Student body president and vice president is such a big job. You can come up 
here about 24 hours a day and find 
one of them here." 

it wasn't going to come off," Paese said. "If that presenting those events wasn't our Chapman. Nonetheless, he had regrets about itdidn'tcomeoff, it would've been a big em­area." He said that responsibility should rest the alcohol task force. "Student input was · barrassment." with the Student Union Board and the indi­not taken seriously enough ....The time 
This enthusiasm can sometimes cause vidual halls. allotted to respond was not realistic to what 
problems, Carrigan said. "They've done so well that it's hard for other people to find room to work," he said. 
"They take it upon themselves to get every­thing done," said Chapman. "They're just highly motivated. That's good and that's bad." Chapman wishes Doyle and Paese would allow others a bigger role. "They don't delegate enough responsibility to the senate and the cabinet," he said. 
THE NEW ALCOHOL POLICY 
Before he and Doyle were elected, Paese said, "I think student government should be right out in front supporting the · alcohol · awareness thing, providing publicity and should be out there planning and helping organize things with the halls." 
Now, however, he says, "I think we found we had to accomplish," he said. 

Carrigan was equally disappointed. "The.· invitation for student input was token," he said. 
OFF-CAMPUS ISSUES 

In February, Doyle and Paese said they wanted to increase police patrols off-cam­pus, improve lighting and get students more involved in the community. They say off­campus issues have not been a major concern yet, but will be next semester. "If you're going to see a major push second semester ­
off-campus security, crime -that's where student government will be," said Doyle. He said student government is working with the Office of Student Affairs on the issue, and that plans are forming for an off-campus newsletter. II 
OFF-CAMPUS 
continued from page 8 

sure because of the bad party problem," Way said. 
Kyle agreed with Way. "We're a young department and we'renotoutherejust to bust heads," Kyle said. 
Higgins expressed some dissatisfaction with the police protection nonetheless. "I never see a cop car just driving down the street. We've had a lot of big parties and the cops only came by once when there were people outside," said Higgins. 
Police have made efforts to solve this problem, especially over breaks. "We told students to call the department and leave their name, address, phone number and a place where a key would be and we will check the house....My officers have an obligation to get out of their cars and check the house," said Kyle. 
The university is working with the police department to improve relations through future programs. Doran met with officials from the police department Thursday for a brainstorming session. Kyle attended the meeting. "What we'd like to plan is a fund raiser between the police department and maybe a staff member from Notre Dame or some students," Kyle said. 
This idea is still in the rough stages Kyle added. "It was just brought up today," Kyle said. Some possible activities would be a basketball or softball tournament. He added sibility of a service project involving stu­dents and police in the Northeast neighbor­hood. '"Christmas in April' was discussed today," said Kyle. "Students and the police department will key up on helping citizens." He said possible work would include paint­ing and other repair work on buildings. 

Response thus far has been positive, ac­cording to Kyle. He feels that the students, residents, and police should work together to solve problems. He formulated the relation­ship this way: One party would say, "I'm experiencing this problem," and the other would repsond, "Is there any way I can help you with this problem?" 
Doran has seen good results as well espe­cially through the meetings. "There was a communication problem between students and non-students. . . .It [the program of meetings] has been successful." 
Meetings are scheduled to continue and police are hoping for continued high atten­dance. Communication and understanding . are what they say they feel are the most important to developing a sense of commu­nity, and that with these various meetings the doors have been opened. . ¦ . 

THE WILD LIFE 
Irish Outdoors gives students a taste oflife beyond the Dome --and the rest ofcivilization 

BY ED KROMER 

0 n a summer day in 1982, Shawn oley and a high school buddy heard ustling in the Smoky Mountain foli­age. Not a mile back a researcher had warned them to look out for the black bears that she was studying. Oneofthose bears, sh: feet long and black as night, suddenly appeared from the bushes, moving into the boys' path. But before they had time to panic or even think, it disap­peared back into the brush as quickly as it had come. Foley still remembers that day, and still loves the outdoors-bears and all. In 1987, he and some friends founded Notre Dame's Irish Outdoors Club. Atlanta, his hometown, was all steel and concrete. But some of this country's finest untouched, or nearly untouched, wilderness regions were only a car ride away. Growing up, he journeyed through the Smoky Moun­tains and on a number of rivers in the area. "I started backpacking and kayaking when I was about 15 with Georgia Tech's Outdoor Recreation Department," he said. "Since then, I've been caught in spring bliz­zards and waded through slush that looked like white margaritas." 
\ . 

Foley learned kayaking from an Explorer group, a wilderness exploration club -like the Irish Outdoors -but for high school stu­dents. "After a while I started working for outfitters like Smoky Mountain Sports, and I began paddling more challenging rivers/' he said. "I just outgrew that Explorer stage." 
Corning from achildhood rich in acces­sible wildlife regions, equipment like leayaks and backpacks, and clubs like Explorers and Georgia Tech's Outdoors, Notre Dame was something of a lifestyle shock for Foley. "When I came up here there was nothing," he said. 

Nothing, that is, but a group of people with similar backgrounds and interests. In Morrissey Hall, Foley met Dan Weber and Mike Soemen, who shared his love of hiking and camping. When spring break arrived their sophomore year, the trio, along with four hallmates, headed for the subtle beauty of the Great Smokies rather than the more typical rays of the Florida sun. 
''That was the original trip, before the club," remembered Weber. "It was the thing that kicked things off." Foley had Georgia Tech' s outdoor club in mind as a model, but wanted to start one that would be less intense and cater to every level of experience. 
"We went to Student Activities with the idea, they set us up with a booth at activities night [in 1987], and we were in business," said Weber, who has assumed the club treas­urer duties. 
His interest in camping developed during weekend trips with friends around his home of Ottawa, Illinois. "There was some good country to hike and water to fish and canoe," he said. "But the first real wilderness was on that trip to the Smokies." 
The backpacking provided the spark for the Irish Outdoors, now a popular and active club on campus, immersing its members into the wilderness found off campus. 
The beginnings of the club were admit­tedly humble. Eight members ventured again to the Smokies for the club's official maiden backpacking voyage over fall break of 1987. They stuffed themselves and their gear in and on Foley's 1973, six-cylinder, three-speed Toyota Land Cruiser, a vehicle far past its prime. "It was the most uncomfortable 20 hours I've ever spent," Foley said. 
And the discomfort continued beyond the car ride. After a summer of drought, drink­able water was hard to find, and after a day of torrential rain, the temperatures took a dive well below the freezing mark. 
Neither the elements nor the drive could quell the enthusiasm of the club's founders; excursions became more frequent, smoother and consequently, more popular. At activi­ties night this year, Foley collected four le­gal-sized pages of current and future out­doorsmen and -women's signatures. 
Irish Outdoors now provides its members both planned backpacking and canoeing trips and . access to camping equipment for freelancers, a rare commodity on campus. The club began the year with an overnight canoeing trip to Pine River in Michigan that attracted 44 men and women. "We had a good number but pulled it off," said Weber. "It's a pretty, wooded area and it was a relaxing trip." · 
But the most adventurous trip to date was· last fall break's canoeing excursion through Georgia's Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, known to most as the Okefenokee , Swamp. 
"Before the trip, I would say we were going to a swamp and it would conjure up images of hanging trees and snakes," Foley said. "Actually, wesawveryfewsnakes. We did see eight or ten alligators, but they were pretty sedate, out sunning themselves in the late afternoon. We were lucky if their eyes would move." 


Although the swamp had its share of the haunting scenery from films like Deliver­ence, it was primarily green, beautiful, and unfamiliar. 
"Okefenokee was something different: a great getaway," said Jim Holland, a member of the swamp party. "We completely sub­merged ourselves and didn't see anyone else for four days.'.' 
nature," added Holland. 
The lover of wildlife might dream of a place like Okefenokee. In addition to the couple of snakes and lounging country club gators, there were birds, like egrets, osprey and rare blue heron, owls, deer, enormous spiders and a horde ofracoons that treated the humans with all the reverence of a pack of Vikings at a Dark Age church social. "We were raped and pillaged by the raccoons," Foley said. 
"On our last night, the place we stayed microcosm of Notre Dame. "We had every­thing from PLS to marketing to pre-med to engineering," said Foley, a mechanical engi­neering major. "The club is a good way to develop friends, both male and female." 

This diversity helps to dispel the "gra­nola" stigma that can tum some people away from an outdoors club. "It's not all wilder­ness types," said Foley. "It's a way to get outdoor recreation without much experience, special equipment, or a lot of money." 
Molly Burtchaell, one of the women on 
the Okefenokee trip, 
had never been in a canoe before, much less paddled one. After borrowing gear from friends though, she looked like the most experienced one in the group. "I knew that there were enough people with experience that I wasn't worried about it," she said. "But I was the only one sore. Icouldn'tmove." 
The Irish Outdoors will continue to pro­vide escapes for inex­perienced club mem­bers, but Foley looks to 

The first days ofthe journey surprised the 12 participants. Okefenokee was more man­ageable than in the movies. With food, pro­
. visions, and ten gallons of water in each canoe, the men and women began negotiat­ing the narrow channels ofthe upper swamp. Lines ofcypress trees enclosed the fingers of iced tea-colored water, coated in spots by patches of lily pads. 
"The trip started in the canals," said Foley, "and then opened up into water prai­ries with long grass growing up and sepa­rated by hammocks ofland." Islands ofdead vegatation, the hammocks shake when someone steps on them, giving rise to the name "Okefenokee," which means "land of quaking earth." 
The refuge has retained its natural beauty, bearing little sign of human inhabi­tance. This absence was a welcome sight for the group's eyes, made sore by years ofurban living. "The club builds a great reverence for was infested with them," remembered Weber. "We set up tents, but I slept outside. My sleeping bag had a hole in the bottom comer so I wrapped a garbage bag around it to keep out the draft." 
Racoons, of course, are born scavengers, and to them Weber looked like a huge meal. "I woke up with a racoon about an inch from my face," he said. "They checked out any­thing that was in a bag and I guess I qualified." 
But neither raccoons nor bears nor marga­rita slush can tum back the true outdoorsman. And for the most part, exploring the wild is rewarding. "Nobody was hurt and nobody was sick (at Okefenokee)," reported Foley. "And four days of cloudless skies and 85­degree temperatures in late October was all right." 
Interest in nature and diversity of the Irish Outdoors has increased its active member­ship by 100 percent in the past year to 60 members. The fall trip was a 12-person greater challenges as well for the more ad­venturesome members, as he did when he began exploring the rough rivers of the South. "We're going towards mountaineer­ing and whitewater kayaking and rafting," said Foley. "But these will require more money and some expert guidance. For spring break we will sponsor another backpacking trip in the Southeast and a mountaineering excursion in the Rockies." 
Foley and friends started the Irish Out­doors to escape the confines of a college campus and to explore America's wilderness regions. He hopes that continued popularity and increased involvement will keep the club alive well after its founders have graduated. 
"There's nothing else like the Irish Out­doors here," he said. "It doesn't take much money or time to get involved. I'd like to see it go on and maybe we can sponsor five trips a semester instead of just one or two." ¦ 

WHEN IN ROME • OR LONDO 
OR • 
Notre Dame students abroad find fun and competition as Yanks on rugby clubs 
BY ED KROMER 

twas rush hour in Rome, no time·to talce a bus. Karl Krueger ran to the
I I subway that would deliever him to EUR, the fascist centerofRome and home of the 1960 Olympics -and the Villa Pamfele rugby club. Appropriately, his route to the station passed both the Forum and Coliseum, ageless symbols of Roman athletics. 
Krueger had come to Rome from Notre Dame to study architecture, but that pursuit left him unfulfilled. Although he left behind most diversions of midwestem university life, Krueger had brought his rugby cleats. 

"In Rome, we ate, breathed and slept architecture," said Krueger, a fourth-year archy and third-yearrugbier. "There was no football as a diversion and little opportunity to excersise. I wanted some break from that life." 
His break came one evening at the Pizza Pantheon, a popular hangout with the archi­tecture crowd. Krueger and some friends were discussing sports when the owner mentioned that he played on Villa Pamfele, a rrien 's rugby club in Rome. After hearing of Krueger's involvement with Notre Dame rugby, the pizza man invited him to come out and join the club -if Krueger had the proper equipment. It was time to unpack the cleats. 
"The first day I walked on the field as Anglo as can be," recalled Krueger, whose German-American name, fair skin, blond­
.red hair and ignorance ofthe Italian language set him apart from the Roman rugby foot­ballers. "They gave me a jersey and put me in the game. I was so nervous that I don't remember if we won or lost, but my nerves gave me a great deal of energy." 
Krueger found the manner of play in the Italian league contrary to the society's adher­ence to strict rules of style and-culture. The 

Romans, so absorbed in appearance, consid­ered Krueger's sweaty jaunts down city streets and subway rides in muddy rugby dress almost taboo. But this feeling was abandoned on the playing field. "Italian rugby is brute force and aggression," said Krueger. "Like a football team with a good running game: They go right up the middle." 
But in the face of a scrappy game, Krueger found that his preparation in the United States gave him a physical advantage. Though few Americans begin playing rugby until they leave high school, some of the more familiar schoolboy sports provide a sound backgroun~ for a future in rugby. 
In Krueger's case, football and cross­country skiing back in Vail, Colorado, did the trick. Because the action in rugby football is continuous, like soccer, and hard-hitting, like 
· American football, endurance and strength are vital. His high school sports helped build these attributes. 
"I was interested in rugby as a kid," ex­plained Krueger. "My older brother was on the national military champion rugby team." And Vail, a popular ski town of European heritage and flavor, naturally has a rugby club which is as much a part of Europe as the chalets and fireside ski lodges. As soon as he was old enough, Krueger joined up. 
Given his background, Krueger was at­tracted by Notre Dame's Rugby Club, that, coincidentally,was founded in the 1960s by Professor Ken Featherstone, an American instructor in the Rome program. 
But Krueger's training at home couldn't prepare him for the difficulties of playing in another culture. Because Italy has a true rainy season, the once plush fields disinte­grated to cinder pits quickly. "After a while it got so bad that you'd alter your play so you wouldn't fall down as much," he said. 
Communicating was a real challenge: Krueger doesn't speak Italian and the team didn't speak English. 
But the game was basically the same. As everywhere, blocking and forward passing were prohibited. The methods ofscoring are universal, and on both sides of the Atlantic, the game was restarted with scrums, 16-man faceoffs that Krueger calls "organized dog­piles.''. The game ignored cultural rift be­
:~-~ -:."~ .-----,.-~ ~,--~-:_,,,~----··-----~---~-=, "" ~. \~ ~,~ ---~--: '..--~· -~ ·:~ ... ~~ --~ r,;,\:_-•~,':.Al)_~:t?'-·:\:~;~<•·',J. '"\,~fi~~:'J.J _-, 

Playing rugby in the states helped polish Krue er and Karas. 
tween the United States and Italy. 
"I hate to say it, but I most remember the day I was taken to school at Hammersmith," said Spero Karas, another Notre Dame stu­dent who played rugby abroad. 
His club, Acton Town, was up against a tough Hammersmith squad, and Karas locked horns with one of the best prop for-. wards (a power position in the scrum) in the second division that afternoon. "I learned about how to make your man pay and suffer from the amount of pain I suffered that day," he remembered, shaking his head. 
Back at school, Karas learned the basics on the South Bend Rugby Football Club. He has never played with, but has played against, Notre Dame's Club. 
Karas' team, nicknamed the "All Blues" for their blue uniforms, plays on fall Satur­days in Boland Park. Compiled of men primarily between the ages of 18 and 30 (occasionally joined by a few grey hairs), they compete against midwestern clubs, with a match against a university every now and then to show off their experience. The All Blues' motto, "Age and deception versus youth and skill," explains their nearly perfect record against collegiate squads, tarnished only by Notre Dame. 
When Karas left last fall for Notre Dame's London Program, he found himself near the birth place of his sports, the Rugby School. There, a century and a half ago, a schoolboy named William Ellis changed the face ofa soccer match when he picked up the ball with his hands and ran with it, thus breaking one game's rules while inventing the rules of another. Ellis' game caught on and soon became known as "Handling Foot­ball," or Rugby's game. Shortly after the Civil War, rugby was introduced to the United States and the seed for American football was sown. 
So in London, a rugby hotbed, Karas decided to look for a place to play. "I wanted to get a little bit of the international flavor," he said. "One night at a pub, some New Zealanders told me to go to Acton Town, a third-division club." 
He took their advice and showed up at a skill-building touch rugby tournament at the southwest London borough. "(The team) was impressed with my ability to pass, catch and run, esped.ally for an American," Karas said. Because Britons often begin playing years earlier than their American counter­parts, they are skeptical of an American's competence until it is proven on the playing field. 
Karas arrived on the English rugby scene armed not only with the technical skills de­veloped on a team that fell just one win short of the midwest championship, but also with the physical prowess he built up in high school. The first team welcomed him. 
"For me to have made the "A" side immediately is more ofa tribute to American athletic training than to my own skills and talent," said Karas, whose Greek heritage and appearance might have blended better on Italian fields. "Acton Town practiced twice a week, but in high school, I was practicing three or four hours a day for my sports." 
Growing up in Anderson, Indiana, Karas, like Krueger, inadvertantly prepared for 
rugby. Football built his strength and tack­ling ability while track added speed and endurance. Wrestling both in high school and at Notre Dame might have been the key factor. "I would associate rugby more with wrestling," said Karas. "You wrestle your opponent down. It's definitely more spread out and not as explosive as football." 
While American rugby is a harder hitting game due to the football background, British rugby is more skillful. 
Karas' football trainging served him well, adding intimidation to a game of tact. "After my first game, they gained respect for my ability to tackle," said the confident Karas. "I was stronger and quicker." 
Now Karas has returned to the All Blues and Boland Park and Krueger to the Irish and Green Field. Backed by experience in American football, an offspring of rugby, they brought new blood to an Old World sport. And they didn't do half bad for a couple of Yanks in a foreign land. On the rugby fields, they found themselves no longer foreigners, but equal competitors in sport. II 
17




Courtesy West Virginia Sports Information 
Q.B. Harris has turned into a major Heisman candidate for '89. 
BY TERRY LYNCH 
I 
f it weren't for the small matter of 
a national championship hanging in 
the balance, the 1989 Fiesta Bowl 

would be one heck of a moral dilemma. 
All of a sudden, Notre Dame football 

tradition is weighing down on the 1988 Irish 
like Atlas' globe. No longer are they battling 
football meanies like Miami or USC or Penn 
State or Michigan, the kinds of teams who 
have been to the top before, or at least have 
had a hand in keeping the Irish down during ~he 1980s. 
This time, it's a toughie. Instead of 

knocking down Goliath, the Irish have a new 
task: beat David. It's about as popular as 
smashing Cinderella's slipper or yanking the 
football away from Charlie Brown. But a 
whopping $3 million Fiesta Bowl purse 
might make it easier for the Irish to disap­
point a few people. 
Notre Dame is back on top, back in the 

elite clubhouse ofcollege football magnates, 
poised to win its eighth national champion­
ship. Last year, you remember, Notre Dame 
had its seventh Reisman Trophy winner. 
They've played in two big battles for number 
one this year, and quarterback Tony Rice has 
been on the cover of Sports Illustrated after 

•

aJor 

ever 


Notre Dame's biggest game ofthe year will see the Irish in an unusual position --favorite 
both of them. So what's left? 
Now the Irish, who had to endure hearing about how good Miami was before hearing Rodney Peete's daily medical reports, have to endure the reverse hype. It goes like this, and will only get worse: West Virginia has never had an undefeated season, West Vir­ginia has never been remotely close· to a national championship, West Virginia has never had a Reisman Trophy winner. And, to top it all off, the state is so depressed that the team is portrayed as the state's only saving grace. Which it may be. 
You've probably heard it already, so why not practice up for January 2? All to­gether now: Poor West Virginia. They might as well put it up on the scoreboard in Tempe, and print it on the programs: Notre Dame vs. Poor West Virginia. 
So here's the question: Just how poor is Poor West Virginia? After all, they are the only other undefeated team in the country. The problem is that 18th-ranked, Hall of Fame Bowl-bound Syracuse is the only team in the Top 20 that has played West Virginia all season. They've also crushed Eastern rivals Pittsburgh (31-10) and Penn State ( 51­30), both ofwhich apeared on Notre Dame's schedule prior to games with Miami and Southern Cal. Other schedule luminaries for West Virginia included Bowling Green, Cal State-Fullerton and ever-popular eastern football schedule pads East Carolina and Cincinnati. Small wonder that the Moun­taineer offense averages 42.9 points per game. 
But hold on. Let's start with the fact that 

West Virginia has no qualms about redshirt­
ing, and that has had a great deal to do with 
their massive offensive line, averaging a 
paltry size of 6-3 and 271 pounds. Even 
some of their second-string offensive line­
men are on the five-year plan. They have 
paved the way to an average of293.4 yards 
per game rushing (or 5.2 per carry). Figure, 
too, that these guys have seen a blitz or two 
in their day. 
Get past these guys, and you still have a 

major problem: Major Harris, West 
Virginia's excellent quarterback, who can 
run, pass, run some more, rap with the best of 
them (according to West Virginia's press 
guide), and throw deep. He's dangerous 
from any spot on the field, and has been re­
sponsible for racking up 2,348 all-purpose 
yards for the Mountaineers this season 
(213.5 per game, 8.4 yards per play). 
Irish quarterback Tony Rice has similar statistics. Rice compiled 1,876 all-purpose yards in 1988, an average of 170.5 per game, 
7.24 per play. Rice leads Harris in net rush­ing yardage (700 to 599), but Harris domi­nates in the passing department (92 comple­tions of 160 attempts for 1,749 yards to Rice's 70 of 138 for 1,176 yards). Harris accounts for 19 touchdowns (six rushing, 13 passing) while Rice has thrown for eight and 
· rushed for nine. Named as the Sporting News freshman quarterback of the year in 1987, Harris threw his way into Reisman Trophy contention in 1988. He, like Rice, has thrown only seven interceptions all sea­son. in the early 1980s. 

Speaking of being dangerous from any The university in­spot on the field, West Virginia players have vestigated the alle­a tendency to be penalized. A lot. Over 11 gations in 1985 and games, the Mountaineers were penalized an filed a report in 1986 average ofeight times for the whopping total that admitted one al­of 68.5 yards per game. (The Irish average legation, but the six penalties for 56.4 yards per game.) Figure Press asserted that that sparks won't be the only thing flying on the investigation January 2 between the "trash-talking" Irish was incomplete and and the highly-penalized Moutaineers -add inaccurate. The some tempers, too. Even West Virginia stu­NCAA, for its part, dents got into the act at the end of the October never prosecuted 29 game against Penn State, storming the because it had lost 
field with 49 seconds to play and earning the report, according '--__,;.....:.1:-__,;__,;:..:;;::__,;:::....... Mari Okuda some pointed remarks from Penn State head to the Press. Since Smagala's 2nd-quarter broke USC's back and produced a mini­coach Joe Paterno. the report was sent, fiesta on the sideline. 
Off the field, the Mountaineers have the violations passed the statute of limita-5.5 yards per carry, followed closely by flirted with the rules as well. The Pittsburgh tions, beyond which disciplinary action Undra Johnson (5.1 per carry) and Harris Press reported two Sundays ago that several cannot be taken. (5.0 yards per carry). Leading Mountaineer West Virginia boosters violated NCAA Considering that the Mountaineers are receiver Calvin Phillips averages 25 yards regulations by paying for All-American tight based in Morgantown, the fact that 17 of per reception, only slightly ahead ofReggie end Rob Bennett's $1,000 used car, a $2,870 Head Coach Don Nehlen's players come Rembert's 22.7 yards per catch. personal debt, and (among other things) bail from Florida (six from Miami) is a bit sur-On the other side of the ball, West 
prising, especially in light of Virginia's defense is extremely tough, lim­the fact that only 12 come iting opponents to only 139 yards per game from neighboring Ohio. The rushing and 147 yards per game passing. state of West Virginia ac­They are led by 6-5, 280-pound defensive counts for 25players, and the tackle Chris Parker and 6-2, 244-pound line­majority of the rest come backerDaleJackson. All told, both defenses from western Pennsylvania, have limited their opponents to around 280 West Virginia's traditional yards per game, although the Irish have al­recruiting area. lowed fewer points (12.3 points per game to 
That's not to discount the Mountaineers' 15.8 per game). West Nehlen's accomplishments. Virginia's secondary, led by Preston Waters Since being named as head and Bo Orlando, has picked off 23 passes coach in December 1979, this season (the Irish have picked off 18), Nehlen has been to six bowl and will be a challenge for Irish speedsters games (Peach, Gator, Hall of like Raghib Ismail and Ricky Watters. Fame, Bluebonnet, Sun and Still, the factor of exposure will defi­Fiesta) in nine seasons. And nitely have a big part in this over-hyped if you're curious, Nehlen battle for the national championship. How earned a nifty little nickname will the young Irish, who have played in the when he was head coach at limelight all year, react against a veteran Bowling Green: "Master of Mountaineer team that has only now come the Upset." to the fore? The results could be scary, if 
West Virginia has the of­Holtz has his way and the Irish win. "I want fense to pull it off. If you our players' experienceat a bow I game to be stop Harris, there are more such that they get on that plane on January 2 than a few capable players to and say, 'Coach, what do we have to do to go take up the slack. Leading back?"' he said. '"You just tell us what we
In nine seasons, head coach Nehlen took the Moun­taineers to six bowl games and produced plenty of 
rusher Anthony Brown, a have to do."' II 
transfer from Pitt, averages

smiles in Mor antown. 
.I 
19 I 

COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO
sportsweek 


1-------------------1 bounds while freshman LaPHONSO ELLIS 
ATHLETE OF
added 12 points and a team-high 16 rebounds. The Irish next play this Saturday, Dec. 10, as 
VOLLEYBALL THE WEEK 

they host the Bluejays of Creighton at the JACC. (19-11) defeated Penn State 15-13, 15-10, 14-16, 1------------------1 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team 

ED VEOME: 
15-10 last Saturday in their first-ever appearance 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Veome, a junior 
in the NCAA tournament. MARY KAY 1------------------:-1 
from LaGrange
WALLER paced the Irish with 25 kills and 14 
The Irish women's basketball team began 

Park, IL, was 
blocks in the four-game match whileZANETTE 
their season last week by posting a 2-1 mark, 
named Most 
BENNETT hit .487 with 23 kills, four errors, and 
They opened the season on the road last Tuesday 
Outstanding
39 attempts. MAUREEN SHEA added 16 kills 
with a 75-63 victory over Northwestern, led by 
Diverofthe National Catholic Champion­
and committed only two errors in 36 attempts. 
HEIDI BUNEK's 22 points. Notre Dame then 
ships last weekend. He scored 525.50
Notre Dame's victory ended Penn State's season 
took third place in the Investors Classic at Vir­
points in winning the one-meter event,
with a 36-4 record. 
ginia, dropping the opening game to Georgetown 
shattering his own University record of row, Dec. 9, when they travel to Champaign, IL The Irish advance to the round of 16 tomor­
70-60 and bouncing back to take the consolation 
414.2 points set in March of 1987. Veome 
against Arizona, 85-81, in overtime. KAREN 
to talce on fourth-ranked Illinois at 9 p.m. (EST). 
ROBINSON was named to the all-tournament 
also set a University record last weekend 
The Illini are the top-seeded team in the Midwest 
team after scoring 22 points in each game on a 
by recording 499.00 points in placing 
Regional while Notre Dame is seeded fourth. 
combined 18-for-25 shooting performance from 
fourth on the three-meter board. 
The winner ofthis match will battle the winner of the field. 
the Oklahoma-Nebraska contest this Saturday, 
Notre Dame does not play again until Mon­

breaststroke (2:29.38) and also swam the 
Dec. 10 at 9 p.m. (EST) in Champaign. 
day, Dec.19, whentheyhostToledoattheJACC. 
breaststroke leg of the first-place 200-yard 
Game time is 7:30 p.m. 
medley relay (1:53.13). Freshman JENNY 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

KIPP won the one-meter board event with 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

214.40 points and took third place on the three­
The Notre Dame men's basketball squad meter with 178.55 points. CHRISTY MOSTON 

improved its record to 2-0 with a convincing 81­contributed a first-place finish in the 200-yard 
Last weekend the Irish split a pair of meets, 

65 victory over Kentucky in last Saturday's Big 
butterfly (2: 14.07) and a third-place showing in Four Classic in Indianapolis. The Irish domi­
losing to Villanova 104-139 on Saturday while 
the 200-yard freestyle (2:02.55). 
defeating Fordham 134-107 Sunday at Villa­
nated the game on the boards, outrebounding the 
nova. ED VEOME won the one-meter diving 
At the National Catholic Invitational, the 

Wildcats 53-27. Forward KEVIN ELLERY led 
event with 243.40 points and took second in the 
Irish fmished fourth with a total of 422 points. 
the Irish scoring attack with 15 points, including 
three-meter event with a·total of 229.10 points. 
Wood took the only first-place fmish for Notre 
a four-for-six effort from three-point range. 
Dame with a University-record time in the 200­
Notre Dame's 400-yard free relay team of JIM 
KEITH ROBINSON had 13 points and ten re-
BIRMINGHAM, CHARLES SMITH, BILL 
yard backstroke (2:25.32). The women's team 1r------~....,..,--.,------,-,---,--f JACKOBOICE and CHRIS PETRILLO also 
will also talce a month off to prepare for the UC­· recorded a first-place fmish with a time of 
Irvine Winter Invitational over Christmas break. 
ATHLETE 

3:08.72. OF THE 
At the second-annual National Catholic 
WRESTLING 

WEEK Championships last weekend, sophomore JIM BYRNE captured second place in the 200-yard 
The Notre Dame wrestling team had a solid 

MAUREEN backstroke (1 :58.36) and fourth place in the 400­outing at the Las Vegas Invitational, battling its 
yard individual medley (4: 10.48). He and the rest 
way to a seventh-place fmish in a tournament
SHEA: Shea, 

of his teammates are out of action until Jan. 6-7, 
field that boasted ten of the top 20 teams in the
a senior from 

when Notre Dame travels to Irvine, CA to com­
nation. ANDY RADENBAUGH took fifth
Erlanger, KY, 

pete in the UC-Irvine Winter Invitational. 
place at 118 pounds, freshman MARCUS
recorded 16 

GOWENS placed seventh at 126 pounds,
kills and just two errors in 36 attempts in 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

JERRY DURSO finished fifth in the 134-pound 
leading the women's volleyball team to a 

division, PAT BOYD took fourth at 142 pounds 
15-13, 15-10, 14-16, 15-10 victory over 
The Notre Dame women's swim team lost to 

and CHRIS GENESER placed seventh in the
Penn State in the first round of the NCAA 

Villanova 47-66 and defeated Fordham 172-69 
177-pound division. The team's seventh-place 
tournament. Shea hit .389 as the Irish re­

in a triangular meet last weekend at Villanova. 
fmish marked their best showing in four appear­
corded their first-ever NCAA tourna­

Freshman HEATHER WINIECKI set a new 
ances in that tournament. 
ment victory. 

University record by taking second place in the 
The Irish are not scheduled to compete again 

1000-yard freestyle with a time of 10:44.12. 
until Dec. 29-30 when they travel to Tampa, F 
BECKY WOOD fmished first in the 200-· ard 
or the Sunshine 0 


~ ~ /I'" .""1 .._ ~ ~,. ------..,,//ft" ---~.,;
(,·.· -+~~· -----' ---j ~ --~fit 
=~ Santa's too busy to go to the bowl game this 
Christmas, but he'll read 
~ all about it in the football review issue of Scholastic. 


~ ~~ ~ 
Subscribe v 
~

today, you'll be in .good 
company. .._,ie 
J·: 

Please make checks payable to : 
Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
,; Enclosed is, chocl<fp, $20.00, _years=$_ l,i 
Please send _ years of Scholastic to: ;·
Name:________ Address:_______ City:.____State:_Zip:__
( 
o.~~----~~~'~~4-----~~) 
Final Word 
It's In the Mail 
Amnesty International sponsors a mass mailing to show Henry F azzie he has not been forgotten 
BY JOHN FARLEY 


Editorials 

A pleasant surprise 
The Tom Doyle/Mike Paese admini­stration started off last April with more than its share of detractors. And they deserved them, considering their lack of experience and unrealistic views of the university. But with only a couple more months left in office, the job Doyle andPaese have done could'leave some student govern­ment "experts" eating some humble pie. All Doyle and Paese had going for them in the campaign was some visibility and a lot of dedication. They showed a fundamental ignorance of the basics of how student gov­ernment works. The plank highlighted in their platform, increasing the quality of speakers on campus, is a programming issue belonging more to the Student Union Board. University hierarchy was a riddle to them. But the job they have done as a team has exceeded expectations, and continues to get heller. They have dealt with the issues on their platform, and accomplish~ a lot. They chose intelligent subjects to analyze for the board of trustees. The 24-hour lounge was a basic success, although its fate next semester still has not been determined or, if it has, the situation has not been revealed to the average student. In terms of communication, Doyle has revealed strengths and weaknesses. His HPC experience initially hurt the debate of the student senate, which he chairs as student body president, but some improvements have been made. With the administration, Doyle and Paese have been extremely visible -but that may have been to the detriment of their visibility among students and their staff. Doyle and Paese take student govern­ment very seriously. Perhaps too seriously. Paese has been feeling ill most of the semes­ter and recently has been spending time in the infirmary. Too many hours on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Also, the fact that student 
government is so important to them has led to 
an inappropriate, overly cautious and politi­
cal air to their dealings with many students 
and the campus media. Their work is impor­
tant -to a point It does not deal with issues of 
national security. 
Doyle and Paese's weaknesses come 
from their strengths. Their dedication is 
commendable, and all in all, they've been a 
pleasant surprise. Work still can be done, 
especially by taking action to prevent another 
Bush ticket fiasco and in working to improve 
relations with the South Bend community. 
If student government was a good thing 
when Doyle and Paese took over, it still is. It 
can always get better. 
-Scholastic 

,-----------------..__________________, 
An ounce of prevention
T hose who live off-campus quickly realize thatSouthBend's northeast neighborhood is not much like Mr. Rodgers'. Robberies, violence, racial ten­sion and poverty are constant problems in the area; there's a big risk involved in the jump from our protected campus. What many students who live off-campus don't realize is that help can be right around the comer. A helping, watchful neighbor can not only help prevent a robbery, but can be a valuable resource in learing about the area. Being neighborly works both ways, but just being social, and not necessarily the best of friends, is all that is needed in taking a big step in preventing robberies. Similarly, by taking part in neighborhood watch pro­grams, students can show that they are will­ing to do more than just complain to the police department and the university about the crime problem. 
Even if that effort fails, the South Bend Police Department will check vacant houses over the holiday break if students leave their names, addresses, departure and return dates, emergency contact phone num­bers and a place where keys will be. The officers ~e obligated to get out of their cars and look inside the house on<;e a shift, and with three ·shifts a day, it's a good deal. Mishawaka has a similar housewatch pro­gram, although that force doesn't go into houses. 
The phone number in South Bend is 284-9201. In Mishawaka, the number is 258­1678. You won't have to worry about code numbers, but you will have to give your name. And it just might work. 
-Scholastic 
I 

December 8, 1988 
Ernie Pook's Comeek 
WRQA~E·.T"~:'f)0(~$·?
~~~~A ~.AR.,R. ~ I 't t 
WHEN yov CoME. To A NEW PLAC.El Yov WANT ro KNOW WHO AR£ THE DOGS, RIGHT? HEP-ES A MAP OF THE DOGS Of OUR. STREET. 
_ 

"\\'E.~M.AN ~ ~ = (fr l\l-tl> INtt 1~ 
.... VA<:.V-FC>Rl'\ ~ 
GA~Y HIRAKl's D06. 60T lilS NA.Mc 6ECA14SE Of EAflNG THIRTEEN VAC.V•FoRM.s. \-\I!. 
NAM.€ l/SEP TO BE ~p.E)C HE ALSO CHEWS C.F-.A':JONS. 

: 
! 
I, 
i~'fk ft~
~d,.i~\t­
D065 Of MF.S. V01<,1c.e:. THE~ MOSTL!I STAI:! IN 11-\Elfl owt.J YAl<.D 8\/T SOMETIMES Tl-IE~ VvlL-l-CoME,OVER At-ID 5TARE AT Yovlt 6AP.6"-6E CJ,,N. fliE't" SME\...I. [..IKE OLD BAl..oNE!:l. I WOVLDN'f Go, PE1TIN6 THEM. 

NEVEF,. PEITED t\eR. 1N P-EAL M'1 s1sreKs FUD6£5/CLE 
LIFE /JcCAUS~ THE WOM.MJ OCJTOF llER. HN-Jp AND 
OF HeR., MRS. ALAN7.A, $,\ID R.A.N TO THE SVSl-ti;S. w~ 
M'd HANDS Cf',.N SPR~AP AL.SO SAW HIM WtTH A 
D,seA<;.E. Y(H{ (.p,N ONLY SEE V\JHDL'E LO~F OF &R.fA'() 
THts OOG f=~M. THE: WINPoW .ANt> HE KNOQ<ED DOWN A3 
WHICH IS SAD. SHE LOOKS NI Ct. Yt=:A~ OLD Fop. A PIEC.E
'----------.;....1-Slo~F_:;:H:.o~oaiG . .____.J J 
'2. 

·QUE.EN/~
u 

-"""='..__ 1, ­
~ 

t,\~~ES bfl.E/\Tl\lN6 NOIS~.S 
THAr .SouND lrkr lHoKfNG 
Bur /\Re NOfZ-ffi.AI... HER. 
OWNtR., Mf.S. PATNdE tool{<; THE Dd6Foop~ Sc£.AM&~6"D !:G6S, 1-lAMSuP-Gc~~ MIDGET MEf\T 8Au.S. SoMe T•tw\ fS You'LL SEE QUEENIE IN HIE WINDOW SLEf:.ftN6 
So!VtET•MES Stff~ IN TH€ Y~ 5LEf:PlNG ANO THAT 
IS. HER WHDLf ENTIR.~ 
LIF~ 
·1'flV~Y,' 
CHE~f~• 
.-, ' 
DON'T LEAVE NOTIWJG ~ov LIKE 8~ THIS DOG He rs DESTR.VC.TIVE:{(/ HE 
CHrWEJ) THE COVEF-5 OFF 
nte C/\J?. SEATS. OF Mf../JJO 
M~--HOoK~, ANP !:VEN HoNl<ED H\e= HoRN!AND HE~ ~EWED A /1\IU.JON DOU,$ CJf ! G.I JOE) 
8ARB1e, TAN-M~, CHAtr~ <./'lnty/ 
CHfWS AN8THtNG!THe'J I\££ ~Y/tJ610 fltJD /.l IM A6400 &Me. ~ 

24 




COMPLETE THE FOLLOWIN6 PASSAE,£: 
THDSE WHO CAN'~ TEACl-\. "THOSE W\...lO CAN' i TE=..AC'c·\J COONSE.L. THOSS W\.-\0 C.M'T C.Ot..>N5E..L, P.DMtNlSTRAT'E... 11-\0Sc v.)\-l-0 E~Tt~ QA-n:\ INTO 11-lc CO!v\\:)\ltt:.R. "11-\oSE W\-lO CAt>J'T ENTER ()A.TA IN'"t"O '"'t\-\E ICOM?0TE:R, '"TA'f::..G O\CTATIDN. Tt-\OSE WHO CA~ ' T TA~ t)lctATlON, ALP~ABE.Tl'"Z..E t=lU::S. T~OSf w~o CAN'T AI-P>HABE.T17..E. FlL-ES, 
P.NSWER... 1He P\-\ONE. "THOSE: WHO CAN'T A.NSWER TH.E. P140NE, l=R<j HA"'\BO~GERS. 
-n-\OSE WHO CAN'T !=R~ \-\AMBu~GE.RS, RVl'J mE. C.ASI-\_ RE:GISrE.i<. ,Hos E WHO C..P-N'T R.UtJ T\-\e.. Cl'.)..St\ REG lS.TGR., W'4\T ON TABL-E:S. TI-\.OSE W\-\.0 CAN' i 
WI\\T ON TASL-SS, CARR~ DlRT~ DtS:HS-S TO lt-lc k:ITCHE:..N, TI-\.OSE.. WHO C..A..t0 1 T CARRl.:1 D! RT~ DI SkES To TH.E. Kl TC.1-\.E:N, WASH Tt-l.E.. D\RT:1 DIS HES'. T~OSE:. WH..o CAN'T WASK. DlR..T..:1 v'!SH..cS, PE.EL PoTA.TOE.S. -n-\oSE 
CAN'T PEE:L PoTATOE:S, BUFt;". THE:. FL.OOf<. 11-lOSI=. WHO C:.At-J'T BOl=E= TI-\E.. (-\.AVL OUT" T¼E: GAR6A0E:. -n-1.oSE.. l.0~0 CAN'T HAtJL OUT il{E 6ARBAGf, WQ.lTE PoE:-rRY. -n-\oSE: W\-\.0 C,At-)'T WR..lTE POE..TQ~, W~\TE.. CL.-EVEI<. L.E.'tiERS' 
"TO i'\-\E: E:..O l"i'"OR.. ·n-1.oSE Wt""lD CA.,-J' T wf2...\TE. C-t....EVER.. LE.TIE.RS 10 71-\.E. EDlTD~) WR.I TE.. At-JE,R~ L.E..1Te:RS TO T\-lE: E.DlTOR. Tl-1.0SE Wl-\.0 CAN'T Wi2-tTE LE:..TTE::.RS To -ru.s so lTOR, 5;;PQ.A~ PAINT Gg,.AFFIT\. THOSE. WHO CAN'T 
SPRA~PAINT <2,R..AFf:\Tl, v.)12.\TE.. SC£1:;ENPL-A~S. TH.OSE.. w~o CAN'T WR.l"TE, . SC~E:k..N~LA':1<;, l()R.\TE... Tv Sc.e..1PTS. Tt-l0SE.. W\'O C..AtJ'T W~\TE:. TV Sc.R.1P1S, RE....PD Sc..Q.1p-rs Fog TKE: S.Tl.)D(OS. Tl-loss Wt-1.0 CAN'T RE.Ao S~\PTS Fog. 
ms STUDlos1 Ac..T. THOSE. w1;-1,,o CAN'T Ac..T, -r""A~ AcT1NS ct..-AssE.5. Tl-{OSE:. VJ(AO C.A.N 1 T TAt=:::.'t:: ACT1rsl6 C(......ASSG.S', 51rJG. Tl:-lOSE WHO CAN'T SING, SING R~ >f\J' Ro(....l,, '"11:-\.0SE. w~o CAt-J'T" S!NG \2..c)ct::.. 1N' ~OL.L, St..:iG lT ArJ"1wAl1. 
""T~O5E vJHO CAN'T StN6 tT At-:l~WA~ BSCOfv\€. OE..PR..SSSE:.C). IHOSE: WH.0 CAN'T
1 

BE.COME.. DE.PR.t..SSE..D, GST BtTTE:,Q. '"f\..\.05E Wt-\.0 CAN'T <=>ET BtTTcR., GE..T co~~uSE:o. TH.OSI: Wl:-lO (oS,"'C'" CoN~USE.O, ST'A'::1 co..)Fus;E:O. '"'T\-loSE l..ul-tO S.TA'1 C0Nt=0~E.O, FlrJO l"t"" D ll=~ICUL-T -ro CoM.PL-e~ UrJFlNlSHED SE.NTI:NCE.$, TH.O~S W'ttO t= LNQ IT Ol ~ ~tCI.Jt.,T TO COMPU:TE: Ut-.) t=°lt-JlStt\::O SE.JJT&N CES' 

•.----­
-,. 

·, ..· . \ , . 
~-. ·._ . ..,::-.,~--:-.,,_~;:,.:-:-.»:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:,:,:,:,.:,,:..,:-.,,:-.,,,:-:-:-.»:-:-.,,,,:,..,,,~ 
.; ;___, : \' ·Bulk Rate ~ ; . ,LJ S POSTAGE 
~ · 
. ' __ ·: PAID = Notre Dame, IN _·: P~rmit No. 1 O 


would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas 

: 
-

r 






