The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR	MARCH 24
15 CTS. A COPY	1933
Yoo-Hoo! O Gi-r-rls!
. . . Don’t you think humor is just ducky?
. . . Don’t you just love satire?
Well, you ought to see the GIRLS’ NUMBER of the JUGGLER! I mean it is just the cutest thing . . .
The swankiest sketches by Becvar, Doyle, Prezebel, Singson . . . Gags and humor by Degnan, Dreux, Doyle.
But most of it by us Girls: Evelyn and Audrey and Carlotta . . .
All For a Quarter
ii
O. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
;i Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years
Complete Dinner
35c to 50c
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sundayl ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
* — 40 ROUND TRIP
*	South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.	-
----For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information. ' ’	'
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
1
March 2k, 1933
One
The Premier Presentation
of
“THE LINNETS”
in
A Musical Play in One Act '	directed by	.
REV. CHARLES A. McALLISTER, C. S. C. PROFESSOR JOSEPH J. CASASANTA
'	with
JERRY ROACH as “Ballikook” the Chef singing— “Apple Pie”
“Ding Dong Wedding Chorus”
JOHN RYAN as “Crown Prince Adolph” singing—	.
“The World Has No Use For a King” “If Ev’ni Man Were a Prince”
Wednesday - Thursday - Friday, March 29-30- 31
Curtain 8:15 sharp	Admission 25 cents
Two
The Scholastic
NOTRE DAME’S CALVARY
“And it was the third hour, and they crucified Him,.. ”	.
—St. Mark, XV:25.
March 2k, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	hk I	I I	B Entered as second-dass
tidied wecky at the Univers- I	|\l ATrd I 1SPHAlaCf'IP matter at Notre Dame, In-
it* of Notre Dame. Manu- I 11W I 1wl IWZlCidU W diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	.	’	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Section nos, October 3.1917, , cations Office, Main Building.	F O U N D E D 1 8 6 5	authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan................
James S. Kearns................
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE.......Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI......ROBERT ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS...............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ..........Theatre Talk
ROGER MCGOVERN.........College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY.____Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH........Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.......Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.	MARCH 24, 1933	No. 21
SUMMARIES	COMING EVENTS
. NEWS	FRIDAY, March 24.—Scholastic Staff meeting, Editorial
Norb Christman Chosen Chairman of Lawyers’ Ball.... 5
Laetare Medal to be Awarded Sunday................ 5
“The Vagabonds” will open in Washington Hall Wed-
nesday Evening .................:............... 6
Glee Club to give Concert Sunday Evening.......... 6
Thomas M. McLaughlin Selected as Chairman for
Senior Ball ..................................   7
March “Lawyer” will be out Next Week.............. 8
“Where There’s Women, There’s Trouble” Makes Hit......l2
“The Monogram High Jinks” Cast Announced..........13
FEATURES
Robert Monahan this week’s “Man About Campus”...... 8
“Voice of the Campus”............................. 9
Paul Doyle Reviews “News of the Week”.............11
History and Significance	of Laetare	Medal.......15
“I’m From Paducah”..............L.................14
Walter Johnson Presents	Currency Problem..........16
Owen D. Young’s Predictions borne out in Roosevelt’s . Actions ........................................17
‘	SPORTS
Irish to run in Butler Relays tomorrow; Murphy faces big test .....................................20
Fifteen game baseball schedule announced; candidates continue indoor workouts awaiting good weather to move outdoors ................................22
Scrimmage Features Spring Football; Anderson shifts a number of veterans..........................23
Ed Krause, for two seasons high point scorer, elected captain of ’33-’34 basketball team.....................23
Introducing Jim McGrath...............................24
Notre Dame squash racquet’s team scores second victory over Purdue ...........................................31
Board, 6:30 p. m., Editorial Offices, Ave Maria Building; news, sports, and features staffs, 7:00 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, 6:30 p. m., in Music Hall.
SATURDAY, March 25.—Butler Relays at Indianapolis; Varsity vs. Butler, University of Michigan, Michigan State College, and the University of Pittsburgh; Movie: Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.	’
SUNDAY, March 26.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Glee Club Concert, 8:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
MONDAY, March 27.—Buffalo Club meeting in the Law Building, 6: 30 p. m.; Knights of Columbus meeting in K. of G. Council rooms, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.; M. E. Barnhill to address the Commerce Forum in the auditorium of the Law Building, 8:00 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, 6:30 p. m. in Music Hall; Wrangler meeting, Law Building, at 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 28.—Meeting of the Foreign Commerce Club in North room of the Library, 7:30 p. m.; Economics Seminar, 6:30 p. m., Law Building; Captain Cornish to lecture to Engineers’ Club on “Aviation” in Engineering Building, at 7:45 p. m.; International Relation Club Lecture, South Library Room, at 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 29.—Premier Presentation of “The Linnets” in “The Vagabonds,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 30.—“The Linnets” in “The Vagabonds,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p. m.; Professor Paul J. Menge to address Boy Guidance Department in Engineering auditorium, 8:00 p. m.; Spectators, Law Building, at 8:00 p. m. ,
Four
The Scholastic
s
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
V V E were afraid to open the papers last Friday for fear we would see where some college professor, eminent scientist in the field of etc., etc., had proved that St. Patrick couldn’t have driven the snakes out of Ireland on account of the topography of the land, or the specific content of red Clay in County Kerry, but our fears were groundless. St. Patrick still reigns in all his glory, and the shamrock is still exemp from the tariff. The joy-killers are slipping. They took the discovery of America away from Columbus and gave it to a Swede by the name of Ericson, and we thought surely Saint Patrick would be the next to go, but we guess there are too many of the old clans that are still proud of the “0” in front of their names to stand for that.
1, HE reception of the student body to “Where There’s Women, There’s Trouble” proved definitely that Notre Dame men can write plays as well as produce them. This play, written by Charles Patrick O’Malley, has been accepted by a Broadway producer and has been returned to the author for a few technical corrections. If the play pleased a campus audience O’Malley should have no fears of its succeeding on Broadway. Ask any old trouper to name the most difficult audience in the country. Seven times out of ten he will name some university town. And don’t think that the students feel in a charitable mood, just because their fellow students are the actors 1
J. HERE is a cute little practice growing on the campus that has caused more trouble than any other kiddie trick of the perpetual freshman. It’s that playful little habit of maltreating signs placed on the hall bulletin boards. The latest prank of these repressed interior decorators is to write, “Are we going to let Zangara die?” over
all the Italian club notices they can find. It is not the poor taste thus displayed that hurts, but the wasted effort. Just think, fellows, the Juggler, month after month, tearfully pleads for humorous contributions! And still those gems of wit are bared for all to see, gratis. No, don’t go pulling that one about art for art’s sake!	-
ORE students would appreciate symphony music if they knew the stories behind the different compositions. A beautiful little story is unfolded in the composition, “In a Persian Market,” one of the selections played by the University Symphony orchestra Thursday night. It is the story of a busy oriental marketplace. A little princess with her retinue comes there to shop. One can easily distinguish the hoof beats of the approaching camels and the plaintive cries of the beggars as the princess scatters largesse. The tempo of the music changes as the royal party visits the different stalls, and then once more the audience is able to distinguish the cries of the beggars and the hoof beats of the laden camels as the party leaves the village and disappears into the desert.
EXT week marks the second anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne. Only the two upper classes saw him as he strode about the campus, but he is just as well known to the freshmen and sophomore. His stories are still echoed in the halls, and the trees around St. Edward’s field still whisper his colorful metaphors as another Fighting Irish team rounds into shape. He went at the peak of his career, but the lessons he taught have not been lost. The reprimand a member of the team dreads more than'anything else is to have somebody say to him, “Is that the way you are carrying on for Rock?”
March 24, 1933
Five
LAW BALL CHAIRMANSHIP GOES TO NORB CHRISTMAN
University Will Award Laetare Medal Sunday To Catholic Layman
JUGGLER” MERCILESS IN UPBRAIDING WOMAN
Committees To Be Appointed Next Week.
' Norbert Christman, senior in the College of Law, and resident of Green Bay, Wisconsin, has been appointed chairman of the 1933 Lawyers’ Ball,
Norbert Christman
Chairman of Lawyer’s Ball.
it was reported to The Scholastic early this week. The announcement was made by Joseph Deeb, President of the Law Club.
The dance, as has been previously mentioned, will be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom on the evening of April 28. The lawyers are still at work in an effort to cut the price of the Ball substantially, and still keep the affair on the high plane of past Law Club formats. A definite price will be made known within the next ten days.
The personnel of the various committees in charge of the Ball will be ready for publication next week, says Chairman Christman.
Attention Juniors!
Attention of the Juniors is called to the fact that they must hand their orders for pins in to the class representatives before Tuesday if they want them before or during the Easter vacation.
Pins will be mailed to the homes of the buyers during the vacation if they so desire and if they have their orders in before the time mentioned above. In case the pins arrive before the holidays they will be delivered here.
In continuation of a custom that was begun in 1883 and has since come into world renown, the University will present, next Sunday, its annual award in recognition of some outstanding accomplishment by a member of the Catholic laity of the United States.
The award, known as the Laetare Medal (because it is given to its winner on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent) has come, in the past, to such personages as Alfred E. Smith, Maurice Francis Egan, Edward N. Hurley, Margaret Anglin, Dr. John B. Murphy, and a host of other celebrities.
The committee which makes the selection for Sunday is headed by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., President of the University.
Library Gets Data From
Grad on Probation Work
The University Library has received a report, “Probation In New York State,” prepared by Leonard F. Horan who received his A. B. in the curriculum in Probation Work in 1931. This report, which is based upon Mr. Horan’s field study, describes the status of probation work, the qualification of probation officers, and the chief needs in the various counties of New York State. The data which is being presented to the State Legislature has been published by the New York State Commission to throw some light on prison administration and construction;
Many will remember Mr. Horan as a member of the University debating team in 1931. He is attached to the State Probation Office, Albany, New York, at present.
Francis D. Mulhala, a graduate of the Probation Work class here in 1931, recently received the position of Chief Probation Officer in the Juvenile Court of Stamford, Conn.
From the time of his graduation until a short time ago, D’Mahala was associated with a probation work organization in New York City.
A tablet in the new building of the British Broadcasting Company dedicates their whole work to God with the prayer that no evil word, but only what is good, may reach the listener’s ears.
Girls* Number Should Be On Sale First of Week.
Notre Dame faith in womankind, that invaluable something which makes the Spring days go faster, will be rocked to its roots next week, when the March Juggler, dedicated to the girls of the country, goes on sale. The editor and his associates have been ruthless in their treatment, adamant in the face of pleas from the more gentlemanly element to pass lightly over feminine shortcomings— palpable though they may be.
Funny Fellow Joe, arch enemy of anything that resembles woman, leads the concerted and merciless attack. McCabe snorts and growls and chuckles and tells the ladies to take it and like it.
Cynicism seizes even the usually well balanced and open minded “Juggler Vein” this month, a department in which the editor evidences a startling ineptitude in the field of economics, and leaves himself open to stricture from the lowliest freshman. Cynicism runs wild in the cartoons, in letters, in every sketch save the precious, praising, “Keyhole Portraits.”
Twenty-five cents, thinks McCabe, is little to pay for information which might take years to learn, especially when it is presented in such palatable form.
N. D. Takes Second Debate From Michigan State
Notre Dame won both of the Michigan State College series of debates. Following the Negative win on Friday, March 10th, the Affirmative team, Hugh Fitzgerald and William Kirby, defeated their Michigan State opponents last week. This debate was held in the Knights of Columbus Hall at Lansing, Michigan. •
A critic judge from Olivet College, Michigan, gave the decision to Notre Dame on the question, “Resolved: that at least 50% of the state and local revenues of Indiana and Michigan should be derived from sources other than tangible property.” William J. Coyne, director of debating, accompanied the two debaters to Lansing.
Six
The Scholastic
Linnets to Present “The
Vagabonds” Next Week
GLEE CLUB WILL GIVE FIRST CONCERT SUNDAY
PROFITS TO BENGAL
Part Songs, Solos and Marches Feature Program.
CROWN PRINCE
Cast is Ready For Initial Performance Wednesday; Tickets Going Fast.
By James A. Byrne
As the orchestra swings into a delightful overture, the hubbub of an anticipative audience ceases, and the curtain parts on the first scene of Arthur A. Penn’s enchanting operetta, “The Vagabonds,” those fortunate enough to obtain tickets for the premiere performance of “The Linnets,” Wednesday evening, March 29, will settle back in their seats to enjoy a musical production that was created to satisfy the most critical.
This light, rapid-moving, comic opera is composed of catchy tunes that seem to hit the right spot. The opening trio, “Make It Four,” sung by George Menard, John Henry, and Justin Tompkins — members of the royal company, introduces the audience to the mythical kingdom of Nonsensia, the scene of the play.
Roach As Chef
“If Every Man Were A Prince”— sung by mellow-voiced Crown Prince Adolf of Nonsensia, John Ryan— is the hit of the show. It is so written as to bring out the best vocal qualities of his captivating tenor. The comical antics of S. Jerome Roach— the rotund chef of the vagabonds, as he sings “The Apple Pie Song”— add a bit of humor to the sad position in which the ruffians find themselves.
“A Real True Friend” sung by John Egan, “A Wild Goose Chase,” a duet by John Ryan and George Menardj and the “Ding-Dong Wedding Chorus” are charming melodies that will be on the lips of the first-nighters as they leave Washington Hall.
Robert Nesbit, vagabond chieftain, and his fierce desperados, Robert Butler, Richard Shiels, Lindsay Phoebus, Dan Rolfs, Mark Finocchiaro, Ned Quinn, George Wenz, Maurice Quinn, and George Wolf, carry their parts so well that after the vagabonds’ rendition of “Vagabonds We Are In Plenty,” one is relieved to find himself safely seated in a friendly audience and not in the mountain fastness of Nonsensia.
John Ryan, who will sing the part of Adolf, Crown Prince of Nonsensia, in “The Vagabonds.”
Father McAllister and Professor Casasanta, co-directors of the musical production, have spared no efforts to insure the success of the operetta. A splendid orchestra of twelve pieces, under the direction of Professor Casasanta, will play for this entertainment — the first of its type to be given at the University in two decades.
The operetta is to be produced Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday nights, March 29, 30, and 31, at 8:15 o’clock sharp, in Washington Hall.
Selected numbers ranging from motets to marches are included on the premier concert of the Notre Dame Glee Club to be presented in Washington Hall, Sunday night. With Professor Casasanta conducting, the club, fifty voices strong, is prepared to give one of the best programs ever arranged for a local concert. The singers will begin their program punctually at eight o’clock.
New Men Trained
In September Professor Casasanta began organizing the Glee Club with but eighteen of last year’s singers as the nucleus. The problem was difficult as the tenor ranks were sadly depleted. The new men admitted to the ranks of the club had to be drilled consistently in order that they might acquire the technique of ensemble singing. The secret of Glee Club work is the perfection of each section so as to make them sound as one voice.
This year’s club is a well-balanced organization since the bass section has the necessary solidity and the tenors, the required range. The program contains part songs such as motets, folk songs, negro spirituals, standard four-part songs, humorous selections, and stirring marches.
Russell Semper, tenor soloist, will make his debut with the club. John Ryan, George Menard, S. Jerome Roach, and Justin Tompkins, are included on the program of solos. The officers of the club are Maurice J. Scanlon, president; Philip Geoghegan, vice-president; S. Jerome Roach, business manager; and Robert Cahill, publicity manager.
The complete program follows:
Part One
I.	Motets
(a)	“Laudate Patrem”—Gounod
(b)	“Plorate Filii Israel” (1604-1674) — Carissimi
(c)	“Ave Maria” (1545-1611)—Vittoria II. Songs for Tenor Voice
(a)	“Because”—D'Hardclot
(b)	“The Sunshine of Your Smile”—Bay Mr. Russell Stemper
III. Part Songs
(a) “Were You There?” Negro Spiritual —Bantock
(Baritone Solo—Mr. Tompkins)
(Continued on Page 31)
March 2k, 1933
Seven
ANNOUNCE BREEN MEDAL CONTEST PLANS SOON
T. M. McLaughlin Named Senior Ball Chairman
Eliminations Will Begin First Week After Easter.
By Thomas Proctor
Oratory at Notre Dame again comes into its place with the recent announcement that the annual Breen Medal Oratorical Contest will be held
William P. Breen
Thirty men have been proud.
the week after Easter vacation. William J. Coyne, debate coach, who is in charge of this forensic activity, says that the definite date will be published soon.
This oratorical contest is open to all students in all classes. Each entrant must prepare a ten minute original oration oh any topic he may care to select. More specific information will be given the “aspiring orators” when they hand in their names to any member of the Speech Department. An elimination contest will probably be held.
Began In 1902
The award for the winner of the contest in oratory is a valuable gold medal, the finances for the purchase of which were donated in 1902 by William P. Breen, LL.D. ’77, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. . The recent death of Mr. Breen marked the passing of a zealous Catholic, a renowned lawyer, and an orator “with something to say.” Since 1902 the contest has been
International Relations Club, Economics Seminar
Represent N. D. at Meet
The International Relations club and the Economic Seminar have jointly agreed to represent the University at the Mid-West International Relations Clubs Conference at Manchester College, April 7th and 8th. The conference will be held under the direction of Miss Amy Heminway Jones, an official of the Carnegie Foundation.
John O’Shaughnessy will be the representative of the Economic Seminar. The representatives of the International Relations club will be chosen at their next meeting.
At the conference last year, Notre Dame ■was represented by Tighe Woods, president of the International Relations Club.
The Reverend Julian P. Sigmar, professor of philosophy at the University, will address the members of the International Relations club, Tuesday night in the South room of the Library. Father Sigmar’s topic will be “Hitler and Hitlerism.” Due to the current interest in Hitler and the speaker’s knowledge of his subject, the club has opened the meeting to the student body.
Valuables Found
A valuable ■watch and a brief-case have been turned in to the Lost and Found Department, room 124, Main building. Will the person or persons to whom they belong please call for them? Objects turned over to this department, if not redeemed after a reasonable time has elapsed, are returned to the finders.
held each year, and thirty Notre Dame men have become the proud possessors of the gold medal for excellence in oratory.
Last year the Breen Medal Oratorical contest was won by George Ryan, a senior in the School of Speech.
Mr. Coyne also states that there will be news forthcoming soon concerning the annual Class Oratorical Contests. It is almost definite that the contest will be sponsored for just the freshman class this year.
DANCE TO BE MAY 12
Ball Will Be Held In Palais Royale; Tea Dance Next
Day at Chain-o-Lakes.
Word comes from Francis Werner, Senior Class President, that Thomas M. McLaughlin of North East, Pennsylvania, Senior in the College of
Thomas McLaughlin A big job.
Arts and Letters, has been appointed Chairman of this year’s Ball.
The date of the dance has been definitely set for May 12. The affair will be held at the Palais Royale Ballroom, and will be followed by a tea dance at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club on the next day.
Committees and the price of the Ball will be announced shortly in The Scholastic. .
Spanish Club Meets
The Spanish Club held its weekly meeting Thursday, March 16, at 7:30 p. m. in the Law building. The principal speaker of the evening was Professor Jose Corona of the Spanish department who spoke about the activities of the revolutionists in Mexico.
Gerald Doran spoke on St. Patrick, and Bob Hoefer gave a short talk on the brewer’s point of view on the new Beer Bill.
Professor de Landero, sponsor of the club, discussed some of our current problems relating to Spain.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
NARCI “LAWYER” TO BE DISTRIBUTED NEXT WEEK
By William Kennedy
“Where the deuce are the mountains ?”
The taxi-driver grinned; freshmen always disembarked at South Bend with some sort of question on their lips. As a rule on these occasions, he affected an air of superiority. But this was a new one on him. Therefore he grinned again. “There ain’t none,” he said.
And “there weren’t none, neither,” as Bob Monahan soon found out. Back in Massachusetts, where he lived, there were mountains. Back in New Hampshire, where he went to school, there were also mountains. In short, he had been reared with mountains all around him. The thought of living four years on a prairie irritated him not a little.
President Of Boston Club
He looked for, and found consolation in campus politics. He rose from treasurer of the Boston Club to be president of the same organization. Cleve Carey recently appointed him financial secretary of the Presidents’ Council. He didn’t say, and we didn’t ask, what his duties in that capacity were, but it is suspected that he keeps a record of all the two-dollar bills.
The boys from Boston (and suburbs) confess to a “most active” club this year. Three months ago, with flagrant and malicious disregard for the w. k. depression, the Christmas Dance committee practically swam through a sea of red ink to emerge with a fist full of profits. A good manv other clubs attempted the same trick and never even reached shore President Monahan, however, has already formulated a plan to dispose of the surplus. There’ll be a banquet any day now.
Enjoys Long Walks
Bob came to Notre Dame because his brother did. Just another example of the New England hereditary instinct. He worked under Nicholson the first year, then withdrew to the comparative obscurity of an interhall basketbailer. Now he is in athletic retirement, scholastically speaking.
Just the same, once a week, he walks (Bob likes to walk — probably hoping against hope that he may some day run across a mountain or two) down town with the boys for a session at Nicolini’s. He used to be
a quiet and unassuming sort, but the Italian dishes have softened him somewhat. After one plate of spaghetti, according to reports, he grows mellow, waxes merry, discourses vol-
Robert Monahan
As in beer, .1 % would help.
ubly, and debates enthusiastically. His brother-in-law, it seems, is third baseman of the Cincinnati Reds. Some week-end when you have nothing else to do, you might ask Bob about him. He’ll tell you — in ten thousand well-chosen words.
To Attend Harvard
Perhaps he, himself, is in training to meet the requirements and exigencies of the Bar. Next year he goes to Harvard for a course in Law. At present he possesses an 84.9% average, and is looking around for a spare point-one per cent. In the meanwhile, waiting, for June to roll around, he indulges himself in a bit of Sigrid Undset, a lot of Edith Wharton,-and a fair amount of miscellaneous philosophy books.
IDIOSYNCRAZIES: Bob is called “Moon” . . . another heritage from his brother ... He seldom misses a dance if it is within reasonable striking distance . . . Says “Yes” instead of “Yeh” when there’s company about . . . His new English Drape suit created consternation upon its initial bow to critical Corby and Sorin audiences . . . Returned to campus last year with a Harvard close-cropped haircut and again threw the boys into a panic. . . .
(Continued on Page 13)
Col. Hoynes and Fr. Murray Among Contributors.
By Joseph Bucci
The March issue of the Lawyer, Notre Dame’s quarterly law review, will be ready for distribution the first part of next week, according to an announcement made by Professor W. D. Rollison, faculty adviser of the publication.
Of the six principal articles contained in the number, four of them are written by local professors and writers, including one by Col. William J. Hoynes, present Dean Emeritus of the College of Law. Col. Hoynes writes on “The Law As an Educational Factor.” An old contributor to the Lawyer is found in Professor W. P. Sternberg of the Creighton University School of Law, who submits “Contingent Remainders.”
Prof. Cain Writes
“How the Criminal Escapes the Law and How To Stop Him” is the title of an article furnished by Professor William H. Cain of the Law’ School.
Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology, makes his first appearance in the list of contributors, writing on the topic, “Eugenic Legislation and the Lawyer.” “Motions To Suppress Evidence and Criminal Prosecutions in Federal Courts” is offered by Attorney John Jones of Ironwood, Michigan.
Students Contribute
Jones received his LL.B. from the University of Michigan in 1903, and was formerly Assitsant District Attorney, Western District of Michigan. John M. Crimmins, a senior in the College of Law and candidate for the J. D. degree in June, contributes “A Removal of Indictments by Federal Officers.”
Other features in the March issue are:“Notes and Recent Decisions,” presented by students, Thomas D. Mc-Kevitt, Francis N. Marley, Arthur Duffy, Irving Garnitz, and B. R. Des-enberg, and “Book Reviews” by John M. Crimmins, Joseph Deeb, and Thomas Coughlen.
March 2^, 1933
Nine
“PERFUNES” IS SUBJECT OF CHEMICAL LECTURE
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
St. Joseph Valley Group Hear Columbia Professor.
“Perfumes” was the subject discussed by Professor Marston T. Bogert of Columbia University, at the regular meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, last Friday evening in the Law Building.
Professor Bogert stated, at the beginning of his address, that the most important duty of a chemist is to help the physician fight disease and death. Even the perfume chemist has contributed a large share towards alleviating suffering. He has discovered by his research work that many of the compounds which are in perfume bases can be made into the constituents of valuable medicines.
Value Of Ambergris
The speaker then carried his audience on a pictorial journey around the world, visiting the important perfume centers. All the slides used were in natural color.
In his talk Professor Bogert said that perfumes may be obtained either from animal and vegetable matter, or, they may be produced synthetically in the laboratory.
Professor Bogert stated that ambergris is probably the most unusual of the perfumes obtained from animals. It is produced physiologically in the stomach of the sperm whale. Then the whale vomits this substance. It is found floating either on the surface of the ocean or lying on the shore where it has been deposited by the waves. The cost of ambergris is approximately thirty dollars an ounce and one half times the price of gold.
7400 Tons Of Roses!
Probably the most noted of perfume bases made from vegetables, is attar of rose. Bulgaria is the largest producer of this fine oil. According to Professor Bogert, the 1931 crop of roses in Bulgaria was 7400 tons. This immense harvest yielded two to three tons of the precious attar.
Although the United States has raised some camphor, Japan practically monopolizes the market, because of the cheap labor available. In case of an emergency, however, American chemists could produce camphor synthetically.
All letters tothe Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
“Young” Patrick
Editor, The Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Sir:
I wish to express my appreciation of the very fine editorial, “March 17,” which appeared in The Scholastic for March 17. Too often is that day the occasion for the trite sounding of triter thoughts. Your editorial remarks indicated some original thought and sincere sympathy.
It is the more regrettable then, that such an intelligent and worthwhile commemoration should have
Prof. Menge To Lecture On German Youth Thursday
Professor Paul J. Menge, of the Department of Modem Languages, will give an illustrated lecture on the “German Youth Movement” Tuesday evening, March28th, at 8:00 p. m., in the auditorium of the Engineering Building.
The lecture is being arranged by Professor Ray Hoyer of the Boy Guidance department and is open to all who care to attend. The subject will be of particular interest to students majoring in Physical Education, Education, Sociology, or German.
Dr. Menge has made a careful study of the various boys’ work programs, both past and present, in Germany, and has an unusually excellent assortment of slides to illustrate his talk.
‘The Scholastic,* 50 Years Ago
The New York Tribune seems as determined to force co-education upon Yale, as the Home Journal upon Columbia. But the co-education advocated by the Tribune is not what is generally known in this country as co-education — namely, the indiscriminate mixing of all men and women in college. What the Tribune wants is the English system, now in vogue at Oxford and Cambridge—
contained a factual error. St. Patrick is referred to as a “young missionary”; later he is called a “young man,” referring to his first years as a missionary in Ireland. A brief consideration of three well authenticated dates will be of interest. St. Patrick was bom A. D. 372; he began his evangelical mission in Ireland in the early spring of the year 433, just fifteen hundred years ago, and when he himself had reached the venerable age of sixty-one; he died March 17, 493, at the truly patriarchal age of one hundred twenty-one.
Very sincerely yours,
J. P. D.
“Young women live in their own “halls” under the guardianship of wise and good women of the highest standing. They are taken to the lecture rooms by their matron guides and, when the lecture is over, are taken back to the hall without any unpleasant or degrading consequences.”
Ahearn Is Guest At Meet of N. D. Contributors* Club
The Contributors’ club of the Department of Journalism met Thursday afternoon in the University cafeteria, with Francis T. Ahearn, ’27, city editor of the South Bend News-Times, as guest.
Feature stories from leading newspapers which had been chosen by the members as examples of the best types were read and discussed, with Mr. Ahearn leading the round table analysis of their style and structure.
Many suggestions regarding feature sources and the handling of material were advanced by the South Bend editor and columnist.
William Ayres, junor in Arts and Letters, was in charge of arrangements for the meeting.
Future meetings of a similar, type are being planned, with feature articles written by the students themselves substituted for the newspaper stories read at Thursday’s meeting..
Ten
The Scholastic
NOTRE DANE GLEESTERS TO SING IN FESTIVAL
Two Selections Will be Sung by Glee Club Members.
The University of Notre Dame Glee Club of fifty singers, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, has been invited to sing in the “First Indiana Intercollegiate Choral Festival” at Indianapolis, Indiana, Saturday night, April 22. A weekend program is being planned for the entertainment of the gleesters.
Each organization invited to compete in the contest must sing two numbers of its own selection. Professor Casasanta has selected “In Old Nassau” by Murchison and “The Mascot of the Troop” by Victor Herbert.
To Hold A Dance After Festival
As a grand finale for the festival, it is planned to have one massed number by the combined men’s Glee Clubs, one by the combined girl’s Glee Clubs, and one by the mixed choruses.
In the afternoon of April 22, there will be a meeting of the directors of the various glee clubs participating to organize officially the Indiana Intercollegiate Choral Festival. This will be done in order that the organization may proceed under its own management another year.
Following the festival, a dance will be held for the participating singers and their friends. The chairman of the Federation Choral Festival is Max T. Krone, director of the Arthur Jordan Conservatory of Music, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Committees Are Named For Italian Club Banquet
Papers were read and plans for the annual club banquet were discussed at a meeting and smoker of the Italian club Tuesday evening in Walsh Hall. A committee was organized to handle the business of the annual club banquet to be held in the lay Faculty dining hall early in May, and is composed of Andrew Maffei, chairman; August Petrillo, Michael San-tulli, Emilio J. Gervasio and Jerome Ferrara.
A paper, “The Success of Fascism,” was read by Michael Forestiere and was well received by the club. Other papers were given by Leonard Cacci-atore and Sam Ferrari.
St. Vincent De Paul Society Continues Its Good Work
Thirty members were present at a meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society held Tuesday night in Walsh Hall.
The first business taken at the meeting was a report from the members in charge of gathering and distributing magazines. Magazines have been distributed to the Students’ Infirmary at Notre Dame and to Healthwin. Two new institutions were added to the list: St. Joseph Hospital in Mishawaka, and Birds Rescue Mission, South Bend. Students were appointed to gather magazines from each hall.
A report was then read from those gathering old clothes and shoes. The old clothes gathered are to be distributed only through the St. Joseph’s and St. Patrick’s parish conferences in South Bend. The Society asks the cooperation of the students in saving magazines and old clothes.
Seminar Postponed
The Economics Seminar meeting scheduled for Tuesday, March 21, was postponed until Tuesday, March 28. The program outlined for the last meeting will be held next Tuesday at 6:30 p. m. in the Law Building.
Another reminder that the students residing in Brownson, Carroll, Dillon, and Freshman halls are to attend the second show, rather than the one at 6:35, in Washington hall on movie nights, was issued from the office of the Prefect of Discipline this week.
Presenting the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra which last night gave its first 1933 program under Director Richard Seidel.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
CONCERT APPLAUDED
Light Classics Featured On Program Last Night.
Departing from their usual program of the older classics, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidel, last evening presented a program of popular classics.
Although the program lacked the depth of the former concerts, the orchestra gave an admirable performance which was applauded by the audience.
To Play At St. Mary’s
The program opened with the overture, “The Merry Wives of Windsor.” This was followed by Mendelssohn’s Piano Concerto No. 1 played by Mr. John Sharpe whose fine interpretation merited much praise.
In the second part of the program the suite “In a Persian Market” and the Waltz, “On the Beautiful Danube,” proved to be the most popular.
The orchestra will present the same program next Monday evening at St. Mary’s. This will be the first time in two years for the orchestra to appear there.	'
Prof. Rollison Moves
Professor- William D. Rollison, of the College of Law, wishes to announce a change in home address. Prof. Rollison now lives at 1209 Hill Crest Road, South Bend, having previously resided at 415 St. Vincent.
March 24, 1933
Eleven
FR. DOMINIC O’MALLEY BURIED THIS MORNING
Died in Milwaukee Wednesday After Brief Illness.
Reverend Dominic Kern O’Malley, C.S.C., who died Wednesday afternoon, at three o’clock, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, was buried from Sacred
Reverend Dominic O’Malley R. I. P.
Heart Church on the campus this morning. He was taken ill a month ago, when he suffered a slight stroke, and was removed to Sacred Heart Sanitarium when his condition became complicated by a high nervous tension. He suffered another stroke this week, which hastened the end.
Father O’Malley entered the University of Notre Dame in 1899; he succeeded in earning four monograms in football before he was graduated from the University with the degree Litt.B., in 1903.
Immediately after graduation Father O’Malley entered St. Joseph’s novitiate, later completing his ecclesiastical studies in Washington. In 1908, the year of his ordination, he was appointed rector of Sorin Hall, a position he held until he received the Presidency of Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin.
About ten years ago Father O’Malley returned to the University, and was made rector of Corby Hall. In 1931 he was elected superior of the the Community House but continued to meet his religion classes regularly at the University.
News of the Week
By Paul J. Doyle
Any effort to determine what is actually transpiring in Europe to day, or to predict what will happen in the future, must be stamped as guesswork. From all appearances, however, France seems destined to sign a peace plan, and to pay her war-debt interest to the United States.
Both Mussolini and MacDonald have agreed upon a compact designed to maintain peace in Europe. France does not desire to join unless her “allies,” Poland and the little entente (Rumania, Czecho-Slovakia, and Ju-go-Slavia), are included as equals. But if France refuses, she sets herself up as independent of the great European powers, and leaves Mussolini free to form a possible coalition with the brown-shirts of Germany.
With such restive conditions as exist in Europe today, France would, no doubt, cherish amicable relations with the United States. Hence it will not come as a complete surprise should she suddenly reverse her attitude and decide to pay the war-debt interest due our country.
Prohibitionists in the United States had better “look to their laurels.” For — as everyone knows — the act legalizing sale of 3.2% beer and wines, signed by the President Wednesday, becomes effective after midnight, April 6th. To add to their dis-gruntlement, Jouett Shouse, head of an Anti - prohibition organization, stated that within a few weeks forty states will have made the necessary provision for the holding of conventions to vote on the repeal of the 18th amendment.
The 62nd meeting of the German Reichstag promises to be its last—at least for some time. With 81 Communist and 11 Socialist members barred from its assemblage, the German parliament, this week, was in absolute control of the Hitlerites. Before this meeting will be put an “enabling act” calling for the abdication of the parliament in favor of a dictatorship— with Adolph Hitler commanding. The act, practically certain of passage, will remain in effect for four years, or “until the present government is replaced.”
NEW BOOKS RECEIVED BY LIBRARY THIS WEEK
Literature, Biography, Religion Are Included on New List.
History and description, economic history, literature, biography, medicine and psychiatry, religion, and other fields are covered by the new books released this week by Miss Marie K. Lawrence of the Circulation Department of the University Library.
One Billion Guinea Pigs by Arthur Kallet is similar to the book Your Money’s Worth by Stewart Chase. In this work Kallet explains the reason for the extensive advertising which is now the vogue among manufacturers and also the content of the highly advertised goods.
Writes Play At Vassar
Edna St. Vincent Millay presents a one act play entitled The Princess Marries the Page. It is of interest to note that this particular work was written while the author was an undergraduate at Vassar College and was also, first presented there in 1917.
Shortly after the first production of the play the original manuscript was lost. For 13 years it remained unfound. When paging through some of her works written while at Vassar, she found the manuscript. Through the influence of one of her friends the play was produced at the Cosmopolitan Club, Philadelphia in 1930. In 1932 she had the manuscript and the original score of music published.
The following are some of the outstanding works which have been added to the Circulation Department:
List Of New Books
History and description: Political Index-. 1832-1932—by Sir John G. Cumming; Historical Evolution of Hispanic America—by James F. Rippy; and Mush, Yon Malemutes—by Bernard R. Hubbard, S.J.
Economic History: Analyzing Our Industries—by Cecil E. Fraser; and One Billion Guinea Pigs—by Arthur Kallet.
Literature: The Growth of Literature—by Hector M. Chadwick; Odyssey (Homer), translated into English by T. E. Lawrence; and The Princess Marries the Page—by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Biography: Lipton’s Autobiography —by Sir Thomas Johnston Lipton;
(Continued on Base 31)
Twelve
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
PRODUCTION MAKES HIT
Single Performance Draws Capacity Audience.
By Mitchell Tackley
Against a background of an ancient Greek tent, the University Players, under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, transformed the Washington Hall stage last Friday night into an effective and colorful locale for the student experimental production of “Where There’s Women There’s Trouble.” The play is the work of Charles Patrick O’Malley, Notre Dame ’30.
With a difficult script from which to work, the cast of five students and a South Bend girl did wonders to the amateur play staged for the first time here. The character interpretations and the portrayal of plot by the actors were for the most part acute.
Outstanding in the performance was Thomas Stritch, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, as Promachos, the limping servant to Achilles.
The second honors for performance go to Miss Charlotte Mourer, of South Bend, who as Briseis, captive of Achilles, kept the action of the play well in hand. James Boyle, who portrayed the mighty Ajax did admirably with the part. He had a. convincing air not unlike the historic character of ancient Greece. Tighe Woods as Achilles, leader of the Greeks, was confronted with perhaps the most difficult role in the play. The character interpreted by Woods followed closely that of the same name in the “Iliad.”
The cast of “Where There's Women There's Trouble” in a desperate moment: Left to right, Miss Charlotte Maurer as Briseis, Tighe Woods as Achilles, Thomas Stritch as Promachos, John Finneran as Patroclus, Joseph McCabe as Ulysses; and James Boyle as Ajax
Chicago Club Easter Dance
Is Planned for March 15
Final plans for the organization’s Easter dance were announced by John I. Collins, general chairman, at a meeting of the Chicago Club held Wednesday evening, March 15, in the lay faculty dining hall.
Other business transacted included the appointment of John Joyce as secretary of the club because of a vacancy caused by a withdrawal from the University, and the abolition of the Scholarship Fund for financial reasons.
Before the refreshments were served Professor Charles Phillips of the English department gave a brief lecture on that great English university, Oxford, which he himself attended for some time. John Ryan, Glee Club soloist, sang a number of well-known songs with the piano accompaniment of John Sharpe.
Joseph McCabe and John Finneran are to be congratulated for the fine performances given in the parts of Ulysses and Patroclus, respectively. Both McCabe and Finneran each succeeded in “stealing” a scene in the presence of almost the entire cast. McCabe’s triumph came in the final scene of Act II when he announced to Achilles the death of Patroclus. Scene I of Act II was the point at which Finneran’s finesse captivated the audience.
The purpose of the production by the University Theatre was to try out the product of a Notre Dame student in order that the members of the various drama classes of the University would profit accordingly. The play is being criticized by the students from all possible angles.
N. D. REPRESENTED AT CONFERENCE LAST WEEK
Father Fogarty, Prof. Buckley, and Apodaca Attend.
By Michael F. Wiedl
Reverend James A. Fogarty, C.S. C., Louis L. Buckley, and Joseph Apodaca, professors of the Department of Economics at the University, attended the National Catholic Welfare Conference at Fort Wayne, Ind., last Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. The Conference was sponsored by the Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne.
Sponsored By Bishops
The National Catholic Welfare Conference is an organization of Catholics formed to promote the study and understanding-of industrial problems. The conferences are held regularly and deal with questions of industrial policy. They are sponsored by the bishops of the United States and are held in different cities throughout the nation.
Father Fogarty addressed the meeting Monday afternoon on the subject of “Wages and Hours in Relation to the Encyclical.” Some quotations from his speech are: “The present emergency measures for relief and the Reconstruction Finance Committee have succeeded in relieving some misery, but can not do and do not give sufficient aid to the poor who depend on normal industry for their existence. . . . Selfishness, unashamed, is a motivating force of industry. . . . Industry today is uncontrolled and unplanned, and based on private movement and private competition.”
Partake In Discussions
Professors Buckley and Apodaca partook in the general discussion and presented the views of the college economist. In these discussions the local economists were confronted with numerous questions from the employer and employee, as well as from the Socialists and Communists who were in the audience. Followers of Henry George also attended the meeting and submitted questions to Professors Buckley and Apodaca.
The Most Reverend John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, gave the opening address at the conference. In his closing remarks, he expressed his satisfaction with the meetings and urged (Continued on Page 32)
March 24, 1933
Thirteen
“RE-DISTRICT UNITED STATES” -A WRANGLER
Holman Asks Centralization For Government Economy.
“What would be the effect if a system of Regionalism were to be adopted by the government of the United States?” asked Edwin Holman, a Wrangler, speaking before the society last Monday evening at the weekly meeting in the Law Building.
The plan Holman brought to the Wranglers’ consideration would, in brief, divide the United States into eight geographical divisions, the purpose being an increased centralization of our nation’s government.
Union Needed
“The need for centralization was clearly and emphatically seen in the recent banking crisis. The central government, in its effort to cope with the situation, found it necessary to deal with forty-nine different systems, as represented by the states and national banking institutions. Unification was extremely difficult, and only the war powers of a President brought about that union,” Holman said, in justifying his proposal.
“Regionalism has its distinct advantages,” the speaker continued, “inasmuch as economy in governmental operations is essential today. It would provide a commission, for example, to supervise construction and maintenance of the highways within each of the eight districts. The consolidation of forty-eight such cum-missions, as they exist in all the states at the present time, into eight larger and more expansive commissions, covering the same area, would in itself represent a gigantic economy move!”
States Cooperate
Such interstate projects as the Boulder Dam and the cooperation of the states bordering Lake Michigan to stamp out crime on its waters, were cited as typical examples of the procedure by which a nationally established Regionalism would function.
Holman had his supporters when the round-the-table discussion began, but the members who opposed him, for the most part, claimed that “states rights” would suffer immeasurably, and that the assumption of their power by the federal government would tend to ultimately lead to a dictatorship'.
Fellowships Are Offered By University of Cincinnati
Announcement of the Taft Graduate Teaching Fellowship in English at the University of Cincinnati, which carries with it a stipend of one thousand dollars, was made to the University this week. The bulletin read:
“For the academic year 1933-34 teaching fellowships are offered in the graduate school of Arts and Sciences of the University of Cincinnati to one student in each of the following departments: Classics, Economics, English, German, History, Mathematics, and Romance Languages. A Taft Teaching Fellow receives an annual stipend of one thousand dollars and free tuition in the Graduate School. Fellows are selected upon the basis of personal and mental qualities and ability in the field chosen. Preference is given to those applicants who intend to become candidates for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
“The Taft Teaching Fellows are not permitted to devote more than six hours a week to teaching in the department.”
Applications should be filed by April 1, 1933, with the Secretary of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 8)
“Moon” devotes his summers to tennis and “beaching” (includes lying on the sand, with an occasional dip in the surf, and positively excludes all froms of acrobatics) . . . Usually devotes two weeks of his vacation to working (which, in these days, is a real idiosyncrasy) ... He hitch-hiked back to Worcester one Easter . . . took him three days ... He returned on a train . . . Has an insatiable desire for classical music, as interpreted by the Boswells, Mills, et. al. . . . Thinks Buchanan, Michigan deserving of public approval on at least one count. . . Then, too, there is that winsome lass back home, Eleanor by name, who’s holding her breath waiting . . . And speaking of holding breaths, Bob once tried it for several minutes in a hospital . . . Attaches thought he was a goner, so to speak . . . Obviously they were wrong.
I am conceited, cocky, aggressive— perhaps over-aggressive—make many enemies, and love to ballyhoo.—Ely Culbertson.
CAST FOR “MONOGRAM UGH JINKS” COMPLETE
Dramatic Talent Discovered as Athletes Rehearse.
By Joseph Kurth
With rehearsals being held regularly, the Monogram Club is slowly shaping its annual production which is scheduled to be given on May 4th and 5th. The entire personnel of the club is working to give the faculty, the student body, and friends of the University a show of which the club hopes to be proud. The production shall keep its traditional name “The Monogram Absurdities.” This year’s show, however, will carry the particular title “The Monogram High Jinks.”
New Features
Many novelties have been added to the 1933 show. This has been made possible by securing skits, novelties, and ideas from famous stage personages. Special lighting and novel staging will be used throughout. A particularly novel idea will be brought out in the dance numbers. An effort is being made, especially, to balance the acts and the dance numbers. Rapid flowing continuity will carry the entire program in order that the show will not lag for even an instant. Campus traditions have not been left out of the production. However, sketches and act carrying the favorable flavor of successful musical comedies, vaudeville acts, and legitimate stage plays have been added for the sake of additional interest.
Following are some of the manv acts and dance numbers along with the cast:
1.	BACK WHEN (A Campus stoi-y) Cast: Kitty Gorman. Charles Jaskwhich. Norbert Christman. Hugh Devore. Fred MacBeth. John Tobin. Dinny O'Keefe. Al McGuff. Leo Cummins. “Josh” De-Amora. Jim Leonard, and Ed Krause.
2.	MONEY TO BURN (By Joe E. Brown) Cast: Kitty Gorman and Joe McCabe.
3.	RHYTHM PAR EXCELLENCE Cast: Nick Lukats. Norbert Christman and Phidell Osboime.
4.	MOONSHINE AND MUSIC (By Joe E. Brown)
Cast: Norm Greeney. Laurie Velar. Joe Young. Russell Hupp (Piano Player). and Joe Kurth.
5.	FOR OLD ELI YALE (By Joe McCabe) Cast: John Tobin. Anthony Wirry and Tom Roaeh.
6.	ELMER (A Monologue) Cast: Charles Jaskwhich.
(Continued on Page 32)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
The Laetare Medal—Its Meaning and Its Winners
By J. D. Porterfield
Next Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent, marks the repetition of one of Notre Dame’s oldest traditions, the awarding of the Laetare Medal.
In the year 1882, a professor of the University, James F. Edwards, came into the office of the President, the Reverend Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., and made a suggestion. The Very Reverend Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., heard the idea, and after a consultation, a new tradition was born at Notre Dame, that little school out in Indiana.
Recognition Of Merit
Centuries before, and for centuries the Popes in Rome observed the annual custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on some member of Catholic royalty, in recognition of signal achievement. The Golden Rose, symbol of award and acclaim, was given by the Popes of the Church to the nobility of Catholic Europe.
And this was the idea suggested by the Notre Dame professor. If the Catholic royalty were honored for achievement, why should not the outstanding Catholics of democratic America, where, despite the absence of nobility, there are leaders and heroes, be honored? And so was created the Laetare Medal, to be awarded annually to some leader of Catholic laity in the United States, an outstanding member of Catholic America. The Medal is awarded in recognition of distinguished merit in literature, science, art, commerce, philanthropy, sociology, or other field of beneficent activity.
Conferred On Laetare Sunday
Laetare Sunday was the date on which the Golden Rose was blessed by the Pope prior to its being conferred. So, in. keeping with its example, it has been the custom to announce the bestowal of the Medal on this day. From this fact, too, the name has been given.
The Medal is a solid gold disc suspended from a gold bar, bearing in black enamel the words “Laetare Medal.” The Latin sentence, “Magna est veritas et praevalebit,” “Truth is mighty and will prevail,” is the legend on the obverse side, and beneath it is symbolized the profession of the
medallist. The name of the University is engraved on the reverse side, and with it the name of the medallist.
The one who is to receive the medal is chosen each year by a special committee, of which the President of the University is chairman, from a list of persons proposed from year to year and kept standing. The announcement of this committee for the current year is to be published this Sunday.
Tlie medal is presented at a time and place convenient for the recipient, with a short address explaining the custom of the bestowal and expressing the merits of the medallist that have prompted the particular award.
Recipients Of The Medal
Since the medal was first bestowed in 1883, not a year has passed without the awarding taking place on the “joyful Sunday” of Lent. This year’s award shall be the fifty-first of its kind. The recipients of the medal since the institution of the tradition are:
1883 John G. Shea
1884 Patrick C. Keeley
1885 Eliza A. Starr
1886 General John Newton
1887 Edward Preuss
1888 Patrick V. Hickey
1889 Mrs. Anna H. Dorcy
1890 William J. Onahan
1891 Daniel Dougherty
1892 Henry F. Brownson
1893 Patrick Donahue
1894 Augustan Daly
1895 Mary A. Sadlier
1896 General William S. Rosecrans
1897 Doctor Thomas A. Emmett
1898 Timothy E. Howard
1899 Mary G. Caldwell
1900 John A. Creighton
1901 William B. Cochran
1902 Doctor John B. Murphy
1903 Charles J. Bonaparte
1904 Richard C. Kerens
1905 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick
1906 Doctor Francis J. Quinlan
1907 Katherine E. Conway
1908 James C. Monaghan
1909 Frances (Christian Reid) Tiernan
1910 Maurice F. Egan
1911 Agnes Repplier
1912 Thomas B. Mulry
1913 Charles B. Herberman
1914 Edward D. White
1915 Mary V. Merrick
1916 Doctor James J. Walsh
1917 Admiral William S. Benson
1918 Joseph Scott
1919 George L. Duval
1920 Doctor Lawrence F. Flick
1921 Elizabeth Nourse
1922 Charles P. Neil
1923 Walter G. Smith
1924 . Charles D. Maginnis
1925 Albert F. Zahm
1926 Edward N. Hurley
1927 Margaret Anglin
1928 Jack J. Spalding
1929 Gov. Alfred E. Smith
1930 Frederick P. Kenkel
1931 James J. Phelan
1932 Doctor Stephan J. Maher
S. M. V. FRAT SPONSORS PLAY WRITING CONTEST
First Prize is $100; Contest Closes May 1.
Word was received this week by the English Department of the University, of the second annual speech play-writing contest, sponsored by the Zeta Phi Eta, National Honorary Professional Speech fraternity. An award of one hundred dollars will be given to the winner.
The fraternity hopes to cultivate a finer creative literature, and offers this prize as the incentive. The contest last year brought out unexpected talent, and the organization hopes to experience even greater success in the venture this year.
The rules governing the contest are as follows: Contributors must be a resident graduate or undergraduate, in a university or college of the United States. Only one entry from each participant will be considered. The plays must be one-act, unpublished, unproduced, and original. Acting time is not to exceed forty-five minutes. Three copies must be sent, which are to be typed, and signed with pen name only.
The contest closes May 1, 1933, and the winners will be announced June 1, 1933. All manuscripts should be sent to the Zeta Chapter of Zeta Phi Eta Fraternity, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas.
BULLETIN
Students who want to preregister for English 127, “The Technique of the Drama,” taught by Professor Phillips, are requested to meet Professor Phillips on Thursday, March 30, at 4:00 p. m., in Room 112 of the Main Building. This course deals with training in dramatic criticism and practical play-writing.
In order that only those whose talent warrants instruction in this art may be admitted, the Department of English requires entrance by examination of the professor in charge. At the meeting Professor Phililps will discuss the qualifications required in a registrant. The course is open to juniors and seniors of any college of the University. -The attention of English major students is directed to the fact that those who qualify for this course may substitute it for a period course of the English programme.
—Department of English.

March 24, 1933
Fifteen
TESKE DEFENDS EN1LY DICKINSON AT MEETING
Paducah, Ever Abused, at Last Comes Into Her Own
Evaluates Life And Style In Talk to Bookmen.
“Emily Dickinson” was the subject of a talk presented by Lloyd Teske at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening. Teske has made a thorough study of Miss Dickinson’s , poetry over a period of several months, and his talk showed a sympathetic understanding of the poet’s work.
The first part of the talk was a short but comprehensive biographical sketch. Teske related many humorous incidents to show that Miss Dickinson'was a normal being, in constant revolt against the puritanical influences surrounding her, until her thwarted love affair. The resultant seclusion was inevitable. She became bored with the life of the village and sought companionship in her own thoughts through the medium of verse.
Her Place In Poetry
The speaker then analyzed the peculiar form of Miss Dickinson’s poetry — a form which is now known as free verse. He stated that it is unfair to judge her harshly because of several inferior selections contained in her collected works. None of the poetry was published during her lifetime. Her request that the poems be destroyed after her death was disobeyed by relatives who thought there might be something of permanent value in them. When asked to assign the poet a niche in American letters, Teske replied that Emily Dickinson would be best known as a forerunner of the imagist school, because of her loose style and her contempt for old standards.
Engineers Will Hear Talk on “Aviation” Next Tuesday
“Aviation” is the topic of a lecture to be delivered to the Engineer’s Club by Captain Clarence Cornish, Tuesday evening, March 28, at 7:45, in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
A number of splendid lectures combining instruction and entertainment have been presented to the club this year, outstanding among them being one on Russia by Mr. Martersteck of South Bend.
Covering a large portion of the territory on either side of the U. S. highway number sixty a city with the unique name of Paducah towers above the fertile farms of western Kentucky highway number sixty, a city with the neighboring farmers. The strange name, immortalized by the vaudeville comedian is a variation of the word “Paduke” which is in turn a form of the word “Pakutukah.” The site where the city now stands was the former home of the Chickasaw Indians who were ruled by Chief Paduke. It was known by the name of Pakutukah which means, in the language of the Chickasaws, “the place where the wild grapes hang” because of the abundance of wild grapes found there. Chief Paduke. the Patron of the city, was a large and genial Indian who, in a spirit of friend-. liness for the pale faces, moved his village several miles southward in order to give them the coveted position at the confluence of the Ohio and the Tennessee rivers.
Founded In 1821
A few years later in the attempt to move his people further westward he succumbed to an attack of fever at the age of sixty. His faithful subjects bore him to Paducah. There he now lies in an unmarked grave on the bank of the Ohio, where his wigwam stood. In May of 1909 the citizens erected to his memory a stone monument on one of their busiest comers.	’
Founded in 1821 by William Pore, Paducah was recognized as a town in 1827 and as a city in 1856. During the steam boat days, owing to her position on the two rivers and her proximity to the Mississippi, she was then a thriving city. Unlike most river towns of that age she expanded away from the river at the decay of the steam boat to meet the incoming railroads. She is now situated on the main lines of the Illinois Central, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy, and the Nashville, Chattanooga, and St. Louis railroads. Adapting herself always to new conditions she has opened her doors and her purse to the recent road building campaign of the Federal government and now a coast to coast and a north to south highway meet each other in the very heart of her business district.
Holding a very strategic position at the mouths of the Tennessee and the Cumberland rivers Paducah played a very important part in the war between the states. Realizing the value of holding Paducah, General Grant, in September of 1861, led five thousand Union soldiers down the Illinois shore from Cairo, and by means of a pontoon bridge over the Ohio, which is a mile wide at this point, they crossed into Paducah. Accompanying these troops were several gun boats which began to fire upon the city as soon as they saw the Confederate flags, placed there by the population who were in sympathy with the South. In the spirit of do or die for the old South, a local lady jumped into her buggy and drove at break-neck speed for two miles and, amid falling shrapnel, cannonball, and rifle shot, she lowered the rebel banner and saved it from destruction. The Union soldiers controlled Paducah throughout the war and used it as a base from which they captured the more important Fort Henry and Fort Donelson.
Real Manufacturing Town
After three years of threats the Confederates under General N. B. Forrest attempted to take the city. They marched into the town from the west and in a spirit of true Southern generosity requested the Union commander, General S. G. Hicks, to surrender in order to “avoid all unnecessary effusion of blood” and threatened complete annihilation if he should refuse. Hicks refused and in the ensuing battle showed the southern troops that their confidence was ill founded, and the Tennessee river valley was gained for the Union.
Paducah, as a manufacturing center, ranks second in Kentucky. She harbors nearly one hundred manufacturing establishments, making everything from dairy products to cooperage materials. Anyone who has smoked an Irvin Cobb cigar, or taken a chew of “Forked-Deer” tobacco can easily attest to the fact that Paducah is indeed a substantial city in western Kentucky rather than a brain child of some traveling comedian, as so many have been led to think.
Irvin S. Cobb, her favorite son, said of her on one occasion when speaking of San Francisco, “When it (Continued on Page 31)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Solution of U.S. Currency Problem Seen In Silver
By Walter Johnson
SURGEON LECTURES ON APPENDECTOMY CASES
No Definite Cause Assigned To Ailment.
Deserted, through necessity, by a majority of the nations of the world, the gold standard, once held almost sacred, now demands reconsideration. Increased production, greater demands for credit, more extensive world trade—all have show it inadequate in meeting the demands of modern economic society.
Yet, in spite of its short comings, gold has some mystic power over American and European alike, some influence, some attraction, the result of its usage as ornament and as money from the earliest centuries, which seems to make any charge against it tantamount to heresy.
Eliminate the gold standard, after all its years of successful service?— never, unless absolutely essential to progress. And there is the question. Need we abolish and supplant gold as a standard of value and the basis of our currency, or can it be saved by reform, even if revolutionary?
We have indicted the gold standard on three charges: instability, inadequacy and maldistribution. The first, of course, is most important. Changing value of gold causes fluctuations of the price level, inflation and deflation, can encourage or discourage production, hasten liquidation and retard recovery, prolong depression and endanger prosperity—mainly because it is uncontrolled and almost unpredictable.
Fisher’s Plan
Yet, predicating a willing legislature and a society aware of conditions, this evil can be remedied, to the advantage of all. For years Irving Fisher of Yale has been advocating a “compensated” dollar, one which varies in value with changes in the price level, or, to phrase it differently, one which will always have the same purchasing power, to the elimination of price fluctuation.
From definite lists of ordinary commodities, properly diversified and weighted, an average or price index will be computed, giving the current level of prices and indicating the exact exchange value of the gold dollar at any particular time. Then, with any normal year as par, changes
in the index from that norm will be noted periodically. Since the dollar received value from the gold it contains, as the price index rises or lowers grains of gold will be subtracted from or added to the mint ratio of that dollar, making it worth less or more and counteracting price changes.
Monthly Evaluation
Evaluated monthly, and changed if necessary, variations in the general price level will be slight, and remedied immediately; which eliminates the evils resulting from an unstable currency, and tends to regularize our whole system. Objections presented to this plan concentrate on its impracticability, but on the whole, granting a sufficiently pressing need, they would not be found insuperable.
The second weakness the gold standard, while not causing such violent fluctuations in economic trends, is just as serious in its long time effects. Production per capita is increasing steadily and gives every indication of doing so indefinitely, while the supply of gold is, it would seem, almost exhausted. Currently the expansion in rate of production exceeds additions to our supply of money, which naturally enhances the value of gold, lowers prices, decreases income, causes overproduction and ultimately deflation and depression.
Use Of Silver
But even this difficulty can be avoided without desertion of the gold standard. Perhaps the most feasible remedy proposed is that involving re-monitization of silver, return to a limited form of bimetalism. Redeemable at a flexible rate in keeping with its changing value ration in relation to. gold, silver would serve as additional backing for our currency, the relatively unlimited supply of that metal making up for the shortage of gold. Meanwhile the changing ratio of exchange would solve those difficulties originally encountered in our former experience with a bimetallic standard.
Finally, maldistribution, the third evil, would be attacked immediately by the additional supply of silver, a substitute standard replacing gold, allowing all nations to possess suffi-
’(Continued on Paste 32)
By Richard Tobin
Dr. James L. Wilson, South Bend surgeon, was the speaker at the open meeting of the Notre Dame Academy 7 of Science last Monday evening in the Law Building auditorium.
Speaking of the unusually large number of appendicitis cases at Notre Dame last year, the doctor stated that no definite cause could be assigned. There have been similar epidemics in other localities, usually oc- \ curring after an extended number of infections of the respiratory tract.	j
Prevalent In Young People	"j
“Appendicitis,” the speaker stated,	%
“occurs most frequently in young people. It starts with a severe pain	I
in the abdomen at the pit of the	|
stomach. This condition is followed	j
by nausea and vomiting. This pain	|
shifts and localizes in the region of the appendix, and, following this, there is a slight rise in temperature. Later the peritoneum becomes inflamed and with this comes an un- < easiness brought about by an auto-matic rigidity of the abdominal muscles.”	i
The appendix, it was pointed out, may become inflamed if	a foreign	I
body such as a peach seed lodges in	|
it, or if an organism in	the blood	|
stream lodges in the blood	vessel and	f
stops the blood supply, thus reducing	|
the vitality of the structure, and	|
starting the infection.	|
Beware Of Cathartics	?
I
Sixty per cent of the patients re-	1
cover from the first attack without an	I
operation, but in cases where the at-	|
tack persists for twenty-four hours	|
the mortality rate is twelve per cent.	1
This rate is much higher in the cases	|
of ruptured appendices.	|
In conclusion Dr. Wilson said:	|
“With a pain the abdominal region	|
one should be' extremely cautious	|
about the use of cathartics since they	|
may produce serious complications.	|
If a diagnosis of appendicitis is made,	I
an appendectomy is of paramount im-	f
portance. The risk increases with the	I
delay. No living man can determine	|
which of the cases is likely to prove	|
the most serious. The safe thing to	|
do is to operate.”
March 24, 1933
Seventeen
OFFICERS CHOSEN FOR NEW MILITARY CLUB
Young’s Speech Recalled By Roosevelt’s Actions
Faculty Sanction is Given by Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C.
By James Hart
Faculty sanction of the new Reserve Officers Club was given this week. The recognition by the faculty was announced by the Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., last Monday, approving the organization’s constitution. The Students’ Activities Council also accepted the new body.
At their last meeting on March 16, the club elected its officers for the coming year. J. C. McDevitt, who received his military training at LaSalle Military Academy, was chosen Commandant. John Flynn received the office of Vice-Commandant, Harold May became Chairman of the Executive Council, Frank McGuire was made Provost-Marshal, Michael San-tulli was elected Adjutant, and Art Korsineski, Finance Officer. These men received their army work at New York M. A., Culver, Campion, St. Francis Xavier in New York, and St. Thomas M. A. of St. Paul, respectively.
New Members Welcome
The club received fifty members into its rank at this first meeting, and more men are welcome to join if they have the required military foundation. They are exceedingly anxious to find more riflemen for their rifle team, which they intend to send to the Culver meet.
Mr. Herbert J. Bott, Assistant Professor of Marketing, and Mr. Robert Riordan, Registrar, were appointed faculty advisers, and the Reverend J. Alan Heiser, C.S.C., was chosen Chaplain. Both Messrs. Bott and Riordan are army men, and have been very active in the formation of the Reserve Officers Club.
Major Bondi Engaged
The faculty advisers intend to bring Major Bondi, who is in charge of the Officers Reserve Corps in this section, to address the local organization in the near future. Through him arrangements will be made to open courses of Arm Extension in the Commerce Building. Major Bondi intends to move his present offices in Gary to South Bend within a few weeks.
With the opening of this Army Troop School at Notre Dame, it will
“It may be that we shall have to consider some method of putting extraordinary powers in the hands of the President in times like these. . . .
“The insistent cry for leadership which is arising on all sides is the instinctive call of the masses for integrated responsibility and power in this highly specialized world of ours.”
Even at their first utterance, on June 5, 1932, those words were not merely neatly turned phrases: they were expressions of expert wisdom spoken by Owen D. Young to the graduating class of Notre Dame at the University’s Annual Commencement exercises.
Prophetic Words
But in the light of subsequent events, of bond-snapping leadership in the White House, they became words colored by prophetic vision. They have become, in recent weeks, a prophecy fulfilled even before another speaker has mounted the platform from which they were delivered.
President Roosevelt’s dynamic action of the past three weeks has borne out to the fullest degree the trend indicated by last year’s commencement speaker here as he portrayed for America the road back from its morass of mal-finance. The President has become, apparently, the incarnate answer to Mr. Young’s utterance that was at once a prophecy and a request.
In the first 36 hours of his incumbency, the President proclaimed an all-inclusive bank holiday for the United States; he empoyered the Secretary of the Treasury to, 1) make specific exceptions to this rule, 2) direct the issuance of scrip, 3) allow the establishment of trust accounts by banks.
Such drastic, seven-league strides of supervision and of assumption of
be possible for men not having commissions to take the course of Ten Series and thereby obtain a Second Lieutenant in the Reserves. Furthermore, those members, who are now Second Lieutenants, may become First Lieutenants in the Reserve by completing the Twenty Series course.
Commandant McDevitt announced that the next meeting would be held as soon as negotiations with Major Bondi have been definitely completed.
authority were not totally unforecast, however, when Mr. Young’s analysis of the banking problem, as he revealed it here, is recalled.
Not only did he estimate accurately the difficulties of the time and indicate the trend they would take under existing conditions but in the same words, and even more prophetically, he pointed out the way to an efficient remedy.
“ ... So a banking problem becomes one of railroad rates and railroad labor,” he said. “And when we go into the question of railroad rates we find that industry and agriculture are affected. Their output may be marketable or not depending quite as much on rates of transportation as on cost of production.
“So a banking problem becomes one of industry and agriculture. And if the credit of industry and agriculture is weakened by diminished markets due to increased rates, the very loans which the banks have made to them become impaired. And so the cycle is complete. . . .
No Centralized Authority
“So today our banking system is threatened not by conditions which could not be corrected, but by the fact that there is no centralized authority anywhere with power to act.
“The normal procedures of the several authorities would create delay even if they were all in agreement, which is too much to expect. And delay is as destructive as no action. I do not complain of this situation, I only call attention to it as the answer to the criticism that somebody should do something promptly. There is no such ‘somebody’.
“It may be that we shall have to consider some method of putting extraordinary powers in the hands of the President in times like these. . . .”
Commerce Forum Speaker
Mr. M. E. Barnhill will address the Commerce Forum next Monday evening, March 27, at 8 o’clock in the auditorium of the Law Building. Mr. Barnhill will speak on “Merchandising.”
There is no such thing as a necessary evil.—Dr. Arthur Irving.
Eighteen	•	The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
NOTA BENE
Old man depression has caused a shrinkage of 4.3 per cent in college enrollments in the United States this year. Teaching staffs have suffered a 3.2 per cent loss.
OPTIMISM!
Oberlin College has a Fish Club which is an organization of men desirous of fostering a cynical attitude toward the approaches of women.......
▼
BE NONCHALANT!
Experiments by the University of Michigan prove that the ads are right—that the lighting of a cigarette actually aids in maintaining nonchalance in moments of stress.
ADD—RACKETS!
A student at Tulane is earning his tuition selling tape worms to the research laboratories.
COLLEGIATE COLLOQUIALISMS!
Despite the contention that the average college man gains nothing from the knowledge passed out to him, it appears that he is proficient at adding in his own way, to the general store of knowledge, particularly in the matter of vocabulary. The following excerpts from a glossary, compiled by the Columbia Spectator, speak for themselves:
Ads: cars parked in front of fraternity houses. (Pennsylvania.)
Aquarium: the place where a sucker takes his date to dance. (Syracuse.)
Get off the nickel: don’t be so lazy. (Cornell.)
Peerade: week-end excursion* (Dartmouth.)
Spuzzy: sharp; smooth. (Cornell).
Hivey: intellectual. (Army.)
Suh: sweet young thing. (Vanderbilt.)
Boodle: anything edible secured outside a dining room. (Army.)
The drop: an obvious, sarcastic personal remark. (Syracuse.)
On the hook: wanted on the telephone. (Syracuse.)—Daily Northwestern.
RIGHT ABOUT FACE!
The college student, who considers himself the idol for the rest of the world when the question of bravery and courage is predominant, has proved himself a target for pity in the present bank crisis. In his inaugural speech, President Roosevelt warned the nation that the one thing to be feared was fear. A large number of the people heeded the president’s words, but the undergraduate who boasts of his own rational powers has fallen victim to his emotions.
Discussions ran back and forth in college circles. The student forwards and furthers his own suggestions; he agrees with the authorities that confidence must be restored, and then he begins to worry about his bank balance and the possibility that he may lose a few cents on the dollar.
The letters that reach the students from parents convey a spirit of optimism. Fathers jokingly agree that now they are on a financial level with the rest of the world. Mothers brag of their firm credit with grocers and butchers and describe the elated feelings they possess because it is impossible for them to worry about how they will pay their bills.
The present crisis is one of the few actual tests that have faced the modem college generation. The students talk constantly of their unusual and enviable reasoning powers. They discuss peace, disarmament, economic stability and any other problem with poise and assurance, and they feel sure that they are capable of facing any calamity that arises. One such situation has come about, and the college students’ attitude is entirely different from their prophecies. If they fail to act rationally in an economic crisis in which confidence is so important, the world can rightly doubt just how sensible and intelligent their emotions and actions would be should war or similar crucial situations ever face them.—Syracuse Daily Orange.
March 2k, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
MINOR SPORT?
Announcements on the bulletin boards during • the past week that the first meeting of golf aspirants was to be held shortly raised a pet thought in our mind. We have never been able to explain to anybody who asked us the question why golf is not made a major sport at Notre Dame, and • why this varsity group does not receive major monograms.
The sport has an appeal here that is undeniable, an appeal that is the equal, at least, of that of any other Spring activities. The galleries who trek after the matches, and the number who report for tournaments and team tryouts prove the point conclusively in our mind.
And there is little ground for argument on the • time and trouble it takes_ to become a good golfer.
Surely the skill which enables a man to shoot a 72 is comparable to that which permits one to put the shot forty feet or throw a good out-curve.
The competition in the sport between Notre Dame and other universities ? It is such that hundreds of students would rather trail a match than play themselves.
We wouldn’t attempt to justify our stand by • saying that golf is a major sport in Big Ten schools. We only say that, looking at the situation from a strictly Notre Dame point of view, there is at least something for the Athletic Association to consider.
FRESHMAN TRIUMPH
To individuals who were not greatly taken up with the thought of attending a boxing match, Scholastic ticket salesmen, a few weeks ago,
made a different sort of approach: Receipts from the Show were going to Bengal; the Holy Cross priests there lived in a condition of continual penury; a few quarters would be the means of several weeks’ livelihood for a missionary.
The operetta entitled “The Vagabonds” is to be staged next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday evenings by members of the freshman class and Glee Club. We see by the placards that returns will again go to the missions in India — but we flatly refuse to use this as a selling point, The Show is worth more than twenty-five cents whether the money goes to Bengal or Paducah. Rehearsals have shown the best singing talent on the campus to be in the cast. We promise you that you will be satisfied when you leave Washington Hall.
LAWNS
Signs have been put up about it all over school, authorities have asked for more cooperation; even “The Week” has bemoaned the abuse on several occasions, but people still persist in trodding Notre Dame’s lawns night and day.
The most distinctive achievement of the trespassing gentlemen seems to be realized in the period on Saturday evenings between the cessation of dinner and the beginning of the first movie in Washington Hall. It is pitiable enough to see a college man sprinting three hundred yards to get an arm’s length closer to a screen, without having him tear up some perfectly good sod in the interim. The fact that Notre Dame has one of the most scenic campuses in the land, and that its beauty in a great part is attributable to its grass, never occurs to him.
Ttventy
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish to Run In Butler Relays
Murphy To Jump Against Ward MARQUETTE PICKS TWO Of Michigan, Conference Champ	Irish ON ALL-OPPONENT
Three N. D. Relay Teams Also Scheduled to Compete; Strong Field.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Butler University will act as host to a group of colleges, Saturday afternoon and evening when it sponsors for the first time, the Butler Relays.
A large squad of Notre Dame track men, led by Coach John P. Nicholson and Captain Fred MacBeth, will be among those present at Indianapolis when hostilities begin. “Nick” is taking the greater part of the team because he wants to give everyone an equal chance to show something.
Before leaving, however, the Irish mentor says he expects his charges to do very little because of the evident stiff competition. Among the leading teams with which the Irish will have to compete are the University of Michigan, Michigan State College, and the University of Pittsburgh.
Ward Leads Michigan
The Wolverines are led by Ward, the Negro sensation in the dashes and high jump. The latter event will find him pitted in his specialty against the Blue and Gold ace, Vince Murphy, in a duel which track fans have long wanted to see. Murphy has not been defeated this year. To keep this record intact he will have to hit a new high provided Ward is at best form. The Michigan star has cleared the cross bar at 6 feet, 7 inches previously this year; a jump a few inches higher than Murphy’s best achievement during the current campaign.
Saturday afternoon the preliminaries in the 60 yard dash and the 65 yard high hurdles will be held. Coach Nicholson has entered Murphy and
Noeckles in the dash, and Jim Fagan and Poredon in the hurdles.
The two remaining events other than the relay will find Jack Edwards
Captain Fred MacBeth Off to Indianapolis.
representing the Irish in the pole vault and Chuck Finkel and Bill Freschi in the shot put.
Three relay races will be run. There will be a one mile, two mile, and a distance race. Roberts, Gilfoil, Gough, and MacBeth will compose the team entered in the shortest race. In the two mile distance, Roberts, Bower, La Frambois, and Joe Young will run. Young may not be able to run, however, because of a spike wound received in practice last Saturday. If he is able to compete, this quartet of Irish runners will be strengthened considerably.
“Nick” plans to put Duke, Moran, Van Petten, and Eddie King on the track for the distance relay. ' This is one of those races that keeps the spectators guessing as to how far each man will run. The contestants in this race will run a 440, 880, three-quarters, and a mile.
Place Krause, Baldwin On First Team; Voegele On Second.
Captain Johnny Baldwin, Joe Voegele, and Ed Krause ,the three outstanding factors for success in Notre Dame’s recent basketball season, were named as outstanding opponents by Marquette university last week. Baldwin and Krause were placed on the first all-opponent team and Voegele on the second.
Sharing the first team honors with the two Irish were two eagers from Creighton University and one, Joe Reiff, of Northwestern. Thus the three teams who scored victories over the Hilltoppers during their 17-game season were given the five first team berths.
Krause, Reiff Unanimous
Notre Dame and Northwestern each landed three eagers in the first ten selected by Marquette, and had, in addition, the only two unanimous choices.
Ed “Moose” Krause, Notre Dame’s great pivot man, was the first choice at center, having no opposition for the first team place. Similarly, Joe Reiff, of Northwestern, was unanimous choice for forward.
The first two all-opponent fives as selected by Marquette are as follows:
First team—Reiff (Northwestern) and Collin (Creighton), forwards; Krause (Notre Dame), center; Baldwin (Notre Dame) and Kiely (Creighton), guards.
Second team — Voegele (Notre Dame) and Rosenfield (Northwestern), forwards; Johnson (Northwestern), center; Kircher (Mich. State) and Johnson (Carroll), guards.
March 24, 1933
More Worlds to Conquer
______________ Twenty-one
SUNDAY’S GAMES FAIL TO BREAK GROUP I TIE
Vince Murphy, Notre Dame’s outstanding track man, undefeated in five varsity appearances, will face his hardest competition at Butler’s relays tomorrow when he clashes with Michigan’s Willie Ward, colored high jump champion of the Big Ten.
Possibility of Intercollegiate Fencing Here
Seen As de Landero Drills Candidates
According to Professor Pedro deLandero, Notre Danie’s fencing coach, the prospects for having a recognized fencing team next fall are very bright. The Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., has promised to arrange a regular schedule during the next school year, providing the members of the squad continue to show the enthusiasm and good spirit of cooperation displayed so far.
From thirty-five to forty men report every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday to Coach deLandero in the boxing and wrestling room of the
gymnasium, where he is drilling them in the fundamentals of the sport. Out of this number he feels that there should be at least 20 skilled fencers.
Many of the new-comers have given much promise and may displace some of the more experienced members in obtaining berths on the team. Only four men have exhibited any ability in sabres, while the others are working on foils.
Coach deLandero fears that it would be useless to schedule any meets this year as most of the men have had too little drilling to stand competition.
Playoff Needed Between Lyons and Dillon For First Place.
(Story of championship panics last night on Page 22)
By James F. McKeon
With the playing of last Sunday’s games the regular season of interhall basketball__cp.mpetition— came- to a close. A playoff, necessitated by the existing tie between Lyons and Dillon in Group I of the heavyweights, was played Tuesday night with the winner meeting Off-Campus, winner of Group II for the title last night. In the lightweight division St. Edward’s and Carroll, both of whom went through the season undefeated, met last night for the title of their division. (Accounts of Tuesday’s and last night’s playoffs will be found elsewhere in this issue).
Two Teams Forfeit
Some good games were played last Sunday as some of the teams were playing their final games. There were two forfeits—both in Group II of the lightweights with Off-Campus forfeiting to Freshman, and Walsh failing to appear for its scheduled game with Alumni.
In the battle of the old gold coast halls Lyons defeated Morrissey, thus gaining the right to meet Dillon for the league championship. Morrissey played without two of its best men, and but for a brief spell early in the first half was never in the ball game. Lyons, with Vairo leading the way, finished in the lead by a 26-17 count.
Dillon, forced to win its game with Badin in order to remain in the fight, was hard pressed till the fourth period. It snapped out of its lethargy once the final period got under way, adding eight points to Badin’s two to win by a 28-18 score.
Freshman Hall, with a chance to force its way into a playoff, did not function properly till near the end of its game with Off-Campus with the result that Off-Campus led its division for the second successive year. The score of this game was 17713
Corby had a field day at the expense of St. Edward’s, winning by a 44-12 score. Howard held a 9-4 lead midway in the second period of its game with Brownson, but from that time on it could not register a single (Continued on Page 24)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Fifteen Games Scheduled For Irish Baseball Team
OFf-CAMPUS DEFEATS LYONS 2411 FOR TITLE
SQUAD DRILLS INGYM
Wealth of New Infield Talent Reports to Coach Keogan; First Game April 15.
By Nick Connor
Coach Keogan’s hopes for an outdoor practice were completely snowed under last Tuesday, the first day of spring, by a delayed ■winter’s storm that covered the reconstructed Cartier diamond. Practice, however, was held indoors and will be until favorable weather permits the baseball aspirants to begin work out-of-doors.
The practice in the gym has been confined to the pitchers and the infielders. Coach Keogan has spent considerable time with the infield trying to find a combination that will represent Notre Dame on the diamond this season. Four lettermen from last year are battling with promising sophomores for these positions.
Schedule Announced
The smoothest working infield combination seen thus far is composed of O’Neil catcher, Dunn at first, Kane at second, Cunha at short and White at third. From all indications the four outstanding pitchers are Norb Rasch-er, Tony Albosta, Steve Banas and Saggartz. The three players composing the outfield will have a chance ,	to show their fly chasing ability
'	when the team shifts practice from
■ the gym to Cartier field.
The baseball schedule recently approved by the Athletic Board is as follows:
April 15—Chicago at Chicago.
April 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame.	’
April 25—Chicago at Notre Dame.
April 28-29—Purdue at Lafayette.
May 3—Michigan State at East Lansing.
‘	May 6—Northwestern at Evanston.
.	May 10-11—Iowa at Notre Dame.
'	May 14—Open.
May 21—Open.
May 26—Purdue at Notre Dame, n May 29-30—Wisconsin at Notre i	Dame..
June 3—Michigan State at Notre Dame (Commencement).
St. Ed’s Whips Carroll 29-28 For Championship Of Lightweight League
St. Edward’s Hall was crowned basketball lightweight champion last night by defeating Carroll, last year’s winners, by the score of 29-28. It was a great game all the way, probably the best that has been played in the interhall competition this year.
Both teams battled fairly evenly throughout. The score was tied on five different occasions. Both teams had a big lead once. Carroll enjoyed a five point advtantage at the end of the first period. Midway in the second period St. Ed’s was sporting a seven point lead. Aside from these times, however, the teams were never more than four points apart and for the most part two points' separated them.
Close Game
Carroll seemed on its way to victory as it outscored and outplayed St. Ed’s in the first period, but within three minutes of the start of the second period St. Ed’s had erased a five point deficit and had established a one point lead of their own. The teams then battled evenly to the end of the half; St. Ed’s holding a one point advantage at this time.
Carroll jumped into the lead at the start of the third period and led at the end of the quarter 26-24. With two and a half minutes to play Carroll was still in the van but a field goal by Charley Montgomery turned
the battle in favor of St.		Ed’s	•
The lineups:			
St. Edward's (29)	FG FT	FTA	PF Pts.
Collins, f 		- 6	1	3	2	13
Leonard, f 	*		..3	0	1	1	6
Barnett, c 		..3	0	3	1	6
Freeman, g 		.. 1	0	1	2	2
Montgomery, g 		.. 1	0	1	0	2
	— ——	—		 	
Totals 		..14	1	9	6	29
Carr oil (28)	FG FT	FTA	PF Pts.
Clark, f 				..5	2	3	1	12
Tobin, f 		..3	1	1	3	7
Sherry, c 		.. 0	1	1	0	1
Kinman, g 		-2	0	2	1	4
Herrick, g 		1	0	0	0	2
Faletti, g 		_ 1	0	0	2	2
	— —	—	— 	
Totals 		..12	4	7	7	28
Referee, Harris; Umpire. Queenan.
Hold Lead Throughout Listless Championship Game.
The same Off-Campus team that lost in the finals of the heavyweight basketball competition last year successfully scaled the heights this year, overwhelming Lyons Hall, defending champion, in the finals last night. The score was 24-11.
Lyons kept in the ball game throughout the first half,- finishing but .a point behind as the teams left the floor for the intermission. Off-. Campus in the last two periods came through with 14 points; at the same time holding last year’s titleholders to two points.
Advantage On Tipoff
Ability to get the tipoff plus the fact that it was in to take the ball off the backboard gave Off-Campus a decided advantage. With Charlie Mar-baugh leading the way with nine points, Off-Campus was never in danger once the second half got under way.
Off-Campus jumped into a four point lead at the very outset of the game on baskets by Boehm and Vitt. Lyons rallied somewhat and the first period ended with Off-Campus leading 7-6.
A free throw and a field goal by Marbaugh in the second period was equalized with a two pointer by Kinsella and a free throw by Crosson.
The ultimate winners went ahead considerably in the third period. Baskets by Boehm, Marbaugh, and Palmer and free throws by Marbaugh and Boehm gave Off-Campus an eight
point advantage third quarter.	at	the	end	of	the
The lineups: Off Campus (24)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Vitt, f 		... 1	1	1	1	3
Cunha, f 		0	0	2	0	0
Glick, f 		... 1	0	0	1	2
Shapiro, f 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Marbaugh, c		... 3	3	4	3	9
Boehm, g		... 2	2	3	2	6
Palmer, g 		... 1	0	0	1	2
Casey, g		... 1	0	0	0	2
Totals 		... 9	6	10	8	24
Lyons (11)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Vairo, f 	’		... 1	1	4	1	3
Kinsella, f 		.„ 1	0	0	0	2
Kelleher, f 		_. 0	•0	0	2	0
Fry, c 			 				... 1	1	3	9 '	3
Crosson, g		... 0	3	3	1	3
Heinle, g		_. 0	0	0	3	0
Totals 		... 3	5	10	9	11
Referee, Harris; Umpire, Queenan.					
Twenty-three
March 24, 1933
STRING GRID DRILLS AT SCRIMMAGE STAGE
Squad to be Divided for Last Weeks; “Hunk” Shifts Men.
■ By Howard Waldron
Spring practice, the proving season ’ for varsity material, has been in session for some three weeks and many ,	budding stars are bursting into
prominence in the weekly scrimmage sessions. It is in these scrimmages that the future varsity men show the results of their blocking and tackling . practice, gain a knowledge of football and its systems, and establish , whether they have the qualities for a varsity post.
In the scrimmages of the past two I	weeks, several new men have shown
up particularly well, and should develop into valuable replacements for the fall. Pilney, Elser, Shakespeare, »	Martin, Young, Carideo, Fromhart,
Stilley, Milner, Reams, Peters, Smith, Michuta, Sullivan, and Cavalieri are , a few of the likely-looking newcomers.
Leonard Now Guard
Several experiments on changes in position are being made this spring by Coach Hunk Anderson in a n effort to bolster places weakened by the graduation of lettermen. Jim Leonard, line-jarring fullback of last year, is now using his driving power at a left guard position, and Al Mc-Guff, former left halfback, is back at his old quarterback position and leading the fight for the places left vacant by three graduating regulars.
At right halfback, Dan Hanley, plunging fullback of 1930, is showing I up well, and Carl Fulnecky, a center last year, has been shifted to a right guard berth this spring. All these men, so far, have proven the wisdom of Coach Anderson’s.move and should greatly strengthen the team next fall.
This present practice session will continue until April Sth, when the annual Varsity-Reserve game will be played. Next week the squad will be divided up into teams. Two teams > will be drilled in the Southern California offense, while two more will be trained in the Warner wing-back system used by Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Kansas, Northwestern, and the Army. These four teams will be scrimmaged regularly against picked varsity groups -in order that' the men may become familiar with
Krause Elected Captain Of Cage Team for ’3 3-’34
NINE LETTERS, GIVEN
Edward W. Krause
Adds captaincy to all-Americanship.
the style of attack used by their football foes of next fall.
If the weather permits, there will be scrimmages between the first four teams on Saturday. These practice games are, in many cases, tougher than the games of the fall and well worth watching. The men are fighting for their positions at this time and are endeavoring to make a good showing that they may be advanced up to the varsity team.
Baseball will claim two monogram men from the spring session when Norb Rascher, a right-hand pitcher, and Hugh Devore, hard-hitting outfielder, report to Coach Keogan. Both these men were right ends last fall. Track will occupy Jack Robinson and Ed Krause, the only regular linemen returning, for the rest of the spring. Robinson is a shot-putter and quartermiler, while Krause, who has just finished a strenuous season at center on the Notre Dame basketball team, will confine his activities to the javelin and shot-put.
Seven Monogram Men Return Next Year; Capt. Baldwin And Keating Graduate.
Edward Walter Krause, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and a two-year monogram winner in both football and basketball, was elected captain of the Notre Dame basketball team for 1933-’34 at the annual banquet tendered the cage squad last night. Monograms were awarded to nine players.
Krause, whose home is in Chicago, succeeds a fellow townsman in the cage captaincy. Johnny Baldwin, retiring leader, is also a Chicago native. Baldwin and Leo Keating, forward, are the only monogram men to graduate this June.
Four Lettermen Repeat
Four of the letter winners had previously won letters in basketball. In addition to Krause and Baldwin, the latter a three-year winner, Joe Voe-gele, high scoring forward, and Leo Crowe, stocky guard, earned their second awards.
Johnny Jordan, Leo Keating, Al McGuff, Jim Newbold, and Eddie Alberts, the remaining five monogram men, were awarded varsity letters for the first time.
The new Irish cage leader has been a mainstay of the Keoganites for the past two seasons in which the Notre Dame squad won 34 out of 42 games. In the season just closed he led the team in scoring with 213 points, a total that also brought him scoring honors among all Indiana collegiate eagers.
Led Scoring Last Year
A year ago, while a sophomore, Krause got off to a slow start after a long football season, but rounded into top form soon enough to be a unanimous choice for all-American center, the first Notre Dame eager to win all-American honors. He led the Irish in scoring that season, as well, making 138 points.
The public is the last thing a real writer thinks about.—‘V. Sackville-West.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Jim McGrath
By John D. Carbine
Fifteen years ago, if you were in Rochester, New York, you might have seen an old baseball player training his son, Jim, in the noble art of ball playing. That the training was good training is evidenced by the fact that Jim McGrath, the subject of the instruction became, in turn, the captain of the champion sand-lot outfit of the district, a four letter man at John Marshall High School, the star outfielder of Notre Dame’s baseball team, and finally captain of Coach George Keogan’s 1933 nine.
Four-letter Man In High School
Baseball is not, however, Jim’s only game. In high school he was a four-letter man playing baseball, soccer, basketball, and hockey. An unusual honor was conferred upon him when he was chosen captain of both basketball and baseball. But McGrath did not stop with being a four-letter man. That was hardly enough.
He had to play amateur basketball and baseball for exercise. While playing extra-school basketball, he met Tommy Burns, the stellar guard of last year’s great basketball team. Burns talked Notre Dame to McGrath, and Jim, a little weakened, perhaps, by his Irish blood, did not hesi
Also in
"t&he eVagabonds”
GEORGE MENARD as “Prime Minister” and John Ryan singing “A Wild Goose Chase”
JOHN EGAN as “The King” singing “A Real True Friend”
BOB NESBIT as “Furio” singing “The Vagabond Chief”
NED QUINN as “Roberto” singing “The Campfire”	.
The “VAGABOND CHORUS” singing “Here Come Our Prisoners” “At Sunrise” “March, March, March”
You can 7 afford to miss!
tate long in falling in with Bums’ plans.
So in the fall of 1929, McGrath arrived at Notre Dame. Unlike the cus-
tomary four-letter man in high school, he did not bring any clippings with him. He could have easily enough, for there were plenty in the Rochester papers of the preceding four years. But Jim is a modest fellow, and that just went against his grain.
In his freshman year, McGrath went out for football, basketball, and baseball. He was going along pretty well in football until he was injured and
had to quit; he played regular guard on the freshman basketball team and thereby won his numerals. As soon as basketball was over, he donned a baseball suit and reported to Coach Keogan as an outfielder. He made the team with ease and gained his second numeral sweater.
McGrath made the varsity baseball team in his sophomore year, and ever since that time he has been a consistent diamond performer for the Irish. During the past two years he has been one of the mainstays of the Irish batting power and has committed but one error in collegiate competition.
Incidentally the story of that error is also the story of Jim’s tensest moment in sport. In the Western State Teachers College game last year, the Irish were leading two to nothing in the last half of the ninth inning. Western State was at bat; two were out but there was a runner perched on second.
The next batter laced a hard liner straight at McGrath. The game should have ended there, but Jim dropped the ball for his first error in collegiate competition. The runner from second rounded third and dashed for the plate.
Is Treasurer Of Senior Class
McGrath recovered the ball and threw to the waiting catcher. But it was too late. Western State had scored one run after the game should have been over and had the tying run on second. The error upset the Irish pitcher, and it was only a circus catch by Hugh Devore that saved the ball game for Notre Dame.
Jim is looking forward to a very successful season for Notre Dame’s baseball team. “Wie’ll have a great team this year,” says McGrath. “There’s plenty of competition for every position. No one is sure of his place. A condition like this is bound to keep the boys on their toes all the time.”
Last spring Jim’s classmates showed that they thought him as fine a fellow as he is an athlete when they elected him treasurer of the present senior class.
Just now McGrath has a job: he’s a prefect in Morrissey, or to put it more colloquially and, perhaps, more accurately a “King of the Morrissey Sub.” Unlike most kings, Jim has a host of admiring subjects. But as pleasant as this position is, it cannot go on forever—Jim graduates in June. After that he intends to try to make his way as a professional ball player.
March 24, 1933
Twenty-five
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 21)
Here's \our
point while Brownson was going on a rampage to win 25-9.
In its game with Alumni, Walsh stayed in the game throughout the first half, but Alumni pressed to an easy 17-7 victory when Walsh could not keep up the pace.
In the lightweight division St. Edward’s maintained its position in the undefeated class, at the same time gaining the right to meet Carroll for the lightweight championship by defeating Corby 21-12. Corby held an 8-3 advantage at the half,but it was short-lived. Morrissey gained revenge somewhat for the defeat that the heavyweights took by gaining a 22-12 decision over Lyons.
Held to a 7-7 tie at the half bv Dillon, Badin suddenly began working smoothly in the second half. It added 10 points to its total, while the best that Dillon could do was to raise its score to nine.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Brownson 25, Howard 9
Playing with the same five men throughout the entire game, Howard put up a good fight against Brownson throughout the first half but it could not cope with the Brownson attack, led by Stillwagon, in the second half with the result that it finished on the short end of a 25-9 score.
Brownson, entering the game with the necessity of winning to gain a tie with Freshman and keep ahead of Carroll and Alumni in the final standing, fell behind in the second quarter* after the teams had completed the first eight minutes all even, 4-4. Opening the second period Sandera sank a field goal, Whelan converted on a free throw and Paskwietz registered another two pointer to give the junior hall a five-point advantage, but there is just where the Howard scoring ended.
A free throw by Kellner in between baskets by Paul and Stillwagon gave Brownson a tie at half time.
A basket by Penty, two in a row by Stillwagon, another by Schmidt, and still another by Paul sent Brownson into a comfortable 10-point lead at the end of the third period. Schmidt, Paul, and Logan all scored two-pointers in the final period.
Off Campus 17, Freshman 13
For the second time this year Bill Golden led his Freshman Hall teams right to the door of the championships, and for the second time his teams failed when a victory would (Continued on Page 27)
When you see Niagara Falls on the package,you KNOW ^sB^M you have Shredded Wheat.
NATURAL ENERGY FOOD
goodness. All the bran that Nature provides. And in a most delightful form... ready cooked, ready-to-eat biscuits with a satisfying nut-like flavor. Try some for breakfast, for a bed-time bite. Easy to digest. Just ask for Shredded Wheat and a bowlful of milk or cream. A sustaining food at little cost ... At all campus eating places.
SHREDDED WHEAT
ALL THE WHEAT ... ALL THE BRAM THE MATURAL EMERGY FOOD
MADE BY NATIONAL BISCUIT company Uneeda Bakers
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
DAVIS CUP
Greg Mangin’s five-set victory over Cliff Sutter in the finals of the national indoor tennis championships last Saturday opened the annual speculative barrage concerning the Davis Cup prospects in the United States.
As we see it, America’s chance of regaining the international
Special Round-Trip Fares, for College Students Only!
FT. WAYNE 4.50
CINCINNATI ... 10.15 TOLEDO ... 5.25
DETROIT    5.25
CLEVELAND .... 8.25 PITTSBURGH.... 11.25
BUFFALO   12.75 ST. LOUIS  9.30
PHILADELPHIA 20.25 NEW YORK.... 21.75 WASHINGTON.. 18.75 SYRACUSE.... 17.25
COLUMBUS.... 9.00
BOSTON...... 26.25
MILWAUKEE. .. 6.40
^yGREY/HOUND
■trophy are the brightest they have been at any time since a team of Frenchmen won three out of five matches at Forest Hills in 1927 and took the goblet home with them.
Outstanding among the reasons for that estimate is the unusual crop of exceptional tennis stars now patter
on my Spring Vacation going by Greyhound npHERE are two big thrills in the Spring or Easter vacation . . . one is the trip home — the other, appearing at your well-dressed best while you’re there!
Greyhound special round-trip rates for colleges make both possible. Fares range from 14 the cost of driving a private car, to about 54 the average rates of other public transportation. You save many hours, see the springtime highways at their best, travel in comfort. And how welcome those extra dollars for Easter clothes and Easter fun!
Campus Agent UNIV. OF NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone: 3-8283
ing around the country’s courts.
We don’t expect any argument on the statement that H. Ellsworth Vines is the finest competitive tennis player swinging a racquet. He has piled up too many impressive victories to be challenged. Even his crucial, surprise defeat by Jean Borotra in the Cup play last year does not lessen his prowess.
In addition to Vines, Johnny Van-Ryn and Wilmer Allison, experienced internationalists, are available. Cliff Sutter, twice intercollegiate champion and ranking No. 3, may find a competitive spirit somewhere between now and July and produce the phenomenal tennis of which he is mechanically capable. Mangin will hardly stand up with the others out of doors.
Then there is Frankie Parker, erstwhile Milwaukee prodigy, who, backed by the w. k. Mr. Beasley’s coaching, expecting, and showmanship (involving knickers and a studiously successful little-boy look) has moved along at a very mature clip for his mere 16 years.
However, Frankie can’t be scoffed at. He holds the Canadian singles crown, on a lawn court, the Western singles title, won on clay, and three tournament victories over George Lott, the old concert-master of the “I won’t be a tennis bum” symphony.
There is an outside chance, of course, that the United States team won’t reach the finals of the challenge round. Australia looks potentially dangerous in the North American zone. Last year the far southerners went to the finals of that zone where Vines and Co. measured them.
This season Jack Crawford and Harry Hopman, seasoned Cup competitors from “Down Under,” will be abetted by a 16 year old phenom, who, wearing full length pants, and batting his backhand shots with both hands, nudged our friend H. Ellsworth out of the Australian championships this winter 6-2, 2-6, 8-6, 7-5.
The two-fisted stripling is one Vivian McGrath. He slammed the best service Vines could produce to all points on the base line with his queer Ruthian grip and swing. Says Wilmer Allison of him: “I don’t know who is going to beat him in a year or two.” (TIME 2-6-33).
March 24,1933
Twenty-seven
Sunday's Games Fail to Break Group I Tie;
Off-Campus Wins Group II Cage Crown
(Continued from Page 24)
>
9
have given them a chance in a playoff game.
In the interhall football competition yast year Freshman met Alumni with the chance of forcing Alumni into a playoff contest if it gained the decision, a thing that it did not do.
Last Sunday a victory over Off-Campus would have made it necessary for both teams to meet again to decide the champion of the league. Freshman put up a good fight, in fact it gave Off-Campus all kinds of competition but it finally lost 17-13.
The win for Off-Campus enabled it to keep its record clean; at the same time making it the second year in succession that they have been in the finals. Last year they bowed to Lyons 22-18 in the finals.
A remarkable third period when it added seven points to its total while holding Freshman scoreless was the thing which saved Off-Campus.
Both teams played listless basketball throughout the first period. A basket by Page of Freshman and one by Marbaugh of Off-Campus was the only scoring done in this time and left the teams even. Two field goals, one by Cunha, and the other by Palmer, gave Off-Campus a momentary lead, but at this juncture Art Kearns entered the game for Freshman and proceeded to tie up the ball game with two brilliant field goals as the half ended with the score 6-6.
Two free throws by Palmer, another by Vitt and baskets by Bachm and Cunha gave Off-Campus a decided advantage as the teams went into the final period. A free throw by Themes was matched by Vitt. and Marbaugh tallied a field goal which gave Off-Campus a 16-7 lead with six minutes of the game remaining.
Kearns added one point, Themes sank a long one, and Krause registered a free throw to put Freshman back in the game. Palmer converted on a foul for Off-Campus and Themes kept up his good work for Freshman with a field goal. Freshman attempted vainly to score again, but the gun went off before it had a chance to do anything.
Alumni 17, Walsh 7
Walsh put up a better battle than it did the previous week, but even
at that its best was not enough, and it went down to defeat before Alumni by a score of 17-7. Walsh held a 4-3 lead for a brief spell at the beginning of the second period, but once Alumni started functioning the senior hall did not have a chance.
Alumni held a 3-2 advantage at the end of the first period, and Smith’s basket at the opening of the second period gave Walsh the lead. Pogue made good on a free throw to even the score and Holland’s field goal sent Alumni into a lead that it never relinquished.
Holland tallied four points in the third period and Cole added two to the Alumni total. Smith’s field goal was the only scoring that Walsh accomplished.
Dillon 28, Badin 18
Facing a defeat and with it the loss of a chance to get into the playoffs Dillon opened up a scoring attack in the fourth period after Badin had literally run wild in the third canto with a barrage of baskets from all angles, and hung up a 28-18 victory.
Badin, the winner of but one game all year, was not conceded a chance of even giving Dillon any competition and Dillon left the floor with a 17-9 lead at the half. Throughout most of the third period, however, it was all Badin. It scored seven points h-'-fore Dillon could add any to its total. Two baskets by Burchell, and two by Jahr all in rapid order left the teams separated by a single point. Here a foul by O’Neil and a basket by Bott sent Dillon into a three point lead at the end of the third period.
A two-pointer by Begley was the only scoring done by Badin in the last period as Dillon did an about-face and went on to victory, scoring eight points, five of which were scored by Belden.
- Lyons 26, Morrissey 17
With John Fry, rangy center of Lyons getting the tip-off consistently to his forwards, Lyons had little trouble in defeating its arch rival, Morrissey, by a 26-17 score. Both teams wanted to win the game in a big way as the winner was to meet Dillon to determine the champion of the league.
With Jim Sullivan and Don Felts away, Morrissey was at a disadvan
tage, and Lyons had things pretty much their own way once the third period began.
Numerous times the Lyons forwards took the tip from Fry and scored easily. The Morrissey guards were playing too close and Fry was tipping it over their heads, enabling the forwards to score without resistance.
Morrissey held an 8-3 lead in the middle of the second period, and appeared to be on their way to victory, but baskets by Fry and Vairo, and a free throw by Olsen, evened the score at the half.
Palmisani opened the scoring in the third period to give Morrissey a lead, but a basket by Crosson, two free throws by Vairo, a basket by Fry, another by Vairo all came before Palmisani again registered for Morrissey. Crosson added another two-pointer for Lyons before the end of the third period.
Lyons increased their total to 26 in the fourth period while two pointers by Dwyer and Cushing, and a free throw by Yates was the extent of the Morrissey scoring.
Vairo, with eleven points, was the leading scorer for Lyons, while Shanahan with three field goals led the Morrissey scorers. Weldon and Dwyer played nice floor games for Morrissey and Crosson and Fry were standouts for Lyons.
Corby 44, St. Edward’s 12
Corby had little difficulty in defeating a makeshift St. Edward’s team by the score of 44 -12.
Corby led 12-11 at the end of the first period, 15-6 at the end of the second, and increased it to a 27-9 count at the end of the third period.
Matavovsky. Freeman, and Behrman scored 27 of their team’s points between them.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Brownson 25, Howard 21
Led by Byron Shore, who scored 13 points through six field goals and a free throw. Brownson defeated Howard by a 25-21 score.
It was a great game all the way. Brownson outscored Howard from the field 12 to 9. From the free throw line Howard was the most proficient adding three points by this method to the one that Brownson collected.
Brownson led 14-11 at the half through the fine work of Shore. Forastiere kept Howard in the game with ten points resulting from five (Continued on Page 30)
0	.■»
EXPLANATION:
There are many explanations for this illusion. One method of performing this illusion requires the presence of t<ivo girls in the box. One girl curls up in the left half of the box with her head and hands protruding, giving the effect you see illustrated above. The other girl is doubled up in the right half of the box, with only her feet showing. Nobody is sawed in half.
...it's more fun to KNOW
Cigarette advertising, too, has its tricks. Consider the illusion that “Flavor” can be achieved by some kind of magical hocus-pocus in manufacturing.
EXPLANATION: Just three factors control
selves. Quality is by far the most important. Domestic cigarette tobaccos vary in price from 5^ a pound up to 400 a pound. Imported tobaccos vary from 500 a pound to $1.15.
No wonder, then, that cigarettes differ in
the flavor of a cigarette. The addition of artificial flavoring. The blending of various tobaccos. And the quality of the tobaccos them-
taste—since distinctive, pleasing flavor depends so largely upon the blending of the costlier tobaccos.
Try Camels. Give your taste a chance to sense the subtle difference that lies in costlier tobaccos ... a difference that means all the world in smoking pleasure ... in pure, unalloyed satisfaction.
tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
kept fresh IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK
JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
Copyright, 1933, R. .1. Reynolds Tobaceo Company
NO TRICKS
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 27) ‘
field goals. Esposito with six points and Waters with five were the other Howard scorers.
Badin 17, Dillon 9
Holding Dillon to two points throughout the entire second half while scoring ten themselves, Badin defeated Dillon by a score of 17-9 in the final game of the year for both teams.
The score was tied 7-7 at the end of
the half after both teams had battled ■ evenly throughout. Once the third period got under way Badin started functioning and coasted to an easy win. .
Hauer with nine points was Badin’s chief scorer; Conley with five led the Dillon scorers.
Morrissey 22, Lyons 12
Morrissey defeated Lyons by a score of 22-12, Sunday. Morrissey led 9-8 at the half and had an easy time after the intermission.
Lannon with ' eight points, and
Jaeger with six, led their respective teams in the scoring.	.
St. Edward’s 21, Corby 12
Behind by an 8-3 score as the teams left the floor at the end of the first half, St. Edward’s suddenly came to life to outscore Corby in the second half and win handily by 21-12 score. Thus St. Ed’s kept their record clean of defeat, and gained the right to meet Carroll for the lightweight title.
We are at the bottom — Secretary of the Treasury William H. Woodin.
An Opportunity for Rich Spiritual Rewards ... in your
HOLY YEAR
Choose the smooth
SOUTHERN ROUTE to all EUROPE and the HOLY LAND via th* Mediterranean
ROME
HOLY LAND
In his recent proclamation, the Holy Father emphasized the rich spiritual rewards to be granted those who visit Rome during the Holy Year. No Catholic who is in a position to go should hesitate to take advantage of this opportunity.
By going via the smooth Southern Route, the voyage can be made on ships providing unequalled facilities for religious devotion at sea . . . many with beautiful chapels—all with facilities for hearing Mass. This distinguished fleet, headed by the new super-liners "REX" and "Conte di SAVOIA".offers direct service to Italy and Rome with connections for all Europe and the Holy Land.
REX Conte di SAVOIA AUGUSTUS ROMA Conte GRANDE and Cosulich Liners VULCAN1A	SATURNIA
ROUND TRIP FARES from $162.50 (Thira Class)—depending on accommodations -and ship selected.
HOLY YEAR PILGRIMAGES
To supplement this service, the Italian Line is also offering a series of Holy Year Pilgrimages embracing Italy, Egypt and the Holy places of Palestine. Complete information and detailed itineraries will be sent upon request.
local tourist agent or One State Street, New York, N. Y.
@ ITALIAN UNE
Ad No. G-7439

March 24, 1933
4	»
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
(Continued from Page 6)

(b)	“In Old Nassau”—Murchison	.
(c)	“Czecho-Slovakian Dance Song”—.-Irr.
by Krone.	‘
IV.	Songs for Tenor Voice ■
(a)	“Lover. Come Back to Me”—Romberg
(b)	“L’Amour Tojours L’Amour”—Frmil Mr. John Ryan
V.	Pail Song
“The Mascot of the Troop”—Herbert Intermission
Part Two
I.	Part Songs
(a)	“The Night March”—Kountz
(b)	“Mosquitoes”—Bliss
(c)	“There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea”—Arr. by Lake	.
n. Songs For Baritone Voice
(a)	“I Hear You Calling Me”—Marshall
(b)	“Why Darkies Were Born”—Broicn-Henderson
■ Mr. George Menard
III.	Part Songs
(a)	“March of the Toys”—Herbert
(b)	“Why Don’t You Try?”—Yon
IV.	Songs For Baritone Voice
(a)	"Smilin’ Through”....Penn
(b)	“Morning”—Speaks
Mr. S. Jerome Roach
V.	Songs Of The Campus
(a)	“Hike, Notre Dame!”—Casasanta,
(b)	“Down the Line”—Casasanta
(c)	“When The Irish Backs Go Marching
By”—Rev. Eugene Burke-Casasanta
(d)	“Victory March”—Shea
PADUCAH COMES TO OWN
(Continued from Page 15)
4:	*
comes to pretty Women she (San Francisco) is the Paducah, Kentucky of the Pacific slope.”
Paducah, in old Show Boat days, was a favorite stopping place of those picturesque troupers, and of-, them we hope to write in another feature. .
Editor's Note: Have these totvns a history? Teaneck, Neto Jersey; Locust Gap, Pennsylvania; Mt. Horeb, Wisconsin; Oshkosh, Wisconsin.
Former World’s Champion To Give Squash Exhibition
Walter A. Kinsella, of New York City, for sixteen years world’s squash champion, will give a squash racquets exhibition on the Notre Dame courts next Thursday, March 30, at 10:00 a. m.	•
Kinsella retired at the end of his 16-year reign as champion without having suffered a defeat in title play. ...............
Good work and reasonable rates are assured any Senior wishing to have -his thesis typed, by. Miss Cecilia Beckerich, 1022 East Madison St.
iiiiiimiimiitittiuiniimiiiiiiiuiiaiiiitaiiniiiiuimiii.
Irish Squash Racquets
Squad Beats Purdue Again
The Notre Dame squash racquets squad that defeated Purdue 4 to 1 two weeks ago on the local courts repeated its victory at Lafayette last Saturday by a closer margin when they beat the Boilermakers 3 to 2.
Tom Moran of the Irish clinched the victory in the final match of the five singles encounters. Moran beat Lawrence of Purdue three straight games to break a two-all tie established in the first four matches.
Opening the activities, Don Dugan, No. 1, and Luce Daigenault, No. 4, put the Irish out in front two to nothing. Dugan whipped Selby three straight games and Daigenault scored a close 3-2 triumph over Shields.
Williams and Broadbeck of Purdue evened the score in the second pair of singles clashes, defeating O’Neil and Brice of the Irish respectively. Williams won from O’Neil 3-2 and Broadbeck measured Brice 3-0.
At that stage of the match, with one scoring opportunity left, Moran ran his three-game victory over Lawrence for the team victory.
LIBRARY GETS NEW BOOKS
(Continued from Page 11)
Dante and His Poetry—by Mary B. Whiting; and The Journal of Arnold Bennett—by Arnold Bennett.
Science: Scientific Method—by Truman Lee Kelley.	-
Medicine and Psychiatry:The Fundamentals of Good Medical Care—by Roger I. Lee.
Fiction: Charmian, Lady Vibart— by Jeffrey Farnol; and Wanton Maliy—by Booth Tarkington.
Religion: Twenty Cures at Lotirdes Medically Discussed—by Fernaud de Grandmaison de Bruno; and Christmas and Twelfth Night — by Sigrid Undset.
Anthropology: The Geographic Factor—by Ray Hughes Whitbeck.
Physical Education: Vaulting — by Thomas McDowell.
. Commerce: War Debts and World Prosperity—by H. Glenn Moulton; Trusteeship of American Endoivments —by Wood, Struthers & Co., New York.
Sociology: The Rise of the City, 1878-1898—by Arthur Meier Schlesinger.
,	Thirty-one
LYONS BEATS DILLON IN PLAYOFF TUESDAY
Nose Out Freshmen 17-16 For Championship of Group I.
Lyons hall under the guiding hand of John Clark, barely nosed out Dillon 17 to 16 for the championship of Group 1. This hectic battle was played last Tuesday evening. If the game had lasted but a few minutes longer Dillon might have easily been the victor as they held the sophomore hall scoreless during the entire fourth quarter.
Lyons Lead 17-12
The score at the end of the third quarter was 17 to 12 in favor of Lyons, but before the play in the final stanza had progressed more than a few minutes, Bott had made two field goals bringing Dillon within one point of Lyons. At this stage of the game the freshmen seemed to lose their heads and threw many of their passes out of bounds.
Vairo, Fry Crossen, and Kinsella led Lyons assault at the basket, while Belden, O’Neil and NcNally bore the brunt of Dillon’s offensive and defensive attack. Lyons led 10 to 6 at the end of the first half.
The lineup and summary follows:
LYONS (17)	FG FT PF
Vairo ________________ 12	0
Olson ________________ 0	0	0
Fry  2	0	0
Crossen ______________ 13	1
Heinle  10	3
Kelleher  0	0	1
Kinsella  10	0
6	5	5
DILLON (16)	FG	FT	PP
McNally ______________ 10	0
Bott _________________3	3	0
Belden _______________ 2	0	0
Zeiprecht_____________’ 0	0	1
Gohman 0	0	1
Cannon 0	10
Weber ____‘___________ 0	0	0
6	4	3
■ Score at half—Lyons 10, Dillon 6.
Referee, Keaking; Umpire, Addonizio.
This is what human nature does... The great Event provokes the intense passion, and along with the passion (we may hope), the poet. But the passion cools; then comes the man who wants to tell you just what happened—the Historian. And then the man who follows who reflects upon the facts—the philosopher.—Martindale. .
I
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
ECONOMIC CONFERENCE
(Continued from Page 12)
that economic students from Notre Dame be sent to the various towns and cities in the Fort Wayne diocese to address the Catholic people on the subject of labor and wages. No definite action was taken at the time on the question, but it is expected that further developments will take place.
Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., St. Thomas College; Leo F. Keller, Detroit, Mich.; W. J. Lynch, Chicago, Ill.; Reverend R. A. McGowan, Washington, D. C.; Doctor J. E. Hagerty, Ohio State; the Very Reverend J. W. R. Mcguire, C.S\L, St. Viator’s College, and other prominent economists attended the conference.
GOLD STANDARD
(Continued from Page 16)
cient bullion for the redemption of their paper money. Too, a more extensive use of the Bank for International Settlements, originally established to facilitate payment of the war debts, would logically follow. There a relatively small amount of gold, through the simple process of changing credit balances from one nation to another, could be made to care for the settlement of international obligations, freeing a large share of the world’s present supply for currency reserves.
These remedies have been presented sketchily, even vaguely, yet they do indicate, in a general way at least, that our gold standard, till recently so satisfactory but now presenting dangerous difficulties, need not be abolished. Gold as a standard, subject to modifications, still has an important place in the world’s monetary system—probably because it still is a better standard of value thany any other commodity now known.
Capital Trip Open to All
If there is any misunderstanding concerning those eligible for the trip to Washington, D. C. on April 23rd it is hoped that this will clarify matters. Any student who is taking or has taken “American Government,” Politics I, may go on this tour.
Mr. Bartholomew requests that those who intend to ~ go should see him as soon as possible on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday in Room 108, Commerce Building at 3:15 or 4:05.
On Down The Line
Fred MacBeth_^_^
BABE RUTH was once a CATCHER at ST. MARY’S INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL (near BALTIMORE) . . . he branched out and began to hire himself to outside teams for a dollar a game . . . now he receives the highest salary paid any player in baseball . . . WILL ROGERS, who has had a two-goal rating in the polo handicaps, has been placed in the nogoal class . . . his son JAMES, one of the outstanding players on the west coast, has been moved from a zero rating to a one-goal handicap. . . . ANDY HIGH (Cincinnati Reds), one of the smallest men in baseball, spent the past winter as sports announcer for a ST. LOUIS radio station.
PRINCETON suffered a loss of $98,952 on athletics last year . . ■ three times as much as the previous year . . . SAM RICE, WASHINGTON baseball star, has just signed his 19th contract to play with the SENATORS . . . he is the only player who has been with the team every year since it was managed by CLARK GRIFFITH . . . two hockey players were summoned to appear at court in EDMONTON, (Canada) .. . they started a fight in the CALGARY-EDMONTON game (Western Canada League) which ended in a public riot . . . the ENGLISH PEER, LORD LONSDALE, under an assumed name, once met and defeated JOHN L. SULLIVAN in five rounds.
❖
BILL DOUGHERTY, youngest survivor of the LUSITANIA DISASTER. will make a try for the COLUMBIA FOOTBALL TEAM next year . . . DOUGHERTY (of NUTLEY, N. J.) was only two months old when his mother carried him into the last lifeboat to leave the ship. . . . BEER will never be served to fans at GRIFFITH STADIUM (home of the WASHINGTON SENATORS) ... an old ordinance in the DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA forbids the sale of beer within one mile' of a soldiers’ home . . . and . there is such an establishment at PETWiORTH, less than one measured mile from the ball park. ... MURRAY MURDOCH has played more than 250 consecutive hockey games with the NEW YORK RANGERS.
ALVIN CROWDER was the only AMERICAN LEAGUE pitcher in 1932 who neither hit a batsman nor delivered a wild pitch ... a hurling team from COUNTY TIPPERARY (IRELAND) may visit this country NEXT FALL . . . hurling is one of the roughest games in the world . . • the IRISH are its outstanding exponents ... in the future, tennis players at PASADENA (Calif.) who want to play at night on illuminated courts will have to drop a quarter into the special electric meters that are installed on each court . . . every year HARRY WILLS, one-time heavyweight “black menace,” finds it necessary to take off 60 pounds of weight . . . he accomplishes it by starving himself completely for one month.
c
> c

MONOGRAM SHOW
(Continued from Page 13)
7.	DANCE NUMBER (In Holland) Dancers: Mike Koken, George Kozak, Norbert Christman, Dominic Vairo, Frank LaBorne, Clyde Roberts, Joe Young, John Baldwin, Joe O’Neill, Frank Palmasani, James McGrath, Steve Banas, and Vincent Murphy.
8.	DANCE (Broadway number) Dances: Same as above.
9.	DANCE NUMBER (The Marilyn Waltz) Cast: Same as above.
10.	DANCE NUMBER (Apache Dance) Cast: Ed Krause and Laurie Vejar.
The men who are participating in the 1933 production are: Vairo, Devore, Rascher, Roach. Pfefferle, Krause, Greeney, Pivarnik, Schiralli, Robinson, Gorman, Alexander. Harris, Jask-which. Banas, Leonard, Koken, Lukats, McGuff, Brancheau, Tobin. Kozak, Ledding, Voegele, Jordan, Baldwin. Crowe, Alberts, Newbold, Keating. Edwards, Troy, Shields. Murphy, Bowers, Roberts, Fagen. Dilling, O’Keefe, Kane, Purcell. McGrath. Cummins and Mannix.


c
Catholic Prep Teams Stop On Way To Tournament

Two Catholic high school basketball teams, representing Our Lady of Victory high school of Lackawanna, N. Y., and St. Mary’s high school, Niagara Falls, N. Y., spent a short time on the campus Tuesday while on their way to the national Catholic high school basketball tournament now under way at Loyola university, Chicago.
The prep squads, accompanied by their coaches and members of their faculties, arrived Tuesday morning, spent some time inspecting the. campus, and had dinner in the west hall of the University Dining Halls. They continued their trip to Chicago by bus shortly after noon.
A
O
After College WHAT?
Something to ask the Psychology Prof
Insurance ?
Julian S. Myrick, famous New York general agent, says: "Selling life insurance is the best paid hard work there is. No capital required other than a good character, an active mind and perseverance. Any young man with these qualifications will find a great future in insurance.”
“WHAT makes the man so blithe and brisk, professor?”
“My boy, that’s what a hat will do for you. He’s wearing a new Stetson and he knows it’s spring!”
NO OTHER BUSINESS offers greater rewards for hard work. But insurance offers some pretty tough problems. Perhaps that explains why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the most popular smoke.
While you "cram” for that exam ... or later when you figure out the best way to sell a 0100,000 policy, just light up a pipeful of Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.
Edgeworth is the favorite college smoke.* And only in Edgeworth can you find that distinctive blend of fine old hurley tobacco. If you would like to try before you buy, just write Larus SC Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., for a free sample package.
• A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Superbly styled by Stetson for a young spring and a youthful world—spring Stetsons are ready now at your favorite store. And you can get a genuine Stetson for as little as $5.
John B. Stetson Company
Philadelphia New York London Paris
L EMD NT REES
Optometrists
222% S. Michigan Street '	102 W. Washington Street
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
1
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□ - ’
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
^{ou get what you want ... and you don’t have to take what you don’t want It’s like this: You don’t want a strong, rank cigarette; you don’t want one that's tasteless. You want one that lets you know that you are smoking, but you don’t want one that’s bitey. Chesterfields are milder ... and yet They