
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
. FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
. 

-------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address ______________________ 
City ___________State ___Zip _____ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __years = $___ 
SCHOLASTIC 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine November 16, 1989 
Cover Photo by Mari Okuda 
COVER 
5 
Running and Gunning Again 

Despite LaPhonso Ellis' early-season absence, high expecta­tions surround Digger's charges by Jonpaul Potts 
8 
Ouch! 
Muffet McGraw's injury-depleted squad faces tough task of 
living up to pre-season billing by Rick Farley
1 0 Enjoying the Ride Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson now relish their roles as team leaders by Kevin T. Kerns· 
NEWS 
12 
Accounting for the Ranking 
Professor William Nichols has strong views about the state 
of Notre Dame's faculty by Pat Watkins 
14 
Staying Fresh Dr. Terrence Akai must be alert to current engineering research 
by Sammy Bagby 

16 
Survey of Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's reflection on ratings given by U.S. News and 
World Report by Devon Marcuson 
FEATURES 
18 
Interns Abroad 
Notre Dame's AIESEC chapter sends members overseas 
by Richard Foley 

Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed 
al The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/ycar and back issues are available al $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those 
of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, 
faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials 
become the propeny of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in pan without permission is prohibited. 
-------_, 
On Other Campuses 
HAIL TO THE 
ING 
In addition to a glorious music career, Elvis is nominated as Homecoming King at the University ofNebraska-Lincoln 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Homecoming just isn't what it used to be, as students nationwide seem to be regarding the social phenomenon with a slightly more humorous approach. The College Press Service reports that University of North Texas officials dis­qualified Hector, a Dalmatian dog, and Agnes, a squirrel residing in a tree near the physics building, as Homecoming King and Queen candidates. The reason: neither candidate was maintaining a 2.5 grade-point average. At the University ofNebraska-Lincoln, student Chris Stream placed an ad saying, "Don't vote for any king, vote for The King," in an attempt to get Elvis elected as Homecoming King. Amidst complaints from student government, the ad was pulled by university officials, and Stream followed by filing a suit against the school. "What we saw as a joke, they took very seriously," said Stream. "I think they were afraid Elvis would win." Mr. Presley could not be reached for comment. 
"Ugly chicks are people too" was the theme for a men's residence hall party at the University of Toronto recently, according to a story in the National On-Campus Report. The house president defended the party and advertising posters by professing that trouble only arises when people begin to over-analyze the theme's simple content Meanwhile, in a similar story, students at the University of Washing­ton attracted attention with their "Pimp/Whore Exchange" theme party. Those in attendance were required to dress appropriately for the event which surprisingly caused very little controversy. We can only pray that this terrible epidemic of fun does not spread to our wholesome campus. 
Shocking new studies report that one hundred percent ofstudentseat 
_snack foods, and that lack ofsleep can impair learning. An article in the Ho!y Cross campus newspaper, The Crusader, detailed survey results which supported the college fetish for snack foods. Leading the way were cookies, chips, and candy. In an unrelated study, a professor ofpsychology at Trent UniversitY. in Ontario revealed that students who study hard during the week and then party on weekends may lose as much of thirty percent of what they've learned. Why don't these Einsteins tell us something we don't know? 
Is Cliff Claven really the coach of Brown University's football team? Brown Daily Herald sports writer Adam Ashcroft thinks so. During a season in which the Bruins set a school record for consecu­tive losses with their thirteenth straight, Ashcroft likened the sophist mailman on "Cheers" with head football coach John Rosenberg. For example: one is a mailman, the other may soon be a mailman as well. One drinks a lot of beer; the other coaches like he does. ·One goes to Cheers to get away from it all; people cheer for Rosenberg to go away. Many are amused by the antics of both men. One knows dubious, useless facts; the other knows dubious, useless plays. Neither has guided a football team to victory since 1987. And-both men never score. Ashcroft's tirade continued as he claimed that "college football has been boring since Notre Dame-Michigan ... For a Reis­man candidate, [Tony Rice] passes about as much on the field as my grandfather does on the highway." Well, Mr. Ashcroft. Let me tell you the story about how I came to choose Notre Dame over Brown. 

Miscellany from The Chronicle ofHigher Education. From the minutes of a joint meeting of the Board ofRegents of the University ofNevada System and the State Board ofEducation: "Mrs. Gallagher asked that in the future when bills are drafted which affect both boards... that discussion should take place prior to the legislative session... Melanie Crossley, acting attorney for the State Board of Education, stated that no action could be taken at this meeting since the matter was not noticed." Now on sale at the University ofNevada bookstore: red tape, buy one roll, get the next roll free. 
Scholastic 

Week in Distortion/ Roger Hipp 

UL-TERIOR JOB MARKET 
You probably won't find these positions in the New York Times classified ads 
If you've been studying the job market lately, you've probably noticed quite a bit of conflicting information. Some­times you may read that competition for jobs is so tough that you need to graduate with at least a 3.9 G.P.A. just to qualify for truck driving school, or that more and more Rhodes scholars are settling for entry-level positions in the fast food industry. On the other hand, you often see that our generation is one of the least literate or knowledgeable since the invention of written language, possibly nudging out the University ofMeso­potamia Class of 3800 B.C. as the dumbest generation ofall time. So, put simply, we are the best-educated group of illiterates to enter the work force in a very long time. Knowing that job competition will be so tough and that most of us lack marketable skills, how are we going to find work? Actu­ally, there are plenty of great occupations out there, but orily a handful of people know about them. To find the career that will give maximum satisfaction, the modem college graduate has to look beyond the ordinary jobs listed in the want ads. One excellent career that gets little atten­tion from the people in Career and Placement Services is pen collecting. Have you noticed that you usually lose three or four pens every week, but you're lucky if you can find one pen a year? Where do all the pens go? Science fiction writer Douglas Adams has speculated that pens warp through time and space to a distant planet that is a pen paradise. But I think it's more likely that the big ball­point companies simply hire people to collect pens and send them back to the manufactur­ers for. resale. Some of these collecting agents specialize in picking up pens from classrooms and hallways, while others steal 
them right out of your pocket or off of your If you can't find your ideal occupation in desk. Based on thenumberofpensihavelost the private sector, do the patriotic thing and so far this semester, I estimate that the Bic tum to the federal government. You say your Corporation employs two dozen pen collec-lifelong dream is to be an accountant but you tors on this campus alone. don'twanttomesswithbusinessschool? Go If you prefer a job in which you can utilize ahead and major in yogurt studies, then mail your creative capacities, consider the grow-your resume to the newly-formed Bureau of ing field of color naming. The cosmetics and Accounting Gimmicks. To avoid those fashion industries pay big bucks to people pesky Gramm-Rudman deficit targets, the who can concoct interesting names for the Congress has wisely formed a new bureauc­colors of their products. A major make-up racy for the sole purpose of hiding the 

-------. nationaldebtfromthepublic. Ifyou'dliketo live in the nation's drug capital and don't see anything wrong with the equation "two bil­lion+ three billion =zero," this could be the career for you. 
Of course, if you're addicted to Notre Dame's food, weather, and social life, why not stick around after graduation? If you go the the Secret Job Center located on the third floor of the library, you can apply for a number ofjobs that are excellent alternatives to unemployment and/or graduate school. I bet you didn't know that the university employs people to jam the library elevators, or that University Food Services is looking for organic recycling experts to devise new 
. methods of salvaging those leftover vege-Lewis Skolnick, former pen collecting agent. tables from the Rockne era. 
firm can't call all ninety-five styles of its If you look hard enough, you shouldn't lipstick "pink." Instead, millions of dollars have trouble finding agreat job no matter go to the professionals who invent shades what your major, G.P.A., or hairstyle. My­such as "Malibu sunset", "crimson desire", self, I plan to become a professional Wash­and "pomegranate passion." Mail-order ington insider. That way, I can earn money clothing firms are also hiring more color and get my words in print simply by offering experts than ever before.. Most consumers analysis to the national media. Someday, wouldn't buy a basic orange shirt, but they when you see a quote in the newspaper like might be tempted by a "harvest pumpkin" or "Washington insiders say that U.S.-Panama­"Australian coral" item. The clever color-nian relations have been strained ever since '
·, 

namer who came up with "tangelo" for Bush called Noriega 'a big zit-face,"' think .] 
J. Crew is probably set for life. of me. Hey, it's a living. II 
3 

Music/ Jeff Jotz 

Alternative to Everyday Music Blues 
Washington, D.C.'s, Shudder to Think brings a new perspective to the music world 
T o many music fans, the term 'hargcore' conjures up images of rabid skinheads and fourteen year­old 'skate rats,' furiously flying around a pit ofslamdancers. Just the mention ofhardcore seems to send a scary shiver up the spine of the average Polo-clad Domer. However, this article is not about !Jardcore, so readers can breath a sigh of relief. This article is about Shudder to Think, an alternative rock band from Washington, ences to some of the more prominent under­ground bands ofthe late '70'sandearly '80's, like X, The Replacements, The Ruts, Jane's Addiction, and the Circle Jerks. 
"Anything, from any genre that is 'in synch"', said Wedren on his personal influ­ences in singing. 
"Jimi Hendrix, Eddie Van Halen, Angus Young, just heavy, heavy duty serious string breakin' ... [expletive deleted]," replied Mat­thews on his guitar heroes. 
D.C., whoowessomeofitsroots to the 


garde scene has helped him develop the 
D.C. hardcore scene--commonly 
amazing range oftones expressed in his 
called "harD.C.ore"-that has 
singing. _ 
spawned such legends as Minor 
S.T.T. is fresh off their 1989 LP on 
Threat, Government Issue, Dag 
Sammich Records, Curses, Spells,
Nasty, and Fugazi. To most music 
Voodoo, Mooses. Playing to a small but 
critics, they are considered a growing 
dedicated crowd at Theodore's last 
class ofartists categorized as hardcore 
month, the band showed its great diver­
graduates: bands which began as 
sity in its set by choosing a fantastic 
thrashing, angry young men but de­
selection of tunes including "Question­
veloped into bands with numerous 
able" from 1988's 7-inch,/t Was Arson, 
musical styles and combinations other 
"Fresco" and "Abysmal Yellow Pop­

than hardcore. Shudder to Think recently visited Notre Dame. 
Ever since the band's first release, a single entitled "Too Little Too Late" on the Baltimore/Washington F-R-5 compilation, Shudder to Think has matured nicely into an intelligent mixture of diverse rock 'n' roll sounds. Though compared in the past to Captain Beefueart, Ozzy Osborne, and the Buzzcocks, Shudder To Think can't be pinned down in terms ofsuch a comparison. The band has a fresh sound that quite frankly denies all comparisons. They feature stylis­tic yet driving guitars, along with some fine talents on bass and drums. Shudder To Thinfs lineup includes Chris Matthews on guitar,MikeRussellondrums,StuartHillon bass, and Craig Wedren on vocals. 
S.T .T. narrowed down the group's influ-
On the subjects of 'social conscience' and the band's political message, vocalist Craig Wedren denies the prevalence any politically conscious lyrics in the band's songs. _ 
"People tend to think that if it doesn't show up in the lyrics then you're not con­scious or you're disregarding world terror," saidWedren.."It's not an issuelyrically,and that's purely because of me because I just don't feel comfortable singing about opin­ions . But in terms of supporting important issues, absolutely." 
Wedren went on to emphasize the band's presence at charity shows and their recent appearance on the State ofthe Union compilation, a D.C.-area collaboration made to raise money for several charitable organi­zations and political action groups in the Washington, D.C., area. . 

Back to the band's music. With all ' respect to the other three members ofS.T.T., I found W edren' s voice to be one of the most fascinating in rock 'n' roll. It is this voice which acts as the driving force_behind the band. Wedren is currently an experimental theatre student at New Yorlc University, and admits his experience in the New Yorkavant­
corn Wall" from their last LP, plus several songs off their soon-to-be-released demos, named "Vacation Brain" and "About 
Three Dreams". 

Despite Stu breaking his bass string near the end of the show, S.T.T. wrapped up their set with a four-song encore at the request of the crowd, the most memorable song being a raging cover of Jimi Hendrix's "Crosstown • 
Traffic" 
As tlle band departed for another Mid-. west location. on their current national tour, I couldn't help but wonder about their next project With all those influences ranging from classical to punk, who knows what to expect from those four guys hailing from our nation's capital? I know one thing: it will be darn good rock 'n' roll. ¦ 
Scholastic 

Sports: Basketball 1989-90 

BY JONPAUL POTTS 

"Remember that last year, we were a team with five freshmen-now we are a team with four seniors. That's experience, and with experience will come consistency." 
-sophomore center Keith Tower 

Tower'sremarkisagoodexprcssion of the most important element of the 1989-1990 Fighting Irish men's basketball team. After a successful campaign last year which saw the team ad­vance to the second round of the NCAA bas­ketball tournament, Coach Richard "Dig­ger"Phelps will lead his charges into the fray with the same impressive arsenal, plus an added bonus -a year of experience. "I am as excited as a kid now about what 
>11 'l11 
,1 Lil 

we have in front of us," says Phelps. "We played very well in the first and second round (of the NCAA tournament). Last year we had no seniors, now we have seniors. The fresh­men are now sophomores. We're going to be a very, very good basketball team." 
Prior to its season opener against San Francisco November 28, though, this team has already been dealt a serious blow, Sopho­more power forward LaPhonso Ellis, one of the top freshmen performers in the nation last 
5 


Sports: Basketball 1989-90 
Mari Okuda 
In Ellis' absence ... 

season, has been lost for the first seven games of the year due to academic difficulties. Ellis, who averaged 13.5 points and over nine rebounds per game last year, will be sorely missed in early-season matchups against national powers Louisville, Indiana and UCLA. The Irish will nevertheless play through this stretch and await his return. 

"LaPhonso is our best player, no ques­tion," says senior co-captain Jam ere Jackson. "We'll have seven games in December where we'll have to play together as a team, but when he comes back we'll be ready -and looking to make a run at the title." 
__ With 12 players returning from last season's 21-9 squad, Jackson is not alone in his high expectations. Notre Dame has al­ready been highly-touted nationwide, includ­ing preseason rankings of eleventh in The Sporting News and 15th in Sportmagazirie. Four players return who averaged 12 or more points per game: senior co-captain Joe Fre­drick (16.7 points/game to lead the_ team), Jackson (13.5), Ellis (13.5) and senior K;eith Robinson (12.3). To top it off; junior poin_t guard Tim Singleton comes off a 208 assist season to run the show. · Phelps will continue the up~tempo game he employed last year and looks for Singleton to run the break and improve on his 5.8 points per game scoring average. The man they call "Mouse" eagerly accepts this responsibility. 
This season's schedule is as tough as any 
"Coach will be looking for me to score more this year," says Singleton. "Teams will be playing offme to double down anddouble­team Joe (Fredrick), so I'll belooking to shoot the jumper. I'll also be looking to penetrate to the basket and play a more physical guard on both offense and defense." 
Meanwhile, Robinson, senior Scott Pad­dock and Tower wiH form a solid rotation of big men. The six-foot-nine Robinson looks to pick up some of the scoring slack in Ellis' absence and play tough under the boards, where last year he garnered 9 .2 rebounds per game. Paddock, at 6-9 and 235 pounds, is a true banger who plays tough defense and gets his share of rebounds. At 6-11, Tower will play a big role as well. Sport , for one, pegs Tower as the hidden key to Notre Dame's success. 
"With Phonz out, the big men are being asked to get more rebounds and score more," says Tower. "I've heard of the Sport maga­zine thing and I take it as a compliment. It helps me to see my potential and Irealize that my role is very important." 
Phelps will work with a team that goes eleven men deep. Coming off the bench is the 


...Robinson & Co. will have to pick up
"Texas Express," featuring small forward/ 
the slack down low. 

shooting -guard Daimon Sweet and point 
guard Elmer Bennett, who will also see time 
at the off-guard position. Kevin Ellery re­
turns from a semester of academic exile to 
add -three-point shooting and tough, hard-; 
nosed play. Monty Williams is the squad's ' 
lone freshman. 

Williams, a 6-7 forward from Oxon Hill, , 
Maryland, is listed among the top 30 incom­ing freshmen byThe Sporting News and has _ gotten rave reviews from the coaching staff 
and his team captains. 

"I think Monty Williams will fit in very · 
well with what we're trying to do," says • 
Phelps. "He'll surprise people before the 
year is over." 

_ "Monty will have a great career here at 
Notre Dame," says Jackson. "He will be a ­
big surprise this year because he can do so 
many things well from the small forward ­
spot." Williams has already shown signs of i 
things to come, scoring 15 points and snaring 
severi rebounds in leading Notre Dame to a 
70-65 exhibition win over the Hapoel Galil 
El yon team from Israel last Friday. 
Scholastic 



Sports: Basketball 1989-90 
Phelps has faced in his 19 stretch. Until Ellis re­years as Notre Dame· coach. turns, Fredrick will be It is made even tougher by the the first option on of­fact that many of the tougher fense. With this role 
:! 

games arc on the road in front comes the added pres­of large, hostile crowds. sure of opponents Indiana, LaSalle, Rutgers, double-teaming him, Duke, Southern Methodist, forcing him to learn to and Houston are all tough find the open man. teams the Irish must play on "Fred has gotta do enemy turf, not to mention two things: he has to contests at Louisiana State improve defensively, and Syracuse which, com­and he's got to be more bined, will draw clos~ · to creative giving the ball 100,000 fans at both the up," says Phelps. "Eve­Louisiana Superdome and rybody knows he cari Syracuse's Carrier Dome. In score, but now, what is addition, Notre Dame must going to make him a 
' 

play Louisville in the · Big better player is when I 
I 

Four classic on a neutral teams start running two ! !Hoosier Dome court without people at him, he's got Ellis. However, it seems this to give it up." .; 
,. 

is just what Phelps had in 
Phelps will point his team toward Denver. 
mind when he made the 1989.:1990 schedule. "It is obvious that we have experience, so what we did is get the toughest schedule that we could find," says Phelps. "Just· play the nation, play every conference in the country, because that's what the tournament is. As it stands, we are playing two teams from every power conference in the coun­try." This schedule will test the mettle of this team and will require strong leader­ship from co-captains Jackson and Fredrick. Jackson will provide the quiet leadership he pro-· vided last year-hilting the key three-pointer, playing tough defense against an opponent's big gun and leading by his strong court presence. Fredrick will be ex­
an 
pected to score, and he will 

The versatile Sweet will come off the bench at both 
be the go-to man down the 

shooting guard and small forward. 
Fredrick realizes i 
that he must expand his 

offense and looks at it as a challenge. 
"With Ellis out, we'll be more guard-ori­_ented," says Fredrick. ''No one can put up numbers like Phonz can, but we (he and Jackson) will score more and try to adjust until he comes back." 
Overall, everyone involved with the pro­gram has an upbeat feeling about this season, and with good reason. The Final Four this season is in McNichol's Arena in Denver, Colorado and the catchphrase this season is "Remember Denver." Phelps' goal is to ad­vance to the Final Four, a goal which maybe_ well within reach based on last year's NCAA tournament performance. 
"As far as this season goes, I'll be very disappointed if we don't make it," says Fre~' drick. "As long as we don't beat ourselves, I'll be able to live with that. Against Geor­getown, I still think that we beat ourselves-; arid we can't do that ifwe hope to have a s_uc'­cessful season." 
"We're very excited. We've been to-. gether for a whole season and we know each other's games well now," says Singleton: "This season started right after we lost to Georgetown. Right away, we started work­ing out and lifting and we're ready for a great season." ¦. 
7 

Sports: Basketball 1989-90 



Muffet McGraw's injury-depleted squad faces tough task ofliving up to pre-season billing-favorite to win the MCC 
T 
BY RICK FARLEY 

he 1989-90 Irish women's basket­
ball team has yet to play its first game, but setbacks have already befallen Muffet McGraw'.s young team. 
With the loss of senior foward Annie Schwartz and freshman center Dionne Smith for the entire season to knee injuries, the youthful Irish are left with limited front­line depth and only nine players on the active roster. Despite these early disadvantages, McGraw is looking foward to a successful season. 
The focal point of the Irish attack this year will come from the guard position. "We will definitely be a perimeter scoring group," says'McGraw, who begins her third season at Notre Daine. The leader of this experienced group is junior Karen Robin­son, who averaged 12.5 points and 5.75 
Robinson must provide the offensive spark once again 
assists per game last season. Robinson was chosen first-team All-Midwest Collegiate Conference and a member of the MCC All­Tournament team last year. 
"Karen will do the bulk of the scoring," explains McGraw. "She was a leading scorer last year and will continue in that role this year. We have a lot of potential scorers, but Karen is our best offensive player." 
Providing offensive support for Robin­son will be junior Sara Liebscher and senior Lisa Kuhns .. Liebscher will be asked to make a larger contribution in scoring. She proved she could fulfill this request by scoring 21 points in the exhibition game against Bul­garia this past weekend. Kuhns, the only senior on the active roster, will provide expe­rience to go along with her pin-point accu­racy from three-point range. Sophomore Deb Fitzgerald and freshman Coquese Washington will be used off the bench to 
this season. 
spell Robinson and Liebscher. 
The biggest questions surrounding this year's squad are the lack ofdepth, rebound­ing ability, and defense in the post. The rebounding chores this year will once again fall upon the shoulders of junior Krissi Davis, w~o led the team in that category last year despite having to switch to foward from her natural guard position. 
"My role is to mainly set screens for Karen, Sara and Lisa so they can get open for jump shots," says the five-foot-nine Davis. "I also must rebound a lot while scoring points off the offensive boards and generally play good defense." 
Davis was named MCC Tournament MVP last year, but McGraw knows she cannot handle the burden alone. Sopha­mores Comalita Haysbert and Margaret Nowlin look to help out underneath. "Margaret will be a better rebounder, but 

Scholastic 
.. 

Comalita is the one who has to improve," stresses McGraw. "She must get eight re­bounds a game for us." In addition to re­bounding and providing defense in the post, Nowlin will be asked to take over the inside scoring job, while Haysbert will help with the fast break. Majenica Rupe, a six-foot-five freshman, will have to mature quickly to bol­ster the Irish frontfine depth. 
Due to Notre Dame's lack of depth up front, McGraw is especially worried about a non-conference schedule stockpiled with national powers. The Irish open their home schedule with the top-ranked Lady Vols of Tennessee. Before the team enters the bulk of its conference play, the Irish must also play tough road contests at Indiana, Temple, and Old Dominion and host Michigan State, UCLA, and Vanderbilt. These games will surely provide the greatest challenge for the Irish; each team posesses formidable depth and size in the paint. The Irish will need to 
Sport_s: Basketball 1989-90 

shore up their perimeter defense to deny the ball in the post. 
Despite having only nine players to work with, Notre Dame will still employ a full court pressure defense and keep an up­tempo, passing offense. One might won­der if an injury-depleted squad would be tired by the end of the season if they em­ployed such tactics. McGraw shuns the notion. 
"This team is in much better shape this year than last year at this time," explains McGraw. "Having only nine players forces everybody to play harder and they don't get any breaks during practice." 
The Irish open up the regular season by travelling south to play in the Central Flor­ida Rotary Classic November 24th and 25th. Liberty stands as Notre Dame's first opponent, and the winner of this contest will meet the winner ofthe Central Florida­Nichols St. game for the championship the 
next night. 
Besides playing its tough non-conference part of the schedule, the squad begins its second year of play in the Mid­western Collegiate Conference. Although the Irish are predicted to finish atop the conference, McGraw feels other teams, espe­cially Loyola and Detroit, will provide the squad with stiff com­petition. 
"Loyola is picked to finish second but got a couple of first­place votes," said McGraw. "They have four starters return­ing who beat us pretty good up there last year. Detroit will also be very good with all five return­ing starters. They played well in the tournament and should have beat Loyola." 
The ultimate goal for this team is to receive the first NCAA bid in Notre Dame women's basketball history. Despite back-to-back seasons Where they 
• posted 20 or more victories, the NCAA tournament has eluded the Irish. Last year McGraw felt the team would have made the tourney if Heidi Bunek was able 


Chuck Ray 

McGraw's teams have won 20 or more games each of the past two years. 
to stay.healthy, for she was the key to the Irish winning the big games. 
McGraw knows the Irish will have to win the conference plus win some of those big games in the non-conference schedule. "We've won 20 games the past two years and that wasn't enough," she says. "Weare not winning the right games. We need a good win against a Top 20 team. We need to win 22 or 23 games this season." 
"Our main goal is an NCAA bid," says Davis, "but the team must play and work together as a unit (for that to happen)." 
The MCC champion will receive an automatic bid to the tournament in two years. For now, conference teams mtist qualify for an at-large bid, a goal McGraw feels her team is capable of attaining, so long as they don't lose anymore bodies. 
"We need to stay healthy for one year and see what we can do," muses McGraw. 
In the meantime, the Irish would just as soon keep the infirmary on hold. ¦ 
November 16, 1989 
Sports: Basketball 1989... 90 


ll'i'll Ill 
I'll
nJ 
I th I 


Seemingly doomed as spot players early in their careers, Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson now relish their roles as team leaders 
the team's would-be seniors had left the of co-captains. BY KEVIN T. KERNS squad for various reasons. In the face of a "It was up to them to take charge," says potentially long year, Notre Dame desper­Irish Head Coach Digger Phelps. "Sopho­
A t the start of the 1988-89 college ately needed someone to step up and as­mores ar~ just not ready to be captains and basketball season, Notre Dame sume the leadership role. Enter Joe Fredrick out of our four juniors, we felt that Jamere seemed to be headed for some and Jamerc Jackson. and Fred were best suited for the job." 
rough times. The young Irish were faced As juniors in one of the highest-profile Take charge they did, leading a team that with the graduation loss of star guard David basketball programs in the country, Fre­went21-9 and advanced to the second round Rivers. To make matters worse, all three of drick and Jackson were thrust into the role ofthe NCAA EastRegional, handily defeat­
10 

Scholastic 


Sports: Basketball 1989-90 

some unenviable defensive assignments, trying to match strength with the opponent's small forward. He has responded well in the past against the likes of Kentucky's Winston Ben­nett and LaSalle's Lionel Simmons. 
"It's not a problem. I see it as a challenge," states Jackson. "In high school I played just about every

L,:;;;===============~:.,:...i:u position defensively. It's a 
teams Fredrick and Jackson with junior point guard Tim Singleton. 
"It's exciting playing with these guys," says Singleton. "I have an excellent feel for where they're going to be on the floor." 
Being the third guard in the lineup often leaves the 6'2" Jackson with 
Jackson has settled in comfortably at Notre Dame. 

ing Vanderbilt and losing a close battle to top-seeded Gwrgetown. Fredrick and Jackson averaged 16.7 and 13.5 points per game, respectively, in the process. Not bad for a couple of guys who weren't sure if they'd ever get a chance to play at Notre Dame. 
"Coming out of high school Jamere and I were probably the least recruited on the team," says Fredrick, the 6' 4" senior from Cincinnati, Ohio. He pauses, then laughs. "I think they took both of us hoping that one would tum outto be all right." 
Jackson, a native of Peoria, Illinois, agrees. "With my situation-being recruited late-I didn't come in with a lot of false conceptions," he says. "I looked at the roster and I figured I wouldn't get achance to play or start until my senior year." 
Predictably, Phelps has a somewhat dif­ferent perspective on the recruitment of his co-captains. 
"People didn 'trealize that we were going to change and go to a three-guard offense," explains Phelps. "In order to press and run I felt we needed three guards and that's the reality of the situation." 
The three guard offense has worked well for the Irish, enabling them to play a bit more up-tempo than in the past. The alignment 
matter of applying the fun­damentals that you've learned." 
Earlier in their careers, Fredrick and Jackson were two athletes play­ing the same position and fighting for the same precious minutes. Nevertheless, this didn't prevent the pair from becoming fast friends. 
Marl Okuda

"A lot of it had to do with the fact 
Although Fredrick faces a serious task this 
that we were the least recruited," 
season, he still finds time for a laugh. 
says Fredrick. "I could tell after a 
few days that we were going to be good 
friends." 
"I knew I was coming in with Joe," re­sponds Jackson," and I didn't know how good he was, either. I'm just glad things worked out for both of us." 
Each player attributes a lot ofhis respec­tive success to the influence of Phelps. "He's like a father figure, a guy who's always trying to steer you in the right direc­tion," states Jackson. 
In fact, it was Phelps who, along with Fredrick's mother, convinced Joe to remain at Notre Dame when he considered transfer­ring at the start of his sophomore year. 
"People don't realize the things Coach does for us away from the court," says Fre­drick. "A lot of times you see two paths in life, and he's the one pointing you towards the right one." 
Entering their second season as co-cap­tains, the duo sees their role changing a bit. "This year will be somewhat different," states Fredrick. "Having the same team as last year will make the job a whole lot easier for us." 
"We don't have to be as vocal this year," adds Jackson. "Now we have experience and 

it will make us a better team." 
Many people have high hopes for Notre Damein the upcoming campaign, but even if the Irish don 'treach the Final Fourin Denver, both Fredrick and Jackson will be content with their decision to come to Notre Dame. 
"If we went 0-28 this year, I'd still be happy I came to Notre Dame," explains Fre­drick. "I'll have a degree from the greatest school in the world." 
"Too many times success is measured by wins and losses," muses Jackson. "It's how you feel about yourself that really measures success." 
Jackson then pauses and puts it all in per­spective. "If after four years you have a degree and you've done everything you wanted to do, you can look back and say, 'I've had a successful experience at Notre Dame."' II 
11 


News 


Accounting for the Ranking 
Professor William Nichols, representing the 
College ofBusiness Administration, has strong 
views about the state ofNotre Dame's faculty 
the most well known, says Nichols, because "If their (U.S. News') faculty quality was 
BY PAT WATKINS 

their names appear most in the academic how our faculty is perceived by other facul­journals of research. ties... for instance, if you went to Washing-
C 
ommitment to undergraduate edu­cation is Notre Dame's trademark, and Notre Dame has earned much respect in that area. Many people may have 
·wondered, then, why U.S. News and World Report's annual ranking of America's best colleges, while giving Notre Dame an overall rank of 23, has ranked the faculty here only 53rd nationally. Accounting Professor Wil­liam Nichols has his own thoughts on this subject 
A native of Michigan, Professor Nichols attended Western Michiga_n for undergradu­ate school; he then received his doctorate from Florida State after working for three years with an accounting firm. 
According to Nichols, much of the reputa­tion of faculties today comes from recogni­tion in the area ofresearch, a relatively recent matteratNotre Dame. "AtNotre Dame, even though [research] has a big emphasis, they're really young in the game ofresearch. This is a phenomenon in the business school which probably is two decades old at the most." 
Topping U:S. News' list was Yale; other schools ahead of Notre Dame, including Harvard, MIT, and Stanford, are also known for their faculty research. Those faculties are Professor of Accountancy William Nichols discusses the value of research. 

12 
Scholastic 
.. 
News 


ton University in St. Louis or Yale and said, 'Rank these schools,' I don't think there's anything wrong with being ranked fifty­third, because ifyou're talking to that group, they're probably talking about research; they recognize names because they see them in journals." 
Things have been changing at Notre Dame, however. "First of all, you've got a faculty that was hired for years because they had a commitment to undergraduate education, andprobablyalotofthem had strong feelings 
for the Catholic Church. Then you've got this change where they've been focusing on hiring people who were more research-ori­ented." 
Some feel that this change affects the qual­ity of undergraduate education available at Notre Dame. Nichols said, "There's always been a concern among parents and students, and rightly so, that, 'I'm paying to get an education for my son or daughter; I'm not sure how this high tuition paying these high faculty salaries, how this research ends up making this a better place to get an under­graduate education.' 
"I think the answer to that is ... I tend to think that people who find research interest­ing and challenging are also people that tend to have personalities that make them do well in the classroom ... they're enthused about what they do, and they bring some of that enthusiasm to the classroom." 
Some of the faculty research is also brought to the classroom, but that isn'talways easy to do., "Doing the research ... I bring some of those ideas to the classroom, and some of the findings we have. But a lot of it is not easily brought into the classroom." In several of Nichols' undergraduate classes, there are so many rules and principles in accounting that must be covered for the students to prepare for the CPA exam that there is minimal time to focus in the classroom on research done by the professor. 
Nichols' own present research focuses on how the stock market reacts to certain pieces of announced information. Still, he does not feel that bringing research into the classroom is necessarily that important. "Even if we brought none of it into the classroom, I am convinced that a faculty member who is very active in research has a curiosity and thirst for knowledge that translates to an excitement in the classroom, just because he or she is ex­cited about the subject, and they want to excite the students." 
Although bringing research into the under­graduate classroom is not crucial, professors must still be involved in it. The faculty is hired with research very much in mind; ten­ure hinges on it. "Notre Dame tries to say that we have a balance, and I think we probably do, and that is that they weigh teaching and research equally. If you're not doing re­search and you 're not showing some promise as a scholar, then you could be the best teacher in the world and Notre Dame would not give that person tenure. 
"I c:Ion't have any trouble with that; it's too bad that a system can't have a place for people who are outstanding teachers [alone], and it probably would but there's a lot of risk to those people because they would be on an untenured position; they're on a year-to-year contract, so if you have a family, you don't want to be at risk like that." 
Notre Dame is, as Nichols says, a relative newcomer in the game of research. As far as that plays in the national ranking, he said, "I don't know how to feel about fifty-third [rank]. I think our faculty is a better teaching faculty than a research faculty. In other words, I think we've come a long way in research, but still, when compared with other schools, we are better in the teaching dimen­sion than the research dimension, because we've been at it longer and have more of a focus. 
"If a person is an outstanding scholar, 
chances are they're not going to come to Notre Dame. They're going to go to Stan­ford, or they're going to go to Chicago (University of), or Cornell, or Dartmouth ... that's where the big hitters go. They're not interested in coming to Notre Dame. They're not interested in undergraduate students. But on the other hand, if someone is fairly well balanced in their teaching and research, and they would like to go to a place where they think teaching will be rewarding, I think teaching is probably rewarded more at Notre Dame than at some other school, certainly." Nichols is a bit skeptical about U.S. News' criteria in ranking faculty (student-faculty ratios, percentage of professors with doctor­ates, and per-student instructional budgets for the individual schools -a reflection of faculty salaries). "You know, I could come into the classroom and be a horrible teacher, and if these are the three dimensions they're 

ranking on, that doesn't show up. So give people doctorates, pay them a lot, and give them small classes, and you'11 be ranked number one in the country!" 
Notre Dame shouldn't feel any shame at being ranked 23rd nationally, nor should the faculty's rank of53 be any cause for discom­fort, according to Nichols. "Notre Dame does not have, and has not earned, a national reputation for graduate programs," he said. However, "if you're going to play that (re­search) game, it takes a while for your repu­tation to catch up with your level of produc­tivity. I think the faculty here is more produc­tive in research, it's just that it takes a while to be recognized nationally." ¦ 
November 16, 1989 13 

News 

Staying Fresh 

In order to keep his undergraduate lectures pertinent, Dr. Terrence Akai must be alert to current engineering research 


BY SAMMY BAGBY 

F 
reshman year at Notre Dame brings many new challenges for would-be engineering students. Physics, chemistry, and calculus books stretch the seams of their backpacks and the oyer­whelming courseload they confront makes ·even the most hearty among them quiver. 
Yet, all these students have one special class in common. Taught by Dr. Terrence]. Akai, Introduction to Engineering Concepts (EG-120) shows freshmen what the fast­based world ofmodem engineering involves. Akai is a graduate ofthe University ofWash­ington-Seattle with degrees in aeronautical engineering and mathematics. 'He received his M.S. and Ph.D. at the University of Illi­nois-Champaign/Urbana. 
When asked about the ranking of Notre Dame's faculty, 53rd out of 204 national universities, Akai said, "Certainly the rank of a school, its visibility, and its reputation among the academic community have much to do with its commitment to research. In the past, Notre Dame has predominantly been a teaching university; now it is in transition to a research and teaching university, with the dual task of'emphasizing research while maintaining its previously strong teaching reputation." 
In the upper levels ofacademia, Akai says that research and teaching more or less work in concert to fulfill Notre Dame's central purpose of education. 
"When I teach in the higher level situ­ations, I must know what research is being done, by reading the literature and/or by participating in research of my own. This allows me to make my course material rele­vant. Since graduate students are expected to produce the. future 'state of the art,' so to speak, it is my duty as a teacher to give them as much insight as I can concerning today's developments." . 
Despite Akai's great respect for progress in the laboratory; his greatest wish is to cul­tivate such progress in the classroom. In his 



14 
Scholastic 

~ ~ ~ J
. ·--.--~= ~-,-----. ----" ' 
-


.. 
News 

Introduction to Engineering Concepts class, Akai's curriculum transcends outlining the­ory on chalkboard and paper; freshmen are graced with the invaluable chance to glimpse how learned concepts apply in the skills of today's engineer. 
The students are assigned a semester-long project involving FORTRAN, the computer language of engineering, and a numerical simulation which employs skills vital to the fundamental task of the engineer: problem solving and design through application of mathematics, scientific principles, technical tools, and thinking. 
"I want them to be professional about their work, always doing their best", declares Akai of his pupils. "As they accumulate informa­tion throughout the semester, they should be able to use the knowledge in setting parame­ters through which they can complete the project with optimum results." 
Unfortunately, good teaching is not easily measured, especially by college surveys; however, a school can forge a reputation and thrust its name high into the college rankings through research breakthroughs. These add to the vast body of science but do not bolster the educational welfare of the individual student. Where the student is concerned, a faculty member's expertise docs him little good if he is having problems grasping con­cepts, and it is true that the most brilliant researchers do not always possess the ability to relate their abstruse ideas to those who know less. 
Yet research, while not catering directly to the needs of the pupil, performs another equally useful function-it acts as a money magnet, attracting corporate and financial grants. The extra income raked in from these sources can be utilized, along with the image of a strong research school, to lure more and more capable faculty members. 
"The amount of money a university has to spend is a crude indicator of what a faculty member can do," Akai said. "It shows the level of research activity, and the amount of resources the university can provide for both services and salaries. There arc also many other contributing factors besides money, such as the prestige value of the program, its degreeofvisibility, the level ofresponsibility each member has. These and other intan­gibles, like job satisfaction, often outweigh money. Yes, to a certain extent, money talks, especially when some ofthe other factors are absent." 
One of the chief reasons for the faculty rating in U.S. News and World Report was to be found just a column away-the column reading "financial resources". In a field of 204 universities, Notre Dame was ranked 122nd in yearly income; besides Geor­getown, no school in the top 25 finished lower than 83rd. Notre Dame's monetary deficiency was even more graphically high­lighted by the fact that among top 10 schools all finished in the 20 richest colleges in America with the exception ofM.I.T., which finished 45th. 
Yet, despite not being renowned as a fiscal giant, unlike other high-caliber schools which are synonymous with the phrase "greenback institutions," Notre Dame should be proud of its excellent corps of instructors who, like Terrence Akai, have not lost sight of the central focus of education­the student. II 

November 16, 1989 
'· ~-. , . ­
-~---~•'-~---""· •-=-----' 

News 

i 
i . Survey
I 

of Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's reflection on ratings given by U.S. News and World Report 
BY DEVON MARCUSON 

For the third consecutive year, Saint 
Mary's has been rated among._the best colleges in America, as selected ·by a U.S. News and World Report survey of college presidents, deans and admissions officers. Saint Mary's is rated seventh among 132 
'1 ­
I • 


midwest regional colleges and universities. This category is led by Illinois Wesleyan, Creighton and DePaul. Student selectivity, reputation for academic excellence, faculty quality, resources, and student retention combined for an overall percentile score. 
Saint Mary's ranked number one in the student retention attribute area. President 
· William Hickey explains, "There are many ways ofmeasuring the students to an institu­tion, but the beginning of the process; moti­vating them, challenging them, encouraging them, and supporting them, are some of the factors that keep them. . . Keep in mind, nationally only 30% of the students who begin their education graduate five years later." 
The reasons most often cited for dropping out are academic and ·financial problems, poor preparation, transfers to other schools, and rough transition from home to the intel­lectual rigors and freedoms of college life, according to U.S. News. 
By extrapolation, U.S. News found tbat those schools that succeed in seeing students through to graduation often credit special orientation programs, economic safety nets, and emphasis on student-faculty communi­cation. Indeed, Saint Mary's pays close at­tention to these factors. Furthermore, high retention schools often have popular frater­nity and sorority systems. Saint Mary's high retention ranking in spite of its lack of such systems proves the strength ofits fundamen­tal structure. 

Saint Mary's lowest attribute ranking was that of academic reputation, where it was 27th. This figure is determined by vote ofthe deans and admissions officers of each cate­gory among themselves. Jeff Roberts, assis­tant director of placement services was sur­prised that this was Saint Mary's lowest score, citing a recent study which found that only 1 % to2% ofSaintMary'sgradsarestill searching for jobs six months after gradu­ation. 
Although this figure cannot be ignored, Roberts points out that this low ranking could be due to the fact that "Saint Mary's is cate­gorized as a Midwestern school, but its students come from all over the U.S.; whereas a students from the other schools in our category {Illinois Wesleyan and Val­paraiso, for example) are truly typically Midwesterners." 
Roberts feels that Saint Mary's aca­demic reputation could improve if students. begin job searching earlier in their senior year. 'The business world won't know how wonderful a student is until they let them 
Scholastic 



News 

know." Roberts also reports that Saint Mary's continues to gain supporters. This year, Leo Burnett Advertising Agency and Champion International Paper Products joined its list of recruiters. 
Student opinion toward the survey var­ies. "It's nice to be recognized outside the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community, but I don't need a poll to tell me how good my school is," claims Peggy Abood, a sopho­more. Sheilah McFadden, a freshman, feels "even more sure of (her) decision to come to Saint Mary's." 
Many students are not as pleased with the ranking. "The category which we were placed under (Midwestern Colleges and Universities) seems trivial," said Joyce Blachly. Judy Flynn, a freshman claimed, "First ofall, the category itself is lame ... I'm not proud that we ranked seventh because seventh isn't that good." 
Questions arise as to whether Saint Mary's has been misclassified. Despite the fact that by definition, Saint Mary's could not have been placed into any other category in the survey, its present classification as a Regional College may be inappropriate. 
The schools which participated in the survey were separated into four categories: !)National Universities, 2)National and 3)Regional liberal arts schools, and 4)Re­gional Colleges and Universities. Saint Mary's is excluded from the first category due to its small size. It is disqualified from the second two categories because it is not strictly a Liberal Arts school since it houses three professional disciplines: nursing, teaching and business administration. The process of elimination places Saint Mary's into its present category, "Regional Col­lege." 
The students who choose "Regional Colleges and Universities" are more likely to be drawn from a regional constituency, ac­cording to U.S. News. This, however, is by no means an accurate description of Saint Mary's, a college in which 42 states and 20 foreign countries are represented. Further­more, U.S. News notes that Regional Col­leges "tend to gear their programs toward education for more specialized fields." Al­though nursing, teaching, and business are specialized, Saint Mary's Liberal Arts pro­grams are much more predominant than this description indicates. Finally, one of Saint Mary's main purposes is to be small. Re­gional Colleges and Universities, however, "come in all sizes." 
This year, U.S. News changed its meth­odology of categorizing colleges. In previ­ous years, Saint Mary's was classified as a "Small Comprehensive College." Many would consider this classification to be more accurate. It gives Saint Mary's a national ranking against other small schools with both liberal arts and professional programs. Last year, Saint Mary's ranked 6th nationally out of 152 schools. Unfortunately, the attribute ranking scores were not listed, thus retention and academic reputation can not be deter­mined. 
In short, many Saint Mary's faculty and students are honored by the recent ranking, while many recognize the survey's short­comings. Hickey explains, ''There is no question that it is a signal honor for Saint Mary's to be ranked seventh among Mid­western colleges." Ill 

November 16, 1989 
·...· ·-· --­
. --. 
,-' .,, ,_:'...:,___,_..;....., r,A<M ,·•~""'--~ ,,....,~.... =•-~:c.o_.., 

Features 



ntern broad 



Notre Dame's AIESEC chapter sends members overseas 
BY RICHARD FOLEY 

-A t the beginning of the school year, several clubs and organizations posted notices and sent flyers in­. viting students to attend introductory rrieet­. ings. Amidst this deluge of paper, a simple message stood out: the letters AIESEC 
: -. scrawled on sidewalks around campus. AIESEC (Association Internationale des 
•·. : -Etudiants en Sciences Economiques et 
• : : Commerciales) is an international student · organization active in 69 countries and 77 
: : United States universities. It has two main 
: purposes: to give foreign s~uden ts a chance to :: : -work in this country and to send United States ; -: students overseas to get practical work expe­·: : -rience in other countries. L · · "AIESEC is designed to promote in terna­
tionalism and the exchange of ideas through 
the traineeship program," said Jeff Stark, :; : : president of the Notre Dame chapter. The · : -trainee program is set up on a reciprocal 

-agreement with other chapters in foreign countries. For each overseas student that it arranges to have brought over, Notre Dame AIESEC sends one member abroad. This 
· rule makes chapters work actively to bring foreign students here so that they may send their own members abroad. 
In order to experience everyday Ameri­can business life, the foreign student be­comes a member of the workplace. The chapter that arranged for the student's intern­. ship helps the transition process by being responsible for finding a job that suits his skills before he arrives in the U.S. By going out and talking to companies, the students become acquainted with area businessmen. "Members go to local companies and market (the AIESEC program) and try to get them to 
hire an intern," said Stark. 
Recently the Notre Dame chapter has 
given two European students the opportunity 
to work in the United States: one student from 
Denmark was employed by the Teacher's 
Credit Union, andlastsummer a student from 
Switzerland worked for Notre Dame. In 
return, the chapter sends Notre Dame stu­
dents to other countries. Last year a graduat­
ing senior, Jim Karrels, spent part of the 
summer working in Ireland and this year 
there are plans for two students to experience 
working abroad. 
"It's a short-term program, so most 
people do it the summer after they graduate," 
said senior Buddy Mojica. Mojica may work 
in a .German. or Spanish-speaking western 
European country for three months this 
summer. "It will be your fir:st international 
experience before you go out into the work­ing world," said Mojica. "You have a totally different culture to be immersed in." 

Mojica stressed the experience value of the trainecship program. "Since the econ­omy is worldwide, you have the experience 

of working in a foreign country," he said. "Some people, after graduating, go back­packing in Europe for a year. This (the AIESEC program) is a chance to go to Eu­rope and learn about it. It's the same as backpacking, except that you're working." 
While overseas, Mojica plans to work for a marketing or computer applications firm. The AIESEC international office in Brussels, Belgium works with the New York office to match the student application with a com­
: : 18 

. ; ~
~ 

V • , ' , , ,. ,,-t • • . -.. _..• \ • , , • ­
Features 

pany that will meet his needs. 
An exchange student pays for his own expenses while overseas, according to chap­ter finance director Jennifer Wilmoth. The student receives a small subsistence income from his job that allows him to support him­self. The chapter ~esponsible for bringing the intern over doef several things to ease the problems of moving several thousand miles from a familiar environment. 
The AIESEC group begins to help the student as soon as he arrives by picking him up at the airport. If problems arise, the chapter is prepared to help the student. "The school invites the student to meetings and also finds a place for him to live," said Wilmoth. The student is also provided with the opportunity to begin work as soon as possible. 
AIESEC has functions other than the in­ternship program. Besides fund raising, members of the Notre Dame chapter also participate in student conferences with people from around the world. 
"AIESEC gives people the opportunity to interact with others with similar interests," said Wilmoth. The Notre Dame chapter recently went to a regional meeting in Mil-· waukee that was attended by numerous schools and people from foreign countries. At the meeting, members were offered the opportunity to learn about overseas business by talking with others who had hands-on experience in working for foreign compa­nies. Since there are few guidelines to show the path in the rapidly changing international business world, listening to first-hand expe­rience allows a person to decide upon the positive and negative aspects of working in another country. 
In addition to providing a space to allow students to meet and exchange views on international business, the regional provided other activities for those attending. A num­ber of workshops and presentations were offered on topics such as management, lead­ership, and personal success. Presentations such as these teach skills that are valuable in the business world. 
One final function of the AIESEC pro­gram is to work towards cooperation, peace, and understanding in the international com­munity. By bringing students from different cultures into contact with each other, the organization hopes to work towards this goal. AIESEC is a way for students to decide for themselves if working in the international field is an intelligent choice. 

The primary purpose of AIESEC is the reciprocal exchange program. American students are given the chance to experience the positive and negative aspects of working in a foreign country, while overseas students who work in the United States learn about America firsthand. The program can be seen as an alternative to various study abroad programs that exist at Notre Dame. A busi­ness intern in AIESEC sees the country as a worker, not as a student. 
AIESEC is an international business or­ganization with the lofty goal ofinternational cooperation. The social experiences are just a fringe benefit of the reciprocal exchange program. "It's a really good way to meet people," said Wilmoth. "It also seeks to promote peace and understanding." II 


19



Sports 

:r.,. ­
COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO
i­
l' 
i:. sportswe k
i-
The Notre Dame wrestling team, ranked 15th in the nation by Amateur Wrestling News, com­petes in the St. Louis Open this Saturday, Nov. 
18. Up to 27 Irish wrestlers will travel to this meet to vie for individual honors, as this event does not involve team scoring. Among the schools attending are Oklahoma, Oklahoma State, Nebraska, and Missouri. 
Notre Dame placed three wrestlers in last year's Open, including senior PAT BOYD, who 
took second at 142 pounds. 

The Irish men's cross country season ended last weekend at the District IV meet as the team placed sixth overall, failing to qualify for the NCAA championships for the first time in three years. Captain MIKE O'CONNOR nonetheless qualified for the NCAA's in Annapolis on Monday, Nov. 20. He placed eighth overall, followed by RY AN CAHILL's 18th-place fin­ish and PAT KEARNS' 21st-place effort 
O'Connor attempts to become the third differ­ent Notre Dame All-American in the past three seasons when he competes in Annapolis on 
Monday. 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team placed 17th overall at the NCAA District IV meet last weekend. Sophomore LUCY NUSRALA was the top Irish finisher, placing 38th. JENNIFER LEDRICK and RENEE KAP­TUR followed with finishes of76th and 100th, re­spectively. 
Notre Dame ended its season with a 1-1 record in dual meets. They notched a fifth-place showing at the National Catholic meet and followed up with a sixth-place effort in the Notre Dame Invi­tational and a second-place finish in the Midwest 
Collegiate Conference meet. 
Notre Dame improved its record to 5-0 last week by defeating Bowling Green 129-90. BRIAN RINI captured double victories in thelO0­yard freestyle (:44.16) and the 200-yard butterfly (1:56.14). to pace the squad. 
The Irish face back-to-back meets this weekend as they travel to Wisconsin-Milwaukee tomorrow and return home Saturday against_ Loyola. Saturday's meet begins at 5 p.m. at the Rolfs 
Aquatic Center. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team (4-1) 
lost an exciting meet at Bowling Green last Friday 
by a 149-151 score. The women set four Univer­
sity records in the process, including the400-yard 
medley relay (4:00.76) by the team of SHANA 
STEPHENS, BECKY WOOD, TANYA WIL­UAMS and CHRISTY VAN PATTEN, and the 100-yard breaststroke by Wood in a record-tying ·time of 1:07.19. · The Irish travel to Wisconsin-Milwaukee to­morrow to battle host Wisconsin-Milwaukee and 
Northern Michigan. 

The Irish volleyball team (12-16) won one out ofthree matches last week. They dropped a five­game meeting with Northwestern and a four­game match to 11th-ranked Texas Arlington, but managed athree-game win at home over Illinois-Chicago. JESSICA FIEBELKORN recorded 18 kills to lead the Irish to theirlone victory. Notre Dame closes out its 1989 season at the Western Michigan Invitational this weekend, Nov. 17-18, while the final match of the year talces place at the Joyce Centeron Tuesday, Nov. 21, when the Irish host Bowling Green. Match 
The Notre Dame hockey team (5-1) extended its win streak to four last weekend with a pair of victories over Michigan-Dearborn. They trounced the Wolves 9-4 at home and took a 6­4 decision on the road as the Irish rallied for four goals in the third period of the second win. The four-game streak is the longest since the 1987­88 season, when the Irish won seven straight. 
Notre Dame hosts St. Cloud State tomorrow and Saturday at the JACC Fieldhouse. Faceoff 
for both games is at 7:30 p.m. 
20 




SPECIAL 

University Libraries Book Sale. Library Concourse. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Hardbound books $1, paperback $.50. 
MUSIC 

Concert: Squeeze with Katrina and the Waves. J.A.C.C. 7:30 p.m. 
LECTURE 
"Recent Economic and Political Changes In Poland: A Personal View." Donald T. Critchlow, Notre Dame Associate Professor of History. Room 131 Decio at 4:00 p.m. 
Panel Discussion on the Changing Role of the Family, focus on relationship to Notre Danie students. Library Audito­rium. 7:00 p.m. (Free) 
FILMS 

"Dead Poet's Society." Cushing Au­ditorium. 8:00 p.m.& 10:15 p.m. $2. 
THEATRE 

"Three Sisters." O'Laughlin Audito­rium. 8:10 p.m. ND/SMC Theater. 
THEATRE 

"Three Sisters." O'Laughlin Audito­rium. 8: 10 p.m. ND/SMC Theater. 
LECTURE 

"Puzzling Beliefs. " Philosophy collo­quium. Brad Petri, Commentator, Michael Kremer. Library Lounge at 
3:30 p.m. 
"On Analytic Differential Operators." Mathematical colloquium. Professor Alex Himonas. Room 226, Math and Computer Building. 4:30 p.m. 
FILMS 

All Night 70's Bell Bottom Fest 8:00 
p.m. "Carrie." 10:10 p.m. "Saturday Night Fever." 12:22 a.m. "Jaws." 
2:30 a.m. "Rocky." Cushing Audito­rium. $5 all night, $2 individual 
"Bagdad Cafe." Annenberg Audito­rium. 7:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m .. $2. 
MUSIC 

"Jack Makrel." Theodore's. 9:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Hockey. N.D. vs. St. Cloud State. 7:30 
p.m. atJ.A.C.C. 
THEATRE 

"Three Sisters." O'Laughlin Audito­rium. 8: 10 p.m. ND/SMC Theater. 
SPORTS 

Hockey. N.D. vs. St. Cloud State. 
7:30p.m. 
Football. N.D. vs. Penn State at State 
College, Pa. 12:00 p.m. 
Men's Swimming. N.D. vs. Loyola. 
Rolfs Aquatics Center. 5 p.m. 
SPECIAL 

Storytelling. Snite Museum of Art for children kindergarten through 4th grade. 10:30 a.m. Call 239-5466 for further infonnation. 
THEATRE 

"Three Sisters." O'Laughlin Audito­rium. 3: 10 p.m. ND/SMC Theater. 
SPECIAL 

Snite Museum of Art guided tours beginning at 2:00 p.m. 
SPORTS? 

W.W.F Superstars of Wrestling. 
J.A.C.C. 7:30 p.m. 

21

Editorial 


i ,­
1'I,' -. I•, ­
i ' -• 
Sentenced to Injustice 
Today, Raul Gonzales, presiqent of Saint Edward's Hall, awaits a punishment for his action pertaining to the freezing of matching funds after the infamous snowball fight. Meanwhile, a senior has lost his Resident Assistant position for relieving himself outside of a bar. Do the punishments delivered at Notre Dame fit the crimes? In the case of Gonzales, the "crime" justifies no punishment. On Thursday, November 2nd, Gonzales led a three hour sit-in in the offices of Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson. The sit-in served as a protest of the freezing of over $20,000 of matching funds. In effect, Gonzales increased awareness of the situation and, conse­quently, facilitated its resolution. Although his approach was non­traditional, he did nothing to hurt the cause ofthe students. Whether the funds would have been restored without the action of Gonzales remains uncertain. He stood up for what he believed, harmed neither an individual nor the situation and now faces sentencing. In the case of the former R.A., there is no question that he was in the wrong. Although responding to nature's call in public is not a trivial offense, does it merit the loss of a treasured position such as R.A., especial! y considering he was also punished by authorities outside of the university? One could say that Notre Dame is making an example ofthe aforemen­tioned "villains." The administration, however, seems to make an example of every person facing disciplinary action. The effect, there­fore, is lost. Similarly, virtually every offender is sent to alcohol counseling. Those with real problems often are overlooked or refuse to Lake the sessions seriously. The counseling is part of a punishment and not part of a solution. Its time to reevaluate the punishments delivered by Student Affirs. A fairer system would undoubtedly serve as a more effective system. 
-Scholastic 
~ 

-~-~-_,___:.. _ _ -_;; ____ ;:~"' --.·--~-" -~ -f· ; ~ •-•-··-··'--,.-' -. "' ,. ~ ,',.v,i• '"• .. ,:. ., 


Final Word 

Buy a Roll, Take a Role 
The Notre Dame Chapter ofthe Sister Thea Bowman Society undertakes a significant fund-raiser 
BY CHELSEA LA TIMER 

Ten students walk with alacrity, teach you. Her beautiful, sultry gospel spirit, and is marching with the students to pride ingrained in their faces, their singing can heal you. Ifyou were not able to fulfill their dream. He sits on the Board of feet marching gloriously to the un-take notes fast enough from her lectures, you Directors along with seven U.S. bishops and forgettable words: "I have a dream." As can read one ofher books. Sister Thea is also four other presidents of U.S. Catholic uni­they travel down the path to success at Notre a memberofthe Franciscan Sisters ofPerpet-versities. Bishop John Ricard of Baltimore Dame, there are a few necessary stops that ual Adoration in LaCrosse, Wisconsin. But and Archbishop Eugene Marino, the high­they must make. she is more than a stop on the students' path; est-ranking black bishop in the United Halt! One of the key ingredients in their she is their inspiration. Even though she States, are examples of the bishops commit­recipe for a dream is education. Thousands speaks and sings from a wheelchair because ted to this cause. In the foundation's first of cups of education can be purchased at of cancer, sne provides strength and encour-year of existence, it has chapters at St. various places: O'Shaughnessy, Cushing, agement to the black community. Michael's , Boston College, Catholic Uni­
:~~;-~~\~~!~~:u,0:t~~ ~~1y!::e~1:; iWrh~fs1~t;f Th~~ .:s:• '"' ~=~~~y, and Xavier University in New Or­
::::i;:rt:1;;:!~~r:o;; ,:f,i!il~i~l\~v i~;;:~:;f~:~;;l:;~:; 
March! March! They must now make ;rieed/'fhese stu Society has agreed to sell 20,000 rolls of 
=~::~:~·:;:::at~!::~v::~:~ Ji~Willi~lrtli~,$" ;::~=-:f:~::.s:::~::c::t !~~ 
~~IE-:ES~fE!iE~ i~~liI~illlfts!i\ ¥fE;E~~1~li
students in need. These students enter soci-p<>$~~~~.~~l!~;i.I jfg of the designs that cover the eighteen feet of 
etywithadeepsenseofmoralcommitment. paper on each roll. They can feel the aura, the spirit, the faith Sister Thea has been featured on "60 Min-Other people have joined in the march by that Sister Thea possesses. utes", in Ebony and Jet magazine, the Chi-buying a roll ofpaper. One roll allows me to 
Sister Thea Bowman is a Afro-American cago Tribune, and the New York Times. A take another step toward my dream. lam one native of Mississippi dedicated to promot-biography and a film based on her life, of those ten students walking. Please sup­ing black spirituality around the world. starring Whoopi Goldberg, are scheduled for port my black spirituality and join me in the Sister Thea takes on many roles. If you release soon. effort. Buy a roll and take a role in our want to learn about black culture, she can University President Monk Malloy felt the march. 11 
23



,, ... -._ 
~ * 


::i"':'. ... : 
I• • 
I • • 1·'. .. -. .,i ~ -.. . 
Ii .. .
:/, ... SEX. IT'.s NORMAL 10 /J)ftC/il/if! ABOUT SEX AT NOTRE DAME. 
I • •
1· . 
,! ........ NYMPHOMANIA THIS 15 .SERIOUS. SEE US IMMEDIATfLY. 
'\, .. ­




ffLLOW STUDENTS, KA\JE YOO liEARt> OF f.A.R.T., THE f.utile. Attempt to R.e.or3o..nlz.e.. T.hin_gs? 
v-!ELL, WE'VE US ED THE F.A.R.T. 5'<5TEM, AND FRANKLY) 
IT STINKS. I)~­
,,. , ~· J'J 
l 

808'5 UPSET 8ECAU5E HE 60T(.._ _ SHUT our OF Dreo.Ms: Ni3l-.t.life. ,:;:, of the Mind, A COURSE G!VEN -<­
HERE. IF YOU GOT SHUT OUT LIKE M~ ~ WHY Nor TAKE ouR COURSE SHOWN :s­8EL0W. IF YOU DIDN'T GET SHUT f OUT, I HOPE THE "PUNCH-ri-~ ~ ME" JOGGER GET.S YOU, ~ 



FSw Of V> \::NOW f-J.ow TO GE.T B>E-1:,otJO ST2.E.S$. Wt-~E..U.. P,T '"T!-\E. TV, W£ HON\::. lN1~Ar\'.:\C, \..!JS RIP LlP O\JR L.O'>lr-lG L.6IT'c.i<?':? TIC\:'..E.TS, WE-SNAP AT oue. LO\JE:o 

Sowl:. TR'::l l"O GET PcACf or:: MIND ~ B':' £.ITTitJG TAS"T~ Si-JCICI:. •REP.TS, ::; PUFF\>-lC:, O~ SOOTHING CIGARE..1TE.£, ~ 
D~1tJ\::.ING DE.LI CIOUS ALC0\-\0 LI C. _,, BE.Vl::.~C\GE.'>, oe SM01=:1;JG l2E.LA'i1>'(, i 
CeAo::. -------"'.,, "' 
!:l 
'Jl 
..r"' 
L 
1 0 
B 
:;; 
0:, 

STAe.S AT A Bt..At-.'l\::: WAL.L . .BeEi:rTHf I, S LOWL'::) At.JD 0€.EPL.lj, E.AO. TIME -=F ;i ou t.X HA LE., R£P-EA"f THE. WORD ~ "ST'2.\;'..£:s:•· TO ~OUR.SELF. T!-115 r \JJll..L-BE. ~oug_ MAIVTl2/:\, __....,;: 
G' 


,, . ' -­
' , 

CONCERT TONIGHTe TICKETS STILL AV AILABLEe 



With Special Guest Katrina and the Waues 
Thursday 






