SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:	i
Name:	!
A ddress:__________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556	;
b—__________________________________—____________________________________
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
co m
to
NEWS
4	New Classroom Facility Opens Its Doors
7	DeBartolo Building Computer Facilities CAMPUS LIFE
8	Dollars For Domers SPORTS
14	Seeking Redemption
16	We Believe In Ourselves ENTERTAINMENT
18	Out Of Bounds
19	Campus Bands DEPARTMENTS
2
3
22
23
24
Editor’s Notes CampusWatch On Other Campuses Week In Distortion Final Word
Cover artwork by Nick Spangler
SEPTEMBER 3,1992
1
a
s
s
^Vol^
September
DisceQuasiSemperVicturus ^MveQu&SL
.Founded1867
/EDITOR IN CHIEF
■ Patricia K. Doyle i
MANAGING EDITOR
MargaretS/Kenhy ^ v
EXECUTIVEW1O
payid;d:;H^singer^ ?:•
CAMPUS LIFE , : Editor: Mollie Mudd :	N<i:V-Vt i?: :: i; J ■■’■
[SPORTS;^ Editor ■dim ?Kuser
ENTERT^ Editor;?
PHOTOGRAPHY g Editor Keff^
- Editor ■ Chnsplanford •
GENI^ Arning Mari&lie Heidi^uFaVtbi^
GRAPHIC? AR^ ;Manage^
iMan^erSC^

EDITOR'S NOTES
Welcome Back
As the sesquicentennial year comes to an end and Scholastic completes its 125th year, we are also anxious to start our 126th year. For freshmen, this is a time to begin their college experience and for seniors it is time to prepare for the end of four years at Notre Dame and look toward their future. On behalf of the entire Scholastic staff, I would like to welcome everyone back for another great year.
Welcome to Scholastic
For some of you, this may be your first issue of Scholastic. If you like it (or maybe if you don’t) and would like to work for us, we would love to have you. We are always open to changes and welcome new ideas. If we missed you at activities night, or if you missed us, please stop by our office. Scholastic is located on the third floor of LaFortune and you can also phone us at239-7569. We are always looking for writers in all of our departments: news, sports, campus life, entertainment and departments as well as artists and photographers. We don ’ t have tough credentials; all we ask is that you are ambitious and willing to work.
For those of you who have more experience, there are still somepositions availableon the editorial board this fall. The positions include News Editor, Departments Editor and Systems Manager. If you are interested in any of these positions or would like to find out more about any of these jobs, stop by the Scholastic office and pick up an application. Applications are due Friday, September 11, at 5 p.m.
In This Issue
This week’s cover story is on the opening of the DeBartolo building. After receiving the eighteenth largest donation in the university’s history, the DeBartolo classroom building is providing more than just classrooms for students.. It is filled with computers, advanced audio-visual equipment and a new auditorium. Allyson Grippando shows us what we can find inside the DeBartolo building.
In Campus Life, editor Mollie Mudd takes a look at some of the more interesting summer jobs that students held this summer. Sports editor Jim Kuser prepares us for another football season while sports writer Amanda Clinton brings us up to date on the women’s soccer team.
Also this week, you’ll find the Station Manager of WVFI, Dan Langrill, in Final Word with some reasons why you should give the radio station a listen. You can also read CampusWatch with the Gipper, On Other Campuses, Week In Distortion and this week’s Coming Distractions calendar. Enjoy the issue.
Patricia Doyle
Editor in Chief
^byERTiGlNGS-<:A^ Manager KarenRitey
©USINESS^^jl^.^ Manager Eile^'Shelley
DISTRIBUTION MANAGER
Bill Rhomberg;:

Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examinaiion and vaadian periods of the University of Noire Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription raieis $25.00jyearand back issues are available at $125 [copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty ar students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolidtied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leiters to Scholasticnnist be typed and include the writer’s none, address and phone number. University students should indude their year in school and college. Faculty membersshouldincludetheir department. All letters must be signed. Nones will he withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject tetters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copy filling, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS COMMENTARY
Campusl/l/afc/7
I nvTnrrTDDrn
Hey ho, kiddies! The Gipper has returned to campus, maybe not quite as bright-eyed and bushy tailed as any of the freshmen who have joined us this year, but he’s back nonetheless. Of course, this means that he’s ready for you CampusWatchers to let him know any rumors, tidbits or otherwise amusing info which you might want to share with your fellow students. If you ever have a tip for the Gipp, call Scholastic at 239-7568 or drop us a line through Campus Mail. Our address is 303 LaFortune.
THE BIG
SQUEEZE
One of the first things the Gipp noticed upon beginning classes this semester was a major design flaw in the new DeBartolo Building. Even though the building’s architects took every pain to make sure that all the rooms were equipped with the latest in high-tech computers, TV monitors and ultra-chic furniture, they forgot to consider the question of getting in and out of their ultramodern learning environment. You CampusWatchers have doubtless been part of the lemming race that occurs at the beginning and end of scheduled class times when everyone in the building tries to enter or exit through the same door (the one on the north side, near the Engineering building). The DeBartolo Building does indeed have other doors, but unless one is planning to head over to the Morris Inn for a quick bite or going over to the football stadium for practice, they seem to be somewhat badly placed. The Gipp would like to sponsor a contest to find the most creative solution for re-routing the flow of class-goers or otherwise reducing the traffic through the north set of doors. If you have a solution (humorous or even practical), please let us know.
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
NEWSPEAK NONSENSE
The Gipp was also somewhat amused by some of the euphemistic terms used by the designers of the building. For instance, the DeBartolo building does not have any “lounges”: sitting rooms in the new building are called “interaction spaces.” In the same vein, the big room full of computers is not a “computer lab” or a “computer room,” but rather, a “computer cluster.” The term “interaction space” brings to mind students actually sitting and talking to each other in a study lounge, something which everyone knows happens only on the second floor of the library. “Computer cluster” sounds vaguely like a candy or maybe the Pentagon’s latest smart bomb. Euphemism spotters are welcome to submit any amusing observations to the Gipp.
SAFE
HAVENS
In other infrastructure news, administration officials (Big Brother?), in trying to. help enforce the new (non-)smoking policy, have also posted hew “No Smoking” signs in all campus buildings. Most likely, the logical contradiction in these signs has only occurred to smokers. The signs read “smoking permitted in designated areas only,” but the Gipp has yet to find a single indoor area on this campus designated for smoking. Traditional smokers’ hangouts like the Huddle have emptied as smokers try to find refuge from the cold (yes, already in August) in wind-sheltered outside niches of buildings or on the front steps of any number of dormitories. If anyone can find a smoking lounge on campus, the Gipp would like to know about it.
THE GIPP'S
BOOK-
STORE
CONTEST
No new semester would be complete without the obligatory experience with book-buying insanity at the Hammes Notre DameBookstore®. The Gipp is continuing the tradition begun last year of seeking out the individual with the most horrendous book-buying tale. Keep track of your purchases: we would like to know which student had the highest total cost for books, the highest cost for a single book and the worst general waiting-in-line experience. Winners will be published in a forthcoming issue. Don’t get excited, we’re not giving away prizes, we’re just hoping to help some of you feel vindicated that there was indeed someone who got screwed worse than you did.
SHIRT SCAM
Those of you CampusWatchers who have bought this year's edition of “The Shirt” may have noticed a bit of discrepancy in the prices of said shirt at different sale locations. The price has been $10 in the dorms, $10 plus tax at the LaFortune Info Desk and $ 12 plus tax in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore®. Can anyone find a motive for this disparity besides naked profit-mongering on thepartoftheBookstore? Rise up, Domers, revolt against “The Man” and buy it from your RAs! Off-campus Domers, gripe and complain of this unfair treatment! And remember, Campus Watch is working for you.
3
NEWS
New Classroom Facility Opens Its Doors
DeBartolo Quadrangle the eighteenth largest collegiate donation in history
by Allyson Grippando
In 1989 Edward J. DeBartolo gave the University of Notre Dame one of the largest gifts in American higher education — $33 million. The gift is the eighteenth largest ever donated to a college or university and the largest gift ever given to Notre Dame. Used to underwrite the new
ginning of the 1992-93 academic year. Housing eighty-four classrooms and covering 156,000 sq. feet (almost four acres), the three story classroom building was designed by Ellerbe Becket and contracted through Casteel Construction. Within DeBartolo Hall the classrooms come in six different sizes: sixteen 20-person rooms,
fourteen 20-person seminar rooms, eighteen 30-person rooms, twenty-four 50-person rooms, six 100-person rooms and three 250-person rooms. The 450-person auditorium and the three larger classroom sizes all have ceiling-mounted video/computer projectors, built-in stereo sound systems and screens at the front-center of the rooms.
academic quadrangle located on the east side of North Notre Dame Avenue, the money has been allocated for the construction of the Edward J. DeBartolo Hall, the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and the general development of the quad.
$ 16 million went to the classroom facility, $14 million has been earmarked for the performing arts center and the remaining $3 million will aid in the construction of the quadrangle. Completing the new DeBartolo quad are the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, dedicated last fall to kick off the Sesquicentennial Year and the yet-to-be built facility for the College of Business Administration.
On October 9,1992 DeBartolo Hall will be dedicated as the close of the year-long sesquicentennial celebration, but the $22 million facility opened for use at the be-
Nick Spangler
The new DeBartolo Quadrangle will be dedicated on October 9,1992
SCHOLASTIC
I
i

Nick Spangler
The new classroom and computer facility Is more modern inside and out than many other campus buildings.
They also have some form of comermounted or free-standing screens for overhead projection. The three smaller-sized rooms are equipped with large television monitors that can play back in stereo audio, and all of the rooms will have overhead projectors as part of the room equipment.
Despite all of the audio/video equipment installed in each classroom, the main attraction of the new facility is Media-on-Call, an instructional technology delivery system. Each of the eighty-four classrooms and the auditorium contain a Media-on-Call panel which allows the instructor to operate any six pieces of equipment in the same way as well as through one remote control. Any medium, including video cassettes, laser discs, electronic stills, 35mm slides, 16mm film, satellite transmissions and television, can be brought into the classroom, and the fiber-optic network allows instructors to pre-schedule as many as six media sources in one class period through the computer in the building’s Master Control. Media-on-
Call is easy to use and the system is designed so that it is virtually impossible for the professor to harm the equipmentby accidentally pushing the wrong button. Educational Media, under the guidance of Sr. Elaine DesRosiers, O.P., Ed. D., director and
“Media-on-Call dramatically increases the professors’ flexibility ...”
Michael Langthome, associate director, has implemented a training program for instructors on how to use the media end of the system. The main function of Media-on-Call is to bring audio and video to the classroom with ease, as promoted in the slogan, “Push buttons, not carts.”
With the new system, instructors will be able to use a medium in itself, switch between a medium and computers or integrate audio and video with computers.
This integration enables a professor to display audio/video images directly on a computer screen while creating graphics with the computer simultaneously. Due to Media-on-Call, instruction in DeBartolo Hall is no longer merely linear. By allowing for alternation between relevant segments of more than one program, a non-linear dimension has been given to the teaching/ learning environment. “Me
dia-on-Call dramatically increases the professors’ flexibility in using media or computers during lecture and yet keeps the control of those devices very simple. Students will get much more involvement in the lecture — they will be able to interact much more in the lecture than they can now,” explained Langthome.
With the ability to display moving graphics and images on a computer screen in the classroom, instructors will be able to facilitate visual representations of concepts that would otherwise be difficult to grasp. Media-on-Call is designed to benefit both the faculty and students of all departments and colleges.
Also located in DeBartolo Hall are the administrative offices of Educational Media, two full time staff persons and some student-assistants for the Office of University Computing and Dr. Edward Kline, Director of the Freshman Writing Program. A computer cluster on the first floor and computer classrooms on the second and third
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
our family hopes to make this [Notre Dame] educational experience possible for more students.”
floors complete the building. Some of the smaller classrooms are also equipped with
computers in addition to the auditorium mentfirm.
which houses all of the presently available technology.
Dennis K.
Brown, assistant director of public relations and information, best describes the resources of this new facility in stating, “As far as we have been able to determine, DeBartolo Hall is the most technologically advanced classroom building in the country. Other universities have this technology in various forms, but no one else has it all under one roof.”
Edward J.
Nick Spangler
DeBartolo, Sr. of
Youngstown, Ohio has a deep-rooted commitment to and love
for the University of Notre Dame. Graduating from Notre Dame in 1932 with a degree in civil engineering, DeBartolo, Sr. sent his son, Edward J. DeBartolo, Jr. (a 1968 graduate), to Notre Dame and his daughter, Marie Denise DeBartolo York
graduated from St. Mary’s College in 1972.
Founding his corporation in 1944, Debartolo, Sr. opened his first shopping center four years later in his hometown of Youngstown.
Since then, his corporation has evolved into the world’s largest shopping mall development and manage-
In partnership with Dillard Department Stores, Inc., DeBartolo owns the Higbee
The new quad replaces what formerly served as parking for the football stadium with facilities to bring the university into the next century.
Company, a department/specialty store chain based in Cleveland, Ohio. DeBartolo also assisted Campeau Corporation in the acquisition of Allied Stores Corp, and Federated Department Stores. These firms have
forged a strong working relationship which directs the development of many top-notch retail organizations, including Abraham & Straus, Bloomingdale’s, the Bon Marche, Burdines, Jordan Marsh, Lazarus, and Maas Brothers. Mixed-use projects, sports facilities, hotels, office towers, industrial and executive parks are also part of the company’s holdings.
DeBartolo and his family are among the nation’s largest investors in sports enter
prises. Sports holdings include the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League and the three-time world champion
National Football League the San Francisco
49ers (owned by DeBartolo, Jr.). The firm recently opened the Marie P. DeBartolo Sports Centre—now
home to the 49ers — in Santa Clara, California and also operates three of the country’s finest thoroughbred racetracks — Louisiana Downs in Bossier City, Remington Park in Oklahoma City, and Thistledown in Clevland.
Marie P. D e B a r t o 1 o , DeBartolo, Sr.’s wife, passed away in 1987. The performing arts center has been dedicated in her memory. DeBartolo, Jr. explained the DeBartolo family’s generosity toward and support of Notre Dame: “The education which I received at the uni-
versity was of the finest quality and has enabled me to attain both my personal and professional goals. Through the development of the DeBartolo Quadrangle, our family hopes to make this educational experience possible for more students.” □
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
DeBartolo Building Offers More Terminal Experiences for Students
New classrooms equipped with expanded computer facilities
by Margaret S. Kenny
In addition to the increased classroom space and technological advancements such as Media-on-Call, the yet-to-be-dedicated DeBartolo classroom building also offers improved and expanded computer facilities.
Within the ultra-modem walls of Notre Dame’s newest institutional facility, each classroom is equipped with computing capabilities. According to Dave Mastic, from the Office of University Computing which is located in the building,the professors teaching in the DeBartolo building have access to the university’s four computing platforms: DOS, Mac, NeXT and SUN. In the majority of the classrooms, the professor is able to work with a monitor and subsequently project the image onto a large screen visible to all of the students. Any room that does not have a computer for the professor’s use has the capacity to adapt to a portable system, Mastic said.
Yet the DeBartolo building is further equipped with two “collaborative classrooms,” said Mastic. In these unique facilities, the professor is provided with a com-. puter on which to demonstrate, while the students sit in front of their own computers, thus providing a more hands-on approach.
One of the two collaborative classrooms is equipped with 60 Macintosh computers as well as seating for 60 students. Thisparticu-
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
lar collaborative classroom, stated Mastic, was especially designed with the Freshman Writing Program in mind, although not solely for that particular purpose. Mastic stressed that the computer facilities are for the benefit of all the university’s students, notspecifically for those who are assigned to the particular classrooms.
The other collaborative classroom is equipped for the DOS system, yet not as many computer terminals are available. The classroom, like the Mac collaborative classroom, seats 60 students. But, the students
Nick Spangler
The computer cluster In DeBartold will open on September 7.
must share their terminal as there are only 30 computers in the room.
Another component to the Office of University Computing within the DeBartolo building is the computer cluster. This computer laboratory, the university’s eleventh, is located on the first floor of the facility and is designed in the fashion of its predecessors.
Mastic said that all of the computers located in DeBartolo are connected to the campus network, and the facilities are meant to serve all of the students’ needs once the computer cluster opens September 7. □
DOLLARS
for
DOMERS
Five fun and interesting summer jobs
By Mollie Mudd
To go beyond the typical internships and waitressing jobs, five Notre Dame students took control of their lives and their earning potential to create fun and profitable summer employment for themselves.
Patty Chern, senior, had a summer job that placed her as the only woman in the center of 45 male employees. Chern worked for a public works department of a small township outside of Philadelphia as a trash collector. "It was the funnest job I ever had,” Chemsaid.
“Hauling trash each day was an adventure. It really is amazing what you can learn from people’s trash.”
Chern has “a million funny stories from : this summer.” “The guys were such practical jokers,” she said. The town was on a multiple truck system, one after the other from trash to recycling, so the guys would play tricks on the other workers coming behind them in the next truck. “They would put concrete in the newspaper recycling bags to make them really heavy for the guys on the recycling truck and the recycling workers would cut out a circle from the bottom of all the trash bags so it would all fall out when we would pick them up. It was really fun to see what they would do next,”
she said.
Chern reflects, “It’s a dirty job, but a fun job.” She said, “The smell, of course, was not too great; but at what other job can you wear your worst clothes, make lots of money, get a tan and get in shape all at
once?”
Chern recalls some funny things people would do, “Kids would stand out and wait
^Hauling trash each day Was an ^dv^riture.’^;
■Patty'Cliem
for us so they could wave or give us “five” and their moms would watch us with longing as we threw away an old game or something they were throwing away and really wanted to keep.”
There were some pickups on the route that they dreaded though. “We really hated
when people moved out. Everything on earth would be out there: couches, TVs, everything.”
There was even a guy on the route that the workers played a joke on. “This guy had donesomething the guys didnotlike; so they
■ took his trash can and threw it under a huge
bush at the end of his driveway,” she said. The guy apparently did not see it for the whole summer, so on Chern’s last day they pulled it out and left it at the end of the driveway. “Imagine his surprise when he came home from work that night and the exact trash can he had been missing for three . months was there waiting for him.”
Working from 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m., rain or shine, was pretty demanding, but Chern and her fellow employees created a “township thank you” for themselves in the form of a free pizza party. “Every Thursday and Friday this local pizza place would attach coupons to the pizza boxes saying if you save ten coupons you get a free pizza. Well, no one ever thought they would eat 10 pizzas so we collected these coupons and on my last day we went down to the restaurant and ordered 6 pizzas as we handed over our 60 coupons. It was great,” she said.
Chern said, “I would do this job again in a second. It was such a fun job and the guys were so nice.” She said, “The guys were
8
SCHOLASTIC
teasing me that since I’m an English major, I will be back, and they might be right.”
Summer in Alaska? It was no question for senior Kevin Keefe who ventured to an exclusive resort lodge in Alaska about 50 miles northeast of Ketchikan. The lodge, only accessible by floatplane or boat, caters to movie stars, directors and various other wealthy people. Keefe, who has worked there for two summers, is a fishing boat tour guide. He takes guests salmon and halibut fishing in inland saltwater.
Some of the “famous and pretty wealthy guests” that Keefe has seen frequently at the lodge are movie stars Kevin Costner and Kirk Douglas, along with “Out of Africa”director, Sydney Pollock. Working for such clientele left Keefe with “a good salary and great tips too.” Keefe prides himself on “saving a guest’s life,” but the story is confidential because “it would be very embarrassing for the guest involved.”
Along with his day-to-day boating excursions, Keefe would occasionally take guests touring along paths in the woods. There was “one very tense moment I remember while guiding a guest.” There was a walking trail behind the lodge that led to a river for fishing.
"Whenever we have to go into the woods we have to carry a .44 magnum pistol just in case of bears.” Keefe was also accompanied, luckily, by a very alert dog that “just started barking like crazy.” "Something was definitely not normal, so I pulled out my pistol and got ready for the worst.”
Out of the brush , about 30-40 feet from Keefe and his guest, “a big black bear came lumbering out. She raised iip on her hind legs, and she was definitely not happy,”
Kevin Keefe
Kevin Keefe In action, fishing in the Alaskan waters.
Keefe said. The dog continued to bark and began to growl as the bear’s two black cubs scurried up a tree. Kevin had his gun raised and ready because he had “no idea what would happen next."
Finally, the bear backed down and climbed up the tree after her cubs." Keefe liked his job, the guests and the money he made, but he will probably be getting a fulltimejob this coming summer after he graduates.	-
Another interesting summer job that was also out of the contiguous United States was senior Mike Fisk’s experience in former East Germany. Fisk joined an International Work camp sponsored by Volunteers for Peace. He and 17 other international volunteers from Portugal, Sweden, Ireland, Canada and Italy, worked for three weeks in
a deteriorating forest near the border of East and West Germany.
“There is a huge trek of forest and wetlands that was being drained by farmers but not replenished because no one was allowed in this area during the split of East and West Germany or they would be shot,” Fisk said.
There were two groups in the camp. One dug irrigation and drainage ditches and the other built a wooden pathway. Fisk tried digging the first day and realized “there is no
way I could handle that” so he joined the group that was building a wooden path on stilts through the forest It was being createdtobea“leamingpath." “Therewere plaques that told the types of trees there and other various facts about that particular section of the forest.”
Fisk got to and from work on his “prewar-built bike” that he said “rode like I was pedaling up a hill constantly.”
Fisk lived in a hay loft that “looked like it was about to collapse” on an old run-down farm. He said, “My relatives and my mom dropped me off and didn’t want to let me stay.”
Fisk himself was a little reluctant after his first glimpse too, but he was interested and eager enough to join this group that he stayed. Fisk ate in what used to be pig stalls.
“It was very primitive,” Fisk said. The plumbing had been installed the day before they arrived: “The toilet was right in the kitchen and the shower was a halfhour bike ride away.”
The volunteers cooked their own food. Each person cooked a favorite meal from their country to share with the others. Fisk shared “grilled cheese, com and watermelon” with his international friends.
They had fresh milk daily. “Someone would ride their bike to the farmhouse, pail in hand, to get milk that was obviously unpasteurized. It was
so thick it made the milk here look like water. Forget supermarkets: everything we ate was fresh,” Fisk said.
Fisk experienced the obvious differences between the East and West regions of Germany. “East Germany has all the basic necessities, but they are leveled down extensively from the West’s standards.”
Fisk’s job included a bit of education too. The volunteers took bike trips to various sights and were taught about the forest and
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
9
)!
jb
the different types of trees. They also listened to stories told by East Germans about their life in the past and present. Fisk said “It’s hard to imagine what went on here, even when you are standing right there where the Wall was.”
Fisk said, “I had a great time and would definitely do it again if I ever get the chance.”
Closer to home, sophomore Pat Jordan spent his summer months setting up appointments and giving a two-hour lecture to customers interested in buying Cutco knives. Jordan, the #3 salesman in Michigan of Cutco, sold $17,000 worth of knives this summer. Jordan who would make around twenty phone calls daily, which would equal only about 40 appointments per week, carried his briefcase of knives with him everywhere.
“I sold Cutco for Vector Marketing near my home office in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and in Minneapolis, Minnesota,” Jordan said. “I made a lot of money and had so much fun.”
"I worked on commission the whole summer, even though the company will pay you a base salary if you have not made at least $360 after
40 appointments.” The job itself, Jordan recalls, “was more like play than work. The wholecompany wasjustaboutall college kids.”	Another perk of
the job, Jordan said, was that “there were so many good-looking chicks in our office, it wasn’t even funny!” The other employees and the customers were “friendly and nice and honest”
The company itself, Jordan said, “is not about selling knives, it is about people.” Jordan, being one of the top Michigan salesmen, was treated by Cutco to an exclusive
party at The Rattlesnake Club, a classy res-taurant/bar in Detroit. “The top 65 sellers were all college kids, so it was so fun. We were then taken on a cruise that night on the Detroit River that gave us free dinner and drinks all night—it was awesome!” Jordan said.
As Jordan reminisced about his summer he said, “If someone was to take all of the money and all of the friends I made this
“Being a salesman, you get to meet a lot of interesting people — One guy even chased me out of his house with a gun,” said Ryan Hallford.
summer away, I still would have grown 200% in self-confidence from this great job.”
"It seems like everyone I talk to sold Cutco knives this summer. It was such a good job," Jordan said.
Ryan Hallford was also singing the praises of door-to-door salesmanship this summer. Hallford, a sophomore, made $10,700 gross profit from selling study guides for Southwestern Company in West
Kentucky and Southern Illinois.
“I ran my own business. Southwestern just supplied the study guides. My R. A. from last year suggested I be on his team and he was my manager this summer,” Hallford said.
Originally from Arlington, Texas, Hallford was a little anxious about being assigned where he would sell by the company. “They told me one day and the next
day we took off.”
The company did not supply the salesmen with housing either. “When we got there we basically j ust had to go knocking on doors for a place to stay,” he said. That part of the job worried Hall ford, but his customers would invite him to stay with them or offer him home-cooked meals. “I never stayed overnight at a customers house, but I did eat a few meals with some customers. If I made good money one week, I could afford
10
SCHOLASTIC i
to stay in a hotel,” Hallford said.
Hallford went door-to-door, or actually farm-to-farm since he was working in a rural region, from 8 a.m. to around 10 p.m. daily, visiting about 100 houses a day. “The company trained me really well. I knew just what a customer was going to say and how I should respond,” he said.
Hallford enjoyed his job. At first he had
trouble dealing with rejection until he realized how funny it was when “people got rude and all worked up. I would totally ruin their whole day.”
Hallford has a variety of interesting experiences he recalls. “I had a dog bite my leg, a mom make a pass at me, a man who chased me away from his door with a gun and a guy who answered the door naked.” Hallford also
remembers the night when he “backed right into a cornfield. It was good that the people were so nice.”
Hallford is proud of his earnings and surprised at how well he did. He will be managing a team of his own next summer and hopes to be working with other Notre Dame students.	□
is looking for people to fill the positions of:
News Editor Departments Editor Systems Manager
Applications are available in room 303 LaFortune and are due by Friday, September 11 at 5 p.m.
These are paid positions.
■ SEPTEMBER 3, 1992	11
Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 3
Movie: "Crazy People," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Book Sale: "Dirty Book Sale," 9:00 a.m. — 3:30 p.m., Concourse, Hesburgh Library.
Volleyball: Notre Dame Women vs.
New Orleans, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
Friday 4
Movie: "Crazy People," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Wayne's World," 7:30 & 9:45p.m., Snite, $2.
Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Club House, Saint Mary's College.
Volleyball: Women's Volleyball Big Four Classic, 5:30 & 8:00 p.m., JACC.
Saturday 5 !
Movie: "Grand Canyon," 8:00 & 10:30	1
p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Wayne's World," 7:30 & 9:45 ’ p.m., Snite, $2.
Volleyball: Women's Volleyball Big Four Classic, 5:30 & 8:00 p.m., JACC. Football: Notre Dame vs. Northwestern
Wildcats, 2:30 p.m., Soldier Field.


Laf^rtunelnfoimationlD^:
Senior Classi
Snite Film: Series Hot Line:
NotreDameMenuLine:283-FOOD
WeekendWeelsSchedule:	£
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press x 2101 for movie info.
x 2114 for the music line x 2112 for concert info.
- x 2117 for theatre info.
' x 2525 for college events
x 1600 for local weather x 1603 for national weather , ' x 1903 for movie reviews 4 .■ < . x1300 for local sports info. / x 1301for TV sports evenfs x 1303 for national sports report x 1213 for world news

Sunday
events scheduled.
Tuesday
8
Film: "Drugstore Cowboy," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Children of Paradise," 9:00 pjn., Snite, $2
Volleyball: Notre Dame Women vs.
Moorehead State, JACC.
TOUCH I FOUR
Monday i
ilm: "The Cheat," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
ilm: "Dracula," 9:00 p.m, Snite, $2.
Wednesday
Meeting: Faculty Senate, CCE.
9
COMING SOON... They Might Be Giants
Thursday, September 10 Stepan Center
Movie Theatres:
6:3OJa?m^i
asses
0O3&SM
100 Center Cinema I&H 259-0414
Wiv^i^POC • j 277-0441,
Scottsdale Theatre •	, 291-4583
University Park Cinema East:
3	277-7336
Monday
Satufdawbnl



J®naay|^Sa^

259-9090
EoiumTO

a
Ji
Seeking
Redemption
Irish eyes are smiling as Notre Dame is in the national championship hunt, again
By Jim Kuser
A ftertheFightingIrishsuffereda35-13 zV scorching at the hands of the Nittany Lions last season, Happy Valley, Pennsylvania, the home of Penn State, begrudgingly became not-so-happy-a-valley for Notre Dame’s faithful football followers. The loss to Penn State came on the heels of the heartbreaking 35-34 loss to Tennessee, a loss that Notre Dame Coach Lou Holtz called “maybe the most demoralizing defeat of my coaching career.” And so, on that dismal day in that somber setting of the losers’ locker room at Penn State, Coach Holtz had to convince his charges that they could compete at a championship caliber.
“In 1987, we lost 21-20 to Penn State and were then blown out by Miami. In 1991, we lost35-34 to Tennessee and were then blown outby Penn State," criedHoltz. "Butremem-ber what happened in 1988. We won a national championship.”
Is this 1988 and 1992 parallel prophetic? If it is, Irish eyes are already smiling. Notre Dame is 2-0 in 1992, according to Coach Holtz, and still ahead is a schedule consisting of road dates with Northwestern, Michigan State, Pittsburgh, Navy and Southern California, and home dates with Michigan, Purdue, Stanford, Brigham Young, Boston College and last year’s nemesis Penn State.
How are the Fighting Irish able to be 2-0 in
14
Sports Information
Suffering "maybe the most demoralizing defeat of [his] coaching career" in 1991, Notre Dame's Head Coach Lou Hoitz has his team seeking redemption in 1992.
1992 before the season starts? The answer is traceable to that same dismal day in that same somber setting of the losers’ locker room at Penn State. Coach Holtz had continued to convince his charges.
“I do not like losing back-to-back," explained Holtz. "We have Hawaii and a bowl game remaining to rectify this thing. 1992 starts today. We will rejuvenate and be back with a vengeance. We are seeking
redemption.”
1992 started that day for the Fighting Irish, who went on to win a48-42 over Hawaii and 39-28 on New Year’s Day overFloridainthe Sugar Bowl.
Putting Coach Holtz’s possible prophecy aside and considering the concrete components of the Fighting Irish, the 1992 season is theirs for the taking. The ability and the attitude, the speed and the strength are all
SCHOLASTIC
Northwestern Sports Information
Northwestern's Gary Barnett will have his hands full in his inaugural game as head coach against Notre Dame.
there. The 1992 Fighting Irish are effective, efficient, enthusiastic, and exceptionally experienced.
With 42 lettermen returning in 1992, Notre Dame loses only 13 of the 1991 lettermen. Of these 13, Notre Dame loses only six starters, five on offense (All-
America tight end Derek Brown, AllAmerica guard Mirko Jurkovic, center Gene McGuire, split end Tony Smith, and tailback
Rodney Culver) and one on defense (strong safety Rod Smith).	.
There are 16 starters returning in 1992, six on defense and ten on offense. The defensive depth is deceptive. Of the 23 players that started on defense in 1991 at one time or another, 19 return in 1992. There is no offensive depth. However, there are more marquis players on offense.
Senior co-captain quarterback Rick Mirer operates the offense by handing the ball to 1991 team leading rusher, junior fullback Jerome Bettis, or by throwing the ball to 1991 team leading receiver, junior flanker Lake Dawson. Blocking for Mirer, Bettis, and Dawson are fifth-year seniors Justin Hall at tackle, Lindsay Knapp at guard and
junior Aaron Taylor at guard. Blocking, but also receiving, are senior tight end Irv Smith and junior tight end Oscar McBride, who will be back soon after suffering a broken jaw bone in last Saturday’s scrimmage. Perfecting the offense is senior punter/ placekicker Craig Hentrich. The 1992 offense intends to improve upon the statistics that made the 1991 offense’s status the most productive in Fighting Irish history in terms of total points scored and total yards gained per game.
On defense, senior co-captain inside linebacker Demetrius DuBose (who led the 1991 team in total tackles and has been at the center of.preseason controversy), fifth-year defensive end Devon McDonald (who led the 1991 team in tackles for losses), junior defensive tackle Bryant Young (who led the 1991 team in quarterback sacks), junior cornerback Tom Carter (who led the 1991 team in interceptions) and junior free safety Jeff
Burris (who was ranked among the nation’s top punt returners) look to add credibility to their otherwise outstanding list of accomplishments. Junior Willie Clark, who had switched from cornerback to tailback to cornerback, brings blazing speed (a team fastest 4.29 in the 40) to the secondary.
The fifth-year seniors won the national championship in 1988 and compiled a 23-game winning streak. Their teammates seek
similar success.
“We want to bring the national championship back to Notre Dame,” said Mirer. “For those of us that are seniors, this is our last opportunity to do it.”
Coach Holtz’s comments concerning national championship talk are typically conservative.
“I will tell you this: We are not going to be a bad football team. There are always a lot of unknowns at the start of a season, but we are prepared to play and to put forth an excellent effort”
And so, the stage is set for the 1992 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team to storm the field and fight its formidable foes, including the 1991 winners of the Big Ten
(Michigan), the Western Athletic Conference (Brigham Young) and the Fiesta Bowl (Penn State).
Ponder the possibilities of Coach Holtz’s comments:
“One thing that you are always able to tell is what type of an attitude a football team has. Right now, this team wants to be good. It is capable of being very, very good. This is a football team that I am pleased with and proud of at this stage of the game. It is capable of doing great things if it maintains the appropriate attitude. Winning is an attitude. This team has the will to win.”
This Saturday, Notre Dame should start its season with winning ways by branding Northwestern, the Big Ten’s domineering doormat, as a whipping boy. The Wildcats are overwhelmingly overmatched against the Fighting Irish. Although Northwestern boasts two bonafide professional prospects in sophomore running back Dennis Lundy (his 568 yards in 142 attempts led Wildcat ground gainers last year) and in senior quarterback Len Williams (his 62 percent passing proficiency and 10-6 touchdown-interception ratio enabled him to establish a Wildcat offensive record of 136 yards per game last year), and although the Wildcats showed signs of hope by beating Illinois and Michigan State, first year Head Coach Gary Barnett has no offensive or defensive depth. However, Notre Dame is nothing new to Barnett, who had faced the Fighting Irish three times as an assistant coach at Colorado (a 1984 regular season game, and 1989 and 1990 post-season games in the Orange Bowl).
Nonetheless, with Michigan only one week away, Coach Holtz will not overlook Northwestern.
“It’s awfully difficult preparing for any opening game, but especially one against a team that we haven’t played in recent years and one with a new head coach. It’s kind of like preparing for ghosts. We don’t really know what to do to get ready. You want to keep things simple in an opening game, but it’s tough in this situation. Northwestern is obviously capable of making a move in the Big Ten this year after surprising a couple of teams in the league last year.”
Northwestern surprises some Big Ten teams, but it takes a bigger bag of tricks to surprise Notre Dame.	□
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
■SI
We believe in
ourselves
It is going to take a lot of heart to send the women's soccer team to the top as seven starters are lost to injury and the Irish are brought to the brink of a brutal schedule
By Amanda Clinton
Many Fighting Irish sports enthusiasts remember 1988 as the last time that
Notre Dame won a national championship in college football. But to a group of women working toward the creation of Notre Dame’s first varsity women’s soccer team beneath the shadows cast by a top-ranked, media-hyped football team, 1988 meant more than beating Michigan and Miami at home or beating West Virginia at the Fiesta Bowl. To this group of women, 1988 was the birthday of a new team and new dreams: dreams of winning their own national championships and adding their own accomplishments and accolades to the long, lofty list that is called “Notre Dame Tradition.”
Although Notre Dame’s varsity women’s soccer program has existed for only four . years, it has developed from one fighting for survival to one of the top twenty in the nation. With the arrival of Head Coach Chris Petrucelli two years ago, the Irish ha ve strengthened the schedule, won more games, and exploded onto the national sports scene.
In .1991, Notre Dame faced several national powerhouses. The Irish started by shocking William and Mary, a team that had . had high preseason credentials, with a 1-0
Sports Information
"The question will not be whether we will be ready for the big name teams," says Head Coach Chris Petrucelli. "The question will be if we are ready to play every game.” Plagued by Injuries, the graduation of all-time leading scorer Susie Zilvitls, and an agonizing schedule, this in itself Is seen as no small accomplishment for this team.
16
SCHOLASTIC
victory. Notre Dame clashed with Massachusetts, ranked in the top ten, and barely lost 1-0. And after battling against 11 th-ranked Central Florida, the Irish did not despair after their 3-0 defeat
One of the biggest changes for the Irish in the 1991 season was the difficulty of the schedule. But if Notre Dame thought that its schedule last year was challenging, this year the Irish have to adjust to arguably the most difficult schedule in the country. Every bit of experience gained last year will be needed to face the opponents lined up for this season: North Carolina State, Duke, Portland, Wisconsin, Stanford,, and Southern Methodist are all Top Twenty teams.
Not only will Notre Dame have to raise its game to compete with the severe schedule, but the Irish will also be forced to adjust to the loss of seven players to injuries. All three tri-captains— Denise Chabot, Margaret Jarc, and Michelle Lodyga — are out for the first several weeks of the season. And Stephanie Porter, who last year held the school record of 16 goals in a season, had reconstructive knee surgery and has not even started training.
“We will have to play differently without her [Stephanie Porter],” comments Head Coach Chris Petrucelli. “She is our only real target player, so our attack will be different Instead of playing the ball right to the feet of players, we will have to play to space.”
With the loss of leadership on the field, Notre Dame will look to the seniors on the sidelines.
“It will be hard for us to sit and watch in our last season,” says tri-captain Jarc. “But we are going to have to be the three best cheerleaders.”
Despite the loss of experience, the younger players on the team have already stepped up to fill the void of the injured players. But the leadership and experience of the injured upperclassmen will be greatly * missed when it comes to playing the big name teams under the big time pressure.
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
“We will have to prepare the freshmen for what Division I, Top Twenty is,” explains Assistant Coach Karen Stanley. “They will be playing against some of the best players in the country and will have to be tough, both mentally and physically. They will have to learn how it feels to be down in goals and
Sports Information
Gone for the start of the season due to injuries are the talents of tri-captains Margaret Jarc, shown above, Denise Chabot, and Michelle Lodyga.
give it their all to get back on top.”
Even though the freshmen lack collegiate experience, they are praised as being a level above former freshmen classes.
“The freshmen are very good. They posses good technical ability,” boasts Petrucelli.
Junior defender Andrea Kurek has been named temporary team captain and will provide leadership on the field for the Irish.
“We have all the confidence in the world in Andy,” reassures sophomore defender
Jill Matesic.
Despite the disappointment of starting off the season with seven injured players, the team still looks to have its best season ever. Last year the Irish finished the season with a 15-2-3 record and the first ever national ranking, 16th. By concentrating on each game, the Irish are confident that they will improve both their record and their ranking this year.
“The question will not be whether we will be ready for the big name teams. The question will be if we are ready to play every game,” explains Petrucelli.
Although Notre Dame begins the season with less experience than some of the nationally known teams they are pitted against, the Irish will be ready.
“Practices are going great,” explains Stanley. “We can cover more stuff quicker than last year because players tactically understand and are working hard.”
The depth of the team insures that with hard work Notre Dame still has the potential to come out on top against every team it is playing.
“It is a weakness to have lost your captains, but at the same time this weakness is a strength because as a team we have pulled together and are playing harder,” states Matesic.
Notre Dame women’s soccer has grown drastically over the past four years. Not only is it impressive that the team finished last season ranked 16th, but the Irish only boasted three seniors and four juniors. As the sched
ule gets more difficult and the players gain more experience, Notre Dame women’s soccer will undoubtedly become one of the best programs in the country.
“Our entire team is Division I caliber,” emphasizes Stanley. “We have real talent, and at this point Notre Dame is recognized as an up-and-coming program. We feel so much excitement. Not so much because people say these things, but because we believe in ourselves no matter what the. problems may be.”	□
17
SS
REVIEW & PREVIEW

by J. Bradley Keck
atholic Disney Land-The Irish Land of Enchantment-Notre Football. On behalf of everyone at the Out of Bounds department, I welcome you back to the only place in the world where there is a 75% chance that winter may start tomorrow. By the way, I am the only one in the O.O.B. department.
Mary, Mary Why Ya Buggin’?
Mary “Tipper” Gore, always in the news for her censorship crusade, must be in a quandary. After taking on the entire music industry and messing up some wonderful cover art with little black and white stickers, she had found her niche. As the champion of no sex, no drugs and no bad things, she was immortalized by RUN-DMC as a spastic prude. Amazingly, just a few weeks ago she was spotted (O.K. she was in front the the entire nation) at the Democratic convention dancing to Fleetwood Mac. I guess if it has a good beat and if your husband might be the next Vice-President it’s alright to shake your thing to the tunes of a band notorious for sexual, chemical and moral improprieties.
Humpin’ Around
Bobby Brown has grown up. Well, I’ll give him the benefit of the doubt No, let’s just say Whitney Houston gave him the benefit of the doubt. After four years of “dating,” Brown and Houston finally became more than just friends and tied the knot. One may wonder what took the pair so long to settle down in the fast paced world of entertainment Nothing really, Brown was just humpin’ and humpin’ and humpin’ around. You see, he has three children. One of which is only two, one about four and one quite a bit older. Speculation is that they belong to “My Angel” or “Tender Roni.” Fact is, none belong to Houston. But get off of his back: “Ain’t nobody humpin’
around.”
By the way, his new album Bobby was out
last Tuesday. With help from LaFace productions and Teddy Riley, Brown has been able to produce another would-be hit record. Most of the new cuts offer the heavy percussion rhythms of New Jack Swing, but Riley has kept them fresh by the adding of a.. George Clinton-type funk to many of the songs like “Get Away” and “Good Enough.” One disappointment is Brown’s duet with his new bride. “Something in Common” pits Brown’s limited range against Houston’s amazing scale. The result is a mediocre duet with Brown singing outside of his natural gritty style and Houston mellowing her superior voice to avoid up-staging her husband.
Bandwagons
. Have you heard the newest from the camp of the Seattle sound? Probably not, because most of you Nirvana freaks have just discovered Temple of the Dog, the joint record from Soundgarden and Pearl Jam, News Flash! For all of you on the cutting edge, this album just celebrated one year of release and its ascent into the Top 10 last week. Kind of reminds me of UB40. Red, Red Wine how come nobody listened the first time?
. Spike Lee, in an interview with the Los Angles Times last week, has begged all
Afro-Americans to skip work and school on the twentieth of November to attend the opening of Malcom X. After going to see him speak at Stepan Center two years ago and being handed a Spike Lee merchandise catalogue on the way in the door, I wonder if the call to boycott work and pay six dollars for his movie is not a means of social protest but a means to bolster the coffers of one Spike Lee. I also wonder how many people will be wearing those nifty $12 hats with a big X? Spike’s 40 Acres and a Mule pro-duction/merchandising company must be on its way to Fortune 500 success. What would Mr. X say?
Up And Coming
Miss Saigon at Chicago’s Auditorium Theater on October third. Seats start at $15 and are available for every night with Saturday seats having only scattered availability. .. Chicago Jazz Fest this Friday, Saturday and Sunday in Grant Park. Acts from Mel Torme and Spyro Gyra to Sonny Rollins play in what once was the largest festival of its kind. For more information call (312) 744-3315... Concrete Blond Saturday and Sunday at Chicago’s Vic Theater.. . Peter Frampton and Kansas tonight at the Rialto Square Theater... Elton John next Friday (Saturday sold out) at the Poplar Creek Music Theater.
:2')A\l-Percolater
■3) Gnome -:Grtom^ ?
4) Murder Inc.
- Choke onfrhif rP- ^
SCHOLASTIC

ENTERTAINMENT
Bands Around the Campus Tune up for Another Big Year
by Steve Brown
Like it or not, we’re back to campus.
Which, of course, means we’re back to rigorous schedules, late hours and possibly a few classes. But this year there is something more to look forward to; something remotely resembling a college campus band scene. Many of the bands from last year have returned, and a number of new groups are popping up. So it promises to be a year filled with lots of quality entertainment,
rival (ND’s major campus band showcase), is another of the bands that is back in action this year. Trumpet player Eric Hanson is proud of the fact that band has “the only horn section on campus.” Hanson describes their sound as a mixture of funk and rhythm and blues, and notes that they play covers of “everything from early Seventies Sly and the Family Stone to recent Prince.”
Another returnee is Victoria’s Real Secret, the runner-up at last year’s NAZZ. The band’s set predominantly draws from a solid
base of original material, and it occasionally includes an originally rewoiked or obscure cover. Drummer Marty Mennes says V.R.S. is about “having fun and doing what we like.” Hopefully the band will be doing just that when they open for They Might Be Giants at Stepan Center on Sept. 10.
Access Denied has also returned this year and they’ll be bringing their energetic set of rock and roll standards back with them. Their playlist includes covers of everything from “Stairway to Heaven” to “It’s the End
both on campus and at your favorite watering hole.
Palace Laundry is one of the bands that has resurfaced from last year’s crop. With members from former groups like Sea Monkey ~ Conspiracy and Crust, the band has a good deal of experience behind them. Bassist Mark Hoffmann says their repertoire includes “new interpretations of your favorites and some spiffy originals.” The band plans to increase its original material this year. You can catch Palace Laundry at Senior Bar on September 30.
Disfunktipn, the winner of last.
year’s NAZZ Fes-
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992	-	19
BNTERJLAINMEN-T
Of the World As We Know It” After a quick start last year, Access Denied is looking for another good year, which they kicked off Wednesday at Senior Bar.
Brian, Colin and Vince has come back, in tandem, for another fun-filled year. The trio performs exclusively original acoustic material which Colin describes as “a bucket o’ fun-n- stuff-n-yeah!” The band is performing at Club 23 this Friday at 10 p.m. And if you go, Colin promises that they’ll “make you smile.”
XYZ Affair, which has been performing around the South Bend area for some time, will also be back again this year. According to vocalist Todd Rozycky, the group plays “a wide variety of material,” drawing from
their collection of originals and covers of everyone from Jane’s Addiction to Billy Idol. XYZ Affair has just added a new bassist and drummer, so no upcoming performance dates have been set yeL
After a strong first appearance at the NAZZ last year, Katharsis returned to play Rockfest last weekend and will probably be appearing frequently this year. Chisel, with the addition of a new bassist, will also be reincarnated this year, bringing their distinctive punk energy and originality back to campus. Then there are fledgling bands like the Porkchoppers (who also played at Rockfest) who are just beginning to take shape and develop.
In short, there is an incredible amount of
musical talent, originality and experience on campus this year. In addition, there are many new musicians out there, along with players whose bandmates have graduated. So my advice to all those band-less musicians out there is to put an ad in the paper. Take a chance and start your own group.
And my advice to the rest of you is to get out there and supportNotre Dame’s campus bands this year. Because we can only have a music “scene,” if this music is “seen.” And with all of the talent around, you may be surprised at what you hear... here at Notre Dame.	□
SCHOLASTIC
Are you interested in
graphics
Then Scholastic is interested in you!
Stop by our office at 303 LaFortune and let us know.
SEPTEMBER 3,1992	21
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Bionic bovines,
sperm salesmen and courses for the clueless
Quick Cash
An editorial in the University Daily Kansan (of the University of Kansas) reported what might best be called a unique money-making opportunity. Apparently some students at the university have taken to donating sperm to a “Fertility Assesment Program.” Those men lucky enough to pass an initial assessment are paid $50 for sperm samples. Rumors around theUniversity of Kansas purport thatapair of roommates managed to pay for a stereo system with their ... donations. And you thought that Notre Dame guys were frustrated.
Winston the Wonder Cow
Researchers at Penn State’s Hershey Medical Center have implanted a wireless artifical heart in a calf, reports the Penn State Weekly Collegian. The lucky bionic bovine, whose name is Winston, has been trotting around with his new heart for about 5 months now. The artificial heart is a prototype for later use in humans. Scientests involved in theproject hope that the heart can be used to reduce the risk of infection and eliminate the need for wires and tubes in future transplant recipients. The only unfortunate side effect in the cow has been that our four-footed friend no longer gives milk. The now artificial cow has, however, produced an abundance ofCheezWhiz.
"Stocks for Jocks" and other winners
If you’re getting depressed about your upcoming course load for the fall semester, this next blurb may upset you even more. Notre Dame has never been known for having an excessive number of “fluff’ or “Mickey Mouse classes” (with the possible exception of the American Studies Department). Some of these course titles, compiled by reporter Richard Reeper of the Chicago Sun-Times, may make you wish that you had gone somewhere else instead. Take, for example, a course from Loyola University in Chicago called “Basic Mime.” The only per-requisite is a can of white face maekup and a tendency to be annoying. Or maybe “Food and People” from the University of New Hampshire, which seems to be something relating to people’s attitudes towards food. “lam hungry. I eat Class dismissed.” The State University of New York at Buffalo has a course called “Licit and Illicit Drugs.” Sampling is discouraged. Temple University offers a course called “UFOs in America” for those students who couldn’t quite get enough of the TV show “Project Bluebook” as children. Or maybe readers would enjoy a class called “Philosophy of Rock Lyrics” from the University of Delaware. Students will be required to sit around a talk heavy after listening to Pink Floyd’s Dark Side of the Moon. Of course, our own beloved university is not entirely devoid of goofy sounding classes. Someof the favorites outoflast semester’s DART book:
“Roads to God” (THEO 250): OK, guys, you take 80/90 West until you get to Harlem Ave., then take the exit northj get off, and it’s the third street on the right. God will have the light on for you.
“Social Problems” (SOC 232): “Oh-my-GAWD! I don’t have a date for the SYR next Friday! WHAT am I gonna do? I think I’ll just DIE!”
“Psychological Testing” (PSY 402): By invitation only.
“Moral Problems” (GSC 243): “Is it wrong to yell ‘Fire’ in a crowded moviehouse?”
“True Confessions?” (ENGL 475A): Prerequisites are two out-ofclass slumber parties where course participants will consume a few beers and then play “I Never.” •
“The Beauty and Relevance of Math” (MATH 102): Possibly the ultimate in “Aw, shucks” course titles. This class seems to be aimed at compiling all of your parents' lectures to you from the times in Junior High when you whined, “But DA-AD, I’m never really going to use this!”
22
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
by Bill Steinbach
-Bjr ere you are, about average height, av-XI erage weight, recently clipped toenails, moving into Notre Dame as a freshman. The campus looks impressive with its i usual lush green grass and unusually friendly security guards. New concrete sidewalksdashinganyhopeofplayingQuad . . volleyball, tens of thousands of overweight squirrels dragging acorns and entire Yo-Cream cones back to their homes, and the pink color in Pangbom all combine to make the ethanol in the air smell like perfume.
So you, your Catholic parents and your twelve brothers and sisters try to negotiate the misdirected signs to your new home. After you file out of the back of your U-Haul and haggle with the RAs over the key/hall tax trade, you finally arrive. Your jaw drops almost as fast as the TV in your arms — it . becomes clear that your room is actually smaller than you possibly could have dreaded. A sigh of relief is heard as Aunt Ethel spies the other door that must have been part of the executive suite you were promised by the “Notre Dame family.” Ha Ha. Then the person you are supposed to spend the next nine months in a 9 x 14 prison with walks in. Aunt Ethel faints.
So five o’clock rolls around, and you and . the rest of the cattle are herded outside for your first orientation “social gathering.” After the saliva starts rolling with a quick round of “suck and blow,” you sink your ■ teeth into some of the university’s finest . meatless cheeseburgers. Next comes the soul-searching conversations consisting of, “So, what’s your name? Where are you from, I mean originally? What’s your major? ...” All this to be followed ten minutes later with, “Aaaaaaah, you’re aaaaaaahhh...
. Chris ... from Boise, right?”
| Shortly after you finish your hamburger, j	someone pokes you in the back, brandishing
। a thick black marker, and begins to sign the back of the shirt recently pawned off by some Junior entrepreneur scrounging money to pay for the items on the “supplemental reading lists.” After meeting 1800 of your soon-to-be closest friends, the caravan takes off homeward bound, and you’re on your own, boys and girls.	O
You're on your own now
SEPTEMBER 3,1992
23

FINAL WORD
Expose Yourself to WVFI —
You May Even Like It by Dan Lan grill
Dan Langrill is the Station Manager of Notre Dame's alternative radio . station, WVFI.
un ey, you know, I’m not in the mood for Dining XI Hall food. Let’s do something different”
“Sure. Different, huh? How about Thai?”
“No, I hate Thai food.”
“Have you ever tried it?”
“Well, no.”
“How do you know that you hate it, then?”
“Well, Bob’s roommate said that he had Thai food once last year at a place in Wyoming and hated it”
“Oh...Well, do you have any ideas?” .
“...How about Taco Bell?”
Why does trying something different have to be likened to pulling teeth when it comes to a Notre Dame student? I don’t think it’s just me, but I was under the impression that the “college experience” was supposed to be enlightening.
Notre Dame, as a rule, accepts intelligent students, but when it comes to common sense, I often wonder. What logical reason does anyone have to make a judgement on hearsay and sweeping generalizations? Instead of making such judgements, I pose the following two questions to all of you:
Have you. ever listened to WVFI and not liked it?
Have you ever tried to get WVFI in your dorm room and were unable to do so?
If you answered -yes’ to one or both, have you ever done anything to let us know? Or have you instead allowed some common myths about us to perpetuate? . Let’s dispel a common ‘WVFI myth’ right here:
MYTH: “I won’t like anything WVFI plays. I listen to  (your style of music here).
I’ve often joked with some of my friends that most ND students would have had a better time if they were 15 years older. Then they would have been alive when, say, Led Zeppelin was just starting out. I, of course, then slapped myself for my own stupidity. Only those “WVFI weirdos” would have listened to them back then. They weren’t that popular yet!
A sentiment like that is actually ironic. So many people here brush off the media', and yet a majority of these same people are so easily swept up in media hype. Do you think
that musicians like Eric Clapton or Elton John automatically started their careers making millions?
Well, I digress. The real topic at hand is the my th-thatnone of you would like our music. I consider myself to have somewhat of a wide variety of musical taste, and yet, I know that there are deejays at WVFI that play music that I personally don’t like. I’m sure some WVFI deejays feel the same about my music also. The difference between us and so many of you, however, is that we’ve at least listened to it, then hated it... not simply hated it off the bat.
If you’re still sitting around your table at the dining hall making inane wisecracks while reading this, let’s talk about what everyone cares about: money. I guess you could say that WVFI is laughing all the way to the bank. You (through Student Activities) are giving us a decent budget every year to play all the music that you’ve been afraid to listen to. You’d may as well get your money’s worth out of us.
And while that’s nothing that I would want more than for everyone on campus to. listen to WVFI, I can speak for the entire WVFI staff when I say that we have no intention of changing our format to play anything other than “alternative music.” We need exposure to new music, and there is no reason why we should be hurt in order to accommodate close-minded students.	\
You would be surprised at the range of music that we play. One.deejay may play industrial or electronic music during his show, while another may like a solely acoustic sound. All laskofyouisthis: Giveusatry. Turn us on (and if you can’t get us, TELL US!) and listen for a while.
If you don’t like what you’re hearing, instead of turning it off and deciding that you hate WVFI, why don’t you call us (239-6400) and tell the deejay what you want to hear. If you don’t know what you want to hear, tell the deejay what type of music you normally listen to. We’ll play something you’d like. Our request policy is rather open-ended. I’d like to ask you to extend us some courtesy.	.
We’ve given your music “a try” for years, and, at least on my part, I know that there is some “classic rock” like Genesis (with Peter Gabriel), for example, that I think is really cool. I can guarantee that there is some music that WVFI plays that you will like too.	.	□
24
SCHOLASTIC
Spencer Green