Vol. XXV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 3, 1891.	No. 5.
Our Government.
Mah is destined for society. God designed that men should fulfil the important trust which He confided to them when He said: “Increase and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it; and rule over the fishes of the sea and the fowls of the air.” But in order to the existence of society, men must have some rules for their guidance.
From experience we see that men are disposed to do wrong; and hence the necessity of governments and laws to check those enormities and to restrain those passions which would otherwise be unbridled in their consequences. The necessary intercourse between individuals, the exigencies of society,—in a word, the progress of civilization,—requires the existence of government and laws. But when we reflect on the difficulty of uniting such discordant elements, so many jarring systems, and'of forming a structure at once simple and comprehensive, capable of affording relief to all classes, and of binding the varied interests of men together by one common bond of union, we must confess that man alone would be incapable of the task. We must acknowledge that without the aid of Divine Wisdom it would be impossible for us to maintain those systems that were established after so many centuries of toil and oppression; and that, if the protecting hand of Divine Providence were to withdraw, these systems would crumble.
There are three principles which should enter into every form of government: first, government should be suitable to the character and disposition of its people; secondly, it should aim to promote the happiness and welfare of that eople; and lastly, it should guarantee some
permanent means of liberty, regulated by a charter, or constitution, defining the privileges of the people and the powers of the government.
In every government there are three distinct powers: the executive, legislative and judicial. These departments are separate and distinct. They should not encroach on each other. The legislative is the law-making power. It should pass no laws contrary to the Constitution, or to the interests of the people. The executive carries the laws into effect. This department . represents the strength and energy of the government. Unity is requisite; for experience proves that a plural executive lacks that decision, that promptness and vigor so necessary, in times of danger and public disorder. The Cabinet are the immediate assistants of our Executive, as the Privy Council are of the English Executive. The President, our executive, requires the consent of the Senate to make treaties, to appoint ambassadors and other public ministers. Thus the appointing power is vested in.the Executive.
The judicial department expounds and applies the laws. Wisdom, a knowledge of the laws, and a love of justice, are the essential qualifications of those whose peculiar province it is to guard the Constitution against dangerous innovation, and to preserve inviolate those rights and privileges reserved to the people. When these three powers of government are controlled by one individual, we have despotism; when lodged in the hands of a few men, aristocracy; and when exercised by the people, we may call it democracy.
Ours is a representative democracy. The people choose representatives from the different sections to attend to their local interests, to levy taxes, and to make appropriations for the National Government, There are also two
7°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Senators from each State, who are the advisers of the President, and the guardians of State rights. The Constitution determines the boundaries of national and State rights. These boundaries should be carefully observed. One of the most important political questions that has agitated the country is the question of State rights. The Constitution grants to the States and to the people those powers not expressly delegated to the National Government. Whether these State rights can be preserved, whether the National Government will not centralize, is a question that I will not undertake to discuss in the present paper.
There are a few peculiar privileges conferred by the Constitution, and enjoyed by the citizens of the United States. Among these are the civil and religious toleration, the trial by grand jury and the presentment of a grand jury in all criminal prosecutions. Congress cannot pass. ex post facto laws, or laws impairing the obligations of contract. In all criminal prosecutions, the accused enjoys the right of a speedy and public trial by a jury of his fellow-citizens. And if condemned, no bill of attainder can work corruption of blood and deprive his innocent offspring of their rightful inheritance.
There are many other privileges enjoyed by our citizens, but space will not permit me to mention them. It is sufficient for me to say . that in theory our Government is excellent^ that rights secured by the Constitution are ample and capable of affording the blessings of liberty to all. But every government rests on the stability of popular character; and especially is this the case with our Government, in which the officers are chosen by the people. For the preservation of this Government it is necessary that the people should be temperate, patriotic, and honest in their political convictions; that they should consider, attentively, the affairs of the nation; and that they should not be revolutionary in their character. They should not be blinded to their own interests, by party factions, nor led by demagogues. Reforms should be effected gradually, not like the sweep of the whirlwind. There should be no prejudice. The Constitution grants liberty of conscience. All classes are equally admitted to the privileges .of citizenship.	. E. M. S.,
To my mind music is an important part of education, where boys have a turn for it. It is a great resource when, they are thrown on the world; it is a social amusement perfectly innocent and, what is so great a point, employs their thoughts.—Cardinal Newman.
Survey for a Railroad.
BY E. M. HOOVER.' .
'	IL
Curves, Grades, and Final Location.
The preliminary lines of a railroad survey are broken ones; that is, they are made up of straight lines of greater or less length, forming different angles at their points of intersection. On the permanent line of the railroad all these angles are rounded off by means of curves of varying radii.
Railroad curves may be divided into two general classes: parabolic and circular. Of the first it is sufficient to say.that they are not used in this country; and therefore it is unnecessary to enter into a detailed account of them. The curve, which theoretically presents the least difficulty both in laying out and in hauling trains around it, is a circular curve, which is divided into simple, reversed and compound curves. A simple curve is an arc of a circle joining two tangent points having one radius, the. degree of. curvature at every point being the same. This curve is used whenever practicable; and, as the manner of laying it out is very similar to that employed for the other two, a description of the methods used to lay out this curve in the field will suffice for all.
. To lay out a curve on the ground, the P C, or starting point, and the degree of curvature D must be known. The length of the curve L is either calculated, as when two existing tangents are to be connected by. it and the point of tangent is known,, or the point of tangent decided upon as the curve is fitted to the ground and the desirable direction of the next tangent becomes obvious. Knowing the P C, D and L, proceed as follows: Set the transit on the P C with the. vernier zeroes together, and take a back sight on the tangent, reverse the telescope and turn off an angle equal to one half D, arid line in the first station; then turn off as many angles—each equal to one half D—as there are stations, or until the point of tangent is reached, lining in the successive stations after each angle.
In putting in turn-outs and crossings, it is sometimes necessary to use a reversed curve, which consists of two simple curves of opposite directions having a common tangent at the point where they meet. This curve should never . be. used where it is possible to avoid it, owing . to the . fact that, the, direction changing, from .rightto left, or .vice versa, it is impossible to give the outer rail of each or either curve the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
proper elevation. Either the change from the elevation of the rail on one side to that on the other must be made very abruptly, or a long distance on each curve will have insufficient elevation. As the ease and steadiness with which a train will pass around a curve depend, to a great extent, upon the correct superelevation being given to the outer rail, the great objection to reversed curves is due to the impossibility of doing this; and the consequent jarring and wrenching to which the rollingstock is subjected increase greatly the wear and tear on both rolling-stock and road-bed.
In building a railroad, there is often used what is called a Transition Curve, the object of which is to make the change in direction from a straight line to a curve of given radius less abrupt than when the required curve joins directly with the straight line, this is accomplished by leaving the straight line on a curve whose radius approaches, infinity and gradually decreasing this radius until it becomes equal to the radius of the required curve. Another object to be sought for by means of this curve is to render the line elastic to a certain extent, that is, to so arrange the connection between the circular curve and the tangent, that the circular curve can be moved back and forth to one side or the other within certain limits, and the connection between it and the tangent still be accurately made.
One thing above all others upon which depends the future success of a railroad is the economical establishment of the grades in detail. This is determined, to a great extent, by the character of the country through which the road is to pass. The grades of a railroad are usually of much more importance than the curves; this is due to the fact that, owing to the configura-^ tion of the country, the grade limits the amount of load that can be hauled by one locomotive. The rate of grade is the angle which the grade line.forms with the horizontal. •	.
From the notes of the preliminary survey we have a profile of the actual line run on the ground, and when an accurate contour map has been made of the belt of country through which the line passes, we are able to make approximate profiles of any desired line. Let us assume that we have oh paper the alignement and profiles of what appears to be the best line fdr the future road between terminal points. These lines , may differ from one another as to actual : length, as to the number of degrees of curvature, and as to their grade; the amount.of traffic on each we will suppose to be the same. In order* , to compare these lines, we must reduce, them.
-71
all to some common standard, and this standard is a straight, level line; that is, a line without grades or curves—an ideal railroad line. This reduction may be made in terms of the amount of motive power developed, or in terms of the cost of operation. The length of this ideal line is called the virtual length of the actual line; and when the lines to be compared are thus reduced to their virtual lengths,'a simpler comparison of these respective virtual lengths will at .
. once give the relative economy and advantages of each line in regard to operating expenses.
The resistance offered to the movement of trains is due to friction, curves and grades. The resistance due to grades, or the increase of ' power necessitated by the presence of grades, is simply the amount of power required to lift the train vertically the number of feet rise of the grade. The ruling grade is that grade which limits the weight and length of the train that can be hauled over the road. In the case of the ruling grade, it is the rate of grade and the length that should be considered, not the actual rise in feet. If on a grade, composed of curves and tangents, a uniform rate of grade is preserved, the effect upon the movement of trains is the same as if the curves had been removed and tangents of the'same length, but an increased rate of grade, substituted for them.
Whenever a curve occurs upon a grade, the amount of resistance due to the grade is increased by the amount of resistance due to the curve; and, in order to preserve a uniformity in the amount of motive power required, or the resistance to be overcome, the rate of grade should be lowered a certain amount on the curve. -	.
When an accurate contour map has been obtained, a study of it will at once settle what ruling grade is the most economical; then, with this assumed grade, locate a surface line on the -map. This line will be very irregular, and it would not be practicable to build a railroad upon it; still, it will give the general direction which must be taken by the future railroad. Using this line as a guide, and conforming to it as nearly as possible, the best, general line on the map can be obtained. In locating this paper line, full allowance must be made for the reduction of the grade upon curves; and the curves should also be dffsetted to allow for the introduction of the transition curves.	.
After this paper location the next thing to be done is to make the final location. It will always be found necessary to fit the smaller details, of the line to the ground in the field,— that is, if a curve having a. certain position,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
radius and length in the paper location, does not fit the ground when run in the field as well as was expected, or if there appears any possibility of improving the line,—the paper location must be abandoned at once and the best line found on the ground by repeated trials. After the final line has been definitely established, levels are run over it and carefully checked. From the levels, a profile is made, and upon this the grade line is established.
After the establishment of the grades, the elevation of the grade at each station is calculated, and the difference between these elevations, and the surface elevations at the same station,-give the centre cut or fill at each station; that is, the depth of the cut or fill that will be necessary to reach the elevation of the grade line. The next thing to be done is to put in the slope stakes. Stakes are driven into the ground' on each side of the centre stake, forming right angles with the centre line at the centre stake and at the points where the slope of the sides of the cut or fill will cut the natural surface of the ground. The method of putting in these stakes is as follows: on one side the slope stake I	is higher than the centre stake, and on the other,
t	lower. Now, taking the fill at the slope stakes,
|	multiply either by the ratio of slope and add
R	to the product one half the width of the road-
J • bed; assume some point on the ground, at as 1	nearly a right angle with the centre line at the
i	centre stake used as can be judged by the eye;
i*	measure its horizontal distance from the centre
i	stake, then hold the level rod on it and find the
?	difference between its elevation and the eleva-
j’	tion. of the grade at the centre stake used;
r	multiply this difference in elevation by the ratio
of side slope, add one half the width of the j road-bed to the product, and if the result equals the distance of the assumed point from the centre stake, the assumed point is the correct position H	for the slope stake; in case the side distance
;	and the above result do not coincide, then move
i	the rod to another trial point and repeat the
|	above operation. When the slope stakes are
|	. all set, careful and elaborate estimates are
made, and everything put in final condition for thie work of construction. '
Starting with the reconnaissance we have traced the railroad through the preliminary survey up to the final location and the establishment of the grade line. These remarks and suggestions have been necessarily of a technical character. With the improvement of our civilization it is not unreasonable to expect that the railroads of the future will be much simplified. The tendency in our cities is to do away with
■J fw-jf f,
surface lines, and substitute for them either elevated or under ground railways: and the airships, should they reach the perfection promised, will revolutionize all means of transport. We are now in a period of transition; we have the wonderful improvement of the past and phenomenal promises for the future. Our modern railways are vastly in advance of the means of locomotion in our fathers’ time. How many generations must elapse before the vision foreseen by the poet’s prophetic eye shall be realized we cannot say; we hope, however, it may be soon.	1
“ Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails;
Pilot of the purple twilight dropping down with costly bales.”	•
Spectrum Analysis.
While the seventeenth century was yet young several men had attempted to discover the origin and cause of color. An Italian archbishop, Antonio de Dominis, explained the phenomena of the rainbow — God’s peace sign. Descartes went even further, and showed that a ray of white light, when passed through a glass prism, is refracted into component colors which, collectively, are called the light’s spectrum; still the great philosopher was unable to determine the causes of his discovery.
It remained for Newton to solve the problem, and to give the world the first insight into the principle of the spectroscope. He procured a triangular glass prism to try therewith the celebrated phenomena of colors; and in the first experiment he was struck by a very curious fact. He made a round hole, about one third of an inch in diameter, in the window shutter of a dark room, and placed close to it the glass prism so as to reflect the sunlight upwards, making on the ceiling the line of colors—red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet—which he called a spectrum. He thought that there must be something very peculiar in the different-colored rays themselves, which caused them to divide one from another. To prove this he made another experiment, admitting the light through a hole in the shutter as before. The prism was so placed as to show the spectrum upon a screen through which a hole was pierced so small as to admit but one color of rays at a time. Through this a red ray was first passed, and bent by a second prism, causing a shaded red spot on the wall, He now moved the first prism used a little so ; as to admit the second color through the hole in the screen. This ray fell
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
on the same spot of the second prism as the red ray, but did not occupy the same spot on the wall. In other words, the first ray is pos-•sessed of a less degree of refrangibility than ' the second; and this Newton found to be true of them all, the refrangibility increasing from the red to the violet. By this experiment was solved the problem of the colors, and has given us a foothold in the spectrum analysis, by which means so many remarkable discoveries have been made in our day.
One of the first facts learned in the beginning of the nineteenth century about the spectrum was, that the colored bands, which are seen when a ray of white light is passed through a prism, do not give us the whole of the dispersed ray; for there are many invisible rays beyond their limits which are very active.
About the year 1800, Sir Wm. Herschel took a thermometer and passed it gradually from one end of the spectrum to the other. The result was curious. He began with the violet, and, as he had expected, the thermometer rose higher and higher as he approached the yellow; but to his great surprise it did not stop here; but he passed on till out of colored band into darkness where he found that the heat rays extended for some distance beyond the red and that they were , strongest in that part where no light is seen.
A few years later Fraunhofer, who was constantly at work as an optician, repeated among his experiments those of Newton, and, like Wollaston, he too used a narrow slit. Thus he noticed the black lines which divided the color; and, by making his slit very narrow, and using prisms of pure glass, discovered in a ray of sunlight no less than 500 or 600 black lines. Fraunhofer measured these dark lines with exceeding care, and found that in every ray of sunlight they came exactly in the same places. Instead of looking at the virtual image with the naked eye, he viewed it through a telescope, which greatly magnified it, and revealed-several features never detected before. The brightness of the solar spectrum, however obtained, is by no means equal throughout, but is greatest between. the dark lines D and E; that is to say, in the yellow and the neighboring colors, orange and light green, and decreases gradually on both sides. Later he experimented with the light of the moon and Venus; and still the black lineswere the same. But when he-turned the telescope to the stars and caught their light, he found a difference. There were dark lines in the star spectrum; but they were not all in the same place as those in the solar spectrum. Fraunhofer therefore says: “If the black spaces were caused by some of the waves being stopped in coming through our own atmosphere they would be the-same in any spectrum wherever the light
. came from.	:
The lines of the solar spectrum, as has been proved by repeated experiments, always occupy, . the same spot; so that they can be considered as natural music lines, upon which the scale
of color is written; and as the music lines serve for the recognition of the musical tones, so do the lines of the spectrum indicate the exact places of the scale of color. The remarkable coincidence of these lines led to the supposition . that the lines in the solar spectrum might owe their existence to the same substances that produce the coincident lines in earthly flames. Kirchoff converted this surmise into a certainty. From the lines in the solar spectrum he determined what substances are present in the red-hot body of the sun; and also demonstrated the chemical composition of a star distant more than ninety millions of miles.
But the spectrum contains a large number of lines invisible to the eye, but distinct on a photographic plate. If a sensitized plate be exposed to the operation of the spectrum, it is observed that red and yellow make but a feeble impression upon it; light blue producesagreater effect; but dark indigo. and violet make the strongest impressions.
In the space where no rays can be perceived by our eyes, a distinct impression is made, and extends beyond violet for a space almost as long as the visible part of the spectrum. The causes of this phenomena may be twofold: either the eye does not take in certain rays of light, by certain lines, or it is possible that changes take place in the sun whereby fresh substances come to its surface, and so new lines become apparent.
To produce a spectrum is easily effected by . means of an ordinary spectral apparatus. It consists of a tube with a fine slit through which the light penetrates. At the end of the pipe is a lens which makes all the rays issuing from the slit parallel, and conducts them to the prism placed in the centre of the apparatus on a circular plate. The prism refracts the rays so that they fall into another tube at which the observer places the eye. If one desires to photograph the spectrum thus seen, an opaque photographic camera is placed close to the tube, its eyepiece is drawn out a little, and then the image of the spectrum appears upon the ground-glass slide.	.
From the dark bands of the spectrum we can determine what substances enter into the composition of the solar atmosphere. One example, will illustrate the possibility, of this. Let the light from the sun and light from incandescent sodium vapor pass side by side through the same slit, and be decomposed by the same prism, the solar light will produce its spectrum, and the sodium light its yellow band. This yellow band will coincide, exactly in position with a characteristic ; dark band of the solar spectrum which Fraunhofer distinguishes by . the letter D. Were the solar nucleus, absent, and did the vaporous photosphere alone emit light, the dark line D would be a bright one. Its character and position prove it to be light emitted by sodium. Therefore this metal is contained in the atmosphere of the sun. \
74	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The atmosphere of star Aldebaran has been found to contain hydrogen, sodium, magnesium, calcium, elvan and mercury; and no star sufficiently bright to give a spectrum has been observed to be without lines. Still, star differs from star only in the grouping and arrangement of the numerous fine lines by which their spectra are crossed.	-
But we must now look to another class of phenomena. A spirit-lamp flame gives a very feeble spectrum; and if a little common salt be put on the wick, although the flame becomes instantly very much brighter, no alteration is produced on the spectrum save the appearance of a bright, yellow line crossing it at the place where the dark line D appears in the solar spectrum. In the same way we can obtain the spectra of all the metals, and on examining their position we will find that they correspond to a certain line in the solar spectrum.
One of the most valuable parts of Kirchoff’s investigations is his map of the solar spectrum ' with its dark lines, side by side with which is the spectrum containing the bright lines given by various metals volatilized in an electric spark.
Such wonderful facts as. these about far-distant suns and sun matter, we have learned, and are still learning, by means of spectrum analysis. The whole study was only begun sixty years ago, and it is in the works of living men that one must look for the details of its history. But though many eminent names are connected with it, those of Fraunhofer and Kirchoff should always be remembered as the chief of the science.
H. L. Prichard.
The Shrine of St. Anne De Beaupre, Canada
I have just returned to Notre Dame after spending a portion of my vacation in visiting several places of interest in the Province of Quebec, Canada, and among them the celebrated shrine of St. Anne de Beaupre. On my way home I have been frequently asked to give an account of what I saw at Beaupre, and something of its history.
St. Anne is the Patroness of the Province of Quebec, Canada. The name Canada is derived from Kanata, an Indian word which signifies “A collection of huts,” which would suggest an inferior civilization. But this meaning of the word has long since ceased to be applicable td Canada; for it has attained a degree of civilization unsurpassed by any other country, either in Europe or America.
Education in religion is general/reaching to the lowest elements of society and, consequently, its civilization is truly Christian. The Province of Quebec is, I think, without doubt, the most thoroughly Catholic State on this continent. This is, in a great measure, due to their “Separate School System,” which places Catholics and Protestants on the same footing, each having , their own school in which religion is
taught as one of the necessary branches of education, and each supported by the public funds. The Catholic priest standing in the school room explaining Catholic doctrine to • the pupils is recognized by law. The school houses are built, and the teachers—Sisters and Brothers, are paid their salaries out of the public treasury. Protestantshave the same privilege for their schools. ‘
This is a blessing we do not enjoy in the United States, with all our boasted freedom. This system of public education works harmoniously in Canada; why should it not in the United States? The Catholic, being the majority in Quebec Province, gives this privilege to Protestants, while the Protestant refuses in the United States to give it to Catholics.
No wonder, then, that the Canadian young men and women are intelligent and well instructed Catholics who understand what, the worship of God and the devotion and veneration of the saints mean. From these circumstances we have the key to explain the cause of the wonderful manifestation of Catholic faith, as shown in multiplied pilgrimages to the shrine of their Patroness, St. Anne, every year. •
The Festival of St. Anne was celebrated with great splendor in all the Catholic churches of the Province; but these celebrations were . simply as rays emanating from the sun-like splendor of the festival, as celebrated in the grand Basilica of St. Anne de Beaupre, a town of less than one thousand inhabitants, on the north bank of the St. Lawrence River, twenty-one miles from the city of Quebec. The splendor of the celebration was enhanced by the presence of a Prince of the Church, His Eminence Cardinal Taschereau, and about fifty priests, many of whom were from the United States. The church is one of the grandest in Canada; it was built by contributions from every congregation of the Province, and has a seating capacity of twelve hundred people and standing room for at least six hundred more. It is built of cut stone, and is 175 feet long, 75 feet wide and superbly frescoed. There are three fine marble altars in the sanctuary; the central or grand altar is the finest I have ever seen, except the ten thousand dollar altar in St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York. There are twenty altars in the church, counting the chapel altars, one in the beautiful chapel in the rear of the church, about 75 feet long and 30 feet wide; in this there are three confessionals. There are sixteen chapels beautifully frescoed, eight on each side of the church, and in each one there is an altar and a confessional, thus making in all twenty altars and twenty confessionals.
The chapels are something unique in their position and construction. On the outside of each side of the church, there is another wall about 15 feet high running the entire length of the church and twenty feet from its base and forming a roofed space for the chapels. That space is divided by eight cross walls, forming
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
eight chapels on each side of the church eighteen feet square. These chapels are connected by arched openings, forming a passage for the people to pass from one chapel to the other. Through the side walls of the church there are wide arched openings through which the people may pass in and out of the main body of the church. This admirable arrangement is very convenient for the accommodation of the pilgrims in attending to their various duties of confession, Communion, or private devotions. The centre aisle is twelve feet wide, at. the head of which, and about twelve feet from the sanctuary railing, stands a large gilt statue of St. Anne on a pedestal ten feet high. The entire length of this pedestal is almost covered with ex-voto offerings and mementoes, in the shape of golden hearts of various sizes, placed there by grateful hands as proofs of their cures, and trophies of so many victories over bodily and spiritual ailments through the intercession of St. Anne. The facade of the church is surmounted by two towers, each about two hundred feet high. Between these towers stands a colossal statue of St. Anne, fourteen feet high. There are three entrances to the church. On each side of the main entrance stands a pyramid, forty feet high, of hundreds of crutches and various surgical appliances which were used by those who were cured by the intercession of St. Anne. In another part of the church several framed cases hang filled with hundreds of spectacles, left as'mementoes by those who have recovered their sight by the same means. Among the crutches there are two which were used by a young Irishman from Montreal, who, filled with faith" in St. Anne’s intercession, as he approached the Communion rail, threw away his crutches and clung to the rail, fully convinced, that after he had received Holy Communion, he would no longer need them. His faith was rewarded; for he was instantly cured, and returned to his seat unaided, as if he had never . been lame. This happened in 1884. The same year a lady from near Ottawa had a white swelling on one of her knees; she came to Beaupre and, earnestly recommending herself to St. Anne, she was instantly cured. Her bandage is there to be seen to-day as a testimonial of God’s mercy through the intercession of St. Anne. His Lordship, the Bishop of Ottawa, the Rev. M. Campeau, and the Rev. Father . Rector of St. Anne’s were eye-witnesses of the latter miracle. Two of the many mural paintings in the church record these two miracles. Similar instances of miraculous cures are almost innumerable. But let these two suffice as specimens. •	*
In the midst of these surroundings and with such wonderful proofs of God’s goodness through the intercession of St. Anne before his eyes, the reader can easily imagine how limitless must have been the enthusiasm of more than two thousand faithful Catholics crowded within the walls of this grand Basilica at the Solemn High
Mass on St. Anne’s festival, Sunday, July 26. Time will not blot out the impression it left on my mind. However high his imagination might reach, the reality, to the eye of the beholder, •was still higher. Looking from the sanctuary one could see but one solid mass of human beings with anxious and upturned faces. Many were crowded into the side chapels, as a relief from the pressure. Looking from the body of the church into the sanctuary, the scene was still more inspiring. The three splendid white marble altars were simply one blaze of light from hundreds of white wax tapers, mingled with scores of the most beautiful natural flowers.
The large sanctury was filled with venerable priests of various ages. The sacred ministers at the high altar, clothed in their golden vestments; the angelic music of a choir of fifty singers selected from the best choirs of Quebec, and in the midst of all these were distinguished the bright scarlet robes of a venerable Prince of God’s holy Church, Cardinal Taschereau. Truly, the words of the Gospel might by applied to this assembly: “And all were astonished and they glorified God......saying, we have seen wonderful things to-day” (Luke v. 26). It was the most solemn celebration that has ever taken place at St. Anne de Beaupre, and I think on account of the peculiar circumstances it may be safely asserted that in sublimity and depth of faith, in heartfelt and overflowing gratitude to the God of mercy, nothing equal to it had ever taken place on the Continent of America; for in that concourse of worshippers there were many of those who had been cured of their various maladies, and from whose eyes now flowed hot tears of gratitude to Jesus the Son of Mary, who heard 'the prayers of Mary’s mother, whose body was the holy sanctuary in which occured the wonderful fact of the Immaculate Conception—an article of our holy faith:— and the primal mystery of man’s redemption.
How could these things be otherwise? For if the people looked to the statue of St. Anne before them they saw on its pedestal the souvenirs and trophies of God’s mercy through the intercession of the saint; if they turned towards the entrance of the church they beheld the two pyramids of crutches as monuments of the exercise of God’s power and mercy through the intercession of St. Anne.	-
If they looked upon the walls of the church they saw beautiful paintings descriptive of particular cures. Everywhere the eye * saw nothing but the work of God, to whom the faith and instincts of the true Catholic refer all honor and glory, saying with the royal Psalmist: “Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to Thy name give glory” (Ps. 113, 9). In a word, all present on that occasion felt as if they were in the vestibule of heaven; and in their enthusiasm, were prompted to use the words of St. Peter in his delight on the summit of Thabor: “Lord,it is good for us to be here!”—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., in “Michigan Catholic.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WB seiwsnc.
^ublisteb cstrp ^aturtag Iiurtng STirm Same at N. IB. Hnibersttg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind’
Notre Dame, October 3, 1891.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now enters upon the twentyfifth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—To the joy of all at Notre Dame, Very Rev. Father General continues to improve. He has been able to take a short ride several times during the week and will, we confidently hope, be in the enjoyment of health and strength to receive the congratulations of his spiritual children and numerous friends on his patronal festival, the 13th inst.
—A “personal” item, reprinted from another paper, appeared in the Scholastic of last week containing an error which escaped our attention at the time of its insertion. It stated that there had been a “vacancy in the Chair of Oratory in the University” since the death of the lamented Prof. Lyons. The vacancy did exist for a year or two; but last year the classes of Elocution were ably conducted by the Rev. James French, C.S.C., who, owing to pressure of other duties, resigned his charge at the end of the term. We regret that the mistake was permitted to appear, as it did injustice to one of the most .eloquent pulpit orators in the Community.
—The New York Times prints a letter from one of the most acute of the Parisian critics, in which the acting of Mr. Augustin Daly’s company, lately in Paris, is said to be equalled only by the Meiningen Troupe and the Comedie Fran-Caise. Mr. Albert Wolff, chief of the French critics, emphatically endorses this opinion. Mr. and . Mrs. Daly and Miss Ada Rehan were recently received by Lord Tennyson, at the Isle of Wight. The author of “The Idyls” has written a comedy for Miss Rehan, which will be produced in New York. Mrs. Gilbert, who captured the hearts of the students when the Daly company played at Notre Dame, asks Professor Egan to “tell all the boys not to forget her.” Mrs. Gilbert adds that, as she is seventy-three— old enough to be their; grandmother,—she may send her love to them all with perfect propriety.
From Denver to Notre Dame.
Dear Scholastic:
For some years past it has been the custom of the Colorado students to meet Father Zahm in Denver, in the early part of September, and return" to Notre Dame with him in specially chartered Pullman cars. This trip forms one of the events of the year to the students who come in the party, and each year it grows more popular. The party that came this year numbered over sixty, and the unanimous verdict was that the trip could hardly have been more enjoyable. The Union Pacific train that left Denver on the night of Wednesday, September 9, had, in addition to its regular make-up, a special baggage car and two magnificently-equipped Pullman drawing-room sleepers, chartered for the exclusive use of the party for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Mr. Titus, the clever travelling passenger agent of the Union Pacific, was on board to look after the transportation of the party, and under the courteous guidance of himself and Mr. Greavy, who relieved him at North Platte, the party reached Omaha on Thursday evening. Here the portly form and beaming smile of Mr. Dodd, of the General Passenger and Ticket Department of the Chicago & Northwestern, appeared on board. Mr. Dodd accompanied the party to Chicago, and neglected nothing that could add to the comfort or pleasure of the trip. When our train reached the Northwestern depot in Chicago a special engine was in waiting, and our cars were immediately brought around on the belt line and attached to the outcoming train on the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern. This train was the famous fast express; and, with scarcely a stop or a slacking up, our cars were whirled into South Bend. Throughout the trip we experienced from the railroad officers uniform courtesy and kindness. On both the Union Pacific and the Northwestern the dining car service was superb. The diner was the first car ahead of our chartered Pullmans; and in addition to getting up a special bill-of-fare in honor of our party, the dining car-was not opened to the rest of the train until the members of our party had finished. All the arrangements for the trip were perfect; for which we were indebted to Messrs. E. L. Lomax, General Passenger Agent, and J-. W. Scott, Assistant General Passenger Agent of the Union Pacific, who arranged all by wire.
The Notre Dame party occupied one sleeper, and the St. Mary’s crowd had the other to themselves. In our car (the boys’ car, of course,) everything was quiet and orderly, and no one even dreamt of getting homesick. There were a number of Minims amongst the boys, and they were naturally inclined to be boisterous at times, and, after the fashion of children in railway coaches, to put their heads out the windows; but some selected stories by the older boys
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	77
about children who had lost their heads by poking them out of car windows had a very quieting effect on the Minims. Most of the little fellows had been provided by their parents with . spending money, and from the start were eagerly
awaiting the coming of the “butcher.” When he appeared, one youthful investor, whose earthly all consisted of fifty cents, at once put ten cents into candy, and forty cents into chewing-gum. After that first encounter the comings and goings of the “butcher” were no longer of interest to the possessor of the chewing-gum. After the manner of those, who chew gum, he innocently stuck a quid of it on the plush back of one of the seats whilst he was allowing his jaws to rest. A moment later a neighbor leaned his head against the particular spot that held the chewing-gum, and was only able to change position after some of his flowing locks had been clipped with a scissors borrowed from the young ladies of the. adjoining car. (This was the only time during the trip that we found * them profitable.) A little later on, frightful yells
were heard coming from the region of the car occupied by the water cooler. Investigation showed an awful spectacle. Some wicked Minim, giving way to the spirit of evil, had inveigled a good and trusting Minim into eating an innocent-looking candy drop that covered a lively piece of red pepper. The trustful Minim soon began to fancy that the arch fiend had set up a branch establishment in his inside with headquarters in his mouth. He sought relief in icewater; but after a few moments there was no more room inside of him for ice-water, and it was then that he began to yell as only good Minims can. The physician of the party prescribed pounded ice poultices for the mouth, . and whether or not it soothed the burn, it at
least choked off the yells.
. We saw very little of what'went on in the girls’ car. We caught sight of some of them just after we left Denver, and before they had time to forget various “Its” and their faces were so indicative of one branch of homesickness that we quarantined against them lest the epidemic spread to our cars. Charley and Elmer had previously gone into the car' to console the homesick who had never been away from home before, and to suppress any unseemly demonstrations of mirth on the part of those who were not homesick; and, owing to the quarantine, they-were not allowed to return. They bore up bravely, however, and were still alive when we reached South Bend. But we saw a great deal before our train pulled out from the Denver depot, and we heard of lots more that happened during the trip.
A large number of cousins (?), et sic, were at the depot to say good-bye to the girls. In fact, it seemed as though a young village had turned out en masse-, and what with their all talking at once (as girls will), one could almost fancy he saw the walls of the tower of Babel. In the midst of the crowd we saw the woe-begone.
faces of N—1, and R—1, and Charlie; and we heard some one whispering: “ Good-bye, Fred;” and another, “bye-bye, Frank; Til think of you every day, and if I get a chance, I’ll write to you.” And another just took hold of Harry’s hand, and wrung it, and couldn’t say anything, but just looked volumes. To one who goes in for this sort of thing those last adieux were very affecting. Some of those who came down were wise in the extreme, and, knowing that in the melee they could not say all they wanted to say, came with it all written out, and gave it to various hers, to be read at leisure. One young man, who had forgotten towrite his out, was seen on board the train after it had left the depot. He got off at Fortieth street. (The conductor began taking up fares at this point.)
We heard that there was some crying and some letter-writing on the train, and some symptoms of homesickness ( of a particular kind) on the girls’ car after all this was over; whereat the Minims of our party, being young, and as yet inexperienced in feminine ways, wondered greatly. But this homesickness was not of the sort to affect the appetite. Even those who had brought baskets along ate three meals a day regularly—except for one breakfast missed on account of indisposition brought on by eating some queer sort of eel-like things put up in bottles. We even heard that there was a feast of cold chicken, cold potatoes, sausage and olives in a certain state room at 2 o’clock a. m.; and that a huge watermelon, which the gallant porter had generously purchased and presented to the occupants of another section, was reduced to rinds between midnight and daybreak. Of course, we can’t vouch for the truth of all these things; but we have them, and all that follows, on the authority of their porter, a poor, but honest man. He was an entertaining talker, this porter, and to a select audience, composed of the genial Dodd and the writer, he graphically described an attempt he had witnessed to ‘ ’ while away the time by music. He was particularly captivated by a mandolin solo sung and accompanied by a dark-eyed tragedienne, whose rapturous pose recalled visions of the time he had gazed down on the great Bernhardt from a front seat in the heavens. He showed us how the singer clutched the mandolin, and looked ' heavenward, and he thought that solo unsurpassable—the	was perfect. The last evening
out we were all invited into our neighbors’ car to attend a musical and dramatic entertainment. We knew that the dramatic recitations would be a rare treat; but as we had our own views in regard to the vocal powers of our neighbors, having heard of some previous efforts, we wisely took along with us our porter and his guitar. The dramatic selections reflected honor on the elocutionary teaching at St. Mary’s, and the musical feature of the evening did much credit to the aforesaid porter and his guitar. . They were the musical features of the evening. We heard that after we had gone, the young ladies
y§	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
made disparaging remarks about our musical prodigy: but this came from lack of cultivation of their musical ear.	"
There was a kodak at work in this car, and many of the things that are now seen through a rumor darkly may soon be shown life-size in the glare of the calcium light for the delectation of those who are curious to know what goes on when giddiness is rampant.
One of the incidents of the trip that will long be remembered was the crossing of the Mississippi. Denver is on Cherry Creek—a waterless bed of sand—and some of our party had never seen a real river. All these got up at half-past three a. m., and came out on the rear platform at four o’clock, just as we were crossing the great Father of Waters. The sight was entrancing; but we who have seen rivers often and often cannot appreciate such scenes. Mr. Dodd kindly stopped the train on the bridge long enough to allow some of the party to drop stones into the river shimmering far below us,’ and others to catch cold. And though all other incidents of the trip may be forgotten, that view of a real river by moonlight will never fade from memory.
An “It.” --------'
Summer Sketches.
III.
London.
July 7.—At or about four o’clock this morning we arrived at Euston station, the terminus of the L. & N. W. RR. in the- great city of London. Our temporary destination was Charing Cross Hotel, and, for the small consideration of one shilling, a cabby undertook to convey us thither. On leaving the station we proceeded down an inclined roadway, by which our attention was directed to the fact that the terminus of the railroad was elevated above the level of the street, and we were reminded of observations we had already made that, however much these “foreigners” may be behind the age in the matter of cars and accommodations for travellers, they can give “points” to Americans in regard to /depots or terminal facilities for railroads entering large cities.
At the early hour of morn the “city” was very quiet as we drove through its narrow streets. Many a quaint-lookihg house could be seen, though at times “business blocks” were passed recalling a city beyond the sea, and telling of the commercial activity and pulsating animation that would, perhaps before an hour elapsed, reveal the metropolis of the world. After an half-hour’s drive we were within the. courtyard of oiir hotel, and soon had entered our names and betaken ourselves to our quarters for a short, but much-needed rest....
Nine o’clock found us up and moving again, for we began to realize that, as bur stay ihLondon was limited to a few hours, we had to make the best use of our time, in order to see some of: the
“ sights.” From the window of my room in the hotel (way up in the fifth story!) I could see a portion of the myriads of buildings that gave a faint idea of the vastness of the city. Immediately in front of usjwas Charing Cross—Trafalgar Square. Charing Cross, you know, derives its name from the cross which was erected there by King Edward IL, to commemorate the last spot where the funeral of Queen Eleanor rested as her remains were being conveyed for interment at Westminster. A monument, surmounted by a cross, stands in the courtyard of the hotel in memory of the event, as we were informed by the affable policeman on duty in that locality.
The Strand—one of London’s most famous streets—begins here at the Square, and runs on its curved way for a couple of miles. It is very like the old Broadway of New York before that thoroughfare was disfigured by “hoss cars,” or, as “we” call them here “tramways.” These latter modes of conveyance, an American would be apt to think, are very limited in proportion to the extent of the city, though they are numerous in certain localities. The principal streets are traversed by ’buses, one of which we entered, at the corner of the Strand, to be conveyed to a point near the
TOWER. OF LONDON.
Our trip through the streets revealed nothing except the usual array of public buildings, shops, stores, the passing through and fro of.active, bustling humanity, etc., that characterize the great streets of our large cities. We were let down at the foot of Tower Hill which led to the famous monument which has played such an important part in England’s history.
We ascended the hill and, entering through the stone archway, were admitted into the old citadel. Our visit was necessarily hurried, but we passed in quick review in various rooms, the armors and standards recalling the prowess and exploits of England’s kings and heroes in historic times; the balustrades formed of sabres and other weapons, the trophies of great victories —up through winding staircases into dungeons recalling thoughts of royal prisoners of old. In some of these dungeons are still preserved inscriptions carved in the walls by those confined within these gloomy precincts. Among the notable inscriptions are those of the unfortunate . Lady Jane Gray and Dudley, Duke of. Suffolk. We saw, too, the crown jewels displayed in all their magnificence and carefully guarded by “beefeaters” with the halberds of ye olden times. There Was to be seen “ St. Edward’s Crown” which is used in the ceremony of the coronation of the sovereigns of England. It is formed of a quadruple cross of gold surmounting a circlet of the same metal from which there are arches of precious stones, the whole topped by an orb of gold which is also enriched with precious stones and diamonds. .	■/,/.. ;	.
We lingered as long as we could, examining all these famous “insignia” of royalty; but our
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

time was limited, and M. was anxious to call upon a member of Parliament.
* *
It was now one o’clock, and as we bowled down the Strand on our return, we thought it high time to attend to the wants of the “inner man:” We got out at the “Square” in front of our hotel and, after partaking of dinner, proceeded on foot down Whitehall street which may be said to be a continuation of the Strand. As we walked along we noticed two uniformed soldiers mounted, stiff and solemn, on caparisoned horses that stood motionless beneath a stone archway. We were informed that they belonged to the famous “Horse Guards,” and we might pass through the arches and arsenal into St. James’ Park. We entered under the archway, saw more guards, passed through the -building in the rear of the enclosure, and took a peep at the Park as it lay before us in all its wide expanse arid beauty. We then retraced our * steps and proceeded on our way, passing stately government buildings and the celebrated Scotland Yard, until the building of the
HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT
loomed up before us in all its stately, cathedrallike magnificence. It is situated on the banks of the Thames, and presents a truly imposing appearance withits large towers, myriads of turrets, massive columns and arches richly gilded. As Parliament was in session, there was no free admission to visitors. But M. sent his card in to Mr. Sexton, in whose absence Mr. Webb, another member of the Irish party, appeared, and through his kind offices we were admitted. We passed through a long chapel-like corridor, adorned on either side with statues and paintings of the Kings and Queens of England, into a large rotunda, the walls of which are covered with statues, and paintings and inscriptions of sovereigns and heroes. Guards, or constables, everywhere! Up we went through a winding staircase in one of the towers, meeting a guard at every landing, and finally entered a small room where we were requested to inscribe our names upon a large register. (It seemed to us as if we were immortalizing ourselves.) Then we passed through a dark, narrow corridor until we came to an opened door, when suddenly, as -we stood on the threshold, the interior of the
House of Commons was revealed before us.
• We were now in the Visitor’s Gallery, and down many feet below us was the “floor” of the House made memorable forever to the Irish heart as the scene of those debates, harangues and impassioned speeches, of men of undying fame, who at one time came so near placing within Ireland’s grasp that dearly-loved prize of “ Home Rule” through which alone she can ever . hope to be lifted up from her misery and enjoy that national prestige before the world of which . she has been so ruthlessly despoiled.
Imagine a long, square hall with large, beautiful stained-glass windows through which a
soft, colored light enters and illumines the assembly. At one extremity, on a raised dais, is. the speaker’s chair surmounted by a gilded crown. Immediately in front of the speaker clothed in his .flowing robes, are tables at which are seated other officers also in wig and gown, and on the last table rests the golden “Mace,” the emblem of authority. On either side are tiers of benches for the members, while at a great elevation, at opposite sides, are galleries for visitors, the press and royalty. Such is a faint description of the House. Nothing of importance was going on at the time of our visit; the members, some with their hats on, were considering some measure of no particular interest to the world at large, and spoke in a subdued voice. We did not tarry long, but passed down and out and across the street to
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, the most venerable monument in the city, and one recalling the glories of the Ages of Faith. It was built during the reigns of Henry III., Edward I., and Henry VII. The two towers at the west end were raised-under the direction of. Sir Christopher Wren, and terminate with pinnacles at the height of two hundred and twenty-five feet. The edifice is in the form of a cross, in lerigth five hundred and thirty feet feet with a width, across the transcept, of two hundred and three feet.
When we reached the west door between the two towers, vesper services were being concluded, and we stood in the doorway till all was over. The whole body of the church was revealed before us—the loftiness of the roof, the vaulted aisles, through which the soft music floated; the noble range of pillars, all contributing to impress one with a feeling of awe and reverence. But alas! the impression is not enduring; the eye of Faith perceives the absence of something that alone imparts a deep, lasting solemnity to the humblest house dedicated to the worship of God, and without which the grandest monuments of human art and genius and skill are cold and lifeless stones arid walls —the animating, vivifying influence of the Real Presence of God with . us. May it be not far distant when this stately pile shall once again, as in the golden days of faith, glow with the warmth of the Presence of the Sun of Justice, and witness the offering of the One true Sacrifice to the God of Hosts!
So we thought as we passed through the various chapels,—St. Benedict, St. Edward, the chapel built and added to the original edifice by Henry VII., where we lingered and breathed a prayer over the tomb of the unfortunate but saintly Mary, Queen of Scots, and admired the beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin; with the Divine Child in her arm. This chapel is adorned exteriorly with sixteen Gothic towers beautifully ornamented with admirable ingenuity, and jutting from the building in different angles. It is orie hundred and .fifteen feet in length, and situated at the east of the Abbey to which it is
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
neatly joined as to appear to be one and the same building. Of the many other chapels we can only mention the ancient and venerable shrine of St. Edward, erected by Henry HI. in 1269, after the canonization of the sainted king by Pope Alexandei' III. The chapel encloses the tombs of six kings, five queens, two princesses, a duke and a bishop. Its altar has lost the form and beauty which it would have were the one memorial Sacrifice perpetuated upon it. In it are also placed the two coronation chairs in the most ancient of which all the reigning sovereigns have been crowned since Edward I. In all the numerous chapels of the Abbey there is much to strike and impress the beholder. And can English hearts fail to be moved by the sightofthose windows and statues and paintings that recall the faith and devotion of their forefathers to the Mother of the world’s Redeemer?
We passed down through the nave to the South Transept, or, “Poets’ Corner,” and viewed the tombs and monuments of England’s authors, poets, painters and statesmen. The memorial window to Chaucer, immediately over his tomb, is designed to show forth his intellectual labor. At the base are the’ Canterbury Pilgrims, showing the setting out from London and the arrival at Canterbury, and underneath is the inscription “Geoffrey Chaucer died A. D. 1400.” The monument to Shakspere is beautiful both in design and finish, the figure of the great dramatist being well delineated by the sculptor. He holds a scroll upon which are inscribed those lines from “The Tempest”:
“ The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
. Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve, And, like the baseless fabric of a vision, Leave not a wreck behind.”
But 1 cannot, nor need I, stop to mention the names of the great in literature, science and art recalled by these monuments. In one sense the “corner” is impressive and instructive, and shows how English spirit can realize that a nation lives, and immortalizes itself through its heroes, and in honoring them it honors itself. But the arrangement of these memorials seems to be without order or design, and makes them appear out of keeping with the sacred character of the edifice. .
We leave the Abbey, pleased and instructed by our visit, regretting only that time will not permit a longer and less hurried stay within its venerable walls. We go on past the Houses of Parliament and stand for a moment in the middle of Westminster Bridge. We contemplate that historic stream, with its countless craft of every description, plying in all directions; we view its splendid embankments on either side, and in the distance we behold looming up the grand gilded dome of St Paul’s—another splendid .monument that inexorable necessity prevents jus from: viewing in all its grandeur. / But it is now too late to pay. any. more visits, and within, a few-hdurs we must bid adieu to London. . .
(TO BE CONTINUED.)	'
Obituary.
A telegram from New York on Tuesday last conveyed the sad tidings of the death of the Rev. John Fitzharris, ’’70, Rector of St. Veronica’s Church, New York city. Although he had been ill for a number of months, yet the news of his death was wholly unexpected and a shock to his numerous friends at Notre Dame. Father Fitzharris passed four years in the University, and during the whole time was highly esteemed by his professors and fellow-students. He was a leader in all his classes and took a prominent part in every collegiate work. After leaving Notre Dame he entered St. Joseph’s Seminary at Troy, N. Y., and followed a three years’ course of Theology. He was ordained in 1873 and assigned to the assistant Rectorship of St. Joseph’s Church in New York city. In 1886 a new parish, now St. Veronica’s, was formed, and Father Fitzharris appointed Rector. Amid many trials and hardships he succeeded in establishing one of the best-formed parishes in the city; but his untiring energy and devoted zeal impaired his constitution, and last spring he was obliged to take a much-needed rest. Up to a few days ago hopes were entertained of his recovery; but the injury was too deeply rooted, and on Tuesday last he was called to receive the reward of his devoted labors. He will be deeply mourned by his spiritual children whom he had served so well, and not the least by many friends at Notre Dame. To his afflicted mother and relatives, all here extend their heartfelt sympathies in this great trial. May he rest in peace! •
Local Items-
—Accidents 'will happen!
—Prepare for Founder’s Day.
—Field Day is near at hand. Get ready!
—Nice, cool weather prevailed during the week.
—The Philopatrians’ new “Society Hall” is a gem.
—Some items of interest are left over to our next issue. ,
—“ I go the by-ways as yet, you know, beingwell, temporarily detained."	*	.
. —Plans for the erection of a new Manual Labor School are now under consideration.
—The Philopatrians tender their thanks to Bro. Frederick, C. S. C.,fpr the artistic decorations executed by him in their new “Society Hall.” .	'
—The name of M. Hannin was omitted in the report of the base-ball elections in our last issue. “Mike” will prove a most acceptable captain for our “ Reds.”	..
. —As yet the magnum opus hath not appeared to gratify the expectant world. When shalLour disappointment have an end ? ' 1 .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
81
—Rev. John Lauth, C. S. C., arrived on Tuesday from Luxemburg, where he had been for the past ten months on business of the Community. He was heartily welcomed by many friends.
' —The course of dogmatic sermons was begun last Sunday by the Rev.Wm. J. Kelly,C.S.C., who took as his text the first article of the Apostles’ Creed. It is unnecessary to note the quality of Father Kelly’s discourse, his scholarly attainments being well known at Notre Dame.
—Two Sorinites of the legal profession were discoursing on the great improvements made in the Manual Labor Department, ist Sorinite: “Why don’t they teach barbaring at the University in this Department?” 2d Sorinite: “There is not enough intellectual work about it?” ist S.: “Well, there is a good deal of head work about it.”	•
* —Those who missed Thursday’s game between the Junior and Senior waiter special nines missed the event of the season. What surprised the Seniors was the ineffective work of their battery, and the failure of McQuery and De- vanney to find the ball. The phenomenal work of Burns and Kelly, and the batting of B. Caesarius elicited repeated manifestations of approval from the spectators.	.
—The new class of belles-lettres began on Monday. This class includes the graduates in the English course. Prof. M. F. Egan’s “prelude” was on the construction of early English prose. After that the class went to work to analyze the prose of John Bunyan, to construct modern prose for themselves. The Literature class is reading “ Hamlet,” and the Criticism is divided between hard constructive work and the poetry of Dryden.
—By far the most effective speaker at the mammoth “ Turner-Verein ” celebration at South Bend, last Sunday, was Col. Wm. Hoynes of the Law Department of the University. His address was marked by great power and beauty, and his*manner was, as usual, all that could be desired. Frequent bursts of applause forced Col. Hoynes to pause at intervals while they also proved how acceptable to his hearers were the sentiments he uttered. There were many prominent orators present on the occasion, but the preference of the audience was, very distinctly, for the genial Professor. -
—The regular weekly meeting of the Law Debating Society was held in Sorin Hall on the evening of September 31, Col. Wm. Hoynes presiding. The subject, “Resolved that trial by jury has outlived its usefulness and should be abolished,” was ably discussed. Messrs. L. P. Chute and T. Ansbury spoke on the affirmative; Messrs. H. O’Neill and J. Whellan on the negative. The speakers on both sides acquitted themselves with credit? After weighing the matter, style and delivery, the chair decided in favor of the negative. The chair then gave what he called a few hints on “How to become
an orator.” After the chair had spoken an hour with his usual elegance of .diction and beauty of expression, the meeting adjourned.
—A notable addition to the art treasures of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, is the beautiful new oil-painting representing-the vision of St. Dominic and his reception of the rosary at the hands of the Blessed Virgin. The picture is five feet by seven in size, and is to be hung in the side chapel directly opposite the reliquary. St. Dominic is seen kneeling upon the sward in prayer when the glory of the vision bursts suddenly upon him. The Blessed Virgin appears with the Divine Infant clasping her left hand, while with her right she presents the Saint with the rosary which is also represented by the crown of bright red roses upon her lap. A dog, bearing in his mouth a lighted torch, recalls the promise made by God to the mother of the holy preacher before his birth. The whole is set in a beautiful background in mezzo-tints which throw the principal figures out in bold relief. The faces express the utmost refinement of the spiritual in man, but that deep human sympathy which encourages impetration was not excluded from the painter’s palette. The picture is the work of Mr. Allison, an artist of high repute, of the firm of Kurz & Allison, Chicago, and was secured to Notre Dame through the offices of Rev. Father Fitte, C. S.C.
-Moot-Court.—On Saturday evening, September 19, the Moot-court reorganized, Judge Hoynes presiding. The following officers were appointed for the ensuing term: Clerk, L. P. Chute; Assistant Clerk, T. Ansbury; Prosecuting Attorney, F. Vurpillat; Assistant, P. Coady;. Sheriff, P. Houlihan; Deputy Sheriff, E.Browne; Bailiff, M. Cassidy; Coroner, F. Kleekamp; Reporter, Hugh O’Neill. After the election of officers came the trial of a case in which Mr. IJIeekamp acted as attorney for plaintiff, and T. Ansbury for defendant. It was an “action on the case” for twenty-five dollars’ damages. The statement was that John Doe owns a farm on the banks of the St. Joseph’s River where he pastures cows for his neighbors. Richard Roe has a license from him to hitch his row boat to the bank, with the incidental right of ingress and egress through the pastures. Some time ago Roe lost his chain, and improvised a rope of hay with which to moor his boat. Now E. Dick's cow, which was pasturing bn the lot, got into the boat and chewed up the hay rope. The boat was destroyed and the cow drowned. Dick sued Roe for damages. The case went to trial before a jury who in a short time returned a verdict for the plaintiff. After adjournment.of the court, responding to the request of the students, Col. Hoynes spoke for about twenty minutes in an interesting and instructive vein, touching the part , lawyers should take in and out of court in fulfilling the important duties devolving upon them as professional men and citizens.	-
82 -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Base-Ball:—The game on the 27th, though a one-sided affair, was greatly enjoyed by the large crowd present. Gillon and Combe were in the points for Notre Dame, while Wenn and Flint did the battery work for South Bend. For four innings the ’Varsity men tried in vain to touch Wenn’s curves, Fitzgibbon being the only man to get a hit. But in the fifth, three bases on balls, two singles and a double netted five runs. Wenn pulled himself together in the sixth, and struck out three men; but the seventh gave him a pain. Cartier, in his calm, serene “heathenChinee” manner,remarked that Gillon was “full of prunes.” Gillon said nothing, but broke a wagon tongue over a snake curve. The snake danced away out over Mr. Hanley’s caput, and after the smoke blew away the spectators saw Mr. Gillon on third. Mr. Wenn was excited, and plunked Fitzgibbon in the back with a “warranted not to rip.” Mr. Fitzgibbon ambled over to first, while Mr. Combe picked up a piece of cordwood and swiped a low ball for three bags. Of course, Messrs. Gillon and Fitzgibbon scored; they know no better. Mr. Cartier next cracked another joke and a ball out into deep right, which would have been good for three bases, but for Cassidy’s wonderful stop. Mr. Combe came in and sat down, after yelling “score” in the.scorer’s ear. Cartier came in on Hannin’s sacrifice, and McCarrick got to first on Dunkey’s error and scored on two outs. That closed the inning. But in the eighth three more were made, and one arrived in the ninth. The South Bends scored one in the fourth and three in the eighth. Gillon did not want them to bear him any hard feelings, so he let them do it. Many brilliant plays occurred during the game;. Gillon, Cartier and Fitzgibbon figuring in two, and Connolly and Bungers in one. The work of Gillon, Combe, Fitzgibbon and Cartier deserves special mention, while Cartier’s jokes were very amusing if somewhat hazy and vapid. A game with the Chicago Heavy Weights is promised for the near future. The following is the score:
Notre Dame.
I.B. R. P.O. A.
Gillon, p.........................  '4	3
Fitzgibbon, 1st b.................... 1 4
Combe, c..........................-•	4 3
' Cartier, 2d b...................... 2	1
•Hannin, 3d b......................  1	b
McCarrick, c. f...................   o	2
Chassaing, s. s...................   o	1
Fleming, l.f........................ 2	o
McGrath, r. f...................     o	1
1 S 12 3 1 1 1 o o
19 o
3 o o o o o
E. o o I o o o
o I
Total.......'.................... 14
South Bend.	i.b.
Canailly, 2d b................ .... o
Gillon, s. s.......................o
B. Cassidy, r. f.................... 1
Bungers, 1st b..................   2
L. Cassidy, 1. f.................. o
Dunkey, 3d b....................   1
Hanley, c. f...... ............... o
Wenn,p...........................  o
Flint c..........................  1
15 27 24 4 R. P.O. A. E. 13 3 1 IO41 IOOO O II O I 0000 I	2	0	2
O’	3	I	O
o 180 0	7	4	I
Total.........................  ;..	5 4 27 20 /6,
Summary: Two Base Hits : Combe. Three Base Hits :
Gillon, Combe. Struck out; by Gillon, 12; by Wenn,’ 8; /
Hit by Pitched Ball: Canailly, Fitzgibbon. WildPitches: 'Wenn, 2..Double Play-: Gillon, Cartier, Fitzgibbon (2); Canailly, Bungers (1). Umpires: Coady, Luther. Scorer; Murphy.
Roll of Honor.
•	SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bachrach, Brady, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Coady, Dacey, DuBrul, Fitzgerald, Fitzgibbon, Gillon, Hannin, Joslyn, Langan, Lancaster, H. Murphy, P. Murphy, Mitchell, Monarch, Maurus, McAuliff, McGrath, McKee, Neef, O’Neill, O’Brien, Quinlan, Rothert, Schaack, Sullivan, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott, Vurpillat.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Ansberry, Breen, Burns, Brennan, J. Brady, Baldwin, Brown, T. Brady, Bolton, Beaudry, Bundy, F. Cummings, Chassaing, Corcoran, Cosgrove, Corry, J. Crawley, P. Crawley, Cassidy, Crampton, j. Cummings, Correll, Chilcote, W. Cummings, Caffery, Crilly, Castenado, Cushing, Cole, Coll, Curry, Doheny, Delany, Dinkel, Davis, Doyle, Egan, Ferneding, P. Fleming, R. Fleming, Flynn, Flannery, Flanagan, R. Harris, Hayes, Henry, Harpole, Healy, Hesse, Holland, Hawthorne, E. Harris, Jacobs, Kearns, Kenny, Kearney, Kleekamp, W. M. Kennedy, Kelly, Karasynski, Kirby, Kintzele, W. A. Kennedy, Lindeke, Layton, McFadden, S. Mitchell, Monarch, C. Murphy, Moxley, McClure, Maloney, Morrison, D. Murphy, McVean, E. Mitchell, Magnus, McDonnell, McDermott, Marckhoff, Nockels, O’Farrell, O’Donnell, Ocenasek, Oide, O’Shea, Palmer, Powers, Prelskamp, Phillips, Quinlan, Raney, W. Ryan, J. Ryan, G. Ryan, Robinson, Regan, C. Roby, E. Roby, Sherman, Scallen, Stanton, Tillenburg, Schopp, Vinez, Vurpillat, Welsh, Walker, Weaver, Zeitler, Foley.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Bergland, 'Bouer, Bixby, Barbour, Brennan, Baldauf, Bates, J. Brown, F. Brown, Burkart, Ball, Carney, Casey, Corry, Covert, Cosgrove, Cullen, Collins, Curran, Cheney, Connell, Corcoran, Crawford, Carpenter, Dion, DuBois, Dix, DeLormier, Dillon, Dillman, Delany, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Egan, C. S. Fleming, C. F.’Fleming, Falk, Finnerty, A. Funke, G. Funke, Foster, Girsch, Grote, L. Gibson, N. Gibson, Gilbert, Griffin, Gerdes, Gerner, Girardin, Hill, Hagan, Hilger, Harrington,. Hoban, Hoffkamp, Hamilton, Hargrave, Hughes, Hagus, Hittsori, Hack, Janssens, Joseph, Johnson, Kaufman, Kreicker, Kountz, Kindler, Kinneavy, Kerker, LaMoure, Levi, Lee, Lowry, Luther, Mills, Miles, Major, Mitchell, W. Miller, J. Miller, Meyers, McCarthy, J. McKee, A. McKee, Marr, Marre, McPhee, Moss, Moore H. Nichols, Nye, J. O’Neill, O’Rourk, O’Brien, O’Neill* Oliver, Payne, Peake, Pomeroy, Pope, Regan? Rumely Rupel, Ratterman, Renesch, Rend, F. Reilly, W. Reilly,* V. Sullivan, W. Sullivan, Straus, Shaffer, Sparks, Sed-wich, Schimp, Sweet, Stone, Scholer, Slevin, Sheuerman, Stephens, Smith, Thome, Thorn, J. Tong, O. Tong1, Tallon, Thomas, Thornton, Teeters, Vorhang, Washburne, .Wellington, Walker, Weaver, Wensinger, N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, Yingst, Yaeger, G. Zoehrlaut, C. Zoehrlaut.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Allen, Ayers, Ahern, Ball, V. Berthelet, R. Berthelet, Burns, Blumenthal, Cornell, Cross, Crandall, Corry, Curry, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Chapoton, Coulter, O. Crepeau, F. Crepeau, Croke, Christ, Curtin, Crawford, B. Durand, H_. Durand, Elliot, Everest, Egan, F. Emerson, W. Emerson, C. Francis, E. Francis, Fossick, Freeman; Finnerty, C. Furthmann, E. Furthmann, W. Gregg, W. Gregg, Gavin, Gilbert, Healy, Howard, -Hilger, Hathaway, Higginson, Hoffman, Jones, Jonquet, Krollman, King, Kern, Keeler, Kuehl, Kinney, Lowry, W. LaMoure, E. LaMoure, Lonergan, Lounsbery, Londoner, Longevin, Lawton, Loomis, Loughran, Langley, McIntyre, McPhee,, McCarthy, McAllister, Morrison, Nichols, O’Neill, Oatman, Platts, Pieser, Pratt, Pursell, Patier, Rose, Stuckart,- G; Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Steele, SwanJS. Trankle, F. Trankle,Tussner, Trujillo, Thomas, White, Weber, Wolf, Wilcox,	: ‘
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:,
Sk Many's fisadeffly.
“The Golden Bonds of Sympathy.”
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss T. Balch, ’91, and Miss G. Walton were among the visitors last week.
—The officers of the Holy Angels’ Sodality are: President, Miss M. Hickey; Vice-President, Miss J. Smyth; Secretary, Miss L. Holmes; Sacristan, Miss A. O’Mara; Treasurer, Miss C. Kaspar.
—The Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., in a letter to the Michigan Catholic, gives a careful description of a visit to the shrine of St. Anne at Beaupre. The young ladies were much interested in it, for Canada and its shrines, its people and their characteristics, seem to be a favorite field for writers, and each new article throws a new light on the subject.
—That the spirit of study is fully awakened is evident from the averages read on Sunday evening at the academic meeting, which was presided over by thejVery Rev.W. Corby, C.S.C., who addressed a few words of golden counsel to the pupils, recommending untiring industry in their school work during the scholastic year now so auspiciously begun.
—A beautiful marble pedestal, on which is a picture of the Holy Face, has been placed in the Chapel of Our Lady of Loreto. The picture is enclosed in a glass case and is draped in purple. Its position close to the first Station, and the impress of sorrow which marks the Divine features, bring to mind the words: “Behold the Man!” and will, no doubt, prove an incentive to devotion to our Lord’s Passion and death, which exercises a sweet and powerful influence on the formation of the Christian character.
—The first issue of Rosa Mystica, the Graduates’ class-paper, was read on Sunday evening by Miss H. Nacey and Miss K. Morse. The number was highly interesting, containing' several very creditable productions, among which may be mentioned “Comrades,” “Ode to the Demitrain,” “Table Etiquette,” “League of the Sacred Heart,” and “Evolution at St. Mary’s.” It is hoped that Very Rev. Father General, who, we are glad to learn, is steadily improving, will be able to lend the encouragement of his presence -when the next number is in order.
—On Saturday last Dr. M. F. Egan delivered the first of his regular course of lectures. The subject chosenwas “Distinction, or Individuality in Literary Work.” Needless to say, it was well handled, and embodied much practical counsel ior those who wish to achieve success. The fact, that the lecturer speaks from experience in all that pertains to literature adds not a little to the impression his words make; and all, even the youngest of his hearers, feel that Mr. Egan is interested in everything that concerns the progress of St. Mary’s pupils,
Before the sin of our first parents, the spirit of peace rested over the beauties of Eden; gratitude bound man to his Creator, and in this loving adoration the hearts of Adam and Eve were as one. The very air breathed the calm of happiness, and creation seemed to be wrapped in worshipful ecstasy before the throne of the Omnipotent. The carolling of the birds, the murmur of the running waters, the sighing of the breeze through the trees, united to form a grand choral harmony which, wafted on the wings of new-born light, reached the celestial courts, there to join the-music of heaven in endless praise of God.
Alas 1 sin found entrance, and, “ as harp-strings are broken asunder,” so were severed many ties which bound earth unto God’s throne. Thick in man’s path grew-the thorns, sterile in fruits was the land, and nature’s heart seemed hidden from the heart of man. But from those same lips which uttered the words of doom to Adam and his posterity, there fell a promise in whose light the spirit of Hope gathered up the broken chords, and earth’s music was heard once more; not triumphant, but with a depth of longing, of patient yearning, that
“ Was not akin to pain, But resembled sorrow only,	’
As the mist resembles rain.”
Four thousand years rolled into the ocean of eternity, and upon Calvary’s height the bond between heaven and earth was reunited; and in a blessed hope all hearts echoed the Te Denin of the universe. Nearly two thousand years have passed since the consummation of man’s redemption; yet to-day the bonds of sympathy, forged in the fire of sacrifice, are strong "and enduring. But in what does this . sympathy consist? Ah! who has not felt it in communion with Nature? The very phases of a familiar landscape seem to adapt themselves to our ever- -varying moods; and, whether joy or sorrow holds sway over the spirit, Nature lifts our soul to Nature’s God.
Between heart and heart, however, the links are finer, more chaste; and so perfect is the golden chain, that the union and sympathy become the foretaste of heaven. There are times when we sorrow, and then the soothing touch of a sympathetic hand and the sweet sounds of a sympathetic voice are like balm to.. the:, wounded spirit. Again, we may be happy; but happiness is not real unless our joys are shared by others; “and thus it is that the most.
§4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
precious associations cluster around the human heart, and we love to remember those who have sorrowed with us in our sorrow and rejoiced with us when we were glad.”
Through all the relations of life sympathy sheds its kindly rays, penetrating the innermost depths of the soul and warming the 'coldest heart. Tenderest of ties is that which unites the heart of a child with the heart of a parent; and true is the sympathy which endures between them. Who shall measure the strength of that bond? It is stronger than life and is sanctified by God’s approving smile. A mother’s loving sympathy and a father’s devoted counsels are sources of purest joy to the faithful daughter, and her every prayer-should be a thanksgiving for a blessing.inestimable in its worth.
What is that tie which constitutes friendship? Can it be other than a feeling of confidence and sympathy, so carefully tempered that the union is as sweet as it is strong? The joys and the sorrows of our days follow each other like “surge upon surge.” We gaze to-morrow with moistened eyes on the work which has been consummated to-day, and our hearts go out in fond regret that its bitter-sweet has passed; for, be the labor ever so irksome, we find in its surroundings a sympathy in duty’s very servitude.
Our school days are over; but they are bound by a thousand ties to our hearts; and the years, as they carry us on, can part no link of the close union. The sympathy of school-life goes out with us into the world, shedding round our pathway a beautiful radiance; and, after all, we are leaving our Alma Maier only to study the problem of life in a sterner school. But the bond is never broken; instead, it is caught up by angel hands and carried to the eternal throne, binding earth to heaven. Happy is the thought that the day must dawn when the sympathy so imperfect here below shall strengthen into the golden bonds forged for eternity; and the fellowship begun on earth shall find perfection in the vision of a sympathizing Father in whose love alone perfect union is attained.
Oliva O’Brien, (Class ’gi).
Dieffenbacher, E. Dennison, Ellwanger, Evoy, Farwell, Fitzpatrick, Field, Griffith, Green, Galvin, Good, Grace, Goodell, Gilmore, Lucy Griffith, Groves, Gibbons, Garity, Haitz, Hellman, Holmes, Hutchinson, Higgans, Hanson, Hammond, Hopkins, Hittson, M. Hess, Hunt, Johnson, Jewell, Jacobs, Kirley, Klingberg, Keating, Kemme, Kieffer, Kelly, Kasper, Kaufman, Kingsbaker, Lynch, Lewis, Ludwig, Londoner, Loker, Lennon, Lancaster, Leppel, Lichtenhein, La Moure, Morse, M. Moynahan, Marrinan, Miirison, Morehead, N. Moore, E. McCormack, Malpney, D. McDonald, McGuire, A. Moynahan, M. McDonald, McDowell, McCune, M. McCormack, Nacey, Nichol, Norris, M. Nichols, B. Nichols, O’Sullivan, Plato, Patier, Pengemann, Pinney, Payne, Quinn, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Robinson, Roberts, Rizer, Robbins, M. Smyth, Sanford, E. Seeley, A. Smith, Stewart, A. Seeley, Schmidt, Sena, Thirds, Van Mourick, Van Liew, Wile, G- Win-standley, B. Winstandley, Wagner, Wurzburg, Wolffe, Whitmore, Welter, Zahm, Zucker.
•	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Boyle, Berthelet, Baxter, Curtin, Coady, Cowan, M. Davis, B. Davis, M. Dennison, A. E. Dennison, Dreyer, Doble, Eberts, Ford, Girsch, B. Germain, P. Germain, Hickey, Hopper, Holmes, C. Kasper, Kline, Londoner, Mills, Meskill, M. Nacey, A. O’Mara, Palmer, Pfaelzer, Schaefer, S. Smyth, J. Smyth, N. Smyth, Tilden, A. Williams, Woolverton, White, Whittenberger, Wheeler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Ahern, Buckley, Dysart, Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, McKenna, McCormick, McCarthy, Palmer, M, Wormer.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Adelsperger, Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Morse, Nacy, Nickel, Wile.
ist Senior Class—Misses Bassett, Haitz, Lynch, Moynahan, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Thirds.
2D Senior Class—Misses Alkire, Bero, E. Burns, M. Burns, Butler, Call, Carico, Charles, Churchill, Davis, Dempsey, Green, Klingberg, Lewis, Murison, Norris, Roberts, Robinson, Sanford, Smyth, G. Winstandley, B. Winstandley, Zahm, Torrney.
3D Senior Class—Misses Duffy, Galvin, Higgins, Holmes, Hutchinson, Londoner, Moore, O’Mara, Morehead, E. Seeley.	’
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Davis, Evoy, B. Davis, Gilmore, Kelly, Kieffer, Maloney, McDonald, McGuire, Moynahan, Meskill, Nichols, O’Sullivan, Rizer, Quinn, Seeley, Hammond.
2D Preparatory Class—Misses Benz, Black, Brand, Crilly, Daley, Kingsbaker, Groves, Hittson, Hopkins, Jacobs, Jewell, Kaspar, Kauffman, Lippel, Pinny, Robbins, C. Sena, Adelsperger, Hickey, Hopper, Dennison, Curtin, Doble, Berthelet, N. Smyth, Germain, P. Germain, C. Kaspar, Holmes.
3D Prep. Class—Misses Augustine, LaMoure, Payne, Schmidt, Van Liew, Zucker.
Junior Preparatory Class—Misses Schaefer,White, Dreyer, Dennison, Cooper, Londoner, Baxter, Williams, Kline, Cowan, Nacey.
ist Junior Class—Misses Mills, Dysart, Ford, Finnerty, Egan.	■	...
2D Junior Class—Misses Crandall, Wheeler, Tilden, Kingsley, Buckley, McCormack.
. Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.] ‘	'
•	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Alkire, Augustine, Agney, Bassett, Bero, E. Burns, M. Burns, Bell, R. Butler, Brady, A. Butler, K. Barry, M. Barry, Buell, Benz, Black, Brand, Byers, M; Byrnes, Bogart, Call, Carico, Charles, Churchill, .Cooper, Clifford, Cowan, Crjlly, Davis, Dempsey, Duffy, .
All wit and fancy, like a diamond,.
The more exact and curious ’tis ground, .
Is forced for every carat to abate
As much in value as it wants in weight.
.	. ■	..	—Butler.
.	. Speech is morning to the mind;
, It spreads the beauteous images abroad, Which else lie furled and clouded in the soul.
-	...	^—Nal. Lee. .